

THE BULLETIN
Yol. 9.—No. 18 6.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1882.
Egypt.
Mb. Gladstone, in his attempt to assume to-
wards the Egyptians the attitude maintained
towards the Israelites by that Pharaoh who
“ would not let the people go,” has had all the
Inch he deserved. It is not at all surprising that
public feeling in England runs strongly against
the Premier, although the circumstance appears
to greatly stagger the Echo, which, like the
policemen in the “ Pirates of Penzance,” “ cannot
understand it at all.” It is obvious that the
position into which Mr. Gladstone has dragged
the Nation cannot but be extremely distasteful to
all genuine Liberals. The attitude assumed with
regard to the people of Egypt is diametrically
opposed to the traditions and sentiments of the
British Liberals, and equally out of harmony with
Mr. Gladstone’s own policy and declarations in
relation to other nationalities which have within
the last few years struggled to revive their dis-
tinctive existence and their separate independence.
Amazed Liberals may be imagined in the same
frame of mind as Quick in ‘‘A Midsummer’s
Night’s Dream,” when, astounded at the meta-
morphosis of Bottom the Weaver, he exclaims,
“ Marry! Bottom, thou art transformed!” There
is no way of reconciling Gladstone, the im-
passioned denouncer of Bomba, tyrant of Naples,
and the sympathizer with Italian struggles for
freedom from foreign (Austrian) oppression, or
Gladstone, the fiery pamphleteer against the
suppression of Bulgarian national aspirations, and
the eloquent panegyrist of the constancy with
which the Montenegrins had preserved, during
centuries of nominal and political incorporation
with the Turkish Empire, their national sentiment
and their craving for independence and autonomy,
with the Gladstone who consented to crush the
same spirit and longings in Ireland, and who
now figures as the would-be ruthless and
headstrong represser of constitutional freedom
in Egypt. As Mr. Joseph Cowan, the uncom-
promising Liberal member for Newcastle, said the
other day, “ The present Government entered ofiice
with the most profuse professions of Liberality.
They claimed to be the especial champions of
nationality and independence.” Yet, to-day, this
Government, and this professedly ultra-sympa-
thiser with reviving nations, are the bitterest foes
nf a distinctly national and constitutional revival
in Egypt. 9 9 m
These facts furnish, surely, abundant reasons
why, among many genuine Liberals, public feeling
should at this juncture run high against Mr
Gladstone. He has not only exposed the
Empire to a series of disgraceful rebuffs, and
brought Great Britain into contempt in the eyes
of the world, by swaggering menaces of force
which dwindled into whining explanations when
they were defied, and by preposterous “ ulti-
matums ” which led to nothing, but he has dragged
the country through all this degradation and
humiliation in pursuance of a policy totally re-
pugnant to Liberal principles, and to the rules
which had been believed to govern his own senti-
ments, and to prompt his own policy throughout
his previous long career as a statesman. To all
Liberals who were liberal in more than name, the
course he has entered upon, and which has ex-
posed his Government and country to such humili-
ations, must have been distasteful even had it
successfully instead of calamitously. To
the more thorough and progressive Liberals who
go by the name of Radicals, that course must have
been, under all circumstances, abhorrent. By
the Tories, on the other hand, Mr. Gladstone’s
alternation of blaster with pusillanimousness
cannot fail to be hotly resented. The stiff
°ld Tories, who regard people as merely
existing for the benefit of their princes,
and nobles, would readily enough coun-
®Bnanoe the Liberal leader’s swallowing of his
®wn principles, as exemplified by the manner
J? which he threw the weight of Great Britain into
r, scale of the Khedive against the people of
The Tories, who regard the assumption
th j- 6 me f e . vu lgar of a right to have a voice in
“ue disposition of their own fate as a sheer im-
Pwtmeno o and a flying in the face of constituted
authorities, would be thoroughly en rapport with
f~ r ' Gladstone up to the point when his ultima-
, m was issued. But they will naturally be
. L loub with him for harking back at that point,
jn Q 'or not proceeding to apply to the obdurate
Ita J+v n 8 r *g° ra °f armed force with which he
wlv ,eatened them. The abundant evidences
cion have been forthcoming that the Liberal
emier had egregiously blundered from first to
last in this Egyptian business, and that he had
entangled the nation in a situation from which it
was impossible to advance without a catastrophe
or to retire without disgrace, were not likely to
soften the asoerbity of party animosity.
* « #
England and France intermeddled in the
domestic affairs of Egypt under a specious pre-
tence of taking measures to avert disturbances in
that country. At the time, there had been no dis-
turbance of a nature to call for any interference
by disinterested outsiders. A thoroughly consti-
tutional movement had indeed commenced; to
limit the authority of the Khedive, and to invest
the people of the country through their representa-
tives, the Notables, with the power of the purse—
as exercised for centuries by the British House of
Commons. The people, the Notables, and the
army, are, and were, of one mind on this point.
There was not the faintest indication of
civil war, where all the nation, or, at any rate,
an overwhelming preponderance, were of one
mind. The Khedive, Tewfik Pacha, was justly
regarded as the mere tool of foreign usurers who
were sucking the life’s-blood of the country to
repay the vast sums thrust upon his father, who
had been encouraged to run riot in a career of
extensive dissipation and air-built schemes. It
was not really disorder that English and French
Governments feared; it was a pacific revolution
which would involve a re-adjustment and examin-
ation of accounts There have as yet been no dis-
turbances among the Egyptian people. They
have not beon flying at one another’s throats. It
was not until the busy-body Foreign Powers had
intermeddled to insist upon the maintenance in
power of their tool, the Khedive Tewfik, and
the retention of their bailiffs, the English and
French chiefs of the Bureau of Financial control —
it was not until the Nationalists had been threat-
ened with the invasion of their country, and
ordered to cease their preparations for self-
defence —that ..there were any outbreaks at all.
And then the trouble took the form of a rising of
the irritated populace against foreigners —repre-
sentatives, in their eyes, of their persecutors —
not against one another. For the recent blood-
shed, therefore, the Ministers of England and
France are directly responsible. The internal
disorders in Egypt are of their own creation, and
the innocent blood that has been shed is attribut-
able to their meddling alone.
The Case of the Carpenters.
The speaking at the meeting of carpenters and
joiners, on Saturday last, had the virtue of moder-
ateness of tone. But, unluckily, it was almost as
ineffective as it was temperate. Not one of the
spokesmen appeared competent to put the case of
the trade into a concrete or telling form. One is,
however, able to gather what the mechanics com-
plain of. They are paid no more than mere hod-
men ; and bricklayers’ labourers actually receive
more wages than they do. This is a just ground
tor complaint. An expert carpenter is a skilled
mechanic. His art is not to be acquired by a few
weeks’ practice; and a joiner requires a deftness
of hand, and skill in fitting of parts, which can
only be arrived at after a tolerably prolonged
training. There are, of course, exceptions. A
few individuals here and there are born mechanics,
and take to the handling of tools as naturally as
a duck takes to water. But, regarded all round,
the true carpenter has had to serve his time before
graduating as a journeyman, and it is therefore
absurd and unjust that he should be paid smaller
wages than labourers at avocations which demand
a lower average of acquirement, or which, as in
the case of hodmen, demand no qualification
beyond brute strength. Also the carpenters anq
joiners allege that the building trade has never
been brisker or more flourishing than now. This
is notoriously true. Builders and contractors
have more business than they can do. and their
prices are higher than have been paid for years.
Again, the carpenters and joiners advance the
plea that the cost of living has of late been
materially augmented. This is true likewise. As
the cost of building has augmented, rents have
risen proportionately. Mechanics in the building'
trade are certainly barred against complaining of
this item, when the increase is due to their own
higher charges for labour. But the carpenters’
complaint is that they alone among builders’
mechanics have not benefited by the increased
prices received by the building trade. Then bread
and meat have both risen in price. Altogether, the
carpenters and joiners’ case has been fairly made
out, providing always that they were not overpaid
before all these rises occurred, and that it is not
they who are underpaid, but the bricklayers’
labourers who are overpaid.
# # «
We don’t think that is the case. No class of
men has a better right to partake of a general
prosperity than industrious mechanics, and their
share dribbles to them through so many middle-
men, that, unless they look after their own rights,
they are little likely to get them at all. There is,
nevertheless, one serious flaw in the demands now
made. Thus far our reference has been made on
the presumption that a carpenter or a joiner
signified an expert mechanic, who has properly
learned his business, and has gone through a regu-
lar training which has made him intelligent,
handy, and quick in every process appertaining to
it. Now, it is well known that this is not the
case. The trade has been invaded by a swarm of
“jumped-up” carpenters, men who have picked
up a half-knowledge of the business, and who,
while they use tools in a make-shift sort of way,
are all in a fog whan it comes to piecing out a
bit of work which is in any way awkward or
demands any nicety of finishing or fitting, These
amateurs may be found on every job, and in every
workshop, and it is in practice not only difficult
but impossible to draw a distinction between them
and the regular tradesman who has served his
time and gone through a regular apprenticeship.
The smarter among the “jumped-up” carpenters
are better workmen and worth more than the
inferior hands among the regularly trained trades-
men. The intruders have managed to break down
the protective barriers of trade qualification. The
qualified man would prefer to treat them as
physicians treat unqualified practitioners, and as
lawyers treat outsiders, namely, shut them out of
work altogether. Wherever this has been possible
it has been done by mechanics’ guilds. But, in
this colony, it has not been possible. The demand
for carpenters has been greater than the supply.
At the meeting jon Saturday the regular trades-
men rather sued to the casuals than commanded
them. There was something of a pleading tone
in the expression of a hope that they would join in
standing out for increased pay.
* • *
Hereabouts lies the weak point in the carpen-
ters’ case. They make no distinction as to rates
of wages demanded, although fair play assuredly
requires that an expert and rapid worker should
not bo placed on the same footing with a slow and
blundering novice. The epiployers would prob-
ably not object to pay increased wages to really
good hands. But the horde of those whom one
speaker styled “ Exhibition carpenters,” who hang
on to the skirts of the trade, are possibly paid
full value already, and it is quite conceivable that
contractors and others may resolutely refuse to
over-pay two men in order that one man may re-
ceive his dues. We commend this difficulty to the
attention of the carpenters and joiners. The old
guarantees for a fair average of competency,
namely, that every journeyman should have been
qualified by an apprenticeship, have broken down-j
Unless the really clever and expert hands are
content to always receive less than they fairly
earn in order that mere frauds of workmen may
receive more than they are entitled to, there will
be occasional outbreaks of disagreement between
employers and workers, to the injury of all. The
tradesmen should now show that they possess the
faculties of self-government and organisation.
* * «
The old arrangement, having worked itself out,
requires to be replaced by a new one. What is
needed is a trades union which shall be mora than
a mere league for working strikes, and shall make
itself recognised as an authority among its mem-
bers, for classification of workmen. It could com-
prise among its officers men recognised as true
master-hands; grey-haired experts, whose com-
petency to pronounce on a workman’s merits none
in the trade could reasonably question. A board
of journeymen examiners might be called into
existence, who would classify every man in the
trade according to his merits, after practically
testing same; and when hands had been given
diplomas as first-class, second-class—excluding
boys as outside the arrangement altogether—it
would then be easy to settle with the concurrence
of the whole trade, and even to the satisfaction
of employers, a regular differential scale ef wages.
Of course, it would be open to a second-class
workman at any time to present himself
for testing [with a view to being elevated to the
higher grade, when sufficiently improved. By
such means a really strong, and workable, organiza-
tion could be established, which, being founded on
a basis of justice all round —to workman as well as
employer—would be of immense service to all
concerned. It would avert unnecessary disputes
and strikes, and would ensure a strike, once un-
dertaken, being carried on with vigor, resolution,
and discretion. It would furnish an incentive for
indifferent mechanics to improve themselves, and
for good mechanics to preserve their distinction.
It would elevate the reputation of the whole
trade, satisfy employers, and give to the colony a
body of workmen of ever increasing efficiency.
No better proof of the merits of such a project
MB. E. L. MONTEFIORE.
(See page 10.)


c
;0 U G H S AND C O L D
The Best Cure for the above is Ram made hot,
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. Per Imperial Quart.
c. W. ROBERTS’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W, ROBERTS'
NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,,
where you can obtain for
6 4 .
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDT, PORT WINE,
SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality 1 hat cannot be surpassed ai any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED OR WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
tho
PRODUCT OP AUSTRALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPARMBNT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP ALL BEYEIRAQES.
MADE HOT IP REQUIRED.
Please Call and Sample.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
at 4s. 6d. per bottle, is unequalled.
VBRDEILHO,
a lovely White Wine, Is. 6d, per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE BED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDQEE POET
2s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!
FURNITURE 1 1 1
•• « NT'HERE is the best place to buy Furniture P"
V V This question is being asked every day, and
is of as much interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the “ Happy Conpie” just setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kitchen
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
;htde park
FURNISHING EXHIBITION,
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(Late3iHARDY BROTHERS).
EVERT HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAT BE HAD
HEBE*
Don't be misled and waste time and money by sendinf
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hyde .Park Furnishing Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE PURNITUB&
Go to the
HYDE PAEK FURNISHING EXHIBITION-
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequaUeo,
whilst the Prices will be found
M’A RVELLOUSLY LOW!
This vast Collection has; been selected and manujjfj
tuced with a practical regard for Modern requirem
and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock ; you will no*
asked to buy what you do not want; for our onjeoi
RETAIN as well as OBTAIN patronage; and we
on tho satisfaction, good opinion, and reoomwv
tion of our customers.
Remember these important facts
OUR STOCK IS THE LARGEST.
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE
OLR STOCK IS THE BEST, -
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAT® 3
W The utmost oare is given to packing and
ing all Goods bought at this Establishment, ana
try Customers may rely upon tho prompt eso .° uj
thoir orders and tho delivery of their purchase
sound condition.
would bo required than the character of the op-
phsitfon an attempt to inaugurate it would invoke
within the trade. Every duffer would howl at it,
and the more incompetent and troublesome tne
man, the more desperately he would foam at the
month. Now, boys, think this over.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Substance and Shadow.
Wb say sour and sarcastic things sometimes about the
member of Parliament of the day. Perhaps there are
members who regard, or think they feel, our tone in
that respect to bo unjust. Woldon'tknow. We think
it possible, But w# don’t believe we express mors than
intelligent, members of the community feel, that is
t* eay, a food deal of shame, considerable indignation,
and an oppressive sense of hopelessness. What are
onr members of Parliament doing to avert from them-
selves the contempt which must inevitably fall upon
presumably leading and representative men who con-
duct themselves as though they were impotent and
obscure ? Our members have collectively so managed
as practically to erase themselves, or to permit them-
selves to be obliterated by a couple of men—Paekes
and Robertson- — and these not men celebrated for any
distinguished virtue either as politicians or as private
individuals. What is the country to think about men,
placed in a position of trust and responsibility, who so
permit t-hemselvas to he bamboozled and humbugged
that the idea of Parliamentary Government commences
to dio out, and people no longer reakon by what Parlia-
ment will approve, or what it will insist on, but specu-
late on what Fissu will eoncoet, what Parke# and
EoBRttTSOK will concert, or what they will carry
out and what drop to suit their own con-
venience, with contemptuous and scarcely concealed
disregard of what Parliament may think or prefer. If
there was ever in the constitutional history of any
eenntry a Parliament without definite form, shape,
consistency, or coherency, it is the present Parliament
of New South Wales. Its members are scarcely heard
of, save when accident or legal process expose one or
other figuring as a rogue or conspirator to plunder, for
his own advantage, the public be is presumed to protect.
We believe that every man in the country is anxious to
have a legislature which shall command his respect.
But a legislature, of which theimembers supinely
cubmit to supercossion by any flimsy scamp who
possesses energy as a sauce to a damaged reputation,
oa» hardly expect to command the respect of self-
respeeting mem. What a Parliament we have, when
the progress of R. B, Smith has been the most- momen-
tous political incident for months, excepting alwayo
insolvency disclosures, and compensation grabs. None
hut a desperately feeble or grossly insincere journalist
would oven pretend to hold in respect a Parliament
■which gives no indication of respecting itself. One
does met chant the Hymn of Garibaldi under the
windows ot. Alexander 111., Czar of Gatchina Palace
•adlgrounds, by way of compliment. Or if one does, the
cot proves him to be a despicably insincere slaverer.
More Patriotism.
Bre Hbnbt Parkes Is a perfect paradox of patriotism
and 111-health. His constitution has of late, possibly
in consequence of his long association with political
affairs, assumed a variableness which adjusts itself
with barometric fidelity to the condition of the political
atmosphere. When his predominance and his position
appeared assured for a prolonged term, his health re-
cognized the fact with a celerity of sensitiveness quite
remarkable. It wavered, and fell to zero, as represented
by “ complete rest and change of scene.” These se-
cured, by the process of rushing through North
America, undergoing a series of banquets in London,
and of progresses on the Continent of Europe, his
health rose at once. But when in New South Wales
the political atmosphere grew somewhat murky, and
the mutterings of an Opposition in course of organiza-
tion growlod around, the sensitive delicacy of the
Premier’s constitution recognised the disturbance,
though half the globe intervened. Once more
his health collapsed with unparalleled rapidity,
and his medical adviser, with unerring judgment,
diagnosed his symptoms as indicating that nothing
short of the air of this colony and a return to work
would restore his frame. It appears, therefore, that
our Premier is doomed to perish in the atmosphere of
Australia, should he breathe it while in the ascendant,
oxqgpt while Parliament is sitting ; and that the chills
of Europe are destructive to him whenever an active
Opposition exists in Australia. These are very instruc-
tive faets, and worthy of study and record by all physi-
ologists who theorise regarding the connection between
the mind and the body. If it were not thus made irre-
futably clear that Sir Hemet is the slave of an abnor-
mally delieately-balanced constitution, one might
almost be disposed to believe that he went home
to work one or two little patriotic oracles—for
the good [of the Empire, [and to benefit the colony by
rendering available the Illawarra coal lands, there was
a great deal of talk a few years back about a supposed
ring of political dodgers who had made up a purse and ac-
quired extensive tracts of lands overlying coal measures
down Illawarra way,with the view of subsequently giving
enhanced value to those lands by judiciously directing
publio expenditure to render them accessible. How-
ever, as nothing was done beyond voting a poor million
er so, for a railway to tap the locality, the bruit natu-
rally died away. It was felt that a million, for a railway
which could not be available for years, would scarcely
have been worth the loss of character and time that so
corrupt a scheme would ha#e involved. It is, however,
somewhat disconcerting to those who had dismissed
their apprehensions and suspicious with respect to
that affair, to learn on a sudden that Sir Henry
Parkes has— according to his modest custom,
so opposed to anything like large promises diffi-
cult of redemption—been conceiving the most
remarkable and extensive patriotic designs in reference
to those very coal-lands, in that very district. At the
banquet to Sir Henry, on the 28th April, when the
Duke of Edinburgh presided. Admiral Hoskins was
happy to say that the Colonial Government. “ mainly
influenced by the patriotic spirit of Sir Henry Parkes,
had offered to construct a harbour on the eastern sea-
board of Australia, in a locality possessing means ol
affording ample dock accommodation, and close to
large and valuable coalfields, that was in every way well
adapted for a naval depot—(hear, hear)—and would no
doubt bo the Australian Navy’s head-quarters in future.
That offer was one which he had every reason to believe
whuid bo accepted.” It may be worth while reminding
all concerned that N.S. Wales possesses a Parliament
as well as a Dictator, and that the Parliament may
judge that Sydney harbour would answer the foregoing
description pretty well without needing any “con-
strueting” to speak of ; while the construction of r a
ways authorized north and south would render the
Capital quite sufficiently accessible from largo and valu-
able coalfields at Newcastle as well as at Illawarra.
There is the risk, of course, that if Parliament should
decline to spend a couple of millions in creating a
harbour at Wollongong, the political members of the
Illawarra coaldands ring might favour claims for com-
pensation, advanced either by some of themselves,
or by dummies who “ stand in ” with them.
Great Orator
kt the meeting to do honour to the memory of Gari-
baldi, an ex-Premier of this colony delivered an oration
which combined high sentiment with pathos. The
flowing periods were cheered, and the gifted orator has
since enjoyed, in places of public resort, the felicita-
tions of friends and admirers. Mr. Faenbli. was the
eloquent and impassioned deolaimer, whose gift of
extemporary speech and of rising to a great occasion
have won for him so much credit. But his merits do
not rest merely upon these qualities. We shall be able
to show that he possesses in at least an equal degree
the advantage of a splendid memory. There is some-
thing truly admirable iu the attitude of a distinguished
citizen occupying a position which constitutes him a
model for imitation by all the rising generation. We,
in this colony, are singularly favoured in these respects
Our young men have always before them commercial
integrity of a Paries, and the unaffected hatred of
shams and pretences which stamps a Farnell— ex"
Premier of the Ministry of Good Intentions—as men
worthy of all imitation. Mr. Farnrll would, of course,
scorn to pretend to abilities or qualities be does not
possess. He merely claims to be, as everyone knows, a
plain man, blunt perhaps, but honest. Admirers of
both statesmen wondered as they listened! to the
charming imagery of [Farnell, how it was that that
orator managed to imbue his prose with more
poetryjthan Pabkes ever got into his verse. It is, of
course, merely an accident that his impassioned oration
bears the appearance of having been cribbed from
‘‘Bell’s Modern Speaker,” and Oliver’s form of
prayer for Masonic funeral*. These ore but coincid-
ences. Our Fabnbll did but mint into fitting language
the molten thoughts which burned in his generous
mind, and the spirit of Washington Irving breathes
again—through the nose of Fabnbll. Thus :
[Mr. Parnell.]
" Let us than cast a veil
over his foibles, whatever
they may have been, and
not withhold from his me-
mory the praise that his
virtues may have claimed.
.... Our discourses on
these solemn occasions are
only useful as lectures to
ho living. Let us, then,
imitate his virtues and his
meritorious actions. . . .
* • • • • •
[Mr. Faenell.]
A.t that grave, the tender-
ness, the solemn awful ten-
ierness, of the parting
scene, must have made his
friends feel their hearts, as
it were, crushed in the
dosing of the portal of the
tomb. The love which sur-
vives,the tomb is one of the
noblest attributes of the
joul; if it has its woes, it
has likewise its delights.
There is a voice from the
bomb sweeter than song;
there is a remembrance of
;he dead, to which we turn
iven from the charms of
the living.
What a theme for medita-
ion I Will the people of
Italy not recall in review
the whole history of his
valour, his love of country,
his virtues, his gentleness,
ind his thousand other en-
learments
Then let us weave a chaplet
of flowers, and strew the
beauties of nature about
his grave ; console our
broken spirits, if we can,
with those tender yet futile
tributes of regret; but,
ibove all, let ns take warn-
ing, and henceforth be
faithful and affectionate in
the discharge of our duties
to the living.”
[Preston’s “ Illustra-
tions op Masonry.”]
“ Let charity incline us to
throw a veil over his foibles,
whatever they may have
been, and not withhold
from his memory the praise
which his virtues may have
claimed. *
The last offices paid to
the dead are only useful as
lectures to the living. . . .
His meritorious actions it
is our duty to imitate.” . .
» • * » * •
[Washington Irving.—
Vide “ Bell's Modern
[Speaker,” pp. 191-2.]
“Who, even when the
tomb is closing upon the
remains of her he most
loved ; when he feels his
heart, as it were, crushed
in the closing of its portal
. . , . f No, the love
which survives the tomb
is one of the noblest attri-
butes of the soul. If it has
its woes, it has likewise its
delights No, there
is a voice from the tomb
sweeter than sohg. There
is a remembrance of the
dead, to which we turn
even from the charms of
the living But the
grave of those we loved —
what a place for medita-
tion I There it is that we
call up, in long review, the
whole history of virtue and
gentleness, and the thou-
sand endearments ....
.... Then weave thy
chaplet of flowers, and
strew the beauties of nature
about the grave; console
thy broken spirit, if thou
const, with these tender
vet futile tributes of regret:
but, take warning by the
bitterness of this thy con-
trite affliction over the
dead, and henceforth bo
more faithful and affection-
ate in the discharge of thy
duties to the living.”
Nature and Alcohol.
Scien«b is always dissipating the dear delusions of
departed days. The last thing she has done is to put
teetotallers entirely out of court—to make teototalism
a matter of impossibility. It is all very well for the
Eev. John Alexander, or any other man, to say that
he or she will never touch a drop of intoxicating liquor;
but can he or she do anything of the sort ? We venture
in face of the following quotation, taken from that un-
impeachable authority, The Australasian (3rd June),
tojassert distinctly that he or she cannot. Just read it:
—“M. Muntz, director of the laboratory of the Institut
Agronomiqua (it is as well to record the name and
address of the disturber of the peace), finds alcohol
everywhere—in rain water, all natural waters, the air,
and even the sea I True, the quantity is infinitessimal,
but it is there ; and, if there be truth in homoeopathy,
these inflnitessimffl doses may be more harmful than
regular potations. M. Muntz holds that this diffused
alcohol is produced by the decomposition of organic
matter both on the surface of the ground and in the
depths of the sea.” There is no doubt as to what this
Muntzter means. Fermentation, we all know, is the
motive power whereby organic matter becomes decom-
posed. This is j ust what teetotallers have been arguing.
They are right, because they agree with science. Un-
fortunately, science proves too much for them. It is
evident we are continually breathing alcohol; that we
are continually drinking alcohol; that, seeing all our
food comes .from the soil, we are continually eating
alcohol. This is sad, but true. There is nothing like
an honourable sonfossion, even of alcohol—when one is
handout. Let ns, putting aside prejudices, look at the
matter|calmly. Let us endeavour to determine its origin.
It is palpably fermentation. Fermentation appears
to have various agents which diff use alcohol throughout
nature. This establishes the parallelism of nature and
the liquor business. Each introduces alcohol into the
human system by means of fermentation. There is no
escape from such a conclusion, and teetotallers had far
; better admit the fact than continue their endeavours to
without alcohol. It can matter not much
whether humanity takes its alcohol direct through tho
issophagus, or indirectly through the pores and
nostrils. Judging from the estimated quantity of
matter exuded by means of the pores as exemplified
through the medium of a Turkish bath, the conclusion
is irresistibly forced on us that direct absorption may
be the lesser evil. Advancing legitimately forward, and
anticipating discovery of the parallelism of electricity
and alcohol, and applying to the latter those principles
which underlie that familiar resultant of the former
element known as a lightning-conductor, we aver that
a properly-charged human subject may be considered
impenetrable to damage from atmospherical alcoholic
attacks. Though, ;of course, originally the earth and
air were free from alcohol, the discovery of its univer-
sal prevalence need not astonish us when we consider
that at least from the time of Noah wine has been
made; that, according to Tacitus, the ancient Germans
brewed beer; and that the existence of spirits, even in
pre-historio ages, seems certain. Alcohol, once evolved
by human ingenuity, was multiplied during countless
cycles, and. as nothing can ever be absolutely destroyed,
re-appears throughout nature. Wo do not for one
instant admit that nature has thereby suffered deteri-
oration. Surely, the most rabid teetotaller will allow
that alcohol agrees with nature remarkably well; and
that, tested thus infinitely, its Influences are altogether
for good. The knowledge that a subtle residuum of
every intoxicating beverage prepared and used by past
generations is to-day universally present, and, more-
over, still actually potent, fills us rather with admira-
tion than disquietude. It thrusts contemptuously ou
one side all teetotallio ravings, but yet teaches true
charity. When the tremendous influences of natural
alcoholism axe rightly appreciated, a juster and kinder
view will be taken of many matters which now meet
with private reproach, or even magisterial enquiry
and fine. No longer will the frail, impressionable
wanderer, coming home through an atmosphere
admitted to be alcoholically impregnated and subjected
to its irresistible action, experience anger, scorn, cruel
suggestions, or open incredulity when pleading, “It
was the salmon," or “ shwear I havn't taken a drop.’
A reference to the improved atmos-alcoholmeter of that
enlightened time will establish the validity of his plea.
Thus, aided by science, the whilom victim of ignorance
will be dutifully put to bed and cared for by those who
in a darker age would have coldly left him neglected on
a sofa in the back-parlour. The subject offers a wild
field for investigation, and demands exhaustive treat-
ment. if possible, by candid teetotallio writers.
The decision of the jury in the compensation claims of
Messrs. Goodlet and Smith has been hailed by the
public with satisfaction, equal to that with which the
verdict in Garrett’s case was received. But the ex-
pression of satisfaction in this case has not been accom-
panied with the infusion of exultation which was
apparent with regard to Garrett’s. Messrs. Goodlet
and Smith did not figure in the eyes of the public as
men who had dodged to place themselves in front of
the approaching engine of.resumption, in order to be in
a, position to claim compensation for self-sought in-
juries. Their premises were in their occupation years
before any idea of resumption had been mooted. They
carry on a genuine and very extensive business, and the
necessitylforjremoval will unquestionably subject them
to serious inconvenience, heavy expense, some interrup-
tion of trade, and may possibly drive them to a situa-
tion which will have a permantly prejudicial effect upon
their affairs. Again, Mr. Goodlet is a gentleman who
enjoys, and, we believe, fully deserves, a high place in
public respect. He is known to practice the religion
which so many other professors seem to regard as
something for Sundays, and not as a guiding principle
in every-day rfairs. We believe we express the general
sense when we say that few people believe that in this
case the onormons overvaluation of compensation was
due to a conscious attempt to defraud the people of the
colony. The claimants seem to have rated the disturb-
ance of their business and the displacement of their
establishment on a sentimental basis ; and naturally so.
Their feelings clouded their sense and judgment. Still,
viewed by the light of the evidence, their claim was
certainly enormously inflated, and the verdict of the
jury meets with general endorsement, and was, in fact,
in its broad effect, generally anticipated by all who
studied the reports of the case as it wa» developed in
Court.
The Albury cor respondent of the Melbourne ARons
recently stated that the New South Wales Government
propose to erect an hotel containing 200 rooms at the
Albury Eailway Station. Wo don't know whence the
Albury writer obtains his information. But the idea
is ;not out «f keeping with what might be expected
from our present talented Administration. We should
not be surprised to hear that the Government proposes
to run the hotel as well as to build it, and that hon.
members of both Houses are to have free passes en-
titling them to preference at bed and board, and the run
of the cellar and the cigar boxes ; and perhaps to Com-
pensation if at any time unable to get a bed on account
of the house being full.
+
Eecent assessments up the river have grievously dis-
turbed soma of our most worthy and most .deeply-
respected colonists. A venerable ornament of the
Legislative Council, who is also one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, and in fact so placed as to be
almost as prominent a model for the imitation of the
young as is the virtuous Sir Hehrt himself, has severely
suffered. He owns an estate, with extensive frontage
to a main road, and through which a new railway line
has been marked, and some evil-disposed assessor rated
this land at a capital value of £25 per acre. Of course,
the distinguished patriot appealed against such an out-
rage, and was proceeding to show with much earnestness
that the land wasn’t worth anything—so to speak—
when a confoundedly practical magistrate, among those
hearing the case, in a calm, business-like way offered
him £lOO per acre for the whole area. Such is the con-
trariety of human nature that the proprietor left the
Court looking quite wretched at ascertaining that he
was so much better off than he could have sworn. An
appeal was also lodged against the assessment-at £3O
per acre—of an adjoining property with extensive front-
age, but again there was an inconvenient person in
court anxious to buy at £2OO per acre. When the happy
owner of these previously unascertained riches was
asked, in view of his continued depression of spirits,
what rate of assessment ho had previously been paying,
he, after some hesitation, disclosed the gratifying
circumstance that he had never paid assessment before,
and then retired to nurse his grievance, and brood in
melancholy isolation upon the revolutionary tendencies
gof the present age, which are fast throwing a share of
the public burdens upon the shoulders best able to sup.
iport them. He, it is alleged, threatens to get the
Hjekald to weito u leader denouncing such outrages.


trade - mars
THEGREAT
ONE OP THE WORLD'S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
TTN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Trickett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
** I have found St. JACOB'S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ox*
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sura
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.’*
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about; and now ho says
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST’S SELL IT, PRICE HALP-A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOPFNUNO & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Oeorge-street.
I. JACOBS A Co., Hunter-street,
Sg&£K!
:v-
VJRTUTia GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIPF COAL.
rp l .
IS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST. CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony, '
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bonnda.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner Are thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, ! nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumoa given off by a breeze or gas fire
▲ LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
mr*Z73
' liiljli’li]lll hi;
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
* \ I J ) I )
WORKS,
PERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
SELF BAILING FLOUE
-r
TRADE
MARK z!
&
YEAST POWDER.
This la the most effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and oaubs made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This QASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoko. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace'•
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
T<Lljo W GAS made with this APPARATUS is used tor lighting the Qovemmentßailways in perforenoa
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &c. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER,
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren.
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET. NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KINO STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
MACHINERY
fTOTTRMILLERS BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
FL U U " MAIjJj |q U X TT BRS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., &c., Ac.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
W« have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, end shall bo glad to furnish PRICES
vv o b and other particulars on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
X ~,1. 1 : mn ,nvmnnntB Highlv finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
“ MS cS Shuttle Race. Call aud .00 thi. wonderful Machine.
[old on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, S
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCB,
YDNEY.
MANUFACTORY:
Georqe-steeet West, Sydney.
H
fESTABIiISHBB 30 YEARS.]
ODGSON'S WHIP FACTORY.
601, GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
near Goulburn-streot.
E. HODGSON.
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, ko.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
mmliiiiinpm
I 1
670 H. MILDER. 670
<370
iff?
w
Bqqt
taraaiu
mi
sj-npH'tiWMl'mnß iwhmw*swM%lW l)jj
H. HILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
CENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
671, GEOBGE.STEEET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of the Best Quality in the Trade.
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address—
-671, GEORQE-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Qonlbum Streets.
DR. G. HARVEY’S
ADVT
OYEE 50 YEAES.
ESTABLISHED
LINIMENT.
None Genuine Without the Above Trade Mark.
, The GREATEST CURE ON EARTH for RHEU-
MATISM, RAW COLDS, SORE THROATS and
bIMBS. ASTHMA, &c„ &c.
This is the same Liniment as used by the hardy tin
Miners of Cornwall, who have to work amidst the damp,
{jeaset the bowels of the earth, and is now extensively
teiatf used all over the world, and known as the,.Cor-
Cura.
Price, ss. per bottle.
Those who carry .put the directions which are on
ywy label and wrapper, cannot but acknowledge it is
“h® greatest remedy ever brought before the public.
Sold by the following chemists and druggists in
“Taney : w. H. Douglas Mitchell, 127 King-street,
JSf“• J• Abrahams, 434 George-street; R. B Armstrong,
„ George-street; W. D. Eames, 14 Oxford-street.
I'RY IT AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES. If
Chemist and Druggist has not got it toll him that
9 can have a supply by applying to the
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSES. ELLIOTT BEOS., SYDNEY,
VANITY FAIR.
At an aristocratic ball, a French belle appeared
as the “Fairy of the Boses.” Corsage of bright green
satin with rose leaves worked on it, and a row of small
pink roses round the low neck and short arms; skirt
entirely of roses, in rows, from white at the waist to
darkest crimson at the hem. One large pink rose as
coiffure; pink stockings and slippers Miatressand
groom scandal will shortly come before the Melbourne
Court A new wedding freak is to hang a floral hell,
usually all white flowers, over the bride’s head...... One
of the most popular events in New York is the
“Culinary,” or “French Cooks* Ball," very largely
attended. A now York paper gives a description of it
in four columns of small print, detailing the full names,
and sometimes the residences, of all the guests, and
what they wore, said and did, how they danced and
behaved, how much) they oat and drank, and whether
they paid for it Osborne House and Balmoral are
the Queen's private property, maintained entirely at
her personal expense Lady teachers in England have
started a paper of their own, the Governess Inane
people of the “intense” school thrust themselves under
notice as much as ever, despite the ridicule showered
on them. Lately, at a Grovernor Gallery show, the
*' flopping” was carried to an absurd extent, and a young
man in greenish yellow costume, with sunflowers on his
cardinal stockings, ostentatiously laid a bunch of lilies
at the foot of a picture of Daphne The electric
bith is the favourite tone-reviver At a medical man’s
dinner in New York, one table ornament was a skull
made of candy, filled with ice-cream A Bill has been
introduced to the House of Commons to legalise the
burial of suicides during the day. It|appears that in
England they can only be lawfully buried between nine
and twelve at night It is very seldom a diamond is
heard of with a device engraved on it. A London
jeweller possesses one kept for some centuries by the
Moguls of Hindostan, which has a monogram (the Per-
sian words “OAh ”) on it. The engraving is believed
to have taken years of incessant labour The “Com-
paotum" is a new umbrella that doesn’t bag. It tapers
gracefully to a point, while stronger than the ordinary
article A soeiety has been formed in London for
“Promoting the Natural Form of Woman.” We gasp.
A character at a fancy ball was “ A Cloud with a
'Silver Lining.” If was grey tulle of two shades, with
silver edging At the second Queen’s drawing-room,
two of the handsomest dresses were those of Lady
Dudley, deep rubv velvet, covered with masses of
creamy lace, and Lady Tweoddale, satin brocade af
buttercup-yellow, and large bouquets of yellow roses...
At a church fair in ’Frisco, a number of koal beauties
were dressed in costumes “cute and cunning," and
carrying each a broom, were put daily through an
amusing broom drill. This is a chip above our Garden
Palace procession It is not unusual in New York
for dinner cards to cost £2 each : and yet in that city,
coachmen have had to form a society to enable them to
get wages whan dne. And it is the same class of people
who use the cards and the ceaohmcn. And there, too.
Vanderbilt pays si. each for rosea to deck his dinner
tablo.
« # *
Truth states that the coming fashion for ladies* hair
will be to pack it all on top of the head. There is also
a tendency for waists to move upwards, skirts to get
flat and narrow, sleeves to be puffed at the top and
tightened below, and for high heels to go into desue-
tude. Altogether ladies are to go backwards some
three-quarters of a century for their fashions.
Biding habits are being made tighter than ever before,
to show every line of the figure, and the smallest ap-
pearance of unnecessary fulness of material is considered
bad £orm The wealthy gentlemen who shoot on the
English and Scottish moors actually get their coats cut,
net according to the cloth, but of certain cloth accord-
ing to what moor they are going to. Yorkshire heather
differs from Scottish heather, and a different tweed
must be worn. It is as necessary that the shooting
suit of the modern Croesus should harmonise with his
moor, as that a lady’s dress should match her ham......
Beads are exceedingly fashionable now > P ear J.»
used for evening, and steel, jet, and other kinds for
walking and day dresses The newest nightgowns are
made fike morning wrappers, of washing
thick muslin, with frills of lace, ribbon, Ac... Petticoats
are also mads of soft silk, and are most comfortable to
wear ■ bl ack molr6 is fashionable j but flannel has the
preference over either for health......Teagowns become
daily more elaborate ; one copied from the dress worn
by a French queen, was of light blue brocade, without
any trimmings, caught up as a tunic, with bodice to
match, over a white brocaded waistcoat and under-
skirt, and having short elbow sleeves. Another was of
eofb woollen pink and cream skirt fully mixed, and
trimmed with lace...A new stuff called “ Strogoff has
been introduced for children’s paletots and coats. It is all
white, and as shaggy as fur ; worn with a muff and cap
to match. Flush coats are also used for young f01k5.....
High prices were realised in Pans at the sale of jewels
belonging to Madame Blano, late propnetress ef the
Monaco gambllng-hell. The principal bidding was in
connection with a river of diamonds, twenty-fonr m
number, and weighing 194? carats, which fetched 285,600
francs. A pair of ear-rings consisting of a couple of
large brilliants, sold for 19,100 francs; a ring, contain-
ing a magnificent “ blue diamond, 19, <OO francs , a
diamond necklace. 30.600 francs ; and a pair of diamond
ear-rings, composed of two large stones, wuh ruby
pendants. 60.100 francs From Truth An elope-
merit is reported from the neighbourhood of bt.
Colomb, Cornwall. The seducer, a groom, has a wife
and three children. The daughter of his master a
county magistrate, is the partner of his flight. When
will people learn that grooms and their kind are not
safe companions for impressionable young girls t ane
opportunities offered to such servants are innumerable.
Often Inleaoh other’s company—thrown together, as it
were, by custom and fashion—the influence possessed
by the designing villain on a girl, often fresh from
a boarding-school, is simply incalculable. Case
after case is reported of a victim who might have
been saved from her fate by the exercise of a
little care, and yet people seem to taka no steps
towards the prevention of similar catastrophes. ......
Thms a London writer:-! observed a young man with
unmistakable rouge upon his cheeks. lam told that
the fashion of making up the complexion is by no
means unknown among onr gilded youth. While young
women imitate men in the masculinity of their attire,
empty-headed young men perhaps deem it advisable to
endeavour to maintain the true balance of things, by
making their faces resemble those of girls, it is a
noble and knightly enterprise, chivalnc and worthy of
all praise 1


Public Companies
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Dong, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Randle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Gihlin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Redforn,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES EN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balramld, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Qoulburn, Grafton, Gsen-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindle, Mel on g,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockley, Rylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfleld, Ulmaiio,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Kavenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 1872
Paid-np Capita 1..,..,,..... ............4300,000
Reserve Fund......... £116,804
DIRECTORS!
The Hon. Sir John Har, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
Qaorge S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wb. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley Ring, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES;
587 George-street, Brickfield Hill Eedfern;
Girilambone; Gosford; Nyngan
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 158 Leadenhall-strset,
Director; Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
I. This hank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
See the Medals, Cups, and Trophies
at the
SYDNEY ARCADE.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES
ABE MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head Offices : „ „ .
84 UNION SQUARE, NEW TORE, U.S.A.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 FOSTER BANE, LONDON.
Dep6t for New South Wales
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
BTDKBT.
160 FIRST PRIZES.
EASY TERMS—2s. 6d. WEEKLY.
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
Offices in Sydney:
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and No. 1 DARLING
STORES, HARBOUR STREET.
LOCAL DEPOTS
BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N., QOULBURN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWOETH.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
NARANDERA. PARRAMATTA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(RINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ARE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
or THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. per week— 2a. 6d. per week.
And xo interest charged.
10 per oent. oS for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER
TURNER A COMPANY,
353 Qeorge-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HATMAEKET.
o ..
a
O
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE, i
New Davii. /
HOWE. / q
Ac.. Ac. /
o
T
o
*9
<3>
*
<6"
V
>- / Tha
A, / Light
/ Running
STANDARD.
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Machines.
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath ia the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and bone, can be affected
at tha same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, &0., and rids the
system of all impurities; even mercnry is taken out of
the body.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. MOORE,
Homoeopathist,
154 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a burn or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
certificates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
curative effect on lung complaints, when mbbed into
the oheat. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a pn 1 kept in every bouse, even if
the house is empty, it willdo for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pots, Is. and 2s. fid,
each.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
' PilWHt'ffdKeription Of Carriages am*.Bflg£les-*Sin£M <BQ
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER,
Business Announcements
imm
FACTO
S£7STE
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY.
and
FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £!4. £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £ICO
T. WRIGHT, 529 Qeorge-street, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slatteet,
SOLICITOE, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the EVKNiafl
N®wh Omen.
READ THIS 1!
fiOW&ER
„</i: noWn
4 KIN 3
THE
LLCOX
W 1
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Wixinn
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac,
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
16 QEOEGE STEEET.
CO
F.T.
STEREOTYPE.
W/ Found;
-AN D-
■MTI
4^
¥
—IND—
eJ
PRINTERS’
WARFHf
1 WAREHOUSE '
Ws ? Hamilton St., Hunter St,
s -srx>dsrE!'3r. -»
Alto at 70 Limi COLLINS CTEEIT, MELBOSENE
THOMAS W ARNE
ENGINEER A 0 UNDER.
[INING, TRAM, and RAILW
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
ROLLING STOCK
girders,
STOVES,
COLONIAI*
OVENS,
DEED
boxes,
Ac., Ac.
r orks i SUSSEX STREET. A GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Odioe and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
Chemists and Druggists
J g. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
* THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cute of all Disorders of the Liver and
St Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
The S most*delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations,
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c
lOUQH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
) u Ur XX TV XiIAIMJ XV W vxxxi ♦ "
taVing Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will net be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch's Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY-STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep.washing. Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, witn latest improv e-
m N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Be-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Sullivan's
54-1 George-street,
Brickfleld-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
JOHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
f D. JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, Ac.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RBLIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
George lan
(Formerly of George-street,)
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE
Begs to announce that he has RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the „„. „
SYDNEY ARCADE, . ..
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price. , __ _
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
149
TOBACCONIST
EVE
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the beat imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
Tho beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c, and
taken internally cures DIARRHQ3A, DYSENTERY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
and pains. . _________
Price. 52/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor,
MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY.
PAINT
F. J. POLLED
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direet from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut in the Most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT MT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address—
-728 GEORGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMARKET.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
26 0 GEORGE STREET,
Bog to announce that they hare
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOORS and HALLS.
OOOLALTA WINE BO EGA.
ABORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.'s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had at
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Similar wines, by the dozen or in balk, can be ordered
at the Bodega, at Cellars adjoining, or from Head-
Cellars, 119 Piit-street.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the Gsorge-stree*
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect,
folly Invites an early visit, which will prove that th*
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are stsiotly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery madeJo order. ka
R Watshes accurately repaired, atM BHargfl
} tooderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
1 Jeweller and Silversmith, Goorge-street.


w. HOWAED SMITH AND HONS,
STEUTH'S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of Ring-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET,
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock,
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY,
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
Spring-stroet.
O
E I
INS
— The following Steamships, belonging to the
ORIENT CO., and the PACIFIC CO, will leave,
SYDNEY at noon on the undermentioned dates, for
LONDON, via Melbourne, Adelaide, Diego Garcia fat
steamer’s option), the Sue* Canal, and Naples;-^
Oat A
July 17
Aug 2.
and fortnightly thereafter.
SALOON PASSENGERS allowed to break their
journey..
ORIENT PARCELS EXPRESS :-2s. 6d. per foot,
or 6d. per lb.
PASSAGES FROM LONDON can be granted In
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDONF. GREEN and CO .
and lANDEESON, ANDERSON and 00., Fenohuroh
Avenue, E.C.
PASSAGE MONEY, 15 to 70 guineas. Full par-
tioulars on application to
O. S. YUILL,
General Manager In Australia.
267 George-street.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £23
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
CASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES,
AND SPIRITS!
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
COLONIAL WINE,
RED.
per doz.
... 10a Od
... 11s 0d
... lls Od
... 13s 6d
Per doe.
Sweet Shiraz ... 15s Od
J.T. Fallon’s Port 27s 6d
Adelaide Port 80s 0d
WHITE.
10s Od
Hook lls Od
Madeira 12s 6d
Boomer's Pinoau.. 16s Od
Brown Muscat ... 18s 0
Adelaide Tokay ... 80s 0
Tokay, vintage '73 80s 0
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 48s Od
Krugs Champagne
qts 90s Od
do. do. pte. 92a 6d
Eoederer do. qts. 105s Od
do. do. pts. HQs Od
Good Sherry 24s to 54s Od
Heidsieok’s Dry
Monopola Cham-
pague ... qts. 105s Od
Julius Lorrame
Champagne pts. 70s Od
FrenohCIarotfrom 80s Od
SPIRITS.
Hennessy’s • Case
Brandy 59s Od
Hennessy’s •••
Case Brandy ... 71s Od
D’Orville’a • Case
Brandy 45s Od
Charente Cass
Brandy 60s Od
Good Dark French
Brandy 45s Od
Walker's Old
Highd. Whisky.. 43s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky 42s Od
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky
Imperial •• Scotch
ditto
Imperial ••• Scotch
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (mod.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
40s Od
43s
40s Od
48s Od
52a 0d
46s Od
43s 6d
43s Od
Boll Dog Ale, qts.
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints
Foster’s Ale qts...
lls Od
8s Od
10s 3d
7s 3d
lls 6d
Boar’s Head Ale,
Pints 7a ed
Hellos Hannover
Lager Bier, qts. H s 6d
Kaiser do. qts. 12s 6d
Burkes Stout qts 10s 6d
do do pts 7s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts
4dozen in a cask; pints, 8 dozen. Boar’s Head Stout*
quarts, 4 dozen in oask: pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints,7dozen. Boar's
Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts in case; 7 doz. pints.
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
will bo charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 17s. 6d. by Post Office Order or
Stamps. Country Cheques should have Is added for
exchange.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Rodfern Railway Station
Terms—Prompt Nett Gash ©n giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOR SORE EYES.
fT(UY WILDER'S MAGIC EYE-WATER, and •
1- will never use any other. For all SOIL
Wilder’s “ All Healing Lotion” is a Certain Cure
S. H0FFNUNG & CO., Sydney ?’
ELLIOTT BROS.. Brisbane. J Agents.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Charles Lafayette, a nephew of the great
Marquis de Lafayette, is in a New York prison as a
vagrant.
Sir Samuel Wilson (Sir Salmon) has bought the
Earl of Crawford’s house in Brook-street, Mayfair, for
£56,000. He could have got 66 tip-top shert-horn bulls
for the money.
Bx-Chief Justice Smith of Tasmania, was a fiery
potentate. On one occasion he personally reprimanded
from the woolsack an unfortunate reporter, and
threatened him with committal for contempt for having
■lightly misreported one of hia judgments.
In a Litkua > t Monthly Gazette, published
in London during the Reform agitation in 1831 32, a
young Mr. Parkea is mentioned as having in a public
speech given a masterly exposition of matters from the
people’s point of view. Can this have been our auto-
cratic Sir 'Enry f
Mr. Folingaby of Melbourne recently painted
the portrait of a veteran citizen of that town to the
order of his sons and sons-in-law. Some time after the
money wa* paid, the portrait was presented to the
original. Last week the author was surprised by re-
ceiving an additional douceur of £lOO from the citizen
himself, in recognition of the merit of the work.;
What a splendid thing is fame. When Q. H.
Eeid was speaking at the Garibaldi demonstration on
Saturday, a stranger—probably a visitor from the
planet Saturn or other region where the echoes of fame’s
trumpet have not yet reached, asked who he was ?
The Sydney man appealed to knew instantly of course.
"Ah I That’s Eeid," he said, 11 E. E. A. D. Eeid, you
know."
Henry Carey, a lyrist and satirist, wrote both
the words and music of “ God. save the Queen," yet,
notwithstanding the popularity of the anthem, poor
Carey suffered so much from poverty and destitution
that he hanged himself. They found him cold, with
only skin on his bones, and a halfpenny ia his pocket.
Think of this when next you hear “ God save the
Queen ”
Mr. James Martin passed through Albury, some
years ago, to arrange with Victoria for the abolition of
the Border duties. His mission failed because hia de-
mand was thought excessive. The Alburyites burnt
his effigy, and cast the smouldering mass into the
Murray. It was a representative act. Sir J. Martin,
C.J., visited Albury not many years since. Some of the
leaders of the effigy demonstration called on him
socially. He ignored them.
Mr. Darwin has been held up from thousands of
pulpits, by flat-foreheaded ranters, to execration as a
sort of conceited, shallow-nated, scientific anti-Christ.
Yet his remains lie in Westminster Abbey, and the
Press throughout the civilized world lauded his genius
and lamented his death. Even in Eussia his fame was
■uoh that the St, Petersburg "daily ” Novosti, which
boasts of the largest circulation in the empire, inserted
the telegram announcing his death with a deep blaok
mourning border round it.
Mr. Charles Bright’s many friends will be glad
to hear that, writing by last 'Frisco mail, he said his
health had been almost thoroughly re-established—in
fact, ho had not felt so well for years. Papers received
by the same opportunity state that the eminent lecturer
had been well received by the leading citizens of the
State of Utah, and that he had had crowded audiences
at his lectures in Balt Lake City. Mr. Bright, when the
mail left, was about to leave for Chicago, where ha
intended lecturing for the first time on Sunday, 14th
May.
One of the natural sons of the Duke of Cam-
bridge, Captain Fitzgeorge, is a good amateur low
comedian. He probably takes his talent from his
father, whose management of the British army has
always been a perfect farce. Captain Fitzgeorge played
Dogberry in 11 Much Ado About Nothing " lately. It is
a family r<sl«. By the way, the mother of Captain Fitz-
george was Miss Fairbrother, aa actress, and sister of
& printer. She is the lawful wife of H.B.H. in the eye
of the church, but not in that of the law, as she was
married in contravention of the Eoyal Marriages Act.
Some months ago, Dr. Hastie, of Lithgow, died
of poison, self-administered; and now Dr. Gordon, who
acted as locum tenens for Dr. Hastie during the latter
unfortunate gentleman’s visit to bis parents, has gone
over to the great majority, from the effects of an over-
dose of chloral hydrate—how administered, the jury
were unable to say. But there is little doubt that poor
Gordon poisoned himself. Of course the worship of
Bacchus led up to the catastrophe, as in Hastie’s ease.
Dr. Gordon was a clever young man, handsome as a
Norse god, and his self-slaughter has out off a premia.
ng life.
A young man named Richardson —“ the infant
Siohardson"—who in England found himself entitled,
on coming of age, to an income of £l4OO per annum,
proceeded to beguile the tedium of his infancy by keep-
ing fifteen horses, and calling them by the names of
the Apostles and other eminent personages; and then
to run up a bill of several hundred pounds with a
saddler in Piccadilly, who sued for payment, as he re-
garded the purchases as "necessaries." These “ neces-
saries ” were supplied,[notwithstanding the protests of
the "infant’s" guardian. The Court seems to have
held that seventeen whips, nine flasks, fifteen horse-
collars, nine sticks, besides dog-collars and sandwich-
hexes, are not absolute necessities for an infant.
Colonel Fariola, who moved the adoption of the
first resolution at the great meeting at the Exhibition
Building on ISaturday, in honor of the memory of
Garibaldi, is better known in New South Wales and
Sueansland by the name of Octave de Libert. In
ueensland he was for some years engaged in sugar-
planting, owning a plantation in the Moreton Bay Dis-
trict, Subsequently he followed the profession of a
surveyor, which he still practises. Colonel Fariola has
had a most adventurous life, as a soldier of fortune.
He served through Garibaldi’s principal campaigns,
and there won the rank of Colonel. Subsequently he
commanded a regiment on the Southern side in the
American civil war. His military talents wen fer him
among his osmrades and even among the Union troops
a very high reputation for daring and capacity.
As a pedestrian, swimmer, and athlete, Dr. Sel-
wyn excelled, and at Cambridge he was renowned as a
don—at the "noble art.” When Bishop of New Zealand,
he was once insulted in a boat at Taranaki. He was in
plain clothes and probably not known, and he remon-
strated with the boatman, whan the fellow struck his
Lordship on the cheek. The Bishop fulfilled literally
the strange command given in the Old Book, and pre-
sented his other oheek. Soon the boat reached the
shore, when, calling the boatman quietly aside, the
Bishop quietly remarked, “ I fulfilled God’s law, be-
cause the boat might have upset; now I shall fulfil
man’s law." Then he gently removed his coat, and the
boatman experienced what “ here beginneth the first
lesson " meant, at the hands of tho Bishop. When he
was through, the boatman resolved never to hit a
Bishop in a boat again—at least not a six feet two Bishop,
with muscles.
This ia for Sir ’Enry. It is a psychological
mystery why any sine man should wish to be a Baronet.
The Duke of Devonshire once said of this genus ! —“ I
do not know exactly how to treat them, for they are
neither noblemen nor gentlemen." One can understand
a man accepting an order. This is a personal recogni-
tion of merit. And one can understand a man accept-
ing a Peerage, for many like being at the top of the
social tree But a Baronetcy is neither a recognition of
personal merit, nor is it a social distinction. A month
seldom passes without one's seeing in the newspapers
an account of some Baronet having died in a workhouse,
or being had up before a magistrate charged with some
iniquity. “If I have committed a crime,” said an
Irishman to George 111., who wished to create him a
Baconat, " then make me a Kuignt; but what have my
unborn children done, that my offence should be
visited on them ?"
Gossiping about the reasons for bestowing titles
then supposed to be immediately in prosp*ciu, n London
pacer recently said they would have run something like
this:—"Sir A. Bass made a baronet because he is the
sou of the biggest Lioeral brewer ia the country. Sir
Hussey Vivian ditto because he has always voted
straight, and is a great smelter of copper. Sir F. A,
Milbank ditto ditto because he has spent £25,000 in
North Elding elections. Sir C. Adam ditto ditto be-
cause hia father was a successful Liberal Whip. Sir J.
W Pease ditto ditto because he is a very rich man and
a safe Liberal vote. Sir A. Matheson ditto ditto because
he has been a most successful opium merchant."
Which reminds us that when it was rumoured some
years ago that Ur. M. T. Bass was to be raised to the
Peerage, London Punch suggested that he should be
accorded the dignity of the “beerage" with the title.
.Lora Beersheba.
When Captain Boycott visited New York, the
proprietor ° f Earl’s Hotel, where he put up, was served
wun a notice that he must incontinently turn Captain
Boycott and family into the streets: otherwise, sum-
mary vengeance would be taken upon the hotel which
sheltered them. Captain Moonlight gave the order
Uf course, the proprietor was horribly frightened, and
you would naturally suppose that, to save his repute-
tion and his business, he sent Captain Boycott's band-
boxes flying out at the window ; hut he didn’t. He
wont right out and bought a big British flag, and he
twined it up with the stars and stripes, and flung it
to the breeze, sriving all ruffians, blackguards, and mur-
derers notice that, as long as one shred of either flag
remained, or he could buy cartridges enough to load a
revolver, just so long those flags and that revolver
should protect his guest. Mr. Earl’s courage and hos-
pitauty on this occasion hasn't driven a single dollar
away from his till yet. 5
Mr. Charles Short, who for fifteen years has
been on the literary staff of the Abgus, is bidding Mel-
bourne farewell, in order to join the London represen-
tatives of the journal named, and has been presented
by nia fellow-toilers with a complimentary address and
a purse of sovereigns, every member of the literary
and editorial staff subscribing thereto. Charley Short
has always been popular, and deservedly so. He is a
good fellow—in fact, the only religious man on the
Argus staff. Unless a man be reserved, cynical, and
saturnine in the extreme, he doesn’t look like an Abgus
man at all. Charles Is reserved, but neither cynical
nor saturnine. Ha is the son of a clergyman and the
nephew of a bishop—hence his orthodox leanings. His
brother, Mr. Henry Short (long sub-editor of the
Agb), who has now rejoined the Argus, has all the
clerical stiffness without any of the piety of Charles,
who is often mistaken for a curate. Henry, on the
other hand, is frequently thought to be Mephisto-
pheles.
The first and second prizes for the new Austrian
national song, were carried off by Jews, and now Mr.
Samuel Alexander, of Wesley College, Melbourne,
a young Hebrew of three or four and twenty
je&rs, has ffot the first fellowship ever awarded to one
of his race at Oxford. Mr. Alexander, who comes of
very poor parents, and is a native of Melbourne, is the
happy possessor of a marvellously brilliant intellect.
After beating all his compeers at Melbourne University
he, aided by a scholarship he had won at the Victorian
Alma Mater, proceeded to England, and wrested the
much-coveted Balliol Scholarship from the flower of
the British academies. Then he took three first classes
in Mathematical and Classical Moderation and in the
Clasaioal Final Examination, ‘This versatility, so
rarely exhibited at Oxford, where mathematics are
somewhat neglected, may,” says the Jewish Chronicle,
"be claimed by us as a Jewish birthright.” The
Hebrews of Australia are proud of their co-religionist,
to whom, we hear, they intend presenting a token of
their esteem, and now, referring to that muscular pro-
wess which has done so much for old England, we are
equally proud to find that Australian boxing has
this year secured the Queensberry Cup, our interest-
ing letter concerning which will be found printed in
another column.
This paragraph— va sans dire —is not clipped
from the B.M. Herald’s account of Sirenree’s trium-
phal progress through the “ hupper suckles" of
London—which narrative, by the way, is in parts
hardly less ridiculous than the high falutin yarns pub-
lished by certain Northern papers concerning the only
Burdett’s ovations in the capital of the Macleay:—
*’ An eminent Australian, who is now in this country,
was asked last week to meet several well-known men—
amongst them the Dukes of Argyll and Sutherland—at
dinner. The invitation was for 8 o’clock, and within a
few minutes of the hour the company were assembled,
with the exception of the distinguished colonist, who,
to the indescribable horror of the host, did not torn up
till the olook was on the stroke of 9. No apology was
forthcoming for this inexcusable delay, which neither
improved the dinner nor the temper of the guests. It
seems to me, however, that It is the imperative duty of
a host to order dinner when t«n minutes after the
prescribed hour have elapsed. If only a few people
would make a practice of invariably doing this, we
should have no more of the unpunotuality which is now
so scandalously common, and which some people,
indeed, are idiotic enough to think ‘genteel,’ and a
mam of high fashion, and of what Lord Beaconsfleld
used to term ‘ breeding.’ "
Mr. John Edwards, jun., solicitor, of Melbourne,
whose death was recorded the other day, was an excep-
tionally smart lawyer. His success in publicans’ oases
was proverbial. His soubriquet was “ the Collingwor d
Chicken.” He once played off a hoax on Ikey Ben
Solomon, a pawnbroker in Melbourne during the early
digging days. Ikey had obtained a pair of globes—
terrestrial and celestial—from a poor half-starved devil
of a tutor, who iever reclaimed them. He ticketed
them for sale at £5. Edwards sent a friend to purchase
them. A few days afterwards he walked into Ikey Ben
Solomon's, and asked whether he had not a pair of
Admiralty magnetic globes. •* Vat 1 ” exclaimed Ikey,
” shelp me oootnees, I shold von pair of dam last veek!”
“ What a pity I” exclaimed the Chicken, •* but of course
you got your price. You know the value of them ? ”
“I got five quid for 'em,” replied Ikey, dubiously.
“Five what? n yelled the Chicken; “why, man, they
are the only two Abracadabra globes ever made. The
British Admiralty have offered five thousand pounds for
them. Here, I’ll tell you what, Ikey. I’ll give you a
thousand down for them if you can get them back, and
here's fifty notes te bind the bargain." Ikey spent a
trifle hunting for the globes, but, of course, vainly,
and the Chicken duly received back his deposit.
Ikey was so flabergasted at his folly that he took to
drink, ruined bis business, and wound up his career by
hawking lead pencils and sealing-wax round Melbourne.
South Australia possesses a fine scientist in E.
B. Sanger, who does not sufficiently work by rnle-of-
thumb to please Jones, the Deputy Sarveyor-Qeneral.
Sanger drifted thither in ill health two or three years
ago, and was employed by Government to inspect the
Far North. He described its physical aspects in a
series of articles published lately in the Register.
More recently he turned his attention to gold-reefs,
and, as his science is not mere book-knowledge, but a
hard, marketable commodity, contrived to euchre J. C.
F. Johnson and secure a bit of the famous Bird-in-
Hand reef. S&nger, however, discovered a reef in the
North, which, he declares, as a mineral vein, throws
the Bird-in-Hand several degrees into the shade. If
the Government want to put a boro down for water they
ask Sanger to fix the spot. This was the case at an
arid place called Snowtown because of its never end-
ing dust and dust-storms. Joaes, the Deputy Surveyor
General, objected, reporting unfavourably regarding
Sanger. There were counter reports by Sanger’s
friends. Jones ra-reported and asserted that water would
never be obtained where the bore was being put
down at Snowtown; that Sanger was all wroag; that
it was physically impossible that water could be tapped
In that bore. Three or four days afterwards, a tele-
gram from Snowtown brought the welcome news that
a splendid supply of water had been reached in Sanger’s
bore; that it had risen 140 feet in the tubing, and
could with difficulty be kept down by pumps. That
water remains—a permanent tribute to the worth of
practical science. Yet Jones isn’t satisfied, and op-
poses Sanger’s promised appointment as Government
Geologist tooth and nail I
We noticed last week that Thady O’Kane bad
been served with a writ of libel by Mr. H. Milford,
solicitor. Thady published in the Northern Miner, a
letter written by Father M’Donongh, slating Milford
for having bolstered up a case in court with unjust
references to the Irish Land League. This is not the
cause of the suit, but some comments of Thady's own
particular brand are. Milford, it would seem, desires
to stand well with the Towers Catholics, and en-
deavoured to explain away his court illustration.
This is how Thady rubs in the salt on both sides :
“ Mr. H Milford has evidently mistaken his vocation.
He should have been a soggarth. He has the right kind
of holy howl about him. His latter is a grand produc-
tion of sanctimonious uuotuousness and keristian
charity. What saints we have among us to he sure, and
not to know anything about it. Mr. Milford’s famili-
arity with the ’ five mysteries,’ and the other holy fake-
meats is a touching proof how much at home he is in
his church. But alas I we fear he is only a reprobate
after all. He tried it before, and it was no use. It he
wants more light let him come outside. If he wishes
to be a man, not a blind tool, let him stand away from
humbug; if he would avoid being a hypocrite let him
oast off a reverence he does not feel for a pack of rub.
bish. He is trying to appease an institution which
requires a total submission of body and soul, of every
particle of manhood. Let him crawl to the monster,
and it will devour hftil. If he want* to be Attorney*
General or Prime Minister, by Help of the Holy Roman
ticket, there is only one road to it: He must wear peas
in his shoes, and be an absolutely obedient son of the
church in ‘all things.’ None of your half-and-half
measures will do; you must go in for the whole hog,
and be one yourself. That is the way other politicians
hare climbed to power, by means of the Holy Romans.’’
Frederick George Waterhouse, who resigned
his curators hip of the Adelaide Museum the other day,
and went on a visit to the old country, left many I
friends behind. Invariably courteous, he could not I
swear, efeh at Professor Tate, but would merely re-
mind that person How hp 11 lackedithe first instincts of
a K en tleman," and snuff with a auperb calmness while
uttering the words, which but obliquely gave a hint of
inward scorn. Frederick Georgs, with more than sixty
years on his back, was hale, and even vigorous, and
could beat tke best of his strong boys at a boxing
match. He never went to church of late years. It
would be interesting to know why so many thoroughly
honest, intellectual gentlemen do not go to church
now-a-days. This is why Frederic George relin-
quished the conventionality. One hot summer
he placed some thick cabbage-leaves within
his hat, and went to church. When removing that
hat to look into it (as is proper) he quite forgot the
cabbage-leaves. They clung to the bald surface, ce-
mented there by perspiration. Frederic George then
became an object of interest to the whole congre-
gation, who much enjoyed the sight of those oabbage-
leaves clinging to his pate. When Frederic George
stood up at hymn-time the cabbage-leaves still were
there, and the impression he had produced became
deeper in consequence. Then some officious neighbour
nudged our friend, and drew attention to the cabbage-
leaves. Frederic George, disgusted, swept those cab-
bage-leavas from his head, crushed them up in his hand,
almost became profane, picked np his hat, and marched
outof the church He never churched again. Those
cabbage-leaves haunted him. Perhaps oven more cur-
ious reasons could be given for not going to church by
some people. The Hou, William M——, for instance,
he. goes to church beoauss he finds that, during
the delivery of the sermon, he can make wholly un-
interrupted calculations as to the sale and purchase of
cargoes of tea and sugar. At his office, the Hon, Wil-
*B too constantly bothered by visitors. There is
solid business sense in this.
Thadens O’Kane’a present trouble is seeking
from the Supreme Court at Brisbane a rule to com-
pel the Charters Towers Bench to show oanse why a
Judgment of thsir’s should not be set aside. Thadeus
thistime had fallen foul of anothsr lad of mettle—W,
Morgan, solicitor, a very hot property for anyone to
meddle with; and Morgan, who is one of the most
indefatigable rakers up of unexpected precedents and
lurking old enactment s, disinterred a venerable law
passed in the reign of Edward HI. of inglorious
memory. This mouldy old legal corpse, Morgan dis-
covered to be still technically alive, and by no means
broken mouthed either. It was aimed at some dead
and gone class of scamps, who were perhaps in the
habit of prowling round the premises of his Majesty's
lieges, and of blowing about what they would do if they
weren't humoured with a beaker of Royal Blend whisky
and one of Eve’s best cigars. Upon complaint to
Dogberry, Esq., J.P., C M.Q , such individuals “ being
persons of ill-fame," might be bonnd under penalties
to “be of good behaviour." Morgan lugged up thie
galvanized mummy of an enactment, and invited a
Charters Towers Bench of beaks to introduce Edward
111. to Thadens O’Kane; and the beaks complied.
Thaddy brought out his next issue with a coffin-shaped
black-bordered notioe, announcing that the Liberty
of the Press had been murdered, and appealed from
Edward 11. to Sir Charles Lilly, CJ Charley was
pretty rough in his remarks relative to sundry of
Thaddy’s little compliments published about Morgan,
but has granted the rule, as prayed, so that a de-
cision may be looked for as to whether the Press in
Queensland is to be run snbjeot to the interference of
every bench of wiseacres who may assume the right of
declaring an editor to be "a person of ill-fame.’’ W. P.
Morgan is quite as remarkable a man as Thadens
O’Kane. He arrived in Queensland while quite a young
lad—and a precious wild one at that. He had lots of
cheek, and never allowed any foolish notions of shyness
to stand in his way. As he showed himself rather too
lively for ordinary employment, young Morgan early
found himself pecuniarily stranded, but emerged from
this trouble triumphantly by establishing himself in
company with another equally sportive and promising
youth as a shoe-black in the then flourishing town of
Ipswich. He had rigged up a costume in imitation of
that worn by the London Boot Black Brigade—indeed
we don’t know that he hadn’t brought out the equip-
ment from London—and he stationed himself at the
corner of East and Brisbane Streets, in front of the old
Clarendon Hotel—whore, by the way, a very excellent,
well-conducted and charming young person, since be-
come the esteemed wife of a member of the Legislative
Council, was at the time barmaid—and there he waited
for customers, as coel and saucy as you please ; in fact
rather more so. There was grit in the youngster, all
the same, and he got a billet in a lawyer’s office,
managed to article himself, passed his examination,
set np in business for himself at Maryborongh,
then at Gympie, next at Mount Perry, and lat-
terly in the North—always among miners and
never|failing to find plenty of practice. As a matter of
fact, W, P. Morgan is as keen and able a police-court
attorney as there exlste in Australasia, even if he be not
the very smartest. He has been often asked why be
doesn’t set up in Sydney. But he relishes the free and
easy ways of the new settlements, and makes and spends
money there freely. Were he to shift his camp to the
metropolis, it would be safe to guarantee that he would,
before many months, ba doing a tremendous business.
He is as keen as a razor, as sharp as a needle, as wide-
awake as a weaeel, as industrious as a beaver, as—but
that will do for the present, especially as we judge it
extremely probable that as a slight recognition of the
trouble we have taken to advertise him, W. P. will
favour us at an early date with notice of proceedings of
some kind under some terrific old statute of the time
of Canute or of Edward the Confessor, of the existence
of which no other lawyer in creation has any oonoeptio n.
Come along with ye writte, Vilham I
• « •
The funeral service of Longfellow was conducted
by his brother, the Rev. Samuel Longfellow Mr.
Thomas Skene, the Victorian squatter, accompanied by
several young Victorian capitalists, have safely reached
their destination in Now Mexico. Several of the party
suffered very severely from sea-sickness during the
voyage, the life of Mr. Longton Clarke having at one
time been despaired of.„...The Fiji Times speaks most
enthusiastically of Mr. Henry Button’s story, “ Tom
Whimpery’s Sable Bride," which has been run-
ning in late numbers of the Australasias......
Mr. Ell, son of Mr. George Eld, assistant parliamen-
tary shorthand writer, has made his debut as an at-
torney at Temora The favourite dinner dish of the
Pope is boiled beef. His Holiness is the—we forget
how much—in direct succession from Peter. If all of
Peter's descendants had dined on this dish, the suc-
cession would have petered-ont long ago Jack
Moffat, the most enterprising and luckiest of
the Wild River miner*, has been banquetted at
Herborton, prior to his departure for Scotland
During the Queen's visit to Mentone, the great John
Brown was almost as great a character in the eyes ef
the peasantry as Her Majesty. Ho was in full highland
costume, and as he satin solemn state on the carriage-
box, many believed him to be the Lord Mayor Last
Thursday evening, a gold watch and illuminated ad-
dress were presented, at the Liverpool Town Hall, to
Mr. Long, a seventeen years’ resident, who has been
promoted. He has earned esteem Edward Levy
Lawson, proprietor of London Dailt Tk..koraph news-
paper, has just purchased an estate in Bucks, for
£170,000, that was once owned by Waller, the poet
The World says that Zola’s PoUßouille. just published,
is -* a monotonous tissue of abominations, whion can-
not bo spoken of in decent terms’’ Quite so : 100.000
copies have therefore been printed as a start Mr. H
11. Godwin, Ph. D., for many years Head-master at the
Collegiate School, Wanganui, (N.Z ), and well-known aa
a anooossful examination coach, has removed to Mel.
bourne, where he intends opening a school A number
of his old pupils ansembledto bid him good bye, anl
gave him a purse of sovereigns Charles H. Westoury,
the great American chess authority, is dead Mrs,
Poohey, widow of the late M.P., is very ill The
Royal wedding was scarce concluded, when a Royal
funeral came on. Princess Helena's sister died the
following Sunday, and many festivities of course had to
“ e P°*tP on *d Sir C. Q. Duffy is next to be heard
of with his book on •‘The;Early History of Victoria."....
Charles Gavan Dnffy, father of one of the signatbr-
iea of the “ seditious $> address, the Hon. Francis Long-
mores who signed it* and Mr. David Blair* who moved
trie nrst condemnatory resolution at the Melbourne
| Temperance Hall, were all of them pupils of the same
schoolmaster in the town of Monaghan,


ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
IN order to meet the ever-increasing requirements of the NEW SOUTH WALES PUBLIC, wo
have this year Imported
FROM ENGLAND AND THE CONTINENT OP EUROPE,
2422 PACKAGES OF GOODS.
BOUGHT DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
And are now prepared to offer our Stock of WINTER GOODS at exceptionally favourable prices to
the Inhabitants of Sydney and surrounding districts. VISITORS PROM OTHER COLONIES are
specially invited to inspect the FINEST DISPLAY of Goods ever exhibited in Australia, and see one
of the VERY LARGEST DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENTS in the World.
Be sure of the Exact Name and Address. We have only one Place of Business, and no connection
with others of the same name.
ANTHONf HORDERN AND SONS
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMAEKET (Only),
Where any of the following Goods may be purchased Under One Roof.
Latest Novelties in Brocaded Velvets.
Brocaded Silks. Broche Silks and Satins,
Lyons Velvets. Genoa; Velvets.
Louis and Mancunian! Velveteens.
Plashes and Plnshettes.
Per all Shades and Colours.
Cashmeres, Sublime, Brittany, &o.
Reversible French Cashmeres.
Terra Cotta and Beotive Cloths.
Ladies* Kid Gloves, latent Fasteners.
All Light Shades and Colours.
Laoes—New Patterns. Evening Dress.
Eibhona—Plush, Moire, Satin, Ac.
Choicest Delicate Shades.
Millinery—Latest Parisian Fashions.
Ladies and Childrens’ Boots and Shoes for Walking,
Fancy "Kid Boots and slippers for Evening Wear.
Workboxes, Toys, &0., Ac.
Ladies’ Jackets, Dolmans, Ulsters,
Umbrellas and Parachuters.
GENTS. YOUTHS, AND BOYS.
Overcoats, Ulsters, Winter Suits.
Hats and Caps, Sealskin, Felt, Ac.
Boots and Shoes. Great Variety.
Curtains, Table Covers, Napkins, Ac.
Table Linen, Damask, Choice Patterns.
White and Grey Sheetings. Flannels.
Blankets, Counterpanes, and Eider Down Quilts. All
sizes.
Calicoes, Prints, Cretonnes.
Bedsteads all Sizes, and Styles.
Furniture of Every Description.
Drawing and Dining Room Suites.
Carpets, Hearthrugs, Mats.
China, Glass, and Crockery ware.
Stationery, Statuary, Pictures.
Tho Largest stock in the Colonies, of Fancy, Berlin, and Shetland Wool Goods, every colour and
shade, Collarettes, Fichus, Shawls, Capes, Opera Cloaks. Ladies’ Wool Vests and Skirts. Childrens
Wool Skirts. Dresses and Jackets comprising every latest novelty for warmth and comfort.
Every requirement for Dress either for Girls, Boys, Ladies or Gentlemen may be obtained on visitin
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET
(QUIT).
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERT SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning,
NO SMOKE OK SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should he tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT
m
wf
y
iiwl
Trii'lo
Mark
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
E. LASSETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED), x
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOB. IRONWORK AND OTHER USB.
CAL LEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT O.““A™ °° lD ' W, “
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST.IEVERYTHINQ CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, la white, bli
and colours.)
SEWING
Tra’ueTm/Trk brook s CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD,
COTTONS
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES Is a sufficient guarantee of tho superiority of the COTTONS maa->fiictnn*U
on ’ Only I^tSp&S
I ' GoW Meda!, Paris, 1887. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South .Xtrica, 181
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Awyd Sidney,-IBW.
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS^^W^
All Correspondence and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Warehoue
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, South Wales.
BUCKET AND DAYT,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
4*
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERB AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND 18 REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A new chum who recently arrived in Adelaide
obtained a Government billet and was sent up to Cal-
towie. Ho took a dark-eyed beauty with him, said
beauty being supposed to be his wife. The people of
Caltowie have none too many fair residents, and tried
all sorts of plans to bring the dark-eyed one out of her
shell But to no purpose. The two lived only for each
other. A day came when the pair hurriedly left Cal-
tovrio together, vouchsafing no explanation. That
cima soon enough, however. The gay Lothario had
married and left his wife in England. He had not been
long in S Australia before he married the landlady of
the boarding-house at which he hung out. He had not
been long married the second time before he took
the dark-eyed beauty—a new and third party—up to Cal-
towio. He had’nt been long in Caltowie before ho
heard that his first wife had arrived from England, and
had gone to live at the very boarding-house kept by
hi slsecond wife. So he “ slithered*' with his third com-
panion.
Apropos to the present custom of haying small
children for bridesmaids and pages at weddings, it has
boon maliciously remarked that the older the bride,
the younger the child-bridesmaids.
Some very sprightly disclosures have resulted
from the suit between the Duchesse de Chevrense and
her daughter-in-law the Duchesse do Chaulnos. I lie
late Duo de Chaalnes married, against his mother s
will, a Russian Princess, Galitsin. The young Duchesse
de Chaulnes cared more for the pomps and vanities of
the world than for religious and according
to the version now given by her mother-in-law, miscon-
ducted herself very sadly indeed. However this may
be, the mother-in-law is able to produce a document
signed by the Duchesse de Chaulnes, in which the latter
confesses to having misconducted herself with a French
Count and an Italian coachman. But in justice to the
Duchesse de Chaulnes, it should be said that she, while
admitting the document to be genuine, declares that
she was compelled to sign it by her husband, her
mother-in-law. and two priests, who invaded her bed-
room one night, her husband holding a revolver to her
head, while the two priests shrived her.
Prince Leopold hobbled up to the altar to bo
married, leaning on a crutch-handled stick. The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury was so nervous—no wonder—
that ho jumbled up the “he” and “she” in the ser-
vice as badly as Dominie Sampson might have done.
• • Z ■ *
What a man wants — all he can get. What a
woman wants —all she can't get A mermful institu-
tion for plain women —a masked ball From the S.M.
Herald ; “ For Sale, a monkey, a cat, and two parrots.
Address, M A., Post Office.” M. A." is a girl, and is
going to ho married; so you see what a husband is a
substitute for Apropos to Sara Bernhardt's wedding.
When Charles Matthews married Madame Vestris there
was much amusement. “She told him everything,”
said one pretty actress. “What courage!” said an-
other. “ But what a memory 1 ” said a third. By
the way, it is maliciously alleged that Sara now
amuses herself by studying English divorce law
A Ceylon girl is tho very happiest. When the princes
went there, Edward played lawn tennis with a racquet
which a young lady gave up for his use. On its being
hinted to him that the lady would prize it hereafter,
he roughly carved his monogram on the handle, and
personally returned it to the fair owner. Ecstaoy I......
At the recent census, tuore were in Western Australia
299 more husbands than wives. One girl under 15 veara
was married, and between that age and 20 years, 5 males
and 130 females were conjugally mated. The number
of widowers exceeded that of widows by 31
In Louden, a Mr. Btnnett was bound over to keep the
peace with his daughters. They wore giddy girls, and
he cut off their hair, besides promising to stick a knife
into them if they didn’t behave Some little time ago
a digger’s wife sued for a divorce on the ground of
cruelty—her husband would not buy her gloves. But
the District Court decided that coverings for the hands
were not “ necessaries” for the spouse of a man who
habitually fried meat on a shovel, mended his clothes
with od flour sacks, and ate his salt horse aud damper
out of the lid of a tin “billy” in whioh he boiled his tea...
Tho Princess of Wales was once notably careless as to
dress—almost tasteless. Now she is becoming a recog-
nised leader of fashion. To encourage the Countess of
Beotivo’s movement for promoting British manufactures
tbs Princess appeared at a late reception in a dress of
golden-brown wool. Her dresses are now studiously
copied At the Geelong Swiss Fair, the ladies wear
Swiss costumes. At the Melbonrue S. Exhibition, the
lady in the Swiss Court didn’t talk, and so passed for a
Swiss, till somebody addressed her In French, when she
said, “ Ooh, what do I know of your Swish language 1 ’’
“ The last Waterloo veteran has pegged out
for the 999th time, but a new race of Waterloo veterans
is springing up in this progressive colony. Here
goes to become a bloated aristocrat.” Such was the
soliloquy of an ambitious youth, as he went to the
Savings Bank to draw out some hard cash, prior to
attending W. Pritchard’s land sale at South Waterloo
on Saturday next.
A burglar recently managed to effect an en-
trance Into the establishment of Mr. J. W. Willoughby,
general electrician, of 95 Market-street, Sydney, and of
London. When he opened the door of the treasure-
room, an electric relay of bells started a whole or-
chestra of alarm, lighted instantaneously a “ Paterson’s
‘Swan’ incandescent electric lamp and battery,’’ set
going an “ electro-dynamic household motor," which
discharged rotten eggs in the direction of the burglar at
the rate of fifty per minute, and brought info play a mag-
netio .arrangement that kept him rooted to the spot
until,*on hia promise to surrender quietly, the proprie-
tor tunud off the relay. Such is the power of science
usefully applied. The lamps, batteries, bells, and many
other ingenious electrical inventions, may be seen at
work at Mr. Willoughby’s establishment.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen .]
The bust of Pius IX., recently placed over the
great door of the new Church of San beoondo at Turin,
has been removed to the interior of the edifice in con-
sequence of the popular manifestations against it.
Eev. Dr. Kelynack has been lecturing at Mary-
borough, Q., and earning extravagant adulation from
local press critics. In his oration about ' Martin
Luther,” he is said to have " wound up by a powerful
impeachment of the present position of Roman Lathe-
lioism a graceful way of saying that he gave it to
that sect pison strong.
John George MacCarthy, late M.P. for Mallow,
and now a commissioner under the Land Act. has
excited a little wonder by patronising the Grand
Masonic Fancy Fair held during Easter Week at the
Exhibition Palace, Dublin. In Cardinal Cullen’s time,
this conduct on the part of a Roman Catholic would
have led to his ipso facto excommunication.
The Pope— that is to say the poor prisoner of
the Vatican—gives a magnificent diadem in diamonds to
his niece on her wedding, and Cardinal Jacobin! sends
her a rich collar of pearls. The fact is. His Holiness
and His Eminence are obliged to give away these things.
Their vows of poverty preclude their keeping them. A
magnificent diadem in diamonds probably runs away
with about one million of Peter’s Pence, say £4OOO
sterling.
TheN.Z. correspondent of a Sydney religions
journal remarks that there is a close resemblance be-
tween some of the dogmas of Mormonism and Ma-
hommedanism. Mahomet promised his followers a
sensual heaven, and Joe Smith a similar life on earth.
In Maoriland, lately, a few women have been prevailed
upon to embrace Mormonism, and these have been
shipped off to Utah, after being baptised by immersion
in waterholes and creeks.
The Adelaide Salvation Army has a very curious
•• army regulation.” In the recent prosecution against
yoni g Sinclair, the solicitor, “ Captain ” Sutherland,
while under cross-examination, stated that only those
who were on the platform or in the front seats were
allowed to shout the Word at intervals, as the others of
the congregation were not supposed ,- to have the love
of God in their hearts.” By “ the others ” he meant
“ those who did not belong to the army,” and it was
necessary therefore for those who wished to join the
ranks “ to go up on the platform or to the front seats ”
Sinclair was committed for trial, but, upon receiving a
public apology, the “Captain” abandoned the prostou-
tion.
The Archbishop of Canterbury has championed
the cause of Colonial Bishops, who have been blamed
in the Press more tnan once for frequent absences and
early retirements from their dioceses. His Grace in-
stanced the oases of Bishop Perry, of Melbourne, who
served 29 years, and Bishop Short, of Adelaide, who
stuck to his diocese for about 30 years. It was scarcely
fair, however, to cite these two instances, when any
clerical book of reference would have shown the Arch-
bishop a list of bishops whoso terms of office have
ranged from sto 8 years. For 19 retired Colonial
Bishops, including the two veterans, Perry and Short,
the average term of service has been eleven years one
month and a few odd days.
Writes a correspondent:—Martin Luther in|his
diary somewhere says: “In our convent it was the
custom for one or other of the brothers to preach every
Sunday to the rest of the community. I, being of a
heavy phlegmatic disposition, never could deliver a ser-
mon sufficiently impassioned to move my hearers until
I hit upon the following excellent plan. Before mount-
the pulpit, I got a lay brother, a strong stalwart fellow,
to give me four or five good kicks in the posterior,
which had the desired effect of putting me in a terrific
passion, and while in this state I threw off a discourse
that made my brethren feel, because I felt.” Let dull
preachers take the foregoing hint to heart, and they
will no longer have somnolent congregations.
A correspondent writes: —“A country R.O.
priest, because the daughter of a family didn't pay her
‘ Easter dues ’ (although the father of the family paid
for all, ten times more than he could possibly have
afforded), read out her name, with those of several
others, from the altar to the assembled congregation—
and finally attached the list to the door—in other
words, posted her as a defaulter. Is there a legal
remedy?” We don’t know, but we have so little con-
fidence in the Supreme Court of N.S.W., that we
strongly advise our correspondent to keep out of it.
We’re not aware that any particular disgrace attaches
to the non-payment of one’s Easter dues, though the
sin is, no doubt, a very heinous one from the priest's
point of view.
As has already been stated, the Armidale hos-
pital ball, on Queen’s Birthday, realised a clear £260,
which, with £1 for £1 from Government, will increase
the funds of the charity by £520. However, the Bishop
of Grafton and Armidale said, on 11th instant, respect-
ing the ball in question, that it was one of the very
worst ways he Knew of raising money for a charitable
object, and he hoped it would never again be adopted.
This was considered pretty severe by the ladies of the
district, who had worked hard to make the ball a sne-
sess, which it was in every way. His Lordship also
referred to “those small coins so often seen in collec-
tion plates,” and remarked that if the charity of some
individuals did not equal their means, their means
would yet equal their charity. Also, that people would
give towards the ball because they got something in
return for their money, but would not give to the
church because they received in return nothing but
spiritual advice, &0., which they evidently considered of
very small value. St. Peter’s Cathedral, Armidale,
writes a correspondent, is so cold and dreary at this
time of year, that’s it’s quite cheering to hear the offi-
oiating minister speak of the flaming regions of hell.


DR. STANICH desires to announce that poor
persons suffering: from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Dis-
eases will receive his valuable services towards their cure
Gratis, every THURSDAY in the week, at 50 Wynyard-
square, Sydney. To prevent disappointment, however,
applicants must be provided with a letter of reoom.
inundation under seal from some Government or
municipal authority, otherwise they will not be treated.
—Adtt.
It ia necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, 1s a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that yon get OAD.
BURY’d COCOA ESSENCE when you ask lor It, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by speeial appointment
to the Queen.—(Anvr.)
you want a really palatable pleasant eup of
tea, of acknowledged purity, strength, and excellence*
ask your grocer for Tub Calcutta Tea Associations
Puek Indian Tea. Out only Wholesale Warehouse In
New South Wales, is at 28 Charlotte Place.
no retail establishment whatever, and employ no
hawkers. All the leading tea dealers and grocers hi
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
“Calcutta Tea Assoeiation ’* on the labels in three
different places. The teas of the Association are ac-
knowledged superior to any packet teas over sold in the
Colonies.— Adyt.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 Qeorge-street
and though he has no* been established since Hannah,
Domini 42, he knows about as much as those that have
We trust our readers will not neglect this npper-tuuity
toe visit (his heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If yon want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call at 684, and “see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be in great demand
now. If only for the kicking of libel-oase jurymen.—
Adtt.
The Rockhampton Laughing Jackass, re.
ferring to the widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Rockhampton, says:—“ When visiting
Rockhampton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz,, the Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel
East-street. This Hotel has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars in town; also, the best furnished sitting
rooms in town. The Billiard Room contains a table
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Room,
which is large and well ventilated, will be found a
brilliant-toned piano. Ton will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladies." The lease, etc,, of above
flourishing and rapidly improving bar business, to be
disposed of. A bargain. Paxtiqulars from the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, 91. Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
—Advt. i
BATES' DANDELION COCOA is destined to become
the most favourite of all household beverages. It eozt-
bines the strengthening qualities of the best eeooe with
the well-known curative powers of the Dandelion flower}
consequently is invaluable for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, indigestion, debility, Ac. Aik for a sample
packet from an> of the principal grocers, or W. J.
COULTER, Sole-Agent. 107 Sussex Street.—Adtt
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Moonlight is candlelight on a larger scale. This
naturally slides ns down to the footlights, 'and to
that grand old comedy, “The School for Scandal,”
which was produced at the Royal last week. The
“ celebrated American actor,” Mr. D. H Harkins was
a little out of his element in the part of Charles’ Sur-
face. The courtly ceremoniousnoss of the last century
did not sit easily upon him, so he sat upon it. Take oil
his powdered wig and he was an audacious scapegrace
•of til© present dfiy. The old-fashioned costume never
•disguised him. He is a good actor, but never forgets
his identity. He is that man who “in his time plays
many parts,” nerer losing himself in any. Perhaps
this is hypercritical. There are not ten out of erery
ten thousand players who can do this. There are not
half ten in erery generation. Those are the topmost
blossoms on the tree of art. The remainder hare to
taka lower branches. Mr. Harkins may he well eon-
to swing midway between top and bottom. Mr.
Prank Cates’ Joseph Surface was a very excellent per-
tformanoe. Howerer, Mr. Frank Cates has two or three
little tricks which are effective enough now and then,
Ibut which, if employed too often, may degenerate into
mannerisms. For instance, he always adopts the same
tone in double-meaning asides to the audience. And he
tikes a precisely similar attitude when found out in a
trifling deception as whe n taken rod-handed in a de-
liberate villainy. Such and such gestures for the
•expression of such and such feelings. And the gestures
iara limited. It is not so iu real life. The bases, so
to speak, of the different movements that express
• surprise, joy, fear. Scc. are not many, but the varieties
■ are infinite. Why, a dictionary of gestures would fill a
Volume as large as a dictionary of words. We are
all attitudinizers, striking attitudes at every oppor-
tunity, Hoes the actor’s art then consist of
’ posing f The question itself is a poser. As Sir Peter
'Teazle, Mr. James Cathoart was somewhat of a success.
.Ha spoke the speech with fores and feeling. And was
uiaver prosy. A good deal of the credit of this may be
•ascribed to one Richard Brinsley Sheridan. The dia-
logue of the play is keen as a Toledo blade, and the re-
jurtee as ready and sparkling as that of a Destitute
Children’s Trustee at aboard-meeting. Bnt they were
sad. dogs in Sheridan’s days. The small talk of those
times would rake a modern drawing-room from fore to
aft, till not even a dowager would be left. The world
has grown very good since then. Hallelujah ! Sir
Benjamin Backbite (Mr. G. Forbes) was a very pretty
fellow and a sarcastic. Mr. Forrester made an excellent
Sir Oliver Surface j and Mr. Gladstone was none so
dambad as Crabtree. The other characters were taken
in fair style by the minor members of the company. As
t -Hiey had not much to do, we have not much to say of
uaem. Of the ladies, the less said the'better. None of
them were toises above the mark, putting the mark
very low indeed.
* • •
On Saturday night, “ Diplomacy.” Crowded
house. All the old playgoers present. Judah and
Benjamin in the front seats, and behind them one of the
lost tribes that seemed to have been rounded up for the
occasion. Thank Heaven, there is no need for us to
mix ourselves up like a Scotch haggis iu trying to un-
wind the threads of the plot. Everybody that is any-
body is ait fait with the whole thing. The parts of
Julian Beauclerc and Henry Beanclerc were played by
Mr. B. H. Harkins and Mr. Wybert Reeve respectively.
With regard to the former; Mr. Harkins had here a
better chance to show what he is made of than
in anything he has attempted so far. And he
availed himself of it. From what we had seen of
him in previous personations, wo could hardly
hare credited him with so much dramatic force
and fire as ho exhibited in his rendering of this
character. Go np one branch higher, Mr. Harkins I
Henry Beauclerc is a very distinguished-looking
person when he is represented by Mr. Wybert Reeve.
He is gentlemanly to a degree, but all the time you are
• conscious of an ugly strength under the dehsnnair
• exterior. The hand of iron is now and then visible
■through the glove of velvet. And especially so in that
infernally ungallant treatment of the Couv.tess Zicka in
ithe final scene. Mr. Frank Cates made a very agreeable
Count Orloff, and got rid of his mill-wheel round of
mann irisms for once. We stated in a previous para-
graph that these little peculiarities of his might become
mannerisms if he did not drop them now and then.
Now that we know he can drop them, we may as well
say what we think, which is that they are mannerisms,
and not excessively charming ones at that. And finally,
Mr. Cates succeeded in escaping from himself on this
occasion. He did not merely represent Count Orloff—
he was Count Orloff—the genuine vodka with a very
small dash of koumiss. Baron Stein (Mr. James Gath-
cart) is all koumiss—which is Turanian for fermented
mares’ milk. He is too mild and old-gentlemanly-
looking for the designing devil that Stein is supposed
to be. Of course it may be said that this is just what
he ought to look in order to he the deeper villain. But
such a statement is too much like refining for persons
who have to dish up the dramatic events of the week
in hunk-fashion like boarding-house bread-slabs. Life
is too short anyhow to waste it in poring over palimp-
seats. We want the script on the surface, so that all
who run may read. We have for mere respect for the
moral character of Baron Stein as Mr. Cathoart repre-
sents him than as he is pictured in the play. We feel
convinced that the one would buy up a match-boy’s
■stock and refuse tbe matches, where the other
would take the matches and refuse to part the
money. But for all this, when we go to see a
villain, we want a villain—one that rolls his eyes
m seven different ways at once and grinds his
teethand says “sacrS” whenever the other man asks him
“he we are going to have any more rain. That’s
the kind of man we want. Mr. Q. Forbes (Algie Fair-
lax) was, as usbal, charming. But we were much dis-
appointed with him for all that. He was a civil servant
and yet we distinctly saw him at work. And he had no
lunch in his desk. It was a cruel awakening from the
dream of luxury we had cherished so long.
» • •
, ladies— we must say it though we risk being
oranded as brutes—are, artistically speaking, below the
Nr y the Jf ent lemen. Miss Blanche Stammers and
miss Lena Ellis are becoming petrified into a style of
acting that may suit one out of a round of one hundred
e - rs ’ but ia ridiculously unsuitable for the other
mety-nine. Which convinces us that the actress
hern a i)d not made. Miss Marston Leigh
u-ountess Zicka) was very vehement in some places,
whole, a bit too savage-spoken for a
B li£ “he was incomparably better than the
umW o f5 1 j S 'x, She lc >oked aud spoke as if she thoroughly
sho ! Mtood nature of the woman whose character
heenAlfJ’f 1 , Miss 81-a y burn (Mion) might have
eu the peMe fills that suggested Villon’s lines :
Twixt Rome and Cadiz many a maid ia.
But no good girl’s lip out of Paris.”
nyhow —but, alas 1 it may not be—
Though in our heart desires at war.
In hopeless torment dumb boil,
dare not tala of kissing, for
We have—we have a gumboil.
** * *
mina §f eman t of Mr. E. F.
Place of H . ali . ls becoming a more popular
Wear* has T been ,or man y a day baek.
K 8 UiiU hSi. and
Sunday night W ™ ™ Hn « h . 6B Stared there on
audience On wr- a Mormonism" to a very fair
Cyril Havilnn.i^ e r day We duesday evenings, Mr.
Cyril’a nf d^ h ,T oredl ? ctar ° 8 on “ Spiritualism,;’
Demosthenic r>jJ < l ßv . erjr „ ls not what you would call
mostnemo. But he 13 a fluent speaker. One sentenee
after another rolls out of his mouth as a lost poodle
ro is out of the barrel of a sausage machine. This
simile might lead.you to think that ha minces matters,
but he doesn t. Ho has got what he calls the photo-
baby on show, which he intends to ex-
hibit to the public at each of his lectures, in the hope
that some time or other somebody will recognise it.
hen Cyril made this statement the audience broke
a . sardonic guffaw. The baby must have beer,
while in the flesh, in the habit of walking on its head,
as the portrait is taken head-downwards. If we had
not been informed otherwise we should have taken it
A'f ■ But Cyril Is great fun. There is a
wonderful naivete about his remarks that never fails to
?.£ r “J 0n - *1 portrait ” said he *' was taken at the
same time as that baby’s, but you can see through it,
you can t see through me 1 11 This statement was re-
ceived in derisive silence. But we shall have more to
say about Cynl when he lets himself out again. He is
a genius nun us the genius.
** * *
Webb’s (late Thompson’s) Diorama ef the
American War, opens at the Victoria Hall on Satur-
day, 2-tth- lust., for a season of two weeks. This is a
line show. The paintings are still in good order, though
one man has made a fortune out of them already. The
memory of one of the greatest civil struggles the
world has ever seen is beginning to die out of the minds
of the generation that witnessed it, but there is a
rising generation for whom the history of the American
war is an Iliad with Stonewall Jackson for its Achilles.
As a lesson to Australians, it would be invaluable if
Australians were different from other men and could be
taught by experience. An additional interest attaches
“° Production of the diorama at the Victoria Hall
in that the young and charming comedienne, Miss Jessie
Raymond a lady well known in New Zealand and the
other colonies—has been engaged to deliver the ex-
planatory lecture. A quantity of gifts, ineluding gold
and silver watches, are to be distributed at the per-
formance. We shall be there.
** * *
The “ Hermit’s Bell” was produced at the
Caiety last week, and has been running since. It is a
charming little opera The music is light and spark-
ling, and the plot simple but interesting. The time is
the reign of Louis Quatorzo. The scene a French
village A detachment of dragoons enters the village
in search of a number of Calvinist fugitives. These
are concealed in a cavern where a holy hermit used to
live till paascods gave out and the villagers took to
keeping their hen-roosts under look and key
But there was a superstition in the village
that, though the soul of the Holy man had
gone to heaven, it used to keep a sharp look-out on
the morals of the village, and whenever any Jeannot
was caught kissing a Jeannette the soul of that horrified
old oaint would ring the bell in the cavern till the per-
spiration rolled off its ghostly brow. Bose Moineau—a
wayward madcap with a good heart under her devil-
may-care exterior—contrives that the commandant of
i?? on 9 shall see Georgette, the young wife of
Ini bant the miser. A flirtation ensues, and Lieutenant
Bellamy neglects his duty. The soldiers are not sent in
time to search for the fugitives, and the fugitives escape,
inen (sylvan, the lover of Bose, who guided the dra-
goons, is condemned to death. Bose saves him by
threatening to reveal the Lieutenant’s neglect of duty
in the company of the fair Georgette. This is a rough
sketch ef the plot.
• • •
Madame Simonson is the Bose Moinean, and a
very charming one she is. Her singing of the solo, I
Hope sweetly smiles,” is delicious. Every note is pure !
as the notes of a nightingale. Miss Leonora Simonsen t
(Georgette) sang her part in good style. There is a
considerable amount of latent power in this young j
* wr j But, even if developed to the utmost, only half
of Madame her mother’s mantle will have fallen upon
her. She has none of that charming abandon that makes
the smallest action or the most commonplace speech of
Madame Simonsen so full of significance. Martina has
inherited something of this. Leonora belongs to the
heavy, though correct, German school of singing,
Martina to the lighter and more spiritual, hut not less
correct, French school.
• • #
Mr. Albert Brennir (Sylvan) was in very good
form when we heard him in this opera. He has also
a better show in it than in heavier pieces. He sang his
part of the duet, “ Betray Me Not,” im a really fine
style.
• * «
Mr. E. St. Glair (Bellamy) has been told by
somebody that the way to look killing is to open the
eyes to their widest extent, and then roll them round
and round in their sockets like revolving electric lights.
Whoever told him this was making fun of him. The
rest of the characters are not noticeable, except the
Lieutenant, who looked like a tripe-stick. Little
Martin led the orchestra, to the charge in his old style.
** * *
“ The Professor ” still holds the boards of the
Opera House. It is rumoured that Fred. Marshall
contemplates founding a retreat for broken-down
dramatic critics with a portion of the money he has
made. Two or three daily paper-men are, even now,
going around on the strength, of this rumour, canvass-
ing for reeommendatious for admission.
** * *
The “Banker’s Daughter,” with the old, old
stock company, is running at the Queen’s.
* * *• *•
Mr. Minton N. Griffiths has formed a. variety
company, designated "The Comets,” and com prising
M’Carthy, Johnny Cowan, Have Gardner, George
Gibbons, Harry Morley, and Albino, the lady wentrilo-
quist. There are also Mesdames Marie St. Marc,
El wood, Hill, and Leslie. They open at Grafton on 10 th
July, and play for one week.
** * *
The University Musical Society’s next concert
will take place iu about five weeks’ time. Conductor,
Herr Kreltaohmann.
** * *
Miss Emilie Melville (who is now living at St.
Hilda) appears at Melbourne Opera House next month
under the auspices of Williamson and £k>.
** * *
Our correspondent writes that at Adelaide the
last nights of “Youth” hut slightly showed any Billing
off in attendances at the Eoyal. One not dees how much
this Augustan Harrisian drama does nwemble “ For-
mosa” in the earlier scenes, and that, on the whole, its
tendency is certainly immoral. Soi ne infatuated
parson’s opinion is advertised to a contra ry effect, but,
thank goodnesss, we think not as do the j arsons ! Miss
ConstanceDeorwyn’s “French” accent is} sxcruciating;
but Jeames doubtless opines, quite gooi I enough for
Adelaide. The volunteer force attended I efore as well
as behind the scenes last Tuesday, and gav e the theatre
quite a sanguinary appearance. Mrs. Walsingham
(Maggie Oliver) now crimps her hair in i (rout and be-
comes younger in appearance with every ■ dewy eve.
They think in Adelaide that Margaret is the fair
Deorwyn’s juvenile sister ! Earner is Pan oramaizing,
and suites of ungodly furniture block up t he gangway
at the Academy—ungodly because cane and juiable.
** * *
Miss Lilly Marsh’s Eoyal Pinafore Company
have been charming the cornstalks at Ar: nidale, In-
verell, and Glen lanes, in “Pinafore,” “ Black-eyed
Susan,” and “Lurline.” The sisters, Luo; . and Amy
Fraser, seem to have been especially oaptiva ting, judg-
ing by local reports, Miss Lucy (Mrs. Martyn O’Hagan)
having made a decided impression in the jinging of
“ Maid of Athens." We note that Martyn O’Hagan,
encouraged by snooess, means to cun a comp my of his
own, including the celebrated alto, Beaumi uit Bead,
over the same district.
One by one are our idols being shatter id. The
King ot Ashantee’s golden axe is only ir< m-plated.
Like most possessors ot Brummagem jewe ilery, the
King is sensitive on this point. If anyone ‘'a tea " him
if it is true, be axes them.
When a man sitting opposite you in a re itaurant
stops suddenly, glares at yon, and the tears run down
his oheek, don't you suppose he suddenly reoo lleots the
death ot bis mother. His mouth is projjyed i ipen with
a wire nail, and be wants you to get the claw' hammer,
quick.
FACT AND FOCUSSED.
At recent proceedings in the Resident Magis-
trate s Court, Wellington, N.Z., an Irish interpreter,
i • eoo Ployed to translate the evidence of the
plaintiff, who oonld not spesk the language of the base,
bloody and brutal Sassenach. His counsel explained
that he was captured wild in the highlands of Donegal
iba Hydney Corporation have not much money to
spare over pavement traffic, so we now steer along
through vile talking larrikins,slip down at hotel corners,
get up and wallop backwards over marbles and then
tbe Greets to give tricycle-boys room “ A
high bed in a cold room, and a low one in warm," says
ur. Hall m the Health Journal, “ Hvde Park in
warm weather, and a hole under a reck off Lady Mao-
quane s Road in cold” quoth an intelligent swagman
...!n the Cooktown Courier office, is the press on which
the first paper in Queensland was printed—the More-
ton Bat Courier Union Reef Co., Townsville,
capital of £100,000: former owners re-
oeived<lo,ooo cash and £40,000 paid np shares: remain-
der token up by Adelaide capitalist* The Forbes
«X. oo 'iI 1 SA llave tnrn6d usurers i they have just lent
a mC 0 ™ Wtmn will the metropolitan civics follow suit P
~, Ihe Victorian Polioe Commission has elicited, amongst
0 u grievances, the fact* that every constable,
whether married or single, has, when sick, to go to
the police hospital, and here he is charged 3s. Od, per
diem; that the oost of a constable's outfit on entering
’ fo°rce ’' is '£ls. The |pay at starting is 6s. 6d,
per day...,..150 Maoleay district tenant-farmers, burst-
ii gratitude, about to ohampagne banquet a
liberal landlord " in the toneist style ever known up
that way From March Ist to May 18. 82 cases of
typhoid fever were admitted into Brisbane hospital ;
there were freq lently 00 patients in the institution at
one time...... Bits are taking up their residence at Balia-
Mt (Victoria), for the first time known Edmon-
atone, a Palmer digger, was tamping a hole in which,
him, a dynamite charge was concealed ;
thr °ugh his hand When
p ar North, ablackfellow “bashes in" his gin’s
skui! with a nulla-nullah, the local editor says that,
ho exercised his connubial rights in so vigorous a
manner as to cause death." Tam worth papers
hke ha °s r y d °Brs. ab»ut a " two-inch race
club advertisement." One editor is the club secro-
mifl r n i? tho bulf?o on the other fellow
Ihe John Batman committee have abandoned the
petition to Government for a grant of land to the
8 heirs, and ask for £3OOO cash The writer
-L Co°ma Whispers" is tho only one. out of
about twenty thousand people in this country
. "oatha whisper." that acknowledges his
ilwk l o "j'''• A “Spelling Bee" was held at
uorbes, last Wednesday, candidates limited to persons
who, could spell their own names. The local editor
J rh . e Eailwft y League at the Palmer (Q )
is said to be suffering from “ internal coolness. ** There
wasn t enough) nitric aoid in the last consignment of
rum sent up that way At last Wellington (N.Z.)
Divorce sittings, a very large number of decrees were
pronounced, and deplorable immorality disclosed. One
Vause, whose wife obtained a di-Vause, shot himself
aa hour or t wo afterijudgment had been pronounced
A reef, six feat thick, carrying very good gold, has been
found twelve miles north of Byerstown, Palmer River.
......In protective Victoria, there is only one manufac-
turer of gas fittings, and yet the protective duties on
the various lines of this industry vary from 86 to 218
per cent. Andrew Dempster, an importer, said that
even with this favourable handicap, the colonial pre-
diction could in no way be compared with the imported
f r , ti< "? * ‘‘drunk" pleads guilty. Dillon. S.M.,
it. v ? Hh® engages witnesses to prove
that be ien t drunk, and ‘‘takes up the time of the
Court —i.e., of Dillon, S.M., who is paid to waste his
time there—he is fined £1 or seven days It now
appears that all the trouble (unavailingly) taken to find
a practicable road between the Wild Elver and Mouril-
yan harbour was due to the fact that certain Govern-
ment officials high up have land on the Johnstone and
Mourilyan Meteoric fireball fell at Gladstone (Q )on
Saturday .last The editor of the Bathurst Indepen
dent has been called spndoultnral no small
potato.of a nickname, mark yen Two new news-
paper .prospectuses are out in Melbourne. One relates
to a proposed monthly journal of contemporaneous
thought, and to be entitled Public Opinion ;
the other te a] new society paper built
on the lines of the London World Some
Chm®i n:enw ho had been doing the recently develo-
ped Tasmanian tin mines, and wanted to leave, were
appalled by the prospect of having to pay the Victorian
poll-tax if they landed in Melbourne en route home.
However, their ingenuity was equal to the occasion. A
Launceston Chinaman shipped them to Melbourne in
bond The skeleton of “ Arangrng,” tho Kanaka who
killed Mon Man," another Kanaka, at Mackay, has
been found in the Miolare scrub A valuable grey-
hound was recently killed at Wellington (N.Z.) by a
SiSß* of whisky thrown in its face. Wellington whisky
will kill anything not used to it,
• • •
Last year, the printing and stationery expenses
alone of the British War Office averaged £172 a day
L. A. Harrison, late accountant of the National Bank
ef India, Bombay, has levanted with SO.COOr. of defal-
cated money. It is believed that he oame to Aus-
tralia The London Daily Telegraph sent a speoial
reporter to accompany Jumbo, the Zoo elephant, across
the Atlantic I How well the D. T. understands the
age in which it lives 1 Meanwhile, the noble British
pnblio are invited to gather around the cage of a
monkey with a toothache. Chloroform Administered !
the tooth extracted I ! Presentation of the Extracted
Tooth to the Nation!!! Where are these lines on the
contents bills P At Lichfield, in America, a cave has
been discovered. An exploring party travelled in it
fourteen miles of main avenue, crossing a river full of
eyeless fish, and other sightless marine oreatnrea. Evi-
dence was plentiful that tho cave had been inhabited
by a race of prehistoric men The average profits of
the Bank of England are £4500 a day. The reserves of
the Bank are 43 per cent, of the liabilities.
The tetal reserve in notes and bullion was £12,600,000.
How is this for high t Seventy-three giants, repre-
senting 450 feet of humanity, long measure, had a
grand .banquet recently at Delmonioo’s, New York.
Titans is-the name they have for themselves, and, by the
time dinner was finished, they deserved the name of
tight ‘nns A remarkable eareer ended at Rome in
April. Antonio G&eparone died at the age of 89. He
was a terror in Italy as a bandit for over eleven years,
but surrendered himself in 1825. He was then sent to
the galleys, where he remained till 1870. For the last
twelve years he lived quietly, and died in peace.
Think of it—penal servitude for 45 years! The
other day, the eon of a hot Parnellite, in Wicklow, was
guilty of the high crime and misdemeanour of mending
an Emergency man’s coat. The following advertise-
ment appeared in a local paper in consequence: “ Jamas
Mythou, tailor, Oulart, having conformed in every way to
the wishes of the pnblio, begs to inform his friends and
the publie that he humbly apologises (or having let any
of his family go contrary to their wishes. Ha begs to
state that,- having made peace with all his friends, he
will be all right in the future."
John Sullivan gave an exhibition at the Giand
Opera House, Rochester, N.Y., on Thursday evening,
April 20, The building was crowded in every part, and
excitement ran high when the champion was faced by
John M'Dermott, a middle-weight Are-laddie, who
plnckily undertook to win the century offered by the
beneiiciary to anyone who would stay in front of him
during four rounds of three minutes each. A darky
namtd Johnson had agreed to undertake the job, but
when the pinch came he weakened M'Dermott, although
far from clever in the use of his hands, was quick on
his legs, and an adept in ducking, and. by acting on the
defensive and keeping on the trot pretty nearly all the
time, the stage being very large, he managed to avoid
being “ coppered "in the opening round. In the next,
however, he caught some pepper, and in the third be
was repeatedly floored and gave up the unequal strug-
gle. The sympathies of the spectators seemed to be
strongly in favour of the local boxer, which was not
unnatural, and when Sullivan essayed to make a few
remarks the hissing and jeering with which he had been
greeted during the bout increased to such an extent that
bis voice could not be heard, and he quitted the stage
a completely disgusted man. He baa been announced
to wind up the exhibition with Billy Madden j but after
the uncalled for ill-treatment he had received he de-
clined to again attempt te entertain the crowd; so Bob
Farrell and Fete M‘Coy gave the closing set-to. Had
the spectators behaved decently, they would have been
much better entertained, and received a more satis-
factory return for their money.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Egyptian crisis heading towards culmination...
Italian Government refused to assent to England and
France’s interference Dervish Pasha and the Ehe-
dive fled to Alexandria, fearing Arabi Bey Many
Europeans missing; 230 supposed to have been killed
during recent outbreak ; 200 ringleaders arrested..,.,.
Consuls General of several European Powers at Alaxan-
am, which has been garrisoned with 12,200 men,..,..
Cairo deserted by English population Channel
squadron ordered to Alexandria; Spain sent frigate
there Dervish Pasha wired Sultan of Turkey that
presence of combined fleets impeded restoration of
order...... Sultan, at instigation of Russia, Germany,
and Austria, instructed Kaghcb Pasha bo form new
, w ki°h has been done, and consists
of Bagheb Pasha, Premier and Minister for Finance j
Basohid Pasha, Minister for the Interior) Zeoky Pasha,
Minister for Foreign Affairs s and Arab! Bey, Minister
tor War Sultan declines to send troops to
Egypt, and states that nothing ah art of the
deposition of Tewflk Pasha will solve tho
difficulty.. Conference to meet at Constantinople;
Turkey declines to be represented .Mauaiou House
fund being organised for relief of European* in Egypt.
Bismarck predicts general shindy in Europe at mi
early date War between native tribes In Zulnland....
Irish evictions increasing Fenian armoury of IOO.OdO
rounds of ammunition, and an enormous number of
Sniders, revolvers, and bayonets seized at Glerkonwell.
Loudon ; more concealed arms found in possession of a
workman named Walsh Parnell denounces Davltt’e
land scheme Military precautions being redoubled
in Ireland Repression of Crime Bill slowly proceed-
ing in House of Commons .Sir Henry Parkes lunched
with Crown Prince and Princess of Germany, at Berlia.
Sir Samuel Wilson tho future Tory (candidate for
Bucks, the seat of late Lord Beaconsfield Cuzco
frozen meat realised 6Jd. all round Cape loan of
£10,000,000 realised average of 93|d. ; minimum was 04.
....Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill was negatived by House
of Lords by 4 votes | 17 prelates voted against It, the
Prince of Wales, Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Leopold,
Duke of Cambridge, and members of the Government
voted for it Czarina delivered of a daughter at
Gatchina Prince Labanolf, recent Russian ambassa-
dor at London, appointed to Vienna...... German armqr
officer arrested for treasonably revealing to Russia im-
portant particulars respecting the defences of Zeil, a
German Baltic port Peru seeks American protector-
ate Tornado in West U.B. killed 100 persons anti
destroyed property worth #2,000,000 Pittsburg Iron-
workers’ strike ended by compromise HnnUn jig-
covering; but abandoned match with Boas Largaru
Pearce, and Layoook started ta sculling race
Sportsman Challenge Cup. Lorgan beat Pearce by tw«
lengths; Layoook, soon beaten, stopped Australis*
Eleven orioket matches j—■ Beat Derbyshire, who made
106 and 77, by an innings and 109 runs; against York-
shire, the homo team made 92 in first innings, tho Aus-
tralians 148; in second innings, Yorkshire made IA,
and Australians 25 without tho loss of a wiokok.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, June 21,1882,
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at £8 10a to £9; other samples, from £6 to £8 per ton,
a fair supply arriving at market, and a moderate
demand. Maize is 5s Id to Ba 2d per bushel," oats, seed
and feed, 3a 9d to 4a. Warrnambooi potatoes, £3 10s to
£3 15a per ton j New Zealand, do., £8 10s to £3 15s s
Circular Head, do., £4 10s. Victorian onions, £4; do.,
ohaif, prime, £8 to £9 per ton, bags inclusive. Best
butter, in keg. 2s Id per lb. i Tasmanian, do.. Is 6d to
Is 9d; New Zealand, do. 9d to Is Sd. Eggs, 2s 3d per
dozen ; bacon, 8d to 9d per lb. ; cheese, 9d to lOd i ham.
8d to lOd; honey, 3d to 4d.
Poultrv.—Fowls, 3a 6d per pair; ducks, 4s 6d; geese.
7s; turkeys, 0; to 14a
Fresh Meat.—At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s sheds.
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of freeh country
killed beef take place daily, a small supply arriving ;
good demand. Prices are—prime bodies of beef, 3id
per lb; medium quality, 2*d to 2M all round j prime
mutton, 2i to 2Jd; medium quality Ifd to 2d allround.
Pat Cattle.—At the Homebnsh sales, yesterday, a
short supply of fat cattle were yarded, and priees ruled
irra—best beef, 24s par 1001 b.
Fat Sheep,—A short supply forward, and market
firm; 53-lb. wethers worth 15s,
Flour.—We hear that some New Zealand flour has
been tried, and found not saleable. Holders of prims
flour are firm. Sydney superfine mill flour is selling at
£l5 per ton; household, £l4; ssoonds, £l3; New South
Wales country brands, £l4 15s to £l5; Victorian £U
10a to £l5; Adelaide, £l5 5a to £l5 10s ; New Zealand.
612 5i to £l3; bran and pollard. Is 8d to Is M per
bushel.
W heat.—There is still in the market a large quantity
of inferior New Zealand wheat, which buyers do nob
care to purchase. Good grain ef all descriptions Is
saleable at about our quotations—New South Wales.
6s 6d to 6s 8d per bushel; Adelaide, 0a 0d to 0s 9d,
Victorian, 0s; Launceston, 6a; New Zealand. 5s
sa. 9d.
O Moon ! apostrophised of frenzied poets,
With wild hair floating over wilder eyes,
What seest thou from thy station in the skies P
Dost thou take note of earth, and dost thou know its
Mad hordes of Men that with each other strive,
Each killing each to keep himself alive P
We know not and we care not; for thy moonlight
Shines equal on the slayer and the slain—
Said somewhere else before and now again—
Eor thee the dead—the living for the noonlight;
And, as the dead are more, earth is at most
A spuming tomb, a spaceward-shrieking ghost.
Roll on,|o Moon! for we have done with mooning,
The other dogs may now get up and bay,
And frighten back the dawning of the day—
'Jse ealm, for we have done, w« were but tuning
Our harp “ hung up” in Judah's halls too long,
And took thee as the subject of our song.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A man went into a chemist’s shop on Sunday,
and said to the chemist, “ Pick-me-up." Then he
winked. He walked away refreshed. Let the bewildered
printer make enquiries as to hew the Three Stars
should ha arranged after this paragraph.
• • •
“Sir Henry Partes and his daughter lunched
to-day with the Crown Prince and Princess of Germany
at Berlin.’’—Herald cable.
This lot made little Garrett sigh.
With scorn he murmured 11 Well I!"
But, when it met old Jacky’s eye.
He shouted out, 11 Oh, . .
But it’s time to go to chapel.
• m o
The police of No. 4 station presented, on Satur-
day evening last, sub-inspector Johnson with a silver
tea and coffee set. (Is this epidemic?) If this had
been the Inspector who said in a Court of Jus—we
mean Law—that he didn’t see that any immorality
sprang from harbour picnics, why, a pair of binoculars
would have been—but there. Why say more, when the
police force of Sydney knows no more a party by the
name of Johnson.
• • •
Reader! while you read this item, wipe the
perspiration from olf your forehead and cease to
breathe. Hanley Bennett is chairman of the Special
Committee re Lighting Lamps with Gas of the gorgeous
metropolis of Tamworth. Hanley’s report is the most
eloquent thing we have read since the last shoe-shop
manifesto. Life’s too short to quote any of it; but if
any of our readers feel that by taking our word that
it’s lovely, they will be made to feel better and holier
people, let them do so. Its eloquence, however, had
an electrical effect with the Council. Mark this:—
"The Mayor: ‘All in favour of this report being re-
ceived please say * aye,’ Alderman Yett: ‘ Ah! lam
opposed to it.’ Notwithstanding this opposition, how.
ever, the report was received." So Yett’s vete couldn’t
Vetto —we mean veto it. [We feel the above ending to
this, an important subject, to be frivolous, not to say
flippant; but Mr, Hanley Bennett’s legislative worth
and vast intellectual attainments [spelling included)
are so generally acknowledged that really we do not
consider anything more abject than this necessary.
Not, however, but that we like a good honest grovel
sometimes. The reaction is so grand.— Ed. B,]
•
The other day, just as the Council had com-
menced to sit, the Mayor’s orderly handed his Worship
a letter. It was to this effect" Can’t come and
wote nohow. Me and Charley’s agoin’ to a ook flte.”
• • •
Here’s a curious coincidence. The Tamworth
Nbws is always losing the run of its Sydney correspon-
dent. Well, whenever the T.N. says it hasn’t seen its
correspondent, when wo meet him ha says he hasn’t
seen the Tamworth News. And that reminds us of
another man. He’s dead though, which is a pity, for
those that knew him will agree with us when wo state
that it is very long since any sphere will look upon his
like again. Well—hang it! how many " wells " creep
into a par. when you are carried away with your sub-
jsct. But to resume.—Well—there are more in this
item now than on the Aramao Road—Joe was distantly
connected with several papers, and one morning we met
him coming out of the Mickey office. " How are you,
Joe?" we said. “Capital paper this week. Bead it ?”
" Bead it, of course I have; that is, I’ve read my
article.” Ha used to do the colonial produce quota-
tions—and in prose.
m • •
If you want to feast your eyes upon a sublimely
seraphic spectacle, before which the famed prismatic
glories of the Aurora Borealis pales its melting glory,
gaze upon the countenance of W. P. Wooloott, the
Town Clerk, while a poor actor is trying to sell him a
ticket. So if, dear dramatic devourer of these lines,
you have a ben. approaching, go and gaze. Mr. Wooloott
won’t keep you long—and you’ll keep the tickets.
« tt *
The shooting season has begun on the North
Shore, and none of the residents are complaining of
dnlnoss. Every three-foot nrchin who can sneak his
father’s musket, collar enough lead off the next house
to make a sack of slugs with, and beg a tin of blasting,
powder from a quarryman, goes halves with another
sportsman, smaller, bat more depraved, than himself, in
a four-legged bark-producer, and they start out. They
take with them an ordinary bean-bag, but they never
shoot anything small enough to go in it. If they
Are, for instance, at a wild-duok, the bird flies off with
a derisive smile, while you lament three big holes in
your best nightgown that was hanging on the clothes-
line. When game is scarce, these intrepid shootists
will let fly at your roosters, but they don’t kill them.
Oh, no I Their dog does that, while all the harm their
guns do is to smash the wash-house windows. We are
going out shooting ourselves shortly. But we shan’t
look for wild-ducks much. We shall be quite content
if we come across two boys and a dog.
* # #
It was near the Domain gates, at Woolloomooloo,
and a clerical gentleman of the Stiggins sort lay pant-
ing on the ground, his appearance being suggestive of
his having had a battle with the wheel of a saw-mill,
and over whom stood a stalwart gentleman with bleed-
ing knuckles. Stiggins had called him—" My Christian
friend."
m * m
Scene : Rooms of a certain Dilettanti (!) club in
—Bogusville. Enter member who introduces a friend.
Club official: “ Ullo, who’s this." Mendber: “The
gent what keeps the crockery warous down Slank-
street.” Club official: “ Oh, henter, sir: most ’appy."
They pass in. Enter another member, who introduces
a friend. C. O.: “ ’Ere, 'i I—who’s ’im ?" Member ;
" This is the author of .’’ C. O.: “ Can’t pass ’im.
This era’s a hart club. It’s got to be kep’ select.
• • •
We were busy evolving a nation-throbbor when
the door was softly opened and ;i small youth bearing a
paper parcel of limited dimensions glided in and with-
out prelude or preamble said—“ Hi Mister, do you buy
things?” “Certainly my son," we replied: “What
have you for sale ? A penholder and six pens symme-
trically arranged on a piece of cardboard, or the good-
will of a country paper P If you peddle stavlaces we
can’t trade, but we are o jen to invest in Parliamentary
votes and Government interest ? Come now ?"
" Sister says, ‘lf you buy things, here you are.’ ” And he
handed us his parcel. It was a double-sheet of fools-
cap, containing two slices of bread-and-dripping, and a
bottle of liquorice-water. “ You have mistaken the
office,” we said. “This is not the Bvenin® Fer«t
” “ It ain’t the lunch," he said, "it’s the paper what
you’ve to buy.” Then we saw it. Elegy in a nice
female hand—
*’ To GaRHULAX
** Ye muses nine in pacian groves
Shed tears of sorrow scaldy;
Now is the hour when it behoves
Us weep for Garibaldi! ’’
“ A hero brave the Papal force,
With fanlchion gleaming mauld’ he.
And he’s no more. I mean, of coarse,
The stone-cold Garibaldi."
“ All right,” we said. “ taking the address of the
Sappho, we’ll send that trifle round.” And in the
deep glow of the noonday sun a slave attached to this
office might have been seen delivering at the poetess’s
residence a beautifully polished and admirably scented
little —— brick.
• • •
Lawyer Branson, of Ashburton, N.Z., has
scooped up our own Sir George lanes’ “ necessary
force ” theory. Ho says a husband is perfectly justified,
under certain circumstances, in thrashing his better-
half. “ There is," he says, “ a statute in force, em-
powering a husband to whip his wife when necessary,
provided he inflicted the punishment with a stick or
twig “no thicker than his little finger." This is joyful
news for us. Wo have a hand as big as a shoulder of
mutton, and our smallest finger is more than twice as
thick as a two-shilling German sausage.
• * «
“Jehovah has provided— Look at this!”
said the country editor, as he pranced into the back-
kitchen and slapped down a paragraph cabbage. “ What
did I tell you, wife,” he continued, “ when that two-
headed cat gave out, and there wasn’t a junk left of the
three-legged calf? Didn’t I say Jehovah would pro-
vide ? Ton bet I did 1 Look at that cabbage. It’s two
feet in diameter, if it’s an inch. He feedeth the ravens.
Get out the pot.”
* # «
Penrith Public School has just been hoisted to
the third grade, and every living soul there from the
“ gohannas ” up considers himself just as learned as
the great Macaulay. Commenting on this the Penrith
Argus observes—“ When the good news first arrived,
feelings in the school ran so high that the children
could not contain themselves until they had carried one
of the most popular lady teachers round the room—a
fact which clearly demonstrates the entente cordiale
which exists between the pupils and their ‘heads.’”
Alas 1 for “ our boyhood’s happy days.” Who would
not yell to go to a school where the grabbing of a pretty
and popular lady teacher, and going 1000 times round
the ,room with her in 1000 minutes, was simply con-
sidered as evidence that the pupils had a level head,
and his entente cordiale as full of “fizzy” as the best
cordial that ever came from Starkey’s. What Ho 1
Mephistopheles—wo would be a boy again, and go to
school at Penrith.
• • •
During the laughable after-dinner speech of our
Bombastes ’Enry.he used the pronoun “I" exactly 104
times, besides referring to “me” and “myself” as
often as he could conveniently butcher Lindley Murray,
Sixty-six Ego’s were trumpeted out before, and thirty,
eight after that fearful sentence wherein he observed,
“ I will now pass away from N.S. Wales and my own
political career, and for a few moments speak of Aus-
tralia.” Brummagem, first; Australia, second. Bret
Harte was at the feed, and says that as a humourist
’Enry has no equal since the days of Job.
* * *
When Brother Shearstone has persuaded the
entire Royal Navy that one glass of “ Botany mixture ”
on a cold day is equal to two of hot rum, he might gird
up his loins, and take a stroll as far as Numurkah
(Vic ). The population of that happy land all told is
230, including everthing that can stand upright. The
average pubs ran one to every individual until recently,
when two more licenses were app let for—and granted
without a murmur. That stands Temperance on her
head at present.
• • *
If we are to believe historians —and they are
corroborated by David Buchanan (which is a comfort-
able thing)—the bombardment of a town renders
things a bit uncomfortable in the abode of the peaceful
citizen. Well, we have never experienced a bombard-
ment ; but the very next thing to it we have experienced.
That is a birth. To that colossal mansion, whose
granite and gilded pillars gleam so bravely when Sol is
setting, which is our princely abode, we returned one
evening, accompanied by two friends whom we wished
to especially honour. We entered. The dining-room
had been converted into a bed-chamber, and a strange
woman of forbidding appearance was slumbering upon
the drawing-room conch. One of the retainers had
“ gone for the doctor,” and the Randwick butler had
“run round to the chemist’s.” On our expressing
some discomfiture at this state of affairs, the sinister
female requested us sharply " not to make so much
noise.” Our friends then fled, and we were left to deso-
lation. Atninep.m,, wearying of perusing the news-
paper in a bed-room the atmosphere of which regis-
tered 30 Reaumur, we accosted the elderly woman, and
suggested that the banquet be served. This caused her
to gaze ou us reproachfully; bub softening, she pro-
posed tinned salmon—and as a second inspiration-
biscuits. Declining to regale ourselves on these
luscious viands, wo at length obtained a cup of timid
tea and a chop—the outside of which reminded one of the
armour of an ironclad, and the inside of Glebe Island.
We then retired to a temporary bed-room, and were
much edified at finding three dogs ensconced on the
bed, while a closer examination revealed to us the fact
that the parrot had got loose and had sampled all our
11 seven-leaguers.” Another crusher was on waking to
discover that they “couldn’t make out where they had
put our razors,” and the joy occasioned by the intelli-
gence that “a boy had stole the ’Eeald” was rather
clouded by our learning that the “ next door cat ” had
killed two 355. canaries. Tes ; a birth is as bad as a
bombardment. However, there’s one gleam of com-
fort ; it's a fine boy.
* « «
We have always had the profoundest respect
for a master tailor’s wisdom, but when we find him
“besting" one of our smartest lawyers, we pass him
over the cake completely. Mr. Pants, for example,
having to engage his friend, Mr. Brief, over a goat-
impounding case, the latter sent the tailor his bill for
two days work, which totalled £2O ss. 2d., and which
would reach from the Circular Quay to Parramatta.
Meantime, Mr. Brief gave Mr. Pants an order for a pair
of tweed “ extremity covers,” and the man of law wept
like a pump when he found the bill handed in as
follows !
To measuring and taking order for pair £ a d
trousers 0 0 8
„ Calling out measurements to shop
boy 0 6 8
~ Going twice to the tweed factory
manager 0 10 0
„ Fees to same 4 4 0
„ Cutting cloth and providing new
scissors 0 68
~ Working materials 110
„ Trying the trousers on 013 4
„ Alterations and amendments ... 18 0
~ Entering same in daybook ,„ ... 010 6
~ Posting it in my ledger 0 6 8
„ Observing it was fine weather for
tweed 0 13 4
~ Writing to the button merchant ... 0 6 8
„ Filing his reply, 19 sheets 0 16 0
„ Fees to same 2 12 0
„ Removing the suit to Woollaomoo-
loo 110
„ Removing back to shop (no one in)... 16 0
„ Receipt and stamp ... 012 0
~ Filing the same 0 6 6
„ Service of the same 0 5 0
„ Ditto eight times more 2 0 0
Total £2O 5 2
* * «
It is suggested that the Commission appointed
to report with respect to the facilities for egress from
places of amusement in Sydney will not confine their
investigation to the theatres, but will extend their in-
quiries to the various churches and chapels. Alarms
of “ burning fire” are raised from the pulpits of some
of these places of entertainment every Sunday.
• * #
The trustees of the Gundagai Cemetery, at a
recent meeting, decided to “ oat off the present grass
with sheep." Grass with sheep is good food. The
trustees in future are to be known as Nebuchadnez-
zarites.
« • •
One of the speakers at the Bowman banquet,
which took place at Windsors little while ago, referred
on several occasions to some mysterious entity which
he cal ed the “Dredge." This is how the Hawkesbuht
Chronicle printed it, anyway. From the reverential
tone of these references, a stranger not perfectly
acquainted with the Hawkesbury language might
imagine that Dredge was the name of a god worshipped
in those parts. On reading further ho would note that
the speaker talks caressingly of Dredge as “ her.” It
is a goddess, then, and not a god, he would conclude.
Nothing of the sort. It is only an old mud-scow that
is used for scooping slime out of the river. Magnilo*
quenoe over a mud-scow! This is better than Eufus
Choate, the great American special pleader, who, it is
said, could be “as pathetic as the grand lamentations
in * Samson Asonistes ’ over the obstructions of fish-
ways, and would rise into the Cathedral music of the
Universe over the right to manufacture India-rubber
suspenders."
• • *
Fergy, of Parramatta, was hoaxed over the
Hanlan decease business. But what will Hanlan be
when he reads his own obituary in the Kvehino Times P
Let us hope he will bo dead in earnest before it comes
to hand. If he is not, it will bill him, and that would
be a more ignoble end than to be done to death by being
run over with a meat-pie cart. We trust he will not
come over here and kill Fergy, for, if Fergy were gone,
we should have nobody to make fun of. Poor old Fergy I
* • •
One of the biggest softgoods firms gave an order
recently to some English engraver to produce a picture
of their splendid premises. The work was executed in
rich, artistic style. Alas I in front of the mountain of
exquisite architecture stood a bullock team. Of course
the engraving was declined. " Bullock-teams,” said the
senior partner, “ have disappeared altogether from
Sydney—these years.” Not so, however. A bullock-
team has for the last month been ploughing the ground
at the site of the new railway workshops. Glorious
progress s a team of bullocks working in the great
metropolis! If the Government wanted the scooping
done properly, why not have got a steam appliance, or
a member of Parliament P
In the Vineyard.
At a recent ploughing-match near Quoanbeyan, one of
the most conspicuous of the contestants was the Bev.
J. S. Gibson, the Wesleyan minister of the town. The
match was not for money, but for love. A farmer lay
sick, and his field lay in stubble. These Christians
ploughed it for him. God speed such ploughs as
their’s. The Bev. Mr. Gibson is a man whom we ad-
mire. We can listen to homilies from the lips of men
of this sort. But there are some of another sort who
are unctuous-mouthed enough, but who are the very
last to practice the charity they preach. To Levitos of
the latter sort, we dedicate the following little original
ballad:—
VOX POPULI.
So, Messieurs Divine and Preacher,
You have settled the thing complete.
And stand with the earth as a footstool
Right under your squate-shoed feet.
You have weighed the world in a balance.
And stationed the stars in space
Wherever seemed best to suit you.
And give your arguments grace.
You have gauged the speed of the systems.
And measured the march of mind;
You were there when God made both, and
Suggested what He designed.
Then who shall say that you are not
Aw fait with the Maker's plan.
And what Ha means to accomplish
Fer the good of his creature, Man P
He may dive as deep as he pleases,
In the dimmest nebular nook,
But he cannot deceive you. Hardly—
You can read Him like a book I
Pshaw ! Philosophy is too timid.
With its crawl from fact to fact.
And its creeping from Known to Unknown—
For what j 1 Just to be exact.
Your system is bolder and better;
You have no fear of the odds
Against yon, but say “ So is it ”
Same words exactly as God’s.
And of course so it is, or if not.
Where is each weak-headed elf
Who gets his living by seeming
To know more than Ged Himself
Of what God thinks ? Who grows fat as
A frog in a stagnant pool
By representing his Maker
As either a Fiend or Fool P
Gentlemen, y®u are wise men.
Exceedingly wise indeed;
Your share of the curse of Adam
Is borne by the rest of his seed.
You sit in the shade at noonday,
While others are in the flame.
And look after your flock like shepherds—
And shear them, too, like the same.
The swell of your fair round paunches
Is a goodly thing to see.
And comforts a dying Christian
Far more than the Litnrgy.
You live in the style of the lilies.
Who will “ neither toil nor spin ; ”
Hard work, though good for others.
For you is a grievous sin.
Certes, you’ve taken to saok-cloth
Like saints; but the cloth is black.
And the sack, we need hardly state, is
The right Falstafflan sack.
Who shall blame yon ? Your people praise you.
And think the earth would “secesh”
From the system, and run to ruin.
If you began totiose flesh.
You have had a lease of the pulpit
A hundred ages or so.
And the World and the Flesh and the Devil,
And you have run a good show
On this stage of earth, and have raked in
A nice little pool, no doubt;
But your season is nearly over,
And the play is about played out.
You have stood by Hell’s open hatches,
Commissioned the pit to cram 5
And damned at your sweet discretion
Whatever seemed good to damn.
We have sat and listened in silence
While you droned and droned and droned
Of the gathering in of the heathen—
Which the Devil himself disowned j
And how the world was progressing
In Charity, Peace, and Love,
With a hint to the future intentions
Of the Lord your God above.
While around you the great Bail Maoqui
Of the Seven Deadly Sins.
And the throwing of dice with the Demon,
Where the Demon always wins
When souls are the stakes, went on; and
Corruption and Lust and Fraud
Bold stalked through the streets, while you
Mouthed of the justice of “ Gawd.”
You knew in your hearts while talking—
Though your brains are duller than dull—
That you were as much of Christians
As the man of the Engis skull.
That crime is as rife in these days
As ever it was, despite
The cant about civilization—
And might is as surely right
As when the courteous cave-man
Taking what wasn’t bis own.
Left in the skull of the owner.
As token, a hatchet of stone.
Come down from that pulpit, Messieurs,
Or the pulpit will come from you;
And put your hands to the work that
Your fellows have found to do.
You have had your day of the doles
Far nientc. It’s plainly seen
The world has had just enough of
Such sponges as you have been.
HERE JOSEPH KREITSCHMANN.
(Sea page 10)


BRIEF MENTION.
1.0.G.T. means “ I often get Tram-ticket*.”
Vent vidi vici. —E. B. Smithna to hia cab-friend
Davies.
The time to go through the Court:—When the
Court has gone through you.
Dr. Simms says that a large nose is indicative
of goodness. Now, Sir ’Enery.
London Vanity Fair is not well-informed in
Colonial matters. It refers to Sir Henry Parke* as
” the much respected ” Premier of N.S. Wales.
A Wesleyan clergyman writes to the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, asking that steps
may be taken to prevent the spaying of cattle.
The surest sign of the decay of the churches is
found in the large number of clergy now earning honest
livings in the Civil Service and newspaper offices.
A lady, giving a testimonial to a new quack, the
other day, asserts that he has cured her of seventeen
separate diseases all at onoe. How is this for high t
The Bundabero Mail says : “We always feel
veneration for antiquity.’’ Same here, and our boy is
clipping out Bdkdt’s jokes to send to the British
Museum.
When yon “shout” for a publican’s employes
out West, the latter are supposed to imbibe water nn-
der the title of gin, and the poor bonifaoe takes the
"sprat."
The scathing satire of George Eeid, when he
said that Garibaldi would have scorned to wear a de-
coration, even though he had done something to deserve it,
nearly made John Davies blush.
At an Armidale Sunday School feast, fossil buns
were served out to the younsters—the affair was done
by contract. The youngsters, however, struck. It was
only the rev. gentleman who lost his front teeth.
An editor down South was fooling with a revol-
ver the other day. It went off and lodged a bullet in
kis ear. They sent a dog down after it, but that dog
never came back. He died of hunger on the way.
Sir ’Enry went home to improve his health. He
is now seat back for the same purpose. This comes of
having three square meals a day and eating peas with a
fork. His worst enemy—even A. H. G.—dare not say
he ever refused a fee-d.
There was great joy in the breast of an Evening
News reporter, when someone told him he oonld buy a
Tripeograph machine. He bought some onions, and
went to the shop for it. He didn’t bay the Tripeograph,
bat—he eat tbs onions.
A Daily Yell man, writing of a fog in a
recent issue, says: “ The fog is of very sweet snd de-
licious flavour. This species is named the solitary
Flying-fish, from not being seen in largo flocks, Ac."
Same old drunk, we presume.
A six-inch advertisement of a complimentary
banquet to "Mr. A. Bowman, Esq., M L A.,” appears
in a late issue ef the Hawkbsbubt Chronicle. They
are very polite in that district. They name their dogs
after members ef Parliament.
Writes a correspondent:—The other evening, as
three well-dressed young men got aboard a Botany
tram at Pitt-street, Eedfern, they made tke oar redo-
lent ef piety, talking of a tea and prayer meeting they
were going to. But they got out without paying!
The Hon. Dr. Eobertaon, medical adviser to the
perambulating Premier, says that he was pestered for
ten years to accept a knighthood, while his patient
hadn't the offer in his possession half an hour before
he had a Beady Letter Writer in his hand, spelling out
an acceptance.
A landlady down South sacked a six-months’
engaged barmaid at sight, on the ground that she was
"too little, not good-looking enough," and that her
one-eyed lord " must have been drunk or mad " when
he imported her from Sydney. The magistrates couldn’t
see It, and gave damages.
Advice to those inclined towards cheap travel-
ling If yon live at Parramatta, get a season ticket
from Petersham to Sydney. Ho one ever looks at the
watch-chain ornament on your homeward journey, and
at the Sydney end no one can tell at what station you
got in. So, there you are 1
“ Eeward, £2 (supposed to be Lost) for private
information leading to the whereabonts of Fox-terrier
Slut, white body, with tan markings on bead, and soar
on right foreleg. B. A. Watson, Paragon Hotel, Cir-
cular Quay." Now, Mr. Watson, what is lostP The
£2, the private information, or the slut P Mixed.
At Invorell. Country editor to oountiy medico:
" Doctor, will you lend my boy your mare to carry round
the papers to-morrow morning ?” Medioo : " Yes."
Editor : " But, doctor, is she,perfectly quiet ?” Medioo!
11 Well, she’s quiet enough. She has often carried a
skirt very nicely, but 1 don’t know how she’ll carry a
rag."
It is said that when Sir 'Enry had finished that
"hinspired horation’’ which shook the world (with
laughter) he found Kimberley and Galt under the (able
pawtosr about like madmen. On being asked by the
Qlno Pot what hin 'Barons they were hat," Kim.
said he was scooping around for h’s, whilst Galt
remarked he was looking (like Pilate) for truth.
Out West the other day the “ fooroe ” ran in
two miners for baring too much grog aboard; but when
the gallant captors and their quarry processed into the
office to have the charge-sheet filled up, it was fonnd
that one of the authorities, who had been scientifically
experimenting with a bottle of Walker, was—well,
drank on the floor, with the dead marine in front of
him.
How are the mighty fallen! Last Thursday,
Charles Homer was called upon to satisfy the Bench
respecting a number of sheets, towels and other linen,
in his possession, and suspected to be stolen property.
To be a poet, and eing 11 Achilles wrath" was bad
enough, but to be caught stealing towels from a cook
shop is enough to bring the blush of shame to the oheek
of a G.M.Q.
This is N.S.W. justice. A married woman falls
ill on Sunday, A girl volunteers to obtain brandy and
does so. The publican and this girl are both "pulled."
The former is let off because the urgent sickaesa is
proved, the latter is fined 10s. under the Act fer leaving
the hotel with liquor in her possession. “ Strange that
such difference there should be, 'twixt tweedledum and
tweedledee."
At Rockhampton. Ist Lady : “ Talking of
servants, lam sure 1 possess a treasure. She helps me
with the scrubbing, cleans np the tea-things, and only
asks to go out three times a week, and then she returns
at 11." Sad Lady: “ That’s Nothing. Mine does the
ironing; calls my husband Mr. Smith, and not plain
* J*ok like the last. Besides—she never wants to take
her meals with the family."
The following letter was handed in to the Yass
Teibuhb by the half-caste Edward Carroll" I, Ned
Carroll, on behalf of the blacks of Yass, does here
certify that you ought to give privileges to the darkies
of Now South Wales as regards a grant of land.
Signed, Jakis Briar. P 8. —Why can’t the aboriginals
ride on the railway free P they had the country before
yon took it from them. Signed, Ed, Carroll, Yass.”
In sentencing the Maori, Hiroki (since hanged),
for the murder of M'Lean, Judge Gillies remarked :
"You appear to have committed this murder from
very small motives—merely for the killing of some pigs
—but yon ought to have remembered that a man’s life
is worth that of many pigs." Now, we want to know
how Jndge Gillies works out his reokouinga. Perhaps
he’d inform ns how many pigs a man’s life is worth.
He has a knowledge of these things, evidently Pigs,
eh I We wonder how many pigs a libel Jndge is
worth ? There *re some pigs which are worth at least
two Judges. Anyhow, they’re prettier, and nicer to
eat, and would fetch more at auction.
Clerk (to chief in reply to question as to his
periodical black eye) : •• Well, yon see, sir, I am study.
Ing the pianoforte under Signor Vel De Qrandiooosa,
and to loosen my fingers have to chop wood for a
quarter of an hour every oay. Yesterday (here the
boiled rag—which he had taken care should be clean—
went np te the offended member) I was unfortunate.
We have sometimes to make great sacrifices for art you
know, sir.'*
Copied from a printed label in which is enclosed
Tn wmcklt Dispatch, forwarded by W. H. Smith
and Son (** Pinafore " Smith) to a North era resident .
“Mr. Chateworth Sugar Hines, Clarence Biver,
New South Wales, Australia.” Poor old Smith evi-
dently thinks that in Australia they dig up sugar! ust
as they do salt er gold. Perhaps, however, the First
lord of the Admiralty considers that gold and *■ sugar”
mean the same thing.
At Wollongong Council Chambers, the other
evening, things were lively. The cause of the fan was
a motion, by Alderman Ferry, censuring the conduct of
the Mayor. One alderman informed another that he
was “ a liar”j and a city father intimated to a brother
dignitary that “if he only had him outside he’d paint
him.” Bat the elimax was reached when an alderman,
who is an undertaker, informed his friend across the
table that “ he bad his measure.”
Speaking of the execution of Jemmy, the
Kanaka, the Maryborough Chboite says: “ When the
dead man was led out to execution he kicked the
warders.”
If Jemmy dead
To bolt when led.
Could kiek so rough,
He might alive,
With extra strive,
Have bolted off.
Thady O’Kane has been bound over once more
to keep the peace for twelve months, and consequently
he never calls a rival anything worse now than an “ un-
washed hog.” Thady had his “rivinge, howivor,” as
the Judge had to go back to the cheerful days of
Edward 111 to find an Act to fit him. Now that the
Pharaohs have been dug up, some one should search
them well for Egyptian “ Blaokstones,” and have
another Aot on hand when the Northern Ajax lets out
again.
Thadeus O’Kane thug reports religious services :
—Bev. S. H. M’Donough gave a sermon on hypocrites
and things in general on Sunday last. Blasted up the
Bamo tnne in the evening. Ho hit around pretty freely,
giving the Northern Mikee a “wipe," then Milford
and Morgan came in for a thonging. Mr. Milford, who
hae been playing good boy Holy Roman, since hii
arrival on these diggings, felt the force of his “ River-
inoe’e" remarks so acutely that he got up and left the
church.
The Suburban Times is going it; and if things
progress at their present pace, the proprietors will soon
be able either to open a fish shop or keep a mule. The
last issue contains a supplement of three twslve-inoh
columns, besides |a “onffer" telling its readers “ How
the Old Trapper solved it.” and a recipe f;)r “oyster
katsup"! There is variety enough here to please the
veriest glutton. All that’s wanted now to make the
publication complete is a “ Dissertation on the Origin
of Cat-collars."
Why didn’t Burdott’s godfathers and god-
mothers at his baptism christen him “ Baron" instead
of Bob. Earl Percy was locked up for drunkenness the
other day in New York, and when examined the affair
ran thus.— *• * What is yeur name f‘ asked the Court. * I
am Earl Percy.' ‘.Whatl a nobleman of England P’
‘No, sir; a wire merchant in Liverpool I’ ‘Oh! 10
dollars I*" Now. our Bob never disgraces himself in
that way. But conceive the flue effect of a newspaper
par. to the effect that “ * Baron Burdstt Smith* rushed
to the front in a cab."
Everything at a standstill in Tamworth. Crops
behind, blacksmith on the spree, and no steps being
taken to capture the thief who stole a bamtam hen last
week from Tommy the Fancier—and all this because
the three editors can't settle the affair of a five-shilling
advertisement. A proposal has been made to raise the
amount by a national subscription, spend it in a bucket
of beer, and let them toss for first pull. The decision
of a local clergyman to be binding, and the test who can
lower the beer farthest at one pull. A second bucket
to be provided if necessary.
Dr. Cani arrived at Rockhampton on Friday
night, June 9th. On the next day an Italian-looking
individual drove a buggy round town. His costume
was most bizarre. His splendid head of (horse) hair,
which fell gracefully over his shoulders was surmounted
by a crown of gilded paper, decorated in front by
numerous peacock feathers. He wore such a defiant
look that many thought it was the Bishop himself who
adopted this strange method of expreisinghis contempt
tor the auti-Canites. 'Twas only the illustrious Indian
prince—the great bogus ourer of soles with corns on.
His Lordship the most Reverend, etc., Bishop
of Grafton and Armidale visited Inverell a short while
since and formed a Church of England Temperance
Society upon this basis Grade 1: Those who promise
to drink nothing. Grade 2; Those who promise to
drink in moderation (moderation being, no doubt,
determined by carrying capacity). On the night
appointed for "forming" two persons became total
abstainers and about forty “ moderationists." Now,
when a man is seeu half-drunk at luverell, he is alluded
to as 11 Church of England," but when quite incapable,
he is regarded as a Good Templar.
At Inverell, the other day, a larrikin who seemed
to have little respect for half-a-dozen lives, was charged
with having maliciously out a gentleman’s carriage
reins whilst the owner was attending a place of public
entertainment. Prosecutor having been sworn, the new
sub-inspector (just arrived) rose to examine. "Sit
down, please," said the Bench, " you will have plenty
of opportunity to examine at the close of the evidence
• in chief.’ ” " I—l—ah beg yomr worship’s pardon, but
—ah—l am net the defendant. I am Sub-Inspector
Blank." The Bench at once apologisedlto Mr. Blank,
who is rather a heavy swell, and a long way from a
larrikin.
Maryborough, Q., is noted for its great number
of pianos, buggies, schools, and clever men. One of the
aldermen lately told the Council that " the only kind of
underground draininge he would consent to must be
subterraneous. A well-known auctioneer, whe some
time back, made the astounding statement that Beacons*
field was a more able statesman than Disraeli, lately
advertised for sale " a sound lady's hack." A local firm
advertised for “ two drovers to take bulls to Gayndah
to find their saddles." Great anxiety is expressed con-
cerning the result. Last advices state that the drovers
seem to have lost their bulls, but whether the bulls
have found the saddles 1s not yet known for certain.
A Forbes constable is called a “ vigilant and
efficient officer ’’ by the local paper because he " objects
to a man’s showing off his dog’s skill in working a
fowl in the public streets.” But if the man had been
working the fowl into the editor’s yard, what then P
We lav five to one in driuks that the Forbes and
Paekes Gazette would have come out next time with
a two-column leader about the ’’ insolent interference "
and " intolerable tyranny " of the local police. If wo
lose we will consent to consume the whole of the
drinks ourselves. The proof to be if any man calls
upon the Gazette editor at dinner time and finds a fowl
npou the table out of breath we win—if still breathing
we lose.
There is a mysterious person calling himself
" Professor ” Blank travelling the country districts
just now. He professes to euro every disease under
the sun. His practice is to call at every farmer’s
house where he hears one of the family is suffering
from a chronic ailment, charge two guineas for his
medicine and advice, guarantee a permanent care, and
promise to return to the district in two months. Now
we hive many reasons for thinking that this man is a
frand. Wo don’t say he is, but wo should like him to
prove that he isn’t. The first reason is, that his circu-
lar shows abeut as much knowledge of medical terms
as might be expected from a doctor’s horse, the second
is, that he can't spell words of two syllables. And
lastly, we have seen a lot of his sort before. We saw
them when we were in gaol.
Here is a quotation from “ Lays of Ind,” which
fits pretty exactly into the late prayer-foc-rnin contro-
versy. It is a rough night at sea, and the Bishop (not
the Bishop of Melbourne, you know) appeals to the
skipper to know whether there is any danger.—
And he said, " Well, your grace, it’s a dirtyish night 5
But whether the vessel will ride
I really can't tell yon: we'll know before light;
In Providence we must confide.”
“ Good gracious 1” the Bishop exclaimed in dismay.
As he clutched at his old shovel hat,
“ This is terrible, skipper! Von don’t mean to say
That it really has eome quite to that /”
If the houseless girl who was run in by a
nocturnal bobby, and refused admission into a beuavo-
institution, had only bean a Magdalene awaiting the
interesting event—instead of a virtuous damsel down
on her luck —she would hare at once been taken care of.
Meantime, however, it is satisfactory to know we are
doing onr duty by the heathen. Fourteen boxes of
paper collars, striped sooks, eye glasses, and tooth,
brushes have been forwarded for winter use to our
“black brudders” at Borrioboola-Qha, whilst onr
“ ouller’d sisters’’ will be amply supplied with Japanese
fans, clean “ pinnies,” laoe handkerchiefs, and hair-pins
to keep them snug and cosy. “ What a borlessed thort,
keyind Ker-rietian friends.”
A square-toed contemporary intimates in a
pathetic paragraph that there is not enough money in
the till to pay the machine-boy’s salary. We give the
editor doggerel for his drivel—
Your weekly, holy, hard-up howl,
Is on the everlasting yowl
For heathen money.
And yon, and each broad-beavered ghonl
Sit down in circle, cheek by jowl.
And damn each hapless debtor’s sowl—
The thing’s too funny 1
So drop your everlasting yowl,
And stop year holy, hard-up howl.
And die out, sonny 1
A squatter up North drank himself into the
Jimjams at a bush shanty, the keeper of which wouldn’t
give him any more liquor. He left, but shortly re-
turned with a powder flask and reiterated his demand
for whisky. The publican refused. “ Then,” said the
shaky recovers! - , "we'll go to Gehenna together," and
he threw the powder-flask upon the burning logs in the
fireplace. Old Fighting-rum and the other inmates
cleared from the premises like a flash, and put half a
mile of road behind them in no time But no explosion
came, and at last they sneaked back, only to see the
squatter riding off, and to hear him shout: " I’ve
collared three bottles off the bar shelf. Send your bill
over to the station." The powder-flask had been
empty."
Here is the very latest “Chinese” story. A
Chinese cook, employed by a N.B.W. surveyor, got a
chip of wood into his eye, and, driven to extremes by
the agony of it, (he (havlng.no faith in the European
doctors) adopted as the only means of relieving himself
the extraordinary course of removing the injured optic.
The operation was performed with an ordinary batcher’s
knife. How it was effected the surveyor is unable to
say, as he was absent at the time, but he he is prepared
to affirm that upon his return he found the eye gouged
out, and that his attention was first called to the fact
by perceiving a portion of one of his own handkerchiefs
protruding from the cavity—that being the only
attempt at dressing which the poor devil of a celestial
had made.
A publican down South, being required to enlarge
his premises according to the new Act offered to buy
out a mechanic who lived next door. The latter, on
temperance principles, refused. Then the publican got
a priest—so says a local paper—to interview the
mechanic, who had been brought up as a Homan
Catholic, and tell him that if he didn’t sell out "he
would be for over damned in purgatory." But the
mechanic bad left the fold for some time, and calls him-
self a " cosmopolitan”; so, he didn’t see it. The pub.
lioan has tried several other dirty dodges, with the same
result. The above may be true or not; still, it is no
strange sight in Sydney to see priestcraft and pale,
brandy doing the David and Jonathan business. Beer
and the Bible constitute a big power.
This is how the pious advertising dodge is done
in New Zealand, the appended being genuine advertise-
ments Wanted by God’s humble servant, a Room
with Fireplace. Address , Post-office.’’ Again—
" Birth—’ , May 25, at St. Asaph-street, the wife of
E , of twin daughters. (Not my will, Ac,)”’ There is
a pathos of Christian resignation about the last which
calls for a day of sackcloth and ashes to be undergone
by every right-minded married man, Here is another
advertisement in a N Z. japer “ A Christian lady,
who is well experienced in .Sick Nursing, and is a good
Spinal Rubber, desires an engagement. Address*, Miss
Blank, Oamarn." We feel like getting up a spinal de-
rangement at shortest notice. In our wildest dreams of
earthly bliss we never imagined so ethereal a joy as
A RISKY GAME!
Another gay me is Tilting atte ye Quintain, wherein divers knytes and squires did runne a course atte a marke or boarde, fixed in ye ende of a pole, and if he fay led, or hitte not fayrly with hys lance,
ye pole did swyng arounde, and he was smytten sorely by a weight on ye other ende, to his sore dyscomfytture and coste.” — STOWE —Sportes and Pastymes of ye Englyshe People.


having onr marrow manipulated by a Christian lady,
who is a “ aood spinal mbber." A f hook from an eleotrio
eel would’nt be a circumstaaoa to it.
There wasn’t a single C M.G. at the opening of
the Model Lodging House in Keat-street. There was,
aho, no free feed.
A country editor “ hopes that the now gaol” in
his township will “soon be started.” Pact is the poor
devil was inveig’ed up from Sydney to edit the rag, and
has had to camp out all the time.
A notice in the U niversity grounds informs the
public that The police have orders to remove any per-
son committing “ a nnicanoe ” on the premises. Dr.
Bidham ! Is tois what comes of a classical education,
and the University course ?
The Commercial Gazette gives an obituary
notice of a One young fellow who lately died, and re-
marks neatly that “ho was out down in the midst of
a most promising future 1" It is very audio see a
young man oat short ia the midst of his fntnre.
The annual subscription to Randwick Asylum is
21s. per annum. Tram tickets to the value of 2s. 81.
are handed to each member of committee at the Board
table once a month. Therrfore, every member who
accepts the tram tickets makes a clear annual profit of
eleven shillings. Q.E.D.: C.M.G.
A barmaid acknowledged in the Melbourne City
Court that she hit a man on the head with a bottle of
brandy without breaking the bottle. This, perhaps,
will account for brandy being known as ** hard stuff."
Nothing is said of the head. Which loads us to believe
that it must have belonged to a juryman.
The Express ia now in its glory. It has a con-
tributor who has been “four weeks in the soup-
kitchen.” We’d almost stay four weeks in the Soup
Kitchen ourselves for the honour of writing in the
Express, only we are afraid if we contributed muoh to
it, the Archbishop's paper would go down immediately.
We, of course, mean " go down" with the public.
As the Namoi River is expected to overflow its
banka soon, the young ladies of Qunnedah are about to
hold a regatta in their boots and shoes. It is stated-
hut we think by an enemy—that the smallest female
foot up that way is almost the size of a shoval-Wada.
On one occasion the local bootmaker fell sick, and there
were none but imiKiroed bo -’ts in the town. Tac under-
taker sold out of babies’ coffins in one week.
Thh was hard on the fooroo. A Robert was
perambulating the street eu duty, the other afternoon
Peeling warm, he took oil his regulation helmet, and
held it out io his h ind, giving it a shake to dry the per-
spiration. A pisser-by, not noticing the uniform, and,
possibly, as the lawyers say, moved by the instigation
of the devil, dropped a penny into the hat. muttering,
•» Poor blind Sam." The way in which that policeman
blew oil the steam is stated to have been fearful.
We are informed that Zachariah Fossil, Esq.,
an aged fr end of the chief classical ichthyosaurus,
is to be appointed Professor of Medicine at the Sydney
University. Za shariah graduated in 1820. Mr. Mefehu-
selah Playedout, who received his degree of B A, in
1822, is to be resistant-lecturer in -Natural History.
Bath of theaj geatlemeu have, wo hear, bean strongly
recommended oy the aforesaid boss ienthyosaurus.
Wo hope these appointments, if made, will prove
eorviceaoie to the colony.
The Batinirst Temple of Justice averages one
deorepid •* boozer ” par day, and to keep this siutul
gonad in order, it requires the combined eflorts of .a
Superintendent of police, senior-sergeants, sergeants,
full privates, mounted police, b ack truckers, a Stipen-
diary Solon, a C.P. >l,, a deputy O P.S,, and an old lady
who really i-oes the most work of all, as she “swabs "
the court out. i ousidering the heap p t “ compensa-
tion” cash w-i are now dealing out, it would, perhaps,
be as well to hti g each lushington as he appears, and
then discharge the “ foarce ’’ and bank their salaries.
Seeing the two lumps of 72 per cent, tin ore at
the office of Greeley Lukin and Co , which were taken
from a big tin lode at Cannibal Creek, “ up North," re-
minds us that the onek derived its peculiar name from
the luxury eujayed by the niggers whea dining ofl a
nice plump “ Caow ” who was potted, “ done to a turn,”
served up hot, and partaken of by those “ harmless
children of nature.” This is wnat a Sydney writer once
Cftlled|fcl»oio. But then he had never “ humped" a fifty-
pound swag and a loaded "Snider" in the Cannibal
The careless owtsor of the mongrel which caused
Mr. Pacney’o death whs fined 40s. If the owner chopped
Oil the mongrel s tail, ho would be flatd the same
amount for cruelty. A similar accident almost took
Slaoe in Cleveland-street on Sunday, but a good
amaritan happened to pass along, and he planted q
piece of blue metal just under the dingo’s ear in a style
fchqt diverted his attention until four lives wore beyond
bis damage. The police object to arrest dogs. They
sometime bile—but let a nanny-goat "dar approach,"
and the “ foorce ’’ at once surround it.
In Its Financial ilotos, the Whitehall Re-
view has a very grand air and peremptory method.
In the very last par. it says: " Incus t dismiss some of the
smaller concerns —the Australian Wine Growers’
Association, capital £200,000, will -he remark," &a.|&o.
Small concerni indeed! There's superciliousness for
youl Way, we don’t believe the W hue hall Review
(which i* very high-toned and owned by an egg-
merchant) would r. for with respect even to the "Road
over the sjwauip," upon which Bob Smith, C M.G.E.
(B. stands for " expectant ”) bases his title to be re-
garded as a grout in w. on the Macleay.
Mr, E. Cyril Haviland, who last weak lectured
on Spiritualism at the Victoriaral to several people,
showed hie relations therein assembled the photograph
of a spirit-baby. Wo saw by the papers recently that
Cyril had but there I -perhaps his was a “rum"
baby. That wculd account for the spirit element. Not
that we mean, of course —on the contrary —for it must
be at once admuted—well, anyhow, Cyril did increase
the population, and we trust the " young ’un " is doing
(considerably hotter in the health line than Cyril iil in
the lecturing line. It would seem, by the way, that
Cyrils spirit-baby cam a through a wall, ibis is a
startler. We have hear! kefopp of walls having ears,
but never babies.
He was a country editor and wanted to sell his
reaper go when the “mark" called round the bargain-
rnu eommoticed. “ How about the book debts P said
Che “mark" “Well, we’re not strong on book
debts," said the bloated proprietor. “ The faot is while
strolling round I used t» gradually absorb em. Not
tout there is slid Sw P° more / cried the
« rrai k." “I purchase. I b.opgbt the feooK a
naper three years ago, and, in going rqqnd collecting
the hnndieds that ware due, I wore out five pajrs pf
30*. .boots, killed two horsey, smashed one buggy, as-
saulted seven tradesmen at MS a head, qud only got in
£2 12« ,sd. Your paper's mine/ And putting down a
tea pound note hebaid hj guessed be d take possession.
A gentleman named Towle we don t know his
Christian name (why ’ Christian," by the way P)-so
we’ll call him Jack Towle-(“ gentle dulness dearly
lovds a joke",—has composed a bode in New Zealand.
Here’s the chorus: —
“ Victoria I Victoria I
Our mother, n lend, and Queen |
We'll make the chorus ring to-day,
God blets our nobl. jQueen 1 ”
All the other verses rhyme with* “ green,’’" been " and
“Queen"—but especially “ been. Mr. T. is to
send a copy homo, so ooiibt'esa her Majesty m grati-
tude (or iu pity ) will make Jack aC.B. ihen ho will
be, don't you tee, a Bath Towle. After this, we feel
we are equal to writing a iiantomime opening; or even
an address for the “ Owls.'
In a New England township, the members of
a literary society whoso bump ol reveiehoe is small,
regolaily hold debates on ihtir clergyman’s Sunday
sermons. The Government speakers take the orthooc x,
or minister’s view. The Opposition, o’ course, lake the
other, or Devil s side. There »re young men in Sydney
who regard every minister only from a short-hand point
of view If he tails along at a comfortable 100 words a
minute, they entertain the highest respect for him.
These i spiring young gentlemen all steer carefully o.ear
of Archbiahop Vaugbar. Kev. Oeoivo Martju is Ibw
learner's in. nd. Both Jtfferia and KGynaok n*e pflpn-
Jar with the.. : Kemmis keeps lucm busy; Barry is
shunned; W. Taylor tires (-hum ont; Barnier is a terror.
W, Onrnow never gives them a chance. It takes a
stenographer who tan take down a pause during the
flrat half ot a minute, and then secure about 190 words
ia the second half, to keep up with Mr, Cur now s
eloquence. ,
As a specimen of Young Australian precocity
the following, which is peifectly genuine, would be hard
to match. A Sydney gentleman, ol high standing, sent
his little son eight years old, to a preparatory school,
whereat young damsels of a like age form the majority
of attendants. This young man of eight lost his heart
to a Cleopatra of nine or thereabouts. Of course she
soon jilted him in favor of another follow, whereupon
the dejected rejected, finding that his six months’joy
had come to a bitter end, sate himself down in the an*
•astral halls and indited the following letter, for a
perusal of which we are Indebted to his cruel parents:
—“ June 14th, 1882, My de»r , I hope you like
your new bean —hope he’s quite well, give him my com
plimants. I saw him this morning in high spirits as
usual i you never once looked at me in Sunday School
I wish all womankind were dead er banished o’ar the
sea for they have been a Ditter plague these last si:
months to me. I remain, yonra . F
regret to say your newly-found .adorer is not worthy o
you.”
There are two Lachlan squatters of the same
name—(say) Jenkins. One is a uoly howler, a temper
anoe advocate, and a pattern of grace. Whenever
necessity compels him to stay at Ja hotel he insist
upon family prayers, and presides during that religion:
ceremony. The other is his exact counterfoil. Om
day a squatter drove up to a country pub, and intimatec
his intention of “ hanging out ” there for the night
His name was Jenkins. He was installed in the parlou:
and treated with respectful deference, the tables o
the room having been loaded with Christian works, anc
a few religious pipers strewn about. At length Jenkia
rang the bell. It was answered by the landlady, hei
hnsband and daughter, and the servants, who filet
solemly in, the landlady bearing a huge family Bible
and a book of evening prayers. As the company seatec
themselves, the landlady calmly remarked to the
bewildered Jenkins, ‘‘l suppose it’s about praye:
time?" “Prayers be ‘Moorhoused,"* was the angrj
and unexpected retort; “ bring in some hot whisky anc
lemon, pitch these—(the religious books) —into thi
corner and let’s have a game at euchre ” The rest o
the night was spent in ungodly revelry. Ho was the
other Jenkins.
When a new arrival comes into Queanbeyan the
editor of the takes the cover off ths dining
room table and sallies oat. The table has to go with
out a cover until the next issue of the paper comes out
Gaily npthe street goes the editor carrying his journal
in one band and swinging with a careless grace
spiked bludgeon in the other. He accosts the nes
arrival and eSers him the choice of two things—to die
or to take in the BilltclN. The stranger, as a rule
weakly clings to life, and of the two evils chooses the
worse. He becomes a subscriber. This is the way
that the Billtcaw man always canvasses for support,
which explains why Blundell—brought up last week
for horse-stealing—took to the bush with firearms some
time ago. He had, on first entering the township, been
spike-bludgeoned into paying a year’s subscription to
the Billtca!». Afterwards when he saw what he was
subscribing to he got drunk and tried to drown him-
self. But he was saved and the paper was left at his
door regularly. As a last resource he had to take to
the bush and swear that he would khoot any man who
brought the paper to him. Several ineffectual at-
tempts were made to deliver it, till at last the weary
Blundell stole a horse, and got into gaol, so that he
might escape in that way.
This is how the Bejya Gazette wipes the froth
from its mouth, as It wire* into tne opposition
local rag:—‘‘lt has bean said that ‘whom the gods
wou'd destroy, they first deprive of reason.’ This is
amply verified in the cose of the unfortunate biped who
does the organ-grinding in Church-street, Writhing,
and fuming, and foaming, and blowing like a stranded
wba’e or a muzzled hyena at sight of a shin of moat, he
returns again, ‘ like the dog to his vomit, and the sow
to her wallowing in the mire ’ Poor William, we pity
you, but we cannot follow your lead. It is just possible
that yon may mean well, but there is filth in the track
—lt must be all your own. That we nr* ‘llliterate' is
our misfortune, jnd is npt to be wondered at, as we did
not graduate ou the olaspioiil banks of the Jjerwenfc,
nor at Billingsgate, unde* the renowned mother
Moriarty, nor have we sounded the profundities of Joe
Miller for elephantine jokes, but wo have a scalpel and
a qulverfnl of ‘Rolands’ for all your • Olivers.' We
never fire off blank cartridges ; and like the celebrated
Theophrastus Paracelsus, we carry a devil in tho hilt of
our sword, and if need be, wo could
Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
And damn all unity on earth.
And remember, too, that
We two were lion cubs, whelped together,
But I,—the elder, and more terrible!
How like you your portrait, William J" We simply
ejaculate, ‘‘Yah 1“
Some men become famous over very little. Some
time ago a southerner made so big a same as a judge of
wool that some deluded squatter who squats himself in
his office in Sydney and runs his stations in the Far
North by means of managers, was persuaded to employ
the “ woolly man" as his overseer on a cattle station.
Not having span much of cattle before, and lees of our
sable fellow-creatures, the new overseer went into
eostapipa over the surroundings, introduced a few fresh
•» swears" in his vocabulary in order to do as the
Romans do, created a chief by the process of hanging a
brass plate on a bla kfellow’s breast, got out of bed be-
tween the hours of 10 and 11 a.m., and established him*
self as a general novelty in ihe station-manager-line in
that district. One day, on the run, after wild cattle,
when the mob wbs about to break away, this worthy,
with the courage of a “ Toreador" got offihis horse, and
armed with a branch, tried to stop the fugitives, when
two infuriated cows at once went for him. Force! by
circumstances, he took refuge up a friendly gum-tree,
apd bad the satisfaction, banging half-mast high, only to
see the mob go past while one of the riders sang out to
himi “You’ll make a d—d good judge of cows’
tails now I" The only one who took pity on him was
“His Majesty," who pulled up and said: “Cows no
good—too much run! Ton got him tobacco, me show
you back to station!" The manager swore afterwards,
that he would not give any two of his white men for
one of his blacks. By this time he has none to give,
and the owner of that station would probably bo sur-
prised at the dark aspect of the place. This is authen-
tic and shows the result of new experiments.
Mr. E. L. Montefiore.
One of the most significant features of the great
progress of the colony, is the increasing encour-
agement offering to the development of Art. And
jt is satisfactory to have proof that this enoourage-
mpnt fe not ejpended in an unfruitful field. The
genius o| the Young Australian is artistic. This
pas been manifest wherever there has been oppor-
tunity for its display. So the wider or more
frequent the opportunity, the more general and
striking the development of Art in this young com-
munity. The success of our Art Gallery is proof
of this. Having been taken in hand by the right
men, this institution has already attained the front
position among kindred ‘institutions of the Aus-
tralian colonies. To the men who have done this
substantial service, the country is greatly in-
debted. To Mr, E. L• Montefiore much is owing.
This gentleman was one of the first trustees
of the Public. Library, Museum, and Art Gallery
of Victoria, and as a member of the National
Gallery Committee especially devoted himself to
that section. In mercantile business iu Mel-
bourne, Mr. Montefiore was manager of one of
the principal insurance companies, and he came
to Sydney to assume the management of the
faoiflo Insurance Company in this city. When
leaving Melbourne, he received several testi-
monials, the most important of which was an
official request from his co-trustees of the National
Gallery to represent them in Sydney. Mr. Monte-
fiore was much 'disappointed on his arrival
here to find how little had been done to im-
prove the Art tastes of the community, and warmly
supported ths movement initiated by Mr, Edward
Reeve for the formation of an Academy of Art j
and to his efforts, in conjunction with those of
the late Hon. T. S. Mort, was the formation of
that association which subsequently merged into
the N.S.W. Art Gallery mainly due. On the re-
tirement of Mr. Reeve from the position of hon.
sec., Mr. Montefiore was fortunate in finding a
most valuable coadjutor in Mr. Du Faur; and it
is not too much to say that the fact of our possess-
ing a Gallery—which, in the short space of six
years, is considered by many to have outstripped
that of the sister colony, which was commenced
ten years earlier —is mainly owing to the unre-
mitting exertions of these two gentlemen. To
this fact, flattering testimony was born by His
Excellency the Governor, Lord Augustus Loftns,
on the occasion of the official opening of the
Gallery on the 22nd September, 1830. To these
gentlemen, as alss their co-truateees —Sir Alfred
Stephen, K 0.M.Q., who has always manifested
great interest in tne movement ; Mr. Edward
Combes, C.M.G., who has warmly supported it in
and out of Parliament; and Messrs. H. 0. Dan-
gar, and J. B. Fairfax —the community are in-
debted for a gallery worthy of the mother country.
The fact of its having been visited since its open-
ing by nearly 25,000 people is proof of its popu-
larity. Could its treasures be thrown open to the
general community on the Sunday, the numbers
would, doubtless, be tenfold greater. This, how-
ever, is an affair for the Government, and not the
trustees, who, if they had had the power, would pro*
bably have moved in that direction long since. It
may be stated that both Mr. Montefiore and Mr.
DuFaur rendered valuable service, as members of
the Art Advising Committee, at onr International
Exhibition ; and Mr. Montefiore, on the invitation
of Sir Herbert Sandford, of the Royal Commission,
acted as an Art juror at the Melbourne Inter-
national. Mr. Montefiore was born at Barbadoes,
24th June, 1820, and, proceeding with his people to
England, studied for a time at the Art School,
conducted by Mr. Lass —at that time the principal
preparatory school for students of the Royal
Academy. In 1840, he came out to Australia,
staying first in Adelaide, afterwards in Melbourne,
and finally settling in this city. Mr. Montefiore
is on the Commission of the Peace Ifor the four
colonies—Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria,
and South Australia.
Ferr [?]seph, Kreitschmann.
It ia probably u ,t too much to eay that in Harr
Kreitschmann L,-, indy possesses a true disciple
of the divine art of uaio. His history, full of
interesting uts eveals evidences of steadfast-
ness to the .of an almost irresistible passion
for music. an age of four or five years he
has been a pilgrim of art. He has pursued his
studies under difficulties that would have chilled
everything but the ardour of enthusiasm, and it is
not surprising, therefore, to find him, when sue-
oessful in honor and profit, more constant still ii
his attachment for his art—-an attachment whici
takes the practical form of striving in a nev< land
with the aid of his talents and purse, to develop
and elevate the musical tastes of a people
Herr Kreitschmann, was born at Kommotau, Bohe
mia, in 1840. At the early age of dye years
he exhibited precocious powers as a violinist, ant
his parents w'ere careful to see to their develop
mqpt under skilful tuition. Their death
however, interfered with the even tenor o
his studies, and at the age of soven yeara, Hen
Kreitschmann was, ostensibly for kindness bn'
reajly for gain, taken by some friends and ex
hibited as a musical prodigy. When twelve years
old, these friends brought him to Leipsio, where
they exhibited him as usual. While in that town
his talents won him entree t© the famous conser-
vatoire, and he earned high encomiums from thal
distinguished master, David. His _concerts here,
even at that early age, won him remarkable
prominence. Kreitschmann being now fourteen,
began fully to estimate the value of his friends,
and ho accordingly ran away from them j he pro-
ceeded to Dresden, and there, with no aid but his
talents, he rapidly came to the front. The people,
once hearing him, took great interest in hie
progress, and he was requested to play before th<
King of Saxony, who quickly recognised his
abilities. At the conclusion or the performance
the King sent for Kreitschmann, and in a
very paternal way, got from him the bitter
Story of his life. " And now what do yon
propose to do?” asked the King. _ ‘‘To
study here, if I can,” was the young musician s
reply. ‘‘Then yon shall study,” answered the
King, and forthwith Kreitschmann entered the
Famous Conservatoire of Dresden. There he
studied under the famous masters Labinsky and
Keiseger, the King defraying the expenses ; and
the Princess Augusta, a no less sincere patron of
art, supporting him from her own purse. After
three years’ study, Herr Kreitschmann, of many
hundred students, won the first prize of the Con-
servatoire—a significant and distinguished success.
With the means thus provided him, he took
another years’ study at Leipsio, and, ■when but
eighteen years of age, was appointed violinist to
the Grand Duke of Baden Baden—a reality, not
like royal appointments in other countries. In
1863, Herr Kreitschmann resolved to travel, and
took a lengthy tour over the South of Europe,
performing on route in all the large cities, with
much success. In 1877 he visited the colonies, and
finally settled in Sydney. In this city, bis career
has been in harmony with his European reputation.
His labours, though attended by much dis-
couragement, have been devoted with unswerving
constancy to the elevation of the musical tastes of
the people among whom he has thrown his lot.
To the introduction and study of classical masio
he has given an impetus that nothing now can
stay. As conductor for the Musical Union, Herr
Kreitschmann first gave indication here of his
abilities and his aims; and as founder and con-
ductor of the University Musical Society, they
were rendered yet more defined. At the Uni-
versity, Herr Kreitschmann has given us the
highest classical music heard and ho
is resolved to labour further in this respect till
his highest objects are attained. His parse, as well
as his talents has been devoted to this great
work ; interested but in the development of art,
he has never accepted a farthing for his services
in this way, and has frequently declined kind
offers of complimentary concerts. No less en-
couragement has Herr Kreitschmann lent to the
introduction of classical chamber music, and in
this respect the most satisfactory results are
already manifest. The great effort of Herr
Kreitschmann at the present time is to amalga-
mate the several musical societies of Sydney, to
form one grand union, for the production in a really
artistic style of the works of the great masters.
The existing jealousies or differences tend in his
opinion to neutralize the best efforts and retard
the development of a taste for classical music. It
is of general interest to hear from Herr Kroitsoh-
maun, direct,-his opinion of the musical ooprit of
Australians. He says Australia has a bright
future in a musical sense, He has seen here a
more widely diffused taste, considering the popula-
tion, and in individual instances of juvenile talent,
ipore true power and talent than he ever observed
elsewhere in all his travels. He thinks the climate,
the improved conditions of life, and the absence of
political and social troubles, must manifest them-
selves thus strikingly. Herr Kreitschmann, profes-
sionally, attends only to finished musical students
who desire to become perfect in elegance or stylet,
and to oases where youthful musical gep\qa ex-
hibits itself.
THE KOOKABURRA.
The nobbiest thing in boots is a bunion.
Motto for young lovers —So-fa and no father.
Swearing is the unnecessary use of profane
language.
It isn’t the girl that’s loaded with powder that
goes off the easiest.
A wife should be like roast lamb, tender, and
moe»y dressed. K» sauce required.
The prayer which people say on entering church
is, •• Now I lay me down to sleep."
A honeycomb consists of a number of small
ceils. A honeymoon is one groat sell.
What is meant by inserting the thin end of the
None hot fools would try to insert the thick
end.
“ Prisoner, what is yonr age ?” r ‘ Come, Judge,
no fooling. Yon know it as well as 1 do. Five years
more’n last time."
The inebriate, when asked the cause of hia
reformation, explained that getting drunk made him
see hia mother-in-law double.
“ I’U make you dance,” cried an irate mother,
pursuing her erring son, slipper in hand, “ Then,” re-
mar bed the j -tvenile, “ we shall have a bawl."
“ Strike the wild lyre,” he said, sentimentally,
to his friend. Barney, who was standing by, rame on,.
, you'd better not; IT! strike back.”
“You can send me another section of that/
Renaissance," is what the lodgers in a Macquarie street
boarding-house say when they want a second dump of
hash.
The Czar says ho is ready to meet death when-
ever it comes. It may not be ont of place in this com-
neotion to say that death is ready to meet the Czayr
wherever he goes.
Mra. Smith (emphatically)—“ Poor Mrs. Siren !
they say she has been ordered to a warmer climate Do
yon think she will goP" Mrs. Brown (grimly)—
not while she lives.”
She confided to him that she never wore any-
thing but silk stockings when she went to dances He
said he had no doubt the costume was becoming, bat—
ought not there be a little more of it ?
A Frenchman says : ‘‘A pretty woman has not
always youth, it is true, but an ugly woman is never
young." He has never seen Brigham Yonng’s widows.
They’re all Toung, and nearly all ugly.
It is quite common far a boy to misbehave when
people are looking at him, for the mere fun of shocking
them. But a man is not a boy. He knows better, and
acts badly only when people are not looking.
"This is your nephew, is hep’’ asked the P.M..
M I am sorry to say he is." “ I think I detect soma re- •
semblance,” said the stipendiary. •• Tee,” replied the
uncle, mournfully, “ he has my nose: he has just bitten i
off a part of it."
A noted physician says many persons, simply by '
deep and rapid inhalations of pure air, can beoome as
intoxicated on oxygen as if they had taken a draught of f
alcoholic stimulants. Here is a point for a man who •
has been walking rapidly home from the club in the ■
night air.
A little kiss.
A little bliss,
A little ring—it’s ended.
A little jaw,
A little law.
And lo I the bonds are tended.*
As a man with a tender com stood a maajmmt,
a passing pedestrian trod on his foot. "You,ldiot.' 1 '
he yelled, “ why don't yon look whore you’re stepping ?“*
** A man must step somewhere," was the exasperating
reply, and if I had a foot as big as yours, I’d buy a road
all to myself."
He was a little lawyer man
Who meekly blushed while he began
Her poor dead husband's will to scan.
He smiled, in thinking*of his fee.
Then said to her so tenderly—
*' Ton have a nice fat legacy."
And when he lay next day in bed.
With plasters on hia broken head,
He wondered what on enidh he'd said.
Very cold in New England this winter. A pretty
girl turned up her nosa at her poor but deserving lover,
and it froze in that position. Now she doesn't know-
whether to go into a convent or hire out to stand im
somebody’s ball as a bat-rack.
The wind was damp with eoming wet,
When James and bine-eyed Lizzie met j
He herd a gingham o’er his head.
And to the maiden thus he said
** Oh, lovely girl, my heart’s aflrq,
With love's unquenchable desir*'"*
The maid in accents sweet re^ad’
** Jim, hold th’ umbrella moaotny sife;
My bran-new bonnet’s getting wot—
I’ll marry yer, yer needn't, fret "
"Can I see Mr. Jonesthe visitor blandly
asked—“l want to hear about that little account of
mine.” “ Weil, he’s just gone out, and I don’t know
when he'll be back,” replied the diligent and faithful
office-boy, who hud eyes as bright as the gazelle’s, and
had got his billet through the influence of the Sunday- -
school superintendent "Oh, very wftll. very well; tell
him whqn he comes in that I’ve called, and also tell
him, please, not to go out without hat or ooat, and not •
to, Leave his cough behind another time." It was a .
moral to. see Mr. Jones cavorting around after, and to -
hear him curse as he hit HSs thumb driving nails in his
inner office.
Subscribers to the Bulletin, who get th®
paper tote, take note ot your own localities. The paper»
go out of this office regularly as a clock. List,, this is*
a fact. A Hydney gentleman staying at a country pub.
saw the mall bag. taken into the parlour by the post-
bey. On entering the room unexpectedly, be found the
landlady, mailboy, and servant girl inspecting all th®
contents intended for delivery along the route! The
mall-boy gets liquors cheap, and we don't suppose th®
landlady picks out the stalest papers.
Did yon ever do a ramble In the Park,
When the shades of night bad fallen dins and dark.
And where rustic seats are furnish’d, by the glittering?
gaslight burnished,
AH thoss happy loving couples there remarked
After dark L
Having done so, don’t you think it rather queer.
That each gentle youth has got a damsel dear,
Clinging close in shady places, “swapping lies" inclose
embraces,
Hearing sighs, and even squeezing ont a tear—
E’en e tear I
Here a young man gazing up on Heaven's blue.
Swears withiu his breast a heart beats fond, and true.
While beyond, the shrieking tram puffs—a loud and
angry damn
Bises on the air and mingles with the dew—
Tea it dew I
Montmorency (olevah fellah in tho I.ands)
Finding time hang rather heavy on his hands.
To the shady pork resorted, and with charmer fair eon-
sorted.
In his favourite striking attitude he stands—
Yes he stands!
And his eighteen-penny oauo ho deigns to twirl.
When a light across his vision seams to whirl,
And ’tis said that he was heard to yell the bad word.
here referred to
When he found she was his own new servant girl—'
Guileless girl 1
Q. E. D.
HOW HE GOT OUT OF IT.
Pa oped the drawlnjjjdoos,
▲ad being kissed be caught her;
He never kuevr before
Young Strorkids kissed his daughter.
•'Whatdo you.kiss her tor?—
Come quick—l'm.an insistor 1”
Quoth blushing Strorkida—“ Sure,.
I—kissed her for her sister."


CITY CATERING COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and prao
tical experience, nearly all from tke ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th April, 1881, we have
snccessfelly catered THE LARGEST, MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE undertakings that
have taken pUce here to the presens time, viz.:—
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE.
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officers of the Detachod
Squadron.
Mabonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinvor d la
Basse, for 60, in Government Palaee Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—re
Queen’s Statue Demonstration —under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to be
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR B.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and|refreshmeut, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception. Town Hall.
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Ball,” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windoyer, in our new
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Boom
Dinner d la Rime at St Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Basse to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams,
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of “ Hudson
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling Block Works," at Gran-
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkesbury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Lnncheons and Resreshment Bars at Randwiek
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olda Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, 1 easts, Ac., Ac.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let eut on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, Ac. A '.,
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
rastry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, Ac.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting us on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
CHAS. K. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co.),
Manaqer.
MALT BITTERS!
The great Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Liver
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE ~ ... Bs. 63.
A. Q. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, Ac.,
43 Erskine Street;
AMD
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
QUEENSLAND AGENCY.
GEBSLEY LUKIN and CO.,
Sydney,
PASTORAL, MINING and PLANTATION AGENTS.
Temporary Offices, 289 Qeorge-street.
Opposite Hunter-street.
GRESLEY LUKIN and CO. are agents for the fol-
lowing Incorporated Gold-mining Companies in Queens-
land :
Glanmire and Monkland G. M. Co.
Hibernian Tribute G. M. Co.
Nioholl’s Lease G. M. Co.
North Lady Mary Q. M. Co.
No. 2 North Lady Mary Q. M. Co.
North Glanmire G M, Co.
North Monkland G M. Co.
No. 1 North Phoenix G. M. Co.
No. 2 North Phoenix G. M Co.
Unit jd Si. Patrick G. M. Co.
Now Zealand Tributors.
Mining Managers’ Reports regnlarly received. Full-
est information on Queensland mining interests ob-
tained through special agencies. All Queensland min-
ing journals flled.
Q UEENSLAND AGENCY.
™ GRESLEY LUKIN and CO.,
PASTORAL. MINING, and PLANTATION AGENTS.
Temporary Offices : 289 George-street,
Opposite Hunter-street,
HAVE FOR SALE—
Choice SUGAR PLANTATIONS and unimproved
SUGAR LANDS on the following navigable waters la
Queensland
The Pioneer River (Mackay)
Herbert Rivpr
Burdekin River
Mary River
Barnett River
Stone River
Logan River
Albert River.
Pull particulars on application. Titles clear.
ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.
Yes 1 When properly applied in the form of
THE MAGNBTOD.
The only Cure for RHEUMATISM GOUT and
All Nervous Affections.
Requires no Acids, no Attention, and lasts for years.
SEND PARTICULARS OF CASE, OR CALL UPON
JOHN GEE,
17 CHANGE ALLEY,
PITT STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
OPPOSITE No. 2 COFFEE PALACE.
THE NEWSLETTER.
S. A. Government introducing Bill to provide
Coolie Übor for N. T. Major Forgnason, on behalf of
the S. A. Government has made satisfactory arrange-
ments with the Indian authorities in this matter.
In Collingwood (Vie.), John M'Mahon wag re-
manded for a week. Jack is a negro, but speaks a rich
Irish brogue, and has the suitable name. It is thought
his father held up a ring once and said, “She’s black, but
that's no matter."
The proprietor of the Cooktown Herald
offers a prize of £2 2s. for the most execrable pun per-
petrated North of Cape Palmerston. Maston, O'Kane,
the Mayor of Cooktown, and “ Blunt Knife,” excluded
from the competition, which closes 20th July.
At Eiohmond (V.) Police Court, a labourer
stands remanded for cruelty to his son, aged 7 years.
The child was a mass of fostering wounds and bruises,
inflicted by his drunken father with an axe-handle,
which he also tried to ram down the boy’s throat.
The floating of the celebrated Colorado (N.Q.)
silver mine has beon unexpectedly stopped by a writ
served on Mr. Kaufl'manu, by Mr. L. F. Sachs, who pro-
fesses to hold some claim over the famous mineral
selections. Wheu auy luck’s about, there too is found
Leopold Sachs.
Henry Baynea, 62, died at Canterbury, and the
papers say he was one of the Six Hundred. The sur-
vivors of the old guard at Waterloo mast be dying out
now, for the country editor begins to fasten on the
gallant 600, of whom, according to colonial journals,
at least 18,000 have lately passed over to the great
majority.
Mr. Gladstone’s father owned 1300 slaves in the
West Indies, and deceived . £68,000 as compensation
from the State for land whioh liberated them. The
English landlords of Irish properties argue that, con-
sequently, the Premier should be favourable to com-
pensating them for liberating the Irish tenants from
thraldom.
The Uralla Times congratulates itself on a
rare story of how Mr. O’Brien and constables Dean and
Hughes fohght for some hours a black snake coiled
around a buggy pole. The only rarity we see about the
story ii that the word “ suakeship" doesn’t occur, and
the writer doesn't guarantee the respectability of the
narrators.
The ghost of the murdered man, which has for
so many years haunted the Billabong, near Corow*,
has, thanks to the vigilant measures adopted by the
Stock and Pastures Board, fallen a victim to the
hunter’s rifle. He was a fine specimen of the white
kangaroo, and his skin has been purchased by Mr.
Curley, of Kiama.
The French Cabinet has favourably considered
the scheme for converting the African desert into an
inland sea. M. de Lessens has announced that the sum
required, 60,000,000 f., is already forthcoming, and,
since the engineering operations would not be of a very
lengthy character, a man may be able to sail across the
desert to Timbuotoo before ho can go by rail to France
from England.
One of the charges against Tom Bent, Vic-
torian Minister of Railways, was that ho altered the
specifications for the Elsternwick line. For a time, the
specifications could not be found j but eventually they
were discovered in the room of Mr. Parbriek, an officer
of the department. The alteration was not in Mr.
Bent’s writing, and Parbriek, who declined to give any
information, has been suspended.
It is not generally known that the ’bus drivers
on the Forest Lodge and Glebe Point Road ere on the
box 16 hours out of the 24 doily. They get a half-holiday
every fortnight—in other words, they, one night in
fourteen, leave off work at 8 p m., instead of midnight.
Yet N.S.W, is a Christian country, whose inhabitants
have plenty of money for the heathen niggers of the
South Seas. God help these driven drivers I
The second and third rounds in the great Dat*
ling Harbour mill have again been a win for the
Government. Messrs. Goodlet and Smith claimed
£168,577 18s., the amount of the Government valua-
tion being £87,993. The jury assessed even a lower
amount—*B7.7l6 Is. Case of W. F. and J. S. Eobret-
sou, who claimed £11,510, the Government valuator’s
award being £2400, was settled out of Court by
plaintiffs accepting £3OOO.
A new swindle has been successfully tried in
New York. After the daughter of a wealthy citizen
had been buried, a young man representing himself as
the deceased’s lover, called upon the undertaker, and
offered to pay the funeral bill. He received an account
and left, promising to return shortly with the cash.
Next, he took the bill to the bereaved parent, and re-
presented himself as the undertaker's clerk. He got
the money and skedaddled.
Sub-Inspector Douglas didn’t find a practicable
track from the Wild River to Mourilyan harbour. The
party arrived at Johnstone barely alive, having had to
swim across numerous creeks, to wade through danger-
ous swamps, and to lower tbemselves down pre Apices
and ridges, by means of native vines. It is not believed
that any practicable track will ever be found. For 20
days out of the 28, which the journey occupied, Mr
Douglas’ party wore without rations, and subsisted on
roots, snakes, grubs, &o.
Lamson, the Wimbledon murderer, was
*« launched into eternity ’’ —that’s the correct solemnity
to weave round the operation—in the middle of the
Lord’s Prayer. The previous pinioning took some
minutes of time, and some London papers denounce
the complicated nature of the pinion straps as tending
to cruelly prolong the agony. One never knows what
may occur; everyone, therefore, has a possible contin-
gent interest in insisting that banging should be mads
as little disagreeable as practicable.
Amongst the invitations accepted by the Great
Mogul, bir ’JSnry, was one from the Board of the
Asylum for Idiots. Sir 'Ervry didn’t respond as a
£n,V(?r, because he evidently had a right to the institu-
tion's hospitality. He told the Idiots that he was
bwqding a big place out hero in New South Wales for
their brethren. Any colonist who read the speech saw
p,t once that h 9 referred to the members of the Legis-
lative Assembly. The Idiots were the only people from
Whom Sir 'Enry had V something to learn.”
Maximilian Dinon, & respectable Melbourne
citizen, was find Is. for an alleged assault upon con-
stable Barton recently. Dinon, however, said that
Barton was drank and assaulted him, and that when
he asked another constable to take Barton in charge,
the latter boosted him over the head with his baton.
Other respectable witnesses corroborated Dinon, who
}a,B,d to bo taken to the hospital j but, as the foorce never
lie, the bench fined defendant. A departmental Board
of Enquiry I# bow sitting.
H. Mortimer Franklyn, the enterprising pro-
prietor ofithe Federal Australian, Victorian Review
and Melbourne World, has come to loggerheads with
the Melbourne Typographical Society since purchasing
the last-named journal. He declined to conform to the
regulation that “ only journeymen shall be employed
on daily papers,” and introduced boy compos, into his
nsfioe. Thereupon, the companionship retired in’a body,
Sndtjie office was declared closed to the Society. The
jFWWWA II Review did not come out last month.
Sank tfijffr* have to make up any deficiencies
la daily but should there be any surplus the
bank “ ooj laps/' The other day the teller of a Mel-
bourne bank balanced pp £4O short, and the manager
got rampant, broadly accusing a junior of embezzle-
mont. Two detectives were fold off to watch the sus-
pected junior, bat with no result. ?wo days later, twe
Clients called in and stated that th*y had discovered
khsA they had each paid in £2O short, c-nd planked
She dite/anoo. Their deposit had been mad* to the
whose carelessness had been responsl-
When ®o«a Syme’a friend, the notorious
a windier Beaumont, yge arrested, amongst his possea-
gio&s wore Leather pewket-book, with C. E. Beau.
mont, Bt.,' and'The Hon Charles Eebinson, Bt.,
written on It ( cheque drawn qp phe Union Bank of
Australia. Adelaide, for £7(ss. sipmd, * 0. C, E. Beau-
mont’; cheque drawn on the Union Banv qf Australia,
Berth. £5BOO,; signed 'Charles Beaumont ; eVOA&m
i*»th ‘Sir F. W. Beaumont, South Australian Ctufe
idotal. Adelaide,’ written on them ; three cards with
Mr f P W. Beaumont’ written on them; photograph
iNo. Stl, taken at Ballarat, Victoria, bv Bardwell and
id©, * kfyj If. 0- Young, 17th March, 1881, written on
W
ble for the error. But he hasn’t apologised to the
junior.
Among other reasons urged by the Orient Com-
pany against their steamers calling at Adelaide is the
fact that official Sabbatarianism prevents the vessels
working at anchorage on Sundays. The Adelaide Chief
Secretary says there was no such prevention of work, but
admits that the Marine Beard had passed, and doubtless
enforced, a resolution disapproving of Sunday work.
Hero’s a holy sham. Truly the colonies ate coming to
the front. In Sydney, astronomy on the Sunday was
prohibited, and now at Adelaide, some bilious officials,
in terror of hell, want to check the trade of the pert.
We trust the Adelaida life-boat crews gc duly to church
on Sundays 1
Patrick Gordon, of Eoscommon, Ireland, bound
hie hands with flannel, got under a railway express
train, gripped a brake-rod, curled his legs round some
other machinery, and stuck there for ninety miles. He
hadn’t a cent. «f money to pay for riding otherwise.
When found, he was sent to gaol for twenty-one days
for risking his lifo. About the same date. Colonel
Burnaby, who gets about £8 a week from the State,
lound time to leave his regiment and float across the
English Channel in a balloon. His superior officers
advised him not to do it, and that ends it, except that
poor old Pat is in gaol and the Colonel is talked about
all over England, and will thus be able to force the sale
of hia forthcoming book.
A drunken old woman recently found rolling in
a Brisbane gutter, told the arresting constable, that
she was Queen Victoria, and kept continually maunder-
ing about her dear Albert Edward, and Alfred, and
wishing that she could only get hold of “ that dreadful
Gladstone.” She desired her name to bs entered in the
lock-up logbook as “ Her Majesty Queen Victoria,
Empress of the Indies," and insisted upon at once
being conveyed to Windsor Castle. Nothing could be
dose with her until the lock-np-keeptr said: —“ Well,
your Majesty, if you are Empress of the Indies, lam
King of the Look-np.” This settled her. As she
snored peacefully on her eider-down bed of state, they
searched her and found in her pocket a Crown brand
bottle of gin.
The colossal bust of Garibaldi, executed in
plaster, by Signor Sani, In six days, is not merely a
work of talent, but strikes as a work of genius. As to
the likeness to the great original we can say nothing.
But the bust conveys the conception of a man past
middle age, with a countenance instinct with deter-
mination and fire. The pose of the head upon the
shoulders is singularly spirited and striking. The bust
ia distinctly that of a man who has lived. In ancient
days a multitude might have hailed it as the present-
ment of a demi-God—and sentient. So noble is the work
that it would be a disgrace to the community were it
permitted to be lest. A fitting seqnel to the demon-
stration on Saturday would be a public subscription for
the perpetuation of Signor Sani’s inspiration, in
marble or bronze.
The Hotham Benevolent Asylum Committee,
Melbourne, is quite as respectable as the Destitute
Children’s Board, Sydney, tnough its members do not
receive free ’bus tickets. At its last meeting. Mr.
Kirkus (an undertaker) accused Mr. Smith of having
“ dined out” before coming to the previous assemblage.
Smith offered to knock Kirkus down, and the chairman
also rounded upon that gentleman, who then started up
to interrupt the chairman’s address. Mr. Qarton en-
deavoured to pull Mr. Kirkus down, when the latter
went for Qarton, and a bit of a mill occurred before tne
two canid be separated. The committee then admitted
two lame old women into the institution, discharged an
old Waterloo veteran for having been caught winking
at a female inmate, and a Trafalgar hero for surrepti-
tiously obtaining a bottle of red heart rum.
The row between the Port Augusta (S. A.) Land
Company shareholders and its promoters is coming to
a head. It appears that Forsyth, the levacted member
of the conspirators. Barker and Co., was up to his nook
in the promotion of this company. Ho acted on behalf
of the promoters, and stood to make a profit of £3OOO,
while hi .< prospective liability was only £3OO. dome of
the shareholders now claim £1455 Is. from the promo-
ters, who have intimated their intention of legally
resisting snoh claim. Mr. A. E. Sawtell is the moving
spirit of the malcontent agitation, and has taken the
opinion of Mr. Symon, Q C., who believes there is
ground for an action, and advises the claim to be mads
personally against Sir William Milne, and Mr. St.
Barbe Miller. At a recent moderately-attended meet-
ing of shareholders a retolation was carried urging
that steps be taken towards a rescission of contract.
Grealey Lukin, who for many years successfully
ran tne Brisbane Courier and Queenslander, appears
likely to make his mar* with tne Queensland Agency
he has recently established in this c-ity. This week,
the Caledonian Company, Charters Towers—capital,
£lO,OO0 —has been satisfactorily “ put through ” by the
firm, besides the disposal of considerable interests in
the Day Dawn and No. 1 North Phoenix companies—•
the crack mines of Queensland. It was predicted, long
since, by the late iter. Dr. W. B. Clarke, “that the
mineral resources of the North would surprise the
world,” and the recent magnificent discoveries there
indicate that the prediction will be fulfilled, but there
are always •* duffers ” among the richest mines, and, if
the agency will simply "shunt" them when introduced
and have nothing to do but with good stock, they will
find plenty of capital in Sydney available.
The Western Australian Government findsitself
confronted with a “ native difficulty." The i-ettlers on
the dascoyne and Murchison have to submit with tied
hands to constant depredations from the blacks. They
duran’t shoot because of the law ; so they are running
away. A deputation recently waited on the Governor
and asked if it could be possible to invest Mr. Fair-
bairn, a magistrate, who is being sent up to the “ dis-
turbed districts” to investigate affairs there, 11 with
discretionary powers to inflict capital punishment upon
natives guilty of capital offences.” His Excellency
replied, with a scream, "Oh, dear, no I” Aggrieved
settlers must therefore take out warrants for offend-
iag blacks, have them captured, and travel several
hundreds of miles to go through the screaming farce
of prosecuting them, with the glorious uncertainty of
the law to encourage them.
Mrs Wall, of Port Macquarie, has been again
tried for unlawfully wounding Mr. O. O. Danger, a
magistrate. On the last occasion the jury wouldn't
agree. The case arose out of soma riotous proceedings
at Dr. Brown’s residence, when Dangar, as he alleged,
pursued Archie Smith home to arrest him for disorderly
conduct. Mrs. Wall, Smith’s mother-in-law, hit Dan-
gar over the eye with a candlestick, according to the
story for the prosecution, though all assault was denied
by the defence. The jury brought in a verdiet of guilty
of common assault. Judge Murray stated that ha
didn’t understand the verdict, bat seemed to be glad to
be able to inflict the alternative of a fine upon the de-
fendant, who was ordered to pay £5 or to be imprisoned
fop 7 days. Mr. O’Mara, defending counsel, took occa-
sion to abuse Dangar vehemently, calling him a mean
coward. He was checked by the Judge in his eloquent
defence of the rights of mothers-in.law.
There’s been an insurrection at Albury, com-
pared with which the state of Egypt ia as nothing. A
coroner’s jury recently attached some blame to the
medical officer of the local gaol. The Archimedean
lever which cants up Albury—that’s to say, the two
local rags—challenged the jury’s rider. Whereupon,
some of the jurymen called a public meeting to defend
the “ bulwarks of British liberty.” and to make
breaches in the bulwarks of the English language.
They styled therm elves the “toe-rag" crowd. The
editors, who boss the aforesaid lover, were present, re-
porting the proceedings, and had the satisfaction of
being oratonoally fla.) ed alive by the speakers, one of
whom brought down the house by first feelingly al-
luding to two “ respectable prisoners in the gaol," and
then publicly burning the issues of the two journals
containing the ot jocrionable comments. Probably,
when eiladstone hears of this, he will at once abandon
his intention of abolishing the jury system in Ireland.
Constable Collins, of Kempsey, has had to fork
put £lO and costs for having wrongfully imprisoned a
lad, named Henry Tillbrook. The evidence showed
that Collins was under the Influsmee of liquor, and that,
without amy just oause. ha arrested Tillbrook, on the
preteuee that the .latter had been guilty ef dleerderly
behaviour. It was alleged that Collins had ordered a
number of lads and a girl in a fruit shop to “go to
bed." In explanation of this, Collins said he took " a
fatherly interest in all small boys” ; also that ho took
only “four glasses of shandygaff that day." He ad-
mitted having been once, during twenty-five years of
sbwee, fined for drunkenness, and (acknowledged to
playing b» Ited* qccnsionally. Ho stated that the
robins " baa-d ’* him, and that TillbrOok said.
Denny, your breath smells j you can’t oatoh me.*’
Judge Murray said (that the constable had evidently
been and that the boys perceiving this, had
chaffed him. The amount of damages claimed by Till-
brook was £2OO.
Writes a correspondent : “ The Department of
Public Instruction is the most niggardly oc all Govern-
msnt institutions. Under Ministerial responsibility,
the first coup was to let part of the salaries of teachers
go into arrears for six months Secondly, the teachers
wsra cnt off with four-fifths of the salaries they had
been raoeiving, Then the other fifth, after pstitlon on
petition, was given them for one year. Now, for the
second year, ths M'nivter is supremely deaf to appeals
for that one-fifth. The first year, fuel allowance was
given to most schools. For last year, very few’ll obtain
it. £1 for every hundred children per year was the
liberal fuel allowance. Last dry summer children had
to carry water to school in bottles because the Miuister
did not ‘deem it expedient' to allow anything for the
carriage ef water. In snch a season this seems down,
right cruelty. The Minister again has decided that
teachers must sweep their own schools. No provision
is made for small matters, such as blowing off
of shingles, disarrangement of school time-pieces, of
school pnmp, etc., etc. And, lastly, teachers are sup-
posed to fill in two thousand new forms and documents
in connection with everything conceivable every year,
for whiah, nor for the transmission of which, not an
envelope or stamp is allowed. Truly the people cf
New South Wales are better payers than the Govern-
ment."
The musical effects at the Garibaldi demonstra-
tion in the Garden Palace on Saturday wore very good,
except the organ renditions, which, owing to the in-
sufficiency of the trumpery instrument, intensified by
the sound being intercepted by the funereal draperies,
&0., were almost inaudible. The Funeral March, com-
Jiosed for the occasion by Signor Giammona, and per-
orated by the band of the Permanent Artillery, sup-
plemented by additional reed instruments, was a telling
cempositlon. It opened with a grave movement for the
bass, gradually amplified and elaborated, descriptive of
the mournful sentiments of all lovers of freedom re-
specting the death of the great hero. Suddenly the
theme was interrupted by a blare of trumpets, and
grand jubilant Hymn of Garibaldi—as well known t<f
all Italians as is ‘‘ God Save the Queen " to Englishmen
—burst forth. At the same instant the black drapery,
which had till that moment veiled the magnificent bust
of the hero, dropped, and the plaudits of the immense
crowd mingled with the Hymn. By a felicitous transi-
tion, Signor Giammona’s composition here took up the
theme of the Hymn in the minor key, silencing the
brass, and giving intensity to the change by throwing
the treatment upon the reeds almost exclusively. The
effect of this transition was almost weird. The huzzas
were stilled in a moment as the clash of the brass in a
jubilant msjor was replaced by the wailing of the reeds
ia a minor key. After a re-introduction of the original
theme, the Hvmn in minor was again commenced, but
broken off suddenly. Then the major version swelled
up, to be similarly broken off—dead! A sequence of
chords, gradually dying out, concluded a composition
felicitous in conception, and rich in ideality.
Some very queer surgical phenomena have, dur-
ing the last couple of years, been met with in Australia in
connection with gunshot wounds in the head. The
cases of Mr. Greer (Soudry’s friend), the Dubbo Police
Magistrate, the Richmond (Vic.) bank manager and
others, are still fresh in the pnblic memory, and have
served totally to upset the idea, so long prevalent in
the minds of laymen, that brain wounds are Instantly
fatal. The other morning, a policeman met in the
Domain a man who appeared insane. The unfortunate
fellow, who muttered at intervals, was marched off to
the Palmer.streot lock-up, but, as, on arrival there, it
was found that he had a wound ou his forehead, he
was walked back to the Infirmary by the arresting
policeman. Dr. Harman-Tamnt was called in by the
resident surgeon and found that in the forehead of the
patieat (who answered questions just, as any delirium
tremens subject might be expected to do) there
wss a bullet wound, from which brain-xnauer was
aoto&lly exuding. Dr. Tarrant called a consultation of
the honorary staff, at which it was decided to make an
exploratory incision with a view to determining the
exact nature of the wound, and, if possible, the course
taken by the bullet. On the incision being made and
trephining performed, several pieces of lead were re'
moved from the vicinity of the fracture, but it was
clear that the total amount of lead taken away by the
surgeons did not’represent anything like the weight of
the big ‘450 (army revolver) bnllet which had entered the
skull, and that a large lump of metal remained—probably
imbedded in the substance of the brain. After four
days the man died, and a post mortem revealed the fact
that the bnllet, after traversing about 2i inches of the
brain, in an almost straight line, bad taken its coarse
upward towards the top of the skull. In other words,
though a bnllet had passed through his brain, that man
walked from the Domain to Palmer-street look-up and
back, and lived tour days.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed .]
“ Henry J.C.”: Yes ; but the condition of the
Jews in Germany is hardly less unsatisfactory than
that of the Jews iu Russia....*’ Passepartout ": Thanks.
“Jobnz": Thanks; part used “ Ziugara ”i
You’re barking up the wrong tree “Geo. I.”: May
deal with itnext week..." Victoria-street Yes; a man
who writes a good comic paragraph affords pleasure to
100,030 people, and receives say half-a-orown. An
Italian street fiddler disembowelling cats with fish,
hooks drives 50 people mad, and collects a shilling. On
calculation, therefore, it is 809,000,000 times better to
torture than to amuse *' David B n”: There is no
truth in the statement that Garibaldi was a Scotch-
man, and that his name was Baldie Garry
“A.C.": A mast extraordinary story “ Anser " ;
Very welcome indeed. “Correspondent": Before
dealing with.anoh a communication, we must have your
name and address “Skylark": Thanks “Alice
E.”: Should the well-dressed person referred to persist
in follewing and forcing his attentions upon you, you
should stop, take out your purse, and extract (say)ahalf-
penny. Tender the coin to him, saying “There, my good
man; I really cannot afford more.” “Qungra" ; If
you don’t want the old church building desecrated,
pull it down and burn the weed. If you auction it,
ten to one the devil will be the highest bidder
“Meteor": Bight "A.Z.”: Why did’ut von enclose
a clipping from the paper P....8a1d knob": Very useful
information “ Blajney”: As wo don’t fully under-
stand your allusions, we only print half the story
“Xante": We rarely publish letters to the Edßor.
Though the public man to whom you allude is what in
plain Saxon is termed an impudent scoundrel, he is
accounted respectable by that large class of flshblood-
edly virtuous people who are responsible for much of
the corruption which prevails in N.S.W. legislative
circles “ Delenri ’’: Almost late, but thanks. Glad
to hear from you often. Be brief “8.C.D.”: No;
we have none left “ X.X." : To be considered
“ S.P.D." : We’ll look round and see what it’s all
about “ Ohandos " : Please send again date of ball.
It can’t be Tuesday, 20th July “ H.J.M." : Yes, but
we always want to know details of pe - soi s alluded to ...
“Indignant": Scarcely suitable. Besit.es, you ove, -
draw it. Australia is not quite so bad..." W. Brown ’’;
Already briefly noticed “ F.R." (Hobart) : Too
limited interest “ V.H." (Yass) i The movements of
Mr. Heydon don’t interest anybody "H.T.": Mr.
Reid has written about Free Trade. Mr. Berry, we
believe, has never written anything about Pro-
tection, beyond what his editors have scrawled
in the Geelong Advertiser. “ Major ” never
writes, being uncertain about spelling. The other
Victorian politicians you mention are nobodies
“Whoa, Emma’’ (Cobar): No doubt Gladstone will
take it greatly to heart that the Louth Liberal differs
so materially from him about his policy. How would
i* do to cable condolences to him P “N. J C.": Quite
credible, but hard —almost impossible—to support with
proof "F. J. Fowler’*! We feel the programme as
bitterly aa yon, but t«o long •«Lvnogsas"; k% per
quarter, but free to you *'Limpet": Will, for the
ensuing seven days, diligently (study your conundrums
......“ James Prior”: Thanks. Next week,;
“ Don’t use your voice for loud speaking or sing-
ing when horse," is the manner in which a country
paper prints advice to its readers. Presumably, there,
fore, when you’re an “ ass ” you may “ shout.’* If this
were the gauge to judge asses by, the country press
would die out to-morrow.


Hotels, fto.
Q.UNSLEE’S HOTEL,
NOBTH TEEEACE,
ADELAIDE.
R
OBEET BUTCHEE k
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIEIT MEKC HANTS,
634 GEORGE BTKEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO..
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
JjIALLON’S PEIZE ALBUEY WINE.
J. T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the publie may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depots
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard s
MUEEAY RIVEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded flrst-olass Prises at the
following Exhibition* :
Loudon International
Paris ~
Vienna „
Philadelphia „
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Anoarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat I Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay I 'Burgundy
Champagne. Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
1864
1873
1876
Hotels, *o.
JOHN A. WILKINSON*
GOOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
VINEYARD—GOOLALTA, BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGNIPICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold.
Imported by ns direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buver in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEI
YEARS. They are of v*-ry handsome appearance, an(
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
low Prices for Gash.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and lest them before purchasing elsewhere
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rubbish.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street j 612, George-street; 12, Markei
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland
Howick-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goul-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta j Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supplv yon with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERH ANQING
(a really splendid stock )
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT'S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAP. Ac.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEORGE-ST.
[Business Announcements
A
USTEALIAN “HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a few extra shil-
lings profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
Q
fP.
o
*
uA|
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit information 0 f the attempted sale of conn-
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not
frocurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
cjst Office Order.
WIE HAVE HOW,SOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE . £4 0 0
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE 6 0 0
Do., WITH COYER COMPLETE... 70 0
No charge for cases or
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND CO,
WTNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
AMD
LL
LS
FfEC
Hi
U NDER SECTION V., ACT 532.
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the DUNGAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
10.0D0 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PHIZES of the fall value of £lO,OOO.
117 lota guaranteed, cash if preferred.
Lot I.lst prise £4OOO I Lot 3. 3rd prise £lB5O
Lot 2, 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4 4th prize £4OO
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10, 1 Prize of £5O.
Lots tl to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lots 21 to 120, 100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management is compelled to extend the time of
drawing to the first day of August, 1832. Notwith-
standing this announcement, the drawing will posi-
tively be proceeded with seven days after the shares
are subscribed for. All unsuccessful applicants will
have their money returned per return of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, if not a large and independent fortune,
for £l.
Address—SETH R. PERSSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
Tobacconist*
O’
TO SMOKERS WHO PROPESSITO BE JUDGES OF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts aie compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
special interest: —
DTXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on 288*303 lb.
All the others paid duty in 1880 on gfti 6f® lb.
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 on 478,985 11.
All the others paid duty in 1881 on 620,992 li.
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
on for the two years was only 307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUB 7, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tin Tas," each plug branded with a
Bound Si hole Tin Tag, stamped “ Cow-
QUbror” or Tankee Doodm."
ALL TOBACCONISTS GOODS, PIPES, &c.
s^B
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
AND the enormous success of the CAN’T B BEAT
has not escaped the nsual penalties of merit. Its
universal popularity has excited the envy of that class
of speculators who trade upon the discreditable capital
of a borrowed name. My Tobacco has baen imitated
and counterfeited, and although I have used all avail-
able means to guard the public against imposition, and
to pnnish fraud, both Foreign and Home-made Itr ita-
tions bearing my brand, but lacking all the qualities of
the ever popular and well-known CAN’T B BEATU
have been imposed upon the public as the GENUINE
AMERICAN WEED. Now, to further guard msr
numerous Customers in both town and country, as well
as the Smoking Public from all Imitations, I have
arranged with the American Manufacturer that each
plug of my Tobacco be branded with a Silver Tag,
bearing the device thus :
without which none is genuine, The qualities of the
genuine Can’t B Beat art too well kn >wn to need any
comment. But in justice to the public, as well as
myself,! urgently requesting customers to assure them-
selves that the article they purchase be genuine, and
that each plug bear the above device, te ba known as
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B BEAT BRAND
Heartily thanking ihe public for their liberal support,
and determined to deserve a continuance of the same
by keeping a first-class article at the lowest possible
price.
MICK SIMMONS,
Sole Wholesale Agent in the Colonies for the
Can't B Beat Tobacco,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS.
CORNER OF GEORGE and CAMPBELL STREETS,
HAYMAEKET.
N.B—NO BRANCH SHOPS.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
THEPURESrSTIWHAm
£**£ WOR'-5-
Th« Him* of IC. MOSS & CO*
la on erery Genuine Bottle.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Kknt-street, nbae Kino-street.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whitting-ham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and ArielTs Victorian Biscuits, Treacle
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soa
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders an
Sauce.
343 and 343 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
346 GEORGE STREET, SYNEY.
STUBBS & SMITH
(Late Joseph Bullard)
TAILORS, MERCERS, AND GENERAL
OUTFITTERS.
A Large Assortment of
READY-MADE MENS’ AND BOYS'
CLOTHING,
ALWAYS ON HAND.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
346 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
George p murphy
REGENT HOUSE,
80S. GEORGE STREET.
RAILWAY BRIDGE.
CENTRAL
OIL, COLOUR,
and
PAPERHANOINGS and PLATE GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
The most convenient stores f.>r town and country cus-
tomers, at the junction of the principal tramways.
Trams pass the door every ten minutes,
IMPORTER OP
Glass (all sizes out I White and Red
to order) I Lead
Plate Raw and Boiled
Sheet 1 Oils
Stained Brushware
ornamental Varnishes
Cathedral Colours for House
Hammered (flat and Coach pain-
and rolled) ters, Plasterers,
Turpentine &3.
Neatefoot Oil Castor oil
Keroaene Oi
MIXED PAINTS READY FOR USE,
any shade required.
ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED
by Rail, Steamer, City or Suuurbs.
Shop Fronts and Sashes Glased.
AXLE GREASE for Buggies, Carts, Lorries, SUL-
PHUR for Vinegrowers and Farmers. GLASS
for Gardeners, &o.
Warehouse—Bs9 GEORGE STREET
Bide Entrance—Stores and Workshop— HARRIS.BT
Paperhangew’
Canvas
Gold and Silver
Leaf
Paperhanginga
Wood - preserv-
ing Oil
Tar
Kesin
Black Fish Oil
Cement, &o.
FOSTEB/S Bugle Bra.ni).
1
#
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
BEAD THIS! BEAD THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
677 GEORGE STBEET.
BEICK FIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FEOM, Consisting of —
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, &c.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES,
Note the Address;
577
GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO.. Limited, beg
to inform the public that they have now com-
pleted arrangements* which will enable thorn to keep up
a REGULAR SUPPLY of *
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
and are in a position to take on fresh customers, Orders
may be given to men on carts, or sent to office,
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
T
HE
PAINLESS CORN
Price 2s 6d.
RELIEVER,
A Certain Belief, and in nnmberless instances, a com
plete cure for corns.
,9 Stanley-street. Wooloomooloo.
Mr. Clowes, —Sir, —t was favoured some time ago at
the office of the Sydney Bulletih, with a bottle of yonr
Painless Corn Believer, which I beg to state I used
with the following results :—As an application I found
it simple, painless, and as far as I know harmless; it
speedily removed the soreness and tenderness, and en-
abled me to walk with perfect ease, which I had not
been able to do for many years. Also, lam of opinion
that, if I had used another bottle, it would have proved
a complete cure. Sir, I have much pleasure, and no
hesitation in staling the above, which you are at liberty
to use as you think fit. Yours truly,
(Signed) Wiuum Saul Mortow.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Gympie,
Queensland. SoleiProprietor of “ Clowes* Concordia "
Eenaedies.
CLOWES' UNFAILING EING-WOEM CUBE will
completely euro the most obstinate Bing-worm. Abun-
dant person al references.—Price, 2s 6d. The proprietor
will guarantee a cure.
CLOWES’ “ BED GUM OINTMENT,” 2s 6d. for
Healing Wounds.
CLOWES’ “ COMPOUND LINIMENT of AENICA
and CAJUPUT,” combined with an lodide, prepared
from the formula of the late William Clowes, M.E.C.S.,
ko. For Sore Throats. Bruisas, Sprains, Swellings,
Bheumatism, and Paine in the Joints.—Price 2s. 6d
CLOWES’ "STYPTIC COLLOID." Most valu-
able for Stopping Bleeding and Protecting and Healing
Small Wounds —Price 2e 6d,
ELLIOT BEOS, A Co., Sydney Agents.
C. H. GLARKE AND CO.,
ELECTRICIANS.
CEOSSLEY’S TELEPHONE DEPOT.
MANUFACTUEEBS and Importers of Lightning
. Conductors, Copper Wire, Eope and Bands,
■Kleotno Bells, Billiard Markers, Thief and Fire Alarms.
Mining Signals, Apparatus and Batteries. Blasting by
Electricity Estimate* given for fixing same.
79 ARCADE, KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
!—l have an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Auriut-in-Chief of the London Eayal
« J 7 (*<> which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100), Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
to T. B, HANNAfGED. Auckland/ New
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE)
MERCHANTS.
YIKGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
& 16 Spring Street.
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for BALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHEN WA BE,
WINES. BE SUB, and SPIRIT?,
aid general
HULK MERCHANDISE.
Amenta for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J T. GA YEN’S
b.Luappa an- Geneva.
A MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
J LAWLER, 608, George-street, Bedding Mannfae-
• turer, importer of Brars and Iron Bedsteads,
American ard Austrian Chairs, Carted Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock- Established 1890.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURE .
[We shall be dad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs <md managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Hughenden (Q.) June 24, 26,
Lower Clarence Turf Club Jane 23
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z ) Steeplechase June 28.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club July 1.
Hay July 6, 7.
Deniliqain July 19.
Rockhampton July 6, 7.
Clarence R.J C July 12, IS
V.E C. Grand National .....July 22.
Hawkesbnry Spring August.
Geelong August 5.
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 2, 5, 7, 9.
V.E.C. Soring Oct. 28, 31, Nov. 2, 4.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
MurrumbidgeeTurf Club Nov. 22, 23, 24.
AQUATICS.
Q.E.C.. Senior Sculls in skiffs Jane 24.
Layoock v. Boyd, £200 aside, Tees July 3.
Mercantile E.C. Eegatta August 28.
Krug Champagne Trophy November 25
Gardiner Cup, Amateur December 16.
PBDESTBTANI8M.
Devlin v. Blevitt, 150 yards, Queaabeyan, £40 ..Jane 26
Edwards v. Clifford, six days, at Geelong, £200...July 3.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports July 29.
FOOTBALL.
Qlenhead v. Carlton, Moore Park June 24,
Geelong v. East Sydney, Association Ground July 8
Geelong v. Sydney ....July 11.
Geelong v. Petersham..., July 13.
Geelong v. Combined Team July) 15.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Gentlemen of England June 22, 23, 24.
United Eleven June 26, 27, 28.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The East Sydney footballers defeated the Our
Boys by 4 Koala 12 behinda to 4 behinds.
At the Avoca (Vio.) Turf Club races on June 15,
the Handicap was won by Beadsman, and the Steward’s
Cap by Gratis.
The N.S.W. Football Association have decided
not to accept Mr. M'Namara’s offer of a trophy to b®
called “The Loch Dhu Whisky Cup.”
To-day (Thursday), Friday, and Saturday, the
Australian Eleven play the Gentlemen of England on
the Kennington Oval. On Monday, Tuesday, and
Wednesday they play at Chichester against the United
Eleven.
* The football match between the Qlenhead and
Balmain Clubs, on Moore Park on Saturday, resulted in
a victory for the latter by four goals to a disputed goal-
The Glenheads do not seem to hare improved on laat
season’s form.
Whilst acknowledging Hanlan to be the best
oarsman in the world, Triakett says he would like to
eontend with him on the Parramatta Biver, and the
valiant Layoook observes that he " should bo delighted
to take part in the same race.”
London Society, referring to the defeat of the
British men-of-war oarsmen by the _ Russians in
Sydney, and the defeat of the latter in Melbourne
by the Cerberus crew, says: “ I take off my hat to
Toung Australia and thank her for coming to the rescue
of poor, played-out Old England.
The race for the M.E.C. President’s Cup came
off on Saturday, the course being from Lavender Bay
round Fort Denison and back to the club buoy. Three
started: W. Q, Brett, J. Whalan, and C. Williams.
Brett won easily in 18 min. 30 see. Williams was a bad
second, and Whalan was nowhere.
John Conway, manager of the late English
Eleven, writing to the Melbourne Herald of June 16,
states that, having investigated the rumours touching
the collusion of two members of Shaw’s team with
bookmakers whilst the team were in Australia, he
believes that there is no foundation for the scandal.
In the Hanlan-Triokett race Harry Kelley, who
was the Champion sculler, showed up Triokett; Joe
Sadler, who was the Champion that Triokett boat, acted
as distance judge; Boyd, another Champion, viewed the
raoe from the umpire’s boat, and so also did Jask
Higgins, who was onoe upon a time Champion of Eng-
land.
Peter Johnston, champion diver, on 6th April,
remained under water 4 min. 2| sec. in a tank at the
Boyal Musio Hall, London, England. The feat was
timed by E. Watson, of the Spouting Life, and
witnessed by W. Beckwith and others. This is the
best performance of the kind on record; but we’d not
believe the story even were it attested by a Church
Synod on a cartload of Bibles.
A cablegram says Hanlan has abandoned the
sculling match with Boss. For the present only, we
presume, for Boss is anxious for the match, and will
claim the championship if Hanlan does not meet him.
Hanlan has probably had to forfeit the first and second
deposits on the match, which was prevented from
coming off through his illness, but another arrange-
ment between these two is inevitable.
At Lithgow, the 600 yards race for £ 50 between
Tom Spring and Parkinson resulted in a win for the
former by 00 yards. Spring has been getting into
trouble with the Lithgow Athletic Club, who woull not
allow the above race to bo run on their ground. In the
race between Spring and Byce, the backers of the latter
became nervous and refused to let him start, and
entered a protest against the stakes being paid over.
Spring walked over the course and now claims the
stakes.
Triokett and Laycock will meet in the race for
the Punch prizes. Many are of the opinion—judging
from the shows mads by the men in their respective
races with Hanlan—that Layoook is now a better man
than Triokett. But then Hanlan might have given
Laycock just such another beating, and Triokett has
something to say about the difficulty of winning a
match in America. Triokett could hayo made heaps of
money there, but he preferred to row straight and
remain poor.
The four-oornered pedestrian entertainment, one
hundred hours in duration, in which Daniel O’Leary’s
a id Pat. Dale’s scores were counted against those of
Frank Hart and James L. Downey, was finished at the
Skating Rink at Nashville, Tenn., on the night of
Saturday, 15th April. The announced scores were
Hart, 351 miles; Downey, 334; total, 684. O’Leary,
353; D lie, |332; total, 675. The affair seems to have
been financially successful, and on the closing day the
building is said to have been overcrowded.
The Sydney and Petersham Football Clubs met
on Saturday on the Association Ground, the former
playing twenty men against twenty-three of the latter.
They did not commence punctually at the time an-
nounced. They should attend to these particulars for
the sake of the public if they wish their game to be
patronised. The gams was lively and certainly not as
rough as the Rugby game, yet we do not see any great
merit in any of our football games as yet. Concerning
tha Association game, wo -hall suspend judgmeut until
wo sea the Melbourne boys play. Sydney won by 5
goals 11 behiuds to 8 behinds.
The sculling race between Largan and Pearce
for £lOO aside took place ou the Thames on June 16,
and resulted in an easy win for Lnrgau by three lengths.
Another colonial “ grualled” and private advices from
England assure us tint Boyd will beat Layoook. Be-
fore the two latter made their matoh, they had a mile
spin for a bottle of wine, and Bo»d won it However,
as both men were out of training, this cannot be oonj
sidered aa a good line, Layoack, in a letter to “Charon
says that the Tees is only a gutter. Speaking of his
race with Hanlan, he says s— ** I rowed him ngged up
anyhow, and had not been well besides. He Only beat
me then by three or four lengths, although ho said.
before starting, that he was going to lick me by half-a-
mile." Liycock waa not in form when he rowed
Haulm, but, even at hia beat, we are afraid that Hanlan
is yet too much for him.
Another rough-and-tumble exhib came off
•m Saturday on Moore Park between - Jticcand
Redfern clubs, resulting in a win fotN ttby ons
goal and two tries to nil. Hiddleston„ , t again in-
jured, and had to retire from the field. It is miraou-
loua how these foolhardy players, with evidently more
sinew than sense, escape with whole bones from such
an afternoon’s mauling. The scramble is worth wit-
nessing for the sake of netioing how far a man’s neck
may be placed in jsopardy without being dislocated.
For a genuine way of knocking one another about,
commend us to the Rugby game.
By cable dated June 13, we learn that Hanlan
is recovering from the serious attack of fever from
which he waa laid up at Toronto. It appears that the
rumour of his death arose from a cablegram in the
Melbourne Aon, which gave the London Daily Tele-
graph as its authority for the statement. Haulan him-
self will be surprised when he hears how we killed and
buried him. He will, however, be pleased to learn
that, notwithstanding the '‘gruelling" he has given
our champions, thereby causing a heavy transfer of
colonial dollars to English and American pockets, the
news of his supposed death was received with profound
regret.
A trotting match of three miles, for .£lOO, came
oft at Randwiok on Saturday, between Mr. W. Blott’s
Ginger and Mr. J. Gordon’s Shadow, resulting in a win
for the former by three lengths. Shadow got away at
the start and led for two miles, when Ginger began to
come up, but getting level the latter broke, and Shadow
got a slight advantage. Ginger came np again, and
Shadow breaking, the other came away and won. The
three miles were covered in 9 min. 41 sec. A three-
quarter mile flat race for £2O was then run by Chutney
and Jet, resulting in a win for the latter by a length and
a half, in 1 min. 23 sec. Jet was ridden by D. Nicholson,
and Chutney by Wilkinson.
The batting averages of the Australian Eleven,
including the Derbyshire match, are as follow Mur-
doch, 60 ; Massie, 39 2-7; Blackham, 29 ; Horan, 23 4-9;
Bonner, 221; Qlffen, 21 4-13 ; Bannerman, 21 3-14 ;
Palmer, 14 2-11; Jones, 12i ; Boyle, 11 2 9 ; M'Donnell,
10 1-6; Garrett, 8 7-9 ; Spolforth, 8 1-9. These averages
will bo subject to alteration. In the Derbyshire match
the names of those batsmen who scored nine between
them were omitted, though Spofforth bowled in the
match. The averages] are made up from the figures
cabled. In the Orleans match, Murdoch retired in-
jured, and ho is therefore credited with a not-out We
«hall publish the averages up to latest dates in every
Issue-
Hunter Eiver Amateur Turf Club meeting, June
17. The Shorts Handicap was won by Stockdale, who
got the best of the start and led all the way, beating the
favourite, Little Nell, by half a length. Protest won
the Selling Race easily by a length. The Ladies' Mile
was won easily by Vivian, Erin being second ■, the
favourite. Volunteer, being nowhere. The Turf Club
Handicap was won by Comet, Hypatia beating the
favourite, Faust, by half a length for second place.
The Steeplechase was an easy win for Lord of the
Forest, Belmont being second. Protest fell on hia
rider at the last hurdle, without inflicting any serious
injury. Faust won the Consolation Stakes by half a
length from Twilight after a good race.
The Australian Eleven defeated the Derbyshire
team in one innings with 109 runs to spare. The
weather was unfavourable, but the attendance was
fair. Derbyshire went first to the wickets and made
106, the only performers being J. Platts 33, and G.
Hay. 20. Palmer and Spofforth took each five wickets
for 59 and 34 runs respectively. The Australians made
292—Massie, 66; Blackham, 52; Giffen, 47; Murdoch,
46; Bannerman, 24; Jones, 22; Palmer, not out, 13;
Boyle, 13. This leaves 9 runs to be divided between
sundries and tbe three remaining batsmen, who are not
mentioned in the cablegram. The county team made
77 in their second innings. Boyle took three wickets
for 24 runs, Spofforth, five wiekets for 19, and Palmer
two wickets for 4.
The Cambridge Music 'Hall, Commercial-street,
London, was crowded on the Ist Maykas it bad been
announced that Hanlan would appear there after his
race. All the well-known supporters of rowing were
present. Amongst Ithem were Messrs. W. J. Innes,
Labat, Noyes, Gulston, Tom Blackman, C. Bush,
Parker, Thompson, Godwin, Spencer, Ac. In the
course ;of the evening a meeting was held upon the
stage, when the editor of Tb* Sportsman introduced
Hanlan to the audience, and on behalf of Mr. Will Riley,
proprietor of the hall, presented the Champion with a
massive and valuable diamond ring. Spencer, Godwin,
W. J. Innes, C. Bush, and P. S. Gulston were after-
wards introduced to the audience, all being received
with enthusiastic cheers. Hanlan afterwards gave
an exhibition of his rowing, on a machine provided
for the purpose, but he wrecked it in about 30 see., and
fell over on his back, to the intense amusement of those
present.
From the published averages for the past season
of the Warwick Cricket Club, we find that H. Hiddlo-
stone has gained both batting and bowling trophies, his
batting average being 23.11 runs per innings, and his
bowling average being 11.22 runs per wicket. The bat-
ting averages generally are good; the veteran Ned
Gregory, with an average of 12.5, shows his hand has
not yet lost its cunning. J. Bigg, 19.9, comes »e?t to
Hiddlestone. The latter’s bowling average was ob-
tained with 692 balls ; but though his average is bast,
D. Ogilvie with 1290 balls, 512 runs, 40 wickets, and an
average of 12.32, has a much better performance to his
credit. Out of about a dozen matches played, there
are only six players who have had more than ten
innings. Several of the best players have not played
In enough matches to qualify them for the badge. The
indefatigable secretary will have to hurry up these
back-sliders next season if the old Warwick Club is to
regain and maintain its lost prestige.
At the farewell meeting to Triokettof his friends
in England, in response to the toast of his health, he
briefly reviewed his vicissitudes in Europe and America,
and declared that he had invariably done his best to
win. In Hanlan, he believed, he had met tho best
sculler the world ever saw, and he had been fairly
bested. On the Thames every one seemed to unite in
the endeavour to secure fair play. It was very ditfereat
in America, however, for, in races there, a man who had
betted against an oarsman was at perfect liberty to
engage a steam launch, and by going in front of an
opponent to wash him out of the race. He had been
served so, and ho should not forget it. At Toronto t hey
only allowed him to win the Consolation Race. More-
over, disgraceful proposals ware made to him, and ha
might have had several races if he would only have
consented to win or lose as the stats of the betting
market demanded. He declined all such proposals,
however, and, ns they knew, oame hack a poor man.
On his return home he hoped to take part in a few races,
but he was afraid that they would never see him in
England again.
The following are extracts from a letter written
ns by a representative oarsman, whose sentiments we
hope the liberal public of Now South Wales will prac-
tically endorse: —“Amongst the passengers by the
Orient liner Garonne is Edward Triokett, our champion
sculler, returning to his native city, a defeated and dis-
appointed man. We well remember the excitement
manifested by all classes of the community in Nov. 1876,
upon his return to Sydney bringing with him the
Championship of Ithe World. The Circular Quay
wharfs could not hold the multitudes which had
assembled to see him land, and his admirers were so
enthusiastic that the horses were taken out of the
carriage s® that he could be dragged triumphantly
through the streets. For a time Fortune smiled upon
him in hia business, and in his contests on the river
against Rush and Laycock; but the large premises
he had taken in Pitt-street proving almost
rninous to him, he determined to tackle the
mighty Canadian (Hanlan), who had with ease van-
quished all.the American and English scullers. Through
the instrumentality ol one of Australia's best and
liberal sportsmen, a match was arranged between the
champions on the Thames, and, on June 1880, Triokett
left for the old count’y full of confidence in himself,
and carrying with him the good wishes cf all Aus-
tralians. No need to tell of the crushing defeat, news
of which was flashed along the cable—bringing sad dis-
appointment to all those who had hoped to see our Nad.
victorious once again. Defeat followed defeat, hut
still Triokett determined to stick to Hanlan and have
another try for supremacy. With this object he
followed him to America . . • • • But it s all
ever now. Triokett has struggled gamely, has done his
best and succumbed. He has at last taken the
advice of his best friends, and is returning
to Sydney. Let us show him that it is not
only the victorious we are glad to welcome back —that
we can hold out the helping hand to a man who has
fought hard and courageously to uphold the honor of
the colony on strange waters. That he will have the
constant few round him again to give him another
•tart, we have no doubt; but we should like to see a
large attendance at the wharf to raise for him a cheer
as he treads once more his native shore."
AUSTRALIAN BOXING IN ENGLAND.
The annual heavy-weight (amateur) competition for
the Queensberry Cup was this year won by Mr. Arthur
Somerset, a well-known pupil of Lany Foley, champion
of Australia. The second man was Mr. H. Murray, a
Sydney native, who, after beating Mr. C. Phlllips-
Wooley, of Fairford, was vanquished by Mr. Somerset.
The latter gentleman writes Larry an interesting letter,
from which we are permitted to make some extracts: —
“ Finnlbv Priory, Fornboro’, Hants, 2nd April, 1882.
My dear Foley,—l know you’ll be glad to hear that
I won the Queensberry Championship Cop (heavy
weights) on March 30, in spite of the fact that I was
not in particularly good trim for the event. On the
previous Thursday I pulled off the West London Box-
ing Club’s heavy-wmght cap, open to all amateurs. I
have done very Utile boxing in England, and am, after
all, strongly inclined to the opinion that 11 prevailed
not by the force of my toxing. but of my fighting
powers. They all talk a great deal about scieaoe and
so on, but I’ve found out that the way to win cups is to
go straight and kick science to the devil. In the
Queensberry, the first man I drew was Fryer, who won
the cup last year, and whose name frightened a good
many out of th« competition on this occasion. He is a
thickset, very powerful mas, with the reputation of
being a tremendous hitter He was better than I with
the right, and crose-conntered me severely several
times. But as I have already indicated, where I
licked him was in actual hitting —as soon
as we got to close quarters I could fight
him down. He left himself open on the body a great
deal. Towards the finish I felt terribly pumped, and
found I was not in as good form as I expected. I had
Spent the week before at Brighton, and had had no
training to f peak of. What I had, merely consisted of
going into a swimming bath and ‘ matatorising' at my
top nntil I was completely blown. I arrived in town
the day before tbe Cup, went to Donnelly and asked
him to give me a turn, bnt he said he wasn’t & trial
horse, and refused, except an terms which, as I wasvt
madly in for wan’t of a trial, didn’t suit me; so I went
without In the final with Murray, a
Sydney native, who stands 6 ft. 3 in., and is a splendidly
built man, I had a verv tough bout, and only won by
sticking to him. He gave me the cleanest knock-down
I’ve ever had, but I managed to return the compliment
directly afterwards in a mild way—that’s to say, mild
compared with his terrific crusher. I’m somewhat
amused at coming out the victor, for I have only
sparred with Bat Mullins twice, and have faced no
other English professional at all. I got one or two of
the gymnasium instructors at Aldershot to give me a
turn, bnt they soon grew rather sick of it, for I gave
the very best of them a “ lick ” that, while it nearly
shifted his nose, considerably damaged my knuckles
threugh the glove. After that happened, 1 did not
ask any * pros.’ to put them on with me. They
were slow, hard hitters, and the only way
to stop them was to let out straight and quick.
At tbe beginning of the boxing season (October), I
joined the West London Boxing Club, and sparred up
there perhaps half-a-dozen nights in all. _ I’d have
liked to go up oftener but I was not much in London,
and when I did happen to be in town. I had engage-
ments (whioh were not battles, you will say, and which
concerned fair women rather than brave men). I have
already said I did not go to Mullins for lessons, and am
glad I won without aid from any of them. I told them
Larry Foley taught me, that ho could lick me one-
banded, and that he could smash any of them. It’s not
pleasing to be told such things, and I fancy they don’t
care much for me. Remember me to the soldier if you
see him. He’ll be glad to hear ho wasn’t licked by a
duffer. There is a competition of the Clapton Boxing
Club, whioh, I’m told, I coaid win without trouble, on
Tuesday, but I don’t think I shall go for it. I don’t
care about things whioh are to be won without trouble,
and, having taken the Queensberry, I don’t greatly
fancy anything less. Some men have got up another
affair, whioh they call the Amateur Championship. It
eventuates on 15th April. However, the Queensberry
is the old-established Institution, and is, as you know,
the real boxing prize. Should I go for it, whioh is
uncertain, I shall in all likelihood only meet men whom
I have beaten before. Brinsmead, who is a very good
fellew, seconded me on both occasions. Hoping that
you are getting on well, that you will make your pile in
Sydney, that yon will remember me to all friends and
. . . , . , Yours very truly, Arthur Somerset."
f We have a long report or the contest from the Sports-
tallying in all respects with Mr. Somerset's
account.]
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
J. Searl takes the trophy for battinq in tbe
Surry United Club, with an average of 25.7. The
bowling trophy goes to J. Thomson, who is credited
with an average of 5.4 runs per wicket Last week
Mr. Fred. Chisholm, of Wagga, presented trophies to
some of the successful local cricketers. The recipients
were:—W. Higgins, batting and bowling, Wagga Club;
H. Wren, bowling. South Wagga Club; Q. J. Plunkett,
batting, South Wagga Club Kayner, the pedestrian,
is in 5f elbourne, and wants to make a match with Swan
for the L. L. Smith 48 hours challenge belt
A South Melbourne football team went over to Ade-
laide last week. Their first match was against 25
juniors on the Oval, tbe visitors winning by four goals
to nil At the Dalby (Q.) Races, on June 15 and 16,
Silverhair won the Trial stakes. Orient was winning,
bnt he swerved in the straight and thus lost the rac.e.
Eclipse won the Town Plate and the Forced Handicap.
Nabooklish won the Jockey Club Haadicap easily,
Silverhair being the only other starter At the Aus-
tralian Coursing Club meeting, in the deciding oourse for
the Cup, Wagner’s Proserpine beat Cooper’s Kingfisher
and won. In the deciding oourse for the Purss, Tooth ■
Teddington beat Hood’s Bellona A rifle-shooting con-
test took place last Saturday week between the Parra-
matta and Maitland volunteers, each corps firing on
their own ran.e. The Maitland corps won by 17 points,
the scores being :—Parramatta, 496 ; Maitland, 513,
Mr. W. J. O’Brien, the erstwhile genial host of Tatter-
sail’s, died last week The complete (entries! for
the Maribymong Plate have been published,
and number 141 as against 135 last year.
Mr. J. Wilson, of circus renown, left Melbourne on June
13th for Calcutta in the Eollo, taking with him 2GO
head of horses, including several well-known racers
The editor of the London Sportino Life interviewed
Mr. Charles W. Beal, the business manager of the Aus-
tralian Eleven in England. He found Chawles to be a
“light-haired gentleman with yery affable manners."
Shaw and Selby have addressed a letter to the com-
mittee of the Marylebene Cricket Club emphatically
denying the truth of the scandalous proceedings
imputed to Shaw's team while in Australia
The South Australian Cricketing Association has ac-
cepted a tender of £2635 for building anew stand on the
Oval Private letters state that Bonnor, the day after
landing, wen a £lOO wager from a fa low-passenger by
throwing a cricket ball over 115 yards, the distance
thrown was 119 yards A football match took place
on Saturday |at Bathurst, between the Bathurst and
Our Boys teams, resulting in a win tor the former by
one goal and one try against one try A sculling race
in light skiffs came off last Saturday at the Clarence
between two amateurs. Stewart and Mattbemus, re-
sulting in a win for the former Iby three lengths
A six days' bicycle tournament was commenced at
Adelaide on Monday. Eleven competitors The
South Melbourne footballers beat the Norwoods on
Saturday at Adelaide by 12 goals 10 behinds to 3 goals
2 behiads The annual boat race between the
Hawthorn Grammar School and the Kow High School
took place onlSaturday on the Yarra, resulting in a win
for Hawthorn by three lengths Geelong and Mel-
bourne played a football match on Saturday at Mel-
bourne before 10,000 spectators. Geelong won easily
by 4 goals 12 bohinds to Melbourne’s 3 behinds. How-
ever, wa intend to wipe out Qeelon g next month—if we can
,„The Herbert Kiverand Townsville cricketers played a
great match on June 6, resulting in a victory for the
latter, A banquet concluded the day’s proceedings
A SCO yards’ foot-race, between M Ryan and Partridge,
took place ontbeßandwiok Road on Saturday, resulting
In an easy victory for tbe former Tattersall’s Club
ore to have a day at Randwiok on 12th August J.
Power and C. Reynolds have been matched to row a
skiff race for £lOO a side, on 3rd July, at Newcastle
Mr. Frank Punch has offered a Consolation Cup, value
£lO, to be competed for by those scullers who finished
behind Mr. Fittes in the race for the Krng Champagne
Trophy A billiard match for £lO3 took place at
Herberton, Q., on Jane 13, between Messrs. Munro amd
Julian, the latter conceding 150 points In 500. Munro
took the lead, and did not allow his op-
ponent to gain upon him, the points at the
close being as follow Munro 600, Julian 318
318 licenses have been issued at Christchurch (N.Z.),
for killing hares, and 39 for shooting pheasants, this
season. The Acclimatisation Society considers that a
large extent of poaching is carried on On Saturday
week, at Numba, a double-scali race in light skiffs, for
£ 10 a side, came off between J. Longbottom and J. Greer
and the brothers Wilson, of Comerong. Longbottom
led to tne first boat, where Wilson gradually drew away,
winning by about four lengths, with comparative ease.
A 125 yards’ foot-race took place at Penrith,
on the 17th June, between Barlow and Aokrojd,
resulting in an easy win for the former
What is supposed to be a distinguished stranger passed
through and astonished the Villians by a
silver belt and a spot stroke. We lean to the opinion that
the latter accomplishment will explain hie mjsterions
movements better than the mysterious nobleman busi-
ness In Victoria all football clubs when travelling
by railway to play matches are allowed holiday fares.
Bat they have to behave themselves whilst in the
train Sir Thomas Elder, of S A., has imported per
Birksgate two fine horses, Scottish Chief and Roy's
Wife, and a number of thoroughbred dogs Adelaida
Hunt Club received by the same vessel three bitches
and five dogbounds from the Duke of Grafton’s kennels
—Belvoir and Fitzwilliam blood, y One couple died on
the voyage Mr. Henry Phillips, owner of Pell Mell,
has entered an action against William Laing, the
trainer, to recover £4ouo damages for the illegal deten-
tion of the horse... London Society suggests that Hanlan
bo engaged to coach the Cambridge Eight next year
For the second time this season the Parramatta F.C.
defeated the Liverpool F.C. at Liverpool, on Saturday,
winning by one goal to nil. The Liverpool’s were
forced to touch down three times. Parramatta obtained
a touch down which was disputed, the umpires dis-
agreeing The Parramatta Carlton F.C. defeated 'he
Campbelltown team by four tries on Saturday. The
former meet the Qleuhends on the Association Greumd
to-day (Saturday) A 100 yards race came off at Armi-
dale on June 15th, between E. Platt and A. H. Grace,
resulting in a win for the latter by four yards
Edwards, the champion pedestrian, and Clifford (of
Adelaide) are matched for a six days’ go-as-you-please
contest for £lOO a side, to take place at Geelong in July...
Lancashire v. Australia: Bannerman, 1.b.w., both
innings; Giffen, 1.b.w., both innings; Horan, 1.b.w.,
second innings. Have we been playing the Lancashire
umpire tooP A run for £4O stakes came off between
a member of the Police force and a banker at George-
town, N.Q,. lately. The distance was 150 yards. A good
start was effected, and the constable won easily. The
gentleman runner was particularly anxious to be
matched jwith a sergeant of Police who excels in all
kinds of sports for £4O a-side, but the latter considers
tbs trip to the Etheridge too long for any stake
less than £lOO Stettler and H. Hicks waited upon
Mr. Stack at Parramatta to make 150 yards match with
his aboriginal, but Mr Stack stated that be had never
made tbe challenge alluded to in our last issue
Twelve gar-fish were recently caught in fresh water at
Tam worth A pedestrian spurt, 150 yards, over 4
hurdles, 3ft. 6in. high, betwe n an ovcrlander and a
local sprint runner, took place at North Rockhampton
lately, for £lO, and resulted in favour of the overlander,
who had not mnch difficulty in appropriating the coin.
A match arising out of the late sports at Albary
has been arranged between W. Battye and C. Engel-
hardt, both of Albury. The distance to be run is 200
yards, Battye conceding 5 yards start. The stakes (£6O)
have been deposited in the hands of the stakeholder,
and the event comes off on Ist July A race which
excited some considerable local interest—between Mr.
C. Crowley’s oh. g. Glencoe and Mr. H. Breeders lately
imported horse (of whose performances (great expec-
tations wore formed) was run at Cairns on the
Bth June. The match was for £6O a side, distance one
mile, and resulted in an easy victory for Glencoe
Another jumping match was arranged to come off be-
tween (he Wades last Saturday at Bandwick, Queens-
land giving Campbelltown 12 inches; but when the time
camp tor the final deposit, Queensland was non git...,,,
Cobar has been again revelling in pedestrian matches,
Ueban ▼. Sandy, 100 yards for £lOO, was won by Mehan
by two yards; Mehan v. Brown, 75 yards for £5O, was
won by Brown. After several false starts both men got
away well together, and the starter fired tbe pistol, but
from some cause (probably bad powder) there was no
report loud enough to be heard by the men running,
and they both pulled up after running a short distance.
Some of the spectators sang out that the pistol had
gone off, and Brown, turning round and seeing the
smoke, raa over the ground, leaving Mehan standing
where he was, about 15 yards from the mark. The
starter declared it a start, and consequently the money
was paid over. Brown v. Best, 100 yards, for £2O, was
won by Brown by about two yards. Dunn v. “Pipee,”
50 yards, for £2O, was won by "Pipee" by two yards.
A subscription handicap of £2 was won by J. Bowman.
• •
The greatest battue of game on record for on#
day’s shooting is just reported from India. The Earls
of Durham, Ilchester, and Sir William Eden, who were
on a visit to the Maharajah of Durbhaugoli, managed
to kill between them two tigers, twenty.flve pigs, and
eight deer, besides hens, peafowl, jangle fowl, florioon,
and other small game One of the grandest Lies that
has ever taken place in the gymnast world was held
about the middle of May, at Bheims. Not less thajj
2500 gymnasts from all parts of the world were to have
competed. General Billot, the French Minister of
War, lent tbe military tents and other appliances
necessary to lodge suoh a large number of persons.
Five thousand pounds were given away in prizes
As a result of ap election bet between August Bade and
William Van Nostrand of .Jersey City, N J., the latter
on April 19 pushed the former through the streets in a
wheelbarrow for a distance of oqe and a half mile#.
According) to contract, six brass bands accompanied
the procession,'which bad tR halt at alj saloqqs op the
way for the purpose of permitting the loser to treat the
crowd W. G. George finished fourth in a six-hundred
yard race at the Barnes Football Club Sports, London,
Eng., April 1. The race was won by J D. Sadler. L A C.
in Imin. 20 2 ssac.; F. Chattaway, L.A.C., second, by a
foot, and W. Look, Spartan H., third, by six inches,
close up. The latter was on scratch in the two-
mlle handicap, which was won by J. A. Perkin, 275 yds.
start, in 9min. 44 1-5 sec.; C. Cattlin, 155, second; and
H. Bishop, 210, third Lord Harris returned to Eng-
land in April, having been absent since June last year...
Jake Gaudaur, the well-known Canadian oarsman, says
a despatch from Toronto, Ont., has challenged Peter
Boli, of Pittsburg, Pa., to row three miles, with a turn,
for $5OO or $lOOO aside, and has deposited $lOO in the
office of the Toronto Mail T. P. Murray, says a
despatch from Winnipeg, Manitoba, cabled to Hanlan
that Winnipeg contributes $15,0C0 for a regatta open to
the world, on the Bed River, next July A canine
oembat took place in a pit on Long Island, 14th April,
the contestants being Jimbo, hailing from Ward 4, amd
Boxer, a Bowery dog, each weighing 251 b., and’ the
stakes beiqg |IQO aside, twenty minutes the fight
was well contested, but thep Boxes showpd the whit#
feather and was beaten easily, about forty minutes m
all being consumed Prof. Beckwith, of the Boyal
Aquarium, London, England, offers to match his son
William to swim any man in the world from one to
twenty miles for $5OO or $2500 aside, or to swim a six-
days* contest of 12 to 14 hours daily for a like sum. Any
American can get on on these terms, give or take 20
per cent, of stakes to swim in America or England
Captain Fred. Norman, who with a companion crossed
the Atlantic in the dory Little Western, now proposes
to undertake a yet more foolhardy feat—that of rowing
alone to England in a twelve-foot boat, starting in May.
He thinks he can accomplish the journey in one hun-
dred days A telegram to the N.Y. Clipper, of April
83, says that James H. Eiley, Obas. E. Courtney and
Boyd, (presumptively K, W„ recently defeated by Han,
lan in Ena land) have arranged for a regatta at Oswego
Falls, N.Y., in June It is also rumoured that Riley is
in training, with a view to getting on a match with
Conley of Halifax, N.S Wallace Ross, in attempt.
ing to save himself from a collision waile shooting a
br.dge ia rowing at Portland, Me, April 19, had
his hand caught between the outrigger and pile, the
flesh on the back of the hand beiug tiadij torn At
the shooting of ihe Waterford Gun Olu April 22, for
the club badge, Dr. A f. Hawley, and M. T. doott
tied, each breaking ten straight, balls. In shooting
off the tie each broke five straight balls, and in the
final test Dr Hawley broke four ana Scott again broke
five straight balls. The day was windy and bleak.
* I die content,” said the fly in the baker’*
dough. •* Somebody will take me for a currant."


RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET,")
600 GEORGE STREET, [ SYDNEY.
165 OXFORD STREET, )
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND'
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DRAPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
the originators op the
NOTED £5 BALES.
<B3 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
6 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Winoey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
S pairs Men’s Seeks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays . .
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2i yards Qambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pooket’kerohiofs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Bjes, &o. &o.
Mother’s £S Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies' Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies' Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
i dozen Infants’ Diaper
Squares
Puff box, Puff* Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christ’ing Robe
1 Infant’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Baie.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and V est
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &e.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may he ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 whit© or coloured Quilfc
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white ox rod Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White -ow
3 yards good Tronsera
Tweed, Button
Thread, &o.
JE-5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS’
JB2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
4 dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff. & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Rohe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant's White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Stockman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Tro 1 eers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 PookethankerchiefS
1 Soft Felt Hat
1 Elatsie Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Ladies’ Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
We wish it to be distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOR BOYS.
School Suits, 2s 6d
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Picnic Suite ,Ss lid
Sunday Suih ,7s 6d
Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakspeare Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, is lid
Workivg Shirts, is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 94d
Linen Collars, 44d
Elastic Braces, 3d
Cotton Socks, 3d
Necties, 3d
FOR LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12s Od
Satteen Prints, Bfd
Dress Materials, 4Jd
Black Alpaca, sid
Satin Parasols, 3e Hd
Flop Hats, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill Um'rellas, Is 6d
Best Kid Gloves, 2s 6A
Muslin Edging, 2*d
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 9d
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
POE MEN.
Working Shirts, Is 6d
White Shirts, 2a 6d
Oxford Shirf&Es Hd
Linen Collars, ltd
Seamless Socks, 6d
Elastic Braces, 6d
Tweed Suits, 19s 6d
Summer Suits, 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9* 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s Hd
Tweed Pngete, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s (id
Linen Sacs, 4s Hd
Shakspeare Hats, 2s 6d
Colonial Tweed, 2a 6d
Silk Umbrellas 7s 6d
FOE THE HOUSE.
American Longcloth, 2sd
N ightshirt Oahco, 4Jd
Grey Calico, 2id
Doable width Calico, 7id
Pillow Calico, 64d
Bwansdown Calico
White Flannel, 7id
Wide Flannel, Hid
Scarlet Flannel, 7id
Saxony Flannel, Hid
Cotton Tick, 3fd
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, sid
Unbleached Shooting, d
While Sheeting, 7id
Twilled Sheeting, 9id
Mosquito Net, 6id
Summer Quilts, 2a Hd
THIS PRICE LlST.—Perseus who may read this
advertisement must not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
common. They are by no means the commonest goods.
We have lower prises still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
hut with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THS
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
Messrs. Eobertaon Bros.’ compensation clam
for £30,000 has been compromised. Government pay
£3OOO, and Robertsons pay all costs. The Government
valuation was £2400. Mr. Lucas was anxious to have
his case postponed or withdrawn pro. tem. , hut the Chief
Justice refused to permit either. Unless Lucas com-
promise, the ease commences to-day (Thursday).
SOCIAL
Last Friday, a second bachelors’ assembly dance
took place in the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, when
nearly fifty couples circled around the little square hall
to the good music of Hermann, Shapter, and M’Mahon
Sixteen dances were accomplished by midnight, and
proper attention was paid to the tables presided over by
Alexander, caterer. All went off well—from the tables
especially.
• • •
A nother skating and dancing party (in connection
with the Woollahra Rinktng Club) was held at Qlammis
Hall, list Thursday. Skating was continued for an hour
and a half, and, ns the floor was very fast, the performers
enjoyed the full delights of their efforts It is so nice,
you know, when a young lady cornea suddenly round a
corner and warmly embraces you, without even an intro-
duction. It jars the nerves a little at first, bnt you get
resigned to it. There are moments—at a skating rink—
too solemn for ceremony; and when a girl is badly
balanced on the corner of one heel, and is not sure where
the rest of her is going to alight, she just reaches out
for a coat-sleeve quite naturally. It isn’t strict etiquette,
but, in the sweet trustfulness of her nature, she does it.
Bet ween eight and nine o’clock, a great number of visitors
poured in, until there must have been nearly a hundred
present—all in dark clothes. Anything light is a mis-
take where there is skating. Besides, it is an advantage
not to be too gorgeously arrayed : some people feel so
dreadfully high-toned when they put their store clothes
on that they can’t enjoy anything. A little before nine,
Mr. Ingham’s band of three struck up a polka, the music
being in capital time, and a dozen assorted dances were
managed by eleven o’clock. Excepting the mammas
who camo to ehaperone dear Araminta and Angelina,
the party were all young.
* • •
In honor of their daughter’s birthday, Mr. and
Mrs. F. Wyatt, of “ Pomona,” Viotoria-street, intend
giving a fancy dress ball on the 28th instant. Seventy-
five invitations sent out.
* • •
The Sydney Owl Club held its first annual ball
in the 'lown Hall, on Wednesday week. Some
decorations of the Mayor’s assembly of the previous
night were still on the walls. But the ornate vestibule
is so exquisitely chaste that it is doubtful whether
embellishment is very necessary, or can much improve
it. The Owls is a club similar to the Melbourne one of
that name, strong in number, and addicted to “ litera-
ture, science, thedrama,” and liquoring up—(or dram-a
includes drinks. At one end of the room was a side-
board, whereon perched the Club emblem, a stnfled
owl, and above was a list ol members’ names, and their
owl pseudonyms—each being a bird, snob as “ crow,"
“ magpie,” “ bullfinch," <feo. As an experiment, the
Artillery bandsmen were stationed in an upper room,
and the mnsio was to oome down through two open
windows. It oame; but in such an erratic style that
the dancers did not appreciate it; and sometimes it did
not reach them at all. The first quadrille was chaos,
and there was no means of communicating with the
baal. The M.C., Mr. Buckleton, stood in the middle
of the floor and wildly waved bis arms, but as there
was nothing visible at the window, save the back of
the Sergeant’s head, his frenzied actions did not pro-
duce Miy marked result. Then the quadrillists clapped,
bnt the gallant warriors up above evidently mistook
this for applause, (or they wired im harder than before,
and it was not till an indignant ’owl was sent up from
below that order reigned. Round dances were in such
bad time that seme dancers stopped ; poor Bnckleton’s
hair almost uncurled withngony; and even the genial
Rainford removed his arm from the plump waist of an
Indian Princess and frowned severely. At length the
hand was brought down stairs; they played better then.
During the evening the grand piano was wheeled in,
and Mr. Charles Huenerbein played the Rodonda Sohot-
tische, Koonowarra Polka, and his latest composition,
the Owl WaUz, which was so well received that Charles
did it again, and two extras as well. Few guests in-
dulged in fancy; scarcely a dozen. Mrs. Walsh went
as Amy Robsart, in maroon velvet and flaxen wig. The
colossal form of Syd. Stone was garbed as a Mexican
Caballero —a dress heavv (or dancing, bat handsome,
and correct in detail. Prominent was the handsome
American dress (suggestive of “Tambour Major,”
though) worn by Mrs. Scott, of Bridge-street, whose
dancing ought to have made her favoured
partners happy. Mrs. Minett was the American
Indian Princess in blue and white satin, spangled,
with feather headdress. The bright green satin of a
little Diana was distinctly short. Two Misses Birnie
were demurely dressed as Orphans in black and white,
but their bright eyes belied any ideas of sorrow. Miss
Goodman’s pink satin, edged with beaded gimp, and
Miss Hamilton’s ditto, with hand-painted flowers, were
nice; Miss Conway’s ivory silk draped with heavy car-
dinal plush, with puffed and silver-fringed skirt, es-
pecially nice ; the little lady not less so. Miss Patrick
wore blue satin and a wreath of forget-me-not. As
though one could ! A bride wore a trained robe with
c'oady tulle, blossoms, and a wreath. Mrs. Cantor's pile
pink satin and maroon velvet dress was beautiful, while
a lesser lady in a similar costume richly (ringed with
silver was equally admirable. These two were probably
the richest dresses. Miss Hodgkinson was Night, and
extremely handsome was this fair belle from Shoal-
have* in her sombre gauze and glittering stars.
Franca, America, Sir Peter Teazle, London Blue-
coat Boy (Mr. Clarke), Judge (Mr, Walter Burohall),
Spanish Gipsy, and a Policeman were among the
fancy characters. Last and best was Mr. Menser,
who made his appearance carrying a handle of
Evening Nkwsks, 40th edition, in a white suit
covered with sensational announcements such as
generally head paragraphs in that well-known comic
journal. Mr. Menser carried the “ Egyptian Crisis” on
his back, and exposed a “ Deserted Infant” on hla
breast One arm was a “ Brutal Murder,” and the other
“ A Child Killed by a Tram.” On his legs were “ Tre-
mendons Feat" and a “ Drunkard’s Sad End." When
it was known that the humorous Secretary’s name was
“ Lyre Bird,” the singular appropriateness of his
character was at onoe recognised. The City Catering
Company’s refreshments were excellent. Alter the
first hour or two, the band played well and volunteered
three extras, which brought the total up to 29 dances.
There were no wallflowers. Owls wore a badge of blue
ribbon with the bird’s head in silver’ and some ladies
wore a stuffed head ef Minerva’s favourite companion.
The little cloakists deserve a word of praise for their
promptness.
• • «
A large amount of interest was caused in Rich*
mond on Wednesday week, by the marriage of Miss
Long (a resident from childhood) to Mr. W. H. Tiet-
kins, who, while in charge of a survey party in the
neighborhood, surveyed among other objects of interest,
the fair lady, and thought he could not do better than
select her. His claim was approved of by the Minister
on Wednesday. Mr. Tietkins was second in command
of the Giles exploring expedition from South Australia
to Perth, and for his services was made a F.R.Q.B.
• • •
A large party was given by Mr. F. H. Reuse, at
•‘The Hermitage," Glebe, last Thursday. Over a hun-
dred guests; ample means of enjoyment provided;
music, singing and dancing till early morning.
• • •
The ball given by the employes at the Harwood
sugar mill, on the 31st May, convulsed the district.
Over 150 were present, and the preparations were the
most elaborate ever seen anywhere. At least, that’s
what we gather from the account of Jeames, who rose
to the occasion in the local paper. He had a free
ticket, and was therefore prepared to write the affair
up as something rekerky, hut even the Jeames imagina-
tion Imd foiled to anticipate all the real splendour of
the occasion. When, after a perilous voyage in a
launch, he entered the room and rolled his frenzied eye
around, he breaks forth in uncontrollable rapture:—
“My greatest dreams of beauty were far transcended
by the lovely vision which now burst on my delighted
gaze. Had I been suddenly transferred to fairyland ?
Or was this the haselesss fabric of a dream ? Nature
and Art had been so blended as to produce a scene
calculated to inspire admiration and wonder 1" A man
who can write this style on a sugar mill is not an
ordinary being. At a quarter to nine “music arose
with its voluptuous swell” (the “ voluptuous swell”
being the product of two fiddles and a cornet), and then
Jeames looks round for the belle. This is rather a
strain on what he moderately describes as his “ limited
capacity,” but he gives to a Harwood girl the palm;
admitting, however, that her sisters are “very fetch,
ing.” After this elegant tribute of admiration, he goes
on to indicate what raiment was worn by the maidens
who pleased him. He gets level with white, light blue.
and pink, with tolerable success; but at last he comes
to a|dress with trimmings That scuttles him, and ho
sinks helplessly down with the sad confession—“ not
having served an apprenticeship to Worth, ‘ Terpis-
chore’ feels unable,” &c There’s a limit even to the
most impassioned genius Jeames reached it at
trimmings. Afterwards came supper—and haziness.
• * •
A nice dance took place last Friday at “ Mary-
ville,” Woollahra; dre-ses and girls pretty, lovely
music, and host and hostess courteous. A well-known
young amateur, pale and impassive of countenance, ob-
liged on the piano.
• * •
There was only one little hitch in the festal
magnificence of the Harwood Ball. A distinguished
gentleman, who gave his " patronage,” and six guineas
to the musicians, was not invited to open it. “ Which,'
says the champion snob, in the local paper, “ reminds
one that friendship is impossible between men of high
social standing and men in the lower walks of life.”
The lower orders must t e kept in their place. But,
surely no one on the Clarenee is so low as to desire
friendship with the man who wrote that sentence ?
• • •
Same day, Miss Emily Swain was securely tied
to Mr. W. E. Sexty at Tamworth. The pretty bride
wore fawn satin, with broch4 and point lace. Msunt
Victoria chosen for the honeymoon. A happy sex-tie,
let's hope, for the Swain.
• • •
St. Mary’s Church, West Waitland, was the
scene of a very pretty wedding on Tuesday, 13th in
stant., when Miss Blanche Milne, only daughter of Mr.
George Milne, "the jovial townsman, became the wife
of Mr. Arthur Wall, of Orange. Bride graceful in
white satin and lace, attended by Miss Flo’ Morrow
(her cousin) and Miss Mary Hills, who-carried —
instead of the ordinary bouquets—baskets of camellias.
The handsome best-man was from the Commercial
Bank. Presents valuable and numerous; honeymoon
at Lake Macquarie.
« » •
Miss Mary Fanny, daughter of Mr. George
Davis, of Ada House, Cook’s River Road. Petersham,
was married on Thursday last to Mr. H. 0. Rotton, son
of the lat« Mr. H. Eotton, M.L.A., of Bathurst. All
Saints' Church, Petersham, was decorated in honour
of the event: two arches spanned the central aisle; a
third, gay with flowers, formed a bower over the altar’s
rails, and the lectern was decked with blossoms.
Flowers of Petarsham households filled every pew,
lined the porch and the aisles. The bride wore a hand-
some creamy pearl robe, sleeves and drapery of ivory
plush, richly trimmed with lace, white ostrich feathers,
orange wreath, and embroidered tulle veil. She also
carried a splendid bouquet, made and presented by Mr.
F. Searle, floriculturist. The bridesmaids were Miss
Annie Rotton, and fire Misses Davis of assorted sizes,
all charming in garnet costumes with pink lace en
pannier, becoming wreaths of flowers intertwined with
green leaves, flesh-coloured stockings and gloves. Each
carried a basket of flowers, and wore a bracelet, gift of
the bridegroom. The youngest groomsman, Master
Vivian Davis, cetat nine, wore a pretty Louis Quatorze
dress of navy blue velvet, with boniton lace cellar and
ruffles, and silk stockings. Handsome toilettes among
the guests: Mies Nora Davis’s majestic form shewed
to advantage in a dark sea-green silk, with moire an-
tique trimming; the bride's mother, black satin broohe,
cream lace bonnet and pearls; Mrs, T. Davis, short
heliotrope costume, hat to match; Mrs. Q. Brock,
white satin with pale blue plush trimming, plush
chapeau ; a rose satin and cream lace looked charming.
Miss Ada Martin played apppropriate music on the
organ. Mr. and Mrs. Bottonjdrove, with the bridal
Sarty, to the Petersham Town Hall, where a sumptuous
ejenner was spread for some 60 guests, and then de-
parted for Sandringham.
tt • •
At St. Paul’s, Redfern, on the 14th, Mr. Hugh
Leckrey, the well-known dramatio and aqnatio young
man, was married to Mrs. Vennard. The bride wore a
beautiful combination of cream gros-de-lyons and satin
brochd, sleeves and train of silk, elaborate trimming of
lace d’alenjon and cream lisse. Long trailing wreath
of white lilac and orange blossoms, and cream tulle
veil. Bridesmaids in French cashmere: three in deli,
cate shade of pink, wreaths of marguerite and
pink heath; three in plover’s-egg blue with forget-me-
not wreaths, gloves and bouquets to match. Creates
made short, bouffant, and trimmed with cream Spanish
lace. Leading residents were present, and Mr. Dave
Murray, of the M.R.C., acted as best-man. Breakfast
at Cheshunt, Pitt-street, Redfern, to 60guests. Camden
and a tour through the North for honeymoon.
« * •
An interesting matinee muaicale was given by
Bathurst-street sisters, last Friday evening. Among
the best features were the playing of Verdi’s “ Un Ballo
in Masohera” by the charming hostesses; Miss Samper’s
rendering of Dohler’s fßondlno (this young lady Is a
creditable pupil of Mdlle. Charbonnet, and possesses
a flue contralto voice); a piano solo by Miss Roberts,
‘‘March Tannhansor”; and Miss Dind’s oxecutien of
Im Arm des Llebe ” (Beethoven). The evening was,
both socially and artistically, a very pleasant one.
* • «
Mr. Cyril Haviland’s lectures on subjects con-
nected with spiritualism have been fairly attended,
and he shows himself well acquainted with inch topics.
There is matter of interest in them for all, but chiefly,
of eonree, for those persons wbo profess to be posted
in this mystic something which, no one has ever
fathomed.
• • *
To-morrow night, 23rd, the Scandinavians take
the floor for their third annual ball. As they hare
chosen Friday, or Frea’s Day, that most amiable of
J;oddeßBoe ought to smile on their revels in the pratty
ittle Protestant Hall. So it shouldn’t be Thort it ie
an Odinary affair.
• • *
Next Wednesday, the Masonic Lodge nnder the
English Constitution will hold their annual ball in the
Hall, York-street. It is under lots of patronage, and
the promoters desire, not a large motley assemblage,
but the enjoyment of those who do go.
* • •
Miss Mountain gave an exhibition of her pupils’
skill as musicians, at the Petersham Town Hall, on
Monday evening, before a large and fashionable audience.
The pupils gave evidence of conscientious and intelligent
training. Perhaps the most promising pupil is Miss
Gracie Mountain, who played Chopin’s Scherzo in B flat
minor astonishingly well for a young lady of her years.
In response to an encore, she gave the Pasquinade
(from memory). Three little mites played a pianoforte
trio very agreeably, and kept splendid time. Not so
happy has Miss Mountain been in her vocal pupils, bnt
that is partly on account of the material she has had to
work upon. Mrs. Treakle and Miss Bull had the lion’s
share of the singing; the former lady’s voice is not
quite so pwret as her name, but Miss Bull has a voice of
pleasant q lality, and sings with very fair expression,
• « •
Saturday, the 10th June, was the wedding day
of Miss Vallaok, only daughter of Mr. R. Q. Vallack,
of “ Badminton," Croydon, and Mr. W. E. Shaw, at St.
Paul’s, Harwood. The lady looked her very best in a
robe of cream satin of severe simplicity in make, not
a fold or flounce to mar the outline of a splendid
figure. Honiton lace, orange wreath, tulle veil and
bridal bouquet completed the picture. Seven brides-
maids were in attendance (two sisters of the bride-
groom, two eonsina of the bride, and three friends),
wearing costumes of grenat cashmere, three trimmed
with pale pink and lace, and font- with pale bine and
lace, leathers and gloves to match. The bride’s mother
wore a rich brown brocade, bonnet to match : a married
sisterof the bridegroom, brown brocade trimmed with
plash, bonnet with blush roses, pink-tinted gloves.
Among the guests specially noticed were two sisters
in cream satin. A little fairy in cream
satin, and bine silk stockings, cream and blue
hat; a young lady from Petersham in maroon silk and
velvet, cream plush hat; a recent bride in rich prana
costume. Ceremony under an arch of white camellias,
roses and ferns. Wedding march. About 60 guests
had a Ccmpagnoni breakfast at “ Badminton.” Many
presents ; bridal trip to Victoria,
* * •
Events of more or less importance. A Sydney
young gentleman of downey appearance has captivated
sweet, seventeen at Mate-land A charming young
widow up there will also derive from the metropolis,
soon, eweet solace (or her solitude A fair maiden
from Wollongong, for some time at the Sydney Infirm-
ary, is to marry a doctor. Now, all the other fair maids
from Bntteropolis want to come to the Infirmary......On
the 10th May, the Bishop of Northern Queensland
married Mr. Clerk to Miss Alice Maud May Cunning-
ham, of Queensland, who ia related to a great many
people, and to Mr. Thomas Robertson, of Bnrwood. No
doubt the clerk did write. We now pars-on A £250
breach of promise c&se is coming on against a news-
paper man down South. It isn’t the action he 8 an-
noyed at: it’s the confoundedly low value ihe puts on
him. C«rao to think of it, though, we’ve seen a Kanaka
sold in Queensland for a worn-out saddle; so, perhaps,
he oughtn’t to complain—being a journalist An
active correspondence has been carried on between a
Sydney gentleman and a Braidwood lady, but the
matter is not finally settled. The question is—should
she up.braidwood he want tobaoo-out ?
** * *
On the 14th instant, a social entertainment,
arranged by Mr. R. G. Beveridge, was given in the
leoturf-room of St. Stephen's Church, Phillip-street.
Over 100 preient, and songs, recitations, and pretty
toilets, chief features Mayor of Brisbane invited
officers of mall steamer, Compta, to a banquet, last
Friday The Australian Benevolent Society of Blues,
or “ Brother Crags," had a little social sapper at the
Freemasons’ Hotel, on the 16th The Biverina Lodge
of Freemasons, recently opened at Jerilderie, intend to
hold a big ball there on the 26th June; the show com-
ing on next day Mr. Booth, who conducted the
great bicycle tournament at Melbourne, is to do like-
wise here Plain and fancy dress ball to come off in
the Cumberland Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, next
month...... Melbourne Club intend banquotting Captain
Kasuma and the officers of the Japanese corvette,
Tskuba, now in Hobson’s Bay The Blayney
Oddfellows had an Anniversary Ball en the 14th
instant, and in spite ef rain, a good, attendance. Ladies
were brought in buggies, first and second loads arrived
in splendid condition, but the third collided with
another vehicle. Both buggies smashed, and a charm-
ing lady only escaped a similar (ate by falling into the
arms tit a gentleman who passed at the very moment.
This is called Providence. Young ladies believe in
Proridenca, Dancing began at 9, and was kept up with
vigour till 7 in the morning. Importations from Bathurst
and Carooar were en grande tenue. A tall young lady in
navy blue silk, with same coloured velvet, was the most
graceful dancer. Belle was a Blayney beauty of fair
complexion, in navy blue silk, with ruby velvet bodice
and scarf, eilver jewellery- Moore young ladies were
charming and two Bathnret sisters knew how to Gam
admiration. The secretary and promoters spared no
trouble or expense in the affair, and were rewarded by
success. Catering and music excellent. Five babies
present.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Scandinavian Ball (Protestant Hall) June 23.
Bur wood Private Assembly..,. June 23.
Woollahra Private Assembly Jnno 23
Masonio Ball. I C v June 27.
Masonic Hall, English Constitution June 28.
Buaflewer Ball (Town Hall) June 30.
Hercules Dramatio Club Ball July 1.
U.B. Independence Day Ball (Nithsdale) July 4.
Mercantile R C. Ball J«ly «•
German Ball (Nithsdale) July 11.
Masonio Ball, I G, (Town Hall) July 27.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports July 29.
POLITICAL POINTS.
N. Z. Budget.—Ordinary revenue last year,
£348 817 ; land revenue, £333,000 ; expenditure from
Public Works Fund, £935,508,. balance, £924,865 ; net
debit of colony, £27,680,293; credit balance of Consoli-
dated Revenue, £215,041. Estimated revenue for cur-
rent year, £3 393 500, exclusive of anticipated land sales
surplus of £88,544 Taxation not to be reduced, and
further loan of £3,000,000 proposed.
The S. P. News Letter says that despite the
boasts of equality and independence made by Ameri-
cans, an independent, honest man is the only one that
oannot get appointed to government service. “The
sycephantio sneak, who is destitute of real ability, but
who has the faculty of making himself agreeable in a
worshipful sort of way to the stupidity and disgusting
egotism of influential men, is rewarded by being
pushed forward into positions that ha is really incap-
able of filling, and which he would never obtain except
through sheer cheek and playing lickspittle to influen-
tial charlatans." There is nothing of this sort in Byd-
ney. That’s the reason Civil Service clerks are all so
smart and clever.
Major Smith is getting beans over his Victorian
educational appointments. One story going the rounds
is that when a vacancy occurred in a school not many
hundreds of miles from Ballarat, there were three
applicants, one being the daughter of a red-hot Berryite.
The Major was so sternly just that he declined to ap-
point this lady until an inspector had examined and
reported upon each candidate. However, the Berryite
got it. What is queerer still, is that the examining
inspector is said to have had her appointment in his
pocket all the time. Melbourne Punch, last week, had
a sketch representing Berry and the Major “making
appointments " in the Education Office and chucking
pretty girls under the ohin.
One of the greatest bits of imposture practised
by Ministeis is that of postponing public works
requiring professional knowledge until 1 hey have seen
them. There is more gooseberry than information got
on these trips, and they are made, not to acquire infor-
mation, but through personal vanity and political
conceit. The Foebes Times says of Mr. Lackey’s trip :
“ That had he remained in Sydney and sent a few
boundary riders of back-block experience he would
have served the country better.” And from Victoria
we hear that the survey of an important suburban lino
will be “reconsidered” by Mr. Tom Bent, who has
opposed professional advice for over 12 months. Go
back to thy market gardening, Tom.
The Parkes’ Ministry is doomed. There are
many signs of it. First of all, the rats are leaving the
sinking ship. The Heeald and the Echo, having at
last interpreted the signs of the times which otnera
understood long ago, are reunding on their ersiwhile
idol. Sir Henry Parkes and on Sir John Robertson. And
these papers never do an unsafe thing. Bnt the second
sign of the decline of the Parkes* Ministry is ominous
to the last degree. The Dailt Telegeaph— erstwhile
the spitoon of Ministers —the worm which never even
had the will to turn—has taken up and warmly advo-
cated the cause of Parkes and Robertson. This means
blue ruin. Even were the Ministry not now under-
going political mortification, the advocacy of the D.T,
would olast all their chances of .revivification. It is
certain death to any Ministry.
The Victorian crisis has volatilized into a fizzle.
Sir Brysn O’Loghlen wouldn’t taka Francis’ amend-
ment inlCommittee of Supply re his taxation remissions
except as a vote of want of confidence, unless such
motion was discus eed in Committee of Ways and Moans.
Conservatives trembled, while Berryites, and the new
Mason party of efflee-seekers —which includes the
irrepressible Longmore and the virulent A. T. Clark—
looked forward with hope to a general scramble. But
Francis recoiled from the political Frankenstein he
had created, and, at the solicitation of friends, euchred
Berry by withdrawing his motion pending its repropos-
ing in Committee of Ways and Means. The “still,
strong man,” who did the General Grant business,
seems to have been little Mirams.
• # #
The little country of Belgium ia thirty times
smaller than New South Wales, and yet supports
6,000,000 people, ana carries on an annual trade of
£40,000,000. But Sir ’Enry Parkes has nothing to
learn, even from Belgium East Macquarie election.
Place of nomination : Kelso; date of writ: Monday,
12th June; date of nomination: Tuesday, 11th Jnlyj
polling day : Tuesday, 18th July East Bourko (Yic.)
•lection :—As we predicted. Harper was an easy winner.
Harper (Conservative), 715; Gray (Liberal), 308;
Bennett (who lost his deposit and was “ independent,”)
43


o
PB E A
Lesfloe and Manager
H O V 8 E.
... W. J. Wilson.
EIGHTH WEEK
of
Mr. Frederick
MARSHALL
and his
Comedy
Company
Every
Evening
at 8 o'clock
The
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PaOFUSSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
Electric
Success
of the
Profeesor
<*U i
The
Realistic
Scenery
hy
Mr. George
GORDON
THIRD WEEK PROFESSOR
and PROFESSOR
HOUSES PROFESSOR In Active
CROWD HD PROFESSOR Preparation,
NIGHTLf. PROFESSOR JEAMBS.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at A. Huenar win's, Ocorpe-st.
Acting Manager for Mr. Marshall. F. H. POLLOCK.
G
AIB T T
THEATRE.
Jtessees.,, Messrs. L. M. Bayless and W, Reynolds
Bub-Lessee and Proprietor..-, Mr. Martin Simonsen
FIFTH WEEK of SIMONSEN*S'
ROYAL ENGLISH AND ITALIAN OPERA
COMPANY.
REAL AND GENUINE SUCCESS.
THE HERMIT'S BELL
The Hermit's Bell
The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit's Ball
The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit's Bell
THE HERMIT’S BELL
The Hermit’s Ball
and The Hermit’s Bell
every The Hermit’s Bell
Evening The Hermit’s Bell
until The Hermit’s Bell
further The Hermit’s bell
notice The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit's Bell MiilUirt’s The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit's 801 l Romantic The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit's Bell Opera The Hermit’s Bell
The Hermit's Bell The Hermit’s Bell
Plan of reserved seats at Nicholson and Co.’s.
T
H JS A T H E
It 0 T A L.
Lessee Mr. Sam. Lazar.
Sub Lessees...,,, Messrs. Allison and Hiseooks.
Manager for Mr. Reeve „ Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Treasurer,* Mr. G. L. Qeodman.
FOURTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of WYBBRT REEVE’S COMEDY COMPANY,
Every Evening, the Celebrated American Actor,
MB. D. H. HARKINS
MR. D. H. HARKINS
and
Mies BLANCHE STAMMERS.
LAST NIGHTS DIPLOMACY LAST NIGHTS
Last Nights Diplomacy Last Nights
Last Nights Diplomacy Last Nights
LAST NIGHTS OP
Mr. D. H. HARKINS as Julian Eoanolero
Mr. WYBBRT REEVE as Henry Bcauolero
Mlsn BLANCHE STAMMERS as Dora
AND A GREAT CAST OP CHARACTERS
CROWDE D HOUSES ENTHUSIASTIC APPLAUSE
SCENERY by Mr. GEORGE GORDON.
Prices as nanai. Tickets for all parts of the house at
Lloyd’s, next the theatre. Children in arms not ad-
mitted.
VToTO R I A HA L L
Lessee Mr. R. F. ROPER.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2A
WELBLE'B (late THOMPSON’S)
WAR DIORAMA.
GIFTS, £l3O GIFTS, £l3O GIFTS
will be given away during the fortnight.
Admission 3i., 3s , and Is.
M
ASO N I C
BALL.
ANNUAL FESTIVAL.
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS, THE PRINCE OF
WALES, GRAND MASTER.
To be held
at
THE MASONIC HALL.
York-street.
WEDNE3D AY,
28bh June instant.
The Anniversary
of
HER MAJESTY’S
Coronation.
Under the auspices
of
THE DISTRICT GRAND MASTER,
and the
DISTRICT GRIND LODGE.
TICKETS—DoubIe 30s
Ladies’ 12s 6d
Gentlemen's 21s.
Tickets may be had from Thompson and Giles, D.
Jones and Co., Peapes and Hhaw, J. E. Gowing, Holds-
worth and Girdyne, Lloyd and Collins, G. L. Carter,
R. M'Ooy, E. G. Staaiforth, J, L. Hordern, Phillips and
Co* Goorge-street; A. Hordern and Sons, Haymarket;
Farmer and Co., and C. Solomon, Pitt-atreat; Stonier
and Monk, King-street; R. W. Myers, Lassetter and
Co« Smith and Mannell; 8. Hodge, W. H. Webb, King-
Street ; M. Geulston, H. Little. Market-street j and all
ether principal business establishments.
JOSEPH MARSHALL, I Hon
W. T. ASHTON SHORTER, j Secretaries.
AND MRS. JAMES CARDEN.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH.)
Arrangements completed for ene year, commencing
June Ist, 1882, under the management of
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMSON, & USGROVB.
Theatre royal, gr ft©n
OPEN FOE ENGAGEMENT,
Will seat seven or eight hundred people and up
with Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATER.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of aooommo-
dating 1800 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
P. JANSEN,
TOBACCONIST,
472 GEORGE STREET,
BEGS to inform bis customers and the public In
general, that he has
EEMO'VED
FROM MARKET STREET TO GEORGE STREET
Opposite the Markets.
TO THE OPERATIC AND THEATRICAL
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA. HOU3E,
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Sole Proprietor, H. N. ABBOTT.
THIS Magnificent Building is now completed. It is
THE MODEL Opera Home of Australasia, and
the Largest and Meet Commodious in New Zealand.
Erected on lastert models, it will be found replete with
every Modem Comfort and Luxury (before and behind
the curtain) appertaining to the best appointed
Theatres In the Ola and New Worlds. The Ventilation
I'S perfect. All parts of the House are easy of Ingress
aha egress from bread, light, and airy corridors. Every
precaution has been taken to save life and property in
case of fire, and the Auckland City ©on a ail bare recently
Inspected and highly commended the measures adopted
to itoat end, MagntfisenUy and Brilliantly Lighted,
its Luxurious Privato Bowes, Dress Circle, and Or-
chestra Btullv, together with its unsurpassed Pit and
Stolls AseomedatieD, are features hitherto unknown In
Colonial Theatres. The Opera House will he opened
by the Williamson Opera Company for one month,
commencing from 33rd May next. Theatrical Managers
and Agents* “ Stars,” and Combinations ore invited to
apply to the Proprietor for terms and further informa-
tion.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of the
ZULU WAR.
Public Hall, (Jreymouth, 2D,h May.
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
Abbott’s Now Theatre, Auckland, July 12th, four
weeks.
Houses packed to suffocation every night.
EW TOWN HALL, MUDGBE,
MAIN HALL OPEN POB ENGAGEMENT.
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, GAS, SEATS for 650.
Applications for engagements to be orwarded to
EBEHEZEE LOVBJOY.
Town Clerk.
s
0 U T H
6PEEA COMPANY.
S
Now to route BATHURST, ORANGE, DUBBO,
and UUDGEE.
SOUTHERN LINE TO FOLLOW.
NEW REPERTOIRE.
Address i
FREEMASON’S HOTEL,
er
BULLETIN OFFICE.”
Sydney.
H. J. WHITTINGTON.
Agent.
LLOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Aeoomodation to Commercial Travel
lets. Visitors, and Professional Friends,
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Pbopbietob.
J. THOMAS.
BILLIARD TABLE MAKER.
153 BATHURST STREET.
CUES, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS, Ac.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of TWO
WOOL WARE HOUSES for R. QOLDSBROUGH
and CO., LIMITED, at Pyrmont. Darling Harbour,
namely, one in Harris-streot, about 180 feet by 80 feet,
of 5 stories; and one in Pyrmont-street, about 351 feet
by 106 feet, also of live stories.
Separate tenders to be given for each warehouse, and
may be for the whole, or in three portions for each, viz ,
No-1 for Stone work, No. 2 Ironwork, No. 3 Carpenters,
Joiners, Plumbing, Painting, Ac.
Plans and specifications can be seen on and after Jnne
26, between the hours of 10 and 4 o’clock, at the offices
of the undersi«ned, to whom tenders are to be ad-
dressed up to 12 O’CLOCK AT NOON, on FRIDAY,
JULY 21.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
W. W. WARDELL, C.E ,
Architect.
120 Pitt-street, Sydney.
CH. FERGUSON,
• UNDERTAKER,
Late Manager of W. and H. Kinsela’s principal shop,
George-street, has commenced business on his own ac-
count at
835 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Railway Gate, a few doors higher np,
and 105 DEVONSHIRE STREET, Near KltiET-ST.
Is prepared to furnish Pnnerals CHEAPER than
any other honse In the trade, and, having purchased
everything New, hopes by civility and attention to
Business, as ha has done to his late employers, to merit
a share at public patronage.
C. H. FERGUSON,
UNDERTAKER.
NEXT SATURDAY, Jnne 24,
SOUTH WATERLOO, BOTANY ROAD,
THE PICK OP THE DISTRICT.
THE GREAT SUCCESS which has attended the
last two sales of the small remainder of this property, and
the assured fact that the communication to it by
TRAMWAY is accomplished, encourages the proprie-
tors to accede to the numerous requests mode to them
to hold
ANOTHER SALE,
on the Ground.
NEXT SATURDAY, JUNE 24.
at 3 o'clock.
w
PRITCHARD will veil by auction, NEXT
SATURDAY, June 24, at 3 o'clock.
The balance of this splendid subdivision.
TRAMWAY CARS TO THE GROUND RUN EVERY
TWENTY MINUTES.
Notice the Boards at and beyond the Half-way House
Terms of sals will be extremely liberal, viz, £5
deposit upon each lot, and the balance at the rate of
one pound per month, bearing interest at 6 per cent.
Lithographed Plans, showing the sold and unsold
allotments, are ready. PRITCHARD,
359 George-street.
Department of Mines
Sydney,6th June, 1882,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned gold-mining leases within thirty days
from this date they will be declared void.
AETHUK BEN WICK.
Peel and Uralia Mining District.
No. 246; Wm. T. Maguire and others j Portion No. 14
gl. ; County of Murchison, parish of Molroy; 2 acres;
Application No. Bingera 81-13.
No 254 j James Court; Portion No. 213; County of
Murchison, parish of M'lntyro; 5 acres; Application
No. Bingera 08-12
No. 255; Silas Huntly and another; Portion No. 12 ;
County of Murchison, pariah of Ball; 2a. 14p. j Applica-
tion No. Bingera 81-14.
Department of Mines.
Sydney, 9th June, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessee executes and takes delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty
days from this date, it will be declared void.
ABTHUB BEN WICK.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 158 : William Ledger ; Portion No. 01. 204 ; Mur-
ray’s Hill, county of Wellington, parish of Lewis; 2
acres; Application No. Orange 81-3.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 16th June 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Gold-mining lease within thirty days
from this date, it will be declared void.
ABTHUB BEN WICK.
Peel and Üballa Mining District.
No. 263; John Jnleff and others; Portion No. 20
County of Murchison, parish of Hall; 10 acres; Applies•
tionNo. Bingera 15.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 16th Juno 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB; MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that nnless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from
this date, it will be declared void.
ABTHUB BEN WICK.
“No. 1199 ; J. G. Suttor, and others ; Portion No. m l.
121; Willahmurrab. county of Eoxburgh, parish of Mac-
quarie; 40 acres; Application No. Bathurst 81-sm.
SOLE AGENT POE BLACKMEB’S PATENT
ELEGTBIC SIGNS.
J. W. WILLOUGHBY,
General Electrician,
95 MAEKET BTEEBT, SYDNEY,
and at London,
MANUFACTUREE, IMPOBTEE, and FITTEE of
Electric Bells, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated Wiret
Improved Patent Fire and Burglar Alarms, Speaking
Tubes, Lightning Conductors, Medical and other Coils,
Electro-Magnetic Machines, Electric Gas Lighting,
Gilding and Plating Material, Electric Light Apparatus
on the latest and most improved principles now in nse
in London, Paris, Ac.
Liberal.Disoount to the Trade.
Indents of every description of Electrical Apparatus on
the most favourable terms.
Estimates Submitted Free of Cost.
'jy|'Eß PANTILE BOWING CLUB.
SEVENTH ANNUAL BALL.
Under the patronage of the
MAYOE and MBBCHANT3 of SYDNEY.
The M. E. C. Seventh ANNUAL BALL will be held in
the EXHIBITIJN BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park,
6th JULY NEXT.
DEESB. PLAIN AND FANCY.
Tickets, double, 30s ; Gentleman's Single 20s; Lady’s
Single 12a 61, may now be obtained from the following
Warehouses: —Messrs. Holdsworth, Qardyne, and
Co , P Laasetter and Co., and Giles, W.
H. Paling, Elvy and Co., Peapes and Shaw, George
street; Parmer and Co., Pitt-street :E. Cantor, King-
street ; J. Elleroamp, Hunter-street,
or from the Stewards and committee.
John Harris,
of Sydney)
Hon. James Watson
Hon. J. B.Watt
Sir P. Jennings, K C.M.G.
Wm. Alderson, Esq.
T. E. Allt, Esq.
Henry Buli.lEsq.
Thomas Dalton, Eaq.
John Gardyne, Esq.
J. G. Hanks, Esq.
John Hardie, Esq.
John Hinohcliff, Fsq.
J 8 Jamieson, Esq.
Wm. Laidley, Esq.
C. K. Moore, Esq.
John Pop", Esq.
Charles Pearce, Esq,
Chna J. Roberts, Etq.
Carl Sahl, Esq.
John See, Esq., M.P,
K. Sands, Esq.
Thomas Thompson, Eeq.
John Ifouug, Esq.
Stewards :
Esq. (Mayor
Committee :
Messrs. R. W. Benson, John Blackman, A B.yrno, R.
Brindley, L. C. Birohall, F. O. Boulton, F. J. Bull,
A. Bros, W. A. Blaekstone, W. H. Bros, A. Croall,
P. Dennis. D Fletcher, W. J. Foster, A Green, K.
Giltinan, E Hanson, P. G Hordern, Fred R. Isler, R.
A. Keddie, W. Leo. N. Lockver, L. R. Mitchell, J.
Playfair, junr.N. Shelley, T. G. West, H. E. Wilkinson,
C.H. Williams.
D. MURRAY. Hon. Sec.
A. P. BEOS. H»n. Treas.
OSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CUBE INDIGESTION.
Sold in bottles, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d„ by all chemists
p,nd dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee :
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viot.; M.H.P.5.,Qt.8.,
GAWLEE, SOUTH AUBTEALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BBOTHEBS. HOfiNUNG & CO,
m PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
G.
352 Ooorge-Btreet.
- ,-s^
wm
IP!
: iii
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By the celebrated makers
W, BELL AND CO.,
Which g lined first and special prize
)VER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE STDN NTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
H A R MON I U M S,
BY
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the radons models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H, PALING, agent for Erard’s, Playel's, Anchor's,
Sonfleto’a, Eirkman’s, and Hundt and Sons Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.'s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
W. H. P A* L I W O,
352 GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE WTNTARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. F. DeCOUBCT BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
Author of the "Miners’ Handy Book,” Ac., Ac.,
MINING EXPERT,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISEE, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS.
120 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, Ae., Ac.
ft
", *1
VISIT R. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coxouy.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT'TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur-
nishing a New Home or adding to the comforts of
your present Homo, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON. M’OREBRY A CO.
who will furnish honses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
«ar Note the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M’CREERY, A CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
pOUKTH OF JULY BALL.
To be held at NEED'S ROOMS,
167 Liverpool Street.
Sale of Tickets limited and only procurabl 3 from :nem-
bera of the General Committee:
CHAS. KAHLE, U.B. Consul, Gaorge-street
T. H. BOYD, Vke-C maul, 252 George-street
WM. FLEMING, 22 and 21 Clarence.street
H. SHAW SMITH, 17 Pitt-street
i B. A LITTLE, American Novelty Co., PiU-streat.
I Dr. Q. M. SLATE, Wyayard Square.


puß II C NOTICE.
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPING MIXTURE and
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours to deceive the public by SU BSTITUTINQ
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
bearing
« THE TAEPING MIXTURE.’’—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Importers,
thus—
Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PURE
TEA, must bo certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ARE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
F. BUTCHER.
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
T 0 H N DAN
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L SUKKERFIELD,
335 Fitt Street, Sydney.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORI
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER, 163. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, £S 3*.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
GUARANTEES A PERFECT FIT I
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Bends Self-measurement terms free by post I
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by post I
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the, BEST CITY CUTTERS!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
Speciality Suits to measure, £* 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORI
Speciality Trousers to measure, 10s. 6d.
H. L, SUMMERFIELD,
235 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
E W PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other pntm
Vvdies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and SplendW
SHOP. No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
ttio corner of Gonlburn-etreet, where he will be pleas?
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders than*
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for lames,
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended vy
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
’he Teems of subscription for The Buixeti*
advance, per annum, 12s. j half-year, Os.;
35.: hosted, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances
be made by stamps of wyAustsaliaa oolong 0 „
or by money order, payable to W. H. Tram on
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
- " -- J
Printed and published by W. H. Traill &
The Bulletin office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Wales.
JAMES MARTIN AND COMPANY,
JAMES MARTIN & COMPY., 389 George Street, Sydney.
INTENDING PURCHASERSPLEASE NOTE!!!
THE RELIABLE ALTHOUSE MILLS
Can not be had from any other firm in the Colony. We
introduced this Mill into Australia, and no other film in
New South Wales has similar Mills to offer you.
Our Prices .£2O . £'22 10s.
Diameter of Sails 10 ft. 12 ft. 14 ft.
p oW er -horse 1-horse 2-horse
DIAMETER OP
WHEEL.
25 feet novation.
3J in.
4 in.
6 in.
C in.
60 feet Elevation.
100 feet Elevation;
Size of
Pump.
2J In.
8 in.
3} in.
4 in.
Gallon*
per hour.
200
860
650
000
Write us for our large descriptive Windmill Circular.
THE RELIABLE ALTHOUSE MILL. JAMES MARTIN & COMFY.. LATE MARTIN & PAIN.
SILVER CHES
FROM X. 4.10.
l - V- »r3i
c- '* »r • y\J
' f «I»iNC vl|, j')f
3 & II HUNTER STREET. cfi-
‘ches SYDNEY gold waiches
iO. SEND r OR FROM £.5.10.
CATALOGUE.
GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH,
FTTHE
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney,
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE
TRY ONE.
*o*
V*
flit*
for
BATHS,
HAIR - CUTTING,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
c. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY . . _ „ ,
And Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
189 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
M. GOULBTON,
(ESTABLISHHT> 28 TEAKS)
WELL-KNOWN TAILOR,
58 Market Street.
o**
TRY
GOULSTON’S
JE3 3*. SUITS!
£4 4s SUITS!!
10a. SUITS!
ALL GOODS
Thoroughly
c. /
SHRUNK,
and
NO MISFITS!
NEW GOODS EWERY MAIL PROM FIRST CLASS HOUSES.
MOST PLEASANT
HOUSEHOLDERS,
TAKE NOTE OP THIS.
WHEN PURCHASING YOUE GROCERIES
ask for
PANT EE AND PARRY’S
new extract op soap
AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
BE -T Washing and Disinfectant Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Crockery, Paint, Glass, and every Household
purpose. Used and recommended in the
Laundry at Government House, Mr. Sey-
mour (Inspector of Nuisances). Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and by all competent
judges to be the best article manufactured.
REMEMBER 1
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OP ALL GROCERS.
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY
IN THE WORLD.
THE PURE COCOA,
W ith superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Delicious
Beverage.
O
i %
*
»
*
$
V
\\
o
CJ
o
c
Invaluable
for invalids, or
those who cannot
drink the thick, heavy
liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
“ ’Tis cheerful by the cheerful hearth to see
Our daughters nicely clad."
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
6G3 BRICKFIELD HILL.
PROBABLY in no establishment in the world is all
that pertains to dress and physical adornment
studied with such care and personal supervision as at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS.
One of the most recent examples of material which
modern skill has brought to such perfection, is the
‘•SELKIRK TWEED."
which in texture, appearance, durability, and excellence
of value, hai never before been attained by any other
material.
TRIMMINGS TO MATCH.
Also, every colourings ia the following materials !
CHEVIOT SERGES
ASSYRIAN BEIGE
BLAIR ATHOL HOMESPUNS
JARDINIERE a TOUR
TORBI-JOSO CLOTH.
TRIMMINGS TO MATCH.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
6GB BRICKFIELD HILL,
Ticlcts L r the Mercantile Rowing Club Ball to be
had on application to Edward Hordern aad Sons.
UNTTHRE FURNITURE FURNITURE.
hr B ,H Si, H> use in Sydney for Burnishing Prices
1 enuilhd anywhere in the e’tv. H. tnv I
■Q Genual Fnrnuhing Arcade, 29, 31, and .13,
■ tn-et.
PAYMENT. TIME PAYMENT TIME
PAYMENT-H. LEVY and C'», Central For-
A «Y ' oq ■!i and 33, Park-street. Hom-es
to'£looo on weakly and monthly
uts NU. All goods marked in plain figures,
, deception.
ANOFORTES. in handsome walnut
1 Md bv Erard. and other bast makers.
». •«<■» p " k -
SAM. H.najom. »~' ri |F 'SSTSoi
'JSiffiC? 29, 31. ud 33. r*rk..tr«t.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
WLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
PERDOWI7. NEAR SYDNEY.
Price list on application.
-B-fc E A P E 8 AND SHAW
r* HAVE PURCHASED all the TWEEDS and
MANUFACTURED by Messrs. J. VICAttS
fnTi Co from the MERINO WOOLLED SHEEP on
Mr W J DAnVaR'S S pA't’ION, NEOTSFIELD,
and FLAT I E RINGLT SPOK BN OF m the HERALD
of THURSDAY, JUNE 8.
EX CRAG ft "Meets J. Vi-ars and Co., woollen
manufacturers, of Snesi x-str-et, have just manufac-
tured six citterns of two.-*, which exemplify wb i can
bo done w ill what is known as the natire t own w.ol
without na»ing recourse to dyes. What is tejhiupaily
knowu ns native brown wool i, the fi ece of what is bv
n popular mistake called tlio black sheep. The w> ol
empioitd in th- good-. shown to us wa., the produce
of some floe meriwo woolled she'*p, bred on Mr W. J
TKnsar’s ins, N»o ;fed, dingloion. Tiuro are two
colours, lipnt and Ir wn wool. One of the pieces of
tweed consisted of ... cb.ck lornrud of there colours
The pattern i« an . xcel ent one. and tne
material in admi-ahly ad up too for making fti't
ines for the pie-, ut sen on. Another piece
n. insisted of the uuue two colouia wovrn a-
stripes. This sub-tanoe is aDo stent, and intended'or
wmrer we r Xu aum her cas •t be wool
has benu ed a on- . and what is milled a light self
colour produced 'I hi- tw, ed was manufactured speei-
ally for making ladies drtsse.'. Waterloo!-. Ac , and as
woollen dress mat trials ure largely employed in the
manufacture of ladies’ costuu.es, will doubtless prove
highly popnlar. Tie weight and substance of the
material are both light There is also a light, self-
coloured tweed, simiiur to that for ladies wear, hut
heavier and intended for gentlemen « clothing The
dark-brown wool has been manufactured into a dark
corduroy of extra stout substance. This was made
specially for riding pants. The same c. loured wool
has also been used in the manufacture ot a
dark piece of tsveed made specially for over-
coating. The material is of a heavy character,
and although rough finished, the wool raised on the
surface of the piece is left uncut. The light and dark
native brown wools have aUo keen used in the making
of some travelling rugs of very good quality. In one
ease the darker wool is used to produce check borders,
and in the other cane the two wools have been employed
to produce a check which will probably find many
ftdmirtra All those goods will no doubt be esteemed
hv all persons in whose minds a kind of prejudice exists
aLinsTdyed fabrics, while ethers will docbtless seek
after the native brown tweeds as a novelty.
AS THERE IS ONLY A LIMITED QUANTITY
OE THESE EXCEEDINGLY CHOICE GOODS,
GENTLEMEN SHOULD MAKE ANEAKLYCaLL.
PEAPBS and SHAW, PE APES and SHAW,
George-street. Georgc-Btreet.
IHE PEDEEAL BANK OP AXJSTEAtIA
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Capital, £1.000,000.
Subscribed, £350,000.
Directors!
ITon. J J Casev, C M.Q., President.
J B Watson, E» q , Vice-President.
John Robb, Ksq.
John Wbittingaam, Evq.
Wiliam M l.etn, E»q.. J.P.
Hjh. Jam<*s Munro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
B'nkmg House, Sidney:
25’dMcrge-stmet, Ncrlh.
Francis S. Mat'd i-rmott, Esq.,-
Manager.
John Docker, Esq , Accountant.
Mesbiw. Kobcrtkon and FisLer, Solicitors.
THE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA (Limited)
offers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Esquire
Ban! ing Accommodation.
’. Interest will ba allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
rates.
3. Every branch of hanking business transacted.
4. Bills will be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
mHE BLACK CURRANT BALSAM
Acts likea charm im every kind of Cough.
A Single Dose gives Belief at once, and procures
Refreshing Sleep.
MADE ONLY BY SENIOR,
Chemist to His Excellency.
