

THE BULLETIN
Vol. l1.—No. 133
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1882.
Price—3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1882.
Penny Exiles.
The series of unfortunate infatuations which have
made the mention of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph provocative of either a Smile or a sneer
wherever that wonderful journal is known,
mounted to an extraordinary pitch during the
last fortnight. In a single unlucky week, the con-
ductors of that journal were inspired by the evil
genius which has continually perverted their best-
laid schemes to vanity and vexation of spirit, to
issue a special war edition, and to cross pens with
Mr. William Forster, M.L.A. Whether their
wonderful war edition was a designed imposition
upon the public, or merely a blunder as usual,
cannot be stated. Each alternative is equally
damaging. The facts of this delirious exploit are
briefly those: — The public of Sydney was as-
tonished one day lately by runners crying, during
the forenoon, “Special edition of the Telegraph.’’
Those who were unlucky enough to part with their
pennies to purchase the sheet, found that it con-
tained what purported to be nows just received by
cable, and relating to the Egyptian war. The
stuff was displayed in large type, preceded by
sensational headings in big black letters, and was
dated London, July 29bh—being a day earlier than
the publication. Investigated, the news proved
to bo merely Reuter’s summary by mail steamer,
wired from South Australia, and simply an ampli-
fication of intelligence, the main heads of which
had been communicated by cable and published in
Sydney a month earlier. The date was an impos-
ture, the summary being really dated “London,
June 29th, ’’ not “London, July 29th.” By this
exploit the conductors of the Telegraph sold a
few penn’orths of their paper, and effectually
indisposed the public ever again to be taken in by
a “special” issuing from their establishment.
The feat was eminently characteristic of Daily
Tulegraph enterprise, and will doubtless assist
that flickering journal to accomplish its evident
destiny.
* * •
Equally unfortunate was the enterprise of
entering upon a trial of literary and disputative
expertnass with Mr. William Forster. The
same inflation of self-esteem which misled the
conductors of the Telegraph to entertain the
idea that they could, by emigrating from Mel-
bourne, show the journalists of New South Wales
what a metropolitan daily paper should be, induced
them to conceive that they could successfully
encounter Mr. William Forster in the literary
«*ena. ( Possibly, however, in this instance, they
had secret misgivings. At any rate, their first
attempts were directed to suppressing Mr.
Forster’s reply to attacks made by them. They
refused to publish his letter. But, with the con-
fusion of method which distinguishes them, they
conveyed their refusal in writing, and attempted
to justify it by argument. By this maladroit
proceeding they sacrificed the very advantage
they sought to secure They enabled Mr.
Forster to display to the public the contrast
between his nervous style and cynical logic, apd
the style which has secured for the Daily Tele-
®rAph its present “reputation.” Moreover,
they furnished their antagonist with an opportu-
nity of exhibiting them, impaled and waggling on
the point of his pan, to a body of readers greatly
more numerous than would have perused the cor-
respondence had it appeared in their own columns,
due conduct of the correspondence was not less
unfortunate than the devi ies resorted to in order
tO J* u PP re3s it. The first letter of Mr. Forster
, the letter which the Daily Telegraph refused
to publish—was a rejoinder to an article in that
paper in which Mr. Forster was charged with
oo great generality and vagueness of certain
catementa made by him, when addressing his
constituents, in reference to the Premier. The
, LKGEAp H had referred to these state-
ents as ‘ slanders,” “ vilifications,” “ infamous
an d so forth. Mr. Forster, in the
etter which the conductors of the Daily Tele-
raph: hoped to suppress, affirmed that his
eorenoes were to notorious facts; stated his
eooinoss to particularize in the Legislative
SBetnbly if asked to do so ; and offered, mean-
hue, to send to the Daily Telegraph a copy
a supreme Court judgment in a certain matter
® ar^0 d cheques. Ho opined that the oon-
bim* 8 the Telegraph could scarcely expect
f*L to Ca * as witnesses' the ghogts of poor Dean,
nt amT 1 ® Bdtler, of Robert Campbell, or
of 0 Farrell.
The editor of the Daily Telegraph declined
to publish this letter, and most imprudently re-
duced his “reasons” to writing. The reference
to marked cheques he did not understand; and,
with respect to the ghosts, he opined it would be
unfair to the Premier in his absence to launch
against him “such accusations.” But, if Mr.
Forster would distinctly state the charges, and
sign his name to them, the editor offered to
“ publish ” them in the Telegraph. In other
words he magnanimously invited Mr. Forster to
render himself liable to the expense of an action
at law, under the infamous libel laws at presentin
force in this colony. This infantile attempt to
put salt upon the tail of so very old a bird as Mr.
William Forster had all the success which
might ;have been anticipated by anyone but a
Daily Telegraph man. Mr. Forster, having
tempted the unlucky editor to “put his hands
up,” made an exhibition of him without more
ado. So expert a writer could, of course, have
little trouble in disposing of an editor so clumsy
as to —by a profession of ignorance respecting the
significance of a reference understood by every
man who had lived five years in New South
Wales — remind the readers of the Telegraph
that the conductors of that journal, albeit they
came hither to teach the natives how a newspaper
should bo run, are strangers in the community and
ignorant of important episodes of its domestic and
political history. Mr. Forster's rejoinder was of
a style to raise lumps on the reputation of the
Telegraph. Every paragraph contained a
stinging blow of satire. He professed himself
“ quite aware that the editor is bound to consider
other interests than those of truth and justice,”
and expressed the opinion that if the editor re-
garded that bondage as a misfortune there was
some hope yet, “ even for the Daily Tele-
graph.” He hinted that the correspondence
might yet bo published, and cruelly explained that
the Daily Telegraph “ does not possess a
monopoly of circulation.” Having thus touched
the unlucky Telegraph on one of its tenderest
raws, Mr. Forster cheerfully congratulates its
editor on his ignorance of N. S. Wales political
history, a “ blissful ignorance” which he, with
composed satire, remarks, “speaks volumes for the
qualification of the editor to conduct a newspaper
in New South Wales.” Mr. Forster proceeds to
compliment the Daily Telegraph champion on
the indignant virtue which rejected as unfair in-
sinuations against the Premier in his absence ; but
he adroitly spoils the compliment by reminding
the professor of virtue that the Telegraph was
not restrained by those elevated principles from a
good deal of virulent personal abuse, including a
comparison with Barabbas, of himself, Mr.
Forster, during his absence, not much
more than a year previous. Mr. Forster
possibly does not care for retort of the tio
quogue order, or perhaps it was disinclination
to speak ill of the dead, which restrained him
from likening the Daily Telegraph in turn to
Barabbas, in view of that moral and respectable
journal’s weakness for “appropriating” cable-
grams “from other sources.” Mr. Forster winds
up with the “most unkindest out of all” by express-
ing his disinclination “ to furnish readable matter
for the Telegraph,” and forthwith drags the
quivering journal into full view by publishing the
entire correspondence in a paper which has about
eight times the daily circulation of the Tble-
graph.
• • •
Thus outgoneralled and mauled, the unlucky
journal on Wednesday last was indiscreet enough
to wriggle in public. It makes a characteristic
start. As if to invite comparisons, it opens its
rejoinder to Mr. Forster’s glittering rapier-play
of satire, by calling him names in its very first
lines. The conductors of the Telegraph might
j U8 t as aptly have displayed their talents by
making faces at Mr. Forster in the street. They
ca ll him “ a disappointed man.” If Mr. Forster
had been in the colony when the Daily Tele-
graph was launched amidst a flourish of boast-
ings, and had he been one of those who were in-
duoed to expect a vigorous and powerful newe-
paper, the epithet applied to him would be just
enough. But the honourable gentleman—wo do
not employ the affix nor the title in the Lucas or
Parkes signification—was in England at that
epoch. The Telegraph's second paragraph
opens with equal infelicity. “It is no secret’*
says the Telegraph, “that Sir Henbt Parkes
had the misfortune to fail in the effort to
establish a second morning newspaper in
Sydney.” On perusing this eye-opening
sentence, the readers of the Daily Tblk-
graph will naturally begin to .understand
whence arises the extraordinary sympathy for Sir
Henry Parkeb exhibited by the conductors of
that journal. “ A fellow-feeling makes us won-
drous kind.” Next, the Telegraph, plunging,
despite its confession; of ignorance, into the past
history of N. S. Wales and her public men, makes
the extraordinary assertion that Sir Henry
Parkeb’ monetary difficulties commenced with
the sale of the Empire, in 1858, and ended on his
return from England in 1862. The editor of the
Telegraph should really consult his office-boy
before committing himself to such statements —
always presuming, of course, that his office-boy is
not also an exile from Victoria, specially imported
to show N. S. Wales office-boys how to sweep a
room. There is not a sub-editor of a country paper
in this colony who could not have informed the
Daily Telegraph writer that he, had put the
commencement of his patron’s pecuniary adven-
tures a decade too late, and their conclusion some
fifteen years too early.
*
Having run through the gamut of name-calling,
and misstatement, the Telegraph wriggles along,
with a sense of rather distinguishing itself, to mis-
repres fintation. It points out that, subsequent
to the moat scandalous of its patron’s pecuniary
transitions, Mr. Forster, after repeated solici-
tations, consented to join the Cabinet of Sir James
Martin, of which Mr. Henry Fawkes
member. But, with its customary infatuation, it
first says that “ Mr. Forster wanted to become
a colleague of Sir Henry Pabkes,” and) then
quotes a passage from Mr. Forster’s letter to
Hi t James Martin, in which Mr. Forster lays
eirtreme stress upon his strong disinclination to
join the Ministry, and in which Sir Henry Parkes
js not mentioned at all, for good or evil. ‘‘Mr.
Forster wanted to become a colleague of Mr.
Parkes,” says the Telegraph ; and straight-
way, with consummate incapacity to see that it is
giving itself the lie, quotes Mr. Forster thus :
“Notwithstanding the strong personal objections
I entertain to the office which has been offered me
in the new Ministry—viz., that of the Secretary
for Lands—yet, looking at the necessity which
exists for certain practical measures of legislation
and administrative reform, and the great public
| benefit which would result from the construction
of a Ministry united in principle and opinion upon
their general policy, I have, after mature conside-
ration, determined on waiving my objection, and I
agree to accept the office in question, under the
following conditions.”
• • •
Mr. Forster’s objections entered into his con-
ditions to such an extent that Sir James Martin
could not see his way to defer to them, and Mr.
Forster did not join the Ministry. Yet upon
this solemn fact, that Mr. Forster did not join a
Ministry of which Mr. Henry Parkes was a
member, the Telegraph desperately founds a
charge of condonation of Sir Henry’s financial
irregularities. It would like Mr. Forster to
explain how it was that “ he could talk about
being * united in principle and opinion ’ with Mr.
Parkes in January, 1866.”
* • •
This may be regarded as clever, in the Daily
Telegraph office. But in sober earnest the con-
ductors of that journal are not likely to repair
its fortunes by insulting their readers with an
obvious assumption that they are utter idiots.
That a man subscribes to the Daily Telegraph
may be regarded by the conductors of that journal
as presumptive evidence of deficient literary dis-
cimination; but it cannot be sagacious to flaunt
that belief in the faces of the subscribers. There
can surely be none so simple as not to bo capable
of remembering what ho had read four lines above
the assertion just quoted. Mr. Forster talk
about being united in principle opinion
with Mr. Parkes ! The assertion is too im-
pudently startling. Every reader would be elec-
trified by its audacity, and would refer on the
instant to Mr. Forster’s own words, quoted
immediately above; only to find that he never
mentioned Parkes at all, and stated with explicit
clearness that he was united with the Martin
Ministry “in principle and opinion upon their
general policy Even so masterly a journalist
as a Daily Telegraph man must necessarily
be, went beyond all reasonable contempt for New
South Wales intelligence, when he attempted to
stuff his readers with the proposition that this
was all the same as a declaration of unison in
principle and opinion with Sir Henry Parkes
in his method of dealing with his creditors and
his confiding personal friends. After this, we feel
we need add nothing. If the Victorian con-
ductors of the Daily Telegraph really rate
the intelligence of their New South Wales readers
as low as they rated the ability of New South
Wales journalists when they started their unlucky
newspaper to show the latter how journalism should
be carried on, they would be discreet to slightly
suppress the evidences of their contempt. Unless
these immigrants qualify their transports of con-
scious superiority, they may learn as bitter a
lesson from the readers as they have already had
drubbed into them by the journalists of this
colony.
DR C. K. MACKELLAR THE NEW HEALTH OFFICER.


The War With Egypt.
The course of events in connection with the war
of agression undertaken by the British Govern-
ment against the people of Egypt has not been
productive, since we last commented, of any
incidents of striking character. It is with
difficulty, that the true nature of events and
transactions can be gathered from the advices
transmitted by cable, emanating as these do
exclusively from one party to the dispuce. Readers
of the daily papers, who desire to be guided by
their sense of justice rather than by a perverted
national sentiment, require to read the cablegrams
with all their critical faculties on the alert.
« # *
The intelligence received here issues from an
intensely interested source —the military head-
quarters at Alexandria —and is filtered through a
variety of mediums, each of which communicates
to it a special colouring. Persons who, for ex-
ample, read the Sydney dailies, have to make
allowances for unmitigated Jingoism in the
Herald. It does not seem to be so much art, as
mere innocent’ John-Bullism, which upsets the
judgment of the Herald when required to prin I
or interpret a cable message. The idea that ‘ ‘ our
side ” cannot possibly be in the wrong, and that
whatever seems calculated to prompt a different
impression must be susceptible of some sort of
explanation, has evidently taken possession of the
Herald. It desperately declines to argue in its
leading columns, but by “ nods and becks and
wraathfed smiles ” in its daily digest of the cable-
grams, seeks to seduce its readers to adopt its
own rampant Jingoism.
« • »
Respecting the origin of this miserable piratical
war which has been undertaken in the interests of
usury, and in direst opposition to the principle
of assisting reviving nationalities to work put
their destiny, which has been the political
morality of British Liberals for the past quarter
of a century, and of which Mr. Gladstone had
been till now even more honoured a prophet than
Mr. Bright, the Herald carefully abstains
from declaring itself. But it stoops to the un-
worthy dodge of calling „the Egyptian people
“rebels,” and of styling Arabi Pasha a rebel,
even in the same paragraph which explicitly
states that the sovereign of Arabi and of the
Egyptian people refuses under extremest pressure
to proclaim them in rebellion. It is clear that our
Government is in such sore straits for a device by
which to apparently justify its interference with
the internal politics of the Egyptian people, that
it will be satisfied if it can force the Sultan to
proclaim Arabi a rebel—even although the vio-
lence done be apparent to the whole world.
• • ■
There is little ’grace in the disposition which ia
incapable of feeling, and owning to, shame for a
discreditable transaction, even when the offenders
are dear to him as hia life’s blood. We, for our
own part, love our native land too well, not to
feel bitter humiliation when she ia led out of the
paths of honour and justice to engage in a dis-
honouring quarrel, for ignoble reasons.
w • •
The accounts of diplomatic proceedings and the
description of military (engagements alike requite
to bo received with caution. Thus, we,had a little
time ago a cablegram, embodying a proportion of
preamble, which every expert in telegrapnio affairs
would immediately recognize as having been tacked
on after the receipt of the naked faotsjin Aus-
tralia. This emanation of a Jingo enthusiasm
ran that —we quote from memory—“ Although
most of the Egyptian troops have joined Arabi
Bet, some are still loyal to the Khedive. The
garrison of the forts at Aboukir has voluntarily
given its adhesion to the Khedive ” Immedi-
ately following was a later advice headed
“ Treachery of the Egyptian Troops,” which com-
menced by stating that “ treachery had been at
work ” among the garrisons at Aboukir, and went
on to say that the regiments posted there had
absolutely refused to evacuate their position and
to march to Alexandria. Their apparent con-
sent had been a ruse. In fact, the Jingo
journalists and telegraphists have become as much
enamoured of the word treachery as were the
French after Waterloo, after Mortier’s sur-
render of Paris to the Allies, and after
Sedan. “ Nous sommesra train* ” has ever
been the excuse of people who could find
nothing better to explain a failure. We
had the treachery of Raghbb Pasha next. In
fact, treason after treason. Every Egyptian
proved to be faithful to national aspirations and a
partisan of Arabi Bey. The Sovereign of Egypt
—the Sultan —approved the movement, and had
to bo coerced to even lie that he would disown hia
sympathies ; only the wretched Viceroy, a puppet
in the hands of the enemies of his country, re-
mained. He appears to be the one solitary Egyp-
tian who is not opposed to the British. Yet all
readers are taught, not that he is a traitor to hia
country and a rebel to his sovereign, but that the
entire nation isin rebellion, and their wholesale de-
fection treacherous in everyaspeot. The attitude
of the Khedive, in fact, brings to memory the
sbaggeriag gentleman who mounted the platform
at a public meeting, and severely informed the
audience that they were all drunk.
• • «
Next, aa to actual engagements. First, we have
a cabled report that an outpost of our troops had
been attacked, had fallen back on the main body,
and had subsequently been replaced in the post
they had quitted. No casualties. Then came
an assurance that the statements (which
had not been cabled hither at all—showing
that onlv the sugary bits of the news are
selectedl for our palates) that the outposts had
retired in disorder, were unfounded. An outpost
which deserts its post without having suffered
casualties, and which is at once sent back to re-
occupy it, assuredly executes a very queer
manoeuvre, and one can quite understand how
rumours of a skedaddle may have become current
in Europe.
It is certain that a remarkable amount of deli-
beration has characterised the conduct of the
war. But at length a reconnoitring expedition
is undertaken, ana the insight and sagacity of tha
General in Command is at once illustrated by the
fact that he has scarcely Reported that the
current rumours that tthe Egyptians contem-
plated an advance were absolutely dis-
proved when the disproved advance was
made. Then followed an encounter, the news of
which our Jingo journals published under a
striking heading of “ A British Victory,” and
which, when investigated, appears to have been
nothing in particular of a victory for either side.
The Egyptian advance was not prevented, but
the retreat of the British reconnoitring force
force was not compromised. Still, the “victory”
was in fact a retreat, and the Egyptian infantry
were enabled to establish themselves nearer
Alexandria than before, it not being considered
advisable to attempt to dislodge them. There
was also an artillery duel in which our gunners
evidently beat their Egyptian adversaries. Thus,
success was divided: the Egyptians advanced in Ihe
presence of our retiring troops, and held their
ground; but their artillery was outmatched by our
own. The losses on e 4 „ir side are so inconsider-
able as to testify thal>«»w j engagement was never
close or serious. It wm oe time enough to begin
to throw up our hats when we win a battle, and it
is a humiliation to Britons who really respect
their country, that every little undecided skirmish
should be trumpeted out as a “ victory of our
arms.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Disinterested.
p v Sage in a verbatim report of a speech by Arabi
et, r he genuineness of which is vouched for by the
x. James’ Gazette, the Tory organ conducted by
Messrs. Greenwood and Traill, seems to throw some
light upon the attitude of Turkey towards the Egyptian
national leader. No reasonable man will credit aa
absolute monarch like the Sultan, or a corrupt Govern-
ment like the Porte, with any sympathy with the
distinctly democratic sentiment of national aspirations.
The sentiments uttered by Arabi are prec sely those
which Mr. Gladstone has won a arge park his.fame
by enunciating with respect to oppressed nationalities
and peoples. Arabi’s utterances might be bound up
with the speeches of Gladstone, or of John Bright,
and, except for the oriental phraseology, would har-
monize with the rest of the volumes. But they would
be absurd if inserted among a record of the opinions of
the Sultan or of a Turkish Minister. What can a
Sultan or a Pasha of Constantinople care for the prin-
ciples of national liberty and universal equity F The
Sultan is, like the rest, among the ravens. His eyes,
like jibe eyes of British and French, Italians and
Russians, arc fixed upon the expected victim struggling
to escape extinction. He expects to gain something
by hacking Arabi, and fears, reasonably enough, to
lose all if the British should get Egypt into their
clutches. In the speech already alluded to, Arabi is
represented to have said to the Notables : —“ At the
unanimous desire of the nation I now call upon you to
reinstate me as Minister for War. You will also
proceed to vote the deposition of the Khedive ; a re-
duction in the interest annually paid to usurious bond-
holders ; and Ja corresponding increase in the tribute due
to our August Sovereign the Sultan.” There we have it.
If England succeed in recovering her grasp on Egypt,
the Sultan may expect to have his subsidy intercepted
altogether—applied to liquidate Turkish bonds, per-
haps. If the National party succeed, he is promised,
and may fairly hope for, an increased subsidy, propor-
tionate reduction being made in the hitherto exorbitant
interest paid to European money-lenders.
The Juvenile Exhibition.
The Committee of the proposed Juvenile!,lndustrial
Exhibition have responded very fairly to our com-
ments on preliminary proceedings. The press was
invited to be present at their last meeting, and explana-
tions wore given respecting several of the points to
which attention has been directed in these columns.
The enterprise was initiated, as we believed, by the
secretary, Mr. Bannister, who opened the subject to
Captain Broomfield. The latter gentleman interested
Mr. Pope in the project, and subsequently other gentle-
men consented to help the affair along. Money for
preliminary expenses being a first requisite, Captain
Bloomfield, Mr. Pope, and Mr. Hutchinson secured
on their personal responsibility a cash credit at one of
the banks. These gentlemen now declare that it was
not contemplated by them to apply to theJGovernment
for pecuniary assistance. They believed that the Ex-
hibition could be so managed as to pay all expenses. If
there be a difficulty, they stand committed to make it
good, but have an understanding with/other members
of the committee that the loss, if any, should be
shared by all. This is exactly how things should be,
and the declaration might, with distinct advantage,
have been earlier made. With regard to the printing
having been done at the Government Printing Officfi,
the explanation is not so explicit. We are given to
understand that some £3O worth of printing has been
done by the Government office, and if the committee
intended to pay for that work, it is strange that they
should not have given the order to a private printing
establishment. The Government Printing Office surely
does not enter in competition with business establish-
ments in the same' line. The committee, in reference
to an idea which seems to have been current that the
affair was got up to benefit some individual, declare
that it would be impossible for any gentleman con-
nected with the Exhibition to get one shilling out of it
in any shape or form. This is scarcely a tenable posi-
tion. The originator, Mr. Bannister, is a professional
organizer o( Exhibitions, and, by starting this one, he
provided for himself a billet and a salary. The com-
mittee might as well have been candid. There is really
no objection to Mr. Bannistbb directing his abilities lo
this end. His action is perfectly honourable and legiti-
mate, except that it would have been more straight-
forward had he not signed (himself “Honorary"
Secretary. Still, a Juvenile Exhibition, if properly
conducted, is not only an innocent, but a commendable
enterprise ; and the man who organizes an affair of the
kind is “ worthy of his hire," while gentlemen who take
upon themselves the risk of pecuniary loss deserve the
thanks of the community. The committee have now
done what was necessary. They have pledged them-
selves publicly that the Treasury shall not be applied
to, to provide any part of the expenses of an enterprise
inaugurated by private persons and without the cog-
nizance of Parliament. The profits, if any, are to be
applied to charitable puposes. The losses, if any, are
to be borne by the members of the Committee, who are
satisfied to find their reward in the pleasure of doing
good. On this understanding it is possible to wish the
enterprise all success.
The Suez Canal.
The protest by the venerable Baron d* Lbsseps
against the passage of the Suez Canal by warships, for
military ;operatious, is perfectly and obviously just; and
if not deferred to by our infatuated Government, may
prove the precursor of serious complications with the
other Powers of Europt. It a universal highway has
been made use of to operate against a beligetent
Power, as for instance to ward off attacks, or to take
mp a flanking position, nothing on earth could prevent
the Power so assailed from destroying the avenue thus
uied to its disadvantage, nor could any reasonable
complaint be urged were it to do so. Self preservation
is the first law of nature, and sooner than compromise
[campaign, or endanger the fate of a nation, any
military commander—no matter what his nationality
—would destroy the grandest engineering work that
ever existed. In time of war, unless the neutrality of
the world's great high-roads be strictly respected, it
will come to pass that the tunnels of Mount Cenis and
of the St. Qotharii will be blown up, and the Suez Canal
destroyed. It is inconceivable,!»r example,that an Aus-
trian General, intending to operate against France by
the Tyrol would permit his ad vans e to be paralysed,
and his plans deranged, by an Italian column directed
against his flank through the Alpine tunnels. He
would blow up the tunaels sooner than sacrifice the
campaign. But where a route has cosmopolitan value,
and is a highway for all nations ,its neutralization is
essential. France wi'l not be likely to submit to the
steamers of the Messageries being driven to take the
route round the Cape of G ;od Hope, simply because
the British find it convenient to use the Canal —which
is partly owned by Frenchmen—for war purposes.
M. de Lesseps is pretty sure to command the sym-
pathies of his nation in the attitude he, as President
of the Canal Company, has assumed, and if our Govern-
ment persists in deneutralizing the Canal, there is
reason to fear, that the French interest, already es-
tranged, may, before long, be actively antagonistic.
*
Says the Daily Telegraph “ Neither the name nor
the deeds of Mr. William Forster are calculated to
awaken any other feeling than that of public execra-
tion.” In other words, the weakest paper in Sydney—
the paper which, conducted by men ignorant of our
politics, some time ago compared Mr. Forster to
Barrabas the robber—has the effrontery to proclai m
that the man whose name is, of all others in this
country, most distinctly associated with ideas of purity
and uprightness in public and private life, is a scoun-
drel and malefactor, and on a level with our great
army of impenitent political thieves !
THE NEWSLETTER.
On Charters Towers, during June, 4,147 tons
quartz yielded 5712 oz. gold.
Winiata, the Maori, murderer of Packer, was
hanged at Auoklani last Friday.
J. K. Smith, clerk, sued Robertson, Wagner,
and Co. for £IOJO damages done by the upsetting of a
coach at Lily dale, Vic. He said he had sustained con-
cussion of the brain. Jury valued his brain at £lO.
Journalism at Parramatta. A local journal
heretofore published daily now appears weekly. A bi-
weekly is about to cease to appear altogether ; and a
weekly has four or five libel act'ens pending against it.
In England, Mr. John Jones, sentenced to penal
servitude tor seven years, has hanged himself in prison,
and Mr. Fury has gone t 3 his self-sought gallows with
a smile upon his lips. What a powerfully deterrent
punishment hanging is, to be sure !
Lionel Labopde, manager in Melbourne for the
French Novelty Company, committed for trial on a
charge of selling counterfeit half-sovereigns. He sold
electro-gilded medals attached to small and easily-
removed rings. A number of buyers had fraudulently
passed) these coins into circulation. Libonde pleaded
innocent agency.
District Court Judge Forbes gave a burglar
named George Williams, at the Mstropolltan Quarter
Sessions the ether day, seven yeats on the rsads instead
of a light sentence because, in the exercise of his pro-
fession, he "preferred padded Books to gntta percha
ones.” This, his Honor said, proved him to be a
scientific burglar of the first order.
The attendants in New South Wales
Asylums receive princely salaries ranging from £6 to £8
pier month, with limited rations. For this they are
expected to be tender and kind to troublesome patients,
and never to annex any of the institution grub. Their
lives are not insured by the Government.
Adelaide Licensed Victuallers’ Association has
passed a resolution that Nock's Act—which restricts
liquor selling down there on Mondays, except between
one and three p.m.—“is unjust and demoralising
alike to the public and the publicans.” Yet, Nook's
Act of S.A. is not a circumstance to the present
Licensing Act of New South Wale?, and is far •' more
honoured in the breach than the observance.”
“ The other day at Christchurch Sir George
Grey referred to Mr, Tole’s Bill, the »fleet of which is
to relieve journalists from liability to imprisonment at
the pleasure of the Judges. The audience cheered
loudly.” We likewise add a modest hurrah. We are
not fond of either testimonials or imposts as a rnie,
but should the movement prove successful, we should
certainly be willing to contribute our mite towards
paying this Tole.
A tradesman has shown the Bkga Gazette
some invoices of articles in use in his trade: they were
ftem Sydney and Melbourne. One article is charged
3s. 63. per gross ia Melbourne, and 9s, 61. per gross in
Sydney; another is 2s. per gross in Melbourne, the
same is 6s. per gross ia Sydney; whilst a third article
is Is. 33. in Melbourne, and 3s. in Sydney. That
tradesman sends no more orders to Sydney.
Another determination to find a defendant not —
we mean guilty. Judge Docker was, the other day,
fined 10s. and costs, at Parramatta, for trotting round
the corner. In his address to the bench his Honor
couldn’t see it at all. His address was eloquent, but
not convincing. And Mr. Justice Mind-Beading
Docker had to part. Which reminds us that no really
great men are ever summoned for this offence in
Sydney.
Dr. Qniok has called the attention of the
Victorian Attorney-General to the fact that as soon as
oitatione in divorce suits were lodged in the Attorney-
General’s department the facts were published in the
press, which eften enabled co-respondents to get ont of
the jurisdiction of the court before they could be
served, thereby defeating the ends of jnstioe. He asked
that in fntnre precautions should be taken to prevent
the contents of divorce petitions being made public.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen has promised to looked into the
point. The trouble arose out of the sensational Mam-
dells case.
The Sydney University men have been fighting
again about modern v. classical lore. The point has
not been brought ont. Not one man in fifty learns
Latin and Greek to be able to read the classics with
pleasure. The teachings of science, on the other hand,
even although carried away in outline, are filled In day
by day. The classic volume moulders on the shelves
from the day the University is left. But Earth and the
Heavens are perpetual tutors.
It is now freely stated that the alleged minis-
tsrial determination to criminally prosecute all con-
nected with the recent erysipelas selection business is
mere fudge. Apropos, the Cumberland Mercury of
Wednesday state* that two patients. John Thompson
and Henry Collier, aged respectively 67 and 72, dis-
charged from the Liverpool Asylum on 29tb March,
made two selections on the Pentagon run. Dubbo die-
trlct on 30th March. The run is leased by the Bank
of N S W., and the “ agreement ” between these vener-
able settlers and someone else was drawn up by a mem-
ber of Parliament.
Charters Towers turned ont from January to
Jane, 1881—six months—69,263 oz ; Gympie has pro-
duced during the same time, 65,654 cz.—exclusive in
each instance of the yield from pyrites. At Charters
Towers, 45.378 tons have been crushed to obtain this
yield; whereas, on Oympie, the quantity crushed wss
30,066 tons; the average, therefore, of the Towsr*
crashing was 1 oz. 10 dwts. 12 grs., while that of Qym-
pie was 2 oz. 3 dwts. 16 grs. per ton. The average yield
per miner on the Towers for the past year has been
£250; the yield per miner on Gy tuple for the same time
has been £250.
Four masked men stuck up the dwelling of Mr.
J. W. Nixon, of Fairfield, on Thursday night, August
Sri. Nixon is cashier to Messrs. Inglis and Sons, of
Sydney, and the robbers evidently believed that ha was
in the habit of taking borne considerable sums of money.
Nixon was away at the office when they visited his
house. They obtained ad mittauoe .by knocking at the
frontdoor, and then bailed up in a front room Mrs.
Nixon and her children One man kept guard, while
the others ransacked th hon-e bu all the tceas uc
they lighted upon was som» jewellery value*! at abo
£5. There is no police protection at Fairfield.
Sydney School of Arts Debating Club has passed
a novel and comdrehensive proposition, moved by its
new Premier, Mr. E. W. SnUivan, affirming the desir.
ability of effecting the amalgamation of Great Britain
and the United States, on the basis of a Federal Ee-
public, This may bs logic, but, under an English con-
stitution, we suppose it would be very near treason.
Yet the motion was carried by nearly 10 to I Wo
notice the next subject, for debate is the old, old sub-
ject, "Payment of Members.” By the way, Mr.
Sullivan is an old pressman. He founded the Tas-
manian Tribune. which came to grief under Louis
Henn; also tha Melbourne Eves ing Tribune.
The Illustrated Sydney News and a lot of
country papers have been completely potted by some
Rabelaisian loker, who has foisted on them a yarn
closely resembling the celebrated amorphous cave
organism (story which appeared in tha 8. M. Herald
about fifteen years ago. The funny man, who gives his
name as “ Herbert R. Boss,” intimates his intention of
forwarding “the relic of course it’s a relic—to
Mr. J. J. Shillinglaw, of Melbourne. J. J., who at
present has the gout, will no doubt be .duly grateful for
the gift*
At Municipal and Parliamentary elections in
Rockhampton the successful candidates are invariably
those who have the biggest feet. There was once a
Rockhampton politician who, ia ordering a pair of boots
asked the shoemaker “ when he would have them
finished F” “That all depends on the weather,” re-
plied the cobbler. •* What on earth has the weather to
do with it F’’ enquired the customer. “ Well, it’s this
way,” returned the other, “ I must make them outiide
the shop, beeause if I make them inside, they will not
go through the door.”
N.S.W. banking liabilities and assets on June
30, 1882 Liabilities: Bank of N.S.W., £6 864 767
10s. Sd. j Commercial, £6,383,360 15s Bd.; Australasia.
£1,383,824 Bs. Id,; Ualon of Australia, Limited,
£1,090,741 lls. lid. j A J.S., £3,015,928 178. 3d.j London
Chartered of Australia, £434,155 2*.; E., 8., and A C„
£1,234,754 12s. Id. j Oriental Bank Corporation, £850,949
10s. 9d.; Citv. £1,209,430 Is. 3d. j Mercantile Bank of
Sydney, £1,058,711 6s. 6d : New Zealand, £770,381
Bs. 43.; Queensland National, £334,377 Is. 2d. Astets:
N.8.W., £7,948,840 2s lOd.; Commercial, £7,633,913
9s. 93.; Australasia, £1,543,731 83. lid.; Union of Aus.
trails. Limited, £1,718,942 135.; A J.S, £3 766,660
6s. 5d.; London Chartered of Australia, £960 369
17s. 9d.; E, 8 , and A. C.. £1,529 573 lls. 4d.; Oriental
Bank Corporation, £1,038 796 10s.; City, £1,542 340
13s 3d.; Mercantile Bank of Sydney, £1,497,939 2s Hd.;
New Zealand, £801.762 13s. 9J.; Queensland National,
£332 365 os. 5d Total liabilities, £24,181.372 6s. 3d.
Total assets, £30,321 234 10s. 43.
Eowc, the landlord of the Princess Royal Hotel,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, who, with a man named
McNamara, was implicated, by the confession of one
Alfred Roberts, in the Avinski jewellery robbery, has
had hi* trouble postponed for a period. Roberts, of
whom the presiding judge said that he apparently
knew more than he chose to admit, was sentenced to
Bve years' hard labour, but the jury could not agree aa
to the gnilt of Bowe and McNamara, who were
accordingly remanded under £2OO bail until next court,
the scandals recently issued against Superintendent
Winch and Sub-Inspeotor Lamer, as to having borrowed
money from Bowe, are now believed to bo baseless.
The entries are irregularly made either at the top or
bottom of pages in the memorandum-book, are in a
female’s handwriting, and appear to have been done at
much more recent dates than thorn purporting to
record the transaction*. An enquiry to be held. We
suggest that Johh Dxvies would make a good Chairman.
Law is a curious seesaw. Henry v. Municipal
Corporation of Sydney was an appeal action for (I)
wrongful dismissal (2), services rendered. The plain-
tiff had been appointed by resolution of the Council
(signed by the Mayor) as paymaster at a salary of
£2OO a year, and had been dismissed without notice.
Their Honors Judges Fawcett, Windeyer, and Sir
George Innes. gave the plaintiff Henry a verdict. Then
Si'omons, Q.C., and Mr. Brace Smith immediately got
up and' moved to make absolute a rule nisi to set the
verdict aside, on the ground that the plaintiff, not hav.
ing been appointed under the corporate real, had no
power to bring an action. Mr. Pilcher, counsel for
Henry, who “showed cause,’* said that the Council
unhluthingiy made covenants not under seal, in order
that they might dismiss officers without notice. Their
Honors considered that such an important officer as
paymaster should be appointed under seal, but never,
heless, had to make the rule nmibsolute I
The first Juvenile Exhibition in the colonies
was that started at Bathurst in 1878, by Mr. E. D. Ban-
niater, then a chemist. It was a success, financially
and otherwise, being carried out in a spirit of economy,
and was followed by other successful undertakings held
at Emerald Hill, Sandhurst and Geelong. Next came
the Melbourne Juvenile Exhibition, with its self-
appointed committee. This was a sorry failure. Th*
committee appointed a secretary at £6 per week, had
free lunches provided at committee meetings, launched
out into the free-pass system strongly, gave concerts at
which they employed professionals, and spent the
Exhibition money unwisely in many directions. The
natural result was that when a reckoning was made,
the accounts were some hundreds of pounds short • so
the committee got out of the corner by shirking’the
rent of the building used. This is what a ‘ self,
appointed oommitte.” responsible to nobody, though
apparently getting many concessions from the State,
may do if they choose.
Little girl of eight: “I heard them say that
after the divorce ma would marry Mr. Jones, that
gentleman who always gives us lollies.” Little boy of
ten, with the gloomy cynicism of his greater age;
“ And he won't give us candy, then 1”
Love’s young dream badly frost-bitten : “ There’s
my hand,” he exslaimed in a moment of eonrage and
candour, " and my heart is in it.” She glanced at the
empty palm extended towards, and wickedly replied,
•Just as I supposed : yen have no heart.”
A tobacco hater says t— ** Two cigars a day
•will supply a family with flour.” Fogg says he buys
half-a-dozen cigars some days, but he doesn’t find it
any easier to supply the family with flour, for all that.
Ho thinks there must be a mistake somewhere.
“ Oh ! by the way, dear, have yon congratulated
Lily on her engagement P” asked Miss Florence of her
friend. “ Oh, yes, of course. I went round yesterday
afternoon. I told her she couldn’t have done better—
and I don’t think she could, the horrid, dowdy thing 1”
Gus de Brown, who has prolonged his call
considerably after 10 45 pm.: “do you don’t admire
men of conservative views like myself, Miss Angel ?’’
Miss Angel, with vivacity: No, indeed, I prefer people
people who have some go in them.” De Brown reaches
for his hat.
“lam truly sorry to see yon in that condition,’'
said a benevolent old gentleman to an Intoxicated
person. “ Yes-bad oondishnn,” replied the inebriate,
“I’m too far gone t’ walk ’ome an' not drunk 'null to
be looked up.” “ It’s a shame.” “Shame! You jns
bet it ish. Here I’m only half drunk an' dead broke 1”
The young man paced the parlour,
While she was brushing her teeth ;
And he thought of the gold and ulver
Of the daddy who wauld tx q-.eath.
The old man sat on the ceunter,
With his head between his hands.
And rejoiced that his girl had a lorer
Who would help him to meet his demands.
Pat: “ Share no man in his sinses id cull that
dousin'. Many’s the time 1 seen me father (heavens
be his bed) lay down the doer an’ rattle eu it as flus a
jig as aver charm ad tha heart ov a mile-stone. M Mick;
•* Heald yer whisht, en' listen to me There was me
•wn uncle, Nid, whs need to dance Burke's hornpipe on
the doer widunt tamn’ it down at all. Maybe he
didn’t do it in style. Lave it to him tor that.”
An old lady Methodist, at an “ experience ’’
prayer meeting, having told thetaleof how she plunged
right “into the light,” wound up by saying i—”l h*7*
no fear of death ; I feel as if I was ready to fall straight
aw*/ into the bewm of Belzabnb.” “Hueh, sister;
you mean 'the 6m of Abraham,’” said a brother
sitting near her. Well, Abraham, then,”- retorted
shs, “it makes no ifference; they’re both good men.


ESTABLISHED 1837.
—, o W L E E’ S P 0 T T E E Y
JC and
BEICK WOEKS,
qAMPEBDOWN. NEAB SYDNEY.
Prioe Lint An application.
fTffV
»r* / \Wi'
q MO KE eureka tobacco.
the paragon op perfection,
finer than the finest.
tH E TOBACCO OP THE AGE!
DESTINED to eclipse and supersede
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
the only tobacco combining excellence
op QUALITY WITH ECONOMY IN PRICE.
Each Ping * 8 stamped with the word " EUREKA."
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU OBTAIN IT.
Take no other.
MAN UPACTUR
SAYWELL'S TOBACCO CO., LIMITED,
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE JSTREET,
.non be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse, 6
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by everybody
as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
letri stored according to Act of Parliament, to protect
the public against spurious and worthless imitations.
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET.
iHIS Library is supplied regalarly by even; Mail
Steamer with the latest Publications in History,
i oueamer wiiu uuo wwou **
» T9 L Biography, Philosophy, Popular Theology, and
« higher olasa of Fiction j also, all the leading Maga-
lues and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway or Steamboat com-
THE HARWOOD
FIBRE CHAIR SEATING
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, vis.:
Itrength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness and
Cheapness.
PHIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly Waterproof cement,
nd after fifteen years’ constant use, we can speak
ostttvelyl as to its merits. It cannot split or check,
either will exposure to sun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
i&esachasetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
FOR EE-SEATING, it is unrivalled. In every
ouae, store, and office, are Chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
tpense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOE HOME USE.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
From £3 to £5 a week oan be made by any smart man
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
82 CLARENCE STREET.
T
HE APOLLO COMPANY, LIMITED
PYRMONT, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORSi
JOHN KEEP, Eeq. 1 R. T. REMINGTON, Esq.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
Office —B4B George.street, Sydney.
.. Manufacturers of
the Celebrated APOLLO STEARINS CANDLES,
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and FANCY SOAPS.
GLYCERINE, CRUDE and REFINED
„ PRIZE MEDALS
PARIS
PHILADELPHIA.
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
0»»w*' OT ’ th " *»*•«».
Permanently Cures ° r
- - V.U.C3 “'/(J
drunkenness
IT
BOOK
NEVER
FOR
pails
STAMP
all communications confidential.
ADDRESS AT ONCE,
Sk B6 St-, Sydney ’
L ? JJBLIC WARNING on LIFE INSURANCE.
the Meuetary State ef the Offices
n ou snt to be published by Government authority.
To bo had at the Principal Book Sellers.
Price Sixpenc
n
g
m
V ■
VIRTUTIB GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
N^ A i^ £ 0AI ! fc0 4 ? Y J?^ EY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
JL THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal m the Colony,
18s, FEB TON NET, delivered within Citj bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kent well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting*
and cleaner fire tha a any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, 'nor does
it splinter and fly on like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a ohnrtsal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
■teak none of that disagreeable odour of tha unwholesome fumes given off bv a breeze or gas fire
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD, & IRON WORKS,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS
DIVING GEAR, &o.
■V
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,:
• -I
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, *c.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Proverts all rattling, and fastens
the window at any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, Ac*
rc quired.
Celebrated CHAMPION
and every other make,
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Fort-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS A SPECIAL
Established
ROLLER SKATES,
always on hand,
and all Accessories,
able Tallow Gas Apparatus,
and cold water
and Boilers.
PRIZE HOLDERS.
1855.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can bo applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
MACHINERY
you
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
S<iUATTEHS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., &o. ,&<*.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall lj»a glad to furnish PRICES
and other particular on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
NEERB AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
ENG
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BROOK’S
£
Trade mark
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
BROOKS CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
Of ALL DRAPERS THR»U»K9UT
THE WORLD.
COTTOWS.
The following Uet.ef EXHIBBnON PMHBB la a anffleient guarantee.* the aupmjwfty af fca yyPMW menwAffored
them e—Geld'MedaL Paris. 1878. Oniy Pits* Medal, ,—, —.- - -~vr- —~ „ . ...
London, 1862. Geld McM. Paris, k 867. Tfce *nly ef Bermm M«. ftjSTKST
Medal and Award'Philadelphia, 187«, for variety and generil excellence. Only Special First Jnfktd, Sydney, 18S*.
Ash. for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS* ' sS
All Correspwrdence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Warahouaa,
JWynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ONE OF THE WOBLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation In Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any mast ta the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
•'I have fonnd St. JACOB'S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex.
ertlon ia rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.**
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from on*
who knew what he was talking about; and now he says
that St. J A.COB’B OIL an ] good athletic training, ac
what all our young men want.
"11l DEuaaiST’s sell it. price half.a.
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BT-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-strset.
S. HOFFNUNO & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Oeorgo-streei).
I. JACOBS A Co., Hunter-street.
FEERIER’S BAKING POWDER,
Mm** |
MANUFACTORY:
Gborgh-stekkt West, Sydnsti
SELF BAILING FLOUB
YEAST POWDER.
H
[“Established 30 Tears.]
ODfISON’S WHIP PACTOET,
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Gonlbarn-etreet.
B. H O D 0 S O I,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, fto.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
uw
jymya
adapts
£
1 !
L_J
SI
070 H.HILDEfc.6
JjMJJER
HILDtR
no,.
b ost
w&m.
-urn
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
Mr. T. F. DeCOURCY BROWN’S.
(Labe Deputy -CUairm as ef the Mining Board of Now
Sssth Wales).
Avtsob or m " Mrsaiv«' Haudt Rcwk,” &«.,Ao.,
MINING EXPBRT
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AMD AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
130 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
IfBTWB PROPERTIES REPORTED upon.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &c.,


Chemists and Druggists
ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
*/ 0
Sr
'S'/C.
\0
CAUTION.—Owing to the immenin sale that my
Pills have commanded, it has induced dishonest and
dangerous imitations. Ark for
J. S. ABRAHAM’S FILLS
Mgi see that each box, by whomsoever sold, bears the
Biventer’* name and trade mark.
WHILE YOU CAN! Bcoau.se, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Jpeotus, you will net bo able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
punch’s HoteL
rrtICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
JL tralian Relish, mode by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAT.BTREET, SYDNEY,
THINGINEERB, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
tji and Braes Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrlghts. The above Arm are prepared to undertake
©detracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, ntd Girder Work. Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep-washing. Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, with latest improve-
meats.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
J 0 H N RUSS ELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES & 00.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH.
BEDSTEADS,
BELDING, fto.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
eharges.
George la
(Formerly of Oeorge-street,)
importer or
CHINA GLASS AN I) EARTHENWARE,
Bogs to announce that he has RE COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
EVE
TOBACCONIST .149.
i
IV
JAMES BYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the beat Imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
MOULTO
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
■we can prove what we say. There are no failures and n .
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also emo
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the ROWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Pest Family Medicine
hr.own, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are us nearly perfect as it is possible tor a Pill to be.
&ol«l Everywhere, I'rlc-e la. id.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
One Ounce of Fact ia Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINE^
As is usual, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest Pjssihle Awards.
SINGER’S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition, 18i2— Singer’s Sewing
Machines.
FIRST ORDER OF MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS
Public Companies
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,0)0,000. Reserve Fond, £lBO,OOO,
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager
Vincent Wanostrocht Gihlin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Bedfe.n,
Glebe, Burwoodi
London Office : 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst;
Bourke, Bundarra, Caestlis, Condo bolln, Ooonabara-
bran, (Joonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deuiliquln,
Dabbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goal barn, Grafton, Gren-
fell. Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Mol jug,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Change,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Hockley, Hylstone, Single -
ton, houth Grafton, Temora, Tenterfield, Ulmann,
Unt.ua, Wagan Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wiloaimla, Woodbum, lose.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Alloro, Bowen. Charters Towers, Cloimcnt,
Gladstone, Oympie. Ipswich, Maokay, Maryborough,
Havenswood, HiSkhamptoH, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba.
T-wasrille, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Celonies and throughout
the World generally.
'TIKE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
X ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARIIAMENT. XBH
Paid-up Capital £3oo,00"
Reserve Fund. AX2O.COO
DIRECTORSi
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
Qoorgo S. Caird, Esc.
lion. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King. M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jaa. Soroggie, Esq
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wileoa.
SECHETAKY :
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield Hill Redfernj
Qirilombone; Gosford; and Njngan.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 158 Leadenbali-street.
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all nsnal Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the must favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
F. J. FOLLE’S
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A large and well assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
Ann Garments Cut n the Most Fashionable Sttles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the'Address—
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMARKET.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
269 QEOSQE STREET,
Peg to announce that they have
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON'S
ENCAUSTIC TILES.
for
FLOORS and HALLS.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY,
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock,
MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY.
WM, JAMESON <fc CO ’a DUBLIN WHISKY ig
UNSURPASSED.
XT Is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that
it has not teen in the hands of “ Whisky Doctors.”
When you ark for it, Me that you got it, look for the
trade maik J In diamond on label, cork, and capsule.
DALY IS&OTIIEBiS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
'OLD MATURED 1 SCOTCH WHISKY
“ As we Diink it in Scotland."
THOM AND CAMERON,
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate ? ellow OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY as they drink it at hame," this spirit will
bo a welcome boon.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S W. and Queensland,
Importers of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES and
General Merchandise.
SO9 UEOR6E STREET.
c
OOLALTA WINE, BODEGA.
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be bad at
the Bodega. H»t Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 pm.
Similar wines, by the do? an or in bulk, can be ordered
at the B dega, at Cellars adjoining, or from H(ad
Cellars, 119 Pi', t-stront.
10N FOR
OFTHE
HAVL CtKi IFIED THate-iTIS REALIY
> THE PUllM^fO
BEST INJHE- WORLD
-BY AVVA S D.l n &■' T O U S 'HE
(ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BALING ION
FOR FIRST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD 1 EVERY WHERE IN PARER PACKETS
f; OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY ’QUEENS PLACE
WILLIAM* &, COY.
REALLY
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellerf,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
ko., to., *o.
W
ILLCOX
ANT)
GIbBS
Antomatio
Sieut
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 loa
8. HEBBLEWHITE,
16 GEORGE STREET.
Also
no
FODDiu
F.T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE\
-AND
I S' —AKD—
PRINTERS’
r WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilt n St., Hunter St,
s-’Z'mibr mix.
at 70 LITTLE COLLINS "STEKT, NILSOOSNL
IHOMAS Wi ARNE,
ENGINEER k DUNDEE.
ING, TEAM, and RAILWAY BOLLING STOCK
FIRE GIRDERS,
and STOVES,
RGLAR COLONIAL
ROOF PljgWl OVENS,
AFES DEED
and boxes.
DOES.
dh, SUSSEX STREET, k GLEBE FOUNDRY
and SHOW ROOMS, 229 PITT STREET.
Country or Intercolonial Joumalists-
GENTLEMAN, educated, well-informed, and l re-
liable, is willing to supply city correspond
*S3, “Mecnm,” Bulletin Office.
SECTION VII —'SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For their
collection of Mmufaofnring Machine?, & first
order ef meru—Oold Medal
Singer Bffannf ctnrlng Company For the Be“t
Family Sawing Michlue. including variety of
work, <xcelionce tf workmanship and ma-
terial, sitnp’ioity of construction and dura-
bility.—Quid Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For work
executed on Manufacturing Machine*.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Compel)*.—For rreri-
m«ns of brth Plain and Fancy Work >x?uuier
on Family Sewing Machines,—Si.vox Medal.
READ TBE AWARDS.
BEAD THB AWABDS.
Bs*y Terms. Weekly 3j 81 Weekly. Easy Terms.
No Interest. No Addition to the Price. No Interest.
Chief Depot in New Sonth Wales :
No 1 DARLING STORES H-VEBOUR BTRBET,
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathurst. William-street
Balruuald,
Dnbbo,
Goulbnrn. Auburn-street
Grafton, Viotoria-street
Glen Innes, Grey-street
Hay, Laebliu-street
Kempsey, fimith-straet
Ltamore, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mndgee, Lewis-street
Mosa Vale,
Narandera,
Newcastle, Hunter-street
Parramatta, Cnurch-st
Sydney, The Sydney
Arcade, George-
Street.
Tamworth, Peei-streot
Wagga, Bayliss.street.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS
and
SAMPLES OP WORK
Free rom any Depot.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
gINGBR’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNEE & CO.
▲BE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2b. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And wo interest charged.
10 per cent, off tor cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE •• SINGER”—
TURNER Sc COMPANY,
353 George-street,
THE ONLY •• SINGER
TURNEE * COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMABKET.
Singers king
The
O
A
o
<tV
o
T
o
V
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE.
New Davis.
HOWE.
Ac., Ac
/S, A / Light
/ Running
STANDARD.
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Machines.
Electricity
Administered, in a warm bath is the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and b me, cau be affected
at the same time. It removed chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism. Ac., and rids the
system of all impurities; even inercnry is taken out of
the b dy.
Piooe.s and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W MO O KE,
Homoeopath* st,
ISI Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of M >ore*s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Houeehald Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes ail pain from a burn or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
cert ideates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It sots magically in wounds,
biuipcs, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
curative effect on luog complaints, when rubbed into
the obe-t. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a p- t kept in every house, oven if
the home is empty, it willdo for the next tenant
S ikt by all Chemists ajid stores, iu potc, Is. »nd 2a, 6d
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Plaeat description oMiarriages and Buggies— Single and
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.


RILEY BROTHI
SS6 GEORGE STREET,)
600 GKORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET,)
GOULBURN,
NKWCAS'
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET,
THE CHEAPEST D
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COL(
THE ORIGINATORS
NOTED £5 BA]
SILKS, BLAG
EXTRAORDINARY 81-ECIA]
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NOW
ALL PARCELS SENT BY :
A Black Silk D osb is always fash
Cheapest in the end.
Eil. y Brothers have pleasure i
Country frtonds that their Paris t
out the CHEAPEST AND EE T
SILK'S ever seen in Anstralia.
Rile; Brothers have determined
and give their customers a turn
Lot 1 A Beautiful Gros Grain Silt
2 Kioh Corded Groa do Suez (
3 Heavy Corded Gros Royale
4 Rich Drabs, Pawns and Gre;
Suitable for Weddings (
patties.
PIPTEEN YARDS in each dr
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Special Silk* w
for, and will send full direotu
ment to Lidles requiring dresses m
All Parcels Packed Carefully, and
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTHI
BALE WAB.E!
383 GEORGE-STREET, NEAR
and 660 BRICKFIELD HIL
£5 Family Bale.
I pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or ua-
bleached Sheeting
9 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bod
Flannel ,
2 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
S yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women*s Stockings
8 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of W hite or Coloured
Stays .
0 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
yards Gambroon for
strapping
$ yards Strong Brown
Holland
8 large sire Bedroom
Towels
S yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
I pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
* dor. Pocket’kerohiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes. Cot-
tons. Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, Ac. Ao.
Mot
2 Ladi
2 Ladi
2 pair
1 Ladi
1 pair
X Ladii
2 pair*
1 Ladii
4 Infar
2 Infar
2 Infar
1 Infar
Me
2 Infat
1 Infoi
1 doze
8q
Puff be
1 Flan
2 Bibs
1 pair
1 Infai
1 Ini
1 s
Hi
45
1 rah
1 krf
10 yar
20 yan
12 Stn
20 Wit
10 gooi
6 yarc
All
wearini
£5 Men’s Clothing £B 1
Bate.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou- 1 pair
w. HOWARD SMITH
SXEOTH’S WHARF and N]
(Foot of King-strec
Offices : 7 SPRING S
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and Ffi]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
aud
EOCKHAMPTC
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
PATENT PORTABLE GA
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, SI
A
Q OOMPi
"“issued AI
BBJ
THAI
PG
TRADE MARK Bi
The Comp iny is now prepared
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores,
quire no trimming, alford a brilliai
coal gas or kerosene, at less cost, ai
the hand. Samples may be seen
Office, and the Lamps obtained iron
mongers and country Storekeepers.
July ISth, 1882.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desi
friends and the public that hi
centrally-situated premises, next t
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, wi
and specially selected stock of J
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical (
fully invites an early visit, which '
goods, which are all marked in plain
moderate in price and of the best qc
An experienced siaff of workmer
Presentation and other jewellery mi
Watches accurately repaired, at
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmii
EWP R E ]
MR. J. CALLA
CONFEC lONER AND
so favourably known to the General
Aldermen of various munkupaiitie
bodies, has REMOVED to his El
SHOP. No. 607 k 712 GEORGE STR
the corner of Goulburn-street, whei
bo see his eld customers, and to who
for their liberal support, and how
There is a private room and lai
requisite much needed In Sydney, a
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN 8 DINN
WEDDING BEEAKFi
MINISTERIAL Ba.f.<3
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is request
CASH PRICE LIST OF V
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr James Fitzpatrick, uncle of Mr. P. J.
of Mingay, and one of the first white men
who vlsttcd Port Phillip, died last week at Campbell-
town, aged 85 years. . , ,
The property disposed of under the wx.i of the
Mr John Browne, of Macquarie Place, Singleton,
wbichwillis disputed by Mr. John M‘Elhone. M.L.A..
son-in-law of deceased, is valued at £200,000,
Tt is auite true that Archibald Forbes is to be
vnnrried in America next October—in other words, that
iffl will for a time cease lecturing in order that he may
Tfictuied. It is also a fact that Mr. Forbes like*.
Australia, and may possibly stttle in Sydney.
One or two of the papers ask how it was that so
attended the funeral of a rich publican, and so
Ir® that of a poor poet. The reason lay in this—one
by liquor, the other was by liquor conquered
The world still worships the golden calf.
John Boyle O’Eeilly, editor and proprietor of
T p IL oT, in Philadelphia, called a meeting and got
1 a large sum from Irishmen to hunt down the Piece-
Park murderers. He is the same O’Eeilly who
served a term in Western Australia for Penianism, but
escaped to America.
"Ricoiotti Garibaldi, so a cable says, is organising |
Italian legion to help Arabi Bey. Only the other |
sav he was a “ truant officer ’’ attached to the Educa-
firm Department, Melbourne. Eiaoiotli is lame - had
his thigh shattered by a German bullet in the Franco
Prussian war of 1870.
Was it a foreboding ? On the morning of the
.. death. Qus. Wangenheim was in a tobacconist's
when the conversation turned on the death of the
lot a Henry Kendall. “ I should like to die suddenly,”
id line • ‘‘l wouldn’t care about enduring the long-
□nffarinsr’ agonies poor Kendall went through.*’ Qus.
got his wish that very afternoon.
Dr H M Eowland, who died at Malvern Wells,
TiWand’ on May 16th, was an old N.B.W. colonist. He
wi here for England, fourteen years ago, after identi-
'e.„„himpolf for years with the Carcoar district. It
was*mainly duo to Dr. Rowland that the Carcoar
Hosnital assumed its present dimensions. He was
forty-eight years of ago when hedied.l
M Jules Meilhan, the pianist, who recently
died at Naples, left S. Australia for Europe for the
benefit of his health, which, at late advices, had
freatlv improved. The joy of meeting his parents,
who went over from France to visit him, was too much
for M. Meilhan, who burst a blood-vessel, and died in
less than fifteen minutes.
Ann Henry, relict of the late Eev. William
one of the pioneer missionaries of the South
Sea Wands, died in her 85th year on July 29th, at her
residence, Waratah, Pyrmort-Bridge Road. She was a
native of N S. Wales, having been born at Byde, on the
Parramatta River. She married at 16 years of age, and
became devoted to mission work, having a perfect
knowledge of the Tahitian language.
Mr Swanson, M.H.E. of N.Z., recently said
verv warm about Mr Farnall, who wrote
ftattS to the Auckland E ykbiho Stab, headed:-’’ Mr.
Qwftnaon’B libel on Mr. Farnall.” To this Mr. Swanson
curtly "If Mr. Farnall thinks that 1 have
spoken a cowardly and malicious libel of him in Parlia-
Sent, no plea of privilege will be used by me in bar of
such proceedings as he may choose to take.—William
Swanson.” _
John Murchison, who died at Kew, Victoria, in
Tune last, was the son of the late Lieut. Kenneth
Murchison, of the 78th Highlanders, and was bom at
Tain in Scotland, in 1798. He served in the British
army for twenty years, and landed in Sydney in 1833.
in 1839 he drove a tandem overland to Port Fhilhp
and settled at King Parrot Creek He was the oldest
living Victorian magistrate up to the time of his death.
His will has now been proved at £4OOO.
«t j d J). Jackson,” who is allowed to inflict
bis Tichborne craze on the long-suffering readers of the
KvknkOOZß, alludes in a recent letter to “ the man
Guilford Onslow " Now, perhaps. Mr. Jackson will
not mind us telling him that, notwithstanding his idio-
svncraov respecting the Claimant, Mr. Onslow is one
of the kindest and most gentle of men; being, indeed,
noted for his unselfishness, and also celebrated for his
vast classical attainment s. How would the author of
the Sonpor rigmarole like anyone to call him the man
Jackson,” we wonder? It s only a small matter after
all though Probably Mr Onslow will hear of Jackson
about the same time that Jackson’s Souper is allowed to
play the part of Sir Roger Tichborne. Bosh 1
J. Medway Day, one of the leader-writers of the
S A Register. was formerly a Baptist parson, and
even now often mounts the pulpit. The Register is
dead against the present Bray ministry, and Medway
often drags politics into his sermons. The other Sun-
day he was striving to prove the existence of a personal
devil. After a broad hint that the last Beaconsfleld
Government was a striking illustration of thejreahty of
Auld Clootie, he asked his leaders to come nearer
home. “Look” said he, “at our own Ministry, at
their wiles, at their flattery, &s., &0., and who can
doubt the existence and personality of the devil i*
There is another Day Charles in the Register
office. He is one of the proprietors and manages the
commercial department. Office wags call Medway.
•* Judgment Day and Charles, Pay Day.
Here’s a true yarn about poor Kendall, which
has never found its way into the papers, and which will
be appropriate at the present time as showing that
though he had a fail in? he made many struggles to con-
quer it. An intimate friend, an artist, met him one day,
•• Jack,” he said, “I’m turning over a new leaf—infant.
I’ve got a now book. I've declared war, sanguinary
war to the knife against grog, and I’ve opened the cam-
paign gloriously." “ Glad to hear it» old ina>n» hope
you'll be victorious." The following week they met
again. “Well,” said Jack, “hows the war? Pro-
gressing favourably," replied Kendall, but with a sort
of compromise—the demon and I shake hands when wo
meet." Another week elapsed and the friends met.
“ How’s the war, Kendall ?’* asked the artist. ‘ All
over," replied the poet. “ Complete and glorious vic-
tory. The demon has won."
Forsyth, one of the insurance swindlers, has
again been admitted to bail, in spite of his recent levant.
Wo surmise by this that the local wisdom was wrong
when it said that Forsyth had not that sterling
blessing—money—at his credit somewhere. There was
a row about some cash of his between two Adelaide
lawyers, Linklater and Degenhardt; but it seems
difficult at this distance to fathom what the real merits
of the scuffle were. Anyway, both parties wrote to the
local press, and both further mystified the public Instead
of making matters clear. As we prophesied, Hicks has
made himself scarce, and it is dubious now whether a
conviction con be secured against Forsyth. By the
way, a Dr. Morrison and family recently left Adelaide
for ’Frisco or Europe, and some local speculations have
been indulged in as to Whether —but there, we il stop
while we’re safe. Besides, it can’t be.
Archibal Forbes recently visited St. Arnaud
(Vie), and the lecturing committee resolved to meet
him on the platform and give him a reception. Forbes,
however, "piped" the deputation from the carriage
window. He knew what those hard high hate and
freshly-greased boots meant directly. Bo he stepped
quickly out, resolving to avoid both the deputation and
tne ceremonial shandrydan, which he could hear jingling
to a horse-cough accompaniment. The leading delegate
took off his hat, and standing before the War Corres-
pondent was about to present him with the freedom of
the city or something, when Archibald pushed quickly
on. A panic then seised the deputation, but it was
quickly rallied by one of the number, who, winking to
his companions that he was about to strike the right
chord, strode up to Archibald, and said, “ Hi, Mr
Forbes, would you line anything to drink?" ** No,”
thundered that gentleman, and in another moment was
■iway, leaving the committee sorrowtully gathered
round the chariot of ceremony, and using the
most indifl- rent language. Subsequently, however, an
entente cordiale was established. R. B. Smy the explained
that Forbes had taken the deputation for eircus-tent
men, and hence his coolness.
That genial official, Mr. Upjohn, who hangs and
(logs at Melbourne, has been deprived of his salary of
£9O a year, and will, in future, bo paid 11 uy results,” at
the rate of half-a-soveroign for each case of flogging,
and £5 for every execution. There’s never any donut
about the result when Mr. Upjohn goes to work. This
economy on the part of the Victorian Government
lends a new terror to the Cabbage-garden gallows. In
Sydney, when you’re going to be "laanofaed into
eternity," you know (that’s to say if yon happen to be
well posted is the Bine Book), that as the boss hanger
gets £l5O a year reg’lsr, and his assistant £l2O ditto
ditto, without any extras no matter how much woia
they do, they’d much rather stay in bod than got up
before eight on a cold morning for the purpose of put-
ting you in a condition of asphyxiated funnambulatien.
But over in Melbourne, now-a-days, every bangee feels
that his friend in black has a personal interest in his
being strangled—that there is, in fact, a very close
connection between the rope around the neck of him
who goes before and the bread and butter of him who
stays behind. The Victorian hangman has, in fact,
been placed in the delicate position of the modern
undertaker, who likes to see people die. From all this
in is quite plain that we are more civilised than the
Victorians.
• • •
Mr. E. Evans, the well-known cricketer and
inspector of conditional purchases, has left Yaes for
Penrith George Crawiord, Registrar of Supreme
Court, Brisbane, died of consumption last Thursday,
aged 36 years Fred. Woodhont e, well-known animal-
painter, of Melbourne, got shaken up recently by a
Sondridge train, and said that his groin was injured to
the extent of £1000; a jury couldn’t see it, and gave a
verdict for defendants... The will of the late Mr Karnot,
M.L.A., of Geelong, has been proved at £30,000
A curious intimacy has sprang up between Buskin and
Cardinal Manning, who visit picture galleries together.
There is no saying what result to cathedral ornamenta-
tion might follow His Eminence’s conversion to the
views of the great Art Priest Mr. Swinburne has
been asked to contribute a biographical article on Mary
Queen of Soots to the Enctceopobdia Britannic a......
Mr. Anthony Trollope Intends to tour through Ireland,
and write a novel descriptive of the present state|of the
country. He was a postal official at Belfast years ago...
The London Times says that the original of the “Fat
Boy” of Dickens was a man who lives at Budden
England. This sweeps away one of the greatest
slanders that have ever been circulated against a certain
distinguished N.S.W. politician. Mr. T. Rasden, at
one time proprietor of Shannon Vale station, and a
large property owner in Glen Innes, died, aged 73
years, on July 80th, in poverty, at the Glen Innes
Hospital Mr. Philip Milrick, once well known in
the sporting world of Victoria, died a few days ago in
Queensland Mr. Henry Garvin, some years since
Bub Inspector of Police in the Maoleay district, is
dead. He latterly resided at East Kompsey, and was a
J.P. He had been in the colonies for 42 years, and
during 34 years be was in the police service. He was
hnnmiroH wif.h IMasonio, funeral.
IN MEMORIAM.
"GUS.”
We speak of thee, so cunning, erst, in fence,
Sj genial too, alas 1 in the past tense.
But how far better, Qus, it does befall.
To name|thte thus, than name thee not at all 1
Thou wert no poet whom a nation wails.
No deathless hero of romantic tales,
No orator of whom the Senate's vain,
Yet how we’d like to have thee back again
Of “ poets," “ orators.” 'mengst human-kind,
Look but around and then jou myriads find:
Yet long you may look—till the end of time I
Before you find another Wangenheim 1
SONNET.
[IN MEMORIAM HENRY KENDALL]
One little leaf, and gathered all in haste,
With eyes averted by the starting tear,
I oast, O Kendail, ou thy lonely bier—
Lonely—since not magnificently chased.
But yet 'twill come wnen thou art grandly placed
High as thy reach of soul 1 When all the mere
Oarners of dross who boil and bubble here, •
With vacant foreheads, still to genins raised.
Are blotted out as th- y were never found ;
Tlien shalt thou get thine own 1 TJ wn far withdrawn
Prom the temptations that must ever throng
And seek to bear the gifted to the ground.
To the Hereafter ihou shalt be the song
Of skylark singing in thy country’s dawn I
In Memoriam.
HENRY KENDALL.
I.
The Strange Ones hov’ring o’er a silent earth
Had mourn'd for that its silver heaving sea
And mountain-crested continents should be
Alone of all worlds dumb e’en from their birth.
Then swept they o’er the ocean whisp’ring soft.
The wavelet’s lip they kissed. From far away
The jealous sea-bird saw, and in the spray
His saucy pinion dipped, then soared aloft
And heard the wave kiss back the laughing shower
That from his dripping wing in crystals fell.
“Oh wave, to thee is music born.’’ The swell
That beat where iron cliffs did tower
Far up, and, wistful, waited long the strain,
Now in hoarse frenzy thundered to the land
The heavenly birth. And from the silver strand
The gossip winds o’er mountain and o’er plain
Whispered the tidings. Flowers through|dewod eyes
Of joy looked up, and heard the forests sway
From side to side, rustling their joy that they
Their thoughts long mute could murmur to the skies.
ii.
How weary is the babble and the strife
Of men with dim eyes ever downward turned t
•' These shapeless longings that within have burned
Surely must figure something more for life
“ Than wealth, or revelry, or hopeless woe,"
The poet cried. *' I will unto the flowers
And mountain forests hie, and let my hours
In their dumb presence idly come and go."
hi.
The Strange Ones came again, and to his ear
Murmured the strain the waves had known so long.
•• How well the birth we know of that sweet song,"
The fallen blossoms said, on their sweet bier.
The violet-covered bank or quivering grass.
And far and wide the forest chanted on.
He heard t and when a gentle touch upon
His lips he felt—"Oh voices, will ye pass
Away, and not to me this wond’rons tale
Tell, that from out the hoary past ye heard.
And what the legend of the singing bird
In silver’d notes trilled through the forest s wail ?
IT.
•• Not silent as ye deem nor meaningless
Oh brothers, are the mountain and the stream ;
Not in the flower or ocean lies the dream,
But in ourselves; and wind and sunshine bless
*« All grief away if we would but awake
And listen to the heav’n-sent harmony.
And peer into the fragrant mystery
Of flow’r and fruit, clear stream, and tangled brake.
•’ The trees sing forth of Hope at eventide,
All through the night the trees and rustling corn
Look up unto the stars. And then at morn
Again of Hope—how she comes as a bride
•« With golden sunshine wreathed, and heav’nly smile ;
How tyranny and pain and loneliness.
And Hope, though widowed, and the wilderness,
Still bloom at length; and that each weary mile
«• Bnt leads to rest, and final happiness.
Not in oblivion shall we ever dwell.
Th’ awakened soul could dream no greater hell
Than down to sink in earthy nothingness. ’
v.
So far he sang, and wandered forth again.
Hoping, perchance, some higher strain to hear ;
But when the music came, the poet’s bier
Was spread. He heard from far across the plain
The voices ef the Strange Ones, “ Sing no more;
Come where the meaning of all things is known ;
part have we taught thee. Now the forests moan v
And all it meant, shall with the ocean's roar,
•• And soft-voiced blossom tell to men their loss.
Beside the sounding sea they laid him down.
The waves called to the forests, ** Bring a crown,
And with ns, o'er him, choir Athanatos."
C. WESLEY CADDY.
Sydney, 4th August, 1882.
AtJQtJST 12, 1882.
THE BULLETIN.


The Australasian diamond drill
COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will toe undertaken toy the above Com-
pany to bote any Bleed hole*, vertical or horizontal,
up to
3 INCHES OR LARGER,
if required, te any depth, at a reduction of
85 PER CENT BELOW ANT P*EYK)U3 CHARGE.
The Company in all oases will And th«ir own fuel and
water for aril flog purposes, and will make no char ire
for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on plant, and
will also provide workmen, engineers, ho.
The nex duplex barrel! inbreduetd into the colony toy
Mr. J. Oofblan wiU be need free of charge to persons
searching tor minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every rwtfidenoe, from his prsebieal
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will toe able to
give general eatiefaetioa, as well u quick despatch te
ail orders addressed to the
Temporary Offieee, 293 Georgc-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager pro. tem.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Si ok
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Bold in bottles, 24. 6d. and 4s. 6d., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee,
diarlea Cross. M.P.S. Viot.; M.H P.5.,Qt.8..
•* GAWLE2, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNG ft CO.
IJNDEE SECTION V., ACT 532.
AET~UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
10.030 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PAIZTUW of the full value of £10,090.
117 lots guaranteed, oaah if preferred.
Lot 1. Ist prize £4OOO f Lot 3. 3rd prize £1350
Lot 3. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4 4th prize £4OO
Lota 5 to 9, Frizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10, 1 Priz« of £5O.
Lota 'I to 2«, 10 Prizes of £lO eaoH.
Lota 21 to 120, 100 Prizas of £4 each.
The management is oonpeiUd to extend the time of
drawing to the first day of August, IW2. Notwith-
standing this annwnnooment, the drawing will posi-
tivoly be proceeded with reven days after the shares
are suboorltoed fer. All unsnocenful applicants will
have their mnwy returned per return of poet. This ie
the grnminta opportunity over offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, if not a large and Independent fortune,
for £l.
Adthess—SETH R. PKESSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers j Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
BEAD PROSPECTUS.
J. THOMAS.
BILLIARD TABLE MAKER.
153 JBATHUEST STREET.
CUES, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS, Ac.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
to
m STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES
A
A
A
AA
A
AA
AA
THESE CODE'S WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
THE FAINT FOB. IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVER
BLISTER CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF.
IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLABENCE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS!
PEAPESi& SHAW
Have concluded their Annual STOCK TAKING, and will, ON THE ARRIVAL OF THE "CHIMBORAZO,”
be ia possession of their FIRST INSTALMENT OF NEW SPRING GOODS, as follows :
CHILDREN’S FRENCH KID GLOVES,
in Blacks, Dark Colours, and Fancies.
LADIES’ "FIRST CHOICE" FRENCH KID GLOVES, from TWO TO TWENTY BUTTONS, IN OUR
CELEBRATED MAKES, " FLORA" and “ CLEOPATRA.”
THE NEW SWEDE MOUEQUHTAIEE GLOVES.
NEW TAFFETA GLOVES, IN TWO, FOUR, AND SIX BUTTONS.
•ar Note.— All the above gr ods are made to our special order.
NEW FRENCH WOOLLENS.
IN THE GENTLEMEN’SjDEPARTMKNT we shall show OUEIFIEST SHIPMENT OF FRENCH
MANUFACTURED WOOLLENS.
Our nnat experience has oonUrnud us in the opinion that these peculiarly Light, Soft, yet Durable Goods
are the most suitable class for this warm semi-tropical climate during the Summer mouths.
PEAPES & SHAW, PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET. GEORGE STREET.
O.OU a H S AND
The Best Care for the above ii
and taken at bed-
PUE E E
Extra Strong
6s. Per Imperial (
C. W. RO
SINGLE BOTTLE DEI
MARKET STE]
WHEN YOU VISIT I
go to
C. W. EOBBI
NEW BAE,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR M
where you can obi
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY. BE A
SHERRY, OR t
of saoh a Quality that cannot
other establishment in
C. W. BO BE!
COLONIAL WINE DE
is now open
MARKET SI
BED OE WH
only
3d. per Half-1
Quality Superb
NONE BUT VI
the
PRODUCT OP AUI
is
SOLD IN THIS DEI
THE MOST WHOLESOME OB
MADE HOT IP Etß
Please Cal) «r,d E
C. W. EGBERTS’"BPBCI
at 4s. 6d. per bottle, is
YEEDEILH
lovely White Wine, Is.
POET MACQUARIE ]
Is. 6d. per bol
MUEEUMBIDGE
3e. per bottl
C. W. RO
MARKET STB
FURNITURE! FU
PUENITUEE
AtTHEEE is the best plac<
T ▼ This question is being
is of as much interest to anyou
tide, as to the *' Happy Couple 11
keeping, and who want everyt
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HYDE P,
FURNISHING E
OXFORD STREET,
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
Vu
ns
<A>. ->
‘"fifSPATEC-
IScotdiW 1
~j.
WHOLESALE
GEOCEE
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MEE-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BEOOMPIELD3
CBLEBEATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN bITXEES
OENEEAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PEICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COPPEB.
BICYCLES AND TRICYCLES,
SOCIABLETRICYCLES.
THE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
The Lightest Running and Strongest yet invented.
For Racing, Eoad, or Tourist, they are Unexcelled.
THE BEST INVESTMENT OP THE PRESENT AGE.
The Latest Novelty is the Sociable Tricycle with
Cushioned Seats for two persona. Those who want to
know what real enjoyment is, should try one of time.
TEIOYOLKB FOE BOYS.
The Lateit Design. Cannot Upwt. No more broken
arms or collar hones. Travel with lightning speed.
BTo Boy should be content till he has one of these.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUBS and the TRADE*
iBENNIOK, KEMSLEY. & CO.
38 CLARENCE STREET.
SYDNEY.
"ISIT E. BUEGIS* NI
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 P
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, aad W(
Diagrams for self-maafmring forw
the Coionj.
A. A. DEBNEY
13 TTTTMTinR. STRUCT
IHK TAILOii FOE 'I HE PUBLIC.
F. H. 'H AOOV,
lite cutter to E. C. Hap^>f u; ffinr.^reet,
ha \ ii
CO UMODIOUa Bpwfiv ; . . p a k?j IsE-j
'ii '* t ~v
132 Mr I’ V•;.3 ■
ad oiaii'if O . . "«
where every, ilit, v > . f ( t , IJU „
hrvln ’ t i u , ■
PEEsjiiii, •» j ,> j,
’V «, t
S V s .. . * i ■
wi.a K < "> f
West o£ E i tm . . • t*.
Scotch i'atM ' - .‘, v,
West of Enrl uid " ■ i i ’ I i
Scotch lrjii.i « ■> . i r l>< ft >
N.8.-Ali Gar.a iu * M . N - UDE
of a quail y a.a i
R
r h H . tj j
. H. HAGON.
rjIHE BLACK '"'t UR .t V lsf r
Acts ill ea ch icm i« jvj;y iti. i
A Single Dose gives Ejliaf 'at oao j,
Refreshing Sleep,
BALSAM
of Cough,
and procures
MADE ONLY BY SENIOR,
Chemist to His Excslleucy.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur-
nishing a New Home or adding to the comforts of
your present Home, yon will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CREEBY, & CO.,
who will furnish houses on thj
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY,
ear Noxs thb Adoekss—
WILLIAMSON, ip ORRERY, & 00.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
603 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
J 3 h « a^\ 0t y v , WftB crowded on Saturday night,
wh»a Mr. Sheridan opened in " Eichelieu j” ind, what
is rare for Saturday nights, a good proportion of the
audience was fashionable. Mr. Sheridsn is
a magnificent actor. There ere revy few of
whom we can say this without qualification of
some kind. He is one of the few. and if, in ths
other characters of his repertoire, he displays pro-
prtionate intensity and power to that which he shows
in Bicheben and Lear, we believe him to be at the
head of those few. These be large words, but his
success here, in the very teeth of difficulty and dis-
couragement, justifies them to the fullest extent.
er *? 1 . 8 ’ P er haps, no safe criterion of
ability, but popularity achieved under such circum-
stances is an infallible test.
• • #
There are many’ splendid passages in Lord
JLytton s play, hut there is one pre-eminent for concen-
trated force—that where the great Cardinal, after
having been informed of the conspiracy against his
life, draws himself up till his old and feeble frame
seems to tower to a Titanic height, and cries that,
though his friends desert and the stars fight against
him, there is yet one thing which shall remain stead-
fast to the eud—“ the soul of Armand Eichelieu.” Mr.
1 t'lds point, almost raised the audience out
of their seats. Do you understand us, reader ? When
a heroic sentiment is expressed in heroic style, the
meanest listener feels himself, an Achilles for the
moment. This is the tost of true acting. For an artist
to play upon all the strings of the human heart with
an unerring hand, touching each in turn and striking
each time a clear, unanimous note from stalls to pit
and gallery, something more than cleverness is re-
quired. That something is called genius in the
dictionaries, and that something Mr. Sheridan
possesses in as rare a degree as any man we have seen
before the footlights. Thought is the soul of speech,
and uo rhapsody, however sublime, is of more account
than the cry of a fish-hnwker, until this soul has been
breathed into it by the speaker. There was no speech
spoken by Mr. Sheridan on Saturday night that had
not this soul. la addition, he possesses a fine gift of
facial expression, a dignified hearing, and a good ear
for the niceties of the English language Certainly
here and there one can distinguish decidedly American
peculiarities of pronunciation ; but as , there are fifty
millions of English-speaking people in the States, per-
haps they know what they are about in pronouncing
words after this fashion. Wo have no more to say of
Mr. Sheridan just now, save that, “take him for all
in all, we shall not look upon his like again ” —in a
hurry.
• # •
Miss Louise Davenport (Julie de Mortemar) is
one of that tpirihielle sort of women which seems to be
a distinctive product of American civilization. She is
lovely, this little lady—so much so that if she had been
in reality the character she represented, old Eichelieu
is not the mau wo take him for if he would not have be-
headed Monsieur Adrien do Maaprat and run away with
her himself. She is just what she should be as Julie—
simple, girlish, graceful. Her attitudes are perfect,
and her voice has a tender womanly thrill in it that is
worth more, in season, than all the tragic emphasis of
more Medea-minded actresses. la the great scene
where the Cardinal draws around her the magio circle
of the church, she looks, with eyes cast down and
hands clasped upon her bosom—but what are similes iu
times like these f Descend, O Musa, once again. She
descends, hand over hand. And now we say in rhyme
what we dare not say in reasonable prose :
As lovely is this sweet Louise
As star-lit lilies are,
And shines by her own light,
A lily and a “star.”
But, while we write, we blush, you see.
At such a rate, we think,
That somehow or the other, we
Are writing with red ink.
• » t
Mr. W. H. Leake’s Adrien de Mauprat was a
fine piece of acting. Mr. Leake is a good actor iu spite
of many mannerisms. In his interview with the Car-
dinal he was impressive and manly. So it was through-
out. His conception of the character dove-tails exactly
with Mr. Sheridan’s conception of Eichelieu. And this
is no scant praise. We are always glad to see Mr.
Leake on the stage, and we are sorry that we have to
leave him so soon this week. But, if we should happen
to be writing theatrical criticisims “ over there,” he
may depend upon our not forgetting him though all the
waters of Lethe should be poured down our throat.
• • •
So far, we have taken the characters in order of
merit. But now place anx dames. Misa Nelly Playfair
has a paragraph all to herself, because—we should say
it we were insiduous flatterers-—she is a splendid
artiste. But, as we are not persons of this stamp, we
must confess that the true reason is because she is the
only lady in the caste loft to criticise. And now let us
take the edge off this homely truth by saying that she
went through her part very nicely. She did not look
exactly that
Pauvre Marion de Lorrac,
De si rare et plaisante forme,
who drove the court of Louis XIII. mad for her
beauty’s sake, bub she looked a very pretty little
woman for all that.
• • •
Mr. Frank Cates’ Louis XIII. was good, as far
as make-up and appearance were concerned. But his
speech and carriage were hardly regal enough for a
hung except, perhaps, such a monarch as King Billy,
of the Warrigal tribe. Foild tout. It is impossible to
suggest improvement, for are we not credibly informed
that no man can by taking thought add a cubit to his
stature r Mr. James F. Cathcart belongs to a school of
acting which has nearly passed away. And, though
good enough in its day, we don’t think there are many I
people except those who praise the past merely because
they were of it in their youth, and the dead simply he-
cause younger men have not seen them and cannot con-
tradict the statement, who will weep much over its
< ecease P Mr. Cathcart is too supematurally pompous
ior anything under a Miltonic throne in Pandemonium.
„, u “'T® must admit he is an available man, and that is
omethuw. Mr. Medus made us weep for joy that the
j 10 ?, bad done away with monasteries in Eng-
tJ” 1 if the Capuchins were anything like what
■ ~?d? s made of Joseph. The “grey Cardinal”
as a different sort of personage, we opine. Mr. H.
made very little of his part (Francois). The
_ * the characters were what the creator made them
®°” nothing. The play was well-mounted, and the
fm- ?2 ry J® m^i‘*a bly fine. We anticipate good audiences
fusin' ,keridan while he stays here, and a cead mill»
jaxltM when he comes back.
* * **
Queen’s Theatre Company have been play-
fSLiS* Shaughraun ” at the Victoria Hall since
An They have had very fair houses indeed.
. I, , aohvtwe* of the Morgue have rallied round the
ttm j, *B®tna. -ft is not necessary to say much about
£najr ' 'because everybody has seen it at some time or
” But it is certainly the wittiest ef Dion Bond-
wlirwJ*. °l ios ,- We are as glad as a mau might bo
her o mo "“ er - l n-law would die on the day he married
ami,u U u b av “ a chance to any something,
w ri ..„ about Mr. Keogh aud his company. -We have
mi-hf -?? 8 . l>e£oro uow wlt h regard to them that
baye looked harsh to a person who was
acquainted with our playful little ways. But these
-v 17eren0 x *° iH-aatm-ad as they ap red. They
were hke a certain distinguished member of Parliament
™™J n + n Ce ’ \? t good at hearfc ' Wo on'tgive the
t : he » enfclema o we refer to, becaus it is a piti-
n.rl u human nature that most men and women—
t2£Xi ST“ rftther be thou?ht ugl >'- so ' iled
• • •
Misa Marian Willis is neither. She is pretty,
we know, and good, we will swear. As Clare Folliott,
»?i ked *\ ceedln f?ly well, despite the fact that the
part allowed her no opportunity for coquettish or mag.
milcent dressing. Barring a little making-up—not
more than a number of ladies who are not in the pro-
fession go through at their toilet every day—she had no
adventitious aids whatever. And she played very
nicely, and, we are glad to say, naturally. Her frown
was as pretty as her smile, except on one occasion,
wnen, we presume, one of the bold peasantry, its
country s pride,” must have stepped on her corns. The
momentary glare that lit up her line eyes just then was
excusable enough, if we put any faith in Byron’s state,
ment that ‘Hell has no fnry like a woman’s corns.”
Miss Marian Willis is a clever little lady, and would
more stir than a number of eoi-iiaant “stars” if
she had rest, and an opportunity ef studying a higher
school of acting than that which the colonies afforas.
* • •
Miss Marie Wilton (Moya Doolan) we like, ex-
cept for a strange mannerism of speech peculiar to no
place that we have ever seen, heard, road, or dreamt of.
And yet it might be Pyrmontese. Pyrmont is a dread
region which we have never visited, there being a lion
in the path in the shape of a toll-gate. Miss Wilton
made a pleasant-looking Moya, and acted as pleasantly.
Miss Nelly Montague’s Arte O’Neil was serviceable, if
not m accordance with the higher canons of dramatic
art. Miss C. M‘lan # s Mrs. O'Kelly was successfully
funny. You will please take notice of this phrase.
i ? r ? are kinds of fun—that which takes, and that
which doesn t. The latter is facetiously known ns
wholesome ” fun—meaning that it hurts nobody,
because nobody reads it. And now we are in a bit of a
fix. We hardly know whether place aux dames ought to
apply to Mr. J. Sweeney (Biddy Maddigan) or not. As
he doubles this with another part (Corry Kinchela),
suppose we say that in the latter he is a first-class old
woman, and in the former a passable old man ? How
will that suit him ?
* # «
Mr. J. F. Keogh played Con the Shaughraun
and played it excellently. It is surprising that a person
of such pure hidalgo descent as Mr. Keogh should
imitate the Irish accent so perfectly. Probably, how-
ever, his haughty ancestors picked it up while the
Milesians were carrying bricks in Spain. Mr. Keogh
has a good deal of drollery that is popularly supposed
to belong tolthe Irish character. But his " gags,’’ to
those who know the plsy, were more amusing than the
text. He is decidedly a good old Shaughraun. The
expression “ old,” yon will please observe, is net here
intended to imply antiquity, but affectionate apprecia-
tion. Mr. J. B. Steele (Captain Molyneaux) was nearly
as much as he was required to he. And that was not
much. We have little fault to find with him on this
score. Trop de zele is worse than none. There was too
much lank mia-ry in Mr. Burford’s make-up for Harvey
Duff to fit in to a comedy. Mr. G. Melville avoided
this error by scarcely making-up at all. Mr. J. Starke
played the part of Father Doolan fairly well. But the
conspicuously bad fit of his hat completely draws away
the attraction of the audience from his acting. Wo
have now dealt with all the major characters of the
piece. The rest may rest in peace. The scenery was
not exactly de luxe, but it was well handled. This was
strikingly exemplified in the prison scene, where a
pair of busy hands were seen 1 oting the donjon keep
over to the other side of the stage. We should not
have known what the Dens ex machina of this trans-
position was only that that they were sticking out
through the paper battlements. A complimentary
benefit to Miss Marion Willis will be given on Friday
night, when “ Lady Audley’s. Secret”, will be pro-
duc#d.
** * *
“Youth" ia yet attracting good audiences to the
Royal. Tbe last week has been more financially suc-
cessful than any, barring the first. It ia expected to run-
another fortnight and possibly longer. We should not
be surprised to »ee it run, like the trook, “ for ever and
for ever." So far, its duration has been a flat contra-
diction to the great adage “ whom the goda love die
young.” Goodie’s bonhommie (we won a French bandy-
phrase book the other day in a lottery, which explains
the linguistic irruption in the Shows this week) is more
delicious than’eter, and everything is sweet.
** * *
A strong company, composed of Mr. Arthur Vivian
Miss Helen Vivian, and others leaves Sydney for Mary
borough (Q Jin about a fortnight. They procesh
through the North as far as Cooktown, then work
down to Brisbane. Mr. Vivian is too well-known to
need muoh eulogy, but perhaps it is as well to sar, for
tbe benefit of the benighted persons who do not know
him, that ho is a clever and successful actor. Miss
Helen Vivian is a nice little woman Off the stage and a
good actress on it.
** * *
Pepper ia at Gympie, we see, producing his
Ghost. He has for the present apparently shelved the
rain-kite fake. By the way, we wonder what has
become of the gentleman in Brisbane who wrote to the
Observer, stating that he distinctly felt a slight shower
when the kite was at one end of the string. Died in
lingering torments, we hope.
*# ♦ *
Business is becoming better at the Opera House.
And Messrs Kellar and Cunard s entertainment ia
deserving of increased patronage. Fresh diablerie is
introduced into the show every night, and the audio see
are either kept glued to their seats wiih their hair on
end with horror, or else clutching convulsively at the
back of the seats in front of them, to keep themselves
from going to pieces with laughter. The entertain-
ment is certainly worthy of success.
** * *
Zulu Thompson and the editor of the Auckland
Observer have had a row. Ihe newspaper man says
that W. H. gives all the suites of furniture and clocks
away to his friends and relations. It is evident fiom
this that Zulu T. does not consider the Observer man
either a friend or a relation. Deep, isn’t it ? And,
talking of Auckland, Kohler is showing his wax-works
there. Benjamin Franklin, Prince Consort, Lord
Byron, and the Czar of Russia are not on view. Bat
Ned Kelly, Dan, Joe Byrne, .and Steve Hart are.
Humph 1
** * *
Our old friend Signor Majeroni, who returned
to Australia by the San Francisco mail, after an absence
of nearly five years, has come to us this time in the
capacity of manager, bringing with him Mr. and Mrs. J.
B. Polk (Miss Julia Adelaide Parke), who, being unable
to find a suitable opening in Sydney, will probably make
their first Australian appearance in Melbourne (whither
the Signor proceeded on Wednesday night), under
William sonian auspices. Mr. Polk is recognized in
America as being in the very first rank of comedians.
It was he who, as the star of Haverly’s company, played
“ The Strategist ” nightly for two years, after having,
in “The Banter’s Daughter,” done much to make the
fortunes of the Union Square people. Prior to his con-
nection with Haverly, he, for a year, made a most suc-
cessful starring tour on his own account, with “The
Gentleman from Nevada." Mr. Polk’s fame has pro-
ceeded him, and, as Signor Majeroni, in a great degree,
risks his managerial reputation on his first stars, it is
likely that something good is in store for the playgoing
public. Mrs. Polk ia an eminent and accomplished
vocalist, having been prima donna at St. Carlos,
Naples ; also at Malta, in a long season of Italian opera;
and more recently with Strakosch’s Italian Opera Co.,
in New York, where she scor»d a grout success m
“ Trsviata" and operas of a lighter order. Mr. Polk,
who comes from Maryland, and from a family which
has given to the United States many distinguished
citiz ns, including the late James R. Polk, President of
the United States : General Thomas Polk, of Mechlcn-
burg fame; Bishop and Lieutenant-General Leonidas
Polk; Mr. Charles Polk, Governor of Dele-
ware; and Governor Trusten Polk, of Missouri.
By-the-way, the charming Signora Majeroni and her
two children (one of whom is Australian
born) are in the States, and will visit Australia as soon
,as the Signor, in English phrase, “settles down."
Signor Majeroni, wo regret to hear, has for several
years been incapacitated from playing by ..a ithroat
affection which, if we remember aright, he sontrasted
in Australia ; but he has already received great benefit
by the change of climate, and is full of hope in regard
to his histrionic future. He has thousands of friends
who wish him well. It may interest our readers to
learn that S gnor Majeroni had arranged with Madame
Ristori (whose success as Lady Macbeth in London
we have already announced) for a season in America ;
but the unfortunate illness of] the Marquis del Grille,
Madame's husband, led to the abandonment of the
undertaking.
** * *
An English critical vandal wants to know if
Lnscombe Searrell's “ Wreck of the Pacific ” is any
relation to the divided skirt.
** * *
We hear a great deal about “discriminating
Sydney audiences." At the Theatre Royal a “ dis-
criminating Sydney audience " nightly applauds to
the echo one ot the basest admissions that ever fell
from human lips, apparently under the impression that
it is according an appreciative recognition of a high
moral sentiment. When Joseph Darlington, in Mr.
Bignold’s play of 11 Touth," tells his son, with the
lefty air of a martyr, that he himself, when young,
was not without his follies, but that, when worldly
Interests beckoned, he unhesitatingly threw over tho
woman who would hare been a mill-stone around hli
neck, <tec., the " diseriminatiug Sydney audience ’
is perfectly frantic in its enthusiasm, quite oblivion*
of the fact that he (has previously admitted having ■
■educed and afterwards cruelly deserted the unfortu
nate woman who was driven by his dastardly conduct
to a life of shame.
** * *
We have received a letter from a person living
in a bush township, who signs himself “Jack Frost.
He takes us to task for several things. We don’t know
who this person is, but we strongly suspect him'to be
from the turn of his sentences—an aboriginal bullocir
puncher. Our style of writing doesn't suit him. We
are sorry for this, but the fact is we hare not until now
given much thought as to how our style is in accord-
ance with the literary tastes of the bullock-punching
profession. There are some people who write letters
to show their wit. We have not met any of these yet.
Ihere are others who write apparently to show how
much, mud a man may carry abeut on bis shoulders and
still live. We have met scores of these. “Jack
Frost is as fine a sample of the latter as we have yet
seen. His letter contains a certain amount of un-
wieldy bush sarcasm about our theatrical criticisms.
It was evidently a man of his stamp that Carlyle had in
his eye when he said that a blockhead was more dan-
gerous to society than a deliberate villain. “Jack
Frost, in a postcript to his letter, endeavours to take
the sting out of anything we have to say about him.
This is the weak-eyed sensitiveness of a fool who has
been accustomed to be jeered at, or a dog who has been
accustomed to be kicked. The postscript is to the
effect that ho was minding the baby when he wrote the
letter, and concludes with the appeal, “ Don’t you go
and say I had better have devoted all my attention to
the baby and left the letter unwritten.” We won’t,
and further if he will assure us that, as wo half believe
it was in reality the baby who wrote the letter, we will
forgive him on condition that he either drowns the kid
or jams it int® a private asylum as soon as it is ablejto
B P ea *; aot » i4i will grcw H P an idiot like its father,
and if allowed to run around loose will be shot one day
by somebody who hasn’t any reverence for the afilicted
of God. We shall be glad to hear from “ Jack Frost ’’
again when his arduous profession allows him a spare
moment to set us right about our critiques.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
Angus : The average annual cost of each
soldier m the British army is £l4O •• Subscriber"-
Never came across it. Mvy be derived from “Nereides"
nymphs of the sea, daughters of Kerens and Doris.
The beet books on signification of names to consult ar
—Pott’s " Die Personennamen und ihre Entstehun
sarten f Miss Yonge's “ History ef Christian Karnes
Lowers or C. W. Bardsley’s “English Surnames
Professor lanes' “ Scotch Surnames." We have’]
leisure to hunt these up “Pyn” Held over..
“ Araucas”: We once did see a man who had no adv:
to give ns concerning the management of this pap
He was dead "Pug": (1.l Yes, AboHiekenha
brother, Henry Hickon. He lives in Philadelph
(2 ) Tom Sayers’ arm was badly contused, not broke
in his fight with Heenan. (3.) “ Tug" Wilson is saic
to be the cleverest boxer in England at the preson
time “AC." : Some of your quips are good, bu
they lose Interest by reason of their lacking oolonia
colour. Far bettor employ yourself in writing matt
which is ostensibly local “ Warrego": We oonsid
your poetry Warre good, but we are glad, someho
you haven’t made it much longer. We can ill-atford ai
this juncture either the time for the Journey or tl
money for the bludgeon.. Wo consider prose is you
fate. Press in one syllable “8.T.": Thanks., W
are surprised you do not know whoso organ the D.T
is. That paper is the busmen’s organ. They swear b
it. Everybody else swears at it “Ceraki": Ver
good. We have, however, just embellished a littl
By the way, we are charged with the education of
young nobleman. Being much struck with your spel
ing, we ask you to kindty favour us with the address
your night school. “Fireworter" is good. Als
" ptaple." “ A. 8.”: You say, can we tell you th
exact dress to wear as Daughter of the Begiment
’’hs, dear, wo can. Wear shot silk, and show you
ii"i9 " Kanoy Lee": Yea, want short and pith
t ais “A.M." (M’Donaldtown): Kot of general in
forest “Cosmo"; We have a fuller account, bu
work yours in also, and thank you “Cobar Sub
soriber": Shortened a bit “ H.T." (East Mo
bourne); Much obliged “Chas. P.”: It depend
altogether on the wording of the deeds both of leas
and tenancy, and what the tenant had actually put into
the house. We can’t protend to decide legal quibbles
because in law, tweedledum is often the exact oppoait
of twcedledee “Miski": Your story is very wel
told, but is as improbable as the report of a “ sticking
up" ease “ Sarah Sykes": How’s yer brother Bill
“ T. F,” Will keep a week “ J.L.": Beoeived
“ Woollahra": The ibest authority on the human nose
is Larry Foley “Fits": Glad to ;hear from yon
once more “Passepartout": Very good. You
have evidently a good notion of a joke. We’ve ex
hausted the milkman now, though j so send along
something about the grocer “ Wagga": Ko. “Cam
paspe" is not an aboriginal name. Campaspe was
one of the concubines of Alexander, and sat to
Apelles the painter as a model for his picture o
Venus. Apelles fell in love with his beautiful medal
and the monarch handed her over to the artist as
present ..." H.P.T." (Townsville) : Verses have
merit, but we regret they would occupy more
space than their merely local nature would justify
ns in giving.- Happy to hear from you again
“OldCyn*: Thanks. We have a lively recollection o
Coppcrfleld.Truth": An everyday occurrence
“A Fiat": What are you giving ns? “QJ.C."
There’s really no humour in your item. If you can
write something which will be equally amusing, whethei
read by a Korth Shore resident or a black
fellow, all right. Wo never print mere personalities
for the purpose of amusing small coteries...." Dutch ’’
v ery good indeed. Just the kind of thing to show up
You are evidently quite the cheese—the Dutch cheese
......“B O.S": Very sick. How can a lady’s fan look
like a well-wrung dish-cloth," or a collar like a broken
milk-dish ? And what is a milk-dish? Your humour
inclines ns to the belief that you have a wart on the
brain, it is so extremely wartery “J. H s":
Much obliged. The point is in your communication,
so it don't matter much if it’s not in your copy.
Send us some more about Hell. We intend
going into politics soon, so are interested
" Bunda’’: Tnanks. Will use some; portion very
hot, but will try anddish it up “Ayoa": If you’ve
got the jimjams, you needn't try to put them into
poetry. You can’t impound the devil like a stray
Boat. “ Tritus ": Beoeived “ W.K.": We don’t
understand the par “ Colin Clout ".- We have saen
much batter verses from your pen “ K. 8. "
(Brisbane) : Thanks for your " In Memorian," but it
won’t do. It is in places, actually sug-
? estiva of a geological catalogue “ A.M."
"In Memoriam").- Your versos are by no means
bad, but it |waa an error of (judgment on your part
to imitate Mr. Kendall's style, aid fehas institut®
a direct comparison between bis writing and your on
—a comparison which, especially at the present time,
could not be satisfactory to anyone "Burlington
Terrace" (Melbourne): We don’t insert such little
squibs. Hand them to onr Melbourne imitator
"An old digger of 1853": The fact that the honorable
gentleman referred to was fined for sly grog-selling in
the early days is quite in keeping with his subsequent
career "Your own Dummy and Subscriber": The
fact that yon are a dummy subscriber doesn’t help yon
You ask " whether such matter and better is worth
paying for ?" It all depends how much better.
POLITICAL POINTS.
A democrat’s definition of a gentleman ; one
who has no business in this world.
'lhe author of free selection is regarded by all
intelligent ire* selectors as their greatest foe, whilst
the squatter swears by Sir Job*. There's someth!**
strange in this.
. 5? r ’ barrister-at-law, a leading Liberal
in th© VjumdiUikl JParliamtnt, a mtired lamb ot graoe.
ana an eloquent preacher of eternal sulphur, places
Ueman and Italian labourers on a par with foljnee-
lane. no objects as itionglj te coolies ae he used to de
to sm f out believes as flrmlf in whita labomr apparently
as no did in everlasting punishment.
The Ministry is supposed to be " rifting.”
Humour has It that the even tempered Mr. Lackey baa
actually got his back up at certain acta of the little
doctor who looks after mines and lectures on Protest-
ant metaphysics. Ksnwick, however, bears no malice,
and calmly continues to demonstrate his ntter unfit-
ness to be a Minister of the Crown. When Sir 'Bury
comes back, there is going to be much explanation.
A Dubbo gentleman wired us as follows :
Owner of the dozen old Dummies, referred to by
Hydnf.t Mail’s correspondent, don’tllve up here. Seek
him in the South till the House is in session, when you
may interview the gentleman in the ’members* room.
If you can’t spot him at first peep, ask a certain
Minister to point out all his relations by marriage.
The Mddgee Independent blackguards John
MVElhona and belauds the other John—John Davies.
But, then, Jehn Davies helped to pull the Mudgee rail-
way through the Assembly. And that’s how the milk
89 1 into that cocoa-nut. Here is a little bit of prophecy.
We don t mind wagering a trifle that John Davies will
nor, at next election, contest a metropolitan oonstltu-
ea°y- The INDBPKNDINX says that “the same volatile
mob who now applaud George Held will some day pull
him down, ’ and that John Davies is maligned “not
because he is dishonest, but because ho is successful n
The name of Smith, it has been remarked, will
turn out to be a kind of embarrassment in the Assembly
next session unless the speaker taka precautions, fta
already have H. Burdett Smith, the model of dignity
and deportment, the Cnpid of the Maoleay, the Mao-
quar:e-»treet, Cheeterileld; Mr Sydney Smith, also a
high-toned penonagoj ahd Mr. J. H. Smith, who,
though perhaps bss elegant, is a great deal barder-
neaded than either of the other pair. It is generally
understood that Mr. Bruce Smith, (son of (Japtala
Steward Smith), the young barrister who LA* so rapidly
acquired a large practice, and who was one of tke very
best platform orators on tbe constitutional side earing
the Berry troubles in Victoria, will, at no distant date,
seek a seat in our Assembly.
Mr. Copeland, M.L.A., objects to John Davies'
appointment as a Licensing Magistate, on the ground
that Davies is interestod in a business opposed to the
hotels—that of the Colfee Palaces. Speaking at Arml-
dale, Mr. Copeland said John Davies had earned his
Sosuion simply and solely by hie political flunkeyiem.
le would like to know of a single instance in which ha
had voted against the Government. The Government
had voted against themselves, and if they said some-
thing was white one session, Mr. Davies sold so too:
while the next session, if they said the same thing was
black, Mr. Davies swore that it was black. A man wh®
took up his position was no more than a political
flunkey, and for the Government to elevate lickspittle*
to positions in the country was a disgrace to It.
Major Atkinson, the N.Z. Treasurer, proposes,
as a substitute for the poor rate, a scheme ot National
Insurance. Every man, woman, and child Is to be com-
pelled by law to come under the regulations of this
project, which is to provide the following reciprocal
benefits “1. Sick pay for every single person, male
and female* between the ages of 18 and 65 years, no*
less than 15i. per week daring sickness. 2. Bick pay
for every married man of not lees than 225. 6d. and for
every married woman 7s. 6i., during sickness. 3. A
superannuation allowance ot 10s. for every person, male
or female, from 65 years of age to death. 4, Aa allow,
ance of 15s. per week for every widow with one child,
increasing according to scale with size of family to 80s
per week until the children ore 15 years of age."
There is no bumptious numskull so arrogant aa
the noodle flung out of a humble sphere to u higher
elevation, by fortuitous volcanic surroundings. Which
naturally leads us to reflect that the Hon C. H. Buza-
cott has retired from the Legislative Council of Queens-
land. Buzzy is named well. He was the buzzing blue
bottle of the Chamber he adorned. As the Hansabd
reporters didn’t see tit to report every twaddling hum,
he made, he got mad, and publicly complained or their
“ inefficiency," saying that “ from his own experience
having been recently in Sydney and Melbourne, he
could say they could not get Hansard reporters in
Australia. They might get inferior reporters, but they
could not get such men as were required for Hansard
work." If Buzzy wore to deliver an authoritative
judgment upon babies’ linen, wo would listen to him
with deference. He was a very decent linen-draper’s
assistant, and aifairs in Queensland took a turn for the
worse when he got jammed into iiterataro by force of
circumstances. Stick to calico, Buzzy, and you nn»
safe. The Hon. J. Taylor said in this particular debate
respecting this “ lineu-oraper fellow"—as Sir Arthur
Palmer wonld probably call him—that “ he had spoken
twico to every question that had come before the
House, and he tnought they could occupy thoir time
for better than by listening to such speeches." Any
way, the average Australian reporter is better as a re-
porter than Buzzy has shown himself either as an.
editor or politician.
A political scandal in Brisbane. Mr. Griffiths
has elicited from the Colonial Treasurer that Mr. F
A. Cooper, M.P. for the electorate of Cook, ha«. since
July 19th, 1881, been paid £BOO for “revising, com oiling
indexing, and digesting the statute law of Queensland
This, with £2uo previously paid, makes aTOOO fees re-
ceived by Mr. Cooper, whose public forensic reputation
. 8 bBe ? startling. The latest payment was cue
of £4OO, in June last, although some six mouths pre-
viouslya " final " payment had been made. A sort of
Davies rumour was current about this tims that
Mr. Cooper had refused to attend in his piaoa in Par-
liament unless this supplementary claim woo first
satisfied by the Government. Mr. Cooper’s method cf
meeting the scandal is not singular. Even as onr tram-
ticket O.M.G. turned upon Mr. Peufold with tho
ohickvnlunch retort, so Mr. Cooper squared back at Mr.
Griffiths by getting a reply from the Treasurer that,
since 1873, Mr. Griffiths had beou paid £916 19s, for
professional services rendered to the Government. Ib
is argued on Mr. Griffiths' behalf, however, that, ns ha
was the leader of the Queensland Bar, the Government
couldn’t overlook him without risking tho accusation
that they had neglected to obtain the best talent avail-
able. Cooper’s engagement to revise the statues was
undertaken shortly after Mr. Morehead’s resolution
had been passed by Parliament, peremptorily forbidding
payment of fees to members of either Houses. Cooper
is known as " Handsome Fwed," and is, to put matters
plainly, a kind ot Northern John Davies.
The presence of sulphuric or other acids in
spirits c*n at «noe be dsteatfd by trial with litmus
paper, which turns red under the action of aculs.
The Tall Mall Gazette has a long discourse
on the degeneracy of coursing. To any man who done
not bat, ths whole sporting efforts of modern times
appear only another phase of the hanger forjmonsy, A.
(Jup day is not now reoreatron, but war.
The Australian Scholastic Trading Company ia
running ?. big trade in the manufacture of school aud.
church furniture, and of all kinds of educational ap-
pliances. The manufactory is at i>ici-street, cfl: Aber-
crombie-street, Sydney, Mr. K, G. Troughton, inventor
of the reversible desks, being the manager.
“ Must start along the • Shows * somehow,”
We said this morning early,
Awakened by the milkman’s row
And hodman's hurly-burly.
(They start when sunrise gilds the seas
To make things nice and cheerful,
By whistling airs in shrieking keys
With variations fearful)
So, savagely we rose and cursed
All men, then wrote some verses.
Each dull one following the first.
As mourning coaches hearses.
Then Jenny chassis in and taps
Our shoulder ; says, “ You doze, dear •
So when yon write of ‘pros.,’ perhaps,
You’d better write in prose, dear.’’


PEPPER AND SALT.
The most unlikely person to be made a knight
of now is considered to be Day. ‘'l really can t re-
member.” _ .
# # *
The new season at St. Mary’s opens September
8. Amongst the repertoire we notice some of the works
of Haydn, Mercadante, Gounod, and Mozart. Dress
circle, £l. Stalls, 10s. Pit, 53. Gallery, 2s. 6d,
Children in arms, 10 guineas. The management will
spare no expense in making the coming season the
greatest success ever achieved in the Australian
colonies. For further particulars see small bills.
• * *
Here’s the very latest. Up Casino way there’s
bit of sly-grog selling, and two informers called at
a shanty, and asked fora bottle of gin. “Certainly,
said the boss; “only keep it dark." They carried it
away to the police station, when the flask was found to
contain water only. In a quiet rage they returned, when
the landlord apologised, and handed them two fresh
bottles duly labelled and capsuled. Arrived at the police-
camp they uncorked their treasures. Curses and rovil-
ings. Kerosene I
• • •
She was a very, very simple little Dubbo girl,
and she had come down to Sydney to take a town
situation. Well, it was a very muddy day, and as she
was going over Punch's crossing, she just lifted her
dress high enough to enrapture the “ talent." “ What
a pretty ankle 1” cried an enamoured bookmaker, as
she passed. The rustic maiden then stopped short.
“I’ve two of them,” said the simple hoyden; “here’s
the other, sir.” Then she tripped lightly on, leaving
the ring dumbfounded.
• •
A deputation of J.’sP. consisting, by the way,
of three ex-publicans, one ex-trap, and four sheep-
station guides) from the Western district, waited upon
a certain Colonial Secretary some time ago with refer-
ence to the appointment to the Commission of the
Peace of a gentleman who, according to himself, had
seen a little of life in Frank Gardiner’s company, and
who, even on the day the appointment was made, stood
committed to appear when called upon to answer a
charge of wholesale cattle stealing. The Colonial
Secretary listened attentively to a brief but black
biography of the J.P. in question: then said, “Well,
gentlemen, if he be the b (beauty) you paint him,
I think ’tis a bloomin' sight better for the people, and
the country to keep him on the Blank Bench than let
him go loose in the bush.”
There is an old chap up North (a responsible
Civil servant, of course who, besides being as deaf as
a post, has quite a monomaniaoal scare of burglars.
Well, the mornings are very dark now, and it happened
one night he forgot to wind up his watch. The old
party, however, went to bed, in due course, and was
awakened by a terrific knocking at the door. Opening
the window softly, he put out his speaking-trumpet and
said, in tremulous tones, “ Who’s there ?” The reply
came in a liquid form. The milkman in the cold grey of
morn, had mistaken his ear-horn for the family jug.
“ But the villain still pursued him." Next morning,
hearing a cry outside, which he took to be “ Paper 1"
he said drowsily, “ Put it under the door.” The milk-
man did so. “ Crushed I"
m » •
“ The Vagabond ” had a ben. the other night
in Adelaide, when "NoMercy," Julian’s adaptation of
an English translation of Giaocometit’s "La Morte
Civile ’’ was produced. The Governor, with his usual
kindness, came to see the piece, and since his death has
not, as yet, been announced by wire, we suppose he is
slowly recovering. We saw “No Mercy" once, and
we were very ill indeed; but like Marleena Kenwigs,
we are " better now.” A dreadful time that was at the
Gaiety when the “ Vag.” and F. E. Hopkins (of Porrl-
coota, N.S.W.) were the permanent playwrights of the
theatre. We knew what was going to be said in these
plays before ever we got into the theatre. “ Mr.
Alfred Dampier, and the two fairy-actresses—Lily and
Eose.” “Ah! for myself I care not!—only let me
save my che-ild! " “ Mother! ” “ Darling, innocent.”
* The che-ild is mine and I will ta-ake her-r-r—
-woman/” “ Never-rrr.” “Mother!" “Child I’•
"Back!” A pistol-shot; a faint; a childlike yell;—
and curtain. “ Eing in the orchestra Mrs. Grudden."
« • «
It was at a spiritualistic stance. There were
two Sydney doctors present, |one who believed in it,
and one who didn’t. In the course of the evening
there was a row, and said the unbeliever to the disciple
of Cyril:— *'No wonder you’ve got no patients: your
rooms are choked up daily with the poor wretches yon
have killed.” “ Don’t you ever have a departed spirit
at your place,” enquired the believer.’ " Oh, yes,” re-
turned, the other furbishing up the old joke. But it was
too late. “Ladies and gentlemen,” said the spiritist
medico, loudly, “ Dr. Blanko admits that only the
spirit of one departed patient has ever visited him.
That is doubtless true. It was the only patient he
ever had.” Then the unbeliever went home to sharpen
his scalpel.
There was a great lark a few Sundays ago at
Capertee Hall Church, The parson arrived to do the
usual Satan-struggle, when one of the shareholders of
the building yclept Bullman (who had previously
" requisitioned ” the lamps and windows of the sacred
edifice I) stood before the door and opposed the ingress
of the holy man. The parson’s friends, however
“scuffled” Bullman, and, getting in, lit a few candles
and commenced the sarvioe with barred doors. Bull-
man, however, seemed to be equal to the occasion; for*
returning with a navvy or two, he broke open one of
the side-doors with an axe, and entered, despite a well
directed volley of bibles and hymn-books. The first act
of the invaders was to storm the pulpit, which, being
overturned, put . the complete extinguisher on the
clergyman. The candles were then hurled at the con-
gregation, who thereupon bombarded the assaulting
party with hassocks, and, finally, being led by a
Eylstone J.P . charged Bullman and his bodyguard,
getting their heads’, in chancery by the communion-
table (greatly to the damage of the ten commandments
—which were nearly all broken); and finally ejected
them from the building. The pulpit was then set np,
the clergyman hoisted into it, the candles re-lighted,
and the service re-commenced. Hardly, however, was
the first lesson read, than Mr. B. re-appcared, and
threatened each one of the congregation individually,
and by name, with the pains and penalties of the law
for trespass. In the midst of the confusion attendant
upon this proceeding, the parson, who had a painfully
bulged eye-brow, gave out, in a quavering voice, a
hymn; but, when the lady organist attempted to
“ strike up ’’ the air, it was discovered that some fiend
in human form had drawn a knife across the bellows of
the harmonium. The meeting then hastily broke up
and dispersed to the vocal accompaniment of Bull-
maniac adjectives.
» • •
The Presbyterian, for purely humorous
writing is, we think, considerably ahead even of the
Foitrpenky Firebrand. It tells us this week a story
of “A Little Lad,” who, having loitered, suddenly re-
collected himself and set off for his ‘‘uncle’s work-
shop ” at full speed. When he got there he was guyed
by the other boys, who wanted him to say he had been
kept by a customer, but he heroically declines. Here
it is, however, verbatim : —“ ‘la liar ! I tell a lie 1 ’
cried the boy indignantly. ‘No, not to escape a beat-
ing every day. My mother always told me that lying
was the first step to ruin, and my Bible (sic) says that a
liar shall not enter Heaven.’ ” Here the story'ends
Nothing is said about how the old man came in with a
strap, and how when “ The [Little Lad " saw the well-
known instrument of flagellation he forgot all about
what his mother said, and did an elaborate circum-
stantial “ pitch,” taking for his text that suggested by
his fellow-workers. It’s all very well for the Presbyte-
rian people to wind up thus dramatically. But they
would have been acting a fairer part towards their
readers had they stated t v at when the boy grew up, he
did nothing but wear shining clothes, and lounge abou t
taprooms, thus becoming the champion of the worrukin-
man, and eventually forfeiting the respect of all white
men by contesting a constituency, and, on being re-
turned, voting for Piddington, and sympathising with
Lucas. We know that boy well. He was on Mrs. Leer’s
jury eis one of the Parkes’ banquet committee j and
before long he will forget all about everything at his
first meeting. In spite of what the Presbyterian
says, you “ Little Lad,” there’s hemp-seed grown for
you. Bah 1
• • •
They were on circuit, in the Northern district,
and the hired girl at the pub. where they had just
arrived, received strict instructions from the landlord
to allow no one but the judge’s party in the parlor
Well, dinner was served, and the same girl told off to
wait. The company took their seats —most of them
being swell barristers -but the servant was scandalised
at seeing a seedy-looking old party take the bend of the
table. “Here,” said she, addressing the obnoxious
guest, “clear out of tbis, sharp, and go to the other
table, the judge won’t have no greasy old men here.”
“lam the judge, my dear,”.was the ancient party’s
calm reply.”
• * »
A bailiff went into James Bryden’s station ia
Victoria, and took possession while James was taking
possession at the altar of a young and blooming bride.
When James returned through the flowery paths of
rose-hued hope, and peered out over the silent haze of
young romance that hung o’er the blossoming beauties
of anticipation, he beheld the bailiff seated behind the
silken tapestry of his baronial hall, and straightway
walked up and pointed out with a gun that he was an
anachronism. The bailiff demurred, and James ia
revising his chronology under the supjrvision of the
armed minions of the law.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF POPULAR SONGS.
Oh, whisper what thou feelest (1st verse.)
MR. CHARLES COGHLAN, M.A., WINNER OF THE FAUCETT GOLD MEDAL AT THE
UNIVERSITY.
MR. W. E. SHERIDAN, THE TRAGEDIAN.
A LEER.Y LYRIC.
Air—" Tone the old Cow died of.”
There is a playful lady, and you’ve all heard of her-»
some,
Her name is Leer, and she resides in some dark Sydney
slum.
Her playfulness consists, if we believe all that we've
read,
In thrashing her two.ohildren with a batten on the head
t
She nearly murdered Margaret, such her playful
way.
Then battered little Mary, so the depositions say;
And when the policeman took her up—base tyranny,
that’s flat! —
She said she “ didn’t mean to hit the kids so hard as
that."
Poor Maggie had a broken arm, a big gash in her head.
While little Mary, sorely bruised, lay moaning in her
bed;
Such was the mother’s playfulness, it was not known,
they say,
The moment Death might not swoop down and beat
them both away.
Arraigned for trial, the playful dame put on her Sunday
gewn.
Squeezed out a tear to melt the hearts of Counsel tot
the Crown;
His “ cue ’’ was ** be affected, ’’ so with grief the prit’Uer
shook;
*• That's bully 1 ” quoth her lawyer (which his other
name is Cooke).
ILLUSTRATIONS OF POPULAR SONGS.
Oh, whisper what thou feelest (2nd verse.)
The trial o’er, the jurymen wont out into thelt
room—
A place that’s redolent, they say, of dampness and of
gloom;
Then they began to softly talk —each one from anger
free—
But yet that jury found they could not possibly agree.
At six o’clock once more they filed into the Courtroom,
when
The foreman asked the judge to take their verdict
sharp at ten.
His Honor then remarked he couldn’t see it in that
tight,
And hinted that he’d look the mystic twelve up for the
night.
Then such a yell as there arose was never heard before—
“Oh, please, your Honor, give us just ajfew short
minutes more.
A minute—half-a-one —five, please,” moaned those di>*
traoted men.
“ I'll give you,” said the learned judge, “on this occa-
sion—
Then back into their room they filed. Quoth one, "
tell the truth,
I’ve got to meet my girl to-night to take her to aw
“ Youth.”
“And hang itl” said another; i“wby it's lodg B '
night, sirs, for me j ” .
“ And I,” then moaned a third one, “ have rabbit-P
for tea.”
"No doubt the woman did it, and we’re on our oaths*
you know, f>
But as I’m going to a dance, I vote wo let her go:
Thus spoke another juryman, and then a small voi
cried—
“ What I sleep all night in this jam place; oh, hang l •
boys, ‘ divide.’ "
Then with a shout uprose that twelve, the usher called
with Sf eed,
“Quick, go and tell his Honor that of lost we
agreed.”
“Not guilty 1 We have sworn by simple evidenc
judge; 0 „
But stop in that damp room all night, oh, hmg i >
know—fudge!"
O, this trial by a jury is a very noble thing,
Ah institution which the grandest poets ought 0 jy
But those times when you are more than nodes
bright,
Is when the judges threaten to lock jurors up o ,M »


BRIEF MENTION.
A Nobel invention—Dynamite.
Melbourne is being Cooked.
Motto of Eandwick Asylum—lt’s all my eye.
The national sport up at Blue Gum Flat is cat-
hunting.
Beef at 8d reminds us of the time when Israel
made a calf of gold.
What is found in Pyrmont rum on its being
analysed? Everything.
Joe Cook says we’re all made of dust. Some
of us really are very dry.
• Co-robber-ation. —Evidence in support of a
• compensation claim.”
The learned doctor will we hope, 'souse the
joke. The latest name for the Heralii is Qarranny,
The tram authorities talk of getting motors that
will consume their own smoke. One ought te he kept
in the office.
An ex-detective has given it as his opinion in
Melbourne, that colonial crime is rapidly increasing.
And by a strange coincidence, so are religions papers.
Barrister badgering a witness in a Rockhampton
Court:—“Come, sir, tell Us why you took such par-
ticular note of this hole ?” Witness: “ Because I fell
nto it.”
As the D.T. informs Mr. Forster that it “ de-
clines to publish any matter it does not understand,”
we presume that it will soon be reduced to the size of
a tram-tiokot.
J. M'Elhone has composed a cantata to be sung
outside at the Parkes’ banquet. It begins, “ O thou
The rest is M'Elhonian, and we are rather
short of dashes.
“ Last week one of our most popular townsmen
was marred in Melbourne." That’s how a Rockhampton
paper obronioles what is supposed to be the happiest
event in a man’s life.
A gentleman who had the honor to sit next to
the hon. Mr. Blank at a mid-day hotel gorge, states
that the only thing he can liken the hon. gentleman’s
feed to is a steam lunch.
■A “ nice, kind, and respectable lady’’ is wanted
in Newcastle to adopt a *• beautiful, fair, blue-eyed
boy." Let’s see. Nearly a year since the last Walls-
end Sunday-school picnic.
A Gunnedah man writes to a country paper of
the cold ho endured in America that every part of his
carcase was converted into icicles. Now, at what
temperature does whisky freeze ?
The Parkes Reception Committee have to per-
form one onerous duty which should not be overlooked
—the appointment of a spiritual adviser to the Premier,
Vice the late lamented Dr. M'Gibbon.
A doctor dropped in to Burrowa, and thought
to establish a practice. He complained bitterly on
finding that the only demand was for pick-me-ups; tore
up his diploma, axd started off for tbe shearing season.
“Hallo Mr. Blank,” otied a Liedertafel enthu-
siast to the boss of an evening newspaper, "are you
toot looming te onr Herren Abend to-night ?" “ No,
thanks," replied Mr. Blank, “ I never was very fond of
fish.”
When Joe Cook recently argued at a lecture in
the Congregational Church that there was an eternal
hell, there was great applause amongst the members of
the Y.M.C A, Their moneyed relations have evidently
been living too long.
We learn from the Campbellwwn Herald
that Mr. Gilbert’s Forbes Hotel, has now one of the
finest signboards in the colonies. The editor has,
doubtless, had many opportunities of contemplating
Its beauties. We will take his word for it. We feel
that we could not have the statement on better
authority.
That. Paris letter no ?” growled an editor the
other day t o the sub. “No," replied the sub., “our
5u 8 °° rr * ipoudent is in the Central look-up, and the
police havo impounded his copy. Shall I send round
'ohd bail hit a out ?"
The publ io are much obliged to the Postmaster-
'»enerai. 1 The time-table for posting suburban letters
ganger I—say on the Ist iust., and the fact was
uounm on tl is pillar boxes, Ac., about three days after.
Advance Aus traiia—backwards.
K you wa at /io see one of the most resplendent
Eleams of gis dne « that ever lit up the human face,
j tke ■Gove Tnment House gate just as a nurse-
maid is saying to a refractory charge—“ Don’t cry,
ovey * Look a, th 9 pretty soldiers."
JJ. ’k not genei ally known, but if a lawyer ad-
bis “ can i" quarterly ia the columns of a
daily, he is always spoken of in the paper after-
-8 ,t 8 r - Blank,, “the eminent solicitor." This is
a peculiar instance c t the astounding march of civiliza-
It was considi ired wonderful some time ago that
you could buy gas to r 6s. the thousand feet: how much
more extraordinary is it now, when yon can purchase
mme at the rate of S fc. an inch.
11 a.m. Three J.P.’s on Bench in—say Budge-
gong Court House. Chairman to beery bushman :
“ You are fined £2 and costs, and we adjure yon to
mend your ways and to avoid intoxicating liquor. The
next time you are brought before us—” &o- Next
morning, 3 a.m. Scene hotel: Two of the Justices
dancing on dining-room table in their night-gowns,
whilst one is forcing a small Irishman to drink “ contu-
sion to the Popp." General flllerbullo and smash of fur-
niture. Next day landlord of the hotel fined £3 for
disorderly conduct. Three J.P.’s speechless V.twaen
the sheets. Following morning, call for bills and
exeunt, refuging to pay for the smashed furniture. Ad-
vance Australia!
Anyone who has happened to be at Parramatta
while John 1 . M’Elhone was denouncing people in the
Assembly anust be fully aware that the hon. member
has a voice- It will, however, surprise many people to
hear that M ac ia musically inclined, and that “Queen
of my soul" is a favourite ditty of hia when out for the
evening. Of course, no one need be astonished to learn
that the vigorous John has a queen of his soul; but,
after the way in which he haa publicly tongue-tbraahed
those unfortunately amorous “ majaws ” whose " laven-
der- water-and»fan-bills” so for outrun their official screws
as to send them to the Deffell, it’s really wonderful
how the rough, diamond could ever havo been persuaded
to sing of his loves.
A Brisbane publican has been committed tor
trial for selling “whisky," whose chief ingredients
were salts of copper and and iron. This is quite a com-
mon drink in the Queensland metropolis, it is said.
And yet there are some people who don’t believe in a
hell!
The Herald has rounded in true Heraldic
fashion on steam tramways, and exhibits symptoms of
a disposition to join the Evening News in denouncing
Eoor Juggernaut, who lately has been very hungry and
as sausaged several good citizens during the last few
days.
An economical-minded lady with three daughters
nearly as tall as their ms, waited on the Commissioner
for Railways recently, and asked that her dear girls
might be allowed to travel half-price as school children.
Monsieur brieflv replied that he didn’t re-
cognise tbe School for Scandal.
The Cooktown Herald (a paper once run by
Alphabetical Bailey) says that a small shark seized
the big toe of a boy who was bathing, but the youngster
kicked so vigorously that his finny friend had to let
go.” If it wasn’t a very small shark this must be a
very big Mahooder 1
One of the navvies on the Phillip-street tram-
way straightened his back, leaned on his shovel, looked
up at the ganger, and said, “They say that England
will have to fight Germany and Austria over this
Egyptian row.” “You don’t say.” “And that Rooshia
will swoop down on India and the colonies like a dingo
on a flock of sheep.’’ “Goon ?” " And that our
country will starve if trade is disturbed, ’cos we don’t
grow nothing to eat." “ Really now?" “ And
that free trade is a shoddy edifice, and protection a
hollow bubble.’’ “By gum ! I never did 1 And do they
sav anything about a navvy leaning on his shovel to talk
when he ought to be bursting his shoulder blades P"
The navvy spat on his hands and resumed.
At the recent opening of the Hay railway, the
accommodation provided for visitors was so carefully
studied that one-half were compelled to appease their
hunger by reading the signs on the board-and-lodging
houses, and the comfort of their sleeping apartments
may be guessed from the following charges : —•* Old
hogshead and a blaokfellow’s blanket, 30i. per night;
orookerv orate, with straw, 35a.; ditto ditto, without
straw, £1; dry well and a sheet of bark, 15s ; smooth
pole stuck out of attic window, 12 s. 6d.; rough ditto,
10s.; three-railed fence, top panel, 7s. 61. j second
panel, 5a ; third ditto, 2s. 6d. A small allowance made
to families of over ten.’’ This, is called making hay
while the moon shines.
THE LATEST NEWS.
The D. T. did resolve upon*
A course that’s very bold :
It gave the latest war news, which
Was twenty-one days old.
Sir Henry Parkea had some donkey rides at
Margate, England. He was photographed just in the
act of mounting, “D’ye think that’s a good likeness
of mo ? ” ha sondescended to ask Withers. “ Capital,
perfect!” replied the Commissioner; “but who is the
fellow holding you by the bridle ? ”
Says the lndependent :—“ Our dear
friend, Mr. Moody, in carrying on his evangelistic work
may have failed, in some instances, in not securing
permanently blessed results.” That’s sobut he
seldom failed in permanently securing the blessed
“ greed.” It's the same with Joe Cook.
They want “to know, you know,” by what
authority the chairs in the Garden Palace —which seats
are public property—were lent to the Orange Institu-
tion free of charge. It Orangemen can thus use State
property, why not every New Jerusalemite or oven
Professor Hughes?
There’s a doctor in Ballarat who, if we mistake
not, will be beard of again. A patient was admitted
into the hospital, and the medico, being unable to
diagnose his disease gave him the run of hia molars for
a week in the hospital larder. At the end of that
period the patient weighed 16 stone, and stated that he
was quite incurable.
The Illawarra Mercury learns that Archbishop
Vaughan has forbidden the giving of a |bali to raise
funds for the Bulll Convent School.
Ye shall not shake the festive leg;
A Convent is a house of prayer,
The author’s Carnal. Start nnd beg—
And rake in double with a Fayro.
The father of the family had been away a good
long time—delicacy forbids us to say how long!—when
upon his return he was shown a two-weeks baby of low
comedy appearance. “ Oh, lor, he’s the image of his
father, sir,” otied the nurse. “Ishe ? ” said the gen-
tleman, gloomily; and 10, and behold, he went out
into the garden and marvelled greatly.
At Townsville no publican’s license without a
marriage license. Enter an applicant for a pub into a
fish-shop. To landlady,. “ Mornia’ mum. Got any
sohnapper?” “Yes, sir.” “Got »ny husband?”
“ No, Sir.” “ Then I’ll take you and the sebnapper too.
Only got a week to get spliced in.” And they lived
unhappily ever after. Fairy Tale—paraphrased.
The Committee of the Grand International
Juvenile, etc., invite competition for a “ Poem
or Ode,’’ to be sung at the opening, and for which they
offer a premium of five guineas. Wo know 400 men
who will each, on receipt of five guineas, not only
supply the committee with a “pome” but also hand
them a four guinea subscription.
Referring to Sir Henry Parkes, the European
Mail says that our Premier has been the lion of the
London season, and will only be eclipsed by the arrival
of— Cetewayo! Let’s see now, to what does Cetewayo
owe his distinction ? An Education Act ? A Licensing
Bill P Promissory Notes ? Ah 1 We bavo it. He gave
the British a “ marked check ” at Isandula.
There was a fancy ball at Maryborough recently.
The Town Clark now wants owners for three white kid
boot-heols, a home-made oalfpad, five goloshes, nine
pieces mysterious edging, one garter, ten f mattes. and
a row of false teeth —top set. It not claimed within a
month, the lot will be disposed of to the local pound-
keeper. Ho will know what to do with it.
“Hullo!” cried a stranger, as a tall gaunt
figure dressed in a black suit, and wearing a very high
bell-topper stalked up the principal street of a suburb—
V who’s hie nib b? ” “ One of the most remarkable men
in the country, sir,” said his friend, who was a student
of Dickens’. “ But what does he ao ? ” “ Oh, he does
nothing. He’s a working man."
Bine blood and education do not invariably gp
together. A certain swell (Peer by courtesy) wno
resides In Queensland and who is celebrated for his
stylish “four-in-hand,” recently wrote to a neighbour
of his on the subject of trespassing cattle: —“ As your
cattle are the sauce (sic) of the disturbance,” etc., and
signed the letter Lord Adolphus Fitz Doodle.
“ What’s up?” enquired a well-known member
of Parliament of a man in a street crowd. “Child run
over by a butcher’s cart, sir. Terrible things is them
butcher’ carts. Why, only yesterday, sir, 1 see one of
’em come tearing down Brickfield Hill, and knock down
a billy goat. Might have been your own brother, sir.”
The politician stroked his beard musingly, and walked
on.
An old soldier who had stolen an inkstand
wanted to got off at the W P.C. the other day, on the
grounds that he had been 17 years in the army, and had
37 wounds ; being one wound for every year, and 20 over.
As they were tno tof them in his head, he considered
that his brain was probably affected. Mr. Marsh sen-
tenced this deathless hero to three months and a-bal( t,
the three months for the encrier, and the fortnight for
an opera-glass which the Bench refused to believe had
been borrowed for reconnoitring the enemy. As he
was being removed the prisoner (Vctat 70) was heard to
murmur tha r ., there being no mote worlds to conquer,
he’d be reckless when he came out,. He probably means
to oppose John Davies for Qipps Ward.
It is rumoured up in the Far North, that there
is a J.P. who is so mean that sooner than bay himself
extra coverings at Winter time, when night comes on,
he creeps in at the window of the court-house, and
dosses on the aboriginals' blankets. This would Recount
for the strong smell of rum which has always pervaded
the coverings given to the blacks in that particular
district.
There’s a swell barber in Melbourne, who calls
calls himselfla dermatologist. Well, one day last week,
a Ballart girl rang the bell, and, pushing past the
footman, burst into an elegant saloon where the artist
was operating on the chevelures of several ladies, and
cried : " Here, Mister, hurry up and dermatologize my
bloomin’ corn.” She was politely conducted to the
door, and told sotto voce to take her corn to—Egypt.
John Davies, C.M.G., R.Q.P. ,J. 0.8., &0., &
is Chairman of the Friendly Soccties* Commission
Wo want to know is he identified with any—(don’t rend
this, “many”)—of these Friendly Societies? Wo
understand that the Khan of Tartary has appointed a
Commission to enquire into the condition of things
existing in “ Tartarus.” Beelzebub is Free ident of this-
Commission, and the Tartars think he is biassed
HOW THE ANGLICAN CLERGY DRESS.
(According to Mr. Clarendon Stuart.)
HOW WE ARE GOVERNED!


HIGH PRICE MEAT »nd|!Brnmm»gem LANDNn
ARISTOCRACY for the WORKING MAN.
and just 'erves him right. Bat—Advance TIThIS
and TOADYISMI
TO THU MERCHANTS AND PRODUCERS
OF THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
I beg leave to address yon once more, hoping f, r
year support during the coming Wool Sesfou. No
expense or trouble ban been spared to provide STORAGE
BOOM, and everv possible appliance for dealing wit).
Wools in the most EFFICIENT and ECONOMICAL
MANNER; and, along with tho assistance ef wen,
trained hands, my own time shall be constantly devotsd
to tbs interests of my ooastltnents.
Sales will beheld once or twice a week, as may b a
found advisable. Every lot will be carefully valued
And the valuation made known to owners before sale,*
aid the greatest attention will b« given to anv instruct
tious as to reverves, but in no ease Will any lot be sold
unless fair value 's seoared
PROCEED! OF BALES will be banded over WITHIN
A WEEK, er *s much sooner as way be required j *>
AN ADVANCE MAT PR WAD equal to nearly Sy<W
value, at anv time BEFOBE SALE
I am prepared to ship wool for snob of »y friends u
may prefer the London market, making an sdvaai*
en rasas terms as the Banka, or. if required, I would
hand ever the shipping document*, leav*** aty frientf*
ko arrange for advances, and MAKING NO CHANffi,
artless for setnal expenses incur'*d ; at khs same ti«*
Iwoald advise BELLING IN THIS MARKET wha»
prices are fair,'for during the Ja*t f*w **a»ori* priras
her# have been nearly EQUAL TO LONDON PBIOH.
and sseh year sees a more nnmeroua ATTKIf DANCE
OF BUYERS on aooouut of Mannfaeturera all or*
bath EUROPE and AMERICA.
Any Bank or perron holding liens on wool will, if
owners wish, allow them to consign their wool touts,
and any of the Stesm Companies or Forwarding Ageat*
at Railway Static*a will receive w*-? on nvr seeoaai.
and PAT CARRIAGE OR OTHER EXPENSES. ’
I wish to mention that my next Annual Wool (tbs*
will tske place in March next, when prizes amount!**
to Al5O will be distributed, principally to owners ef
small flocks, on same terms as show of last season.
My charges this season ahall bn on the LOWEST
SCALE POSSIBLE, oonsiatent with perfect justice te
the interests of my supporters. Way-bills and every
information furnished on application.
I wish to inform my Weeds that, having secured Ik*
services of Mr. Thomis Noras, for some years Bales,
roan to the well-know firm of Morebead end CO, of
Brisbane, lam row in a position tode the fulles* Jn«t)«*
to sales of LITE STOCK and STATION PROPER.
TIES ; and that this branch of mv hnsineas shall r *
eelve the most CAREFUL ATTENTION. SALES of
FAT STOCK will be held twice a week in Sydney, aid
of Store Stock as may be required.
In conclusion. I cannot help again thanking rrr very
extensive constituency for the very liberal support**
tended to me dnripg the last ten years. My Bnslneii
has expanded each year beyond my expectation* « r
hopes, and I feel sure of continued succeed still, avj
•hall strive by all means in my power to deserve ike
■ame.
JNO. BRIDGE.
VICTORY FOR THE NEW "OSBORNl"
TWINE BINDING HARVESTER. - Tk«
greatest »nee*ss yet in harvesting machines.
From the CmviLAHB Herald s—“ Nashville, Ten*,,
May 86.—The largest field trial of self-bindlng htr.
western ever held in the United Stater, eloied at Boll*
Meade farm, near this eity, to day. The Osborn*,
Wood, Buckeye, Peering, M'Cermiok, and St. Paul
Machines were represented. Osborne was awarded tb«
first premium. The 'judges were General B. F. Cheat,
hsaa, William H. Jackson, and Major Campbtll
Brown.*’
The above special was published in the Luadh «
yesterday relative to the great field trial at Naahvilli;
This trial has long been looked forward te by *l*
mannfaeturera of Harvesting Machinery sa tbe on* *t
which the important decision sa to the merits of their
respective machines would be given. Thie trial t**k
place epos the famous Bello Meade farm, which is owned
by General Harding, one of the most eminent tort
men im the United States. General Jackson, the iso-
in-law of General Harding, with hie usual display of
good judgment, desired in the purchase of harvesting
machinery to select only tbe beet, and with this cbjirt
alone in view invited all the competing harvesting
machine companies that manufacture self-binding hvt-
vesters to engage in this trial in order that he might
decide as to the merits of tbe machine, and select t*r
hie farm whichever machine was shown to hevs the
most complete system of cutting, elevating, and bind-
ing the grain. All prominent harvesting mtohin*
companies were represented at the trial, cither in per-
son by tho manufacturers, or by their general agent*.
The day appointed for this trial was Monday, May M.
The weather being most propitious, there wt», M
expected, on immense concourse of people to witnMS
this trial, and the result of tho first day’s battle ii
summed up in a despatch received from Mr. F. F.
Palmer tho manager of tho Cleveland branch home of
D. M Osborne and Co
“ Nashville. Tonn., May 29.—1 n trial all 'day with
M'Cormick, Buckeye, Wood, Doering, and St. Paul;
no decision ns yet. Osborne, M'Cormick, Buckeye, aid
Wood machines ordered into very heavy wheat to-
morrow to decide the trial. Other machines ruled
out.”
As will he reon by the above despatch, the grain in
which the machines were first put to work was not
sufficient to fully test all points of mechanism about
the machines, and in order to do no injustice to any of
the leading harvesting machine companies, the judge*
of the trial -OeneraT B. F. Cheatham, William H.
Jackson, and Major Campbell Brown—wisely decided
to have these machines put to work in a very heavy
piece of grain, one which would thoroughly test the
strength of the machines and tho ability to handle
heavy, i angled grain. And tbe result is m'ft fatia-
faotori'y summed up in tho following despatches, "hie*
we have been furnished with from those present at the
trial :
One from Mr T. H. Ritter, of Lima, Ohio,
D. M, Osborne and Co.:
“Nashville, Tens., May 30.—Tho result is a coo-
plete victory for tho Osborne by unanimous decision
and full vote of the committee. Seventeen Osborne
machines sold on the field. We are gloriously hspFF*
T. H. Hm**.’’ .
A mother from Mr. H. J Case, prominently oonseetw
with the inventive department of the house of D. N-
Osborne and Co.:—
“Nashville, (Tenn., May 30—Osborne get* W**
ribbon Our machine successful and its binding
sys tern thoroughly vindicated.” ~
Another from Mr. D. M. Osborne, president of ts»
firm of D. M. Osborne and Co , who, desiring to kno*
by personal observation the advantages that
machine had over his competitors, was present at ta
trial , ,
“ Nashville. Tenn. May 39. —After being in two day*
trial, complete victory for the Osborne Binder o«r
Wood, Bearing, Bt. Paul, Buckeye, and M’Conni* ■
Seventeen Osbornes sold on the field. ‘Compressor’
are at a large discount. We have -von the trial o°
pletely, and captured Kentucky aid Tennessee.
A great number of despatches have since been
ceived by Messsrs D. M. Osborne and Co., cong? T j
latiug them npon the great success which they n
gained in the victory over their competitors at u
trial, which is no donbt most satisfactory to them.
the above despatches are alone sufficient to josti
in presenting onr congratulations to the firm for
victory over their many very eminent competitors.
We are informed by their Cleveland manager __
the prospects for trade for the| coming year are
flittering indeed. That a general prosperity a®,
the farmers and general good condition of crops throve
out tbe territory whioh they control is such ss top
theirestimate of salefrora the Cleveland branch h«w
the neighbourhood of 10,000 machines for the * ,j_
of 1882 nearly half of this number being their «
binding harvester, which indeed ia a modell o
faction in the way of a barveating machine. so ,
the improvements wh'oh have been steadily * , r jy
this machine since its original introduction, . #ir
shows that the firm is determined to jp*.
putrons none bnt tho beet machinery '.hit ions
ri*n e in the trade and best inventive gen-
build. Vines ice*
Tho first shipment of these bow mach-
Tf FLEMING, Sole Agent, 22 and 24, Cleretic r
street, Sydney. . ,
HUGH LENNON, Agent, Melbourne !
A. G. WEBSTER, Agent, Hobart.
gT. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL ANNUAL BALL
Under the disHnßnished PatronB(ro of Hl* Wxoo M enor
Che Eight Hon. Lord AUGHSTUS LOFTUS,
Lady AUGUSTUS LOFTUB,
and Suite.
PLAIN AND FA;rfCY DRESS.
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park,
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1882.
Tickets :
Gentlemen ... £llO
Ladies ... 0 10 6
SIR P. A. JENNINGS, K.C.M.G , Chairman.
A. J BRADY 1 H 8
W. H. M'CAETHT ) HOB - Beos -
ASHTON’S BRITISH AMD AMERICAN
CIRCUS.
JAMES ASHTOV, jnnr., Sole Proprietor.
Not broken up. Still on the road. Equestrian and
Aerobatic Talon*- wanted '■omi’-'e Spring Season.
ADIRESS R. H. BERNARDO, 289 Orowa-st., S.H.
w
RESILING MATCH, CUMBEBLAND
STYLE, takes place at tho
HIPPODROME, PITT STREET,
on SATURDAY, August 19. between HUDSON o
Now Zealand, and COWAN of Sydney, for £lOO aside.
TJte Herald commences its Tuesday’s leader: —
** Tha land question is now beginning to occupy so large
a share of the publio attention," Sco, "Now beginning ! ”
The Corporation motto is “ I take, but I sur-
render." However, some of the ald*man take and
don't surrender Hats, cab-hire, Ao., How many
more eminent politicians will yet get into trouble over
eab hire P
More glory! They’re going to stuff John
Davies, the personification of the evil genius of New
South Wales, with hot turkey and cold water. Why
not wait until the return of Farkea, when the worthy
master and his faithful servant, the only less sincere
and more designing politician in Australia, could be fed
together out of the same trough ?
Inscription on a tombstone in a Qoulburn
cemetery:—
JOHN F ,
Who was murdered at Qolburn (sic),
Aged 51 Years.
Consider reader when you look.
How suden this soul was took 1
And see that thou prepared be
Least death should eome so quick on thee."
What it will come to. Auctioneer, loq.:—
** New gentlemen, what shall we say for this thousand
pound libel writ—the trial to oome off in two months.
Case is aa elcar as daylight. The Webedt Horace
called the plaintiff an 'esoteric almnoantar.* Nehody
seems to know what it means, bat It Is an undoubted
libel. The issuer of the writ is prepared, gentlemen, to
swear—and this will increase the valne of the lot mate,
rially—anything. What shall wo say for it f 50, 60, 70,
80,100 guineas—thank yon sir. Going at a hundred-
one—two —throe—gone. Mr. Bluffum.”
When the last San Franoisoo mail steamer was
coming np the harbour, a mail-bag of letters was
handed on board. Each saloon passenger received one,
and one letter only. There was a delighted rush to
open their epistles, and each thought of his or her
nearest and dearest friend. Then there ware “ pishes ”
and crumplings np of papers. Each one had received a
circular from aa enterprising Gaorge-street firm of
drapers I
Port Macquarie has now got a paper, the P.M.
News. The establishment of this journU was, of
course, to meet a “want long felt." In the first
issue of the News, the editor warmly advocatee the
establishment of a Boys’ Reformatory in the town, so
that later on we may expect to see that editor asking
for a lunatic asylum and a Bridewell. We, however,
haartllv wish onr con , Ac. It gets dark too early
now for ns to add the rest.
A Melbourne tailor, who is also a volunteer,
recently ‘.went mad, and fortifying his house with a
piano-terte ease, mounted guard over his castle with a
Martini-Henry rifle. He went insane through—a-h<nn I-
joy’ at the thought of coming danger. And this re-
minds ns of something a Sydney volunteer said the
other day. •' If ever," he cried, " Sydney is bombarded,
I shall regard it aa m.v first duty to protect my family.”
He meant of course, he would mount guard over his
olive-branobcs—in the cellar.
Albert Edward, on Ihearing of the massacre
of Englishmen by the artful Arab!, exclaimed :
*’ Mamma : my country calls * To Arms’—l must away.
Just hold mo tight and let mo at them " Mamma; con
appaeionate : ** Stay, my son, thou must net ge—those
horrid people will knock you down, and dirty all your
good clothes; and, perhaps, stick things into you."
Albert Edward, as he sorrowfully unlocks hi* armour :
"Mai tbon hast saved Egypt, but lost thy son—go
down and get mo the corned beet and pickles."
A certain Northern official who has something
to do with the Licensing Act, recently secured about
throe months supply of first class Protestant whisky
for nothing. He ordered it from a storekeeper, who
rendered bis account about the third of the month, bat
as no notioe was taken of the little bill, and as the
trader had heard that others were being treated in the
same airy manner, he called and asked for payment.
The official demanded his creditor's licence, which, un-
fortunately, the latter could not produce. ” Then we
are quits I* he cried. ** D vn't yon press your ’.charge,’
and I—ahem I Good-bye.’"
Acting-Premier to the Colonial Cicero :— “ Look
hers. Wisdom, we can't spare Suttor or Laokev just
now to open that Deity blanked railway at Uralla:
anything will do for a crimson hole like that— you’U
have to go." Cloer® (stammering): “ But—but—really
Sir John—l—l—l never done anything of the kind
before. 1 don't know what to say.” Sir John :*• Well
I’ll be condemned if I do either, but you know our
prompter. Parkas, took away the instruction books, so
go np and ’gag.'" And gag.ho did like a thorough
artist.
A Treasury official arrived at Eylstone the other
day, and chartered a horee. Oarefully strapping a four-
foot portmanteau to the front of the saddle he mounted,
but the end of the trunk catching bis thigh, he slid
down the animal’s tail, and came to the ground. A se-
cond attempt broke the stirrup leather, and nearly
landed him in the horse trough. Then the landlord
went in and bronght out a pair of steps, summoning at
the same time the balance of tbe township to hold the
horse. Thus, at last a mount was effected, and the
equestrian rode away, lending a deaf ear to the land-
lord's entreaty that he should take the steps away
with him.
His nose was swelled, his eyes wore black, and
his clothes looked as if he had been passed through a
scarifying machine, when be appeared before tbe Dubbo
Bench as a •* drunk" “Guilty or not guilty P" said
his worship, “Guilty, but let us off this time, yer
Honor, and I’ll clear right away.” '• You'll get right
out of this district if I let you go ? What’ll you do ?'.
"I will vamoose, yer Honor; I don’t want ter go ter
gaol.JU I’ll swag it down to Hydnoy and fill a long-felt
want by starting a second morning paper." The beak
dropped a tear of ioy, and discharged him with his
blessing, saying :—",I think you’ll regret not going to
gaol."
It was in Queensland, one short month ago.
The marriage had been duly consummated by the rev,
father, and the foast was dona, when, to the amaze of
all, the blushing bride, in the exuberance of her spirits,
wanted te substitute another for her liege. He natur-
ally pointed out that the desire was unreasonable, even
unbecoming; but ste persisted, and could not be in-
dneed to retire in the usual and lawful manner. The
issue was a general mixing np, eviction of the guests,
and a free fight. The bride opened her honeymoon that
evening in the lock-up, Hsr husband’s feelings were of
the most joyful kind; and even “ discharged with a
caution" next morning scarcely set matters quite
right.
Head this and ponder. A Sydney tradesman
sent his daughter to the bank with a canvas-bag con.
taining £lOO in pound notes. She lost the bag. Tbe
son of an employ 6 of her father pioked it np and took
it home. The father, noticing that eome initials on the
bag corresponded to those of his employer, ordered his
bob to take bis prise to the owner. The son did so.
The tradesman was overjoyed at the recovery *>f his
money—f o much overjoyed, in fact, that ho couldn’t
decide on the spot the amount of the reward be ought
to give. So he sobbed, “ fioo-00-d boy I Come to-
morrow, and I’ll see what I can do for you " The b >y
came next day in his best jacket and with his hair
parted in the middle. The grateful tradesman gave
him one shilling 1
A book of Australian experience, called “A Che-
quered Career," written by “ Dingo," has recently been
published in London, and is attracting some attention.
*' Dingo" appears to have tried his hand at everything,
with ove exception. He was an aotor, ploughman,
cab-driver, theatrical agent, doctor’s coachman, cook’s
mate, tramp, and squatter. He was a .clerk, butcher,
livery-stable keeper, timber-getter and stockman.
But in all bis experience he never became a mem-
ber of the pre ; s. This is only explained by the fact
of his being '* indifferent to money." Fancy a man
who could write smartly residing m Sydney and not
oommtnioating with Sir Alfred! It is quite ovidemt
that " Dingo" must have been very indifferent to money
iidtei.
The Southern Cross has amalgamated with
th* Lnneow Tarshtt. and the gifted Taeoett carries
on ths spec. This, as a literary item, is pretty absorb-
ing in its general interest, because Mr. Targeit's
organ was admitted on all sides to be sceond only in
politimtl infiusneto and commercial importance te the
Cowea 55bre Press and the Dandenong Denunciator.
OL, auu while wo aro on literary matters, we may as
well state that the irrepressible Cyril has raised the
price of the Debater from a penny to threepence, and
by way of recompense offers a prize for an ode on rat.
traps, or an essay on the ichthyosaurus. Cyril says—
“A large section of our community are ‘thinking men
and women,’ and It Is for them this paper is Intended.”
Quite right, dear boy. And with regard to the Debater,
they are still " thinking."
Here is an ad. from the Armidalb Express
“Wanted, an active single womsn, without incum-
brance, as cock and Laundress at the New Hospital
Apply to 381, Dr. W ioan." Now, tbe point is, what does
Dr. Wigan consider to be an ** incumbrance P" Chil.
dren, or a soldier? Of coarse, no “ single woman" con'd
be supposed to apply for the litnation with the former:
Dr. W. must therefore refer t 4 the latter. Well, now
that we are right into an European war, we don’t think
a soldier such an undesirable appendage, more especially
if ha will only help to mind ihe children and wish the
greens. The Paddington warriors, we understand, are
better at the last than at the first of these accomplish-
ments. The single woman is generally left by these
military heroes to “ mind the children."
That was a fearful and gory battle in Egypt the
ether day.{The Kile wae swollen with tha blood of the
slain, and the Echo came out with a second edition,
announcing “ A great victory for the British arms—"
which, now that we have carefully paroled later intelli
genoe, turns out to have been a brilliant victory for the
British legi. One officer and three men lest their
lives—probably run over. Arabi’s losses are not yet
fully known, >nt they probably amount to Cue
sausage stolen from bis tent while he was away at the
war, bv an adherent of the Khedive. This big fight
reminds us of the great battle on the Etheridge six
years ago, when two hundred Chinkies fenght eontlnn-
ensly for three days and night, and the losses lumped
amounted to ene sprained ankle, irenired while its
owner was running away with a bagful of salt-horse.
There lives in the south-west of this colony a
worthy clergyman who is net an 8.0. T. Being poor,
necessity compels him to do oeeasional repairs to
hU parsonage with hia own sacred hands, and so
dispense with the servioea of profestional builders.
The other day, after a wet and stormy night, his
reverence found that a piece of ridging bad been blown
off the roof, and, hammer in hand, he mounted to re-
place it. The wind blew and the rain fell, and
away went his rsverenoe’a hat. He grabbed frantically
after it as it departed, and overbalanced himself, and
away went his reverence. Slithering and sliding
down the galvanised iron, the parson began te pray.
“ Oh, Lord, have mercy on me !" said he ; “ Oh, Lord
have mercy on me!" But the LTd didn’t Interfere,
and the gutter was reached, but failed to check the
headlong descent of the parson. Clntohing vainly at
the down-spouting, he began to realise that his prayer
differed from tbe righteous man’s in that it availed
little, and, nerving himself to meet the shook, he shot
over, exclaiming, * Now fet a * gory * bnmp I”
The Echo complains that at Marriokville a man,
completely nude, was recently seen washing himself in
a herse-oond. Of course, the man, from tbe mere fact
of washing himself, could expect lut little sympathy
from tbe Echo; bnt that journal (which claim* that
the pond ia near a street) says indignantly—" Similar
breaches occur in other municipalities." Surely now
there conld not have been anything in the rcmot*»t
degree connected with " breaches” ia the circum-
stances of a naked man washing himself in a borse-
pond, though as bo the lack of breeches ume remirk
might fairly have been occasioned. But although
history tell* ns that Matthew (no connection with MaU
oga) Mark, Luke, and John, went to bed with their
breech** on, it ia improbable that they would have
followed that course if they had been bathing In a
Marriokville waterbele. Under these circumstances,
we consider our contemporary's remarks exceedingly
uncalled for, and we rebuke it accordingly.
Two jovial footballers were lining their night-
caps in a Sydney pub. after hours, when the police
knock oaras at the door. This being promptly erased,
tha foorce •* rushed in," but found the greund floor
rooms empty. Seeing a light in a bedroom, and hear-
ing voices, the bluebottles marched In thither. They
found a man in bed, suffering from fever and agne, and
a doctor in bine goggles timing the patient’s poles, Ac.
•* Had case, sirgint," »aid the medico ; “ suffe-ing from
Fehrie intermittens rumewillerum ; pulse going 900 te the
minute; must have ri«e diet, and two tablespoonfuls of
mietura aqua vitas every 26 minutes" The Sargint
looked profound, and concluded that he woe in tbe
honee of sorrow and suffering. When the front door
closed behind him, the sick man and his medical ad-
viser arose joyfully—and took bueir medicine.
“A bard sends us a poem of forty stanzas,
and asks ns to print it. He hymns thus :
" Our cattle too upon the plains are in numbers so pro-
fuse,
That they snpply to ns by far more meat than we can
use,
As meat that’s killed in England, and also twice as
cheap,
»o, not only we but Englishmen by it large profits
reap,"
There is more music than trnth in this question; a
great deal more. Besides it’s aggravating, at a time
when we are paying 94. per lb. for rump steak and a
shilling a pound for pork. On the whole, therefore, we
think our bard had better not write any more poetry
until meat goes down.
The half-yearly meeting of the Y M.C A. oame
off with great idat last Tuesday. Both th Chairman
aud secretary were of the same name, so the N alker"
element was pleasantly prominent. Money, it seemet?,
had rolled in plenbif ally, some contributions hiving been
sent from a considerable distance—notably two Mada.
gasoar ponies from Zanzibar, and a “Tom ay Dodd"
shilling from "a Believer" at Putney. A threepenny-
place with a hoie in it had also arrived in an envelope
bearing a Belgian stamp, bat some doubt as to its
authenticity was raised iu the mind of the chairman, as
on the obverse the envelope bore the post mark “ Jam-
beroo," with the date “July 14, 1882." The levity
evinced by other correspondents was much deprecated,
«. ;oonsiderable quantity of road-metal snd boot-hvels
having been received by tbe secretary, who, deceived by
the Horipture texts on the parcels, had been, In nearly
every case, inveigled into paying the carriage. No
member ot the Society bad been able to tear himself
away from prayer for a sufficient time to enable him to
attend the blisses for music, langs vges, A j.; bnt 164
young men bad been awakened to the folly ot sleeping
in boilers, and had been gathered to tbe fold by means
of shake-downs; and fnrthermora, no less than 816
hungry sinners had been filled with grub and glory
simultaneously. Tnc chairman expressed regret that
the library consisted slmplv of ’’ The Converted Oab-
driver," •• The Penitent Politician,” and other kindred
wmks, and the pure case of "Sissy’s Sunday School,"
"Little Harry’s Holiday," and “Hiw Bobby Batson
came to glory ” was warmly advocated. The proceed-
ings concluded by the passing ot tbe nsual vote of
thanks and tbe secretary’s salary.
The members of the Presbytery of Sydney sie
in a " highly narvous state." because Inspector Reid
declares "that instead of heldg able to allow his cot.
atabuUry an alternate iSauauy oil he is actually coa-
; elled to give them extra work on the Looard’s Day ’*
This slateof things, if not. altogether duo to tbe Sabb -
tarisn jealousy wan which tbe “chimnied churches "
arc watched on tbe Sabb ah, is aided by tbe malignant
persistency with which the sanctified hypocrites whom
a weak knesA publio accepts as it* ruiers, protemte
any barber whoshaves his follow-oitizin on Sunday, or
any old woman who on the “ sacred first day of the
week" sells a shilling’s worth of oranges—orange?,
perhaps, intended tor a aiek man at the Infirmary, We
have a suggestion to offer any struggling barber who
would like to increase bis business acd wants a big
advertisement. Let him announce in the columns of
this paper —ha may do so gratis—that he shaves consti-
tuents on Sunday mornings. The police will then visit
his shop and summon him. He will, under the pro-
visions of a law enacted by some blood-thirsty old
scoundrels who lived Heaven knows how many
hundred years ago, and ere now probably carrying
kerosene in Gehenna, be fined. However, the police
can’t levy on his goods, and if he refuses to pay the fine
h« can only bo put into the stocks. They haven’t any
stock* in Sydney now, and a pair will have to bo made.
This will be the reduetto ad ahturdum. By the time the
Holy John Davie*' crowd have finished off the barbers
aud apple-women, thi-y’U perhaps have lime to think
of such oases as that of little John Marshall, aged U,
who was •’ au engine- driver," and was on a recent Hub-
day night roused up to go to his work atarope factory.
He staited work at 10.80, aaC # from want of proper
C‘ wp or some other cause, he got entangled in the
achiaery. He now rests in hi.i grave, and thinks as’
little of hia Kerrystian friends in death as be did of
them iu life!
Mr. Charles CoghlaU, M A., Winner of
the Faucett Medal.
At a time like th* present, when we bear much of the
physical prowess of the Australians, it is satisfactory
to have assurances of their ability also to succeed In
tbe field of letters. The subject of this sketch, Mr.
Charles Coghlar, whose name has recently ootnepr*.
mlnently before the public in connection with the Uni-
verslty, may be taken as a representative of the present
generation of Anitraliau. as regards intellect and
scholarship. He wae bomln this city, and Is bnt thirty
years of age. He wae dducaWd at various national
schools In the metropolis, find, after a successful career
at the Sydney Grammar School, matriculated in 1869
»t the University, gaining the University scholarship.
At the same time, he wae appointed to the Salting
Exhibition tenable for three rears; and, subsequently,
wan awarded ths Llthgow and other scholarships at the
yearly examinations, passing with firet-ols** ho*«"r*
in cl»«»ics, mathematics, and natural science. In 1879,
Mr. Coghlan teok the degree of 8.A., graduating as a
*' double-first ’’—with distinguished honours in slsssies
and mathematics, end receiving a gold medal for eaeh
rubfset. In 1880 he was admitted to the degree ef
M. A.,and at last commemoration to that of L.L B ,be"ng
awarded tbe gold medal, valued at £6O, offered hr Mr.
Justice Fencett, and thaUnlvsrsity prise foraxcellexee
displayed in the examination for this degree. In 1879,
Mr. Coghlan became a Fellow of St. Jehu’s Coll eye,
and has displayed considerable interest in that insti-
tution. Taken altogether, the career of Mr. Coghlan
as a Unlseralty man has been exceptionally brilliant.
Last year he was admitted to the Bar, and was the first
candidate for adm'seieo under the sew regulations. He
was associated for seme time with the late Mr. G. C.
Davis, and has already wen tha reputation ef being a
sound and painstaking barrister. He is a man of largo
practical common sense, and has evidently carved oat
for himself an honourable and nodal career. Photo,
by Newman,!ef Oxford-street.
Mr. W. E Sheridan, the Tragedian.
"We give an page eight of this issue, a portrait of Mr.
W. E Sheridan, the distinguished American tragedian
who, during tha last few days, has achieved such great
dramatic success in this city. Mr. Sheridan earn*
amengst ns in ‘a very unobtrusive way ; he appeared in
an obscure theatre, and was supported hv one of the
poorest companies ihat could bo found in the
colonies. But his very first appearance was a triumph,
and his fame spread. Hie performances each evening
have been attended by increasing nnmh#rs>nd wo have
now fairlv a genuine dramatic revival. 'With the ex-
ception of the occasion of some operatic attraction,
the Gaiety Theatre has never before had such brilliant
patronage, and the season will, doubtless, close In the
height of a splendid success Mr. Sheridan may be
ranked with the very best tragedians that have ever
appeared on the Australian stage j and if hie tenrlin
the colonics should continue to be as successful as
at Its ononing—and there is no reason to doubt such
a result —he may lav claim to have won on the
basis of true genius alone. Mr. Sheridan’s repertoire
includes a ronnd of Shakosperisu characters, so that
though Ids present season in Sydney is brief, some
very genuine tre»ts rnr be expected on his return te
this city. Mr. Sheridan was born in Boston, U S.A.,
and comes of stock. His first appearance on the
stage was at the How-M Athene im. in his native city,
on the 15th May, 1855—1 n a very subordinate pert.
O* the outbreak of war, three rears later, he joined the
Federal army. He served as|Relief Signal Officer and
Instructor to the arm* of the Cumberland, and had his
right arm almost ent through at the battle of Resacea,
Georgia, May H, 1864, in Bherman’s famous “ March to
the sea," At the close ef the war he re-entered his pro
fession, occupying the position ho vacated fsur years
before, at Pike's Opera House, Cincinnati. Since that
time he has been leading man of almost everv first-
class theatre on the Atlantic slope. Mr Sheridan was
shipwrecked on Long Island Sound, In 1874. at 8 o’clock
in the morninr, in a sever«lstorm, and after swimm’ng
for five hours was floated by the tide npen Watch Hill
Beach Hie presence in A nstrnlla to-day is Hhe result
of a Western trip to San Francisco, and at the earnest
reqeest of friends who Jknew the tastes of the Ans-
trails* people. Mr Sheridan has h*on engaged by Mr.
J C. Williamson, fora season at Melbourne, and the
engagement will doubtless continue throughout the
Australian tour.
Dr. C. K. Mackellar, M.B., C.M., New
Health Officer
We give a portrait in thisjiasue of Dr. Charles
Kinnain Maokellar, who has, much to public satis-
faction, just been appointed to the important post
of Health Officer oftne port. Dr. Maokellar was
bom in Sydney in 1845, and is a eon of the late
Dr. Frederick Maokellar, for many years a prac-
titioner of medicine in Sydney. He was educated
at the Sydney Grammar fcchool, finishing his
studies in Edinburgh. He graduated at ths
University of Glasgow in 1871, and has been in
practice in Sydney for upwards of ten years. He
was for four years honorary visiting surgeon to
the Sydney Infirmary, and at the present is one of
the honorary physicians of that institution. Dr.
Maokellar has came prominently before the public
chiefly on account of the thoroughness of the
work of the Board of Health during the small-pox
outbreak, of which Board he was one of the most
active members. The work this Board accom-
plished was the unparalleled one of completely
stamping out small-pox from Sydney, when it had
apparently a wide-spread hold —a result which
has, we learn, excited much astonishment among
the medical profession of tho United Kingdom.
It is doubtless in recognition of Dr. Maokellar’s
services in this direction that he was offered the
post of Health Officer —a position which is of
daily increasing cares and responsibilities. The
public may expect a stern and watchful adminis-
tration of the duties of the office. Of this we have
no better proof than the promot way in which the
recent case of suspected outbreak of small-pox
was treated. Dr. Maokellar’s appointment has
given no less satisfaction to the medical profes-
sion than to the publio.


SYDNEY B|CY
JgNTBIZS POE THE j
AMATEUR RACE I
SLCSS OK
SATURDAY, th* 12tb
m. m i
Departmeni
KOTICE TO APPLICANT?’
IVTOTICE is hereby giren
Lessees execute and tal
undermentioned Mineral Lra
dsps from this dste, they will \
AVI
No. 1171; W. Sofeeel and others;
County of OliTf, /pariah of Am
Application No., 'fenterteld 78 8m
No. 1371; W. Soheel and others
County of Clite, parish of Am
Tentorfleld 4m.
No. 1338; M. M ‘Garry; Portio
Oonrb, parish of Herbert; Area,!
Tingha 398.
Department of
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby giren 1
sees execute and take de
mentioned Gold-mining Lease
from this date, it will be deelai
ABI
TaMXAKOOBA AMD TuEON Ml
I INo. 340; Joseph Nioholien and
10; Stringy Bxrk Omsk, eountr o
of Ironbarke; 8 acres ; Applicatio
Department of
Sydae
LIST of Applications reoei
ment of Mines, for perm
roads, Ae., Ac., under the Mir
tien 28.
AB'
Date ef Application, July 21,
O. M. Lantech; Under the Parra
Birere; 010 acres ; To mine for o<
Date of Application, Jnly 21, IS
M. Lamaeta; Under the Psrran
Birer* ; 040 acres j To mine for «
Date of Application. July 31,18
Lantech; Under the Parramatta i
840 acres; Te mine for coal.
Date of Application, July 21.11
M, Lantech ; Under the Parras
Biters i 840 acres; To mine for r.<
Date of Application, Jnly 31, IS
U. Lantech; Under the Parran
Birers; 640 aeree; To mine for oi
Date ef Applioatien, July 21, IS
M. Lantech; Under the Pnrrai
Ei*«rs ( 640 acres; To mine for c
Date of Application, Jody 31,18
M. Lantech; Under the Parran
Bivers; 199 acres; To mine for o.
\ UCTXONEEB'I
T. B. HUNTLBT (lite Oen.
Coffee Palace Company, and Ci
freehment Booms), begs to inforn
•boos, and the pub lie generally, t
bnsinees as an Auctioneer, Vali
A —a nft s tn II I
PARLOUAJTI
m HE EBALLT POPULA
PHOTOGRA
805 GEORGE BTI
Opposite the Railway
Especially esteemed for his Poi
Children..
Cartes de Visits, 7s. 6c
ARMBTROK
HYGIENIC RELIABL
[Registerel under the T-ade:
Armstroug’s (Camomile) 1
Fill!
Stand UNRIVALLED as a G
APERIENT for tNDIHSTION,
•» the Head and Chest, HABITOi
HEARTBURN. Giddiness, Wind 6
of idle Eyes They pi o -note a HI
the STOMACH and HOTELS,
nee sioknsss, and are confidently r
la., Rs., and 3s.
Armstrong’* Remedy f
Bleeding P
Is recognised by MEDICAL M
EMPIRICAL MEDICINE, bein
com" for tbia hitherto intraotal
pain, and arrrstot hemorrhage
upon in from 24 to 49 hours. 4i
ARMS'! HONG’S PARAGON
Price, Ha.
Armstrong’s Conoentr
Fluid Esse;
Of EXTRACT OE BED JAMAH
in combination with DANDRLIO
and permanent cure
DISEASE, arising from an Inns
the BLOOD, Cbronio RHEUI
DEBILITY, Affections of the
Price, 9a. 6d., 10s. »d , 21».
Q UEBNSLAND
GRBBLET LUKIN
PASTORAL. MINING and n pjL,
Temporary OlHees, 289
Opposite Hunter
GEBBLET LUKIN and CO
lowing Incorporated Gold-minim
lands—
Qian mi re and Mookland G
Hibernian Tribnte G. M. C
Nioholl's Lease G, M. 00.
2°*-* h Lady Mary a M. C<
No. 2 North Lady Mary Q.
North Gian mire O. M. Co
North Menkland G M. Co,
No. 1 North Pheenix ». M.
No, 9 North Phoeaix G M
United St. Patrick G. M. C
New Zealand Tri tutors.
Mining Managers’ Reports reg
est information on Queensland
through special agencies,
ing journals filed.
THE RIVER DARLINi
COMPAf
To BX Inoorpobatxd »T Ac
CAPITAL, £200.600 IN sSa
Proyisional Din
EDWARD QUIN, Efq., M.P
?. H r H l?soYa;^>. wu 2
How. W. A. Urobbibb, M.
W. C. Palmer, Ksq., J.P ,
E. W. DeifMrr,LT, Eeq , Or
C. H. Wrbfobb. E*q., Mo<
H. C. Armstboms, Eeq , W
Arthur WooDrAni,, Esq.,i
Waltwhcs Brows, Esq , J.
Charles O. Lusr Esq., M<
J. 8 Ksid, ®Bq., Wiloannii
J. Spcdkk, , Wiloannii
W• J . HOIDtMA. W«n fwnell
OLD AND NEW
Be-Printed fr
‘1 t jA YCI ..
** THE SYDNEY MORN!
Br Pjebm issi®n of thi
EDWARD HORDERN'
\ (•-... . ■
DRAPERS, OLOTBIBRS,
863 BRICKFIELD HI
(Midway B -pool at
Issued Gratis to the
Ee
me
W.
H. PA
PIANOFORTE WAI
859 OoorgMtraet,
PIANOFORTES, - PIA
Just nnpacke
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIB
ME NTS, k.
EBARD (Paris and London),
PLETEL.
COLLARD and COLLi
SOUPLETO.
BURDEN and
TSOST
CITY CATERING
815 GEORGE SI
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional worki
tioal experience, nearly all from t
of Compagnoni and Co., who p.
and carry oa the working of th
general manager.
It is not a public company, and
the expenses appertaining
N.B.—Since opening,
snooessfelly catered TE
CULT, and MOST
have taken place here to the pres*
The Consular Dinner, in onr new
Hie Worship the Mayor's Picnic
“d Bannnets, and all Entortair
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worsbir
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE AI
Karl Clan william, and the Offi.
Squadron.
Masonie Ball, English Constltut
tlon Building.
Masonic Ball, N.B.W. Conatito
Sydney.
Visit of tboir R.H.’s PRINCE AI
to Lithgew Valley Minas and
Bt4*se, for 00, in Government Pa
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,0<
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—
NOTICE, only receiving the on
ready on th« spot at 12.30 p m.
Visit of THEIR R.H.'s PRI
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s L
Botany Bay. Pionio luncheon
100, under VERY SHORT NOT
at 9 80 p.m,, to he ready on the
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, T<
The (Union Club) ” Bachelor’s
Building, for 500.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judge
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers* Dinner to Judg
Banquet Boom.
Dinner A la Sum* at St. Paul’s Col
of the Church of England Syno
Dinner d la Rusm to the Inten
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshmon
gentlemen, at the taming of the
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling St
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshmen
Race*, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of
Mary's Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Engl
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of ]
Dinners, 1 easts, &o„ <feo.
The CITY CATERING COMP
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, G
and all requisites for Balls, Picul,
and will be glad to send out th
fas try, Cakes, Jellies, loes, Conic
Civil and attentive waiters al
services required.
Ws have in our possession lette
high standing in the olty, oomp
manner wo have performed the du
OHAB. R. SM
tUate of the firm of the original C
MALT 811
The great Cure for Indigeutioi
Complaint, Weakness, &o.
PRICE ~ ...
A.. O. KBBBLEWHITE, (
48 Erskine btr
AND
W. H. SOUL, Pitt
KOUMISS ! (MILK DIET
Will at once Believe the AC!
STOMACH and NAUSEA I
excessive DRINK:
Registered
-A- FORTUKTt; for is.
The great “Bonanza " Consultation on the Melbourne Cup, 1882
50 : 000 Shares at Is each. 1,000 Prizes, Value £2,500
FIRST HORSE ... £l,OOO 1
SECOND „ ... .£2OO
THIRD „ ... .£lOO
STARTERS DIVIDE £lOO
NON STARTERS jfilOO
To every sending £l, the price of 20 Tickets, we will
forward On Ticket (Free), thus enabling the getter-up of a
Club of 20 Members a chance of winning £l,OOO without investing
a single penny himself. Drawing to take place early in October
Shares forwarded by return post. Result of Drawing posted to
Subscribers, and advertised in the daily and weekly papers.
Application, by letter only, enclosing Cash, P. O. O. or Stamps
with Stamp for reply. Address " BONANZA," Care of J. Thomas.
20 SWANS! ON STREET. MELBOURNE.
r ■* j


Busine
D
i
-531
LiATC
OF
Tobacconists
TO BMOKEES WHO PEOFESS TO
AMERICAN TOBA
THE following facts are comp
resources, and, therefore, she
special interest ;
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1
All the others paid duty in 1880 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1
All the others paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco pai(
on for the two years was 0n1y...
DIXSON AND SON’S BRA:
YANKEE DOODLE, CO
SIS ROGER, GOLD
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are
genuine "Tin Tie,” each plug
Bound Single Tin Tao, stai
queror” or *• Yankee I
ALL TOBACCONIST*' GOOI
N V
°0 ov
READ THIS! REA
A. SALMON
FURNISHING :D
Hotels, fco.
Q.UNSLER’S
NORTH TERR
ADELAIDE.
Robert butci
(Late William Lo
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
6W GEORGE STM
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL
COtJSTBT OEDKES RECEIVE PEG
GALLON’S PRIZE AL
J. T. FALLON in asking pnbli
V INES, and to the awards gain*
<»ri mate that ho holds yery large si
«. i d the public may rely npon gettu
a>. d in almost any quantity.
Centeal Depot
91 PITT STREET, SI
VINETAED;
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH WAI
These Wines were awarded first-
following Exhibition': —
London International ...
Paris »
Vienna >,
Philadelphia „
A'so at the various Intercolonial 1
toria, New South Wales, Queens
CLASS, and 2 BECON D-OLAf
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBIT.
WHITE,
v deling Auoarot I «h
V‘ rdeilho Brown Muscat I Ca
Tokay * Ba
Champagne, Medium Dry. Cl
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. wil:
COOLALTA WINE C
119 PITT STREET
VINEYABD-COOLALTA, BE.
SOUTH WALEi
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality
No. 1 CoolaJU Red
No. 2 i, ~ ...
Burgundy
Port
Vin Ordinaire
WHITE WINES
Muscat ... ...
80. No. 2
Do. Drown
Sherry
No. 1 Cootalta
No. 2
Vin Ordinaire
Magnificent iron-fr^
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Bose'
Imported by ns direct, and mani
for this climate to the order of onr I
Every instrument is WABKA
YEARS. They are of very handsoi
axe most sensitive, sweet, and powei
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAY Ml
Examine and lest them before pu:
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMPi
1. Oxford-Btreet; 612, George-s
Buildings, Sydne;
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High
Howick-street, Bathurst; Ai
burn; Church-street, Parrama
Brisbane.
No matter whore yon Hve we will
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
CENTRAL TEA AND C(
HOUSE,
571, QEORQE-STR]
CHARLES J. CHKII
WHOLESALE AND PAMI
TEAS, COEPEE3, SUGARS,
offthe Best Quality In tl
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address—
-671, OEORGE-3TE
Between Liverpool and Gon
H. A E
PROVISION MERC!
AND GENERAL OOMMIBS
543 and 345 Kbnt-stkeet, hbai
SOLE AGENT for the undennenti
B. Whittingham and Co.'s Lon<
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victors
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria!
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria Con
, A. M. Hnnt k Co.'s Goulburn B
Sauce. _
343 and 345 KENT-STBEET, neoi
w
346 GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & S
’Business Annoanc
Australian “hoj
SEWING MAC Hl]
Unprincipled Dealers —to wake
lings profit—are offering for sal*
Machines that will hot stand a yeai
EXPRESS I
OS
s
(A
I*
THE HOME SHUTTLE L(
Manufactured for us, has the abo
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHE
We solicit information of the atte
terfeits of the above Machine, whe
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuir
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
HAVE ROW,SOLS C
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLE
Do., WITH COVER COMP
No charge for coses or peeking.
Circular post
M. MOSS AND
WYNYARD LANE, S
AND
AFFE
lS
ALL
NO
UNION MORTGAGE AI
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEORGE-STREI
To Small FREEHOLD and I
PROPRIETORS
This Company is prepared to gi
gage of freehold cr leasehold pr
upon tVo deposit, of deeds, on com]
on honses in course of traction, im
repayable by the smallest weekly
meets, taken by the society in this
ing table will show:—
For every £2O borrowed
£3O
„ £4O
.. £5O
„ £75
£loo ..
and up to any amonnt at the same r
For further Information ap;-ly at
WM P. s;
11
*<-
n
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPE
MERCHANTS.
yiKGOB, SON, AND C
AGENTS.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rrrfe shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
0/ racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Rvdney Turf Club, Rnndwkk August 10.
Rodney Tattersall’s. Rind wick August 12.
Victorian Trotting Club August 12
Tattersall’s. Kandwick August 12.
Hawkesburv Spring August 21, 26.
Queensland Turf Ciab Angus* 28.
A.J.C Spring .Sept, 2, 5. 7, 9.
Narandera September 6, 7
8 A J C. Derby Meeting September 16.
Geraldine (N.Z.) Spring September 28, 29.
Melbourne Hunt Club September 30.
V R C. Spring Oct. 23, 31, Nov. 2, 4.
Canterbury J C. Spring November 7, 8,10.
Parramatta J.C Nevember 9,11
Bendigo November 15, 16.
Marrurabidgee Turf Club Nov. 22, 23 21.
Canterbury (N Z.) Summer Janury 1,1833.
V R.C. New Tear Meeting January 1, 1883.
Sydney Turf Club ........January 26,1883.
AQUATICS.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta August 26.
Newcastle E C, Regatta August 28.
Mr. Frank Punch's Prizes September.
Gardiner Cup, Mercantile October 28.
N S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October.
Krug Champagne Trophy November 25.
Gardiner Cup, Amateur December 16.
PEDESTRIANISM.
E. Hicks v. : A. Farrell (1 jyards) 200 yards
£lOO August 19.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports August 19.
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports, Association
Ground August 26.
R. Williams v. W. Chaplin, 100 yards, £lOO,
Narandera August 26,
FOOTBALL.
Brisbane v. Combined Team, {Association
Ground August 12.
Brisbane v. University August 15.
Brisbane v. Combined Suburbs August 17.
Brisbane v. Wa11ar00...... August 19.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club’s Raci Meeting (Association
Ground) August 26.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Players of England August 10, 11, 12,
Derbyshire... August 14,15,16.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The East Sydney Football Club defeated the
Northmnberland.Club at West MaitUnd on Saturday
last.
T. Cannon is the only jockey who has over
ridden the winners of the Two Thousand Guineas,
Derby, and Oaks in one season.
The big sporting Noozepaper of Pitt-street, has
much to answer for to the unfortunates who ask its
opinion, and bet on the reply.
All matches under the auspices of the N.S.W.
Football Association are oil next Saturday, on account
of the intercolonial match under Rugby rules.
The Eodfern and Liverpool clubs played a match
at Liverpool, on Saturday, resulting in a win for Red-
fern by 4 goals. 3 tries to nil. A very fast game was
played.
The Sydney and Our Boys clubs played on the
Association Ground, on Saturday, the former winning
by 9 goals . hehinds to 1 goal 3 behinds. The Our
Boys were grea overmatched.
A 150 yards’ ;ace for <£2s aside has been ar-
ranged to come oti between J. Warren and C. Lamb on
the Agricultural Society’s Grounds on 19th August.
At last Maryborough races, the mud was so bad
that the ladies had to be carried from their carriages to
the Stand. Sawdust would have been very useful, but
unluckily it bad been all used at the fancy dress ball.
According to the list of fixtures the Australians
play to-day (Tnnrsday), Friday, and Saturday at the
KenningtenOval against the Players of England, and
on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday at Derby against
Derbyshire.
At the annual meeting of the Victorian Bacing
Club, on Monday, there was an acrimonious discussion
concerning the introduction of the totalisator. There
are one or two members of the club who think they
should have their own way in all matters.
Of the team of 21 footballers who lately visited
Sydney from Geelong 18 were total abstainers. Mr. Eli
Johnson claims this as one for his cause. Bat a team
of teetotallers played against them here and got beaten.
How does that count for Eli P
The number of registered bookmakers 'in Mel-
bourne has now reached 84, who will contribute to the
V.R.C. funds the sum of £2,100 annually. This would
be a handsome sum Jfor added money to thelMelbonrne
Cup. The police protect the rights of the registered
ones on the Flemington racecourse.
In the summary of news by the just arrived
American mail, it is stated that “Tug" Wilson, the
pugilistic champion of England, has challenged Sullivan,
of Boston, to fight under the London prize-ring rules
for £590 aside. This will prove whether the so-called
11 Boston Boaster" is the real grit or no.
The Challenge Fours at the Rockhampton
Annual Regatta was a hollow aifair. The Maryborough
crew jumped away with the lead from the start, and,
speedily distancing their opponents, finished com-
fortably, three lengths ahead. Distance, 3 miles;
official time, 17a>ins. 57secs. The Maryborough men
scored a win also in the senior pairs race.
At the coursing at Telarah, West Maitland, on
Saturday, the Members’ Stakes was won by Jack Spring,
with Juiias second, and Wild Girl third. The
nominator of Junius entered a protest against Jack
Spring on the ground that Mr. Jewell, the nominator,
u not the bona fide owner. The protest is considered
groundless, but it has to be considered at a full com-
Buttfte meeting.
A New York pugilist, James Elliott, was trying
j n to make a match with J. L. Sullivan tor
dollars and the championship, but Sullivan would
never appear to sign articles. The New York papers
rat ® Sullivan about his eagerness in taking up bogus
and his tardiness in coming to terms with a
nie man. t’hey say he should either resign the
championship, or arrange a match with Elliott,
ou divan is travelling on his title, giving sparring shows,
and raking in plenty of dollars.
Casino Eaoea,| August 3 and 4. The Maiden
rute was won by Ad Valorem by four lengths. The
t/onnthian Stakes was appropriated by Bundook’s
< tttc *3' won the Casino Handicap by two
eagtba Shamrock won the Publican’s Purse, and
T-jm i i?'” 8 ' Produce Stakes. Six started for the
uH a udioap. Royal Blend won, witu Shamrock
second. Long’s Sunlight won the Half-Mile Flutter
0. o- , race took place fur the Flying tiandi-
cap, winch Ad Valorem won by a length.
I®®*: Hubert 8. Bale, who represents the cele-
a , OVon,r y Machinist Company, has pre»*n’e i to
hivK y Bicycle Club a handsome silver jug, 15m.
Ht?nu of beautiful des'gp, and supported by a suitable
-l ° a , Du the sides are handsomely and delicately
trm?h , urts °f birds aud flowers. This ia to be the
NSW i am *i o nrs’ one-mile championship of
-ii J” al8 ®» undmust be won twice in succession, or in
nl«oo r . ee . times. The first race for the trophy takes
01. t “ e Bicycle Club sports, ou the Asso-
ciaUsuo round, on 26ih August.
Ban meeting of the RoyalfSydney Yaoht
b.Urwd o *l. waa helc * on 3r, i August. Tne treasurer's
aee sheet shows a balance ia hand of £8 13s. 2d.,
as well as a sum of £2lO at fixed deposit at 5 per
Dr. Mackellar being compelled through professions
engagements to withdraw from the position of Com-
mo( t. ore ’ aEI Laid ley was unanimously elected
to the vacant office. Mr. Milson was re-elected Vioe-
oommodoro; Mr. Knox, hon. treasurer, and Henry
Cornwell, secretary. The following were elected as
committee Dr. Mackellar, Dr. Milford, Messrs. J.
E. Love, J. Gilchrist, H. G. Hangar, and W. J. Trickett.
Largan evidently pulled a game raoe in the con-
test for the Sportsman's Cup, and his gameness got him
the victory. Laycook was leading as he liked, and
Pearce, through want of knowledge of the course, it
was alleged, fouled Largan. The latter dashed after
Laycock and got level with him again- A ding-dong
raoe ensued, but Layoook’s bad condition told, and
Largan got away from him. Liyoock than stopped
rowing. Pearce made a plucky but nnauoocsdnl at-
tempt to overhaul his leader. Pearce came in for his
share of public odium tor having fouled Largan, but as
the latter won the raoe, ’’Footy’s” explanation and
apology have been accepted on all sides.
The four-oared Hillsdale crew consider them-
selves to have been shabbily treated by the English
people. The London Metropolitan Eegatta Committee
itsned a circular that foreign entries would be closed on
Ist May. Tbe circular never reached the Hillsdale
crew, and they are shnt ont from the regatta. They
have challenged the winners of the Metropolitan race
for the championship of the world. This is how an
American paper pats it: —“ Tbe raling out of the
Hillsdale crew of amateur oarsmen by tbe English
amateurs is the broadest insult the Britishers have yet
put on Americans. They had no other way of getting
square tor the troanoing Hanlan gave them. They can
snub the new world if they can’t beat it."
A very fast game was played on Saturday be-
tween the University and Balmain clubs, resulting in
a win|for the former by one-goal one try to one goal.
The demon quarter-back, Bennett, made a successful
run for ’Varsity, off which Flynn failed to kick a goal,
bnt shortly afterwards tbe latter made a hue rnn, off
which he was successful in negotiating a goal. Bat the
grandest run ever , seen [on tbe Park was made by
Cameron of Balmain. He took the ball from the centre
of the ground, and avoiding several tacklers, he made a
fine kick, off which a touch was obtained and a goal
secured. The ground was 'enclosed with a wire rope
which.the spectators soon trampled upon. They then
encroached upon the],ground, hampering tbe play to a
great extent.
The Our Boys’ Cricket Club held their annual
dinner at Compagnonl’s rooms, on Friday last. The
annual report was read, showing that (luring the season
the club was engaged in 46 matches, of which 26 were
won, 13 lost, and 7 drawn. The trophies were pre-
sented as follows (—Batting, T. Stafford; bowling, A.
Denniss; highest single innings, A. Denniss; fielding,
W. Hannah; longstopping, J. Stedman; bowling
(second eleven), C. Mnlbolland; fielding, A. J. Cavill.
Junior Cup contests—batting, A. Denniss; bowling,
R. Napier; fielding, M. Saunders. The Our Boys won
the Consolation Cup, presented by Messrs. Peapes and
Shaw for the defeated club in the final contest for
the Thomson Challenge Cup. It was elicited that the
olnb had played the most matches for that trophy,
Hanlan’s death was reported in London on the
9th Jane. There were just the same excitement and
uncertainty as were created here. The London Sports-
man was besieged with telegrams for information on
the subject. All that the editor coaid say was that no
advice of the event had been received from Toronto,
and that if anything so lamentable had occurred his
correspondent would assuredly have notified him. He
set the rumour down as unworthy of credence. Hanlan
had not to forfeit the stakes for the raoe against Boss on
3rd July, as the latter kindly consented to postpone
the race nntil Hanlan was competent to nndertake it.
The Champion appears to have contracted malarial
fever while rowing for the benefit of a few friends on
the Harlem River, 28th May.
The winter meeting of the Geelong Racing Club
took place on Saturday, and was badly attended. Six
started for tbe Distance Handicap Trot, which was
won by Neptune. Prince won the 900 Yards Handicap,
with the greatest ease; Black Diamond, who was made
the favourite, went unkindly. Glenorvan won the
Handicap Hurdle Race easily. Seven started for the
Winter Handicap, which was won by Little Jack by
three lengths. Five started for the Handicap Steeple-
chase. Spring was the favourite, but was nowhere. A
good race between Collingwood and Fire King, the
latter winning by a length and a-half. Scipio won the
Selling Fiat Race by a length. He was entered to be
sold for £25, and was bought in at £l3O. Bocderman
won the Railway Stakes, beating Dongalston by a
neck.
Charley Beal, Bonner, and the Notts Club
secretary had a great row in the Pavilion about the
luncheon trouble. The] conversation waxed warm on
both sides, Mr. Bonnor being restrained with difficulty
from expressing his personal irritation. Captain Holden
appeared to do nearly the wholeJof the speaking; and
at last said “ Say no more about it—l will hear no more."
It was pointed out that he had had all the say himself,
but to no purpose. The County Committee’s honorary
secretary, producing a cigar from his pocket, then ex-
claimed to those who were near, “ Will seme English-
man give me a light ? ” Mr. Bonnor, naturally feeling
the taunt, stingingly replied, “ I can tell you, sir, I am
as much an Englishman as yon or any gentleman present;
I can trace my family baok for six generations, and
perhaps you cannot do more." Mr. Murdoch, taking
everything into consideration, was so indignant that he
almost threatened to throw np the match.
The Sydney Rowing Club Regatta came off on
Saturday, on the Parramatta River. . The steamer
Prince of Wale* carried tbe umpire and the press, and
the Alathea was also well patronised. A stiff south-
westerly breeze was blowing. The first race was for
senior outriggers, for which three contested, E. P.
Simpson, J. Arthur, and D, D. Middleton. Simpson
led at the start, bnt Arthur soon passed him, and won
easily. The second race was for J anior Eights; two
crews competed, and a splendid race took place, tbe
lead being contested every inch. The Sabrina won by
half a length. The third race, for Senior Double Sculls,
brought to the post F. Hart and J. Thompson, C. C.
Medoalf and J. Arthur, F. C. Brewer and J. W. Oaden.
The latter got away with the start, bnt aeon fell behind,
and Messrs. Medoalf and Arthur won rather easily.
The fourth race, for Scrmteh Eights, was won by a
length by the Sabrina crew. The umpire and starter
was Mr. J. Myers ;Ijthe judges were L. G. J. Bennett
and H. C. Doyle.
The New York Herald of 17bh May contains
fall detaiU of a prize fight for §lOOO, which was fought
in|a retired building at Coney Island (N. V), on the
day before, between Charles Norton and James Frawley.
Norton was born at Birmingham, England, in 1852; he
weighs 136 lb., and stands 5 ft. 6 in. Frawley, who was
known in the States as “Jim Dillon’s Novice," was
born at Rathkeal, oo Limerick, on 21st December, 1812 ;
he weighs 1301 b , and is sft 4 in. high. George Hooke
was referee. The fight consisted of three rounds, and
only lasted four minutes, one minute of which was
occupied with the half-minute intervals between the
bounds. Norton is describe as a quick and punishing
hitter. In the first round, he got his uuu“ in chancery,’’
and administered heavily; in the t eooud, Norton planted
a terrible right-hander on Frawley's left jaw, bring-
ing him down on bis face; in tbe thud
round, Norton croat-buttocked his opponent, and fell
on him heavily. This disposed of Frawley, and the
sponge was thrown up When the fight was over, the
police arrived and arrested—the poor, battered
Praw’e -, he beteg the only one who couldn’t run
away
The Australians had the usual showery weather
during their match with the Gentlemen of England.
Rain fell at frequent intervals, but only onoe was the
play stopped altogether, and then it raided hard for two
hours. Murdoch won the toss and of course went to
the wickets Ihe Gentlemen's slow bowling was severely
punished, the only trnndler who seemed to be able io
stop ihe rapid run-getting being Studd, who bowled
successive series of nine, reven, and five maidens
Massie dashed off at onoe and scored 22 before Aliok got
a run, and at 32 ha was splendidly caught by Head.
Murdoch batted in finished style, and M’Donnell
knocked the ball about with remarkable vigour. Bonnor
played a grand hitting innings. Thera was a large at-
tendance at .the Oval. The eyes of colonial cricketers
will open wide when they bear that the stumps were
drawn at 7 o’clock. At a quarter to seven " the light
was now uncertain, cloudy one moment and bright tun-
shine the next.[Murdoch was splendidly caught by
W. G Grace off a hard cut. When the stumps were
drawn, the spectators swarmed in thousands across the
wickets and loudly cheered the Australians as they re-
tired to the pavilion.
A great number of spectators attended the
match played by the Australian Eleven against Liver-
pool. The wicket was heavy owing to recent rains.
The Australians were first at the wickets. Gitfea made
top score, 81, and was caught. Jones played in ex-
cellent style for 73, when he was caught. Those who
have been carefully watching the career of the Eleven
in England will bo glad to hear of this popular young
batsman coming into form again. Palmer played to a
not-out innings for 33. On the second day, the heavy
rain prevented play. On the third day. the weather
was fine, but the wickets were slow. Liverpool was
disposed of for 112, of which A. Q. Steel made 23. They
followed on, and made 137, leaving the Australians 10
runs to win. The latter lost 1 wicket for 6 runs, when
the stumps were drawn. The match therefore resulted
in a draw, the Australians having 4 runs to make and 9
wickets to fall. It is a pity the match was not finished,
bat we must not blame the Liverpool Club for taking
advantage of the laws to save themselves a beating. The
Australians were benefited similarly in the O.leans
match, and we never heard a single grumble about it.
This time we have heard several.
A wrestling match which should prove attractive
will take place on Saturday next, 19tih instant, at the
Hippodrome, Fitt-street, between William Hudson,
light-weight champion of New Zealand, and George
Cowan, champion of N. 8. Wales, for £lOO aside. The
catching is to to be Cumberland style. Hudson, the
New Zealand champion, has, according to the condi-
tions of the match, to reduce from his ordinary weight
of about list. 4lb. to 10st. 71b.; Cowan takes at “ catch
weights," his usual weight being something over 12st.
Hudson is the hero of twelve matches in New Zealand,
oat of which he came victorious in eleven, while the
remaining one was drawn. This was with Tiffin, 20
years’ champion of England. Hudson threw Slade—the
Tim am half-caste, who recently wrestled Miller at
Dunedin—in two matches. The "big Maori," Bobin-
son, who weighed 17st. 111 b., also had to acknowledge
Hudson's prowess. Hudson won a match with Hayes
in Sydney on Saturday, July 15th. He challenged Pro-
fessor Miller in Sydney to wrestle in the Cumberland
style, but, Miller being then about to go to New Zea-
land, never replied to the challenge. Cowan is a well-
known Sydney favourite, and this match between two
such artists should attract much patronage.
The Burwood Club has, this season, proved
that it is a worthy toe for any of our crack clubs to
meet Some time ago the Wallaroos were careless
enough to send .an indifferent team to the suburban
club, and they were seat back to Sydney well beaten.
A match was arranged to take place at Burwood last
Saturday between these two clubs j and the Wallaroos,
beat on regaining their lost laurels, had organised a
strong team. At the last moment the match was
“ aried off ’* by the Burwoods, several of their best
men not being able to play. It would have been
with better grace if the Burwoods had chanced the
match with a weak team as the Wallaroos and ’Varsity
have done, and thus saved themselves from the asper-
sions that have been generally oast upon them for
their poltroonery. The second fifteens of these dabs
were engaged to play, and the| Burwood balance of
power from the first fifteen was thrown in, but the
Wallaroo second fifteen, who also drew a little on the
disengaged firsts, won by a goal and two {tries to one
goal. It thus amounts to this—that, though the Bur-
wood first fifteen saved themselves from a {probable
•• gruelling,” they inglorioosly strengthened their
second fifteen to get beaten by the second Wallaroos.
At the match played by the Australians at the
Bramall-Lane Ground, Sheffield, against Yorkshire,
nearly 20,000 persons were present at od. a head. It is
worth noting that in not a solitary instance could a
light suit of clothing be observed in the vast assem-
blage. The Australians received nicknames. Bonuor’s
tall form attracted special notice, and he was called
“Jumbo," or “Joombo," as the Yorkshiremen sound
it. Everywhere Bonnor went in the field, the cry
'•Joombo ” would ring in his ears. Aliok Banneiman
was named "Little Joombo” and " Quicklime,” Horan
"Features,” Palmer “Ribs,” Blaokham "Darkie,”
Spefforth " Spider,” Qiffen “ Sprightly," Murdoch
“ Eaglewings," Garrett “ Shoo-fly," M’Donnell “Legs,”
Maasie “ The Deer." On the second night of the
match, the “ boys " were present, by special invitation,
at a performance of * ’Genevieve,” by Soldene and
Alice May, and a special verse about the cricketers was
introduced. The Australians have had to do some
emigration agency business, and have bad to reply to
all sorts of questions. Their questioners generally
manifested surprise at learning tnat in Australia they
oonld go a journey of 2000 miles in a straight line, and
still not be across the continent, and that Melbourne,
Sydney, and Adelaide are populated altogether by
white people.
The weather for the Australians’ match’againat
Gloucestershire, at (Clifton, was brilliantly fine, and
the wickets were splendid. Gloucester was represented
by C. Peate, J. A. Bush, J. A Crinston, W.;E. Gilbert,
E. M. Grace, W. G. Grace, A. D. Qreono, W. D.
Maberley, F. Townsend, Midwinter and Wolfe.
Gloucester had the luck of winning the toss, bat a very
poor stand was made, the score being 108—Maberley 29,
Midwinter 25, Gilbert 13, W. Q, Grace 12, E. M. Grace
11, being the doable figure scorers. The Australian
bowling and fielding were Splendid. Garrett took six
wickets for f 8 runs. At the close of the day
six of the Australians were out for 191 An im-
mense concourse attended the second day’s play, when
the Australian innings terminated for 450—Horan (not
oat) 141, M'Donnell 70, Blaokham 42, Boyle 39, Bonnor
33, Garrett 33, Mossie 29, Baunerman 26, Murdoch 17,
Giffon 10, Palmer 5; sundries 5. Horan made a mag-
nificent display of batting and gave only one chance.
W. Q. Grace took three wickets for 146, Midwinter four
for 119, Wolfo three for 81. At the Close of the second
day’s play Gloucester had lost five wickets for 130,
Grace being 55 not out. A large number assembled to
witness the conclusion of the match on the third day.
Gloueester added only 53 to the score, and the Austra-
lians thus won In one innings with 159 runs to spare.
Grace made 77 runs in the second innings.
The Adelaide Racing Club Steeplechase Meeting
on Saturday was well attended. Five started for the
Hunters’ Steeple, which was won by Hotspur by four
lengths. Casablanca was favourite for theHurdleßace
but was never in it. A flue race took place and Banker
won by a length and a half. Thirteen started for the
Fulham Park Stakes, whieh was won very easily by
Bisbis. Nine started for the Duke’s Handicap, whieh
was won by a head by Assyrian, half-a-length separating
the second and third horses. Five starteu for the Sell-
ing Steeplechase, which was won by Oliver Twist. On
Monday the weather was fine and toe attendance large.
Great Surprise won .the Steeplechase. Twelve started
for the Selling Hurdles. Bound-to came in first, but
was 41b overweight. Lady Carrington was the winner,
Eight started for the Royal Handicap, which was won
by font lengths by Royal Irishman. A splendid race
took place for the Grand National Steeplechase. Re-
form, Casabiauoa, and the Knave were to the front for
a mile, when the two former fell. Sir Ewen then took
the lead, followed by Knave of Diamonds, Intrepid and
Tancred, till a mile from home, when the Knave went
to the front, and Intrepid fell. Rory began to pick up
ground, but could not catch the leader, who won by
about twenty lengths. Triplet won the Corinthian Cup
by a length. Tho Flutter was won by Irishman by a
length and a half.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Tho Balmain footballers had a successful hare-
and-hounds chase last week. Tbe route taken was
through Leichhardt and Petersham across bummer
Hill, back te Johnson’s Road, to the Bullock Road, up
Mullens-street, Happy Valley, Conies Road, and back
to Dick’s Hotel. The hounds were ihrea minutes
ahead of the hares. A bright moonlight night made
the onting a complete success The Wagga Wagga
Football Club has enrolled itself under the banner of
the N.KW. Football Association A billiard match
was played at Adelaide, on the 1-t August, for the
championship of South Australia, between Albers and
Lancaster, the former winning by 370 points
The American trotting horses imported by Mr. Roberts
arrived safely at Melbourne on 3rd August Hare-
bell has been largely backed to win the Hawkesbary
Handicap The Hunter River Amatenr Turf Club is
to be wound up The South Australian Jockey Club
made a profit for the year of £2128......Harri5, the
pedestrian, who competed against Frank Hewitt some
years ago, is now in Melbourne on a visit. He has been
sojourning in New Zealand The Richmond and
Oriental clubs met at Richmond on Saturday. The
Orientals won by two goals and a try to a try We
should suggest to footballers on Mocra Park that’if
they do hare a rope they should raise it
breast-high so that it cannot be trampled
upon. The constables in charge would have an
easier job to keep the excited crowd behind it
A 150 yards race for £5O recently came off at Charters
Towers between T. Gough and Q. Pollock. Both kept
together for 100 yards, when Gough took the lead and
won by two yards Michael Rush, the sculler, was.
one of the largest winners at the Casino Races A
football match 'cook place on Saturday between the-
Bathurst and Blayney Clubs, and was won easily by
the former South Melbourne and Carlton olubs
played on Saturday, the former winning by six goals to-
lour.
* * «
Hanlan, while in training, rows and walks six-
teen miles a day Captain Webb, who swam across
English Channel, has made a match with G. W. Wade
to swim two miles for £lOO aside, at Manhattan Beach,
David Godwin was absent in Germany when the
race took place for the Sportsman Challenge Cup
Largan, the winner, received £3O Decides the Cup, an t
the second man (Pearce) received £2O Edward
Hanlan (says the London Sportsman), on his arrival in
New York, indulged in a row on the Harlem River.
The “gentleman" to whom he entrusted hisclothiu
walked ofi with them, and the champion wan
left shivering in his light cowing costume nntil
other raiment could be provided for him
When Murdoch made his first appearance on the York-
shire ground, one of the bystanders remarked, “ He’s a
grand looking lad, is that,” and William proved tbo
truth of the remark Captain Webb has challenged
any man in America to swim from one mile to ten fur
from one to five thousand dollars a side Mr. Rymill.
the owner of Bruce, was so full of the winning chance
of his horse for the Derby, that he forgot to tell his
jockey to ride for a place, though he and his friends
had backed him for the minor contingencies for £2OOO.
The jockey eased oil ou finding he couldn’t win, and
Brace was not placed The Spirit of the Times
calls the London Metropolitan Regatta Committee's
Regulations “ The Star Chamber Edicts of the Metro-
politan Sneaks.” It also refers to the new “Tryto-
beat-the-Hillsdale-Crew" Rowing Association of
England Honlanl and Ross were to have rowed at,
the Winnipeg Regatta. Haulan’s sickness precluded
his taking part, and Rosa and Ms trainer
(Kennedy) gave an exhibition of sculling
The tenants of the houses overlooking the Kensington
Oval made a good thing out of the match Gentlemen
of England v. Australia; they let their windows at ss.
a day On the same day as the Australians played the
Gentlemen, Kent played Sutsex. Lord Harris and
Lord Throwley went in first for Kent, and made 211
before they were separated. At the olose of the day.
three wickets were down (or 109. Lord Harris made
176 John Largan, who is reported as likely to
settle in New South Wales, is a carpenter
The annnal eight-oared race between the American
Universities of Harvard and Yale was rowed at New
London on 30th Jane, and was won by the former
A New York pugilist, named Paul Ziegler, has
challenged John L. Sullivan to spar (our rounds fjr
250 dollars aside and has posted 50 dollars. Ziegler
stands 6(t., weighs 2001b5., measures lliin about chest,
thigh 27, forearm 161, calf 18in. He was born in the
State of New York and is 35 years of age.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Common suers —lawyers.
A bier saloon—an undertaker’s shop.
A Waterspout—A temperance lecture.
Solomon was the first man who proposed to
part the heir.in the middle.
“ So dark and yet so light,” as the man said
when he looked at his short ton of coal.
Beauty and bashfulness are often united; yet
the loveliest maiden is admired for her cheek.
A doctor has committed suicide by poisoning.
He evidently mistook himself for one of his patients.
There is in Sydney a man who has not laughed
for twenty-six years. He is boarding with his mother-
in-law.
“I wish,” exclaimed a dying man, "I could
take my gold with me.’* "It might melt," said the
parson.
It was a French woman who exclaimed: —
" How nice oold water would be if it .were only wicked
to drink it."
Mamma: “What can I do for you to induce
you to go to bed now f" Charley: “Yon can let me
sit up a little longer."
Every girl who expects to keep up with the
times should wear clocks on her stockings, and then
mark 'em " bands off."
He :“ May I offer you my arm?” She: “Oh,
this offering your arm is getting monotonous. Why not
offer mo you hand for a change ?”
I |A fish with eight jaws has been caught lately.
The scientists called in pronounce it a variety of what
is known as the mother-in-law fish.
Nothing was created in vain. The cucumber is
bread and cutter to the young physician, painfully and
hungrily struggling into a paying practice.
An advertisement reads: “Wanted—A young
man to bo partly out-doors and partly behind the
counter." What will be the result when the door
slams ?
“ Charles, dear, now we are married, you know,
we should have no secrets. So do, like a love, hand
me the bottle of hair dye; you will find it in my dress-
ing case.”
Jeames (who is asked by his master to sing at a
servants' concert): 11 1 should *ave no possible hob-
jeotion. hit they don’t mind me singing hunder ha new
de plume I ’’
Time, midnight. She: “ Gear , are you going
to exhibit in the dog show?" He.- "No; why?’’
She; “ You are,such a remarkably fine setter." Exit
young man.
“ My dear,” said a husband to his wife, “ what
kind of a stone do yon think they will give me when I
am gone ? " She answered, coolly, "It might be brim-
stone, John.”
Toilet Criticism. —First lady: “ Dear me ! I
never saw Mrs. Potts look so pale," Second lady :
"Nor I; she’s probably been out in the rain without
an umbrella.”
A good reason. Irish witness (for defence): “Is
it myself that understands the nature of an oath ?
Palx, and I ought to; haven’t I been twice tried for
perjury and convicted?”
“And what shall I say more?” asked the
clergyman, alter an hour's holding forth. And it was
noticed that overv mouth in the congregation instincti-
vely formed itself into,the word “Amen."
The barber is a strapp ng fellow and is ever
ready to razor row. I have frequently seen him take a
man by the nose without the least provocation. He
always wants his hone way, and is always ready for a
brush.
“ In what condition was the Patriarch Job, at
the end <■ t hit life," asked a Onnday-sobool teacher of a
quiet-looking ley at the foot of the class. " Dead,"
was the calm iespouse. From this thero was no
appeal.
An exchange says : “A man who has a mulatto
servant girl named Ells, calls her nmber-Eila. We don’t
sienna fun in that.” This is off-coloured humour, but
we are willing to give oar esteemed contemporary the
chrome-o.
Count Ziohy, the Hungarian pianist, has but
one arm. He is in great demand as a teacher in fami-
lies blessed with pretty girls. Mater families know
that a one-armed teacher can’t keep the piano going
and hug at the same time.
“ My frens,” said the officiating clergyman at
the marriage of two coloured persons, ” my frens, it
am a serous ting to get mairied, specially when bofo
parties is orphans an’ haint got no parients to fall back
on, as am the present case.”
A scientist has invented a way of sawing a mur-
derer's head off with a red-hot wire, electrically heated.
It is not an entirely new invention, however. Injthis
country a little wire-pulling has oftun'eausod'an office-
holders head to fall iuto|the basket.


SOCIAL.
Mrs. Martin gave an agreeable social at her
Academy on Monday night, to some 70 or 80 friends.
Young ladies rendered songs, and gentlemen recita-
tions, while a farce was listened to by tho audience
with a considerable amount of intelligence.
afterward- cleared away, and a list of dances was intro-
duced lo the notice of the guests, who whirled the
time away till midnight, and then treated themselves in
the sac. e manner. Dark velvets were worn by many
L.dics. And a sweet little fiancee in all green was
pretty.
A Fancy Dress Ball was given last month by
Professor Tbomatis, of Townsville, to his pupils, in the
School of Arts. Several score of them mightily enjoyed
themselves, and the liquid strains of musio, and more
solid pleasures in the shape of tarts and fruit, kept
them busy till the hours of morning come on. Many
wed known characters were taken, such as a Jockey,
Colleen Bawn, Dew drop, Grace Darling, Morning,
Norms, a Volunteer. Peasant Girls, a Chinky, Hunts-
man. Vivaudiere, and others. Night was laid to be
la bells, and many of the dresses were very pretty ;
the dancing of the youngsters being characterised
by a heartiness which showed they appreciated the
style of treat given them.
* # •
One of the most pleasant balls of this very
prolific season was that of the Stanmore Cricket Club.
Though not an entirely private one, it was not adver-
tised. and was therefore confined to members, their
admirers and friends. Yet there were present some
70 active young gentlemen—with limbs made supple by
I rt <] uout chasing of the sportive sphere over the sward
—and with moustaches which they also chased, but
could not, for obvious reasons, so easily lay hold of.
And there were present—with bated breath bo it told,
for it is tad—only 68 young ladles. Which seems proof
that the sinewy youths of Stanmore do not, as jet,
possess one girl each. This shows tho evils of overdone
athletics, of running after balls instead ef belles. By
allowing cricket to absorb too much attention, other
imporUmk pursuits get neglected. It's very clever te
be -ble to hold a ball; but, personally, we feel sure the
bast catches are Misses. Nevertheless, whenever the
S C.C. hold a bill—in the Town Hall at Petersham, we
aie prepared to sacrifice personal feeling, and help
them. On Thursday, members of the Club
had themselves done the decorating, and done
themselves credit. The largo landing at the
head of iho stairs was converted into a fine nookety
with flags and plants ; while, from the ceiling cornice,
hung round the walls long festoons of loaves, which
were pretty So were tha ’ toons’’ of Shapter and
Hermann, whom we respect. The committee worked
to make things cheery, and if any one wanted a partner
he only needed to spot on© of the indefatlga.bl*B with a.
rosette, and he’d be introduced to half a dozen char-
ming creature# before he could recollect the latest
initials hfstowed on John. All sorts of dancers spun
round the spacious floor. A pair or two occasionally
devoted their earnest attention to an affectionate
dawdle under the chandelier; some turned sedately
and calmly as a teetotum ; and others pranced gaily np
and dowa the room under the firm belief that the more
they travelled the better they enjoyed It. For first
past, the post in a good go-as-jou please, wedl be
inclined to make a sprightly little demoiselle in whit*
satin a warm favorite. Black bair, lilies of the valley,
and Dowlicg-street may identify the owner of those
trippingltoes. Very skilful was Miss L. Kennedy, and,
not so skilful, bub very pretty, was Miss Kent.
Miss Eager was distinct for graoe, and Mias Lovendge
in simple white was simply charming. Miss Patrick
and Miss Prescott were pretty gay. No, that s a mis-
print ; it should be, pretty and gay. Miss Cubitt was
ooefcumod in ccm and blue satin, with crimson crewel
work that attracted notice for its niceness. Two tall
slaters wore, one, a golden cream gauze, and the other,
white sniped moire, both trimmed with cardinal and
ivy leaves. Other drerses were tasteful, and some were
not, through inharmonious blending of too much
colour ; but few would dispute that the dress of Miss
C >omba was the handsomest. It was of amber satin,
und umber moire trimming, plainly made ; round
tha shoulders and in the black tresses of the joung
lady, who was very prepossesting, were sunflowers
matching the satin. Daring the evening, a gold locket
was x»resented by members of tho Club to Mr, H. P.
Laly, the secretary, end some “ fizz was cracked in
honour of (.ho event. Four o’clock saw tho close.
• • •
An nteresting wedding occurred last Thursday
at B ji-irkc-st reet Church, when Mr. J Hambly was
united to Miss Ada. daughter of Mr Robert Small of
H.M Customs. The bride, one of (he prettiest girls
of Surry Hill’, was dressed in white satin, with tulle
veil worked with filoselle, and was supported by seven
bridesmaids, all diessed alike, except in colour. Misses
S rail and Davies wore pink, Misses Weekos, Oakes,
«.ud Brown * ream, and Misses Klch*rdson and Quaife
blue; there bring besides, three dear little dot* (iiieoas
iof tho I fide) in quaint pink costumes decked with jas-
mine and orangeblosßoms, hyacinth wreaths. All
cairied bouquots or baskets of fine flowers. As the
bridal party catered. Miss Slade played •Sound the
loud Timbrel,” or; tfco orgfl.n, and the “ Halleluiah
Chorus” as they departed. From the church, tho
wedding guests wont to Correy’s Botany gardens, tp a
sumptuous Mpufter. Numerous top.its werp givep,
teetotally, Mr. John Davies proposing that of the
Lapp- twain, and after a pleasantafternoon all returned
pt dn«*k. Mr and Mrs. Rambly wept for honeymoon to
The Valley apd Bathurst.
* • •
A cert tin member of a well-known Brisbane
firm of block and station agent;* recently led to the
b tar an accompli bed cantatrice. The example seems
to bavu h en roatugieus, as another brother shortly
tin* nc afcnmomal noose with a cousin of the said
rantatricH While the third brother, tho genial and
liver popular Jack, takes beauty birth, and £BO.OOO from
p southern colvny.
• • •
About five months ago, a Bachelors’ Assembly
was it edtui,«d at Nithsdple, to provide a series of even-
itg dancer at a moderate expense, and the venture
proved a complete sucotse, Each monthly meeting
been batter than its predecessor, and, when the
ih and final assembly was held laet Friday, the
bt eodavee was a good deal over a hundred, and both
r kiudb were resorted to« Brunettes hud decidedly the
let of it; though f/.ir maidens were not bv any means
dUunced, especially a sweet face from Marriokville.
But more prominent than any others were two young
ladies in black satin, from Marlborough and Aberorom-
hi«-bi rests, respectively, in whose raven hair flowers of
bright red hue made a most vivid contrast. No other
to’our was worn, and each of the wearers drew many
~ cond gaze. The popularity of the Assemblies doter-
ni ued the promoters to continue them for two or three
tuoiiihs longer,
• * *
The large room of Mrs. Hayes’s Commercial
Hoi. i, Cobar, was tho scene of a good ball, given by
Um Benedicts of Cobar and the surrounding si aliens,
last month. The position of M.C. was allotted to the
loci „ui vevor, and about 70 ladies and gentlemen were
pr m ,it. Refreshments were supplied by the proprie-
ty , m( the hotel. Dancing from 9 till 5 next morning,
•the majority of the fair sex obtained their drosses
from Sidney, and back-block taste blended with
metropolitan design made a very good show. The
joungekt cf a trio of sisters, tastefully arrayed in a blue
eat ini was belle, and excelled in graceful dancing. The
zoom was somewhat crowded at time*, but it doesn’t
take ruiuy Cobar girls’ feet to cover a floor. So success-
ful the gathering that the Bachelors arranged on
lire U-llowirg day to have a return ball.
• • •
A Bachelor's Ball at Gunning was an unprece-
dented event until 28th July, some lime prior to which
eventful date most of the local young men had been
practising the ” blooming mazurka,” in secluded gullies
and subterranean caves. At the ball, Mr H. White, of
Goulburn, led the musio—piano, violin, and cornet;
and the duties of the M.C. were well performed.
T'wenty-flve couples daneed till midnight. Of belles,
th/sro w»e a number, but opinion divided the chief
fjo&onrn among three:—a tall, pleasant brunette, in
black sjlk and brocaded satin moire, lace, and pink
geraniums; another brunette, from a neighbouring
noetelry. with lovely curls, all in white, merino and
, din, white-beaded lace, violets and daleiea; a rosy
id nappy little dove from Burrowa, in white and pink
, tin and silver flowers, who should take first place for
Balmaia produced a well-attired blonde of
A fine ground ’is being prepared at Woollahra
by Mr G. N. Russell, for croquet, fti«qnette,*o., which,
when finished, will greatly help to popularise Mr.
Ironsides’ invention. Mr. Russell is anxious to
to bring it into vogue, more than it is, in the eastern
snbnrbe A now ground for frisquette is to be made
also in Moore Park.
• • •
An enjoyable dance was given last Friday night
by Mr. A. O. Kebblewhite, at Snails’ Bay, Balmain.
Dancing was entered into with spirit, the programme
containing twenty-four dances. A young lady from
Darlinghnrst wa# captivating ; one haHing from Straw-
berry Hills very pleasing; Redfern also was well
represented. The hostess was very attentive to her
guest#. Refreshments were excellent, muiio good;
and the company parted at 4 o’clock, after having
thoroughly enjoyed themselves.
• * •
faultless figure, in pale blue, white lace and silver
flowers. All four wore V fronts and elbow sleevee. A
pair of blondes from Goulburn, short and tall, were
enchanting. Refreshments good, nothing stronger
than coffee. No opportunities for flirting. Caligraphy
on the programmes very choice, and ladies are pra-
serving them solely on that account.
• • •
The Masonic Ball (Lachlan Lodge) was held on
Ist August in tho Osborne Hall, Forbes, which was
well decorated and lit with gas. Three score attended,
and managed some 30 dance# before thev denarted at 4
a.m. Catering was efficiently done by Mr. W. Pyo, and
the musio was produced by a trio on the piano, violin
and cornet. The principal officers of the lodge made a
formal entry to the hall, and then the ball duly eom-
menoed. Among the prominent ladies were twe
married ; one tall, in cardinal and cream satin and laee;
tho other short, in black velvet, trimmings of cardinal
satin, cream lace and gold flowers. Both were much
sought for their excellent dancing. A lady In navy blue
skirt, and velvet body trimmed with pale blue satin,
was also charming, and eagerly sought for the same
reason. A tall lady in green satin and tarlotan, with
real laoe. as well as two or throe others in white satin,
looked attractive. Two Sydney commercials seemed
to onjov tha fun very heartily. Messrs. Perry and
Connelly were M’s. C .and the night’s amusement gay#
satisfaction.
larvh • _ •
London fast youths, who desire to bo thought
“quite the Stilton” wear exceedingly tight trousers,
well-defined waists, slightly suggestive of corsets, hats
with curved brims, very tall collars, very light ties, and
a white flower placed very [near their estimable chins 5
while their boots taper at the toes to points so sharp as
to defy nature and encourage com doctors.
• • •
Skating has been commenced in the new Town
Hall at Sandwich, and son a very choice flames can be
teea there. A club has been formed, which will meet
one evening a week. Thi» club is expected te be more
destructive than the club that killed Captain Coek.
The younr ladies dance much better than they skate.
Recent experience in the dancing line will therefor*
enable visitors to form a telerable idea of a Rand wick
belle on roller skates.
• • •
The ladies of the Newtewn Private Skating Rink
onght to be complimented, la England and America,
charity and complimentary balls are frequently
organised by ladies, but here the idea is as yet rather
a novelty. In taking the initiative, the Newtown belles
are decidedly courageous, and deserve both credit and
success. Their complimentary ball to the gentlemen
members of the Rink will b# held ia the handsome
Town Hall at Peteraham, on the 18th August, and each
of the ladies is putting her prettiest foot forward to
make it spin.
• • •
At the ball given by the Japanese officers on
hoard the Tsukubs, at Hobart, a youth well-known in
society had the bad taste to jeer at them in such a
manner that one of the officers who overheard his con-
versation turned and said, “You no gentleman—beat
alongside." The fellow took the hint. On the same
occasion, three other ill mannered hobbedehoys, who
couldn’t dance, were hiding their gawkishuess at the
gangway, and made such impertinent and loud remarks
about the gentlemanly hosts, by whose hospitality they
were on board, that they were publicly reproved by a
Tasmanian military officer who was standing by. Where.
up n, under the heading “Cubs at Large,” thelocal paper
scathes those young society ornaments thus: “ Parents
and guardians are a good deal to blame for this, as
there are a number of knock-kneed Lads prematurely
let out to evening parties in Hobart, who onght to be
kept at home to complete their much-neglected educa-
tion—particularly in politeness." This is good whole-
some talk, but—it comes from Tasmania, remember.
If a man drew a bow at a venture like that in New
, South Wales, the arrow might hit-—we’ll et«p, please.
• • •
Home memsi John Smith/ M.L.C', C.M.G.';
presented at Buckingham Palace. Sir James and Lady
Wilson entertained a grand party of titled persons on
28udJuno. Op the 21th, Sit Saul Samuel entertained
2SO at an At Home to meet Sir Henry and Miss Parke*,
prior to their departure ; and two days later they gave
a large dinner to a number of colonists. Hon. W.
Clarke elected to (ha Empire Club. Sir Wa. Brown,
of Coletoun, having jaat died, the title falls to his
eldest sou, William, a squatter in Australia.
• • •
A fa*hion»ble erent was celebrated at Christ-
church on Tuesday, when Miss Charlotte Rosa Hlllyar
was united to First Lieutenant F. P. Taylor, of
H.M.C S Wolverine, grandson of Admiral Taylor.
The bride, who was richly dressed in white satin and
orange blossoms, is third daughter of tho Rev.
W. J. Hillyar, M.A, (who, assisted by the
Rev. Garcsov, performed the ceremony), and grand-
daughter of Admiral Hillyar. Her uncle, Mr. G P.
Unwin of the G.P.0., had the pUa«ant task of giving
the lady away ; while the bridegroom, in uniform, was
supported under the trying circumstances by his oeusin,
Mr. Q. M. Finlayson, manager of the Union Bank, and
Captain Symonds, of the Wolverene, also in “full rig ”
Floral embellishments, choral service, and ten of
Nature's choicest productions as bridesmaids, made
the affair quite thrilling to the nnmerona feminine
spectators. The wedding breakfast took place at the
Rev. Mr. Hillyar’s residence, Paddington, and the
gallant lieutenant and his happy wife enjoy the first
sweet month at Mount Victoria and Bathurst.
** * *
The shipmasters in port at Newcastle had a
pionie at Tomage on the 3rd, some sixty ladies and
gentlemen using the Pluto, lent by Messrs. 8r0wn......
Ths district ball and dinner was held in Deniliqnia a
few days ago j largely attended The annual hospital
hall at Balranald on the 4th Te-morrow (Friday)
Victoria House soirde takes place in Neede's Booms,
Liverpool-street, when there will be n large oompany
of Farmer’s employes and their friends; it has
always been a popular little ball Steps are being
taken at Ashfleld for the formation of a Frisquette
Club And at West Maitland, the Rev. Canon Tyrrell
is interesting himself in frisquette, which the Isdiee
are very anxious to have introduced. Some Sydney
gentlemen will shortly visit there, and explain the
game Last Friday, while the dancers twirled
at tha Faney Ball in aid of the School ef Arts,
Orange, there was a heavy fall ef enow outside.
It was a snowball ?..., . ..This (Thursday) evening
rinking and dancing at Glammis Hall, Paddington
Ik is whispered that the Sandwiek benedicts intend to
return the ball given by the bachelors a fortnight
hack. They ought to; for (ha bachelors carried their
affair through very handsomely Thursday’s ball at
Government House was too crowded, and there was a
terrible surplus of ladies. Popular belles sat. and sat,
hat never an eligible came to “beg the pleasure*'...Some
good frisquette matches are to oeme eft at Darling
Point eoen A lieutenant, whe kills more than he
lights, is moving with a view to providing trophies for
proficiency in bowling, catching, and using the spoon-
bill There are great anticipation* about the Trades-
men's ball, at Newcastle. A lot of fancy dresses have
none up from Sydney, and more are being sent Bal-
main Bowling Cl«b is to have a new green At
Hobart the "Japs” ef the Tsnkuba gave a splendid
ball, 300 present, quite a success. It was thought
the Governor should have given one In rotorj*
but time did net allow the visitors to neeept
At a Newcastle hall, the M.C. requested a shopkeeper
and his wife te stand up as fourth eenple and complete
a ret. On their doing ae, the other three couples
walked away. Soma said they were very pteud. Not
at all. Tney suddenly thought of these little bills
Tb* celebration et a silver wedding occurred at the
: A S.N. Hotel, Circular Quay, a few days ago, when
presents were showered on Hr. and Mrs. Walpole
Admirers presented Miss Came Banton with a silver
spergno last month, on the eve ef her marriage, at St.
John’s Church, Gnndagai. They were sorry to lose her
from the choir, bnt Mr. Qsndon rechoired her, and she
was bent-on going.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Victoria House Solrde (Nithcdale-., August 11.
Mr. C. Hall's Annual Ball August 17.
Ladles’Rt,turn Rink Ball (Petersham),... August 18.
Gymnastic Sociable August2B.
Sydney Bicycle Club Meeting August 26.
Gorman Fair (Exhibition) - August 26.
Liberals* Social Reunion August 29.
Balmain Bowing Club Ball Sept. 1.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 6.
Base is the slave who steals a label,
Te be original who isn't able.
Our label* are being dossier copied. Onr
Calcutta Tea Aaioeiatioa’s Pnre India* Tea. i* the
pictorial hlaek wrvppsr, is now becoming a atandard of
>.nnt r, strength, and good valne, and ao we And fraudu-
lent impostors, insolvent in reputation, and bankrupt of
henoux, are seeking to foist their nauseous rubbish on
the public in packets closely imitating the appearance
of onvs. Be not deceived. We have only one ware-
house in New South Wales, and it la at 28 Charlotte
Plans. Look for the weeds " Calcutta Tea Association''
on the wrappers, and be pxavailed on to take no other.
—Apvi,
Dr. Stanick, Aurist to His Esesllenoy Lord Augus-
tus Loftus, has- returned to Sydney, and may bo con-
sulted at his rooms, Wynyard Square.— Advt.
At tho New Zealand Exhibition, jnst concluded,
Singer’s Sewing Machines have carried everything be-
fore them, taking a first order of merit, two gold medals,
and two silver medals. The New Davis was awarded a
silver medal.
Eufhorbu Piujlifbra. Queensland Cure for
Asthma, Bronchitis, and all chest affections. No-
case hopeless; relief always obtained. Prepared in
essence, also as an Anti-Asthmatioal Tobacco. See
Advt. Apply, J. Manning, agent for Thos. Ingham,
139 Elizabeth-vtreet, Sydney.
BATES’ DANDELION COCOA is destined to booonto
flie most favourite of all household beverages. It com.
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa with
the well-known curativepowers of the Dandelion flower;
consequently is invaluable for biliousness, liver com-
plaints. Indigestion, debility, Ae. Ask for a sample
packet from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
COULTER, bole Agent. 107 Sussex Street.—Ann
As instancing the result of tramway extension,
with regard to business, the trade of Regent House
(George F. Murphy) in paints, oils, fco., has more than
quadrupled since the tram terminus was fixed in the
locality. ,
According to telegram, a most extraordinary
animal has been shot on the Wild River. Its descrip-
tion exactly fits in with that of onr dear eld long-sought
friend, the hunyip.
The Asiatic Tea Company were the first in Syd-
ney to pack pure Indian tees in one pound and half-
pound packets, thereby creating a demand for a luxury
hitherto unknown to the general public of New South
Wales. Seeing the success and rapid growth of this in-
dustry, other parsons are copying our system of packing
Indian teas. To avoid mistake, we weuld point out
that all gennine packets have Asiatic Tea Company's
Paeket Teas marked thereon. Take no other. Our
wholesale stores and only address being 578 George-
street, Sydney.— Advt.
Ths now “ Osborne ” Twine-Binding Harvester,
imported by Mr. W. Fleming, Clarenoe.street, has,
according to official testimony, achieved most extra-
ordinary results in numerous trials throughout the
United States. The great feature of the machine is
the effectual way the twine binding is done. Mr.
Fleming’s warehouse in Clarence-street has, during the
last few days, been visited by several well-known agri-
onitnrigts, all of whom have expressed surprise at the
me chanieal success.
The ohronometrioal accuracy of the Waltham
watches was fully demonstrated by the tests made by
the Government astronomers of N.S. Wales and Vic-
toria during the two great International Exhibitions
lately held. It has now been proposed, and we believe
that the company is agreeable to the scheme, to pre-
sent one of these watches to Apollo, so that he can for
the future bring up hie fiery chariot to advertised time
with nnerrisg regularity. Any future deviation from
the time-table will bowl Apollo out, and the only ex-
cuses that will be permitted will be that he stopped to
kins the milk-girl, or was detained at his elub perusing
Ths Bulletin.
The Rockhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring to tho widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Rockhampton, says i—*' When visiting
Rockhampton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz., the Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel.
East-street. This Hotel has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars in town ; also, the best furnished sitting
rooms in town. The Billiard Boom contains a table
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Room,
which is large and well ventilated, will he found a
brilliant-toned piano. Ton will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladles." The lease, etc., of above
flourishing and rapidly improving bar business, to ho
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, 91 Elizaboth-street, Sydney.
—Advt.
The Evunooze has a sensation at last. It is
“ Jack Sheppard's Tobacco Bex,” now in the possession
of Mr. Richmond Thatcher. It was discovered to be
Jack Sheppard’s by the process of cleaning, which re-
vealed several inscriptions dating from 1722 to 1796,
Says the Ooze i—“ The different styles of engraving,
too* prove that the insosiptions were done at different
periods, and there is little reason to donbt that tha
box originally belonged to the notorious housebreaker."
Now, without attempting te say anything about tha
genuineness of the tobacco box, to go and see which
we haye’nt taken the trouble, we only wish to point
out the logic of the knights of the saveloy : —‘ The
different styles of engraving pro vs that the inscriptions
were done at different periods.” We might as well at-
tempt to show that the miscarriage of some of hie
lett> o proves that Alfred's Special Commissioner
go* ■’ on a tear.” Anyway, “ Dick ” Thatcher has got
a oueap advt.
J 6750 to 2s. 6d., or 6000 to l.| |The double on
the Hawkesbury Handicap and Metropolitan Stakes.
Speculators of ton shillings get four doubles, £750 to
2s. 6d. about each, apart from chance of second and
third money. Not less than four tickets, 10a worth
supplied Three prizes : Drawer of Hawkesbupv Han-
dicap winner and Metrop. winner, £750; ditto and
Metrop., second, £225,'; ditto and Metrop., third, £lOO.
The number of entries for the Handicap are 86, and the
Metropolitan 100, so that the double can be laid 8600
different ways. Would yon get such odds anywhere?
And would you get odds laid to 2s. 6d. ? Intending
Subscribers must apply AT once, the time being so
short. The date and place of drawing will he inti-
mated. Bankers—Mercantile Bank of Sydney. Ad-
dress by latter, enclosing stamped envelope for reply.
Tout Lumpkin, care of A L , 65 Pitt-stroet, Sydney.
N.B—As the Post; Office charges 4d. on each letter,
subscribers must register tkeir letters, or enclose
stamps to that amount. Result of drawing advertised.
Popularising the Bicycle.
The wonderful improvement effected of late in the
construction of the bicycle hae been the means no leś in
Australia than in Europe and America, of popularising
this pleasant mode of personal locomotion. A few
years ago bicycling with the rude appliances in use
meant hard labour, great fatigue and very little speed.
Now, however, the English inventor has produced an
appliance which seems the perfection of mechanism,
and which is destined to oome into almost universal
use. The English newspapers give a large share of
credit for this improvement to the Coventry Machinists
Company, whose patents have thrown mere than half
tho whole bicycling trade into their hands. This com-.
pany produces machines which really make bicycling a.
pleasant and healthful exercise, as well as a practical
and speedy means of conveyance ; and according to the
latest accounts there has been in England and America
a great revival, so to speak. In the rage for bicycling.
The Coventry Company’s racers and roadsters have
taken first prizes at all the principal International
Exhibition held during the last few years. The ' Club
Racer" is the speciality of the company for this year,
and has become enormously popular. The improve-
ments embrace the new patent rubber suspension spring.
Hitherto, the bicyclist suffered from a serious jarring
sensation through the vertebral columns caused by the
vibratory shocks of tho small wheel. The rubber sus-
pension spring being a non-conductor, nothing of this
spinal Irritation is now experienced, and, in conse-
quence of the improvement, the bicycle is now recom-
mended as a means of healthful recreation and mus-
cular development by the leading medicos of England
and America. Another recent popular invention of
the company is the Cheylesmore tricycle, which has be-
come universally popular in England and America.
These tricycles are used by several members of the
Royal Family, including her Majesty the Queen, and the.
Prince of Wales. They are exceedingy light and ele-
gant, are entirely free from vibration or discomfort of
any kind, and are propelled with the greatest ease. All
the most modern appurtenances are supplied with
every machine, and special arrangements are made
with clubs at to supply. These notes on the Coventry
Company’s bicycles, which we gather from the British
Trade Journal, are rendered aprepos by the liberal
and handsome prize herewith Mr. Her-
bert S. Bale, representative of the Coventry Company,
now in Sydney, presents the cup as a prise for
One Mile Amateur Bicycle Championship of New South
Wales. The event will take place at the Sydney Bicy-
cle Club Amateur Race Meeting, on the Association
Ground, on the 26th August The affair will be under
distinguished patronage, and there nine events
including two championships. The aţendance is ex-
pected to be very large and fashionable. Our sketch of
tbe Cup is from a splendid photo by Boyd.
ONE MILE AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP CUP.


T
HBA T R E
Lessee 1
Sub-Lessees and Sole m
Messrs. Williamson, Garner,
YOUTH,
pignold.
youth.
biqnold.
yOUfH.
ETGNOLD.
youth.
eigsocd.
youth,
EIGHOLt).
youth.
EI*NOCd.
YOUTH,
Merrlt and Harrh
Great Drama,
EVERY EVEHII
Great Cast
of
Characters.
Immense
(ess.
or y
Jehu JKmings
Curtain rises
at 7,45.
Box Plan now open dally from 1
entrance, Castlereagh-stroet. Seat
days in advance, and Tickets obt
the house at Lloyd’s, next the The
Treasurer... M
Manager Youth Combination...M
Assii tani Stage Manager M
AIET T T :
Lessees.,,..-.Messrs. L. M. Bayless
Directress.. Mrs. M. Gladstane-B
ON FRIDAY, AUGI
Will be presents
SHAKESPEARE'S GBEAI
OTHELLO
OT
FRIDAY, August
OTHELLO
0
And
SATURDAY, Augu
OTHELLO,
Reserved Seats at Nicholson and
street.
OPERA :
Lessee and Manager
Manager for Kellax’a Wonders.
THIS and EVERY EVENING ur
Success and Enthusiastic 1
KELL AE,
THE KING CONJUROR OF
in his Marvellous Bntei
A NIGHT IN DREi
and the renowned Au
PSYCHO I I ECHO 1
Tbs Ms the-1 Cornet
nntleia*. | Soloist.
PH(
Euph
PI
Admission—Ss , 35.. and Is.
Box oflioe now open at A. Hu
street, where seats are now being s
gOUTHS OPERA
STILL TO THE FI
The above Favorite and Talented
on their Southern Tour, and
TEMORA
and
W
EN ROUTE.
I VICTORIA HALL, CASTLBR
TO FOLLOW.
NEW AND CHOICE RE I
Address: BULLETIN 1
H. J. WHITTINGTOS
TO THEATRICALS AND
THE TOOWOOMBA SCHOOL
been now thoroughly ronova
tings, Jr., erected, con be engaged
night.
rpHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
-A ZULU WAR.
Public Hall, Groymouth, 21th Ma
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
fJIHE JUVENILE PINAF*
Lessee end Business Manager
Stage Manager M
Schoolmaster .....
Schoolmistress... ..Miss C
Mnsloal Direetress
CROWDED RVBRTI
THE AUSTRALIAN W
H.STAHLET
Late Lecturer and Manager of the
rams, and a witness of the whole o
18515 : the Maori War of New Z
Rebellion, Zaln Land, Are; and trav
Greece, Knama, Turkey, South Aft
Oeylon, India, Burmah, Java, Siai
the whole of the Australian Colonii
Tasmania; now making a visit pr
well lour round the World with
THE JUVENILE OPER
and
PANTOMIME COM
of
40 PEEFOEMEE
Including the Original and Prii
LEWIS’S JUVENILE PINAF
Remembert
THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL
MELBOUENji
Who will appear in Gilbert and 1
Satire,
H.M.S. PINAF
ACT I.—Off Portsmouth (Morninf
ACT ll.—Off Poi
Hating concluded a most snci
Weeks at the Bijeu Theatre, Mel
the Queen’s Theatre, Sydney; 8
Theatre, Adelaide; the firm is no 1
Tour of the Colonies.
DON’T FAIL TO SEE TT
INTERTAINME
Remember I Over 40,000 People p
Melbourne.
Appear MUREAMBUBEAI
do YASS
do QOULBUBN
(Four nights.'
All Date; filled np to Ad
Open to accept terms from Mi
CL 18S THBATSEJ after that <
PANTOMIME, and have one of tl
in AUSTRALIA, as proved by
lause, and the Crowded Houses wh
All Applications to be made
HAEET STANLEY,
N.8.-NO MBBSBKS TEBATE
cr
ZENS ATTEND THE
MEETING on the LAND
The Protection and Political
Colonists together on FRIDAY
instant.
At the TEMPeRANC]
L. F. Heydon, Esq., M L.A , a
will addrees the publfo. N. Mel
the Chair.
R C. LUBC
T# THE OPERATIC ANI
PROFESSION
NEW OPERA H<
WELLESLEY STREET, AU
Bole Proprietor, H. N. .
3HHIB Magnificent Building is n
L THE MODEL Opera Hon*
e Largest and Most Commodio
Erected on lastest models, it will t
every Modern Comfort and Lnxur
the curtain) appertaining to
Theatres in the Old and New Wert
is perfect. All parts of the Horn
and egress from broad, light, and a
precaution has been taken to save
case of fire, and the Auckland Oity 4
inspected and higblr commended ti
to that end. Magnificently and
Its Luxurious Private Bits, Dr
eheatra Stall?, together with its t
Stalls Aoeomodatien, are features I
Colonial Theatres. The Opera Hi
*>y the Williamson Opera Compa
commencing from 23rd May next,
and Agents’ ‘‘rbars,’’ and Combim
apply to the Proprietor for terms i
T D N E Y GY
LIVERPOOL STS
ANTHONY HORDEHN
PALACE EM PORI
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
BERLIN WOOLS.' SPECIAL
BLACK and WHITE 3s «d per lh. COMMON COLO
COLOURS 4h 6d per lb.
To Purchasers of Wools. Wo only ask that, these pri
those charged elsewhere.
Immense preparations are being ms
DWB ROOM.
135 CASES OP NEW SPRING
FIRST SPRING MHIPMEH
of
CHINA, CREPE. PONGEE, AND TAS
DIRECT FROM CHINA. JDST T(
FIRST SPRING sHIPMEU
Of
BEAUTIFUL: BROCHE. end PRINTED SAT!
Will be on View in a few dun
LARGEST AND CHOICEST STOCK EVE
SCARVES,
THE BALANCE OF OUK WINTEI
CLOUDS,
MANTILLAS,
Are now offered at less than Manufaoti
EARLY SPRING HOSIERY
HAS JUST ARRIVED,
AND 1
EVERT DATTEEQUIREMEN'
each as
SHEETINGS, CALICOES, FLANNELS. LI
At Prices most favourable to all Pan
EARLY SPRING RIBBONS,
LACES, GLOVES, SASHES, *e,.
JUST RI
SHOWROOM.—A. H.’and Son# have much pleasure in am
view of the coming Spring and Snmrnor Seas one, they have grea
in their Showroom, via., MILLINERY, MANTLES, and COST!
MILLINERY DEPARTMENT.—We are opening 20 Cases of
Hats and Bonnets for the coming season, comprising—
THE EVANGELINE, THE PERT,
OURS. SUNBEAM,
LILLY, VENTNOK,
“COSTUME AND MANTLE DEPARTMENT.—NoveIties ir
Oases just opened of all the Newest Styles, made expressly to
leading Costnmo Mannfaotnrers in English and Continental Mai
SEE OUR SHOW CASES FOR ELEGANT NEW S
IMMENSE PALACE ]
ANTHONY HORDERN i
HAYM A R K
(ONLY).
JOHN G. THE
NEW BARDEN AND FLOWE
COLLECTIONS OF
KITCHEN and
GARDEN
sent owing. sealed
packets of 18 ‘exding
most useful srrts on reoe
of 3a 61 Stamps. Post free.


MOST PLEAJ
A
N
0
S
A
F
E
8
T
HOUSEHOLI
TAKE NOTE OP
WHEN PURCHASING YOL
ask for
PANTER AND P
NEW EXTRACT C
AND SEE THAT TOD G
SUPERIOR TO ALL (
BK s T Washing and Disinl
tion known, for Clothes
Crookery, Paint, Glass, and e
purpose. Used and reoomi
Laundry at Government H
wour (Inspector of Nuisance
(Orient Laundry), and by
j udges to be the best article i
REMEMBER
Washing and cleaning do
time, wjih half the Labour.
EveryffUng Cleaner, Healt
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HI
TO BE HAD OF ALL (
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-S
IN THE WOF
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces i
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
*
v
❖
O
c
dri
o
CJ
liquid yie:
RY
SOLD BY ALL
BLACK AND COLOUREJ
VELVETEENS, 20 DIPPED
at
EDWARD HORDERN
688 BRICKFIELD
varjingln price from Is lid t
"IVr TRA ' s JOURNAL" saj
ifJL NIUJJ ’ Velveteen (call
name «f the City of Manohoate:
Romans) is superb, soft, and hr
colour, fuller and debper thano
which err on the side of blueness,
WITH HO OTHER BLACK MATERIAL.
’ The • MANCUNIUM ’ is so rich
can be used with all classes o
bo of importance to many.*’
SEE THEM. EXAMII
MODE ILLUBTRE *• sayt
/M’ Une imitation pirfi
i de Lyon se rencontre dan
sous le titre de MAN CUN
Velours ost brlllant d’asp<
jilltd de la couleur en sent
une oombinaison de plui
il est sans rival. Latei
ost garantie solide ; jamais I‘expos
altdrer la ooulenr; voila une raison
lo choisisse pour remplaoer le Velc
3»9 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (opj
OUR STOCK FOR
Comprises all the
OUR 1832 RELIABLE
STRING BINDERS.
Our 3 Speed
HORNSBV-MARTIN
PARAGON
MOWERS & REAPERS
TAMES MARTIN & COMPY.. 389
WOOD'S RELIABLE STRING BINDE
THE RELIABLE
1882
FARMERS,
GET THE
BEST.
THE BEST
IS
PARAGON. ALWAYS
THE
j CHEAPEST
WE POST ALL PRICES. ILLUSTRATIONS, AN!
pUBLIC N
The IMPORTERS of the TAI
MOGUL MIXTURE will prog,
endeavours to deceive the publi
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for 1
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The pnblie are CAUTIONED
beating
“ THE TAEPING MIXTUR!
MIXTURE
Every packet hears the slgna
thus*—
difford, Love , d
Those who are desirous of hav:
TEA, must be certain that ev
SIGNATURE of the IMPOETE
to take Inferior teas, which for t
are offered to the public.
THE TABPING MIXTURE
MIXTURE ARE QUj
PURE TEA
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCI
WHOLESALE GROCER A
YORK STREET, S
JOHN D
IMPORTER 0
Plumbers’ and Engineers' Brass l
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine I
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe, <
• 119 LIVERPOOL SPREE’
SUITS TO
MEASURE,
£3 3b.
ALL WOOL
and
THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
TROUSERS
TO
ORDER, 16a. Gd.
From the
BEST SCOTCH
TWEEDS.
SUITS TO
MltAfttrßß! Iftft ft..
H.
L.
S
u
M
M
"R
T]
r
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. ,£3 sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, ,£3 15g
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. £4
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. £4 4s
M - GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 10a.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Pit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
STANDAR
READY MADE SUITS
promenade
TrAvellm^
jurSimy Tipnici
unsurpassed Cricketr
"Standard” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“Stand a ” ditto ailto lixtra Q ality
“St&adard” Very Superior ditto ...
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra Long 1
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
FEAFES and SHAW,
..£1 5 0
.. 115 0
..220
.15 0
. 110 0
. 1* T 5 O
.220
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
