

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.-—No. 106.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1882.
Price—3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1882.
The Dangerous Classes.
“ Let me write the songs of a people,” said a
political philosopher, “ and I care not who makes
their laws.” The days have now gone by when
songs were powerful political engines for moving
the minds of the masses. The modern newspaper
has usurped the functions of the ballad-singer,
and has stripped the pedestal of Pasquin s
statue of its potent lampoons. The enemies of
human freedom have no longer any care to silence
street minstrels, and the latest survival of the
old order disappeared when, on the declaration of
war with Prussia, excited Frenchmen chanted
before the palace of the third Napoleon that
terrible hymn, “ The Marseillaise,” which it had
all through his reign till that moment been
accounted a token of revolutionary tendencies to r
raise. ‘ Bismarck, the powerful tool of despotic' I
rule in Germany, impounds London Punch, |
Ignatibff, the parasite of the Russian Czar,
blots columns from the pages even of the time-serv-
ing Times, Gladstone suppresses the publication
of the Irish Nationalist Press.
* * *
But there lingers still a remnant of the old
style The influence of phrases remains power-
ful ’ Expressions retain antique meanings, and
lag’ behind the progressive revolutions and de-
velopments of facts. The phrase with which we
have headed this article is one of these misleading
expressions that veil a misconception. When
the dangerous classes ” are referred to, the idea
conveyed is of robbers and ruffians, loafers and
pick-pockets, cheque-forgers and professors of
petty larceny. With such as these the gaols of
every civilised community are peopled, and the
purlieus of every city invested. But such people
have, for a considerable time, ceased to deserve
the distinction of their title, just as has hap-
pened with respect to the so-called noble orders.
There may be still among “the dangerous
classes ” an occasional dangerous man, just as
there may be among the ranks of the nobility an
individual or two intrinsically noble-minded. But,
taking the former all round, they are distinctly
not dangerous. They are troublesome and annoy-
ing. and they put society to considerable expense
in catching them at their poor shallow artifices
and petty violences ; but they are, on the whole,
a poor played-out lot. altogether behind the times,
and entirely mastered by the laws. They are no
more dangerous to-day than wolves are in France.
They have the savage instinct, and would throttle
and devastate if they had the chance. But they
have no chance. They are reduced to the con-
dition of mere beasts of the chase, the sport of
oool detectives and constables, who pursue them
with perfect confidence in the weapons which the
law has invented. They skulk in miserable lairs
marked down for a day’s sport, to be enjoyed
whenever they have been forced by hunger or
instinct to harry a hen-roost or raid a fold. J hey
do not cause society to tremble. On the contrary,
society keeps them in a constant twitter of appre-
hension.
♦ • •
The so-called dangerous classes are, in fact, a
parcel of wretched fools, who inflict upon them-
selves tenfold the injury that they do to society
They are half-witted, senseless people, who elect
to gamble, staking their comfort and liberty, nay,
the whole happiness of their lives, against the
plunder of a tradesman’s till, or the proceeds of a
forgery for a five-pound note, in a game in which
the most tremendous odds are against their
making a win at all. They are so far from
being dangerous that they have_ become utterly
powerless even to hold their own. They
are forced to live in the most wretched
houses of the worst quarters of the towns
They eat the coarsest food, drink the
vilest liquors, and wear the shabbiest clothes.
They buy dearer than any other people, even
when they steal, for every theft has to be averaged
against the sentence which one detected crime in-
volves. In short, the so-called dangerous classes
have sunk from their bad pre-eminence to such a
depression, that when a depredation is committed
by them, no man now feels a sentiment of alarm.
The sufferer feels merely indignation, and in lieu
of shaking in his shoes, sends the maid-servant,
or the office-boy, for a constable, and confidently
oxpeots that the offender shall bo run down,
captured, and oaged.
* » •
The times are changed, and we with them. We
have dangerous classes still. But the days of
brute violence have gone bye. The reign of brain-
power has been inaugurated. It is no longer the
man who misuses his bodily strength who is ter-
rible, it is now the man who perverts to wicked
ends the resources of his intelligence. The truly
dangerous classes of the present age are consti-
tuted not of blockheads whom every constable is
competent to baulk and every detective to outwit,
but of acute shrewd scoundrels, who cultivate the
art of breaking every moral law while keeping
well ahead of formulated enactments. In all ages
the really dangerous classes have held the whip
and maintained a position of vantage which has
enabled them to chuckle at the lumbering and
awkward attempts of their victims to escape their
arts or to get at them to inflict retribution. The
dangerous classes have been those who have
managed to work mischief with impunity, and to
couple their own advantage with the injury to
others. They have generally been rather proud
of their talents, and have even managed to delude
the rest of the world into conceding to them a
certain degree of deference and distinction, and
even of envy.
# « *
The men who inflict upon the human race the
greatest amount of injury, while themselves
enjoying immunity, and actually flourishing on the
fruits of their evil-doing, are unquestionably the
most dangerous. In the old world, probably,
despotic rulers and their parasites constitute the
most dangerous classes, exerting as they do all
their energies to repress the aspirations for free-
dom and individual elevation, in order that they
may a little longer batten upon the spoils of
others’ industry, and sacrifice hecatombs of their
fellow-men on the altar of their own monstrous
pride or diseased ambition. But, in free commu-
nities like our own, the dangerous classes are
otherwise constituted. Here every man is free to
■work out his own career. Competition has shaped
itself into a material and decidedly gross form.
Each individual strives to become richer than his
neighbour. Not richer, unfortunately, in culture
of mind and graces of soul, but richer in worldly
goods and possessions.
The stupidly vicious, who butt their,, clumsy
heads against the firm structure of established
law and recognised decencies, are indeed no longer
dangerous; but supremely dangerous are those
clever rascals who make it their study to devise
roguish expedients against which the imperfec-
tions of codes have as yet provided no protection,
and which the slow development of public con-
science has not yet branded as infamous. The
vicious or predatory blockhead, the ignorant or
perverted fool, wages open war with statute law or
recognised morality,, and inevitably comes to
grief. But the clever man, of similar disposition,
goes into business, and, under a fair seeming of
honest industry or enterprise, concocts and
carries out the most nefarious projects. Such as
these constitute the dangerous classes of to-day.
They plunder their fellow-men by insidious
methods, against which it is difficult to guard,
and for which there is no remedy. By specious
representations, dexterously conveyed so as not to
come under the category recognised as falsa pre-
tences, they cozen their victims. They practise
extortion under the guise of striking a bargain,
and reap all the profits of usury while claiming to
be affording support. They undermine confidence
and good-fellowship, till it has passed into a pro-
verb that there is no friendship in business. They
carefully discharge all legal obligations, but
moral obligations they laugh to scorn.
* # *
It is such as these who impart to modern life
the greater share of its bitterness. Nominally
Christian, and frequently ostentatious in outward
religious observances, men of this truly dangerous
class have no bowels of compassion. They fail or
decline to comprehend that Christianity can have
anything to do with sueing on a dishonoured bill
or a foreclosed mortgage. To adulterate food or
liquor, or to employ a false label, touches their
conscience no whit, so long as the adulteration be
“ a custom of the trade,” or the false label not an
absolute forgery. They take an advantage where-
ever one offers, and inflict an injury without
compunction, provided the one be endorsed by
usage and the other done wholesale, so that they
are not confronted by an individual victim. Such
men spread wrong broadcast and sow seeds of
suspicion and bitterness through a community.
While the so-called “ dangerous classes ” put
society to the expense of paying constables’ wages
and the cost of gaols and public prosecutors, this
truly dangerous class puts the community to out-
lay infinitely greater. It is duo to their deceits
and machinations that no man ventures to con-
clude any transaction of more than a trivial kind
without recourse to a lawyer. There is in this
city an entire street occupied by the offices of
attorneys—a class of men whose existence is a -tax
upon productive industry, and of whom nine out
of ten are rendered necessary merely by the
machinations of rogues not recognised as members
of the dangerous classes. Few men are soured by
the proceedings of burglars or ruffians, but how
few are there whose generous impulses are not
restrained, and whoso natural trustfulness is not
converted into cautious suspicion by the pre-
valent practices of those outwardly reputable
persons who really constitute, in modern society,
THE DANGEROUS CLASSES P
The Late Hon. Patrick Higgins, M.L.C
After a life of usefulness and enterprise, the
Hon. Patrick Higgins, whose portrait we give in
this page, has passed away in his 57th year. His
death has been for some little time expected,
aneurism of the aorta— an enlargement of one of
the great blood-vessels of the heart —having lately
developed with a rapidity which rendered his
decease inevitable. Mr. Higgins was born in the
year 1825, on a farm, near the romantically-
situated town of Sligo, in the north-west of Con-
naught, on an estate belonging to the late Lord
Palmerston. Here he passed his boyhood, receiving
his education at the Sligo Academy, then conducted
by an able master, who conveyed to his pupils a
more intimate acquaintance with the exact sciences
than is ordinarily attainable at a provincial
school. To this fortunate circumstance, working
upon a mind naturally active and enterprising, the
success in life which has attended Mr. Higgins may
be in great part attributed. Farming pursuits had
no attraction for him, and his natural bent and
mathematical attainments early biassed him
towards constructive industry. All his life a con-
tractor, Mr. Higgins’ first debut in that line wa
made in the neighbourhood of his birthplace
where he executed several works in road-making.
The sphere was too circumscribed, however, and
on the early rumours of gold discoveries in Ans
tralia circulating at home, the young contractor
started for this quarter of the globe. He arrived
at Melbourne in 1852, and gave immediate indica-
tion of the shrewdness which throughout served
him so well, by disregarding the prevalent frenzy
for gold-digging, and adhering to the occupation
with which he was best acquainted. He became
contractor for the construction of the Mount
Alexander road, and was engaged on the making
of this and other highways for five years, at
the end of which time the commencement of rail-
way works opened a larger field for his industry,
a»d in 1856 he undertook to make the lino
from Melbourne to Hawthorn via Windsor
He next grappled with the Melbourne-Echuca
line, running through the gold regions of Sand-
hurst, which was one of his greatest undertakings
on the Victorian side. In 1860 he arrived in
Sydney, and contracted for the Lithgow portion
of the Zigzag, which he finished in three years
(within contract time). This was his last great
undertaking in New South Wales. Mr. Higgins
married, in 1855, the daughter of Mr. John
Lynch, of Sligo, and had an only son, a promising
boy, who, at a tender age, became a pupil of St.
Stanislaus’ College, Bathurst, where he exhibited,
up to his sixteenth year, great vigour of intellect
and a refined taste. His father arranged to tako
him to Europe (in 1872) to finish his education;
but, unfortunately, on their way to Melbourne,
this youth of many bright hopes accidentally fell
overboard and was drowned. His premature fate,
like ttat similar one that wrung from the heart of
Milton the poetic wail of “ Lycidas,” not only
prostrated the father with grief (the poor boy’s
mother was mercifully removed from earth before
the sad mishap), but affected all who knew him—
students and tutors—with profound and sincere
sorrow. During a three years’ touj; in Europe
and America, Mr. Higgins overcame the first
shock of his bereavement, and roused himself to
the performance of his duty as a useful member
of society. He closely observed the progress of
events in Spain, France, Italy, Germany, Russia,
and America, and returned to Australia, via San
Francisco, in 1876, his mind stored with informa-
tion of various kinds political, industrial,
scientific, and social. With the capital ho had
THE LATE HON. PATRICK HIGGINS, M.L.C.


HOP BIT
ABE
THE PUREST AIT
MEDICINE EYEB !
They are Compownde.
Sops, Buchu, Mandrake
The Oldest, Best, most Be
Valuable Medicines in the
in addition, contain all 1
most effective curative pro
other Bitters, being- the gi
Regulator, Blood Pram:
and Health Eestoring Age;
Ask your Druggist ox
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, and
use. Hop Bitteks.
Eemember, Hop Bittei
drugged, drunken nostm
Purest and Best Medicim
and no person or family sh(
out it.
VALUABLE TB
If you are suffering from
or languishing on abed of g
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will C
If you are simply ailinf
Weak and Dispirited, wit
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will B>
If you are a Minister, a]
taxed yourself with your pa
or a Mother, .worn out w
work.
Hop Bitters Will Re
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the
every-day duties, or a mi
toiling over your midnight
Hop Bitters Will Stre
If you are suffering fron
or drinking, any indiscreti
tion, or are young and gro'
as is often the case,
Hop Bitters Will B>e
If yeu are in the work
farm, at the desk, anywhi
that your system needs Cli
ing, or Stimulating, with
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your b
impure, pulse feeble, you
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give To
Vigour.
Hop Bitteks is an eleg
and refreshing flavouring f
drinks, impure water, &<
them harmless, and swe
mouth, and cleansing the s
CLEANSE, PUEIFT, AND ENJ
with
HOP BUT
and you will have no sioknei
MONTBFIOHE, STUi
C 5 PITT STBEET, BYDN
General Agents for Ai
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
SUN-CURED YIRGINL
MOST DELICIOUS F
FREE PROM ALL ADUJ
“ Can You Swim ?’• —Professor Cavill, the world,
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and be back within the hour. Keturn boatfare,
including bath, 6d. ©pen for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5,
A DVT.
accumulated, he speculated with his usual success
—the result of forethought—in pastoral property
on the Lachlan and the Murray, near Echnoa.
He was also a promoter of the Lithgow Valley
Coal Co., being, in fact, one of the three who first
started that speculation. They took up 1700
acres of coal land, on which large sums have been
expended in the successful development of the
mine. The manufacture of bricks, earthenware-
pipes, and pottery of all sorts, was also estab-
lished at Lithgow, and afforded employment to
a large number of workmen. Although Mr.
Higgins never sought for a single public honour—
he was too robust mentally, as well as physically,
to toady to an Imperial Minister of State, much
less to the colonial article —still honours came
retty steadily to him. He was made a magistrate
f Victoria in 1856, of New South Wales
n 1867, a Commissioner of the International
Exhibition in 1879, and of the Melbourne
International Exhibition of 1881, aa one of the
representatives of Sydney. On the 10th of
December, 1880, he was called to the Legislative
Council, and continued to hold that distinction to
the time of his death.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Beautiful—Myth.
•' Our beautiful harbour, with its thousand retreats for
pic-nic parties is a myth : it does not exist at the pro.
sent time. Land sharks have been too smart.” So writes
a correspondent, an estimable colonist, whom we have
known for something like twenty years. “ The days,’*
he "continues, for pleasant family pio-nics are gone
by. Gigantic pic-nics at Clontarf, Chowder, Manly, 4c,,
are the only resources left. Humble-minded individuals
like me don’t care about mixing with the celebrities
there met with.” This is “ plain English," and we can’t
improve upon the writer’s nervous, straightforward
style. Too muoh attention cannot ha given to the fact,
that there remains now scarcely a single spot on the
■hores of “ our beautiful harbour," where the citizens
of Sydney have a right to land above high-water mark.’ *
We, in fact, know of but a single spot. The so-called
recreation grounds, such as Clontarf, which we at one
time imagined to be public recreation reserves, wo
learned to our cost to bo proprietory places, run for
profit. Almost the entire water frontage has been alien-
ated, so far as wo know. The citizens may sail about
the harbour, but they must not dare to land. If
they put their foot ashore on some rustic soli-
ude, they probably find themselves confronted by
a board warning off trespassers, or are bounced by
some bailiff, who rushes, bawling imperatively, from
the bush. If they land at one of tho “recreation
grounds " they are expected to pay for the privilege,
preferably in tho form of drinking “ for the good of the
house” —a pot-house being an inevitable charming
accessory to the rusticity of tho scene. Till lately
proprietors of waterside properties were passive.
People might land if they choose—a tree chopped down
here, or a broken bottle and bundle of greasy paper
there mattered little. But population has increased
rapidly. Broken bottles and chopped trees have
augmented past endurance. Watchmen have been put
on. The present result is that for the purposes of
family excursions by water " our beautiful harbour ” is
no more. There are a thousand delightful nooks which
Government might yet acquire and reserve for public
enjoyment. It would be a pitiful thing were the
citizens of Sydney forced to feel like a seagull, in his
own port—free to flutter over the face of the water, but
to be peppered if he attempt to rest his foot on
vhe shores.
The Vacant Professorship.
The proposed professional chair at the University is
not likely to be quietly filled. Grave objections have
been taken, in the interests of progress, to the present
nominee. And, on tho other hand, the bond fides of
these objections have been questioned on the ground
that they were raised less with a view to the abstract
aspect of the affair than for the purpose of conserving
a comfortable berth for a certain person. A corres-
pondent of the Herald—one of the many who have
written on the subject—put the case very clearly
recently. Whether intended or not, his letter throws
a very significant light on a hitherto concealed aspect
of the affair. In it we are informed that Dr. Badham
supported Mr. Stephens’ nomination to the new pro-
essorahip on the ground, among others, that that
gentleman’s qualifications weald enable him to take
his (Dr. Badham's] place in the event of his indisposi-
tion or retirement. Now, it seems to be a sufficiently
well understood thing that some other person—whose
na ne is judiciously reserved—claims a sort of right and
title to the classical professorship when vacant, and
that this move of Dr. Badham’s is a mere ruse to
destroy the chance of tho mysterious unknown. At
least, so the Herald’s correspondent intimates. So
that, therefore, all this virtuous indignation over the
proposed appointment, and all these memorials and
letters to the Prc ss, are simply so many elements in the
agitation of one or other of the gentlemen concerned.
Now, surely this is a pitiful state of things to be con-
nected with the highest home of education and
culture in the land. Here we have a vacant
choir, just established for tho purpose of foster-
ing an important study. Its necessity has been
widely advoaated, and at length admitted. Funds have
been dedicated, and the requirements for tho prosecu-
tion of such study provided for. And then this unseemly
disagreement ensues because certain gentlemen imagine
they have proprietary interests in the University
and the emoluments in its gift, and their vested rights
must be considered before anything can be done. It is
ridiculous that personal considerations should dictate
tho provision to be made in such a case as this. It
should be recollected that the colony at large has also
a proprietary interest in its University. It is to the
colony’s dearest interest that its highest educational
needs he provided for in the best and most efficient
manner possible; and this is not likely to be the case
while the choice is confined to one or two metaphorical
“squatters in the domains of intellect and culture,"
who monopolise all its fancy pickings and valuable
waterways. Culture is becoming a trade as well as
politics. It is a matter of wonder where these vested
interests sprang from, er on what title they really exist.
There is an old-fashioned prejudice in the public mind
that to fill such posts the whole world should ho ran.
sacked for the very best man who would accept the
position at the remuneration available. It might be
better, and eventually cheaper, rather than to sacrifice
the interests of students to the impudent rapacity of
local pretenders, for the colony to pension off the rival
claimants in the amounts of their expected salaries, and
thus leave itself free to invite open competition. We
might h-m have some chance of obtaining a really
suitable das of men.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
bookseller arrested, charged with stealing
Sydney Cooper’s celebrated picture, “ The Monarch of
the Meadow" Sixteen memners of Captain Moon-
light’s band convicted of outrages on the tenantry of
the Earl of Cork Turkey has guaranteed ten millions
francs towards payment of the Russian war indemnity
The jury has given a verdict of guilty ngainst
Guiteau Another battalion of the Guards and one of
the Fifth Regiment hastily ordered to Dublin For
the North Riding of Yorkshire, the Hon. G. N. Downey
has been elected vice Viscount Helmsley, deceased, de-
feating a tenant farmer by a narrow majority...... After
February 16th, the P. and O. steamers will sail from
Melbourne on alternate Thursdays, and during the
monsoon months at daylight on alternate Tuesdays
Expected that the imprisoned Irish members will re-
sign their seats in order to permit the election of
successors to vote against the cloture proposals of the
Government Glad (tone will give his reasons for
prolonging the imprisonment of the Irish members, at
a fitting time Mr. John Dillon, Irish M.P., seriously
ill Qambetta has resigned the Premiership .In-
formers have disclosed a formidable conspiracy against
the Government in Clare, Limerick, and Cork
Qniteau has applied for a new trial
German police have seized all copies of London Punch
for sale at Berlin, on account of tho cartoons, which are
regarded as calculated to bring the Government into
ridicule and contempt The Russian Government hav-
ing ordered a census to be taken, the inhabitants of
Dnnaberg objected to furnish the information demanded
—and, on the officials attempting to compel them, a
serious riot ensued Conspiracy in Cabul to dethrone
Abdul Rahman and restore Ayonb Khan. Numerous
arrests made The Turcomans of Merv have raided
Meshed, a town on the Persian frontier. 80,000 sheep
“ lifted." Two steamers collided in the Suez Canal.
Both damaged. One engineer killed A man named
Skillings, whose wife kept a girls’ boarding-school, has
been committed on a charge of criminally assaulting
eight young girls Rumours again point to war among
the European Powers in the Spring. Austria’s great
military preparations are regarded as intended against
Italy Socialism active in Austria. Numerous arrests
in Brunn, capital of Moravia Dynamite factory at Port
Vendres, France, blown to pieces Frequency of fires
in Chicago creates a panic. Incendiarism suspected
The Chilian Government consents, at the mediation of
the U. 8., to accept from Peru the province of Tarapaoa
with the guano deposits, Lobos Island, and a war in-
demnity of 20 millione, payable in 16 years. Arlca to
be occupied till indemnity paid. If Pern refuses these
terms. Chili refuses further mediation bytheU.S
Earl Granville insists on the Clayton-Bulwer treaty, for
the construction of the Panama Canal under joint
European and American guarantees, being adhered to.
President Arthur seems disposed to recede from the
antagonistic attitude assumed by Blaine Sir Samuel
Wilson won’t petition against Mr. Porter's return for
Londonderry. The Tories intend to bring him forward
for Bucks at the next election The bodies of the
missing bailiffs have been found in Lough Mask, in
sacks, weighted with stones Six failures on the
London Stock Exchange, one being for £BO,OOO
Tho new French Ministry Preycinet, Minister of
Foreign Affairs and President of the Council; Jules
Ferry, Minister of Public Instruction and Fine Arts ;
Goblet, Minister of tho Interior and Worship; Hum-
bert. Minister of Justice; Varvoy, Minister of Fin-
ance; Carnot, Minister of Public Works; Tirard,
Minister of Commerce and Agriculture ; Cochery,
Minister of Posts and Telegraphs The Austrian
Delegation have voted eight million florins as three
months’ supply for the military operations in Dalmatia
and Bosnia Haulan’s racing boat, in which he in-
tended to row against Boyd, haa been rendered useless
by an accident on the Thames, off Putney The
agitations in Bosnia and Ireland are daily increasing,
Austria and England are ponring additional troops into
their respective dependencies Montenegro is dis-
playing active sympathy with the Bosnians and Dal-
matians. Many chiefs are marching with their fol-
lowers tc join the insurgent head quarters President
Arthur has revoked Secretary Blaise’s assumption on
bobalt of the U.S. of supreme authority in territorial
matters Gniteau sentenced to death. June 80, the
happy day Consequent on the Bourse disturbance,
rate of discount in Belgium raised to nine per cent.,
and in London to six Banks of Paris guarantee an
advance of 85,000,000 franca to help the broker’s
through Several commercial failures in Germany
Trickett’s hackers in London trying to fix Banian for
another match. The champion demands that the stake
be £5OO aside, thus blocking the match pro tem Cor-
poration of Lyons sharebrokers insolvent. Parisian
Press approves the new French Cabinet Russian
officers lead the Bosnian insurgents National in-
trigues to unite all the Panslavist races in the pro-
vinces now under the Austrian Emperor Calais
reservoir burst. Thirty people drowned Egyptian
Assembly of Notables are willing that the Budget be
jointly voted by the Assembly and the Ministry.
Wentworthville, day of sale, next Saturday W.
Pritehard, auctioneer. —Adv.
Printers, purchase an allotment at Wentworth-
ville W. Pritchard, auctioneer. — Adv.
General Servants buy allotments at Wentworth-
ville, £2 deposit. W. Pritchard.— Adv,
Painters, buy land at Wentworthville—libera
terms, £2 deposit. W. Pritchard. — Adv.
Tradesmen, buy land at Wentworthville— £ 2
deposit. Is. per week. W. Pritchard.— Adv.
Working men, purchase an allotment of land at
Wentworthville. W. Pritchard, auctioneer.— Adv.
At a recent school breaking up, the prize elocu-
tion boy stepped forward and commenced to mouth
“My name is Norval. On the Grampian hills my
father” Here he paused, and a smile flickered over
his face, as he resumed, “ will sell the first subdivision
of 50 acres, at 3 o’clock, on Saturday next. We do not
precisely recollect at this moment whether the young-
ster's name was Mills, Pile, or Gilchrist.
Two more Waterloo veterans have been dis-
covered. Their names are respectively Gorman and
Hardie. This is a sell: at least it will be, on the battle
field, South Waterloo, on Saturday.
A gay young spark entered a respectable place
of business in Pitt-street, yesterday, and accosting a
sevare-Jooking clerk (who is a deacon at Bethsaida
Chapel) began to inquire "Is the Angel in ? ” The
Severe One promptly interrupted. “ You’re making a
mistake," he said grimly, ** there’s no young persons
on these premises.” The giddy youth flushed and per-
sisted. “Is the Angel in f ” He got no further, when
one of the proprietors stepped forward and quietly but
firmly remarked, that the Angel Inn Estate, Burwood
would be sold by their firm, Hardie and Gorman, on
the Ground, next Saturday afternoon.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Cardon We don’t see how the fact that the
son of a Governor is summoned for his tailor’s bill con-
cerns anyone but himself and the tailor “
Thanks for the information “Pits.": First-class
yarns ‘ Patience Thanks “A.W.”: Yes, we
shall be glad to hear from you regularly. Give us the
news in a brief and attractive form, “Sub-
scriber ": Send us a memo, occasionally
“ E.F.R. " j The difficulty is that amateur excellence,
when bronght to the test, frequently proves to be only
on a level with professional mediocrity. Again,
granting that the voice is, both as regards quality and
cultivation, first-rate, for an operatic artist there are
further qualifications j ast as imperatively needed. A
pleasing appearance, and then the art of acting. Pew
have this as an instinctive gift. By most persons it
has to be learned, and to acquire an easy and effective
stage deportment takes time. Still, many very fair
performers in the light class of operas now in vogue
drifted from the ranks of the amateurs into the pro-
fession. Negotiations from a distance will he useless,
we fear. You can’t send a photograph of a voice and
manner “Alpha": Mind you do. Have a vague
idaa you promised to send one for a conversazione once,
but didn’t. Eh? "Subscriber" (Port Macquarie):
We give brief notice “ P. J.P.": If we published your
account and proved that the newspaper report was
entirely false, what would be gained ? No doubt the re-
port was "cooked," but if weuadertook to correct all
such reports, we would have our hands more than full
with Pitt-street newspapers alone... “Patience": Thanks.
..." Veritas Received..." Jim Mullins ": Write of tenet
"K”: A good hint “Zoe": Good
“Kyathinga": Write again “ Stockwhip ” (No. 2):
Good item. Yes; send account of the affair alluded
to “D.Y.": Send along again “Strange
Paradox ”i Held - over “Cooey": Thanks
“Amusement" (Qympie): You send us
“ Sketches worth reading.” Who in thunder
told you they were " worth reading ?” It must have
been a kanaka “Patience": Thanks, condensed
“Buzfuz": Obliged, shortened “On Dit": Seven
pages are rather too much to insert on euch a small
topic—but you’re a beautiful writer “ Art Society ’’;
Impossible to insert anything like the quantity of
matter yea send, bat we give a fair prdoia next week
“ SciomachistSorry yoa are rather late this week,
but thanks for the versee “A.W." (Grafton):
Harris, who was born in Ireland, did the 100 yards in
9} sec. when he defeated Frank Hewitt in Victoria.
The ten seconds is not often broken—even in England
and America.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Jessop elected for Dalby (Q.), without
opposition.
A branch of the Victorian Land League has
been established in Hobart.
Mr. Quinn has been returned for Wentworth,
beating Mr. Evans by only six votes.
The Times admits that if another half year’s
rent can be withheld, the Land Leaguers’ game will be
won.
The Supreme Court of Canada has decided that
the Orange Society is illegal under the laws of the
Dominion.
There is at Charters Towers a Native Austra-
lian Association, which suitably celebrated the 93rd
anniversary of the foundation of the colony,
A small meeting at Coonanbaran unanimously
adopted a motion that the existing system of selling
Crown lands by auction is detrimental to the interests
of tree-selectors and to the colony generally.
EITho local member, Mr. Abbott, addressed the
oggabritos a few days back, and was well received.
According to him. Sir John’s speech at Mudgee was
simply bunkum. He said Sir John has proved by his
actions that he cannot live out of office. A good many
think that.
It seems the rumoured peace-making on the
the part of the Colonial Treasurer and his colleague,
the Postmaster-Genera), is a myth. Meanwhile, the
clerks of the latter—many of whom, we hear on ex-
cellent authority, work as a general thing till 11 o’clock
p.m. (and often on Sundays, ye all-powerful Sabba-
tarians!)—must be content to wait yet a little longer
for their well-earned overtime allowance, which is at
the root of all the trouble.
Speaking at the banquet given to Mr. T. M.
Slattery, M.L.A,, at Burrowa, the other night, Mr.
Daniel O’Connor is reported to have said that the
people of this colony were chargable with the highest
treason a country could be guilty of. If the people of
England were to act, in political matters, as the
people of New South Wales do, they would be con-
sidered lower than the South Sea Islanders. They had
one of the most unscrupulous Governments that ever
disgraced a country.
When Sir Henry Parkes was taking his last
adieux of his friends, just as the mail steamer was
quitting her moorings, he turned his streaming eyes
upon a gentleman standing by, and exclaimed, like
Charles I. on the scaffold, “ Remember,” and then fell
upon the necks of Richardson and Wrench, and gave
way to uncontrollable emotion. Tho fact was that Sir
Henry had latterly raised himself above his fellow
colonists fully 1500 feet, and was much moved at the
prospect of others being elevated to his own level by
buying at the sale, to come off on Saturday next, blocks
of the Clearview Estate, right opposite Fanlconbridge.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, Feb. 1, 1882.
At the Darling Harbour terminus there was a fair supply
of forage forward from the various intermediate
stations along the Western and Southern lines. The
market was moderately attended, and prices fairly
maintained. Oaten hay, in truss, ss. 4d. to ss. lid.; in
bundles, se. 44. to 6s. 7d. per cwt. Lucerne hay, in
truss, 4s. 7d.; mixed lots with sheaves, ss. to ss. 3d
per cwt. Straw, in bundles, clean lots ss. 3d. to Ss. 7d.
per cwt. Wheaten hay, in bales, 65.; in bundles, sg. Id.
to ss. lOd.; in sheaf, ss. to ss. 3d. per cwt. Wheaten
and oaten hay, in bundles, ss. 51. to ss. lOd.; in bales
6s. 4d. per cwt. Eye straw, in bundles, ss, per cwt!
Potatoes, 3s. Id. to ss. sd. per cwt., bags inclusive.
Pumpkins, 4s. per dozen.
On the wharves, on Tuesday, prime green lucerne wag
Belling at £3 15s, to £4 per ton, a good supply arriving,
and fair demand exists; medium quality, £2 15s. to £3 •
inferior, £2 to £2 ss, per ton. Maize, ss. to ss. 3d!
Oats (prime), 3s. to 3s. 31. per bushel. Victorian
onions, £3 10s.; do. potatoes, £4 to £4 ss; do. chat,
£5 ss. to £5 10s. per ton, bags inclusive. Warrnambooi
potatoes, £4 10s. per ton. Batter (in keg), lOd, to Is. per
lb. Eggs, Is. 2d. to Is. 3d. per dozen. Bacon, 6d. to
81. Cheese, 4d. to 81. Ham, lid. to Is. per lb. Honey,
51. Lard, 41. to 6d. Beeswax, 91. to lOd. per lb.
Millet brooms, 7s. 61. to Bs. 6d. per dozen.
Breadstnffs are easier, very little business is
doing. Sales of wheat have been made at ss. Id.,
but no speculation is going on. Flour is
selling at £lO 7*. 61. to £lO 10s. Barley, prime
milling, is moving at 4s. 61. Feed, 3s. to 3s 6d.
Oats, New Zealand, in bond, 2s. Sd,; Victorian, 2s. lid.
to 3s. 2d. Feed, 3s. 4d. Milling bran. Is. There is a
good demand for pollard at 14pi.
Pocxtbt. — At the various auction marts, poultry,
&c., was only in moderate supply, and sold fairly
Fowls brought from 2s. 6d, to 55.; ducks, 3a. to 4«. 6d! •
geese, ss. to 9* 3d.; cock turkeys scarce, and worth
15s. to 80s.; hen ditto, 7s. 61. to 10s. per pair; pigeons,
Is. 6d.|to 2s. per pair; parrots, Is, 2d, to Is. sd. each.
“Dead with Thirst.”
The drama's over, and we know the end.
The bitter worst:
In drouthy agony, with none to tend.
But with a fortitude that scorned to bend.
She died of thirst 1
For ever menaced by the savage spears,'
By night and day.
With nameless horrors threatened, nameless fears.
No time for grieving, fainting, or for tears.
But aye at bay.
She kept them off—the black and devilish band.
The fiends accurst;
And in her iron craft escaped the land—
Alas 1 upon the cruel, parching sand
To die of thirst!
At death’s worst anguish she could firmly look.
And never quail:
Though wan and weak, her fingers never shook
As day by day she entered in the book
Her piteous tale.
From first to last, there is not one complaint;
No useless cry;
No sign of heroine’s heart-strength waxing faint,
The while she watched—with pains no pen can paint—
Her baby die.
Five fearful days, beneath the scorching glare,
Her babe she nursed.
God knows the pangs that woman had to bear.
Whose last sad entry showed a mother’s care.
Then—“ dead with thirst 1"
A.F.


Established 1849.
D. & W. ROBERTSON,
WHOLESALE IRON, STEEL, & MACHINERY IMPORTERS
/;
s o\e -Partners Si„ 0e .
c. 1878
7’
' <fr J. 8. ROB^
,0>
W. F. ROBERTSON,*
BUYER FOR THE FIRM IN LONDON,
J. 8, ROBERTSON,
ACTING PARTNER IN SYPNEY,
HEAD OFFICE, Central Exchange Buildings,
Corner of York and Market Streets, Sydney,
STOEES, Pyrmont Bridge, Pyrmont.
LONDON OFFICE, 81 Lombard Street.
Site fob New Stoebs, Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets, with combined frontages
to Wilmot and Stewart Streets of 600 to 700 feet. Cost of Site, £35,000,
VALUE OF STOCK ON HAND AND TO AEEIVE, £200,000 TO £250,000.
SPECIALITIES.
>IG IRON
3AST IRON PIPES
3T ROLLED IKON JOISTS
TENDING & TELEGRAPH WIRE
lOOFING SHEETS
BOILER PLATES
HRDER AND BRIDGE PLATE?
SHIP AND TANK PLATES
[NGOT IRON PLATES, Superior
to the Best Yorkshire, and much '
Cheaper
PIN PLATES
BAR IRON SHEETS & HOOPS J
ANGLE AND T IRON
BOILER & GALLOWAY TUBES
3AS, WATER, & STEAM TUBES
STEEL & STEEL CASTINGS
Sole Agents for
SHANKS’ HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL
STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS,
CRANES, HOISTS, & PUMPS.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST IN THE MARKET.
Sole Agents for
CLAYTON & SHUTT LEWORTH’S
TO THE IRON TRADE,
We respectfully claim attention to
onr specialties above named. We are,
we believe, the first and only house
in the Australian Colonies who has
embarked a large capital having a
home firm and a stock here of the
above magnitude exclusively devoted
to the heavy branches of the Iron
Trade alone.
To this trade the attention of our firm
has been entirely devoted for three
and thirty years, during which period
connections have been formed with the
leading manufactorers of Europe, and
experience gained which we place at
the service of the Australian Colonies.
Buyers of our classes of goods will
readily perceive how their interests
will bo served by giving us their
support. We unhesitatingly claim
that no other firm in these Colonies
is in an equal position to supply
Iron, Steel, and our special classes of
Machinery.
To meet the enormous demands
that are being made upon us since
placing our business here in charge of
a resident partner, we have just
cabled to England for the following,
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.
R
D
R
W
T
R
0
&
CELEBRATED PORTABLE ENGINES, THRESHING
MACHINES, SAW BENCHES, & CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
Tho largest and best makers. The greatest number of first-class prizes.
Sole Agents for
JOHN BROWN & CO., Limited,
The Eminent Manufacturers to the British and Foreign
Governments of RAILWAY MATERIALS, ARMOUR
PLATES, HIGH-CLASS BOILER PLATES of the Largest
Dimensions, SPRINGS, STEEL, STEEL CASTINGS,
&c. &c.
Please send for our STANDARD SECTION BOOK,
containing every S*otion of Iron and Steel, with safe
loads of our Rolled J'ists, &c.—the best book of
the kind ever published, and of immense service to
Architects, Engineers, Builders, &c.
in ADDITION TO OIJE REGULAR INDENTS, viz
3.000 TONS PIG IRON
2.000 TONS FENCING WIRE
1.200 TONS ROOFING SHEETS
2.000 TONS CAST IRON PIPES
1.200 TONS BOILER PLATES
500 TONS ROLLED JOISTS
5.000 BOXES TIN PLATES
About <£20,000 WORTH OF TUBES, WIRE NAILS, and
Other Goods
1.200 TONS OF BAR IRON
Also, upwards of 300 STEAM ENGINES, BOILERS,
CRANES, HOISTS, PUMPS, PORTABLE ENGINES,
SAW BENCHES, &c., &c.
D. & W. ROBERTSON,
WHOLESALE IRON, STEEL, & MACHINERY IMPORTERS,
SYDNEY AND LONDON.


SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
ABE MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing Company..
Head Offices:
31 UNION SQUARE, NEW YOKE, U.S.A.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 FOSTER LANE, LONDON.
Depot for New South Wales
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY.
S
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
HAVE
All the Latest Improvements.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Largest Variety of Work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE •
Strength and Beauty of Stitch.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE
Embroidery, Braiding, and Quilting.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE
Plaiting, Binding, and Frilling.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and Ruffling.
S
I
N
G
E
R
160 FIRST PRIZES.
EAST TEEMS—2a. 6d. WEEKLY.
AGENTS IN EVERT TOWN.
LOCAL DEPOTS!
BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N., GOULBURN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWORTH.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
No. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ABE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS,
2s, 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. per week— 2s. 6d. per week.
And ho interest charged.
10 per cent. off for cash.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER"—
TURNER A COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
*
O
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE, A
WERT HEIM, /
HOWE. / J-
*
The
O
*
HOWE. /CQ i / U9hl
Ac., ic. / N* / Running
vK-
STANOARO
o
<9
'b
o
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
parts for
(Machines.
v y *
° V / and parts for all
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
716 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash,
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
OTTO” SILENT GAS ENGINE.
No BOILER,
full POWER
AT A MO-
MENT’S NO-
T!CE. ..
No Trouble
I with
1 Ashes, Smoke,
[lnsurance,
Water, or
Attendance.
Cost of Gft*.
lsd per horse-
power P® r
hoar, with
at 6s 6d per
„ 1000 feet. t
GIBBS, BRIGHT, and CO., 93 Pitt-street#
HE
Business Announcements
[Legal. J
SHORTER. FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
auijUJiruita.
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO,
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the EvEMina
Nxwb Office.
CHARLES GIETZ,
(from Messrs, P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bakers* Ovens,
Mountings, Ac. Off No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets). Sydney.
N
OTICE OF REMOVAL.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
GLASS MANUFACTURERS,
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCRIPTION :©f CHINA
and EARTHENWARE,
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVED
to
269 GEORGE [STREET,
Next but One to the Mercantile Bank.
A magnificent selection of Now Goods now opening.
ILLCOX
W
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
machines
Mangle and
wringer, £llos
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-sheUers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walhut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T. WIMBLE &Co^|
STEREOTYPE/^,
-AN D-
Foundry
L WAREHOUSE
? Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
PRINTERS’
Also
s-'Z'ioiisriErs".
at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER A IRONFOUNDEE.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
[BOXES,
Ac., Ac.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, A GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STEEE f.
MASSEY AND SON, 10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
T
HE PAINLESS COEN RELIEVER.
A Sure Relief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Gympie (sole
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros. A Co. Syd-
ney and Brisbane; and sold by all patent medicine
vendors.
ASK FOR HANDBILLS.
Public Companies
JIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-np Capita!, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. handle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager:
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Eedfern,
Glebe, Burwood.
Loudon Office : 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condoholin, Coonahara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Denilimun,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbnrn, Grafton, Gwm-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, luverell,
Kempsey, Lambtou, Macloay, Menindie, Molouk,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Hockley, Kylstone, Single-
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfleld, Ulmann,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wiloannia, Woodburn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, AUora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Haven a wood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
The mercantile bank op stdnet.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARIIAMENT, 1871
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
.£300,000
.£116,894
DIRECTORSi
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Cnird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jos. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER: '
P. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARYI
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES s
687 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hill, and Redfern.
LONDON BANKERS t
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq. ,
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable term
Bills discounted daily. a ! f -
Bills negotiated and advances made against d. j - .nd
other nrodnoe shipped to England for sale. vs |
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
J COMPANY,
CAPITAL £1,000,000.
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEST RATES,
NIXON <fe CO..
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
READ TfflS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
manufactured bv 6a and known
AS DOCTOR _
WAUGHS
HAS A WIDE. REPUTATION FOR
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
AND THE CHEMICAL JUDGES OF THE
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST AND
BEST IN THE WORLD
Bv awarding to Us the
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
(GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECTION
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
, OR SQUARE TINS
'MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACEi
■william sy davles to COY. I
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STEET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
1 Children.
Cartes de Visite, 7s. 6d. per Dozen.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the George-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges strictly
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-sfcreet.
Chemist* and Druggists
CAUTION.— In our style of climate, with ita
audden changes of temperature —rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Bosohee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and eifectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to oostivoness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sola Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
* THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Btomasb.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, oan
taka them.
Bo careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
J.
Invented and Prepared only by
S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 ;GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotns, you will net be able to cough. Price Is. at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
miCKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
-1 tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
♦
George lan
(Formerly of Qeorgo-street,)
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Bqgs to announce that ho has EE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
whore every article ia the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
USINESSES FOR SALE.
B
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS,
fler for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO 000. Intending Purchasers, who favour us with a
calll oan rely on being dealt with in a business-Uko
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79, Pitt-street.
A,G.THOMS ON &
PROPRIETORS
©
This TCLT&oId Scotch. Blend
is distinguished by having o. bouquet
as in fine old matured wines,
fl'vjavr mr "'
GILCHRIST, WATT, AND CO.
SOLE AGENTS FOB NEW SOOTH WALES,
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY,


VIRTUTIB GLORIA MERGES .
COALCLIFF COAL.
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and liars keot well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner Are than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
4-62 L.T t 4B+ GEORGE STREET
> markftnnrwwaib
iVo
MARKET CLOTH HALL, *<>£* m'
oppositethe fruitmarkets,
ESTABLISHED 1864 . , v
A LARG E AND WE LL SELECTED STOCK
WOO LLENS ; new patterns,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
FASHIONABLE
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
ALLWOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO ORDE
•R, 12
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course. ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
DAVIS S-EWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
• MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition.
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultural
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Qonlhurn, Mudgee,
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Speeial Prize at Melbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
*
A
FORWALTHAM
LE
l
QOOO OOP Jyb
r
//v
DEPARTMENT
©
r
*
638 CtAOBOB STREET.
TRADE MARX
MM
FOB
RHEUMATISM,
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Backache, Soreness of the Chest, Gout,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swellings and
Sprains, Burns and Scalds,
Genera! Bodily Pains,
Tooth, Ear and Headache, Frosted Feet
and Ears, and all other Pains
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals St. Jacobs Oh, asj
a safe, sure, simple and cheap External Remedy.
A trial entails but the comparatively trifling outlay
of 50 Cents, and every one suffering with pain'
can have cheap and positive proof of its claims.
Directions in Eleven Languages.
BOLD BT ALL DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IK
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BV—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFfi'NUNG & Co., Pitt-street.
C. PROSSER & Co., Pitt etieet.
MTEtiS and SOLOMON, Of orga-atieet.
I. JACOBS & Co„ Huntar-street,
1
id
F ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.
J£ AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
288 Pitt Street f
JjJLISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
" ELISE,”
484 GEORGE STREET,
DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pro*
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled, i
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
KING STREET, SYDNEY
AJ • (two doors from George-streetl,
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. NeweS
styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST'S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
JQLECTRIC BELLS.
The Largest Assortment of—
Electric Bells, Indicators, Cells, handsome Pushes,
Gutta-percha and India.rnbber covered Wire,
Magnetic Needles, Galvanometers,
Portable Showcases, Burglar Alarms, Thief
Detectors, Telephones, Electric Light Apparatus,
&c. &c., ever landed in Sydney,
now to hand, ex Altcar.
JOHN DANES,
119 Lirerpool-street,
The medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence in thousands of cases as the most wholesome
leverage. Be sure and got it when asked for, as imita-
'* oa * are often pushed for the sake of extra profit,— Adv.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Marriage is like a big fence : the more you look
at it the less you like it.
Only 400 cedars of Lebanon remain. How many
were there, and whore are the seoeders P
A Vermont deacon asked the prayers of the con-
gregation the other day for "the lowlived son of a
pirate who stole his melons."
The Gormans have perpetrated a very practical
joke. They have named a village “ Sheffield," so
that they can stamp their cutlery "Sheffield manu-
facture.”
A member of a fire brigade, very active at con-
flagrations, but not up in classical history, gazed long
at a statue of " The Laoooon,” and then turning to a
companion, said—"lt's very good, but how the deuce
-did they get so entangled in the hose ? ”
A bashful young girl, named Louisa,
Will never allow you tousquisa j
You never must touch,
Or look at her much.
Which the only way was for tonplisa.
“ Gentlemen of the jury,” said a blundering
•counsel in a suit about a lot of pigs, “ there were just
thirty-six in the drove. Please remember the fact—
thirty-six pigs, just three times as many ns in that
•jury-box, gentlemen.” That oounsel didn’t gain his
•case.
“The reason why the “ best man ” at a wedding
'ls never the groom, is that the average woman marries
the worst man of her acquaintance. " Ouida ” puts it
that whenever you hear that a man has made " a good
taatcb, ’’ you may be sure that the woman has made a
bad one.
“ I don’t miss my church as much as you
suppose,” saida lady to her minister, who had called
upon her during heri I'uess; “ for I make Maria sit at
the window as soon as the bells begin to chime and tell
me who are going to church, and whether they have
got on anything new.”
A citizen given to beer, but otherwise worthy,
•was suddenly taken oil, and his friends erected a monu-
ment to bis memory, and had inscribed upon it, “ Take
'him for all in all,” Ac. Asurlycritlo objected, sayingit
would be better to have it read, “Take him for half-and-
half, we shall not look upon his like again.”
“Why is a lady unlike a mirror?” asked a
cynic of a lady. She " gave it up.” " Because,” said the
rude fellow, “ a mirror reflects without speakisg; a lady
speaks without reflecting.” “ Very good,” said she.
"Now answer me. Why is a man unlike a mirror?”
“ I cannot tell yon.” “ Because the mirror is polished
and the man is not.”
At a revival meeting, not long since, the minister
noticed a seedy.looking chap in one of the seats, who
appeared as though he needed religion or a good square
meal. So he stepped up to him and asked him if ho was a
Christian. "No, sir,” said ho, “lam the editor c£
the paper in this place. ” " Then, in the name of God,
let us pray, ” replied the devout minister.
Conscientious Guard—“ I’m afraid, sir, young
lady can’t be permitted to travel on a half ticket; she’s
much over twelve years of age.” Irate Papa—“ Do you
mean to inform mo, sir, that my daughter and I are
endeavouring to swindle the railway company ? Let me
tell you, sir, that wo’ve never been so grossly insulted
on tbis line before, although we've both travelled on it
over fifteen years I”
Once upon a time a woman died, and as the
mourners were carrying her to the grave, they tripped
against a stump and let the (coffin fall. She revived,
having been only in a deep trance. Two years after
she really died, and as they were carrying her down the
same road, and neared the same stump, the disconso-
late widower sobbed: “Steady, boys, steady there. Be
very, ve-ry careful."
Ya piggie he is a pretty fowl,
And wond’rous good to eat;
Hys ham is good, lykewise bis jowl,
And eke hys little feeto.
And if you try a thousand yeara
I trow you still will fayla
To make a silk purse of hys eare.
Or a wusel of hys tayle.
The driver was forced to halt for the rice and
slipper business showered on the departing pair; the
bride had seen a few more summers than one of the late
Q. P. B. James’s heroines, and her attendant maids were
quite as, nay, e’en more, .mature; bat the costuming
was youthful. The driver warded o£E a too vigorously
aimed satin shoe with his whip, and said “Dressed
lamb'fashion, sir, but mj/ther old mutton 1”
A fashionable draper informs us that the dresses
tor Spring wear are made up with a new and lovely
polonaise, the waist of which contains a steel trap, con-
cealed by a masked panier. When a young gentleman
oalls, who is considered a catch, and accidentally—or
otherwise—places his arm around the wearer’s waist,
he hears a “ click, ” and finds his arm caught. A big
brother and lamp enter, and it is neck or nothing with
the victim.
One of the mottoes in the rooms of a certain
Club, reads as follows :
He was a poker player and a good one,
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken and persuading;
Lofty and sour to them that called him not.
But to those lambs that raised him sweet as Summer.
And though he were unsatisfied ia betting
(Which was a sin), yet in bestowing taffy
Ho was most princely.
A Miss Mao Turk, discussing the garter
question, writes: —“ You will take notice that just
above the knee, there is no hollow or depression in
whioh a garter could be retained, no projection on which
it could make a hold. ” To which a newspaper man
modestly replies “Will we take notice? Couldn’t
think of it. We don’t know anything about garters.
Don’t want to. May be worn about the waist for all we
know. Take notice, indeed I “
Magistrate to laraelitishclotbes-dealer (arrested
for receiving stolen goods): “ What is your name ? ”
“My name, veil it vos Solomon levy.” " What is yonr
business ? ” “I vos a tealer in second-handed close.”
“Where do you live?” "In Stephen-streefc.” "Of
what religion are you?” “Of vot religion I vos?
Veil, I tole you as my name vos Solomon Levy, and I
vos a dealer in second-handed close, and that I live in
Stephen.street. Vot religion I vos? Vy, I vos a
Mettothist, ov coorse I ’’
Obituary notice from Harper’s Monthly
41 It boundless benevolence be the basis of beatitude.
And harmless humility the harbinger of a hallowed
heart,
These Christian concomitants composed her charac-
teristic,
And conciliated the esteem of her contemporary ac-
quaintances,
Who mean to model their manners by the mould of
their meritorious monitor.”
"Twinkle, twinkle, diminutive type of nebular
condensation j how I meditate upon your composition.
Situated above this oblate sptaeriod at such an altitude,
in similitude an inflnitesmal orystalization of carbon in
the blue empyrean.” This induces us to add that the
venerable maternal Hubbard went to the mural orifice
enclosed by a door, to obtain for her pauperized and anti,
quated mongrel a dessicatcd ossification from a quad-
ruped. On arriving at the pantry, Mrs. Hubbard
discovered that the shelves were denuded of provisions,
and, consequently, the infelicitous canine was obliged
•temporarily to fast.
In America, lately, a woman who had been on
trial for the murder of her husband and had been
•oquitted by the jury, invited them to an oyster
supper after the verdict was rendered. Eight of them
accepted. The lady will be married at an early day, it
is said. We trnst that the effects of the supper were
not in-jory-ons to the gentlemen who helped to ’oyster
■out of her stew. And this reminds us that in Sydney,
lately, a man on trial for arson was so sure of being
acquitted that ha ordered an elaborate supper to ba
Prepared for him and his friends at a leading hotel.
However, his friends went that night to the appointed
®eudee vous, but the host found himself a guest at Bead’s
hotel, where he still is.


HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
STEUTH’S WHAEF and NEW WHAEF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SEEING SXEEET.
Steam to MELBOUENE,
Every TUESDAY and PEIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
’AH particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
1882.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIQA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under,
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
And the service will be maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a mouth; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
Those steamers not touching at Aden, passengers
can proceed to Suez and the Continent (the Italian
Ports included) without fear of being detained by
quarantine regulations.
Faros, to Loudon, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be granted In Sydney.
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the line; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. 8. YUILL,
267 Qeorge-street.
O
RIENT LINE OF STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con-
veyance of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line of
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will be received at this office, and receipts
Issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date of
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For further
particulars, apply to
a. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient Line in Australia.
267 Goorge-street, Sydney.
c
ASH PRICE LIST OP WINES. ALES. AND
SPIRITS.
Claret
Hermitage ..
Shiraz ...
Burgundy ..
•Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
per doz
9s Od
10s Gd
11s Od
12s 6d
13s Od
per do;
J. T. Fallon's Port 25s &
Adelaide Grenaohe
(rich Burgundy
Adelaide Port ...
WHITE.
30b Od
30s Od
Relating... ... ... 9s Od Brown Muscat ... 15s Od
Hook ... ... .„ 10s Od Muscat, vintage ’75 21a Od
Madeira... .„ ... 11s Od Adelaide Tokay ... 30s Od
Bonfflor's Pinean.. 13s Od Tokay, vintage '73 30s Od
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24a to 36s Od I Good Sherry 21s to 36s Od
Champagne from... 60s Od | French Claret from 25s Od
Hennessy’s * Case
Brandy
Heuneasy’s •••
Case Brandy ...
Good Polo French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd, Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp's Scotch
Whisky
Vaughan Jones’
U squebaug h
Scotch Whisky 38a 6d
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky 40a Od
801 l Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
„ „ pints
•9 Stoat, qts.
„ „ jints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar's Head Stoat,
pints
Bass's Ale, by Hall,
quarts... ... ...
SPIRITS.
Imperial •• Scotch
ditto
Imperial Scotch
Whisky
Burke's ••• Irish
Whisky
D’Arcy’s Irish
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
59s Od
71s Od
15s Od
15s Od
42s Od
42a 0
44a 0
40s 0
38a 6
48s 0
46a 0
43s 0
44a 0
lls Od
8s Od
lls Od
8s Oct
10s 0d
7s Od
10s Od
7s Od
10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Belles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
7s 6:
10s e
7s 6
10s 0
7s 0
lls 6
—12 s
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarti
4 dozen in a cask; pints. 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, q uarti
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Stou
quarts, 4 dozen in cask j pints, 7 dozen. Pig B ran
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Foster'
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen quart
in case; 7 doz. pints.
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for
•Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen oxtr
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Win
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address i
town, or to the Wharves or Rodfern Railway Statioi
Terms—Prompt Nett Gash ®n giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-stroet, Sydney.
A
A V 1 D M * 0
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment,
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, Hi)
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmore
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M Q
and His Excellency Lord Augustas Loftna
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always or
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles’at tht
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
rjl HEA T E E ROYAL.
Leasee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer .....Mr. G. li. Goodman.
Stage Manager Mr. Bichard Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
SINBAD, THE SAILOR.
Doors open at 7.15 p,m.; commence at a quarter to 8.
VICTORIA HALL.
CASTLEEEAGfI.STEBET,
(Near King-street; close to Tramway and Omnibns,)
TO LET NIGHTLP. ON TEEM, or LONG LEASE,
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS,
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for 800
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES,
WINGS, &c., and is in all respects equal to the Hall of
the School of Arts, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLEE,
107 Castlereagh-street.
T
HEATRE ROYAL, GRAFTON
OPEN FOE ENGAGEMENT.
Will scat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe,
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATEE.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
TVT e - EDWIN PALMER, LEADING and
ITX CHARACTER OLD MAN. GAIETY THEA.
TRE, NIGHTLY.
MRS. EDWIN PALMER, HEAVY LEAD, and
LEADING OLD WOMAN, AT LIBERTY. Address :
245 Crown-street, Surry Hills.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
ZULU WAE,
Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, December 26, one month }
Christchurch to follow.
s
IGNOR BONACCORTI
MUSICAL DIEECTOE.
Thompson's Colossal Mirror of the Zulu War, Queen's
Theatre, Dunedin.
CON BUCKINGHAN,
CORNET.
Thompson's Colossal Mirror of the Zulu War, Queen’s
Theatre, Dunedin.
LLOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers, Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
FAYRE OF YE OLDEN TYME.
A GRAND FANCY FAIR,
SUPER THE PATBOHASe OP
HIS GRACE ARCHBISHOP VAUGHAN,
Will be hold in
ST. MARY'S CATHEDRAL
(previous to the opening thereof),
IN AID OF
THE BUILDING FUND,
In a Street and Market-place of the Olden Time,
WITH THE TYPICAL
OLD CHELSEA BUN HOUSE
THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP
THE CAXTON PRINTING HOUSE
THE OLD POSTIOFFICE
And an artistically-executed
VIEW OF OLD LONDON.
Full particulars and prices of admiesion in futuH
advertisements,
P. J. MAHONY, Hon. Sec.
E. HELLEE, Acting Sec.
R. T. M U R I D G
DENTIST,
Graduate of Pennsylvania College of Dental Surge#,
late seven years of 80 Brook-street, Qrosvenor Square,
London West.
Consulting Hodbs— lo to 1.30.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, ISYDE PARK TEREACS-
QUONG TART AND CO.,
WHO ‘ ESALE AND RETAIL
TEA, SII K, AND GENERAL
CHINESE MERCHANTS AND IMPORTER 3 *
Show Rooms—2B, JH J IT,
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
GREAT CLEARING SALE of GOODS comprised in our late Shipments, will be continued
during the week; and our Customers are reminded that they now have an Opportunity of Pur-
chasing SEASONABLE GOODS and the CHOICEST NOVELTIES at lower prices than have ever
been heard of in this city before.
BARGAIN, „ . _
40 CASES OP NEW DRESS GOODS, WORTH
84d., WILL BE SOLD FOR 3*d.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH CHALLIS, WORTH Is 2d, WILL BE
SOLD FOR 6d.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH BEIGES, 4R, 6id., 7*d., Od. } WORTH
FROM 9d to Is 2d per YARD.
BARGAIN.
HALF A MILLION YARDS OP DRESS GOODS.
MUST BE SOLD TO MAKE ROOM FOR
FRESH IMPORTATION.
BARGAINS.
60 pieces of coloured Silk at 13-ld., manufacturer's
price 2s. 4d, per yard.
BARGAIN.
120 pieses of coloured Gros Grain Silk at 23|d,
worth 3s.
BARGAIN.
40 pieces of Pompadour Velveteen, 12d. and 15d.
yard, worth Ss. 6d. and 4a.
BARGAIN.
Tinselled Tarlatans, every colour, 9d., worth 2s.
BARGAIN.
200 pieces black Gros Grain, 30 por cent, under
manufacturers’ prices, ,
BARGAIN.
200 washing Costumes, prices from 18s. Cd. to 30s ,
clearing price 10s. each.
BARGAIN.
200 satara-cloth Dolmans, 14s. 6d., worth 21s.
BARGAIN.
Cashmere and Lace Capes, 2s 6d., worth 7fl. 6d,
BARGAIN.
10 Cases Pith Helmets, 25., lid., Worth 4s. 6d.
BARGAIN.
1000 Gent’s Straw Hats, Is., worth 2s.
BARGAIN.
3000 yards strong Tweeds, for Boys’ wear, la., worth
Is. 9d. per yard.
BARGAIN.
10 Cases Men’s White Shirts, all sizes, Is. lid.,
worth from 2s. lid. to 3s. 6d.
BARGAIN.
1000 pairs Stout Tweed Trousers and Vests, all new
goods, 7s. lid.
BARGAIN.
200 Men’s Tweed Suits, wall-finished, 14s. lid.
BARGAIN.
Ladus’ Lavontlne Parachutes, Is. 9d., worth Ss. od.
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ Silk Parachutes 3s„ worth 4s, 6d,
BARGAIN.
LADIES’ FANCY SUNSHADES, 2s. 6d , worth
4s. 6d.
BARGAIN.
LADIES’ BLACK SATIN SUNSHADES. TRIM-
MED LACE, 3s. 9d.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH FLOWERS, 3d. PER SPRAY.
BARGAIN.
LONG, COLOURED OSTRICH FEATHERS, 2s.
6d.
BARGAIN.
Two-button French Kid Gloves, Is per pair.
Swiss Embroidery, 2d. per yard, wide width.
Plain and Painted Fans, 3d,, 6d., 9d., and Is.
Lawn Tennis Ribbon, Id yard.
CAUTION.-—MAKE NO MISTAKE; WE HAVE ONLY THE ONE PLACE OP BUSINESS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
|(ONLY).
K
l h
st id, | «■
"V
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
1
WHITE AND PRINTED,"
IN STOCKMAN'S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A
M A
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
Trade
Mark
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED jr
Por Safety, Purity, and‘Brilliancy in Burning,
N O fUSTG KE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage! with o -n
Nozzles of which the undersigned are I the Sole
ONE who d" thelf +° r t er ’ £7 ery tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY*
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford 7
A GOOD LIGHT.
T° PNECHASEES OP A SINGLE TIN, No Chat,. i. mode for deliver, to ao, part ol the
CO, or Sabarba. A SpcoUl Eedaotion mad, to Storekeeper, for Tr.d„ Pareola
F. LASBETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, DiTlgOTatea, tod Beautifies,
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with,
out the. irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
he one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public,
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BT USING
H S. BABBOW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HALE PRODUCES.”
" A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancbt.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TEESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
faiw* nff 6 -!? n Ti le a PP Ucati on stops the Hair
d2mL£?« u f? bril9 “d other
“ “ d
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Ketail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.


Mechanics, purchase land at Wentworthvillo
only £2 deposit. W. Pritahard Auctioneer.— Any.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U S A.
hereby save notice that their trade mark, Waltham.
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies ol
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against any persons copying of
Uniting same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale watches bearing colourable stations, or in any
way infringing our rights.—* AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, WalthaM Mass,— 'Any,
Ladies’ Assistants will do well to secure an
allotment of land at Wontworthville.—Adv.
An allotment of land at Wentwortbville will
• come in very handy, when you have competed your
lapprentioeship—attend the Bale at Mr. Pritchard s
vrooms, 289 George-stroet, next Saturday.—Adv.
American Waltham Watches, awarfedtwo first
writes Melbourne International Exhibition, l»30..
Hhrhtfb awards than any exhibitors 6f watchQij received
—Adv,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
In the rosy fedVt bi sunset this is written — at a
’time when the moving waters ore dyed with a thousand
prismatic tints, and the dreamy silence of the glowing
-streets is only broken by the rhythmic roundelay of the
merry milkman, and the cheery chaunt of the cheerful
‘coster. It is the hour when the mind of man is attuned
to the bsautifal—to the harmonious, —when all the
gentleness and romance which the soul distils are woven
-about the heart, and permeate into the brain. It is—
hut band down the banjo, mothah I —thanks I
It was an evening of aoent and satins, fans and
•furbelows, lacot and lappets. It was an evening of
flossy ringlets, flashing jewels and snowy shoulders.
Seated amidst that company, we were lost in admiration,
crumpled up with awe. There was a draught, it is true,
and the alderman who sat next to us breathed hard-
hut what of that ? As we gazed up at the picturesque
plastering—so like woman in being beautiful but frail—
we felt a thrill of eostatie enjoyment tickling like a
1 fairy centipede the whole length of our spine. The goal
>of our ambition was reached. At last we were in
(society I
• * •
In choosing the vestibule of the Town Hall as
the scene for their second representation of “Pina-
fore,” the Bur wood Amateur Opera (I) Company (no
less I) exercised, so far as the members were concerned,
a wise discretion. At least, in that sacred municipal
temple, however the performers might bungle, no
npeotator would have the presumption to guy them.
Of applause and bouquets they could make certain, for
some hundreds of tickets had been purchased by their
friends and relations; bat they strut their little hour
easy in the knowledge that neither the “guiver" of
the pitite, the “ boraok ” of the arallery-man, nor vulgar
interruptions of any kind would occur to mar the
delightful harmony of the performance. Having long
cherished a frenzied dislike to “ anything low,” wo
were pleased beyond measure to find the critical ele-
ment conspicuous by its absence, and we took our seat
«t a few minutes to eight, brimful of very pleasant
■anticipations.
• • •
The cast, kindly supplied us by one of the crew,
Tead as follows
Sir Joseph Porter... ... Mr. Felton
Captain Mr. Pkect Jonm
Hick Deadeye Mr, H. Wilkinson
Ralph Eaokstraw Mr. B. Lawler
Boatswain ... ... Mr, Titterton
Josephine Miss ——
Buttercup ... ... ... Miss ——
Hebe ... ... ... Miss -
* * *
"With the exception of Mr. Percy Jones, v ji
names of the other members of the Barwood Opew*
Company are quite unknown In the world of music.
Their fame has not spread, as yet, beyond the sylvan
proves of Ashfleld, and the pastoral plains of Petersham.
Though, of course, monstrous, this is none the less
true. But, after all, the Burwood songsters, whatever
they may lose in common notoriety, gain In prestige by
their comparative obscurity. Every groveller has heard
of a Patti—but only a select few are privileged to wor-
ship at the shrine of a . The lowest larrikin is
familiar with the voice of Da Murska; hut nothing
under the rank of a Bank clerk can speak of the genius
of a . What is public fame to social distinction P
Hardly anything!
• * •
The performance had been announced for eight
sharp, but did not, as a matter of fact, commence
mntil twenty minutes to nine, as the officers from the
dfelson did not show up until that time. Gallant war-
riors though they are, it took them until that hour to
'screw up their courage to the starting point. The
■entertainment commenced with an overture by the
band of the Nelson. A stage had been rigged at the
'west end of the vestibule, and on the platform the
marine musicians disported themselves. The prosce-
nium presented a sufficiently bizarre appearance. It
looked a cross between a race-booth and a fruit-stall,
and the stage-room was equal to that of three Wo',
lahra omnibusses. Her Majesty’s Ship “ Pinafore, of
course, was the scene, but the space afforded the per-
formers was so limited that when Ralph Rackstraw
took four paces up he had to stop short for fear of
butting a hole through the fort at Portsmouth; and
when Sir Joseph arrived on board, he may be said to
have stepped right out of his barge on to the footlights.
The Nelson band were received with much applause.
They played an overture rather longer than Lohengrin,
the chorus, who were, by the way, attirod in cricketing
trousers, holding their music. After this, the curtain
fluttered down, was sent staggering up again, and
“Pinafore” was commenced in sober earnest.
• • •
On came little Buttercup, and there is great
-applause. She curtseys low, then lower, and is so ner-
vous that all the wares in the selling-tray rattle like the
teeth of a nigger with the ague. The fair performer,
'trusting no dou at to the strength of her vocal powers,
•does not “ make up” successfully Jor the part. Recita-
tion—then aria, and then a kind of ventriloquial “ turn,
turn, turn, tum-ti-tum,” supplemented by attitudes
•which were “ both angular and flat.” When the song
was concluded, amazement was on every countenance.
Aldermen clawed the air convulsively, as though feel-
ing for their hats, pallid pressmen savagely munched
great corners out of their programmes; aud the officers
exchanged glances of horror and dismay. As for our-
selves, we set our teeth hard, and planting with grim
determination a foot on the hat of the City Solicitor,
we, calm, but clammy, waited the sequence of
events.
• • •
Mr. Lawler’s Ralph Rackstraw is a performance
which can only be appreciated by delicate minds. It is
a calm and placid interpretation, strangely suggestive
of the “ sky-blue ” of our early scholastic days. Mr.
Percy Jones’s Captain is one of these impersonations
which only require to be seen once. The trial will
suffice —as in the case of soap-powder—to fully develop
its qualities. Mr. Jones dressed the part with much
peculiarity. When he had his hat on, he looked like a
diplomatist’s statue in the rough; when he had his hat
off, he looked like a policeman. He has a nice voice,
hut suffers so extremely from nervousness, that his
hands and arms appear to be either perpetually laying
bricks or drawing water. When stationary, however,
he was so rigid and statuesque that we found ourselves
looking round in momentary expectation of the arrival
of the wax-work man to carry his escaped flgnre back
to the chamber of horrors. We shall never forget Sir
Joseph. Mr. Felton’s performance was a masterly ex-
hibitiou of histrionic aud vocal incompatenoy. It was
so bad as to become brilliant, so execrable as to become
amusing. The expression on his face was one of agoniz-
ing despair. Even with that wall-behaved audience, we
are convinced that his only palpably-expressed misery
caved him from dismemberment,
* # #
Josephine (sweet creature !) warbled nicely, and
In addition to a fair voice, a gentle Providence has
lavished upon her an oyster-like composure. She was
letter-perfect, and sang every note as calmly as when
she lost practised under the apple-trees in the back
garden. Bat she was always Miss never the Cap-
tain’s daughter. Her first dress, too, was far from
being suitable. Hebe, played by Miss , was
pretty and sprightly, but the Dick Dead-eye of Mr.
H. Wilkinson was never at any time a more invigorat-
ing spectacle than a public execution; while Mr.
Titterton played the Boatswain like a corpse that had
been magnetised by an indifferent practitioner. In a
word, the performance of “ Pinafore ’’ by the Burwood
Opera Company was a supplied. It was kind of them in
one way to appear for a charity, but cruel in another.
People who once loved them, now associate them only
in their minds with thoughts of the direst vengeance.
And bo far as we are concerned, it a kind fairy rose up
before us and said, “ What can I bring yon that will
make you perfectly happy ?" wo should unhesitatingly
hiss out,‘‘the heads of the Burwood Amateur Opera
Company on a charger.’*
* * * *
"While on the subject of amateurs, we may state
that the Newcastle people are to do “ The Pirates ” in
the eoally city shortly. We understand that Mr.
Aahoroft-Edwards has been in Sydney making the
requisite arrangements. It that gentleman will give us
due notice of the date of the performance, we will
journey up to Newcastle on purpose to be present at it.
Come now I
* * ♦ *
The run of the pantomime is drawing to a close,
and Mr, Allison is working hard to produce his opening
piece in a very gorgeous style. He is going to give us,
we understand, a ‘‘leg Shakespeare" since he has
engaged all the best-looking of the pantomime girls,
A couple of casualties happened this week. Miss Horan
was taken so ill that she could scarcely crawl about the
stage for two nights ; and Harry Leston received such
a severe injury cn Tuesday night that his part had to
be taken at a moment’s notice by Mr. Daley, who,
however, pulled through to the satisfaction of the
public. Under these circumstances an acting-manager's
lot is not a happy one, and it is only with an effort that
little Goodie still preserves his irradescent smile. It
was a treat, by the way, to see Q. L. showing Commo-
dore Erekine the lions of the night. That distingui
manner cannot be acquired. It must be inherited.
* « *
By the way, there ia a capital story current
about Mr. Garner’s popular little treasurer. He has a
slightly foreign cast of features, and wears a double
eyeglass which gives him a still more foreign appear-
auce. Well, one evening when the Russians wore here,
he was standing outside the theatre, when a trim
servant-maid tripped up, and, thrusting a note into his
hand, darted away. Opening the missive he found it
contained a few lines of French, of which the following
is a translation :
“ Pail me to-uight, and my heart will break. Como
at eleven, [address given] There will be a light in the
window. Tap twice.
“ Thine, with her whole heart,
" Pll'lNß.’’
Goodie had been taken for a Russian captain. There is
no record, however, as to whether ho tapped twice or
not.
« « «
In connection with the visit of the squadron, it
is a singular fact that when the ‘‘Patience ’’ chorus
girls ore asked at their boarding-houses whether they
will take any more hash, they all (answer —“ Steinthrog
exgsryytgof djoritz ” Nothing bat Russian now, apd
a lot of them expect caviare and smoked salmon in-
cluded iu the 18 bob.
* * * *
As a rule, afternoon concerts are not oared for,
and seldom well attended, but Miss Christian’s fare-
well concert at the Garden Palace, on Saturday after-
noon, proved an exception. The audience was a very
fashionable one, and many of our best professionals
wso attended. Of the two songs down on the pro-
gramme for Miss Christian to sing, “ The Three
■ishars ” gained most applause, and *• Twickenham
ferry ” was given as an encore. Signora Fabris is a
rodigions favourite, and indeed her unaffected manner,
andsome face, and fine voice deserve that she should
4*e such. She was encored for each song she sang, her
tendering of “ Mia M&dre " being best of all. Miss
Jhrlstion sang “ Children’s voices" by particular
request, but in times gone by she has sung it with
greater effect. The chorus of the children, also, was
taken up too tardily alter the first verse, but better the
second time, and it was sung very prettily, Mdlle.
Charbonnat played a vjrv difficult solo by Prudent.
But why does Mademoiselle give us so little of Chopin
how f The Sydney people seem to associate her with
Chopin’s compositions, for she was wont to play them
so frequently. Her second solo was “ Home, sweet
Home," for the left hand only, the right hand hanging
idly by the fair performer’s side, and the execution was
most clever. Mr. Percy Jones has a good and pleasant
voice, and sang a duet with Miss Christian (“La ci
darem ”) very fairly, Mr. Morgan was not in his best
voice. ‘‘Sweet olden days” was what he was adver-
tised to sing, but lor some reason he substituted “Eily
Mavonrneen." Mr. Bushelle’s “ Drinking song ” nor-
rowly escaped an encore. Mr. C. B. Foster is a self-
denying accompanist, and was ably assisted by Mr. C.
Hnenerbein.
* * * *
Mr. Ben A. Greene, our campanologioal friend
of Charters Towers, sends ns a characteristic epistle.
He says Pepper was a great success at the Towers, and
desires us to remember him kindly to Maggie Oliver.
This we do with much pleasure. He also requires a
photo, of Mias Bessie Royal, but wo feel we must draw
the line at that. If that young lady, however, chooses
to take the hint she can do so. We charge her nothing
extra for conveying it.
* * * *
Mrs. Langtry, though a great success at the
Twickenham Town Hall in ‘‘A Fair Encounter," a
f ieoa in which she took part with Mrs. Labouchere
Miss Henrietta Hodson), was practically a failure os
Miss Hardcastlo, in *• Bha Stoops to Conquer." The
company at both performances consisted of the Hite pur
et simple. Amongst the audience at Twickenham, the
World says, was " Mr. Henry Labouchere, at the left
of whom sat Mr. Oscar Wilde, the whiteness of whoso
cravat, plastron, and waistcoat was relieved by a ker-
chief of sunflower hue, thrust with cunning careless-
ness into the last-named garment. Immediately in
front of these was an ample form, wnole, safe, and
rotund, surmounted by a face to match, and abundant
white hair and whiskers. The face, enclosed in white
hair, beamed gently upon the performance, and coca-
sionally the head turned slowly round towards Mr.
Wilde and Mr. Labouchere. This was the face of a
publisher, Mr. Maxwell. At his side sat Mrs. Maxwell
(Miss Braddon), in a gorgeous frock of mingled Indian
shawls, and a plain white mob-oap not in the least
‘abridged.*" Mrs. Langtry has resolved, it seems, to
study for a year before coming out in sober earnest.
What a curious thing, by the way, that no one ever
hears anything of Mr. Langtry now.
* * * *
The Mastadon Miniatrels were at latest dates
at Invercargill. They send us a column critique, which
we will reprint when Waddell and Baker are sent to the
deepest dungeon ’neath the castle moat.
* * * *
The concert mania broke out at Muswellbrook
on Anniversary Day, and the local cricketers took a
benefit, sliding from the “willow" into the “willow
waly ” business. They’re better at the former. Even,
the ladies looked better than they sang. Twenty items
of various kinds of music were followed by the farce
«in Possession,” the only lady’s part in which was
taken by a gentleman who figured in the programme as
“the only other Leon.” The farce was as respectably
murdered as farces generally are by amateurs, and,
through someone’s blunder, the curtain did not drop
at the finish, so the dramatis personae had to get off th»
stage as best they could. Three gentlemen retired
furtively through the entrance door, the lady rushed
into an adjoining chamber, where she had been lying-
perdu, d la Lady Teazle, during the progress of the*
farce, and the remaining gentlemen hesitated a-
moment, and then—followed the lady, amidst bursts OC
applause. The affair terminated with a dance.
* * * *
At the Gaiety, on Saturday, “ Michael Strogoff,’ r ‘
the Australian version by the Only Hopkins. What-
ever Mr. L. M. Bayless does, he does well, so we are
sure to get some good mounting, and t here is a really
capital company now ougaged. Damjier and Edwin
Palmer are really first-rate. The women, perhaps; ftra..
(collectively) a trifle weak, but then women are always
weak, you know, ever since Evo took to fooling With a
serpent while the old man was bursting himself tn the 1
wood-yard. Mr. L. M. B. manages so well that 1®
seems a pity there are not some little Baylesses to
carry on to posterity the good works of their sire.
Ah, ha I—a jingle :
It’s really sad, it chances
Most vcxatiouslee j
That there are no little branches
On the L.M. tree.
• • •
We shall be on hand on Saturday night, of
conrse, and shall rigorously join in the call for the
author. One glance, one yearning glance at Hopkins,
And the universe will have no more attraction
For ns—we'll want a world with much more room—*
But yet, brimming o'er with joy and satisfaction,
We’ll ory—“ Mothah, pnt ns in our little tomb.”
** * *
Prom Walter Reynolds we learn that he has lost
money with Miss Eloise Jnno, in Hobart, bat that he
is nicking np again with Qrattan Biggs, in " Shin Fane."
Miss Myra Kemble is f o follow, in “ Pygmalion and
Galatea." Great things are said of Myra’s Galatea.
She is one of the most intelligent actresses at present
on the Australian stage, and for chic you can’t lick her.
Let’s trust her season will bo a Myro-oulous success.
** * *
Miss Pattie Laverne is still in Sydney, and as
Mr. George Musgrove arrived here from Melbourne ou
Tuesday, it is not improbable that some amicable
arrangement will be come to by means of which Pattie
will rejoin his company. Wo understand that the clover
little lady has been in communication with Mr. L. M.
Bayless, with reference to a season of light opera,
but nothing definite has as yet been arrived at. We
should like to see 11 Stella ” once more before we die,—
and we should very much like to see her at the Gaiety.
A small and elegant theatre is the proper home for
opera bonffe. "Olivette," “ Madame Favart," and
others have been produced in London at mere “ band-
boxes."
** * *
Duncan M‘Callum telegraphs from Brisbane
that South’s company have Bboan drawing immense
business at the theatre in " Pinafore," despite the
intense heat that prevails. Ho says:—" Closed four-
teenth night with ‘ Pinafore,’ to full house. Will have
crowd to-night fcr * Pirates.* Scenery really as good
as anything in Sydney ; all new, has cost mo a heap of
money." " The Pirates "isto be succeeded by " Neme-
sis," and South’s crowd play until Easter. We are
glad to see that Duncan is getting on, and to be able to
say, with Bonquo, " The harvest is your own.”
** # *
Mrs. Arthur Garner (Miss Blanche Stammers)
arrived from England last week by the Liguria. Wo
welcome her as we shall (soon, we hope) welcome
“ Friends."
** * *
The Gundagai Times had the spiritof propheey
strong upon It last issue. It said it had seen a rehearsal
of " Still Waters Bun Deep," by the amateurs, and it
would not (as had be«n hinted) be a failure. The
amateurs may rest easy about the notice now, any way.
** * *
You sweet Dunedin gals,
Get ready your fal-lals.
And with wild joy be humming}
Your Verdi’s squared up things.
And that cherub without wings,
With " Patience” is a coming.
** * *
We are sorry to hoar that Maggie Fordo has only
done “shy” business down South. Mr. James Larkin
has sent us, however, from Bulli the following telegram i
—“Challenge step dance took place last night, Bulli, be-
tween Maggie Ford and Mr. Gardner, champion Hawarra
district. The lady won easily." We are very glad to
hear this, indeed, and congratulate Maggie with one
hand on our fluttering bosoms. At the same time, we
think the Illawaxramav,. was rather heavily handicapped.
Who, we ask, derisively* could give anything against his
fair antagonist ? A glance at those twinkling toes, and
the umpire must become a mere driveller. It is said
that Miss Forde is a great favourite about there, 7 ant
mieux pour elle I For even though ehe should be hard
np for soup in Wollongong, ;she can always fall back
upon her Bulli. Whirroo 1
** * *
On Friday next (to-morrow) tbe Victorian Hall
re-opens with “ Ages Ago," an operetta, of the musio
of which we can speak in the highest terms. The oast
will be—Taro, Mr. Martyn Hagan; Columbus, Mr.
Stuart Boltons Steward, Mr. J. Bedford; Eosa. Miss
Marie Trevanion; and Maggie, Miss Jennie Horan.
The present management have secured very distin-
guished patrons ge for their venture, and the hall has
of late been greatly improved. Wo shall be g.ad, there-
fore, to see this elegant whimsicality draw the public.
The officers of the Nelson will oe present on the open-
ing night, a visit which will give great icldt to the per-
formance ; and.ias the ship sails ou Friday, this will be
the last opporfe mity the Sydney belles will have of
feasting their ey es upon those gallant warriors. Ages
Ago " will be fol lowed by a farce entitled, we believe,
“ Who’s to Win Him ?"
** * *
Ab this is th a last week of Messrs. J. Goodman
and Jenkins’s regime at the Opera House, it is only
bare justice to those gentlemen to stroke them down
with a few liquid lines for the unvarying courtesy they
have shown in front of the house, and for the admir-
able manner ia which all the arrangements for the
comfort of the audience have been carried out under
their supervision. It was thought that one or both of
these managerial lieutenants would accompany the
company to New Zealand, but we understand that Mr.
Williamson hat* sent ahead his "ancient, Mr. J. r.
Macdonald, who will pilot "Patience" over to Dunedin.
Mr. Macdonald brings news to the effect that tne
success of J. C. Williamson and Maggie Moore eon-
tinnes unabated. He states also tha t the Opera
Company will open in New Zealand on 21th February,
and that there is every probability of Patience
causing a furore. We are also indebted to him for the
intelligence that Miss Pomeroy left Sydney by the
Botomahana last Tuesday, accompanied by the faithful
Josh We are sorry Mr. Macdonald is going. If he is
only half as useful to Mr. Williamson in managing his
business as be is in giving us pars, of the “ perfesb, he
must be invaluable, indeed.
** * *
Having noticed the high-toned “Pinafore," at
the Town Hall, we almost crave onr readers’ indulgence |
in alluding to a performance of the same opera, which
was inaugurated at the Opera House in York-stroet, by
the band of obscure players who have recently been
playing in •‘Patience.’ 1 The opera, which was
splendidly monnted.lwent with great spirit, and Miss
Alice Bees, despite a rather patchwork performance,
may be congratulated upon having scored a distinct
musical success. Madame Navaro’s accent, as we anti-
cipated, somewhat imilitated against her complete suc-
cess in Buttercup. Her make-up being singularly
artistic, she looked the bumboat-woman to the life, and
might have been taken bodily from the Hard at Ports-
mouth and transplanted in York-street, so admirably
was tbe character dressed; but it was peculiar
to find an old woman who sold “tobaccy and jacky
(whatever in sulphur that is!) on board a man-of-war,
eulogising her wares in the tones of a Marquise of the
Faubourg St. Germain. Madame, however, acted with
great spirit, and it ia not to much to quote tl le A lfrbd 8
immortal critique, and say that the performance not
only "took well, but gave pleasure to all. Biooardi
made a fine Sir Joseph, and the rest of khe cast was
admirable.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The chief and in fact only opposition biz. that
Jem South has to contend against at Brisbane, is the
Salvation Army, under a “ Major-General," and a
“Colonel," who are husband and wife One of the
finest singers in tha colonies is Miss Florrie Leon, of
Melbourne, who first attracted notice as a pupil of
Signor Qiammona's at a concert in (Hen's Booms in ‘7B.
Her voice is thought by many to be equal to that of
soma of the moat talented vocalists of Europe, and
liberal offers have been made to her by managers of
theatres, but her father, being a wealthy man, promptly
pats his veto on her appearing in public, unless in ex-
ceptional instances, for charity “ I regret to hear,"
writes a Loudon newspaper correspondent, "that the
young and beautiful widow of the lamented Mr. Samuel
Emery, the well-known and talented actor, whose name
will ever be associated with the dramatised versions of
Dickens's masterpieces, has been seriously ill since the
death of her husband. Mrs. Emery is now happily ou
I+ho road to recovery,’and intends returning, as soon as
sr health will permit, to the stage, which she had
lopted as her profession. lam sure this lady’s histrionic
dlity (already tried in London and Australia), com-
ned with her good looks and grace of manner, will
mder her as great a favourite with the public as sho
as always been in private life." Alphabetical Lewis
aves for England shortly Fred. Marvin, who has
>en ordered to England by the doctors, takes a matiniSa
mefit, which should be a bumper, at Melbourne Opera
louse, February 4 There are two claimants in
ustralia for the right of playing "Hazel Kirk.”
[‘Payden says ha has his " permission direct from the
ord Chamberlain," and Williamson says he has paid
ir the right to the author I Emily Soldeno has
'ganised a strong opera-benlfe company for an Austro-
m tour, which will probably last from nine to ton
enths. She hopes to reach Melbourne about the end
! 1882. She will include in her repertoire some half-
jzen of the latest opera-bouffe compositions,
id will bring out all new faces, except
[r, Marshall, who will be her stage manager
otti Wilmot has in hand a case for damages, laid at
500, against Mr. John Matson, the popular Now
ealand auctioneer, who unluckily is the chairman of
ireotors of a public hall, where she was refused admit-
inoe after she had arranged for one of her lectures on
The Devil and his Satellites." Poor Mr. Matson
(els very faint at the idea of confronting any devils in
le courts of justice Sara Flower, the musi-
ian and singer, was the author of that beanti-
il hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee.”
ieorgo Rignold was engaged at the London Princess’s
htatre in December in the * Lights of London." Ho
pons at Ihe Theatre Royal, Melbourne, on 4th March
ext Robson’s six recitals at Dunedin (N.Z.) were a
access Miss Louise Pomeroy is reported as having
een so ill on ono occasion lately that she fainted twice
he same evening, and the audience rose cn nuisso to
save the theatre in consequence, so as to put an end to
he performance The Ideal Opera Company, Inolud-
ag Mias Kate Thayer, Miss Acton, Will E. Chapman,
tarrington, and Fitzgerald, have disbanded at Mel-
ourne after a tour of about four weeks up-country,
rhore business was bad A Chinaman, rejoicing in
he name of Ah Gee, lately ran an “exhibition" at
Ihristchurch (N.Z.) The " Cloches de Gorneville ”
ids now playing in Melbourne, will probably come to
lydney. They are all Tasmanian youngsters, and are
cry clever Miss Emilia Fenwick, who was a mesi-
al pupil of Sir Julius Benedict, and is said to be au
otress of unusual excellence, will shortly appear at
na of the principal Melbourne theatres as juvenile
sadiug lady “Stray Leaves" Co. on the Manning.
George Rignold has, we learn, sailed with “ Youth”
or Melbourne. And as Mrs. Rignold is with him, he ifl
coompanied by beauty, too Travelling troupes, in
dsitiug the country, should tako enough “ greed ’’ with
hem to pay hall expenses. It looks bad to see the
mil custodian “ boycotting ’’ the money tables, and
ends to lower the reputation of the company.
# * *
Patti was a failure in concerts in N.Y. in Novem-
>er. The Spirit says the causes were lack of adver-
ting j Ignoring of the press ; selection of an opera
light for her debut j parsimony In all the arrange-
nents; no orchestra to accompany her; her meagre
md moflloore troupe; the intrusion of Nicolinl; the
;rifllng and unworthy programme. How absnrd to
(elect “Cornin’ thro’ the Rye” and "Within a Mile of
Edinboro’ Town " for a ten-dollar concert among the
most refined, educated, and exlgeant musical public
jutsido of Germany 1 Amurrika An American
paper says: " The Williamsons are going to build an-
other theatre in Australia. We hope they don’t mean
to settle there. A bird in New York is worth two m
the Bush.” Jimmy doesn’t think so ; he prefers exer-
lising " Patience ’’ under an Australian sun to risking
the trials of an American frost George Giddenv,
ivho was here with Nell, played Freddie Carter in
11 Saratoga,’’ at the Criterion, New York, in No-
vember. At the Savage Club dinner, he recited
« Dot Baby of Mine," with great success
Harry Le Clair was playing at the Academy of Music
in Chicago in November At Waterbury, Conn. (U.S. 1,
du Nov. 29, in consequence of the non-arrival of ward-
robe and props., Edwin Booth and company played
‘‘Hamlet’’ in their street costumes, The audience
survived Fritz Emmett attends divine service now
twice every Sunday. Ho was drawing crowded houses
In Philadelphia—
“ What’s the new play P Pray telljme whatP
To make such should be unlawful.
Is it Esthetic? ’’ “ Yes, it’s too too ‘rot/
Which means it is * offally ollal I’ "
A. female woman of London, of Esthetic persuasion,
makes this reference to the tragedian’s limbs: " Mr.
Irving’s legs are limp and utter; both are delicately
intellectual, but the left one is a poem," A sort
of L.E.Q., so to speak E. D. Davies was playing
< n November at Eighth Avenue Variety Theatre,
at New York, "Ain’t it lovely, Teddy?
The Spirit op the Times thus describes Mademoiselle
Rhea, the great French actress who is taking New York
by storm:—"She makes Camilla a Titian’s blonde—a
daisy rather than a camellia, the Marguerite of Goethe
rather than of Dumas—gentle, German, affectionate—
and amiable, thus departing even further than Modjoska
from the Parisian original, and giving a new version of
the well worn r6le. In manner and make-up Mile. Rhea
resembled the Empress Eugenie. She has a lovely,
statuesque face, a slight graceful figure, a soft,
sweet, clear voice, and speaks very quickly,
intelligibly, and intelligently. Her live costumes are
miracles of millinery in material, design and fit. She
knows the stage perfectly, and with every act her hold
upon the audience deepened and strengthened, without
any recourse to sensationalism or surprises. In the
scene where she writes the letter to Armand, she could
find no pen on the table; so, in the most natural
manner she called for Nanino, and sat quietly sobbing
until a pen was brought” Mrs, Edwin Booth, wife of
the eminent tragedian, died in New York on 13th Nov...
Advanced arrangements for the re-appearance of Ris-
ton at Drury Lane in a series of her greatest characters
have fallen throujh The "Mi lie et nne Nnits, at
the Chatelet, Paris, seems to be one of the finest spec-
tacles ever produced on the stage. The preparations
have occupied a month, and it is asserted that the
spectacle has cost halt a million francs, or £20.000.
There are thirty-one scenes, and no less than 2800
costumes, and the music has been entrusted to five
composers. In one of the processions three elephants
are employed. The principal artist has to change her
costumes eight times in the course of the piece......
"The Lights o’ London’’ can now be seen on both
sides of the Atlantic-3000 miles apart 1 This beats
electricity For the benefit of those who may be dis-
posed to indulge in a little blind zealotry over the
fearful holocaust at the Ring Theatre, Vienna, it is
right to remind them that during the conflagration
which consumed the church of La Campania, Santiago,
in 1863, more than 2000 persons, out of a congregation
almost entirely of young girls, lost their lives.
It is the hour when sun-motes glint,
And tint a rosy-red the ink ;
And with that fluid grown divine,
■You cannot write a cruel line 1
It Is the hour when in the street,
Hard by the Museum, lovers meet.
And handlocked in the rosy air.
They stand and squeeze and mumhle there
Oh I how they mumble while they stay—
But blue-eyed nymphs, you know the way!
It is the hour the worrukin’ man,
Comes singing home with tools and can,
And e’er Sol's final ray is hid,
Has banged the Missis and kicked the kid.
It is the mystic hour, in fine.
When “ poor old pa ’’ comes home to dine ;
The grace does say, the carvers clash —
Then d’s the old familiar hash 1
The hour, O gentle Muses, own.
To let “ poor players " lightly down.
And, saving trope and epigram,
On amateurs to spread the jam 1
So come—a ton of it—or more
Pot Percy Jones’s “Pinafore.”
We quit now, mothah, this wild strain,
So, hang the banjo up again.


PEPPER AND SALT.
bachelor squatter from the Barooo, the jerked-beef-and-
rioe-and-apple-fed prospector from the newly-opened
Coen, or the sun-burnt gully-raker who, companionless
and forlorn, “ flashes his dover ” round the played-out
sand-bars of the Elver Palmer? -What they evidently
want up North is a man whose genius runs in the
direction of arranging marriages; and so wo beg to
inform the Queensland Premier in strict confidence that
we know of a fellow who, if provided with a first-class
mail-boat passage to England, and authority to draw
on the exchequer of Bananaland, will at once proceed
home, select wives for colonists of all grades, and
guarantee satisfaction in every case. Should he con-
sider it advisable. Hr. M'llwraith could have a clause
inserted In the marriage contracts of Government
girls that, in the event of the parties disagreeing, the
lady might, at the expiration of a given time, “ return,”
in the words of Lord Dundreary, “ to her mamma."
• « •
There’s a high-toned dignitary who’s as bad a
rider as he is a lawyer, which is, indeed, saying a good
deal. He daily bestrides a hamstrung horse, yet no
one takes the least notice. In Sydney, there is a rever-
ence for constituted authority—no matter how con-
stituted—which produces the grossest favouritism, the
most repulsive toadyism, and sometimes makes a fellow
imagine that ho is living within the precincts of a
European Court, instead of in free democratic Ans-
tralia, where no man should ever lift his hat save in
deference to intellect or worth. There would be far
more real grit in, and more hope for, the people who’d
bow down to their representative pugilist, even though
he were the exponent of a proscribed art, than there is
in and for the community whioh looks on while a “big-
bug " who has been put on horseback rides a crippled
horse to but more of this when there’s a change in
the libel law,
• • «
The seasons were bad and the station was
heavily mortgaged, so Jack decided on giving up every-
thing to his creditors, of whom M‘B. was the princi-
pal, The time for his departure from the homestead,
in which ho had speculated and lost his patrimony, had
arrived, and he thus addressed M‘B. : —“ I suppose Mr.
M‘B., that I can take away my buggy and pair of
Eonies ?" Mr. B.: “ Well you know, Mr. M., times are
ad, and I don’t think you ought to ask it.” Jack:
“ Hang it all, when a shearer knocks down his cheque,
the publican gives him a bottle to take away with him.”
M‘B.: “Ah, but you see I’m not a publican !’’ Jack:
“ Well, no ; there’s a d d sight more of the Pharisee
about you 1” Poor Jack lies forgotten in his narrow
grave by the distant Murrumbidgee, and H‘B. is a
shining light amongst the “ devil-dodgers" down
Sonth.
• * •
Tho Auckland Observer, describing tho
Afrika, says that “ her crew are short, thick-set fallows,
but do not strike one accustomed to the smart dashing
appearance of British tars as being a particularly intel-
ligent or formidable lot." Ahem ! there was a regatta
not long ago—but, no matter.
# * *
Sorrowing relatives, before airing their
“ Priuch ’’ in Herald obituary notices, should clutch
the dictionarv. Tho other day, a deceased lady was
alluded to in the Herald as “ Mrs. , nee Mrs.
The Gallic scholar “ who paraded tho foregoing tem-
pestuous blast Of real Parisian was, of course, under
tho impression that “nde” meant “formerly” instead
of “ born." We have only read once—it was in a novel
—of a woman being married before her birth, and then
Tom Slattery has been enthusiastically banqueted
lit Barrowa, which is the nicest little pocket constitu-
ency represented in the Assembly. It is bossed by
Mr. John Nagle Ryan, whoso hospitality is proverbial,
and who is locally known as " the king," The regula-
tion method of awaking visitors at his establishment is
to thump them on the nose with a big bottle of Ecoderer
at C a.m. The Protestant voters outnumber the Catho-
lics, yet to run Burrowa politically, or to buy sheep
there, two companions are indispensable—a priest and
a case of whisky.
• • •
At a sale of pictures in Melbourne some time
since, the late Mr. Oemmell, the well-known and popular
auctioneer —and, by the way, the handsomest man of his
day in the Southern city—was describing a work of art:
—“ Behold, gentlemen, in the foreground, the flowing
rivulet meandering along," Then was board from the
crowd the voice of a red-nosed solicitor:—“Don't see
much resemblance to flowing water." “Ah, no, Mr.
P *” quoth Oemmell, “ I don’t suppose you do know
much about flowing water. The flowing bowl in
your line." The red-nosed one subsided.
• • •
Alas, that the cherished ideas of our youth
should one by one be dashed to the ground. Our belief
In the absence of guile in the tender of sheep is fast
vanishing. Recently, the carriers up North fell out with
squatters as to tho rate of freight for wool to Cam-
booya. The carriers decided not to carry under 7s.
per cwt. Messrs. Shoarem sent in word that they were
prepared to give the 7a. demanded, and to send out all
spare teams that were in the township, which was
situated some 35 miles away. When the carriers arrived,
loaded their drays, and were about to receive their
way-bills, they found that Ipswich was inserted
instead of Cambooya, Ipswich being 100 miles further
away. Mr. Shoarem had calculated that having come a
journey of 35 miles, they would not care to go back
empty, and that ho would have them at his own price.
* « «
Lady Eobinson got a nasty jar one day at tho
Immigration Depot. “ Can you cook ?" asked her lady-
ship of a female, in iron-shod shoes, a
red petticoat, no stockings, and n crunched bonnet.
“ Good enough for the likes of you," said the woman.
But when it was explained to her who Lady E. was, she
said, “ How was Ito know ye was Governor's wife ? I
judged ye by appearances.” She was not engaged.
• • •
A few years ago a fair but frail one made great
havoc among tho juuncsse doriSe of the Southern metro-
polls, whore her most favoured lover was a well-known
stock and station agent and loading member of a very
exclusive club. “ The Meteor," as this fair charmer
was called, soon got tiled of conquests over squatters
from the back-blocks and new chums, who wore spend-
ing their first and last century, so she decided on
1 lunching her frail shallop on the troubled waters of
London gay life. She “ succeeded " —that is to say if
anyone over succeeded in such a sphere—captured the
prize of the season, an elderly Dnke, started her villa
at St. John’s Wood, and her carriage and ponies in the
Miltf. Shortly after this occurred, the station agent
visited England, and one day he beheld his old flame.
Ho rushed up to her, but, seeing no look of recognition,
thus addressed her: “You must remember me—l’m
Gorgeous Jumbuok, of Melbourne—don’t you really
know—don’t yon ?” With a far-away look in her
dreamy eyes, she softly murmured : “ Gorgeous Jum-
huok—ah, let me see. Yes—sheep man—cattle man, I
think I do remember you now”—and oil she sailed
with the air that is popularly supposed to belong to a
Duchess. And now it’s not safe to ask that “ sheep
wan—ah, cattle man ’’ whether he knows the Duchess
* # #
Not far fram Tirana lives “ Old Bobby,” who in
the early djys used to travel about and camp with his
cattle. He was never known to buy rations, and so was
popularly believed, like that gay and festive cuss, Nebu-
chadnezzar, to eat grass. One night, arriving late at a
Btation, he claimed hospitality. 11 Certainly," was the
reply of the super—” wait a moment.’’ A minute or
two afterwards the snper. came out with two pairs of
hobbles, which he handed to Bobby. “ What are these
for ?—I have only one horse.” “ Oh," replied the
super, ** one for yourself and one for your moke." Bobby,
who knew what people said about him, did not call that
way again.
At a Queensland station, lately, a wool-presser
was disabled by an accident in the execution of his
duty, and had to proceed to Toowoomba to have his
hand amputated. A subscription was got up among the
shearers, and liberally responded to. Mr. Snuffle
Buster, the boss, was asked to contribute, but declined,
saying that if he, the presser, got short of cash, ho
would send him a few pounds. The presser did get
short, and wrote to the liberal squatter, who addressed
to the poor maimed devil a letter, stating that he would
give him £lO for his two horses, saddles and bridles
(which were honestly worth £20,) And yet this God-
fearing man weekly snuffles out, “Do unto others as
you would they should do unto you."
• • •
A baby-show was held in connection with a
Sunday-school picnic at Junee. This is reversing the
order of things. The baby-show is ordinarily held a
good while after the picnic.
• • •
Brown, who owns a station not many miles
from Bathurst, had hired as domestic servants a young
couple lately imported. The morning after their arrival
and installation at tho homestead, Brown, while having
Lis bath, happened to call to his son in the next room
for some soap. After a short interval, tho door of
Brown’s room was opened, and a head appeared, which,
after calmly surveying as much as was visible of the
astounded Brown, ejaculated in silvery tones : “ Was
that you a-hollerin’ ?” The head was that of the female
immigrant.
• * •
In the newest township of the far North-west
the residents have gone dancing mad, and have es-
tablished two quadrille clubs—one high-toned, the
other free-and-easy. The first-named cSterie are known
as tho “silver-tails," while the latter, perhaps by
reason of the fact that if they shine at all it is but with
a radiance reflected from the ilMe, reioioe in the esthe-
tic appellation of the “copper-bottoms.” Men are
■plentiful, but women scarce ; nevertheless, the lords of
Creation may join either club, while the qualification
exacted in the case of any member of the fair sex who
desires to have her name enrolled among the “silver-
tails,” is the production of that far Northern curiosity,
a marriage certificate. As a rule, on new rushes, it is
tho other class of woman who takes tho lead in “ so-
ciety." It is she, for example, who, arrayed in all the
glory of a plum-colonred velvet habit, rides through
the wilds of tho Hodgkinson on a blood horse with
“ her Johnny," while the thermometer registers 120 - in
the shade, and while the honest and badly-dressed wife
of the under-paid Civil servant looks on with feelings
in which disdain and envy are mixed in the proportions
of ninety and two respectively, and in which a little
wonder and curiosity aro thrown in to make up the
balance.
« • •
The Daily Northern Argus complains that
the female immigrants hitherto introduced by Govern-
ment to Queensland have been of too rangh and ready
a description. It points out that “ marrying men are
more numerous than they were some years ago; and
the rising generation, who are, generally speaking, well
to do, require wives they can respect as well as love,
and not women who can never rise above the position
of mere servants." There’s a lot of philosophy in this,
but it’s rather crudely enunciated, inasmuch as it is
generally admitted by authorities on such matters that
a man who doesn’t respeet his wife cannot possibly love
her. “There are,” continues our contemporary,
“thousands of girls in England who would adorn any
man's home —who would tend to humanise, civilise,
and to make their husbands better members of society,
and who would gladly come here if they could be sent
out comfortably, with a few pounds in their pockets,
and a certainty of being taken care of and protected
by the Government when they arrive." Well, now,
suppose nice, well-educated, marriageable girls did
come out, what could they do at first but go to service
—unless, indeed, Government undertook to provide
them with husbands, to rig them out properly at Finney,
Isles, and Co.’s, and to maintain each and every one of
them, pending the arrival of the gay soda-and-aoid
of course, she was clearly married “on spec.’* Per-
haps that class of socio-medical science yclept Malthu-
sian, may yet permit of the betrothal of unborn
couples. But pending the arrival of that happy epoch,
China, where men marry women whom they have never
seen before, takes the cake.
* # #
He is a game, good fellow, who never turned
his back on friend or foe. He comes of a clan who have
found officers for British troops in the bloodiest bayonet
fights that the world has seen, and his front name is
Roderick. He has been at law lately, and going to law
with Government is like going to law with the banks.
So Roderick has for the present lost all chance of
getting financially level with his brother, who is a
millionaire and one of the biggest men in a distant
colony. Worse still; "Roddy "has now to work hard
with his hands, instead of as formerly working and
making plenty of money with his head. But he is equal
to the necessity. He bailed ns up in King-street last
Saturday, and told the following yarn:—"Tou see
these two bags ?** said he. " Well, there’s beef in one
of them—as good beef as ever you looked at,—the
other s sausages. X bought them at a butcher’s in
town, for yon can’t get meat worth eating in the suburb
where my little cottage is. Going along a moment ago
X met a bank fellow, who is a very great swell indeed
Years smee, he and I were at the same ledgers He
came up smilingly, and was evidently going to ask me
to have a drmk. ‘ How are you, my dear boy ?’ said he
with empresaonent, • how are you getting along ?’ • Only
middling,’ replied I; •in fact, I’ve had a bit of very bad
luck lately. ‘ Sorry to hear it,’ he said, • but what are
you doing? (and here he eyed my suit, which, as yon
can see, didn’t come from Savage’s yesterday). • Well ’
I returned, * a man must do something for his living
I ve a wife and family, and (here I glanced at my two
bags full of meat wrapped up in paper, through which
the grease and blood were showing) I’m carrying
parcels round town.’ I kept a solemn face, in which he
couldn t see the trace of a joke, and he was at once in a
hurry to clear. He was too high-toned to be seen in
company with a man who got his living as light porter
to a butcher. By jingo, old man, I could see that if I
did want five bob to get a feed for the kids—thank God
it s not so bad as that yet—l needn’t ask my bank
friend for it!” And off marched Roddy with his
BQ.U3Q>£6S.
• • .
A Melbourne solicitor got three months for
begging. Lawyers may rob with impunity by Act of
Parliament, but asking alms is infra dig.
The lawyer’s sentence is about as reasonable as that
inflicted on the poor devil who, at Grafton, the other
was fonnd guiity of conceding spirits,” and fi „i
£lOO, It s quite true that those who habitually •• won-
+Spi/nB ln S? r ra tber sooner than their more tem-
perate fellows the extreme penalty of the natural law,
for the faster you live the sooner must you die. But if
the police mean to make the offence punishable at
common law, why, then, let them watch Punch’s very
carefully.
» t »
On Thursday morning last our daily contem-
poraries criticised (?) “Pinafore,” as acted by the
Burwood amateurs, at the Town Hall, thus :
Herald. Telegraph,
“The performance cannot " The performance can
be called an artistic sue- generally be characterised
cess." as a success.”
“ The solo singing was “ The singing throughout
sometimes good and fre. n)as exceedingly good, , . .
qUently faulty." Josephine a long way above
“It is difficult to under- the average, even of pro-
stand how they should have fossionals.” (Ahem 1)
retrograded instead of pro-
gressed.”
Criticism on this Criticism is not required; the only
thing that troubles us is, which of the reporters was
there, and whioh of them wasn’t ? Oh I There’s inst
one other thing we’ve wrestled with in vain. The D.T.
profoundly observes, “ The only loophole for adverse
criticism afforded being the acting in certain instances.”
Now, where, in the name of soda and raspberry syrup—
for that’s what all the Belloworaph people drink, you
know—would he look for the loophole in a dramatic per-
formance, if it wasn’t in the acting ?
• • •
Ask a certain Northern man, “ What clothes
have you on now, Mick ?’* and he’ll there and then
furnish the inquirer with the following list: “On me
head I’ve Mr. Macdormott's hat, on me back Mr.
Walton’s coat, and under that agin Father Tynan’s
shirt, on me legs Mr. Brown’s trousers, on me feet Mr.
Famine's stookins, and over them agin the Dane’s
(Dean) boots, but, begorra, they so moighty large
I've to wear a small ould pair inside to make them fit
at all, at all.”
• • •
One of the George-street female barrel-organists,
while “ doing a pitch,” was put to the blush by an
arab. To enhance the attractions of her show, she had
exposed a juvenile monkey, in addition to the orthodox
baby, on her musical box. The two young bipeds freely
fraternized in their misery, which singular fact
arousing the curiosity of a passing imp of the gutter,
he pertinently asked the proprietress of the exhibition
whether “ themleids were her twins HI"
• • •
As the powers that be in Ireland are imprison-
ing the women, it offers a grand opportunity to every
husband there to get rid of his mother-in-law. He has
merely to forward a note to Dublin Castle hinting that
the “ old party " has designs on| the “People’s Billy,”
and the next morning finds her Orange-Qormaued for
on indefinite period.
• • •
A genial squatter was recently asked to act as
treasurer to a stipend fund for the local clergyman. He
gracefully declined, but, notwithstanding this, it was
given ont that he would be treasurer. A neighbouring
squatter sent him a cheque for £2O, omitting to state
what it was for. Some time afterwards squatter No. 1,
when called upon by the church committee for the
amount, replied that he was not the treasurer and had
received nothing on account of the church. It nlti-
mately transpired that the sender of the cheque owed
our genial friend some wool-bales, and the creditor,
thinking that £2O was payment for same, entered it on
the station book as against the bales in question. No
one looks upon him now as church treasurer.
• • •
For scientific instruction, combined with
screaming fun, commend us to the Evening Yell
brevities. Here is a sample
To-day is Tuesday.
The day before last WaS Sunday.
The Yell is now printed With new type, and our
Reporter has had his boots halt soled and healed (sic).
P. M‘Carroll is selling hind quarters lamb 2d,, anti-
canine non-intoxicUting sausages 6d.—(Advt.)
The Down and Contrary this week contains a
splendid model of a patent, self-acting, side-delivery
rat-trap.
More weather.
The Yell representative and Sir Henry Parkes
arrived at 'Frisco, and were the admiration of all
observers. President Arthur said ho longed to see the
colossal intellect which drove our evening paper.
That eminent journalist, J. Henniker Heaton, is
likely to succeed (Gladstone. He wears a9J hat, and
bunions.
The Down and Contrary is the best paper in the
world—bar none.
* * *
It is said that the curious experiment is being
tried in some corps of the Russian army of employing
dogs to do the work of sentries. Some of Piddingtonsky’s
Siberian official friends ought to get this job. Russia
might get better sentries, but she could never get
greater dogs—bigger ours, we mean,
# * *
“ One who has been nipped ” sends the follow-
mg query:—“ If a policeman knocks at my hotel door
on Sunday morning, demands a drink, and is served, is
he justined in summoning me next day for a breach of
the Licensing Act ?” Ask ns something hard. Of course
he is. A policeman is j ust ifled in doing anything; and
if he out your throat, banged in your skull with a
bottle, and ripped you up with a corkscrew after having
his drink, he could find a jury to bring in a verdict of
died by the visitation of God, or a brother " foorce "
would be on hand to swear you drew a knife and the
“sarjint" just gave you the “ laste tap in the wurrld
to diflnd himself.”
• • •
This comes direct from Broughton Creek.
Beware of spurious imitations. A fellow, it seems, had
a girl there, and he used to get her out when the boss
was in bed by singing “ Pretty Joey.” Well, the mer-
onant who employed him as broom and waterpot clerk
having given him a little holiday, he went away for a
few days to see somebody else’s aunt who lived in
another district. He came back after a couple of weeks,
and on the first night of his return went down to his
love’s farm, and commenced to tootle •* Prerty Joey” in
his most melodious style. But the more he tootled the
more she didn't come. In despair he went round to the
door of the buck kitchen, and knocked softly. “ Como
in," said a soft voice ; and he went. It was pitch dark,
bat be seized her hand and pressed it ravenously to his
lips. Then the door was again opened, and he felt him-
self seized from behind, banged, kicked, thumped, and
finally “slung" out to the bottle pile. It was only next
day as he lay at home a huge brown paper parcel full of
nothing but groans, that he heard his love had gone
away on a visit, and that the fighting butcher had fallen
in love with the cook.
# • *
“The Vagabond’’ ought to write for better
things than the Newcastle Fletcher. Ho is always
original, and sometimes brilliant. Listen to this, for
instance: — 11 The circus has left, and I am happy."
There is true pathos in this remark ; and who will not
read, with breathless interest, the following:—“The
stars of music and the drama were there; medicine and
science were also represented. Of course, we came in
different parties.” We should like to know, though, in
which party Julian came—the medicine or the science ?
The Yag." also remarks that he has an enemy whom
he is going to make it warm for at no distant date.
Quite right, too. It’s high time the girl in the pie-shop
were taught to be more civil 1
• • •
The New Zealand people don’t say, “We are
going to have an Exhibition.” They say, “We are
going to have a Jubbert.”
* • •
He stalked along the pavement like a ghost.-
His clothes hung in bags about him. His eyes were
sunk ia their sockets; and his very bones rattled a
cadenza with every whisper of the morning zephyrs,
“ Hullo 1 what’s up, old fellow P " cried a friend, tupping
him on a shoulder-blade that would have made a first,
class hat-rack. The shadow smiled hopefully, " I had
three months ago a little touch of neuralgia," he said
feebly, “ and I went to a doctor who advertises for tho
patronage of hopeless cases. The neuralgia is quite
gone; and when I get rid of a bit of bone-softening, and
tho abscess caused by the blister heals up, and my teeth
stop falling out, and the film comes off my eyes, and the
eternal thunderstorm leaves my left ear, I shall be quite
myself again.”
• • •
Says the Berlin oOfrespondent of the Herald :
— ll The news that the Buka of Albany (Prince Leopold
of England) is engaged to a German princess has been
received all over Germany with the greatest sympathy."
Has it ? Well, we can’t scoop up much of it for little
Leo. Wo think that if the truth must be told he has
got rather the luck of it. He is a knock-kneed young
gentleman, with nothing to recommend him but sore
eyea and sermons, and he has got hold of a deuced
pretty girl, to whom the nation will give about £12,000
a year. Under these circumstances, we don’t quite see
where the sympathy comes in. If the Princess had
been a bit giddy in her time, or had red hair and
freckles—or a relation who was a professional libel case
juryman—why, then wo could understand it. But, so
far as we know, Helene is quite tho clean potato. There
could, we are certain, have been no rumour to the con-
trary at Berlin—whatever there might have been at
Ballijangeroug.
• • *
Scene: A Sydney newspaper office. Friend, to
editor: “Who’s that seedy-looking chap who just
whispered in yom ear ? " Editor (taken off his guard) :
“ Oh, that’s our Paris correspondent,"
• • »
A Ballarat alderman makes a vehicle of a tri-
cycle There is a Sydney alderman who gets the bulge
on this. He makes a vehicle of the Mayor.
« • •
The Police Court —toujours a Flim-Flam. P.M.
to constable: “ But there seems to be no evidence of
tho prisoner’s having either been drunk or used bad
language. It is very wrong that he should be here at
fcfi.ll. Why did you arrest him?" Constable (non-
issed and hesitating): “Bekase—bekase " P.M.
»■ .*■ .patiently): “Because what?” Constable (from
id. 1 -'d the back of his hand): “ Bekase—arrah, then,
as | j onner—bekase he was the sohmarlist."
• • •
In the City Council. A fact. First Alderman:
“Don’t keep on a interruptin’l ” Second Alderman:
“Shall if I like." First Alderman: “Well, if you
only knowed how ugly you was when you’re a openin’
that there cavern of yours, you’d keep it shut oftener."
Second Alderman (nettled): “You can’t make me shut
up. Come and say it outside. You’re not game to put
your 'ands up,” &c. First Alderman: “You won’t bo
a settin’ in this Council long." Second Alderman:
“ Won’t I? ” First Alderman: “ No, you won’t. I’ll
go round the room and collect the money to have your
picter took. Then we’ll hang it up on the wall there,
and arter lookin’ at it for a week you’d break yer 'art to
find out how ugly you was." Collapse of Alderman No.
2. “The Town Clerk will now read the sculptor’s pro-
posals for a statue of Mr. M Btath.”
• • •
A suggested addition to the armament of a
down-the-bay constable. A pair of spectacles.
• • •
The London correspondent of a Sheffield paper
tells his readers that, after attending a public banquet,
he has to get up early in the morning in order to take
out of his coat the grease-spots caused by the care-
lessness of tho waiters. Here, now, is a good line for
some of our scribes to goon. They could not only tell
their readers how they took the grease-spots out, but
how they took the coats out. This requires to be read
with a wrinkled brow. Pass the water-melon.
* • *
A telegraph man in the Gulf of Carpentaria
country, who has lost all his teeth, the other day came
across a young dead black in the bush, whose head he
cut off and placed on an ant bed till nothing but the
skull, (jaws, and ivories were left. He has now taken
out the latter, and says that when he can manage to
get leave of absence he will go down South and have
them made fast in his own face.
* « «
The Town and Country Journal has not
only a special commissioner, but a Gympie correspon-
dent, who is a literary star of no small magnitude.
He wrote, some time ago, an account of the capture of
a black fellow named “ Johnny Campbell," and the
sreduction5 reduction deserves to be kept with the lyrics of
Ir. Slum in a Lower George-street tripe emporium.
He commences by saying that " much excitation" was
caused by the arrest of the black fellow, and that, as
many were curious to see him, the police allowed him
to bo exhibited; or, to put it in his words, “in order
that they might satiate somewhat their desire, permis-
sion was granted and availed by several of viewing this
infamous aboriginal brigand." Johnny is described as
being of “ a pleasing appearance, but of huge cogent
(sic) proportions.” This burst finishes it:—“ At any
rate, it is a solace to rural residents, to whom he has
been a terror, especially to females, whose honour in
many instances was solely at his mercy, to know he
has entered the portals that limit the marauding career
of this (sic) nefarious scoundrel." But, if this is funny,
an account by the same genius of some sports is simply
a yell. He says the proceedings were enlivened by
“an excellent, though exceptional clime” (sic), and
also that " the different events were carried out not
only in a spirited but in a competitionary (sic) scale."
It is gratifying, also, to learn that no disturbance was
made (though we hardly see how it could have been)
by “ inebriated individuals, of which there were none."
Aud it is satisfactory to be told that people danced—
beguiled into the light fantastic “ as by the attractive
sonorous reverberations (sic) of the dulcet music of the
Hibernian Band.** There was a ball in the evening,
;; which lasted till daylight, when the lovers of the
light fantastic toe reluctantly dispersed to seek repose,
after the erwui (sic) of this mirthful (!) festivity. Both
events proved a success, especially in a pecuniary point
of view, which (sic) will be devoted to the requirements
of St. Patrick’s school." A man who could always
write like this could run a paper very nicely. But,
perhaps, after all, ha would shine more at running a
coffee-stall, fin case our readers might think that we
are drawing upon our imagination for these extracts,
we deem it right to state that the letter to which wo
allude appeared in the T. and C. Journal in April, last
year. On applying to Alfred they can purchase it, and
they can also, on payment of another fonrpenoe, get
their Christmas picture “rolled so as to avoid creas-
ing."—Ed, B.]
“S' all ri' ole flor, you lemme alone, can’t yer see I’m toshtheshic. Aint I limp? Don’t
I cling?"


BRIEF MENTION.
At Rockhampton, some of the devil-dodgers
actually dodge the printer's devil—when he comes along
with the advertising account.
A quarantined passenger in Melbourne naively
states that " the unmarried man sleep in one dormitory
and the unmarried ladies in another."
Here is a passage from tho monthly report of a
local auctioneer: —" I have sold by auction the old
Roman Catholic Church, at South Grafton, for £S 10s.:
also one single-seated buggy and harness, for £22 10s,
A would-be funny Bombala man writes and says
that his “ Missis " has fallen in leva with our editor,
and he is " jelous." What we recommend him to do is
to keep his hair on until our editor is in love with his
" Missis."
A man from the Freeman says tho “ olargy ”
don’t seem to know whether Constantine the Great was
a saint or a sinner, but everyone of them can tell to a
cent what a hundred posters will cost for a down-the-
harbour orgie.
“Peeping Tom,” writing in the Hamilton
Spectator, suggests a new cure for larrikinism. He
would not have larrikins fined or imprisoned—he would
have every convicted hoodlum given notice to appear in
a month to receive a flogging.
In answer to a convenient correspondent, who
wants to know what is a true sign of blue blood, we beg
to state that any young man who carries a lawn-tennis
racket round the block mast of necessity be regarded
as belonging to the;ariBtooraey.
According to the Mddgee Independent, Dr.
Campbell, who was beaten at the Yass election the
other day by Mr. Heydon, refused to travel in the same
train as the latter gentleman, alleging " that some-
thing must occur; God is generous bat just.”
Two lodges of Good Templars were formed on
tho Wild River in the middle of December. However,
there was a great smash during the holidays. The officers
mostly got drunk. In the words of a member, "it was
impossible to be a GoodTemplar at Christmas.”
In the centre of Georgetown (Etheridge, N.Q ),
are three magazines, each containing a large amount of
dynamite and powder. The residents utilise these
magazines for purposes other than storing explosives,
such as for cooking, trimming lamps, smoking saloons,
etc. We now anxiously await a telegram informing ns
that Georget own has been transferred in small pieces to
the coast of New Guinea.
The Echo is requested to
ntate that the brig John Wes-
ley no longer belongs to the Wes-
leyan Church. Our little contain-
porary omits to state what are the
brig’s present religious views.
The township of Broughton
Creek is divided into two ports by a
small creek. On one side stands
the parsonage and church, on the
other the pub. The two places are
known by the resident! as Sodom
and Gomorrah.
The religious rags appear to
he advancing towards supremacy in
the Government departments. A
Civil servant edits one of them, and
the almanacs issued by the hell-
fire journals are put up in con-
spionous places at the entrance to
more than one of the offices.
The Governor ought really to
be provided with another residence.
It is decidedly mean to confine him
to a town and a country house —he
should also have a sea-side cottage,
say, at Manly. A neat little affair,
costing about £lO,OOO, would do.
Also he should have his own chapel,
and a yacht,
A number of gentlemen from
Sydney announced a concert in
Wollongong for the benefit of the
local hospital. Attendance small.
After, paying all expenses, they
would just about be square if the
hospital committee handed them
"fifty boh." It was an agreeable oat-
ing, hut a failure for tho charity.
The Salvation Army was par-
ading Prahran (Vie.) the other
evening, when the Indian corn
doctor, in full war paint, dreve his
six-in-hand into the locality. Tak-
ing advantage of the crowd, our
chiropodist drew up and forthwith
commenced his leotnres. As might
he anticipated, the savers of souls
had no chance against the remover
of corns. Possibly souls were lost
through this, but undoubtedly many
soles were healed.
There is a Ballina man who
can flip flies off his nose with his
ears. When tho Christmas races
were on, the little boys preferred
sitting in the shade of the Ballina
man’s auricular appendages to get-
ting under the trees, Tho local
bootmaker has offered to buy the
ears with a view to cutting aprons
out of the flaps, whioh are so big
that when the young man stands in
the doorway of a ballroom, the girls
have to move one of his ears aside
before they can get out.
There was some rain in Tenterfield the other day,
and the local gravedigger took occasion to remark that
it would soften the ground beautifully and make fully
two hours’ difference to him in digging a grave. How-
ever, the inhabitants perversely refuse to peg out.
It’s a peculiar fact that the Afrika was pur-
chased by the Russian Government aa a smart cruiser
some years ago, for the express purpose of preying on
the Australian seaports. And after all this time, she
comes and does it, and wo don’t seem capable of
resisting.
Rockhampton’s only cricketer, Charley Bow-
man, is the breathing image of the great Spoffortb.
Would it not be a good spec, to find ten others bearing
a resemblance to the Demon and senA them to England
under the title of “ The Australian Native Demon
Eleven P 99
The Governor and Sir Alfred Stephen sympa-
thize with the Anti-shouting Society. They are con-
sistent, too. Neither of them has ever been known to
drop in at the Royal bar, and ask “ Well, chaps, what'ro
you going to take ?" And they don’t often shout for
people wholesale, either.
The man who carries the mails between Monnt
Emu and Taldora station was recently lost 18 days in
the bush, and, according to his own account, had nothing
to eat daring that time but a green-hide halter and a
Pair of green-hide hobbles. Which shews what kind of
country the Burke district is.
“ Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John Robertson
govern New South Wales between them. The one
commenced life as a young bnshman, and the other as a
Birmingham Chartist." This comes from the Melbourne
evening Mail, which, strangely enough has omitted
reference to John Davies.
A ( steamboat excursion was given on New
r ear s Day from Kempsey to the Macleay Heads. Two
men, a woman, and a man to cater lemonade, turned up.
i. Wft9 no ban< *» bu * even M there had been. It
oma have been useless, owing to the continual ourses
ot the refreshment contractor.
detached Squadron went to Brisbane,
bio • , 00m mander did not distinguish himself by
. cl “ politeness, for on the Harbour Master,
nlinf i B teaming out to offer his services aa
nuoiot ■ E,a “ Clanwilliam not only pompously declined
o-.. 14 ® 0 ?* but omitted to express his thanks for the
ynil.lv skipper had to bear off without even
tho on board. If the offer had not been made,
iffrmSf Vi ® a ri would probably have been mnob
a . Pjty that lu declining the little
courtesy, thte Admiral forgot to be (AyST
The blacks about Cardwell are still shy of flour.
Their aversion ta it dates from the time when a squatter,
who used to be robbed of rations regularly, mixed
arsenic with about 2001 b. of flour, and temporarily left
bis station. On bis return be oould track the black-
fellows, by dead bodies, right up to their own main
camp.
At the coming “ fancye fayre,” we are told, the
united choirs of the E.C. churches will be on hand to
render suitable music. The spectacle of a few united
choirs of any denomination will be the most marvellous
P a , r t ot the whole show. As a rule, choirs unite like
oil and water, or two healthy cats slung across a line by
their tails.
At Oooktown, the other day, a recent arrival
was being engaged to go up-country. She exhibited
some hesitation at accepting the offer, when her would-
be employer asked if it was a " matter of money.” The
15 o'* arrival blushed and answered, " Oh, mum, don’t
thpake ot matrimony, I’m tould all the childer would
be black up there."
Tho North-west of Canada Mounted Police now
number 250 men, who have to keep order over a country
whose fertile wheat-growing area alone is estimated at
350 million acres. An average of a million; acres to
each man I Bat, then, they have no picnics over there,
neither does the “ fooroe" care to lay np treasures at
home or build rows of houses.
Reform is needed in the Electric Telegraph
Department. All country station-masters have been
ordered to remain on duty till 1 p.m. on Sundays to
adjust cheek questions. If the Superintendent of Tele-
graphs is his " brother’s keeper,” what an array of
questions ho will have to answer in the " sweet by and
bye." “ Remember the Sabbath day."
Tho fastest time on record has lately been done
in the Bathurst district, an amorous pair having been
married at 9 a.m. and a son and heir born at 6.30 p.m.
the same day. As Mr. Hamlet would say, “ Thrift!
thrift I the wedding meats did coldly furnish forth tho
christening tables." Assisted immigration will soon
be at a discount. Home papers please copy.
At Wairarapa, N.Z., an aged individual who
eloped with a widow and returned without her, got a
warm reception. On tho arrival of the train from Wel-
lington, a big crowd strnok up the " Dead March.” A
procession was then formed land beaded by two loaders
on grey horses, who marched behind the prodigal, play-
ing "The girl I left behind me," " Brigham Young,”
and other appropriate songs. The crowd increased
considerably by the time they reached the residence of
the serenadee. After singing " Safe in the arms of a
policeman," they left him to enjoy himself in tho bosom
of his family circle.
Have you ever been convicted before ?” sternly
asked the Judge of a shirt-sleeved gent, who occupied
on important position behind the spikes on a charge of
assault and robbery. “ Well, no, your wusship," inno.
eently replied the lamb; “ y’see I generally knowed the
most of the juries: but this lot’s sort o’ strange, and
my ways are not familar.” “ Forty shillings—or seven
years in Berrima."
A couple of larrikins were the other day
charged at Fentridge police conrt with having assaulted
Upjohn, the Victorian hangman and flogger. The pro-
posed law awarding corporal punishment to larrikins
has not yet been enacted ; had it been in force, either
the assault would not have been committed, or
Monsieur Upjohn would have had the pleasure of
" taking it out ” of his friends with the oat and
triangles.
Sir John Robertson, in his speech at Mud gee,
said a conditional purchaser of land from the Govern-
ment should live as easily and get as much comfort
“ without work "as he can. The “ 40-acre ” shanty
keepers scattered over the country did not need any
hint from Sir John. With rotgut grog, hooussed wine,
and a Clontarf girl or two hired at harvest and shearing
time, it’s wonderful what a crop they can gather
" without work."
A Gundagai man, who hails from near Killarney,
was the other Sunday drinking beer in a hotel, when he
was informed by a friend that, wore the police to catch
him he would be liable to a fine of £2, " Fat for P "
queried the Kerrymaa. ” Why, for drinking in a
licensed house on Sunday. It’s against the new law."
“ An’ do yon mane to tell me, thin, that its agin the
law to dhrink a dhrop of beer. Oh, them d— English
would pass any law.”
Said the Mayor of Manly, “ Larrikinism is not
confined to people of an inferior or degraded position,
but sometimes springs from our knighted colonial
nobility. A branch of one of these families nearly killed
a citizen at Double Bay." What his Worship meant is
notorious. The larrikin in question was the very near
relative of a well known Judge; and that was why, as
the Mayor remarked, “ instead of getting the lash
he was given a fat colonial appointment."
A newly-married couple, travelling by rail from
Ballarat.to Geelong, asked the porter to lock the door.
Such requests are often made by turtle doves on their
first cooing excursion, and he good-naturedly complied.
An officious sneak reported him, and the porter had to
pay the price ef the other four first-class fares who
might have occupied the compartment; only the other
font were not there. That porter will probably take
care never to be harmlessly courteous again.
It was an affecting thing to hear Mr. Gonecoon
thank those true friends who had rallied round him;
those gentlemen on his committee, who from sheer
patriotism had worked for him. And properly enough,
no people were affected and applauded more the re-
marks of the defeated candidate than those self-same
patriots. For they all well knew that it was their
patriotism alone that had boarded, lodged, washed,
clothed and shaved them for many a long month.
The other day, Mr. Bailey, of the Temora
Herald, was ill. He must no w really be well and at work
again, for in last Herald wa read“ The Star and its
dirty pool,—Thera is an old saying, whioh is a very true
one, that the more you stir dirty water, the more it
stinks, and verily Mr, Wahr is turning up his feetid
pool to such an extent that the stench is likely to
putrefy surroundings, and unless that time-serving
journalist is either" But it might be libellous to
proceed.
The other day three wretched Chinese were
brought up at Coonabarabran, charged with stealing a
sheep. They said they had found it dead in the road
near their garden, where it appeared to have died of
thirst, and to have been partially eaten by pigs. Tho
Chinamen, in fact, evidently thought they might ns
well eat the dirty, mangled carcase as bury it. But
they were committed for trial to the Coonabarabran
sessions, until whioh period they must remain in gaol,
unless the Attorney-General interferes.
The Wild River, far away in the Never Never, is
evidently getting civilised. We read that on New
Year’s Eve “the boys’’ visited the hotels and other
houses, confining themselves, fortunately, to theprinoi.
pal street, where they ware moat liberally treated. We
are told that the booty consisted ot three 3-bushel bags
of grog, wines, and alas. One-half of this quantity
was "planted" under a bale of hay in a stable, and as
may be imagined, it was non eat in the morning. It is
reported that the horses want in for a spree.
In a certain country district, a few months since,
a conscientious storekeeper, hearing that his porter
was about to marrya woman, who, according to rumour,
had a husband living in Tasmania, warned him that he
ought to think seriously before entangling himself in
any disreputable transaction which might tend to lower
the status of the store. Replied the intending bride-
groom :—“ Oh, as to her husband being alive, I don’t
mind that a bit, sir. You see I have a wife also living
in New Zealand, and so we will only be square on
that point when we are spliced." The holy storekeeper
turned np his eyes, and turned off the porter. Six
months afterwards there were some curious exposures
before the Police Oanrt as to certain forged promissory
notes, re which the C.B. retires from public life to a
stone-built residence for a period of five years.
Habitations around Rockhampton are very
dilapidated. Looking into one of those hovels on a
rainy day, ’tia nothing unusual to see a family of four
or five crouched under lan umbrella. Paraplines are
even brought to bed when the weather’s up propitious.
This kind of thing, reminds one of the old nigger whom
a gentleman found crouching under a tabli in his hut on
a wet day. “ Why don’t you mend the roof. Sambo P "
“ Too wet, massa." “ But why don’t you mend it when
it’s not raining ? " “It don’t want no mending then,
massa.”
The other day the Echo printed a statement to
the effect that the aboriginals were getting civilised,
inasmuch as two of them had been seen reading a news-
piper in the Domain. We are in a position to subscribe
to the truth of this story. We saw the educated darkies
bny the sausages. They ate them raw and then com-
menced to read the papers. We sneaked up and looked
over the gin’s shoulder. She was reading the leading
article, but evidently didn’t think much of it. For all
she said was—” That blarsted Herald— budgeree halle-
lujah 1 “
In the D.T.’s Paris correspondence appears a
anecdote about the Chateau of Beauregard, the late Em-
peror Napoleon, and Miss Howard. On that lady learn-
ing tidings of the marriage of Napoleon with Eugenie,
she “ instantly flew to Paris, resolved not to leave a hair
on the.bride's head. On entering her residence she found
it bare, and a chamberlain presented her with the
Chateau of| Beauregard duly furnished, and herself named
Countess after the property. Her son is now selling
it." Now this self-same item has been going the rounds
of the papers for the last three mouths. It takes there-
fore longer for a letter to come from Dubbo than we
were at first aware.
The continued absence of the bunyip is causing
some anxiety to country journalists. In the neigh-
bourhood of Echuca the animal was very common some
years ago. There was a certain brand of Queensland
rum sold in the township, and to those who drank
deeply of this fascinating elixir, the bunyip appeared
with a regularity both flattering and remarkable. On
the road homeward, after one glass of the potent liquid,
nothing more singular than a Chinaman might be es-
countered. The second glass was followed by the ap-
pearance of a snake as thick as a stone pipe, the third
by the duck-billed platyphs, and the fourth brought
the bunyip. Only one man was ever known to take five
glasses and live. What he saw after that, and before
he ran into the arms of that vigilant officer. Constable
Qilhooley,|will never be known. When the Local Option
Bill becomes law, or when soda-squashes drive alcohol
from the field, it ie probable that the bunyip will dis-
appear as completely as the Megatherium.
Our Freethought friends are greatly annoyed at
the familiar manner in which their respected saints are
spoken of by their orthodox friends who lelieve in the
“revised" and "local option." Slid a recent lecturer,
11 Clergymen are very fond of speaking ot * Tom Paine.’
Now, Paine’s name was Thomas. It was bought and
paid for, the same as anyone else’s. He is, therefore,
entitled to the whole length of it; and I would like to
know how these parsons would feel if I spoke of Jack
the Baptist 1” (Great applause.) And this was the
very place from which we shut out Richard Anthony
Prootor.
Wonder what picnic Alfred went to ? Must
have been an 1.0.G.T., as Thursday's Trouble raises
onr hair by informing ns that " on the 16th January,
1878 (sic), * the first fleet,’ consisting of eleven vessels,
under the command of Captain Arthur Phillip, lauded
at Botany Bay.” That’s quite four years ago; and,
■noh being the ease, why is it they were not mot on the
wharf and gripped by John Davies ?—why were they not
invited to a Clontorfy “shivoo?”—and where was the
redoubtable E. B. Smith, with his cab and procession ?
This matter either wants a heap ot sifting, or there’s
room for a Gospel-tent up Alfred's way.
“Does anypody vant to pay a dawg?” The
following ad. appeared in a recent Nooze ;
“ £1 REWARD.
"LOST, a Ball-Terrier PUP, about 4 months
old, from Railway Terrace, near Atlas Works,
Hay-street.
“ Pup can be identified in 10 years’ time.
“Apply No. 1 Railway Terrace, Hay-straot,
late Luoas Buildings."
Now, we found that pup holding friendly intercourse
with a link of sausages on Thursday last; but, ns we
calculate it will cost us about £l5 to keep him until he
he can be identified in te i years’ time’, there's nothing
left but to let him loose, or sell him—and, being religi-
ously inclined, we decide to sell him.
The Tenterfield paper has a yarn to the effect
that a local resident bought four ducks, and took them
home with “assassinatory" intentions. But, on arriving
at tho house, one of tho birds laid an egg, which the
Tenterfield man handed over to his cook, who boiled it.
Then the story goes along; "Decapitating it (the egg)
in a scientific manner, he put the first spoonful in his
mouth, but finding a sort of creeping sensation in that
organ, the delicious morsel was speedily ejected into
his plate, and to his surprise a fine lively young centi-
pede began to skedaddle as fast as its hundred legs
would let it." This is tho kind of egg that verbosi
members of Parliament who wish to oblige the
reporters should take for tea on the evening of a big
dsbate. Only they should make the centipede crawl
up and down their tongues a few times before letting
him go.
So it appears that in Sydney
fathers can bo found who lot out
their daughters for £1 per day
—to walk in "female go-as-you-
please’’contests at tho hippodrome.
The Roman Catholics have
presented Prior Bntler with a testi-
monial consisting of one hundred
and fifty pounds. Now, what we
want is a pardon who has not re-
ceived a testimonial. Any person
having one on hand will be liberally
treated with. Wo will undertake
to find the empty shop in Pitt-
street, the outside yowler, the boy
in livery to distribute the dodgers,
and the barrel-organ.
There vras a big meeting at
the Mechanics’ Institute, Goulbui n,
on the 18th Jan., and it was decided
to open on Sunday. Tho next Sab-
bath a local clergyman read 30
sheets of blue foolscap from the
pulpit, to prove the heinousness of
the decision. At the meeting a
reverend said it was a disgrace to
open on Sundays, as it gave people
a chance to read wicked papers, like
Sydney Punch and The Bulletin.
"This is simplying cloying." We
have long hoped for fame, but we
never, in our wildest moments of
yearning aspiration, looked forward
to being placed on a pedestal of
flory by ’the side of ’Sydney
unch. •
- The Melbourne World Im-,
mortalises an individual who has
recently been thoroughly enjoying
himself. It appears he ingratiated
himself into the favour of a family
at the aristocratic suburb of
St. Kilda, where he clothed him-
self in broadcloth and fine linen
(whioh he borrowed from them) and
fared sumptuously everyday. He
next visited Biohmond, where he
engaged himself to a young lady,
and took possession of her mother’s
best room and the easy chair. Think-
ing a visit to the sea-side would
benefit his health, he next went to
Sorrento, where, with a penny paper
collar round his throat, lardy dah I
he was considered quite too utterly
inexpressible. To that same spot
by the sea, however, presently came
his St. Kilda friends. They, too,
pined for coffee with two inches of
grounds floating about in it, and
eggs which were not charged extra
because ot the sweet little chicks
inside. And thus they met. Tho
World says ho disowned them,
although he was wearing their
clothes. We presume the garments
referred to were supplied from tho
wardrobe of the male members of
the|St. Kilda villa.
Last Thursday night three love-sick maidens
filed into an oyster shop, and, calling for large plates
and a bottle of beer, grew confidential, and remarked to
the waiter:—"Had a day?—You bat we had—Went
down to (Kerguelen’s Island)—and they had a
band, an'dancin’ in the pervillyn—an’ we got ’am san-
widgee an’ any amount of booze in the pub., an’ swings
an’ (fights—an’ in fact, we got all we wanted —you take
my advice an’ go there." " Liz.—here’s the bark off
yer beak, gal ; pass the peppir." And so this feast of
reason and flew of soul tumbled along until the
fooroe" appeared, and escorted the tired dames to
the marble halls attached to the Water Police Court.
Says a recent Nooze :—“ A typhograpical error
m Saturday’s issue made it appear that Alphonse
Bechet’s sentence was to be remitted. His Excellency
the Governor has very properly refused to remit any
portion of the sentence passed on this man." This was
only a trifling error to Alf , of course, but it made a
heap of difference to poor Alphonse. " This man" is
good, but when Bechet used to allow the 11 respectable
portion of the press" to inspect his pianos, to smoke
his Manilas, and drink his Krug, we used to read
“ Owing to the courtesy of Mons. A. Bechet—a gentle-
man whoso indomitable enterprise, refined tat to, and
characteristic peliteness have mads his name famous
through the whole of the civilised world,” Ac., &o.
And now the eagle’s wings are clipped, and wo talk of
the man Bechet—
“ Friendship’s a name whose shifting value rates
For just so much as present use dictates ;
While Fortune smiles, our friends how staunch and
true I
When she departs, farewell the faithless crew I"
The Cooktown Herald, in giving an officer
of the Native police a turn, says :—"lt is reported that
when he comes into town he uses a lorgonette (sic) to dis-
cover the dark blue uniform in the distance, and has
been known to go halt-a-mile out of his way in. order to
command ‘the salute’from a Milesian bobby.’" We
can’t resist the temptation. Coma now .
That trooper for years had a “ lorgonette,"
Which funny to state’s not in pawgonetto ;
Of this we’re quite sure.
For we looked through the door.
And saw that the trap had it orgonette.
The latest bit of snobbery comes from a queer
quarter. The King of the Cannibal —wa mean Sind,
wlch—lslands has issued an order, " Kapiolani,’’ to le
exclusively devoted to persons distinguished in art,
science, or letters. And yet, only the other day
Captain Cook was "cooked" by the Owhyee niggers.
In connection with this, it may be stated that that
prince of snobs and boss toady—the creature who dot*
THAT LITTLE MILL.
JACKY DOESN’T COME UP TO TIME AFTER THAT RAP FROM JIMMY.


the "I” business in the Whitehall Review— givesa
long lint of the persons who have been decorated by old
King Kalakana. His Majesty takes No. 18’s in boots,
has a hand like a shoulder of mutton, and eats peas
with a sonp-ladle.
Mot by “Wrecker” : Q.C.—Quiescent cat s-paw.
Probable chorus of Victorian larrikins : —"Silent
be; it is —it is the cat.”
Beg thinks Greenwood will go to hell. Where’s
the satisfaction in this ? Green wood won’t burn.
If they don’t hang Guiteau for killing the
President, we hope they’ll at least fine him for carrying
fire-arms unlawfully.
Scarcely any abatement in down-the-harbour
larrikinism on Anniversary Day. The affectionate re-
liance of the dear boys and girls on the Supreme Court
is extremely touching.
Sixty gallons of ginger-beer were given to the
Eandwick Asylum children at their Christmas festival.
Poor little devils! How they must have suffered from
Bauch-sohmerzen on the following day 1
He was walking—apostle of temperance that he
is I—past a hovel on Sunday afternoon, and ho saw the
husband beating his wife with a saucepan. And he
smiled. It was good for trade that Sunday closing—for
the tombstone trade.
Judge Faucett ia cooped up in quarantine. We
hear his Honor not the slightest ill-will, but if ho could
secure a mild invasion of variola, and come on with it
to Sydney and parcel it out in Banco, Australia would
advance just as much.
There was a rich squatter of Lue,
Who abhorred the name of a rou«S;
E’en the cook he’d invoke
To caution her bloke
Never to come within coo-ey.
Extract from a letter from a Sydney M.L.A.,
now down South, to a brother member in the metro-
polis “ Had a fine day’s shotting in the hills larst
Teusday, but coming home my foot slipped and I nearly
tumbled down the abscess.”
At a meeting of the newly-formed Melbourne
Pawnbrokers’ Association, the President, Mr. A. Levy,
alluding to the recent establishment of Mirams’ Monte
do Pietd, said that the first pledge would be Cleon’s
umbrella. This is a very shady joke, but we can’t take
umbra-age at it.
Judge Docker is safe. He can await the last
trump with a tranquil mind, for he has secured the
approbation of the Church of England Record. That
journal, referring to the Judas Iscariot joke of the
learned judge, says it will leave the question of the
truth of that remark “ to Christ to decide.”
A newly appointed Melbourne J.P. remains in a
state of “drunk” from 12 in the morning to 12 in the
evening, and walks the streets in the small hours with
demireps, swearing and cursing, and threatening to
oammit every person who checks him for six months.
Bat the police won’t run him in, for he’s a J.P.
The Hon. J. B. Patterson, of Melbourne, chal-
lenges anyone to instance a case wherein, either as Post-
master-General or Minister of Railways, he has issued
a pass to a friend. Graham Berry lays his hand upon
the place where his heart ought to be, and says he
never, never dispensed similar favours —to an enemy.
The humanity of masters, and the consideration
with which they treat their servants in Wollongong, is
remarkable. A groom gave a squatter notice, the other
day, in rather an impudent tone, yet ever since the
Occurrence the man of beeves has paid his servant’s
doctor’s bill, and the physicians confidently anticipate
being able to save his other eye.
The Age and the World make a combined
attack upon Mr. A’Beckett, the Registrar of the Mel-
bourne University, for having supplied the Akqus with
the recent examination returns, and forgetting te extend
the courtesy to them. The Age plainly hints that A’B.
Is in the employ of the conservative organ. This seems
rongh on A’Beckett, but we know him, and confess it
appears to us a deal rougher on the Argus.
The tram-condnctora have not been building
many terraces lately. A great number of passengers
(taking advantage of the economic spirit in which the
department fails to provide light in the cars after dark)
have been “passing in" the blocks of the Omnibus
Company’s tickets as bond fide tram-tickets. The fun
does not come in nntil the tickets are emptied out at
the terminus. Then the conductor gnashes hi* teeth.
A noble youth of sixteen summers, and about
ninety-nine long beers, has been fined 40s. for being
drunk at Brunswick (Vic.) Byron’s lines occurred to
him as he listened to his sentence: —
•' Within a barriered dock of that high hall
Sate Brunswick’s fated drunkard : he did hear
That sourd the first after the festival.
As home his father led him by prophetic ear.”
In acknowledging the receipt of a bundle of
cigars from a local sneeze merchant, (the editor of the
Wild River Something says:—“Wn can confidently
state that we never smoked better." This is, of course,
true; but that bundle was the first that had been sent
him. It is rather funny, though, to read in the leader:
“ The policy which this journal has laid down for itself
is a stern and unflinching one Neither threats nor
bribes will cause it to deviate one inch from the course
of righteousness.” It is no use, therefore, for the
tobacco-man to threaten this editor with any more
cigars."
At last! Says the Manning Eivee Times
" Explanatory: In our account of ‘ a foal gored by a
cow,’ in Saturday’s issue, we were wrongly informed.
It appears that the foal went up to share the cow’s
feed, when Colley naturally resented such interference
with her rights, and suddenly turned her head round to
drive it away, when her horn accidentally pierced the
foal’s shoulder.” Wo are credibly informed that the
insertion of this semi-apology was forced on the Times
in oonseqnenee of the receipt by that paper of a letter,
threatening a libel action for £lO,OOO, from the cow’s
solicitor.
From, of course, the Telegraph “ Miss
Cora Miller’s next contribution —Benedick’s song, • The
Bird that came in Spring ’ —was encored deservedly, and
that extremely capable lady then gave Campana’s
ballad, ‘ Les Plesirs (sic) de la Vie.’ The concert con-
cluded with a pot pourri on popular airs, composed by
Mr. W. Schade."
Those nasty jars in English oft
Alas I have made us moan.
And new—but oh I in pity’s sake.
Do leave the French alone.
A piece of very smart practice recently occurred
in the For North, A well-known Commissioner—
we forget his name, for convenience’ sake—bought an
allotment of Government land at a sale, and on it was
a digger's bark humpy, which the law allowed the digger
sixty days to remove, or sell. The digger sold it, but it
was not cleared off to the exact day, so the Commis-
sioner immediately claimed it and sold it again for £i.
As the building was left on the land a day or two too
late, the Commissioner became, legally, its owner,
without paying for it. Whether a gentleman would
have snapped it up so smartly, is another matter
altogether.
We are glad to notice that the Cooma Express
has followed the example of Alfred, and employed a
Special Commissioner. The Cooma man boldly puts
his name, " F. B. S. Hewison,” in small caps, at the top
of his copy, so he gets a bit of the bulge on Withers as
far as notoriety is concerned. Mr. Hewison writes an
account of Bathurst in an article which is about the
same length and in very much the same style as the
Lord's Prayer. “Bathurst,” he says, ”is situated on
the left bank of the Macquarie River. . . . Bathurst
possesses a large School of Arts, at the comer of Wil-
liam and Howisk streets. ... It is reached by the
Great Western Line from Sydney, to and from which
trains run twice a day." There yon are ! Complete—
and concise as an anchovy sandwich! What a splendid
future that man mast have before him—in the boot line.
Samuel Bennett, the shrewd old founder of the
Town and Country Journal, once said: “ Parkes
never touched a man that he didn’t bring down." The
Dictator even lowered Sir Hercules, over Bushranger
Gardiner; Sir James Mart in only escaped by his (horse)
hair; Sir John Robertson came down (Milburn Creek);
Butler came down (Chief Justiceship); John Fairfax
was “lowered” and gagged by being "elevated" to
the Legislative Council, which Sam Bennett would not
enter; Mr. Darley ia now dragged through the politi-
cal dust; and there’s little doubt that, if John Davies
and Dan O’Connor don’t mind, Sir Henry will give
them a turn. Bob Smith has, np to now, only been
saved by his deportment and his lavender continoa-,
tions. There is, in the Assembly, one man whom Sir
Henry has, so far {unsuccessfully, tried to father— G.
H. Eeid,
The fiat has gone forth, and Guit can’s cup of
horror is nearly brimfnll. He demands a new trial,
which the new President is ungrateful enough to refuse,
so that Quiteau, must be an apt neck-romancer if he
now escapes the noose As the assassin still contends
that the Deity directed and impelled this wanton act,
would it not be a pure piece of retributive justice for
the U. S. Government to hang Gniteau in the State of
Providence.
A grand dinner is to be given in Melbourne at
the opening of the new Law Courts, and it has been
decided not to confine the invitations to the legal pro-
fession. Journalists, therefore, will be able to chip in.
That is a good idea. We should very much like to be
at the dinner when our new Law Courts are opened, and
to propose the healths of the Judges. Before doing so,
however, we should be careful to take an affecting
leave of our friends and relatives, and cause the Erard
grand and the rocking-chair to be sent up to the Jug.
It would be 11 life," of course.
A couple of querulous aldermen at Mndgee
complained that the Inspector of Nuisances was too
impartial in his prosecution of such members of the
Council as commit breaches of the by-laws. The
Inspector replied in a lengthy and acrimonious epistle,
which evoked general merriment and much aldermanic
wrath. In one part, he said the by-laws under which
he prosecuted were like the Council—in sad need of
revision. When the letter was read, the Mayor ordered
the instant suspension of the Nuisance Inspector.
Mudgee is therefore without an Inspector of Nuisances
for the present, and the three local editors enjoy un-
interrupted freedom.
If any man has a lingering doubt about the
hallowed changes which the new Licensing Bill will
produce in the fuiness of time, let him read the follow-
ing report of a case investigated at Wagga on January
25th, before the Poliee Magistrate. TheADVEimsKR
says: “ Joha Cottrell was charged with asking for a
a glass of liquor at Finn's hotel; he was convicted and
sent to gaol for one month as a vagrant.” Truly, if the
law panders much more to the petulance of publi-
cans, men will be sentenced to hard labour for looking
imploringly at the boer-tap, and “ seven days without
the option" will bo the minimum penalty for paupers
who walk within telescope distance of an hotel. The
case is uearly as bad as the conventional “ asking for
bread and receiving a stone,” for at best it amounts to
asking lor grog and getting “ bricks and mortar ”
instead.
Pastor Allen has annihilated Mr. Greenwood.
He does some of his work (in the Witness) in verse, of 1
which the following is a sample :
** When cares and sorrows bow’d me down,
God did my heart sustain.
When providences seem’d to frown,
He’d visit me again."
These are supposed to be the words of au old lady who
was on very intimate terms with the Deity. Daniel is
not exactly a boaa-poet, but, with a little practice, he
might attain to the Echo standard. He finishes by
saying of Bradlaugh and Greenwood that “neither has
(sic) these senseless men sufficient character for this
high position in the nation. A senseless and character-
less man in the House is highly calculated to debase a
nation." The sentiment is beautiful, but the grammar
is rather faulty. But then, who expects grammar from
a Pastor?
The members of the Wesleyan Conference, in
adopting the petition for rain, appear to retain no small
share of the cant of Pight-the-good-flght-of-faith um-
quhile twaddle, who believed he had influence enough
with the Lord of Hosts to turu the tide of a most
uneven battle. An American theorist lays down the
rule that an explosion of artillery precedes rain ; per-
chance the Conference thought the thunders of a few
Methodist “great guns" would effect the same end.
Unfortunately a few tantalizing drops of rain preceded
the prayer, and a stubborn and insufferable dryness
succeeded, although the whole synagogue of saints
strstched their moody faces in the fullest tension, and
prayed until perspiration. Alas, that the efforts were
futile, for unbelievers will assert that it is small use for
parsons to interfere with the reins of heavenly govern-
ment since their arch-patron, Satan, lost his portfolio,
and went into Oppositien 1
An Anti-Shouting Association was formed at
Sydney last week, and bids fair to become peculiarly
popular. The organization has for its motto “ Hum vivo,
oibo," and for its heraldic badge, a pewter pot solus.
The rules of the society are sublimely simple. Any
member who invites any person to drink with
him, shall be deemed gailty of unnatural and eccentric
conduct, and shall, upon conviction, be expelled from
the society. Any member, offered a drink at another’s
expense, must neither refuse nor hesitate to avail him-
self of the privilege, under peril of being deemed guilty
of conduct contrary to his instinct and religion, and of
being drummed out of the corps with ignominy. In
order to avoid combat on conflicting corollaries of this
spiritual devotion, members are instructed to exercise
prudence, and when their turn comes to shout, to slink
away rather than argae the point. The patron-
saint of the lodge is “Jemmy Woods," and the
members are to be titled " Knights of Kentucky.” At
the opening of the lodge, the president explained that
shouting was a hurtful and degrading practice, as in-
stance the ill-effects of Joshua’s seven-days’ shout. Ho
added that the modern race of spendthrifts would also
find themselves m Jerieho, if they did not discontinue
the profligate vice. Sympathetic letters were read from
Lord Loftus, Sir Alfred Stephen, and Dr. Eenwick, all
three of whom praotio, what they preach. After the
chairman’s address, the staff of the three daily papers
enrolled themselves as charter members, and the meet-
ing then adjourned to Punch’s corner, in {search of a
“ good Samaritan.”
For a good sir-shooter, hair-trigger embellisher,
the Rev. John Kiiner will take a deal to beat. At a
recent missionary pow-wow held in London, John told
all about the good cause in Zulu-land, and what he did
and what he didn’t whilst over there to give the good
cause a helping hand. The first party this apostle
struck was a patent medioine man or witch-doctor, and
by his side sat a (fine Zulu woman, who had been nurse
to the missionary’s family, sent by Cetewayo. She soon
learned the tunes sung at the missionary’s home. Then
she began to think, If the Loard loves the white girl does
he not love the bKck ones ? Beauty being only skin
deep, this “ ’oly th'rt ” worked in the Zulu maiden’s
mind, and at last she told Joha she wanted to be an
angel and with the angels sing; her voice being a
mezzo-soprano, and her favourite instrument the fine-
tooth comb or an empty kerosene-can. Cetewayo,
however, objected, and as a punishment swore he’d
marry her. Meantime, however, the Zulu maiden
“ stroved," and we are told as the morning dawned she
prayed for guidance, saying, "O Loard, hast Thou
not a man: Chief of chiefs, hast Thou not a man j
Euler of rulers, hast Thou not a man to guide thy
child ? " Only she prayed in the Zulu tongue, and of
course, it required translation. Years rolled by,
Cetewayo went “bung,” and a week or two
before Mr. Kiiner left, the dusty seraph, pointing
to her aged tobacco-chewing sire, exc aimed “There
he is yonder with his New Testament; he has been con-
vinced of sin, and is a candidate for baptism." It never
struck either party that the old 'un, was “ foxing ” for
a gill of rum in a ginger beer bottle, and so he was left
to hug the “ revised " and curse the missionary back
to the 17th generation. All this is lovely, but the
closing sentence of Mr. Kilner’s speech deserves to be
written on calico petticoats and scattered broadcast
throughout the land. Says he, “if we want to win
Africa for the Lord we must attend to the women,-”
That's the ticket, John. If you remember, the Bev.
Mr. Stiggins attended to Mrs. Veller—Samuel being a
man of sin. By the way, John, what’s tbs screw, and
do you want any good reliable agents ?
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month of January, 1882. Week days (26), 8181:
Sundays (5), 4259. T0ta1—12,440.
The well-known firm of D. and W. Eobertaon,
iron, steel, and machinery merchants, ihave moved to
their new premises, corner of York and Market streets,
in this city. The history of this firm is one of stnpen-
dous energy and enterprise .and given in connection
with a splendid engraving of the new premises, which
we will shortly produce in these columns, will be read
with general interest. Messrs. D. and W. Eobeitson
intend a vet further extension of their business as {iron
merchants, and keeping legitimately to this line of
trade, are determined to develop it into one of the
largest concerns of the kind in Australia,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
One of Jem Mace’s sons is a clergyman!
The cause of Charles Beade'a death was chronic
bronchitis.
Quitean’a trial, it was estimated, would cost
over 150,000 dol.
Captain Onslow, M.L.C., has for some time paat
been confined to his room by illness.
During her reign of 44 years, Queen Victoria
has spent but twelve days in Ireland.
Two Sydney survey officials have recently come
in tor fortunes. One £7OOO, the other £40,000.
Another Black Wednesday victim is dead—*
Mr. J. M. Cogdon, formerly a police magistrate.
“ The Vagabond’’ has a new book in the press,
entitled, “ Occident and Orient; Sketches on both sides
of the Pacific.’'
Messrs. A. E. Fremlin, George Kiss, John
M'Pherson, and John Starkey, are the new directors
of Eandwick Asylum.
It was said in England, when the mail left, that
the Queen would be asked to open the next session of
Parliament personally.
Tho members of the Eoyal Family, exclusive of
the Queen, draw £127,000 per annum from the tax-
payers, besides “ perks."
Mr. Murdoch Macleod, late of the Bank of Vic-
toria, has joined Hr. H. Byron Hoore in the financial and
agency branches of his business.
■‘King Billy,” the last but one of the Woady
Tallock tribe of aborigines, has died in a mia mia on
Mount Bute station, of inflammation of the lungs. He
was about 70 years old.
Archbishop Vaughan has retired from the Ex-
press, not having written anything for it since last
month. Let’s see. It’s about two years since some
other people retired from the Express.
The Archbishop of York wears the biggest hat
in England—B fall; Gladstone next 7|. A Collins-
street solicitor—of sporting turn—is said to require the
biggest covering for his cranium in Melbourne.
Hennikor Heaton is going for Salford con-
stituency, House of Commons. Ui.less he behaves him-
self better in England than he did here, he may find
himself representing nowhere in the House of Correc-
tion.
Biggar, M.P., is going to be married to a charm-
ing young Irish lady, now resident at Paris. It is
hoped that, in the interests of “ home rule," he will
keep clear of Kilmainham—at least during his honey-
moon.
Lord Shrewsbury, the Premier Earl of England,
who is going to marry his lover, the now-divoroed Mrs.
Miller-M unday, is a young man who goes along the
street with a leather bag in one hand and a dog-chain
in the other.
Prince Eoland Bonaparte, who not long since
married the heiress of the notorious M. Blano, of
Monaco, has sold his interest in the Monaco gaming-
tables to a society of English capitalists for 25,000,000
francs, or a million sterling I
Of Mr. C. E. Jones, who is quarantined at
Sydney, it is said he is to be retained as a champion of
Orangeism on his arrival in Victoria. And, now that
we know this, oughtn't we keep him here?
Mr. Archibald Meston, ex-M.L.A., of Queens-
land, late editor of thr Brisbane Observer, and
Northern Standard (Townsville), has managed to
secure 2000 acres of sugar land at Cairns, (N.Q.), and
better still, £50,000 of English money to work it.
Mr. Henry Short, sub-editor of the Aon, has
gone back to his old love, the Argus. He is to edit the
Evening Mail, issued from the Argus office; Mr.
Howard Willoughby, the present editor, takes the
place of Mr. James Smith, who is about to visit Europe,
A gentleman journeying from Sandhurst to
Melbourne fell amongst—well, gamblers. He lest
£2OOO to them. He has not yet ‘‘parted,” hut offers
them £lOOO. The winners, however, consider that if
their victim is willing to pay that, he ought to pay the
whole amount.
Swinburne is tho author of tho lively set of
anonymous verses entitled “ Disgust," which appear in
the current number of the Fortnightlt Eevisw, in
answer to the far from lively ones called •' Despair,"
contributed by the Poet Laureate to the Nineteenth
Century for November.
A celebrated European mountaineer has arrived
in Melbourne. Herr Boss has “ done" the Alps,
Himalayas, and Cordilleras. He intends to see the
Victorian mountains (rather small potatoes after the
Asian ranges), and then go over to the snowy summits
of the New Zealand hills.
According to the Braidwood paper, it is
rumoured in well-informed circles that the visit of Sir
Henry Parkes to the old country has been made for
two reasons. One is the idea that he will receive a
Baronetcy and the other is the securing a bridge to
North Shore, where it is said a quantity of land is to
be presented to him If he succeeds.
We read that M. Eenan, the celebrated author
of “ the Life of Christ," in these days looks like a com-
fortable French priest, an occupant of some quiet vil-
lage pulpit. His face is round, and would be coarse
were it not for the noble brow and thoughtful search-
ing eyes, Ha is a small man, thickset and clumsy, and
looks as if be liked the good things of this earth.
Longfellow celebrated Thanksgiving Day by
reading a new poem to his family circle in tho
old homestead at New Boston. Attacks of vertigo still
confine him to the house. Ha has been forced by ill.
ness to issue a printed circular, excusing him from
answering the numberless letters which he daily
receives, asking him not only for autographs but for
all sorts of favours. Blanche Roosevelt is engaged upon
his biography.
Tho law office of Judah H. Benjamin in London
is a shabby back room, furnished with two chairs, a
table, a few musty law books, and an army of ink bottles.
His clerk’s room, adjoining, though plain, is furnished
with princely splendour in comparison with the don of
the great barrister. Queen's counsel, and one of the
wealthiest practitioners in England. He gives away
great sums in charity, while his personal expenses are
almost nothing,
Eeoently an officer of tho British army fell in
love with a very pretty “widow’* and married her.
Not long after her union, the husband discovered that
his wife had already two husbands living; and so was
able to get his marriage annulled. The lady, in the
re-assumed character of a widow, must have been still
very fascinating, for she soon succeeded In finding
another victim; and now, tired of “Number Four,"
she has actually wedded a fifth husband I “Are there
any more going on f"
The late Colonel Anderson, of Melbourne, died
from canoer. He is supposed to have taken the disease
from smoking cigarettes moistened in manufacture by
persons having cancerous lips. The Colonel, who was
the son of the late Colonel Joseph Anderson, C.B,
K.Q., a distinguished Peninsular officer but recently
deceased, was bom at Blackburn, England, in 1829, and
arrived in Victoria in 1851, after serving in several regi-
ments both at home and abroad, and was largely
instrumental in organizing the volunteer force in
Victoria.
‘‘ Mr. Folingsby,” writes onr Melbourne cor-
respondent, “is painting a portrait of the late Mr. W.
S. Ljster for presentation to the Victorian National
Gallery. It will serve as a memorial of the days when
no overdressed duffers, who had come in for a bit of
luck, put on the stage their performing harems—of the
days when operatic management wasn’t the apotheosis
of the ticket-taker, of the nigger oellar-flappar, the low
money-lender, and the man of straw, put up to shield
the oreature who would dare to speculate were he not
afraid to lose."
Thus theNoBTHSRN Whig (Belfast, re the late
Londonderry contest: —" It remains to bo seen whether
to-morrow it will sacrifice all for which Liberal Preaby-
terians and Liberal electors of other denominations in
that county have struggled for the saka of the time-
serving and blasphemous Sir Samuel Wilson, who, with
his landlord supporters, talks ef tenant right, truth,
and righteousness, while depending on falsehood, yili-
flcation, and mammon." Now, this was written under
British press law. We wonder what Sir William Man-
ning thinks of it.
We have been shown a really beautiful work of
art in the shape of a portrait on opal of Mr, J. Tonng,
the well-known contractor. It is from the studio of
Mr. Satohell, and is the first of its kind ever produced
in the colonies. The fineness and delicacy of the lines,
and the soft shadows and clear lights of the picture,
with its artistic finish and general ensemble, are snch as
to commend it at once even to an uneducated eye. Mr.
Satohell is a recent arrival here, and has not yet had
time to take that place among our local artists which
his undoubted talents will doubtless ere long assure
him.
Mr. Edmund Tates recently caused some sensa-
tion by certain statements which appeared in his paper.
Truth, concerning the relations of a female member of
the Boyal family and her consort. The very high-toned
journals have written very strongly indeed about the
matter, and it was stated by one of them that lota had
been drawn in a certain club as to who should castigate
Yates. Mr. Y. is plucky, good with bis fists,
and a clever pistol-shot; bat since being threatened, ho
has been accompanied in pnblie by a youthful relative
whose proficiency in pugilism is a household word in
athletic circles.
Fred. Maccabe does not like goody-goody people,
and, in a letter describing his voyage to Sydney, he says
the vessel was full of " solemn old women, namby-pamby
yonngOUes, and a parson whose morning prayer-meetings
in the saloon were noisy howling and the singing excru-
ciating discord." A fortnight of this, accompanied by
little scandals and nibbling at private reputations, made
Fred, very mad. He describes Sydney as like a busy
suburb of London, but the climate treacherous; the
hotels high in price, and the boarding-houses like peni-
tentiaries, where you must have your meals according
as the servants arrange them or not at all.
Mr. Labonchere hears that the engagement of
the Duke of Albany has produced a little passing un-
pleasantness at Buckingham Palace, the Prince having
violated the rigid etiquette of the English
Court by engaging himself before he had for-
mally asked for, and obtained, the sanction of the
Queen. The marriage is understood to have been
brought about by the Grand Duke of Hesse. Maps of
Germany have been in great request at Windsor Castle,
as nobody had the vaguest idea as to the location of the
principality of Waldeck. •* It’s a fine landing for her,"
is said to have been John Brown’s remark.
In “ dear dirty Dublin,” resides Lady Corrigan,
wife of the succe, sful medico of that name. Her young
hopeful was a Lieutenant in a marching regiment in
the Zulu war, and was in the habit of writing rather
high-flowa accounts of the number of Zulus he had
jslain. His fond mother thought it a dreadful thing
that he should send so many souls to eternity, and, be-
ing a pious Catholic, issued cards to all her acquaint-
ances, requesting them "to pray for the souls of the
deceased Zulus." The next day, a ballad was composed
and snug at all the street corners, the refrain of which
was:—
"Of your charity, pray for the sowla of the Zulus
young Corrigan kilt."
Corrigan has not yet heard the end of it.
The other day we had a “ personal” paragraph
about Oscar Wylde. An esteemed correspondent now
writes: —“ Oscar Wylde is son of the late Dr., after-
wards Sir, William Wylde, who was prisoner some years
ago on a charge of professional impropriety (to put it
mildly). A lady had been put under chloroform, and
the evidence showed that Wylde, senior, had not been
strictly aesthetic in his behaviour to the fair patient.
Oscar’s mamma wrote poetry under the name of " Spe-
ranza." Lady Wylde was a corpulent, over-dressed
matron, in Dublin, who tried with more perseverance
than success to get into society. It is a mistake to
dress too much; dressing too little is a much surer
passport to the society of Uppertendom. She managed,
however, to collect at her house in Merrion-square large
representative gatherings of the theatrical and other
professional classes. * Handle’ himself was educated at
Portora, a not flrst-clasa Irish school, where he failed
to attain any distinction.
The London “society” papers profess to have
discovered that Christine Nillson was not born in Sweden
at -all, bat In France. This is a French mere's nest.
There is a former playfellow of Christine’s now in
Sydney, Captain Eosengren, well-known in the Island
trad*, and he tells a quite different story, fully endors-
ing the old accounts of Christine's early days. The
great prims donna was born at Wexijo, in Sweden, of
poor parents who live close to the residence of Captain
Eosengren’s people. Her vocal gifts happened to
attract the notice of a musical virtuoso, Baron Tor-
nerhjelm, who immediately interested himself in the
little wonder. By his care and influence the child was
placed with Baroness Lehauasen, an old friend of the
Eosengren family, under whose roof and supervision
the development and training of her voice were carried
on. Atlthis period, in her hours of recreation, Christine
and young Eosengren were constant playmates. With
this accomplished lady, Christine remained several y*ars,
until she had attained an age when it became desirable
that she should continue her musical studies at the
great schools of the art.
Mr. Walter Powell, M.P., who, there now ftp
pears little doubt, perished im the balloon in which he
tried to cross the Channel, was a great favourite in
England. No more popular or better-hearted man ever
breathed. A thorough sportsman at heart, full of
daring and love of adventure, it is more than ten years
ago since he and Mr. W. H. P. Jenkins (better known
of old in the pigskin as “ Mr. P. Merton") started on
an expedition to Northern Abysinnia, to wage war on
their own account against a tribe of assassins. The
victims of this African tribe were Mr. Powell’s brother
and Mrs. Powell (sister of Mr. Jenkins); they had bean
travelling beyond Egypt, and while so doing were way-
laid and massacred. Eadicals were in power then, and
the Civia Romanus sum doctrine was naturally held
cheap by the Manchester school. But Messrs. Powell
and Jenkins, like th* Fabii of old, vires et oitus susctps.
rant urbis— only with better success. They equipped
an expedition, started for Egypt, obtained the assist-
ance of some Egyptian cavalry from the Khedive, and
marched to the scene of their relatives’ murder. They
had little difficulty in identifying the guilty community,
for its chief was found wearing the clothes of the al«in
Englishman. The vendetta of the British amateur
army was complete; they took and sacked the village,
and blood for blood was paid. When the news of this
bold and successful retaliation for the murder of
British travellers reached England, the Radical press
affected to be shocked at such summary vengeance, and
preached homilies against the modern crusaders;' bub
public feeling showed that if any had cause to bo
ashamed of themselves it was the Ministry, for not
making the act of retribution a national one.
Says a North Queensland paper:—“Mr. Fred.
Cooper, one of the Members for Cook, has been • enterl
ing the lion’s dan;* in other words, starring the
electorate. Notwithstanding all the ‘running down*
favoured him behind his back, he secured votes of oonfi.
deuce wherever he has been up to the present." No
more accurate picture of the man was ever presented
than this. Fred. Cooper is the Northern phototype of
a certain very oleaginous Southern politician, who, like
Fred., parts his hair in the middle. Fred, has a smooth
face, and a smooth tongue. He says soft nothings to
to you. You know it’s all " guiver;" but you take it
all in. When he’s gone you immediately denounce him
as a humbug (only politically, of course). While he
stands before you, you try to think he’s a good fellow ;
when he turns his back, you immediately perceive that
you, an humble e.ector, are getting into the toils of
the Far Northern boa-con stricter, who washes you
down with saliva before he swallows you, Fred.
Cooper is over six feet high, and was formerly in the
New South Wales Civil Service. He is known in the
Far North as » Elegant Fred ," for in the depths of
the wilderness he manages to presprve a not inconsider-
able amount of that high-toned refinement which
characterises his dress and deportment whenever he
bestows on Sydney and Melbourne the honour of a
visit. He is the only man in the world who would put
“ brilliantine" on his glossy beard while travelling
between the Hodgkinson and Georgetown; the only
fellow in the Far North who would wear a £3O came®
while baling out " Mulligan’s waterhole.” Yet, once
upon a time, we saw "Elegant Fred.” under the
necessity of lying in bed while they were washing a
8 hirt f»r him.
After all, it would appear that Mr. Sendall,
whose appointment as Governor of Natal the Home
Government lately thought it wise to cancel, in view
of the strong remonstrances of the Colonists, is
not Sir Hercules Hobinson’s nominee. In order to
explain the matter, it is necessary to relate a little bit
of family history. Some flve-and.thirty years ago a
subaltern in an infantry regiment, which was then


RILEY BROTHERS,
888 HEOEOE STREET, 1
600 GEORGE STREET, £ SYDNEY
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND,
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DRAPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE ORIGINATORS OF THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
£B Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large siza
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards W incey. Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2$ yards Qambroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large siza Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 B»lt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket'kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. <kc.
Mother’s Jtß Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pairs Ladies' Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Fettiooat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Planl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants* Long Flannels
1 Infanta’ Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
i dozen Infants’ Diaper
Sonar es
Puff Box, Puff & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infants’ Christ’ing Rohe
1 Infant’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infants’ Christening
Hood or Hat.
JES Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 largo Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
13 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 Men’s Clothing'
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 beat Cotton Shirts, largo
size
1 beet Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, 4c.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies' Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
8 Night-gawns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or rod Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 largo White Towels
3 yards gi
Tweed
Thread,
£S Menu
25 yds. Blae ■
3 yards Bl»> y .
1 dozen C-
-1 Black St
1 Lady’s I.
1 Trimmei. 1 v
1 pair Qlo
RILEY BROTHERS’
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 Infants’ Christ
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants' Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants' Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Musli
Long Christening Robe
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmer
Square, trimmed quilte
1 Infant’s White Satin o
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Ball
or Steamer,
£2 Stockman 1
Parcel.
8 £2 Ladies’ Farce
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 Soft Pelt Hat
1 Elastic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage tree by Bail
or Steamer.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Lair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Ball
or Steamer.
We wish it to be distinctly understood that a
article in the Bales may be changed for some other
about the same price,
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOR BOYS.
School Suits, 2s 0d
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Picnic Suits, 3s lid
Sunday Suits, 7s Cd
Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakespeare Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 9Jd
Linen Collars, 4sd
Elastic Braces, 3d
Cotton Socks, 3d
Neckties, 3d
FOB LADIES,
Dolman Mantles, 12s 9d
Satteen Prints, 3|d
Dress Materials, 4|d
Black Alpaca, Sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hats, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, 1s Hd
Strong Stays, 2s Qd
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2a 6d)
Muslin Edging, 2sd
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 91
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOE MEN.
Working Shires. Is 6d
White Shirts, 2s 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 4*d
Seamless Socks, 6d
Elastic Braces, 6d
Tweed Suits, 19s 6d
Summer Saits, 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9s 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s <sd
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed Pagets, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s fld
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakespeare Hats, 2s 6d
Colonial Tweed, 2a 6d
Silk Umbrellas, 7s 6d
FOR THE HOUSE.
American Longcloth, 3s<
Nightshirt Cafico, 4|d
Grey Calico, 2|d
Doable width Calico, 7id
Pillow Calico, 6Jd
Swansdown Calico,
White Flannel, 74d
Wide Flannel, H|d
Scarlet Flannel, 7|d
Saxony Flannel, Hid
Cotton Tick, 3M
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, s}d
Unbleached Sheeting. 74
White Sheeting, 7>,d
Twilled Sheeting, 9id
Mosquito Net, OJd
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS PRICE LlST.—Persona who may read
advertisement must not think that because the pr
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods aie i
common. They are by no means the commonest go
We have lower prices still; but the tact is. compel!
Dow m the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Syd
but with manufacturers in England, that good arti
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THI
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
stationed in Ireland, made a runaway marriage with the
daughter of an Irish peer. The lady’s family, like wise
and prudent people, made the best of the case. The
young officer retired from the army, and received a
civil appointment in Ireland under the Commissioners
of Public Works and Poor Law Board. Pushed on by
the influence of his wife’s family, the young man
prospered. One thing led to another, and in 1854 he
was made President of the interesting island of Mont-
serrat, twelve miles long and eight miles broad.
Thence he became Lieutenant-Governor of St.
Christopher's, twenty-three miles long and five miles
broad. From thencs he passed to Hong-Eong, an
island eleven miles long and from two to fire miles
broad. Thence he became Governor of Ceylon, which
is 256 miles long and 140 broad. Thence ha became
Governor of New South Wales, and from thence
Governor of New Zealand. In all this, the prospering
young man was helped onward by his wife’s family
Influence. As a proof that this family influence was not
small, it may be mentioned that the gentleman's
brother, who married another daughter ot the same
family, is now Assistant Secretary of State for Ireland.
The interest which ladies take in the education of
black children is well known, and this is the lever which
the Chadbands and Stigginses of modem society use in
their desire to fatten themselves on funds which should
be devoted to the regeneration of white society. Thera
can be no doubt that when the lady referred to was in
the position of wife of the Governor of Ceylon, she took
a great interest in the education of black children, and
found a Superintendent of Education who shared that
interest with her. If it should prove true that that
rising yeung man is now Governor of the Cape of Good
Hope, and that that Superintendent of Education in
Ceylon is the very gentleman who was lately
appointed to the Lieutenant-Governorship of Natal,
and afterwards displaced, as mentioned above,
would it not he reasonable to infer, taking all the
circumstances into consideration, that Mr. Sendall is
not the nominee of Sir Hercules Robinson, hut of Sir
Hercules Robinson’s distinguished and accomplished
lady ?
Professor Pepper has deseribed, in the Bris-
bane Courier, his plan for tapping the clouds. By the
way, how are yon, Professor ? Happy to renew the
acquaintance. Ton’ll remember us, no doubt.
Christmas holidays, 1858: Lecture hall, in the Poly-
technic; small boy, sandy hair, round jacket, helltopper
hat, handsome snub nose, elegantly freckled—seventh
row from the platform right-hand side of the passage.
Of course, you remember us. We remember you very
well, indeed. You will recollect that the bottom of
our pocket gave way, and fourteen marbles, including
an agate taw of priceless worth, made a procession
down our trousers lag, and thence rattled one after
another, step by step, down to the lower levels. You
paused, don’t you remember, ia your lecture, and intro-
duced a slight and cursory digression on the origin of
marbles, and the inevitable fate of small boys who drop
them in lecture rooms. And you gave some interesting
scientific information respecting the influence exercised
by the sound of dropping globular bodies on the arterial
system, as illustrated by the extreme redness which our
face had assumed. The audience was immensely
interested. Oh, of course, yon cannot fail to remember
But where’s that agate-taw ? We want it hack. How-
ever, to resume. The Professor’s argument ia that if
a clond is charged either with positive or negative
electricity, the particles er vesicles of which it is com-
posed repel each other, and as the production of water
or rain ia caused by the coalescence or coming together
of these vesicles, rain cannot fall until the cloud is
discharged or thrown into an electro-polar state, so
that one end of the cloud is positive, and the other end
negative. This important change can be brought about
by connecting one part of the cloud with the earth.
To effect this object, the Professor proposes to follow
the example set by Benjamin Franklin, hut with 20-feet
kites. The kites will bristle with large needles or
points, and will have broad strips of tinfoil radiating
to and connected with the edges of the kite. The kite
string is to be thin iron wire in one-mile lengths, sub-
divided into half and quarter-mile lengths, which can
easily be attached to another mile, or other miles, by
the common ring and swivel, such as is used in wearing
a watch and chain. A nine-pounder field gun, with
limber, is to be employed to work the kite, the limber
to oorry the wire and drums, together with a ratchet
appliance for hauling down the kite. The cannon itself
is to bo used to fire shells into a clond so soon as the
kite, having entered the latter, shall have brought the
vapour into proper electrical condition. The surround,
ing population are to be warned by firing of blank
cartridges, or by troopers sent to scour the country in
a radius of six miles, to keep indoors while the shelling
is in progress. The Professor calculates that “ the
chances are 1000 to 1 against anyone being hit by the
falling fragments.”. These are the usual odds against
naming the winners of “ the Cup " and “ the Derby,"
and we would remind the Professor that the double
event has been palled off more than once. The experi-
ment is to be tried on Saturday.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Tin struck on Fraser’s station, Port Douglas
Hoad.
Oysters are now 3a. 6d. to 4s. per doaen in
London.
Gympie and Maryborough have 14,000 inhabi-
tants, and no dentist.
1200 officers and men attended the funeral of
the late Colonel Anderson.
The Irish judges have pronounced against a
suspension of trial by jury.
Old H. H. Lane, night watchman on the railway
at Newcastle, killed by an engine, was found to have
£260 in notes and gold sewn in his clothes.
Jack, Newell, Moffatt, and Brandon, of the
Herberton (N.Q.) tin prospecting claim, divided £4OOO
as the result of their last month’s operations.
In 1881, the gold shipped from Cooktown was
42,978 os. Besides this, a large quantity, of which no
official record was taken, left by private hands.
£eorge Searcy, 27 years of age, treasurer of
fche Melbourne Metropolitan Building Society, and a
«reU-ks.osyft pricketer, has pleaded guilty to embezzling
£6OO.
Mrs. Snicks*, wih of the well-known fruiterer,
of Collins-street, Molhwnp. last weak poisoned herself
with si* grains of while in a state of tem-
porary irritation.
The closing of pn Sunday, has,
according to the Maitland correspondent of a Sydney
religious journal, resulted in an unusual degree of
drunkenness on that day.
Another new line of steamers is coming to
Australia. The famous Aberdeen clippers, which have
frrtfin the pride of the port in their day, are to give way.
■yaps fjyst steamer leaves in March.
Tba Oabcoar Chronicle says that during a
local whirlwind a dozen sheep which had taken shelter
ander a verandah, were swept from their ref age and hurled
through the air fo* some distance.
At Charters T o-weys police court, the other
day, a woman openly admitted that she knew that the
naan she married at the Towers fasd a wife in England
at the time she allowed him to lead hey to the hymeneal
altar.
At Dubbo Anniversary Day races, a drunken
man got in front ot five running horses. Three jockeys
were hurt, and one has died. Two horses had to be
shot. The drunkard himself was hurt. There was lots
pfrowdyism,
The Herberton (N.Q.) Tin Mining Company has
tooeu successfully floated with a capital of £50.000. As
the machinery is on the ground, operations will be com-
rueneed at oncp, and the first crushing may be looked
for in a lew months' time.
A great portion of the 170,000 acres of sugar
Zand taken up on the JJordekin has now passed into
the hands of capitalists who are preparing to com-
mence work, and one firm has already sent for 120
kanakas to carry out the work of the new plantation.
At Glen Innes, the other day, a huge gum-tree
was struck by lightning and severely split. The follow,
ing day it was struck again, and reduced to chips, which
were scattered in all directions. We also learn from a
correspondent that “ while a gentleman was standing in
his verandah he was touched by lightning, and lost the
use of his left arm and hand for aboat five minutes.
On turning round he {saw a ball of fire hanging on a
string supporting a canvas bag containing water. He
was unable to rest his head that night on his left side,
but is now getting better.”
The offence for which Carroll, ox-M.L.A. for
Ararat in the Victorian Assembly, who is shortly to be
released from gaol, was sentenced, was defrauding a
Melbourne firm, for he acted as agent, by obtain-
ing money for advances on imaginary consignments of
wool, oto.
A syndicate of capitalists has been formed in
Melbourne for the construction of the Queensland
Southern Trans-continental Railway. Mr. John Benn,
of Grice, Summer, and Co., is chairman, and Mr.
Tuckett, secretary. This mast be Gresley Lukin’s
syndicate.
Some samples of coal from Hell’s Gate, Palmer
have been received at Cooktown. They were
taken from a wide seam, which can be easily developed,
and which is situated close to the lino of the proposed
railway to Maytown. The coal burns brightly, and is
said to bo far superior to that obtained at Ipswich.
Since the loss of the Wotonga, the A.S.N. Co.
have re-appointed third officers in all their steamers.
They are also, it is said, about to re-appoint third
engineers. The Union S.S. Co., of N.Z , are about to
issue a notice that no engineer or officer over thirty
years of age need apply for service in the company’s
vessels.
Lieutenant Ponsonby, R.N., recently cashiered
for seducing a barmaid who committed suicide, took
the unfortunate girl away from her employment at the
London Criterion, and, according to the Pall Mall
Gazette, deserted her four days afterwards, leaving
her without any money and in a physical condition
which cannot be described.
Writes a correspondent:— ‘‘Herberton (Wild
River tin mines) is going ahead, the population being
now larger than that of any inland place north of
Townsville. 1 hey had good races there the other day,
the ‘ tin ’ plate of £2OO being the chief prize. The
only drawback is the scarcity of women, a disadvantage
shared to a greater or less extent by every town and
district in the Far North.”
The kanakas who murdered Jerry Worth, the
Bundaberg bailiff, came behind their victim while he
was smoking at his door-step, and with one blow cut off
one-third of his skull. A second blow was given, cut-
ting the left side of the skull, and a third, which out
the left side of the face into the ear. The whole affair
was most savage and brutal, for no assigned cause or
reason.
The statement of Mr. Maopherson, who had an
arm torn off by one of Wilson's lions at Albnry, the
other day:—“l had a bit of drink in me, and, seeing
one of the beasts lying there so quietly, I thought I
would stroke his face, and did so. I never thought an
animal could snap so quickly as he did." This is exactly
the story that the rat told about the trap. It really
can’t have been the business end of the lion that “ The
Vagabond" caressed.
The latest Nihilistic plot detected was to cause
a balloon, carrying explosives and combustibles, to de-
scend on the Czar’s Palace at Gatschina, and set it on
fire. Daring the confusion the Czar was to be secured.
A bragging letter gave a clue to the conspiracy, and
among the participants arrested are the Chief of Police
of an important provincial town, two young ladies,
daughters of a high State official, a number of students,
and two Jewish merchants.
Porpoises are now unusually numerous in Port
Jackson. Portland (Vio ) has, during the last few
days, been visited by a shoal of these strange marine
creatnres, which has been variously described as con-
sisting of any number of individual members between
thousands and millions. The procession seemed to be
half-a-mile long, and it is by some alleged that the
porpoises were in porsnit of a large number of seals,
which they drove before them.
At Charleville, the other day, a young stock-
man came across a large boar. Having no weapon at
hand, he ran to a horseman who was passing by and
borrowed from him his stirrup-iron and strap, but
before he ocnid use his extemporised weapon the hoar
rushed upon him, and, planting his fore feet against
his chest, hurled him to the ground, and then attempted
to rip his throat); his arm, however, received the wound.
The hoar was pulled off by dogs.
Some curious alleged facts having come to light
respecting transactions of the Bank of New Zealand, at
Auckland, Sir George Grey is to move that 1 here be a
Parliamentary investigation of its books. This course
was once taken with the Bank of England. An ax-
traordinary event has happened in connection with the
Bank of N.Z. A Mr. Sherrin having published a pam-
phlet on its management, an edition of 5000 copies has
entirely disappeared; supposed to have been destroyed
by interested persona.
The gang of ruffians in New York who consti-
tute Redmond Macnamara’s band have now published a
programme of their future schemes. Among these
schemes is one by which a prize of five thousand dollars
is offered to the man who murders Mr. Forster—pro-
vided it occurs before February 1, 1882—«nd five thou-
sand dollars to the man who murders Mr. Gladstone.
Eight men have already, so they say, engaged them-
selves for the task, and others are over to destroy the
Houses of Parliament.
0A girl, Annie Gifford, sixteen years of age, has
been committed for trial for the murder of her illegiti-
mate child at Toolamba, near Shepparton (Vio.) There
were twenty-two stabs on the back and chest and face,
as if from a knife, and a number of marks of a sharp
heel of a boot, as if the body had been jumped upon.
The liver was bruised and lacerated, the stomach
burst, and the branch of a tree had been thrust down
the throat to prevent screaming, lacerating the mouth
and lungs so brutally that ths body was raised from the
ground in extricating it.
A correspondent of the Talbot Leader states
with reference to the headless corpse recently found
in that neigbourhood, that a precisely similar ease
happened in the same locality 25 years ago, the headless
skeleton being that of a red-haired woman. As the
headless body jnst found la that of a rad-haired man,
the Leader’s correspondent adventures the theory that
the murdered man was the son of the murdered woman;
that as a little boy be had become possessed ot informa-
tion which he held in terrorism, over the head of the
murderer—possibly his father.
A Northern hotelkeeper ia in trouble. He haa
to face the criminal court on & charge of having robbed
one of his lodgers, who after running a lo»g course of
intemperance while under his ” care" had at last to bo
removed down to Dunwich Asylum as an incurable and
not likely to live long. Said lodger had been in the
habit of receiving P.O. money orders from England,
and after his removal to the af ylum, the landlord, it is
alleged, opened a letter containing orders for a big sum,
presented same at the post office, got the money, and
gave a receipt in the name ot his absent lodger, whom
he personated.
“ Mooney Dwyer,” a strapping aboriginal, wag
brought up at Ballarat (V ), the other day for being
drunk. Wfien Ut the look-up, Mr. Dwyer illustrated
the proverbial hatred qf blackfellows towards the
*• Heathen Chinee ” by a specimen of the
latter race in the following terms“ Hj.cn Ghjnkey no
good; him no black man, him no vbite man; him no
likee work—go steal chook.” Mooney Dwyer was
discharged by the Bench, and he intimated his inten-
tion of visiting Coranderrk for the purpose of procuring
a lubra, as his former partner has recently departed for
the happy hunting grounds.
The Braidwood Dispatch says: “A poor,
unfortunate fellow, evidently a gentleman by birth and
education, who has been knocking about Braidwood for
the past fejy days in a state bordering on the horrors,
was the other day, by the direction of a certain store-
keeper in this town, pelted with eggs—we will not say
rotten ones—‘high-class’ storekeepers don’t keep them.
The poor fellow was glad (tq escape fjrom his tormentors,
and lost his hat, which was completely covered with
‘egg sauce.' Another storekeeper, tap more humane
and less egotistical, gave the upfortunatg man a new
collar, a pair of socks, and other things, and Messrs.
Kingsland and Malone kindly gave him a free passage
away in the mail coach.”
All the Ballarat constables who happen to bo
tall, and to have dark whiskers, had a pleasant little
pantomime the other day. A charge had been made by
a girl, Roberts, against a constable, of indecent assault,
and in her evidence she stated that a very tall stranger
had called on her, offering to provide funds for the
prosecution. As the stranger oould not be identified,
and was supposed to be a member of the force
endeavouring to damage the reputation of one of his
brethren, all the policemen between sft. 9in. and 6ft.
4in. were inspected by the damsel, who, however, failed
te recognise “ the stranger," and averred that he was
taller than any of them. The bobbies did not relish the
performance, and one or two of them, who were very
tall and very young, suffered keenly under the girl’s
inspection.
The wooden station buildings at Junee Junction
were destroyed by fire cn the 26th ultimo. The flames
caught the buildings on both sides of the line, and the
mail train had to be rnshed through at lightning speed.
A child locked in an upstairs room was only noticed in
time to be saved from being burnt to death. Jenkins,
the contractor for additions to the refreshment room,
loses about £1000; Castner, the lessee, loses £l3OO
beyond his insurance of £2400 in the City Mutual Com-
pany. Government cash and telegraph instruments
were saved, but books, stationery, and furniture were
destroyed, and the officials lost all their clothes, &c. A
crowd of holiday folks celebrating the Anniversary Day
in the neighbourhood were present, some helping, bet
many “ saving ” the grog and giving it internal stow-
age for security.
A thief who had taken some spoons from a
public house on the Wild River (N.Q.), was tied to a
tree for some hours with a placard over his head set-
ting forth his offence. This reminds us that some
years ago there lived on the Hodgkinson, a miner,
known as ‘‘Frank the Austrian," Frank was pretty
lucky, and one day set out from his camp with the in-
tention of going to the port and getting married. When
evening came he put up his fly, boiled his billy, and
turned in. Then a young scoundrel, named Cunning,
ham, came along the track, pulled up at Frank’s tent
and got a feed. Frank went to sleep, whereupon Cun-
nmgham shot him through the head with a revolver,
and took his money. Having been seen in possession of
property belonging to the murdered man, he was
arrested, and the police, while bringing him up to the
Hodgkinson, made a point of chaining him up for the
night to the very tree under which the hospitality of
an honest miner had. been returned by brutal and
cowardly murder.
The other day the S. M. Herald stated that
certain cablegrams, announcing the intention of the
Sultan to dismiss all the English officers in his service,
and supply their places with Germans, ‘‘should be
received with caution " Thus a writer in one ot the
leadiog English journals, dated 15th Dec.:—“ I heir with
regret that General Valentine Baker’s important
scheme for the foundation ot a gendarmerie in Turkey
is likely to bo hopelessly frustrated ; that he himself
may probably, and that those British officers serving
under him will certainly, be obliged to quit the Sultan’s
service at the end of the year. Ths evil destiny which
is at work here may be traced to Osman Pasha, that
red-haired (hybrid whose implacable jealousy of the
English officers, and in particular his envious prejudice
against General Baker, have assumed the form of au
active palace conspiracy to work the removal of the
authors of the gendarmerie scheme. Osman Pasha’s
objection is not quite apparent in some quarters. But
I believe lamin a position to supply the clue. The
defender of Plevna, from an inscrutable reason, has set
up a violent friendship for the Germans, and he desires
to restore the old Zaptieh force, to be drilled and
commanded by the Teutonic soldiers of fortune who
are now crowding the entrance of the palace. Can it
bo that some of Bismarck’s Groschen are at work hero P ’’
The Bathurst larrikins come out in their
grandest form on Sundays. As they haven’t any
Clontarf to go to, they go to church. But not inside.
No, they prefer the exterior, and this is what they do :
they muster in regular regiments and march up to the
buildings they desire to patronise, fully armed with
dirty pipes and reeking with bad tobacco. Their
olothes are malodorous, and their tweed suits offensive
to every one of the five senses. They form two solid
lines at the entrance of the church, and, with butoher-
ons epithets, insolent stares, and a mixture of foetid
breath and foul smoke, oast their insults on those who
have courage to run the gauntlet. Ladies are targets
upon whom they more especially lavish their filthy
gibes and ghoulish leers. All the churches are favoured,
hut All Saints’ Cathedral has bean the principal ren-
dezvous of late. The excuse for this state of things
made by the police is, that those zealous and intelligent
officers cannot go everywhere, and so—they go no-
where. The police magistrate, in giving the senior-
sergeant a sort of public wigging in the court recentlv,
said that if the nuisance were not abated by the police,
the citizens would have to act in their own defence:
and further that if any member of his own family had
been insulted, he would have knocked the larrikin
down at once, and he considered any citizen would be
justified in doing the same.
A habit is becoming prevalent among some
classes in England, which threatens to rival drunken,
ness in its baneful effects. To cheer low spirits, to
assuage pain, to calm feverish excitement, mankind has
always had recourse to drugs of some kind. Opium,
hasheesh, alcohol, chloral, have all been used; hut a
new anodyne ia now ooming to the front: it is morphia.
From a small pointed instrument which just pierces
the skin, a drop ia injected into the veins, and at once
affects the whole frame. The operation is almost pain-
less, the result ecstatic ; there is a pervading sense of
comfort, beautiful visions appear, every shadow of
thought and care disappears, and a delicious langour
supervenes. In exceptional cases, the morphia excites
to intellectual effort, to a glorious feeling of untram-
melled power, of uncrippled exercise of the highest
faculties; but, at the height ot the enchantment, the
influence subsides, the glory fades, the visions become
obscure, the comfort changes to pain, and the mental
view that had seen all things through a flood of rosy
light is shrouded by the white, cold darkness of a
winter fog. Then the doses are renewed, the intervals
become shorter, and the drug-fiend reigns and ruins. Tee
final effects are terrible; by degrees the mind becomes
darkened, hideous fears seize upon it, self-control ia
lost, imbecility overtakes the weak, and madness
threatens the strong. Even now, men of genius and
women of beauty in England are known to be slaves lo
this disease of morphio-mania, in their endeavours to
troubles and obtain immunity from self.
But the temporary relief is followed by a fearful re-
action ; the brief nepenthe is dearly bought, and the
agonies of Tartarus seem to beset the being who once
becomes slave to the Morphia fiend, and then tries to
shake off bis power.
Tha death of Mrs. Watson closes one of the
saddest tales of suffering, and shows one of the grandest
instances of heroic fortitude in the annals of Australian
history. She was left on Lizard Island by her husband,
a heche-de-mer trader, with a baby and two Chinese
servants. On the 27th September the blacks came, next
day speared one Chinaman, and on the 30th speared the
other in seven places, but the dauntless woman de-
fended herself so resolutely with firearms as to drive
them temporarily away. But to remain was certain
death, and on the 3rd October she escaped in an iron
tank, with her child, the wounded Chinaman, and a
supply of provisions, clothes, firearms, and books.
They floated all night, and next day landed on a bare
reef, where she remained till the 6th. Water gave out,
and the poor hunted woman pulled the tank and its
contents over to No. 1 Island of the Howick Group.
Search for water there was in vain, but natives were
there, so she again started, and reached No. 5 Island,
40 miles away, on the Bth. There, surrounded with
water —but all salt; with plenty of provisions, which
her parched and swollen throat could not swallow;
with her child, only a few months old, dying before her
eyes, while she herself suffered the tortures of Tan-
talus; she died of thirst. To the last, she thought of
others, her ‘diary arid the bandages found beside the
bones showed she tad been dressing the Chinaman’s
wounds, and each day’s entry jn tjig book showed ttyat
her baby was her chief care. The diary was
regularly, and on the last day, the lith October, it
closes with these words, ‘‘No rain. Ah Sam gone away
to die. Baby more cheerful; self not at all well.
Have not seen any boats of any description. No water.
Dead with thirst.” Death could not have been very
long after, for she had then been five days without a
drink. And not a word of fretfulness or bewailing ovjr
her own terrible sufferings! Her diary was brought to
Brisbane, and the Lizard Island blacks have been
punished by the Queensland police. In all the records
t»f womanly heroism and indomitable pluck, no instance
can be found whore death was faced with a braver heart
than by Mrs. Watson. Jn another cqlunm are some
yerses on the subject, sept by a contribptgr. A great
public funeral was held at Cooktown, on the 23rd
ultimo, over the remains of Mrs. Watson, hgr l)aby, and
the Chinaman. The coffins, ip the Town Hall, were
visited by many. Almost all the various societies, and
public official bodies, Sunday schools, fire brigade, and
a large number of the public were in the procession.
The remains of Ah Sam also received every mark of
respect from his countrymen, being followed by the
Chinese band; while all the national customs were
observed at the grave.


Hotels, fro.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—-Cockbum’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The oompagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
whieh is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior ** Alcock ” table,
is undor the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organised
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris' Caf<s, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAPE and RESTAURANT tor Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cokes, and ornamented
the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(]has. r. Qmith,
MANAGER.
SCHWEPPE’S MINERAL WATERS
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
can bo obtained of the principal hotelkeepers, wine
merchants and chemists throughout the colonies.
LITHIA (for
gout),
SELTZER,
TONIC,
MAGNESIA
Waters,
51 Beenres-street, London,
and
68 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
SODAW-ATER,
LEMONADE,
GINGER ALE,
POTASS,
Hotel*, fee
K
I A M A HOTE
G. TORT, Proi
Commercial Travellers, Exon
seekers, and persons travelling ge:
hotel the best and cheapest on th(
splendid table kept, and every com
travelling shows, &c. Sample ito
Travellers.
The “ Laycock” Coach meets th(
passengers, luggage, &c..toand fro
part of the country. Baggies at
hire. Billiards.
I
■P
rpHE CITY ICE COMPANY
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TOl
ore prepared to Supply the LUXI
PEOACHING SUMMER, at a k>
For prices, &0..
Apply to
3 WTNTAED STB
OB TO TAB!
R
OBEET BIJTC]
(Late William Lc
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
634 GEORGE STR
OPPOSITE TOWN HALT
Country Orders Receive Pec
Australian “hoiv
SEWING MACHII
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
ling* prolit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a yeai
EXPRESSj
tsei
MOSS «j
*
&
qA/
THE HOME SHUTTLE L(
Manufactured for us, has the abc
name on the work p’
PURCHASE NO OTHI
We solicit information of the att<
terfeits of the above Machine, whi
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genui;
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE NOW SOLD (
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLI
Do., WITH COVER COME
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
M. MOSS~AN[
WYNYAED LANE, S
w
H. A E
PROVISION MERC!
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 345 Kekt-street, nbai
SOLE AGENT for the imdermenti
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lone
TobMeonla
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS 1
AMERICAN TOB
T
sp«c
BIX:
HB following facts are cot
resources, and, therefore, i
eial interest <—
SOU AND PONS paid duty ii
All the others paid duty in 1880 oa
HIXSON AND SONS paid doty ii
All the othsns paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco p
on for the two years was 0n1y..,
DIXSON AND SON’S BE.
YANKEE DOODLE, C
SIS ROGER, GOL:
OUT SUET, OSIENTA
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror ai
genuine “Tin Tag,” each plu
Roths Sings® Tin Tag, st
ql'Ekok " ©r “ Yankee
ALL TOBACCONISTS* GOO
' . '
OD v
J.EVB . TOBACCO!
JAMES
No. 149 KING S r
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and tmbi
149 KING STEEI
Loans granted witi
moderate rates, on all kinds c
manta to suit convenience of borx
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-i
King-street. Established 1859.
pLATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPERS AN GIN (
(a really splendid ai
ROOM and PICTtfRfrfEAME
KENT'S IStiBSl
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOt
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEI
MEECHANTI
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
ORL'P :
AND
It is ot the utmost importance 1
bottle should be carefully oompan
are being imported into Now Sc
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevei
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will fhn
least 10 per cent, in favour of L
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
MAE T I N
AUSTRALIAN WINE M
AND BEEE BOT
105 PITT STEE]
SYDNEY,
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s ]
Th« Nwn# of M. MOSS k 00,
la on every Genuine Bottle.
E. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND QIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
iS Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-screet),
And
Darlinghorst Road, near William-street.
Pore Gape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
Stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B. —Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
gMITH AND YEALE )
PROPERTY SALESMEN, LAND and ESTATE
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Properties placed in our bands for positive sale, we
advertise free.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRI
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
BOOTS.
ASK FOE
WOOD AND CO.'S
CELEBRATED GOULBUEN
BOOTS,
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
•SIOOH
BOOTS.
•sxooa
M. T H O M A.
IMPORTER OF
WOEKS OF AET,
GEEMAN AND SWISS WOOD CAEYINGS,
AECADE BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
The ameeican caeeiage
repository,
CORNER CtiARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.


TO PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re.
cover your debts or obtain the best solicitors* advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
WANTED, SUBSCRIBERS to the Syd-
ney Bulletin. W. Eownet, Booksell-jr,
News Agent, and Stationer, Queensland, Brisbane.
OP GOOD PURE TEA!
We beg to draw your
PARTICULAR ATTENTION
to the
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’S
PACKET TEAS,
Paokedjin pounds and half-pounds
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
PUEE CEYLON TEA,
PUEE JAVA TEA,
2s. and 2s. 6d. per lb.
2s. 6d, and 3s. per lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. poi lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TiiA COMPANY,
279 PITT STEEET (next School of Arts),
SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
Ift ft 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TEADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYEES ONLY,
lEONMONGEEY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEEES, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SOEIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
NEW BUILDINGS. New Buildings. New
Buildings, 29, 81, 33 Park-street. CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LEVY & CO. beg to
draw the attention of the Public generally, to the large
stock of English Furniture just opened, and now ready
for Sale at their large and beautifully stocked Show
Rooms, comprising Drawing and Dining Eoom Suites,
Plate glass door and other Wardrobes in Cedar, Walnut,
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all descriptions, Loo
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and Bedding. Crockery,
Glassware, Holloware, and every requisite for parties
about to furnish. CENTRAL FURNISHING AR.
CADE, H. LEVY & CO.
A GREAT Variety of Pianos by the beet
makers just opened at the CENTRAL FUE-
NISHING ARCADE, and are to be sold on Time Pay-
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 31 Park-street.
NOW is your time for Bargains, as we have a
very large shipment of Austrian Furniture to
open, and must clear soma of our large stock to make
room for now goods. H. LEVY & CO,, 29, 31, 33
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Time Payments from
£l5 up to £louo at the CENTRAL FURNISH-
ING ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY & CO.
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
<5 7 '
"■ -
,
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUPLETO,
BERDEN and
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and 00„
And other First-class JMakcrs, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Wainnt cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
H A R MON I U M S,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. P A L I IT O,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WTNYAED STEE
SYDNEY*
The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall he glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
One Tree Hill February 2.
Wellington (N.Z.) R.C. Summer Meeting... Feb. 2 and 3.
Northern J.C February 7, 8.
Creek February 9, 10.
Ararat (Vic J February 9,10.
Victoria A.T.C February 11.
Hunter River J.C February 11.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 15, and 16.
Inverell February 17,18.
Tasmanian Tnrf Club February 22. 23.
Dnnedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24.25.
Wentworth.. March 3. 4.
V.R.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12.
Orange March 16, 17.
Albury * March 16,17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club March 16,17.
UhindagaL - March 16, 17.
Wagga March 22.
Oorowa March 23.
V-A.T.C March 25.
Great Northern R.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
Bale Tnrf Club (Vie.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30. 31.
Hawkesbnry...... March SO, April 1.
Canterbury, J.C. (N.Z ) April 10,11.
A.J.C. Antnmn April 10, 12,14,15.
Denffiqutn April.
Laehlan R.C May 4, 5.
S.A. 3 .a.. May 24.
AQUATICS.
HfthUn t. Boyd, rth the Tyne .*«.**••••«<««««!(seshltsi* .....April
Intercolonial Elghfcoor Race ....(.Easter,
Krsg Champagne Cnp, Amateurs..,.. ~May.
Grafton Regatta. ..1...............May 24.
Hanlan v. Boss, on the Thames...wwur.„.«Jnne 20,
CRICKET.
Intercolonial, at Sydney,., „ February 10,11,18.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven: —February 8,3, 4. against 22 of Auckland at
Auckland; February 14, 15, 16. against Stanmore 18 at
Norwood Park ; February 17,18, 20, against New South
Wales Team at Sydney; against Hawesbnry 28,
February; Victorian Eleven February 24, 25, 27; Ans-
tralian Eleven, Sydney, March 3,4, 6; Australian
Eleven, Melbourne, March 9,10, 11.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Swan v. Clifford, at Geelong, 48 hours’
go-os-oon-plea.se, £5O aside February 8.
■Pranks v. Murphy, £lOO, 3 days’ walk. February 4,
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Valetfca has £ond into Mr. Do Meatre’s stable.
Bookless won the Mornya Cup on January 28.
The latest English betting Is 3 to 1 cm Hanlan
against Beyd.
The South Australian J.C. have fitted up a new
fib tali safer at a cost of £7OO.
The great fight between Ryan and Sullivan is to
eSme off on 7th Feb., at New Orleans.
Devoy won the Grand Handicap at the Odd-
fellows* Sports at Grafton on Anniversary Day.
John Roberts, jnn., offers to play any man
{n the world billiards, 3000 up, for from £5OO to £lOOO
side.
Gamballo won the Governor-General’s Cup at
Calcutta in November, beating Caspian and several
others.
It is likely that Segenhoe will meet Navigator
for the Asootvale Stakes at the V.R.C. Antnmn
meeting.
The Glebe Strathmore Clnb play in fancy cos-
tume on the University Oval against twenty-two muffs
(m Saturday.
The South Coast aquatic championship was won
on Anniversary Day at Shoalhaven by Thomas Clifford,
of Hlawarra Lake.
The Grange Estate, and the valuable stud
belong to the late Sir Joshua Bell, will bo sold by
Ruction on 3rd March.
An enclosed betting ring is amongst the changes
to be introduced into the saddling paddock at Flem-
ington at an early date.
Wallace Ross had a tempting offer to go to
Franktort-on-the-Maine, Germany, to train a Univer-
versity club. He declined.
Turner, the Bathurst cricketer, is prevented,
through business matters, from attending the practices
for the Intercolonial match.
The Intercolonial University match for this year
has fallen through, Melbourne being unable to send a
sufficiently representative team.
The Victorian Cricket Association have decided
to charge five per cent- on all matches played in Mel-
bourne with the Hon. Ivo Bligh’s team.
A supporter of the turf has promised to give a
200-guinea gold trophy to the Caulfield Cup, provided
that the distance he increased to a mile and a-half.
The sub-committee of the Grafton Regatta will
recommend a prize of £5O for an outrigger race, condi-
tionally that two scullers came from Sydney; and £3O
if otherwise.
The boat in which Hanlan was to have rowed
the race for the championship against Wallace Ross
has been rendered useless through a disaster off Putney
on the Thames.
Oscar scored another win (the Prince of Wales
stakes), on the second day of the Shoalhaven mooting.
Underhand won tie Numba Cap, and Oscar won the
Forced Handicap.
Adelaide Racing Club meeting, and his owner, thinking
him seriously injured, parted with him fer a bottle of
Champagne. He it; now thoroughly well and worth a
good many “ fizzes."
Mr. Freeman’s bird Fairlight won the pigeon
homing race from Katoomba, 65 miles, on Saturday,
covering the distance in 94 minntes. Mr. Allen’s Spuds
was second, in 97 minutes.
English Eleven v. Wellington resulted in a draw.
The Eleven made 222—Shrewsbury 70, Ulyett 47, Bates
g, Barlow 20. Wellington, first innings, 80; second
nings, ten wickets for 54.
The “stiff’nn” of Norwich, better known as
** Mace’s Potboy," had a boxing benefit on 6th Dec.,
the object being to raise a fnnd to enable him to join
his old employer at Melbourne.
Giffen, the Adelaida cricketer, scored 158 in a
match on the Adelaide Oval, on Saturday. The score
of his club (Norwood) stands at five wickets for 265,
The Kents did the leather-hunting.
The great annual English football match. North
v. South (Rugby), was decided at Huddersfield (Eng.
land) in December. North won by ose goal and three
touch-downs against one touch-down.
In the totalisator at Dnnedin on the Champion
Race, there were 112 subscriber* at £1 each, and as only
oae lucky individual placed £1 on Corielaims, he thus
received very long odds about the winner.
The Doris won on Saturday, with two minutes
to spore by time allowance, the prize given hy Mr.
-James Fairfax, for boats of the fourth class, in oonneo-
ttou with the Sydney Royal Yaoht Squadron.
On the first day of the Parramatta Races the
results were as follow: —Hurdle Raoe: Hotspur.
Short*: Inyerary. Juvenile Stakes-. Vanquish. Soiling
Stakes: Doctor. Anniversary Handicap : An Revoir.
The Cantata have brought a new stroke to the
front for the next race with Oxford—Akin, of Jesus
College, The light blues will have a deal of new
material, though the best e£ the old hands will take
part.
The All-England 200-yards Handicap given
by the editors of the London Sportsman, was competed
for on the Lillie Bridge Grounds, London, on December
11, and resulted in a victory for C. Parker, 161 yards
start.
The sharp spur of competition seems to have
done some good in Adelaide, for the S. A. J.C. are mak-
ing extensive alterations in the grand-stand on the
Morphetville course, and a Darby stand is to be
erected.
A cricket match was played at Bathurst on
January 26, between the Orange and Bathurst teams.
Orange, 65 and 59; Bathurst, 173. Turner got highest
score in the match, and obtained a good bowling
average.
Following are the committee for the Volunteer
Ist Regiment Rifle Club for the ensuing year :—Captain
Farrell (treasurer). Captain Morris (secretary), Lieut.
Pinch, Sergts. Marshall, Winning, Quille, and Private
Wigley.
Geelong Races. First day.—Hurdles : King of
Trumps. Trial Stakes: Santa Claus. Geelong Gold
Cup; Guinea. Sires’ Produce Stakes: Navigator.
Connewarree Stakes: My Lord. Grand Stand Stakes:
Baron Mueller.
Mr. W. S. Crawford headed the list of winners
in the English racing world last season with twenty-
five wins, value £17,919. Among the horses, Iroquois
was a long way at the head of the list with seven
victories, value £16,805,
The Intercolonial match, Victoria via. South
Australia, is to be played on March 10th, lltb, and 13tbi
These dates clash with those of the match, English v.
Australian elevens, which is fixed for March 9th, 10th,
and 11th, at Melbourne.
The Our Boys C.O, look like winning the pre-
sent Junior Oup match. They got 114. Power, not out,
46; Napier 20; Hanna and Norman 11 each, Stafford
10. Seven wickets of the Oxford have fallen for 3 runs.
A one-innings win ominous.
A movement has, it is stated, been started in
the United States for the formation of an American
rifle team, to compete at Wimbledon next July with a
team to be ohoeen from the riflemen of England, Ire-
land, Scotland, and Wales.
An agitation is going on in England to substi-
tute the Association football rales for the Rugby. The
number of accidents in the latter causes the move-
ment, and the adherents to the Association game claim
comparative immunity from danger.
Mr. S. Franck, the patentee of the totalisator
in Australia, leased an enclosure at the Geelong meet-
ing on Anniversary Day, in which he ran the machine,
as on private property. The police rushed the place,
and arrested 19 persons. More appeals.
The sportsmen of “ Canny Newcassel” have
rallied round Robert Watson Boyd with great spirit,
and the money to make a match for £5OO a side against
Hanlon has been raised by subscription. The articles
only awaited Hanlan’s signature when the mail left.
Courtenay won the Geelong Handicap on
Saturday by half a length. The running of Pell Mell,
the favourite, was not satisfactory to the hookers.
Duchess and Pell Mell were last all the way. Royal
Maid won the Produce Stakes, and Lucy the Steeple-
chase.
The latest invention reported by a Japanese
journal is that of Otsuka Minakichi, who, after exten-
sive experiments, is said to have succeeded in making
rifles of silk. They are described “as rigid as iron
guns, while they are easy of carriage and hare a very
long range."
At the inquest at Middleton, England, on a
young man who was killed during a football match, the
jury returned a verdict that deceased's death was
oauaed by misadventure, adding a recommendation that
an addition should be made to the Rugby Rules that no
tackling should be allowed below the hips.
Mr. H. Coles, secretary of the N. S. Wales
Rowing Association, met with a serious accident on
Anniversary Day. His left hand was resting on the
gunwale of the launch, and as the little vessel drew
alongside of the flagship’s landing stage, she suddenly
pitched up and humped against the side, crushing his
lingers terribly.
The Carlton and University Clubs commenced
a Cup match on Anniversary Day. The Carltons' first
innings closed for 209—C. Bannerman 81, Geary 49,
Davis 19, A. Bannerman 11, Lynch (not out) 11. Uni-
versity lost five wickets for 150—Jones 17, Teece 12,
Garrett 27, Allen 31, O’Reilly 16, Wright (not out) 32,
Coates (not out) 16.
Old Gold was first in the race for the New
England Cup at Armidale on Anniversary Day, but
protests having been entered against all the placed
horses, they were disqualified, and the race was given
by the stewards to Recovery, with Hildebrandt secon®4
Recovery, we presume, was fourth, and Hildebrandt
second. It should have been declared no race.
Palmavi qui, fyc— The cricketers of 'the
Treasury department were the first to introduce the
idea of nlaying matches after office hours. They did it
years ago, when they had the Inner Domain to play
upon. They also consider that their Woolloomooloo
Bay aquatic contests started the rowing clubs. We
wonder they don’t buy a to improve turf
morals.
Mr. Walter Maas (alias Gordon), who is a pro-
fessional pigeon-alayer, the other d»y shot a match
against Dr. Carver. Maas shot with one hand at 24
yards’ rise, against Carver at 34 yards with both hands.
It was like Adrian Izar playing with finger and thumb
against cue at billiards. The one-handed man has made
that game his forte, and by dint of much practice is
occasionally able to take a rise ont of the confiding
public. Maas won.
At the Anniversary Regatta, which was very
successfully carried out, Mr. Lord, contrary to ex-
pectation, defeated Mr. Brett for the Laidley Sculls.
G. Solomons won the All-comers’ Race in outriggers.
Sirocco won the 8-ton Yacht Race. E. C. Laycock
defeated H. Pearce for the Champion Belt. The S.R.C.
defeated the M.R.C. in the Senior Amateur Four-oared
Race. N. M’Donald won the All-comers’ Handicap.
The G.R.C. won the Maiden Amateur Double-Scull
Race.
Maitland Anniversary Regatta.—E. Sheppard,
421 b. won the All-comers’ Handicap, defeating amongst
others, R. Hickey, 561 b. The handicap for All-comers,
two pairs, fell to R. Hickey and 0. Cruise, 561 b. We
notice in the minor races that the younger Hickeys dis-
tinguished themselves. Is Newcastle to send us another
champion ? The 200 yards swimming match was won
by John James, five yards handicap. The racing can’t
have been very high-toned. We had a sample of Mr.
Sheppard in the Walker Whisky trophy.
The well-known Rockhampton horse, Blackall,
has been sold to a prominent Sydney sporting man. It
will be remembered that Blackall won the handicap
hurdle race, at the last meeting of R. J.C., when he was
splendidly ridden by Mr. Anthony, who is acknowledged
to be one of the best gentlemen riders that ever crossed
a horse in Queensland. Blackall’s new owner intends
to enter him for some of the big events in the southern
colonies. Pedigree—Blackall by Alpha (by Drum
Major, imported), dam, Jewess by Kelpie.
At Parramatta, on Saturday, Triumph won the
Hurdle Race. His rider, Robinson, took his feet out of
the stirrups, which were defective, and rode without
their use ail the way rather than risk a snap. Verdict
defeated Vanquish tor the Flying Handicap; Waxworks
won the Stewards’ Purse easily. Middlesex j net before
the start for thel Selling Stakes was brought back to
the scales and his rider was found to be under weight.
Doctor won easily, but Fireball and Unknown fell;
Byron won the P. J.C. Handicap by three lengths.
The Windsor Clnb defeated the Penrith Club by
21 runs. Mr. A. Evans, who played in this match, had
a very narrow escape. He, accompanied by two ladies,
was coming Into Windsor in his buggy, and he unwit-
tingly drove across the lino of fire of the Hawkesbnry
Rifle Club, who were shooting for prizes. One ballet
struck the buggy just below where Mr. Evans was
seated. As we hear that this is not the first time that
human life has been similarly endangered, we suggest
that the usual precautions should be taken. The club
might fix a flag as a waning and an indication to
strangers of the danger.
The Carltons’ 2nd innings for the Cup match,
against the Alberts, closed for 278, A. Bannerman com-
piling another century—lo 4, not out; Webster played
a hitting innings for 55; C. Bannerman a careful 30;
Tooher2B; Geary 14; T. Nunn 12. The Alberts lost
one wicket for 11. After Murdoch’s wicket had fallen,
there wanted but a few minutes to the time of drawing
stumps, and Massie, unable to get any of his team to
risk their innings in the defective light, had to go in
himself without his pads, and nearly lost his wicket
with the first ball. This absence of club patriotism is
not commendable : doubtless, tho secret of the deterio-
ration of the Albert club is greitly owing thereto.
In order to induce some of the Sydney scullers
to try conclusions on the Hlawarra Lake, several Wol-
longong gentlemen are endeavouring to raise a sum of
money which will give the winner £5O, and make it
worth while for some of the first pullers of the colony
to enter. Beach’s success at Woolloomooloo induces
the Wollongongers to think that they can hold their
own with any of the colonial oarsmen, as they have a
man who can knock spots off Beach. The Hlawarra
Lake is a magnificent sheet of water, and no doubt,
after the construction of the railway, will become a
popular convincing-ground in sculling contests. It has
an advantage over the champion course on the Parra-
matta, inasmuch as a race of equal distance could be
seen from start to finish by those on the bank, without
even changing their position.
At a yacht club dinner, in America, one of the
speakers said: —“ Our time allowance is given on length
and beam, without the element of power in the shape
of depth being taken into consideration. Thus, we
were chained to the triumphal car of the Scotch cutter
Madge, and gave her twelve to fifteen minutes’ time,
when in reality she ought to have allowed our boats
time. If we know ourselves, and we think we do, we
shan’t commit any snob blooming error again next
season.’’ A committee of five was appointed to report
as to a change which will enable a broad-beamed, light
draught, comfortable and swift American sloop to beat
an English “ racing machine ” that cannot go in shoal
water in consequence of her draught. *‘ If,” said an-
other sturdy Corinthian, “ we are going to raoe yachts
with sub-cellars, its high time we charged them for it,
instead of allowing them for the extra power."
At the swimming matches, on Saturday, onr
champion, W. F. Corbett, was defeated in the 1000-
yards’ race by young Ernest Cavill, who did the dis-
tance in 18 min. 40 see. Cavill’s style of getting through
the water was much superior to that of Corbett, though
condition may have had a lot to do with the result.
G. Warre won the 290-yards’ maiden race; and J. D,
Webster won the members’ handicap, 300 yards. The
race with clothes on was a gift to J. Coghlan, who had
a light twill suit on, while his competitor toiled in the
rear in blue serge. F. Smyth e won the all-comers’ cup,
and P. Lynch won the men-of-war race, 300 yards. The
aquatic polo match, though decided in favour of the
Port Jackson Club, was unsatisfactory. St. Leonards
Club apparently won by three goals to one, but as the
goals were not properly marked it was difficult to decide
between a goal and a try. The match was amusing, and
the competitors quarrelsome,
Newcastle Races. First Day.—Shorts: Dag-
mar. Maiden Plate _ Gladiator. Newcastle J.C. Hanoi-
cap: Lochinvar; gion easily. Time—2 min. 42 sec.
Two-year-old stakes Piracy. Prince of Wales’ Stakes;
Maid of Morpeth. Second Day.—Free Handicap:
Twilight. Nursery Handicap : Piracy. City Handicap;
Hypatia and Britannia ran a dead heat, but in the run-
off Hypatia won by a length. The defeat of Lochinyar,
who was heavily backed in doubles, was a throw-in for
the ring. Hack Raoe : Detective. Forced Handicap <
Dagmar. Lochinvar’s victory on the first day brings to
his owner, Mr. E. Chippendall, the 100-guinea cup pre-
sented by Mr. E. E. Jones. The settling took place
satisfactorily on Friday evening, when the following
amounts were paid over:—E. Chippendall, £246 and
cup, value 100 guineas, presented by Mr. E. E, Jones ;
James Mayo, £200; J, Dalton, £4B; R. Lynch, £47 ;T.
McCarthy, £33; D. P. M’Kay, £10; J. Wilson,l £3: T.
Russell, £2. Total £589, and the cup.
The races for the Laidley Sculls seemed at the
start a gift for Brett, who quickly established a lead,
rowing well, whilst Lord and the others were rowing
badly. The spectators on shore were muoh astonished
to see Lord leading on the road home, but those who
followed the race say that the fouls played " old goose-
berry ’’ with George, who ought to have made more of
his lead at the start. However, the Evening News of
the 27th January had the following par.:—“ Mr. George
Brett has decided not to protest against Mr. Lord for
fouls which occurred in the raoe for the Laidley Sculls
yesterday. Mr. Brett is to be congratulated for not
protesting, the raoe being one for gentlemen amateurs;
and he also deserves credit for giving way to Ms own
advantage, at Goat Island, instead of—as he could
legally have done—edging Mr. Lord on to the rocks."
The words which we have italic sed have a questionable
ring, suggestive of a £lOO,OOO libel. When Mr. Brett
sees this little point, he will wonder what the writer
was thinking about when he wrote the par.
The pigeon shooting match, between Dr. Carver
and Mr. Stuart-Wortley, on December 5, for £5OO aside,
one hundred birds each, 30 yards rise, resulted in a tie,
each having killed 83 birds. In the first 25, Mr.
Wortley led by two. Carver having missed the first five.
They tied at 50 birds, having each killed 400 Carver
succeeded in bringing down 32 birds consecutively, and
at th<3 third 25 they were again tias with 62 birds. In
the ninety-fifeh round they got even. Here offers wore
made to back the ‘‘stranger’’ for a “pony ’* even, but
without response. At the ninety-seventh Mr. Wortley
cut up badly at a straightaway flyer, and when the
doctor had downed his, his ultimate success was looked
upon as inevitable, and 3 to 1 was laid in his favour.
Dr. Carver’s ninety-eighth fell to the tune of a grand
second, but his next, when hit slightly, settled a little
bit over the left-hand pavilion, and on the dog going
up ro <e and cleared the palings. The excitement then
was intense, as Mr. Wortley was level. Both scored
in the last round, Mr. Wortley by a useful second,
and so, amidst great cheering, it was announced that
they had tied, both having scored 83 out of a
hundred.
A smart advertiser has been utilising the walls
of cemeteries by adorning them with the following
legend in gigantic letters:—“Use Boar’s Head beer if
yon would keep out of here."
Mr. Ragby was only twenty-three when hia
eldest son was born. But he didn’t seem very jolly.
Not that it was not a fine hoy. But he said: “Old
friend, just think of it! Here at the early stage of
twenty-three I’ve got to begin to set a good example I ”
Heard in Castlereagh-street:—“ Cornin’ to ’ave
a dance in the ’all. Long Alice ? ” “ Can’t. Somethin’
better on." “What’s that?" “Goin’to choir prac-
tice with Scotch Arcnie.” “ Oh, ’ang it! Wish I'd
knowed in time. I’d a took red-haired Sairah.”
Some unprincipled scoundrels are palming off
vile colonial rubbish as imported lager-beer. We don't
mind seeing attempts made by colonial brewers to imi-
tate the most famous beers of Germany and Scandi-
navia, but we do certainly object to ordering “ lager-
beer," in an ostensibly first-class restaurant, and getting,
at the extortionate price of eighteenpence, three-
pen’orth of colonial ale—a long-sleever out of a white
bottle, with an impudently forged label.
The London “ mathetes” are getting “full-np.”
The doom of the dado has been pronounced. The long
hair of the “ utters” had become such a nuisance that
they have had it cut; and whispers are heard that the
batcher's boy is again seen leaving chops and legs of
mutton at houses where recently the " lily for lunch”
notion was carried out in its intensest form. Even at
the aesthetic colony, Bedford Bark, the re-action is said
to be setting in. One daring renegade has painted
his railings blue; whilst a second has done with his
sunflower bed and taken to growing rhubarb. The
local tapster, too, finds that the applications at the
bar for megethlyn, and mead, and malvoisie are steadily
falling oft; the consumption of the ordinary bitter
being correspondingly increased.
Great activity amongst the sewing machine
companies. It app ears that the Australian maret ha*
been flooded with counterfeit imitations of the world-
renowned “ Singer,” of inferior construction and manu-
facture, under various names, which, by the way, were
very pointedly referred to in the judges’ report on the
Sydney Exhibition. And so the Singer Co. have gone
on the war-path, and have opened sub-depots in New-
castle, Bathurst, Qoulbum, Tamworth and Grafton.
The chief depot for New South Wales is at No. 1 Dar-
ing stores. Harbour-street Sydney. Latest betting
1,009,000 to 1, on “ Signer," *


If you have not got a brother, get your sweet-
heart to attend the sale of the Wontworthville Estate,
next Saturday, in the rooms 289 George-streot. W.
Pritchard, auctioneer.—Any.
Burwood amateurs do “Pinafore” at the Odd-
fallows' Hall, Manly, this (Thursday) evening, in aid of
the newly-formed local Kowing Club.
During the past year you have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good cap of tea.
Von have heard that the last season’s China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas P—a blend of the most fatnou«|and purest teas in
the world ; kept by all threading storekeepers in town
and oonntry. Wholesale Warehouse. 28 Charlotte,
place,—Adyt,
SOCIAL.
The widow of the late Mr. Michael Flttjto.trlcV,
M.L A., was on Saturday, presented faith lift atiufess by
the directors of tho City ain't uni Fire Insurance Co., of
which the lamented gentleffiall had been chairman. The
address was bound, and embraced a resolu-
tion expVessWig kegf'et at his death and sympathy with
this wid*«a
* » •
ftn Saturday, the Regatta committee presented
©apt. Allan with a tea and coffee service in recognition
of his kindness in lending and preparing the QVUr 6t
Carpentaria for a flagship on Annivetsaby oa>. Capt.
Allan’s kindness was the more faeWfanto fts it came in a
time of need, and ho certainly Spkred no trouble to get
her into tho best posssbtU Condition to accommodate the
visitors. Mr. V. Pfaafah made the presentation, a speech
or two had the meeting then liquored and dis-
persed,
• • •
Last week, Mr. Pat. Stanley, who is retiring
from tho Mayoral chair at Eedfern, in which he has sat
for five years, was presented by Alderman Wright, M.Pi,
•cm behalf of the ratepayers, with a service or plate, and
Afterwards with two ulmninated addresses (by Messrs.
Vaughan and Button). The Hon. W. M. Alderson,
M.L C., was hh'iUrman. Mr, Stanley responded, and
Invited thU Company to a “ feed ’* in the lower part of
the hall, which was much appreciated.
• • •
Tho taste displayed in most of the dresses at
the Garden Palace, last Saturday, is a credit to the
Sydney ladies. The prettiest and most effective cos-
tumes were those made of cotton materials. One con-
spicuous for its fresh and cool appearance, was a
lavemlor sateen dress, with bonnet to match. The
beautiful colour was unrelieved by the everlasting (sorn
lace, or trimming of any kind. It was made only of
th« one simple fabric, and looked really charming. A
young lady from Glebe Point wore a pink sateen dress
and a pink satin granny bonnet; this, added to a pretty
fi.ee, can be better imagined than described. Tflero
were some &stbetio drosses also—to fait, Vt dull
bnswu sateen with sunflowers faorkfad all over in
crewels. This was more CohSpiCuoUg that pretty, but
« French White ckshi-eri*, handsomely worked with
Wown satin Crewel-stitch, looked very handsome.
'CreweKstitCh Is oOming into great favour, but is not
likely to grow common on account of the labour there
Is in tbh work. A pale blue sateen, with sailor collar
worked richly with pink rosebuds, looked as sweet as
tho wearer. Not a few wore white drosses with
coloured waistbands and May Queen hats, which arc
well suited to the season. A few of those ugly, flat and
senseless parasols were carried by ladies who have evi-
dently more desire to be remarkable than tasteful,
• • •
A. thousand ladies ! It takes our breath away.
Fsyre ladies, too. Old Englishe Fayre Ladies. Old
Fayre, not old ladles, we mean.
• « •
At Lithgow, the Oddfellows and Druids, both
had a grand display on the 26th January, with a torch-
light precession and a hall in the evening.
• « •
Mrs. John Harris, Mayoress, held a reception
last Friday afternoon. It was largely attended, and a
vocal and instrumental concert was conducted in the
vestibule of the Town Hall, by Mr. M. Younger, for the
enjoyment of those who were present.
« • •
A marriage ia to take place, early in February,
l>otween a pretty and attractive brunette of Forbes-
etreot, and a foreign gentleman from Burwood.
» * •
An Armidale journalist has been captured by a
local young lady. Our sympathy is with the lady.
• • «
A graceful act was performed in Geelong, by
Mr. James Munday, who, In recognition of services
rendered by ladles in connection with a Bazaar, gave
them a complimentary ball last week, in the Exhibition
Hall of that town. The promoters of the "Fayre”
might take a hint: the ladies won’t object.
• • •
’Twas a pity that the committee could not get a
flagship other than tho Gulf of Carpentaria for the
regatta. Without at all disparaging her value and
Utility for purposes of commerce, it is right to say that
Ws a flagship ah ■a was not nsarly large enough, aud she
was ugly; she seemed all steep stairs, and hatchways,
and coils of rope; and her general appearance dingy
and dispiriting. She may have been clean, but ehe did
Uot look clean ; in fact, like the village milkmaid, it was
doubtful whether she was quite respectable. Anyhow,
she wasn’t high-toned. Nevertheless, crowds flocked
on board, there was a good luncheon provided, and tho
band diffused popular music; so that, with the one
drawback, that the flagship was neither handsome nor
convenient, matters wore bearable. Tho weather was
beautiful, and some of the races good—for those who
understood what was going on, which most of the com-
pany did not. ’Twas a picture where dancing wavelets
and laughing eyes, dimpled cheek* and dingies, flags
and fairies, clippers aud coquettes, boats and belles, all
combined to make the scene bright and lively Toilets
were not particularly striking, nor did the limited space
allow much chance for display. The forepart of the
"Gulf" seemed by tacit arrangement left to the young
men, whose long nautical experience, and large grasp of
mind, enabled t hem to understand what was being done,
where all the boats were going to, what tho little flags
all meant, and why tho gun kept making such a row.
•While less experienced people looked around in blank
perplexity at the evolutions of the flotilla of boats, that
s<emed bobbing about in all directions without any
definite purpose, in most bewildering confusion, these
more gifted young men walked about with programmes
and pipes, and knowingly adjusted their glasses, and
talked quite confidently about skiffs and sculls, and
dingies and outriggers, and senior yachts and centre-
boards. On the other portions of the vessel, tho know-
ledge of what was happening was generally of a very
vague nature; and amidships and aft, where ladies
most did congregate, the interest in the racing seemed
to be pretty well subordinated to the more congenial
occupation of quiet flirting, or keen criticism of
“other girls”’ attire. Perhaps the moat con-
spicuous dresses were a galaxy of gay silks;
whether the blending of the peculiar colours
was pretty, would be entirely a matter of
opinion. The polonaise in each case was of striped
silk, blue and light pink, while the underskirts and
arms were of rich old gold broohd. A stylish brunette
was in a cream overskirt and sash, and with mauve
wreath and turned-up lining to her white itraw hat.
Two fair-haired sisters were in sky blue and black
stripes. A pretty young lady was in a fawn dress, with
trimming and collarette and striped brown material,
puffed, and a coquettish “Patience" hat. A young
lady in dove colour wore a unique and charming head
cover, composed entirely of pale pink daisies, set off
with bright green oak leaves. Two little maidens in
white, with shaded red ribbons, mignt have passed for
sisters, while a third little grace in cream and red
shaded ribbons was decidedly nice. A charming
couple looked dainty and cool in cream Madras muslin.
Pompadours and pinks were present in about equal
proportions, and one or two so-called “aesthetic"
sateens, and a few dull sago green dresses, were visible.
Delightfully, delicately airy was the cream India
muslin of a brunette, puffed at the shoulders, and finely
gathered; while her companion, a lovely blonde, in
palest filmy blue trimmed with fine white and iloru
lace, and with large black lace hat aud dark red roses,
might fairly he called the be'le of the boat. Whether
the bevy of beauty on board absorl e J all the admiration
and enthusiasm w juld be hard to say, but certainly
there was little enthu«iasm over tho racing. There was
scarcely a sign of excitement, except of the mildest
kind, aid when the men-o’-war crews, in their terribly
heavy boats, finished a magnificent struggle, not a
single cheer or plaudit encouraged either victors or
losers from the flagship. The antics of the hold
sailors in the dingies caused almost as much “ whole-
some fun" as the clown in the circus, and tho “gay
and festive cuss" who had fixed up as a Chinaman
was very popular. One anomaly in the scene oonld
scarcely be unnoticed: while the muscular young
oaemnen, on all sides, shot their skiffs through the
water with sculls not lurch heavier than a lady’s fan, a
boatload of mere children, in Government clothes,
sweated away with g-cat sweeps nearly as heavy as
themselves, in dtsperate endeavours to propel their
barge about a foot at a time, and seemed hardly able to
o even that.
VANITY FAIR.
In 1720 an English organist was “ sacked’' from
his church because he played voluntaries that were
“ light, airy, jlggy tunes, no ways suited to devotional
minds.” The latest “kink" in Jewellery is worn on a
lady’s slipper or hair, in the shape of a wish-bone, of
pearl, or silver or gold Diamonds have always been
favourite stones with women—when they could get
them. One of the roost splendid,waq wqrn by Madame
Ombre, the singer,in a ffcpdronsibrillianoy,
and J 1 l?\ pa'd Tbwq polluerobu Always behind the
soe«"i wbStt sne nod it on. Perhaps the handsomest
necklace worn in private life is thatof Mrs. L Stanford,
of California, valued at £17,000. Mme. Elise, the
bare-back rider, performs in a costume where diamonds
are used in place of spangles, and a coronet of these
stones arches over her brow The contralto, A.L.
Cary, has one of the most perfect emeralds, worth
£lO,OOl, sat in a broad band of Eoman gold, with 2t
large diamonds. Mrs. Bonanza Maokay claims to
possess the largest sapphire, of ft superb blue, over an
inch in dlamet«r, bought for £M,(X?O. She has ft coral
toilet SSt inlaid faith diamonds, Voided at £23,000
The very essence of purity ought to be indicated by ft
dross of perfect white, with white satin jbeltf, pearl
buckles, white shoes, gloves, white hyacinths in a
bouquet, and lilies of the vallOy tor the,hair..,.;.The
A rocs remarks “that-with prosperous tlm-a the
number .of marriages in "Victoria is increasing.’*
It Is said that bicyclists, after a time, become subject to
a malady which distorts portions of the frame, and
makes them humpbacked Dove-parties are 2 o’clock
dinners for ladies only It seems likely that the mas-
sive silver bracelets will bo replaced by slender gold
ones. Narrow gold circlets have been shown lately,
with great pendants, such as a tortoise, owl, fish, or
lion’s head, with jewelled eyes The dresses worn
by tbel Jer ey Lily, as Miss Hardoasfle., were very
beautiful. The first had an amber satin tope, with
panier corsage, and train of the most exquisite gold-
oolonrsd satin, strewn with rosebuds and full-blown
roses. Tito second, or walking dross, v ."V? of Gplbtoid-
ersd Indian muslin, made fa itli a Btkoqno, and worn
with Suede gloves, ilnd shoes and stockings of the same
shade, and a brown velvet hat, with delicious Sndde
tinted feathers, and a brown fan. The third costume
was simplicity itself, being made of grey caihmere,
without any trimming, and worn with a white muslin
apron, fichu, and cap, and n chatelaine hanging on the
leftside TEsthetioism has reached its climax ia
Oxford. At a fancy dress party there, among the iom-
pany, which consisted of undergraduates, (most of the
leading aesthetes figured. The host wore a oharpitog
dross, representing the Laly Sapphir from “ Patience, ’’
A lank and limp yonth looked very classical as
Camma, from Mr. Tennyson’s “ Cup.’’ Among
other dresses were a Xeander and a Grenichoux
The correspondence in a recent English breach of pro-
mise suit weighed seven pounds, although covering a
period of but half a year. It included yards of poetry
lt is said the Shah of Persia became Captivated by
the PrinceiM of Wales while in Englatid, and he every
year offers .tile Prince a tempting pried in exohaligb for
her In Victoria, last year, two girls were married
at I t years, Bat 15, -16 at 16, and 146 at 17; 263 youths
under 21 were also married in the same year Mrs.
Bonanza Maokay is having her portrait painted by, the
great Frenchman, Meissenier, at a cost of over £3OOO,
She will appear in a costume of black satin metveiUoux.
Empress Engdnie fell down-stairs badly. Green-
wood says that Parkes has fdllen up-stairs. Let us
hope the Empress and the autocrat will meet
Ouida’s *' Idalia ,k sab ms to be almost realised by a won-
derful French woman, Mmo. Edmond Adam, now
reigning in Paris. She is a brilliant example of social,
literary, financial, and political success. She is a
widow, bewitohingly pmtty, and clever —in fact, “her
face, her grace, her God knows what ’’ invest her with
a charm that cannot bo described, and that none can
resist. Twenty-three years ago she came to the fickle
and critical capital, with neither money nor friends;
and now the leaders of the Government are honoured
by her patronage. Her receptions are crowded by all
the leading writers, artiste, and "new men" of the
day. Her New RE View ia the leading organ and mirror
of the time ( her comings and goings are chronicled as
though she were a sovereign; sovereigns receive her
and talk with her if she visits their capitals, and
scientists and politicians get up banquets in her
honour. She is shortly to give a fancy ball, to
outshine anything of the kind ever known before
A kiss is alparadox, a hope, a despair, a welcome, a fare-
well. The expression of David and Jonathan’s friend-
ship j the signal of our Saviour’s betrayal. Our first
cares to the living; our last to the dead. It is often a
man’s honour, and a woman’s shame. A little love-
flower springing np in affection’s soil to die on tho lips
that taste the honey it contains. Something a woman
should be slow to give, and a man not too ready to take.
What you must obtaiu before being able to tell if you
like it or not, and arc bound to keep either way 1—
It may mean little, It often moans much,
And of tenor nothing at all;
And it’s always off as soon as it’s on.
And it is never the same to all.
It is a speechless token of things so sweet they oaa’t
be spoken A queen of diamonds is creating a sensa-
tion at Brighton. She has a diamond necklace of stars
strung together, a huge diamond cross, bracelets,
buckle*, ear-drops and brooches innumerable, all set
with flashing gems, and said to be worth nearly
half a million. Who sho is no ono knows
The third page of a letter was picked up in Darling-
hurst Eoad last Sunday, and this is how tho ardent
writer lets himself out to the addressee (unknown)
"I am going to have a pair of tho finest silk stockings,
made expressly for you, that you ever saw. I gave the
measurements first thing when I returned : tho colours
are just rip tip gray. Will be down Wednesday qnd
will bring them and fit them. I don’t like that scent
you had on your hair. I never could endure patchouli
or otto of roses. Lavender I can do with ; but there is
nothing like the fresh, invigorating perfume of a hand-
some woman’s hair.—Sam.” It is charming to see a
woman with a beautiful hand. Some women carry a beau-
tifulhand to the crave. Some men often carry the print of
a beautiful band for several hours Marigolds are
now the fashionable flower in London A lady in
Spain, wore at a. hall, a dress of black net and ivy leaves,
on which were 5000 fireflies. In the gardens, away from
the ballroom lights, the dress presented a magnificent
blaze of splendour. Waves of undulating flame seemed
to shoot forth with every movement, and on her head
gleamed an immense star. The dress was common.
place in daylight A young lady in Pennsylvania,
having been troubled with a cancer on her jaw for a
long time, her physicians have decided to remove the
iaw, and substitute a celluloid one. The operation has
been done before.
* • •
The Czarine glove is a fine unglazed kid, of all
shades; very fashionable In Paris, all tho “cream”
are wearing their dresses very short in front, so that
shoes and stockings are more than over principal con-
siderations. The old-fashioned diamond buckles are in
favour again Tho selling price of stray stalls for
Mrs. Langtry’s first appearance was ten sruineas.
Mrs. Alex. Otterson, of Wheeling, W. Ya„ was forced
by a hnrglar at point of a pistol to sit up in bed while
he out off her magnificent head of hair, with which ho
made oil Girls and young married ladies, at parties,
wear silk gauze, any colour, but chiefly cream and
white, edged with lace, and shirred very much. Plow-
ing bows of ribbon, very fresh-looking A fashionable
glove is the Maillot, of Chintz cashmere; it is
very fine, and moulds to the hand as wall
as the best kid Nun’s veiling much worn for dinner
or evening parties by young ladies.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Jamoa Egan Wall, lately sentenced at Sandhurst
for th® manslaughter of Margaret Smith, has been
awarded an additional three months’ inprisonment,
because he was a more chemist when he performed the
fatal operation, and mere chemists are, i* Victoria,
ferbiddeu to act «s surgeons. In his case the greater
offence—that of killing the woman—did not include the
less A lunatic visited the Emerald Downs station (Q )
and destroyed £6QO frorth of property. He broke forty,
live pahes at glcrea, ft largoiroqt door, all the mirrors, a
large field glass, and dßeitoye-l faith,a tomahawk tubs,
buckets and dishes. There ffefo Gnl/ tie mistress
servant, and children at home, and they thought it
advisable to clear The Woods Patent Brake Co. are
to get £BOOO from the Victorian Patent Brake Co. for the
full and exclusive right to nee the Woods brake in that
colony At a wool sale of Goldsbrougk’s the highest
price, 2s. Id. per lb., was paid by a buyer sent from home
to purchase the best wool obtainable. He never saw it,
being totally blind, but his delicate touch is almost
equal to divination, and his judgment is never dis-
puted f3illall‘poi soars Rt Melbourne; 270 persons
vaccinated in a single day lit the rooms of one
practitioner.... Repairs to the s.s. Nelson, flainnged in the
late collision, cost £i1000.... A youth named Quigley bitten
by ft an fife ifi ?hl) anFtoj riffqvbred. Ammonia was in-
jected. The #ouhd was ft three punoturq ,ope A boy
of 19, who runs the Korolt (Yid.) Herai-d, announces
that “wo can supply Australian and 1f.36. newspapers
with leaders, Melbourne letters, articles, reports of
meetings, correspondence, and general news, either by
letter or by telegram; and news agents and other
business people can have any kind of business
transacted in Melbourne by application to u5”1......
Enough spirits on board the Alraondral, wrecked at
Waratah Bay, to make the sea into toddy. There were
no spirits on the Wotonga when wrecked; all worked
out, the crew slaving about twenty hours out of the
twfluty-four At Terowle, 8. A., on 11th January, five
well-known roeidents paraded the main street in a nude
st/ite, and afterwards bathed in a t rough near Mitchell s
Will iLatbSt accounts nedeiVed in Cooktown state
that the Chinese will in a day d'i tfao “ring down from
the Coen 640 oz. gold. It is, however, largely iffipreg-
nated with silver, only worth about £3 Is. per 0unce......
Now Teat’s Day at Herberton (Q ) was celebrated by
two ballf*, hut ladies wore scarce; about fifty of the
boys could not gat partners At a Cooktown wharf,
the ether evening, Messrs. Garvey and Lawrence
caught a shark measuring 11 feet long, from the liver
of which Mr. Garvey extracted eight gallons of oil.
On Sunday evening Mr. Lawrence caught another
monster, which measured 12 feet, in tho stomach of
which were found portions of a goat, a fowl, a carpet-
snake, a corn-sack, and other miscellaneous articles.
The same gentlemen have since caught another shark
of similar dimensions The Clones Guardian has a
story to tho effect that Blarney, tho defaulting specu-
lator, has been appointed in Adelaide to a Government
billet Worth £? per Week...... Hell’s Gate, Palmer dis-
trict, whore gold has already been found, is being
further prospooted The Tate River blacks have been
diverting themselves by stealing all the miners’ tents,
tools, rations, and Clothes. Very soon there will be
nothing left to Steal but the minors. Dick Eados,
formerly oh the Tate tin-field, has sold out his share in
the prospecting reef at Mount Browne, to a company,
for £5OO cash and £5OO in shapes. £lB,OOO has been
subscribed to float a company Charley Hall, tho
only Tate prospector who stuck te his share, will make
a good thing this year, as tha dirt coming out now
shows 200 por cent, more tin to the load than last year.....
Fire at Gonlburn on Saturday night; Bushney, tailor,
and Kenny, saddler, burnt out Tha Bathurst aider-
men have unanimously dismissed their town clerk, for
neglect of duty George Watson, a boy of thirteen,
at Serpentine, Vic., having been thrashed by his
mother, and licked by another boy, was found dead
with a rifle wound In his stomach, and a latter in his
Socket hinting at suicide...... Bush fires in Victoria. At
llenaroona Station, fourteen milos were swept before
the fire was mastered. The township of Avenol was
almost surrounded, and the fire quelled with difficulty.
The Pacific Steam Navigation Co. have sent a
handsome tea and coffee service to John Turnbull, in
recognition of assistance given when the Sorata was
ashore By the premature explosion of a dynamite
cartridge, Mr. Hugh Mossman, while bathing aad fish-
ing in tha Burdeklu, had bis left hand shattered, his
right arm lacerated, and both thighs wounded. H*
has had his left arm amputated, and is in a critical
breaking ore with hammers. Oram and Co., Intending
to ore t crushing plant, and other works are in progress.
Sarah Robinson, a handsome girl, was sentenced to
nine months' imprisonment for stealing jewellery and
spoons from an hotel where she had been in service,
only leaving lately to bo married. She pleaded pite-
ously for marcy In Melbourne, the scampish dealers
who soli oolonial spirits under forged labels, don’t have
it all their own way. A well known wine and
spirit merchant, of Bourke-street, has been hauled
up for the offence, but discharged by a lenient
state Mr. C. Hodson, representing a Sydney firm.
has purchased one of the best silver and lead mines at
Eavenawood Garden Island to be made available as
a recreation ground At Adelaide, a quantity of
jewellery smuggled ashore by one of the Lusitania’s
passengers, has been seized. A Gas Co. to work the
Invention of the Fakir of Oolu, Dr. Sylvester, has
been floated at Perth, W.A. Capital, £3OOO
River water at Boggabri very low, and stinks accord-
ingly. As about five million goats camp on the banks of
the river and elsewhere, the water that the townspeople
have te drink is highly flavoured The recent mining
mania in Tasmania has been succeeded by severe de-
pression Mr. Rourke, sen., of Dotswood station,
N.Q., has died at Melbourne Scully, a teamster, was
suastruck at Roidsville, N.Q. He went raving mad and
died A young man, named Onslow, residing at Yack-
andandah, Victoria, was bitten by a snake, and died a
few hours afterwards Mrs. Smith, wife of a Gympie
pianist, has drowned herself in the Mary River, Queens-
land. She had long threatened to do so The total
amonnt defalcated by Agg, late accountant of the
Victorian Lands’ Department, £2104 At Dapto, the
other day, a yonng woman was bitten below the kneo by
a snake. She recovered Mining matters very dull
at Vegetable Creek, owing to want of water. At
Flannery’s, returns pretty good. Fox’s party, raising
dirt, waiting for rain. Skinner and party. Garden
Palace and Grave Yard, the same. At Tent Hill aud Y
watsrholos, sluicing suspended for want of water. Rich
find in the tin lodes at the head of Alick St can Creek,
on the Tableland, splendid assay. Butler and party
washing, expect to get £6OOO. Good wages made by
bench Tha Talbot police caught a Chinaman
fossicking for gold at a puddling machine. He
fought like a Tartar, and had to be thrice knocked
down before he was handcuffed At Camperdowu,
Vic., a swagsman, on being refused drink, set fire to
tho grass and the flames set fire to a largo field of oats.
All the New Caledonian escapees, who lately landed
near Bowen (Q ), have been arrested under the Vagrant
Act Great competition for the leases of lands at
Herbert Biver, Northern Territory. 9000 acres brought
equal to £lO,OOO per annum At tho North Glanmire
claim, Gympie, Michael Gorrey, minor, was, on 19th
January, killed at the 300 ft. level by the fall of a huge
lump of rock weighing 30 cwt. which dropped on him,
almost catting him in two Big bush fire near
uallababa, Braidwood Burglars at Parramatta
robbed two houses of jewellery, etc., also tried tha
WeAleyan parsonage, got nothing there, but singularly
escaped being struck dead, as a judgment A horse
fell down a 50ft. well, at North Shore, the; other day.
Two young gentlemen of boating fame got him up
again for the sake of the well At the annual meet-
ing of the Braidwood Literary Institute, the question
of opening the reading room on Sundays again oooa-
sioned a strong party discussion. One party contended
that the young men would be saved from evil ways if
they went there to read on Sundays: the other party
asserted that tho young men preferred to take their
girls out on Sundays, and it did ’em a lot more good,
too Marcus Clarke Fund amounts to £lO4O Seam
of coal 22 inches wide pierced by tho diamond drill at
Kilcunda, Victoria Mr. Octavius Langtree, of the
Victorian Mining Department, to be chief clerk, vice
Andrews, deceased. Mr. Langtree has been about 17
years in the office The cases against Franck and
others for using the totalisator at Geelong races wore
dismissed Shock of earthquake at Jamieson, Vic-
toria 42,000 shares in the Perkin* and Co. Brewery
company, at Brisbane and 1 oofaoomba, have beenap-
plied for in Melbourne Commission of Inquiry finds
official staff of Sanbnry (Victoria), Lunatic Asylum
disorganized, and state of institution unsatisfactory
Tremendous rainfall on the Darling Downs (Q )
In the sensational romance “ Ned Kelly,” just pc £
iished in London, that late lamented worthy is repre-
sented os living in monarchical state ou the top of
Mount M&oedon, and is mixed up with a number of
SisSS
of “ Ironclad BushrangW*/ The ciorks in
false from beginning to end ..*•«/ Ajfcout a montha
the Q.P.O. have now been waiting jM A
for a very f'mali sum due to them (for overtime. A
diltinot fas given tbM
would be allowed fitdoto fhA work was done It to
hardly necessary to say tiaMto'toh to m the ’ lrea*
sury, and is not the fault of the sense of
has done all he can; but he cant dHdn’fi
honour in the breast of a man whose Cl , .
furnish him with any Tin ore discovered n
Northern Territory Fionas (s.s.) till ashore.
• * •
The Duke of, Marlborough ia selling hia ‘‘Sun-
derland Library" in lots at auction, highest price
anvu'cßted at fHvate iWofifttioQS was £30,000. U pwara m
of £l9® &/uLdr\ been iWisOd for the hooks'com-
prised under £S« l4tors A and 8..../.tHsmaMk tuflers
from neuralgia and tot
tavern was established in id aud t«sfe ar
now 160 in London alone. rnn toe $
Oaxton Coffee Public House, which to ! w
by newspaper men Tho first screw-^ohtoor-tl iat W
to say, the first screw ressel to be e
tricity—is now being built on the Seme, and will
be tried James Flint, of Fulton county, Ills.
reached his 107th year, and attributes his longevity to
the free use of tobacco A pair of twins are living m
Virginia, who afo ninety-three years old A man os
ninety-two is, suing at Dos Moinos for a divorce from a
wife of eighty,fito A Denver newspaper has bcea
sued for calling a deatipA • A ftnG
London op m6’urnf^f(^*rfloldio
first time in its evistonoe^,:. .GladstOfWj % nngh pssu
seventy years of age. £as fib M
first time Ex-Prosident tta£of Mexico, to
marry his fourth wife, a handaoJ'e pyae of eigute
Tho Eddyatone Lighthouse 7“°*
will early next year be cut down to bl^'
Nearly £250,000 falls to the English
the estate of the late Mr. Perton, of
whose will does not dispose of more than £60,000
of a fortune exceeding £300,000. He was
and leaves no issue. It is however known that he
intended to distribute his property among his nephews
and nieces; and an informal memorandum of his testa-
mentary intentions has been discovered. Those who
do not tludefStand why a«y person should be under
special disabilities bifc'aflse his parents were not man-lea
-a matter upon whW It M ohVio.tts he Uot ocm-
suited—will regard it as robbefy «Itfto ftatire toftfins
of Mr. Perton be not distributed atttofig Ms
Good strong wino is a penny a bottle in Cyprus-v,
Other day in England, a pauper aged 70 amused Bit-aelf
by thrusting a red-hot poker into the neck of oimfhef
pauper aged 77 The latest Hibernian Joke is perpe-
trated at the Ladies’ Land League meetings. Whenever
a sub-inspeotor of the Eoyal Irish now enters a meeting
of the discontented ladies, it is the fashion to propose
him as chairman of the assembly he declares to be
illegal. Tha sub-inspeotor invariably declines the for-
midable undertaking, and retires..,...ln Qemany. every
captain in the army is responsible for the efficient train,
ing of his company; it l« not all done for him by drill
instructors.” If tho officers of the N. 3. W. Volunteer
Infantry had to instruct their own men, bow many could
do it P And if an officer cannot do it, is he fit, to be an
officer? The Sorvla. the largest vessel afloat, except
the Great Eastern, recently left Liverpool on her first
vovave across the pond. In her trial trip the Servia
“ walked over ’’ the measured! mile with 25°0 tons defld
weight on board, added to her own weight of 10,060
tons, at the remarkable rate of 20} miles per hour.
LATE SPORTING.
The ease against Franck and others, arrested in
connection with the totalisater at Geelong Races, was
dismissed.
Corbett will have a chance to regain hia lost
laurels from Cavill in April, when a £25 cup is to be
swttm for.
The principal event of the Orange J.C. ntodt-
ing, on 16th aud 17th March, will be a handicap of 125
sovereigns, with a sweep of 5 sovs, added.
Two Grafton pedestrians, Sonthion and Noad,
ore matched to run 100 yards on February 18,'for iM
a side, Sonthion giving Noad five yards’ start.
The weights for the Sydney Cup and Hawkes-
bury Handicap were declared on Monday, The Barber
and Bathurst have each been backed lor the Handicap
at 1000 to 50.
On February 11, at the Tamworth cricket
ground, G. King gives J. Lennon 6 yards start in a 110
yards race, for £lO aside, and E. Walsh and T. Giles
run 150 yards for £2O.
Rush is willing to add £25 to the .£5O prize, at
the Grafton Eegatta, if Lay cook will subscribe a similar
amount. The former does not say that he will row for
it. A £5O prize is offered for the double scull race.
Following are the representatives of Victoria
for the forthcoming Intercolonial match Blackbam,
Baker, Bonnor, Boyle, Cooper, Coulthard, Edwards.
Horan, M’Donnell, Moule, M'Shane, Palmer, and
Turner.
Segenhoe has been scratched for the Champagne
'takes at the coming A.J.C. meeting. Although a few
have already backed him, it is well that the horse is
scratched in time, to save the bulk of the public money
being invested on a “ stiff-un.”
The first match of the second round for the
Gardiner Challenge Cup, between Petersham and Car-
lingford clubs resulted, in the Domain, on Saturday, in
a one-innings win for the former club, the scores being:
P C.C. 188—Marr 53, G. Seale 27, Kirke 24, Roberts 19,
e! Seale 16. C.C.C. 103—Hickson 29, E. Ellis 15 and 76,
Brodie 22, Walford 20, Hughes (not out) 11.
Triokett has again challenged Hanlan for a race
over the champion course on the Thames for £2OO
aside. Hanlan ia willing to row him, but for not less
than £5OO aside. Now, this is a fair chance for the
many in the colonies who have not forsaken Triokett
since his defeat. The reports from America that
Triokett tried to get the match on for the sake of
steamer money and railroad returns, knowing that ha
had no chance of victory, seem to be without founds-
tion, as Triokett wants to pull Hanlan—and anywhere.
This is an honest effort to regain the lost laurels for
Australia, and it should be supported by Australians.
Tha Warwicks defeated the University in the
Domain, last Saturday. W.C.C., 145—Downes 31, Biley
27. Scanlan 22. Payten (not out) 19, Oatley 14, Ogilvie
10. U’C.C., 81—Waldron 17, Wilkinson (notout) 13.
Garrett 11, Allen 10. Faithful 10, and six wickets for 79
—Jones 27. Wilkinson 15, Garrett 11, Teece 11. The
comparatively small scores made favour the hypo-
thesis that the tall scoring on the Association Ground
is more owing to the excellence of the wickets than to
the lack of good bowling. The same clubs scored an
average of over 200 per innings on the Association
Ground.
Rowing men will regret to learn that Mr.
T. O’Sullivan, whilst out ou the river for a short spin
yesterday afternoon, seriously injured his racing boat.
It is the best sculling boat in Brisbane, and was the ono
Laycock used in the late regatta, aud sold to O’Sullivan
before he left. The latter was pulling in rather rough
water near the North Quay, when he ran over a small
stake just a few inches above the water’s edge. He felt
a sudden shock, but rowed back to the shed, and when
he reached the bridge the boat became so full of water
that it nearly sank under him, and. he was obliged to
obtain the assistance of a double sculling boat near at
hand to take him to the shore. The damage done to the
boat was found to be in a seam at the bow, and it will
probably have to be sent to Sydney to he repaired.
O’Sullivan, who is perhaps our best local amateur
sculler, has sustained a serious loss by the accidents
Brisbane Courier, 27th January.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
J. Sands v. G. Robertson’s employes. Sands’ 73 :
Martin 18. Robertson’s 65 —M’Conville 17, Fry 16
Parkes defeated Forbes in a cricket match on January
26, by 44 runs, and Blayney beat Cndal by 79 runs
The final rowing heais, and the sailing race of the Lake
Macquarie Regatta, are to be settled to-day (Saturday).


THE ANGEL INN ESTATE, BUEWOOD.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
THE GREAT BUEWOOD LAND SALE.
Angel Inn Estate") 33 ACRES,
OB 5- TOEEENS’
Ireland s Paddock ) TITLE,
THE ANGEL INN PROPERTY - ,
LIVERPOOL ROAD.
33 ACRES. TORRENS’ TITLE.
LIVERPOOL EOAD° ntag6B t 0
REDMYRE ROAD
DRIVER’S ROAD
BEALQA STREET
WONGA STREET
ANGEL ROAD
EMU STREET
. WILLEB STREET,
olose to the following gentlemen’s hiidily-improved
suburban properties, viz.—C. E. Pilcher, Esq,
M R-: Dr. P. Sydney Jones, Messrs. W. M.
Quodling.T.J. Thompson, C. H. Myles, G. Hardie,
and Captain Cargill.
THE ANGEL INN ESTATE, BURWOOD.
33 ACRES,
subdivided by Mr. Surveyor REUSB, Jnn.. into
SEVEN (7) SECTIONS.
151 ALLOTMENTS,
as per Lithographic Plana now being
issued daily.
TORRENS' TITLE. EASY TERMS.
EASY TERMS. TORRENS* TITLE.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
HAVE received instructions to sell by public
auction,
ON THE GROUND,
On the Ground,
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
FEBRUARY 4,
Saturday, 4th February,
at 3.30p.m.,
on very easy terms of payments,
EASY TERMS.
The whole of the
ANGEL INN ESTATE,
BURWOOD, REDMYRE,
as subdivided into
151 LOTS.
The ANGEL INN PROPERTY is too well-known
to require much advertising.
It is the most parklike property in the suburbs
The stately trees have been preserved, and give the
property a beautiful and pleasing aspect.
Parties who have been holding back, waiting for this
sale, will have choose their lots on
mr Every lot will be sold.
Tho Title is under Real Property Act.
•*" The Terms are extremely easy.
Get a Lithograph, and have a quiet look at the
different lots beforehand.
tar EVERY LOT WILL BE SOLD.
THE ANGEL INN ESTATE is about equally
distant from REDMYRE STATION
and
BUEWOOD STATION,
and is right on the
CROWN OP THE HILL.
LITHOS. BEADY.
SOUTH WATEELOO,
FEEEHOLD.
GEEAT SALE ON THE GEOUND,
• at 330 o’clock,
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
69 ALLOTMENTS.
69 ALLOTMENTS,
and a
CAPITAL COTTAGE EESIDENCE
fronting the
MAIN EOAD
just beyond the
HALFWAY HOUSE.
•*“ the eamway passes land.
«3T CAPITAL BUILDING LAND.
«■ GOOD EICH SOIL FOE FLO WEES and FEUIT.
Lithos are ready.
HARDIE ANF GORMAN
WILL sell, ON THE GROUND.
SOUTH WATEELOO (freehold
at 3 30 o'clock,
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
69 ALLOTMENTS and COTTAGE EE3IDENCES.
Special free conveyance will run.
Every lot will be sold.
UNEESEEVED SALE 11
69 ALLOTMENTS,
SOUTH WATEELOO II
|JNDER SECTION Y„ ACT 532.
AET-UNION.
PUECHASB Of the BUNGAEEE JUNCTION
ESTATE
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCEIBEEB of £1 each.
120 PEIZES of the full value of £lO,OOO.
117 lots guaranteed cash if preferred.
t°£ o l Bt J P rize £4OOO I Lot 3. 3rd prize £lB5O
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize £4OO
Lot 5 to 9, 5 Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10, 1 Prize of £56.
Lot 11 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lot 21 to 120,100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management have increased the number of prizes,
and thereby increased the chances to nearly a certainty
to win a substantial prize, if not a large and independent
fortune, for £l. Drawing on the 28th and 29th March.
Unsuccessful applicants will have their money returned
per return post. No commission will be paid to agents
after this date.
Address-SETH E. PEBSSE, No. 1 Australian am
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
BEAD PBOSPECTUB.
AUCTION NOTICE.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
IMPORTANT SALE OP TOWN FREEHOLDS.
fr 118,8I 18,8 reoe ived instructions from
, * j Eaoharn, Etq. (in consequence of his
projected departure for England), to sell by auction
on an early day, at Eockhampton,
hiB trul 7 valuable FEEEHOLD
PKOPEETIES, full particulars of which can be
seen m the Eockhampton daily papers, and any
further particulars on application.
This will be the most extensive sale tha-t has yet taken
place in Eockhampton, one of the most rapidly ad-
vanning towns in Queensland.
H
THIS SATURDAY, P!
IMPOETANT SALE AT
THE GRAMPIAN HI
FIRST SUBDIVISION C
NEXT TO THE LAND RECEN
By ME. E. A. EICHII
LARGE RAILWAY and ENQII
128 ALLOTMEI
each having'
From 62 to 89 feet i
By depths of from 160
TITLE, TORRENS
SPECIAL FREE TRAIN ON
MILLS, PILE, "AND
AVE received instructions
auction,
ON THE GEOU
on
SATURDAY, 4th PJ
at 3 o’clock.
The first subdivision of
THE GRAMPIAN HIL
Situate at AUBURN,
Consisting of 128 ALLOTMI
THE MAIN AUBURN ROAD.
WATER STREET,
HARGRAVES STREET.
NOEVAL STREE
HEVINGTOh
COTH
and
„ , , . HELENA STEP
Each having a frontage of fron
depths of from 160 to
THIS ESTATE is the HIGH]
SYDNEY and PARRAMATTA,
TOWNSHIP, and next to the sit.
by Mr. R. A. RITCHIE for his lar
RAILWAY AND ENGINES
SPECIAL TEA
Will leave Sydney on day of sale,
purchasers ts> the t
LARGE PLAJ
is now on view, and lithos. o
ROOMS, 114 PITT S
TITLE, TORRENS
TEEMS, EAS
SEND POE j
FREE RAILWAY 1
and attend the SA
and SECU RE one or m
CHOICE VILLA £
MILLS. PILE, AND <
AUCTIONEER
DAY OP SALE—4th I
Remember, this sat
NOON,
THE GRAMPIAN HIL
AUBURN.
SALE, ON THE GROUND,
128 ALLOTMENTS TO CH
PLANS AND FREE RAILWAY
ROOMS, 111 PITT S'
MILLS, PILE, "AND
AUCTIONED
fJIHB PICK of tho BLU;
MOUNT CLEAR VIEW
FAULCONBEIDGE RALLY I
and opposite
the ESTATE o
Sir HENRY PARSES,
THIS SPLENDID BLOCJ
in area
PIETS’ ACRES
has been subdivided
TWENTY. EOnH m
BROOK'S SEWING COTTON.
M ELTHA M
NEAE HUDDERSFIELD,
MILLS,
ENGLAND.
Trade mark
T H mMufaotMed l by th^— IBITI ° N PRI2;ES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
THE ONT v*?^t ZE MEDAL • LONDON EXHIBITION, 1851.
PRIZE MEDAK LONDON ETmßmnw ß {SS ME £ AL - PARIS EXIBITION, 1855.
‘ „ «OLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION. 1867.
rHE ONLY DIPLOMA OP HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873. * '*
GOLD MPDAT AWARI) . PHILADELPHIA. 1876.
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA, 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION 1878
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYDNEY, 1880. * 78 ‘
ASK FOR BROOK’S SEWING 00TT0NS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
The leave of absence of the
has been extended another six u
entire.
a Murray Smith has oonsen
A gent. General in London only wi
iloatmg.
/}y. en Parramatta
of this celebrated estate, will bo so
rooms, 289 George-street, next Sati
at 2 o clock. Terms, £2 deposit; 1
” • Pritchard, auctioneer.—Adv.
„ DEATH.
Hiooins.—January 28 th, at Arlini
the Hon. Patrick Higgins, M.I
WK I M
• LANDSCAPE PHOTOG
WIKDSOE-ST., PXDDI
Views and Gents.’ Eesidences ta
notice.
Q. U N S L E E’S
NOETH TEEI
ADELAIDE.
■pEEKINS A
“*■ (BEEWEET COMPANY),
Ten per cent, (guaranteed) per
year during past three years, 3Hi i
m certified by Voucher of Public A
MELHA r>r>
f
. S 3
euua
9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES,
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
• ? lis i 8 m ? 9 j effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Conntry Residences. Churches Rfnroo •
Blm^U C oSa , i« ft^hr^i e ’ and C . anbe ma s e a “y intelligent lad with perfect safety * St ° reS * » 18
This GASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga«, and, when properly made is entire!* f r « a f
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and wood fortfJfnt/f
m some oases almost ml. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas ™ faJuace »
tocJaGas? W GASmade Wltk this APPARATUS is used for lighting the GovcrnmentEailways in perference
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS. &c. Shipments Received monthlv
Medalists and Special Prize holders. montnij.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
I DRUNK
'enness
Cured.
Book free by post
CALL ON OR ADDRESS
S. FRESHMAN,
359 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
—£ -
GOLD CUBE.
GOLD CUBE.
MFJ 26 for £25 aside, between Qraitson and Ensom. The
OI » easily The S.A. Banks Bowing Club
w“V ,s “ ret trial meeting on Torrens' Like (8. A.), on
eunesday, Jan. 25 E. Cooper, of Bedbengh, 4(3 years
a f a * an( t T. Legg, of Danston (blind), offered to row
fh iv men m the world, but one to be blindfolded, and
0 hther not be lees than 46 years Of age. Harry
/i«i .5 John Higgins accepted the challenge for
a5ide....... A team of Canadian lacrosse players con-
template visiting England during the summer of 1882.
billiard matches took place at Horberton,
«u ,Si TW ’ ? n J anuar 7 7. H. Selog played W. SUns-
fleld 500 up for £2O aside, and won by 21 points. Seleg
then Played J. Dudley 600 up for the same amount, and
Won by 130 points The Nelson Aoclimatsiation
cooiety (N.Z ), are now issuing licenses for deer-atalk-
«hg....Jpamlwidga t. Woodstock. C.C.C. 27; Wood-
niatch played by the Opera House and
the Theatre Koyal companies, on the Association
» ro rm! < ** developed a cricket mania among the votaries
•of Thespis. On Anniversary Day, at Norwood Park,
Jnfi Hercules Amateur Dramatic Club met a combined
of the pros., and got well beaten, the amateurs
making 19 and 40, and the pros. 164 in their single in-
nmgs. Beanmont played a flue innings for 69; Stewart
batted well and got damaged in the head and shoulders,
verdi, with a forty-six reputation, was bowled first
ball, and now wonders how he got the forty-six. Forde
is vary smart behind the wicket, and should join one of
our local clubs. Harry Leston’s fielding on the OF.
Bids was the theme of admiration with fourteen young-
iters perched on the fence, who were disappointed that
thegemal low com. didn’t do something funny for them.
Verdi bosses that show in private life—Leston is in-
tensely aseptic. Manton’s average was phenomenal
i tts wa s n . earl y rnn into by an incoming train at
55® station last weak Hero of Waterloo v.
Maodonaldtown. at Eveleigh. H.W.C.C. 61—W. Pople
13, Austin 12, Parse 11. M.T.C.G. 40 The Anniver-
Handicap at Queanbeyan was won by Joseph
Davlin. Lazarus won the two-mile walking match in
19 minutes. The 45-mlnutes’ go-as-you-please was won
oy vv. Balmer, who covered 6 miles Glebe Strath-
more v. Botany C.C., onjannary 28, atßctany. Strath-
rße“Bon } 6 ’ Kelly 14. Botany 38-Qarton 23.
tor tba winners, and E. Sims for thi losers,
T * Patron of sport at Bungendore has
©ffered £5 towards a cup. to be shot for there. He will
5-2? J?. re !®S fc £ ro h » n dred pigeons Turner made 45 in
match at Bathurst last Saturday, between teams picked
0. Naylor and J. Cassidy Clarendon v.
Alexandria. C.C.j 78. A.C.t 76 The Young Ans-
Shu rS d ® r ?’ B Ban da played a cricket match
at Sir Joseph Banks Hotel grounds, Botany, on Satur-
tff'm Yol i?* Australians 3&j Glebe 58, and 4 wickets
K'i, v. Elsmore. 8.C.: 108-M'Connell 37.
af.Qh 7 15 . Borland (notout) 11. E.C.: 38—
tn). 0n 17 ’,,?' 0 ? 11 , 13 Cleveland v. Ashfleld Wara-
&i p o '?' 1 Mattersou 20. Smith 18. A.W.C.:
2eeisS^ W^ t S c * 1 ?* ?• Conion, for the Cleveland.
, 5 wick l ta to l 11 ™ns, and P. Byrne 5 wickets
I?* I®s7!' 1 ®57!' ■ ■ Vw Tba Petersham Cricket Club put three
levens into the field on Saturday last, all of which
First eleven defeated Carlingford for
Gardiner Challenge Cup, in one innings and 9 runs;
second eleven defeated Callan Park by 34, and the third
eleven seored a win against the Bichmoud team by 57.
i** l. T- -n K f ilway ’ on National ground, on
Bud way, 66; Harkins 131. National,
Vi-i ii Ti ckefcs Adamson 36, Baxter 21, Carroll 14,
“ U-V-NattOßa! v. Oxford, on tho National ground,
22LAS vSm7 Rational. Ist innings. 65 ; Dob!
10 .Oxford, Ist innings, 33: D. M'Hale
m * 2 A d . ia s lH(r9> 57 ‘ Dobson 20, Duncan 11,
HiA 0- - Oxfords, 2nd innings, 0 wickets for 40;
t by th « flrßt innings in favour oi
the Nationals by 22 runs Carthona v. 2nd Glebe
Strathmore, at Camperdown, on Saturday. Carthona,
r * mß2 S. Stewart 38. Strathmore, 101; Solo-
B n l™,7^" l "V ßaln ? am OoHingwood v. Young Princes.
Balmain, Ist innings, 30; 2nd innings, five wickets for
'PhA mS 1 Pri £f*?* i/i' innings, 22; 2nd innings, 21
r,m. U^. C ab . d#f * Bted tbe Albion Club by nine
. oViotorxan Barracks ground, on Saturday.
I* Warrumbah. at Hunter's Hill. Warrumbah,
2a . d 62 i Bingle 22, Dobbie 21,
Gerard 18, Lewis 16. Elsinore, Ist innings, 65 t 2nd
2 .® : - Bei Z, ers 17 » Douohar 14. Eover v. Wool-
lahra United. Eover, 95. Woollahra, 39.
• • •
■ A amusing race was recently in-
hamßrnn ‘l* f, air h<sld , at Madras, India It was a
f a P for . all animals in the country,'* and the
f£ 1 ® p8 * l ?°f 8 included buffaloes, elephants, a goat, ram,
wT« fl« d uUMH eSlde r ß pon !* 8 841(1 horsos - The elephants
' (r ®, e 88 J" ac d a ’ lf moving in a marriage procession,
and wont over the course at a quick walk The r»m
smd goat, ridden by little boys ran weU ; the buffaloes
rflitw t w,. g ?H°^i, ga i l^ Pj . bnt the emu would not stir;
the^olkV 1 ?A 1 end of th e race, however,
great sneed Vfnnu 1 darted dowll tho eoursß at
HIS y,th f am 7 a; declared tho winner,
a,, „ orß * coming second, and a buffalo third !
Bnfn. fo ° tball , match under Eugby Union
Buies, between Oxford and Cambridge Universities
took pUce Blackheath on Dec. 13. The Oxonians woA
PJ two goals and a try to one goal . The one-mile
E X l^^ amp , i ,° n i i o hip and £25 was contended ferby
Bichard Howell, 18yrs., 6 feet, 1641 b.. and Frederick
2^ rs * 4tt » 9in, » at the Belgrave-road
grounds Liecester. Eng.. Oct 31. Cooper hadTbout
six inched t h h fi WOMt send-off, beaten by
lodgedTn’nbw" 61 8 v tlm ® bein? 2m. 555. Cooper
ifcerwards wUhdiew t gr ° Und ° f a false Btart * but


CLIFFORD, LOVE, AND COMPANY,
TEA IMPORTERS.
EASTERN and COMMISSION MERCHANTS,
Receive regular Consignments, and have now on sale—
TEAS— INDIAN, ALL QUALITIES;
TEAS- CHINA, FEOM RATION TO THE
FINEST CONGOUS.
It has always been their aim to import none but
FIRST CROP PURE TEAS,
and their thorough knowledge of the Tea Trade enables
them to guard their constituents from the charge of
being purveyors of what is in China so aptly called
•'LIE TEA."
The wisdom of their policy of importing only
FIRST CROP PURE TEAS,
although at the disadvantage of small profits to them-
selves, has been most gratifyingly confirmed by their
large trade in New South Wales, Queensland, South
Australia, Tasmania, Ac., where the trade are fully
aware of the many advantages which LARGE BUYING,
combined with the highest skill, is enabled to offer.
CLIFFORD, LOVE, AND COMPART
are the importers of the
CELEBRATED TAEPING MIXTURE
and
MOGUL MIXTURE.
CLIFFORD, LOYeTaND COMPANY,
79 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN D A N K
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Braaswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gaaflttlngs, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMKERFIELD,
ECONOMY IN CLOTHING .
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY PROCURING
TOUR GOODS FROM THE
DIRECT IMPORTER.
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR,
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT
sent to any part of the country.
ear The particular attention of eonntry resi-
dents is requested to this notice.
Any style of Garment made to Fit by using
SUMMEEFIELD’S
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT.
235 PITT STREET,
Trousers 16s. 6d., 205., 265.
Suits ... A 3 35., A 3 10s„ A 4 4s.
3000 PATTERNS TO CHOOSE FEOM.
THE PATENT EIVETTED BUTTONS
ON ALL TROUSERS.
EVERY GARMENT THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
FIT GUAEANTEED.
SYDNEY.
E. GREER AND CO.'S
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Bid Wimxs j
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbeo
White Wines
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS t
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
The Tebim of subscription for The Bulletin are-" 18
advance, pec annum, 125.; half-year, os.; quarterly!
3s. i boeked, 6d. per quarter extra. RemittancesidS
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N-"-*
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and to*
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H. Traill A P
The Bttllbtim offloe, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N-®-
Wales.
MOST PLEASANT
S
A
F
E
8
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTER AND PARRY'S NEW EXTRACT
OP SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, hut is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pis ng smell, will not injure the most deli-
a»,e l auds, is the greatest time-saving of
Uoiur, tendering any article cleansed there-
with o th purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grocers and Storekeepers through,
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
IN THE WORLD.
D
I
8
I
N
F
E
C
T
A
N
T
-*V. infsai
Dispense Proscriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydnov. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, &o.
all KINDS OF DUUQGISTB* BUNDBIKB.
Rend for n Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address-
on cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings. ,
/ —*
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation 'Trowels designed and made on the
Promises,
DIAMOND SETTER I
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock,
Waltham Watches, from £8 to £25.
118
*
KING STREET SYDNEY:
JAILOR A y s
fO*OV
m
m
mm
o 0
mm
tERf
<AMb POST OFFICE?
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
-2® TO ORDER.
FIT GUARANTEED!
Att HANDWORK-
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
■ci 0 W L E R’S P 0 T T E E Y
AND
BBICK WORKS,
CAMPFEDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
MARTIN «fc PAIN,
389 GEOR6E-BT*
Sydney.
FOR THE PLOUGIN6 SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our cintomer* and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete over offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI-
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOB
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OP PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie’s 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE, *
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
INFORMATION ftr CHAFF-DEALERS
A ' Owners of Horses, &c.
READ WHAT PRACTICAL ;«CN KAY ABOUT f
our bUNCLE’SMJMMK
Before Ordering,
send for
Our Price List
AND
All Particulars.
MARTIN*-
AND PAIN,
389 George St. f
SYDNEY.
Intending Purchasers should bo careful to see that Chaff
Cutters offered them as Buncle's pattern are THE GENU-
INE BUNGLE.
John Bunole, of Melbourne, has been 26 years perfecting
his Chaff Cutters, and any machines that have not his name
oast on fly-wheel and mouth-piece, are not of his manu-
facture.
THE DEPOT FOR BUNGLE’S MACHINES.
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
9. A.
CHES
V/ I*
FROM J* . 4.1 0 .
Mc r 0 RI N G _ JEW £ j^W
9. Bc. II HUNTER•S.TREET.
CHES G 0L D WA T C ME S
0. ■ SEND FOR • , tßpl'J X. 5-10 •
SEND FOR
CAT ALOGUF .
A HEAL GOOD BATH.
o**
IJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
TREY ARE IN EVERY WA Y COMPLETE.
TRY ONE. "Z FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING ,
SYDNEY - STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
foe
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen.
SHIRAZ T Fruity T,,,
MADEIRA j Winea j
BURGUNDY") Dry
RIESLING j Wines j' sl/ ‘ » "
’ G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bkidoe Street.
WINES.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
Ac., Ac.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PEE GALLON.
• STANDARD
% aEADV-MADE-SUITS
.usines\s
pSOMENABE
TV® veiling
QUALITY yachting
Picnicingl
Cricketing
SXTITiLE v
Durability \
UNSURPASSED \
“ Standard ” Summer Tweed Suits JEI 5 O
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 6
" Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
" Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
“ Standard ” Superior ditto I 15 O
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well out, and
well made.
PE APES and SHAW,
FEAPES and SHAW.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE S(JN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has lie New Automatics Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Eaoe, Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 XING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE.
