

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 119.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 6, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, MAY 6, 1882.
Ecclesiastical Gambols.
Considered as fashionable entertainments, the
so-called Old English Fairs are harmless enough.
Young people require diversion, and such amuse-
ments as can be carried on under the control of
parents and pastors will always be preferable to
untrammelled friskings. The flowers which are
born to blush unseen belonged to a different gene-
ration from that which has produced ‘ ‘ professional
beautiesand if the pretty girls of to-day are
dissatisfied unless all the world aad his wife have
had an opportunity of endorsing the judgment of
the domestic circle, there is little room for com-
plaint. Love of admiration is natural. All con-
ditions and both sexes feel it. The young girls
who stand behind stalls, or perambulate a hall, in
order to enjoy.the notice their good looks attract,
are not different at heart from what their demure
grandmothers were. They are merely a good deal
more natural, and less hypocritical. The thing is
innocent enough, and frigid remonstrants, of the
” prunes and prism ” order, have no occasion to
turn up the yellows of their eyes. The affair is
only shocking in the degree of its newness. Round
dances ware fearfully immoral in the eyes of some
people when first introduced from the Continent.
Even croquet was regarded askance at first. It
necessitated so shocking an exposure of ancle —
two inches above the boot top ! Now the meekest
of curates play the game. Everyone likes to dis-
play his or her distinction —from a Mozart seated
at the piano, down to a Parkes orating at a
banquet. ‘ ‘ Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher;
all is vanity.”
* * *
But it is somewhat startling to find Vanity Fair
adopted by the Churches. John Bunyan must
have turned in his grave had the thing come to
his knowledge. Has it come to this, that
Christian, on his way to the Golden City, can’t
fet along without wheedling the denizens of Vanity
'air to get up a benefit towards his travelling
expenses? Is religion, then, a frolic? We can
understand and appreciate any claim put forth by
the Churches to enter into the amusements of the
people, and have a voice in the management and
control of these things. We can sympathise with
the idea that the influence of the pastor should
pervade the diversions of the flocks —even that
the elders and deacons should bestir themselves
to initiate and provide innocent merriment and
enjoyment. We wish more were done in that
way. But, when the only occasions on which the
Church condescends thus to take notice of, or part
in, the gaieties of the people, is when it reckons to
make a profit out of the business, there is occasion
for very peculiar reflection. Those among the
clergy who resort to such devices for procuring
money can scarcely realize how dangerous are the
admissions they thus make. It cannot be sup-
posed—they would assuredly not wish to be so un-
derstood—that they prefer to base the temporal
prosperity of their Churches upon moneys cozened
from the public by speculations of a semi-drama-
tic, semi-spectacular kind, only differing from
those which a theatrical manager might provide
for the populace, in that the performers are ama-
teurs and volunteers. If, then, such a recourse be
not preferential, it must be obligatory. To admit
this would be tantamount to a confession that the
Churches which resort to bazaars and fairs for
revenue find the offerings made for love of their
ordinances, and appreciation of their moral value,
inadequate for their sufficient maintenance.
• • •
Is this the actual fact ? Is the spiritual blessing
of providing a commodious place of worship on the
North Shore not inducement enough for profess-
ing churchmen to contribute the requisite funds ?
Is the old religion—that of the Church which
claims to be built upon a rock —become decrepid,
in spite of promise and prophesy, to such an extent
that henceforth its main buttresses are to be Vanity
Fairs ? It would be strange indeed if it has been
the fortune of a rev. gentleman and a mighty
Archbishop to hoist with their own hands signals
of ecclesiastical distress, and enter, in the face of
all observers, into a parley and treaty of alliance
with the Flesh and the Devil I For religious pur-
poses, forsooth. Who, among the motley throng of
merry-makers in the Garden Palace, was filled with
thoughts of devotion ? Who, amidst the bedizened
grotesques in the Cathedral, was “ steeped in that
supernatural light of centuries” which the Arch-
bishop has so eloquently mouthed of ? There has
been no harm. The affair has been innocent
enough. Granted. So would be the leasing of the
theatres by the Churches as a speculation for the
performance of ordinary drama. The moral of
most plays is good. Were the Archbishop to
organize a circus there would be no harm either.
Horses are the most innocent of animals. There is
no sin in the exploits of Bounding Brothers, no
wickedness in the antics of “ unrivalled and
Machiavellian clowns.” No immorality attaches
to performing dogs, trained monkeys, or to “ the
celebrated mule Barney.” But where does the
religious sense binge on to.such concerns, profit-
able though they may be ? Are we to take credit
for our moral progress, and point to the number
and splendour of our religious edifices and insti-
tutions, as [evidence of the enduring hold which
religions have upon our people, although no way
of keeping up appearances remain, save by
wheedling money out of pockets which are obdu-
rately buttoned against the claims of the Churches,
by turning showman for the nonce ?
* * *
Some of the “ religious” papers, representing
sects which have not profited by these fairs, have
commented with acerbity upon the proceedings.
But none of these have a title to speak. All are
tainted with the same infection. Those which
denounce fairs have no scruples about bazaars, or
lectures, or tea-meetings, or love-feasts, or what-
not. All, without exception, have succumbed, in
a greater or less degree, before the increasing
difficulty of inducing their members to disburse
for the Church's sake all that the clergy consider
requisite. The whole system is either a fatal
mistake or a last dying confession. If the
Churches could be maintained without descending
to such expedients, fairs and bazaars are a blunder.
If, on the other hand, the Churches cannot main-
tain themselves without such abnormal assistance
i —the inference is plain.
• * *
When, in lieu of renting a theatre, erecting a
circus tent, or borrowing a hall, a cathedral is
converted into a tabernacle for Vanity Fair, the
climax of inconsistency and folly is attained.
Archbishop Vaughan is extremely given to
dilating, upon occasion, on the influence of tradi-
tion and impression. He is seemingly aware that
his sect owes more than any other to the effects
of externals. The solemn splendour of the “long-
drawn aisle; ” the association of ideas—of serious
moods with things that affect the sensations
through the eye, the ear, and the memory—these
are all, and have for ages been, powerful aids to
the maintenance of devotional feeling. The Arch-
bishop has inaugurated his cathedral. Henceforth
not one of the throng, who has squeezed his or her
way amidst the merry vendors within the fane, can
ever enter it again without the picture it then
presented being reproduced in their sensations.
Consecration will not undo what has been effected.
The pictures of saints will serve as reminders of
the Punch and Judy which occupied their place.
There will remain an ineffaceable recollection of
how mimes, with blackened faces, used to “make a
joyful noise before the altar” —with a banjo!
The relics of a martyr will revive thoughts of the
diverting clatter of Bones ; and the grotesque
antics of Tambourine will be recalled whenever the
censer is solemnly swung. When the surpliced
choristers raise the swelling anthem, memory will
mingle with the strains the agreeable but incom-
patible phrasings of “ Old Uncle Nedwhile the
appearance of stoled and mitred ecclesiastics will
recall the striking adventures, near the same spot,
of the Demon of the Dark Ravine —with a step-
dance by the Demon and the Baron’s daughter.
Fancy Fayres are very pleasing diversions. We
hope to see more entertainments of a kindred de-
scription. But it would be more decent if the
Churches henceforth relied upon religious senti-
ment for support, and ceased for ever to exist on
false pretences. Let them flourish by the prac-
tical enthusiasm of their members, and abandon
the farce of relying for their prosperity upon the
success of their speculations as showmongers.
Oat of oar Census.
The figures published periodically by the Regis-
trar-General are passed over often as dry, if not
meaningless. Few readers possess the inclination,
or perhaps have the necessary leisure, to extract
the kernel from so tough a husk, and reduce the
same to digestible nutriment. But the facts
indicated by these numerals are often of vital
national import, and we mistake much if some of
the returns rendered under the Census of 1881 do
not contain something which must ere long provide
the public of New South Wales with weighty cause
for reflection. It is true that sundry forebodings
in the direction we point to have been at times
expressed by various writers and public speakers,
but now for the first time we learn with absolute
certainty things which hitherto have been merely
matter of opinion or surmise. We refer to the
figures which show the distribution of the people,
more especially to the tables Nos. 11 and 12, de-
tailing the urban and rural population of the
colony, and the respective increase of the same at
the decennial periods.
The whole population last year was 751,468,
Of this number, there lived in
Sydney and its suburbs 220,984
And in other towns and villages 212,407
Making a total urban popula-
tion of 433,391
Add the sea-faring class 3,227
And we have remaining the
rural population 314,850
From this statement we gather, in general terms,
that of every hundred of our people, thirty live in
Sydney and its suburbs, twenty-eight live in other
towns and villages, and forty-two dwell in the
country districts.
# # *
As to the modes in which these people make
their living, we cannot be wide of the mark in
assuming that the metropolitan, town, and village
residents, are, as a rule, not engaged in the pro-
duction of those staples which give value to the
soil. The ominous fact, then, stands before us
that only 42 per cent, of our people are main-
tained by real productive work, while 58 per cent,
of the whole live on other resources. Allowing a
fair margin for the requirements of legitimate
commerce and a liberal public service, there still
remains, it appears to us, an overwhelming dispre-
Eortion in the numbers supported otherwise than
y the soil. At the same time, the outward and
visible signs of prosperity around us are so
numerous and so tangible, that, to most people, to
raise a doubt as to the soundness of our industrial
condition may look like wrong-headedness or a
whimsical incapacity to appreciate practical ques-
tions. But old-world economic principles un-
doubtedly condemn a state of society which is
supported more by expenditure than by produc-
tion, and, moreover, the work of colonization in
other parts of the world appears to be based on
habits and methods quite different from ours.
Canada, in the proportion of her town population,
appears to present a startling contrast ,to the
state of things in our colony. With a nation of
ARCHIBALD FORBES,
The War Correspondent.


HOP BITTERSI
ABE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVES MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Bucha, Mandrake and Dandelion*
The Oldest, Best, most Eenowned, and 1
Valnable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Eegulator, Blood Purifies, and Life
and Health Eestoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Eemember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; bat the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health.
Or languishing on abed of sickness, taka
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Care Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if yon feeß
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive Yon.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Yea.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting,
Hop Bitters is What Yoa Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un.
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hep Bitters Will Give Yoa New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PUEIFY, AND ENEICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
KONTEFIORB, METCALFE, & CO.,
65 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia,
ODIC FORCE IS LIFE FORCE.
H. 6. WHITING'S
PATENT PEEFOEATED
MAGNETOD I
RHEUMATISM can positively be Cared
by the ase of the above appliance.
The MAGNETOD can be worn without inconrenienee.
The MAGNETOD is manufactured in various forma for
all parts.
The MAGNETOD will for years emit into the body
its recuperating forces, and should be worn for
General Debility.
The MAGNETOD cures complaints of 20 years’ stand-
The MAGNETOD is the result of 20 years' investiga-
tion by the patentee. 8
The MAGNETOD Cares EHEUMATICS, Giut. N.
v J "\ Dls ® p 89 » He irt . Diver, and Throat Complain
and has been specially made for this climate.
The MAGNETOD requires no acids, no attention, onJ
to be worn to cure, gives no shocks, does n<
destroy the underclothing, and is always read
Dan be left off, when not required, without danee
Can he worn by the most delicate man, woman! <
bate, without risk. *
Pull particulars can be had by letter, or bv annlinn
tion on TUESDAYS and FEIDAY S, from 10 to 12 am
at tne
SOLE AGENT FOE THE COLONIES:
JOHN GEE,
17 CHANGE ALLEY,
PITT STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
(Opposite No. 2 Coffee Palace )
fire millions, its chief city, Montreal, is little
hdore that half the size of Sydney, while the whole
of the town population of the Dominion seems to
be little more than New South Wales shows with
only one seventh of the number of inhabitants.
Now, what is the meaning of this ? What mystery
is hidden under the phenomenon ? Both colonies
are engaged in reclaiming the wilderness; both
derive their wealth from the soil; both are creat-
ing great public works, and both are reputed to
be equally prosperous. Then, whence arises the
distinction that the five millions of Canada are
scattered over the face of her territory, while the
greater part of New South Wales’ seven hundred
and fifty thousand remain clustered in towns and
villages ?
• • •
Every Treasurer’s speech has for long pro-
claimed the prosperity of our colony, its bound-
less fertility and extent, and its inexhaustible
agricultural, mineral, and pastoral wealth. And
yet it seems strange that the bulk of our people
are living in streets and in road-side hamlets, and
are not by their daily labour wresting these
vaunted treasures from the earth ; and how is it
that onr limitless territory with all these capa-
bilities remains only a boundless waste of gum-
trees, blue sky, dry plains, and waterless creeks T
What is the answer to the riddle f Are onr indus-
trial and social conditions so different from those
of other countries, that they are not to bo judged
of by the economic laws which rule elsewhere f
• » m
We may ’get a little more light on this anomaly
if we refer to the previous census returns of 1861
,and 1871. We find by Mr. Ward’s figures that in
1861 the urban population was 46 per cent, of
the whole, while the rural was 54 per cent., and
in 1871 the figures were the same within a frac-
tion. The Census of 1831, as wehave seen, shows 58
per cent, of town population, and only 42 per cent,
rural. Here then we have evidence that within the
last period of ten years, the population in the pro-
portion of twelve per cent, has changed from
rural to town life. To follow up the analysis, let
us next take take the decennial increase by itself,
and see how it is composed.
The total increase of 1871 to 1881, is ... 247,487
Of this there are in Sydney and
suburbs 89,464,
Towns existing in 1871 52,221.
Towns and villages grown since
1871 61,792.
Rural population, including vil-
lages under 100 inhabitants 44,010.
• • •
Of each hundred persons of this increase then,
35 live in the metropolis, 46 in towns and villages,
and 19 in the country and smaller villages. The
distribution of this ten years’ increase more than
confirms the conclusion pointed to by the returns
of the aggregate population. The censuses of
1861 and 1871 showed rather more than half of the
people provided for in country life, certainly a
more wholesome arrangement than that since
exhibited, but still really displaying an excessive
development of town life as compared with similar
communities out of Australia. But the census of
1881 proves that this tendency to concentration in
towns has been enormously magnified of late
years, and the analysis of the decennial increase
proves that this tendency is equivalent almost to
a complete failure in np-conntry settlement, as
not one person in five of our additional numbers
has tsken to bush life.
• • •
We may well then ask how are all these towns
and villages supported ? but any answer that we
are likely to get will only conjure up other
mysteries. Our “agriculture” is confronted
by the fact that one-half of our breadstuff® have
yet to be imported from Adelaide ; onr “ pastoral
industry” shows fewer and larger stations, fewer
hands on them, drought and debt, huge domains
belonging to absentee speculators. And we learn
daily, moreover, that whoever attempts to do the
legitimate work of the pioneer in watering the
arid plains by making dams or boring for water,
is liable to have the fruits of his enterprise confis-
cated, either through Parliamentary inflnenc.| or
by the action of Sir John Robertson’s “ set-
tlers,” the land-sharks and black-mailers hatched
by his famons law. As to onr “ mining,” we have
it on record that one man may open a lode of
metal under one regulation, and another may
over-ride his title under another clause, without
any remedy being available short of an expensive
law suit, while no official may know or care any-
thing about it. We hope that the next Treasurer’s
statement will explain clearly in what our pros-
perity consists. We suspect that if he eliminates
the land revenue and the expenditure of borrowed
money on railways and roads, it will be very diffi-
cult to cook up an account that would pass the
sleepiest Board of Directors. However, there are
numbers of politicians, professionals and officials
besides jobbers and agents, who thrive on muddle,
and in whose practice the rule holds that the
greater the mischief the more the sport. By the
aid of such countenance and backing, the public are
readily hood-winked, and it will need only the usual
amount of wind, dust, and glamour to make onr
debts read like capital, and our losses appear like
found money.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Word to Mr. W. V. Read.
The traffic branch of the Railway Department has
been sitting in judgment ujxm our gay contemporary,
the S. M. Herald, and has found it requisite to cen
sure the conductors of that giddy daily for sensational
writing. On the 4th April, the Herald published, in
pursuance of information received—and probably con-
cocted on the Ist of the same month —a leader, in which
the conduct of a carriage-full of bookmakers, travelling
from Melbourne to Sydney, was characterized os die-
graceful. After inquiry into the alleged circumstances,
Mr. W. V. Read, the traffic manager, reports that he
has failed to trace the slightest truth in the state,
ments. He considers that the article was unwar-
ranted, and that “ the managers of the Herald should
be called upon to cease writing these sensational and
untrue paragraphs!” Mr. Read is really too severe
upon our senior contemporary. It may be admitted,
indeed, that the Herald is just a trifle too sportive and
flighty. There have been columns about tea meetings,
the tone of which “no right-thinking person” could
entirely approve. The Herald, too, has occasionally
touched upon the verge of impropriety in giving—no
doubt with sardonic intent—long verbatim reports of
very stupid speeches made by very dull men on these
and similar occasions. These men have invariably been
persons occupying grave or responsible stations, and
thus to expose them to contempt by representing them
aa the utterers of columns of inane commonplace,
fatuous drivel, or hysterical and infantile jocularity,
undoubtedly tended to undermine that reverence for
• acred things and persona which it is desirable that al 1
should feel, whether the individuals be worthy of
reverenoelor not. We do not protend to Justify these
things, but we think allowance should be made for the
giddiness natural at our contemporary’s age. If the
Herald is not to have a little license to maintain the
verve and sparkle for which it has become celebrated,
it might as well cease to appear, and what a misfortune
that would be to —ah, yes—to its proprietors. Mr.
Bead should really have regarded these things. We
hear him no animosity for his plain speaking, but have
felt it incumbent upon us to say a word for our con-
temporary, which, wa think we may safely say, is not
greatly more sensational than The Bulletin. In fact,
nndiscriminating people have gone even further than
the Traffic Manager, and have accused, not only the
Herald, but even The Bulletin, of sensational writ-
ing. This fact, alone, will serve to show how careful
people should be in levelling charges of the kind. We
would seriously counsel Mr. Bead to give instructions
that, in future, travelling parsons be admitted only into
the compartments set aside for ladies, and by no means
cooped up with bookmakers—especially about the Ist
of April.
Twang.
Now that the proceedings in synods and church as-
semblies are reported in the daily press, it behoves
those who take part in the proceedings to use some
circumspection as to the terms they employ. Anything
like cant phraseology or professional twang should be
eschewed. Such utterances may sound quite appro-
priate within the circle to which they are addressed,
hut when printed side by side with worldly matters,
they are apt to strike as grotesque rather than as im-
pressive. A case in point has been furnished by the
Standing Committee of the Church of England Synod,
published in the S.M. Herald of Monday last, in the
resolution which runs that the committee has “ learned
with unfeigned sorrow that it has pleased Almighty
God, in his mysterious Providence, to taVe to himself
the revered and beloved Bishop of this diocese.” Now,
when it is remembered that the revered Bishop was 75
years of age, the reference to the mysteriousness of the
decree which ordered his death is obviously absurd,
and, so to speak, written through the nose. Again, the
committee “ express their sense of the very great loss
which the diocese has sustained by the death of its
beloved Bishop.” This is clearly either folly or insin-
cerity. The deceased Bishop was not only aged, hat
disabled. He was absent from his post, and there was
no possibility of his resuming his functions. But he
continued to draw the emoluments pertaining to the
office. Where, then, is the loss to the diocese f The
committee will not, surely, affirm seriously that it will
be a loss to the diocese to replace the late absentee
Bishop by a younger man, who will live among his
flock, and bring to the performance of his sacred duties
the xuiexpeaded energies of a vigorous middle age.
Two Facts
In what light are we to regard Mr. Parnell, the
organizer of the Irish Land League f If credit is to be
given to the conservative press, both here and at home,
Mr. Parnell is the most atrocious of scoundrels. He
is a wicked agitator who, from mere vanity and love o f
distinction, or for the sake of what he can pocket, has
fomented an agitation whioh can only result in misery
and ruin for his dupes. Judged by the action taken by
the Premier of England in ordering Mr. Parnell’s
arrest, he is a dangerous and unscrupulous traitor and
rebel, of so pronounced and malignant a typo that
ordinary laws have to be over-ridden in order to secure
him. He is arrested by an extraordinary exertion of
authority, and retained in durance without trial, con-
trary to the letter and spirit of the Constitution under
which he, in common with other British subjects, lived.
But anon this dangerous and unscrupulous villain, —this
outlaw beyond the pale of the constitution —is released
on parole! He is let loose to perpetrate all the
villanies which his debased instincts may prompt,
simply on pledging his word of honor that he will sur-
render at an appointed date. The word of honor of an
unscrupulous (agitator, of an interested plunderer of
dupes! This is surprising indeed. Mr. Parnell, a
rogue, a ruffian, yet treated as a prisoner of war 1 The
man can’t he both, and all these things. There has
been plenty of abuse showered upon the head of Par.
nell, and there has been abundance of retort on his be-
half. The intensity of the dispute leaves only confusion.
But there have been two tangible facts which may serve
to indicate what the British authorities really think of
Parnell, and what he really is. The British Govern,
ment has thought his word of honor good security; and
Parnell has respected his word.
Archibald Forbes.
We attach no affix to the name which heads this notice.
There are men whose names carry their own distinction,
and Archibald Forbes is one of these. Throughout the
civilized world, Archibald Forbes is a designation
which ctrries its own suggestions of intrepidity, dash,
and capacity. Mr. Forbes, clerk to a corn chandler,
requires the courtesy of the prefix. It is all the distin-
tion he can ever have. Archibald Forbes, the War
Correspondent, can afford to concede it to him. Archi-
bald Forbes is the son of a Presbyterian minister, the
Rev. Louis Forbes, D.D., and, while his father lived,
went through the ordinary educational training of a
Scotch boy belonging to the middle classes. After a
school course, he studied at the Aberdeen University
for a term, but the sudden death of his father, who
dropped dead in the pulpit, imposed upon him, as one
of nine children slenderly provided for, the necessity
for commencing the battle of life without further pre-
paration. Repairing to Edinburgh, the youngster began
the war by spending all his money and arranging an
elopement with a young lady who had fired his inflam-
mable fancy. The organizing faculty which Forbes
subsequently developed, must, atthat epoch, have been
inchoate, for the girl’s father out-manoeuvred the lover,
waylaid the runaways as they were driving off in a gig,
and gave the Lothario an introduction to the nearest
ditch. The susceptibility of Forbes to the fair
sex was, however, not quenched by this episode.
In 1859, on attaining his majority, a slender
patrimony of £5OO came into his possession. With
this capital he started to join a cousin in Canada, hut on
reaching Quebec found a fresh Calypso in the shape—
—no doubt charming—of the daughter of the landlord
of his hotel. Round this flame Forbes fluttered till his
financial wings were singed to the very stumps, and with
eight shillings in his pocket he shipped for home in a
timber-laden ship. Carrying Forbes and his eight-
shilling fortune the vessel could not sink, but it did its
best, for it became waterlogged, and after severe hard-
ships those of the crew who had not been washed
overboard took to the boats, and were rescued by a pass-
ing vessel. Unluckily, the skipper of the rescuing vessel
had a daughter, and Forbes immediately became
her devoted admirer (that makes three) so
much so, indeed, that on arriving at Liverpool
he flung in her lap his whole fortune, that is to
say, his eight shillings, in the bacchanal form of
grapes. This accomplished, Forbes sold a field-glass
which still remained to him, and, using the proceeds to
travel to London, enlisted in the Royal Dragoons. As
a trooper, Forbes was a tolerable success, even in peace-
time, albeit he was quite as remarkable for the facility
with whieh he plunged into scrapes as for the dexterity
with which he got out of them. We hear nothing
during his military career of a return of his inflam-
matory symptoms, hut presume that Forbes was as
terrible la the parks as Dragoons ordinarily sure, -One
shilling and four pence a day being an income altogether
inadequate to the fashionable expenses of a Dragoon,
Forbes bethought him of trying whether the pen
was truly “mightier than the sword” in a
financial sense. Household Words and the Cornhill
Magazine published articles by the soldier, and thence-
forth his career began to definitely shape itself. In-
valided after five years of soldier life, Forbes was
speedily restored to health by non-military physicians,
and, becoming a casual writer for the Evening Stab and
Morning Advertiser, burst at length into a permanent
conflagration by becoming a married man. Forbes is
now a widower, and two charming young ladies in
London own a father who generally lives at the other
extremities of the globe, having enjoyed but two years
of his society during seven Miscellaneous journalistic
work occupied the future War Correspondent for some
time subsequent to his marriage, and his success as an
art critic was such as should induce the Sydney Daily
Telegraph to mate him an offer without delay. Sent
to criticise a pianist, Forbes regarded the artist from
an acrobatic point of view, and praised his agility. On
the outbreak of the Franeo-German war, Forbes sug-
gested that in view of his military knowledge he would
make a good war correspondent. The late James
Grant, then editor of the Morning Advertiser, thought
the combination of dragoon and journalist a strong
point, and started Forbes off on the career in which
he was destined to become famous. Thenceforth,
Forbes’ adventures are matters within general
knowledge. He received his “baptism of fire” simul-
taneously with the late Prince Imperial, at Saarbruck,
oa August 2, 1870, Forbes being with the Prussians.
It was his destiny, some eight years later, to be one of
those who stood around the remains of the ill-
starred Prince in Zululand. Of Forbes* intermediate
adventures we need only give a skeleton. Hs is about
to fill in the outline himself on the lecture platform.
Forbes was present at the battles of Coureelles, Vion-
ville, and Gravelotte, witnessed the day of Sedan, and
next morning stood by when Napoleon surrendered to
Bismarek. Be was the first non-eomhatant to ride
round Paris before its cowplete investment. Trans-
ferring his services to the Daily News, he represented
that journal at the siege and surrender of Metz, where
he was wounded in the leg. Returning with his wound
unhealed to Paris, he was the first newspaper man to
enter after the capitulation. How he outstripped all
competitors in the transmission of his despatches is a
good story, but too long to tell here. The struggle
between the Communists and the Versaillists was wit-
nessed by Forbes. He was in the thick of it, and was
even compelled to help in constructing barricades.
After the restoration of peace in France, the institution
and displacement of a republic in Spain attracted him
to the Peninsula, where he also had a little pleasuring
with the Carlist insurgents in the Biscayan provinces.
The Indian Famine next drew him, still representing
the Daily News, to Hindostan—and by the way it is
worth noting that, according to Forbes, England’s hold
on India would not be worth a month’s purchase but
for military rule. All, save traders, detest the English,
and they are only friendly through interest. British
military rule is a semi-despotism, not always wisely
directed. The opinion which Forbes formed from
personal observation is identical with that whieh wo
had already arrived at by induction. Returning
home, after suffering from sunstroke, Forbes took
another Spanish trip, this time accompanying the
Alphonsist troops in pursuit of his former comrades,
the Carlists. Then again to India with the Prince of
Wales. The disruption of Turkey had now commenced,
and the great War Correspondent was hurried to the
scene on the first premonitory symptoms appearing in
Servia. Attaching himself to the Russian army, he
want through the campaigns which followed, on more
than one occasion outstripping the army staff in the
conveyance of information from detached corps to the
Emperor’s head-quarters. For personal intrepidity in
rescuing Russian wounded soldiers at Plevna, Forbes
was decorated by the Czar with the Order of Stanislaus.
Cyprus and Zululand successively were visited, as the
current of events shifted the centre of European atten-
tion hither and thither; and since Ulundi the War
Correspondent has been taking a rest—-characteristically
by travelling over the globe as a lecturer. He is here
to-day. But should the fresh troubles which appear to
be brewing in Europe come to a head, it may be antici-
pated that Forbes will leap off the platform, pack up
his two shirts and a tooth-brush, and put himself cn
route per first Orient steamer for the frontier where
troops may be massing.
The Adelaide Conspiracy Case.
Writes our Adelaide correspondent, under date
23rd April :— I "Nothing in the shape of a criminal trial
ever exercised the pnblie mind in Adelaide as do the
celebrated conspiracy cases, in which James Barker
Dr, Horton, Dr. Morrison, William Hicks, and Otto
Du Barry are defendants. Forsyth, who was the
moneyed conspirator, " slide! ” cleverly, and Hicks
turned Queen’s evidence. Hicks has been formally
acquitted on all counts. The brilliant idea of “passing
rotten lives for life-assurance,’’ as he terms the opera-
tion, undoubtedly originated with him. Curiously
enough, people don’t waste time in sympathising with
the prosecuting insurance companies, who, they fancy,
as has been stated during the trial, « gat enough out of
there is a hearty consensus of opinion
tnat William Hicks ii the meanest specimen of sooue-
dtelism ever invented. He was under cross-examination
the whole of Thursday and Friday, and until lunch cn
Monday. It is known that Henry Downer, who appears
for the doctors, was implored by disinterested out-
siders— For God’s sake. Downer, make it hot for that
wretch, Hicks 1 ’ and that Henry, put on his mettle,
. obligingly stated that he intended to do so. Yet, with all
i ,' 8 experience as a solicitor and a magistrate, the gay
! Menry could not once disconcert the subtle Hicks.
Indeed, when the learned counsel came to the matter of
persona,! dissolute habits, the witness clearly thought
the best of the bitter duel—though, of course, he
I hadn When out of the box, Hicks sat in the front
row of the gallery, pleasingly interested in the proceed-
| mgs, and laughing heartily whenever the usual stale
jokes were heard. He is a medinm-sized, thin, dark
man, looking about 32, but born only 26 years ago.
Many folks insist that Hicks possesses a countenance
unusually expressive of villainy. He is, however, not alto-
gether such an evil.looking fellow as one might imagine.
He brings a wisp of shiny black hair down over a fair
expanse of forehead, and has a curious inchoate squint,
just enough to prevent a rigidly straight view of any.
thing. But, otherwise, there is nothing to distinguish
iVru Rom any of the other dark saliow faces in Court.
When Littlowood was placed in the witness-box, Hicks
sauntered leisurely to a higher seat, muttering audibly
Let s have a look at the Barker, who prior to this
time was considered a model canvasser, made a clumsy
attempt to bolt some days ago. The only precaution
he took was to shave off his beard, which aid not pre-
vent recognition by troopers along -he road, and every
other overland passenger. Great sympathy is felt in
the South for Barker a eight children and his father-in-
law, Pnoe, of Hindmarsh I-land Horton appears to
be one of those struggling medical men who, having
but a small practice, lack courage and capacity
to enlarge it. He and Barker bear tbs whole brunt
of the Mutual Provident’s prosecution. Barker
seems to pay earnest attention to every word uttered ia
Court, and is more composed than the Doctor, who
appears, naturally, excessively nervous and fidgety, and
is incessantly worrying his counsel. The other doctor.
Mornson, is a sos.-in-law of Cunningham, a wealthy
fancy-goods importer, who has baled him in a large
amount. Du Barry is a young, florid wan. with sandy
whiskers and moustache, lately an agent in the North.
He is unable to And bail, and while the case in which
he is not implicated proceeds, passes the hours gazing
through the bars of a cell into a dreary courtyard, a
poheeman at his elbow. Jews. Wes cyans, Arglioans.
■Freethinkers, tradesmen, coachmen, commission agents,
and nondesonpts are represented on the jury. One
wish is paramount among them when entering the iurv-
box every morning-the wish that it was five o’clock
P, m - If “ n °th e r wish exists, it is that they could hang
Hicks. Mrs. Littlewood swore that Weatherhead con-
sumed in two days one bottle of brandy, one bottle of
rum, one bottle of whisky, with four pint bottles of
champagne, and that she did not help him. All this
was thoroughly believed. She is not a nice woman to
have aoout one s pocket-book, apparently. It is, so the
Story goes, alleged by Hicks that she abstracted a letter
trom his pocket-book, and afterwards tore it to pieces
-patching it (the letter) eventually. If Hicks were not
such an ineffable liar, we might believe she did. Judge
Boucant tries the case, and is especiallv brusque to
counsel, and even severe with the gay Henry. But
they are ancient competitors for delectable favours—
jeKmoaut being now known an the “ upright ’’ judge


Notwithstanding 1 the keen ci
to the sewing-machine trade, tha “ ‘
to be Vw sewing-machines ol
should visit the
;L the numerous flrst-elass prizes
awarded them at tha leading comp
"tt D is necessary, during hot
beverages likely to heat or stii
(Vyooa, deprived of the superfluous
jbsolntely pure, is a most sooth
beverage. Be sure t
RUBY'S COCOA ESSENCE whe
imitations are often pushed by f
sake of extra profit. Makers By i
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
MONDAY, 15th U
Rv order of the EXECUTORS o
late HENRY PR INC
CRAIGEND ESTj
DARLINGHURS
comprising that Eirst-elass Commc
1 CEAIGEND HOC
ani about FOUR ACRES and a H
on the
HEIGHTS OF BARBUS
fronting Upper William-street Soul
Graigend-terrrci
This well-known beantifully-siti
on the
HEIQHTT OP DARLIN
is subdivided as folic
CEAIGEND HOUSE, with npwa
AND A-HALP OF HIGI
GEOUND3, including the whc
the PROMINENT PICTUR
which the mansion is built.
A MAGNIFICENT SITE, tha m
city, commanding extensive un
59 CHOICE BUILDING SITES,
WILLIAM STREET,
CUATGEND TEERAC
SURRY STREET.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS can be
tion. Every lot is marked with
CARDS TO TIEW Craigend Housi
application at tha R<
TEEMS OP SALE—2O per cent, ci
duo cau remain secured on tl
per cent, per annu
Richardson and wren
instructions to sell by pal
Booms, Pitt-street, on
MONDAY, 15th M
at 11 o’clock,
THE CRAIGEND EE
DAELINGHUES
LOT I.—CRAIGEND HOUSE
This CITY FAMILY MANSION
principally of stone, and has a wide
verandah, with porch entrance, ii
sides. A balcony also runs abov
accommodation comprises on
THE GROUND PL
spacious hall, dining-room 30 x 19,
store-room, 5 bedrooms, kitchen w
larder, laundry with copper and
ironing room, &o.
And on the UPPER F
drawing-room 3) x 19, library, 4 I
room, bath-room, shower and pli
water.
In the BASEMENT is a cellar.
The OUTBUILDII
consist of a three-stall stable, ha
ooaeh-house, buggy house, prorenc
hayloft. The GE ouNDS
contain an area of about
I ACRE 2 ROODS 27 Pi
with a frontage c
374 FEET TO CRAIGEN D-
extending to a lane 20 f<
*,* CEAIGEND is a substantial
mansion, possessing an amplitude
perfection of comfort and domestic
the same extent in but few house
GEOUNDS contain a large area of ci
a considerable portion of tha ori
gardens, and plantations of the ests
of evergreens and choice flowering
by carriage drives and walks, in v
conservatories, striking frames, a
LOTS 2 to 7. 6 ALLOTMENTS
frontage to William-street
of 95 feet, extending to a la:
LOTS 8 to 32. 25 ALLOTMI
about 18 feet frontage to
Craigend-terraoe, with dep
extending to a lane 20 feet v
LOTS 33 to 35. 3 ALLOTMEN
upwards to Craigend-terra
from 65 to 106 feet to a lam
rear.
LOTS 36 to 59. 24 ALLOTM
m
■
-■
VIBTUTIB GLORIA MERGE
COALCLIFF O
millS NEWEST nnd VTi’4Wß!a'r nr\ it Turmr-rt x- flTn«nn.
ONE OP THE WOBLD’I
OARSMEN.
JN a recent conversation in Kinj
a representative of one of the to
the United States, Mr, Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to )
world, gave the following as bis opii
“ I have found St, JACOB’S OIL
cure, and one unequalled by any r
me of severe pains in the back, broc
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasa
remedy, penetrating at once to the t
.
and eradicating the complaint withoi
The writer listened attentively to
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCOR
[WORKS,
FEREIEE’S BAKINC
TRAD
SELF BAILING FLOUR
YEAST POWDER.
This ia the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Conn
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with
This GASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, w
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity c
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic f
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lightinj
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS,
Medalists and Special Prize holde
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINI
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bituir
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
DAMP RESISTING SOI
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be i
Particulars on Application to
PIN OLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chat
WOODWARD’S OYST
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEC
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE P.
A*?
DEPOT
H
[■Established 30 Yea;
ODGSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Goulbnm-stree
E. H O D G S <
Wholesale and Beta
WHIP THONG MANUPACI
Every Description of Kangaroo and G
Made to Order.
L ■.
SSI
670 H.HILDi
ovO
L D E
H NU.or
eoa-j
•kww
■>-


Chemists and Dtb
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLi
THE GREAT LIVER I
And successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all No:
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disot
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Be careful not to get !
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare*
J. S. A B R A
At the Laborato
434 GEORGE STREET,
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s ini
Llnotus, you will net he aWe t)
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S,
Punch's Hotel,
rniCZLE YOUR APPiTI
JL trallan Relish, made by \
177 Pttt street, price one shilling.
OVERS OF GOOD
We beg to draw ;
PARTICULAR ATT]
to the
ASIATIC TEA <
PACKET TE.
Packed in pounds and ha]
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA.
PURE CETLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
2>. and
2s. 6d. s
2s. 6d. i
2s. 6d. t
Special Quotations given to W 1
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA CO
279 PITT STREET (next f
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U I
182 PITT STRE
from
D. JONES & (
Respectfully invites an inspect!
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEA]
be:
All of the best quality, and sale*
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS
Furniture re-covered and carpet
charges.
♦
George
(Formerly of Geori
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAI
Begs to announce that he Laa
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCA
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
SINGER'S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, ai
at the
SYDNEY ARC
SINGER’S SEWING I
ABK MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacturi
Head Office*:
84 UNION SQUARE, NEW
160 FIRST FKI
EASY TERMS-2*. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERT
Offlc a in
THE SYDNEY AKCADEj and
STOKES, HARBOUR J
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA-
AUBURN STREET N„ G
PEEL STREET, TAM WO
VICTORIA STREET, GRj
NARANDERA. PARRA
237 QUEEN STREET, RF
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
gINQER’S SEWING
TURNER A C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2*. 6d. per week— 2g. 6d. per week
And KO interest oh
10 per cent, off for o
BEWARE OF IMIT
Aoents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER ft
THE ONLY “SING
TURNER A
Opposite
JOHNSTO?
SEWING MACHUS
HAYMARKE'
Public Compan
|IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with po
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; W
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Je
Esq.; Moses Mobs, Esq. j Waite
Geherix Manage:
Vincent Wonostrocht 1
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE ST I
City and Suburban Brtnchos: H;
eiebe, Bur wood.
London Office : 18 King Willia
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albury, Arnridale, Balllna, Ba
Bourke, Bundarra- Cassilis, Cond
bran. Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbt
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, 1
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, S
Parkes, Eaymond Terrace, Heckle]
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Tei
Urana, Wage a Wagga, Wallseud,
Maitland, VfUcannia, Wood bum, Y
BRANCHES IN QUEEI
Brisbane, A Mora, Bowen, Charter*
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mad
Havenswood, Rockhampton, Stunt!
Townsville, Warwicks
Agents in all the Australian Colon.
the World general)
The mercantile bani
ESTABLISHED li
INCOEPORATED BY ACT OF P
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Wav, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wia. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlev King. M.Lj
AUDITORS
J'*s. Seroggie, Esc,
U. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A Wihon
SECRETA'hT :
HtJtor Alku.
BRANCHES:
587 Ocorge-street, Brickfield 1
Girilambone; Gosft
LONDON BANK El
The National Provincial Bin
London Office t 15 - ' Leaden
Director: Edward Chapa
Agent: G H. Al.«iud<
This bank frana-ds all usual B.u
Agencj buiineji o 1 the a.ost favou
Bills flisoi.uot. u doily.
B il> lu'VOTiate i sn*l »dv«n»** maf
other produce shipped bo Eng l , id fi
T GRAHAM
• IMPORTER AND GENT’
17 BBIi GE SIR.
Chief Agent for
Scottish imperial ivsitki
ANDREW UiHEE’S CLLEI3AI
WUbKL
ANDREW USHCR’3 CELEi
SCOTCH WHISK
AIICHUON'S PALI
THOMAS W.BB
269 GEORGE S
Easiness Announcements
ii> i'j
\W>Ar
SgTstEAM BEDDING MANUFACTORY SiZI
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
and
FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £ 4 4.19, £25, £3O, £53, and £ICO
T. WRIGHT, 529 George-street, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
■B" EQAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTEET,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 236)
PITT-STREET, opposite the EvxtriNa
News Officf.
’ READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
MANUFACTURED BV US AND KNOWN
AS DOCTO R
WAUGHS
HAS A WIDE REPUTATION FOR
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
AND THE CHEMICAL JUDGES OF THE
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBIT lON
HAVE CERIIFIED THAT IT IS REA' I Y
1 HE PURESI AND
BE 8 F IN THE WyRLD
BV AV/AP. Dl iO TO US T ' f
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GtVFJN IW TME,'BAkING POV/bEp *:ECVnON
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERY WHERE 1M PAPER PACKETS
OH SQUARE TINS
manuTagiorn QUFFNS PI ACE
WILLIAM SY DA\/IES 3o coy.
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 ICs
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ao.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
STEREOTYPES^ i
AN D -
Fomdrj
—AND —
WINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
QTZTX33STE;-3r.
"Also at 70 LlfTtS COLLINS OT2EZT. IiILBOUBNE.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER A IRONFOUNDER.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE GIRDERS,
and STOVES,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF OVINSj
SAFES DEED
and BOXES.
DOORS. Ac., Ac.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 230 PITT STREET.


w. HOWAED SMIT
SIRUTH’S WHARF and
(Poet of Eing-sti
Offices : r SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE^
Every TUESDAY and P
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGI
and
ROCKHAMP'
On TUESDA
AH particulars, apply
W. HOWAED BMITI
O
E I
_ The following Steamships,
OBTENT CO., anl the PAC?F
SYLtNAY at noon on the under
AON DON, via Melbourne, Adelaic
steamer’s option), the Suez Canal,
Ship.
Cotopaxi....
Orient
Tons.
4028
4386
Date.
Shi
May lOjLusita
May 2S | Ligurh
and fortnightly then
SALOON PASSENGERS allow
journey.
ORIENT PARCELS EX PRISE
or 6d, per lb.
PASSAGES PROM LONDON
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDON :-P
and (ANDERSON, ANDERSON a
Avenue, E.G.
PASSAGE MONEY, 15 to 70
tioulara on application to
G. S. YUILL,
_ General Max
267 Qeorge-street.
NOTICE.
BURE COUNTRY I
The fresh food and ici
to inform the pnblio that tl
fwSSRroSKftJ
PURE COUNTRY
aad are in a position to take on fresh
may be given to men on carts, or se;
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLi
CASH PRICE LIST OF M
AND SPIRIT
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
per doz.
... 10* Od
... lls Cd
... lie Od
... 13s 6d
Sweet I
J. T. P,
Adelaid
Reisling
Hoek
Madeira
Bouffiar’e Pinean..
WHITE.
10s Od
lls Od
lis 6d
16s Od
Brown
Adelaid
Tokay,
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 24a to 48s Od I Good S
Champagne from... 60s Od | French
Hennessy’s * Case
Brandy
Hennessy’s •••
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
(IfWVI Tiftrlr Pvan/tli
SPIRITS.
Imperia
ditto
Imperia
Whisl
Burke’s
Whisl
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Darwin was the Copernicus of Biology.
Dr. Weir, of trotting renown, recently ruptured
a blood vessel.
Emerson’s prose ha* shown that poetry has no
store seed of the trick of versifying than the Moses
have of crinoline.
Prince Albert Victor joins one of the regiments
of Guards on his return home. Hi* younger brother
remain* in the Navy.
The Mayor of Melbourne is to give Archibald
Forbes a grand banquet, to which local literary,
scientific, and artistic talent will be invited.
Twice in succession the chief magistrates of
Forbes have now been “nerer-touch-its. The hospital
ge:s a cheque, and the civic fathers go home thirsty.
One of the wealthiest men in Forbes is said not
so many years ago to have been employed in excavating
several of the cellars underneath ths numerous buildings
which he now calls his own.
An old woman gathers sticks in a sack about the
back lanes near the Melbourne Post Office In the early
days of Melbourne her husband purchased, for £4O, an
allotment in Bonrke-street now worth £4O 000.
Private letters speak in the severest terms of
Sir Henry Paries’ contemptuous treatment of Mr.
K. A. Wither!, the Evening ilEWs’ commissioner who
was sent to report the Great Mogul’s sayings and
doings.
Mr. John Quick, who has just taken his LL.D.,
was once a pnddler’a boy on Bendigo. Then he became
a newspaper boy, then a reporter, then a barrister.
Now he’s a doctor of laws, and has his eye on tho
Attorney-Generalship.
Mr. William Forster is credited with the attack
on Sir Henry Parke* ia the Evening News, signed
“AH Q." We doubt tkiv statement, but feel that were
poorMiohaelFitzpatrickaliveParies would say A.H.Q.
meant “ a Morgan grinder.”
Genius is by no means hereditary. A son of
Charles Dickens wai for some time mnnag r of a sheep
station adjoining Forbes. A sou of Antnony Troilopa
in tho »arae district also found the “jumlmck” mors
congenial and profitable than th* pen.
A. P. Martin was a passenger by the Wednes-
day’* overlaad train. Hi* dostiuauoa ia England, routs
Hew Zealand aad America. H« has abandoned hi* ac-
tion against tks Hamilton Stbctator Thers was a
womau—a very pretty woman—at tk« bottom of it.
Herbert Spencer published an essay containing
the Darwinian theory some time before Darwin’s
“Origin of Species” appeared; and although the
naturalist ha* laboriously collected and marshalled his
materials, it is to the works of Spencer that thinkers
look for the profound elaboration of the theory.
Sir John Robertson is not enamoured of deputa-
tions and prelate*. In days gone by, when he was
Premier, he startled an importunate Interviewer in the
interest* of fh* church, with : “ What 1 you here again I
Why the Gehenna don't you bring your bed, and sleep
here ?’* And the office knew that prelate no more.
It is not every day a member of Parliament is
jilted I Mr. Biggar, the great Home Euler and sup.
porter of Parnell, was engaged to a Franco-Irish
maiden, and the marriage soon expected. Bat on
making inquiries as to her intended’s financial pros-
pects, the lady found his patrimony small, and dis-
missed the honourable gentleman.
A squatter from the far-back country, whose
stations arc well known, and whose bank balance is
oolOfsil, has for many years enjoyed the society of none
but dogs and blackfellows. Ha ia now visiting Sydney.
Through disuse his vocabulary is limited. When he
wants attendance he whistles or cracks his finger and
thumb, and then in dumb shjw signifies the articles re-
qu rad.
The Yorick Club, Melbourne, ia preparing to
givj Mr. Archibald Forbes a cordial welcome. The
elub is the only one in Australia where a distinguished
literary mau may be fittingly entertained, in that it is
the only one to which money will not procure admission.
Anthony Trollope and other celebrities partook of the
hospitalities of the Yorick, which, ere long, will be
ths most influential of Victorim clubs.
Mr. John Simons, late C.P.B. of Tenterfield,
N.S.W., who died of chronic asthma, last week, was an
old colonial land-mark. Ue was born In Sydney in
1827, educated at Parramatta, squatted on the Bogan
Eiver upon his purchase of the Oaks Station, entered
into commercial pursuits at Tenterfield, in 1865, and
became C.P.B. in 1875. He leaves a widow, three sons,
and five daughters. He was buried with Masonic
ceremonies.
The salary of Sir Arthur Kennedy, Governor of
Queensland, is £5OOO per annum, exclusive of travelling
expenses and £3OO annually paid as rent for a house in
Toowoomba during the summer months. In addition,
Parliament votes him a sum of £l5OO to cover the coat
of the annual ball and other hospitalities. He has a
private secretary at £4OO, an aide-de-camp at £174, two
orderlies at £ 120 each, and a hall-poiter and messenger
at £lO3 per annum.
Adelaide Punch J. C. F. Johnson, has done
big things in gold-mining near Woodside, South Aus-
tralia, ot late. Not long ago, he was content to
edit his melancholy publication; now he is
worth £30,000, and draws £250 monthly, in honestly-
made dividends. B e paid Dick Lee, a literary oomposi-
tor of high temperance principles, a small sum weekly
to run Punch, while he himself joined a roving prospec-
tor, one Dave M’Crocken, and struck ile.
Among a party of sugar-land prospectors who
recently left Townsville in a cutter steamer, was
Dr. Milan SouD, formerly of the P.M.S.S. Co.’s service,
who has many friends in Sydney. Messrs. Thomas
Hamilton and P. W. Kerr wer* also of the party, who
were fully equipped. They intend exploring two or
three rivers before finally selecting lour blocks of sugar
land, the selection of which is left entirely to Mr. Kerr,
one of the most reliable judges of sugar-country in
Queensland.
On the great “ Bradlaugh ” day in the House of
Commons, the big clock stopptd during the debate, a
thing which had never been known to occur before. At
the moment it ceasel going, old Mr. Newdegate was
making a rambling, ridiculous speech against Brad-
laugh, and against everything els# that did not meet
his “ goody goody," old-fashioned views. Whereupon,
Bradlaugh, with scathing sarcism, said, “He was try-
ing to put the clock back about two hundred years, but
he only succeeded in stopping it 1 ”
The talented young Australian composer, Mr.
Pprpy yitg-Stubbs, who has been luxuriating for some
time at Maitland, left for Europe this week, for the
purpose of continuing his musical studies. He has
alrgady passed througn the K. 4 M., London, and will
row spend about two years on the Continent, visiting
tue conservatories of the four great capitals. We hear
that Mr. F. C. Burnand, of London Punch, has, a ter
hearing tho music, agreed to write the libretto for an
opera composed by Mr. Fits-Stubbj.
The Tamworth Observer ia of opinion that
Mr. H. Levion, M.L A., has improved since he entered
the Macqnarie-street bear-garden. It says he has
“parted with a good deal of the ‘blatant, Mastering,
bombastic blow,’ he used to affect, and now speaks like
a rational human being.” Speaking at Tamworth, the
other day, Henry (who, as everyone knows, is a lawyer)
said that he could not agree with those who blamed the
Judge for his conduct in the Clontarf libel case. The
liberty ot the defendants had been placed at the disposal
of four nincompoops.
Be-lud in the air of the Victorian radical tent.
Major Smith called Mr. James, ex-Chairman of
Committees, and a mild-as-milk young man, a liar.
Esport says that Mr. James actually endeavoured to
strike the Major. To these sone of temperance wfyo
know Mr. James, this seems incredible. The Major
retorted that he vfonld just mash up James in a minute
pr two eo as his owe mother wouldn’t know him. Ae
the Major had on his hob-nailers, it will be understood
that James was in considerable danger. Mutual
friends, however, baulked the threatened mill. But
James and the Majaw will henceforth meet as strangers.
Sir John Robertson once suffered in a very
curious way for Free Trade. The protectionists of
Sydney had called a meeting at the Masonic Hall, and
the free-traders determined to oppose them on their
Own ground. A vehicle was used as a temporary plat-
form outside the hall. Dr. Lang was the first speaker,
and be had no sooner commenced his address than the
hall waa emptied. The protectionists were fnrlons, and
a slight disturbance ensued. Sir John Eobertson, who
was foremost among the free-traders, did not for a
moment lose control of himself, bat he unfortunately
lost one lag of his unmentionables. He sadly needed
protection.
The death of an eminent London barrister,
H. D. Jtneken, reminds ns that his wife, who surrives,
was Miss Katie Fox. The three Fox sisters started the
oelebratad ** Bochester knocking!,” nearly forty years
ago. which draw attention te Spiritualism. Mrs.
Underhill is the eldest, Katie the youngest, and Mar-
garetta was married to Dr. Kane, the Arctic explorer.
All can still produce raps, but seldom do so, except for
the gratification of friends or at the request of a
scientist. They still declare the phenomena genuine,
and cannot explain them beyond saying they are the
result ef occult power, Mrs Jencken has two children
who inherit their mother’s power.
It is not generally known that the action of the
Judges in r« the Evening News "contempt of court"
was not without a precedent in Australia. Many yean
aeo. Sir A. P. Burt (now deceased). Chief Justice of
West Australia, sent Messrs. Stirling and Shenton, two
newspaper editors and proprietors, to gaol without the
option of a flue, for contempt of court, on account of
certain strictures passed by them on a very remarkable
judgment delivered by him. After being incarcerated
for some time, they were released on tendering abject
apologies. Mr. Shenton died shortly afterwards, but
Mr. Stirling, a jolly veteran pressman, still lives out
West, and tells the story of his woes.
The Prince of Wales is as popular as any reason*
able prinee could wish to he, his biensiance is charming,
asd as aa afler-dinn*r speaker lew equal him. Last
February he was a guest at the annual dinner of the
Savage Club, of which he was elected a member, and
though amenget some of the brightest wits of the day,
beheld his own as a social "good fellow,” making a
genial and dpropos speech. After dinner, well-known
men, including popular actors, went through a pro-
gramme of music, songs, and readings, most of which
kspt the company roaring with laughter all the time
One of the funniest waa a song, “ God plesa der Brines
ohf Tales,” at which the Eoyal gnest almost toreamed.
One of the most enterprising men in the Far
North, is Mr. C S. Morrow, who is now about to run a
saw mill on the Wild Kiver. Borne years ago, he ship-
ped a traction-engine to Cairns, with the intention of
using it for quartz-carting on the Hodgkinson ; when
he got to Cairns, he found that the town lay beneath
mountains 450 t feet high, across which the track to the
Hodgkinson ran. Nevertheless ho made a bold attempt
to face the difficulty, and amidst the laughter of the
inhabitants, dragge I his snorting white elephant along
the beach towards the beetling coast range. But it got
bogged In the sand, and remains there to this day. Mr.
Morrow is over 75 years of age, but has not learntd
everything yet.
Every musical amateur is acquainted with the
compositions of Molloy. Among his songs, "The
King s Highway,” and " London Bridge” are familiar
to every vocalist or eoucert-goer His pianoforte com-
positions are also numerous and extremely felicitous.
There are, for example a series of " water-pieces” of
most delicate and quaint beauty, much reminding one
of the style and manner of dementi. Molley is not a
professional musician. He is one of the leading bar-
risters in England, and music is with him simply an
accomplishment and a relaxation. The Urge profits
which he derives from his charming compositions are
entirely devoted to charitable purposes, his professional
income being sufficient to render him entirely inde-
pendent of his musical earnings.
Hon. W. H. Bundey, Q.C., ex-Attorney-
Ganenl of South Australia, has returned from his trip
home, improved in general health, but still afflicted
with a mild deafness. As a politician, Mr. Bundey
ranks in S. A. as did Honest Siginbotham in Victoria.
When he defended the libel action of Ward v. Derring-
ton, he found himself surrounded with filth so largely
that it took a course of Turkish baths to make him feel
decent again. He differed with Chief Justice Way on
intricate points of libel privilege, being even more
liberal than His Honor, and he carried the jury with
him for Derrington, although Charley Kingston made
an almo-t interminable speech on the other side, and
was flanked by the other eloquent " Charley " —Mann,
Q.O. Mr. Buidey has been enthu .iastically welcomed
by the yachting men of Adelaide.
Sub-Inspector Kaye, who waa speared at Wool-
gar, the other day, lost his life through over-confidence.
He was riding quUtly along a crerk accompanied by a
white man and a black boy. Besides these, there were
eight or nine niggers going in the same direction, the
who'e of the tribe having been ordered to leave the
vicinity of the township. One of these savages quietly
fitted a spear into the woomera, and suddenly flung it
at poor Kaye, with deadly aim, the point entering under
his right arm, passing through lungs and heart, and
protruding from the opposite side, the victim falling
dead from hit horse into the long grass. The spear was
seventeen feet long, with jagged point, and is now in
the possession of sub-inspector Nicholson, who, it is
needless to state, has fully avenged his comrade. The
mistake Kaye made was in allowing armed blacks to
walk either at the side or in front of him. A blackfel-
low can slide the spear into the woomera and discharge
it in a second, either from the shoulder or jerk it from
beneath the arm. Long immunity had made Kaye
careless, and be bad no chance to use his revolver.
♦ • •
Sir Julius Vogel will, it is said, shortly visit
N.Z The P. M, at Isisford (Q.) is 6ft. 7in. in his
stockings, and stoat la proportion. This may appear a
tall yarn, but it is true nevertheless. Mr. W. H.
Archer, late of Sydney, and formerly Victorian Secre-
tary for Lands, has been offered a lucrative position at
Singapore, but " has declined to entertain the idea of
an official career out of Victoria.” Mr. W. M. Ander-
son, chief manager of Oriental Bank, and at one time
the manager of its Melbourne Branch, has died in
London Mr, Francis S, Maodermott, manager of the
Australian Joint Stock Bank, Haymarket, has been
appsinted manager of the Federal Bank of Australia,
Sydney Ur. F, J. C. Wildash, formerly owner of
Canning Downs Station, near Warwick, Q , died early
this week, after a short ilineu O. J. K. Murray, a
second year student, carried off the Adelaide University
Scholarship this year Dr W. Gosse has been elected
warden of the Adelaide University Spencer Brown,
late editor of a Coektown paper and more re-
cently editor of The Observer, is to succeed Mr.
Prjde as C P.B, at Cooktown The whole of the
members of The Argus staff have been photographed...
It is said that Tom Bent, Minister lor Hallways, Vic-
toria, has blnshed....Mr. D. F, Mackay has just bought
the famous Bavensworth Estate, pear Singleton, for
the pretty little sum of £lia,Ol'o.
M'lndoe is to get a bolt and purse of sovereigns.
Pat Cretan is doing the collection, and the presentation
takes place at the Theatre Rojal, Melbourne.
Count voh Moltke is greatly impressed with the
idea of aerial navigation as an aid to military manoeu-
vres. An officer of the head-quarters staff has
been ordered to attend the lectures of the Germsn
Society for the promotion of aerial navigation. The
nut for aeronauts to crack is a moans to steer air
vessels. Air, as a gaseous fluid, haa similar properties
to those of water, but. being abort SCO times lighter
than the denser fluid, requires a correspondingly
groate' power to be Buoce.'Btnlly operated upon. The
supreme difficulty in aerial navigation is to get sufficient
power without weighr. Conquer the weight drawback,
and the thing ie done. Recent lights of science poipt
to electricity as the coming motor Fancy oaprytnß
stored lightning into a thunder cloud.
Now that the Intercolonial eighkoared race is
decided, the next event of importance is the “ Krug
Champagne Oqp. < ’ This valuable trophy is presented
by Messrs. Krugasd Co., through their agents, Messrs.
Curcier and Adet, to the New South Wales Rowing
Association for competition amongst all amateur
scullers in Australia. The only condition imposed is
that the race shall take place twice in the rowing
season, and be won tu-ic« by the same sculler, when it
will become hie sole property. The trophy will be
valued at £lOO, and is being manufactured by Mr. Xvan
Jones. The race will assume an intercolonial character
this year from the fact that Mr. A. W. Pittes, the
amateur champion sculler of Victoria, is coming over
to represent that colony. The entries will close Anally
on Saturday, 6th May, and must be addressed to Mr.
H. Coles, Edward street, St. Leonards. I
The River and the Hill.
And they ebook their sweetness out in their Bleep,
On the brink of that beautiful stream.
Bat it wandered alonf with a wearisome song
Ink* a lover that walks in a dream;
So the roses blew
When the winds went through.
In the moonlight so white and so still:
But the river it beat
All night at the feet
Of a cold and flinty hill—
Of a hard and senseless hill I
I eaid, “ We have often showered our love*
Upon something as dry as the dust;
And the faith that it eosfc, and the hearts that are lost—
Oh ! how can we wittingly trust:
Like the stream whloh flows.
And wails as it goes.
Through the moonlight so white and so still.
To beat and to beat
All night at the feet
Of a cold and flinty hill—
Of a bard and senseless hill I
** Hiver! I stay where the sweet roses blew.
And drink of their pleasant perfumes 1
Oh I why do you moan, in this wide world alone.
When so much affection here blooms P
The winds wax faint.
And the Moon like a Saintl
Glides over the waters so white and so still;
But you hear me and beat
AH night at the feet
Of that cold and flinty hill—
Of that hard and senseless hill I •*
HENEY KENDALL.
INTAGLIOS.
Ballade of Dead Hopos.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
We launched our hopes in the long tgs,
_ Or ever we wist what life would be, . .
Like nuteheU beats oh the stream's swift flow,
_ With sail and pennon floating free:
They drifted by meadow and blossoming lea,
They drifted into the far dim South;
But how many reached the brimming sea,
And where are the dear dead hopes of Youth ?
In the golden hours of the noonday gloW,
_ We built with pride and hopeful glee
Tail chateaux in Spain, row after row.
Master masons, I wig, were ws.
Bnt Time—the pitiless wizard ho—
Touched our castles, and knew no ruth ;
And they faded like dew-miat, silently,
And where are the dear dead hopes of Tenth?
loyal je serai, we sang, helgho I
W■ carved one name on pale and tree;
We courted the god of the fated bow
With service fair and bended knee.
We knew but one divinity,
(Oh, laughing eyes and rose-red mouth I)
Bat wmch of us won the sweet ladye.
And where are the dear dead hopes of Youth P
l'bnvoi.
Friend, we wasted the hours, I trow,
klre we woke from the dream and knew the truth j
Little it boots to wonder now—
Where are the dear dead hopes of Youth f
E. RICHAEDSON.
Edinburgh, 25th Jan., 1882.
A New Definition.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Two curly-headed children stood
Outside a green graveyard,
And pressed their rosy cheeks against
The gateway iron-barred.
One was a little maid of three
With great blue solemn eyes,
The other was her brother, not
So lately from the skiea.
“ O Ned, what place is this ? '* she said.
The little maid of three,
Ned drew himself to his full height—
Two feel above the sea—
And with a man’s impatience of
Girls’ talk did answer give—
“ 0 Annie, can’t yon see ? this place
Is where the dead men live,"
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Bread from Brain.
Where the iron of our lives
Is wrought out in fire and smoke.
There the mighty Vnlean strives—
Hot the fnrnace. hard the stroke:
There the windy bellows blow,
There the sparks in millions glow.
There, on anvil of the world.
Is the clanging hammer hurled.
Hard the labour, small the gain,
Is In mating bread from brain.
Where that nameless stone is raised.
Where the patriot's bones were placed.
Lived he —little loved and praised;
Hied he—little mourned and graced.
There, he sleeps who knew no rest;
There, noblest by those he blest;
There, he starved while sowing seed—
Where he starved the worms now feed.
Hard the labour, small the gain.
Is in making bread from brain.
In that chamber, lone and drear.
Sits a poet, writing flowers.
Bringing heaven to earth more near,
Baining thoughts in dewy showers ;
While he sings of nectar rare.
Only is the ink-bowl there.
©f feasts of gods he sings—high trust I
As he eats the mouldy crnst.
Hard the labour, small the gain.
Is In making bread from brain.
When the prophet’s mourning voice
Shouts the burthen of the world.
Sackcloth robes must be his choice—
Ashes on his head be hurled.
Where cruel tyrants live at ease.
Where false priests do as they please.
He is scorned, and pierced in side,
He is stoned and crucified.
Hard the labour, small the gain.
Is in making bread from brain.
Patriot! Poetl Prephetl feed
Only on the mouldy crust;
Tyrant, fool, and false priest need
All the crumbs, and scorn the Just.
Lord 1 how long P —how long, O Lord?
Bless, O God, Mind’s unsheathed sword I
Let the Pen become a Sabre—
Lot thy children eat who labour.
Bless the labour I bless the gain
In the making Bread from Brain I
TO A PORTRAIT
Sweet pictured maiden with dark dreaming eyes.
Such aad autumnal shadows ea thy face
Ae lend thy quiet beauty deeper grace.
Such marvel on thy forehead rests, such strange sur-
mise
On what for thee within the future lies.
Methinks thou shouldst have been of ancient race,—
Of days long lost—when in some sylvan place
Hoar Dr aids bade for men the future rise;
Beaide a lake in dreams I see thee stand.
Thine image in the waters shining clear
As in the pictured page within my hand;
Deep in my heart, as in that lilied mere, ’
Thine image fair is stamped by
No more to fade, but live
P.K.C.
Sydney,


PE O S P E
of the
HARGRAVES GOLD-MINH
known as Bond and Party’s Rich
Provisional Direc
John Bennett, Esq., Brush Fai
T. T. Jones, Esq., jeweller, Ge<
R. H. Reynolds, Etq , Padding
Brckjcrs :
Palmer, Thompson, and Denny
Office of the Company—ll 3 Pit
The object of the Company wi
interest of the vendors in a rich
graves, having a length of 750 fe
by 400 feet in width.
It will be seen by Mr. Morcoa
stone, similar to that exhibited it
and Son’s window, for the last '
present to be seen at this office, i
face of the reef. Half a dish knc
combe's presence gave the extra©
or at the rate of 200 oz per ton. 1
that the last crushing of 11J to:
average of 20oz> per ton. This wai
quartz now exhibited was disco'
estimated at about 2000 z., would
of ounces to the ton.
It is unnecessary to enlarge on t
suffice it to say that a very few
stone as that described by Mr. Mo
the whole of the capital and pay Is
The capital of the Company wil
shares of £1 each, of which the
retain 20,000 fully paid up ; and
offered to the public, 5000 will be p
the Company for working capital.
Ten thousand shares are ther
public—2soo of which are alre
follows:—ss. on application, ss.
balance at 2s. 6d. per month.
£5OOO of the subscribed capital
providing the necessary machine
mine.
A meeting of shareholders will b
after the Company is floated, for th
directors, appointing manager, &o.
In the event of the directors dec
the Company’s machinery is ere(
capital is all called up, dividend!
shares alike.
Applications to be made to the
further information may be obtain
Shares allotted according to pric
The expenses of floating the Com
the vendors
The parcel of rich stone now e:
the property of the Company.
Every facility will be afforded to
visiting the mine, as the owners a:
tion.
REPORT
ON
BOND AND CO.’S MINE,
This mine, the property of the al
on ihe above field. It is held undei
an area of about 5 acres of ground,
holders have been operating upon 1
Eureka. This reef was worked do
(65 feet), where, Mr. Bond infon
equally as rich as that taken out al
upwards of 2oz. of gold to the ton.
The reef which the holders are
upon lies 22 feet west of the Eur
It has been worked 91 feet in le
depth. It underlies east, and has
in 3 going south. It averages 7im
defined, and lies in good easy work
the absence of a crushing-machine
is got by reducing the quartz by
though the returns o( gold have be
yet it would have been far more sal
reliable guide as to the average qui
been reduced by an ordinary crusl
some of the stone is exceedingly
inspecting the magnificent lot of 8]
of the Brokers, 113, Pitt-street,
class of stone continue through the
slate which occurs at the water 1
thing to indicate that it will no I
pay handsomely for working. At
stone at the end of the southern di
from about half a dish knocked
specimens containing fully 2oz. of
obtained. Another prospect knob
the drive 17 feet from the surface
gold. In addition to the specimen
oz.) now in the bands of the holdei
tons of stone at grass. The above s;
from this stone. Mr. Bond inforn
ago, after picking out specimens
gold from 11 tons of stone, be hi
distance of 20 miles to the neare
when it gave a return of loz. H|dv
no gold was visible in the stone,
gold got from the specimens, is e
upwards of 19oz. to the ton.
The present method of working
the stone has to be dragged in b
the bottom of tbo shaft, when it is
by the windlass. The ground coul
better advantage if the main sha
from the end of the drive along
further depth of about 20 feet, wl
of the reef would no doubt be n
could then be carried in and stc
manner This shaft was original!
tention, but when a depth of 90 fc
ANTHONY HORDEHS
PALACE EMPORI
HATMARKET (ONLY).
fTIHE NUMEROUS AND WELL STOCKED DEPARTM]
contain almost Every Article Required, either by Lady or
or Household Requisites, all under one roof; and are kept up bj
England and the European continent, where our Mr A. HOR]
mined to procure, at the Earliest Moment, any of the varied
stantly being placed on the London, Paris, Berlin, and Continen
case, we say, with confidence, that no other Establishment in
thing like the advantages to be derived in purchasing at THE Pi
ta r pst t f c o(^a a . re NEW, because of the quick turnover
.i,; owln £ to the constant supervision in buyi
BESI MANUFACTURERS, and where goods are from 30 to 40
cause of our OLD, and WELL-ESTABLISHED CASH BYSTE
ELYSIUM ELYSIUM
ENFIELD HEI
AT LAST. AT 1
NEARLY 100 (ONE HUND
subdivided int
VILLA SITES,
BUSINESS SI
ME OH A
Immense prospective value,
projected
Tram Extension to Ca
Bankstown
SALE DAY,
SATURDAY, M
at 3 p.m. sharj
ON THE GEOU
and
Positively without ti
RESERVE.
JUST NOTE THE '
They ore the easiest ever off
i 3 DEPOSIT ON EACH LO'
balance by 21 equal monthl
WITHOUT inte:
or
10 PER CENT. DISCOUN 1
Elysium. —Every lot for UNI
Elysium.— Every ROAD CC 1
Elysium.— PUBLIC SCHOC
BUSINESS PREMI
Elysium.— HEATON PARI
W. SMITH, 1
HODGSON, E.->q., 1
Captain BREMNEi
Elysium.— ALL GOOD HIG
Elysium. —ln the Vicinity of
ADELAIDE PARK
Elysium. —For the WORK! I
an INVESTMENT
because it oSers ch
of the price asknc
other suburbs.
Elysium.— For the SPECULA
they can obtain CHI
an IMMENSE PRO
in view of the pro
CANXEEBURI to
Elysium.— For the CAP!
SURROUNDINGS,
DELIGHTFUL D. 1
LED VIEWS,
SPHERE.
felysium.— FOR EVEEYBC
VILLA, AND BU:
BLOCKS, or Allotr
MAGNIFICENT \
TITLE, and RIDI
TERMS.
Elysium.— NOTE THE TER
£8 DEPOSIT per 1c
equal monthly insti
INTEREST, or 10 i
cash.
Elysium.— TlTLE, TORRE!
Elysium.— NO RESERVE.
Elysium.— FßEE PASSES i
of Sale,
Elysium.—«r PLANS NOW
Elysium. —Remember THE !
SATURDAY, 13th 1
ON THE GROUNI
BAIT, RODDTaND
ROOMS, 88 Pitt-street.
SATURDAY, 6th
ON THE QROU:
FEOGMORE I
PENRITH.
ADIE3 HATS and BONNETS
and Newest Styles, compri
Velvet, and Beaver. Hats t
and Flush, Chenille, Beal
Sealskin, Russian Seal, &o.
MILLINERY.—Choicest and Best 1
of French and English
Colonies. JUadies Bonnets,
Feathers, from 15s 6i. La(
med Satin and Plush with 1
a large variety of Children’s
5s 6d each.
FEATHERS, &c.—A Large and Wi
White 0.8. Plata, 2s lid to
Flats, 2a 6d to 25s. Shades
253. Coloured 0.8. Flu
Ostrich Plumes, Jancer JEn
Princess Tnfte, Maraboul
Birds. &o, Ac.
ORNAMENTS, Ac.—Silver, Steel,
and Bonnet Ornaments in £
latest novelties.
PARACHUTES, Ac.—Ladies* Plac
Trimmed Black Lace, Lai
shades, and Black Satin
Twill Silk and Levantine Pi
SILKS ANI
Stocl
large
tary
pnhli
purcl
new e
Ac., i
whicl
VELVETEE
great
in fac
style,
stock
HOSIERY.—
matei
Cash)
Cardi
Merii
make
Child
RIBBONS.—
Ribbc
vet, 1
All tl
inche
LACES.—An-
Black
firm i
Flore
Bead
GLOVES—T
sizes.
Is 9d,
all si:
Cashi
and L
SPLENDIDi
Linen
tonne
PLEASE CAREFULLY NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRES
ANTHONY HORDERN i
THE PALACE EM
haymark:
(ONLY,)
THE “PLUME” I
MOLESKIN TRi
WHITE AND PRINT
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINAR
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FI
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPER
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH t
THESE GOODS Will
CHEAPEST AND BESI
THE BRAND IS RECISTEI
IMITATING IT WILL BE PR


The federal bank o
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MELBO
Capital, £1.000,000
Subscribed, £650,00
Directors:
Hon. J. J. Casey, 0.M.0.,!
J. B. Watson, Esq., Vico-I
John Bobb, Esq.
John Whittingham, Esq.
William M'Lean, Esq., J.I
Hon. James Munro, M.P.,
ing Director.
Temporary Banking Hons<
257 Qeorge-street, Nor
Francis S. Macdermoti
Manager.
John Docker, Esq., Aoco
Messrs. Koberteon and Fisher
THE FEDERAL BANK OF ANSI
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Every statement we are about to set down in
this first paragraph is an emblazoned lie. We make
the confession at once, so that our virtuous readers
should not be taken off their guard and seduced into
believing what is not in accordance with the Eternal
Verity of the Unutterable or the Nirvanatic Euthan-
asia of the Non-Ego and a dash of bitters. Having
clearly defined our position we proceed. We are seated
at a cedam table which has not yet lost the perfume of
Lebanon. It is covered with a piece of Gobelins tapestry.
The figures of the old magnificoes woven therein look
out at us like statues from the dim niches of the past.
An inkstand cunningly carven in the silver of Potosi is
in the centre of the table. In our hand is the quill of a
condor shot upon the topmost Andes. Gems of Brazil
set in the gold of Golconda sparkle upon our white and
slender fingers. The ink we write with is of the hue of
bright emerald, such as of old was sacred to the use of
■the Emperors of the East. The room we sit in is lefty
and spacious. Curtains of gauzy rose-damask are
drawn daintily across the diamond-paned windows.
The light within is delicate as the scent of a flower.
The wall is hung with paper of a quaint pattern. On
one side of the room it represents a garden with apple-
trees in blossom. The blossoms tremble musically to
the wooing winds of dawn. Here and there a flower
fallen from the tree-top glistens in the green grass like
n earoonet of precious stones flung into the lap of a lady
by her lover in the days ere ever chivalry was dead.
Grey-eyed maidens tread noiselessly the garden walks,
and the Spirit of Spring is In the land. On the other
side is depictured an ancient forest. The mighty
trunks of “ immemorial elms ” and sacred oaks stand
out like the guardian giants of gloom. Their leaves
glimmer in the moonlight like the heads of spears.
Away in the heart of the wood sits the lonely Pan
blowing upon a reed. Bare-breasted, brown-limbed
Dryads move rhythmically among the shadows of the
trees. They are dancing the Last Dance of all loveli-
ness, for a voice has whispered in Tempe that Pan must
die. 411 the other gods have gone, and a fallen statue
of Artemis half-grown over with grass and creeping ivy
and lit up by the rays of her own moon, shines through
the gloom like a pallid phantom of woe upon the
threshold of the house of joy. The ceiling is painted a
faint grey. Little clouds move through the haze,
their edges tinted with a soft spiritual pink by Ushas
the beautiful dawn. Silks of Samarcand —
» * *
We regret that we are unable to complete this
description in consequence of the number of little
devils with greeu eyes and noses like money-lenders
that are running up and down the walls. And snakes
—Ugh I
« • •
The boy has brought another black bottle and
we defy them. And now the condor-quill flies over the
scented slips like Cyril Haviland witli bis camera after
the ghost of a dead cab-horse.
* # •
The keen breeze of coming winter blows
through the open window, and tosses our love-locks
over our Pentelic brows. To-day is the First of May.
Our thoughts float back upon the river of Memory
that strange stream that flows ever backward to its
source—past sun-scorched and desolate places, past the
graves of dead hopes. Ab! sombre, sombre are the
shadows of the cypresses in the abode of the Dead.
But the shadows fade softly out, and now, as Canadian
voyageurs returning home after the toil of long and
weary days, our thoughts surge onward singing. The
Spirit of Joy fans them with his wings. Pianissimo,
And, if these considerations don’t come natur-
ally on the First of May, old Tough-scrag, the butcher.
Sour Duff, the baker, and that sneaking Bengal tiger,
lha rent-man, soon bruise in the date, and recall the
fact that cattle browse o’er flowery meads in order
to furnish shin-hash for the poetic paunch; and
golden-topped com fields wave with a view to a short
weight coalition, with sour yeast and potatoes, to build
up these thrilling nerves. Still they come!
However blue the blue-bells be,
The milkman’s bill is come.
His milk and bill both blue to me—
We’ll fix up one with rum.
«* ♦ •
" Gur’nor,” at the Opera House, is a comedy
of errors, and in absurdity of complication out-Dromios
anything ever presented here. Mr. Lankester in his
play is one of the few writers who have seen distinctly
that the modern society play, with two or three mouth-
ing London Journal characters as staple, and one or
two eccentrics with a fad, answers not the purpose of
the modern theatre. Let the masters of play-writing
instruct, and we will forego a great deal of fun: —but
let others follow Mr. Lankester, and amuse.
• • •
A whole night of uproarious laughter from a
crammed house had not been seen in Sydney for many
a day, and if “Guv'nor” doesn’t have a long run, no
play will. The plot is ludicrously improbable, while
the actors are seriously struggling with interminable
confusions. Mr. Whyte’s Butterscotch is a fine piece
of sustained misery. He looks as if the world had
turned on him, just as he was about to wombat his way
to the centre of the earth, to escape from the stings
and arrows of a crooked time. The ingenious torture
inflicted on him by Mr. Lankester is sereamingly
comical. Mr. Marshall’s boat-builder, deaf as a post,
mistaking everybody and humbugging everybody,
showed him in a part that few will beat him in. He
smoked his clay, doffed his glazed hat, scraped when
pleased, and retired when not. His bronzed counte-
nance spoke of the buffetings of many a hurricane under
Such tropical suns as beat down on the fearless brow of
the mariner clinging to the rattling shrouds on the
up-voyage of his Thames ferry-boat.
* * *
How old Butterscotch, the retired confectioner,
managed to capture that second pretty young wife (Mrs.
Gordon) can only be explained by supposing she went
for “the sugar.’’ She manages the old lolly as a young
woman should, and intrigues in his daughter's love
affairs as older step-mothers do not, unless the said
daughter (Miss Gwynne) should happen to be, as she is,
pretty enough to stand in the way of a middle-aged 1
flirtation in the old man’s absence.
Mr. Titheredge (young Butterscotch) stammers
to some purpose, and works his Guv’nor well, when the
crucial time comes. Jellicoe, the picklemaker (Mr.
Forbes), used vinegar on the sugar man in the earlier
acts, but became jelly at last. Mrs. and Carrie Maccles-
field (Mrs. Melville and Miss Fischer) look mother and
daughter; Mr O’Grutteu came down from Glen
Mutchken, ye ken, wi’ siller in his pooch, and wasna
aboot to waste the like on yon extoarshonate cabman
Mr E. W Marshall’s Yorkshire groom must have spent
some time in Tipperary, but his acting,(where old Jujube
presses his daughter’s hand on him, fetched the house.
Mr. Gordon’s scenery does him credit, and Herr Kus-
ter’s orchestra threw in Gung’l and Meyder in place of
concert hall jingy-jing.
** * *
A concert, in aid of the funds of the local
Church of England, took place at Ashfleld last night
(Wednesday). Too late for notice in this issue. We
shall have something to say next week about the per-
formances.
** * *
The ladies’ dresses at the Olympic Bevels are
two inches shorter than Hudson’s Surprise girls’ were.
This should bo paid for as an advertisement.
** * *
If an enthusiastic reception, a well-filled hall,
and a a fairly good concert have any power to assuage
Mr. Fairfax’s suffering, then (he cloud of care should
be lifted from his brow, and we should see him as he
was, once more. It needed not Dr. Ellis’ speech to tell
us of this gentleman’s broken health —the shadow of his
once magnificent voice was all sufficient. He sang, by
request, “ The Village Blacksmith,” and—but there, we
will waive criticism for once, especially as we have
heard him sing it in years gone by. The people with
more good nature than good taste insisted upon an
encore, to which the singer responded by “ I fear no
foe.” Mr. Hallewell’s rendering of “ Why do the
nations’” was capital, but his singing of “Let me love
thee” lacked tenderness. Miss Foxall’s fresh young
voice has improved vastly in the last two years, and
should, with continued steady practice, entitle the
owner to a high place amongst our vocalists. Her
singing of “ The Harp on the air ’ gained her a well-
deserved encore, to which she replied with another
selection from the same opera. In the “ Sainted
Mother” duet, which she sang with her sister, she
was not so successful, but this was mainly owing
to the fact of Miss Foxall, jun.’s, voice being so much
weaker than her sister’s; and besides, it does not look
pretty to sing with the eyas closed. Miss Marie St.
Clair sang'a composition of Herr Alpen’s, with cornet
obligato. The song, although savouring of common-
place, is nevertheless pretty, and being well sung, the
wonder is that it obtained so little appreciation. But
a word in your ear, mein Herr. It’s easier for a rich
man to enter Heaven's gates than for a poor man to
make a name in Sydney as a composer of music on hia
own merits: and even if he gains a name, there is so
little encouragement for art in this money-making city,
that it would avail him but little. Look at Packer! It
is a crying shame that the composer of the “Crown of
Thorns” should be allowed in his old age to labour
without cessation in the drudging department of the
profession he has graced.
* » •
Mr, W. Smith is steadily advancing in public
favour, and although his vdice played him false once or
twice in “ There is a flower that bloometh,” it was so
evident that it was the result of a cold, and not the
singer’s fault, that it interfered little with the warmth
of his reception. Dr. Ellis, of course, sang divinely.
“ Come into tke garden, Maud,” was his best effort.
Whatever Signora Fabris sings is sure to be sung
artistically. Even in the song “ Beware,” her pretty
foreign accent, especially in the words “ Treest heer not,"
was anything but a drawback to the enjoyment of her
singing. For an encore she sang the ever favourite
“MiaMadre,” as no one in Sydney but Signora Fabris
can sing it. Mr. M‘Lean managed to get together a
good chorus, who performed the part allotted to them
very creditably. The commencement of the “ Angelus ”
chorus might have been sung more piano.
** * *
The “ Olympic Bevels ” still continue at the
Victoria Hall. They are poorly patronised, though
somewhat over the standard of the class of entertain-
ments usually given in this home of the classic drama.
Miss Marie Trevanion is certainly deserving of better
things than seem to have fallen in her way of late. Her
songs, “ The Hazel Dell ” and the “ Anchor Weighed,”
are sung with grace and feeling. She is the backbone
of the entertainment. Miss Marie Louise, we have
spoken of before. We don’t take anything back that
we have said of her. She is as lovely as a five-pound
note. Mr. A. Andrews has been, and is yet, a good
music-hall singer, but in these days it takes a powerful
voice to fill empty benches. There is nothing extra-
ordinary about Mr, Radcliff’s violin playing, except the
gymnastics he goes through while wielding the bow.
For our part, we would, though we like to hear him
play, rather see him drop the fiddle and take to turning
somersaults altogether. The company now at the
Victoria Hall deserves better success than it has
had.
* * *■ *•
The demand for course tickets yesterday for
Forbes’ lectures was so large, that no single reserved
seat tickets will be sold for the opening lecture.
** * *
At the Queen’s, “The Star Chamber” with
Burdett Howe as Clement Langes, is attracting very
fair houses. The drama is below criticism, but the act-
ing of the whole company ,has improved since we last
saw them. There was room.
* ■* * *
“ Honour” still runs at the Gaiety, and has
taken remarkably well. Mr. Leake and his company
work hard and well. There are no hitches in any per-
formances on the boards of that theatre just now. On
Friday evening “ East Lynne” will be produced.
* * **
“ The World” wags —and Bland Holt Is the
wag thereof. It is a long time since the Royal (was
crammed night after night in the manner it is now.
The drama is ultra-sensational. Well I About three-
fourths of the theatre-going public prefer sensational to
legitimate drama—the same three-fourths,probably,that
prefer whisny to ginger-beer. There is no reason why
their taste should not be consulted. Anyhow as a sen-
sational drama “ The World" is a rasper. E pair si
muove,
** * *
Mr. Joseph Simmons is about to open a Dra-
matic Academy in Sydney. This information will be
received with a howl of joy by the stars of suburban
theatrical clubs and the undeveloped geniuses that have
“ blushed unseen ” till now. “ Shall we not have actors
of our own making ? " we ask in the voice of ten thou-
sand thunders. Wo want them chiefly for export.
Seriously, Mr. Simmons has done that which has been
for a longtime the subject of our nightly dreams. We
are tired of seeing people get up and prance about the
stage before they have attained sufficient command over
their gait to walk gracefully across a Kiug-streetjfoot-
bridge. Mr. Simmons deserves success.
** * *
Our special reporter was not much impressed
by Miss Jennie Lee’s “Jo” (piece produced Princess’,
Melbourne, Saturday, 30th April), but he attributes his
impressions to the fact that Ristori herself could not
bring genius to bear upon depicting a dirty, ignorant,
little boy. The house was crowded, and the mounting
and the scenery (Gordon’s) superb. Cast unsurpassed
since the time of Brooke, the Youngs, Lambert, Rogers,
and the giants. Hoskins as Sir Leicester Deadlock,
Harwood as Talkingham—both grand. The greatest
hit was scored by Solange Navarre as Hortense. Solange
is French by birth and bringing up. Eloise Juno, Stuart
O’Brien, Maggie Knight, Ethel Adele, Harry Daniels,
Mrs. Edwin Bryer, and the Daniel Lambert of the stage
(John Bryan) were all in the piece. Mr. Burnett (Mr.
Lee) made his diMt with credit. The _ play nearly
throughout is unutterably dull, as one might imagine,
the plot of “ Bleak House” having to be all explained.
** * *
Hiscocks has not left Maccabe, and the’twain
write us a refutation of the rumour to which we gave
circulation. Hiscocks, after Maccabe has retired on a
princely fortune, assumes the management of a palatial
nigh-claas music hall to be built in Bourke-street
Hudson’s Surprise Party at Ballarat Reynolds in
Melbourne .Dumpier gets his opening date, May 6th,
theatre Royal, Melbourne. So much for “Youth.”
Upemng piece all about Russia and the Jewish atroci-
ties... Old Green, janitor Theatre Royal (Melbourne)
D.C. door, is dead Gamer, Musgrove, and Allison
are all m Melbourne The “Billee Taylor" action is
“° heard out to the bitter end John Wilson gone
«°n o,^ e ! after the defeat of his horses in the Caul-
field Steeple and Hnrdle Billy Lees, the sna^e
charmer, and Jackson, the racoon man, left for New
Zealand and Adelaide respectively Conway comes by
the Redondo to prepare for the Queen’s Birthday sports
on the Agricultural Society’s grounds. He sent up the
price of hats in Melbourne...... Alii son has the Theatre
Royal for nine additional weeks—to include the
“tS w”] season Mr. Herbert Flemming’s lit in
•ii « x ° r ’ d ’ s ” aquarium scene was short, and left no
ill effects The “ Pirates of Penzance,” by amateurs.
™der the conductorship of_ Mr. J. Ashcroft Edwards,
of Sydney Liedertaefl, is to be produced in New-
ti ii ' picked voices in the chorus Johnny
Hall, veteran as he is, was not too cute to avoid abusing
a critic from the stage. Oh, Johnny !
** * *
The Gundagai Amateur Club’s performance for
!?f the benefit of the local Hospital came off last
Friday. Gundagai cannot stand a great strain upon
its patronage, and the success of Miss Kate Thayer's
concert, the previous night, precluded a great house.
“ Milky White" and “ Retained for the Defence” were
ii/r- e pi® ces .presented Rice s Hyperion Party, with
Mind-Reading thrown in, played at Port Adelaide at
latest dates Dr. Simms, Ballarat, 26th April. Good
press notices “American War/' Stanley still as ex-
ponent, at Warruambool. J. C. Rainer exhibits large
drafts Our Wilcannia contemp., April 20, pars Free-
man's Opera Troupe. Who’s Freeman ? Sameremark
applies to W. Suttor, of Bathurst, better known as
Beverley Suttor,reported dead by the Newcastle Morn-
ING Herald Vernon writes to a friend a lot of inter-
esting news re “Patience” in New Zealand. Too late
to hand for reproduction Hamilton (Vic.) has had
the honour of a visit from Georgia Smithson and her
merry men. Professor Sylvester and his celebrated
troupe (of dogs) “went through their tricks without
blemish.”......"The Telephone,” a Parramatta come-
dietta, original and ingenious, crisp and “ breezy,”
is published, and “ will be produced at one of
the Sydney theatres.” Sly dog. Master Allison
Wagga says Hudson’s Party returns there 2tth May.,...
Ashton’s Circus, Dubbo, 27th and 28th April If war
breaks out in Europe, Forbes says he must hurry back.
These are R. S. Smythe’s orders Mrs. Piercy, ne«
Dargon, will, says a newspaper, “ shortly visit Temora
and give a series of recitals.” Melbourne papers loud
in praise of Montague-Turner Opera Co. Also of “ The
Colonel.” Likewise of Bent’s Ministrels..;....Herr
Wilhelm j is to have a big testimonial concert in Mel-
bourne Bent’s lecture Art kept the bills all through
the St. George’s Hall season Twenty-seven columns
in explanation of Marshall’s “ Broken Heart ” appear in
the Melbourne papers. Mr. Marshall played Mousta.,..
Rossi may come to Australia Margaret Mather, SO
years of age, born in Detroit, is the last star prodigy.
She frightens people so that they cannot rehearse with
her. Her manager runs her about in special trains,
and finds the critics in eatables and drinkables.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members Of the theatrical
profession
The unrolling of Mr. Gordon’s new aot drop for
the Christchurch Theatre caused lusty cheers, and Mr.
Williamson on the behalf of the artist thanked the
audience Harry Power, with his entertainment
“ Bustle and Bounce," is doing well in Christchurch
Mr. Biooardi has recovered from his illness and asnmed
his own r6le in “ Patience," at Christchurch Zulu
Thompson has made a joke. He told Do Vivo that his
prima donna was a suite of furniture, and that it
brought in notes instead of giving them out Dan
Briggs, of Rockhampton, bewails the loss of
“props.” lost and souvenirs not reciprocated
by "an actor who has played in Sydney.”
Wa?ga Wagga has been visited by both Mias Pomeroy
and Hudson's Surprise Party. The Tisbr begs the
former to come back supported by a good dramatic
company De Lias* stock company Mr. and Mrs. Mc-
Gowan, Elliott, Dillon, Welsh and others, did a scratch
season in Auckland during Easter week. There were no
leading juvenile ladies, and the attendance after the
first two nights was sparse In the “ Patience"
cricket match at Christmas, Williamson scored some-
thing that a duck lays and sits upon The Pollard
Lilliputian troupe at Brisbane on May 3rd
Mrs. Marcus Clarke (Miss Marion Dunn) will probably
once more grace the stage The Lynch Bellringers,
the Wheeler Troupe, and Lyons’ Tourists are doing
Tasmania Alice Rees, playing “Patience" in
Dunedin, wears on her neck d trinket in the shape of a
small porker, presented by a Sydney admirer. She
says it reminds her of the giver. We know his name ;
he is in the hardware Maggie Oliver made a grand
mistake lately. She bet a “ Tambour Major ” Captain
a dozen of champagne that she (Maggie) did not wear
more than two inches less of waist-eloth as Sinbad than
did the captain as Captain—and lost the bet. There
was a soul d of revelry by night 1 They say in Ade-
laide that Theresa Horan would be a thoroughly fasci-
nating girl did she possess somebody else's chin, an-
other person’s voice, and a stranger’s pair of legs.
« • •
It is reported that the Duke of Edinburgh
contemplates writing a comic opera —to be as
successtul, financially, as " Pinafore" and “Patience."
Riston plays Lady Macbeth in English in England.
Clarence Holt (Bland's dda) and Wilmot (once of Dune-
din) have started a scenery factory at Lambeth (Eng.)....
Patti had a splendid reception in New Orleans. At her
St. Charles concert she wore her Spanish costume with
beautiful silk stockings, embroidered with rosebuds and
leaflets. As she sang, her right stocking began to slip
slowly down, revealing the daintiest and whitest of
ankles, while the audience sat spell-bound with delight.
Presently, Nioolini coughed significantly behind the
scenes; Patti looked down at her stocking, blushed,
tripped to the wings, and reappeared with the limb
recovered The Duke of Edinburgh, we hear, has just
completed an operetta, the plot of which originates in
a Russian village. There’s a plot, however, in every
Russian village just now John E. M’Donengh died
of facial cancer. Just before his death he presented
Miss Annie Pixley with a massive volume of the first
collected edition of (Shakespeare's dramatic works,
dated 1623, a volume of rare interest —and picked up,
by the way, at a Melbourne bookstall Clara Louise
Kellogg has once more postponed her marriage. An
impudent paper now wants to know whether she keeps
that red-headed Philadelphian exclusively for adver-
tising purposes Thus Paris Figaro re Sarah Bern-
hardt: —"She reached Vienna 4 a.m. and fainted;
breakfasted and fainted; went out shopping, and fainted;
appeared at the theatre, and fainted alter each act; re-
ceived too much applause, and fainted; heard of her loss
in Suez Canal shares, and fainted; heard of her great
rival's (Mad. Wottec) success, and congratulated her—
fainted; and so on." Modjeska's Marie Stuart is
most Modjes-tic After a concert at Brooklyn, Patti
was called lor by the enthusiastic crowd in front of her
hotel. Being afraid to go out into the cold night air,
she appeased them by throwing out the bouquets she had
received, but did not notice till too late that the cards
and presents of the donors were still attached Mme.
Nilsson’s husband has died in a private lunatic asylum.
Madame Celeste was 70 when she died
Airs. Langtry, in reply to a provincial manager,
wrote that her terms for self and company, without
finding any printing or advertisements whatever, were
60 per cent. She stipulated for special scenery and the
best furniture. Oiler declined Jennie Lee (“Jo")
played in 'Frisco to the tune of over 3000 dols. in one
week, that being the largest business done at the Bald-
win since Neilson’s visit A version of Onida's
‘■Moths’’ will shortly be produced at the London
Globe Two days before the Patti season of Italian
opera opened in New York recently, the sale of tickets
had reached £sboo; the run continued A well-
known English manager recently offered Mrs. Langtry
£3OO per week, a carriage and pair, a coachman and a
footman, wherever she goes—with, of course, rings on
her fingers and bells on htr toes—lor a tour. Mrs. L.
politely declined, saying she had determined shortly to
organise a company and a tour on her own account
Madame Ristori opens at Drury Lane Theatre, in
July, in “ Lady Macbeth," played ia English
Jenny Claus, the violinist, was at latest ia 'Frisco
The Statesman and Friend or India says “ there can-
not be two opinions about Bandmann’s Hamlet." So
we think An experienced manager, when asked what
salary he would give Mrs. Langtry for a year,
• A hundred a week for the provinces; thirty shillings
in London for a permanency. I won't go in for the
story of the rocket and the stick." “ Why not ?"
"Simply because she is the stick already." Adam
Forepaugh’s "handsomest woman in America" hrs
gone back to passing beer in a pretty waiter girl
sa oon in Brooklyn Alice Dunning Lingard leaves
knsoo to appear in the New York production of
Divorfcns. By the way, •• Divorced ”is Sardon'e bast
—in the original French, a-ayhow—and Mr. Garner is
politelyremindod that we haven’t yet seen it in Sydney...
Oscar Wilde declares Sara Bernhardt the true type of
female loveliness. This explodes the idea that she was
sawn out by a lath machine Boncicanlt, the writer
of original plays, has a son, Q.D., and the Era says ho
18 « ™ lp the old block - Now, if the old block chips
off French blocks, what a chip G.D. will be ! Toole
has reopened the Felly, and oalla it Toole’s Theatre. A
b y Miss Holt (sister of onr Bland), called
Waiting Consent, ’ was the opening item. It is
highly spoken of by the English Press Onr own
Emma Howson has been very ill in New York, but at
latest dates was playing "Madame Favart. ......The
charming Alice Bates charges a newspaper with scur-
rility, because her domestic affairs have been discussed
in print. One of the critics says in reply that he
agrees with the lady that the question of the num-
ber of her husbands and children comes under a line of
amusements totally distinct from the usual run of art
matter." The Alice Dannimr-Lingard Company,
lost the leading man, Mr. W. D. Gemmill. at
ban Francisco, recently. Congestion of the lungs
......One of the special effects of the pantomime ef
sin bad the Sailor" at the Standard Theatre, London
is the appearance on the stage of a full slaed paddle
wheel steamer, S9ft long by 18ft wide, and managed by
a crew of 50. The steamer in question comes on the
stage, turns round, picks up the survivors of the wreck,
and steams oil again.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed .]
“ Fummy Eeceived too late for this issue.
A show in next “Enquirer'’: Beluctantly hold
over. Will give it prominence next week . -00"
(Bnlli): Thanks, smart tone •• Bye Opener". Muah
obliged. Whatever is communicated in confidence, is
kept 50... Johns" (Albury). Tery good; hut mere
eostumes become rather monotonous: more general
view preferred. Anything funny specially welcome
syntax : You do not say where you write frem. The
point of your communication is, therefore. lost
Esmmst••. Thanks •• YankoTes, »boose"”is
an ugly ward, but, for all that, it’s good Saxon, and as
old as the time of Chaucer “T. M‘M Will read
and id * r ’’s You are, for the meat part.
crowded 0ut...... SB A. : We suppose Mr. Ward has
* important business outside “Q.W.0.”: Thanks.
have already had a similar paragraph
Jim Mullins (N.Q ) : Letter posted to Tnornborough’
...... Pensee : Very good indeed “8.C.8.”- Qo
M^i Omb UT : Ve 7 * ood « tor y. bat it had to be
Co.mb-d oTer .“Long-sleever’’: Too long a sleever
this time......... Blackall”: There are 18 varieties of
deadly snakes known and classified in Queensland
Enquirer : We do not know whether Mr. Luscombe
of the Protection League and Mr. Luscombe, late of
Ceoktown, are identical “ C.C.D."* (Mackavl •
Verses scarcely interesting enough, but they show
cleverness in some parts. Try again, shorter .
*r° (Woliongong) ; Thanks “ Gooey": That’s
right...... Watchman : What you send ns is red-hot;
obliged to tone a little. But we will keep thomatterin
quad . X.Y. s (1.) D r . Hughes, who occupies the
I reethought platform at the Theatre Boyal. is a Doctor
of Laws and an ex-clergyman of the Church of England.
(2) Mn Skinner, of Sydney, is understood to deal
inrgely In such publications. (3.) One of the
vegetable alkaloids—we don’t know which,,,
, w0 ? ld be luite possi ble. Screws a itii
600 threads to the inch are now cud. Howeve), the
finest used in watches have but 250 "Connaugnt
Sir Walter Scott, though a keen and bitter Tory 60
years ago attributed the unfortunate condition of Ire-
land to the exactions of the landlords “Lyncceus"-
Always glad to see your handwriting no, we don’t
mean that; it s a»dence]of a cramped band. But elad
when we’ve deciphered it. Next week “Deborah":
We cannot possibly inform you why the Sydney D T
has such strong sentiments in favour of Jews. As voii
“£• ■ 1t . 1 , 8 P a P« r - T bis is not a Jew d Esprit....
Quiz ; Thanks. ...“0.T."; The department to which
you refer is notoriously disorganised. The head
of it has been drunk for years, and thousands of
people ore inconvenienced that he may wallow in
whisky, iurther particulars when the libel law
is altered, and the present judges are pensioned off
Yummy : Yes, it was intended for you. Please
send your name, so that we may write you a note. .
Vulcan : Just a little too lively. Besides, you don’t
let us into the secret. Write again... “XOV”*
Thanks A good incident, and well told, but the public
y ball be glad to hear from you again
Bus : Please send name and address “O K "I-
iirst-ciass- Please furnish name and address. .
=i5 0 i r i h v : If JOU want t 0 run tot Parliament you
should buy up or get a mortgage over both the local
papers, then they 11 always reverentially allude to
C°M Q h -ha Smltb * “Esquire," and put you up far a
When the plaintive whangdoodle wooa the shy
ouriew in the gloaming, and the orbs of Heaven light
the pathway of the skulking dingo prowling round for
ireythen do the stars that shine over our city behold
the clandestine lovers’meeting, as they talk with bated
breath of Elysium. Now, what is Elysium ? If you
go to Batt, Rodd, and Purves' land sale at Eaffeld
Heights, on Saturday. May 13, you will find those en-
terpnsing auctioneers ready to sell “Elysium” in
email parcels to suit all buyers.
He was interviewing a money-lender “Bat
tajPW* seooority ?” said the man of loans
Why, 111 give you my note of hand.” replied thetfc.
reunions on*. ‘‘Now, look here, young sheatleman;
111 tell you vat 111 do. You take your solemn s’hel>.
you Moses that yon buy von or two allotments of land
at Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist's sale, Progmore Hli
Penrith, on Saturday, Bth May, and hand me over-a
mortgage, and you shall have all the monish you want.”
And yet they say money-lenders have no soul.
The waters make a musie low :
The river reeds
Are trembling to the tunes of long ago— ■
Dead days and deeds
Become alive again, as on
We float, and float,
Through shadows of the golden Summers gone,
And Springs remote.
Above our heads the trees bloom out
In white and red
Great blossoms, that make glad the air about)
And old suns shed
Their rays athwart them. Ah, the light
Is bright and fair 1
No suns that shine upon us now are bright
As those suns were.
And, gazing down into the stream
We see a face.
As sweet as buds that blossom in a dream.
Ere sorrows chase
Fair dreams from men, and send in lieu
Sad thoughts. A wreath
Of blue-bells binds the head —a bluer blue
The eyes beneath.
This is our little Annie’s face—
Our small sweetheart;
Whom, long ago, we lost in that dark place
Where all lives part.
Beside us, still, we see her stand.
Who is no more.
She walked with us through childhood, hand in
hand,
But, at the door
Of Youth departed from us. Fah-
Were we that day
To go with her. Ah, sweetheart, come again.
This First of May 1


PEPPER AND SALT.
Two Lyons-Terraoe medicoes were strolling along
Arm-in-arm the other day, when they met the •* great
Indian com-doctor ” in his carriage. “ Jnst watch the
antics of that advertising quack 1" exclaimed Sawbones.
•‘My dear fellow,” replied Lithotrite, “ he advertises
by means of a fine turn-out. So do we. Don t you
remember the story about Aspiuall and Ireland ? The
former, one day, went into Scott's hotel, and seeing
Ireland lying on the sofa, exclaimed, ‘ You're drunk,
Dick 5 you’re drunk.’ Eeplied Ireland : * You re
jealous—you’re ealous.' The com-doctor may be
mercenary and unprofessional, bnt even if we re not
unprofessional, some of us are mercenary.
And, by the way, an intensely nervous man once went
to tho aforesaid Lithotrite, complaining of insomnia.
« The fourth of the month is approaching, doctor,’ he
said, “and, do what I will, I cannot sleep. I apply
wet towels to the bate of my heated brain, use hop
pillows, drink homos opathio doses of coffee and allo-
pathic doses of bromide of potassium, walk miles, and,
as a last resource, try to read the Daily Telxokaph.
But sleep with me is out of the question. My mind
I’ wells on my business-engagements—l get up and walk
boat ” “ My dear fellow," interposed Lithotrite,
don’t let such things induce cerebral hyperoemia, or
ou’U have severe congestion. .Don’t worry your
rain cells till you become insane. Take my advice,
leep calmly, and let your creditors do the night-walk-
eg.”
Vhich reminds one of tho ingenious story about
he insolvent who was asked by the official assignee
rhere his bill-book was. " It is at home,” he patheti-
:ally replied, “ under my pillow. For ten days prior to
my insolvency I could not sleep. My liabilities were
aver before me. But after I had filed my schedule,
though I still took the bill-book to bed, I slept like a
;op.”
* * * .
Parkes, at a banquet given in his honour at
Willis's Booms, London, on Saturday night last, is
Sported to have said that “it is an absurd thing to
suppose that Englishmen could instruct Australians.
Sir Henry speaks for himself. So far he is right, u
hot courteous; You cannot make a silk purse out of
a Henry Parkes.
# * *
The Hbbald advertised the other day “to let a
well-furnished room. No objection to assist in case of
baby.’* What can this mean ? The room has no objec-
tion, or the occupant must have no objection, or
perhaps the lettor or lettoress has no objection to
assist. But who’s to have the baby? That dwindles
down to two. The lettor or the occupant? Now. is
the lettor an expectant, or does he look upon all occu-
pants as probable parents ? Which is it n case o
baby ” Is the baby then to arrive in a case, or is it in one
awaiting the non-objeoting-to-assist occupant of room ?
For baby’s case means the case of baby— ergo, the case
of baby means baby’s case, and the question now is.
which baby’s case, and of what is it made? P.B.
at first strongly suspected Mr. Julian Salomons, Q. „
of having written the above, which came from Went-
worth Court.
* • *
A Brisbane man had a fire. The Insurance
Company wouldn’t pay up. He was bewailing his loss
of valuable manuscript music, autograph letters, etc,,
to one who knew him, and who put the cruel conun-
drum- “But. why on earth didn’t you remove them
the day before the fire ?” Millions wouldn’t induce r s
to print that man’s name.
* * *
To a political decori ;
•i Hang the thief on the cross,” was the ancient decree,
But the cross on the thief now suspended we see.
• • •
The subjoined fact is true. Many facts are un-
true One night a teamster on the plains camped out,
and. as usual, let his bullocks loose. In the morning
ho went to look for them, and found all but one. After
a long search, he heard a peculiar grating sound up a
tree close by, and immediately proceeded to it. At the
foot of said tree he saw the skeleton of a bullock. The
bones were cleanly divested of flesh, and, on lookmg
up the tree, he saw a mosquito picking its teeth with
one of the horns of the missing beast.
* • •
Mighty guffaws amongst the Victorian M.L.A s.
when the passage was read in the Governor’s speech
referring to " our deliberations being guided by Divine
Providence.’’ Jack Woods’ bristles stood up, as he
asked Major Smithlwhother it wasn’t late in tho day to
throw over the Other.
• * *
He is a fashionable suburban bachelor divine
who lives in solitary grandeur, awaiting the happy day
when to his arms he shall take a Leonora. The other
day ho stepped into a ’bus. in which there happened to
be several Leonoras-ewe lambs belonging to his flock.
He held in his alabaster hand a small parcel, containing
a copy of the D.T. and something else. He appeared
slightly nervous, and perceiving that several of the
lambs glanced with feminine curiosity at his
parcel, he made an incoherent allusion to “a
packet of tracks.” But when ho reached up to
pay his fare the parcel opened, and the some-
thing” fell on to the dainty cream silk of Miss
Montmorenci Jones, who happened to be the very girj
which report said he was “ going for." And now, even
when he’s saying the Athanasian creed, or countmg up
the collection, he’s wondering whether benzine wil
efface bacon-fat from cream silk, or whether he should,
with a view to having matters put on a business basis,
ask Miss Jones, first to accept a new dress, and then to
accept—himself. The girls now all want to know where
tli© parson buys bis rashers.
# • *
New Zealand lawyers get, in addition to tbeir
fees. 5 per cent, on amounts recovered. Here they get
100 per cent., and get it in advance.
• * *
A correspondent, who evidently respects none
but the most decorous of clergymen, drawslourjittention
to tho fact that, at Mr. Andrew Fairfax’s concert, last
Week, the Eev. Dr. Ellis sang “ The Angel at the Win-
do," and "Como into the Garden, Maud." In this
matter, we unhesitatingly announce our sympathies to
be entirely withjtho wevewend doctah. The first-men-
tioned song, which has for lits subject an angel, has a
distinctly ecclesiastical flavour, and is, therefore, unob,
j actionable; and we contend that, as there is nothing
in the evidence before the court to show that the
■i tujgel at the window ” and Maud, who is invited to
come into the garden," are not identical, the case
most be dismissed with costs against plaintiff. It is,
in onr opinion, quite as seemly for Dr. Ellis, at the
Protestant Hall, to invite his best girl to “ come into
the garden,” as it is for Archbishop Vaughan to run a
Punch and Judy show and auction pigs in the name of
the Lord at St. Mary’s Cathedral.
♦ • •
The Queakbbtan Times announces itself in a
whole column. The Timm is about to do something,
and wishes subscribers to pay up. If they do, the
Times is going to give tip-top value for the money.
Proof. The announcement is in this Addisonian style.
■■Whether the paper shall be issued three times
weekly or daily, together with a son of the proprietor
about having an interest in the business,” etc. Cer-
tainly, O’Neill. Wrap up the boy in the paper, and
post him to this office. In posting, register him, and
get his feot well into the 'letter-hole. The rest will
follow.
• • •
The Catholic ladies of Blayney gave the loea
editor a diamond ring for his assistance at their con-
cert. A crooked world. The bony knuckle that now
drags this weary quill, has a rut above the second
joint. Time was we wore a diamond ring on principle
now we don’t, on interest. Ticket lost.
• « *
“ Senior Constable Murphy sentenced to three
months in Tass gaol for killing a prisoner by striking
him with a loaded whip.”
A fractur’d skull! Why, bah! that’s naught!
One “found-out” victimless!
Such petty slips, a three months’ ought
Most amply to redress;
But, if you dream, indignant youth,
Oreat Justice 'gins to nod;
Go! pen a line of honest truth I
That’s twelve months safe, in “ quod ”
• • •
In the jovial bushranging days, postal arrange,
ments in a certain Southern town were unique. If J° u
registered a money letter, to a certainty the bush
rangers collared it. To lead these free-handed gentle-
men off the scent, the postmaster would earnestly ad
vise you not to register. But, as soon as your back was
turned, he would quietly open your letter, pocket the
coin, and adjourn to liquor-up success to postmasters
and bushrangers.
When the Mayor of Gulgong finds four Council-
lors set upon two, having got them down and tied their
legs in a knot, he has in a policeman to untie them, and
says, “Now boys, to business. Councillor Pumpkin,
I trust your shattered pelvis does not prevent you from
taking your accustomed seat."
* * *
Young Woolshed, like many a better man
before him, went a little wrong, recently. To make a
long story short, he clandestinely married his father’s
slavey—for a solid reason. Then ho had to reflect on
the situation in its relation to the stern parient. Leav-
ing his Dalcinea at a friend's house, he repaired to the
home station, and, approaching the old man, made a
clean breast of the all air. When he had made an end
of speaking, and hopefully looked for the '* God bless
you, my children,” part of the business, the old-wool-
king turned round, and, taking from the shelves
copy of “Eoderiok Random, ’’ opened it and laid a
battered beefy forefinger on the first chapter, severs l
sentences down, adding with stolid gravity, “ I endorse
the practice observed in a similar case. Good night,
my son.” The youth, left standing in the draw-
ing-room, [then read, for the first time, the follow-
ing pithy deliverance:—“Tour brothers and sisters
did not think it beneath them to consult me in an
affair of such importance as matrimony; neither, I sup.
pose, would you have omitted that piece of duty had
you not some secret fund in reserve—to the comfort of
which I leave you, with a desire that you will this night
seek out another habitation for yourself and wife,
whither, in a short time, I will send you an account of
the expense I have been at in your education, with a
view of being reimbursed. Sir, you have made the
grand tour—you are a polite gentleman—a very pretty
gentleman. I wish you a great deal of joy, and am
your very humble servent.” The young Benedict, with
a muttered “Good enough,” left the ancestral halls,
and is now “ graftin’ ” in a remote back-block station
for ton bob a week and tucker, happy, it is to be hoped,
In his humble and limited family circle. Moralßut
there wast’t a bit of moral in the episode.
And, by the way, when the “ginger” son of old Colonel
Blankfrecently made up his mind to marry the charm,
ing daughter of a Mnrrumbidgee squatter, and to cast
off the encumbrances of his bachelor days, he packed
the girl .and her anrioomous-headed son off to England.
But the girl know all about Colonel Blank, pre-
sented herself at his seat in Loamshire, and told her
story. The Colonel looked at his grandson, and wanted
no further certificate as to the truth of the new arrival s
statements. Young Blank's marriage is indefinitely
postponed. He gets no remittances now, and tries
hard to live on his salary as super. The son of Blank,
junior, is well-provided for, nnd his mother draws a
sum equivalent to the faithless one's former allow-
ance.
• • •
Parkes visited Darwin. The great naturalist
exclaimed: “ Here at last is the missing link. My work
is done. Adieu 1” And Henry went to his funeral.
• • *
A lady-hotelkeeper on the banka ef—aay the
Gulf of Carpentaria—had a mare which she used to
occasionally load with fish, caught near her house, and
then sail around like a river-nymph supplying her
friends. A short time ago the mare went mad. I;!
thought that this was caused by its continually brood-
ing upon the depravity of the neighbourhood. You
see, it used to hear all the spicy little stories which its
mistress told and listened to on her round of visit'. The
Berene confldence it had reposed in Deacon Jones’s
integrity was smashed up into five million new com-
binations of molecules when it heard that that trust-
worthy senior had gone off in the night with his goods
and chattels and the proceeds of the last concert in aid
of the church building-fund. And when it discovered
that Elder Brown was not what he ought to be, and
Mrs. Elder Brown ought not to be what she was, the
poor animal lost its reason, and started wandering
around by itself, making the same calls as its mistress
used to do. One day it stopped before the office of the
local paper and-it was mad you willremember-read
through the parson’s speech at the night before’s tea-
fight. And then it dropped down dead. What can a
mare do but die when it loses its faith in human
nature ? The editor and his wi'e, and h's sons and his
daughters, came out and skinned the carcase, and made
merry from the rising of the sun to the going down of
the same. The next issue of the paper contained a
disparaging allusion to the want of boots in the rival
editor’s household.
A painted board outside the Palmer-street
Primitive |Methodist Chapel announces that “births,
deaths, and marriages are solemnized by the minister 1”
Fathers of families and the city coroner ought to be ou
the alert.
# * •
A man in a Northern town came home the other
night and lay down to die. His wife hovered round him
to know what was the matter. “ Blood-poisoning,” he
murmured, “bitten by a centipede.” But ha didn’t
die, and the partner of his joys, going over his gar-
ments in the morning to find the price of linseed-meal
poultice, found something else. There was a rent In his
—well, if you! must have it—trousers, as desperate as a
daily newspaper man’s on the Ist of the month. And
that same day she saw Miss M’Fadzean’s father’s dog
chewing the fag end of the missing link. And now that
man wishes ho had| died, and had the agony over at
once.
• * *
The Mayor’s report on the theatres recommends,
as one means to ensure safety, that “ the words ' Keep
cool’ should be placarded where they can be readily
observed,” and that “ banners bearing the words *No
danger’ should be exhibited to the audience ” directly
a fire breaks out. We feel sure that if these ingenious
devices are resorted to, when the theatre catches Are,
the audience will keep their seats and the fire at once
go out.
• • •
Some day there will be a flare-up in a big
school—a school where the big man in authority devotes
his energies to si amping out everything in the shape o
refinement and mannerliness, talks loudly of courtezans
before his scholars, swears at them for " dirty hidiots,’
and disdains the use of a handkerchief while his nasal
organ can be served by his fingers. If an inebriate
teacher, who had been dismissed and reinstated, hooted
by boys as he lay alongside the kerb, tin-kettled (or
rather kerosene-tinned) while physically unable to re-
sent the honour, and whose method of teaching is to
say to a boy: “ Learn that book from cover to cover,”
—if such a man ruled a school, one would almost think
there was either a mistake in putting him there, or a
“ring” keeping him there —in either case, exposur
needed. Well, dear reader, when we get very, very
rich; rich enough to “determine to fight these eases
in future; ” rich enough to fix up a jury, and put our
legs beneath the judicial mahogany; rich enough to
either buy justice or wrest it; we will tell you which
school it is.
* * *
The policy of the Victorian Ministry during the
late recess appeared to be one of carousing half the time
and slumbering off the effects the remainder. So sajs
a Victorian paper. Here things are different. The
policy of our Ministry is to make laws while asleep, and
carouse afterwards.
• • »
Here’s a memo, for Dr. Fortescue, president o
the local branch of the British Medical Society: —A
Glen lanes Chinaman lost money gambling, and took
poison. His countrymen tried to cure him, firstly by
putting the head of a freshly-killed cock into his mouth,
and when that failed they cut off his pigtail and used
it as a stomach-pump. We have already endeavoured
to impress on the faculty the excellence of the Chinese
remedy for ophthalmia —tom-cat’s eyes and sugar.
P.S.—The Glen Innes Chinaman died.
# # *
The election of the next Bishop of Sydney is to to
carried out by lottery. This is quite in keeping with
the spirit that promoted the Fancy Fairs. The propo-
sitlon is that the names be sent in to the Diocesan
Synod, the members thereof to shake in the hat. Winner
shouts.
* * *
Old Eation-Sugar Woolbale, of Victoria, bought
a station, and went to sea it. Got off the coach a„
Gongolgon, and asked the publican if he could have
some breakfast. ** To the kitchen” said the landlord,
taking him for a swegman. He wentlthere, “scoffed” his
corned beef like a man, and then ordered a buggy to
drive him over. The Gongolgonian stared and apologised
to the millionaire for his mistake. “ No need, my boy,”
replied Woolbale-* 1 I've had a capital meal for
nothing.”
* * •
A nurse of Hibernian extraction, in a Queens-
land hospital, was told by the resident surgeon to apply
ice to a fever-patient’s head. Medico, in passing
through the ward shortly after, discovered the nurse
carefully holding a large piece of ice on flannel in front
of the fire, and hastily enquired why she was doing so.
Replied she, with much earnestness and feeling ; “Ah 1
now doctor shure, I’m just warming it a bit —how could
I put it on his hot hsad so cowld ?”
# * *
Prince Leopold, now styled Colonel the Duke of
Albany, has been gazetted to the honorary command of
the 3rd Seaforth Highlanders 1 The Prince for a long
while wasn’t well enough to get married— in fact, ho had
to be brought up to the matrimonial fence several times
before he’d take the jump. He knows nothing about
soldiering, so it’s quite clear that any scrofulous—for
that’s his complaint—cripple is good enough for the
colonelcy of one of the first regiments in the service.
# # *
“ Cabby ” occasionally takes change out of his
customers in a very extraordinary way. “Is your horse
sale?” exclaimed a prison official to a Jehu as he be-
held the tram approaching. “Well, I can’t say,” re-
plied Cabby; “I’m thry ing him.” The horse j ust then
bagan to plunge, and looked as if he’d take to the ladder
at the works alongside. The official “ sprang a trifle.”
He recognised the driver as a refractory prisoner who
had been refused time allowances. The great G.E.D ,
when M.P., had a no less amusing experience with a
knight of the whip. The cabby was evidently erratic,
and he wound up several very narrow escapes by driving
his fare right under a falling beam, G.R.D. felt that
his time had pretty near come. The fore part of the
cab was smashed. He jumped out. There was cabby
somnolently drunk on his seat. "You know you nearly
killed me, you scoundrel! What do yon mean ? ” Cab-
by looked up and just muttered out, “Yes, I know.
Well, why did you vote, along with John Davies last
night ? ”
* * •
At the last animal banquet given by the Mayor
of Ipswich, a well-kn wn resident, ex-J.P., noted for
hia eccentric adaptation of the Queen’s English, res-
ponded to the toast of “ 1 ce Ladies.” He commenced:
•< Mr. Mayor and gintlemen, bedad, I don’t see why I
should occupy this illusthrated position.”
• • ♦
Tbey charge yon one penny per minute for a
feed at the railway refreshment rosma on the Queens-
land lines; liquors extra. The caterers buy no poultry
unless guaranteed by sellers to be over seven years old.
In addition to the saw and corkscrew embodied in the
travellers’ pocket knife, there is now a small file—»
very handy instrument for railway excursionists to
sharpen their teeth with.
* * *
Old Mrs. Wattles, from Windsor, thought
she’d like a ride in “ them ’ere trams,” the other day«
as she’d “’erd tkey was awful cheap and comuftible
things to ride in.” So she bought 2s. 2d. worth of
tickets, and scrambled into a “Woollahra.” She
planked her first ticket at the station straight, and
then sat in state for about three minutes, when the
guard came along and remarked, "anymore tickets
here, please ?” Mrs. Wattles immediately trotted out
another. This went on for about the 10th time, and
then, after banging her gingham over the head of that
“ondayshus scoundrel,” the guard, Mrs. Wattles gotont
and declared it was more expensive to ride in them
/■ams than in a Lord Mayor’s “ carridgo and four.”
THE DECALOGUE.
[NINETRENTH CENTURT READING.]
revere no other god
Except the god of ham;
By no oaths shall his name be shod
Save anse>thetio “damnl"
Before no image shalt thou smirk.
Except in gold ’tis set;
On Sabbath days quit manly work j
Go in for “ heavy wet 1 "
Honour your “ guv."—his name will be
Of use in flying kites ;
Kill as you please—insanity
Will see yon get your rights!
Thou shalt not dally 'mongst thc.fair.
Save at pic-nic excursions ;
The law declares you may have there
Such naughty nice diversions.
Thou shalt not steal—not if observed ;
All covert chanees seize.';
Bear not false witness—that’s reserved
For ‘‘bobbies ” and M.P.’s 1
Thou shalt not covet —but do mors—
« Diddle ” your honest neighbour;
And while you pile the golden store,
Letihim drudge at the labour 1
i . •
Thou shalt not tell the truth—this law
Is non eit in the Bible;
It issued from the honest “ maw ”
Of our great High Priest — Libel !
Thou shalt not tell the truth—for if
With this your pen bo shod,
Ton either must plank down the “ stiff,”
Or do twelve months in “ quod!"
A SPIRIT-CHILD.
FROM A PHOTOGRAPH BY MR. CYRIL HAVILAND.
(See Page 10.)
AN AFFECTIONATE GHOST.
FROM A PHOTO AFIER LIFE—AND DEATH.
(See Page 10.)


BRIEF MENTION.
A STRAIGHT LIBEL.
Mental erysipelas—Spiritualism.
The lawyers are fee-traders to the back bon6 !
The Metropolitan dye-works.—The Sydney
Infirmary.
Kiama for well-fed dairy cattle. Sydney for
" well "-fed milk.
The solemn Angus has taken out a patent for
the verb “ to J unction.”
“ The wager’s off,” roared the man, when he
couldn’t find the Welsher.
The late Premier of N.Z. resigned because he
was sick—of his colleagues.
Victoria may be compared to a briar bush. Her
Protection supplies her thorns.
Tingha Chinamen play billiards all their spare
time, and are rapidly besoming adepts.
The greatest agent on the face of this planet
is here now. A. Forbes is hia lecturer.
Rev. J. A. Dowie will be glad to hear that old
Harry (Parkes) went to Darwin’s funeral.
The Kiama paper has lent the Qneanbeyan Age
a poet for a weet. “ Ten bob and find himself."
The old adage, *• Out of sight, out of mind,”
has given place in Sydney to " out of sight, C.M.G.”
TO A BAD PAY,
He gives a party, whioh he ought to do,
Bat doing that, he does his tradesmen too.
And the only man who really knew the work
was never called in at all. Brethren, let u» ’nmbl< > our-
self*.
Job’s “Patience” has had a run of over two
thousand years. Will ye modern Bunthorne last as
long ?
Tho blacks had a grand corrobboree at Naran-
dera, and 200 Christians turned ont to see the fight that
followed.
Harry Wells now runs the Western Indepen-
dent. This is good, because truth lies at the bottom
ot wells.
Applause, in the shape of a “ hear, hear,” is
couf empt of court, before Jndge Fawcett—especially if
the applander is drnnk.
The Victorian Opposition are against reduction
of postage. “To ac./ rendered ” is already too regu-
larly to hand on the Ist.
Bishop Moorhonse proposes a scheme of irriga-
tion for Victoria. Quite right, your lordship—water
for the “ Cabbage Garden."
The name of Mr. Huggins, whoso marriage
announcement appears in tna papers, is a sufficient
guarantee of connnhial felicity.
Archibald Forbes opens at Sydney, instead of
at Melbourne. In other words, he will visit the cabbage-
garden after doing the metropolis.
Tom Moran, of Grafton, spit into the show
tiger’s eye. The tiger seized Tom’s nose, and tamed it
from a noble Roman to a squashed radish.
The Archbishop and Bishops who can write,
and Biddy Moloney, who can’t, are the only ones privi-
leged to stick a cross in with|their signature.
Was Plomer, of Yerong notoriety, petitioned
against a month before his last offence? And if so,
what reply vouchsafed tho District Inspector P
The Rockhamptonites, to show how thoroughly
they appreciate true heroism, have subscribed towards
the late Mrs. Watson’s memorial the magnificent sum
of— £l l
The Gunnedah ’Tiser can’t finish a story
because the writer ia drunk. Gnnnedah readers
Couldn’t get through the published part because they
were eober.
The Vag. said he would look upon the ring they
gave him as symbolistic of tho esteem of the donors —
* without end." He forgot that a ring is also “ without
beginning."
At Brisbane look-np. Constable to a “ drnnk”
(the Honorable Mr. •) " yonr brother wants to see
you." Drunk: *• Oh, dem my brother 1 where’s my
dog Ugly?”
The M'Elhona distinguishes between conscience
and cheek. Well may the possessor of one at the ex-
pense of the other’s complete absence make the evident
distinction.
A Northern parson whose tot. bill foots up £7 l3a
for the month of April, has tried to convene a public
meeting because a butcher overcharged him for a
sheep’s head.
Once more the poor kangaroo has got his gruel.
Lots of the clever people dropped money again, but
nobody seems on this occasion to have bonght blue
ribbon in advance.
Mr. Shortweight, who had been fined for selling
41b. loaves 3oz short, rushed in amongst hia bakers and
roared—“ Fined boys, fined, set the potato-masher to
work, or I am mined.”
At an Inver ell banquet, an Irish gentleman who
had asked the waiter for a "drink of water,” exclaimed,
on a glass being handed to him: “ That won’t do. Give
me a qnarrt; I’ve got to shpake.”
A rich Ipswich (Q.) merchant was asked tho
other day how it was ho wore old studs in his shirt
front, and the man of wealth replied, “ Well, they’re
the only ones I had in my vocabulary."
Queensland constable with his back to possible
prisoner, left hand held suggestively behind him, thus
addresses his right band, which he holds in front:
H This is the hand that never, never, took tip."
Mom tin-kettlers have been fined up-country.
Whence this tyranny ? Tin-kettling is one ot the mine
points of the Australian charter, and the inalienable
birthright of every cornstalk and gnm-sneker.
Tho Allora Guardian, in its last issue,
publishes as a "leader" an obituary notice regarding
itself, concluding with an " In memoriam " in the shape
of a coffin. The jury found: " Died of inanition."
In a Western town a zealous bobby rushed a
benifaee at midnight, on the charge of allowing the
“ planner” to be played on his premises. However, the
music was found to proceed from the roof. Cate.
A Northern bailiff, having seised some goods
for a petty debt, advertised them in the local paper.
The first item attracted general attention—’twas "a
sexton." It turned out afterwards to be a sextant.
Dr. Hearn has made such progress with the
codification of the law—this is in Victoria, remember —
that the Government printer is not able to keep pace
with Am. Dr. Hearn is the faster mnle of the two.
Dr. Simms, the physiognomist, missed two
countenances. Sir John’s at the Masonic as he listened
to Berry’s Protection, and conld’nt reply; and Berry’s,
as he listened to Sir Jehn at the Bine Mountain oration.
There are two districts in the neighbourhood o
Tenterfleld with fifty and one hundred children respec-
tively, and no school. Up North, too, there are two
school-board secretaries who can neither read nor write,
A Royal Commission is to sit on the theatres.
We can now go to them with all the confidence of
Shadrach, Meskch, and Abednege. N.B.—This does
not mean that we are on familiar terms with the pawn-
brokers.
A God-fearing Western resident recently got
two confiding friends several thousands, which
he failed to return. Result—two funerals (apoplexy and
brains blown out). The God-fearing man still prays
and prospers.
“ There is nothing like leather,” said a Noosb
man as he stuffed another piece of card-board into the
bottom of his boot. It is a mournful thought that those
who have so much leather in their heads should wear so
little on their heels.
One of the cutest squatters we know hangs ont
on the Lachlan. A contractor, interviewing him at the
homestead with regard to some fencing on the station,
naturally expressed a wish to visit the locality before
coming to terms. Our squatter, at the word, whipa
him into his baggy, and rattles him off to the fencing
ground, some six or seven miles distant. A bvrgain
was effected; but, on settling day, the contractor
opened his eyes when he saw in the contract account,
this item: “To driving you to fencing ground in buggy,
10s. 6d." That squatter is a rich man ; he doesn’t hang
on to the hanks.
When William Forster splashed out the word
*■ antoohthony" in the Half-Crown Wilkins for
April, tho Herald editor telephoned down below:
“Get ready the Greek type, and send out for Ahn’s
First Greek Course."
“ Here ! hold this sheep or I’ll burst!” He then
want outside the shed and blest everything, an inch
high or a minute old; then he came in smiling. "No
fear. Cocky, you don’t fine (this child half-a-crown for
swearin’ in the shad.”
Dr. Gillbee, of Melbourne, complains that a
young woman, a patient in the hospital, consumed in
four weeks seven bottles of ram, ono of brandy, and
■ixty-one sodas. Wardsmen and medical students lin-
gered around that conch.
Up North, the other day, a police court practi-
tioner alluded to the language of the other side as
“abominable, filthy, and stinkin’.” Whereupon the
genial FM. suggested that a “ dead" language had
been employed. Case dismissed.
A Sydney telegram to an Adelaide paper “ A
report from Lake Maoqnarie Heads states that a fisher-
man there was seized by a shark on Saturday last from
alongside bis boat, and has not since been heard of."
He’ll be heard of when Jonah is coroner.
“And now,” thundered the counsel for the
defence (at Dnbbo), “ why do you hesitate in answering
this vital question ? The reason, sir, at once." Wit-
ness: “ The fact is, sir, I thought I was a going to
sneezs then, sir." " Silence in the Court."
Plomer, the condemned Yerong Creek peda-
gogue, besides his other little amusements, found time
to write a two column letter once a week for a local
paper. While teaching at Argoon and Enlki ha was a
weekly contributor to a Deniliquin journal.
There is a young person named Haynes
With a very big “ bingey " and brains.
For seven weeks and a half.
He no whiskey could quaff;
Every bottle in town he now drains.
The organ of the Victorian Licensed Victuallers
agrees with Bishop Moorhonse in hollering prayer for
rain is efficacious. Whom need hia Lordship fear now ?
There is water enough in the whisky Victorian hotel-
keepers rend to stave oil a drought for the next five
years.
A Wallaroo baker advertises thus: —“Is it
owing to the slight rise in flour, or is it to the compel-
meit (*»c) of now being forced to give good weight, a
charge which I have never been guilty of, nor am I in the
habit of doing." Verily, open confession is good for
th soul.
Onr friend Henry Kendall, poet and Inspector
of Forests, has gene through the Western back-blocks,
and ascertained that the denudation of timber is the
"Attila scourge of revivifying rain, and the roaring
roystering of rUly rivers.” A report to that effect will
be sent in.
The P*nnt Jim-Jams, speaking of precautions
rgainst fires in theatres, says:—“ A fireman in uniform,
with the nozzle of a pipe in his hand, would have a very
re-assuring effect." This sentiment, to be thoroughly
appreciated, wants to be viewed through three cubic
inches of bad whisky.
Tha house of Wilson will not, after all, be
covered with deathless fame by the daring of its scion.
“I am afraid," quoth a writer in an English paper,
‘•that the Eton boy (young Wilson, of Hnghenden—
and Greasywool Downs) who cudgelled the prostrate
Maclean with an umbrella is not thought a hero by his
comrades. It seems that his valour was quite con-
«with P er «onal safety, and that Maclean was
X“ d li cu ® ed ,, and i Powerless when the loyal youth poked
the umbrella at the would-be assassin."
He was a J.P., and was disputing some point
of law with a solicitor. He thought he was crushing
Si* opponent when he concluded thus: «I assure you,
you 11 And the whole gist of what I’ve been
«“* r »' 11 ” ot
When Peebles, the Spiritualist, lectured at the
?° use * one Sunday night. Chas.
the chair, and gave out a hymn, “by
f’ o ?*’ Taere were two constables on duty in the pit.
To put down tin-kettling, the Mud gee paper
suggests that " policemen be on hand in the vicinity of
amy place where a wedding is suspected." Mudgeo
police are growing fat since that. Miss Wonld-be says,
there s soma bottled beer and cold lamb in the
pantry. Take it to the back gate.**
clerk of a, certain Sydney Government
office has to sign all (correspondence. So perfunc-
torily does he do this, that the clerks once drew np his
death warrant, m which it was set forth that he was to
be kissed by his mother-in-law, and subjected to other
fearful indignities, and he signed it I
A Melbourne contemporary informs a breath-
i?“ P ut ? h ,°. “a board is to be appointed to consider
the best kind of timber for the eomtruotion of railway
vehicles. Same kiad of timber as the "board,” of
course But on second thoughts, this would hardly
do. Ine board is better suited tor sleepers.
A case of midnight assault. Witness under
examination. Teutonic J.F., hitherto silent. "Now
vitness. look inside ont ntf my face. 1 vaut to tsk vml
some question, nnt take yourself in care how you gi/me
dot answer. Look owert 1 Vat vas de /raf time you
seen dot defendants ? " About three o'clock, your
worchip.” “Ach! Und vy don’t you seen 'im
pefore? ’’ “I don’t know, yonr worchip.” “ Ach j
dot's vat I know myself; dia case is all a hompogs, I
dismiss it." Call owert de next cases.
Thus the Melbourne Herald of the 18th
instant, eight days before the event.—" Warner.— On
the 26th inst., at her residence, Catherine-street, Rich-
mond, Mrs. T. Wurner of a daughter.” This beats
" Nemo’s ” tips into a cocked hat, and opens up a wide
and interesting field of prophesy for Press writers.
Rhyme not easily forgotten. In a lawyer’s bill
to a plaintiff, the first item is—
Instructions'.to sue,
Nine-and-two.
In a similar dose to a defendant, the first ingredient is—
Letter to you,
Five-amsUtwo.
In a city we know, it is no unusual thing for
agents for artistes, when a plan ot seats is all taken, to
substitute a now one, with a few'seats marked off as if
taken. The vacant ones are sold, having been pre-
viously paid for, and the late-comors are loft to fight it
out with the occupants, whose credentials are equally
good.
The Technical College, at the School of Aits, is
a wonderful success. The lectures create sueh athirst
for knowledge. On Thursday evening last, the Bov. Mr.
Hodgson lectured on “ Political Economy" to a German
who went to learn how to speak the English language,
and a bald-headed deaf man, who went there to meet a
friend.
Our semi-public institutions have got the
Government taint. There were 53 applicants, including
the acting-secretary, for the secretaryship of the School
of Arts. Some of these were well-known and clever men.
A miserable farce of interviewing and chaffing the ap-
plicants was gone through, the affair being indubitably
cat and dried for a stranger. The conundrum now is,
“Who’s Henderson?" The only reply we have heard
ie, "He sold pianos and spectacles at John Davies’
Garden Palace ”
Saturday’s ’Erald moralised on the English
Fayre question. Forcibly feeble, as usual. One prln-
ciple, however, was plainly laid down, viz., that any
small-beer church authorities who should try to raise
the wind by a similar device will find their amiable
efforts pretty heavily sat upon. ‘ • What in the Captain’s
mouth is bnt a choleric word," &o.
In the Cacuns Meeting at Melbonrne, Major
Smith is said to have threatened to so mutilate the
countenance of John James that his mother would not
recognise him. We hare seen John wield a blacksmith’s
hammer in onr time, and would much rather come
within swing of the Major’s sabre of his sires, than
have one touch of John’s old wiry left.
Scene : Shearing-floor at Calinngal. Overseeah
calling tallies—Smith, 105; Brown, 101; The Grindah,
97. By the way, my man, is youah name Grindah ? ”
“ No, bnt they call mo the grinder, because I won’t
plunge for plums, currants, and jams to make pudd-
ififfSi piss, and tarts." Overseeah : “ What! puddings,
pies and tarts for shearahs! what a presposterous
deah I"
The Hon. Suitor, whose contributions to
meteorology have not yet got him the Royal Society’s
medal, has written the Forbes paper and proved that a
nice day is a fine day, when the day is tine.
An M.P. speaks of privilege,
We let it pass ;
We cannot list to snivellage,
" Spoke” by an ass.
Horatio James Higgins, formerly Chief Justice
of Sierra Leone, and lately a manufacturer of bottle-
washing machines, has jast filed his schedule in
London. Surely »omethin< better than bottle-washing
could have bfen found for tho old boy—a licensing Act
or something to administer ? But they have a way the
other side of the world of allowing men to find their
own level.
The Civil Service Musical Society is —in recess ;
the University Musical Union is—in abeyance, and tho
Sydney Musical Union not flourishing. So, in the
quietude, musical amateurs have time to recollect, and
they now burst into enquiry as to who annexed the
music belonging to the Orpheonist Society when it
collapsed. That music is doubtless being performed
somewhere on a " Collard" piano.
An odd sin is committed in the E.N. by head-
ing the report of the proceedings of the Synod—" Tho
See of Sydney." Hard to see ? Guinea a line for that
sort of thing here. The same organ notifies that Mr.
Crane suffers from a severe cold, and two inches lower
down says that he " made it np " at the Court between
a quarrelling man and wife. Made np what? The
quarrel or a big bowl of rum and butter P
If Mr. Gladstone were to become insolvent; il
to obtain his certificate; were to turn round in religion
and politics with every wind that blows; were to a ant.
the leading scientific men who visited England; war j
to choose for his Ministers only those who wouldaid hlj
bigotry, or laugh at his indecent stories, we mightth
expect to hear him say : “ It is absurd to suppose th
Solomon and Demosthenes could teach me."
Up North there lives a big fat woman— 2oo lbs,
nett—who fears the Lord, andean carry 3 cwt. She has
bongat on conditional purchase a poor "Randwiok
boy" (13 and small) and has got him body and soul. She
often reads him two chapters out of the bible to do him
good (his principal food). It is believed that ho must
be converted now, because he can be heard praying for
’ mercy 1" as she lays on the " grace” with her fist.
The School of Arts, Adelaide, is hard pushed
just now for living models from which to draw tho
voluptuous symmetry of a Cleopatra, or the god-liko
beauty of an Apelle. But there’s a Government in
Adelaide which has a soul above steam trams, and
asphalts walks, and; so it came to the art student’s aid,
and gave them carte blanche to paint and carve from the
symmetrical forms of the inmates ef the Destitute
Asylum.
Scarcity of timber in Western Queensland com-
pms economy to be observed in building government
offices; consequently they are narrow, low-roofed
edifices, and most inconvenient in every way. At
Dotfsisi, last week, the P.M., who is only 6ft. 9in. in
height, yawned so heartily that his head went clean
through the galvanised-iron roof. (It had previously
been loosened by the tall swearing of witnesses in a
horse-stealing case.
A saw-mill hand, to money-grub*
bing, used to work on the other men’s
boots. One Sunday he hnng a uticket over the fire and
went off for a stroll while it boiled. The man in the
next hut noticed Cobbler Bill’s place on fire. He burst
open the door, seized the only backet there—that over
thei tire, and dashed the contents over the flaming bed-
clothes; water, and—tiro of his own fowls, which the fee*
tive William had annexed.
A clergyman in England suggests that the anni-
versary of the imprisonment of the Rev. Mr. Green, the
Ritualist, for contempt was “a glorious opportunity for
a simultaneous and universal pulpit protest throughout
the land, and also in the colonies." No time for that
sort of childish enthusiasm here. Onr pastors have
struck too good a patch in the Olde Englyshe Fayre
folly to waste time in bothering about such unprofitable
things as toleration and Christian charity. Where’s
your ticket ?
Natural history. The spiders in Central
Queensland spin a yarn so strong ihat the top-sail bow-
a 6 il 1 ““-o'-war *8 only a circumstance to it. Little
bquebbs, the doctor, was cantering a tall horse through
the boree scrub last week, when a spider’s web caught
him just under the chin, and lifted h;m clean out of the
saddle. Some people swear this could not be, and that
it was a slack telegraph wire, or a selector’s clothes
line, which unhorsed the medico, but he sticks to the
web story.
There were two yonng squatters and a Barcoo
ofiuker on the box seat, and tw# lady passengers inside
the coach. When a steep creek was reached, the males
got down to wade. But the banker thought he oonld
jump the creek. After some trouble the others fished
hun ont and resuscitated him. Then they spread his
clothes out on the top of the coach to dry, and tho
little banker, wrapped in one of the ladies’ ulsters,
performed tho rest of the iourney inside tho Tohiole.
They call the banker “Little Ulster" now.
Wo referred, some time ago, to the extraordin-
ary route of tho proposed Murrumbnrrah and Blayney
railway, in that part of the lino adjacent to tho seat of
the Watsons. We have since heard that the survey
has been completed, much to the amusement of the
surveyors engaged therein, to the satisfaction of not-to-
be-mentioned persons, and to the disgust of the public,
who will have to pay out of both pockets for the little
game, something like £200,000 more than tho first lino
of route would have cost. M’Elhonel where art thou ?
We have received a copy, in pamphlet form, of
a lecture on Free Trade, delivered in the Singleton
Mechanics’ Institute by the Rev. J. J. White, M.A.,
L.L.D , on the 13th April. We have just opened the
pamphlet, and as we lit at once upon this sentence,
"Free Trade is in accordance with the will of the
Creator," we perceived that it would be superfluous to
read fnrther. That sentence settles the whole matter.
All that remains is to burn Graham Berry for heresy,
and establish a Free-trade Inquisition in Victoria to
make short work with the Protectionists there.
St. Mary’s Fayre, St, Mary’s Fayre,
The monumental building, where,
A raffle’s guy vered on the square.
And ladies mask in bogus hair.
While flirting with’the debonnair
Who sports his borrowed shilling there.
Ist. Mary’s Fayre—where fashion’s sprigs.
Come out in latest fashion’s rigs.
To flirt with dames in flaxen wigs,
And dance mad folly’s maddest jigs—
The “ dreggest ” dreg of pleasure swigs
Since it has raffled fowls and pigs.
He lives in a fifteen-bob Kent-stroet boarding
house, and when dressed for his Saturday night prome-
nade, with pomaded head, bogus rings, and a nobby
cane, the weekly drudge thinks him an archangel. And
he condescends to belong to the Lands. Last Fool’s
Day he started for that scene of inaction —his desk,
perfumed and brushed, and coaid not guess why the
crowd laughed and grew larger every step he took.
When he reached his earthly purgatory—the office,
candid friend showed him the fun. He had been
ticketed: •• The proprietor of this healthy|ass wants to
sell it.”
THE WRONG DOOR!
JOLLY DOG (who won’t go home till morning): “Shay, Wales, ole f’la, thish ain’t the right keyhole-
Shomebody’s changed the door.”
Intimate Friend: “ Why, Henry, that’s my door. Hadn’t you better go home. Your people will
be expecting yon.”
Jolly Dog : “Shan’t. —Let’s ’joy ourselves. ’Aug my people. Let ’em wait.”


“ He has now engaged a tall, competent lady
assistant, whom he has trained, &o.” Why tall I Dear
professor, you of the marble "face and corymb curls,
pray explain. What do you mean, a tall f
The story goes that a R.C. priest up North lias
bean and g< ne aid got married to a rather elderly lady
with plenty of money. Also that somebody in Sydney
has *• cleared,” and has by the transaction enriched
himself to iha extent of a hundred or two, which the
confiding public won’t recover in a hurry.
At the Church Parade of Volunteers at the
late Encampment Colonel Roberts noticing a man
“ standing out. ” inquired thecau'e. “Oh, I’xnaPree-
thinker.” said he. ** What’s that ?” asked the Colonel.
“I don't believe ” he replied; bnt was interrupted
here with, “ Pali in Church of England, then.”
The epigrammatic utterances of the aesthetic
Oscar were altogether too utter for the matter-ot-fact
Tanks. “Satire." boldly remarked this most satirised
of men, “is the homage paid by ignorance to genius.”
. . . And again—” X think the first duty of a critic
on art is to hold his tongue at all times and upon all
subjects."
Parkea is said to have stated that “ while the
colonies are lojalto the backbone, their success de-
manded equal rights with Englivhman.” Somebody
here, judging from the number of banquets Parkes has
attended, says that the Premier’s patriotism is not
likely to fail from lack of loyalty to a place just inside
the backbone.
What strikes the Sydney visitor to Melbourne
with the force of a cat’apultpellet is the neat red and
white telegram form that mates ours by comparison
look like an undertaker’s notice. How long, may we
nek, is Cracknell’s present bougie, which, to begin
with, is perplexingly addressed to a station instead of
a person, to bo tolerated ?
The authorities at the Cathedral Fayre have
been cutting down the expenses, with a view, doubtless,
to meeting the cost of the early English negroes lately
engaged. The first to feel the reduction were, of
course, the unfortunate janitors and attendants. En-
gaged at 12 per week, they now find themselves cut
down to thirty shillings. This looks mean, certainly.
Moses a godly law did have
1h the good old ancient time,
That a scapegoat should from the Israelites
Bear off their load of crime.
Now, in this nineteenth ceutuary
We have not far to seek
To find a goat,»ealled “ Betsy B,”
Who bore off—Milburn Creek.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph gives great
attention to aquatic?, bnt for all that seen s rather lo
neglect water. On Wednesday that distinguished
journal informed us that “ the Canadian took the lead
from the beginning. . . frequently turning round to
see how far Trickett was behind.” This raises the
question how Hanlan sits in a boat. At last the mighty
Kanuck’s “ secr*t’ is out. 1 here’s nothing like talent
imported from Melbourne.
A gay little social and literary club has been
established at Newtown, the members of which are
self-designated the “ Frisky frogs,” and who meet at
the club room every evening for a social “ croak.” No
member is allowed to oriuk less than a pint of 'i'oohey’s
tanglefoot at on* go, and after about seven rounds,
singing of various degrees of merit is indulged in.
Wheelbarrows are entered for 11 p.m., and the local
dertaker has bought anew hearse, to meet the
ic demand caused by the Frisky Progs oroakiug
c coften.
It ’utters go into court, there’ll be a neat
little s shortly, not much less interesting than
the Milt n Breek exposi. It is a compensation affair.
The origin owners of some land consider th*mseives
got the better of to the tune of some thousands, which
will now go into the pockets of an active politician who
btught from them just before an official resumption.
One dramatic act of the scandal has already been per-
formed. The politician was knocked down in a well-
known sporting saloon, a few nights ago, by the “ other
auticipating party,”
The only notable instance, so far, in which an
attempt to influence the st.pendarles has been made, is
the one in which a well-known publican and temper-
ance man tried hard to get a renewal of license for a
badly-condncted house. There was one other attempt
to mix rum and water. A temperance man figures as
the proprietor of a well-known water-side hotel, which
is sub-let on the stipulation that he, the aforesaid tem-
perance man, shall have the right to two picnics annu-
ally. Recent fines, however, stand in the way of grant-
ing a renewal of license. This is a little matter for the
temperance people to look into.
Thadeus O’Kane’a recipe for floating! a Charters
Towers Mining Company in Sydney or Melbourne:
First catch your ol'im. Pick out the eyes carefully,
and clean out the inside. Put a fancy price on what is
below, and blow about the past grand retains If the
Melbourne or Sydney men send up a Joshua to spy out
the nakedness of the land, collar him, get him into the
right set, keep him well “ boosed up," and for this pur-
pose, a pressman is essential. Introduce him to the first
society here, and let him never bo seen without a lyre
at his side. He may then tnne up, and “ he played on
a harp on a thousand strings.”
In reply to a correspondent who wants to
know whether an action for libel would lie in the case
of an unknown blackfellow belonging to a named tribe
who had been accused of spearing a bullock, we can
only state that we’d be very sorry to have to defend
such an action in N.S.W. The issue—that is to say
the amount of damages and costs given e gainst the
newspaper—would all depend on whether the journal
was, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, licentious
and given to unwholesome fun. We cannot undertake to
say whether or not bullock-spearing is wholesome fun.
We generally do our bullock-spearing with a gun.
) The “apostates” is a designation applied by the
coppertail section of Western society, at Blackall, lo
those renegade members of the under-crust who have
deserted their democratic principles, and accepted in-
vitations to the silvert-ils’ annual ball. Dancing vis-a-
vis, with hands on each others’ shoulders, twisting
around like Uc-to-tuu a in square dances, and wi aring
paget coats and black trous-ers, with Ihe thermom. at
110 degrees, is the distinguishing style of the copper-
tails. The “apostates” atd the silvertails are more
dignified, and byway of contrast, waltz round in linen
dusters, and sometimes in their shirt sleeves.
A blackfellow who was sentenced to death
“ cottoned on” to the gaol chaplain as long as there was
any hope of a reprieve, but when this was gone, he
busted up his newly-got religion, and told the parson
that he was “too and and frightened to pray.” This
Btory is told bv an old clerical gentleman of whom it is
related that wh*n he was gaol chaplain at Port Arthur
in the salad days of convicts®, heone morning raid, on
looking up at the gallows where a batch of prisoners
were about to be executed, that “eleven could be banged
simultaneously from the platform, but be doubted
whether more than ten could die comfortably at
once."
Should Dr. Cani go to Rockhampton, there’ll
be only one dhtinguished Koman Catholic to receive
him on his hmd.ng. Now, who is he. pray ? Charles
O'Malley, not by Lever, hnthy Owld O’Malley. Charley
is a man of business and of tact. On that occasion he’s
certain to “spake” a speech, which will run some-
thing like this: “Good mornin to your lordship. I’ve
Affinded yon through thick an’ thin with me pin. An’,
ii spoite of all the an mosity (displayed agin your lord-
quip’s pa. sou, i’ve kept your Card of Desate in me
window. Juft now I’ve a foine stock of crams laid an-
velopt.B. 1 hope for ithe honour of your lordship’s
custom.”
The Anglican Fynod learn with sorrow that it
has pleated Almighty G >d in his mysterious Provioenee
to take to Himself Bishop Balker. Why should they
r-tieve that God should please Himself, and where is
the “m.i steriousnebs” that deals with an old man as a
jriiened sheet, ana iu accordance with the *veriasting
laws cf growth and decay. No “ aysieriousnes*" is
discovered when men who have revolutionised modern
knowledge— Carijle, Darwin, Emerson, Longfellow,
close their wearied oioson a real strife, and pass on in
reverence to the shades which ecclesiastics ia vain pre
tend to K ave boy* explored. Give us the lust hours of the
unchok-red bi-heps.
The Ballarat Stab tells a story abont a man
in a railway ear who thought he could talk love to a
young lady as they sped through ». tunnel; and light
showed she had slipped aside while his loving sentiments
had gone into the ear of a deaf reporter. That’s the
way Nicholls of the {stab tries to get out of that little
sffair in the Elphinatoue tunnel. Said he to himself:
“Since the Ballarat boys are bound to get hold of it,
and I’m now a respectable old man, I’d better tell the
story myself.” So he slapped his thigh with delight,
and dished np the anecdote as an escapade of Wil-
liams’s of the Courier— travelling in tho same train.
Give us the last generation for strategy.
A meeting of Northern newspaper proprietors
has been convened to initiate measures for presenting
a testimonial to “ Big Ben, the Alligator King.” This
movement, wo believe*, has been undertaken that
journalists may have an opportunity of expressing
their sense of the general esteem in which “Big Ben’
is held by rhe Press in supplying it with frequent para-
graphs during' the Parliamentary recess. It has not
yet been determined what form the testimonial ehall
take, the provisional committee being undecided
whether a fat Chinaman, a file of diseased Cockletown
Curriers, or an elegant electro-dynamite pickle-stand
would prove the most acceptable offering.
Old Jumbuck combined squatting with wine-
making from his own grapes, Gaily-coloured labels of
all the wines known to the trade were shuffled in a hat
and taken out hap-hazard. The shearers paid 4s. a
bottle all round, tha labels being, apparently, given in
for nothing, as each brand tasted jnst the same as all
the others, except when adulterated out of the sheep-
wash boiler. Jumbuck sacked a teetotal hand one day,
and gave him his cheque. As the shearer was sheering
otf, the old man called him back, saying: “Oh, Isi
you did have a bottle of Hermitage; I forgot to charge
for it. Aud, besides, I’ve not deducted the receipt
stamp.” The hand flung down two half-crowns,
saying: “ Keep the change for the stamp." Jumbuck
look it.
“ A Victorian publican stated ho was afraid to
attend to give evidence in Court, through dread of the
larrikins in his neighbourhood ” —
“ Love rules the court, the camp, the grove; ”
So sang the poet long ago;
But that was when true Order throve,
Aud|Law said sternly, “ Yes, or No 1 ”
But, in these glorious modern days,
We’ve changed all that, you know;
The Hoodlum now reigns in our ways,
Aud bids us “Come, ’ or “ Go 1”
The Hoodlum—spawn of Satan’s own —
Triumphs—and none dare cast a stone !
We learn by wire that no hill has been filed
by the Crown against Mr. Thtdeus O' Kane, theeminent
editor of the Northern Miner, who is charged with
having printed a first-class libel on Mr. Fred. Hamilton,
a resident of Charters Towers. Mr. Hamilton is, how-
ever, ut liberty to apply te the Supreme Court for
liberty to fils an information for private libel—bat this
he isn’t likely to do. In Queensland, the Crown is
evidently sick of criminal libel actions, and paying
enormous sums for tha vindication of supposed injuries
to private persons. The libel in question, by the way,
was as neat and forcible a bit ot composition as has
ever appeared in an Aastralian paper. Thadeus writ«» :
Hamilton is thus burst up for the present. . . We
do not go into mourning on his departure from this
community which he has so adorned. We drop a tear
over his bier, and say sadly—B.I.P.”
John Whiteman, ex-M.L.A. of Victoria, and
late host of the Clarence Hotel, Melbourne, the other
night was locked up at the instance of his father-in-
law, Mr. Cornwell, who now runs the hotel named, and
charged his son-in-law with trespass. John, who is a
rough diamond, was once a blaeksmith, but, in an evil
hour, he wooed the electors of Emerald Hill, and was
once or twice returned as their representative. He
wooed the Muses, too, and being a facile rhymster,
published under the title “Sparks from my anvil," a
small volume of rugged verses. When Berry ruled the
roast, Whiteman, not being a sufficiently-pronounced
had ical, was rejected, and left Parliament to go into
the hotel. He bad in the meantime married, under
Young-Loohivarish circumstances, which caused a
mild social sensation in Melbourne, Miss Cornwell, a
daughter of one of bis constltutents, a very pretty and
somewhat talanted young lady, considerably his junior.
It may be remembered that Mrs. Whiteman, on the
occasion of the visit of the Detached Squadron, com-
posed and dedicated to the festive Prince Louis of
Battenburg a piece of dance music. Whiteman is a
good-hearted fellow, and has in Sydney many friends
who will hear of his trouble with regret.
Ghostly Portraits.
Among the’”evidences advanced by Spiritualists in
support of their theories, one of the most prominent
is that Spirit-forms, invisible to the eye, may yet be
sufficiently material to produce an effect upon the
sensitive surface of a prepared photographic plat*.
Numerous photographs of “ spirit forms," said to be
thus obtained, have been presented for the observation
of the public from time to time. Critics refused credit
to the alleged phenomena, and opposed to the sensation
which the earlier “ Spirit portraits ” occasioned, con-
vincing evidence that photographs quite indistinguish-
able from those to which the Spiritualists pinned their
faith, could he produced by very simple yet not easily
d- tected devices. By employing a plate on which was a
veiy faint and undeveloped portrait of one person to
take a strong impression of another, and by so adjust-
ing the lens that the two figures should be artistically
blended, or contrasted, it was easy to produce, appar-
ently at one operation, a completed picture in which a
shadowy form appeared beside the portrait ostensibly
taken. To rebut this rather crushing (exposition, the
Spiritualists had no resource except by arranging for
“ test conditions," such as should be a guarantee that
there could be no tampering with plate or appa-
rition, either beforehand or during the actual
operation of obtaining the “spirit likeness.” The
testimony adduced as to such tests having been success-
fully applied is respectable and really remarkable.
The first engraving we give is a copy of a photograph,
of uuanthenticated origin, so far as we know; but it
gives a capital idea of what “ spirit photos. ” are. In
the original, the tiara which surmounts the brows of
the apparition is not so distinct as in the engraving.
It baa a nebulous, undefined appearance, which, in
some degree, gives an augmented mystetiousness to the
■hadowy form.
The second photograph is one taken in this city hy
Mr. Cyril Haviland, who has testified as to the cosdi-
tioss under which it was taken, in a sworn declaration
to the effect that during the past month he had been
endeavouring to take spirit photographs, and that,
after one of his lectures, a lady volunteered to sit for
the purpose of obtaining such results, snchhaving been
attained through her mediumship or agency some years
ago. (We may explain that the theory is that the pre-
sence of certain persons is an aid to materialisation of
spirits.) According to his declaration, Mr. Haviland
bought a dozen new plates (dry process). No one bnt
himself handled these. He opened the package in the
Medium’s house after the camera was focused, and there
took eight pictures. He developed the plates
himself, at his own house, and printed the
positive, of which our engraving is a represeu-
tation, with bis own hands. He was never
absent from the room during the operation, and no
“ sarthly ” form (his own words) was present, except
himself, the lady, and a gentleman who sat in the chair
during! the exposure of the plate, and whose shirt-cuff
may be seen iu the;print. Mr. Haviland believes
further that the photo, is th&t of a child in the spirit
world, bnt once Uviug, whose portrait someone may
recognise. We fear that so far as onr engraving ia con-
cerned the likeness has not been sufficiently preserved
for recognition.
Thus Mr. Haviland. We respect his earnestness and
sincerity, while differing from him in all essentials.
The clothes alone, are a stumbling-block to our matter-
of-fact mind, Wo can swallow the trumpet because we
have been accustomed to hoar that that musical instru-
ment is employed in Heaven. But the boots, and
buttons, and collar—hem I
Smythe lias fixed Forbes’ lectures so close that
the lion won’t hare time to eat the dinners and other
leeda people are organising in his hononr.
Lawyer Carroll, in court, says a “ hag ” is an old
woman who has a daughter; and one with a son is only
an “ old woman.” Will he define what a haggis ?
The Oaks Steam Brick Works, now the
property ot a company, hive orders for their celebrated
quadruple-pressed bricks snfflnent for the next half
year. Flint, kilns, &o. are to be increased.
Wigzell, of Oxford-street, has to hand a con-
signment of the latest novelties in English and Parisian
art. Having finished with the Payres, he is how
arranging for the Exhibition ball, which is likely to
come oft with great success.
Mr. “Jack” Gardyne, who has been very unwell,
Is now fast recovering his former excellent health. By
the way, a number of the members of that high-feeding
institution, the “ Jolly Hogs’ Olnb,” have of late been
incapacitated by complaints of a hepatic character.
An excellent portrait of Archbishop Yanghan has
just been placed in the Cathedral Payre. It is executed
in water-colours by Mr. C. W. Satchell. The likeness is
a speaking one, and the expression and characteristic
features of the distinguished prelate are effectively
oaught and reproduced bp the artist.
She was ambitious. Iler husband loved her.
Whence thence tears ? '* he cried; “ all that I have is
thine." “Ah," the sobbed, “I need no frivolities
common to my sex, but Mrs. Orecrushed has a far
better house than mine." “ Speak thy tbonghta freely,"
he murmured, “ I am rich; I have gold." “ Then buy
me that Craigend Estate, Darlinghurst, which Messrs.
Eichardson and Wrench sell on Monday, 15ch May."
“I’ll have a dab in, dearest,” he whispered, and the
result was hut we better wait till after the 15th.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 4a, he knows about as much as those that have
We trust our readers will not neglect this upper-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. It you want
anything in the boot-line, fram a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call at 581. and "see what is the
matter with Hannah.” The loregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to he in great demand
now. if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Adyt.
Luring the past year yon have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good cup of tea.
You have heard that the last season's China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas P—a blend of the most famous and purest teas in
the world; kept by all threading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place.—Advt.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
M. Max Muret, of Dunedin, has invented a rock-
ing lever, by the aid of which one man’s strength is
multiplied to one horse power. The principle involved
is the utilisation of the momentum of a moving body ...
The great scheme for buying ap the freehold of all the
runs in New Zealand by the formation <f a company
with untold millions of capital came to grief. Every
shareholder wanted to sell a run to the others S.-vea
deaths at Gundagai (population 1,200) in a fortnight.
Bad water Pacriox fireene must be a funny old
vagrant. Though he had £24 on him when arrested at
Townsville, he offered no defines against vagrancy, and
got three m0nth5.,.....1n Miy, 1880, the Norwood^Ade-
laide) corporation wrote to the S.A. Lauds Depart-
ment. Obey got a reply on 6th April, 1882
Mr. Williams, lat* of Newcastle, is the projector of
the new paper at Herberten At an anti-nigger meet-
ing held at Herberton, Mr. Stenhonse said that he had
had four friends—one |of whom was roasted and eaten—
speared by the blacks A pauper discharged from the
Tambo hospital took a billet as barman. The receipts
fell off, and it was found when the barman resigned,
that he had £79 in hi* possession. Under 19 Vic*. No.
24 he was sentenced to three months in gaol. The
money was confiscated Melbourne Age anting Me -
bourne World for £145, for telegrams supplied to that
paper Mr. Chippendale has been exhibiting at Bris-
bane the new compressed oxygen diving apparatus ; he
remained under water over an hoar Goldsbrough
and Co. have bought for £lO.OOO a block of building* at
the corner of Edward and Mary Streets. Brisbane, and
open a Queensland branch shortly Victorian Bolice
Commission has decided to hold all future meetings in
the Star Chamber style There are 920 hotels iu the
Metropolitan licensing district. How many less will
there be next licensing day under the operation of the
accommodation clauses t Newcastle exported
20,629 tons of coal last week Public sea baths
to be erected at Newcastle under Allen’s hill;
cost, £2654 Smallpox onboard KM. 8. Carthage,
which bos arrived at Albany, W.A., from Loudon
A Brisbane abandonnes named Mary Kinsella, stands
charged with infanticide. Another gin sai s she saw
Kinsella smothering the infant—which was a month
old —with her arm A Temora lady picked up an
ounce nugget in her yard Adam Holbing, wine and
spirit merchant, Btawell, Yic., has been fined £5O with
£3l coats, for labelling inferior wine hardly fit to drink
with colorable imitations of the labels of high class
clarets worth from 80s. to 90s per doz A Singleton
publican’s application for a license is opposed on the
ground that ho is a single man Thomas Hamilton, a
Bydney auctioneer, has been fined 40s. for holding a
"Cheap Jack sale" between the prohibited auction
hours of sunset and sunrise The Newcastle police
station has received a hand-carriage adapted to the
running in of drunkards, violent characters, or cor pat f.
The article to be ‘lumbered" is pinned to the deck,
strapped and hackled down till he is as amiable as a suck-
ing cherub Dan Mayue, of the Bathurst Sentinel,
says that sick prisoners in the Bathurst gaol are sys-
tematically swindled out of their hospital rations, with,
out the governor of the prison being cognisant of the
fact A 32 oz. 6 dwt. nugget picked up at Cow Flat
Creek 916 people at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon A woman in Fitzroy (Vic.) has been sent to
gaol for a fortnight for chlorodyne intoxication
Beech, Bros., brewers, Wilcannia, have plant ready to
start a new brewery at the Mount Browne diggings
Federal Bank, Melbourne, held its general meeting last
woek; deposits in 19 days were £75,000 The sight
ot so many blind mendicants In one street does not act
as a stimulus to those who would assist the institutions
especially provided for persons so afflicted John
Hurley, who ia going to work the Buurrum (Q.) coal
mines, represents an English Company, with a capital
of £175,000 For twenty-five years the old bell has
“tolled" the time at the Farramatta-street sugar house,
and now it worries the sugar diggers under the shadow
ot Mount Saddleback Mr. Henry, P M.., of Clermont
(Q ), volunteered to assist the only bobby of that town-
ship, constable MoDonagb, to arrest two horse-thief
rowdies named Kennedy and Power. The P.M. and the
F.C. both had a rough time of it, being knocked down
several times and badly kicked. A crowd eventually
assisted them to lock up the two men wanted An
Adelaide man was playing the fool with a revolver,
supposed to be unloaded, and almost killed his friend;;
a waistcoat button turned the bullet Jane Jones,
daughter of the landlady of the Qlenrowan Hotel, has
just died in Victoria from a bullet-wound received at
the “ Battle of Glenrowan’’ when the Kelly gang were
destroyed Bank of N.S. Wales net profits tor last
half-year were £89,648 3s. Od.; dividend 15 per cent
Wright, Payne and Co., of Melbourne, smashed for
£54,213 At a great sale near Hamilton, Victoria, a
barrel of whisky was drunk by the loafers who haunt
sales. They bottled seme and took it away. The sale-
sponger is well known here John Tompson, who
killed a man in a fight on Wittagowna Station, near
Bonrke, on the 9th December last, was brought up at
the police court, Bonrke, charged with murder, and
remanded for the production ot the warrant from
Cobar On the Wild River (N.Q ), Miners’ Protection
Association has already been formed, (with intention
apparently to move heaven and earth to obtain “full
wages for short hours;” it has vetoed Chinamen, and
will have no vegetables but what can be grown by white
men ; it wants a hospital and native polije, and means
to have them A box of ISCOsovs. missing from the
s.s. Potosi Adelaide banking assets are£B 863.337
Chinamen who wish to get refunds of the poll-tax in
case they merely land in Melbourne and go away again,
have now to be photographed, as some of them havo
been passing their receipts on to others An Auck-
land paper says:—The sericulture company, formed at
the Thames, promises to bo very successful. A similar
industry at Cnristchurch has turned out a great hit
“Old Bill,” a Parramatta native, 57 years of age, has
been killed at Dubbo by falling down a we11....Mr. D. B.
Barns has made a 933-mile journey with camels iu
Australia in 8 weeks Vic. Government will call f»r
tenders for 100 locomotives, maximum cost, £150,000....
Industrial Mutual Fire Insurance Co. declared dividend
of 10 per cent.,lasthalf-year’sproflts were£l,347lsi. 9d.
The big libel cave, Bathgate and anr, v Proudfoot,
at Dunedin, resulted ia plaintiffs getting a £lOO verdict.
£lO,OOO was the amount of tho claim, which was founded
on on anonymous letter, written, in the opinion cf the
jury, by defendant According to Mr. Beauchamp, of
Melbourne, people get ill for the purpose of going into
the hospital to obtain the medical comforts. They’ll
gladly take the cod-liver oil so long as they get the
sherry...... Having made such a grand success of the
Stawell building stone, the Victorian Government ia
now prepared to discuss the question of the particular
kind of Victorian wood whion should be used in tho
construction of railway carriages Wilcannia people
raising £200,000 in order to make the river Darling
navigable to Wentworth.
• • •
On d!t, the Duke of Cambridge is about to
resign the oommandership in-ohief, which he has held
for 26 year*...Mr. F. Wise, the Cotk distiller, who died
recently, leaving £3,000,000, has apparently left no will.
He is said to have been the wealthiest man in Ireland.
Am inqne't was held in London on a child, four
months old, who bad been suffocated by a oat lying on
its face The release of the two men falsely charged
with mutilating a man who mutilated himself has
caused great excitement in Ireland. The members of
the Land League are of opinion that the cattle have been
guilty of much the same trick in order to get patriots
into trouble. It is not expected, however, that the cows
who cut off their own tails will confess sufficiently to
induce Forster to alter his Coercion views
Mr. John Walter, of the London Times, opines that
any steady and industrious emigrant to America may
be certain of becoming wealthy and prosperous before
attaining 50 years of age: and predicts that before the
oloso ot the next century America’s population will be
200,000,000 At Guiteau’s trial, the prosecuting
counsel. Porter end Davidge, got £3,000 each; the jury
got £3OO besides £6lO hotel expanses ; witnesses’ expan-
ses were £1,616; of which £571 went to the Gaitsjau
family; shorthand writing cost £1,000; the total is
about £lO,OOO A Chinaman in Ist. Louis ssenred, by
his pion* behaviour and missionary zeal, all the laundry
work of the Methodist Church he joined. Recently he
left for China with a “ pot." of £2.000, made by hard in-
dastry. It then transpired that he had been running
an opium and gambling den under his laundry.... While
under the influence of ether spray, an Irish patient at
the Cork South Infirmary, confessed his connection
with several recent outrages which had been committed
ia that neighbourhool A movement is on foot for an
Irish exhibition of home manufactures during the pre-
sent year. Whisky and outrages should figure promin-
ently in this catalogue, though a good many of the
Irish outrages ore manufactured on the other side,
of the channel.
S ublime is our country and glorious our nation,
I n all things we wallop the whole of creation ;
E oaring our heads aloft, teaching we spurn,
H aving climbed to the summit we’ve nothing to learn*
E very science and art is the merest child’s play,
N ature's laws we all know—nay, can teach her the way,
Eeforming some errors she makes now and then.
Y our colonials, you know, are such very smart menl
P raised up in England, cheered in the States,
A spiratioDB I cherish—though I scorn aspirates;
K oyalty comes to receive my salute,
K imberley, though, is a fellow don’t “ soot
E very word that he says—every look, every turn—
S eems to say, “ Still, old fellow, you’ve something to
learn."
Te Effects of Te Fayre.
(BY ONE WHO HAS SUFFERED.)
D tar Bob, ia affliction I languish—
I groan beneath sorrows untold,
Waich must closely resemble the anguish
Of Job on his ash-heap of old.
Oh I Nemesis, why do I merit
Such cruel rebuff* at thy hand,
And why hast thou branded my spirit
With Grief’s most indelible brand ?
My wits (and I couldn’t well own to
A faci less conducive to mirth),
Oa the wings of the morning, have flown to
The uttermost parts of the earth.
My spirit is battered and dented,
And pierced by the shafts of despair:
I’m limp, and “ flat-broke,” and demented,
And ah through Te Olde Englysshe Pay re.
I once had a form like Apollo,
Bnt now I’m as thin as a post;
My cheeks and my laughter are hollow,
I’m ghastly and white as a ghost.
I once was blytbe, gay, and light-hearted.
My spirits were buoyant as air;
But that. Bob, was long ere they started
That awfnlle afflyoksion, Ye Fayre—
Ere trip* down to Manly and Chowder
Had lost all their charm and their zest.
Ere damsels with patches and powder
Had wrought such wild work in my breast—
£r«, gaily disguised, Atra Cura
(That’s Latin for blackest of care)
Had spread herself out to allure a
Poor wretch to Te Olde Englysshe Payre.
Oh I Robert, a tear o’er my story
Might fall from an optic of stone :
I took up the thing con amore—
I’d better have left it alone.
For, Bob, there is really no telling
The harm it’s developed iu me:
It’s perfectly ruined my spelling
(And once I was Boss of a “ Bee") I
I now stick my Y’s and my E’e, Bob,
“ Prwmiscnsly ” everywhere:
I’ve got that most awful disease, Bob,
Ye spellyuge kemplaynt of Ye Fayre.
My interest at first was immense, sir,
I “ went for” the old English Bards,
I bolted whole cantos of Spencer,
And Chancer I swallowed by yards.
My person I gaily attired
In garments both costly and rare.
With rapture and joy I acquired
Ye gabbe of Ye Olde Englysshe Fayre.
All through the long night’s silent watches
I dreamt of those glittering halls,
And the nymphs in pearl-powder and patches
Who stood by those tapestried stalls.
I wrote enphuistic addresses
Like Raleigh composed for Queen Bess,
(An A with a couple of S’s
Would aptly describe me, I guess).
I’m the kind of an idiot that baffles
Description completely, I swear:
I went into all kinds ot raffles
For every conceivable ware.
(I muan’t say “ Raffle,” it’s wicked—
No, Robert, I should have said “ share,”
That’s the latest olde Englysshe for •* ticket,”
In raffling things at Ye Fayre )
The journal of Pepys, that fusty
Old buffer, I studied with glee;
Whatever was ancient and musty
Found infinite favour with me.
i;valued old things at high prices.
But now I’m decidedly full
Of r bose senseless Heraldic devices—
Te sign of Te Pigge and Te Balle.
I’ve spent all my cash, morels the pity.
My debts I’m unable to pay,
The balance I had at “ The City”
In “ shares ” has been frittered away.
My duns have dropped in and fierce war waged.
They’re led me a horrible dance :
To ye Mont de Pidtd I’ve mortgaged
My screw for three months in advance.
I can’t write a plain English “ sentaunce ”
That’s not full of Y’s, E’s, and U’s;
If great was my sin, my “repentaunce”
(Much greater) my sin must excuse.
In future, I’ll shun such devices,'
Such signs as Ye Jumbukke and Beare,
And I’ll see that no syren entices
My steps to an Olde Englysshe Fayre.
IRONBARK.


CITY CATERING I
315 GEOEGE STE
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional workm
tical experience, nearly all from th
of Compagnoni and Co., who pei
and carry on the working of the
general manager.
It is not a public company, and tl
the expenses appertaining thereto.
NB.—Since opening, on 27th ,
sncceasfelly catered THE LaEGI
CULT, and MOST EESPONSIBL
have taken place here to the preset
The Consular Dinner, in our new h
Hia Worship the Mayor's Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entortainn
His Worship the Major’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worship,
tained their E.H.'s PRINCE ALI
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Offlci
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitutic
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Constitat
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.’s PRINCE ALI
to Lithgow Valley Minas and 2
Russt, for 60, in Government Pali
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—u
NOTICE, only receiving the ord«
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. th
Visit of THEIR E.H.’s PEIN
GEOEGE to Captain Cook’s Lai
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon a
100, under VEET SHORT NOTI
at 9 30 p.m,, to be ready on the st
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reeeption, Tow
The (Union Club) " Bachelor's B
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge W
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Room
Dinner d la Susse at St. Paul’s Colle
of the Church of England Synod.
THE NEWSLETTER.
A new trial has been ordered in the libel case
Williams v. the Anous.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month of April, 1882:-Weok days (22), 8112; Sun-
days (5), 5230; total 13.342. ’
A, N.Z. schoolmaster is in trouble. He
seduced a pupil, aged 15 years, and married her, despite
the fact that he a wife in Auckland.
Capt. Bennett, the well-known mining expert,
has visited the Padmer reefs, and declares that, with
capital and the best machinery, a quarter of a million
European miners could profitably bo employed on the
field.
At Rockhampton, Q., an aboriginal named Paddy
has been twice indicted and aquitted in the absence
of evidence, of the murder of black gins named Judj
and Jenny. How much did this fatae imprisonment
cost the o )untry ?
The other day, at Victoria Ferry, Maryborongh,
Q., a horse backed a buggy-load of women and children
into the river. After they had all been safely landed, a
young and courageous bank clerk, intent on displaying
his swimming powers, jumped in. Someone else had to
Jump in, too, te fish him out.
A N.Z. colonist recently took a trip home to the
onld sod," When in Ireland, he attended a few Land
League meetings purely for “divarshun.” He was
arrested, and imprisoned for three weeks. On libera-
tion he made speedy tracks back to N.Z , and doesn’t
yearn to see the “ green isle " any more.
A Wollongong draper is said to hare
confined his knowledge of the trade to getting
a stock on credit, “ auctioning’’ it, and getting drunk
on the proceeds. He is now bound in bail to appear at
Darlinghnrst next time a judge steps round there.
This upsets the theory about a rolling stone gathering
no Moss, and, as Bland Holt says, "Our Moss-be is out
again.”
A deaf mate in Christchurch (N.Z.) stole a saddle,
and thus appealed to the magistrates in writing;—
“ This is a sad casa,
I’m not very old;
I began my career
When this saddle I stoled.”
Committed for trial.
The facta of the late “ outrage on a Qnoanbeyan
constable ” were simply these: —An ordinarily discreet
officer drank, while on duty, with a set of well-known
larrikins, got helplessly drunk, had his face smeared
with lamp-black by his brother Bacchanals, and was
taken by them to the police-station “for a lark."
Constable now dismissed.
Palmer goldfield’s last monthly record tots np
100 J tons washed for 162 oz. 19dwt. of gold—a wretched
result for a big goldfield. The Sunburst reef crushed
18 tons for 84 oz. During the month the escort left
with 1680 oz., the smallest consignment forwarded fer
some time. Revenue returns have been brisker, owing
to recent pegging-out excitement.
The Melbourne Would has changed hands,
Franklyn and Co. take possession on or about the Ist
June next. The World well lost 1 Mortimer is a
clever man. A year or two since ho cams to the colony
with a carpet bag, suspected of containing a clean
dickey and fourpance in coppers. Now he owns three
newspapers, and is backed up by the biggest capitalists
of Australia.
Anyone who confesses to being a sheep-owner
on the back-blocks is as much an object of compassion
as if he had small-pox. Sheep just new mean so many
almost worthless skins, and an almost equal number of
aromatie carcases on which the orows and cats hold
carnival. The squattocracy in some parts of the colony
is becoming virtually extinct, and bank-agents are
now the autocrats of our so-oalled public estate.
Farmers in the Wide Bay district of Queensland
intend petitioning Government to be placed on the same
footing aa sugar-planters with regard to the employment
of Coolie or Kanaka labour. They assert that the labour
required per acre for their hay, maize, and potato crops
is quite equal to that required for the cultivation of
sugar-cane. Sauce for the farmer must, however, be
eauoe for the squatter; and, by and bye, Queensland may
become a second Jamaica.
Henry Kendall prophesies that the day will come
for Temora “ when it will contain fewer Chinamen and
cleaner Christians," and possibly, also, reasonable
publicans, as a preliminary to developing into a thriving
goldfield, Henry wasn’t struck with Barmedman,
whose river he styles a “remarkable ditch" that
“would make a full-grown polecat howl with envy
and, as to its water, a ‘ goanna,' with any degree of self-
respect, wouldn’t look at it."
“Reversing” in waltzing is out of fashion, but
the country readily excuses the Brown for reversing his
recent Press-telegram waltz. Intercolonial and foreign
messages are now excluded from the celebrated minute
of Peb. 17. Press telegrams may be sent at Press-rates
between the hours of 6 p.m. and 9 a.m., and at special
rates at other times when the lines are clear, but no
Press message must exceed 500 words when other Press
messages are awaiting transmission.
There is hope yet for the brusque and burly Bent,
the Victorian railway demi-god. He recently prosecuted
a school-teacher named Kain for assault, and exhibited
his cauliflower side of amiability to a rare degree. But
second thoughts, and the opening of Parliament, have
prevailed; and Bent has actually apologised to Kain
for aspersing the latter’s character. We hope next to
hear of Tom reinstating that porter who recently
told him to smoke to the top of his Bent.
The Townsville Hbeald stands corrected
by the “ good and brave Captain Boore," respecting the
Marquis de Kay's ill-fated New Guinea expedition.
Captain Boore says the statement that the expedition
numbered 2000, instead of 800, as he alleges, will “ give
offence to people of good family in Europe." The
Herald immediately stopped its European issue for
that week, and the till benefited to the extent of a
shilling’s worth of postage stamps, which the office
devil deposited in the local Savings Bank.
If public men, who have identified themselves
with the temperance cause, and have each signed a
solemn declaration that they will not only refrain from
drinking intoxicants, bat will also in every possible way
" disceuntenanoe the nss of aloohoho liquors,” con-
tinnally get up at public meetings and ask less stringent
people to respond to a toast, under what category of
perjury are they to be placed ? This subject will shortly
come under the debating review of the Sydney School of
Arts; personalities tabooed—the question to be con-
sidered purely in the abstract.
The Palmer River hospital has once more de-
cided to get rid of its medical min—Dr. S. H. Newell.
Mr. J. W. Elcoate, as chairman of a committee meet-
ing, said that the subscriptions had fallen off from £123
to £54 7s. 6i. for a quarter, persons refusing to aid the
Institution, because the doctor was accused of being
nearly always intoxicated. The doctor accordingly has
received a month’s notice. War daman M. Bannon had
his salary reduced from £8 to £6 per month. Perhaps
the Palmer Biver people think they ought to get a first-
class moral wardsman for that magnificent stipend.
Isaac Griffiths, a Welsh miner, put in a “ shot ”
to bring down some ooal in the Walisend pit, the other
day, and, as usual, retired awaiting the “ bust-up.”
But it was slow to explode, and being a maa who valued
time, and dissatisfied at being kept waiting, he went
back, and had a look down the hole to tee now it was
getting on. In two minutes half a dozen of his mates
were digging him out from under about two tons, bis
whole body, from his forehead to his toes, requiring
stitching and patching, which were soon effected by
Dr. Nasn. Strange to say, his injuries are all super-
ficial. Isaac will probably set less vnu« on time next
•shot."
In a circular issued by an English society, set-
ting forth "the case against Sunday dlouiug of
inns," the matter is thus vigorously summed up:
—"Among the obvious deplorauie outcomes of entire
Sunday closing would be I'oozing at home with stores
of drink laid in on Saturday night, demoralising the
homes of labourers and artisans—inducement to refrain
from wholesome country walks—establishment of more
eluba in towns for tradesmen and artisans—lmpetus
given to smuggling liquor, and consequent consumption
of bad spirits instead of beer—illicit traffic in strong
drink by poachers and other idlers on ever/ hill and
noorside—disrespect for the law, as being arbitrary
and unjust—harassing extra dut'os oast on the police,
and protection of property weakened thereby—occa-
sional loss of human life in pressing onward without
sustenance during inclement weather.” Hum I
Arthur Sieber, the Hungarian who recently tried
to murder Miss Maher, barmaid at the Oxford Hotel,
Melbourne, and then to commit suicide, once held the
rank of petty officer in the Austrian artillery. He re-
ceived a scientific education, and passed the final ex-
amination at an Austrian agricultuial exhibition. He
came out with the Austrian exhibitors to the Mel-
bourne exhibition, and his intention was to start a
scientific farm. His money gave out, and he became
despondent. This, with the operation of unrequited
love, incited him to his horrible crime. He missed
striking his heart, and it it possible that he may yet re-
cover. Miss Maher is ont of danger.
The remains of a dam-maker, named Maclean,
who was lost from Emmet Downs Station (Q ), nearly
two years ago, hare been found on the Isis Downs (Q.),
in a wonderful state of preservation. The unfortunate
man had died from thirst. He had divested himself of
“is clothes except his shirt, and was sitting thus
clothed when death put an end to his sufferings. Be-
tween his feet was found a match-box containing a
solitary lucifer. His body had been unmolested by
wild dogs, hawks, or crows, probably because his up-
right sitting posture resembled that of a living human
being. The skin was charred almost blaek by the heat
of the sun. A mate of the deceased has for two years
been unjustly suspected of murder.
The trustees of Hyde Park, Sydney, recently
thought they had done a good thing in allowing 200
■neap to graze ia the Park. It saved mowing expenses.
But Corporation wisdom, backed by Corporation law,
said that the thing must not be. This is good, but let
us examine the Corporation law. It says that “no
geats, pigs, sheep, bullocks, or oows shall bo kept in
the city alive." We all know that hundreds of goats
are kept for the purpose of browsing amongst kerosene
tins, and that numbers of oows are maintained for
domestic purposes. But let that pass. What we par-
ticulsrly desire to say is that butchers have had a license
to kill stock in the oily; ergo, they must have had the said
stock “alive" on their premises. Then, what about
the Corporation law T
The Palmeb(N.Q.) Cheoniclb complains that
the great cry up that way for some years has been
“ want of capital to develop the reefs," and calls upon
those persons who, In the past, “ have pledged them-
selves to forego personal advantages to benefit the field,"
to prove the value of their promises now that the long-
wished-for capital is available." From the rest of the
Chronicle’s article we gather that human nature up at
the Palmer is—simply human nature, and that promises
are—merely promises. Owners of claims demand pro-
hibitive rates, a system of “grab-all" prevails, and
reef-mining is going to the dogs. The Chronicle advo-
cates that registration should not be granted for a longer
period than one month, “ unless strong proof be pro-
duced that machinery is being procured (or the working
of claims."
On Wednesday, 26th April, the foundation stone of
Messrs. Hoffuung’s new warehouses adjoining the Post
Office, was laid by Mr. David Marks, the acting partner
in Sydney, in the presence of nearly 200 ladies and gen-
tlemen. The warehouses are to bo the largest in this
hemisphere, costing £70,000, and built on land held on
99 years’ lease, with option to purchase. In a tent was
laid a banquet, and the toasts of “ The Queen,” “ Parlia-
ment,” “ Hofinuag and Co ,”the “ Architect,” (Mr. T.
Bowe), the "Contractors" (tfobie, McLeod and Cole-
man), “Press,” and “Ladies," were drunk. All the
employes of the firm were invited to the ceremony, and
subsequent spread. The Parliament, and the Jewish
merchants of the eity were numerously represented.
Mr. Marks gave a slight but interesting outline of the
history of the big firm, and said in regard to the pro-
posed huge building (which is to be seven-storied, and to
rear its head 15 ft. above the Post Office), that now.a-
days it was the duty of every honorable merchant to
get as near Heaven as bricks and mortar would take
him.
According to a late issue of the Pall Mall
Gazette, an Australian aboriginal, it bitten by a snake,
stupidly lies down to die without taking any action to
prevent a fatal result. Colonists who havs observed
native customs knowthis is nntrne. Black s rarely die from
snake-bite. Immediately upon being bitten, a biaokfellow
will cut out the fang-marks and have his wound sucked.
Aboriginals have not hesitated to immediately chop oS
a finger or two when bitten in the hand by a venomous
snake. The Gazette is also quite at sea regarding
aboriginal religious notions. The writer in that journal
says that the blacks “ have not the faintest idea of a
future existence." AH bnshmen have heard of a wide-
spread aboriginal belief that when a biaokfellow dies he
“ jumps up white fellow"—a sort of transmigration of
souls theory. Other tribes have defined ideas of happy
hunting grounds. The Great Spirit of the tribes on the
east coast of N.S.W. is termed “ Tooleotalinasome
Queensland tribe call their spirit “Moondeaunga." What
(after they have been brought into contract with the
white man) they call “ debbil debbil" is an object of
their fear, and it would appear that it is out of respect
for the gentleman in question they carry fire.sticks
when travelling at night. A corrobboree or “ leerahna”
is really a worship of the full moon, much the same as
the ancient Bacchanalia and the games of Ceres.
WOMAN ITEMS.
National Bank of Australasia, Melbourne,
dividing 121 per cent.
According to a Maori proverb, either land or
a woman is at the bottom of every difficulty.
There ia a universal prejudice against the
number thirteen. Tot some women wear number
thirteen in shoes.
When the famous war correspondent was lec-
turing in Upper Canada, the Scotch girls used to wear
Forbes tartan dresses, with ribbons to match.
The head-mistress of a big educational estab-
lishment in one of our colonies has “ got the sack" for
having “bean seen walking with a young man after
dark.”
One of the beauties of the present Queensland
Education system is that female pupils are instructed
in the rudiments of military drill with their male com-
panions under the noontide ann.
Attempt made to bum down Temora telegraph
office on Monday night, humour credits betting men
with the offence, and sets the motive down as being
that of getting bets on the Hanlan v. Trickett match.
His Honor Sir George Innes, in sentencing
William Bobert Graham, at Bathurst, to 12 months'
imprisonment for bigamy, said that “ advertisements in
papers, stating that if a wife or husband, as the ease
may le, does not return within a certain time, another
marriage will take place, are ali nonsense." Graham
had married a Nancy Jane Young, in 1863; he separated
from her a few years later, and again married, in
January last, Ada Wright, his wife being alive.
An interesting young lady has just been married
in Hew York. The lady (late Miss Carrie May) was a
few years ago the affianced of James Gordon Bennett of
the N.Y. Herald. Mr. Bennett was engaged to marry
her, the day fixed, and all prepared. The night before,
the young man, not altogether steady on his legs,
called to see her. It was never made public what passed
at that interview; bat they parted lor ever, and the next
day Miss May's brother thrashed Bennett for an alleged
insult he had given. A duel followed, and then the
matter went to rest. The lady is now Mrs. Wright,
wife of a celebrated bicyclist.
A solicitor’s clerk, named J. G. Ogles, has been
missing for some days, and yesterday his clothes were
found on St. Kilda beach. So f»r, it does not appear
that anything but Mr. Ogl B is missing from bis em-
ployer’s office. We know more than one man in me
colonies who has disappeared, leaving bis worst suit of
clothes on the beach, the pier, or the river-bank. But
we never yet knew a feilew who meant dying, so far as
his creditors or his best gin was concerned, to leave
his watch in his waistcoat pocket under,such circum-
stances.
James Jenkins, resturant cook, and Michael
Bnssell, butchers' assistant, both of Melbourne, both
loved the'same gal, alhousemaid at the restaurant in
which Jenkins was employed. The “ gal" affected
Mike; bnt Jeamos’ Cockney heart became aglow, and
he said to Michael = " Yon may hit me, kick me, knock
9 dewn, but don’t you touch my gal.” Mike, lastTues-
?rj* offered to knock him down, but Jeames replied
i at fisticuffs were vulgar, and that steel weapons were
e only honourable resort of gentlemen. So he drew
a Dead on Michael, but the lovely rib of contention
threw herself between the two men, and said : “ ’Old I
no be-lud must be shedden here.” Jenkins is now in
custody.
When the Empress Eugenie was the most
fashionable woman in Europe, a reigning beauty of the
Court sneeringly remarked to some friends that tbo tgh
Eugenie had a pretty face, she had no figure, traders
up with drapery. It came to the Empress’s ears,
and sha resolved to confound her rival at a gr?at fancy
ball just on the tapif, She designed a costume as
Diana, and had it made by the most skilful 'nodiste. It
,jras a complete set of tights in silken crape, with silver
interwoven; with the briefest apology for a tunic over
one shonlder, and flashing with jewels. The night of
the ball, she stood before her boudoir glass, when her
imperial husband entered, and—well, to put it in few
words,_ the costume was never worn at the ball and
went to bed in a very bad temper.
Two years ago, the divine Sara took it into her
clever head to be photographed at fall length in an
ebony coffin, padded with white satin. The photos,
were splendidly deathlike, thanks to Sarah’s genius :
but the photographer wae solemnly pledged not to sell
any till the expiration of twelve months, before which
time the “grrrande arrtiste” said she was confident
she would be dead. She said, “I promise to die, I have
a presentiment, my presentiments never deceive me."
The contract was made, but not strictly carried out: the
only Bernhardt omitted to die, according to promise.
The photographer respectfully reminded her she had
no business to live. But she does; says she has two
new pieces to create in Paris, and then will fulfil her
oontraet. The picture man won’t wait. Hence a law-
suit !a Paris.
Barnum advertised in January that he would
give £lOOO to the “ Greatest Beauty in the World, to
appear daily as supreme presiding attraction" in his
show for the coming season. She must be “ a lady of
good repute, from the private walks of life,” no profes-
sionals or actresses being eligible, and the lady “ must
prove that her reputation is good." £2OOO is offered for
the ‘‘man possessing supreme claims to symmetry,
stateliness of stature, and nobility of presence.” Photos
only to be sent. The first week three ladies and seven
gentlemen sent their pictures : the rest were probably
getting ‘‘taken," and a tremendous number ware ex-
pected shortly. Of the first, Barnum said: ‘‘l cannot
dream of her. She appears to have led rather a hard
life of it during the last ten years, and to have lived
chiefly on beer." The greatest showman of the uni-
verse, however, is in sober earnest, ho will display snch
beauty as has never been shown before, and pledges
himself that perfect decorum will be observed.
On tho evening dress of the season, which is
cut lower than ever. Truth remarks: •• i’o such an
extent has the lowness of .tae bodice been carried that
some ladies cannot consent to appear in what, with its
utter absence of sleeves, can only be called ‘ a triumph
of nudity,’" and so they use little lace fichus to sup-
plement the incomplete dross sent home by the modiste.
Other ladies, again, indulge to the fullest extreme. It
is by no means uncommon to see the opening of a dress
reach almost to the waist in front and quite to the
waist at the back. This is the pointed style. We
think it is a very pointed style. The old rounded bodices,
having no sleeves, seem to recede more and more. The
square bodices, sometimes open only in front, some-
timss both back and front, seem to be all square, and
no bodice. Then there is a new evening bodice, called
ail du roi, which is fastened at tho tbroat, but spreads
open widely below. Truth adds, all these varieties
are cut so excessively low mat even a spray of flowers
is often not only an ornament, but, serving as a veil, is
positively a charity. Figaro delicately observes that
you cannot speak about a ball dress from the waist
upwards, because there isn’t anything to speak of.;
In view of the fact that ladies are to be admitted
to lectures fas a preliminary, no doubt, to taking
degrees) at bjdney University, it will be necessary to
expurgate the classics. It was stipulated, when the
lectures were thrown open to the fair sex, that, “nothing
offensive to female delicacy” should be introduced to
the discourses of the professors. The male students
now wonder what classics are to bo read. It will hardly
do for the lecturer to say, “We will now read Horace,
omitting odes so and so ; or Plato’s Symposium, with
the exception of such and such passages;" in that
attention would thereby be pointedly directed to the
objeotionable portions;of tho books in question. By the
way, tome time since it happened that at an examina-
tion one of Horace’s odes, which is omitted from ex-
purgated editions, was given for translation. A
student, who had read from a pious Scotch edition by
Chambers, found, when too late, that be bad never
seen the ode before, and stated his case to Dr. Badham,
who replied: “ I can’t be responsible for what"—but
then, dear reader, if you want the rest, yon mast ask
the learned doctor. It was a good joke—classically
speaking. The expurgation of the classics of
course simply means the annihilation of some
and the spoiling of those which are not altogether
thrown to tho winds. However, young ladies
who without a blush read “the secret of Eng.
land’s greatness" will no doubt learn in time to ac-
commodate themselves to the books, instead of insist,
ing that the books should be accommodated to them.
But wouldn't it be better after all, for Dr. Badham to
screen off the ladies from the gentlemen, don a pair of
extra-sized goggles to hide his own blushes, and go
ahead as usual P
An American reporter had an amusing interview
with Mdlle. Cavalazzi, the dauseuse, who told some
oharming little stories. Mdlle. owned up to 26 years of
age; and stated that when she was 17 she was dancer at
Papal Theatre at Borne, where “ the cardinals all came
to the ballet, and sat in the front rows—that is more."
The cardinals, it seems, like the wicked old gentlemen
they were, were ver* particular about the costumes of
the dancers. *‘ Each night three monsignors came into
my dressing-room before I went on the stage, and
examined my costume. They always regulated the
length. Eh I but it was something droll. We only
showed a little of our ankles and a little of onr chins on
certain occasions. That was when a particular cardinal
came, afflicted with exceptional bashfulaess." One day
Mdlle. resolved to tease the sacred college by exhibiting
in public the Italian colours, which was rigidly for-
bidden. “It was a night when all the cardinals were
seated in front, and the house was crowded with citi-
zens. I put on a red bodice and skirt, and underneath
the skirt I had white petticoats. My stockings were
also white, for flesh-colored stockings were not per-
mitted in Borne. The mala cancer had a green suit—
you see, between us we had the forbidden oolors com-
plete, red, green, and white. Presently I fell back on
the ana of my partner in green, and spread out my red
skirt, showing the white petticoats, and there were the
Italian oolors in full view of the audience. The house
rose with a wild shout, * Viva Italia !' The curtain had
to be dropped, and half a dozen cardinals i ashed on the
stage. I received them calmly. I showed them that
my costume was red, and my companion simply wore
tho ordinary green of a harlequin, and explained that
the position was accidental, as I had to wear petti-
coats." Messieurs the priests had nothing to say; and
Mdlle. Cavalazzi enjoyed her revenge.
• « «
There are eleven nuns in the Hotel Dieu Convent,
Quebec, who have each completed over fifty years in the
sisterhood A model-lodging-house for women will
shortly be established in Melbourne There is a young
woman iH the Ballarat district who is twenty-five years
of age, and only 3 ft. in height.
“ What’s the meaning of the word * odic,’ oh,
Dick?” asked Sophie Bellamy of Dick Gravel. “ Dunno
turn,” was the gruff response, •’ taere a solicitor up ac
B jckhampton, whose natural name is Charles isydney
Dick, but whose patent oue is 0. a. D. Melbourne, but
I duuno any O. Dick, esquire. Better gee round to
Gee’s place—he’s the Magnetod man in Change Alley,
and as his office is Pitt-street, North, I suppose one
might call him the Upper Gee. He knows all about it.”
*• Now look here, Josh,” said the old farmer to
bis son; " don't you go a roving, hemember that a
rolling stone gathers no moss. Yon stick to this farm ;
there’s a fortin in it." " Yer couldn’t gather much
moss out'n this stony ridge, guv’nor,” snarled Josh,
“ and I’m off to seek my fortin up at the Hargraves.
I’m gwine tor put my last quid right inter that new
Hargrave Gold Mining Co., of which Palmer, 'lhomp.
son, and Denny, of Sydney, are brokers; and when I
get my first dividend, ole man, I’ll buy her a hank of
country as big as 'Enery Parkes’ ambition. So long."
Happy father; filial son.
POLITICAL POINTS.
_Mr., G- HReid, so the story goes, meditates a
Cml Service Bill for next session. QH, who was for
many years in the service, knows the ropes.
The political query in Forbes is, “ Who are to
be the next representatives ?- Will phlegmatic John
be qnletly snuffed out, and will Henry Harne grace-
fully slide into a Government billet ?
A writer in the [Ballarat Courier proves
that the cheap boots bought in Sydney, are made in
Ba tf r “\ m< *, ke 10Jp ? r cent - P ‘le it on,
Ballarat. If Whitten s hands can shao as cheap, pile on
jour duties. F
Mr. Stout, in the Dunedin (Jf Z) Star
roundly accuses Mr. Whitaker, Attorney-General J
changing the venue of l'e Whiti’s trial from New Ply!
mouth to Christchurch, in order to gain isuffioient time
Act 1 Parhament to assemble and pa.a a special
The budget for 1882 in Croat Britain shows a
revenue of £85,000.000. Relatively to population
means that British finance as against theSatlS
tions of Victoria and New Soutii Wales is nlmiJf Hi
£2 Bs. per head to our £6 ss. The English budget sho™
a great decline in the revenue from intoxicants an(Ta
corresponding increase in Savings Bank deposits!
President or Premier ? An American paper
says it is far easier to become Premier of England than
Present of America. The initial diffioult/is getting
into Parliament; once there, ability will do the rest
The man whose talents enable him to dominate the
minds of a majority out of about 600 miscellaneous
persons, can b. Prime Minister, though disliked by
Sovereign and people. But no genius can be certain of
reaching a Presidency; it is a matter entirely ofpoliti-
cal party wire-pulling No one knows to the last who
it will be. Moat of the Presidents have come as n .nr
prise, and Garfield’s election was only a political aoci-
“">■ <■* «■»» -*• a
.. r^. San Francisco, it is found that when once
the Chinese get a footing in a block of buildings thev
free** out the whites and have everything their own
way Eight years ago a large block in Pacificist
le r 4 at on rental of £5OO to £7OO. It is iow let
at a9O dole, rental to Chinese, 300 years neo the
Spaniards of the Philippine Islands issued an end
uinrCar 1 ' exsctiy d f scribea
P" or to-day . They are irreclaimable in their
heathendom, and utterly refute to assimilate. Their
strong bond of union enables them to crush out com-
petition. .They monopolise all trades and com meric
They impoverish the country, gleaning
and sending- their hoards to China, they themselves
ultimately mllowing their gains, and giving pTa™ to
others. After massacring 200,000 of them the
Spaniards gave it up and the Chinese control the
industries of the islands. lue
Sir John O’Shanassy is the Egyptian pyramid
of Victorian polities—a relic of the past, and notable
only as having belonged to the past But Sir John
doesn’t intend to lie idle. His forlorn hope is them
setting of the Education system, and Ida aspect of
attack is, of course, the Catholic standpoint. He is
always ready for aggression, even if he stands alone.
Political leaders alternately court and jilt him He in
the deus ex machina of a latent force. In the present
curious balanoe-or want of balance-of parties, the
ponderous Sir John is on a ticklish point of a rocking
lever. There are already rumours of a semi-splitin the
party that supports the O’Loghlen Government Fran!
ois heads one section. Sir John another, and Sir Brvan
his own petty following. Francis is pledged entirely te
the Education. Act, and Sir Bryan can’t afford to lose
his support. On the other hand, the defection of Sir
John and his few Catholic followers might mean min
to the tenure of office of Sir Bryan’s Government. And
Sir Bryan doesn t love the Education Act. The only
real foundation of safety lies in the fact that onlv a
powerful Victorian Government can afford to tamper
t dehoate question, while past transactions
b John an ? Barr y to combine forces. Perhaps
the old bogus combats will be repeated. In these the
Education Question standard is gen 'rally unfurle’d by
Sir John O ahanasssy, a number of oathotic followers
square their consciences by speaking in favour of his
ideas, and then evade the wrath of opposing constituents
by carefully being absent from the ultimate division,
The latest news to hand proves the correctness of tho
fizzled Tlia anticipated -Bcrcy-Franois coalition has


[Business Announcements
A
USTRALTAN “HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a faw extra shil-
lings profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
wo^k
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manu'actured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work jAato.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit in’oMnation of tke attempted sale of ooun*
torfeits of the above Maehtn*. when we will take legal
action in proteetiou of our rights.
In any distrist where our genuine Machines are not i
procurah’e, we will forward them direct on receipt ol
fost Oflioe Order.
WE HAVE r.OW SOLD OVER 20.0C0.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE ... ... £4 0 0
TEKADLE MACHINE. COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVJSR COMPLETE ... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or peeking.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS~AND CO,
WYNYABD LANE, SYDNEY.
P.
R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail
N,
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPB STREETS.
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurfet Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholbsalx And Retail Wise asd Spirit MkeohastTi
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a wed!-assorted
I took of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirit*, Ae.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
• PRICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
FIREWORKS.
THE ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LONDON
RIBA WORKS
as need by the Public of New South Wales for
the past 26 year*.
NOW ON SALE-
-100, 000 gross of the best English Tire*
works, at Is 9d and Ha 6d per gross.
BEST TREBLE CRACKERS, Ss. PER BOX
(40 packets in box)
BOXES con taining a SPLENDID ASSORTMENT, at
7a. 61, 155., 30b , and 40a. per box.
Cases containing every variety [including
CHINESE FIREWORKS, to form a brilliant
display, A 3, .Os, £5, £7 10s., AlO, AIB,
and ABO, per case.
Serpents,
Blue Lights,
Squios,
Star Lights,
Trees,
Golden Fountains,
CRACKERS,
ROMAN CANDLES,
SKY LINE AND SIGNAL ROCKETS,
STREAMERS,
FLOWER POTS
and WHEELS. RED, BLUE, and GREEN LIGHTS,
TRIANGLE, VERTICAL, and CASCADE
WHEELS.
DEV L AMONG THE TAILORS,
JACK IN THE BOX,
AND 50 DIFFERENT KINDS
MYERS AN u SOLOMON,
53C and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Solo Aeent» Lr (he ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LON-
DON FI’IE WORKS.
QUHEN’S BITHDAY,
:4th day;of^may.
GOD SAVE THE QUeEN I
CLASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
O NOTICE.
G. F MURPHY,
Reg-nt Uoim, 860 George-atreet South.
SHOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G F. MURPHY,
Regent House. 860 George-atreet South.
British plate and sheet glass
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Resent House. 860 George-atreet South.
jp APERH ANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
Q F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 860 George-atreetMSouth.
WHITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
Ac., Ac.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 889 George-atreet South.
JpLATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-atreet South.
Tobacconists
*
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OP
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should he read with
special into* est: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 <
All the others paid duty in 1860 on
D SONS paid
DIXSON AND SON?* paid duty in 1881 on
All the others paid duty in 1881 on ... ...
Imported mumfaetnred toba f -e> paid duty
on lor the two years was ou>y„
278,303 ih.
£SW9 lb.
■178,935 ft>.
63C,992 Ih.
307,1001 b.
DIXSON AND SDK’S BRANDS ARE—
TANKED DOODLE. CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle snd Qbnqueror are original and duly
genuine "Tin tag,” each ping branded with a
Sound Si nglr Tin Tab, »tamped “ Cortt-
(4*3r.aor " or “ Yankee Doodle ”
ALL TOBACCONISTS' GOODS, PIPES, to.
7\
0V
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED (TERMAN
PI A SOS,
M
Walnut. Ebony and-gold, Eosewood-and-gold,
Imported by na direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of oar buyer in Germans
Every instrument Is V ARB ANTED for TEN
PEAKS. They are of v. ry handsome appearance, and
arc sensitive, swett, and powerful.
LOW PRICKS fSr CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine ans test them before purchasing elsewhere-.
All our HAN* 8 are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments • or cheap rubbish-.
BEALE aad COMPANY,
1, Oxford-ttreet; 6’3 Qnorgc-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newr-sUe; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok -street, Bathurst ; Anhnrn-s'reet, Goul-
bum; Chuich street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where von live w« will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
w
H A R I E L I,
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
543 Asm 845 Kent-stbket, neae Kikg-steekt*.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R, Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prise Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Ben craft & 00. l
Swallow and Arien’B Victorian Biscuits, Treaelfej
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soep
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders aftd
Sauce.
M 3 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
TbEAFNBSS ! —I have an Infallible Remedy
JkJ for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chief of the London Royal
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100), Bend six stamps, for particulars and copies ef
testimonials, to T. B HANNAFOBD, Auckland, New
jp LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANQINOS
(a really splendid stock )
BOOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT'S BRUSHES,
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEOBGE-ST.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets,
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat ;
great saving of fuel; apply several layers
The cheapest folt in the world. Manu
, factured at the Paper Works, Liver-
pool, Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepi
Price, & 6d per yd.
30&
40-inches
kugtb
wide,
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
»T3Q PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Taj
Loans granted without delay, a*
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Eopa>
manta to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Ca?tlereugh-street. next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
WASTE P*PEB for SALE, apply Bulletin
Office, I .t-street.
Hotels, &c.
R
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIBIT MEBCHANTS,
534 GEOEGB STREET,
Opposite town hall, Sydney.
CO..
COUKTBT OBDSBB BiCTIIT* PtOMPT AtTMTIOH*.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
KOBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ATT. THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
Is PPR BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCK WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
ail round.
N.B —'"■'•ckburn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, oopecially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
UNSLEE’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
■JPALLON’S PEIZE ALBURY WINE,
J T. FALLON iu asking public attention to his
W INES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
CruTKAL Depot;
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VISETARD!
MURRAY RIVER VAT,LEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibition :
London International 1891
Paris ~ 1894
Vienna ~ 1873
Philadelphia ~ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS ni tba SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1579-80.
WHITE, RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho trown Muscat I Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay ■ Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PAXE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Mari ot.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE;
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SOnJaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
oun
lllii® li
rjiftND
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should ho carefully compared, as large quantities
are hem# imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 pec cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOEj SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 &;16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALI
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS. CHINA,
AKD
EARTHEN WA RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRIT?
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80REN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
behnapps an- G.imuv*.
A. MELVIN and SON'*'
Edinburgh Pale Al«
AWARB
O H N
WILKIN SON’S
COCLALTA WiNE Cl LIARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY”.
VINEYAED-CO >LALTa, B RANK lON, NEW
SOUTH WALE*.
1 ED WINES
CoolaPa Hermitage, txtia qualitj
No. 1 Coolilta Red
No 2 „ „
Burgundy
Port -
Yin Ordinaire ...
WHITE WINES.
Muscat ...
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Ooolalta
No. 2
Yin Ordinaire
30 0
21 0
21 0
21 0
21 0
16 0
12 0
17 6
12 6
12 6
12 6
12 6
9 8
7 6
12 6
* 0
8 0
8 0
8 0
6 0
4 0
mo PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
JL the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re-
cover your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Fitt-street, Sydney.
The CtIEBRftTED /
...a.
Th E PuRtSTSIIMUIANT
*O3 ? BEOK *W I® •m,
erery Genuine Bottle.
A.C.THOMSON &C 9
PROPRIETORS
GLASGOW
7i J -are old <3 coicti Blend
• di6l:ngnipti 'td Ci.bvUQ. ,-s.
S fme- old .rr.'ixlu reo wi >;ks .
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES,
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
B
USINESSES FOE SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Easiness, and Partnership
AGENTS,
Offer for Sale Hoi els in Sydney, Snbnrbs, and Conn try,
from £lOO to £SCOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£ICT,OOO Intending Purchasers, who favour ns with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parlies about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79 Pitt-strcet.
Fob VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W 0 R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.


SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in jenerei.]
RACING.
Lachlan E.C May 4, S.
8. AJ.C May 6, 11, 18.
Western Queensland Jf.C, (Roms) Ma» 17, 18.
Adelaide K C ...May 50, 24, 25, 37.
Bligh A. PC. Mddgee ; May 22.
Iliawara J C j.. May 24.
Danediu (N Z ) Winter............ .... May 24,
N-Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Mudgee Turf Club May 2k
Melbourne Hunt Club.. May 24.
Copeland J.O .7. r....tr..... ;.. May 24*
Orange Jockey Jlub Mar 24
Murramndi J.O May 24. 25.
Queensland T.Q........ May 24, 25
Parramatra J O „..May 24, 25.
Balrauald May 30, 31.
Manning River J.C ; May 31, June 1.
Victonon Trotting Club (Elsternwick) June 3.
Coonamble J C June 7, 8.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting.,.June 7, 9.
Brewarrina J.C June 8. 9.
Hay July 6. 7.
Rock ha m ptea,., v July 6, 7-
Clarence K J.Ofc ~*iK ~ ....July 13, 13
V.R.C. Grand National .July 22,
AQUATICS.
M.R.C. Junior Single Stalls (President's
Trophy)...,.*. ;7.................May «.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amatsmrs d. + ,-fh r. .* May 27.
Maryborough (Q ) Regatta....a.^>rr..May 34.
Grafton Regatta..,. May 24.
Hanlan v. Rose; £2OO aside.., ,:u.,tn*>.<vniurw<J*ae 2<S
PBDEBTEIANISM.
S. Sports, Association Ground ~.-.May 6.
Parkinson v. Richards, one hour’s race, at
Botany May 6.
Eoyston College A A.C. May 10.
Eastern Suburbs A. A.C. Sports, Association
Ground May 13.
T. Collins v. T. Allen, 100 yard*, £lOO, Home-
bush ..May 13.
J. Farrell v. E. Hicks, 200 yards, £lOO, Home-
bush ...May 13
Hunters Hill A. A C. Sports, Association
Ground. ....May 20,
Carooar Athletic Sports... May 24.
Tamworth Athletic Club .Hay 24*
Narrabri Athletic iports...... May 24.
Riverina (Hxy) Athletic Club May 24, 25.
Stettler v. Penno, at Burrows, £4O May.
FOOTBALL.
Victorian Match (Association Ground)...May 2), 21, 27;
COURSING.
Australian Coursing Club 77.....7..., May 4;
Hawkesbury May 16,17.
SPOSTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Hawkesbury Raoing Club netted *£32B by
the late meeting.
The Thousand Guinea Stakss, run on April 23 r
Marguerite 1, Shotover 2, Nellie 3,
Two Melbourne bicyclists recently did 93£ miles
hours over Victorian country roads.
The Alberts defeated the Petersham club on
their own ground on Saturday by 24 runs.
Parkinson and Richards will run for a stake of
£lO, and the championship of Sydney, at Botany, to-
day, Saturday.
The Wallaroo Football Club had a successful
hare-aud-honnds abase last Saturday, preparatory for
the coming football campaign.
According to latest accounts, Boss has given up
the idea of going to England, so that hie race with
Hanlan will take place in America.
Mechanic v. Cleveland Clubs, Moore Park,
Mechanic, 76; Blanchfield 17. Marshallean 15, Block-
burn 15. Cleveland, 47; W. Furness 11.
The Petersham eleven threw away the match
against the Alberts by bad fielding. Yet its first
eleven is, usually, a first-rate fielding team.
The race for the Two Thousand Guineas Stakes
was run at Newmarket on April 25. and resulted as
follows: —Shotover 1, Quicklime 2, and Marden 8.
An American speculator'has reached Honolulu
with 20 American trotters. It is not at all nnlikely the
whole shipment will bo brought on to Melbourne,
The following number of acceptances have been
made for the Adelaida races Adelaide Cup, 24; Good-
wood Handicap, 30: Hurdlelraoe, 18; Steeplechase, 11.
Sullivan has issued a challenge that he will
knock any man in England out of time in four rounds
in a twenty-four foot rin«r, under the Marquis of Queens-
bery’s rules.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) Jockey Club have dis-
pensed with the sarvises of their handicapper, Mr.
Griffiths, and appointed a committee of five to do the
work in future.
The Sydney Turf Club have decided to ask the
A J.C. for the use of the Bandwick Racecourse for a
day’s racing on the Queen’s Birthday and Anniversary
Day of eaoh year.
The match for th* Junior Cup between the Our
Boys and Australian Clubs was concluded on Saturday,
and resulted iu an easy win for the Our Boys in one
innings with 30 runs to spare.
Alexandria v. Conqueror C. Clubs. Alexandria,
five wickets for 114: Ridley, not oat, 4-4 ; Macintosh 18.
Conqueror, 31. Jehn Macintosh, for the Alexandria*,
secured five wickets for 4 runs.
One of the dalles stated, last week, “ that two
of Shaw’s cricketing team had been in collision with
the bookmakers." The comp.’s throat had been in
collusion with some turpentine.
“Cookwell Races, April 25. Willeroo won the
Maiden Plate, Needle the Jookey Club Handicap,
Streamlet the Ladies’ Purse, Needle the Tow* Plate
Handicap, and Rosebud the Forced Handicap.
Queen’s Birthday will be a busy day of sport.
Most of the provincial Jookey Clubs have arranged a
day’s racing. It was intended that a fixture should bn
mode for Bandwick, bat the arrangements cauld not be
completed.
On March 7, J. Roberts, un., and W. Cook
played a billiard match, 1000 np. When the eeores
stood—Roberts 74«, Cook 937—Roberts concluded the
game by a splendid break of 255, including no less than
79 spot strokes.
The N.S. W. Football Association has to pass
a new code of rules, owing to the fact hat ’Mr. Beal
has the books in his possession. Has he taken them to
England with him, whether through “ fate untoward
or of his own accord P ”
On March 1, Dr. Carver and Mr. J. Webster
decided a match for £2OO, the conditions being that the
competitors should shoot at 50 pigeons each, standing
at 21 yards’ rise, with 60 fall, us* of one barrel only,
and loz. of shot. Dr. Carver shot 38 out of 50, and Mr.
WebateS 36.
At Tumut, on Friday week, a billiard match,
500 up, for £2O, took place between Metsrs. M. O’Mara
and A. Myers. The game was exciting, being at the
close—Myers 500, O’Mara 417. A considerable amount
of money changed bauds, there being over £lOO staked
on the contest.
The members of the Newcastle Rowing Club
who went out in the four-oared gigs on Saturday got a
docking. After palling three parts of a good race, which
as yet was not lost or won, a passing steamer swamped
both boats, and the rowers had to swim for it. How-
ever, they all got safely to shore.
At the race meeting at Eohnoa, last week,
Native Jack won the Handicap, and Tipperary Boy the
Hordle Race, though in the latter Blue Jacket came in
irst, but was disqualified. Wild Dayrell and Lillydale
ran a dead heat for the Millewa Stakes Handicap, and
in the run-off, the termer won easily.
The Annual general* meeting of the Newcastle
Football Club was held on April 27. The following
officers were elected:—President, John Wood; vice-
president, R. B. Wallace; captain, R. Burke: vice-
captain, E. M’Dwaott: secretary, Mr. Wilkinson;
treasurer, R. King; tdelegates, ,T. Richmond, F.
Fligg.
It is presumed we shall hear no more about the
terrace of houses Mrs. Triokett is building, or the heap
of money Trickett has piled no in America. There was
little or no betting on the late race, and on Tuesday
the cable came “ Hanlan won easily; Triokett out-
paced from start, and exhausted at finish.'* Again, let
him slide.
On April 26, another football club was added to
those playing under N.B.W. Association Rules. Itisto be
called the <>ur Boys Football Club. Forty members
enrolled. Following are the office Jiearers: —President,
Mr. F. A. Cubitt; vice-presidents, Messrs C. J. Pitt,
T. Stafford, and T. Walker; treasurer, Mr. L. E. Robin-
son ; hon. sec., Mr. W. A, Varley.
A footrace for *£2o a side came off recently at
the Back Creek cricket-ground, Sandhurst, between J.
W. Westwood, of Melbourne, and J. Lawson, lately of
Wagga, New South Wales. The distances were 100,
130, and 150 yards. Lawson won the first, by a yard, and
the two other distances were won by Westwood, by a
foot and half a yard respectively.
The Waratah Football Club has good prospects
this season. Following are the office-bearers: —Patron,
his Worship the Mayer (Mr. J. Harris); president,
Alderman R. Fowler ; vice-presidents, Messrs. Hogue,
Beal, Bethel, and Hinchcliffe; hon. secretary, W. A.
Black stone; hon. treasurer, H. M. Perry; delegates
to N.8.W.P.A., Messrs. Blackstone and Portus.
A football club has been formed at Lirerpool.
Following are the office-bearers President, Mr. N. G.
Bull; vice-president, Mr, A. J. Allum; hon. secretary,
Mr. N. Brodhurst Hill; treasurer, Mr. W. G. Denshire ;
captain, Mr. N. Brodhurst Hill; vice-captain, Mr. H.
Pearce; committee, Messrs. A. Hawkesworth, Pye, and
M’Farline; delegates to the Union, Messrs. Hill and
Barrows.
Victoria Amateur Turf Club races, Saturday.
Glad Tidings won the selling Baoe by a head; Monitor
won the Hurdles easily by four lengths; Sit Joseph
gained an easy victory in the Glen Huntley Handicap.
Nine started for the Steeplechase. Lucy, the favourite,
failed to get a position, Reform won by tern lengths; in
the Welter Handicap, Buzza went off with the lead,
was never canght, and won by two lengths.
On Saturday week Mr. C. A. Ibbotson, whilst
fishing in the Barwon River, above the Paper Mills, for
rivet trout, hooked what was to all appeoranee an Eng-
liah salmon. The fish was|six inches long, and one inch
deep, and spotted like an English salmon. The water
where the fish was canght was shallow, and the bait was
an artificial one. Lately a number of persons have
seen fish leaping out of the water, and it is assumed
that they are English salmon.
The Arcadian Football Club, playing under
English Association rules, held its annual meeting on
Slat March at Eadferu. Following are the office-
bearers Patron, Mr. Thos. Buekland; president, the
Rsv. Canon Stephen; vice-presidents, Messrs. J. B.
Alpress and A. Richardson; captain, Mr. J. H Eaves ;
sub-captain, Mr. J. M'Queen; hon. secretary, Mr. J. C.
Harris; treasurer, Mr. C. Zucker; committee, Messrs.
J. Howes, J. Strout, H. Bennett, G. Richardson.
Michael Bush has had a skiff built by Mr. F.
Morrow, of South Graften. It is made for double
seulla, being fitted for doable slides. It is 22 feet
overall, 16 in. in depth, and A ft. 6 ia. in beam. It is
constructed of best colonial mountain cedar planking,
with willow wood timber frame, and stem and keel of
Oregon pine—a timber that does not wa,rp—and it is
copper-fastened throughout. He is having the skiff
French-polished in preference to being varnished.
The four-oaied outrigger race between members
of the Glebe Bowing Club resulted en Saturday in a
win for Pairweather (stroke), Cox, Darrell, and
M'Diarmid. Thers were two beats, and the winners of
each heat had to row off. Walford’s crow won the
second heat easily, but in the final heat with Fair-
weather’s crew, their No, 8 twisted his outrigger, and
thsir opponents were allowed to puli over the course.
A good race might have bean witnessed but for th s
accident.
The match in light skiffs for -£lOO, between
W. Beach and C. Reynolds, was rowed over the champion
course on Saturday afternoon, but with such an un-
satisfactory result that the referee has decided that the
race shsll be rewed over again on Saturday. Beach wai
the favourite; but they had not gone a dozen lengths
before the darkey forged ahead, evidently on sufferance
Daring the course of the next mile and a half there were
several fouls, and Beach eased off, allowing Reynolds to
row the distance,
The Melbourne and Carlton Football Clubs are
not coming to Sydney after all, bat the Geelong Club is
willing to pay ns a visit. The secretary of the N S. W.
Football Association has ascertained from the trustees
of the Association Ground that the charge for the
ground will be 25 per cent, of the takings, the trustees
reserving the grand stand, booths, and the Geelong
Club paying expenses of advertising, ko. The trustees
are willing to give £3OO to any two Victorian clubs who
will give exhibition matches.
It was a near thing that To Whetu, the winner
of the Auckland Steeplechase, was not withdrawn from
that race, for shortly before the start his owner offered
Mr. Gallagher, who owned the second and third horses,
to scratch him for £2O. The owner of Catch 'em and
Bakau replied, “ If your cove is the only one I’ve to beat,
it won’t trouble me much." It only made a difference
of £5OO to the owner of Rakau by not accepting the
offer of the owner of Te Whetu, for he had backed him
coupled with Louie to that extent.
Captain E. E. Stubbs, «f Gainsville, Arkansas, ia
desirous of contesting with Dr. Carver. Ho will shoot
either with shot-gun or rifle, and offers to stake 1000 to
500 dola. that the doctor cannot emulate his feats with
the rifle. One task he proposes to perform is to suspend
three glass balls eight inches apart, upon one string,
hang it six yards high and, with a Winchester repeat-
ing rifle of 35 calibre, with the first shot, cut through
the string above the balls, and in three successive shots
break all three balls before reaching the ground.
The best two-year-olds of this season in N.Z.
are Nonsense (by Albany), No Name, and Siesta (by
Traduoer —Hammock, sister te Somnus). Nonsense
cleverly won the Champagne Stakes at the Christ-
church Autumn Meeting, and Siesta appropriated the
Nursery Handicap. At the same meeting Tasman (by
St. Albans —Zillah) secured the Epsom Stakes, while
the Flying Handicap fell to the Cassivellaunus—Envy
filly. The Poet got home first in the Selling Race, and
Nautilus (who is by Traduoer) be it three others in the
Free Handicap.
The entries for Grafton Eegatta close on 17th
May. The prizes are liberal: —£50 for the champion
race for all comers in wager boats, if two scullers from
Sydney or the other colonies etart; second prize, £lO.
For all comers palling a pair of sculls in light skiffs
(handicap); first prize, £25; second prize, £5. For all
skiffs not exceeding 22 feet in length; first prize, £lO ;
second, £2. For all comers pulling two pairs sculls In
light skiffs; first prize, £5O; second, £5. The Clarence
and Richmond R.B.N. Co. will convey the boats of
intending competitors to and from Grafton free of
charge.
The paper-hunt on Saturday by footballers was
of tbe roughest and most enjoyable description.
Thompson and Graham acted as " hares.” and a niae
merry chase they led their followers. At Bandwick,
the “ hounds " were completely nonplussed, having got
on a wrong track. This occurred two or three times
afterwards. Altogether about twelve miles were tra.
versed, cover being reached abeut 5 o’clock. Allen (of
the Bedfern Club) and Robinson (Wallaroo) were first,
home, five minutes behind the hares. Talk about an
other hunt.
The autumn meeting of the N.S. Wales Coursing
‘ Club was concluded on Friday at Loeholme. Contrary
to anticipations. Lisle Lad took the honours, defeating
Lamplighter for the Derby; and in the Trainers’ Cup,
which is run for by winners of the Derby and Oaks, he
defeated Tangle very comfortably. Following arc the
results:—Dockairne Stakes : My Lord, Lubra having
been drawn in the deciding course. Cup : Albert, with
Secret as runner-up. Derby: Lisle Lad, with Lamp .
lighter as runner-up. Oaks : Tangle, with Buttercup
as runner-up, Trainera’ Cup : Lisle Lad.
Watson’s Bay Regatta was successfully carried
out. The Permanent Artillery Band played, and the
course could be seen from the heights of the Bay.
Following are the results:—Amateurs in light skiffs,
two pairs of scull*: Rover (P. Mountcastle and J.
Maofarland). Fishing boats : Eva (H. Newton). Club
skiffs, pair sculls : F. Clarke 1 Sailing boats, 20 feet:
Rosetta (H. Clark) 1. Senior club skiffs, pair sculls:
Pinafore (C. H. Williams) 1. Bklff dingiea under
canvas: Victor (J. Hyland) 1. Canvas dingies under
eanvas: Grand Flaneur (H. Downs) 1.
Analysing the times of the performances by
M’lndoe and Iha English swimmers, our Australian
champion would seem to be among the “ first chop”
natators. But time is a very indefinite standard by
which to gauge Australian as against English perform-
a*cea. It has bsen found so by our scullers, and it is
more likely to be the case with our swimmers, seeing
that even the climate and the water may moke a great
difference. We presume that M’lndoe knows there are
lots of men who, though they can’t live wi’h Beckwith,
would make a match with the Australian.
The inventive genius of America has devised an
artificial pigeon, which will serve quite as well as the
real article for match shooting. The substitute, which
is made of hard clay, is projected from a trap for forty
or fift> yards, and by m’ans of mechanical apparatus its
flight can be given the requisite deviations, both hori-
zontical and vertical, fro n a straight line. Private
experiments were made with this humane invention in
America, a few. months ago, and at Birmingham. After
a long and exhaustive trial, the experts pronounced the
clay pigeon an “excellent substitute for the living
bird.”
The University Football Club held their annual
meeting on April 26, when the following office-bearers
were elected: —President, Professor Llversidge; vice-
president, Mr. H. M. Faithfull, Mi.; hon secretaries
Messrs. H. Roberts and H. H. See; general committee,
Messrs. E. Raper, 8.A., 0. Metcalfe, C. Tange, 8.A.,
A. J. Buekland, J. M'Guinn. and C. RygateJ Selection
Committee—first fifteen, Messrs. E. Raper, 8.A., J. A.
Flynn, 8.A., and H. Roberts; second fifteen, Messrs.
H. H. See, P. Rygate, and J. M’Guinn. Delegates to
the Southern Bugbv Unl'm, Messrs. W. Edmonds.
M.A , and Q. C. Waldron, M.A.
The Eedfem Football Club held their annual
meeting on April 27. Caps of honour were prevented to
Messrs. A. Phillips and J. Byrnes, Mr. R. Monday re-
ceived tho President’s trophy for best all-ronnd play ;
Mr. A. Payton for most improvement in the game was
awarded Mr. W. J. Baker’s trophy; and Mr. J. J.
Allen’s trophy for most drop-kick goals was given to
Mr. A. Phillips for the onlv goal made during the sea-
son. Following are tha office bearer* : President, Mr.
E Barton, M.L.A.; vice-pre*idents, Messrs. T. A.
Coghlan and W. J. Baker; hon. secretary, Mr. J. J.
Allen; hon. treasurer, Mr. E. B. Taylor.
Nocturnal ramblers of different sexes have,
during the past week, in the neighbourhood of Moore
Park, been astonished and startled, by the sudden
appearance and disappearance of a yonth at full speeds
This was not a case of “stop thief I” but that of a “dark”
man training for th# sports on the Association Ground
on Saturday. On the ground itself training has been
brisk. There is one youth who does his walk regularly
every afternoon. When he gets opposite the pavilion,
he looks at the clock ; on the apposite side of the ground
he examines his watch. His trial time for the mile
was llmin. He means to get Mr. Arnold’s prize for
best record.
A Dunedin (N.Z.) writer describes tho “manage-
ment" of the totallsator at the recent race*. After
telling how he was bandied in getting a ticket on the
Cup, he says : ” On# gentleman had every button ripped
from his beautifully.got-up white waistcoat; another
had two ribs fractured; & third had his sovereign
knocked out ef hi* hand, and could not for the life of
him get his hand into his pocket for another; whilst a
fourth gave a * fiver.’ expecting £4 hack, but was hustled
out of the way, and never received it." However, this
is better than wagering with a welsher, and having won,
finding you have lost your own money. The totalisatoi
machine cannot run away. This is speaking Franck-ly,
The intercolonial eight-oar match resulted in a
victory for Sydney after a well-contested race, in
which the condition and style of the little crew
may be said to have won half the battle. N.S Wales
gained a length in the first 300 yards, and increased it,
but the Victorians came again, and a great race ensued,
the cornetalks finishing with a lead of a length and a
half, in 20min 47sec —very good time, it being a full-ebb
tide. No. 7 of the Victorians missed the first stroke,
and their bow and No. 3 got very much distressed before
the race was over. A banquet was given to the winners
in the evening, when the chairman presented each of
the N.S. Wales crew with a silver oar as a memento of
the victory.
Dubbo Races, April 27 and 28.—First day. The
Malden Plate was a good rac», won by Asoot. Hippy
won the Selling Race easily. Four started for the
Dubbo J.C. Handicap, Byron being the favourite: a very
good race for the first mile and a half, when Harebell
drew away and won easily at the finish. Prince Sterling
won the Mares’ Produce Stakes in a canter. A very
pretty race took place for the Shorts, resulting in
Sperasza winning by a length.—Second day. Ten
started for the Flying Handicap: Hilltop won com.
fortably. Despatch won the Prince of Wales Stakes
easily. Harebell won the Macquarie Plate by a head.
Prince Sterling walked over for the Siras’ Produce
Stakes. Balthazar was the favourite for the Railway
Purse, and a great race took place, resulting in a win
for Speranza by half a length. The Forced Handicap
was won by Lily.
The Aahfield Amateur Athletic Club’s sports
were held in the Ashfiald cricket ground oa Saturday.
Following are the results of the events:—loo yards’ Plat
Race, F. L. King 1; Half-mile Walking Handicap, W.
Lamrock, scratch, 1; 150 yards’ Handicap, boys under
17, S. Wilkinson, scratch, 1; 440 yards’ Handicap, A.
Houghton, scratch, 1; 120 yards’ Handicap Hurdle, W.
Devlin, scratch, 1; One Mile Walking Handicap, A.
Cropley, 70 yards, 1; 220 yards’ Siamese Race. W. Lam-
rock, and A. Houghton 1; 440 yards All Schools, J.
Vaughan, Collegiate School, Glebe, 1; One Mile Han-
dicap, F. Watson, 70 yards, 1; 300 yards’ Handicap, A.
Houghton, 4 yards, 1; High Jump, W. Lamrock 1; 150
yards’ Handicap, H. C. Moss, scratch, 1; 100 yards’,
boy* under 15, J. Dunn, 1; 300 yards’ (Strangers’) Han-
dicap, A. P. Phillips, scratch, 1; 80 yards’ Sack Race,
W. Devlin, 1; 220 yards’ Handicap, H. C. Moss, 3 yards,
1; 150 yards’ Consolation Handicap, Aitken 1.
The Autumn matches of the Port Jackson
Swimming Club were held in Robinson’s Baths in tbe
Domain on Saturday afternoon. Following are the re-
sults Boys under eight. 50 yards : A. Foley 1. Boys
under 11, 100 yards : T. Ricketts 1. Members’ Maiden
Race, 200 yards : A. Stacey 1. The ruuniag headers
contest was won by H. Tytherleigh, with 9 points; E.
Cavill second, 8 points. The 1000 yards’ champion rase
brought out three competitors—W. M’lndoe, W. F.
Corbett, and Q. Childs; M’lndoe took the lead, and
though Corbett gamely struggled to overtake him, be
won by about 15 yards, in 14 min. 34| sec., the fastes
time on record, beating Beckwith’s time by 34 sec.
Diving for objects: B. Stephens 1. All comers, 100
yards: S. Wilson 1. Swimming in clothes, 100 yards:
J. Coghlan 1. Members’ handicap, 300 yards, was won
by W. F. Kloster, whose time was 4 min.; W f.
Corbett and G. Warne tied for second place. The dis-
tance diving prize was won by R. Stephens, and the 200
yards’ race for members of the press was a walk over
for Mr. F. C. Hogg.
The twelfth annual meeting of the Sydney Row-
ing Club was held on April 26. During the year, four
skiffs, built by Barnett, and one clinker outrigger four,
built by Donnelly and Sullivan, have been added to the
club property. The stock of boat* now amounts to 30,
good order. There was not a good attendance at the
meeting, and the chairman, in a deprecatory speech,
laid; “ It seemed an extraordinary thing that men who
had been in the club for a great number of years would
go down and use the club property, and yet give ihs
committee the greatest possible trouble to get their
subscriptions from them. Only £425 had been banded
in as subscriptions this year, as against £5BB last year,
and yet they had very nearly as many active members
on the roll.” This is rough oa the active member*.
We recommend the committee to strictly enforce
the rule that after a certain date no one shall us# the
club material who has failed to pay his subscription.
Following are the office-bearers elected: President,
Hon G. Thornton, M.L.C.; vice-presidents, Messrs.
T A. Dibbs, and Q. L. Deloitte; captain, Mr. W. Cope •
hon. treasurer, Mr. L. G. J. Bennett; hon. sec., Mr, C.
de B. Deloitte; committee. Messrs. W. G. Analow, J.
Arthur, J. Thomson, J. Brodie, C. W, Gaden, J. E.
Myers, W. P. Simpson, A. J. Soutar.
The third racing club in Queensland, following
Brisbane and Rockhampton, is that of the rich
Barcoo district. Its annual meeting is fixed for
July Ist, at Blackall. Tha winners of the Bris-
bane cup last year, and the “ big money,” at
Eoakhampton, are both in training at Blackall,
besides two unknoVn flyers; one bought at the
sale of the late Sir J. P. Bell’s stud, and the other
from the Hawkesbury. Tha money spent in racing at
Aramac, Tambo, and Isisford (all towns near Blackall),
during the winter season, far exceeds the added money
of the Brisbane and Rockhampton clubs But then tha
filthy lucre is plentiful in these rich pastoral districts
just now, and fortunes are easily made in a few years
by squatters and tradesmen. The jumps for the
steeplecnasas on the Barcoo would frighten many hur-
dle-racers down south. If a horse doesn’t jump them
he must come to grief. Blackall, who ran laird in tho
Hawkesbury hurdle race, only a very second rate
ateepeihasec in the town nhe e ha was bred and from
which he derived his name.
The Deniliquia races came off on April 27.
Mulatto and Star of the West ran a dead heat for the
Plying Stakes. Star of tha West was scratched for tbe
run off, leaving Mulatto the winner. Another dead.heat
took place in the race for tho Yamma Onp between
Kne and Napoleon. In the run-off, the former wot.
Tipperary Boy won the Handicap Hurdle race, Mulatto
the Danihquiu Cup. and Wild Dayrell. tho Prince cf
Wales Stakes. The second day’s racing eventuated
as follows Maiden Plate: Moama Jack, 1. Warbreccan
Handicap: Mulatto, 1. Jockey Club Handicap: Star cf
the West, 1. The Selling Hurdle Race fell through for
want of entries. In the Consolation Stakes. Phantom,
who was first favourite, came in last, the race being won
by Coquette. Phantom’s jockey was disqualified by the
stewards, and, at a subsequent meeting of the committee
“he Club, the horse, owner, and jockey were dis-
qualified for twelve months. A protest was entered
against Wdd Dayrell for swerving in the Prince of
Wales Stakes, on the first day. The protest was enter-
tained, and Eric, the second horse, declared the winner.
The match for the Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup
between the Warwick and University Clubs was con-
tinued on Saturday, when the Warwicks increased their
B j°TAr,'’ o "tr* Hiddlestone obtaining the splendid scoie
ft • no * i Warwicks played with ten men,
u j ,; U }l ei j al^y objecting to any batting but those who
had fielded on the previous Saturday. This is sharp
cricket, and is especially noticeable in this instance, as
Hiddlestone was thereby probably prevented from beat-
mg the highest individual score in this season’s
matches for the trophy, viz.. 111, and as Allen, one of
the Lmversity team, is one of the lucky and skilful
twain who have obtained that score, A. Bannerman
being the other, it would have saved the University
Uub some unpleasant strictures had they allowed the
eleventh man to bat. Ranger and Watson scored 14
and 18 respectively, and helped Hiddlestone to bring
his score so close up to tho goal, but M’Donald, who
generally scores well, was got rid of for one. Luland
and Thompson, from the Oriental Club, played with the
Warwicks ; The University are likely to have some
difficulty in making up the score, for already in the
second innings, three good wickets, Allen, Wright and
Teece, have fallen for 12 runs. ’ °
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A handsomely-mounted and carved silver lug
has been offered by Mr. Joseph Hart for presentation
to the highest scorer in the Globe Strathmore Cricket
Club for the season 1881-1882. The Glebe Strathmores
are fortunate iu having their Hart in the right
P lac ® The two men who tried to get clear with the
racehorses. Pope and Gay Lad, were recently brought
““P Maytown, Palmer River, by Senior-constable
Attendge and native troopers. For seven weeks that
officer had to watch his prisoners, with only a tent and
cfe , aln * for (heir custody, being camped on the other
.-U l he Mitchell, awaiting its falling. Tha brands
of the horses were so cleverly changed as to be un.
recognisable; bat after several weeks the false brands
ccKan to disappear, leaving only the originals
At the Narrabri Athletic Sports, on May 21, the Grand
Handicap is for £2O, to be run in three distances ...In
response to Edwards’challenge, Clifford has offered to
contest a six; days’ go-as-you please with him for £2Ol
» side The added money for the Bligh Amateur Race
Club’s meeting, on the 22nd instant, amounts to ov< r
£2OO Mata is reported to have broken down in N.Z.
At the sale of the Grange stud at Brisbane, on
April 28, there was but a poor attendance. Only nine
horses were sold, the hiehest being Sunderland, 120
guineas; Constance, £100; and Foxiana, 61 guineas.
It will be remembered that Mr. Kent purchased the
lot for £lO,OOO Mr. Bundey, commodore of the S.A.
Yacht Club, arrived by the Indus at Adelaida on
April 27. He was received by the members of
tbe club at Glenelg, and en leaving the steamer
was presented with a congratulatory address
The City Fire Brigade Band last Saturday divided
itself into two parties, married and single, and then
proceeded to the grounds of the Gladesville Hospital
for the Insane to play a cricket match. The single men
won it by 23 rune, the scores being—married 35 ; single,
58 When the isatch was concluded the band played a
few selections. They were then allowed to return to
Sydney. The banquet came off on Wednesday evening.
TheWallsend Turf Club have purchased the race-
course heretofore used by them from J. W. Brooks
Lake Cudgellioo races, April 27. Maiden Plate.
Princess Alice. Handicap, Fill* de Pair. Two-year-old
Plate, Mabel. Hurdle race, Fille ds Pair. Consolation
Stakes, Queensborongh Young Edwards, of the
Yarra, will come over with F.ttes to train him for the
sculling (amateur) championship A tennis court has
lean erected in Melbourne which is declared to surpass
any in the world Mr. Eiohardsodfs c g Independent
and Mr. W. Ferris’ o g Friendship run half a mile, for
£2O a side, on the Parramatta Racecourse, to-morro v
(Friday), 7 st. up The South Australian Jockev
Club and the Adelaide Racing Club have both purchased
new totalisators The Anaandale and King’s School
Bowling Clubs met on Saturday on the Parramatta green
to play for the champion club trophy, the match was
won by the former by 24 poin's. ...A breakwater is to l-o
formed across Lake Torrens for the preservation of fish.
....Albion v Pearl, at Balmain, resulted in a win for th*
former by 13 inns A 125 yards’ race for £2O comes <ff
on May 13 between D’Arietta and Wilson Mr. A. W.
Fittes, who has been selected to represent Victoria iu
the forthcoming sculling race in Sydney for the Krug
Champagne Cup, has been in constant practise on the
LowerYarra, starting every evening from the Footscray
Bowing Club shed.
• * •
Tho sculling match for *£loo, over the Thames
championship course, on March 4, between H. Andslev.
of Waterloo, and H. Ctasper, of Wandsworth, resulted
in an easy victory for tho former. Odds of 2to 1 were
laid on Clasper The third £3O Sprint Handicap.
promoted by the proprietors of the London Sportsman.
was concluded on March 4, when the final heat was
won by J. Atteridge, of Hampstead, who defeated the
favourite, Payley, of Woodhouse, by a yard A more-
meat has been inaugurated to institute a grand regatt i
in honour of Haalan’s visit to Winnipeg next July. Tbe
sum of §lO,OOO is to be raised so as to make a sufficiently
large purse to attract all the crack oarsmen of the world.
....A match was made in New York on February 16, be-
tween Tom Sweeney, a recent importation from England,
and Tom Donahue, of Nsw Haven, Conn., to box with
hard glover, under the rule* of the prize ring, within
100 miles of New York, for 1,000 dols. aside A four-
mile walking match for £lOO took place on February 27,
at the Lillie-bridge grounds, London, between A. Han-
cock and J. Cash, resulting in an easy win for Hancoct,
. On March 4, Mr. W. G. George won the race for the Cros.
Country Championship of England...OnMarch 6, George
Perkins and Charles Pullman sculled over the Thames
Championship Course for £lOO. Perkins, on whom odds
of 3 to 1 were laid, won very easily by rather over five
lengths... A main of cocks was decided near New York on
Wednesday, February 15, between Troy and Long Island,
the conditions being that each aide should show fifteen
birds, ranging from 41b. to slb, 120 z., a*d fight all that
fell in for 100 dols. a battle and 600 dols. th# odd fight.
Thirteen pairs were matched, but Long Ifiand had
matters almost her own way from the start, and won
the main at the ninth fight, the t c >re being—Long
Island 7, and Troy 2 Tha London Sportsman has r«.
ceived a letter from Jake Gandanr, in which the Orillian
oarsman again offers to row Godwin and Largan for £lOO
a side, and Boyd for £2OO a side St. Louis is said to
possess a very promising oarsman in Fred Gastrick.


RILEY BROTHERS,
r ’7
r.f
r. 3
SYDNEY.
306 GEORGE STREET,'
600 GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STREET,
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DBAPEHS
IN THB
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE OEIGINATOES OP THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blanket*
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or ua-
bleached Sheeting
,0 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
£ yards Wineey, Flint, or
other Dress material
§ yards Strong Cotton
ghirjto*
pairs Wemi
„ Yemen's Stockings
S pairs Men’s Seeks
1 pair of White er Coloured
Stays __ .
(0 yds. Strong Cotton Tlek
yards Oambtoon fee
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large Size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Da a ask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’ketehiefa
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
•ins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooka
and Eyes, &o. &o.
Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Flanl. Petticoat
4 Intents’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
} Infants’ Long Flannels
Infants* Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
1 Intent’s Stay Bond
| dozen Infants* Diaper
Squares
Puff box, Puff * Powder
1 Flannel Hoad Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christ’ing Bobo
1 In f a n t’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
?|uilted Silk
nfant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair I*arge Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the aboTO are good
wearing articles.
i Men’s Clothing
Bale.
nit Tweed Ceat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
Irimean shires, large size
est Cotton Shirts, large
rise
est Pelt Hat, any size
air strong Cotton Socks
Phite Handkerchiefs
lelt or pair of Braces
air Strong Boots, Col-
lars. Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
bodies’ Chemises
>air Drawers
night-gowns
jadies’ Canutoles
jadies* Petticoats
Children’s Chemises
>airs Drawers
night-gowns
Petticoats
The above are made of
>d longcloth and nieely
mined. If desired, other
soles may be ordered in-
iad e£ any of the above.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or eoleured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White .ow
t yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Thread, &o.
£5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS’
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Intents* Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infanta’ Long Flannels
1 Haireord Monthly Gown
2 Intents’ Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
Or Steamer
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Eobe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
£2
S t o c k m a n’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Tro' sera
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
S Pairs Strosg Socks
3 Pockethankerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
1 Elatsie Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
£2 Ladies’ Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
We wish it to be distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOB BOTS.
School Suite, 2s 6d
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Pienie Saits ,3s lid
Sunday Bulbs ,7s Od
Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
School Hats, la
Bailer Hats, Is
Bhakspeare Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, Did
Linen Collars, 4id
Elastic Braces, 3d
Cotton Socks, 3d
Nectiee, 3d
FOB LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12s 9d
Satteen Prints, 3|d
Dress Materials, 4|d
Black Alpaca, sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hate, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, la 0d
Trimmed Drawers, la 3d
Worked Petticoats, la lid
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill Umbrellas, Is 6d
Best Bid Gloves, 2s 6d
Muslin Edging, 2id
Black Crape, la lid
School Hats, 9d
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOB MEN.
Working Shirts, Is 6d
White Shirts, 2a 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Cellars, 4|d
Seamless Books, 6d
Elastic Braces, 6d
Tweed Suits, 19a 6d
Summer Saits, 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9s 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed Pr.gets, 13s 9d
Tweed Goats, 10s 6d
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakspeare Hats. 2s 6d ■
Colonial Tweed, 2s 6d
Silk Umbrellas 7 S Sd
FOB THE HOUSE.
American Longcloth, 2id
Nightshirt Calico, 4id
Gr«y Calico, 2|d
Double width Calico, 7id
Pillow Calico, 6id
Swansdown Calico
White Flannel, 7sd
Wide Flannel, Hid
Scarlet Flannel, 7 id
Saxony Flannel, lljd
Cotton Tick, 3|d
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, sid
Unbleached Sheeting, 7id
White Sheeting, 7id
Twilled Sheeting, 9id
Mosquito Net, 6id
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS PBICE LlST.—Persons who may read this
advertisement must not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
common. They are by no means the commonest goods.
W« have lower prises still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
but with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
SOCIAL
Bnlli dissipated on Wednesday week. The
excuse was. laying one of the foundation stones of a
church. Wo say one, because the others have been ly-
ing there for two years, patiently awaiting this particu-
lar one. The Dean and four other clergymen officiated.
We are informed that in the cavity of the stone, a copy
of The Bulletin was deposited—afMr being,’ of course,
carefully perused by the Dean and Ms colleague*. A
tree lunch made things pleasaili, and in the evening a
tea struggle took place in the Assembly rooms. Ihe
Statement that the Dean acted as M.C. for the dancers
Is, piobally, a libel.
• * •
Last Wednesday, the pretty suburb of Leich-
hardt was gay : occasion, the marriage of Mr. W. Webb
and Miss Henrietta Widgery. The bride looked extreme-
ly happy in white eaahn ore, bodice cut en militaire, with
white satin puffs om cuffs and shoulders; skirt elabor-
ately trimmed with ten rows of point d’alencon lace,
the train puffed and gathered and all edged with white
Swiss ruffling. Miss Emmie and Annie, the bride’s
sisters, were in fawn llama, cuirasses cut square,
trimmed and piped with brown satin. Mount Victoria
is the spot chosen for the honeymoon.
i» • •
A fancy dress ball was given by Mrs. Crook, of
•• Denelbie,” in the School of Arte, Parramatta, on the
20th April last, at which some sixty couples enjoyed
themselves. The company comprised visitors from
Sydney and the suburbs. The most noticeable
characters present were two sailor lassies (daughters of
the hostess); a lady as “ Ariadne,” in a white linen gar-
meat (an exact copy of that on the Statue); a lady from
Seven Hills as “ America," in spangled stars and
stripes; a lady from Glenmore Eotd—who was declared
the belle—as a “ Castilian Maiden,” in a pink silk skirt
trimmed with bands of gold lace and black velvet, black
velvet bodice, velvet hat with marabout feathers; a
young lady as Mabel in "Patience;" a modest-looking
augbl as a “ Sister of Charity;’’ and several " Sea
Nymphs,’’i" Shepherdesses," etc. The party separated
at 4 30, having thoroughly enjoyed themselves. The
music and refreshments were first class.
# # •
Yass grandees bave been fooled by some prac-
tical joker. Invitations to a Fancy Dress Ball were
issued to the Mayor, the Inspector of Police, and
leading residents cf Taas. The ball was to take place
at Cunningham Plains, in connection with an annnal
race meeting. The wires went to work, costumes
galore came from town, and " ye menne of ye oldene
tyme” departed with joy to the locality mentioned
above, only to find the whole thing was a sell.
• • *
At Albury, last week, the leading commission
agent and his wife gave a ball. It was fashionable, and
forty couples were there, who kept up dancing till
early. The charming hostess was in pink satin
skirt under Madras muslin polonaise, Swiss belt and
sash and sprays of jasmine, showing her graceful figure
to advantage. A young bride from Albury wore a black
satin with cream lace, cardinal and silver floral adorn-
ments, and a chaplet »f same. A married lady from
near Germanton was pretty in pink silk, with bread
Brussels lace and lace cape. The wife of an Albury
bank official appeared in white silk, long train, crewel
bands of white silk, and headdress of pink flowers and
fern leaves. The wife of the tallest Albury dector
showed a handsome figure iu white silk, pink and whits
kilting and draperies of lace, simple but pretty head-
gear. Prom Qerogery came a yoang lady in pale blue
cashmere skirt, satin body and sleeves adorned with
cardinal rose* ; generally admired. A Germanton young
lady sustained her reputation for taste in a cream
hroobb, with lines of silver, and coral flowers. Silver
thrsad bands over the hair. The niece of an "old
identity" sported pink, choice laoe and pink. Two
charming sisters from Burrumbuttock had numerous
admirers; the younger iu cream silk skirt under Madras
muslin, and silver bands in the hair; the elder, same,
with pink killings. Two sisters from Thurgoena were
pretty, and greatly admired; the elder in black with
underskirt, satin body, drapings of black Madras
muslin and white lace, cardinal and cream flowers;
wreath of holly and silver. The younger, a debutante,
wore blue sal in with kitting*, cream lace, torget-me-
nots, and liliss-of-tho-vaUey, with chaplets of same.
Altogether, the display of beauty and dresses was
excellent, and the ball a pleasant item.
• • •
A largo party was held at “ Thornbury,” the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Slevers, Petersham, on
Friday last. In addition to local guests, the train con-
veyed many down, and the most enjoyable night was
spent by the dancers; break up at 3.
• * *
An enjoyable ball took place in the Temper-
ance Hall, Wollongong, on Tuesday, 26th April, being
the bixth annual celebrat ion of the “ lllawarra Lodge"
of Oddfellows, the premises were tastefully decorated
with ferns oud flags, the company numerous, the music
of the Wollongong brass band satisfactory, and the
supper, by the Wollongong Catering ro, excellent.
Costumes were varied and nice. A sp-onci i robe of pale
pink satin, trimmed with pink lace, 1 ait bow satin,
pearls and flowers, was worn by a tall d .1k young lady,
who was voted belle of the evening. Amongst others
much admired were —a pink oatm-ja. cloth, wnite grena-
dine and pink satin, on a neat gul'sh figure; a oiack
grenadine spangled with gold, on a vivacious young
lady wto dancea well; a peacoca green silk, with while
lace and flowers; two sisteisiu olawS. veivet trimmed
with rnby satin; a white and pa e green tarlatan with
sateen bodice, on a handsome Unanderra Brunette; two
pale grveu dresses trimmed witu wmta lace and plash
reset., from the postal residence; ai other Uuaedtrra
lauy, in black with maize lace, sißer. auri coiai flowers,
lookcii well, as did two Beikefcy lades in pink and
shiii, and white and gold spots A Dapio cede was
clad in pink, and spaugiod overskirt, and ttie daughter
ot a J.P. from Bn ill wore black, with white and pale
pink trimmings. Dancing and cards were indulged in
till nearly darn, wncu all retired, perfectly satisfied
with the Call.
* * *
A ball was given by Mr. Thomas, of Wivenboe,
Camden, on Friday, 21st April, ,at which most iufluen-
tial people ot the district attended.
• • •
Last Friday, in the Oddfellows’ Hall, there was
a Bachelors’ Ball of the pleasantest kind Over forty
couples wore present and scarcely a guest was under 15
or Oier thirty |whiie the attrac.iou ol the ladies renders
it doubtful wuclhtr thsru will beany bmlulors at all
next year. Plain und-iaucy Ureases were worn. From
Pyrmont came a lady in peach silk and white cashmere
elaborately puffed, pearls and wreath to match; and
her pretty Bister in pale blue and cashmere. ‘‘Mari-
tana" was from Balmain, and her sister was “ Star-
light,” in gauzy blue and stars. A lady of ths 16th
century wore rich ruby skirt and bodice, with light-
blue tunic, and ruby velvet cap with pearls and blue
feather. The daughter of a leading bookseller was an
" Archer” —an archer girl was never seen—and it was
’arrowing to seethe damage done to her bows! Two
ladies appeared as “Carmen”—and we’ve been ‘‘calmin’’
our agitated soul ever since they disappeared. "Night,”
and a Scotch lassie were attractive. A nice and novel
dress was worn by a pretty maiden; black satin, with
spsngks ali over ‘ to boots." There were two
young ladies as jockeys, very pretty and proper of
course, but—we object to spurs. A piquante young
lady in white and red, and a William-street belle in
snowy dress were both very pretty. Grosvenor from
•• Patience" was the chief gentleman’s fancy dress. The
belle was from Woolloomooloo or over the water; hard
to say which. Compagnoni’s catering gave every satis-
faction, so did the music, and the break up was about
4 a m.
* # #
Tbe ball to Dr. Beaney at Melbourne is to be
a big affair. The date is 18th May, which will allow of
the International Bowlers being present before starting
for Sydney.
• tt *
Some of the dresses at tbe Asbfield Sports on
Saturday last are well worth mentioning. To wit, one
pretty young lady wore a costume composed of brown
velvet and material ot same colour, the velvet predomi-
nating ; brown straw May Queen hat, trimmed entirely
with magnificent crimson feathers slightly tipped with
brown. This was the handsomest headgear on the
ground. The young lady’s sister wore a similar cos-
tame, but her feathers were neither so massive nor of
so rich in colonr.JTwo dainty little maidens wore plum-
coloured silk dresses trimmed with cream lace, and
cream hats with feathers to match the dresses. A
handsome terracotta dress trimmed with stamped
myrtle-green velvet was much admired, A fawn-
coloured silk mixed with brocaded silk of the same hue
set off the fine figure of a tall lady to the best advantage.
Last Saturday was tho first day this season when to
meet one attired in a cool costume was quite an excep-
tion, so a good ide 1 could be gained of the prevailing
"olecirs and stales of dress for the coming winter All
the dresses were most teliborately ittade, so thaj ladies*
dressmakers* bills may be e±peoted to be larger than
ever, for all tb*se pnfflags, killings, and centerings tike
time to execute. Myrtle-green, plum colour, and
brown are amongst the favourite colours for the coming
season.
♦ # *
Mr. Batt, of Batt, Rodd, and Purves, sires a
private picnic on a large scale on Thursday (to-day)
down the harbour.
• • •
,A fashionable and pretty wedding at Ipswich
(Q ) was that of Mr. D. E. Eogers with Miss E.A.Bowers,
eldest daughter of Mr. J. M. Bowers, on Wednesday,
12th April. The bride looked well in rich white satin
dress with Bretonne lace, orange blossoms and tulle
veil. Four bridesmaids in pink satin, and five more in
bine; all wearing white caps with Bretonne lace,
feathers to match, and plush sashes. The youngest
pair were only throe years old, and attracted much
attention. There were masy spectator* in and around
St. Paul’s Church, and after the bride’s father had
entertained a large party at breakfast, the couple left
for Hampstead for the honeymoon, prior to going North.
» • •
The Q-arden Palace is to be the scene of another
theatrical-church fair in July. All stall-holders are to
appear in fancy coetume —no particular period or country
insisted upon; so that the fair pleaders may have plenty
of scope in their choice.
* • •
Newington College sports came off in the
school grounds on Saturday afternoon, and were largely
attended. Many visitors from Sydney were present,
fully one half of whom were ladies. The majority were
attired in a quiet, unobtrusive way, dark costumes
preponderating. Several muslin dresses, brightened
with snowy scarves, looked very well in ths early after-
noon, but later chill breezes rendered them out of place.
A band in attendance regaled visitors’ ears with
“ Patience," “ Olivette," and " Tambout-Major.”
* • •
One of the belles of the Garden Palace Fayre
has arranged matters with a Darling Point gentleman,
the handsome son of a deceased benefactor of the work-
ing man, and one of N.S. W.'s foremost colonists.
« • •
Eandwick was excited last Thursday,
St. Jude’s pretty little church was the centre of
attraction, during the marriage service uniting Mr.
H. Francis, of the National Assurance Society, and
Miss Helena Kiss, the eldest daughter of the well-
known auctioneer. The bride was attired in white
satin, orange wreath, and long veil. There were
four bridesmaids : two young ladies in short dresses of
"greenery yallsry" satin, trimmed with pink satin,
and two pretty little girls in cream satin, with pink
satin scarf drapery—all with cream plush hats and pink
feathers, pink hose, aod black shoes. Large number
of guests present, and the organist successfully
played a dirge instead of that beautiful hymn, “ Kiss
me quick," which would evidently have been more
apropos under the circumstances. Wedding breakfast at
“ Ventnor," residence of the bride’s father. Honey-
moon, Mount Victoria.
• # *
The return Ball to Mayor Gelding of Peter-
sham is fixed for 7th June. It’s a pity. That date is
already taken up by the North Shore Eowing Club Ball,
in the Vestibule, and to avoid clashing, the Petersham-
ites might take one of the other 31S days available in
the year,
* * •
At the Mayoress’s reception on Friday after-
noon a larger attendance than usual was noticed, and
the display of rich and handsome toilettes was a striking
feature. Mrs. John Harris appeared in violet
satin robe, velvet bodice, cream lace cap garnished
with pearls, and diamond jewellery. Mrs. C. J.
Roberts wore a costume of brown silk, bonnet to match,
lined with quilted gold satin, and a cluster of splendid
Marshal Neil roses at the throat. Mrs. Marks, of
" Qlenrock,” wore a prune brocade dress, black dol-
man heavily trimmed with jet, black jetted head dress;
and her daughter sat oif a tasteful combination of
claret moire and cloth, with a becoming claret velvet
hat, brightened with bronze beads round the brim.
Another Darling Point lady’s pretty features were
framed in a little black bonnet, while a dress of black
corded silk, sparingly relieved with heliotrope, further
set off her charms. From Darlingnurst came a lady
decked iu scarlet plumed head dress, black silk cos-
tume trimmed with jet passementerie, but a gold-
coloured hair net somewhat marred the general enact.
Miss Neill, of the City B ink, was attirei in black cash-
mere, with a large black laco hat, the sombreness of
her toilet being averted by a kerchief of delicate
lavender silk knotted round the throat. One of the
most striking costumes present was that of Mrs. Purves:
ivory satin, very much puffed and gathered, and
a cuaroiing bonaet of ruby velvet; the owner’s
brunette beauty and her dress were both admired.
Mrs. Williamson was tastefully enveloped in a
showy toilette of rnby satin and brocb e; bonnet
corresponding. Much admired were two drosses—
mother’s and daughter’s apparently—of navy blue satin,
one decorated with cream lace flounces ; steel
embroidery and fringe in blue satin bonaot. The
Colonial Architect’s wife wore light-brown silk, cream
garniture, brown and cream bonnet, and cream
veil spotted with white chenille, in circle* as large
as threepenny pieces, imparting a peculiar effect at a
distance. Her second daughter, Mrs. Mixon, wore pea-
cock blue dress, cherry-ripe bonnet of crea -. lined with
black velvet; Miss Hslloran, bl-ok dress, bom ot ditto,
violets by way of re iof. Me-.sr*. G Euesell, F. William-
son, E. B. Smith, and Eev. J. Baruicr lent Ibeir presence,
and were very big planets amongst the morn helming
feminine constellations. A pr'gramme of music,
wherein Mrs. Middleton, Miss E. A Foxall, Mr. E.
Foxall, and two or thres otters, whose n> uics were not
on the dainty purple and gold forms provided, were
allotted pianoforte end vocal solos, a due , and a couple
of glees, and en ertainsdtae guests from naif-past three
till five. Miss Foxall sang, ss she tlw >ys does, charm-
ingly, and her brother was no kss t ucoosi ful.
* * *
The twelfth meeting of the Sydney Amateur
Athletic Club will be held on the Association Ground,
on Saturday, the 6th inst., and large entries have been
made. The new plan of selling tickets is being tried
this meeting.
• • •
Ultra-fashionable was the gathering on the
lawn of the Botanic Gardens on Monday afternoon,
when the Nelson’s band performed a choice selection of
airs, and the Nelson’s officers, ia blue and gold, glad-
dened the eyes of Sydney’s daughters. Upwards of
sixteen hundred persons were present, and the glorious
sunshine, tempered by a May breeze, revealed a grand
display of winter toilettes. A tall, graceful girl's figure,
in white clinging drapery, with navy bine silk adorn-
ments, white bonnet and feather, came in for plenty of
admiration. In bronze green brocaded jacket, green
satin skirt, green bonnet with profuse metallic beading,
Mrs. Griffiths won nc any glances. Two attendants from
the Chelsea Bun House (Garden Palace) did extensive
promenading, the taller and younger, in a handsome
maroon satin, very bouffante, and pretty velvet Marie
Stuart hat, encircled by a deep red plume—her companion
in black satin robe, and white plush Bubens head-dress.
Very charming was Mrs, Salomons, with her snowy
tresses, and bright dark eyes, beneath a becoming black
bonnet, a bunch of yellow blossoms at one side, a cos-
tume of black silk and deep lace mantle. Miss Salo-
mons’ toilette was a short skirt of striped black tatin,
black cloth jacket fastened with silver buttons, large
black plush hat of the Cavalier style. A fair young
face was framed in brown with a lining of buttercup-., a
bouquet of the same blossoms fastened at the throat,
and the dainty figure shown to advantage in a costume
composed of dark chocolate moire and cloth; her sister
was clad in a similar dress, but wearing a black velvet
hat adorned with creamy flowers; both were greatly ad-
mired, In claret toilette, white and claret bonnet, a
very brilliant brunette looked her best. A handsome com-
bination of myrtle green satin and velvet, on an elegant
form, was noticed, hut a grey fur hat of gigantic pro-
portions spoilt the effect The plump and svelte forms
of two sisters, daughters of a rev., were clad in cream
costumes, the younger lady wearing a hat surrounding
her face like a halo. A bride wore a rich wine-coloured
velvet and cashmere dress, with toque to harmonise,
• « •
It is a long time since tbe Protestant Hall has
been graced by such a bevy of fashion and beauty
as was the case on the evening of the 26 bh
ultimo. A fine looking young lady was attired in a
dress which sdited her style well. It was a white lustre
dtess, made to fit tight, arid the faultless figure, with
Spanish lace sleeves terminating above the elbow, thus
leaving exposed a good arrii; neck toilette cut low. a
breast knot of real flowers. The most remarkable, if least
tasteful, dress for a concert hall. tVas ene which
was quite Puritanical in its simplicity. It was a
black dress with white fichu crossed over the chest,
and a plain white muslin cap covering the whole of the
ke&d down to the nape of the neck Miss Madeline St,
Clair wore the same tasteful cream costume which
looked so pretty at Mr. M'Quada’s concert. There
were numberless pale pinks and pale bines. It was said
in some of the latest home faahions that the hair was to
be worn high up from theneok, as in times of yore, hut
though not nearly so trying as wearing it bunched low
on tbe neck, few seem inclined to adopt the fashion,
»« * »
A Skating Rink and Quadrille Club are being
formed at Tern ora, to meet In the Academy. Skates
ordered from Sydney some time since Tamworth
Athletic Club givee a ball on Queen’s Birthday..,.Both
Glebe and North Shore Eowing Club ball* very 500 n....
Fashionable ladies are sometimes mean.. Music-sellers
send out packets «f the newest music to them, "on
approbation," and after trying them all, the champion
mean woman copies the best pieces in ;manu*cript, and
then returns the lot, saying none will salt. A Sydney
lady the other day inadvertently left her M.S. copy
among the returned sheets Several weddings on the
tapis at Dabbo.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Nihilists issued proclamation urging oppressed
Jews to co-operate with them Disastrous storms off
English coast; wrecks numerous Infernal machines
were forwarded through ths post to W. H. Vanderbilt,
the New York railway millionaire, and Cyrus W. Field.
of the same city; no harm done Crown Princess of
Wurtemberg died in childbirth Forty-three Cir-
oessian officers exiled from Egypt in connection with
the plot to murder Arabi Bay Hanlan easily heat
Trickett, who was quite exhausted Laycock has
challenged both Boyd and Hanlan to row him, bnt
they have declined his challenge West African
tribes inter-fighting English trade paralysed; Lon-
don Stock Exchange closed Pope Leo’s health im-
proving Ismail Pasha, the late Khedive of Egypt,
was investigator of the plot to murder Arab! Bey
Said Pasha, Premier and President of Counoil of
Ministers, Turkey, dismissed by Sultan London
Chartered Bank divides 3 per cent Steamer Garstang
lost at Amoy; crew saved French topographical
party, consisting of 40 persons, massacred at Oran, a
seaport of Algiers Rumoured that W. E. Forster
will soon retire from the Chief Secretaryship of Ire-
land Survivors of -T. Gordon Bennett’s Arctic
expedition (yacht Jeannette) arrived at St.
Petersburg;—overland from Siberian coast
There is a Colliery strike at Dux, Bohemia
Gladstone delivered budget speech ; said revenue had
sluggishly increased; sarplus from 1881 was £352,000 j
estimated expenditure for current year was £84,500,000;
estimated revenue, £85,000,000; £305,000 to be applied to
relief of local taxation ; £90,000 required for the Govern-
ment of Cyprus, £lBO,OOO extra cost of Ireland; in-
crease of duties on private carriages estimated to bring
in £250,000 Foundered ship Falmouth again afloat
Sir Henry Parkes banqueted in Willis* Booms, the
Duke of Edinburgh presiding...... A Doncaster railway
telegraph clerk, named Young, endeavoured to extort
money from the Queen by writing Her Majesty a
threatening letter Fire in Aberdeen destroyed
£40,000 worth of property Meetings in; U.S. in
favour of releasing Irish “suspects.” Sir John
Holker succeeds Lord Justice Lush as member of the
Court of Appeal Jews at Bamentz, Russia, robbed;
loss, £BO,OOO U.S. Senate hts passed Mr, Miller’s
Bill for the exclusion of Chinese for ten years; official
visitors and strident* excepted Famine and
civil war impending in Zulnland,...t..The Russian
Government is at last protecting the Jews
Dr. Lamson hanged ; insanity unproved; he confessed
his crime.... King of Holland has got the vacant Garter.
Austria granted amnesty to Bosnian insurgents
Parkes inspected machinery works; attended Fish-
mongers’ Company’s banquet; was fed by Garrick
Club and Society of Civil Engineers; present at Glad-
stone’s budget speech ; and honoured Darwin’s funeral.
......New bribery law before House of Common*; second
reading passed.... Lord Dufferin to succeed Earl Cewper
as Lord Lieutenant of Irelsnd Zulus clamoring for
Cstewayo’s restoration Garonne mutton realised 4|d,
per lb Sir John Holker seriously ill Miss Rey-
nolds, recently imprisoned in Cork gaol, further sen-
tenced to six months fsr fresh acts of intimidation
James Bice, 00-author with Walter Besant. dead
Mr. Stanley, Conservative, returned for West Somerset,
unopposed General Ignatieff, philo-Panslav, dis-
missed by the Czar Irish migration to U.S. opposed
by Americans Berlin has subscribed 100,000 marks to
promote Jewish emigration 10,000 out of 80,000 land
cases decided by Irieh Land Courts; 1,400 appeals
The pope ill.... Ralph Waldo Emerson dead... Army tags
Bros., of Colombo, fteylon, failed for £250.000 Arthur
Bass, MP, Joseph Pease, and Hussey Vivian, created
Baronets Mansion House Emigration scheme a
fizzle Newmarket 200 gs. stakes: Shotover, Quick-
lime and Warden Darwin’s funeral, Westminster
Abbey, attended by all claisss of no tables.... The Lords,
Select Commission into the Irish Land Act pro-
pose that Government shall lend tenants money
to purchase holdings on easy conditions Prince
Leopold married to Princess of Waldeok Pyr-
mont, on April 2Sth; 30 Eoyal personages present.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, May 2,1882.
On the wharves to-day, prime green lucerne is selling at
£6 15s. to £7 p«r ton. A good supply of hay continues
to arrive; business dull. Mai re, Arm at ss. 3d. per
bushel; oats, seed and feed, 4i. to 4s, 3d. per bushel;
Victorian onions, £4 to £4 10s. per ton ; ditto chaff, £9
to £lO per ton, bags inclusive : Warrnambool potatoes,
£5 to £5 10s. per ton ; Circular Head, ditto, £6 per ton,
Butter, in keg, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per lb.; eggs, 2s. 61. per
doze a; bacon, Bd. to 9d. par lb.; cheese, 7d.to 9d ; ham,
13d.; honey, 4d. to sd. ! lard, 81. eo 9d. ; beeswax, 9d.
to lOd. per lb.; millet brooms, 7s. 6d. to lOd. per
dozen.
Poudtbt.— At the various auction marts poultry was
in moderate supply, and sold fairly. Fowls realised from
2s. to 4s. 6d.; ducks. 3s. to 4t. 6d.; geese- 4s. 6d. to
6s. 6d ; turkeys, 6s. 61. to 12s. 61.; pigeons, 9d. to Is. Cd.
per pair; parrots, Bd. each.
Floub —Large shipments have arrived during the
week per s.s. Skyro and other vessels. For good
brands holders are'firm. Sydney mill flour is selling,
superfine, nt £l5; household. £l4; second, £l3 per ton;
New South Wales country brands, £l4 10s. to £l5;
Victorian, £l4 10s. to £l5; Adelaide. £l4 15s. to £l5
per ton. Bran and pollard, from Is. 6d. to Is. 81. per
bushel.
Wheat.—During the week the arrivals have been
large from South Australian ports, which should make
the markets easier; any fresh arrivals may cause a fall
in price. Adelaide wheat, 6s. 21. to 6s. 9d.; Victorian,
ss. 9d. to 63.; Launceston, os. 91,; New Zealand, sj. to
5». 4d. per bushel.
Fat Cattle.—At the Homebnsh sales there was a fair
supply yarded. The market ruled firm. Best beef.
225. 61. per 1001 b.
Fat Sheep.—s 4 lb. wethers, 13s. to 13s. 61.
Fresh Meat.—At the Eiverstone Meat Co.’s sheds,
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country-killed
meat take place daily, a good supply arriving and selling
freely. Prices are—For prime bodies of beef, 2Jd. to 3d.
per lb. all round; medium, to 2id- per lb. ail round;
prime mutton, scarce, and sells freely at 2M. per fb.;
medium, 2d. to 2*d. per lb. all round. 1


g] H
EAT E E
lessee
Treasurer.
A
THIRD WEEK and CONTIN
of the
MOST SUCCESSFUL
ever produced in the Souther
BLAND HOLT'i? Picturesque Si
THE WORLD. TH*
THE WORLD. THE
THE WORLD THE
■Eh* Blowing up of the Steamer.
Scene. The Aquarium Scene.
Operation. The Escape from t
Masquerade Balk Porming the g
of scenic effects in the world.
Prices as usual. Box Office i
Tickets fdr all parts of the house
theatre. Children in arms hot adi
at 7.15.
BtlSinos Manager for Bland Holfr-
JAMES AL
JJE AM ATIC A
Undor'the Managen
of
ME. JOSEPH SIMM
Mr. Simmons’s many years’ expei
the theatrical profession, both a a
peculiarly qualifies him as on ini
trionic art.
The satisfactory testimonials pn
mens by tho=e pupils who, in a
achieved a leading position on the C
stage, must inspire confidence in
dramatic advancement who may sta
tion.
The pupils will, in addition to reel
tory lessons, meet at the Aeadatm
each week for general practice and i
Arrangements will he made for i
as aften as the progress of the pupil
Special arrangements will be mac
and gentlemen who desire to enter t
“ Pinegrov
« Dear Sir,—
“ In answer to your note, there i
jour long experience in the theati
many years you were in managemer
as an actor, qualify you thoroughly
master of a Dramatic Academy. Ai
kind is much required to develop oo
stage, and I trust that under vonr
tain another Mrs. Charles Youm
Eleanor Carey, Hattie Shepherd, B
dozens of others—colonially educate
first rank in the theatrical professio
“ Wishing you evi
“ Tours very
(Signed
Mr, JOSEPH SIMMONS will h
Huenerbein’s, 411 George-street, ft
and from 2 to 3.30 p m. daily.
M
E. AND MRS. JAM
(MISS MARSTON LI
Arrangements completed for one
June Ist, 18S3, under the mai
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMBO
fp HEATRB EOTAL,
- 1 - OPEN FOE ENGAGE!
Will seat seven or eight hundr©
with Gas; lately patronised by the S
Terms moderate. Apply to
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, os
dating 1300 people, is now avc
and other performances. The stag
depth, and has a neat proscenium.
DAVID
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAR.
ACADEMY OP MUSIC, CHI
ONE MONTH.
THEATRE EOTAL, WELLIN'
MONDAY.
LLOYD’S
HOWICK STREET, BA
Offers Superior Accomodation to
lers, Visitors, and Professic
FRANK LLOI
Comique and Buffo Y<
Pbopbietos.
OTANY, SATURD
GREAT RACE
of one hour’s durath
£4O and CHAMPIONSHIP
between
H. Parkinson, of England, and F. ’
The start to take place at 4 p.m
be chosen on the ground, Stakeho
Department of 3
Sydney, i
T .IST of Applications receiv
-i-J ment of Mines, for permis
roads, Ao. <fce., under the Minii
ion
ART!
Date of Application, April 3,188
Land fronting Jerusalem Bay, paria
of Cumberland, portion of reiervi
mine for gold.
Department of 3!
Sydney,j
LIST of Applications receive
ment of Mines, for permiss
roads, &0., 40., under the Minir
tion 28.
ARTI
Date of Application March 24,11
Portion of eeerre No. 19, parish of
Cnmberlaiid j 640 acres j To mine to
Date of Application March 24, 18!
Portion of reserve No. 19, parish of
Cumberland ; 640 acres; To mine f«
Department of Min
Sydney, (
LIST of Applications receiv*
ment of Mines for permiss
roads, &e., Ac., under the Mini
tion 26.
ARTE
Date of Application, March 22,
Portion of reserve No. 34, Nation*
inr; 640 acres; To mine for coal an
Date of Application, March 22,18
Portion of reserve No. 34, Nations
ing; 640 acres; To mine for coal an
Date of Application, March 22, 18!
Portion of Reserve No. 34, Nation*
ing; 640 acres; To mine for coal an
Date of Application, March 24, 1
Portion of reserve No. 34, National'
640 acres; To mine for coal and shal
Data of Application, March 28,
Portion of reserve Na 44, parish of
To mine for coal.
Department oi
Sydney.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOl
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given thi
sees execute and take deli
mentioned Gold-mining Leases v
from this date, they will be deck
ARTE
Hdnteb and Macleat Mini
No. 578 ; B. Benjamin and anothi
a.h.; County of Gloucester, parish c
Application No. Copeland 571.
No. 582; T. Sax by and another; P
County of Gloucester, parish of Bii
plication No. Copeland 582.
No. 583; G. Scott and another; P
27 a.L, s County of Gloucester, pi
acres; Application No. Copeland 58:
No. 585; D. Lowe; Portion No. 2
Gloucester, pariah of Binders; 3
No. Copeland 588.
New n: ng i,and and Clarence jm
No. 175; J. B. Bassettl and ot'
231,104; County of Drake, parish of
Application No .Solferino 19.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS 111
AND the enormous success of t
has not escaped the usual per
universal popularity has excited the
of speculators who trade upon the d
of a borrowed name. My Tobacco
and counterfeited, and although I h
able means to guard the public agai
to punish fraud, both Foreign and
tions bearing my brand, bnt lacking
the ever popular and woll-knowi
have been imposed upon tba public
AMERICAN WEED. Now, to
numerous Customers in both town i
as the Smoking Public from all
arranged with the American Manu
ping of my Tobacco be branded i
V
ISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILOEINQ
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STEEET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the CoiOny.
F
J. P 0 L L E ’
* OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
S
A large and well-assortad stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Gabmbhts Cot tar thh Mosi Fashionable Stties,
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address—
-728 QEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMARKET.
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
i
m
iaCi
■
a-
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST EECEIVED. JUST
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
H A R MON lUMS,
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND.HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Sonfleto's, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Sons Plano,
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s. Clough
and Warren's, and Smith and Company’s Organa.
W. H. P A L I 21 o,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
M. GOULSTON,
(ESTABLISHED 28 YEAES)
WELL-KNOWN TAHOE,
53 Market Street.
Try
GOTJLSTON’S
■oo o a . SUITS!
£4 4s. SUITS!
£4 10s. SUITS!
mm
JL
W
ALL GOODS
SHRUNK,
and
BN MI FITS.
NEW GOODS EVERT MAIL
482 GEORGE STREET
C ' y X
'V IV'-fev
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
J OPPOSITE THE FRUIT MARKETS.; '| ; C?
* ESTABLISHED 186*
A LARGE WE LL SELECTED STOCK
~,n ni "
WOO LLE NS ; NE W .P ATT E RN s|
DIRECT FROM THE MAI^UFACTUR|fa|
fashionable ; "
AN r, ‘ ■
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS:
. . •. p.;> -. y. ” f; ; : :5 i'
. TO ORDER. , •.-.TJ * ..
ALL WOOL TWEED TRO U S E R.S, ORD E R
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, In white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
brooks crochet and tatting cotton.
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. \*
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION BRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS manufactured bv
them Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal; London, 1851. Only First-class Prize Medal, Paris, 1856. Prize Medal
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The'Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South Africa, 1877
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety aud general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, 1880.
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All fcorfespohdenCe for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be actcLreseed to tbeir Warehouse,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.


p
üBLI C N (
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPII
MOSUL MIXTURE will jrosecni
endeavours to deceive the public b;
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thei
BRANDS Of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to
bearing
« THE TAEPING MIXTURE,’ 1
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signatui
thus —
Clifford, Love, &
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, must be certain that ever;
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE A 1
MIXTURE ARB GUAR
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
p. butch:
WHOLESALE GROCER AN]
YORK STREET, SY
TOH N D
** importer o
Plumbers* and Engineers' Brass 1
Gas fittings. Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine 1
Iron, Brass, Copper
end Lead Pipe,
119 LIVERPOOL STREE 1
H. L. SUHKE
235 Pitt Street,
THE PEOPLE’S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO
Hi L SUMME
SPECIALITY SUITS TO <
THE PEOPLE’!
GUARANTEES A PER]
H. L. SUMMI
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUC
THE PEOPLE’S
Sends Self-measurement fori
3
•GO* c.ISa r g.cne
MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OP T
A
N
0
S
A
F
E
S
T
WHEN PURCHASING YOU]
ask for
PANTER AND P I
new extract o
and BEK THAT YOU 01
SUPEEIOE TO ALL 0
BE'T Washing and DisinN
tion known, for Clothes,
Ccookery, Painh. Gla*s, nod ev
purpose. Used and recount
Laundry at Government He
mour (Inspector of Nuisances
(Orient Laundry), and by
judges to be the best article m
REMEMBERI
Washing and cleaning doi
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healti
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HA
TO BE HAD OF ALL G
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-S'
IN THE WOR
A NEW DEPART
HATS.
EDWARD HORDERN I
663 BRICKFIELD:!
HATS.
f'IALL the attention of their pat
ofNew South Wales generally, to
have this week OPENED their
NEW HAT AN
OEPARTME
SLOPS.
Which will be found stocked with
Goods. Everything will be FEES!
he NEW ! Everything will be Cl
body will be pol't.ly served by poll
EDWARD HORDERN i
C6B BRICKFIELD
HATS.
Hatters, Men’s Mercers, Glove
dashers. Scftgoods-mcn, Fa
Corset Manufacturers’ Ag
&c, &c.
HATS. SLOPS. HATS. SLOPS
tai urn
FOR THE PLOUG1NG SE/
We are pleased to be aavistryo
Farmers of N.S.W. generally, that o
for present season is the most compl
In addition to all the well known EH
CAN Makers we now notify
AGENTS F31
hi i I I I A M D I
INFORMATION *» CHA
*- Owners
RUB WHAT PRACTICAL :«EN
OUR BUNGLE’S
Before Ordering
send for
Our Price LSst
AND
All Particulars.
AND PAIN,
S
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE
$ ILVEI R £ WAI cH F s
FROM i.' .4.10.
Jo) / ■
C J"ORINC AWEttt-
-9 &, .11 HUNTER ST
CHF<; SYDNEY
StNO FOR
CATALOGUE,
HHHE GREAT WANT OP THE AGE IS A REj
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
jo a
Business
PRO MENACE
Travelling
vr ,t»R
Durability
UNSURPASSED
f X v~x
Cricketing
"Standard” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra Long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
FEAFES and SHAW,
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDEE THE SEN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
TTtu all tiie latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Bold Od feasy termed Can l>e see® working at the Depfit,
68 KINO STREET, STD NET.
NEXT TO 'BWOPPCE.
