

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 112
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1882.
Price—3d
§nlletm.
SATURDAY. MARCH 18, 1882.
A Solitary Exception.
The public spirit which has for so many centuries
given the Caucasian race predominance over all
others, appears to be slowly evaporating. On
every side, and in almost every Caucasian people,
the prevalence of selfish motives over devotion to
public weal may be observed. It is the same in
Europe as in America, and in Australia as in
•Europe. In most places the people still worship
virtue in the abstract. They desire that every-
body—that is to say, everybody else—should be
good men and good citizens. But unluckily there
seems to be an almost universal impression that,
so long as everybody else is upright and patriotic,
it does not materially affect the broad result,
although one should, just as an exception, prefer
his own interests to the common weal. Let us
take a few examples. There exists no people
more intensely devoted to their country, its great-
ness, its traditional influence, and, above all, its
military glory, than the French. Yet, when the
armies of Prance first encountered, under
M'Mahon and Bazaink, the forces of Germany,
and'the magazines of ammunition which had been
accumulated in store for such a contingency ware
drawn upon, soldiers in the thick of battle dis-
covered that the cartridges which they had vainly
attempted to discharge contained not gunpowder,
but saw-dust! Some contractor had preferred
his profit to his country. So when the Civil war
was raging in the dis-United States, the very
soldiers who were fighting the battles of the North
amidst mud and rain, and were marching des-
parately to gain strategical positions of vital
importance, found their clothing fell in rotten rags
from their backs, and their very shoes dropped,
piecemeal, from their blistered feet. The purveyors
had substituted “shoddy” for genuine goods.
They loved “ the cause ” a little, but themselves
they loved a great deal. No one rogue believed
that his bit of rascality would be enough to change
the fortunes of the war, but there was always the
reflection that any part of the civilised world is a
home to the man who possesses a fortune.
* *
We do not think that the present age is worse
than the ages that have gone before taken all round.
There have been periods when public spirit has
been more powerful, and when the individual has
been more ready to sacrifice himself. But these
have generally been the periods immediately
following great national ordeals, in which men
have been purged of vain aspirations and gross
longings, as by fire. Broadly speaking, the
further one goes back in history, the worse man-
kind has been. The ancient villainies were
infinitely more brutal than are the modern ones—
the ancient scoundrels were infinitely more ter-
rible and less alloyed with compensating quali-
ties. Whether emperors or bandits, they seemed
insensible to pity, and deaf to the voice of con-
science. They conquered, plundered, massacred,
and tortured, without seeming to regard it at all
incumbent upon them either to apologise or
explain. They had gained the advantage, and they
used it to the utmost. The scoundrel of old was
very little different from a beast of prey, save
that he was infinitely more dreadful. Like a
beast, he seemed to have no conscience ; unlike a
beast, he had intelligence to organise and enlarge
his ravages. The earliest villain on a largo scale
built, as a monument to his fame, a mound
heaped up with the skulls of his victims. A little
later, the successful villain erected a noble archi-
tectural arch, which was still built of skulls, and
mortared with blood and tears, but only in a
metaphorical sense. The earlier robber out
throats with composure, as an ordinary branch of
his business.
• • i
These pristine workers of evil, and slaves of
self, had not sense or feeling enough even to be
hypocrites. We have, latterly, improved very
much indeed. All our modern scoundrels are
hypocrites. Whether it be a Pious William,
going to war with Scripture texts on his lips, and
ordering that all peasants who defended their
hamlets, should, if captured, be shot straight-
way, or whether it be a smug tradesman cheating
his customers with adulterated food, there is
always copious protestation. And, in truth, there
is ground for believing that detestation of ill-
doing is now fairly wide-spread. The peasant and
the tradesman have a genuine abhorrence of the
sins of the luxurious wealthy. An Irish peasant
would scorn to seduce a girl. An English gentle-
man would shudder at the thought of shooting a
man from behind a hedge. Everybody adores
honesty in the abstract, but too many like to have
private license to take an advantage whenever it
occurs. Everybody likes and respects an honest
man. The veriest rogue that ever oppressed a
people, or combined with others to plunder a city
treasury, prefers honest subordinates. An honest
man in these days, unless he possess unusual
abilities must be content to be the servant of
unscrupulous cheats and scamps. Honesty is the
beat policy in a worldly sense, only as free-trade
is, when others are honest, or when all the world
is frea-trade, lor you have the pull over all the
world. What * sort of show has any man for
getting on, let us say as a wine and spirit mer-
chant), were he to refuse to traffic, one way or
another, in spurious, adulterated, or injurious
decoctions. He might make a living, but he could
never build up a colossal fortune., Why, he
wouldn’t know where to procure the pure liquor,
even could he find a purchaser to pay.the requisite
prices. So every man gives in a little, and com-
pounds with his conscience, till those who started
with a dull one, have none at all left.
• * «
If our race is to maintain its predominance, the
sense of individual responsibility must be re-
awakened, The idea that people can be virtuous
and manly, and public-spirited, by proxy, requires
to be got rid of. Merchants who in moments of
enthusiasm respond with feeling to the toast of the
commercial interest, and complacently take to
themselves all the conventional compliments about
the honest British merchant, delude themselves
if they imagine that the tradition will be an abid-
ing one, unless they personally and individu-
ally scorn commercial frauds and trickeries.
The “stubborn valour” of the Britain will
scarcely be a perpetual distinction, merely be-
cause elderly gentlemen who pay their taxes, and
look under their beds nervously every night for
burglars, are constantly referring to that quality.
The British Constitution will hardly continue to
be the admiration and envy of the world, if every
political coterih considers itself at liberty to
strain and twist it in different ways.
* * #
We are all becoming too fond of relying upon
lip-service. Talk, talk, talk, takes the place of
action. The modem patriot is the man who most
professes, not who sacrifices most. The most
accredited patriot to-day reckons it his privilege
and right to hold a Ministerial portfolio with a
handsome salary attached, and to bo the recipient
of banquets and testimonials of public adula-
tion and official consideration. It pays to be a
patriot. But the old motto, “no cross, no
crown,” is true, none the less. One must look for
the true patriot among the stragglers—among
men who face kicks and obloquy—men who are
content to suffer. Whenever a man, or a class of
men, is having a good time, it is almost a sure
thing that they have all they deserve. There is
so much that is wrong, so much that requires
amendment in this world yet, that no man in real
earnest for the good of his fellows can be snug
and comfortable. There is work and turmoil, in-
terested resistance to be contended against,
vested rights (mostly wrongs) to be attacked—a
whole army of giants and orgres yet to bo fought.
The days of martyrdom are not oyer. If any
man has an appetite for that sort of self-sacrifice
there remains more to be done than he, or thou-
sands like him, can possibly accomplish. The
mental attitude of the wealthy religious man, who
sips his iced wine and buys another yacht, while
there are people in the cottages ho sees from the
windows of his mansion who are suffering physi-
cally and morally from lack of needful change,
or from terrible temptations brought by real want,
is quite irreconcilable with the teachings of the
Gospel. Yet society teems with such men —steady
church-goers, fair alms-givers, on the best terms
with themselves and their clergy. Such men have
easy deathbeds, and expire in the full conviction
that they have bought a first-class ticket to
heaven, while all the time some poor neighbour
has booked himself to hell for lack of their help-
ing hand at a critical moment.
* * »
No institutions can abide, when everybody
leaves their maintenance to his neighbour, and
what is everybody’s business becomes nobody’s
business. No country can maintain military
supremacy in which the majority of the males
shirk fighting and trust to hirelings. Trial by
jury cannot be a noble and lasting institution
among any community in which every one that
has the means to pay a forfeit shirks the tedium
of the court, and shoves the duty upon the meaner
and less intelligent classes. Society is composed
of atoms : if every atom is dodging its share of
the self-sacrifice which is certainly requisite of the
aggregate, there must be a universal dissolution,
sooner or later. If we are to have honesty ip
public affairs, and vigour in administration of
Eopular functions, it can only be by individual
onesty and individual effort. To make a pure
State takes the co-operation of thousands upon
thousands of upright, actively public-spirited
men. No man has a right to count himself out
as % particular exception, and reckon upon every-
body else to keep up the standard of public virtue.
There is constant work to be done to maintain the
machinery of the commonwealth in good order,
and in that work everybody needs to bear
a share.
His Honor Judge Cohen.
Henry Emanuel Cohen, son of the late Abraham
Cohen of Sydney, was born at Port Macquarie,
N.S.W., in December, 1840, and in 1848 came to
Sydney with his parents who took up their resi-
dence there. Amongst other schools at which h >
was educated, were those of Mr. Alfred Cano, of
Sydney, and Mr. David Pattison, of Goulbum,
formerly head-master of the Sydney College. In
1856, Mr. Cohen left his parents’ home to enter the
Maitland office of Messrs. David Cohen and Co.,
merchants, and remained with that firm till 1804,
when he left Maitland to strike out in independent
course for himself, and was engaged on mercantile
pursuits till 1867, When leaving Maitland, he was
presented by his fellow employes with an address
expressive of their regard and a set of diamond
studs, and with a silver inkstand by his comrades
of the West Maitland Volunteer Rifle Corps, of
which he was one of the earliest members, and to
which he had acted as honorary secretary for a
period of four years. In 1868, following a strong
natural inclination, Mr. Cohen proceeded to
England to study for the Bar, and there became a
member of the Middle Temple, and in June, 1871,
was called to the Bar at this Inn. Almost im-
mediately afterwards he returned to the colony—
having been wrecked in the P. and O. Co.’s
steamer Rangoon, at Galle, on the voyage
out; and in December, 1871, was called to the
Bar of New South Wales, on the motion of
the present Chief Justice, Sir James Martin,
then Attorney-General for the colony. At
the I general election in 1874, Mr. Cohen be-
came a candidate for the representation of West
Maitland in Parliament, and was returned by a
large majority, and although opposed, was again
returned by the same constituency at the general
election in 1877. Very soon after this, he had
overtures made to him by Sir Henry Parkes to
join a Governmontiwhieh he was then commissioned
to form, but failed in forming, and then in Decem-
ber, 1877, Mr. Cohen joined the FarneU adminis-
tration as Colonial Treasurer, and continued in
office till that Government retired in December
1878. Upon the dissolution of Parliament in 1880,
Mr. Cohen sought re-election by his old consti-
tuency, but was defeated by its present member.
In Juno, 1881, he was appointed by the present
Government Acting District Court Judge and
Deputy Chairman of Quarter Sessions for the
Metropolitan and Hunter districts, which position
he still holds. Mr. Cohen has during the past
eight years acted as honorary treasurer to the
Sydney Hebrew Philanthropic Orphan Society
and the Sydney Jewish Certified Denominational
School, holding a seat on the Board of the School.
During the same period he had a seat on the
Board of Management of the old York-streot
Synagogue, and when that ceased to exist, became
a member of the Board of the Great Synagogue
for one year. At the recent election of officers of
the Sydney School of Art, Mr. Cohen was, though
unsolicited, nominated as a candidate for a seat on
the committee, and without asking a vote, or in
any way interfering in the election, was one of the
successful candidates.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Imperial ’Possum.
The Czar has, according to cable advices, violently
reproved General Skobelofp for his recent Fan-Solavist
deliverances. This is, literally, the least his Majesty
could do. The displeasure of a Russian despotic ruler
seldom vents itself in mere scolding. Exile to some
remote part of the Empire has hitherto been regarded
as a mild manifestation of the Imperial auger.
If we may venture to presume that a Czar has, like
other men, a nose and a finger—wo write under oorrec-
tion, bearing in mind the circumstance that a Queen of
H. E. COHEN, ESQ., ACTING DISTRICT COURT JUDGE.


HOP BITTERS!;
ABE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Bnohn, Mandrake and Dandelion,..
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifies, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum ; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be>
oat it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor healthy
or languishing on abed of sickness, taJsa
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing, if you feell
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly/
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive Ton..
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, .worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Yon.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve Yon.
If yeu are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting,
Hop Bitters is What Yon Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTBZTORB, STUART, A CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia,
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR,
FREE FEOM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
MONTBFIORE, STUART & CO.
ENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware ViloL.'
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels, * laas ’
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rnst, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
an( * is c ' lea I > » elective, and a great saving of time
and labour. 8
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIOEE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spain has no legs—we con imagine .the Imperial finger
fn very close juxtaposition to the Imperial nose while
Skobeloff was receiving his reproof. Bat there is a
consolation even in the fact that the Czar has thought
fit to condescend so far as to give out officially that he
has censured Skobeloff. The inference is that His
Majesty, by the grace of God, is not ready to let slip
the dogs of war, and shed the light of his august conn-
tenance upon fresh scenes of human suffering and
slaughter. His Imperial Highness has been playing
possum, and. confronted by the menacing muzzle of
Bismarck’s shot-gun, has, in effect, said; “Dont
fire. Colonel; I’ll come down.”
“A British Judy.”
The venerable institution referred to by Mrs. Clubi-ins,
under the above not quite inappropriate designation,
has been in prime establishment since the middle of
the fourteenth century. Previous to that time a mixed
state of matters prevailed which required the jurymen
to have a previous knowledge of the case, whence their
title “ Eecognitors.” Now, going back earlier still, i
we except a more rudimentary form of the modern jury
we come to the epoch of chivalry and judicial combat-
that is, setting the complainant and the respondent
face to face, with due weapons and accoutrements for
the better carrying out of their benevolent intentions,
and alter an adjuration to the Deity, letting them set-
to at making crows’ meat of one another; after which
the worsted party was pronounced, by Judgment o
God. to be in the wrong. There was a good deal of
pluck about this proceeding, and a good deal of faith
the Divine arbitrament. It is likely that our fore-
fathers recognised a man’s back or arms or bodily con-
etitution to have something more tangible than
Heavenly intention to do with the settlement of the
matter, and so came to the adoption of jurors and
judge. Our question now is, how can trial by jury
be made fairer (for its betterment is essential to its con-
tinuance among common-sense men), or if this is not
possible, what can be substituted? Our own case is
not merely a failure of j ustice by reason of the j urymen s
laches, let it be remembered. It is. indeed, genera y
understood that a different verdict would have been
returned if the jury had expected it to be cast, m e e .
to the thirty-two winds of heaven. Even it the im-
mense concession be granted, that every man who takes
the oath to “ well and truly try.” at the same moment
is possessed by a full realisation of h,s responsibility
and an earnest desire to do right between the parties,
it must very frequently happen that the jurymen ar
not competent to discriminate between the ©viden
which is true and that which is apparently or partly
true. How can any one with a serene heart trust the
issues of a case whose result will be either to brand him
fcriLLl wherever his name is known, or to declare
him innocent and unjustly inculpated to men, of whom
nothing is known except that they are householders
and have not been in gaol! Yet what improvement can
be suggested? « is a doubtful thing whether trial by
jury, with the present jurymen, or trial in Banco, y
Lo present judges, would be worse for the interes s of
iustice That when justice is done it is only partial y
done is well known ; but how many men have worsted
tLemselYß. 1. .trivin, to T'FZ
ful corporations and wealthy individuals by the
muchinory of the law ? And how can
be defended under which a man may be cnishcd audh s
substance wasted while ho is asking nothing but
justice? It has two arguments-but what is tea
value ? It metes out a rough justice occasionally and
it is in possession.
A FEW days Since, a prisoner was discharged from the
Lent ridge Stockade, after twenty years’ incarceration.
His crime was simple; he found a man in his house
abusing his wife, and after repeatedly telhng him to get
out he shot him in a moment of passion. He pleaded
guilty, and the sentence of death passed was commuted
to imprisonment for life. Twenty years of irreproach-
able conduct gained him his liberty, and he goes back
to his wife, and to the same house from which he was
taken twenty long years ago. It there is any sacred
meaning in the marriage vows, was it justice to blight
this man’s life thus, for protecting against brutal attack
her whom ho had sworn to protect and cherish ?
-♦
Minnis, charged with the infamously cold-blooded
murder of Pillinger. and adjudged by an
jury who should either have pronounced h m to be
guilty or innocent, to have committed manslaiighter
only, has been sentenced to imprisonment for life.
Minnis was not only a schoolmaster, but a locab
preacher — a kind of amateur Minister, in fact. In a
few years, probably, we shall again have amongstus
this mean, cowardly, hypocritical assassin, who 11 per-
haps form one of a deputation to a Colonial Secretary
fn the moral interests of the Chinese. We admire
the style of this local preacher. He not only acts aS *
sky-pilot, but actually sends people to Heaven with the
business end of #. dray-pin.
—
Mu G E. Dibbs, in releasing his estate from seques-
tration. paid £3600 to Mr. John Shepherd in respect to
tho slander verdict and costs obtained against him y
Jr.,™.- gentleman. Mr. Bh.pb.ri..- .MW
stated by us. offered to forego everything but costs out
pocket, conditionally on G.E. apologisingr; but this
magnanimous proposal was declined by Mr. Dibb .
who has paid in all £42.000 to free his estate. And
now that the trouble is over, people who know and
like both men wonder how it is that two such good-
hearted. genial fellows could have entered on and kept
up so deadly a feud. It only shows what may happen
when there’s “ a woman at the bottom of it.”
A Melbourne telegram states that Sir Bryan
O’Loghlen, the Victorian Premier, has remitted 10 per
cent, rent to his tenants. It’s but a few years since Sir
Bryan, then Mr. O’Loghlen, arrived in Melbourne, a
mere “man with a carpet bag’’-and nothing in it.
Then he went to the bar. at which, for a while, bo had
hiri times. Presently he became Crown-Prosecutor, at
£6OO, and happsning soon to succeed to a baronetcy
albeit an estateless one his hues were set in pleasant
places, for he at once got a Land Tax Commissionerahip
*t £l5OO. The Berry Government, who had given him the
biret, soon wanted an Attorney-General, whereupon Sir
Bryan nobly resigned his Commissionership and present
ed himself to the electors of West Melbourne. “ Gmtle-
men,” he said, “ It is incumbent on every man, in this
hour of the country’s need, to make a sacrifice. Of tho
sacrifice I have made, you (have already learned in the
dally press; and, gentlemen, I’ve given to the country
freely what the country as freely gave tome.” And
this when the reporters knew all the time that he had
■en eyo on the Attorney-Generalship, with a view to
ensconcing himself on the Bench of the Supreme Court.
However, the latter part of his programme did not
come off, in consequence of the Berryites, from whom
the Baronet “ratted," having popped in Mr. Higin-
botham to spite the other man. But Sir Bryan will,
inevitably be a judge should any of their Honors be
so obliging as to die while the patriot holds the keys
of the situation. One makes money very soon by
getting into politics.
Though differing on many points from Dr. Vaughan,
wa have been always ready to recognise his single-
minded labours in the cause which he has sincerely
at heart. The E.C. Cathedral building is a very heavy
tax on the time and strength of a man of letters, apart
from the fretting and worry of mind inseparable from a
position on the wrong side of the ledger. We confess
to a fellow-feeling for anyone in a financial fix, and
accordingly tender his Grace our respectful advice.
Fifty thousand pounds would go a long way towards
putting the new building in a fair shape for Divine
service. We hereby bind ourselves to furnish the
names of six clergymen, all existing within one hundred
miles of Sydney, who oould make up that amount
comfortably between them, and yet live snugly for the
rest of their days outside the Benevolent Asylum.
Some of the advantages of this arrangement would be
the relief of too-long-tried, faithful pockets, and the
laying-up of the clerical treasure in heaven. In return,
we only ask the Archbishop’s prayers for the conversion
of juries of four to giving verdicts according to the
evidence.
4.
A Eockhampton man, Mr. Beardmore, of Tooloomba,
has interviewed Frank Gardiner, the notorious ex-
bushranger, in 'Frisco, and describes him as “ a respecL
able-looking man, though rather grog-blossomed.'
Gardiner told his visitor that he was very hard up, and
that through giving too much credit he had lost his
saloon, and had been living out of doors for six months,
sleeping on wharves, &»., or anywhere he could find
shelter for the night. He also said he would rather be
back in N.S.W., living on damper and mutton, than in
the height of luxury in California. He further stated
that, when taken prisoner in the Abercrombie Moun-
tains, about 1862, he bought himself oft from one of his
captors for the sum of £5O 10s., and that he in addition
paid the same person £3OO to say as little as possible
about him when on his trial. Thus vanishes the falsa
glory of the bushranger. The wiry, black-haired, sallow
man—once the patron saint of every flash native horse-
thief—has, from sticking-up escorts descended to sleep-
ing in wharf-boilers in a foreign land. Gardiner’s father
once kept a “Johnny all-sorts ” shop in Kont-street f
Sydney. Mrs. Brown, the woman with whom the bush-
ranger lived at the time of his capture, shot herself
some years ago in N.Z. From all accounts, Gardiner
has for a long while had very hard times. Several
Sydney men who have met him in 'Frisco concur in
describing him as utterly broken down, crippled by
rheumatism, and as sitting behind the bar of his little
drinking den, which bore the sign of “ The Twilight,”
while a female served drinks to his few customers.
♦
Daniel Connell, a gentleman who turned Queen’s
evidence against a gang of raiders in Ireland,
gave some extraordinary testimony at the trial of two
of their number. The members of the band were sworn
thus: “I swear to be true and faithful to the Irish Republic,
to obey my superiors, to take up all arms when required.
Death to the traitor. So help me God.” Connell said he
swore the oath himself when he joined, and would not
have informed had he not been “ informed on." The
captain made at meetings written orders in a book kept
for the purpose, and it was his duty to copy these and
see them carried out. Two of these orders so copied
were found on him when arrested. One of them reads :
“ Pat Tuohy and Pat Eing, with four men, to appear
under arms at an early hour at James Tuohy’s on the
night of the thirtieth of the twelfth, eighty-one.
Bring heavy shears and false whiskers for Owen
Eiordan’s also.” The other reads thus : “ Eegimental
order by Captain Moonlight for appointed raids
on the thirtieth of the twelfth, eighty-one. James Sul-
livan to be shot in legs, and his mother and daughter to
be clipped for dealing with the Hegartys; John Linehan,
story-telling, to be clipped j Denis Coakley, for turning
out his labourer, to be shot in legs; Maurice O’Brien, to
bo shot in legs for paying rent. Signed and confirmed
by Captain Moonlight, as work for the night of the
thirtieth.” Eewards were given for “ bravery.” He
himself had got £1? from Dublin. It came in a letter,
bearing the Dublin postmark, but there was nothing to
show where it came from. They could have their choice
of either medals or money. The two prisoners, who
were charged with having entered the dwelling of
Catherine Fitzgerald, felled her to the ground with the
butt of a gun, cut the hair oil her daughters’ heads, and
clipped the moustache of a male servant, were
found guilty, and. sentenced to seven years’imprison-
ment.
At least one juror was several times asleep, and had to
be waked by an attendant. When a bailiff endeav-
oured to restrain the prisoner’s excited movements,
Quiteau turned and snapped out: “ Keep quiet, or I’ll
smack you in the mouth.” He also threatened to slap
one of the marshals in the face. Quiteau’s mail letters,
in one day, numbered over three hundred: most of them
asked for his autograph, and many were from females
begging locks of hair. Hundreds of women, occupy-
ing good positions in society, visited Guiteau in prison,
and crowded the porch to see him taken in and out of
court, prompted by mere morbid curiosity. One
morning, towards the close of the trial, he did not
inflict his usual opening tirade on the court. It was
known that a huge coloured man, who stood close behind
him on that occasion, had been placed there by order of
the Judge, with instructions to maintain order.
Guiteau’s a very sensible madman! Ho interrupted
his own lawyer with “ Sit down, and mind yonr own
business. I am talking to fifty millions of people.
Who are you? Only an underling.” He used just as
strong language to the Judge. He only treated one
witness, throughout the whole case, respectfully. He
had been intimate with Mrs. Devizes previously, and
when she was giving evidence, he seemed to be under
some strong influence. But it was noticed that her
husband kept a hand under his coat all the time, and
never removed his eyes from Quiteau’s face. He had
sworn to shoot, if his wife were insulted. Scoville,
Quiteau’s counsel, had a detestable task, which he nobly
performed. Crippled for want of funds, having a client
abhorred by everyone, pitted against eminent legal
adversaries, and subjected every hour to savage attacks
and insults from his own client (which the very plea of
iasanity prevented him from resenting), he yet, with
wonderful patience, carried on his distasteful task with
all the energy and skill ha could command, because he
felt it his duty to do the ntmost for his client. Pro-
bably no case has ever been taken np by a lawyer which
was so unpopular, or has been conducted under such
dispiriting and hopeless circumstances. Dr. Kenealy’s
task in the Tichborne’s trial does not appear to have
been a circumstance beside Scoville’s.
-
The wildest form of Eastern fanaticism never produced
so outrageous a demonstration as Christianity was
responsible for at Sheffield recently in connection with
a “Grand Council of War” by the Salvation Army.
The deliberations in council were of course preceded by
a public parade, and General Booth was appointed field,
oflicer for the day—with Mrs. General Booth in com-
mand of the cavalry, consisting of four distressed’bus
horses and a converted mule. Three carriages were
provided, in which were stowed the main fighting body,
the reserve, and even the ambulance corps of the great
Salvation Army. Lieutenant Emerson Davison, a re-
formed Northumbrian pugilist, carried the banner of
cheap salvation, and led the glorious pageant to battle
against ten thousand excited British sinners. The
scene that occurred along the whole line of route was
indescribable. A volley of mud-balls met the amateur
soldiers of the cross at every corner, and the din of
mingled psalms and curses was sufficient to drown the
voice of the Archangel’s trumpet had the time then
come for it to be sounded. The pageant moved steadily
onwards; but at last was forced to divide. An infuriate
mob pressed both divisions, pulling the officers off their
staggering steeds, spitting on the female Buonapartes,
and wounding the bandsmen who had been hired to
blast for the redemption at 10s. a day. (Three officers
were badly and seriously injured, and the pngilistie
lieutenant was so exasperated that he finally took to
knocking down sinners in the orthodox style. Bleeding,
mud-spotted and in rags, the Salvation Army finally
reached their rendezvous, entering by a back way. A
possed of police preached peace to the populace, and
the Salvation Army scored itself another victory.
Imprisonment of Messrs. Haynes and
Archi[?]ald.
During the' week Messrs. Haynes and Archibald have
been visited at their quarters, Darlinghurst Gaol, by
numerous friends, including many prominent citizens.
The imprisoned journalists have received addresses of
sympathy from the Sydney District Convention of the
Independent Order of Good Templars, and the School
of Arts Debating Society, to which they have made
suitable replies. Publication of the addresses and the
replies is delayed.
In response to n cittffilar, stoned by Messrs.
G. H. Eeid, M.P., D. O’Connor, M.P., and V. E. Holds-
worth, a number of gentlemen met on after-
noon, at the Eoyal Hotel, to consider as to the best
means to be taken to evoke a public expression < ,
sympathy with Messrs. HayneS and Architold, no
confined in Darlinghurst gaol, for nonpayment of! the
plaintiffs’ costs in the celebrated Clonturf libel ease-
The meeting was a preliminary one. After a com er-
national discussion between Messrs. J- F. Abbott,
Holdsworth, and Dibbs, the first-named gentleman was
voted to the chair. The case under consideration
having been ventilated sympathetically, a resolution
was passed to the effect that every possible means
should be taken to raise the funds necessary to procure
the liberation of the incarcerated journalists, btress
was particularly laid on the value of pubhc meetings.
A second resolution was carried to the effect that an
appeal should be made to Parliament to amend thelibel
laws. Messrs. G. H. Eeid, M.P., D O’Connor. M.P.,
P. E. Holdsworth, Q. E. Dibbs, J. P. Abbott, andE. Jones
were appointed a sub-committee to act as they thought
desirable in carrying out the views of the meeting. Ihe
sub-committee meets daily at Mr. Holdsworth s office,
Temperance! Hotel, at 4 p.m. Messrs. G. H. Eeid,. D.
O’Connor, and P. E. Holdsworth act as honorary
secretaries to the movement, and Mr. G. E. Dibbs as
honorary treasurer. Already, encouraging promises
have been made from several unexpected quarters. We
are informed that a branch subscription committee has
been appointed at Newcastle.
“The Bulletin Libel Case—A preliminary meeting
was held at Mr. George Wallace’s (solicitor)i offices,
Newcastle, on Tuesday evening, re Bulletin libel im-
prisonment case. After consideration amongst a nura-
ber of influential residents present, it was decided that
the matter be made a public one, seeing the general
import it bore with regard to the general weal, and
further it was arranged to request the Mayor, by
requisition, to convene a public meeting to consider the
question.” I
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
District Court Judge Cohen has complained
that in four larceny cases sent up to him, the amounts
stolen did not average more than 8s At Cooma, the
other day, a 7ft. 2in. brown snake coiled itself round
the arm of a Mr. Aguew. It immediately uncoiled
itself, and in doing so, gave Agnew a smart «lap on the
face with its tail, fortunately doing no further harm.
It was killed In the gizzard of a fowl killed at
Orange lately, was found a young snake, five or six
inches in length Boycotting has commenced at Gal-
gong. It is alleged that two aldermen have taken their
custom away from two other aldermen who voted
against them...... A very big find of the last week in the
Wesley Co.’s claim. Vegetable Creek. The depth of
wash is 14ft Burglary at St. Kilda (Melboiirne)
E.C. Church. Sanctuary a good deal injured in
searching for valuables, but none were found
A man named Moore is missing from the Tate River,
N.Q. Gobbled by niggers, most probably A Chinese
died at Sandhurst Chinese camp. He refused to see a
medical man, as according to the Independent, he was
a doctor himself A girl, 16 years old, has been caught
doing night-burglary business, at Alberton, an Adelaide
suburb Adelaide Good Templars have started anew
dissipation—a “ coffee social.” It’s a trifle behind a
church fair orgy, or a strawberry festival slush swizzle.
The brothers and sisters “elocute” in turns, and the
gas is not turned down once At Charters Towers,
the P.M. has found it necessary to establish a “ roster ”
of justices, to prevent bench-packing. A country
paper says that a beef kidney, weighing 230 lbs, has
been on view locally. It was taken from a bullock fed
by Mr. W. B. Smith, of Darbalara, weighing 11 cwt....i.
Civilisation on the march! A hoarse has been intro-
duced at Bourke!......The diggers at Charters Towers
are “surging” very indignantly in consequence of a
ukase issued, that public-houses shall be entirely closed
on Sundays... Tasmania, the smallest of Victoria’s neigh-
bours, contributes more to ber population than any of the
others .. One of the crew writes to the Geelong A dverti-
ser that he arrived in Hobson’s Bay, in a three-masted
schooner, named Osprey, from America, in the year 1852.
This is supposed to be the vessel by which the Tichbome
claimant, according to bis story, came to Melbourne
16,506 aqrcs of sugar land selected at Port Mackay in
one day Queensland ministers have secured grand
blocks The New Guinea natives make most of tho
canoes used by the North Australian and island tribes
The Albury wines this year are of better quality
than they were last year N.S.W. Zoological Society
continues the importation and acolamatization of
English skylarks and goldfinches The Nelson (N.Z.)
Society are exchanging skylarks and goldfinches with
the Sydney society for young magpies
In Professor Morselli’s newly-published book on
“ Suicide,” it is stated that “ suicide has continually
increased from the beginning of the century, and goes
on continually increasing in almost all the civilised
countries of Europe and of the new world; that it is
not possible to explain the increase otherwise than as
an effect of that unusual and complex influence to
which we give the name of civilisation.“ “Suicide,” says
the Professor, “is an effort of the straggle for existence,
and of human selection, which works according to the
laws of evolution among civilised people."


RILEY BROTHERS,
SS6 GEORGE STREET,)
600 GEORGE STREET, [ SYDNEY.
165 OXFORD STREET, J
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND,
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
the cheapest drapers
IN THK
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
the originators or the
NOTED £5 BALES.
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
ShirMng
3 pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair ot White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2J yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
} doz. Pocket’kerchiets
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &o.
Mother’s JGS Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies* Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Haircord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
\ dozen Infants’ Diaper
Squares
Puff box. Puff* Powder
1 Flannel Hoad Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant's Christ’ing Robe
1 I n f a n t's Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wiacey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
JBS Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars. Ties, Ac.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good lougoloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
JBS Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or oolsured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White Towels
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Thread, Ac.
£5 Mourning' Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS’
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
4 dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Robe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Stockman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pockethaukerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
1 Elatsic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Ladies’ Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemists
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer,
We wish it to be distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOR BOYS.
School Saits, 2s fid
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Picnic Suits, 3s lid
Sunday Suits, 7s fid
Youths’ Suits. 12s 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakspeare Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats. 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, Did
Linen Collars, 4,d
Elastic Braces. 3d
Cotton Socks, 3d
Necties, 3d
FOR LADIES.
Dolman Mantles. 12s 9d
Sattecn Prints, 3Jd
Dress Materials. 4jd
Black Alpaca, Sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hats, Is 61
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is fid
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s 61
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2s fid
Muslin Edging, 2 id
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 9i
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOR MEN.
Working Shirts, Is fid
White Shirts. 2s fid
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 4id
Seamless Socks, fid
Elastic Braces, 61
Tweed Suits, 19j fid
Summer Suits, 19s fid
Trousers and Vest, 9s fid
Tweed Trousers, 3s Hd
Best quality, 7s fid
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed Pagets, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s fid
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakspeare Hats. 2s 61
Colonial Tweed, 2s fid
Silk Umbrellas, 7s 61
FOB THE HOUSE.
American Longcloth, 2id
Nightshirt Calico, 4id
Grey Calico, 2Jd
Double width Calico, 7id
Pillow Calico. 6id
bwansdown Calico
Whits Flannel, 7id
Wide Flannel, Hid
Scarlet Flannel, 7i I
Saxony Flannel, llid
Cotton Tick, 3J-J.
Linen Tick, 7i I
Stripe Bed Tick, sid
Unbleached Sheeting, Tid
White Sheeting. 7id
Twilled Sheeting, 9id
Mosquito Net, fiid
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS PRICE LlST.—Persons who may read this
advertisement mast not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
common. They are by no moans the commonest goods.
We have lower prices still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
hut with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THK
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
m
ms
dt-
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coai in the Colony,
the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and hare kept well free from ash, makes a at,longer, more lasting,
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it splinter and fly oil like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
beating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
TRADE * JIAUJ
■.-V
m
EGREAT
JTOIt
HEIIIiTM,
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Backache, Soreness of the Chest, Gout,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swellings and
Sprains, Burns and Scalds,
Genera! Bodily Pains,
Tooth, Ear and Headache, Frosted Feet
and Ears, and all other Pains
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals St. Jacobs On. as
n safe, sure, simple and cheap External Remedy.
A trial entails but the comparatively trifling outlay
of 50 dents, and every one suffering with pain
can have cheap and positive proof of its claims.
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IN
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-streot,
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-s'reet.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Georga-street.
I. JACOBS & Co,, Hunter-street.
(gYDNEY (GIRLS’) GRAMMAR SCHOOL.
532, Bourke-streen South, Moore Park.
Principal: F. LYON WEISS, late Assistant Classical
and Mathematical Master, Sydney Grammar School.
Head Governess: Mrs. ELLIOT, College Bdnddictin,
Lisieu, France, late Finishing Governess in the family
of Countess Sierstcrptf, Breslau; and Head Governess
of Hyde House Ladle* College, Manchester Second
Master: Rev. A. LIKELY, BA, Trim Coll, Dublin.
A Class for the University Examinations has already
made some progress in the prescribed books. Ladies
(non-pupils) can, after giving satisfactory references,
i'oin one or more classes—especially those for Cookery,
Dressmaking, Elocution, and Dancing—without attend-
ing other classes. Prospectus on application.
H
(Established 30 Teaks.]
ODGS O N ’ S WH IP FACTORY.
601, GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
near Goulburn street.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, &o.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
S'PliTPyy.rTVTmi.rM.
n
■
670 h.HILDE R.i670
|G7O
o 70
N BltOf
OIR
HUGER
boot
O or«t'* r *o uy r
■
M
■Si
■v
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
]>f E W PREMISES,
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the Goneral Public, Mayors and
AMnrmeu of various municipalities, and other public
b* die?, has REMOVED to his Elegant and Splendid
SHOP, No, 607 & 713 GEORGE STREET, one door from
the corner of Gouldum-street, where he will b» pleased
to sec his old customers, and to whom ho renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN’S DINNERS.
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
ministerial banquets,
got up in First-class Stylo.
A Visit is requostod.
MANUFACTORY,
ON-ACCORD
WORKS.
MACQUARIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o. • is
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelUgent lad with perfeet safety.
This Q A Sis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace'-
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. "
TA.LLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Qovemmontßailways in perforence
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, Ac, Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN buildiiig use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course. ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren*
dors them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B, BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
. Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD'S OYSTER ROOMS,
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
107 FICT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
LEVERS,
•s
ys%"
2
-
1!
30
-JS3SfI
r
&
o
Oi
Q69U
&
638 GAORGE STREET.


Chemists and Dr
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GREAT LIVER
And successful substitute for
Podophyllum, and all N(
Famous as a Restorative to Hoi
Famous as an Invigorator of tb
Famous for the Cure of all Disc
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Toni
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, CLNE !
Invented and Fropar
J. S. A B R
At tho Laboral
434 GEORGE STREET
COUGH WHILE YOU U
taking Dr. Thompson’s Ami
Linctus, you will not be able tc
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 13
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appeti
tralian Relish, made by
177 Pitt street, price one shilling
OVERS OF GO 0 I
We beg to draw
PARTICULAR ATI
to the
ASIATIC TEA
. PACKET TP
Packed in pounds and h:
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
_ 2s. anc
PURE INDIAN TEA,
2i. Gd.
PURE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 61.
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d.
Special Quotations given to V
Country Orders promptl,
ASIATIC TEA C(
279 PITT STREET (next
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U
182 PITT STR]
from
D. JONES &
Respectfully invites an inapeci
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTI
BEDSTE/
Bl
All of the best quality, and eel
RELIABLE MANUFACTURER
Furniture re-covered and carpe
charges.
#
G
EOR G E
(Formerly of Geo:
impoktee 0
CHINA GLASS AND EA
Begs to announce that he ha
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC
where every article in the above 1
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERS!
Business Announ
S
[Leoal.J
HOETEE, FITZGERALI
SOLICITO]
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEE.
and
MACQUAEIE BTEEEI
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOE, has c<
practice of his profession, £
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
CH A E L E S
(from Messrs. P. N. Eus
Manufacturer of Cooking Sto
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 G(
Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
N°
TICE OF E
THOMAS WEBB
GLASS MANUPA
and
IMPOETEES of EVEEY DESC
and EAETHEWY
Beg to announce that ney have
KEMOVI
to
269 GEOEGE ;ST
Next but One to the Mei
A magnificent selection of New
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLET
416 GEOEGE STI
F.T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE'
-AN D-
P
W
RI
V
2 Hamilton S
Public Comps
£IHE AUSTRALIAN JOHN
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with
£1,000,000. Reserve Fu
Dieectoes ;
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman;
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.;
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wa
Geneeal Mana
Vincent Wanostrocl
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE S
City and Suburban Branches:
Glebe, Bur wo
London Office : 18 King Wil
BEANCHES IN NEW SC
Albury, Armidale, Balliua,
Bourke, Buudarra, Cassilis, Co
bran, Coonamble, Copeland Nort
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inuea, Gou
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End
Kexnpsey, Lambtou, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Naraudera,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rock
ton. South Grafton, Temora, '
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsen
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn,
BEANCHES IN QUE
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Chart
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, M
Eavenswood, Eockliampton, Sta
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Cel
the World genei
The mercantile ba
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
DIRECTOR!
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlev King, M.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Es<
H. E. Cohen, Esq
MANAGER
F. A. A. Wil
SECRETARY
Hector Allej
BRANCHES
687 George-streer, Bricktiol
Girilambone; G<
LONDON BANI
The National Provincial Ba
London Office, 158 Lead
Director—Edward Chi
Agent—Q. H. Alexai
This Bank transacts all usual'
Airency Business on the most favc
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances j
other nrodnce shipped to Englau
T GRAHAM
• IMPORTER AND GENE
17 BRIDGE STI
Chief Agent f
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSU;
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBu
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CEL:
SCOTCH WHIS
AITCHISON’S PAI
READ TH
the baking
MANUFACTURED. BY US
AS DOCTOR
kV/iUTt
SINGER’S SEWIN
See the Medals, Cups,
at the
SYDNEY AR
SINGER'S SEWING
ABE MADE ONI
The Singer Mannfactu:
Head Offices
34 UNION SQUARE, NEY
Chief Office in Ei
39 FOSTER LANE,
Depot for New Sout
No, 1 DARLING STORES, Hi
s
I
N
G
E
R
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING
HAVE
All the Latest Imprc
SINGER’S SEWING
FOB
Largest Variety of
SINGER’S SEWING
FOB
Strength and Beauty
SINGER’S SEWING
_ , FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, a
SINGER’S SEWING :
FOB
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SEWING ;
. fob
Kilting, Cording, and
160 FIRST PR
EASY TEEMS—iZ~6d.
AGENTS IN EVERI
Officps in Svdn(
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR
LOCAL DEPO'
BOLTON STREET, NEY
WILLIAM STREET, Bi
AUBURN STREET N., (
PEEL STREET, TAMWI
VICTORIA STREET, GR
NARANDERA. PARR
227 QUEEN STREET, B]
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE £
JgINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ABE THE
RECOGNISED i
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MAN!
TIME PAYMEN’
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week
And NO INTEBEBT cl
10 per cent, off for <
BEWARE OP IMIT
Aoekts for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOft
SEWING MAOHUS
HAYMARKEI


IN THE JUG.
[WRITTEN BY ALL OF US.]
NO. 2.
We commence this, our aecona prison picture, in
a jugular—we mean a jocular, vein. Captives, we are
still, it is true, hut both our hearts and our chains are
light. Indeed, to give a discriminating public the
straight griffin, we are in such continual convulsions of
laughter at the hilarious humours of our prison-house,
that, in order to prevent the premature decease of
Haynes through excessive merriment, an extra prison
servant has been told off for the exclusive duty of tap-
ping him on the back with ons of Archibald’s elaborate
portmanteaux.
# # #
The rush of grief, last week, consequent on
our sudden incarceration, caused ns to omit many little
points in the description we gave of the luxurious
quarters assigned to us by Sir William. We should
have mentioned that our establishment consists, in all,
©f seven different apartments. Three of these are bed-
rooms, hut although we endeavour to spread ourselves
out as much as possible, wa are only, at present, enabled
to occupy two of them. When Ferguson of the Parra-
matta Eao was here, he used to lie down upon the bed
in one room and put his boots in the other. That filled
both apartments in such a way that if any other
prisoner came in he had to sleep downstairs next to the
bath-room. While on the subject of Fargy, we may
also remark that a good many friends came to see him
when he was first incarcerated, and the expression of
their sympathy always took the form ot sausages. They
knew his weakness, and good-naturedly pandered to it.
The consequence was that the dream of John’s life
was, for the first time, fully realised. He revelled in
high living, and spurned the once familiar red herring
with scorn and derision. People who used to call at
the gate to ask did he yet linger, didn’t leave their
cards, but bags of sausages He used to receive them
in all varieties, from the unpatrician polony to the
dairy-fed pork. John’s staff had good times in those
days. He used to gat a square meal every day, and for
tho first time since Fergy’s paper had been established
did tbe office paste get a rest.
* * *
An apartment worthy of passing notice is the
dining-room. This banqueting-hall is large enough to
hold any man in Sydney with comparative comfort, ex-
cept John Lucas, and it is fitted with a shelf, a gas-
bracket, a table, two forms, and a spittoon. This last
article is the exclusive property of the Government.
We can lay no claim to it. We simply respect it as in-
troducing into our s alle, ii mamjer a certain rollicking
club-house element which materially tends to lighten
the sorrows of our dungeon. Our larder is now on a
scale of superior splendour, and for fear of dazzling the
unprepared visitor, we modestly hide our treasures
behind a green calico curtain. Wo don’t believe so
in any jam-pots and fish-tins wore ever soon before out
of Kidman’s window, and cartainly our collection of
electro “ prongs ’’ and ladles servos to make a dis-
play .which elicits encomiums from even the most diffi-
dent sympathiser. When Mr. Bibbs was here, ho had
a silver teapot, of which lie was excusably proud. Well,
so that George Eichard shouldn’t get the bulge on us,
wo had sent in last week a massive tea and coffee ser-
vice which wo won at a diorama. We have since sent
it away, however. Wo didn’t want to put temptation
in the way of the warders. The dining-room is lit by a
little close-barred dormer window, and in the centre of
the door is a pane of glass, fitted there presumably to
allow the warder on duty to cry out “ Would yer!"
whenever he sees a debtor eating peas with his knife.
• a «
We had a dinner party, the other day, and our
fair caterer excelled herself in serving up the banquet.
We had chicken soup, and steak and oysters, and lamb
and schnapper, and pie—all sorts of things. Well, just
as we were in the very thick of the banquet, who should
ba announced but Tom Slattery. He entered the feast,
iag chamber, one scintillating smile; but as his speak-
ing eye fell upon the delicacies (Haynes was at that
moment diverting his thoughts from legal matters by
snapping up great blocks of watermelon), the counten-
ance of the member for Burrowa fell. With a sigh of
disappointment, he placed a small parcel on the table.
"What a pity,” he said, sadly, “to be disappointed
after coming all this way.” He had brought us each
an Abernethy biscuit and a saveloy.
# # *
We have already an enemy in Darlinghurst ;
and, for once, we confess ourselves unable to cope with an
antagonist. If anyone treads on our corns outside with
an iron-bound bluoher—(we don’t mind as long as the
boot’s not iron-bound) —why, wo can generally get on
even terms with them by means of a little fulsome
adulation. But our Barlinghurst euemy is a terror.
At early morn, at breakfast-time, after breakfast, at mid-
day, in the afternoon, and in the gloaming, our antagon-
ist pursues us with a dread, crushing perseverance.
It is a tocsin rung by a muscular madman. We have
tried to find out the name of the warder who clashes
this metal monster and curdles our marrow eight times
daily. *v hen we do, we will slay him with a blow from
ons of our prison pillows.
• « •
For the information of those who wish to come
and see ns, we may at once state that no order is neces-
sary. Anyone can come and see us—even Archbishop
Vaughan ; but we don’t care about being “ old
follow’d ” by anyone under the social rank of a supreme
Court bailiff. And this reminds ns that Mr. Thomas,
the emissary who gallantly effected our capture, is a
gentleman of most distinguished appearance and grace-
ful mien. Though he wouldn’t unbend jast at first,
after surrounding our office with beetle-browed assist-
ants (all, of course, armed to the teeth), we got a grin
out of him after a little bit. Ho then allowed Haynes
to buy a sixpenny pockethandkerchief to twist round
his leg-iron, and permitted Archibald to be unbound
while penning, upon tear-blistered slips, a little poem
to somebody, commencing—
No more, my love, for long months drear.
Will I thy fair form hng;
Unless thy fairy foot, my dear.
Come tripping to the Jag.
The lady replied next day, in an ode which contained
fire enough to heat a pair of curling-tongs. We have
kept back one verse, and sent the rest to Alfred. Here’s
our stanza —
"Sob forth, ye walls; ye bastions weep;
Ye towers wail, and have no fears;
Oh, moan, thou dreary donjon keep—
The cells already are in tiers."
There’s a nice ring aboat this, isn’t there ? We have
seen something rather like it in the Half-Crown
Wilkins.
• • •
The time passes very quickly. We have never
known the moments to flee so rapidly since we had
hold of a little white hand, and were looking under a
big white hat one day out at —well, never mind where.
If a panting public wishes to know how we spend the
day, we will tell them. We wake every morning at 5
on purpose to curse the clanging bell, and then we go
to sleep again and dream that we are running a paper
in a land flowing with milk and honey, where ex-
pnblicaus, grocers, and nightmen perform more distin-
guished functions than those of sitting in judgment
upon journalists. After a breakfast comprising every
delicacy that can be scooped out of a tin can with a
three-pronger, we settle down to write those funny
little things you lap np every week in the paper. By-
and-bye, a gentleman of modest demeanour will enter,
and without more ado, will take a chair into one of the
bed-rooms and beckon in a ghostly manner. This is a
tonsorial envoy from the realms of Emperor Wigzell.
We sent to the palace requesting his Majesty not to
think it coolness on our part that we did not wait upon
him; and he is graciously pleased to send np a minion
of his court to rasp our chins daily. At first, he used
only to bring seventeen razors and enough limp leather
strop to hang the whole Kelly gang. But, now that he
has had experience of the down npon Haynes’s chin, ha
appears with a No. 4 scythe under one arm, and a
grindstone under the other.
* # *
We must mention that wo are visited by Mr.
Bead, the Governor, every morning. Mr. E. is a most
polite gentleman, and smiles upon us affably while his
subordinates in attendance see that we have during the
night neither filed the bars nor swallowed tbe gas.
stove. The warders all treat ns with much amiability.
This condescension on their part inspires in our breasts
grateful feelings of no ordinary kind. We do not —as
debtors with less delicacy might—take advantage of
any cordiality shown by a turnkey in a weak moment
to such desperate characters as we are. We know how
to keep our place, thank heaven, and study resignation
of manner and humility of speech.
* * •
Up to the time of writing this, we have not seen
ihe doctor. We regard ourselves slighted by this
desertion on the part of the medical officer, and have
shed many hitter, bitter tears. Bat come—
We pray thee, O medico merry, look in,
And p’haps you’ll find ’mong us a wisher.
For that medical comfort that jeople call gin,
Or some lymph from that sylph, Susan Fisher.
* # «
All our visitors say that our sitting-room looks
quite luxurious now; but that is nothing to what it will
ho when we have got in onr time-payment oleographs,
and Father Leonard has sent us a new “ ornament for
our fire-stove." When Bibbs was here, the place never
looked neat because he used to leave the tools about,
and when turning at his lathe used to scatter about the
vegetable ivory so, that when his brother Tom returned
to the Commercial Bank after a visit to the gaol, the
other directors always thought he had been out in a
snow storm. That reminds ns that when G. E. called,
the Supreme Court of Spitsbergen somehow became the
topic of conversation. Then Mr. Bibbs mr.de this re-
mark, which we have carefully treasured up. He said,
" There are some people who say there is no hell. lam
sure there must be a bell. There are such a lot of
people I know who are born to go there.’’ That was a
trenchant thing to say, though we do not pretend to
say that the remark applies to either the libel jurymen
of Flim-Flam or the Supreme Court of Spitsbergen.
Mr. W. H. Hicks came up to see us also, and brought
with him a bottle of whisky, which the man at tho gate
captured, and which will probably get seven days. Wa
had some lively conversation with W. H., and before he
wont we sang in chorus to a comb and curl-paper ac-
companiment this, the opening versa of our new hvmn :
Oh, Satan, may you never nave
The frizzling and trepanning
Of any judge who’s good and brave. —
Et surtout pas— Ei-too-ral,
• • •
The present most striking of the decorations of
our sitting-room is a ’possum rug, belonging to Archi-
bald, and the luggage. There is also a secretaire,
removed from Pitt-street, which is much admired. The
room, however, would look much brighter were our
IRKf? a E G a little more picturesque. In Mr. Ferguson’s
time, the effect of the apartment was exceedingly
striking. The first day John came in he brought a box
of paper-collars and a tin of salmon. Next day, a
meeting of his friends was hold in Parramatta, which
resulted iu his being forwarded a tin of charcoal biscuits
and n pigskin jersey. All Fergy’s Saratoga trunks and
portinauteanx took the form of brown-paper parcels.
His jewellery he kept iu a seidlitz-powder box, which
he fastened with a patent lock composed of a rope-yarn
and a hair-pin. John being a domestic man, used to
have bis small but affectionate family np every after-
noon, and it was a sweet and beautiful thing to see two
of the kids playing at birdsnests by sitting In his hat,
and three others doing railway train sleeping-car by
lying at full length in his slipper.
• • *
After meals we promote digestion by innocent
but intellectual recreations. Mr. Haynes, has, it may
be stated,mimetic powers of an extraordinary character.
He can not only give imitations of members of the
perfesh and of Parliament with extraordinary accuracy,
but he can come three distinct cats under a Bridge-
street culvert iu a manner which would give great
satisfaction to the various crowned heads of Europe.
His imitation of John Lucas is a most polished perform-
ance ; and as he has to make np for the character with
three prison mattresses, a pair of covered snow shoes,
and 3 miles of blanket, the chaste and appropriate aspect
of his costume might be studied with advantage by
many a star actor who comes to this country with “ a
fine provincial reputation." Archibald divides the time
singing of his loves, and telling booming recollections
of Queensland in its Palmer days. Perhaps there is no
man in this world who knows so many snake stories. He
says that when on the Evening News, he inculcated such
a passion for these revelations in the breast of Alfred,
that he used to consider the paper incomplete without
one. And now it is a well-known fact amongst Alf.’s
contributors that “snake" copy will fetch 15 per cent,
more than even an item about a smashed ginger-beer
cart, or a poem on tho “ Wattle that blooms by tho
Washus.”
* * *
Here is the latest effort by Archibald in the
snake line. Many years ago in Queensland, while stuck
up on the banks of a creek by the floods, ho perceived a
bollock in the far distance swimming through the waste
of water towards the rise on which he was camped,
while a small mob were perched disconsolately at some
distance watching with great interest the efforts of the
swimmer to reach the place of saiety. The animal
didn’t come direct, but swam to a point half a mile up
the creek,when to A’s astonishment, ho got a footing,
and safely crossed on to the dry land. Approaching the
animal, Arch, perceived to his amazement that en.
twined round its neck was a small brown snake, tbe
head of which rested just by the bullock's ear. On the
animal beginning to browse, the snake uncoiled itself,
and at this moment the distant cattle commenced to
low disconsolately. The snake raised its head to listen,
and after a few moments’ rest took to the water and
swam away in their direction. Soon the distant beeves
began to move, and, lo and behold 1 they travelled to-
wards the rise, taking exactly the same course adopted
by the first bullock; and when they arrived, there was
the little snake coiled round the neck of the leader of
the procession. Archibald saw it at once. The cattle
had saved the reptile from exhaustion while swim-
mg, and it had shown its gratitude by piloting them
to dry land. When told with soft inflections of voice,
this little story is very |affectiug. In support of its
veracity, Archibald shows to this day the skin of the
reptile, and a hair-trunk made out of the hide of the
first bullock.
« • •
It is permitted to the debtor to go to church on
Sunday morning. Tho minister is Canon Eich, an
elderly gentleman, who is chiefly remarkable for the
discriminating pjwer he exorcises in the “ spotting ”
of repentant piiaoners, and for sermons whose soporific
nature have gained for them throughout the colony
considerable celebrity. A debtor usually goes to church
once, through curiosity. After this, he stays and does
his praying at home. The congregation-criminal have
an interest in feigning rapt attention to the rev. gentle-
man’s discourse. The debtors haven't; so the conse-
quence is that after the first five minutes of the
Canon’s discourse, they are positively all tumbling
against one another, so wrapt are they in slumber.
When we feel we have got very wicked, we shall go to
church, too ; bat we have been tolerably successful in
flooring Auld Clootie so far, with the aid of the two
volumes we lightly touched on in our last issue.
• • •
And so we close this, the second instalment of
onr Jug Journal. How many more leaves will be
written in this chapter of the book of our lives will
depend entirely upon circumstances. In any case,
we are perfectly resigned to the situation. Considering
we have only just been confined, we are "as well as
could be expected." It is not within onr power, though,
to prophesy when the white kid glove will he taken off
the front-door knocker.
* * *
P.S. —We have at the last moment been
shown by our own artists a sketch of ourselves in our
prison-house. We have just written them to say we
are a great deal better looking than “ that." When we
come out, a deep and ♦bloody revenge is ours.
An enterprising firm in England has conceived
the idea of a “ Floating International Exhibition.” A
very large steamer will be fitted up as required, and
everything will be exhibited on board, not landed any-
where. Provided tho “Exhibition” isn’t wrecked on
its travels, the scheme promises well; but it is a pity
the Great Eastern was not secured for tho purpose. A
theatrical -man has suggested the idea of a floating
theatre, to \travel round the globe, with a full company
on board, atid all performances ‘to be given on tho
vessel.
* This only means " blurry.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Misa Kate Edgar, of N.Z., is just gazetted
"Master of Arts."
No man should marry two wives. He can’t
serve two masters.
Miss Margaret Hicks, a young lady graduate of
Cornell University, U.S., has setup in business as an
architect.
Mark Twain says : 11 None but the brave deserve
the fair," and none bat the brave can live with some of
them.
Victoria Woodhall says that the great majority
I ? en re liars aad hypocrites, and that she has learned
that only the advance agents of consolidated circuses
are to be trusted.
The Queen has given Miss Grant a commission
for a marble bust of Bean Stanley, to be placed in the
private chapel at Windsor Castle, as a companion to the
bust of General Grey.
A breach of promise suit came off at Montreal
recently. The pair had named the day and marked it
down in the lady’s diary. The man was caught
8 ru ' > * > * n ® out entry, and making it a
r - Sykes Thornton spent over
£1.000,000 in trying to obtain the legalisation of marriage
with a deceased wife’s sister, but still the objectionable
law remains unrepealed. She must really have been a
very nice deceased wife’s sister to be worth a million.
The question is asked :—“ Does not a man who,
n ? arri .® d * sa ys to his future wife during the
n fliao'v,n W^ th f al l m; [ world, y sroods I thee endow,’ utter
lf has previously made a tettlement
hunting her as to the use of his worldly goods during
his death 1 ?"’ awd aS t 0 tbeir Possession in the event of
A tramp obtained bread and meat from a St
ser l,aut girl, but demanded, in addition, a cup of
. he girl had none ready, whereupon the
chivalnc tramp ordered her to make some at once
emphasising his command with a slap. The girl knocked
tram P> tor o h>s shirt open, and set a hot flat
iron on his breast. Ha went off with a very hot cough,
A lady in America found out that her sweet-
heart had a wife living. Sho accordingly wanted to give
him in charge for bigamy, but on being told that a
second marriage was necessary to complete the offence,
allowed the engagement to end in a wedding, when she
had lum arrested, but was herself run in for aiding and
abetting with full knowledge of the circumstances.
Some years ago, on board a troop-ship, a
soldiers wife assaulted her husband, and, in a fit of
fury, threw several articles of his kit overboard She
, a r ? gular termagant, and the gallant captain,
puzzled in the first instance how to deal with her,
afterwards put a hold face on, and solemnly warned her
that if she did not behave herself he would place her
lmr C prank ™ en * a,ld avC lcr cut °ff- She stopped
• Goold denounced mixed marriages
in his Lenten lecture at Melbourne, and they have been
denounced by his Catholic confreres in
fheirhiwL* t * l ® r . o7e Irend 1 rend gentlemen may as well hold
■ r be law 18 not made that love will
keep. One hair from a loved woman’s head Is stronger
than any chain church dignitaries can forge, and a
ssxra; ■ mk ■ a “ , “ t *■»
„“ 1 w j a ,k I kad been a woman,” remarks Lord
Beaconsfleld, in “ Endymion.” Women are the only
people who get on. A man works all his life, and
bo has doae a wonderful thing if, with one
leg in the grave and no hair on his head, he manages to
get a coronet; and a woman dances at a ball with some
young fellow or other, or sits next to some old fellow at
dinner, and pretends she thinks him charming, and
he makes her a peeress on the spot.
Last week, in Melbourne, an equestrienne was
*5 r °iT n from ber seat » and hung some seconds beneath
tne norse. When rescued from her dangerous position
by a gentleman, she didn’t thank him-she merely asked
him to dust her clothes. This reminds a Southern
journalist of the fact that a short time ago, at a London
railway station, a lady was rescued from almost certain
death by two gentlemen, who dragged her from between
the platform and carriages where she had fallen, bhe,
instead of thanking those who had come to her aid.
bitterly reproached them for having been so careless as
tear her dress.
The New York Herald objects to murderers
as pets, and says, "It is bad enough when lovely
woman adores pug dogs and old teapots, but when she
refreshes her delicate sensibilities by visiting con-
demned murderers, carrying flowers and bonbons with
her, and asking no pny but smiles, autographs and locks
of hair, the time arrives to wonder whether she should
not be locked up to keep her from disgracing herself.
•. • • • Guiteau’s Sumltiy receptions have already
disgraced our people in the eyes of respectable fo-
reigners. His visitors have not been friends, bat utter
strangers, and so shameless were many of them that
they took little children with them. ... If society
cannot prevent this degradation of womanhood, the
law can at least prevent silly women calling upon
criminals with whom they are not acquainted, and in
whom they can have no honourable interest."
THE KOOKABURRA.
Ideality is the Articularity of the Unthere,
Irish cvicters call a crowbar a “ latch-key.”
Woman’s rites —Marriage ceremonies.
A sailor calls a temperance lecture “ dry rot.”
An Early Closing Association.—An oyster bed.
Don’t blame sailors for loading wreckless lives.
“Who shall decide when doctors disagree?”
The undertaker, of course.
The Murray river has of late been so low that
steamers have had to carry sprinklers to lay the dust.
The fashion editor wrote “ Rubies are fashion-
able this season." But when Miss Sophronia Waddles-
worth, set. 39, read “ Babies are fashionable this sea-
son, ” she fainted for fifteen minutes.
He had long been sweet on her, and when, late
one evening, he asked her to sing something tender and
touching—something that would “ move" him, she
sat down at the piano and sang “ Darling, I am growing
old.’,
Gilhooly mot Gus de Smith coming out of a
public, as drunk as 9 boiled owl. " Are you drnnk
again, Gus ?" “ Mr. Gilhooly,” said Gus, straightening
up; I m too far gone at proshent to form any opinion
whatever on sbubieot under discusshon."
A Melbourne gentleman the other day dropped
a half-sovereign in the street. A smart youngster
picked it up and kept it. When brought before the
court, his sister, in extenuation of the offence said,
“He keeps my mother." “Yes, and half-sovereigns
too, ’ remarked the magistrate. Sentence—six hours.
Mamma: “ You never saw me with such dirty
ands, Ethel.” Ethel (thoughtfully) : “ No, but per-
haps your mamma did.”
At hotel. Practical joker, to friend departing
from table : " Hey I I say I" and then (in a whisper):
, wr would you have been if I hadn’t called you
back ? Hoaxed one (very loudly): « No. Sir, I won’t
lend you £5. I haven’t got it; and if I had I wouldn’t
let you have it until you paid me what yon borrowed
two months aga.”
An inventor has just patented anew spring
front-door that supplies a “long felt want” in the most
emphatic sense. The door opens from the inside and
is particularly adapted for country residences. All the
busy housewife has to do is to notice from the sitting-
roam window that a sundowner or book agent is com-
ing up the garden walk. As soon as she hears the
knock she touches a button, the powerful spring is let
go, the door flies open and slams the victim clear off
the steps. Then it shuts to again, all ready for another
struggle, but the stranger generally picks himself out
of the rose-bushes, wipes the blood off his nose, and
goes off muttering: “Well, you needn’t be sod
rough about it, anyway!"
* The irregularity of the verse ij caused by introduc-
ing gas into the meter.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.
The Vatican haa a popu atio r. elt of
people.
th. T S™i° P ° f Hobart 1m lofl London by
The entire population of a Spanish village near
Villafrauca, is reported to have become Protestant.
The latest in religion—A “ Jumbo Club” has
stre n et. tarted “ Melbourne ’ Head quarters in Swanston-
Kyn ? ton deanery is moving to re-
Athlnas?ancS mOUWIIO have SQru “ using the
In a public discussion in Victoria reoentlv on
S o voeatr°Mr Of p B * * Said , bi tbe
Kev! E Bufchers. ° Wn ’ WaB greatl * ™ rstod by the
CootannindLca. f h^
&*. 'Sard
trophies in the shape of ex-convicte V
by tCarmy-* th ° dei>ravod of a 1 sorts reclaimed
waswaisaa Sr “
national School. * ost lts bo,jt Benomi-
The Rev. J. L. Benedict advertises that bn la
S.fdir; .CSS'S
Tho of tlio Church m n,*4.1
as. zsss;,******> toidS'A;;
. , Tt j 8 reported that the Y.M.C.A. of Dunedin
d a y PP|M .fo by
town clean. The
house is not wholly different. P 3 of Blsb °P Moor -
Gambetta has submitted a nronooal
peal of the clause in the French the , r ®*
enacts that at the opening of each wblcll
sion public prayers shauTe offered ur in Z
T°i d /*?“?'"■
elevated site, three-square shane of wv h -° ?
quite completed. £lBOO has been Lent -Dot
tS. D ““
U.n H th , o c , lrculation was 2.816 029, costing £202 00o‘
£66-a S w B S U w d d
=ajS Mies - akeir isass
EE^oX Bulk, chaplafn
of Truro, recently said at an Ordination Service S
the effect of the revivals got up in the excitement of
some religious sects was that there were afterwards
born into the world numbers of children, wh" for
vSciontarfy nam6d tbeir brents." Thiais
Th f Jo?? 8 “ u nicipality voted the other day, a
sum of £2O to the Society for Promoting Civil Mar-
mge. or rather for discouraging religious marriage
France haa the smallest percentage of divorces of an v
European country, the average being about six in the
hundred The percentage is highest in the New Eng-
land States of America, where tho average is one
divorce to every six marriages.
A gentleman who haa been in Poland and
Eussia states that the persecution of the Jews is not a
matter of religion at all. They are usurers of the mo t
grinding type, and of filthy person. It is as usurers
they are maltreated, not as Hebrews Very manv of
the Polish Jews have light hair and blue eves Pro-
bably, there is no race in which the women are so
generally attractive when young, and so universally
unprepossessing when old. J
Says a contemporary“ The Indian Govern,
meat makes £6,000.000 per annum from opium trfde
with China A Christian nation ! » The foregoing
minds ns that the Eev. George Martin, at the big Bible
Society meeting the other night, said England
owed its greatness to the word of God The old faifba
of the world were dying, but the region of tht
whmh conid not perish, was still gaining in the world!
J he Y aB * he mainspring of civilisation, the
foundation of all true morality, and when its principles
were sown in a nation’s life, that nation would rtoch
the pinnacle of human greatness.**
Another big Presbyterian row at Edinburgh,
w u an o r 2 ma . t i on . Of elders recently, the Eev.Br,
Walter C. Smith stated that the elders might sign the
formula, and accept the Confession of Faith only in so
far as it agreed with the Bible. The Free Church Pres-
bytery of Edinburgh promptly took tho matter up. and
passed a severely condemnatory resolution on Br,
Smith. What action that gentleman will take is not
known for certain; but it is expected that he will main-
tain his ground, and that there will thus be brought
about another of those serious disputes, so numerous
°i L ate ’, wh ‘ ch Portend serious trouble for the Church
ot ocotlana.
The Rev. W. Mackenzie, of Bowenfela, has
been presented, on severing his connexion with St.
Mar ? » Church, Eskbank, with the inevitable “ illumi-
nated address, beautifully designed and executed.’*
One of the reasons for the presentation is at least
novel: his admirers say "your punctual attenai nee at
tbe various services, very often at great person tin-
convenience to yourself, is gratefully acknowledge i bv
your hearers. The only pity is, that a presentation
given to a labourer in the vineyard for such arduous
duties as being punctual, and suffering personal incon-
venience, should have consisted of only an address—
which no pawnbroker would lend a copper cm. Why
were the gilt teapot and cream jug omitted ?
A Met(e)rical Legend:—
A Paw-kee-wis told them stories—
Stories that were not all fiction;
Told them of his own half-brother,
Gas O Meter*—the great liar;
He whose name would scare the boldest.
He who made the strong man tremble :
Ho who could oeceivo the wisest.
He whose ways were past all knowledge.
He the most consummate villain.
He the everlasting lyre;
For he sang in every wigwam,
And his voice was low and soothing.
And he lulled all their suspicions—
Then he came down like a wind storm,
Charging them unheard-of prices—
Prices that were simply ’normous.
Charged them ten times what he should have—•
Charged for time he had been singing;
Till at last they had him banished—
Banished with his tongues of fire
To the land of Hocus Poous
“ To the land of the Hereafter.,*


w.
HOWARD SME
STEDTH’S WHARF and
(Foot of King-si
Offices : 7 SPEINC
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and ]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MAEYBOROU G
and
EOCKHAMI
On TUESDj
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMIT
gTEAM
TO LONDON-
-1882.
The following Royal Mail Stea
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIG
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SI
mentioned dates, for Melbourne,
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, cal
And the service will be maini
steamers at intervals of a fortnigh
Saloon passengers homewards rr
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, go
steamer within a mouth; but failii
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching i
can proceed to Suez and the Cc
Ports included) without fear ol
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be gn
For plans and full particulars,
and CO., and ANDERSON, AN:
Joint Managers of the line; or to
General Manager in A
G
QRIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPR]
Special Arrangements have boei
veyance of Parcels and small packa
Steamers to London at reduced rat
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a f
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior
Bailing. All freights payable in S
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILI
Manager of Orient
267 George-street, Sydney.
QASH
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz .„
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz ...
Eeisling
Hock
Madeira
Bouffier’s Fineau.,
J.T. I
Adelau
(rich
tyr
PRICE LIST OP WD
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WHi
RED.
per doz.
9s Od
10s 0d
lls Od
12s 6d
13s Od
WHITE.
9s Od Brown
10s Od Muscat
lls Od Adelaic
15s Od Tokay,
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 24s to 36s Od I Good S
Champagne from.,, 60s Od | French
SPIRITS.
Hennessy’s • Case 1 Imperii
Brandt 59s Od I ditto
ANTHONY HORDERI
PALACE EMPOR
HATMAEKET (ONLY)
FIRST SHIPMENT OF 600 PACKAGES, C
EUROPEAN NOVELTII
WE have just received fer the Autumn and Winter season;
them in such a manner throughout our EXTENSIVE
confidence in respectfully soliciting the inspection of the LAI
the greatest care ard judgment nave been exercised in sele
MATERIALS, DESIGNS, and SHADES, being also anxious,
of the MOST FASHIONABLE and LATEST NOVELTIES.
DRESS PLUSHES, in all colours
BBOCr.E VELVETS, LYON'S SILK VELVETS
COLOURED VELVETS, in all shades
REAL GENOA SILK VELVETS
SILKS and S ATINS, newest shades and patterns
DRESS CLOTHS in great variety
MOST FASHIONABLE “BEGTIVE’*
“ FOULE RAY,” SHETLAND,” and " TAM
O’SHANTER ”
COSTUME CLOTHS “SARATOGA”
Our French and English buyers have procured some
CHARMING COSTUME CLOTHS, soft in texture,
very serviceable and well adapted for the present
stylo of dress
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S HOSIERY
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S SILK HOSE, in all the
new colours and light tints
LADIES and CHILDREN’S LISLE-THREAD HOSE,
in every size. Black, white, and new shades
-LADIES* SPUN SILK HOSE, in black, pink, sky, and
cream. Richly embroidered fronts
LADIES’ UNDER VESTS, in Gauze, Merino, China,
and Spun Silk. In every make.
LADIES’, CHILDREN’S, and GENT’S BOOTS and
SHOES, by all the best makers. Newest styles,
best materials
CARPETS, RUGS, FLOOR CLOTHS, AND CHINA
MAT TT N G of choi 3e materials, colours, and designs,
LACES. NEW EDELUGISS in white, cream, and
blsok
SILK, SPANISH and CASHMERE, in black and cream.
BLACK CHANTILLY. MIKECOURT LACES. The
above are the new laces fi r Autumn
RIBBONS.
plain an
Moire an:
UPRE
ies in r
CHE NILLI
FLOSS
& all
and IN£
KID GLOI
made f
buttons
THE“PAT
GLOVE
THE”SWI
gloves,:
FABRIC G
TAFEE
and EL
PARACHU
dren, a
shades
HATS and
and SOI
CLOTHIN!
SINGL
Fresh d
LINEN SH
LINEN
CAREFUL AND PROMPT ATTENTION GIVEN TO ANI
COUNTRY. PLEASE TO SPECIALLY NOTE 01
WE HAVE ONLY ONE PLACE O
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE Effi
haymark
[(ONLY).
THE “PLUME”
MOLESKIN
WHITE AND PRIN
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDIN/
ARE TO BE OBTAINED
ALL RESPECTABLE CRAPE
CLOTHIERS THROUCHOU
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH
THESE GOODS Wl
CHEAPEST AND BE!
Tho Auckland Evening Sta
deliberately accuses the local or
against tho English bowling.
Notwithstanding tho keon &
in the sewing-machine trade, tha 1 I
ledgod to be the sewing-machines o
sewing-machines should visit the
see the numerous first-class prizes
awarded them at tho leading oomp
—Adv.
“ Oak You Swim ?’’ —Professi
renowned swimmer, will undortak
swim in six lessons, for one guiii
Bay Baths. These baths are rom
the North Shore, the water hei
Visitors from Sydney can have
hath, and be back within the hou
including bath, fid. Open for ladie
10 till 1, and on Wednesday after
Anvx.
During the past year you ha-
plained that It was difficult to gel
You have hoard that the last seasi
poor in quality, and that enormou
and low grades are accumulated
please ask your grocer or storeki
packet of the Calcutta Tea Assoc
Teas i—< blend of the most famou
the world; kept by all theileading
and country. Wholesale Warel
place.— Advt.
Hannah keeps a boot-shopai
and though he has not been estal
Domini 49, he knows about sis muc'
We trust our readers will not negl
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-
POLITICAL POINTS.
C. E. Jones, of “ mint-sauce” fame, means to
stand (or a Ballarat constituency at next election, but
the widely circulated-statement that Major Smith in-
tends to run with him ia characterised as an impudent
lie.
The London Republican League are agitaiing
against any farther grants of money to the members of
the Boyal Family.
It is stated that the English Secretary of War
is in favour of Bradlaugh’s motion for the abolition
of perpetual pensions.
There are two interesting political lessons in
course of being given to Europe from Berlin and Paris.
Democracy has produced Gambetta: bureaucracy has
maintained Prince Bismarck. The child of democracy
and the child of bureaucracy both want to fce despots.
The people who foresee the coming of the golden year
as sooa as every man has a vote, should observe how
little human nature is altered by forms of government.
The lesson to be drawn from the turmoil in France and
Germany is simply, “ Multiply your checks on personal
power."
1012 petitions, signed by 275,000 persons pre-
sented to the House of Commons in favour of .Mr.
Mradlaugh’s motion for an inquiry into perpetual pen-
sion?. Mr. Bradlaugh states that had the money paid
ns pensions been invested at the usual interest paid on
Govt. Stock, it would now amount to £4,000,000,000
(four billions of pounds sterling)!
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, March 14, 1882.
On the wharves to-day prime green lucerne is selling
at £4 to £t 10s. per ton; a good supply arriving and
business dull. Maize, 55.; weevilly samples, 4s. 3d. lo
4i. 64.; oat.?, 3t. to 3s 3d. per bushel. Victorian
onions, £1 to £3 5i.; ditto chaff, £5 15s.i to £6 per
ton (bags included). Warrnambool potatoes. £3 10s.
to £3 15s. per ten. Butter (in keg), la. 3d. to Is. bd. per
lb.; ergs. Is. 9J. per dozen; bacon, Bd. to 9d.; cheese,
6i. to 84, ; ham, Is. ; honey, 4d. to 5d.; lard, 6J. to 7d.;
> eeswax, 94. to 10J. per lb.; millet brooms, 7s. 6d. to
10s. por dozen; fowls, 3s. to 3s. 64.; ducks, 3s. 64. to
4s. ; geese, 6s. to 7s. ; turkeys, 6s. to 16s. per pair.
Wheat. —There is no great quantity of wheat iu the
market, any arriving finds purchasers at fair value.
One lot at Mort and Co.’s sale brought Ss. 104. i Ship-
ments are expected to arrive. Adelaide wheat, ss. 6d. to
ss. fid. : N.S. Wales wheat, ss. 6d. to ss. lod.: Vic-
torian, ss. Hd. ; Launceston, ss. 6d.; New Zealand, 4s.
7d. to ss. 2d. per bushel.
Flour.—The market continues steady for good brands
which are iu fair supply. Wo notice a full shipment
from Adelaide, and others to arrive. Wo do not learn
that auy transactions have occurred at more than our
quotations or parcels of auy size. Sydney mill flour
superfine sells at £l3; household, £l2; seconds, £ll per
ton ; N.S. Wales country brands, £l2 15s. to £l3; Vic-
toria, £l2 ss. to £l3: Adelaide, £l2 10s. to £l3. Bran
and pollard Is. tid. to Is. Bd. per bushel.
Fiiksh Mkat.—At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s sheds,
Darling H irbour, the usual sales of fresh country
killed beef takes place daily, a short supply arriving and
selling well. Prime bodies of beef realise from 2fcd. to
3d per lb. : medium quality 2d., aud inferior ijd per lb.:
all round prime mutton 2d. per lb.
Fat Cattle.—At the Homebush sales, yesterday,
there was only a small supply of fat cattle forward, aud
the market advanced about 2Js. per head. Best bullocks
averaged £7 13s. each. A good supply of fat sheep was
forward, and sold well. Bast merino wethers averaged
10s. lOd. to lls.
A man guarantees this t)be a cure for either
smallpox or scarlet fever within twelve hours:—i gr
sulphate of zinc, Igr. foxglove (digitalis), half spoon
ful of water, mix thoroughly, add 4 oz. of water, and
take a spoonful every hour. It’s worth trying.
It appears after all that Dr. Lang was not a
sincere Presbyterian. Ha got the salaries of the
Presoyterian gaol chaplains cut down to a third oi
those enjoyed by the chaplains of the C.E. and K.C.
churches. The doctor was making a legitimate boat!
in the legislative Assembly at the very smell number
of Presbyterians in the gaols of the colony. The
Presbyterians he eontende 1 had but very little in fact
to do. “ Indeed" said the members of the House,
" then they can't expect the seme salaries,” Straight!
away came the retrenchment, the reduction being more
than 50 per cent.
Mr. D. L. Dymock, president of the Kiama
Agricultural Association, took advantage of the snow to
give a large picnic there to visitors from Sydney.
Splendid view from Saddleback. In the evening, the
visitors returned the compliment by asking a number of
residents on board the Allowrie to dinner, after which
a return was made to Sydney.
Spurgeon recently said, in the Tabernacle, (or
whatever his joss-house is called), that in the old days
when Christians were liable to be thrown to lions, they
had better “net marry," as St. Paul puts it; but in
times of peace, a man can’t hand over the license fee
too soon. We can understand the rev. Baptist’s anxiety
to see the coin roll in; but has ha considered that men,
now-a-days, go to the dogs, and th it in the original
Greek the word lion also stands for dog?
In Victoria, where teachers are paid as irregu-
larly as they are here, the tribe of Isaaohar and Gad
have said ‘‘S’ help me,” and one man lends over 45u0
a mouth to teachers who pay 6'J per cant, interest. 'This
is one Hebrew only, and it is paid, not for permanent
loans, but merely for the accommodation of receiving
cheques at fixed periods.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
'When Chatterton was manager o£ Drury Lane
Theatre, which, we may remark for the benefit of the
Education Department, is not in Dubbo, he on being
twitted with producing nothing but sensational plays
by Andrew Halliday, drily remarked that Shakespeare
meant ruin, and Byron bankruptcy. Whether Mr.
Allison bo of this opinion or not, we cannot say, but, in
any case the management—let’s see, how many are there
of them P—decided last week to substitute for Shakes-
peare’s charming comedy " Twelfth Night,” Mr. Dion
.Boucicault’s very clumsy adaptation of La Mentation,
•“Led Astray.’- This pieco was first produced at the
(Gaiety Theatre, London, 11 years ago, and failed
(signally, notwithstanding that Mr. Boucicault had Mr.
(Charles E. (Thorne, a star American jeune premior, en-
gaged expressly for the part of George de Lesparre. It
failed, not because the play is deficient in interest, for
It abounds in situations of the most moving diameter;
but because the Boucicaulted edition was execrably
done : and in endeavouring to “ tone down” certain inci-
dents, ho had not only, destroyed the interest, biv;
rendered the dialogue tamo and common-place. “Led
Astray” is essentially a publicans' play. It is in six
acts 1 Men go |to see it sober, but when the fourth act
is on, are seen coming out of Eastway’s with a vague
idea that they have just opened the door for the milk-
man.
« « *
“ Led Astray” is rather a giddy comedy. The
plot of it is precisely similar to that of Florence
Marryat’s “ I’roy of the Gods,” so in all probability
Mrs. Boss Church derived the motif of her novel from
Emile Angler's play. The action of the piece may bo
summarised in three lines. • A young girl marries a man
who is fond of sport. He is always out breeding horses,
so she—naturally enough, tumbles upon a mare’s nest.
She thinks he doesn’t love her. Well, one day at a
second-hand bookshop, she drops upon a volume of
poems by Lewis Scott, who, in the play is called George,
(it ought to be—if the French name is meant—
“ Georges” de Lesparre: and being rather full of the
old man yachting for one half the year, and racing the
other —never coming home by any chance except to
change his paper collar, falls in love with the author.
So she carries Lewis’s pantomime-book about with her
all day long, hardly laying it down when she is washing
the greens for dinner. Well, Lewis —we mean George,
and she meet, and while they are doing a bit of spooning
the old man comes home for a paper collar and to have
his shoes greased, and catches them. They fight after
this, but, as is usually the case in French duels, nobody
is hurt but the doctor, who feels a bit uncomfortable
about his fee, no gore being shed, and the principals and
seconds being singularly reticent on the point of the
" sugar." All ends happily, of course, and everybody
gets married except Lewis Scott, who, in disgust at the
whole thing, darkly observes that he will ( be revenged
on the universe by writing more pantomimes.
• • •
** Led Astray,” at the Royal, is most excellently
played. Miss Pomeroy’s representation of the giddy
young wife, is, on the whole, a very clever performance.
In some of her scenes, however, notably that with de
Lesparre, in the conservatory, she was, to our mind,
Wanting in lire. In the bedroom scene, however, she
rose to a great height, and fairly electrified the audience
by a really capital piece of emotional acting. It is
in that portion of the play where her husband loaves
her, and the cry she utters when he is gone, and the
manner she clutches the door in her grief and repent-
ance, both evince a knowledge of the highest style of
histrionic art. The scene was well “ set ”; at the same
time we cannot but consider that the "property" bed
Would have been rather a “ tight fit ” for two.
* * *
Miss Jessie Grey made a delightful Mathilde.
This young lady is positively exhilarating, so fresh and
graceful is her acting. And the picture she makes on
the stage I Oh, well, go and see her. Susanne O’Hara
Was interpreted by Miss Theresa Horan (the part having
been yielded to her by Miss Maggie Stewart) and Theresa
(certainly pulled through remarkably well. Miss Horan
has, however, a great many things she has learned with
the Lingards, to forget, and until she does forget these
things—and she can if she chooses—she wiU be, to a
freat extent, out of place in either tragedy or comedy,
t is but fair to state, however, that she dressed the port
beautifully, and looked—but go and see her, too.
* * *
Of the men. Mr. Herbert Flemming deserves the
first notice. His part is a natural but unthankful one.
Jfn makes love to his friend’s wife. He inter-
preted the role all through with great intelligence
a L \d discrimination, never once over-acting, not-
wit'bstanding all the temptation he had to do so.
His dress and manner were perfect, and we were
glad to see that he was recalled with Miss I
PomeivV at the end of every act in which
they ha d a scene together. Of Mr. Flemming’s per-
formance, the Echo of Monday has this:—“Mr. Her-
bert Flemiuing did not please us so well as upon some
previous oc> '-asions. His part was an ungracious one,
but it should, at least, have been gentlemanly. The
George de Let.'P arre of Saturday would have been better
described by bookmaker and billiardist than poet and
novelist, nor din? his somewhat Esthetic wig redeem the
faults.” It is not our province to take up the cudgels
for any actor, but' we do so, in this instance, because
the notice we have quoted is an instance of the quality
of the criticism which hysterically eulogised Mr.
Thomas’s "No Mercy’’—a piece which has proved a
most successful artistic failure.
• * •
Mr. J. B. Sfceelo was moat excellent aa the
husband: and in the duel scene definitely demonstrated
to the audience that he is, in some departments
of the drama, an actor of the highest class.
Mr. Harry Leston was amusing as Plaoide; but
he should have four inches hemmed on to the tail of
his dress-coat. Mr. Jordan made quite a hit as the
Boron, and Mr. H. A. Douglas played O’Hara with
much effect. None of the other characters call for
special mention.
** * *
The critics of the daily papers combined to-
gether to praise "No Mercy” at the Gaiety, yet, in
spite of their yards of encomiastic notices, the piece
after lingering for ten days is to be taken off. A
■critique of this dramatic monster appeared in The
Bulletin last week, and we pointed out, as gently as we
■ could, that a fair translation of a powerful drama had
.been ruined by an aspiring playwright having been
permitted to tamper with it.
* * *
Mr. Dampier appears to be fond of having plays
'"written expressly lor him." It is a harm’ess fancy,
• of course, and being a free agent, he is perfectly at
liberty to indulge it, so long as it costs nobody any-
thing but himself. Aa this is the second play this
month that Mr. Dampier has caused to be prepared for
■ him by local talent, we suppose the speculation is a
] pro 11 table one. We hope, for the sake of Mr. Bay less,
i that it is. We should be glad to hear that a few thou-
; sands were made out of " Strogofl,” and that “No
Mercy ” was a big boom. If, however, this should not
be the case, we think it is about time that Mr. Bayless
i began to exercise his own discretion with regard to the
plays that are to be produced at his theatre ; and we
■ consider that did he do so, the public would be the
• gainers, however much Mr. Dampier’s literary staff
might be the losers by the change.
« • *
We understand that Wednesday evening’s
i performance of “No Mercy” was under the patronage
•of His Excellency; and we were glad to hear it. “No
- Morey " is just the kind of piece which His Excellency
wonld naturally give his patronage to. K Julian
Thomas, LL.D. only introduced a hen-fight into the
first act, doubtless Lord Augustus would have given
his presence also.
* * * *
The last night of the dramatic season at the
Queen’s will be to-morrow (Friday), on which occasion
the company will play the “ Colleen Bawn," and the
management will take a benefit. The season, under
Mr. Ke >gh’a management, has been such a brilliant
one, that, we have no doubt, many of the prominent
playgoers of Sydney are burning to present him with a
testimonial. We confess ourselves to be under a distinct
obligation to Mr. Keogh. He has shown ns things in
the dramatic line which we never saw before, and
hope never to see again. We trust the management
have made money. They have been conducting the
Queen’s long enough now to have made a fortune—or
lost one. We are quite certain that they have not
lost one.
# # «
On Saturday, Tommy Hudson opens the
Queen’s with his “ Surprise Party." This, with his
present crowd, is about the best combination, we should
say, of its kind, that has sparkled in Sydney during the
recollection of the oldest inhabitant. Wo are familiar
with all the performers except two. These are—Mias
Louise Alvina, the "lady ventriloquist,” and Mr.
Fred. Dark, “ the renowned Polyphonist.” Tommy
announces 15 different features nightly; and he has seven
performers. That is only two features and a fraction
for every individual performer; whereas, in common
fairness, he might have allowed each face of his
company the proper complement of three features each.
Seriously, we look forward to the show with interest.
We trust, though. Tommy will give us some of his
Indian novelties. We hear that he has brought
“Slocum’s dog” all the way from Calcutta.
# * #
Mr. Teddy Haygarth, who broke something in
the pantomime, had a benefit last night (Wednesday),
and Mr. J. J. Wallace performed Pygmalion to Mias
Ada Ward’s Galatea. Unfortunately, we ware unable
to look in, but the piece must have been inexpressibly
funny. Ada’s Galatea, of coarse, wonld be picturesque
enough, but “J. J.” as Pyg ■ ■ what 1 bat there!
After this wo shan’t bo surprised at hearing he is
going to marry half-a-dozen inginues, all under the
age of flve-and-forty.
* * **
It’s no good talking. People may advertise
cures for hypochondria and drunkenness at 420 a
bottle, but the real value for both is to be found at the
Opera House. Wo sat out the entire performance of
the Minstrels the other night, and went home straight
after it to be nmstaril-plaatered fore-and-aft, and to
swallow three gallons of gum-arabic gargle. They are
the most industrious performers (except spiders) we
ever had experience of; their antics to provoke laughter
being incessant, and their “ guiver ” of really the most
racy description. Billy Bent gave a lecture the night
we were there. It was the meanest oration we ever
heard. There was not a scintilla of information in the
whole thing, and the people shrieked so, that you
couldn’t even catch the flowers of oratory. We think,
though, it is rather rough making Amy Bowe black
up. She must be a very soft Bowe to consent to it,
when she is so extremely lovely in her natural state.
* * *
There was, too, a moat ridiculous burlesque on
"The Bohemian Girl,” which, next to a sermon by
Pastor Allen, is the funniest thing we have seen since
Greenwood’s last appearance at the Bo cal to lecture.
The boys are playing now a travestie of "Pinafore,” and
a lot of other things, all of which are shrieks and yells.
We intend to go again to-night, and take the last new
widow and the baby.
* * * *
Wo see that Mr. A. L. Burton, late of the
Queen’s " Star Dramatic Company," is now the manager
of the Viotorieral, and that he opens a “dramatic
season" there with " Oliver Twist," on Saturday next.
The company appear to include a number of Mr, A. L.
Burton’s Queen’s Theatre confreres, and so we suppose
the success of the venture is assured. We see by the
cast that Bill Sykes will be represented by Mr. Charles
Burford, Fagin by Mr. George Collier, and Nancy
Sykes by Miss Cora MTan. This lot ought to draw all
Sydney, though we don’t quite remember having heard
of Miss Cora MTan before. As she plays Nancy, we
trust the thing will gee for all thsir Sykes.
* * * *
The concert given by Signora Fabris, at Ash-
field, last week, attracted a fashionable though limited
audience, the number present not being commensurate
with the excellence of the vocalists. The Signora was
never in better voice, and achieved a success in the
aria "Mia Madre," and with Miss Sherwin, Signor
Fabris, and Mr. P. D. Blake, in a quartette from
" Rigoletto." Some interest was attached to the debfit
on this occasion of two of Signora Fabris* pupils, the
Missss A. and B. de Fontaine, of whom report had pre-
viously spoken rather highly. Their first appearance
tally justified expectations, and for the solos
"Spinning," by the elder, and “A damsel fair was
singing,” by the younger sister, and the duet 11 Tel
rammeuti,” they were heartily applauded. The elder
has a pare and clear soprano, and the younger a mezzo-
soprano voice of considerable power, which, with
further cultivation, will render them a valuable
addition to Sydney musical circles. Mrs. Lewis Scott
and Messrs. Kelly and Scott also contributed to the
success of the evening, Mr. C. Huanerbein under-
taking the instrumental portion with his nsaal ability.
* * * *
Mr. Cyril Haviland appears at the Viotorieral
to-night (Thursday) iu the character of a lecturer on
Spiritualism. He will be illuminated by lime-light.
Ho is, we understand, to produce a number of phantoms
upon a screen —possibly ghosts of Fun, the Australian
Magazine, Freethought, and other deceased papers,
of which ihe was once the distinguished editor. We
shall ho exceedingly there.
# * ♦ *
There is an “ Opossum Club,” which is a rival
to the Owls, we suppose, being theatrical, literary, &c.
The 'Possums held their first meeting last Friday at
Eainford’s. The Herald said it was splendid. That
settles it. Jim Eaiuford has now a good many clubs on
hand. He ought to make a fair deal out of them, un-
less amongst his clubs there are knaves who won’t part
for their liquor. And, just as we were going to forget
it, let’s pop in that Ada Ward goes to New Zealand,
E. B. Wiseman being the entrepreneur. We wish we
had half E. B.’s luck.
* * * *
They have been playing “The Streets of New
York” at the Theatre Eoyal, Melbourne, and Dr. Neild,
of the Australasian, has guyed it unmercifully. Miss
Austead was the heroine, and she cannot regard this
notice otherwise than as a Floora. Fred. Marshall, wo
hear, has abandoned his Queensland trip, and opens in
Sydney in May ; and Tahite tells us that Ada Maven
had a benefit at Hudson’s on March 10, and he considers
that she is “ a very clever lady, and can do a great many
things.” Oh, and just let’s mention that we have re-
ceived a “ funny communication” from a Mr. W. H.
Eeader, who, if he is not a better Eeader than he is a
writer, should request one of his family to put him out
of his misery without delay. Providing his relations
will find the cherry case, we will give the loan of
the bludgeon. And we mustn’t forget that Ventrilo-
quist Millis appeared at the Newcastle “ Vic.” on Satur-
day last in 12 voices and only one coat. And so as hot
to part high-class entertainments, let us mention that
Mr. Herman Merivale’s new play, “ The Cynic,” has
been produced with great success at the London Globe.
And that and .Pettitt’s “ Taken from Life” (which we
shall see out here if Dampier lives) is drawing all
London.
* * * *
’’Dewhurst, the phenomenal ter-agedian, has been
appearing ih Hobart, as Shylook, and (subiequently)
Hamlet. We suppose triumphal arches have been
erected. From gay to grave, wa have to record the
death in Dunedin (N.Z.) of Mr. Livermore, a well-known
pro. There is now, alas ! a liver less. Oh, and listen
to the criticism of the merry Mornya man on Harry
Simmons’ " Star" party ; " The graceful and fairy-like
acting of Miss Blanche Murray, the stately dignity and
rare vocal power of Miss Alice Johns, the winning ways
and stage demeanour of Miss Lucy Cottier, the truo-to-
life representations given by Sam Howard, the well-
played parts allotted to Mrs. Murray, and the apt im-
personations of Harry Simmons and Frank Beverley
make up an entertainment the like of which cannot be
witnessed outside the city for the same price." Let’s
see. What’s the last paper Harry Simmons and Sam
Howard edited ? Oh, we recollect. The Cooma Ex-
press.
** * *
Wo wish to call the attention of two hemispheres
to the fact that Mr. Sydney Hall is business agent for
Mr. A. L. Burton at the Victoria Hall; and while we
write of those we adore, let us note down the fact that
Miss Bradbrook Henderson is Mr. George Blgnold’s
leading lady this trip. Let’s see? Who was it last
time? Oh, Jenny Watt-Tanner. Mr. Bignold has
brought “Youth," "The Faithful Heart" (come, this
is better I). “The Lights o’London," and other
novelties. He opens In Melbourne, we believe, in a
few days.
** * *
Duncan Macallum’s ben. was a boomer at Bris-
bane, we hear, and Mao. may shortly be expected in
Sydney. Oh, and it may interest Miss Pomeroy to
know that Al. Hayman, her former manager, is now on
the managerial staff of the N. Y. Fifth Avenue Theatre.
And just close this up, Abo, by mentioning that the
“ Irving Amateur Dramatic Club "is dead. That must
be in consequence of their not having chosen a suffi-
ciently ambitious title 1
** * *
Some months ago, an actor belonging to the
Queen’s Theatre went away to fulfil an engagement iu
Hobart, leaving in Sydney his wife and three
children. For some weeks he sent them over a trifle,
but after a while his remittances ceased. The name of
this man is Harry Flynn, and we publish this in order
that he may learn that those who have a right to his
support are in desperate need of it. Mrs. Flynn appealed
to us in her distress, and, on our communicating the
circumstances to Miss Pomeroy and some of the
members of the Theatre Eoyal Company, they
generously joined in affording practical help. Alto-
gether, we have bsen enabled to hand Mrs. Flynn a few
pounds, and if any other ladies and gentlemen feel
sufficient interest in the case to subscribe a little more,
we shall be glad to receive it on Mrs. Flynn’s behalf.
We do not purpose endeavouring to excite sympathy for
this poor woman by writing a description of her con-
dition at the time she sent to ns; but suffice it to say
that it was very bad—to quote her own words, one of
her children wore in a dying state and the other two
in a starving condition. We trust, therefore, such of
the profession as have kind hearts will assist her.
** * *
Mr. Edwin Palmer is at the Bijou, Melbourne,
where he has been playing Saugardin “ Strogoff,” which
is a different business altogether from the ludicrous rot
that was produced here. How the Dr. Julian bosh
would have been guyed in Melbourne. Mr. Palmer joins
Garner for his Adelaide pantomime season, and will, we
suppose, play the Mate. Whatever he will do, however,
he will do well. And this is a good deal more than we
say about everybody,
** * *
Pollard’s Juveniles will not waste their sweet-
ness in the desert air of the Queen’s. They have
decided on the Opera House—a clear improvement—and
will open there on the |Bth of April.
"THE POOR PLAYER"
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
Jim South (who by the way is as good a hand in
a boat as he is on the quarter-deck of H.M.B. Pinafore)
and some of his company were recently taken out for a
sail by a well-known Brisbane pressman, who managed
to gracefully upset them. Jim and the genial Sullivan
showed an admiring crowd that thev oonld swim as well
as they could act. The party arrived back in Brisbane
just in time to array themselves for 11 The Pirates."
The dry Kelly (the Boatswain) stated that it was all ow-
ing to his not having been allowed to hold the mainsheet.
Miss Belaud Phillips, daughter of the well-known
dramatist, the late Mr. Watts Phillips, author of the
“ Dead Heart,” “ Lost in London,” “ Land Bates,"
« Water " Not Guilty," Ac., arrives by the
"/ohn Elder, fha young lady has appeared with great
success at the Lyceum and Gaiety theatres, at which
latter she played during the whole of the run of
Byron's comedy, “ The Upper Crust," as Kate Venni-
more. Lord Heskoth’s niece. She has also appeared at
all the principal provincial theatres with great success...
When the audience fail to laugh at Billy Bent’s jokes,
he says drily, “ Lewis Scott." Then they roar Dion
Boucioault’s “Led Astray," is thus described by a
Dunedin critic“ The tale is one that has been worked
out some few hundreds of thousands of times, and
forms the text of 19 out of every 20 plays ever written.
Briefly, it is this —Husband and wife—misunderstand-
ing—uncongeniality of soul—another fellow—husband
discovers —duel—magnanimous spares villain’s life-
villain clears out—husband and wife slowly thaw-
reconciliation—live happy ever after." On New Year’s
day, 1882, Mr. B. S. Smythe sailed for New York to
meet Mr. Archibald Forbes, to make final arrangements
for the Australian tour of the famous war-correspond-
ent. He had for fellow-passenger Mr. D’Oxlay Carte,
Mr. Forbe’s present manager.
Mark Twain has re-written “ Hamlet.” Here
is one of Hamlet’s speeches to Horatio after the Ghost
has disappeared:—“ Do you swallow, all this ? Don’t
you know all those fellows are as crazy as bed bugs?
Do you s’pose the old man would walk around this
castle with his armour on ? What in the deuce does a
ghost want of armour P Besides, a ghost ain’t capable
of packin’ armour around ? Why, in the last few years
before dad died, he was hardly able to waddle about
in that one hundred and ten pound suit. Don’t you
know, when he came in from that last dress parade, he
said he’d be switched if he’d exer put the old brass togs
on again. Pshaw, old boy, have some sense." This
seems to us hardly up to the standard of the “ Inno-
cents Abroad,” and, another thing, we think the
simile “ crazy as bed bugs ’’ very ridiculous. So far
from being crazy, we consider the bed bug an insect of
a highly methodical and discriminating nature. It
is said never to graze upon either a hard-shell Baptist,
or a Kanaka. We consider it, therefore, an insect en-
titled to respect, and feelingly deprecate Mr. Clemens'
contumely Says the Horn, an American paper, of a
certain aotor:—“Mr. is seen to be English, or
Irish, from the first moment ho comes on the stage,
for the beer and the beef preponderate in those heavy
eyes, that choked voice, and that rubicund visage 1"
This is how an aspiring Parisian basso tried to get on.
He employed a variety actress to "get up" inexact
imitation of Mrs. "Bonanza" Maokay, wife of the
millionaire, whose pleasant face and elegant costume
are so well known by French theatre-goers, and take
her seat nightly in a conspicuous box. Each evening
this dummy celebrity would applaud vociferously, and
would oonelnde by throwing to the basso a splendid
bouquet to which was attached a small morocco jewel-
lery box, evidently containing gems of immense value.
This of itself was quite enough to create a furore among
the gossipy Gauls, but when the singer varied the per-
formance by contemptuously kicking the bouquet off
the stage each evening, the excitement became posi-
tively feverish. This little side show was running for
about a month, and it speaks volumes for theguliibility
of the Parisians that they came to witness, with open
mouths, this comedy, apparently unaware of the fact
that, as the badly " mashed ’’ bonanzaess is led weeping
from the box by her attendant, the singer picks up
the bouquet, which is made of artificial flowers,
oirefally dusts it off, and bangs it up on a nail in
the property room, all ready for the next evening
" Marie Wilton, who was for years the sprightliest of
the English burlesque actresses, suddenly took to long
entires when she entered on the management of the
Prince of Wales’ Theatre some twelve years ago. Sub-
sequently she married Mr. Bancroft, and they assumed
the management of the Haymarket, where the clever
little lady made as great a hit in comedy as she had
previously made in burlesque. But the burlesqm fever
seams to have taken hold once more, and in the “ new "
trifle, " A Lesson," Mrs. Bancroft appears in tights (I),
sings a catchy song, and dances a breakdown. Whereat
Loudon society, as represented by the Prince of Wales
and his set, is enormously pleased, while the London
press is impressively indignant. Yet, in the words of
the immortal Mr. Toots, it really is of no consequence.
In what particular costume Mrs. Bancroft chooses to
sing and dance is the concern of herself and Mr. Ban-
croft, If the public like it, it is no affair of the press."
This is from the N. Y. Dramatic News, and is valuable
from the fact that it is a lie from beginning to end
Sims Beeves has abandoned his "farewells,” and is
giving miscellaneous concerts at St. James’ Hall,
London A little girl named Tua, a marvellous
violinist, will shortly appear in London A modest
young actor says, when he|made his first appearance on
the stage, a young lady rose from her seat and ex-
claimed : “ Father, you are rich. Can money procure
anything P" The father replied: “I believe so." Then
buy me him,” she cried, pointing at me. “ You can
imagine how I felt." Yes—like strawberries smothered
in cream One curious effect has been produced by
the visit of Oscar Wilde, supreme head of the Esthete
i to America. While the propbethas been hurl-
ing uh-putian denunciations at Gilbert and all his works,
inclusive of " Patience,” the popularity of the piece in
America has increased to such an extent that ail iuten.
tions of supplanting it by a new play have row
been abandoned Leonard Boyne is not comlug
««°t Australia.- He plays the leading part in the
Lights o’ London, in the English pro-inc"’
Taglioni, the celebrated,dauseuse, is not d ad. She is,
in good health, and at Marseilles with he. the
Vicomte des Voisins. It was the demise of the wife of
her brother that was recently announced. Says Herr
Hans Billow, the great pianist: “If I stop practising one
day, I notice a difference; if I stop two days, my friends
notice it; and if I stop three days, the public notice
it.” A few weeks since ; the widow of the late Mr.
Sothern, the actor, died at Bromptou, after months of
Buffering, from one of the most painful diseases. Three
of her sons followed her remains to the grave Mdlle.
Sara Bernhardt is said to be almost worn out by her
Bussian tour. She has been playing twice a day for
several weeks. In Warsaw, she was to have played
fifteen times in seven days.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“G. 0. Lenoir ” : (1) No. (2) you lose your bet.
£IO,OOO to a packet of old love letters might safely have
been laid against your prediction "Buz”: Wo are
very much obliged to you " W.D," : No savoe—
don't understand “Petersham": We had some-
thing about it last week. If girls spoon in church,
they ought to go right up to the rails, and go through
the ceremony......" New Jersey”: Lieut. Col. Maple-
son is a theatrical manager, but he “ comes more fre-
quently in contact with violet-powder than with gun-
powder.” Anyhow, wo arc afraid wo should, were wa in
Ms place " George C." : The story is a very nice
little story indeed. Bat, George, what are you giving
us? Were we to publish your yarn, thero’d be great)
trouble on the Richmond Biver "Anon”: Yon
think that your doggerel “is suitable for insertion in
this week’s issue," do you P In other words, you want
us to publish a hot libel without knowing who wrote it.
Get it published on a poster, with your name attached,
and you’ll soon be "suitable for insertion—in ‘the
jug’". “Acre”: Very welcome, indeed “No
Bones Broken ” : Eight you are—we had the item
“Delta": Yes.it is a fact that the French eat frogs
and horseflesh, and very nice the frogs are. They also
eat jackasses, an animal which in this country is fre-
quently employed on daily papers " Moselle ” : We
have noticed a deterioration in the quality of the so-
called Vergniaud clarets sold at some Sydney hotels.
VD labels are being extensively forged in Melbourne,
where gin made at Warteuheip is being passed off as
real J.D.K.Z “ An old N.B.W. corespondent ”
(Fiji): We never publish paragraphs merely to oblige a
correspondent. We like our matter to be of public
interest. Send us a summary of local newspaper items
seasoned according to taste "Ajax ”: If good
enough, yes "H. 8.": We are much obliged
“ Quiz ” (Maryborough, Q.): Keep it up "J.T.8.W.”:
Address Telegraph Office, Logau (Q.).....,"81a0kt0wn”:
The fellow who wrote it was formerly a “ rat" com-
positor and local preacher down south “ Amicus "s
You have tailed to let us| into the joke—or, perhaps,
we’re too dull to see it. However, your par. is so well
written that we shall be glad to hear from you again...
“ H.H. jun.’’: Thank you, very much. However, wo
had already seen the article, which, should space be
available, you will find attended to in another part of
to-day’s Bulletin “Anon": Considering that the
"idiotic fool" who wrote what you refer to is a
Frenchman, it isn’t likely he’d write “La Joie fait
Poeur" for "La Joie fait Peur.” Write to us again
when you have studied English. Meanwhile, please
confine the exercise of your critical acumen to the
ledger of your respected employer, the eminent tripe
merchants “W.D." (Molongolo)j: No savee: can’t
insert personal paragraphs of a mystical nature
" Hiddemite "s Small item received “ D.P,": Wa
cannot help what the Governor did at Balmain, but
if he calls on us at our present lodgings, we’ll tell
him that you are dissatisfied, and he’ll very likely
apologise "J. F." (Albury): We’ll do a fair thing,
perhaps next week “A non-seetarian”: Your re-
marks are right, but the precise sentiments have ap-
peared in several papers already “ Pirate King
What use to send us notice of a poor performance
that oocurredflvo weeks ago? "C.J.M. ? ’’: Thanks.
glad of similar notes any time "Lily M.’’ (Wagga):
We are as much puzzled as you are. You see it's a
delicate matter, and we hesitate. But we shall be
gladtohear from you any time, just the right style...
“ Geo, Jobson": Not nearly good enough for The
Bulletin “F. Williams ": We don’t know what
item you allude to, and have not time to search. You
should enclose cutting “ Acre”: Thanks, welcome.
Don’t send, unless you are sure “V.Q.E.”: Will
read and consider “ Anti-Humbug ”: First-class.
Held over “C.M.”: Very good. Send us as many
more items as you like. Your pars, will gee; and
therefore you ought to be a C.M.Q “F.F.F.”
"E.H.J.," “E. 5.,” (and a host of others): Shall,
perhaps have a show next week “ F.F.F."; Held
over.
Miss Parnell says “ massacre and English civili-
zation always went together."
M. Emile de Laveleye, speaking of the future of
gold, treats Australia and New Zealand as practically
worked out I
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month of February, 1882: Week days, 20, 5229;
Sundays, 4; 3644. Total, 8873.
Always at home, and no intention of leaving
the Bulletin Hotel, Castlereagh-strest (late Wangen-
heim’s). Good grog, board, and billiards. Hick
Thatcher, late of Londen, Musolebrook, New York,
Melbourne, Jjavuka, Bathurst, and Paris.— Advt.
With brigh Australian skies aglow
While verdure clothe each hill and dale.
The new year’s ushered in ;
The gold-tipped mountain ranges show.
In emerald bloom, their joy; the gale
Withholds its furious din.
While seasons of the Arctic climes.
Are hovering round the old home dear.
Where gladsome voices blend;
Methinks I hear the joyous chimes
That used to welcome in the year.
Uniting friend to friend.
May thus the friendship of the past.
And love, whose ties are strongly knit.
Be ours for years to come.
And, when the summons comes at last.
May we, when called these scenes to quit.
Feel sure we’re going home.
Many thousands of people have ascended Mount
Vesuvius since the Funicular railway was constructed
to its summit. It looks like a slender black ladder
laid against the grey side of the mountain, and its
bottom rests on a plateau 3800 feet above sea level. A
stationary engine works an endless wire rope, one car
going up as the ot her comes down, and they grip a
centre rail with their wheels. The sensation is queer,
and the earth seems to shrink away. If the rope
breaks, the wheels are supposed to hold; and if the
wheels break, the rope is supposed to be quite safe; but
if they both give way, it is very uncertain where the
tourist will go to—perhaps to a very hot place—say the
crater of the volcano. The Funicular is a French
speculation, has been running eighteen mouths,
and working expenses are about £4000 a year. It is
paying 15 per cent, on outlay, and the monopoly lasts
thirty years, the whole affair .then falling into the
possession of the Government.
Sun on each white slip does shine.
As this trim page we do indite it.
And dries the ink in ev’ry line
As fast as ever we can write it.
The sky I s blue, its golden glow
Turns into rippling fire the water;
Yet inspiration bright, you know.
Won’t come without a glass of porter.
Upon onr desk’s a bouquet fair.
And flasks of perfume are before us;
While outside in the sunlit air,
Our song-birds twitter a bright chorus.
Our sweet trim-waisted little slave,
We’ve kissed and squeezed just as we caught her;
Yet after all, wo feel we have
No inspiration without porter.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Scene Lnncheon-room of Brisbane hotel :
Enters an elderly gentleman, evidently from bush, who
sits down beside an elaborately got-up individual in
pink necktie and patent-leather boots. Heavy Swell,
to a servant behind his chair: “ James, aw, bring me
aw, some chutney, aw.” Gentleman from bush, wag-
gishly inclined: “ James, aw, bring me some, too."
H.S.: “ Aw —are yon aware, sir, that you are talking to
my servant ?” And yet this is an individual who some
years ago had his 400-gallon tanks filled with rum when
going up to his station, and who, since lb it time,
formed one of that extraordinary colony who consort
with the niggers at Amity Point.
# # •
Truly the schoolmaster is abroad. At a break-
fast-table on a N.S.W. station, recently, squatter fils
remarked; “I see by the Hay Standard that Jones’
brother has taken np a selection. Ho is a digger.”
“ How do you know he is a digger ?" asked squatter
pere. “Why, the paper eays so." After some argu-
ment, squatter fids triumphantly produced the paper,
and read :—“ ‘Adolphus Fitz-Grubbs Jones, minor, CIO
acres, Kerarhury run ’ “ I told you so—digger and
minor mean the same thing.”
* * *
The other day, a political party visited Far
Northern Queensland, and the wife of one of the
notables accompanied her husband. This highly-
accomplished lady, finding herself at the best shanty
on the goldfield, asked if they had a shower-bath. The
Milesian landlady said j es, and after some slight delay,
showed her to the beignoir, where tho fair one proceeded
to prepare for her expected wash. When everything
was ready, she looked tor the string, hnt not finding it,
cast her eyes aloft, and saw a shock-headtd Irishman
(he was tho landlord) with a bucket of water ready to
pour into the cistern, which was out of order. When
he saw he was detected, he quietly said, “ Me good
woman, will ye please shtand a little over to tho
wesht."
• • •
The D.T., alluding to the treatment accorded
the aboriginals of this country, hysterically asks :
“ What have we given them —rum or restriction ?"
We should say restriction.
• • •
Archdeacon Stock, of Wellington (N.Z.), has
gone back on “ Eternal Punishment ” quite as effec-
tually as has Bishop Moorhonse on prayer for rain.
He declares that “the Word of God does not teach it,
that the Church, until a.d. 400, did not teach it, and
finally that the Church of England does not teach it.”
When the news of this reached tho devil, he simply
wagged his tail, and licked his lips, remarking, “ Fried
archdeacon, d’lioions. Makes my mouth water.”
# # *
One Mr. W. Marks thinks aloud in the Pres-
byterian that “ Mr. Greenwood should he confronted.”
I have clearly proved the authenticity of Jonah’s
whalo story already," continues W. M., “and I would
have replied in Freethought to many objections,
hut having sent two articles on “ Balaam and the Iron-
door," which were not inserted (although tho editor
professed that they had no objections to answers on
the Christian side), it was of course impossible for me
to do as I wished.” We think Mr. Marks attributes
wrong motives to tho Freethought gentlemen. The
fact is, Balaam used to write the verso, and his mule
used to sling in the comic element, which tended so
largely to that enlightened journal's great success.
* * *
The big melon season is now on hand in the
country. Here is a sample from a Maitland paper:—“We
were shown at this office yesterday, one of the most gigan-
tic melons it has been our lot to receive behind onr front
counter. It stands 3 feet high, with a circumference
twice that of the ironbark pumpkin, or the ordinary
editorial head. The species is known as the Pitchinii
Tuckerii, and will grow while yon are looking at it. We
have tasted the melon, aud can recommend it as highly
aromatic, with the combined flavour of the pine-apple
and the geebnng, especiallv the geebung. Mr. Jorrieks,
the gentleman who reared the splendid edible, informs
ns that it is highly anti-scorbutic, but on this point the
staff cannot he expected to speak for at least one week.
The seed of this grand melon is now obtainable every-
where. Next to the domestic and tasty vegetable-
marrow, which we are credibly informed—for up to the
present time no sample has been left at this office—is
growing well all over these districts, the melon is,
without doubt, the most tractable of all complaints,
when treated promptly with either Macassar oil or
Farmer’s Priend."
• * •
It was at a wako in the Illawarra district, and it
was locally conceded that in the matter of pipes,
tobacco, whisky and grief, the affair stood alone. When
the potheen btgan to flow, Denis M’Fiaherty accused
his cousin, Eoer, of "pounding" his cows for " rc-
vinge.” Body was a man of few words, so he took up
the quarrel aud a giu bottle at the same time. In the
hurry of the moment the bottle staggered and knocked
off a portion of the car of Michael Mnldoon, who up
to this time, many were prepared to swear, had been
perfectly ” spacbelesa ” —tor it was stated that if he
respected anj thing or anybody it was the dead. In the
twinkling of an eye, Body O’Flaherty was knocked down
from behind by a friend who had long been waiting to
resent an insult offered him earlier iu the evening. A
general row followed, iu the course of which the coffin
was knocked over; and Denis O’Flaherty was dis-
covered iu the recreant act of punching the corpse,
and calling it “ to say that agin.” Dennis only ceased
hostilities when, after the deadhead had been in
chancery for an active half-hour, there was not the
slightest sign of claret. The lights having been put out,
the friends adjourned to a bonfire outside, where the
fieht was continued, and one of the combatants dis-
appeared in the creek. The inactivity of the rest when
the man fell in, can only be explained by the fact that
they thought he had gone for a big drink. Anyhow,
in iho morning, as there was no trace of the bhoy, it
suddenly occurred to the mourners that he had been
drowned. The widow lived just beyant and a deputa-
tion was appointed to wait on her and communicate the
sad news. " Indado," commenced Jeremiah O'Hooli-
gan, “it graves mo to say that yer poor husband is
drowned, God rest his sowl." ‘‘Faith, Jerry O’Hooli-
gan ’’ replied the widow Eyan, there’s no such loock.
The dhrunken rapscallion roulod home laslit night and
came to bed in his dads, all wet." Whereupon they
went inside and had something. This reminds us that
one of the evening papers said, some time ago, that a
corpse had been “ burned to death ” at a Pitt-street
wako.
• * •
When inaugurating Dr. Dunne as Bishop
of Brisbane a suitable text for the preacher on that
auspicious occasion would be —“ Well, Dunne, thou
good aud faithful servant."
* • *
Getting “ spliced ” would seem to unsettle that
natural craving for religious literature which an All-
wise Providence has (or should have) implanted in
every human breast. We find that one of our Holy
Howls lets out as follows : “ A Hint.—Occasionally we
Lear of young folks belonging to families where the
Presbyterian is read hiving off from the parental roof
and setting up house. In the new house, we expect
them to read the Presbyterian, as they did in the old.
But then, you ser, deah Ker nshtyin “rag," they have
something else to think of. The male hive-r has to
belt up the wood for to-morrow’s fires, and the female
has to read eighteenpenny novels, and growl that
George never takes her to Gospel tents, or picnics, now
they’re married. However, send along the Presby-
terian—it’ll do for Angelina’s curl papers.
* * *
A certain tradesman —down South, of course —
found a man in his cellar, and asked him what he
wanted. “I have come from the gas company," was
the reply, “to take the meter.” “ Alas f” exclaimed
the poor trader, “I was in hopes you were only an
ordinary thief."
« • »
Recently, at Tnmnt, a lady named Mrs. Mat-
lock, who was living “under the protection” of a
Chinese, was fined £1 10s, for using bad language and
being drunk. When she had been “ taken over," John
was apprised of the fact of his love being in durance
vile, and straightway presented himself before the lock-
up keeper. “ How macheo F ’ ho inquired, producing
his puree, "Thirty shillings,” said the policeman.
“Me give you ten sillin; you lettee go ?" he enquired.
The lock-up-keeper shook his head, “Me give ten sil-
lin sissepen." And when that wouldn’t do—“ Me give
fiteen sillin, no gammon.” And when that wouldn’t do
—“ Me give you one pound, plenty flute and oabbagee."
He paid the money after about half an hour’s haggling;
then out she came. “ Tco muchee dlunkee; no, no
good," said John; and then he dropped in for an earth-
quake. As Byron truly observed —“ The love of woman
is a fearful thing.”
• • •
Holloway is erecting, at a cost of <£300,000, a
Sanatorium for the British people at Virginia Water,
England. This is, doubtless, a kind of atonement for
tho numerous lives which his nostrums have extin-
guished. A. L. Gordon neatly puts it—
»• Shun bad tobacco, avoid strong drink,
Abstain from Holloway’s Pills.”
Holloway has been a grand advertiser. However, the
painful feature about the business is that yon dou’t
take his pills till you are going wrong, and you don’t
insert his advertisement till, journalistically speaking,
you are pretty wall up a tree.
* * *
Vive le sport ! On the day the Englishmen were
to play the new Australian Eleven, all the “talent”
knew that five of the.noble)Britishers were “ stiff ’ucs.”
This wonld’nt have leaked out only one of the crowd
who was not considered by his confreres to be a right’un,
innocently backed his own set with the bookmakers,
much to the amusement of thoee gentry. Of course,
when this ingenious wielder of the willow beheld his
mates “slogging” at straight balls, and “skying”
crooked ones he “dropped” instantly, and a fearful
row was the result To make matters worse, one of the
team was arrested by a bailiff at the Metrop., at the
suit of Mr. Davis, of Dawes’ Point, just as the gallant
Eleven were going to start, but Mr. Bryant going
security for him, he went away rejoicirg. If the best
authoritiest are to be believed, the Englishman have
been “having alark ” all along. Well, we are fond of
pleasantry, and we hope that they enjoyed themselves.
We had, so far as we are personally concerned, so much
confidence in the integrity of the All-England Eleven
when thev came out here this time, that we have never
wagered a sixpence for or against them. They are fine
athletic fellows, splendid cricketers, and have an un-
rivalled command over the English anathema. And
you can’t expect men to be everything. Wo know a few
speculators in Sydney who prefer certain of the English
cricketers to angels. But then, so fir as they have got,
angels have not distinctly benefited them.
* * *
A Queensland draper, with a pretty wife and
two lovely daughter?, engaged a Chinese gardener, who,
when he had finished nicking the slugs off the cabbages
for the day, used to rig himself out in great style, and
at length came to be, by reason of his industry and
elegance, quite the talk of the town. One day. how-
ever. he kissed the youngest daughter. The girl told
her Pa, who, after playing a fantasia on John with a
garden rake, booted him off the premises. The dis-
charged Celestial then took out a summons, hut the
mother and eldest daughter did their utmost to get the
old mar to settle the matter. In vain, however. So
finding it no go, each admitted that John had similarly
insulted her. This enraged the parent all the more, of
course; and, anyhow, at length the day came round
when the summons was returnable. The case went on,
and the mother was called into the box But
before she could begin to sob out her evidence. John
said —“ What, for you glnmbel, hey ? Me kissee you
allee same girlee, Hy-yal"
* * *
The Presbyterian is getting quite a giddy
paper. It has now rather let, up on tracts and gone in
for travels. We notice that the last issue to hand con-
tains the surpassing adventures of one John Auld, M. A.
Mr. Auld set out on a voyage, with his wife and family,
to spend a week with one John M'Calium, of Tarlo
Now we get some Jules Verne copy:—“We arrived
safely on Saturday night, and being very tired soon
turned into bed and slept profound (sic) till Sabbath
morning ” “On the following Thursday, Mr. M’Calium
drove me, with nay wife and Miss M’Calium, toTaralga.
It was to be a great day there among the Presbyterians.
There was to be a grand ‘cookie-shine,’ and of course
we would not miss it for anything.” A cookie-shine
means a heavy tea with a collection after it; so we can
quite understand—and, indeed sympathise—with John’s
determination to be present. He did a pitch after the
cookie-shine, and “ urged them to get the Presbtte-
rian, and read it regularly." We congratulate eur
contemporary upon havinsr secured the services of such
a lively correspondent. We should very much like to
know his terms ourselves. A friend of ours who keeps
a funeral warehouse has asked us to recommend him a
bookkeeper. We see, by the way, that John is an Aulder
of the church.
* * *
SNOOK.
“ The action, Jas. B. Snook against the Board
of Land and Works, for injury sustained in the Joli-
mont accident, was heard to-day. According to the
evidence, he had hideous dreams at night, his hearing
and sense of smell were affected, and he suffered in
various other ways. A verdict was given for plaintiff
for £1500.”— Herald.
There is a prime joker called Snook,
Who the Yic. Board of Works brought to book.
Poor Snook bad, it seems.
The most terrible dreams,
So a cool fifteen hundred he took.
• » •
A correspondent informs the Herald that he
saw a distempered dog outside one of the principal
hotels. Perhaps it was because he was outside that he
was distempered. We ourselves have seen some horrid
curs fighting with other sad dogs in Georga.street, and
some ridiculous little puppies are often on view outside
the Eoyal after the performance. The Herald man
suggests that every “ill-bred” deg found about the
street should be destroyed. A good enough idea, cer-
tainly, but one which would have the effect of con-
siderably thinning flown the legislature.
* * *
r Talmage, according to the Presbyterian, said
he once knew a clergyman who used to chew like clock-
work all through the service, and that he had spittoons
at the front, the communion table, the reading desk,
the pulpit, and in the vestry. Well, we know a clergy-
man in Sydney, who takes a glass of whiskey before
going to his church, a glass before robing, “four fin-
gers” when donning his surplice, a nip when he’s
through with the pitch, and then goes home to dinner,
which is washed down by a bottle of Poster, and any
amount of fiery port. One Sunday, when he got to the
vestry, he discovered that some miscreant had
“sneaked " his inspiration. He was very dull that day,
and his extempore sermon was such a series of inane
platitude?, that before he was half through with it, the
congregation was snoring, with a sound like a circus
menagerie shut up in a saw-mill. Now the rev. gentle-
man always comes armed with a pocket-pistol, and his
el jqnence is as passionate as ever. Ah, what would his
congregation, who swear to a woman that his religious
fervour is a gift from the clouds, think, if they knew
that he purchases it in Pitt-streot tor 60s. a case !
• « •
The Bathurst Record calls Parkes a hoary-
heided old Chartist. Nearly all the rest of it is
about the Pope’s infallibility, and the indulgenca
question, but they have slid in a serial which is simply
entitled; —
" ALVIEA.
A EOMANCE OF EEPENTANCE,
OE THE
HEEOINE OF VESUVIUS.”
The Eecoed only appears once a month just now.
When the whole of its new and magnificent machinery
shall have arrived, and it has taken delivery of its score
or two of new Italian priests, wo suppose it will come
oat once a quarter.
• # *
There is a clerk to a boiling-down near Rock-
hampton, who states that he is the last of the Stuarts,
In that case ho is where he ought to be —Clerk to a
boiling-down.
• • •
It is stated that there is a Doctor tip North who
will give a sick certificate for a glass of beer. We beat
that in Sydney; for we have a doctor here who will
give the same for the promise of a glass of beer.
• # •
Tamworth, we believe, possesses three news-
papers, one of which, the Independent, is before us.
This paper contains a leader on the Milburn Creek
affair, which is the funniest thing we have seen for a
long time. This is how it begins ;—“The mucilaginous
mountain of mendacious mystery which the mounte-
bank monarchs of the metropolitan press have with
mulish mutability marked the last scene in Milburn
Creek muddle, shonld stand for time immemorial as a
beacon to guide all men against wrecking themselves
on the rocks of cowardly inconsistency." This, it will
be at once seen, is one of the heart-rendering effects of
the spread of threepenny drinks up North. But the
writer does worse than this He considers that the
Herald only commented upon the matter in a half.
hearted way ; but the Telegraph spoke “in the terse,
trenchant, powerful, and plain-spoken manner, that has
already made it a power in the State.” How funny it
seems to read this in Sydney; especially immediately
following the Hegira-like flight of poor Lynch. The
only possible explanation of it is that the writer
may have formerly been on the D.T.
* * *
An Adelaide baker announces that he will sell
his stock-in-trade and customers for £6O. Sydney
bakers don’t enlighten the public as to how they sell
their customers. They simply do it. And this re-
minds us that a wag ones put in a London paper:—
“ Wanted, a Baker who can make white fancy bread to
turn a profit at current rates without using either alom
or potatoes.” He never got a single reply.
* * *
In coming out of a Temperance meeting, down
South, a prominent member fell down the steps. When
he was picked up, and given his spectacles, stick, hat,
and galoshes, he turned tc the crowd of sympathetic
brothers around him, and broadly accused them of
stealing his whisky flask.
* * *
The Herald advertises “a furnished gentle-
man’s residence to let.” If the furnished gentleman in
question is thoroughly “polished," we think we can
pat our hands on him. What say you, Mr. Kichardson F
—late the hero—or the bugbear (which is it P) of the
Temperance Alliance.
* « •
The Duchess of Edinburgh, when recently
urged to buy an expensive shawl, firmly refused, saying,
" I cannot afford it. Take it to the wife of one of my
cooks." That was the Duchess’ turn, but when the
cook’s wife got hold of the shawl, she threw it round
her alabaster shoulders, smiled pleasingly round, and
then observed, “ Well, Mrs. Edinburgh was right
after all—a good shawl should be only seen on a good
Agger. Enrico, deah I ‘lf the', ‘ Jook ’ should call, say
I might be ’ome by tea time."
* * »
They’ve got a now recipe for oyster soup at the
Sydney restaurants now. Here are the Ingredients tor
one dipper of the elixir:—One quart aqi id pura; one
capful Evening News paste; one ounce powdered
fishbones; one sprinkle best pot-black, and one oyster.
Fact.
* * #
The Melbourne Herald laments that though
war is imminent, the plans for the Cerberus boilers have
not yet been completed. It is very indiscreet of the
Herald to publish the statement. For although things
in Europe have been patched so far, it is just possible,
when some of the Great Powers discover that the
magnificent maritime triumph in question is, for the
present incapacitated from sweeping the oceans gene-
rally, their machinations against the peace of the
Universe will be recommenced with renewed vigour.
While Mandeville slumbers, they can plot against ns.
Mandeville active —let them ter-remble I
# * *
A Queensland shantykeeper lately found trouble
to brow his whisky hot enough to suit his customers,
who made repeated enquiries for something that would
“ bite all the way down. ” Asa last resource, and to
save his reputation, the proprietor mixed up a case of
pain-killer, a keg of fusel oil, four bottles of emu oil,
and a tub of hair restorer, and then emptied the lot
into a barrel of “ real old Bourbon," made in Ipswich.
This he called the “ Shepherd’s Delight, ” and its popu-
larity rose as high as a lawyer’s costs on a libel action.
The first man who tried it fairly screamed with delight,
and actually went home and hugged his mother-in-law;
the next one took two drinks, and then broke his neck
trying to turn a double somersault over a passing wool
dray; and the third, who was a travelling hawker, after
drinking one quart, actually stole his own pack, and
planted it up a hollow log. That shanty man is now on
the road to fortune; and perhaps a seat in the Upper
House.
* # #
“ Rev. A. Gosman, of Melbourne, suggested
that a cadet corps of larrikins should be formed. Ho
thinks it might be so organized and managed, as to
draw young lads into it, and to create a healthy spirit
of pride and honourable conduct in its members."
Some of these fine nights a few of Mr. Gosman’s “ young
lads ” will draw him into a creek by the legs, and after
they have done wiping the earth with his spine and
belting Fish Kiver Caves in his head, it’ll be a highly
dangerous thing for his friend to subsequently chat
about cadet corps, or healthy organizations. Fancy
25,000 Victorian “ toe-raggers " “ with but a single
thought, ’’ and 25,000 Government rifles. I
* • •
The editor of the Auckland Observer, who
has been publishing some dreadful drivel about “ Auck.
land Belles ’’ the last few week?, now says“ A happy
young girl’s history is, or should be, a blank until her
marriage, consequently the very faintest outline is all
that duty bids us give of any present and youthful
belle.” The editor evidently, therefore, prefers the
distant chance of the husband’s fist to the present
certainty of the brother’s boot.
« • •
At 1 the" 1 Chinese New in Year Cooktown, the
merchants held a levee, and made half the town drank
on Sam-shaw. Next day, the papers came out full of
encomiums on “ the tapestry and other ornamentations
in the interiors of the stores." Nothing was said
about the Sam-shaw.
• • •
Civilization is going ahead alarmingly in Cobar.
There were some match-races there the other day, in
which three horses took part, one of them being named
Kate Kelly, and one Ned Kelly. Then, a few days later,
a Mr. Crow married a Miss Croft, and the local Pig-
leap states that “after the ceremony, the wedding
party, in two vehicles, drove through the streets of
Colmr. Of course there was the usual ‘ tinkettleing*
of the happy pair in the evening by the gamins of the
town, kept up with vigour until a bribe to make the
music scarce was forthcoming." There is evidently a
great future in store for Cobar. We confidently expect
to see opened there shortly a faro-bank and a picnic
pavilion, which will add to the prosperity of the place,
oy rendering necessary a poor-house and a gaol. The
Cobar editors will do well to crack up both the gambling
hell and the dancing-bagnio. But they shonld especially
crack up the dancing-bagnio,
# • *
“ The foundation stone of an Anglican church
was laid at Enmore on Saturday by Judge Josephsoa.
It will accommodate over 500. Site and fcnilding will
coet £3000.” Oh, Moshish !
• mm
The Echo recommends dust-boxes with liejs for
kerbstones, and states that another writer being of the
same opinion, the idea “ has evidently struck two great
mirids.” Possibly the other writer is the Echo man’s
father—or, more likely still, his grandmother.
• • •
At a church school-room in N.S.W., recently, a
blushing young parson was entertained at tea by the
ladies of the Sunday-school. At first, a delightful
harmony reigned, and the spirit of peace was upon the
whole company. At the commencement of the “ worry,"
the rev. gentleman confined his conversation to the
young ladies on either side of him, but in a little while
he spotted a very pretty girl three cups off, and pro-
ceeded to give her a turn. On this, his two supporters
stiffened into freezing attitudes, while tome of the
girls lower down guyed them by means of chaffing
memos, which were “ passed up ” assiduously. After
tea, they went out for a breath of air before “ Holding
the Fort" till dark, when the rev. guest, forgetting all
about the other three', froze on to the saddler’s
daughter On this, the third girl happening to pass her
rival on the arm of the curate, made a remark about
“ leading a man with a curb,” an observation which
elicited an acrimonious retort, having reference to the
third young lady’s profession, which was thstof a “dress-
maker newly from Paris." Meanwhile, the guest, who
considered that he was in great cue, and making himself
exceedingly agreeable, proposed a return to the school-
room, and proceeded to lead the way there with the
saddler’s daughter The next morning he
was the recipient of no less than five letters in feminine
handwriting, in all of which ho was invited to give “ som
MR. WILLIAM PRITCHARD—(Vide Supplement, page 6.)


reasonable explanation of his extraordinary conduct
last night, in order that the writers might not be
obliged to come to the conclusion that he had artfully
outraged their feelings, and thus be compelled to take
action accordingly.” After perusing these epistles, the
rev. gentleman went out to purchase some paper to
reply with. He went by way of New Zealand.
♦ » •
The Echo saysA young man named Joseph
low put his hand in a sausage mill yesterday.” It is a
significant fact that no mention is made of what paper
he belonged to 1
• • •
“ M. St. Clair ” writes to “ Gipsy ” of the T. and
C., and states that she has “12 yards of plnm-coloured
cloth, ’ and wants to know what to do with it. Gipsy
replies, advising “M. St. Clair " not to make a robe
“as it. reveals the figure too plainly.” Our tip to “M.
St. Clair ” is, not to accept this advice until she has
found out what kind of a figure •* Gipsy " is.
• » »
In Melbourne recently, tacked to the announce-
ment of a birth, was an intimation that the mother was
delighted ana the father surprised. This is peculiar
from tho foot that in these caies it is not usual when the
husband is surprised for the wife to be delighted.
• ♦ •
We hear from Adelaide that general sympathy
is expressed for the daughter of Sir William Jervois.
who recently wedded a clergyman, on the ground that
no sooner was she married than she became a-Cust.
• • •
At the Water Police Court, the other day, a
Balmain boy was charged by a Balmain “ crusher” with
vagrancy. TU„ i Q y, in reply to a question from Mr.
Marsh, P.M , -userved that all he had to say was that
he was over-n. ndicapped, as the constable, not content
with trusting to his own eagle eye. took a girl on hia
beat with him every night. That constable deserves
promotion, anyhow. He can’t drop into trouble if he’s
always got his girl with him. That is to say not the
• troa ble the other constables all seem to be
getting into. We wish it to be carefully remarked that
we are only alluding to the policemen.
Sir Henry is going, among
other things, to float a Jervis’s
Bay coal mine in England.
Tom Garrett means to float
something, too, and also to
place his son at Oxford. Henry
and Thomas may meet in one of
those charming little rooms at
Madame Moraud’s, and cement
the amicable understanding
which is known, “by those
who know, you know,” to
exist between them, over truffled
pigeon and Johaunisberg, 1865.
There is a funny picture, photo-
graphed from a famous painting,
on view at a George-street print-
seller’s. It is entitled “Aprils In
serment," and represents a yonng
T>nest, who, judged by his face,
is one of the jolliest fellows in
a 1 world, chuckling over tho
credid,tyof hia con; rjgation, and
feasting his eyes ou the oollec-
tion-pUte. It doesn’t require
a very great sketch of imagina-
tion to place Sir Henry and Tom
Garrett, too, in the place of the
priest, “ Aprils le serment."
* * .
The time approaches when
the houseless poor drive reoum-
b®nt C ° W3 from their lairs in
Moore Park, lie down to luxuri-
ate in tho warmth the animals
have imparted to mother earth,
and dream that they have rea-
lised the promises of emigration
agents in England.
* • •
When a vespernal grammar-
masher is “ run in " to Darling,
nurst for vagrancy, or any other
professional offence, he is put to
hard labour—very hard labour—
washing himself.
* * *
The electric wires have been
drunk lately. The D.T. had tho
following extraordinary cable
last week : The Judicial Com-
mittee of tho Privy Council
nas decided that the natural
daughter of the late Duke of
Wellington is entitled to up-
warda °f £300.000 under her
late father’s will.” Now, the
real fact was that adeeision had
been made in favour of tho
daughter of a resident of Well-
ington, New Zealand, All this
j® v . e . ry indeed. Somebody
th ® ?- T ” probably presnm.
u 18 . acquaintance with
the Duke of Wellington (hotel,
in Sussex-street), tries to bring
a row in the Wellesley
famfiy mat as tbe f uture duk '
‘ a £ 6 t ng married, and the old
tW®?”. 18 coming down with
a h ® d fl r Bt to the tune of £4OOO
“ & However, the young
Book mayn’t see the D.T?
R B * an q ou his ancestor, unless
Sidney small - goodsman
sends Dim a newspaper parcel of
P toet or a shoe-trnnk by way
of a wedding present.
From the Morning Muffin :
" Protestant Hall, Castlereagh-stroot.—Sunday
afternoon, at 3 o’clock.—Rev. George Suther-
land will improve the death of the lato Mr. .
late member No. 4 L O.L.
“ ‘ Subject: “ The Righteous hath hope in his
Death.'
‘ James Brighton, Secretary.”
Now, while we admit that George is a smart fellow, we
nardly see how he’s going to do this. It must have
eeen a somewhat difficult thing, if we are to believe the
M ’’ e have improved the life of the deceased, but how
“~ r * Sutherland is going to improve his ceath is a
mystery we cannot fathom. Can George be going to
cry an experiment ia which there will figure, besides
ina usual wrestle, a second-hand galvanic battery and a
couple of cast-steel stair-rods ?
• • •
Two fellows were “ shook ” on the same girl, and
otn wrote to a Sydney bard, enclosing a couple of
pjunds, and requesting some verses “To my Dove,”
one dating from Sydney and the other from Parramatta.
ne pot t sent the lines as requested—the first stanza of
t“e poem commencing as follows
“ Thera is no love like that I feel.
My darling one, for thee :
For thee my passion, true and real.
Will last eternally.”
C l E 7’, a 7 0un ? iady living in William-street received
, m Adolphus, who adored her, a poem commencing as
w V fu ai i d Produced as “ A trifle thrown off hurriedly,
out the true dewdrops of my heart.” That afternoon,
tne one she truly adored—her own Edwin—called in,
«ua, after pressing her hand, delivered unto her a sealed
letter which he entreated her to retire with and read in
R ttrd on. Then she, laying her head on his
S ,f. l fl neezed into his Pocket a three-cornered
■onited bdlet, and kissing him on the tip of his nose and
r™/" “is eyebrow, tripped off to tne arbour behind the
tim. w j 3O to devour his communication, while he sate
miasi f down on bb e horsehair sofa, and tore open her
tiiatiT 0 ' ’ * • • Ton minutes afterwards, she entered
W h:£ o L and cocked her nose at him contemptuously,
tbo « n 0 " 18 hod a glance at her in which were embodied
H ; a ae F ce f ** scorn and the most indignant contumely.
th« i r bad contained a poem, introduced by
xplauation that it was a trifle thrown off hurriedly
but the true dewdrops of tho heart, and it commenced-
" There is no love like that I feel.
My darling one, for thee."
whiil him fimply comprised some verses
ful f> h i s * ated w .®r® hurriedly thrown off but were
he true dewdrops of the heart, the opening stanza of
which commenced in these terms—
“ There is no love like that I feel.
My darling one, for thee."
k 8!?/?? His—she had copied hers; and thus the
8 . W ben they meet no w at choir practic i
she laughs hysterically, while he freezes oh to another
tn { /t nd * “ a fimet nook behind the organ, tells her
that there is no love like that he feels, his darling one,
BRIEF MENTION.
. Queensland Punch is a capital little paper,
is unique in one respect. Judging by the monthly
notice which follows its publication every issue. Punch
is above average. ”
“Dave,” said the new Postmaster-General to
the captain of the first Australian Eleven, “you’re
getting very stent." “ Yes,” replied Dave, “and you
have put on a little weight since you have been in the
public sarvice.”
The Protestant clergymen of Mudgee held a
combined meeting yesterday in the local town hall to
pra y for ram. If the Sydney clergy assembled in their
mty flail, they d soon have their prayer stopped bv a
ram of bogus plaster.
In a Northern coast town two aldermen take
turn about to propose each other to the Mayoral chair.
A very good way to divide honours, as the two gentle-
men put together would only make one fair-sized man.
One Crouches while tho other Simpers.
When Greale Lukin bossed the Brisbane
OURiEB it used to be almost on a par, with the Mel-
bourne Argus since Bazacott has controlled the
Courier however, he has changed all that. It is now
nearly as lively and interesting as the S. M. Herald.
A woman named Gunn has escaped from Windsor
gaol, and Is the third person who has langhed at the
bolts of that seemingly unsafe institution in 8 months.
It would thus appear that' a woman consigned to
Windsor gaol wins her liberty. At;any rate this Gunn
evidently went off easily enough.
Not a single clergyman of any denomination has
visited Cobar hospital since the commencement of the
present year, though there has been not only illness
but death during the period referred to. It seems that
up Cobar way they can dispense with religious consola-
tion even it they can’t do without medical comforts.
An Anti-smoking Class has been formed in con-
nection with the Free Church of England, Collingwood
(v io.) Thirty-five boys have joined. And all the
others smoke nothing but cabbage cigars and 'poss-root.
Ti« well. Tobacco smokers, as a rule, always drop
dead at the early age of 7d ; except when they forget
the date, and then they run on till they total 80.
People up the Hunter way enjoy the luxury of
a gentleman who is a factotum of petty Government
billets on week days and a full-blown parson- on the
Sabbath. Now that he can legally tie the knot, they are
beginning not to seethe use of the other fellow, you
know, and think one of such a pair is about enough.
Bat, by the way, can this little game be called State-aid
to religion ?
Manly, honafde travellers to which are entitled
to the privilege of buying a drink on Sunday without
being fined, is naturally the place to which a great
number of people flock on the Sabbath. Yet one artless
local parson stepped into a Manly hotel che other day,
and naively asked the landlord to sign a petition in
favour of the popular watering-place being placed on
the same footing as the metropolis in respecting to the
Licensing Act,
A facetious correspondent sends ns an account
of a rehearsal of the Musical Society, at Richmond,
lately, in the local School of Arts. We don’t, publish
it, because the musicians might not like it. Our cor-
respondent says he likes music, but he got too much of
it at that rehearsal. Most probably this was owing to
the unusual size of his ears, which scooped in non
noise than ordinary-sized .nral appendages. We may
as well mention that there are to be a Fire Brigade and
a Lunatic Asylum established at Richmond soon. The
very things that are wanted.
The irony of fate was never better exemplified
than in the columns of Saturday’s Herald, where im-
mediately under the advertisement respecting a forth-
coming book, by a well-known individual who once wrote
things worth reading, appears another announcement—
“ Waste paper for sale."
Editorial amenities are the rule at Lithgow.
The Mercury calls the Southern Cross a “ dreary
journal,” and says it is “changing its tactics" because
it finds its “ dignified principles nnremunerative.” The
editor of the Cross retorts that “if the birth of the
Southern Cross took place under the planet Saturn, it
is well, for one clown is enough in the circus.” If he
really thinks so, why doesn’t he clear out, and leave the
other fellow ?
In view of the Rev. Canon Smith’s exchange of
Bathurst for Manly and its unpleasant surroundings,
we are somewhat awkwardly reminded of the erstwhile
champions of secular, compulsory, and free, or, in
Archbishop Vaughan’s words, of immoral, infidel and
lawless seed plots ; to wit: the aforesaid Canon, Pastor
Daniel and Dr. Beg, Mr. (ex-Rev.) James Greenwood,
M.A., and the illustrious LL.D.’s Zachary and Me-
Gnven. We just now forget tho name of tho seventh
chain]non of —Christendom!
A drunken Wallaroo (S.A.) miner swallowed a
whole packet of Anson’s insect powder enough to
kill four sober men. He had two gallons of beer under
his belt, and this saved his life, through holding the
poison back until an emetic brought both beer and in-
sect powder outside again. He then started on another
gallon and was soon fully restored, and ready to experi-
ment again. As he gracefully retired to bed in his
Wellington boots, he was heard to remark:—“ Bring
along yer pisons ; I’mer man f or'em."
When tho Nelson was at Hobart, a lieutenant
of the local rifle corps undertook to pilot a party of
ladies and gentlemen round the vessel. The gallant
officer is a great authority in nautical matters when on
shore, but he had barely started to lead the way over
the warship when he suddenly disappeared. He had
inadvertently stepped down a hatchway. When fished
np, he looked very ungenteel; his nose was bleeding,
his hat bashed, and his collar-bone broken. In future
he intends to confine his genius to boxing around hia
awkward squad on shore.
I find, said the stipendiary Solon, the other
day, to a limpish-lcoking customer, who stood in front
with a dejected air on his furrowed brows, and white-
wanh nil about his pants—“l find” you’re np hero
twice every month for drunkenness, audit costs you
half a sov. a trip—-now what have you got to say to
that lot.” “Nothin’, your Wusship,” replijd the
prisoner, “only, it it’s all the same to yon, I’d rather
be fined _by the year at once; and perhaps you could
knock a little off, as I’m a regular customer.”
I n Queensland, a squatter sold his station
for £60,000, and the night before he departed a ueigh-
boiir spent the evening with him, talking sociably orer
old times. Next morning, the visitor asked him if he
could oblige himl.with a few pounds of beef as he had
ruu . short. About a stone was all that could ha raked
up m the cask, and this was taken. A few days later,
the neighbour received a note enclosing an account for
141 b. meat, 3s. 6d., and requesting him to forward the
money tefthe squatter’s agent in town.
. Bathurst Council—special meeting—business of
importance. Alderman Blank. “It’s a lie.” The
Mayor, “your conduct is contemptuous in the ex-
i*®??®- , Alderman Blank, “thats another lie; a
deliberate he ’’—you’ve been two months solicting votes
now. The Mayor—“ that’s an unqualified lie, and yon
know it.’ Alderman Blank, “well I’m no White,
choher. ” The town clerk then read the Benediction,
and a very pleasing little veunia came to a friendly
ending, But what fills us np to the ears with
admiration is the nice distinction drawn between an
* nnqualfled liar;” and a Whitechoker. ”
King Louis, at latest dates, was missing. Apro-
pos of the giddy Bavarian king, we may mention
his father was once was “pretty thick” with the
celebrated ballet queen, Lola Montez ; and talking of
Lola, reminds us that upon one occasion, at Sydney
she was followed on board ship by a bailiff, and politely
requested to either “ante up” or go to prison. Lola
beeged for five minutes respite; retired to her cabin
and shortly after called out to the “bum” to walk
tight in and arrest her. He wasn’t half a second in the
room before he had 17 different kinds of fits at the same
time, and when the crew at last got him down and sat 1
on his head, he said the world was all a fleeting show
and he wanted to get outside as soon as possible. The
simple-minded Lola had undressed herself completely,
but the bailiff had never seen an opera bonffe before’
and c f course went eff his head immediately.
~ TJ 10 Maitland Mercury is very popular with
the boys in the district: it is so useful when they want
f“ S 1 ! 0 tai,s . for their kites. Its principles can be
summed up in four words-flogging larrikins and observ-
mg Sunday. When it isn’t doing one of these things in
imagination, it is always doing the other. Having, in
due course, bewailed the opening of the Sydney Muslum
on Sunday, and rejoiced on the stopping of Proctor's
lectures, it now indulges in a fresh outburst of thanks,
giving because the free-thought lectures in Melbourne
have been interdicted. But the Mercury overlooks the
circumstance that these’ petty actions on the part of
?° 1 M Ca l puppe ! s oannofc otherwise than beneficial to
freethinkers. Attempts at oppression will only make
„ii e S„n 38 Btro ,? ger ’ at the same time disgusting
Thfstl 1 Lf nBlbl , e P«pPle, whatever their religious views,
wi v tnl P S a m i?, f a Park ? 3 or an O’Loghleu shows which
wi fL b ° WS ;r w the bi S° ts fear it blowing
inf The Mercury also puffs a triumph-
ant blast about the satisfactory state of religion, as
—oiTpaper he ° enBUB returns ’ Yes ' iVa ver J satisfactory
Tho Narrabri Herald tells us all about “ a
narrow escape from accident.” The facts, though
wonderful, are briefly statei. “A citizen was driv.
tm ° n , S |, nday mor ning, and was met
on a culvert by a lad named (say) Jones who
was riding a partly broken-in horse/ and who. on
af2??nf ? “f th *? eu \ verfc ’ immediately shied and ran
wb^ln h < b ? ggy an ? pair ’ capsizing the
whole lot. Privately, we learn that youiWoneg
had been playing billiards over-night, and had left
his wmkers on the table, and his care are not yet
suffloientfiy grown to be used as substitutes ; hence his
skittishness. But there are phenomena connected with
Whaf^M, tlng r CaSO wbl ? h we cannot understand.
What was there for young Jones to shy at—the citizen
in the buggy waant a Narribri editor, was he ? How
th!f S ii hlS r Ung J ?“ es who “ capsized the whole lot,”
that is, a buggy with a citizen in it, and two horses ?
And as there seems to have been a smash-up of every-
thing and everybody, who. in the name of truth, was it
that enjoyed the narrow escape ? After carefully stndv.
ab g iiit n B wo/t* grapb tbro . n ? b a Powerful telescope for
the nartll brnt 6 Ban L° nly conclud « that it was either
the partly broken-m horse, or else the culvert that
escaped! Not a of tbo whisky
.There are 9000 cornstalks in
the Cabbage Garden and 25,000
Victorians in N.S.W. So that
Victoria has the best of the bar-
gain again.
A Western Queensland
newspaper says that the want of
a lock-up has long been felt by
the respectable portion of the
community.
Call ’or ’andsomc?”
11.I 1 .! 10 ™- of a statesman in
tbo Tight Little Island—“ I call
or nothin’ but a hnely ’atchot-
faced tiling.” A woman scut ns
At a Mndgec church com-
niittue meeting-. Parson.* “I
think wo ought to get a chan-
Ch,,rf h official:
- What ,. s «>o use cf getting a
chandi her?—there’s no one to
play on it.”
From Wagga. When Sanl
oaraiiel offered Her Majesty at
it o ™ or an album of views of
NSW. scenery, the Queen
.! a , UJ ), her voice and said—
Haul, Sanl, why persecutes t
thou me ? ”
They prosecute a retail
chemist for selling a patent medi-
cine containing hydrate of
chloral. Would it not bo fairer
and more sensible to proceed
against the concocter of the
drug, or. failing him, against the
importer ?
There s a lady at Charters
Towers of the "beautiful
forever stamp, who boasts
that she receives more offers of
marnage in a month than any
other three maidens at the
lowers. And she is willing to
bet on it, 100 to 5, but not a
bookmaker will take her-offer.
The papers say that a
letter weighing 81b„ carrying
postflge.stamps to the amount
of £9 14s. 4d , was sent per
Fotosi by a Sydney merchant
to h, s London firm. We don't
believe this. It must have
been addressed to his best girl.
Tn Northern Queensland,
whenever you spot a man who
walks with a more lord-high-
mucky-muck air than anyone
i i?’ y °" < r a . n T isk y°ur deepest
dollar that he s a sugar-planter
who, a few years hack, was
either boots or bullock-driver at
a lambing-down hotel. Slaves
make the best nigger-drivers.
The St. Leonards Re
coeder and the Protestant
Standard are having a high
time of it just now. The Stan,
daed calls the Recokder a
“fnnny little Jesuit paper.”
The Recorder says it isn’t, and
demands an ample apology. The
Standard won’t give it, and in-
vites the “funny little Jesuit
paper to “thread on the tail
av me khoat ” in the Supreme
Court.
.a new paper, in the clerical interest, Le Nou-
velliste, Las been started at New Caledonia. Wehone
at co ® dnotors will be able simultaneously to propitiate
Mum bo, draw « ood screws, and rake in ten per cent on
bnfi^ 1 r e *. te<^ V v e h , ieto sec the eternal certainty go
hand m hand with the eternal sugar. The only thing that
caß , s^ aild ln the way cf this grand achievement is the
f > o°Bbe lht fi ° f ano lber paper starting and undertaking
quartfe^ less 6 Pe ° P Way to htavtu at a f«no I
Here’s another new crime. Wednesdav’a
Evening Yell contains the following ad.;— esnay 8
“ I hereby caution anyone abusing my name or
saying I am a Married Man. I will punish
them according to law. W.H.” F nlsu
Quite right, too, Mr W. H , because no man should
have his ruputation blasted for life and nerhni W »d».
L fter, byithe terrible suspicion that he£VSSISd mil
especially iff he really is one. No jury would let a
charge like that slide under £20.000. * 5 a
J. L. Parsons, S.A. Minister of Eduoation. likes
to travel en grand Seigneur. He grumbled at “ Com
mcrcial ” Bent the Victorian C.ar. for not
giving the Northern Territory party a specia’ train
Th°:rb h r OVOr ’ +r G Parsons in bis grateful mood!
The Chinese in the Northern Territory have been tick-
rinf Tnlo by burning incense before the Minis fe-
rial Joss. This is what the overwhelmed Parsons deems
worthy of wiring to his colleagues in Adelaide “ The
gaVe a \ a ? reat reception at Bridge Creek. It
was the mggest display of crackers I ever saw. Thev
have invited ns to dinner on our return.” Ye Gods i
crackers and dinner! And one time Parsons had to
put up with Baptist tea-fights and gifts of slippers I
r> Tj l ® Palmer Chronicle is a heathen paper.
Read this: We don’t believe it makes the slightest
difference with the heavenly waterworks whether
united prayer meetings are held or not. It does seem
extraordinary that one lot of people who want a certain
thing, should be oblivious to the fact that in gratifying
themselves they must iuj ure their fellows. Sheepski n
wants his Jams filled, and on the principle that the
prayers of the righteous avail much, he gets his desire
on the cheap. The miner wants a dry season, and
through the assiduity of the prayerful his little game
is knocked on the head. Tin miners might just as well
sluice if ”" Fa * n dry seasc,n > and pray for enough to
OUR DUNGEON-ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
(ANYONE CAN HAVE OUR WRONGS.)


It la necessary, during ho
beverages likely to heat or s'
Cocoa, deprived of the snperfluo
absolutely pure, is a most sooi
refreshing beverage. Be sure
BURT'S COCOA ESSENCE wi
imitations are often pushed by
sake of extra profit. Makers bj
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
Abe you Insured? If not
Call upon Mr. B. Short, the ohif
linn Mutual Provident Society, w
Entrance, George-straet, Sydnej
will act wisely by consulting Mr.
perienoe (22 years) with the Bo<
advice worth obtaining; you will
son ready and glad to afford eve
personally or by letter, or to supp
&0., without charge. Ir you ab
not increase the amount? On:
table should encourage you, see
Example : Member aged 35, insur
during ten years in tetal premli
risk of £lOOO having been severe
the ten years. If this member
cause, to continue paying the j
change the original policy and boi
policy, amounting to £ll4 7s. 3d
having to fce paid, but this paid nj
share in profits all his life, Wi
treble yeur present insurance P I
future time to continue the policy
least three years), or should you :
and bo unwilling to continue x>a
yeu can then exchange your aoo
for a respectable sum in the shi
policy. Call, and get thin table
Young men and maidens, from 17 :
insure to secure the amount paya!
say 6J. It parents and guardians
to insure, they will foster their pr<
ried ladies are privileged to insure,
free from the control of their husl
ranged as a provision for their ow
of the Society will coo suit their
as confer a blessing on W idows ant
ing relatives and friends to insi
obi igod by receiving memos, of sue
now, will share in next division, or
“ Delays are dangerous," “Do
B. Short, Arcade Entrance, Qeorg
SOUTH WATERLOO, judic
will be sold on the ground,
GREENWICH. GRE
'NORTH SH i
GREENWICH LAN!
NORTH SHOE!
SATURDAY AFTERNOO
ON THE GEOUND, at
LITHOS. ABE ESi
80 GRAND BuTIDIN'
fronting
GREENWICH EOAD (off Lam
CHARLOTTE EO.
THE HIGH LAND between LA
and the EIVEE
Beautiful Sites at Greenwich.
Charming Views at Greenwio
A Favourite Spot is Qreenwic
The coming Locality—Greene
Orchard Land, Building Land,
LITHOS. BEAD 1
HARDIE AND” 60
ILL sell by public auotio
tioae from E. N. SEI
ON THU GEOUI
at 8 30 p.m.,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
80 blocks of land at Greenwich, t
ready at the Eoonu
*•* The Auctioneers invite the i
buyers, persons wishing to make
builders, and those about to build
this Greenwich land sale,
SATURDAY, 18th M
sar LITHOS. will be forwarded or
application.
ASTE PAPER for SALE,
Office, Pitt-street.
w
w
w. =• p A :
PIANOFORTE WARES
352 George-street
SOUTH WATERLOO, judiciously subdivided
V?;U bo sold oa the ground, oa MARCH 25, 0>
*efc fire to a Jew’s house, is the ohserva-
b Russian larrikin when he wants a light home
night.
« banquet given by the Mayor, in glorifioa-
of Sydney’s 100th civic year, was such a success,
everyone present expressed a hope to be there
I
“111 stand no more of this old man. Put up
your hands," said 3am Gatehouse to his father, who
then set to work to plant a few remarks on his parents
stomach.
Adelaide Statistics for 1881, show a decline in
the number of lunatics. But as Frbarson’s Weekly,
Adelaide Punch, and the Register still exist, the
Government Statist forecasts a gloomy record for
1882.
A remarkable case has occurred in Melbourne.
A man shot a publican for “ speaking disrespectful” to
his wife. This will lie a lesson to the Sydney bouifaces
never to refuse, even qo a lady with a black eye, a pint
on credit.
On Monday night the daughter—a lovely girl—
of a Sydney! publican ran away with a painter who was
working on the premises. The father now says that he
his five paint-pots and a ladder for sale, cheap.
The landlady of an inn up North, has, wo see,
married a R.C. priest. His Reverence “gave up" his
holy office on purpose to wade in. He now draws beer
like an angel, and anybody who thinks of going in for
t ic nharh can get a rig out at the ex-rev. father’s
hostclrio upon the most reasonable terms.
Two girls sent each other “ ugly Valentines’
last month. At that time both had a snug account
at the Savings’ Bank. They “summoned” one another,
and employed the flower of the police court bar. They
are now selling matches.
The Russian Government has just ordered for
its artillery and Coasaok forces 100,000 revolvers. Come
now, dear Pid., what’s all this for? Speak! these
weapons can't be used for monkeys j they're intended
for men.
Explosive hats is the now device by which the
Nihilists l»old are trying to knock reason into the
beid of Tyranny. A man who rend the telegram, came
home at midnight with his hat—gone. “ ‘Splosh’u, my
dear,” ho explained.
As the Jolimont claims are settled, the patients
rapidly recover strength. One man who got a headache
a id was live minutes late in opening his tripe shop, got
A'l7s, and his head is again clear, and shutters are down
punctually again.
A mail who is bringing a libel action against
Thadeus O’Kane, of the Charters Towers Miner, is
dying. Thadeus now playfully alludes to him as "an
expiring cripple." This is how yon get level with your
enemies in the Par North.
The tour of the Mayor through the various
churches, to ascertain their arrangements in the matter
of fire-escape, shows that in most cases attendance at
public worship is liable at any time to forestall by a few
y ! ars the warning which, soon or late, comes to ail of
ns*
The Australian rifle team are going about now
wondering when they are going to got the trophies they
won in the last match - Three of the shootists have
traded away their chances of getting the decorations for
two porter-golfs and a pair of three-crown moles.
A man named Christie has shot a man named
Dew for “heayiug rocks at him” to a very considerable
extent. The assailant was arrested, so now Dew has
got his Christie. It remains to be seen whether
Christie will get his Dew. Wa think ho will. Read
this with extra attention.
A man was fined the other day, at Mndgee,
simply because he was known to the magistrate “ The
©fence," said the J.P., "is nothing, and I would let you
off, but people would say I did it because I knew yon.
Tbe fine is 2j. 6d." In justification of his logic, our
friend, Mr. Cox, no doubt, paid the fine himself.
One night when, the great Wilhelmj was
delighting the Banana men with his marvellous fiddling,
a Cooktown telegraph-line repairer happened to bo in
the hall, listening spellbound to Beethoven in 37 flats,
when suddenly a string snapped, and as the excited
lightning dodger sprang to bis feet he reared— "all lh’
bloomin’ wires down again by thunder 1"
Father O’Something took ten pounds, and pro-
ceeded to work it out in masses lor the soul of Pat
Sullivan's father. Pat afterwards found that his father
was alive, and hinted that he coaid do with part of the
money back, as the masses didn’t oonnt. He hasn’t
hinted strong enough just yet.
When it became known that the Melbourne
Hospital Committee wouldn’t allow Milner Stephen to
breathe on tbe patients, the Loddon Irrigation League
telegraphed to him for his terms, to come up and breathe
for rain. Milner stands oat for tea poands a breathe,
but if a large number of snspirations are arranged for,
ho will throw in a few chest gusts at a reduced figure.
To be read by ladies only. Recipe.—To make
a sensation. Take a prominent position in the grand
stand at a cricket match. Hold a scoring-card and a
gold-tipped pencil in your delicately-gloved hand, aad
wear a pair of gold-rimmed glasses on yonr Grecian
brow. Then, when the applause is loudest, ask in
simpering tones, “ Deah me I was that anothab
fourah F"
Mr. Sladen, 8.A., has written a-poem in the
Victorian Review, subject, "Ravenna." The work
displays enormous elaboration, and with the exception
of internal evidence of the writer having had a tooth
drawn after every fourth line, its rhythm is as sweet as
any we have heard —in a saw-sharpener’a shop,
** The insidious canker ot corroding unbelief, and
the diabolical ramifications ot materialistic blasphemy
which characterise this generation, were never so keenly !
borne in on my soul as at present, ” concluded Peter
the Missionary, as ho leaned over the pulpit and counted
only three pennies in the plate.
MA man writes in the Victorian Review to
prove that science and the Bible are agreed that the
world is not coming to an end for a long time yet not-
withstanding the Yankee Mountebank, Baxter, is pre-
paring another book on Revelations. For our part,
we’re ready to go any time. Forster has been sending
ia verse again, and a contributor, who came to visit us
in gaol, has marched off with our tobacco pouch.
This is pretty good for a religious bazaar in the
very heart of Presoyteriauism. A room, called
"Elysium,” was set apart, into which only a gentleman
and a lady were admitted at a time, on the payment
of a certain sum, and in thia room was hung a branch
of mistletoe. We are not surprised that them was
an "overture” against such a proceeding. We are
pleased, however, that It did not come from the weaker
sex.
They have a new method of interpreting the
law with reference to aboriginals up Broodsonnd (Q )
way. A nigger who had absconded from the hired
service of a local cattle lord was arrested and brought
back, and as previous kind treatment in what thedarkie
Ceuominated a blank place did not seem to be of any
nac in preventing him from seeking bis native freedom,
h-> was sentenced to hi locked up with his hands tied
behind his back and to wear leg irons for eight days.
It Is not known under what Act the nigger was im-
prisoned, unless it was the Dog Act.
A gentleman from Wallerawang writes to tell ns
that two drunken women, with three children, were
rif used admission to the Royal Hotel there. We are
v»ry much obliged to our correspondent, indeed; but
vre would be more obliged still, if he could inform us
waether or not ihe gifted publican was acquainted with
toe financial position of ihe applicants for admission
prior te his refusal —'or we learn that the ladies were
possessed of a baby's shoe, a purss with money in it, a
fseding-bottle, and other property, which they planted
in the immediate vicinity of the hotel. Now, very few
publicans would refu*e admission to twoladies/in what-
ever condition, who had this amount of property.
Mr. Rudder, of N.S.W., comes out with a new
"Identification of the British race with the ten lost
tribes of Israel.” But the most curious proof of all he
has overlooked. The two renegade tribes, who, like
the poor, are always with us, lend money at shent per
shout, which is clearly against the Mosaic Schedule,
Act iv., cap. v., B.C. 401 S, where usury is condemned.
Now, Britain lends all the world money at 4 per cent.,
and that can’t bo called usury, from which it is clear
that Britons are the true sons of Abraham, and the two
professed tribes we have with us are impostors, f his
view is strengthened on finding so many of them speak-
ing with a strange accent. Who can imagine David
psalming, “ Blessed is the man vat ”
Drinks are to be a shilling each at Walgett after
—ominous date 1 April Dt. The publicans say
they’ve been forced to this owing to the pains, penalties
and restrictions imposed on them by the new Licensing
Act. Up in Par Northern Queensland the publicans ot
Thornborough stuck to the old-time tariff of a shilling
a drink, while those ot Kingsborough, a rival town, a
oonple of miles off, lowered the figure to sixpence. The
consequence was, that on Saturday nights the miners
used to leave Thornborough and spend their money in
the town of cheap drinks; by this Thornborough
was soon almost extinguished. We hope, fer the
sake of the Walgett publicans, that no “ tanner bar *'
will spring up near them.
There was much excitement at Gingera (wherever
that may be) last Sunday. The local clergyman was
complaining that the new vicarage could not be built
because there was no money and the congregation
wouldn’t contribute any. If things didn’t mend, he
said, he would go to Sydney and write for Punch. At
this juncture, a whisper ran throngh the church, and in
a moment it was empty, with the exception of the
minister himself and a blind man who was trodden down
in the stampede. Toere was an *• iguana and snake
light" going on outside. Each man who hart a prayer-
book turned down the fly-leaf, and took the odds. More
m*uey changed bands in ten minute* than would have
built as many parsonages. The iguana won. The
clergyman is now open to supply comic matter at
current rates.
Pour good mon and truo havo just decided a
ticklish point in a civil cauas in Sydney. Wilson and
Wife v. Glenmau, was an action for damages for false
imprisonment. Both the complainants had been looked
np for five days, and this is bow the four jurymen as-
i sessed the damage* ( —*l9o apiece to each for the im-
prisonment : and a solatium of £5O extra to Wilson
male “ for the loss of his wife’s society, by b«r impri-
sonment.” The connubial bliss of Wilson has thus
been valued at £lO per day. Four other good man and
true once gave a verdict for a farthing, and two
sufferers by that verdict are now incarcerated—the one
loses the society of his wife, and the other that of his
giri; while both miss the attendance of their admirers,
whose name is legion. Tot up the damages please,
and pass along the sugar.
Not long ago, a certain “ bag-man,” named
Antony, went round Woollahra way, and made up to a
sprightly dame out there called Cleopatra. The
“ drummer” was bound tor Auckland ; all preparations
were made for the pair to clear at 4 a m., and than
make overland (or Melbourne. It seems, however, that
Cleopatra’s rightful lord was as well posted up in the
whole concern as she was, and the disgust of the loving
pair may be imagined when they found their 2s. 6d.
cib sent off. and in place thereof, Cleopatra’* own
earrings driven round ; the husband ready to hand the
olopists in, and the kanaka coachman sitting on the
box with a grin on his face like a baked 'po.sum. This
cooled Cleopatra down completely, wbil*t the
“drummer" afterwards told a friend he f*lt about as
much out of place at the time as a “ local preacher ”
would be at a Cook’s Elver cock-fight.
The N.S.W. Animals Protection Society ap-
pealed to the public through clergymen and school
teachers for essays upon “ The value of the
lower animal*,” —“ Man’s toward* the lower
animals." An intelligent aspirantifor the prize wrote
“The average dog’s value to man is about a pluger
terbaker —If fleas was markitakla, they would make
owners welthy, or if their gcraohing powers could bo
applied to mashenlry, it would settle the labir question,
and let ns all live In villers Dogs as can snap rabbit*
in barfs la sold by the onnoe, but big yaller dog* that
lays under carta carnt be reilised on much. When a
man as likes rum sees a big ya ler dog with a green
tail it’s hi* business te taka hydrit okloral without
delay. Man’s dooty toards dogs is to soule ’em on to
other feller’s dogs, and kick ’em in the ribs and make
’em give forth holler sounds. Sometimes man’s dooty to
dogs Is to blaze barf pounds of led into ’em. Dogs bark
is not in the market quotations. If I gets the prize
I should like monev, as 1 warnt to take my bart down
the ’arbor Eester time.”
There’s a poet in Cootamundra. He’s not ranch
known at present (which probably account* for his
being still at large), but he may be some day, and then
there will be a procession out of town, with this poet
j ust in front of the mourners. In the meantime, how-
ever, this is one ot ten “ achingly pathetic” stanzas he
sent to the local Foohoen :
“ Thus be siokened|and,he sickened : and the of
life were quickened
As he neared the mortal end of care and pain ; K
Yet no one took the warning till he hoarsely said one
morning
• I’m dying, wife—l’m dying—where’s the rain ?’ ”
The other nine verses are efforts of genius in every
respect equal to the above. The first time we read it,
we sickened and we sickened, to think of what the
poor man mnst have suffered, all for w»nt of hearing a
few drops of rain patter on the back skil ion. The bold
transition in the last line, “I am dying, wife—l’m
dying— where’s the rata?" is a marvel ot inspiration
that could emanate but the brain ot a Coonan-
barabran poet. The only sentence wo overheard that
compares with it was that spoken by Sir Boyle Roche,
“ He became President of the Board of Trade, and—
his mother was daughter of the Earl of Cork.”
When the news of the,attempt npon the life
of the Queen was made known here, there was a a out-
burst of lojal indignation. The staff of Sydney
Punch assembled together in myriads, to construct
a cartoon which should convey this feeling to the Royal
Family, who ware supposed to be sitting in sackcloth
and ashes, and re'usiug to be comforted until they knew
what view Sydnny Punch took of the matter. When
the usual copy is delivered at Windsor, her Majesty
will have to send for Cyril Haviland to raise up the
ghost of the prophet Daniel, to interpret tho meaning
of the cartoon. First, there is the august lady herself,
represented under the figure of an Aunt Sally. A man
with the face of the Duke of Wellington is lying at full
length before it, evidently drunk. A pit-to! is by his
side, with which ho seems to have shot the pipe out of
the mouth of the Aunt Sally aforesaid. Standing with
one foot —the foot of John M'Klhono, without the
bluchers —upon the neck of the prostrate nobleman is
an angel in a bedgown, with what seems a pair of fold-
ing door* on his or her back. On closer inspection
these turn out to be wings. Altogether Ihi picture is a
triumphant answer to the unjust statements of -those
who said that our cemic contemporary could not, at its
best, equal the early masterpieces of aboriginal art.
The Eedfebn Times is getting quite a skittish
fiaper. It appears to be gradually forming itself on the
ine* of that organ of servant-galism, the Melbourne
Bulletin. The paper would seem to belong to “a
party by the name of Bancroft.” We haven’t—being
rather busy this week—looked through the imprint—
but we venture our supposition upon the following
authority, which we deftly clip:—“That Bancroft’s new
machinery will enable them to again issue one of the
best printed papers in the colony." “ That Bancroft’s
paper is not the organ of a clique, nor a one-groove
publication, but gives every one a show." “ That the
Bancroft’s don’t put advertisaments in their Times
‘on spec ’ It doesn’t pay—and it’s not respectable.”
Then we hear that “ the larrikin is again on the war-
path”; and there is also an item about “John Rod-
way,” one of “ the talent,” who was knocked down
and much injured about the feet. There is also an
enthralling serial of which the following is a passage :
“ Aftjr a moment, she recognised him, smiled faintly,
and whispered—‘ Yes, I think I am —kiss me, good bye.
Bring—the children. Jesus—take care—my little-
lambs." It is a pity the circulation of this paper is
only confined to Kedfern. This, the proprietors may
conso'e themselves, depend on it, will only be for a time.
It wi 1, at no distant date, be bought with avidity at
Glades villa.
A pamphlet has been published in Brisbane by
an old commercial traveller showinar that tha late claim
to the Tichborne estates was the oS a conspiracy.
There was a young Jady of Hyde,
Whom a skater desired for bis bride;
Said she, **oh, now stop,
Ere the question you pop,
Your proposal you’d better let slide.”
At Stanthorpe (Q.) there was a successful fruit
show on the 2nd March. Hose, spiritualist, had|i
good house same night. Governor, Minister for Lands,
*c , banqueted. Next day, vice regal party visited the
tin mines, which are doing well at present.
THE NEWSLETTER.
1015 people at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon.
The Colonial Printers’ Art Journal is
out again in capital style.
Mr. A. W. Chambers, city engineer of Brisbane,
is sueing the local Codrier for libel.
There are less than 29,000 foreigners in Victoria.
Half the population of the colony is native-born.
The Apollo Candle Co., which enjoys the advan-
tage of 2d per lb duty in Melbourne, can supply
candles in Sydney Id per lb. loss 1
The Typographical Society of N.S.W. held its
half-yearly meeting recently. The report showed
increased vitality in the society — a fact which we are
pleased to note.
The Mudgee police have instituted proceedings
against a boy who is charged with placing nightsoil in
a local letter-box, made up as a parcel and addressed to
one of the leading residents.
William Boord, landlord of the White Horse
Hotel, Adelaide—which hotel is the headquarters of
the local Freothought Society—has been fined £2O, or
three months' imprisonment, for refusing available
accommodation to a man and child. How would the
case stand hero in Sydney, supposing the accommo-
dation were demanded on a Sunday ?
According to the Manaro Mercury, a Chinese
recently sold 86t oz. gold to a Cooma storekeeper, and
presented other nice nuggets to the buyer’s wife. The
parcel of gold was got by four Chineee near Adaminaby,
about thirty miles from Cooma, in ten weeks. Some of
the nuggets are as big as the top ef one’s linger. Before
long, says the Mercury, a vast goldfield will be dis-
covered on the Manaro.
Sonth Australia is fast losing its prestige as a
wheat-growing country. Last harvest was a blank
failure, and a suggestion is now being mooted that a
“ Farmers' Exodus Association " should be formed. The
idea is, that enquiries should be made respecting the
obancss of obtaining land on liberal terms in such
countries as America, New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand. This sounds rough, but it is true. The
great want of South Australia, however, is not good
land, but—water.
Cobar returns for week ended Feb. 25: —Ore
smelted 420 tons (estimated output from same being
equal to 60 tons fine copper) ; fine copper made, 70 tons ;
fine copper despatched, 124 tons ; flue copper in shed,
awaiting teams, 632 tons. Nymagee mine:—Ore
smelted, 160 tons, producing 60 tons regains, equal to
25 tons copper; refined, 20} tons ; despatched, 181 tons ;
in shed, 228 tons line copper and 320 tons rough copper,
in one week 123 tons copper were sent away by dray
from Cobar to Dubbo.
A special meeting of the Melbourne City
Council was held on Wednesday, the Bth inst, to con-
gratulate the Queen on her escape. It is singular that
at the first meeting of the same Council on December
15th. 1812, similar business was done. An address was
adopted congratulating Her Majaaty on her escape from
the pistol of the youth Francis. It is, however, more
strange thnt the same Francis (being on the Melbourne
ratepayers’ roll) many years afterwards became actually
a part of the corporation that passed that address.
The London Echo protests against the con-
tinuance of capital punishment, and cites the case of a
German railway porter, Harbaurn, who, sentenced in
1873 to penal servitude for murdering a child with
sulphur was, on the 28th November last, dis-
charged without % stain on his character. “ Who,”
asks the Echo, “is to compensate the poor railway
porter for the loss of eight good years of his life, or for
the indescribable pangs of an imprisonment so utterly
undeserved ? We ask the advocates of the gallows
what oasuistia apology they would have produced If
this innocent man had been hurriedly hung eight
years ago ?**
Many a man has walked over miles of sandy
desert, and perished of thirst, with the water a few
inches under hit feet all the time, and many a man has
died for want of water on the Darling plains, when it
was within bis reach. The needle-bush, growing wild
over immense tracts of the interior, will always give
enough water to sustain life, and on long journeys the
natives sometimes depend solely on it. The water Is
thus obtained: Take np the roots in lengths, which can
be done easily, peel the bark off, put one end of the root
into a htil**nl blow at the other with your month. A
good supply of water will flow out, clear and nearly
tasteless. The bush has no leaves, but is covered with
needle-like thorns, and bears a pear-shaped nut. It is
very common.
An extraordinary affair recently occurred in the
office of the London Times. A compositor, who con-
sidered that he had been arbitrarily treated by the
overseer, but who after all could not be clearly
identified with the offence, interpolated an in-
decent line in the concluding portion of the great
speech of Sir William Harcourt at Burton. The fact
was not discovered till the publication of the issue had
bean almost completed. Then every effort was made to
recall the papers. Trains and steamboats were stopped,
and the ordinary sale and postal delivery suspended.
The act could not be clearly brought home, so l the
proprietary discharged the whole companionship by
whom the speech had bean set np, the number being
between forty and fifty hands.
The prospectus of a Sydney Mont de Pi<st6
company, capital £50,000, combining a deposit bank,
bill discounting and pawnbroking, has been issued.
Directors: Hon. John Sutherland, Messrs. Terry!
Paling, Thompson, and M’Culloch. In view of this
serious opposition, we notice that some of the
" shaveuty par shent” gentry are advertising the advan-
tages of their Monts de Pi<sto In the daily papers.
Everyone interested in the establishment of an equitable
system of money-lending should carefully study the
report of the Victorian Commissioners to the Exposi-
tion Universelle on the French Government system of
money lending, which forms, perhaps, the most inter-
esting and instructive article ever written by an
Exhibition Commissioner. The company has been
successfully floated.
Western Steam Navigation Co., Melbourne,
have been served with two writs—one for £5OO
damages on behalf of Mrs. Cutler, and the other for
£iooo by Mr. Steere. Mr. Cutler—husband of the
first plaintiff—was drowned on the occasion of a
collision between the steamers Percy and Nelson •
Steere was jammed between those two vessels, ’
The inquiry into the alleged Insurance Frauds
still “ like a wounded snake drags its slow length alontr ”
The defendant’s are now James Barker William
Forsyth, William Hicks, and Dr. Horton. The evidence
for the prosecution seeks to establish that Barker was
the prime mover and instigator; that Hicks was hia
principal coadjutor; that to Forsyth was assigned the
business of enacting the rile of heir to the deceased in
valid Weatherhead; and that Dr. Horton tothe
swim, and was under pecuniary obligations to Barker Mr
F. H. Linklater, the barrister, well-known' inSydney
has given evidence about a deed assigning Weatherh end* L
policy. The deed was signed in Linkllter’e office
witnessed by Linklater. There is something wrong
about the date, which appears on the face of the deed
and this connection with the case may possibly account
for Linklater being retained as joint-coiuweh with
Pater for the defence, as he has been in practice &>r too
short a period to have enabled him bh create a furore
about his ability. The prosecuting counsel are the
Hon .C. Mann, Q.C., Crown (Solicitor, and Mr G
OWynne. From other knowledge to hand, we venture
to predict that this c«*asc centre wijll got further mixed
up, and that other parties,, besides the four defendants
named, will become unpleasantly in.voJy%d, By latest
Sdvicea, all four, wisppers, were committed for trial
I lo(» W hemg allowed. All except Dr. Horton made
dramatic, statements repudiating any knowledge of anv
cppspiracv. (‘-‘. I+ere ondeth the first lesson.”) J
SWilliams and Bennett, the confederates of
Moonlight and Kogan are still in irons at Dariinghurst
gaol. Williams yielded so much to his punishment
that it was thought confinement for life would meT„J
to him hut twelve months’ in gaol, and he is sHn
in a shattered condition of health. Bennett has ratw
unproved during his incarceration, but is Quite 57
anxious as his companion for the time when the oWn
will be struck-off-which will be about tmt ©Bobber


COUTH WATERLOO ESTATE, BOTANY.—
J To bo sold bv auction. LltLos. this dav. Thnra.
diy. W. PfilTCHim
IN QUOD.
(A FREE SPEECH IN BONDAGE.)
Darlinghurst has confined offenders of all kinds.
A good many years ago, when the clever, dandified
Darvall (who is still very much alive, and in England),
and the father of the present Judge Windeyer were
leading members of the Bar, they had a hot dispute in
Court, while engaged on opposite sides in a case under
trial, and at last came to blows, buffeting each other
with their briefs. This, by the way, was, perhaps, the
very first occasion on which a brief served the benefi-
cent purpose of landing its holder " in quod.” The pre-
siding judge promptly ordered their arrest for contempt
of Court, and the pair were bundled off to Darlinghurst.
Shortly after their release, it befel that Mr. Windeyer
was witness in a case in which Mr. Darvall was counsel,
and when the former made his appearance in the box,
the latter stood up to examine him. “ What is your
name, witness ?” demanded Darvall, with a severe
emphasis and a cool assumption of never having seen
the witness before. “ Windeyer,” replied that gentle-
man. “ Speak up, sir, and remember you are on oath,”
continued Darvall. “ What is your Christian name ?’*
Richard,” replied Windeyer, snappishly. “ Ah,”
said Darvall, with a meaning glance at the jury,
“ You’ve bean in Darlinghurst, haven’t you ?” “ Yes,”
retorted Windeyer, 11 and so have you. I saw your
name scribbled all over the walls.”
* * «
Well, we were told this story the other day, and
ns our antliority is not a lawyer, we suppose it a true.
You see we don’tnow believe in thelawyers. We don't
know why Mr. Darvall should have scribbled his name
*■ all over the walls” of our dungeon, which, dear reader,
is, by reason of its size and airiness, the best room in
Sydney for the purposes of a literary man. The interior
is at this present moment of dazzling whiteness, and
bears no mark of scribbling—albeit that the erratic,
brilliant, and ill-fated Walter Cooper, author of many a
quip and caustic epigram which we have daily on oqr
tongues, once amused himself and his keepers by draw-
ing on tbolimewash portraits of city celebrities, and
spectres in blue. But Walter Cooper is gone. He
died, as clever pressmen often do, without a friend and
without a penny, and his memory has faded from out
the city’s mind just as his charcoal grotesq aeries have
faded from the limewash. Poor Wilkes preceded him
Wilkes, the gifted editor of the Empire in its salad
days—the man who one hour wrote an essay of which
Onarles Lamb might have beea proud, and the next
indited a political diatribe such as could have been
credited to Gambetta. Wilkes is gone, too. He often
sleot in Hyde Park—when to sleep there was a crime—
and, discarded by those whom he had built up, died in
the Infirmary. Heaven help him! At the »nit of a
vulgar grocer, Australia’s foremost journalist was here
imprisoned six months for the price of two chests of
tea.
• * •
While the present Judges of the Supreme Court
live, and struggling journalists write honestly, the
debtors’ prison will never lack an inmate. Even in the
intervals when no pressman sits beneath the willows in
the garden, the “ civil side" of the prison is not nn-
tanantad For, according to the little daughter of the
under-gaoler, the ghost of Captain Moonlite haunts
the long-room, and the disembodied spirits of a hundred
other murderers assemble nightly incur salon “ looking
for tobacco.” What spirits want with negrohead we
cannot tell We thought that Barrett’s twist was only
to |be found in close association with alcohol at the
bottom of rum-casks on the back-blocks.
* * *
But all this by way of preface. What we meant
to say at the commencement was that on Tuesday a
well-known New Zealand gentleman waited on Messrs.
Haynes and Archibald in their quarters at Darling-
hurst.
Alter preliminaries, the visitor remarked that the
splendid foliage within the gaol walls made the place
an oasis in the desert. Confinement in such a place,
especially when no disgrace attached to incarceration,
was after all net a very severe punishment.
Defendants: We’ve been in far worse places than
gaol. When yon do get *' run in” it’s pleasant to reflect
tnat you don’t deserve to be looked up for something
else. We’ve been practically in prison ever since we
started The Bulletin. Anyhow, we’ve been at hard
labour, and when we haven't been in gaol we've been in
court.
Visitor. Then this ought to bo a rest for you.
D. Yes, arrest, no douJt,
V. By tho wav, you’re not out of place under the
will-owe.
D. That’s so. But what wa mean to plant, with the
Governor’s permission, before w,e leave, is a good
English birch. Larrikins and their Patrons are at the
bottom of our misfortunes.
V. Well, I’m glad to see you’re tolerably comfort-
able.
D. Many a man spends his life beneath his own fig-
tree in bis cottage garden, and, so to speak, never sighs
for leave to go beyond his fence. Tho charm of sitting
“ beneath a fig-tree " is only felt when the tree is your
own. Here, if you sit benoath tho/ews, you gradually
come to tho conclusion not that tho lig-treo belongs to
you, but that you belong to it. The willow will hence-
forth bo our family-tree, just as tho elm was the
family-tree of the American gentleman whose ancestors
had all been hanged from it.
V. How do you find the time pass?
D. Capitally. We’ve been associated all through,
and now we’re enjoying the fruits of our labour to-
gether. The premier fruit is the ca. sa. That’s eaten,
and the luscious fig, the velvetty peach and the his-
toric pomegranate wbich you see growing around you,
may be ripe before wo leave. However—this is
confidential—we have plenty of lioerty. A fellow must
Bleep, and we must work. We’re a lot freer on the
score of conscience than tho eren who sent us here
ought to be,
V. You sent me a copy of your programme when you
started. It was rather a highfiowu one, especially for
man with no capital but their brains.
D. Yea, but we’ve carried out every itpm of it. Wo
said that the public eye rejected as uninteresting half
of what was found in the newspapers of the day, and
that it was only the other half which would be found in
The Bulletin. Every newspaper in the colonies has in
some respect or other tried to imitate us.
V. But you hadn’t going to gaol in your prospectus.
D. We didn’t set forth our fears. We took our
ground, and stood there. When wo got in here it
instantly dawned on us that we’d started a paper. Then
wo thought of tho words of Old Sam. Bennett, founder
of the EtEifiNO News and Town and Country
Journal —by the way, we were both formerly on those
papers, and it was during Haynes’ sub-editorship that
first we met. Archibald used to write sketches and do
hangings; Hayues used to work the wires.
V. But you spoke of old Mr. Bennett
D. He always declined a legal fight. He used to say,
“Am I going to take up these things for the public,
and place all my property and ten years’ labour in the
hands of any scoundrel on whoso toes I may have
trodden. Bah! Let the Herald take it up.” And
whenever the Herald did “ take it up” it was “ toned
down." Bennett's sons, succeeding to the property,
launched out a little in the public interest, and lost in
one year £3600. What do you infer from that ?
V. That the libel law wants amending, I suppose.
D. Oh, you can speak out, but at the cost of your
liberty. There’s a story about Ismail Faohi. He called
togutner a Parliament, and when the members as-
sembled, it was explained to them that some of them
would criticise ,tho acts of his Highness, and then that
Ismail’s minister would reply. But no one would play
at au Opposition, for they said Ismail might banish or
bastinado them In order to carry on the game. Even-
tually a few were induced to sit opposite tfie Minister,
and to shake their heads when ho spoke, fa this
country, Ismail is Larrikinism and the Law, and the
Press is the Opposition.
V. You oau’t even shake your heads, then P
D. No; the rattle of tho printing-press is to some
men in this country like the distant clangour of leg-
irons—the hand which clutches at the throat of the
Press bears on its wrist a hereditary indentation. The
libel law of New South Wales belongs to that unhappy
time, when in this colony you could not get a jury of
free men—when the Governor was a despot, when the
very police were convicts, when you could not whip
one rascal without making a hundred quiver.
V. The libel law and its administration do seem out
of harmony with the intelligent aspirations of the people
of the day.
D. Why should a man be imprisoned for libel when
no malice is shown ? It should be open for anyone who
thinks he has been libelled, to take either civil or
criminal proceedings, or both. There should be no
imprisonment on a civil suit. In the case of a malicious
libel, let defendant be prosecuted criminally by the
Attorney-General, and then be sued civilly by the aggrie-
ved party, if the latter can show damage. A farthing
verdict was given against ns on a suit for £lOOO, and
jet we’re in gaol.
V. No doubt you’re much obliged to Sir William
Manning.
D. Yes. He had a discretion in the matter of costs,
and he gave them against us.
V. Then he hadn’t any discretion.
D. We’re supposed to “ take it out” here for twelve
months. But the imprisonment does not free u* from
liability. Suppose we had gained our action —what
then ? The plaintiffs could have gone insolvent and
laughed at us. The law cuts only one way. Lots of
men bring libel actions, having everything to gain and
nothing to lose. In Victoria, where the Press is com-
paratively free, a man who goes for libel has to find
security for costs. A little while since, a speculative
professional man threatened ns with a suit for a large
amount —thousands. His grounds were absurdly
frivolous, but he had the cool impudence, subsequently,
to intimate that he would accept some hundreds in
compromise. Meanwhile, however, we learned that he
had cleared out of his lodgings without paying his
landlady, and that he had not even settled with
his washerwoman. That’s a fair sample of a dozen
cases.
V- Give us your friend’s name ?
D. Not till you give us a new libel law. He didn’t
go on with the action, but ho made us incur costs which
we’ll never recover.
V. Mr. Lynch, of the Daily Telegraph, gave the
state of the libel law as his chief reason for returning
to Victoria, did ho not ?
D. Yes. Lynch i« a straight-talking journalist. He
said that of all places under the British flag, in New
South Wales alone was the “ Liberty of tho Press” a
sham. In this colony, no man, unless he had the
Bank of England at his hack and was ready to go to
gaol, eared to express his honest convictions. He added
that but for the noble stand taken by Mr. Darley in the
Evening News contempt of court case, the News
proprietors would have been imprisoned as well as
fined.
V. Mr. Darley took a noble stand for one of your con-
temporaries, did he?
D. Of course he did. He was well paid to do so. He
took a “ noble stand" against ns. He was paid for
that, too. The only really ‘‘noble stand” ho can take
for ns is in the legislature, but he holds no brief for the
press there. It is the pettifogger's interest to main-
tain any system that encourages litigation. There are
honorable men in both branches of the profession. But
the barrister is essentially tke harlot of tho professions'
He has a privilege. The journalist, who on tne avsrage,
is infinitely a belter man, has none. In the temple of
justice the lawyer can slander his lellow-cllizon at will,
and say of him things which, if uttered outside the
shadow of ths conrt. would justify a man in shooting
him like a dog. The profesiion of a journalist is infi-
nitely more manly. You cannot buy the newspaper
writer to attack morality, or defend a cowardly
murderer. Suppose a swindler about to take his trial
went to the editor of a newspaper, and offered him £5O
for his advocacy. Suppose further that the editor said
that he wanted £lO3. That would be considered dis-
graceful. With the barrister it would be everyday busi-
ness. What is honorable in law, is hlack-mail in
journalism.
V. In England the press is freer.
D. Yes. In England a man may he imprisoned for
criminal libel, but not for the verdict or costs in a civil
action. The utmost a successful but unpaid plaintiff
can do there is to issue a writ of ne exeat regno
V. You said Mr, Lynch had returned to Melbourne.
D. Yes, and the Melbourne press teems with articles
in our support. Not a single journal has spoken out in
Sydney. The Melbourne pr«ss blames the Chief
Justice—it seems to expect little of juries.
V. Bat you blame the jury ?
D. We do, but after all one can only pity their stu-
pidity. Anyhow, that’s all it’s safe to do. They con-
sisted of two ex-publioans, a small grocer, and a night-
man —the latter apparently because he was a judge of
offensive matter. A city merchant when summoned
ns lally stops away. It suits him better to pay a
trumpery fine than to sit in a box beside his bootblack
or his high priest of Venus Cloacena. One of the
jurymen we missel in this way was the senior partner of,
psrhaps, the biggest Sydney shipping firm. Happy
country I Tho destinies of journalism in tho grasp of a
nightman 1
V. Has not any attempt been made to assimilate the
law to that of the other colonies and England ?
D. Yes, but the city Press is utterly supine. On the
average it hasn’t tho pluck to write a deliberate libel.
When we say libel we mean an unpleasant truth in plain
English. The News has shows some go, but has found
it doesn’t pay. The Frees is utterly unrepresented in
Parliament. But so far as we are concerned, we are
determined that this want of representation shall cease,
at the first opportunity. The attitude of the Supreme
Court has paralysed newspaper enterprise, and thus
given life blood to hypocrisy and scoundrelism.
Another daily newspaper was on the tapis the other day,
but though the promoters were well-known citizens
and men of character, the mere fact that the printing
firm applied to demanded a £5OOO cash deposit as
security against the seizure of their plant on account
of libels broke off the negotiations.
V. Who succeeds Mr. Lynch at the Telegraph ?
D. Mp. Angus Mackay will edit, it is said. Ho seems
to haye always had a right of veto in the D.TVs sanctum.
Angus appears to be as uncertain and weak in journal-
ism as in politics. In Victoria no one ever knew
which side he was really op.
V. Timid?
D. Too timid to grapple with a great public evil. In
J, M. Lynch he possessed a clever and fearless writer,
who thought of the public, and had his heart in the
right place—a man wiio always worked for the right
and kept himself poor by fils private benevolences.
V. Have you known Mr. Lynch long ?
D. Yes, tor years. They used to laugh at him in
Melbourne for “ making a great deal out of nothing."
But when ho knew there was a burning wrong to bo
redressed, he never rested. Here is an instance. When
Lynch was at Sandhurst, a man named John Edgar was
sentenced to death for rape. There was something
peculiar on the surface of the evidence, and Lynch
inquired into it. Ho intuitively felt that Edgar was
innocent. The Executive met, rejected a petition for
reprieve, and fixed the man’s day of execution. How-
ever, Lynch and his friends at last got tho case pro-
perly considered, and obtained a respite. Edgar was
sentenced to imprisonment for life. But still Lynch
worked, until one day, years after, a worn-out man
walked into his office apd showed the mprks of tho log-
irons he had worn. It was Edgar.
V. Was his innocence proved ?
D. Yes, so far proved that Government gave a
railway station mastership at £250 per annum, which
position he has ever since occupied with credit. Then
there was Frank Spearin’s case.
V. What about it ?
D. It was somewhat similar to that of Edgar.
Spearin was sentenced to ten years’ and three floggings.
Archibald reported his trial, and mere boy though he
was, then, could see that the mau had been found
guilty on perjured evidence. He told Lynch, who
looked into the case, perceived a crying injustice, and
worked for Spearin as he had done for Edgar. The
man’s sister came to tho office, and almost on her knees
besought Lynch to save her brother from the cat.
Lynch asked that the floggings should be postponed,
pending inquiry, but the authorities refused. It took
six years lor the Crown to find out that the women who
swore away bpearin’s liberty, and got him made into
a wild beast by the flogger, had called God to witness
lies.
V. Philanthropists like him are sadly wanted in all
countries. In this, such journalists should be of incal-
culable benefit to any community.
D Yes. Angus Mackay will not fit Lynch’s shoes.
See what he, as reported by his owu paper, mind you,
said at the Kiama banquet: ‘‘With regard to the
liberty of the press in the colony, he considered it was
jn a somewhat unsatisfactory condition." Now this
sort of oily-gammon is mere word-cowardice. Such
journalism is the ovum from which spring tho city
swindler, the pious fraudulent insolvent, and the cor-
rupt politician. It’s champagne and oysters to that class
of people. The Herald, if talking of putrid ham, woald
call it “high,” and would allude to the assassina-
tion of one’s seven children, and the pole-axing of one’s
wife as “ improper.” It actually spoke of the wildest
orgies at a narbuur-hell as “unbecoming.” The Herald
strongly objects to “word-painting”—meaning appar-
ently that it an evil be blood-red, it should be in depict-
ing it, merely treated as a pretty pink.
V. Do they never coma out of their shell ?
D. No, never print any vigorous language, except
when a clerical orator describes tho tortures of hell
and the pang* of the damned. It mildly reproached
the Melbourne City Coroner for his strong language
with respect to gangrene at Melbourne hospital, which
has since turned out to be, not merely an “ improperly
conducted" place, bat a festering pile of erysipelas-
germs,
V. Now-a-days, the world is very fond of calling
things by nice names.
D. Yes. Were the devil to come down here the
Herald would rouge his face and call him something
else. Mr. Maakay has evidently been taking a lesson
from the editor of the Herald, who was at Kiama too.
V. How about your Postmaster-General’s edict as to
the price of press telegrams ?
D. That’s an excellent illustration of the impotence
of the newspapers. The Herald, so long a monopolist,
is responsible to a certain extent. Its arm, paralysed and
atrophied, never moves save towards its pocket. It has
been mealy-mouthed while national infamies have been
perpetrated, and silent while burning wrongs have been
inflicted on helpless individuals. Its conductors have
no sympathies with the people. A journalist should be
of flesh and blood, a man of the world, and not mere
plaster of Paris and white tie. He should sit in tho
congregation, not stand in the pulpit.
V. I have heard many allude to the Herald as
“ Granny,” and I have seen an entire supplement
taken up by reports of tea meetings. A friend sent it
me as a curiosity.
D. That’s nothing. Everyone knows the circumstances
under which the ex-City-Architect recently had to shell
out £5OOO to the Corporation. He still maintains his
position in society and the religious world. Only the
other day he formed one of a deputation to Sir John
Robertson in the moral interests of the aborigines.
Was there ever such a spectacle before ? What's the
us * of a press unless it muzzles audshames men who ex-
hlbit —ah, what tho Herald would call “ aniusnfiioieut
regard for their responsibilities to their employers.”
No paper does so. And this iu Sydney, th* city where
an honest man who has the money may not buy a
glass of lemonade and a cigar on Sunday. You must
consider whan you think of M‘Heath, that Mac. is
still a J.P.
V. I read all about his affair. I thought he’d been
struck off the roll.
D. Oh no, indeed. Sir Henry Parkes before ho went
away, said he was “considering” M‘Heath’s case.
He also said ho was considering the case of two
plundering white scoundrels up-country, who had been
entrusted with the scales of justice and had been
caught filing down the weights.
V. Then is it to be assumed that such men as these
last spoken of will not be punished ?
D. Of course it is. The daily newspapers always
deal in platitudes and generalities. Those things hurt
no one. If you really want to repress an evil, you must
catch a representative scamp by the throat and hold
him up to the public as an example. Then, perhaps,
his cla»s tak* the hint.
V. How wa» the Town HaU affair found out ?
D. It was J. M. Lynah who first drew attention to
the matter. It was John M'Eihoue who forced the
subject of the Town Hall jobbery on public attention.
And that reminds me —it was urged against us at the
trial, that becaase The Bulletin once libelled a man,
the Clontarf article could not have been printed in the
public interest. The Judges adopted that iniquitous
view. Now, standing in his place in the Assembly,
M‘Elhone has libelled lots of people j but it was not
held, when ho did a public service by exposing a rank
job at the Town Hall, that the unfounded reflec-
tions previously cast by him on the characters of other
people, precluded him from telling the truth about the
Town HaU lot.
V. You seem to have a particular “ down” on
M Beath.
D. Not so. We merely take him as a type of a class.
If you want other examples of worse kinds, we can give
you plenty.
V, Well, go on.
D. In Sydney, any scoundrel may call himself a
doctor. Every other colony protects tho honour of the
medical profession. The Argus never calls a prac-
titioner 1“ doitor,” if he’s merely an M.B. A man now
wanted by the Sydney police for publishing an indecent
pamphlet, is a thorough impostor, yet he has been
scooping in gold here by the bag. We saw him fined
heavily in Melbourne, years ago, for having, while
falsely representing himself to be a medieal man,
obtained £2O from a hypochondriac, who, he said, had
phthisis. Melbourne was too warm for our friend, who
came to Sydney, the Paradise of quacks, where, not so
very long ago, th* leading journal actually dignified him
in its news columns, as “Doctor."
V. Isn’t ho a doctor ?
D. H*’s not on tho register of any country in the
wi la world
Y Well, bat what bearing has his case on the libel
law ?
D. No direct one, we admit. The Herald, it is fair
to say, now takes no quack advertisements. But there’s
the Newcastle Herald, the only newspaper in the
colonies which upheld the action of the Judges in ad-
mitting generol evidence as to the character of The
Bulletin without giving us the same privilege with re-
spect. to Clontarf. The editor of the Newcastle Herald
must be a very clever man. In the very issue con-
taining the leader supporting the Judges, he published,
side by side with his article, a “ professional ” advertise-
ment from a quack doctor who has been thrice tried in
Sydney for procuring abortion. Now, supposing the
Newcastle Herald were arraigned for a libel published
iu any part of that issue, it would, under the circum-
stances, be effectually debarred according to the ruling
of the Court, from pleading “ public interest I ’’
V. Was that your plea?
D. Yes. We pleaded that tho alleged libel was true,
and in the public interest. The plaintiffs had a lama
case. First they said the article was a lie; then they
alleged that it had been written by q man who could
have no sympathy with the exposure of crime; and
wben they were driven ignomiuiou«ly from thoir first
position, and utterly confoundedover their second, they
took up a third —that though the article might be true
and written in the public interest, it could not have
been published for tho public good.
V. That’s how it was Judge Manning came to admit
tho irrelevant evidence ?
D. Yes. In all British courts—of justice—the
memory of one conviction can only be revived by
another conviction. Ordinarily, it is not until you have
been found guilty of the offence with which you are
charged that it can bo stated that you have been found
guilty before. But Judge Manning has changed all
that.
R. How came the article to be written ?
D. We’ll tell it now, for the first time. Traill, who
was then a contributor to the editorial columns of the
Herald, furnished us with leading articles. Quite by
accident, and unknown to us, he visited Clontarf, and
witnessed what occurred on Boxing Day. A day or two
afterwards he looked in to see if wo had any special
subject in view for a leader. We mentioned a political
matter, whereupon Traill remarked that it was utterly
absurd to touch on politics while such a huge system
of debauchery was eating the heart out of the country.
His difficulty was—how to approach the subject, it was
so filthy. He could not commit to paper a fair descrip-
tion of the scenes he witnessed. As arranged, he
embodied as much as he could iu the form of a leader.
We knew what Clontarf was, having been there as
reporters years before. When the article r-ame it was
printed without a letter being altered. There’s the
history, in a nutshell, of the Clontarf article.
V. You called the writer as a witness ?
D. Yes, and when we staggered Sir William Manning,
Mr. Darley, and a lot more people, by producing Mr.
Traill, they coolly turned round and characteristically
asked why, as Traill was connected with the Herald
and Mail, he didn’t give the article in one of those
papers. The answer is found in the circumstanpe that
Traill ceased of his own accord, as soou as his
circumstances permitted, to write for papers which
made him write in hobbles. These men, whq
inquired why the article didn't appear in tha Herald,
were too dull to see that the Herald had for years
.failed to put its foot on tho annual orgies down tho
harbour. E /en the Herald reporter himself admitted
when he wrote a strong piragraph tha sub-editor
V toned it down.” Not a murmur appeared in the
editorial columns.
V. But don’t you think your description was rather
overdrawn ?
D. No. A thousand men will swear that on
that and other days they have witnessed down the
harbour scenes’ far worse than those described in the
article. As a matter of fact, the case as de-
scribed by our witnesses altogether transcended what
we laid before the public. Tho statements made
** w l ?,® lloo ,7 ere . to ° disgusting to be published,
f ir William Manning is one of the good old fogies who
have been shaking hands with themselves for years over
the near approach of the millennium ; while all the time
lechery has had wholesale markets within view of their
lattice windows. Sir William seemed surprised at the
statements made. He censured one witness for not
interfering between a dissolute woman and a drunken
man m a transaction which, judging from the general
evidence, presented no specially gross feature. And
what a terrible tu quogue the Judge laid himself open
to 1 As a matter of fact, the witness reproached for
cowardice had risked his life to rave men from drown,
mg, and had been maimed while protecting a woman
assaulted by drunken larrikins.
V. Did the Judge sum up in your favour ?
D. From our point of view, he didn’t sum up at all.
He forgot to renew the evidence, which imperatively
called tor a keen and exhaustive analysis. He spoke in
general terms about his anxiety for the liberty of the
Press—but his remarks on that head were of the chalky
nature of a Herald leader. He altogether forgot to
contrast the independent character of our evidence
with the interested statements made by plaintiffs’
employes and personal friends, who all concurred in
saying that they “didn’t see” anything. One would
have imagined that not one of their witnesses had ever
seen a larrikin in their lives.
Y. I ve seen none of your Sydney “ larrikins” yot.
Are they like the San Francisco hoodlum ?
D. The latter, bad enough, is just as vulgar, hut not
so brutal. The typical Sydney larrikin is stunted in
growth. He looks like a jockey into whom the soul of
a defunct aboriginal has been reincarnated. He wears
neat boots two sizes too small—a short paget coat,
e j‘ co . ar ®d- an d elaborately braided, a profusion of
frilled shirt-front, invariably surmounted by a rel Tom
Thumb necktie. His boot heels are high, and slant
forward to the middle of his foot, He’li wear a dirty
shirt, but never bad boots. His clothes are always
either of black cloth, or of grey braided with black. He
affects brass rings, and brass studs. He goes iu mobs.
Gaol has no terrors for him. He takes three mouths
from a magistrate and threepence from a blind man with
equal alacrity. If you meet him early in the morning,
you find him wearing, whether iu summer or in wiuter,
a loug overcoat, with no coat beneath it. In that case
he s either returning from gaol or from a dance-room,
where all night he’s been playing the concertina, or
acting as master of ceremonies.
Y. And the larrikiness ?
D. On holidays she dons white. Her dress is short,
her feet are big, her boots high-heeled and usually smart.
She is neat-waisted, and never wears a mantle of any
kind; never carries a sunshade; from her neck hang
two long streaks of gaudy ribbon. Her hair is done up,
somewhat iu the old chignon fashion, in a lump, which
throws forward her saucer-shaped hat. She always
wears on her low brow a fringe, and the deeper tho
fringe the purer the breed. Her face is lean and some-
times clean. She is very fond of putting her hands on
her hips, as if debating whether her ’Arry deserved a
fortnight or three months. Her month is small, but
hideously foul. She is known to ’Arry as his “ hart.”
She calls’Arry her “joker," or her “bloke.” If you
want to study the larrikin question, you’ll have to
wait till next public holiday.
Y. How do you account for the development of this
peculiar class ?
D. No serious struggle for existence, good pay for
little work, want of parental control, and the Austra-
lian honorary - magistrate system. Almost every
honorary “ beak” is an aspirant to political and muni,
cipal fame. He has packed the beach and spared tho
larrikin to get the mother’s intereit and the father’s
vote. Kick his friends out of the courts, stop his grog
on holidays, crush his carnivals, and put the cat into
the hands of the stipendiary magistrate*, and the
larrikin is no more.
V. Did you get no assistance from the police in this
enquiry ?
D. No. The evidence given by them, omitting that
of two inspectors, was a disgrace. It was known that,
had we won, our victory would have been followed up
by a searching exposure of the rottenness and oor-
ruption of the police system. According to their
own testimony, in their own words, they for ten years
tolerated a state of things which contributed two out
of every three prostitutes who disgrace the streets of
Sydney. Go and find out for yourself how many police,
men are at this moment arraigned for perjury.
V. Is that the kind of policeman you have ?'
D. Yes. Look at the police evidence in the Clontarf
case. Tne police and larrikins were tried together, and to
save their own skins, some of the police prevaricated,
suppressed important facts, and gave evidence in favor of
blackguardism.
V. In New Zealand the police are really effective in
repressing rowdjism, of which there isn’t a great
deal. s
D. The fact is our police take after the city press.
Everything is done on the “ move on” fashion—shifting
to a future time the work that belongs to the present
°ur article was at variance with this old fashioned
policy. The law rarely makes anyone better—it makes
people move on, or rather move down. Look at Marie
Lay, who murdered her child the other night. A police,
man saw her and her boy on tho park, and told her to
“move on -God knows why. Very likely unnecessary
police interference was indirectly responsible for hep
crime.
„ V - i hat will be P art ° f the theory advanced
on behalf of the woman by some enterprising lawyer
D. Perhaps so. A lawyer gains favour in preportion
to the size of the criminal whose acquittal he procures
A pressman, a mau who isu’ti a lawyer, suffers in prol
portion to the blackness of the infamy he exposes
Society is now so constituted that the rectification of
public evils is tacitly entrusted to the Press If we
can’t have any special privilege in law, let us. at least,
not bo treated like malefactors. When an iniquitous
verdict is given against us and when the Supreme
Cour tis used to crush those who have tried to do a
service, let not the creatures whq prostitute the law be
able to strip us of our property and throw us into gaol
Abolish for over tho practice of collecting debts by
criminal process, Don’t confound civil liability and
civil wrong with crime.
V. The lawyers will never help you iu that direction.
D. We know they won’t. See, all the King and
Ehzabeth-street talent get into the House, while the
uieu who help to put them there get into gaol When
Peter the Great weut to London, he asked, « What are
all these men with the black bags ?” “ They,” replied
hii companion, “are lawyers.” “Lawyers’i” yelled
Peter, “ why I have only two in all Russia, and I mean
to hang them when Igo back.” Although there have
of late been more lawyers than ever in the Assembly
there has been more litigation and also more uncertainty
over the laws passed. J
V. Is there no promise of reform ?
D If we stop in gaol till Parliament assembles, a new
hhe! iaw may be brought forward If we don’t, nothing
will be done. Sydney wants pressmen in Parliament—
men who’ve got the brains to think, the courage to
speak their thoughts, tho energy to fight up hill and
down dale and, whatever happens, we mean to be
there. Once “ there/* we'll hold post-mortems on all
geebungs, and on all political and judicial carbuncles.
The untutored M Elhone is all very well with the
waddy and nullah-nullah, but what we believe in is
showing razor-sliced sectional views of humbugs
We want to squelch the political saint who pril
vately is a blackguard and a thief. We’re not
for. a man pub icly, and against him privately—
were for or against him right through. We
want tae tiller of. this boat to be in the hands of a
white man, an Australian, who knows nothing of the
savage religious quarrels of old-world Thugs—crawlers
who come out here with disordered livers empty
pockets, bad histories and itching palms. The curse
of our land for the last thirty years has been that she
has had no Cause. While the colony slumbers the
political burglars work. We want IJew South Wales
to liven up and be the first colony in this hemisphere,
instead of being ruled by the played-out failures and
political bummers of forty years ago, V(o want no
waddling, adipose, black-coated mud-oysters snoring iu
our deliberative assemblies The misfortune so far has
been that tho operation of the present libel law has been
felt by broken-down men—men wfis had worked long and
were old. The worst thing that ever h ;ppened to any
enemy of our programme was our being lauded In
quod. Good day.


Tobacconists
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OP
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should he read with
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on 288,303 lb.
All the others paid duty in 1886 on 58>,609|1b.
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 on 478,935 lb.
All the others paid duty in 1881 on ... 620,992 lb.
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
on for the two years was only „. 307,100 lb,
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD FLUM,
CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tin Tag,” each plug branded with a
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped “ Co»-
queeoe" or *• Yankee Doodm.”
ALL TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS, PIPES, &0.
J.EVE . TOBACCONIST .149.
fG A R S 1
nunnifiMimiii
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
'NDIA AND CHINA. TEA COMPANY.
705 GEORGE STREET,
Hatmaekkt.
OUR “STAR OP INDIA” TEAS
Have been proved to bo
SUPERIOR TO ANT OTHERS
FOB
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND EXCELLENCE.
Sold only at our Establishment—
-705 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET,
OPPOSITE HORDERN’S PALACE
EMPORIUM.
ILATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
F APERH AN QINQS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAP, *o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEORGE-ST.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT,
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpet*,
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat;
L'reat saving of fuel; apply several layers
The cheapest felt in the world. Manu
factored at the Paper Works, Liver
'. Sold by all Ironmongers
.rehousemen & Storekeepers
Pxice, 4£d & 6d per yd.
30 & 40 inche.3 wide,
any UugUi
‘Wholesale at Taper Mills Store,
*27-36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. TEA
Loans granted without delay,
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. R® PH
meats to suit convenience of borrowers. CBN in*
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castloreagh-street, next oonnw
King-street. Established 1859.
Hotels, Sco.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
USTEALIAN “HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers —to make a few extra shil-
lings profit—aro offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
f EXPRESS
r os
5
s
M
C
</
dA/
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PUECHASE NO OTHEE KIND.
We solicit information of the attempted sale of coun-
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE EOW SOLD OVEH 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE .„
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE
Do., WITH COVHE COMPLETE
£4 0 0
0 0 0
1 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND CO,
WYNYAED LANE, SYDNEY.
E. L A E K I
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
N,
r-.vuot
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorgo-street West (late Parramatta-sweet),
And
Darllnghnrst Road, near William-street,
Pure Capo Barley, Peed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAEKIN,
Whomsalk and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, 40.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O E, M A L D,
112 OXFOED STEEET.
w
H. A E I E L
PROVISION MEECHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
543 and 345 Kknt-stheet, near King-street.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen* Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulhurn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
DEAFNESS ! —I hare an Infallible Eemedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chiet of the London Royal
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100). Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAFOBD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
A.
G. CHUECHWOOD,
SALT MEECHANT.
IMPOETEE and MANUFACTUEEE
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS,
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES :-147 YORK STEEET,
SYDNEY.
8
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHOETEST
NOTICE.
G. P. MUEPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
8
HOP FEONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
Q. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
B
EITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869,Goorge-street South.
IAPEEHANGINGS WAE.EHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, SCO George-stroet^South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
*o., &e.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 839 George-street South.
JJLATE GLASS. PLATE G.LASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Hotels, &c.
E
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE. __
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, la one of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
riIHS COMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
JL OF PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing t o the public, that to remove the difficulty Of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour. Ibey have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will oe
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
Pr 'Iffie S Biiliard-room, with a superior " A 1 cock" table,
ia under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Catering Qompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(1 Harris’ Caf<N opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
h> GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes. Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous c louring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in anv goods prepared by na.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
lulls. Banquets. Dinners Weddings, Pi<-u!es. Luncheons
'1 «a Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
HA S. R. j§ MIT H,
MANAGER.
[ROBERT BUTCHER A CO.,
LA) (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Counts? Ordehs Receive Prompt Attention.
mm
&
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE]
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
;
iiORNi:
Boast
JHB ■
S
"hLANDYfin?
ii
It is of thentmost imx>ortance that contents of each
bottle should bo carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into Now South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
jp MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will bo transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
THO M A ,
IMPORTER OP
WORKS OP ART,
GERMAN AND SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTE2.
n
■\ • ■ v
m
The Nun* of M. MOSS A 00,
every Genuine Bottle.
mk
m
a
A.G.THOMSON&C9
PROPRIETORS
This rar e old &totth .Blend
is di Sting ui shed ly having a hou.qij.zT
as in fine-old .matured w irif-s.
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOE NEW SOUTH WALES’
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JJUSINESSES POE SALE.
FEOST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS,
Offer for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO Intending Purchasers, who favour ns with a
call. Can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Gash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices : 79 Pitt-strcet.


'ISIT E. BURGIS’ NE 1
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PI
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WO]
Diagrams for self-measuring forwa
the Colony.
MASON BROT
14 & 16 £
S 3
Have always ii
to the TEA
SALE BUT]
lEONMONGE
GENEI
GLAS
EAE T H
WINES, BEE
anc
BULK M
Ag
JOHN WAI
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[tfe shall he glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of spoi-ting events in general.]
RACING.
Orange--i*'t>‘>'‘'“■“■••••'•■■■•■■"‘•'•‘•in....March 16, 17.
Albnry March 16,17.
Oamarn (N.Z.) ....* ..... March 16,17.
Gnndagai. ...........March 16, 17.
Pioton.... March 13, 20.
Wagga March 22, 23.
Tnmntv........i..i... .....March 22, 23.
Corowa .....March 23.
V.A.T.C March 25.
Ade10ng...... March 28.
Cotrra ....March 28, 29.
Great Northern R.O. (3.A.) March 29. 30.
Bale Tnrf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.O. (N.Z.) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbnry March 30, April 1.
Victoria Trotting Club .........April 1.
Gonlhnm— April 5, 6.
Williamstown (V.) April 10,
Canterbury. J.G. (N.Z ) April 10, 11.
Auckland E C., Autumn April 10,11.
A.J.C. Autumn April 10, 12,14,15.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
Wilcannia.,..,„ April 20, 21.
Bchnca April 20, 22.
Sydney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Deniliquin April 27, 28.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton May 2,4.
Lachlan E.C May 4, 5.
S. A.J.C May 6, 11. 13.
Adelaide E C May 20, 24, 25, 27.
Bligh A.T.G. Mndgee.. May 22.
Queensland J.C May 24, 25.
Warmambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting.,.June 7, 9.
Rockhampton ....July 6, 7.
AQUATICS.
Portland Eegatta March 16.
Hanlan v. Boyd, £5OO aside on the Tyne April 3.
Rocky Month Regatta Easter Monday.
Kempsey Regatta Easter Monday.
Victorian Yacht Club Regatta,.'. Easter Monday.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race Anril 29.
Globe R C. Trial Pours, in Ontiiggers April 29.
Triokett v. Hanlan. £5OO aside on the Thames.... May 1.
Krag Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Eegatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Ross, £2OO aside June 20.
CRICKET,
Holdsworth-Gardyne Cup—University v. Carl-
ton March 18.
Cox Challenge Cup—Cootamundra v. Wagga..March 18.
PEDESTEIANISM.
A. Noud v. J. Schiell, Gralton, 125 yards, £2o.,March 21.
Roma (Q ) Athletic Club April 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Adelaide Punch’B Victorian Leger tip—
" Back the bookmakers."
Assonheim wants to make another match with
McLaren, both to start off the scratch.
Hanlan was very sea-sick during hia voyage
across the Atlantic. He lost 15lb. weight.
72 entries for the Adelaide Cup, to be run for
on May 6, at the South Australian J.G. meeting.
The Eight-oar crow is to leave three weeks
before the day of the race, for practice on the course.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Cup was won by Hail-
storm; Virginia Water second ; uauphm, third.
Time, 4 min. 13 sec.
Three Victorian pedestrians, O’Brien, Freeman,
and O’Connor, hare been doing a successful oonr
through New Zeaiand,
Progress won the Port Phillip Stakes on
Saturday, though ho was fat as a bullock, and utterly
unsupported by the stable.
Fuller, of Melbourne, is building a boat for the
N.S.W. Intercolonial Eight. It will be fitted with
fixed poppets and 18-inch slides.
The regatta committee (Kempsey, Easter
Monday,) oner a prize of £2O for an open boat sailing
race of eight miles, open to all comers.
It is reported that writs are issued for the
detention of a well-known amateur bowler. There will
bo the “ devil to pay ” if he is stopped.
The following are the representatives of N.S.
Wal e s in the coming Intercolonial Handball match :
Messrs. E. Farrell (captain), J. Keenan, J. Heagney,
and J. Walsh.
Wellington, the well-known racehorse, has been
purchased by Messrs. C. and A. Finlay, for 1000 guineas.
He will be quartered next season with the Glenoe-
miston stud.
The Osborne and Our Boys’ Clubs play on
Saturday, and those interested in the contests are of
opinion that the victorious club will be the eventful
winner of the trophy.
Sammy Jones came in for honours after all.
Toasted at the Pavilion after the match on Saturday,
and a knot of lusty cheerers on the railway station in
the evening to see him off,
Saionara turned a complete somersault, when
buing landed on the Melbourne platform, after arriving
by train from Sydney. Tom Brown'.at once scratched
him for the Ascot Vale stakes.
Bernard Murphy, of Melbourne, aged 15 years
six months, offers to walk any youth under 18 in the
Australian colonies. England, or America, for £5O, £lOO,
and upwards, distance 1 to 7 miles.
Mr. J. J. Miller, in returning thanks to his
supporter's, informs them that he has received and
disbursed £52,000 during the last season, a sum which,
at 10 per cent., yields the magnificent profit of £5200
not a bad year’s work.
Adelaide Park Races, Saturday. Amateur
Hurdles : Don Pedro. Town Handicap : Lady Melissa.
Selling Stakes : Toonketohen. Handicap Hurdles :
Triplet. Amateur Flat Eace; Mesalliance. March
Handicap: Lady Melissa,
The fourth match for the Mayor of West Mait-
land’s trophy was shot for on Saturday, by the
Maitland Infantry Corps, at the East Maitland rifle
range, Lieut. Sloan made highest score, 64; Private
Haylett coming next with 53,
The first of a series of swimming matches, in-
augurated by Professor Cavill, is to take place at the
Lavender Bay Baths, on Ist April. On that occasion
the Mayor of St. Leonards will present the Eoyal
Humane Society’s medal to Mr. Patrick Connolly.
The entries for the first contest for the Krug
Champagne Cnp, will close on May 6. The Cup must
he competed for by bona fide amateurs, according to the
rules of the N.S.W. Bowing Association, and it becomes
the sole property of the sculler winning it for the second
time
The Australian Team at the last moment re-
pented and sent for Jones. He played on the Associa-
tion Ground, in the Warwick-University match, on
Saturday, but left by train for Melbourne in the even-
ing. C. Bannerman left Sydney by the Assam on the
10 th,
,Of the nine men picked for the Intercolonial
®ight-oar race, eight belong to the S.E.C., and only one
to the Mercantile Club. Are the other clubs so sadly
deficient in rowing talent ? How is it that after all its
victories, the latter club should have only one represen.
tative ?
Fitzgerald won the walking match in New
lork, making a record of 521 miles and 56 yards in six
beating the best previous record, that of Eoberfc
Vint’s, 578 miles, by four miles and a few yards.
Uowcllj the English pedestrian, has made a match with
Vint andPantou for a six days* go-as-you-please oon-
vest, for 1000 dollars aside.
Messrs. Degotardi and Zollner would strengthen,
the New South Wales Eight—if they were in it. *
Pell Mell has been soldier 1400 guineas to Mr.
W. Pender. Commotion for a like amount to Mr. W
Pearson.
The dreaded Ballarat stable has been broken
no. Mr. Laughlin obtained 500 guineas for Groat
Western, 500 each for Sir Peter and Handy Andy. 290
for Game, and 210 for King of Trumps.
A race for maiden scullers 9 stone and under in
clinker outriggers, for members of the Glebe Rowing
Club, took place in front of the Club-house, on the 4th
instant. Mr. Mayes won the first heat, Mr. Smith the
second. The final heat was a well-conteated race, won
by Mr. Smith.
The fifty-mile bicycle race for the amateur
championship of America took place on Deo. 19. and
was won by Gaorgo D. Gideon in 3hr. 13min. BJ'-ec.
The times from six to twcnty-one miles inclusive are
now the best American amateur records, but are still
far behind English records.
The fathers of Young Frank, of New South
Wales, and young Hutchens, of Newcastle (England),
are arranging a match. Hutchens will give twenty-five
yards start in every mile—to walk on any fair ground
in England. These juvenile matches are hideous
exhibitions of cruelty to children.
The Oriental and St. Peters’ Clubs contested
for the Thomson Junior Cup, ou Saturday, the former
winning easily. Scores ; St. Peters’, 29 and 36. Oriental,
64. Cruikshank, 18; Luland, 11; Mackay, 11. There
being only two runs required in their second innings,
St. Peters’ gave up the match.
By the E. M. S. Shannon, which arrived on
Saturday, came a very handsome black and white gray-
hound slat, by Misterton from Coomassie, both winners
of a Waterloo Cup. Another slut by the same sire from
Devotion was its companion, but was lost at Port Said.
This pair cost Mr. George Hill 350 guineas in England.
The latest improvement on the sliding seat is
credited to H. Goatley, boat-builder, of Oxford, Eng-
land. The seat works on thick glass, and its virtue,
says Bell’s Life, lies in the fact that rowing men will
he enabled to enjoy sliding seats without increasing
their laundry bill, as no oil or grease is requisite.
Mr. J. B. Walford, treasurer of the A.J.0.,
was severely inj ured on the night of the Bth instant by
a gas explosion at his residence. The occurrence took
place just as Mr. Walford entered a room with his
partner, Mr. Spark. Sparks shouldn’t be allowed to go
near gas. However, both the sufferers are progressing
favourably.
Wentworth Eaces, March 8, 9. First day.
Sires’ I reduce Stakes: Convent, 1. Derby • Merlin l"
Plying Handicap: Wee Jim, 1. Hurdles: Abbot I.‘
Darling Stakes: Merlin, 1. Second Day. Maiden
Plate : Copvent Maid, 1, Wsntworth Handicap •
Abbot, 1. All-Aged Stakes: A walk over for Merlin.
Free Handicap : Fun, 1. Consolation Stakes : Sturt, 1:
Messenger and Hearn are to row on March 25
at Wellington Harbour course, three and a-half miles’
for £2OO and the championship of New Zealand The
Wellington Rowing Club have given the cold shoulder
to Messenger on account of the Carter episode Mes
senger tried to have the locale of the race altered hut
Hearn declined. Up here, we generally use coal’ and
empty bottles to pelt an unpopular sculler.
Carcoar Annual Races, March 8, 9. First
day. Maiden Plate: Master Yattendon 1. Prince of
Wales Stakes : Shamrock 1. Publicans’ Purse • Pj re
maul. Substitute Stakes : Master Yattendon 1 Flv"
ing Handicap: Fireman 1, Second day. Ladies’
Purse: Helena 1. Shorts Handicap: Our Nell 1
Carcoar Town Plate: Partner 1. Park Selling Race-
Stella 1. Forced Handicap : Fireman 1. * '
The successes of Lady Emma in New Zealand
prove what a judge of blood was the owner of the
Zeeland spots. Sir Hercules Robinson. Last year she
won the Canterbury T.C. Handicap ; this year she’won
the principal handicap of the second day’s racing at
Wellington; and at the late Dunedin meeting, she
carried off the three principal prizes—the Cup the
Jockey Club Handicap, and the Forbury Handicap,
Bungendore Races, March 8, 9. First dav
Maiden Plata: Dante filly, 1. Hack;Raoe: Tattler 1
Town Plate : Dundreary, 1. Substitute Handicap •
Coquette, 1. Second Day. Trial St»kes i Coolabah 1-
Squatters’ Purse: Coquette, 1. Publicans’ Purse-
Ariel, 1. Substitute Handicap : Coolabah, 1. Archeress
bolted in this race, and ran about six miles before she
could be stopped. Forced Handicap: Dundreary, 1.
The Warwick and University Clubs commenced
a match on Saturday for the Holdsworth-Gardvna
Trophy. The University scored 104, Carter, a new
arrival, making 29 (not out), Faithfull, 27. Ogilvie
the Warwick bowler, was in grand form, and he se-
cured six wickets for 44 runs. The Warwicks opened
well, but after Hiddlestone was unfortunately run out
the batsmen collapsed before the onslaughts of Jones
and Faithfull. The latter secured six wickets for 20
runs, Jones three for 22. In the second innings the
University had lost two wickets for 45—Jones ’(not
out), 32; Allen, 12. Jones having left Sydney, vir-
tually three wickets are lost.
The very individuals who questioned Trickett’s
honesty when he was defeated by Hanlan are now
beginning to see that Trickett must win the next race,
Hanlan is frightened of him, they say : Trickett beat
Plaisted, and Hanlan has had some private spins with
Plaisted. Trickett and Hanlan had a ding-dong tussle
at Saratoga one early morning and the Canadian cried a
go. Hanlan does not want to meet Trickett, forsooth,
but he has his own way about the big stake of £5OO. It
is much to bo feared that the Australian golden goose
has laid another egg for Canada. We are true sons of
Britain—we never know when we’re beaten. But it
Hanlan scoop the pool, we shall have English and
Yankee tears mingling with our own over the downfall
of Boyd and Eos?.
Hanlan, for his race with Boyd, has arranged
for a boat to bo sent to him from the builder, George
Warren, of Toronto. This craft will be of white cedar,
31ffc long, llin beam, 6in deep in the centre, 3Jin at the
bow, and 2Jin at the stern, the weight being 21 Jib. The
sliding-seat will be 26in. He intends to train dowu to a
weight of 1001 b at which he will row, his present
weight being about 1751 b. He is matched to scull Ross
on June 20, and the place is to bs named ou the
20th May, when it is by no means unlikely that it will
be arrangid that the race be rowed on the Thames.
There is a probability of an open regatta being held
upon the Thames, at which all the strangers are likely
to compete. The next few months will be an aquatic
carnival in England, and the vexed question of the
championship, will, it is hoped, be finally settled.
The proposed trial of boxing skill, Miller v.
Thompson, is off. Thompson could not spare time
before May next, and would have to devote some four
or five weeks to training. Miller was anxious, if the
affair did come off, that it should be public. They did
not adjourn to the back-yard, as Jack formerly
suggested, but shook hands and parted. Miller has
replied to Blaokbnrne’s challenge to wrestle him. He
does not see his way clear to compete in the West-
moreland and Cumberland style only, hut will meet
Blackburno for £lOO aside, on the following conditions
—one fall in the Grmco-Eomau style; one fall in the
Westmoreland and Cumberland; and one in a Oatch-as-
Catch-can above the waist, with the us? of the legs for
tripping. Miller’s style is the Groeco-Roman.
A match for the swimming championship of
Australia and £2OO aside between Walter MTndoe, of
Melbourne, and Ernest Cavill, of Sydney, is to come off
at the Lavender Bay Baths on Bth April. M’lndoe was
fairly beaten lately at Emerald Hill by a youngster
named Kenney, but it is said that want of condition on
the Southern champion’s part had a deal to do with the
result. If he defeat young Cavill, Mr. James Wilson,
of St. Albans, intends to send him to England to chal-
lenge Willie Beckwith for the championship of the
world. The easy way in which Cavill disposed of Corbett
in the 1000 yards’ match here has gained him many
supporters in his projected struggle with M’lndoa.
Cavill is 14 years of age, aud M’lndoe, 20. The distance
is 1760 yards; course, 75 yards, between two floats
M'lndoo is to receive his expenses and those of his
brother who trains him.
Many famous horses havo had their stable cats,
and the great, amiable Foxhall, has adopted a couple of
kittens, if it would not be more correct to say that
they have adopted him. A pretty little white'and a
tabby, own brothers, live in Poxhall’s box, and when
Hatcher, his friend and attendant, has done the horse
down, and put on his clothing, he takes up the kittens
from the corner of the box where they have been wait-
ing and gently throws them on Foxhall’s back. They
are quite accustomed to the process, aud, catching
hold, soon settle down and curl themselves up into
little flail/ balls, much to their own satisfaction and to
the good horse’s likewise, to judge from the Way in
which ho turns and watches the operation. A sad
accident happened the other day. The kittens were
playing about FoxhalTs heels and he trod on one of
their tails, but pussy quite understood that it was the
purest mischance, and, though she is a bit cautious as
he moves about his box, does not bear him the least
ill will.
The Woolloomooloo Bay Amateur Regatta,
was a great success on Saturday. Favourable weather,
a well regulated programme, and the untiring efforts
of an efficient secretary and committee brought about
this pleasing result. Following are the winners of the
- rious events:—All Yachts, handicapped, Doris, 5
oas, 12 minutes, 1. All half decked boats, handi-
capped, Ethel 1. Maiden Sculler*, pulling a pair of
sculls iu club skiff i. “N.S RC , H Blighl. All open
boats, 20 feet, handicapped, Syren, E. Oltley 1. All
21-feet open boats, handicapped, Deronda 1, Open
boats, 22 feet, Eosetta 1. Junior members of rowing
clubs, pulling double sculls, in club skiffs, Oracle, M.
J. Fitzgerald, J. O. Hebblewhite 1. 18 and 19 feet
skiffs, handicapped, Bacchante 1. 10 feet dingies,
Nereid 1. 14 feet dingies. Young Jack 1. Canvas
dingks, Maggie 1. Senior scullers, members of rowing
clubs, pulling a pair of sculls, in club skiff?, Q.E.C., J.
Degotardi 1. Men-of-war’s men, five-oars, iu gigs,
Sandfly 1. All comers, in light skiffs, handicapped.
Torment, S. Edwards, feather, 1. This was a splendid
contest, the lead changing several times. G. Solomon,
401b5., was second, J. C. Laycock, 251bs. third.
HA crowd of men engaged at two Scotch ship-
building yards, on the Thame*, recently quarrelled as
to which of the yards employed the best squads of
riveters, and, as the only way of settling the point
which presented itself was to fight each other, one squad
challenged the other for £1 aside, to decide the ques-
tion by a stand-up fight. The whole company, about
thirty men, adjourned to a field by the side of the river.
Six men (two squads) then stripped to their shirts and
trousers, rolled up their sleeves, and in the centre of a
cordon of admiring friends, shook hands and set to
business, and for twenty minutes the brawny Hiber-
nians did their best to disfigure each other. Two of the
combatants, whose shirts were rather the worse for
wear, were in a short time fighting in their hare skins,
the flimsy covering having been torn piecemeal from
their backs. Five, and twelve rounds were the
numbers falling to the several pairs engaged in the
scrimmage when all was over. One man had four flesh
cuts on his face, and was minus a tooth ; one had two
black eyes arid a swollen nose, one a black eye and a
split lip. while the other three were scratched and tom,
one having received a bite on the shoulder. The affair
terminated at the end of twenty minutes by two out of
three on the one side being unable to “ come up to
time” when called. One of the half-dozen, who was
most bountifully clapped on the shoulder for his show
of “game,” was referred to as “Gannow,” the others
by their Christian names as Mickey, Peter, Johnny,
Pat, and Bill.
The great billiard match, 5000 up, for ,£lOOO,
between John Eoberts, jun., and W. Cook, the latter
with 500 points start, took place on January 16,17, and
18, at the Palais Eoyal, Argyll-street, London, and re-
sulted in a victory for Eoberts by 1658 points. The best
break of the match was by Eoberts —430, including runs
of 5, 11, and 107 spots. He also made a break of 348,
including HI spots. Cook did not reach the three
figures. Eoberts’ time for scoring the 5000 wav seven
hours thirty-three minutes. In their practices both
players did great things, Eoberts succeeded in making
1094 off the balls, and Cook, in a practice game with
Shorter, compiled a break of 997. The hast break on
recoid in matches was 936, by Cook, in an exhibition
match in 1873, with Joseph Bennett. Though this
break has not been since beaten, the present match has
not been excelled for fast scoring. It took the elder
Eoberts exactly ten hours to score 3000 in his money
match with the American, Stsrke, at Saville House, in
the October of 1855, and that was considered a re-
markable performance. A very groat thing was also
supposed to have been accomplished when the younger
Eoberts made 1000 in exactly three hour* in an engage-
ment with Cook at the Bentinck Club in IR6B. That
was one of the first games Eoberts and Cook ever played
for money, and the former won by 92 points. The re-
turn match was played at St. James’s Hall, in March of
the year following, when Cook won by 323 points, after
two hours and a half’s play, and it may be mentioned
that Cook’s best break was 81, and that of Eoberts 54.
V.E.C. Autumn meeting. Second day. Handi-
cap Hurdle Eace: Eros 1. Sires’ Produce Stakes:
Guesswork 1. Corimthian Fl»t Eace: Handy Andy 1.
Australian Cup, 2i miles: Pollio 1, Wellington 2,
Sweet William 3. 22 started, Sweet William being
favourite. Duchess took a strong lead, and kept it till
she reached the straight; Pollio dashed up on the
inside and cut her down. Wellington and Sweet
William headed the Duchess, and tried desperately to
catch Pollio, hat the latter answered gamely and won a
great race by half a length. Time, 4min. jsec. Grand
Stand Stakes: Bathurst 1, Darebin 2, Santa Claus 3.
First Nursery Handicap: Solitude 1, Second day
Second Nursery Handicap : Coulstonn, 1. Newmarket
Handicap, f mile : Hyacynth, 1; Euclid, 2; Larpent, 3.
Thirty-six starters. Hesperian was heavily backed.
He led at the distance, but then gave place to Surry,
who, in turn, was headed by Hyacinth. Time, Imin.
IGtiSCG. Town Plate: Commotion, 1; Wellington, 2;
Progress, 3. Pell Mell, the winner’s stable companion,
was the favourite. Commotion cut the running out,
and Pall Mell, not being able to come through. Com-
motiyn won comfortably. All-aged Stakes : Allander,
1. Steeplechase ; Twilight, 1; Chrysalis, 2; Lucy 3,
Three-and-four-year-old Handicap : Duchess, 1; The
Drummer, 2; Warterloo, 3. Progress pulled up lame
after the race for The Town Plate. Gayelle fell in the
Steeplechase, but her rider (Floyd), escaped without
injury.
The match in Melbourne between the Australian
and English Elevens is a fitting finale to the tournament
of cricket that we have been lately treated to in the
colonies. The Englishmen were lucky in winning the
toss, and going first to the wickets, they made 309 —
Uiyett making the( splendid score of 149; Emmett, 27;
Scottou, 26; Bates, 23; Midwinter. 21; Barlow, 16;
Peate, 13. Australians made 300—Murdoch, 85; Mc-
Donnell, 52; Bannerman, 37; Palmer, 32 ; Horan, 20;
Massio, 19; Giffon, If; Garrett, 10. Second innings,
English team, at the cleso of Monday’s play, obtained
234 for the loss of two wickets —Uiyett, 61; 8ar10w,56;
Bates, not out, 52; Selby, not out, 48. On Tuesday, the
welcome rain prevented any play.
THE BIG AMERICAN PRIZE FIGHT.
Sullivan and Ryan, the Irish American giants, are
going to fight, and are thus charmingly bantered, doubt-
less by a man who has an interest in the gate-money :
—“ It is saddening to think of the waste that goes on
all over the world, which might he applied to hastening
the advent of the millenium. The waste of energy in
the steam engine, which applies only about 15 per cent,
of the steam power in its boiler, is mueh less than the
average. The lung power lost in many sermons, the
muscular effort expended in writing poetry, and the
still more fruitless consumption of beet steak and nerve
force in six-day races might all be turned to superior
account for the benefit of humanity. But perhaps the
most mournful illustration of misdirected force is fur-
nished by that estimable gentleman, Mr. Paddy Ryan.
There has not been a doubt for some years that Mr.
Ryan is a powerful human being. He is not satisfied
with being positively strong and well, and is now perf (vot-
ing hs muscular and digestive pro Jesses with a particular
object n view, to wit, the protection of his body from the
blows ot Mr. Sullivan, the redaction of whose person
to pulp is one of the prime objects of his present pro-
gramme at Rockaway. Mr. Sullivan is at New Orleans,
where he is endeavouring to so develop his powers to
do the same thing for Mr. Paddy Ryan. By and bye
these two strong men will meet, and waste all their
energies in destroying each what the other has built
up. This should not be permitted. There are miles and
miles of bad roads in America, and thousands and
thousands of tons of rock to be broken to repair them;
and as Mr. Paddy Ryan is not far removed, why should
not hit herculean energies he devoted to breaking stones
for repairing highways, instead of fracturing jaws, ribs,
noses, and skulls in the prize fight ? Steam power for
milling is expensive, and water power is not always
available. Mr Ryan might he marched from village to
village in the State, drawing with him a suitable tread,
mill wherewith to griud the poor farmer’s grain, or
churn his skim milk into butter. Either of these would
be preferable to mutilating the body ot another strong
man, and since Mr. Ryan is openly and notoriously
preparing for a breach of the peace, the sooner the law
stops in to direct his superfluous muscle and endur-
ance to a worthy and beuetioieut end, instead of a
felony, the better for him and for society at large."
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Victorian hurdle-racer, Red Rover, has
been sold by Mr. Ferguson to a Melbourne gentleman
for about £5OO A speculator has offered to purchase
from tho members of the third Australian Eleven, their
shares in the venture. So confident is he of the finan-
cial success of the schema that he has offered £750
cash per share. The cricketers, however, have not
taken the bait, tempting as it is The Hon. B. K.
Cox purchased, in England, recently, the thoroughbred
racehorse, Vespasian Australian Surrv v. Rob Roy :
A.S. 106—Hiachy (nob out) 49, Kelly 31. R.E. 63
Ulyett (good name for an aspiring cricketer) 26 Pro-
fessor Cavill is arranging a series of swimming matches,
commencing on April 1 at the Lavender Bay Baths
In England, last season, no less than £40,000 was given
in all-aged events under three-quarters of a mile, a
large share of it going to races of four furlongs only
The Hon. T. Eeiby, of Tasmania, presented Tom Hales,
the jockey, with a handsome gold pencil case... ..At
Woodbnrn stud farm. America, the services of King
Alfonso, sire of Poxball, can be procured for £25. In
the colonies, the favours of sires who have not got any-
thing approaching to the Gesarewitoh and Cam-
bridgeshire winner, are assessed at a much higher
ra te For the St. Patrick’s Day sports in Bathurst,
the gates brought £6O and the booth £2l The Mayor
of Adelaide was last week, presented by the South
Australian Swimming Club, with a malacca cane richly
mounted in gold in recognition of his many services as
president of the club Blessed arc tho peacemakers 1
Jem Mace, at Wellington, finding a would-be pacificator
of a quarrel set upon by all the parties, interfered.
Three taps were sufficient Sports at Tamworth on
Easter Monday. Principal events, 150 yards handicap
for Mayor’s, prise £l5, and 120 yards handicap for
liberal During the late three days’ racing at
Otago, £18,245 were invested in thetotalisator, yielding
a gross commission of over £l,BOO The well-known
dam, Sour Grapes, the proporty of Mr. E. de Mestre,
died at Terrara last week from the effects of a bite
of a snake on her nose The Janet again beat the
Taniwha on Saturday in the competition for the 50
guinea cup, given for a series of contests by the Vic-
torian Yacht Club During the stay of the Potosi at
Adelaide, Laycoek and Pearce had a short spin on the
Torren’s Lake. While at Melbourne, they paid Foots,
cray a visit.... Edwards is matched against ahorse for six
days at Guigong in April, for something like £lOO a-side.
Edwards is to walk, but the horse may bo ridden or
driven at any pace ; the match is therefore one of
endurance. Poor horse......Blayney beat Bathurst by 77
runs on Saturday.
Walton, the Yankee “Plunger,” has offered to
keep New York city clean for one year, for 40D,000 dols.
He is anxious to plunge into mud now Not to bo
outdone by Mr. Hungerford’s princely wedding present
to Fred Webb, on his recent marriage, Lord Lonsdale,
has sent Jewitt, his trainer, a silver dinner-ser.
vice of tho valne of five hundred pounds. He is to be
married to Miss Carter, of Chantilly Moore, backer
of “ Gorkov,’’ when he won the championship of England
and Astley belt, has sued tho proprietor of tho
Sporting Life and Sir John Astley for £ll2 alleged to
be due him Davis and Kennedy, the well-known
American double-scullers, will probably visit England
in the spring A New York paper says that Captain
Boyton, afuer visiting San Francisco, will proceed to
Australia In a six days’ go-as-you-please at New
York, Patrick Fitzgerald covered 581 miles 55 yards.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. W. P. A. Ruoker, one of the oldest of
Victorina colonists, is dead.
Sir George Bowen’s state of health is suoh that
he cannot retara to Mauritius.
Mr. R. S. Smythe has been improving his mind
Bv visiting tie pt'mcipal picture galleries of Italy and
Germany.
Sir Charles Du Cane, late Governor of Tasmania,
has b« i au awkward spill while hunting with the Bases;
and hounds.
The Whitehall Review is assured by one
who knows, that Mrs. Langtry receives 80 guineas a
week at the Haymarket.
Lord Lurgan is dead. He had long been ill*
His epitaph can be written iu seven words —“ He was
the owner of Master M'Grath.”
Dr. Rodway, charged with conspiracy to defraud,
wears in the dock the riband of the Legion o( Honour.
However, the police say he is a Chevalier— d’lndustrie.
A noted cricketer —not one of onr amateurs—
wot into very serious trouble the other day. However,
by some mjsterion* moans, the matter was hushed up.
Mr. Kinglako will this year finish the concluding
volume of hi* " History of the Crimean War " dealing
with the course of events down to the death of Lora
Haglau.
The eldest son of Mrs, Henderson, a well-known
(resident of Crookwell, near Goulburu, is now it*. Scotland
urging his claim as next of kin to the baronetcy and
estates of Fordel.
Mr. Evans, who decided, for domestic reasons,
not to accompany the All-Australian team to England,
will probably be transferred from Yass to Molong. Mr.
Evans is in the Lands.
Professor Wyville-Thomson, who made himfelf
famous and got a knighthood in connection with the
Challenger Deep Rea Exploring Expedition, which
visited Sydney, is dead.
An inmate of the Government Benevolent
Asylum, named Maher, was released the other day by
his friends, after eighteen months confinement, and
•comes into a fortune of £150,000.
Archbishop Vaughan is once more writing for
itho Express. He threw it up for seven or eight weeks,
at the time when the Freeman's Journal slashed so
unmercifully at the hierarchical organ.
Mr. H. L. Anderson, M.A., gold medallist in
jphysics, and Shaksperian scholar, and for nine years a
■aiMtcr iu the Sydney Grammar School, has been ap-
pointed one of the examiners of Public Schoel teachers.
Mr. W G. Murray, of Gibbs, Bright, and Co.,
is a candidate for one of the vacant seats at the board
of the A. M.P. Society. Mr. Murray was, the other day,
elected at the head of the poll to the Sydney Hospital
directorate.
While the planters, merchants, and shippers
of Jamaica are agitating for the recall of Sir Anthony
Mosgrave, the Ceylon people seem to be only too
anxious for his appointment to the Governorship of the
jatter island.
Mr Robert Wallen, the Melbourne stockbroker,
who edits the Australian Insurance and Banking
Record, and is identical with
vra i. ahian, has been elected a member of the Statistical
Society of London.
Captain Mackay, the discoverer of the magnifi-
oeat sagar district; which bears his name, is down in
his luck, as too frequently is the case with pioneers A
motion is on foot to obtain from the Queensland Par-
liament some recognition of his services.
J S. Butters is a candidate for a seat in the
Melbourne City Council. He was Mayor on the ocoa
tdon of the Duke of Edinburgh s first visit, amd the
Duke used to say every morning: give ns
this day our bread without our Butters.
On 4th February of this year. Chambers’
Journal attained its 50th anniversary. The current
number contains an article from the pen of its senior
conductor. Dr. William Chambers, entitled Eemi-
niscenses of a Long and Busy Life.
One of the most notorious of English forgers,
whose name is almost historical, now walks the streets
of Sydney a bowed, decrepit man. He lives on an
annuity allowed him by his relatives. feUilfteA
the books of a railway company to the tune of £300,000.
Mr W H. Robison, for sixteen years editor of
the Daily Northern Argus, Rockhampton, has found
it necessary temporarily to relinquish bis position on
account of ill-health. Prior to leaxing the North he
was presented with a purse of sovereigns. He visits
Sydney. %
Old Billy Pense, who was broken to pieces by
the savages when the May Queen was attacked, after a
long spell in the Infirmary, has sot up m • deiler in,
and polisher and cleaner of shells, at 72 Upper tort-
etreet. Billy is frightfully crippled, and it would be a
real charity to help him.
Everyone knows why Mr. Woods, the ex
Minister of Victorian railways, is nicknamed "Tar
brush;'* Mr. Bent, the present Minister, i 8 a market
gardener. Hence —
•• It a tarbrush you can wield, or a cabbage you can raise.
You're sure to be the ruler of the Queen's Railways.*
Mr. Fawcett, member for tho Richmond, is to
be testimoniaUsed. “Daddy** is deserving of it. He
bas been both husband and father to the district, and
bas spent the beat part of his life in advancing its in-
■terestg. Movement started at Casino, where £7O was
promised at the first meeting. Other towns will take
at up*
Tho Marquis of Huntley, who has been swind-
ling a Loudon money-lender, appears to be a big-wig in-
deed He is “the Most Noble Charles Gordon, Mar-
anis of Huntley, Earl of Huntley, Earl of Emzle, Earl
$f Al.ojue, Viscount of Melgum, Viscount of Abeyue,
Lord of Gordon, Lord of Badenook, Baron Aboyne,
Jiaron Gordon, of Strathavon Glenlivet, Baron Mel-
Ames.
Wo learn that Mr. Croumbio Brown, formerly
ovb.-editor of the Melbourne Age, has abandoned jour-
jialjsm and turned pedagogue, at Wakanui, near Ash-
burton, iTZ Mr. Brown is well road, has travelled a
great deal, and is master of throe or four languages,
including Russian, having lived for many years in St,
J?otors'l)urjf. He was one of the specials with Grant a
Ijnuy during the American War.
At homo they accuse H.R.H. the Duke of Edin-
burgh of meanness. “ The net profits of the Kmhtrr
beiufli fer the King theatre fund at the -Albert Hall
were returned at £550 9s Id. Where on earth the odd
_ ( . H me from it would ill become an humble
journalist to ask. I’eradventure the Duke of Edinburgh
Doing unable to attend in person, deputed a member of
bis suite to drop tho specific coin in the plate. Ihus
Figaro.
Mr A M’Donald, member of tho House of
Commons, who lately died worth £5O 000, made h ls
mosey in a curious manner. During the Amenek i war,
having saved a few pounds, he speculated in qumii.o on
a blockade runner. The trip succeeded, and he netted
a Urge profit,. He invested tho whole sum in the same
manner, and again ran tho blockade at Charlestown, with
ml the quinine ho could get. A second succes brought
him a fortune, to which he steadily added ever since.
Mr Bradlangh has again been re-elected for
Northampton, and yet is not allowed to sit. ibis re-
calls an anecdote told of Baron Rothschild, whose
right to a seat in tho House of Commons was disputed
on the ground that ho was a Jew After his second
election, he stood on the hustings before a. vast multi-
tudo and said that he was the choice of the people.
Whereupon a low deep hollow voice from out of die
crowd exclaimed, “ And so was Barrabas, —a retort
which, considering the fact that Barrabas too was a Jew,
stands unequalled for bitterness in the history of the
world.
Some months ago, in Melbourne, Barker the
alleged Adelaide Assurance fraud, prosecuted a soiled
dove, named Knight, for robbing him of £lO. It ci me
out that prosecutor, who then gave the name of Baker,
and said ho was a dentist, had been drinking a lot of
champagne at the woman’s house, and had left without
paying, when he was thrashed for his action. Barker s
trioud Hicks, who represented himself as a medical
student, also gave evidence at tho time, when tho pair
evidently had Weatherhead in their loving care. Barker
•wld ho prosecuted not so much on account of hia loss
as from a desire “to put down such practices.” A mar
who can talk like this ought really to be iu Parliament.
Thus an English newspaper correspondent: —
“An immediate and peremptory contradiction was
given, to the report that Prince Valdemar of Denmark
was engaged to a niece of Prince Christian. I hear from
Germany, that it is expected that, before long, the
Prince's approaching marriage to the Pardess Elizabeth
of Hesse-Darmstadt frill btt announced. It has been
generally believed that this grand.daughter of thh
Queen would marry the Crown Prince of Baden, bfi,
the plan seems to have been dropped. The Princess is
coming to England for the Duke of Albany’s wedding.”
the “ too too,” has recently been lecturing
in America, and after crossing the Atlantic, aud making
all Cue allowance for the dark ages iu which it was
invented, he is Still disappointed, and says—” The sea I
The sea (’* “ seems tame to mo; the roaring ooean does
not roar. The Atlantic is not what I thought it was.
I wish that I could rea a storm arise and sweep the
bridge from off the ship. I care not for this tamo,
monotonous trip. I would that I could see a storm
arise." Pat pork and a gala would put Oscar straight
in half a jiffey.
Samuel Gatehouse, son of the well-known ex-
Mayor of Melbourne, has been charged with assaulting
hia father and other member* of his family. Samiiali
whose loading characteristic is his immense physical
strength, is a very lively young man, and iu that
respsck dromUes to rival the old gentleman, who, dur.
ing his berm of office, was chiefly remarkable for the
freedom with which he kept the champagne-lap going
for all hands at the Town Hall, his extremely anti-
Sabbatarian proclivities and his mama for going home
on saveloy-machines at three in tho morning. Mr.
Gatehouse, sen., is very wealthy, having married a
lady whose former hasband accumulated in tho early
days a large fortune on the manufacture of cabbsge-
tree hats.
At latest, the Earl of Shrewsbury and Talbot—
who ran away with Mrs. Miller-Mundy nte Morewood
—was, with that lady and three of her brothers, cruis-
ing in tho Mediterranean. It ia stated by a London
paper that the three More woods a little while since
promised to thrash his lordship if he didn’t marry their
sister. When they thrashed their fourth brother, after
vainly endeavouring to make him convey to them cer-
tain property, they wore proceeded against legally, but
ran away and forfeited their bail, amounting to between
£5OOO and £6OOO. A cheque to cover this amount has
been handed them by the Premier Earl, who, if ho
marry the now divorced Mrs. Miller-Mundy, will ovi»
dently have to marry the family.
The World states that A remarkable family
gathering took place on DoCembsr 28, at Conrtflald
(Ross), the ancestral seat of the old Catholic Vaughans,
to bless a domestic chapel. Three unoles of the
“Squire,” Bishop Vaughan of Plymouth, and Fathers
Edmund and Richard Vaughan, of the Society of Jesus,
represented the last generation ; while Herbert, Bishop
of Salford, Jerome, Benedictine Prior of Fort Augustus,
and two junior religious, all brothers, testified that the
ecclesiastical tradition of the Vaughans is being main-
tained in the present one. Two other brothers of Squire
Vaughan were necessarily absent—Roger Bede, Arch-
bishop of Sydney, and Basil, a wandering missionary in
the South American forests.
Mr. Edward Ellis, of the Colao (Vie.) Re-
former, ia removing to Warrnambool, where, we hear,
he will edit the Standard. Mr. Ellis will ba nmem-
bered as editor of the Melbourne Echo, which was
sub edited by the accomplished Mr. J. C. Patisou,
since dead. The paper had a very brief life, chiefly
owing to the eccentricities of its owner, Mr. Dal-
ziel, )the enterprising husband of Dickie Lingard,) who
was also the founder of the Sydney Echo. Mr. Ellis is
one of the most accomplished writers and best talkers
who have yet visited Australia. He shone on the San
Francisco Press, where ha edited a leading daily. He
writes vigorous prose and capital verse, Can sling mild
in rare style, and. is just now very much wanted in
Sydney.
The London Haymarket Was again thronged to
see Mrs. Langtry play Blanche in " Oars.” A wCmsh,
whose photographs have filled the shop windows for
years, and whose mere appearance at any bazaar en-
sures its success, would be sure to have a large
audience, if she only stood on the stage in becoming
attitudes, and could not utter »ix consecutive words.
But she can do more, and the verdict of the crowd was
in favour of her dramatic powers. In the pathetic con-
versations, she was slightly monotonous in tone, not
yet having the pitch of a theatre, but in all else was
admirable, graceful, natural, aud well-dressed. The
general opinion was that she made as mtich out of the
part of Blanche as most highly.tratned actresses would,
and considering her short tuition, acted exceedingly
well.
Mr. Justice Windeyer, in his evidence in the
case of Walter Rod way and George Hall Wilson, said
he had never heard of the existence of such a society
os the Royal Society of Literature. Now, we all know,
or at any rate we ought, that Mr. Justice Windeyer, as
the University Graduate of Sydney, had more money
spent on his education, out of the public funds, than
perhaps any other student since the world was made,
and that he fully believes in the high class of the article
which monopolised tho care and attention of the Uni-
versity professors. Will he be surprised to hear, then,
that the Royal Society of Literature has been in ex-
istence since 1823, a fact which is well known to any one
of the very meanest literary attainments, and that the
present President of the Society is no less a personage
than His Royal Highness Prince Leopold, K.G., K.T.
Two of the Vice-Presidents, moreover, are His Grace
the Duke of Devonshire, K.G., F.R.S., and the Very
Reverend the Dean of Westminster, D.D., F.R.S.
There is a very pretty barmaid pursuing her
business with the beer-pumps in this town, who has a
bit of romance attaching to her. A few years ago while
quite a young girl, and exceedingly pretty, she attracted
the attemtion of old Peter almost a millionaire—
and he proposed marriave to her, over the.bar. The
lassie had been barmaid long enough, even then, to
have become accustomed to the unmeaning spooning,
of men of all conditions and ages, and cheerfully took
the old boy’s off it in good part, just as a conversational
little pleasantry iudneive of numerous sixpenny drinks,
agreeing to marry him, “ when he was next in town. ”
But Old Peter never in all bis life understood what a joke
was. He was in dead earnest, rushed to his lawyer’s,
prepared magnificent settl'ments, and started uC
country to complete some business be had on band
On returning to town, he marched up to the bar and
deliberately announced to tho little beauty thst the
marriaee would come off any day she liked to fix. It
then dawned upon the girl, that the old fellow really
ment business, and as she would as soon have submitted
to tha embraces of a grizzly bear, she burst eut oryinr
aud ran from the room. Peter retired grimly, and
shortly afterwards met a widow lady, who was more
appreciative of his charms. Her he married, and a few
weeks after, he was dead, leaving her who was juet
before penniless, a wealthy woman. The little barmaid
doubtless has her own reflect! ms now.
When Professor John William Draper died, on
tho 4th January, at Hastings (Am.), one of the greatost
scientists of modern days passed away. Born in Eng-
land in 1811, he was first trained in a Wesleyan school,
then by private tutors, and afterwards iu London
University, making medicine »nd chemistry hia chief
studies. When 22 years old, he went t* America, and
attended the Universities of Pennsylvania aud New
York, attaining high distinction in each. In all domains
of literature he wrote powerfully, and ns an experimen-
talist in science had, perhaps, no superior. His works
on a great variety of subjects are far too numerous to
mention, the best know* being the history of “ Intel-
lectual development in Europe,” and the history of
the “ American Civil War." Pr, Draper was the first
man who ever photographed the human face, and tho
first who photographed tho moon. In 1839, be and
Professor Morse opened a gallery on the top of the
University building in New York, and, as a firm, got
more business than they could do, at £1 a portrait.
Morse used to do the aesthetic part, ushering in s.t d
posing his patrons—“turn the head a leetlo more this
way—so, thank you—now try and look quite nati ral, |
please: that’s just right”—while Draper pottered |
about among tho iodine and bits of glass. Profeasor |
Morse afterwards left, to prosecute his celebrated
studies in telegraphy ; and Professor Draper continued
to teach the art. He was a great lecturer, and a mem-
ber of all the leading scientific and philosophical
societies in America and Europe. Dr. Draper had a
happy family, amassed a considerable fortune, and died
at the ago of 81, mourned by all.
VANITY FAIR.
Dr. William Seward Wobb, of New York, has
married Miss Leila Osgood Vanderbilt, who had a dot of
6,000,000 dollars. Th* wedding was a magnificent affair.
Upon leaving for their honeymoon the bride wore a
bronze cloth dress, nicely trimmed with otter fur, and
the ioke wai passed—“ She ia quite too otterly otter.’’
A feature in the numerous Olde Euglyshe Fayres
in England is that Hmn£- of the visitors, as well as
StallbeepCrs, go In fancy and ancient costumes, and the
amusement ijtas popular with Some persons as a dancing
ball The Empress of Austria has introduced a new
style of coiffure; allowing tho hair to fall down on the
shoulders, where it is held by diamond clasps A a
grteque, surmounted by a barretta of pearls... ...Tme
latest vagary of fashion in England is (or ladies to
appear in two characters in the same night at fancy
balls. Countess of Beotive, and the celebrate 1 beanty,
Mrs. Cornwallis West, made their dual appearance thus
lately The ladies of the Philadelphia silk culture
association are making a robe fer presentation to Mrs.
Garfield, which will be the first complete garment made
in America entirely of silk; and the quality is pro-
nounced equal to best Italian silk. With the exception
of Mrs. Bladen Neill’s stockings, we haven t produced
1 many complete articles here yet. However, they W^ T 0
very nice More tea drunk by the average Australian
than by the inhabitant of ally Other country, except
China Queen Victoria doesn’t always walk about in
a solid gold crown and purplo velvet dross, carrying a
soeptre in her hand. She is human enough to dn. e out
in a black straw bonnet and shopbdrd’s plaid 5haw1......
The “ chandelier crawl” ia tho style practised hy young
I men who never leave the middle of the room, but hug
; their partners in a way that would make n black gin
J blush—and think they are dancing According to a
Paris paper, a lady is residiug in Prance "hoso cw tifi-
-1 cate of birth shows her to be 115 years old. She is a
I vegetarian, and drinks only water. .When a
respectable-looking Dane was lately tried to
rape on a girl of seven, it was elicited in evidence that
she identified him (the third man brought before bettor
the purpose) because she had already received two
beatings for not identifying the other two men, and was
promised a third beating if she did net spot the next
man An Adelaide licensed victualler has let the
world into the knowledge o(l“how it is done. He
obtained £5OO worth of furniture on credit, and then
got an advance “on the blnffi ” from a firm of wine i and
spirit merchants, giving as security tho furniture ho
had not paid for. Emboldened by his success, ho tried
more cautious tradesmen, and got—found oat„..„Tbe
Victorian police authorities have received a mm ■
nioation complaining that senior constable Devine, of
West Melbourne, Is a hob Orangeman, and ex-
plaining want to KnoW il tills is not a riolatlon tJI the
required oath that a member of the police force shall
not join any “ secret »ooietyA harveit-hand, from
Tasmania, gave himself into custody at BaUar&t East,
the other day, for being “ drunk and disorderly. He
felt the horrors coming on. amd hi wanted
ment. Hi got it At thi Nymagee Copper Mine, hiy
is £2O and chaff £35 per ton, and potatoes 2as. Por cwt .
Splendid pastoral tracts discovered in
portion of tko Burke dutriot, Gulf country, Queens-
land; many large mobs of cattle proceedingtbither-
ward from the western distnots, where she ip are
being extensively substituted for cattle ..... .....Mr. A.
E. Close, of Curra, near Parkes, gets rid of peaky
kangaroo by poisoning the water troughs nt which they
drink. Watchmen of course arrange for the stock to be
to accept his own tablet as a gift At the Patriarchs
ball in New York, two ballrooms were tinto *the
decorated, and lighted all in pale pink tints, the
other all in pale yellow, so that the blondes and
brunettes could , Bait themseltes... .In < order
to avoid invitations to dine out during her
visit to Paris lately, tha Princess of Wales
loft he? dresses behind her in 1^nd0n......
The handsome daughter of Archdeacon Qoratt. of
Taranaki (N.Z.) was married lately to Inspector
Broham. of Christchurch One hundred married
ladies of New JTork gave a ball at Delmonioo’s splendid
rooms last Christmas. It is an annual affair. There
are many Bachelors’ Balls in Sydney, but the Ladies
Annual Ball” is not yet instituted. .....Lady Wilde, the
mother of the aesthete, writes to a friend that the
Prince of Wales drops in occasionally, and the takes
delivht in seeing him drink tea and smoke cigars with
WUe and Oscar.’’ Members of a zoological society.
in Germany, recently had a curious meal, for in it were
Included cutlets of W, a fagofit of badger, a bustard
and a crane stuffed with chesnuts and plums. But the
p?imo joTnt was crocodile; the flesh is; bright rosy red,
and in taste seems to be a connecting link between fish
and flesh Eleven thousand horses were disposed of
in Paris last year. Sausage trade
■.i r*artAr vucfiiit \)V BoiioOD®fiJA s is still
nnbestowed . .A nephew of the Pope Count Camillo
Peoci, marries the daughter of the Italian financier,
Memrhi. soon The Prince of Wales reoei ed the
Cross of the Star of Roumania as a present on
h^ttothdav... . According to the Marquis of Lome,
womm are scarce out west in America, and a good-
looking girl can rely on an average of at least an offer a
day There are parts of this country, in the interior,
that will equal any part of America, we don’t care how
far west it is. Blackfallows are plentiful, though, and
pianos scarce in those districts.
Edmund Yates flies to the defence of “ ban vs,”
and says that “ a fringe on the brow of a gracefnl lady
is a thing of beauty, and that many faces will look bleak
enough without it.” A new material has been in-
vented specially in the interest of those who wish to
encourage British woollen manufacturers. It is called
the “ Royal Gold Intersected, though silver thread
sometimes takes the place of gold. It is soft, warm,
bright and attractive, made in 12 dark tints, and in two
qualities at Is. 9d. and 2s. a yard in D n *>and_..Prices
at the celebrated Delmonico s (New York) are high. A
steak is ts., and a stick of celery Is. 81,..........
Pot-pourri gives, perhaps, tba most porfect artificial
odour. The preparation is old-fashioned bow. tat Our
grandmothers used to keep an immense bowl for it,
always ready to receive. Into its capacious interior
every Summer went handfuls of dried and spiced rose-
leaves; every Antumn, a frefh instalment of the blue-
grey ears of lavender; every Winter, additions of dried
and powdered cinnamon and cloves ; every Spring, the
hay-suggesting leaves of the woodrufte, with those of
the lemon thyme and tho *weet smelling blossemless
verbena. As the bowls became full, their contents
were drafted off into small silken sachets, which lay
cosily tucked away among the lace«, lawns and linens
of which the dusts and shelves of »ld held such goodly
store. Not only articles of dress, but house and table-
linen were thus impregnated with the delicious
fragrance. It is little trouble to make pot-pourri; yet
it is seldom seen nowadays. Home of the most
beautiful flowers cannot be utilised for scents, as their
fracranc# ia too evftiiosoent. Perfume from Yioltts can
only b* made to laat a few moments. Violet powder,
placed in bags among clothes, imparts a nice effect,
better than any liquid scent. So do bunehea *f the
flowers when laid away in drawers. Life Menu too fast
ro » to practise those old fashioned rcftnmmts; they
have to give way to artilcial inventions Deep
mourning is going out of fashion in England. Much
crape is only worn for near relatives ; ordinary grief is
expressed by a mere band on the arm Some bonr ets
are made entirely of birds’ plumsge, aud are gay.
Tan gloves, wrinkled up tho arm, are worn for out-door
dressei, but do not look well with evening costumes...
Homo English ball dresses are cut open in a V shape in
front nearly down to tho waist, and filled in
with lace and milling. Tho amount of filling
up depends on how much taite tho lady pos-
sesses, how much modesty, and how much figure......
Ladle* frequently forget that different materials in the
same colour have the effect of quite different shades.
For instance, fur or velvet n far biaokerthan the black-
est ki k or cloth. This should always be ro-nembeml
wuen making combinations Tha n®w “Gold Inter-
sected Fabric” i* much favour#d, and it is cheap
Lidies are always being abuaed. A while ago they were
blamed for trailing drosses in the dirt; now, the critics
say the display of boots, &c., is more than liberal
Tnere is fashion in perfumes, as ia colour and shape ef
dresses. Not only does a certain fragrance become the
rage, bat a name often achieves aruuen popular favour.
A rose, by any other name, would swell as sweet: but a
scent wouldn't, aud so well are manufacturers aware of
this, that they often take dead stock that no one will
have, re-bottle, re-label, name it after some lion of the
dty, and succeed in selling it at a tremendous profit......
It’s a serious mistake to saturate the handkerchief with
sient. Refined persona are repelled at once by au over-
dose in tho atmosphere.
LATE SPORTING.
They have got a Maaaie in Auckland named
Dewes.
In and around London, from 30,000 to 40,000
men and boys play football every Saturday afternoon.
• lAlexandria v. Elsinore A. 0. C, 123
Mt'lutosh 4fl, Ellis 23, E. C). C.
Balmain Oollinrfwood v. Young Princes Club,
B.C C.C , 36; Y.P.C.C., 31.
Row in Melbourne between the Melbourne and
Richmond Clubs respecting the Cloeland Challenge
Gup matches.
North Shore United v. North Willoughby Clubs.
N. S U. C. C. 31, and 8 wickets (or 59, N. W. C. C. 26
and 27.
Cleveland v. Oxford Clubs. C. C, 27
MoHale 15, R. Conlon for the winner secured 7 wickets
for one run.
PiMarmora v. Redfern Albion Clubs. M.C.C.,
47. Brewster, It; Phillips, 13. R.A.C.C , 36. Lawler,
U.
A oho hundred and fifty yards race came off on
the 11th, oh the Tamworth Cricket ground, between T.
Giles and At Skelton, resulting iu a win for the latter by
alrotlt half a yard in 17 seconds.
in an dnlilohy hotlr the EtßNlNri NkWs office
took to criokst, and played the Occident Cricket Glut),
Of course, tho latter won in one innings, the scares
being O.C.C. 131. The News, 5 (I) and 27. Yah 1
Mr. Do Meatre was the largest winner at thp
V. meeting with £1540; Mr. H. Phillips, £1490;
Mr. W. Pearson. £1405; Mr, Livingstone, £900; Sir
Thomas Elder, £875,
-T A specimen of the Prussian carp has been speared
by a Maori at Lake Koutu, Cambridge, N.Z Ihe fish
was a small one, about halt a pound weight, but numbers
have been seen in the lake.
London Truth reports that Messrs. Weatherby a
return of brood mares for 1881 was 3315, and there wore
1910 foals, of which 1014 wore fillies-an unprecedented
preponderance.
At a banquet given to the English cricketers at
St. Kildaby Mr. Church, late of Manchester, Shaw, in
responding to hie health, said that the Anstraha-ns had
made extraordinary itrides in cricket, and could now
hold their own against England.
The Intercolonial match between South Aus-
tralia and Victoria resulted in a victory for the former
by 32 runs. The Victorian team Was by no means a
fairly representative one, while the South Australian
was the strongest that could be selected.
A change is being advocated in the unnecessary,
impolitic, and most pernicious oustora of making horses
take their ages from Ist January, instead of from Ist
April, os has been often recommended by eminent ex-
perts.
On Saturday, at Moore Park, the Campbell
Snrrys C.C. boat the Rosedale C.C. by nine wickets, one
run. The batting of Rice and Lynch, with 15 and 6
was very good, and tho bowling of Harrington and
Pony was very effective.
The Duke of Argyll has received a present of
wild turkeys from Amoriov, and he intends to try and
breed them at Inverary. The Duke of Cumberland onoe
tried to introduce them into Windsor Park ; and, in the
reigns of George I. and 11., there were great flocks in
Richmond Park, but the breed unluckily became ex-
tinct.
Cricket dabs always have a distinguishing
uniform, but as a rule the members never wear_ it.
This laxity is creeping into big matches even. While
the Englishmen all sported silk, ear men diversified the
costume, some with white linen shirts, others witn
flannel, and one with an old Crimean. The University
uniform is pretty but it is seldom worn now; the
Warwick red striped ahirt has faded for ever, and it has
never yet been apparent that the Carltons had any fixed
uniform.
What the Yankees call “ Myers’ secret (and
since Hanlan has astonished the world, they have been
trying to oast a shroud of mystery over all good per-
formances) is the straightness with which he shoots
out his leg and places his foot in each stride. Frank
Hewitt showed ns that years ago, but though our pods,
do it to perfection in their preliminaries, they got back
to “high action and toes out ” In their real work
Myers is said to be made somewhat similarly to li rank
Hewitt, and the style of going that would suit them
might put a perfectly-framed man like Apphtt back a
few vards in tho hundred. Hanlan and Myers
successes are due to the (act that they have practised
Sty les that suit them. Until we get a sprinter whoi w.ll
make a study of his running, wo must despair of de-
siring the English flyers of their laurels. This theory
holds food in the case of Trickett, who, good as he was.
bas learned euough since his defeat by Hanlan to think
he can now turn tho tables on the Canadian.
The Tamar Regatta a great success on the
9th. nearly 6000 spectators on the hill. Clarke won the
Mutmn Champagne Trophy. Plummer had to bo con-
tent with second honours. Youths’ race, under 18,
won easily by Gurr and Atkinson. Devlin and the Share-
brokers* boy last; tho former lad was suffering from
boils, which made his chnnce uncertain from the starts
Pircjf plars pailinsr race f won by tlie Ripple* much to tho
delight of the Mr. Thomas Griffiths, who has
anaied no expense to make his boat look trim, and sailed
her himself. Tho Syren was 2nd, and indeed it s really a
hard matter to decide which is the faster boat, as she has
beaten the Ripple in two or three previous races It has
been whispered that her owner, Mr. E. Giunt, will chal
lenge the owner of tho Ripple for a spin over the same
course for £5O; if such be the case a good race can be ex-
neoted. The Hobart crew were successful in being able to
take the Ladies* Purse to Hobart again. Their style of
pulling was greatly admired by the ymtors. The boating
men iu the north, especially the Juniors, should try
and copy the example shewn them. The handicap sai,-
ing racewas won by thh Arrow, sailed in a very credit-
able manner by Thomas Achea, of Messrs. Douglas and
CoUins Tnd considering this to be tho first boat he
ever sailed in a race, he has been very fortucato-it
should bring him out at other Regattas. Tho Taylor,
Bros., sailed the Columbine, which they managed to
secure 2nd prize with, but though she was sailed well,
it was notiu her. her opponent being a far bettor boat.
The Derby for Mercantile Amateurs was won by Beau-
champ. after a do.pcrate struggle with Percy Smith,
who had to take 2nd place. Turner a good third. Mr.
Bain, as hon pecratary, filled that position better than
last year. Mr. Dean in hls usual kind manner acted as
post of Treasurer.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Her Majesty has thanked Archbishop M’Caho
for Ids aati-secret-society pastoral At the Luiu
colliery, Durham, a shaft has fallen in ; 150 miners wero
imprisoned Dr. Lamson, the Wimbledon murderer,
has boon sentenced to death for poisoning his crippled
brother-in-law, a schoolboy named Percy Malcolm
John Her Majesty the Queen has left Loudon for
Mentone.. ..Deputation to Earl Kimberley urged advis-
ability of modifying the wino duties specially with
reference to Australian wines Don Carlos renounces
his claim to the Spanish throne in favour of his eldest
son, tho Prince of Austurias, who is 11 years of age
War between England and tho Basutos is imminent
Four towns have been destroyed by a terrific earthq 1 lake
at Costa Rica, Central America. Several thousands of
people have been killed at Alajoula (pronounced “ Al-
leliilia”) In the Gazette, at home, is published tho
Queen’s reply to the multitudinous addresses of con-
gratulation she has received upon her escape from tho
mad assassin, Roderick M’Leau Archbishop M‘C ahe,
of Dublin, is to receive one of the four vacant Cardinals’
hats Trickett in good rowing condition at Putney.
....By the Borneo Charter, England controls all alav ery
matters .. M. de Preycinet, French Premier, has in.
vited a European Congress to consider Egyptian affairs,
and to regulate submarine cables Russia reserves its
claims to Turkish revenue assigned to bondholders
Roderick M‘Loan’s trial will take place next month at
Reading, Berkshire Gladstone is dead against the
Imperial Government purchasing all English rail-
ways Explosion at Opera Comique, Paris Russia
inciting Bulgarians to make war upon Turkey
In a riot at Constantinople, an editor, who had attacked
in his paper the patriarch of tho Greek Church, was
killed.


SOUTH WATERLOO ESTATE, BOTANY.—
To be sold by auction. Lithos. this day, Thurs-
day, W. PRITCHARD.
fjl HEA T B E ROYAL,
Lessee Mr. Sam. Lazar.
FOURTH WEEK,
and additional nightly triumph
of that charming Comedienne and Sensation Actress,
LOUISE POMEROY
LOUISE POMEROY,
Supported by a specially organised company, including
the best known dramatic artistes in Australia.
TO-NIGHT, Thursday, at 8 o’clock, and until farther
notice. Diin Boucicault’s famous Society
Comedy, adapted from the French
LA TENTATION.
LED AST ft AY LED ASTRAY
LED ASTRAY LED ASTRAY.
Box office open daily at Elvy and Co.’s, Qeorge-street,
where seats can be secured. Tickets for all parts of
the house at Lloyd’s, u°xt Theatre.
JAMES ALLISON, Manager.
Q
UEEN’S THEATRE.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
RETURN of the WANDERERS.
SATURDAY, MARCH 18.
GRAND RE-OPENING NIGHT,
since their Tcur round the World, of
TOMMY HUDSON,
and his renowned and only
SURPRISE PARTY
SURPRISE PARTY,
The most unique Entertainment in Existence.
Introducing
MISS VENA DB GAY,
The great Lady Violinists.
MISS LOUISA ALVINA.
The only Lady Ventriloquist iu existence.
MR. FRED. DARK,
The renowned Polythonist.
MISS ADA MAVEN,
The unrivalled Interlocutress.
The inimitable Irish Entertainers,
Messrs. KENNEDY and M'CARTHY,
And Twelve other Star Artistes,
Who wdl introduce
15 DISTINCTIVE FEATURES NIGHTLY 15
Admission as usual.
Box plan at W. H. Paling’s.
H. SANTLY, Business Agent.
PERA HOUSE
Lessee and Manager Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Business Manager Mr. R. G. Bachelder.
Stage Manager Mr. W. Horace Bent.
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS,
CROWDED HOUSES CROWDED HOUSES
of the
I 3rd |
3rd |
3rd
3rd |
PROGRAMME PRESENTED BY
BENT & BACHELDER’S BENT & BACHELDER’S
CHRISTY'S
CHRISTY’S
18
ANGLO-AMERICAN
MINSTRELS
MINSTRELS
GEMS of MINSTRELSY 18
and varied Novelties in the first part and Olio.
All given in quick succession, and the most success-
ful burlesque ever presented.
H.M.S. PIN-A-4 IN BLACK.
Sir Jacond the Baracoota
H.M.S. PIN-A-4 IN BLACK.
The Funny Mechanical Effects.
H.M.S. PIN-A-4 IN BLACK.
The Eccentric Moon.
H.M.S. PIN-A-4 IN BLACK.
The Artistic Rendering of the Original Music.
MORE NOVELTIES FOR SATURDAY, MARCH 18.
Overture precisely at 8j terminate at 10.30. Box
Office at A. Huenerbein’s, George-street. Admission,
65., 35., 25., Is. N.B.—The Pianos used in the Enter,
tainment are from the firm of Hnenerbeiu.
Yictoria hall,
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, 16th March, 1832,
CYRIL HAYILAND.-
on
THE SCIENCE OF SPIRITUALISM,
with
LIME LIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS.
Seats 25., Is., and gallery 6d.
Commence at 8 p.m.
~VT I C T 0 R I A HALL.
* A. L. Barton ... ... ... Manager.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT, SATURDAY, March 18.
DRAMATIC SEASON. New and original 4-act ver-
sion of the great sensational Drama.
OLIVER TWIST
Characters by Messrs. C. H. Burford, Gao. Collier,
Thorp, Arrowsmith, Andrews, Sweeney, Walton, Cot-
tier, and A. L. Burton ; and the Misses M’lan, S. Brown,
Alice Mowbray, Camm, Martin, &s. New Scenery,
Orchestra Leader, Mr. Charles Austin. Notice—The
overture will commence at 7.45, and the performance
will terminate before 10. Million Prices—Front seats,
2s, second Is, gallery 61. SYDNEY HALL, Agent.
W PRITCHARD will sell the admirable
• subdivision of SOUTH WATERLOO, on
SATURDAY, March 25.
{3T. PATRICK’S DAY .BANQUET
Monday, 20th inst., p.m.,
AT THE
TOWN HALL.
Chairman—W. B. DALLEY, Esq., QC.
Vice-Chairmen — W, H. GOODE. M.A., M.D..E.N., and
J. T. TOOHEY, Esq.
“ The day we celebrate,” by W. B. DALLEY. Esq., Q C.
Tickets, one guinea each, to be had at 1.. summit,tea
Booms, Punch’s Hotel, or from the hon. secretaries.
Tickets should be had witho it delay, as final arrange-
ments must be made by Saturday next.
JOHN G. O’EYAN, 1 Hon.
C. MOOBE, S Secs.
Theatre royal, graeton
OPEN POE ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven er eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas ; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATEE.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo-
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of the
ZULU WAE.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC, CHEISTCHUECH,
ONE MONTH.
THEATEE EOYAL, WELLINGTON, EASTEE
MONDAY.
Tj
LOYD’S HOTE
HOWICK STEEET, BATHUEST.
L.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers, Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FEANS LLOYD.
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Pkopeietoe.
gOUTH WATERLOO.
SOUTH WATEELOO.
SATURDAY, 25th MARCH.
The balance of
EE-SUBDIVISION of
WANT'S ESTATE,
BOTANY.
To be sold by Auction,
ON THE GEOUND,
WITHOUT EESEEVE,
ON SATURDAY, 25th MARCH,
at 3 o’clock, upon
MOST LIBEEAL TEEMS, viz ,
25 per cent., balance in 20 quarterly payments,
extending over 5 years
Its Advantages are
CLOSE PEOXIMITY TO THE CITY,
EICH SOIL,
Plentiful Supply of Water.
FEEEHOLD TITLE
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS, showing the subdivision,
are being prepared.
NOTE THE TEEMS; 25 j>er cent, deposit, and the
balance in 20 equal quarterly instalments, extending
over five years, bearing interest at the rate of 6 per
cent, per annum.
W. PEITCHAED, Auctioneer, 289 Qeorge-street.
Solicitors —Messrs. Gannou and M’Langhlin.
CONSULTATION ON THE
SYDNEY CUP.
Subscription, 20s.
Ist, £800; 2nd, £300; 3rd, £l5O.
Starters (divided) £375.
Non-starters (divided) £375.
No. 1 now on.
Early application invited, with return stamps.
PERRIER'S BAKING POWDER,
rr
MARK
TRADE
m
POWDERS.
YEAST
SELF-RAISING FLOUR,
George-street West, Sydney.
SOUTH WATERLOO ESTATE.—Day of PafeT
25th instant, on the ground. W. PRITCHARD,
Auctioneer,
F
ALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the av/ards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard t
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibition o :
London International ]gg2
18G4
1b73
1870
Paris
Vienna
Philadelphi \
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic.
toria, New Sou l Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1850-80.
WHITE.
Reisling Aucarot
Verdeilho Drown Muscat |
Tokay
Champagne, Medium Dry.
RED.
Shiraz Hermitage
Carbinet Mu bee
Burgundy
Champagne, Dry.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 28th February, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of tho under
mentioned mineral lease within thirty days from
this date, it will declared void.
ARTHUR EENWICK
No. 1183; J. H, Munro and others ; Portion No 38 •
County of Drake, parish of Caruham ; 20 acres : Annin
catif n No. Solferino 81.3 m. j v
SOUTH WATERLOO ESTATE. —Day of Sale
2oth instant, on tho ground. W. PRITCHARD’
Auctioneer. ’
o' 3
*>T
£ 'i • i .
4 82 .„.4-84 CEORCE STREET Iplpi
■.';, ■•■ ■•■ vv(. ■•',
ROB I/y • N '^”£'%;•,
the. °A>
t MARKE T CLOTH HALL, % Alf|i
;, OP POSIT E THE. FRUIT MARKETS, i
. ESTABiISHEDIBff4
A LARC E an u WELL SELECTED STOCK
WOOLLENS, ne w pat t erns,
&-w ; ‘. 7'v-wV''.- ’-f• >V&
n i n fCT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
PA SMIONAPi P
f I RSI g LASS CARMEN i S
TO OROE R. ’ v
ALLV'oni TWEED TRO *> S ERS, T 0 ORDE
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewinq Machine
H ag all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dop6t,
63 KING STESE 1
NEXT TO
R S IJ T,
OFF
OFFCE.
SOCIAL.
A rather extraordinary affair occurred the
other day at a city cathedral on the occasion of a mar-
riage. The parties, who, by the way, move in influen-
tial circles, were of different persuasions, and, after,
the service, the minister, quite unexpectedly, lectured
the bride —and he did it in a very extraordinary style.
He advised her, in language more plain than polite, to
give up her Own religion, and adopt her husband’s.
Noons was more inclined to resent this new develop-
ment of the marriage service than the bridegroom him-
self. Several people left the edifice, disgusted at such
a atrange innovation. We should say the rev. gentle-
man could not have dona anything mors prejudicial to
the chances of connubial bliss.
• * •
On the 2nd March, Miss Sara, eldest daughter
of the late Alex. Learmonth, Esq., of Yasmsr, Ash-
field, was married to Dr. G. S. Seale, of Burwood. The
ceremony took place at St. David’s, JDobroyde, Ash-
field, in the presence of a number of spectators. The
bridegroom comes of a good Welsh family in Glamor-
ganshire, and the fair lady from the family of Lear-
months, so well known for their fat beeves and heavy
bales. Breakfast at Taamar.
• * *
On Saturday, the 15th instant, Mr. Walter
Lamb entertained about 100 ladies and gentlemen at
Booty Hill, on the Western line, in connection with
the opening of the Coursing meeting there.
# # •
Laughter of Mr. P. Ot. King, of Banka ia,
Double Bay, is to bo married next Wednesday. The
marriage will be a fashionable one, and the preparations
tfro creating considerable interest.
• • •
The City Catering Company have received an
order to prepare a banquet for some 400 persons in
the old Exhibition Building, on the 22nd instant, in
connection with the Metropolitan Fire Brigade meet-
ing. There Will be a grand display, and some exciting
(ooetest* aw expected to take place on the grounds.
* « «
A loveable young man ia smiled on by the tallest
young lady in Casino, as charming as she is deserving,
and something is to happen in May.
* # *
The wedding of Mr. E. W. Wilson (stock and
station agent) of Brisbane, to Miss Emma Marie,
daughter ot Madame Carandini, the great oantatrioe,
iin Scots’ Church, Melbourne, oansed great interest in
'the fashionable world, especially among tho superior
Ua't. The Rev. Charles Strong, minister of the church,
officiated, and the building was. crammed. The best
tnan was Mr. Gilbert Wilson, the happy man’s brother,
and the bridesmaids were Misses Turner, Parker, and
Ida and Emily Palmer. The graceful figure of the
bride was arrayed in pale cream grosgrain silk; she
wore a veil trimmed with old point, orange-blossom
wreath, and a diamond neoklaoe and cross given by her
husband. The bride’s mother, Madame Carandini,
looked very stately In a handsome dress of dark green
grosgrain silk, trimmed with satin, old gold bonnet
with pink feather, and dead gold jewellery. Mrs. Palmer
displayed a pale lavender satin With purple velvet train,
sot off with laoe, and pansies in her bonnet. The dresses
of the bridesmaids were pale green, with pink under-
skirts, and they each Wofe a brooch given by the bride-
groom. Gainsborough hats of duok-egg green, lined
with pale pink, surmounted with feathers and pearls,
and pale pink gloves, completed a harmony of delicate
colours seldom equalled for tastefulness and beauty.
* * *
'* By the holy Shamrock, Sorr, and Sfc. Patrick’s
pet toad,” but the “ bhoys,” with a due reverence for
Irishisms, are determined to have St. Patrick’s Days’
banquet on Monday, March 20th, just three days after
the anniversary. Mr. W. B. Dailey, Q.C., is to preside,
and he will give the toast, “ The day wa celebrate," in
his own style, starting from the text—
“ Pnrtaties an’ fish
Is a very fine dish,
Bt. Pathrick’s Day in thb maming."
The attraction can’t be resisted. Ministers of th 6
Grown are going there, and every one who wants to have
tha tail ot his coat trod on must dub up a guinea, as
per advtv, to be read elsewhere.
* • *
The Woolloomooloo Eegatta ia popular because
It is so easy to get a coign of vantage from which to
observe it. Large crowds on the Domain hill had
nearly every race under their eyes, while the flagship,
Commodore, was also placed so that a good view could
be had of the different events. She lay just off the
mouth of the Bay, where the Arabian odours from the
pure, sparkling water alongside the wharves reached
not the visitors, and at such a respectable distance
from the baths that the gambols ot young Australians
in their birthday garb were beyond the range of vision.
The attendance on the flagship was about 150, nearly
half being ladies. Toilets were not extravagantly gay,
but some were tasteful. Two young ladies were in
dazzling white dressse ot bishop’s lawn, and hats turned
up with black velvet. A stately brunette was in ivory
white, and wore a deep red hat, the contrast of colours
being conspicuous, while a blue silk with variegated
' trimming was the same. A trio of ladies looked pretty
in differing hues; one was purple with floral head
cover, tha second a flowered pink with gold bijou-
terie, and tho third a neat blue serge, with silver
ditto. A pair of handsome black satins, under a
similar number of large white hats, were in contrast
with some ot the brighter and lighter colours; while
two shepherd’s cheque dresses, surmounted by black
lace hats, enhanced the charms of the wearers—one an
extreme blonde, tha other just as pronounced a
brunette. It was a fact which could not escape notice,
that nearly all the toilets seemed to be in pairs; for
another brace ot maidens donned pure white, with just
a flash of pink in one case and blue in the other to com-
pleta tha effect. Then, there were two stately sisters,
remarkable for the extreme diversity of their rich
tresses, who are as well known in Oxford-streot as the
Cook Statue, and a good deal more admired. As the
steamer was not crowded, and tho day was bright and
breezy, the afternoon was pleasant on the flagship, and
the more so as refreshments were obtainable on board,
and tbe German Band puffed away indefatigably at the
pretty music which they play so well.
• * #
A highly fashionable dance was given at Grafton
the other day by the estimable wife of a bank manager,
quite a silveriail affair. Four Sydney girls caused much
stir among the young men of that ilk. A fearful feud
between a bank man' and a mercantile man, was only
averted by a belle promising to share a mazurka between
them. The belle of the hall was a rather tall, fair
damsel from Sydney, in maroon satin skirt and azure
satin body. A young widow with black grenadine and
cardinal silk was admired, also a jolly captain’s daughter
in white moire antique, well suited to her charms.
• • •
Two strangers met at the house of a mutual
friend, and he remarked half-jokingly, that he was
looking out for a good, affectionate girl, with a prospec-
tive view to union. She allowed a remark to ooze out
that a manly, steady husband, was the ideal of her am-
bition. The seeker for the good girl blurted out, “ I
have a call to make, and will be back in half an hour.
Think whether I’ll suit.” Next morning a marriage
took place. Things are managed expeditiously up at
Grafton.
* * *
A pleasant evening at “Ealing,” 'Woollahra,
recently. Dancing until the small hours, nice dresses,
pinks specially tasteful, and the Madras muslins were
admirable. Young lady in black satin and silver cord,
noted belle. Supper and music appreciated, host’s kind-
ness ditto.
* * •
Our Boys Cricket Club had a pionio last Satur-
day, at Tennyson. There was a little orieketing, but
the majority danced to tho music of the Yonug Aus-
tralian Band. Large number there Last month, tha
Badeavour Mutual Improvement Society gave a mixed
entertainment at Newtown. Some people were pleased.
The Opossum Club opened at Eaiuford’s Cam-
bridge Club on Friday, the 10th March. Recitations,
jwngt, and enthusiasm passed the evening There’s to
he a skating match at the Olde Fayre in the Garden
Palaoe: that is, if anyone can be found to skate on
■ueh a floor. No one has been heroio enough yet
The Cambridge Cricket Club hold a quadrille party a
Httlft while ago, Which was very pleasurable, as well as
profitable to the funds Marks worth Cricket Club
holds its first annual excursion to Tennyson, on Satur-
day Dr. Andrew Ross, M.L.A, was banqueted at
Cargo, on the Ist instant, Mr. J. G. Church. J.P., in
the chair. Dr. Boss reviewed his political career in a
speech of an hour and a half; 50 present. He also
received an address.
# » •
W* have received a letter {from the manager of
the Victorian Marriage Insurance Co. (not, however,
signed by him, but subscribed merely “ Clerk ”) relative
to our par. of 11th Feb., advising all who thought of
joining the society, thus: “Don’t." He encloses a
circular, with the name “ W. Sinclair ” written on the
margin thereof, and containing six Press opinions on
the scheme; but there is nothing to show whose
opinions they are. The circular clearly shows that, for
payments averaging from £3 to £25 10s., subscribers
may reasonably expect to get £2oo—on marriage. Well,
we hope they will.
# # *
The annual picnic of the booksellers and stationers
takes place to-day (Thursday), at the Sir Joseph Banks
Pavilion, Botany. A grand programme of sports has
been arranged, with liberal prizes—18 of them —pre-
sented by members of the trade; and everything is
provided for on the most open-handed scale. Mr. Wise-
heart is the secretary, and has been exerting himself to
ensure a complete success.
* *
Those who love dancing for its own sake only,
will not be sorry to see the French cotillon die out, as
it seems likely to do. Whatever may have been its
origin, the dance is at present aii unsatisfactory one. It
has degenerated into a game in which the player must
either feel like a fool or act like a rogue. Partners fall
to one another by lot, and it must often be unpleasant
for a lady who dances well to have to take a gentleman
who is a stranger and a bad dancer into the bargain. A
lady who does not feel like a fool under such circum
stances must possess remarkable control over hereelf.
She can escape the unpleasantness in one way—by
scheming; but to some this alternative is distasteful.
Scheming in company in any case is objectionable; bnt
in this dance it is sure to be productive of rudeness, for
in the endeavour to secure certain partners according
to a preconcerted plan, some persons are inevitably
“thrown over,” and placed in an awkward position.
Even to those whose sole object is flirtation, the
dance does not afford unmixed advantages—for, to
publicly favour one partner at the expense of half a
dozen, is an act of indiscretion which few belles can
afford to commit, no matter how attractive they may
be. Another bad feature is, that although the dance is
intended for many to join in, a large number can never
be found who all know it, and the performance is
generally confusion from beginning to end. Then,
again, hostesses have discovered that the dance is
inconveniently costly. The ribbons, balls, bon-bons,
masks, &o. required, add appreciably to the expenses
of a ball, and the givers of entertainments have to dis-
burse large enough sums in empty shows of various
kinds, without adding unnecessarily to their expenses.
In short, thus cotillons are found to be, socially, not a
success. As a children’s romp, like hunt-the-slipper,
or oranges-and-lemens, they might suit very well; but
a hostess cannot introduce them among grown-np
people, without feeling that a passing freak of fashion
is inducing her to do a very foolish and injndieioas
thing.
* • •
Truth: compares India and Australia, very
much to the disadvantage of the former. India, says
the writer, enervates and demoralises; its society is
more polished, more of the upper class, and therefore
more immoral. In Australia, home life is more that of
the virtuous middle classes in England; there is no
aristooracey to be aped, and consequently little
snobbishness. The minor niceties of life are absent,
but the tone is healthier. India, says he, is a hotbed
of scandal, and were the record of any three months in
the Hills to be written in all the nakedness of truth, it
would be an awful revelation of impurity; while, in
Australia, social life is of an intensely homely kind, and
the moral atmosphere comparatively cleon.
writing anything in the nakedness of truth, N.S.W.
isn’t the shop for it. So we won’t say anything.
* * »
On the occasion of a golden wedding, the
invitations, on which appear the long-distant dates, say
18S2-1882, at the opposite corners, must be printed in
gold. The bride generally receives her children and
grand-children, dressed in some relic of her own
wedding, if any remain, such as a portion of dress, a
veil, or even one white satin shoe, and is presented with
a bouquet of white flowers. The wedding cake is re-
produced, with the dates, and the monogram of the
grey old couple frosted on it At a silver wedding
(25th), the invitations are silver, and it is usual for
invited guests to make some present of silver-ware.
Among the numberless beautiful articles made now-
a-days in that metal, it is not difficult to choose some-
thing suitable, but it is easy to gat an ordinary trifle,
such as a mirror, brush, or parasol, specially mounted
in silver for the ocaasion. Silver weddings may have
an amount of jollity about them, which cannot attach
to golden weddings, from which it is impossible to
altogether dissever some slight tinge of sadness...... Tin
weddings occur after ten years of matrimonial bliss,
and the presents partake of that humble bnt useful
metal, much fun being often caused by the curious
articles given. If any rich old party, however,
specially desires to Mess the young couple with ready
cash, they will generally, on such occasion, consider
either bank-notes or gold as coming under the title of
“tin." Wooden weddings are the fifth anniversary
of the knot-tying, and as some of the furniture is, by
that time, getting to be the worse for wear, there is a
large margin for useful presents. A step-ladder, for
instance, is a convenient trifle to offer, or a ton of
billet wood; while a new broom-handle, or a rolling-pin,
is always handy for the wife. In fact, anything is
admissible, when given with a friendly motive, unless,
perhaps, wooden nutmegs.


p
u B L I C N
The IMPOSTERS of the TAEPI
MOGHUL MIXTURE will prosecu
endeavours to deceive the public b;
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for the:
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The publie are CAUTIONED to
bearing
“ THE TAEPING MIXTURE.’
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signatm
thus—
Clifford, Love, &
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, must be certain that over;
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A1
MIXTURE ARE GUAR
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
f. butch:
WHOLESALE GROCER AN1
YORK STREET, ST:
JOHN D
IMPORTER O:
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brassv
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine I
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, i
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L SURRER
ECONOMY IN CLO'.
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS FRO:
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE’S 1
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEA
sent to any part of the
tr The particular attention <
dents is requested to tb
Any style of Garment made i
SUMMEEFIELI
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
s
1G
I OOC. DITT CT
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our customers and tbe
Farmers of N.S.W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season, is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI-
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF paeeamatia,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie’s 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
INFORM'
READ '
OUR R
r-
Before Grde
send fo
Our Price
AND
All Particu
RRARTIM
-*> and Pi
389 Georg
SYDNE
Intending Pun
Cutters olfered t
INE BUNGLE.
John Bunelo, <
his Chalf Cutters
cast on fly-whee
facture.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE
mHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE:
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy*
-nmr TT7" A tr 0/11/D T T7'7' [ T?
MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTEB AND PARRY'S NEW EXTRACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
FROM INDIGENOUS
v PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
plo ng smell, will not injure the most deli-
)a .j Lands, is the greatest time-saving of
la.jQur rendering any article cleansed there-
with o th purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grecers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
'Dispense Prescriptions oheanor than »i V.
other House in Sydnev. All kinds of Pavtu.
M riichms at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges. &c.
Air, kinds of druggists’ sundries.
Se id for a Price List. Country orders rnnetu-
Hy attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
cm cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s Now Buildings.
m
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
m GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew's Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Promisee,
DIAMOND SETTER!
A now and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
a
KING STREET SYDNET
■AILOR
M 0
ts
m
'tOß*<4S
&
Am POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
mmr/G kgxvcfr&fi
TO ORDEI
fit #
fils, handwork.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
3EST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
F
ESTABLISHED 1837.
O W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS.
AMPBRDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
ill
m
GEORGE ISTREET, SYDNEY.
I B
DEMR
enness
Cur
Book free by post.
(3 Old* CURE.
GOLD CURE.


Mr. Alexander J. Ralston.
Not the least interesting chapter of the history of the
Australian Mutual Provident Society—one of the most
successful institutions of the kind in the world —is the
manner in which its wonderful development has been
guided and controlled. About twenty years back its
business was assuming such proportions as to call for
the most reliable and skilful management. The growth
of the Society, at flrstfslow, like that of the colony in
which it originated, latterly expanded with a rapidity
which taxed the organizing faculty of the officers
beyond the capacity of ordinary ability. To the
directors who guided the institution clear of the
difficulties of the time, by securing a complete re-
organization of the management, the members of
the Australian Mutual Provident Society must
ever be indebted. It is the way in which the de-
velopmental the business of the institution has since
been conducted which forms, as already stated, not the
least interesting chapter in its history. New problems
in finance and actuarial science have had to be solved
without the customary aids of experience—the conditions
of colonial life being quite new and without a parallel;
and a critical investigation of the business in all its
ramifications will reveal the fact that no new principle
was adopted—no fresh line struck out—until the wisdom
of each step had been demonstrated beyond all doubt—
oftentimes the result of months of the most careful
consideration. How all this work has been done to the
creation of the greatest financial institution in this
hemisphere—an institution which gives giant assist-
ance to the most important of our colonial enterprises,
while encouraging the people to habits of frugality and
providence —is well known. Fortunately, the members
take the pick of our commercial, men, from which to
fill up, as they occur, the vacancies in their directory.
The secretary, Mr. Alexander J. Ralston, might well
feel proud of his position in connection with
such a splendid establishment. His career is
pretty well known. Mr. Ralston is a native of
Tasmania, and was born at Launceston, in 1833.
The name is an Ayrshire one, the Ralstons being a’good
old stock in that county of Scotland. At an early age
Mr. Ralston came to Sydney, and began his studies at
the Sydney Grammar School, then styled the Sydney
College, under Mr. Cape, finishing them under his uncle,
Dr. Carmichael, of Porphyry, one of the most distin-
guished scholars we ever had in this colony. At the
early age of 14, he entered a merchant’s office in Mel-
bourne, and he has ever since been engaged in mercan-
tile pursuits, except for a brief period, when engaged in
the Office of the Legislative Assembly of this colony. In
this position he gained information and experience that
have since been of the greatest value to him. When the
Pacific Insurance Company was started, Mr. Ralston left
the Parliamentary Office to become the accountant
to that company. Here again suecessful, Mr. Ralston
was offered, and accepted, the managership of a large
private pastoral loan and mortgage society in this citv,
which had a very extensive business. It was at about this
time that the management of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society had reached the critical period already
referred to, Mr. Ralston, once more sought out, was
offered the assistant secretaryship' He accepted, and
six months latter was appointed Secretary. It can bo
safely said—and it deserves to be said of Mr. Ralston—
that that appointment was a benefit to the institu-
tion, He was put into the office with full powers, and
although he had to contend with many disadvantages,
and the “ old order" did not yield and give place to the
new without a certain degree of friction which in-
creased the difficulty of his task, the new Secretary
speedily proved himself equal to the ordeal, and by
steadfast sustained effort remodelled the system of
conducting business. The personnel of the staff was
recast, harmony restored, the finances were placed on a
right basis, and public confidence revived. The Society
to-day has, under these favourable circumstances, be-
come almost national. It is the pride not only of New
South Wales, but of Victoria, Queensland, New Zea-
land, South Australia, and Tasmania. Much of the
credit of its success will, we are sure, be accorded to
Mr. Ralston. His services to the institution for over
seventeen years prove him to be a man of unswerving
integrity and unusual business capacity. Our portrait
is by Freeman, of George-street.
Mr. Morrice Alexander Black, F.I.A.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society has much to
congratulate itself upon at the way in which the duties
of the actuary have been discharged. The appointment
of Mr. Morrice Alexander Black was one of the two best
ever made by the directory of the institution. This
gentleman has proved himself one of the foremost men
of the time in his profession. He has solved many new
problems in actuarial science since he joined tho Aus-
tralian Mutual, not only rendering substantial service
to the institution, but winning for it a position of dis-
tinguished prominence in the financial world. The
quiaquenial reports which have been issued during Mr,
Black’s time have been clear and comprehensive reviews
of the society’s operations, and it might not be very
difficult to trace a large amount of the public confidence
now enjoyed by the society to this very fact. The
following facts relating to Mr. Black's career have been
extracted chiefly from Walford’R Insurance Cyclooedia.
Mr. Black was bom in Aberdeen, in 1830. He entered the
Aberdeen Mutual Assurance Society in 1846. He studied
Actuarial Science under Mr. Yeates, the first actuary of
the Northers Assurance. A few years later he came to
London, and altera short term of service in the Anchor,
he entered the Law Property in 1851. In 1857 he be-
came Chief Clerk and Actuary of the English Widow’s
Fund, and there learnt that honorable dealing is some-
times overlooked in public bodies. He made a valuation
of the policies in the office upon an understanding that
he was to be remunerated for so doing. The valuation
was skilfully and properly made, except in one minor
matter, where he acted under instructions from his
Directors: but Mr. Black was never paid for his
labour. He had recourse to a court of law, but only to
find, as thousands previously had found, that law and
justice are by no means one and the same. It was upon
the incidents of this case—Black v. English Widows’
Fund—that the late Professor De Moreau based his
letter—" Warning to Actuaries.” Towards the end of
1858, Mr. Black became actuary of the London and
Yorkshire. It was during his connection with this
office in the year 1861 that he published a pamphlet on
“ The Assurance of Diseased and Doubtful Lives on a
new Principle." This pamphlet attracted much atten-
tion in the insurance world, and gave rise to much dis-
mission. The ruling principle of the scheme proposed
by Mr. Black was that diseased and doubtful lives
should be charged the same premium as healthy ones,
but that the amount of the claims should be subject to
certain deductions in the event of the assured not surviv-
ing the average number of years enjoyed by lives of simi-
lar age. The mathematical aspect of the question is de-
monstrated at considerab e length. In a review of the
wort, Walford in his Cycloposiia says:—“We have
rarely seen a proposition worked out in a more cartful
and painstaking manner. Logically, it hardly accoin-
pli.-hcs all that is claimed for it ; but as a rational
solution of a difficult question, it has much in its
f ivonr ; and although the office with which the method
was first associated has long since passed away, Mr.
Black’s method continues to be applied by other offices,
and we understand with satisfactory results." At the
same time Mr. Black introduced into his office the
principle, (of which be was the originator), of applying
the surrender value of a policy towards the payment of
premium should the poliey holders neglect allow them
to become overdue. This principle is now in successful
operation in almost all Australian life offices. In 1863
Mr. Black published “ a Chronological and Statistical
Chart of Life Offices established in the United Kingdom
from 1706 to 1863” In 1864 he became Secretary to
the Home and Colonial. In 1867 he published “An
Analysis of Marino and Insurance Accounts, showing
their profits and losses, liabilities and assets, together
with tables illustrating the combined expenses of
twelve companies. In 1868 Mr. Black was appointed
actuary of the Australian Mutual Provident Society,
and since that time he has been intimately connected
with, and has been largely responsible for its wonderful
prosperity. Towards the close of the year 1871, Mr.
Black, who had made various proposals for the pur-
pose of improving the status of the Mutual Provident
Society, and liberalising the condition of its policies,
was despatched to England for the purpose of conferr-
mg with some of the most eminent actuaries of the day
on the snbjeet. Out of this visit arose the celebrated
“ Case for opinion, and opinions thereon of the actuaries
consulted." This report is a most valuable contribution
to the assurance literature of the day, and to it may be
traced tho new bye-laws and regulations of the society
which were passed in 1873, and under which the con-
ditions of assurance have been liberalised, and the
sphere of the society’s usefulness extended to such a
degree that it is now admitted tobe one of, if not the fore-
most life office in the British dominions. But perhaps
the most important outcome of this reference has been
the change of the basis of valuation from the old Car-
lisle tables to the new fHsi and Hi 6] tables, the latter
requiring the most stringent reserve of any known
mortality table. Mr. Black has conducted three
quinquennial investigations for the Mutnal Provident
Society, viz.:—in 1869,1873, 1878. In the last named
year, he published a pamphlet entitled “The Pro-
gressive Policy of the Australian Mutual Provident
Society reviewed." A report on the mortality ex-
perience of the society during the first 30 years of its
existence which he has just completed, is now being
issued to the members. Mr. Black possesses in a high
degree-the capacity for organization and administra-
tion ; he is retiring and unassuming in demeanour, but
j.n private life is remarkably genial. Our portrait is
from a photo by Freeman, of George-street.
Mr. Thomas Wearne’s Tram and Railway
Works, Glebe.
Here is an enterprise that has sprung into active life in
the course of five or six years. And perhaps nowhere
about is there better proof afforded of the gigantic
strides of the industrial pursuits of this colony. It
would seem from this that all we require here
to build up in after years an extensive business is a fair
amount of capital and good management. This very
establishment, though hut a few years in operation,
actually displaces England and America in the supply
of the particular work it has taken in hand. And this
has been done, not with the assistance of protection,
but really in the face of the coldest sympathy—which
at times takes the turn here, as elsewhere, that nothing
good can be made in the colonies. Some time back,
Mr. Wearne, at his own risk, constructed a tram oar,
which excelled on every point the best American tram
car imported, and there was, moreover, a great con-
sideration in his favour in point of price. The oar was
found too good, and Mr. Wearne turned out six or eight
cars suited to ordinary traffic, and espacially adapted to
to our climate, at figures a long way below the import
price. Then a car of a description between the two was
required, and the one shown in the engraving was the
result. This was the first bogie tram car built in the
colonies, and the twenty-five or thirty similar ones
that have since been turned out have been found to be a
complete success, having all the comfort and finish of
the American car, and double its durability. A variety
of other cars have been made by Mr. Wearne, all which
have been accepted by the Government, and are now
ruuning on the several lines. This new trade, as might
be expected, in connection with trains and enterprise
has led to several new developments. Mr. Wearne has
nvented a tramway wheel that is not approached in any
part of the world. Omitting all reference to the elegance
of the design of the wheel, which of itself is worthy of
note, Mr. Wearne has, by a new invention, produced
something that will outlast even steel. After a series
of experiments and the expenditure of some capital, a
wheel is now produced, the running part of which is
entirely of chilled iron. This is of immense advantage.
It is of greater durability than steel, and acts on steel
rails like the ordinary iron wheel. Apart from their
being used in the cars made at the works, the Govern-
ment now give Mr. Wearne an order for a separate
supply, the first step towards their general adoption.
It will be interesting to know further that orders for
them have been received from the Fiji and Queensland
Governments ; and in these the principle of construc-
tion will be extended to railway wheels. Mr. Wearne’s
works are situated at the Glebe, and occupy an area of
seven acres, on the highest part overlooking the reserve
of what was once unfavourably known as Blaokwattlo
Swamp. The ground has three frontages, and is
admirably suited to its present purposes. A cool, in-
vigorating breeze passes through the workshops, which,
being lofty and spacious, are about the most comfortable
that men could work in. They are laid out to suit the
various branches of the business, and to admit of their
extension as required. They are fitted up with iron and
wood-working appliances, some of them being the
newest and costliest to be found in the colonies. They
are all immensely labour saving. One extensive branch
is being fitted up to undertake the locomotive work,
into which the proprietor intends shortly to enter
largely. Powerful lathes, slotting, shaping, and sur-
facing machines, &c., are being imported and
fitted up. For a considerable time past, the
wotk of railway carriage manufacture has been
actively carried on; numerous first-class saloon and
ordinary carnages have been turned out together with
numbers of railway trucks. At the present time, there
are in hand, six accident waggons—intended for the
conveyance of workmen and tools to any part of the
Ime where a breakdown may have occurred. If these
be taken as a test of the work turned out, then Mr.
Wearne has been particularly successful in points of
thoroughly honest and sound workmanship. They are
of immense strength, and are put together with the
greatest care by men specially selected for the werk.
Power is conveyed to all parts of the premises in the
usual way, and the motive is in the shape of a magnifi.
cent beam engine of 50 h.p, which, together with the
boiler, &0., are situated outside the workshops, and in
such a way as to be available all over the premises. The
foundry, one of the most important branches, is well
arranged, and in the hands of men who have no
superiors in the line anywhere about Sydney. Hydraulic
power, to the extent of some hundreds of tons, is
available on the premises for forcing the wheels on the
s ! or trams, *c. Adjoining this branch is the bridge
epartment supplied with separate steam power and
,v^ l n°^i appl L ailces requisite for the construction of
iron bridges, &o. _ At the present time, a double over-
foot-bridge is being constructed for Parramatta,
certainly the handsomest thing of the kind arranged fcr
Government. It may be mentioned that in
fnf 1 ™ 011 ** thls „ w °rk, Mr. Wearne still carries on
the manufacture of his celebrated iron safes. The
which these safes went through severe
public trials some years ago, will bo well remembered.
■swLn ' e t almost compietely displaced the famous
English makers, and are now the only articles of the
kind supplied under contract to our Government. Men
oln+t Cla ‘ j Palm , n *’> are employed in their manufacture,
and the orders have, for a considerable time, now been
hugely in excess of the capabilities of supply. Mr.
Wearne is assisted in the practical management of the
f J rVf . two BOns ; who have shown particular
fitness for their avocation. The outside business is
generally conducted by Mr. Wearne himself, and a
central office for this purpose has been opened in Pitt-
f,°PPP slt e Tattersall's Hotel. To any person
interested in the growth of our most importaut in-
dustries, a visit to Mr. Weame’s works will, at no time,
be devoid of information. In one half-hour a person
111 a X .. a Y e P rac tical proof of the vigorous way we
are building, upon these shores, a great and soundly
prosperous manufacturing centre.
Messrs. Hume and Pegrum’s Erated
Water Works.
The extensive rorated water and cordial works of
Messrs. Hume and Pegrum are situated in Regent-
street, Sydney. They occupy a large area of
ground, and with the new extensions projected will
torm tho most complete to he found any where
m the colonies. A short while hack Mr. Pegrum
visited Europe for the purpose of securing the
latest inventions in use in the principal factories of the
world, and he returned not only with the newest and
speediest appliances, hut also with the patents for
Derated cordials and beverages that had never previously
been manufactured, or even seen, in the Australian
colonies. Some of these appliances are marvels of
mechanism in point of speed and efficiency of work.
They surpass the old appliances by tremendously
increased speed, and in no less a degree do they secure
a decided improvement in the character of tho
drinks manufactured bringing them nearer to the
natural waters than ever previously seen. It
would hardly be fair that all the ideas of
these enterprising men should he stated in
detail, and it must suffice for the public to know that
the new arrangements ensure the perfection of manu-
facture. Our artist gives a sketch of the collection of
n n W^ apphan . c ? s 3 ’ nst introduced. It will be seen that
all the machines are double cylinder, and are the only
machines of the kind introduced. By this means
the cordial undergoes two aerating processes, and tho
result is an absolutely perfect blending of the gas and
water. The cordial thus manufactured, however new—
in fact, immediately after bottling—will allow of tho
removal of the cork and stopper without the
loss of a particle, thus proving the entire
absence of atmospheric gas, frequently found
in inferior manufactures. The effervescing ig, as
it were, internal, as in good champagne, and
though the stopper be removed the liquor
exhibits a sparkling vitality for half an hour or more
The liquor does not burst out from tha bottle
indicating the very highest aerated condition!
Here is a result never previously obtained. This
invention is applied to all Messrs Hume and Pegrum’s
aerated waters, such as soda, lemonade, tonic, ginger
ale, acidulous and other medicinal waters for liver com-
plaints, &c. Its adoption, however, was an absolute ne-
cessity in the manufacture of the new cordials new
p atented by the firm. A drink of the exact vitality
of the best champagne—a drink, satisfying, stimulating
and not intoxicating—a drink, which, while thoroughly
refreshing, imparted great vigour to the mind and body
—was what was required. And there can be no question
whatever that Messrs. Hume and Pegrum have suc-
ceeded. They have produced what has been wanted in
this climate for the last fifty or sixty years. There
have been hundreds of inventions intended to supply
the place of ardent spirits. They have all died out
The one unvarying reason has been the absence of body'
or vitality, or spirit in the beverage. The four new
drinks now patented by Messrs. Hume and Pegrum
have, however, this one distinguishing feature Their
beverages have a real vitality, and can take their places
alongside the best champagne. They sparkle in tha
same way, and are both pleasing to the eye and enoour.
apng to the taste. The sparkling Nervine is stated bv
the leading analysts to contain the very properties of
brain and nerve tissue. To the man who thinks, and
the man who works, this Nervine, therefore, is a most
valuable invention, while to children, and women in
feeble health, it is actually a boon as a life preserver
One of its chief properties is phosphorus—the basis of
life; and to consume it means to add to the store of
vitality in the human body, to invigorate the brain and
the nerves, and to keep them equal to all work—what
ever demand there is on them. The new drinks patented
by Messrs. Hume and Pegrum are denominated Spark-
iing Nervine. Fruit Champagne, Ginger Champagne,
and Phosphated Quinine Tonic; and, as may be seen
from our engraving, are done up similarly to champagne
The method of packing is entirely new, safe and con*
venient. It is the outcome of considerable thought and
experiment, the trade with the shipping and the far
distant interior requiring quite an innovation in this
respect. At Christmas time, the firm were many thon
sands of dozens behind their capabilities; but having
got all their appliances in full work, they are meeting
an immense trade ina style that was never done before
in these colonies. Work is carried on night andday
gas being laid on all over the premises to allow of the
extra work. Messrs. Hume and Pegrum carry
on their operations all reund in tip-top fashion,
and they claim to be classed in the first
rank of the world s manufacturers. Mr. Peerum
found on his visit to England that the Seat
anxiety of the principal manufacturers was the absolute
purity of the water consumed. Well, at these works,
this one thing has been perfectly mastered. No water
is that which has undergone a quintuple filter,
mg. For this purpose the five best filters known are
used, namely. Baker’s high pressure, Galt’s high
pressure, Field and Son’s, and Maigin’s low pressure
and a syphon cistern filter. The impurities revealed by
these appliances would stagger an alderman. Botany
water when delivered filtered here is, however, pure to
the microscope, and is entirely relieved of its alkaline
properties. This is essential to the production of
absolutely pure Derated waters. Speaking generally of
the works, the capabilities are between 3000 and 4000
dozen per day. Motive power from a large vertical steam
engine is available all over the premises, and steam is laid
on from the boiler to the coppers in the cordial depart-
ment. Carbonic gas is generated in the largest gasometer
to be found in any such establishment in the colony.
In the cordial works, where Mr. Pegrum and Mr. Hume
MR. ALEXANDER J. RALSTON.
MR. MORRICE ALEXANDER BLACK, F.I.A


find a sphere for their talents as well-instructed experts,
there are laboratories and extensive packing and filling
departments. Upwards of forty different kinds of
cordials British wines and liqueurs are manufactured
here, for all which, as in the case of the Berated waters,
prizes have been won at all onr principal Exhibitions.
Steady employment is given to about sixty-five men
and boys, and numerous vehicles and waggons, and
floats, for shipping and other nses, are kept in constant
requisition. The stables are lit up by a new patent gas-
burner, which reduces the danger of fire to a minimum,
which never requires re-lighting, and which can be
turned on at any moment to its full power. Fire hose
is available all over the premises. Bottles are specially
made for the firm in London and Glasgow, and just now
there are large shipments to hand by the Loch Murnn,
Liguria, Eosebnrn &c. It will be seen from this rapid
sketch that the works are carried on in first-class style—
if anything, ahead of the times. Messrs. Hume and
Pegrnm have made a tremendous “ hit ” with their new
drinks, all of which have been secured by patent, and
they promise farther novelties in the lice, their
ccess against all competition is assured.
Mr. B. Short.
There are few men better known all over the colomes
than Mr. Benjamin Short, now the Chief Metropolitan
Agent of the Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Mr. Short, for nearly a quarter of a century, has travelled
the colonies, and proved himself a most successful man
of business. He has been successful, however, not to
the loss hut the manfest advantage of the many thou-
sand persons with
whom he has
dealt. He was the
first canvassing
agent in this hem-
isphere, and is
the oldest officer
of the Australian
Mutual Provident
S o c i ety—t hat
grand institution,
whose character,
on account of its
wealth and wide-
e xpand 1n g in-
fluence, has be-
come one of na-
tional impor-
tance. Mr. Snort
is the very style
of man to ensure
the general adop-
tion of the great
principle of Me
assn ranee. He
has all the argu-
ments and illus-
trations at all
times ready. His
illustrations com-
prise many strik-
ing examples
where life assur-
ance arranged by
himself has saved
poor tamilies from
perhans, poverty
and distress. He
shows innu-
merable cases
where We as-
aurance was tne
actual commence-
ment of provident
habits and pros-
perity, proving to
the satisfaction of
any candid en-
quirer that a
policy effected in
the Mutual Provi-
dent Society is the
very best invest-
ment any man can
make. Mr. Short
is a native of Mid-
dlesex, England,
and was born in
1833 H > came to
this colony in
March, 1800. At
first the directors
of the time were
averse to any can-
vassing for life
assurance, but
facts soon con-
vinced them
otherwise. Eor
the purposes of
securing an intro-
duction Mr. Short
undertook the
oat-door financial
work of the Eand-
wiok Asylum, and
at the end of
twelve months,
not only had he
given a much-
needed lift to that
institution but he
had transacted . ,
business for the Australian Mutual amounting to
£l3O 000 Ho has ever since been uninterruptedly in
the service of the Society. He has been author, so to
speak, of between eight and ten thousand life policies,
covering assurance to the amount of between three and
four millions sterbng-the largest business, we believe,
ever dene by any one insurance agent in the world. &z-
-cepting Queensland, Mr. Short has been all over the
Australian colonies, and has delivered about 300 lec-
tures on social topics, such as “Happy Homes,”
“ Courtship and Marriage,” “ The House I Live
In,” “Total Abstinence,” &c. His addresses
have been listened to, at tbe smallest computa-
tion, by five hundred thousand persons in all the
cities and principal towns. In these lectures, Mr.
Short introduces and illustrates the subject of life
assurance, with the unvarying result of many new life
policies. In Adelaide some years ago, Mr. Short
received quite an ovation, and the result of his exertions
was that many of the most influential men of the south-
ern capital became enrolled among the host of assured
lives. The gentleman who presided at the meeting,
and was the first to insure, was, strangely enough,
lost some time afterwards in the Gothenburg. His
family, no donbt, reaped the benefits of his forethought.
Mr. Short has now taken steps to ensure the yet more
general adoption in the metropolis of the principle of
of life assurance; and since his return to Sydney, over
eleven months, commencing with April of last year, he
has actually completed more than £220,000 new insur-
ances. Above half this sum has been effected by former
policy-holders taking additional assurances. An agency
has been opened at the George-street entrance to the
Sydney Arcade, and the style in which it is designed
and furnished is in keeping with its connection and the
business transacted. It is one of the neatest and most
convenient branch business-offices anywhere to be found,
and from its situation must be immensely successful.
People accustomed to procrastinate are straightaway
siiited by this branch, and many a family will reap the
benefits of its existence. It is in every way suitable
as an office for receiving proposals. Mr. Short himself
opens his office from seven to nine on Saturday evenings,
giving dn opportunity to working-mon, married or
single, to have (as Mr. Short puts it) their lives taken
—if they should be unable to call from nine to five
o’clock during the earlier days of the week. The
interior of the office is neatly furnished, while the
exterior is got up in a style quite eclipsing what is usu-
ally met with. The -artists, Messrs. Palmer and
Weekes, deserve great credit for their work. In the
arcade front there is appropriate lettering, and in the
George-atreet window is the characteristic group of
figures that has long been the emblem of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society. The figures are life-size,
and are done in gold on a dark ground. Mr. Short’s
work partakes largely of the practical. He often spends
the dinner hour lecturing, under arrangement, to the
employes of large establishments. One of such lectures
recently delivered resulted in twenty-four policies from
the one establishment. The firm ceuld, doubtless,
attest that their employes have, in consequence, be-
come steadier and more reliable, especially the younger
ones, who would feel they bad a stake in the city and an
interest in being permanently employed here. Mr.
Short has recently been joined by bis son, Mr. Ben-
jamin Short, who promises to become as successful as
his enterprising and respected father. In conclusion,
we recommend the public to patronise Mr. Short.
Patronage to him means an investment no man can ever
regret, and secures a most thoughtful and helpful pro-
vision for one’s family or for one’s old age. Our wish is
that Mr. Short may live long to take many more
lives.
Cook’s Buildings, Bathurst and Pitt-
streets, Sydney.
The magic change which has come over the scene at
the corner of Bathurst and Pitt-street is due to the
energy of the Messrs. Cook Brothers, contractors and
builders of Ultimo, in this city. But a short time ago,
this was the most deserted looking spot in Sydney. A
Splendid edifice, as is shown in our engraving, has
taken the place of the tumble-downs that long dis-
figured the locality, and quite an impetus has, in con-
sequence, been given to the business of the neighbour-
hood. This building is a sample of new Sydney—an
indication of the extensive improvements
now going on
in this city in
whatever direc-
tion the eye is
turned. Pew
structures have
been erected as
solidly and as
speedily as this
one. Not more
than four months
have been occu-
pied in its erec-
tion. The founda-
tions are in the
solid rock, with
excavations t o
afford splendid
cellarage, and the
edifice rises te the
height of three
storeys. The
corner affords a
capital site for a
first-class family
hotel, and the
Pitt-street front
gives three roomy
shops and resid-
ences. The build-
ing having been
erected by the
owners them-
selves, has been
built throughout
on the very best
plans and in the
most complete
style, affording
convenience both
for businesses and
residences, such
as are seldom to
be secured in any
populous city.—
Our artist faith-
fully depicts tbe
facade of t he build-
ing, and it will be
admitted a haud-
som e addition has
in this instance
been made to our
street architec-
ture. The firm of
Ccok Bros, is one
of the youngest
and most enter-
prising in Sydney.
The two brothers
are very young
men, yet they
have undertaken
and executed
more work in the
building line than
probably any
ether firm of the
kind in Sydney.
They have virtu-
ally built a fourth
of the populous
suburb of Ultimo,
and among their
structures may
be mentioned lou
first-class resi-
dences and houses
of business. Their
average now m
three houses a
week. Very few
men have tne
capability or the facility for such stupendous
undertakings. A contract for thirty houses at B 31 ™ 8 ";
has just been taken in hand. The Cook Brothers na
extensive workshops, where all the requisites i
building purposes are in constant preparation, an
being practical workmen themselves, they see eve y
portion of their work through to the finish. The too
Brothers are, besides, practical men of business.
MR. B. SHOET.
MESSES. COOK BEOTHERS’ BUILDINGS, PITT AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
METROPOLITAN BRANCH OFFICE OF THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY—
SYDNEY ARCADE


E PATENT Nl
? NEPM'^ H
Nljn alcoholic
FHOSFHAIED IRON
•"BEVERAGE
SY
EV
METHOD OF PACKING HUME AND
PEGEUM’S PATENT JEEATED
WATEES.
proprietor, a first-class business is done with the
general public. It is significant in this way that
Mr. Sharp was presented by the proprietors of
Waverley Brewery, Messrs. Burrowes and Gleeson,
with their Waverley Cup, in recognition of the
splendid style in which he retails the beer manu-
factured by them. The cup, which is herewith
engraved, is of solid silver, weighing 17oz. 14dwt.,
and bears the following inscription -. —
WAYEELEY CUP.
Messes. Buerows & Gleeson
to
Mr. James Sharp.
PEESENTATION —CHEISTMAS, ISBI.
A testimonial of this kind is an additional
assurance for the public as to the character of the
extensive premises at Ultimo they have a first-class
hotel, and adjoining is a large furnishing warehouse.
Here everything required for the furnishing of all
descriptions of houses is obtainable—the articles being
either imported or manufactured on the premises
The workshops, where ten or fifteen hands arc em-
ployed, are at the rear of the premises, and are very
large and well ventilated. The show and store-room
are 130 feet long, with a width of 50 feet. Having no
rental to pay, the firm competes in the matter of price
with the largest houses in Sydney. The firm gives
constant employment to between 130 and 150 men.
It will be seen from the engraving that the corner
block of Messrs. Cook’s Bnildinga has been taken by
Mr. W. S. Kelly for the Edinburgh Castle Hotel. Mr.
Kelly, who, for a number of years, conducted a first-
class family hotel under the above title at the opposite
corner of the street, has, at last, got premises that will
enable him to meet his city and country patronage.
The Edinburgh Castle Hotel has twenty-five first-class
rooms, and first-class accommodation is now offered.
Mr. James Sharp.
It will be generally conceded that when a man
mproves any particular branch of legitimate
trading, he ia not only deserving of success but
also of credit. The manner in which the hotel
business has been conducted for years in some
parts of Sydney has brought a considerable
amount of discredit on the licensed victuallers,
and if not wholly, at least to a considerable extent
ustified the various movements that haye from
time to time been started to more strictly control
the sale of liquor. Certain parts of King-street
were long notorious for this prominence. The
effect in the immediate neighbourhood was a
positive depreciation of the sale of property.
Now Mr. James Sharp, of the Colonnade Hotel,
has done a substantial good since he entered upon
its management. A thorough business-like
Scotchman, with a large and practical colonial
experience, he was the very man to effect a radical
change; and the way in which he has changed the
Colonnade Hotel into a first-class house of business
has justified what was expected from his previous
business career in Sydney. His case is yet one
other proof that only legitimate trading will pay
in the long run. Property in the immediate
vicinity of the house has risen fully 150 per cent,
since Mr. Sharp’s occupancy, and the value in the
goodwill of the house has risen from .£3OO to
<£2ooo. This result, in the space of five years,
s'a valuable proof of a man’s worth as a business
citizen. Mr. Sharp was horn in Greenock, in 1842,
and engaged in ship building. Coming to Austra-
lia, he entered business in the colonial marine,
and traded between Melbourne and New Zealand.
The stirring events of the West Coast found him
there, and, in 1869, succeeding well, he married in
Hokitiki. He arrived in Sydney in 1871, and soon
after became proprietor of the Great Pacific
Hotel. He subsequently invested his capital in
the pearl-shelling business at Torres Straits, and
superintended the work himself. Keturning to
Sydney, he resumed his old business, and has now
for the last five years been proprietor of the
Colonnade Hotel. The entire character of the
trade of the house has been changed, and on
account of the admitted excellence of the liquors
and the constant personal superintendence of the
Colonnade trade, and is an affair of no small
credit to Mr. Sharp himself. It will be re-
membered that it was Mr. Sharp who tested the
new licensing law in the Supreme Court —and was
in this respect the representative of the licensed
victuallers.
Mr. Richard Teece.
This is one of the very few Australians who are win.
ning their way in the domain of science. Like many of
the sons of this great south land, Mr. Teece has
devoted a good deal of his attention to our national
sports. Unlike them, however, he has also occupied
himself with useful intellectual work. Mr. Teece is one
of the actuarial stall of the Australian Mutual Provi-
dent Society—an institution, the success of which is
largely traceable to its capable internal management.
His success, however, has not been merely local. Ho
has been a constant and an acceptable contributor on
actuarial science and kindred subjects to many of the
leading English and American iournals, and ho has
been complimented by some of the first men for the
soundness of his views and the completeness of his
researches. Mr. Teece has had the advantageof study-
ing under Mr. Morrice Black. F.I.A, the actuary of
the Australian Mutual Provident, and a universally
recognized authority on this branch of mathematical
science. Mr. Teece’s history is an interesting one. He
was born at Paihia, Bay of Islands (N.Z.), in April,
1817, and cametoN.S.W. about 185-1. He was educated
at the Gouiburn Grammar School, of which H. S.
Hawkins, M.A., was head master. He matriculated at
the Sydney University, at the age of 17, in February,
1865, and obtained first-class in mathematics at the
yearly examinations of that period. Among the men of
his year were Mr. P. A. Cooper, now Attorney-General
of Queensland; Mr. E. Barton, M.L A., for Wellington;
Mr. H. M. Faithfull; Mr. J. Dillon, S.M.; Dr.
Clnne, and the late Mr. W. A. Purves. Mr. Teece
entered the service of the A.M P. Society in July,
1866, and went in for the study of actuarial science.
He was appointed chief clerk to the Society in January,
1874, and has since held that appointment. In 1875 he
took a trip round the world, obtained an insight into
the working of insurance offices in Great Britain and
America, and was received with much cordiality—
marked attention being paid to him in America. Mr.
Teecc held a seat on the Committee of tho School of
Arts for seven years, and has only just resigned to
become lecturer in Actuarial Science to the Technical
College in connection with that institution. Mr.
Teece was one of the original members of the Univer-
sity Cricket Club, being hon. secretary of it for many
years; and he is still one of its delegates to the
N.S.W. Cricket Association. He inaugurated the
Int;.r-Univorsity cricket matches, and took part in all
that have been played. For some years he was hon.
secretary to the N.S.W. Cricket Association, and he is
now a member of the grand committee of the Associa-
tion Ground. Mr. Teece was also one of the original
members of the Sydney Rowing Club, and took part in
many of its regattas, contesting as one of the Sydney
University Crew in both races against the University
of Melbourne. In 1876 Mr. Teece married a daughter
of Mr. Benjamin Palmer, formerly Major of this city
There are few public debaters equal to Mr. Teece. He,
has a fluent and masterly delivery, and needs but the
experience he is now earning to fit him for some very
high position.
Messrs. D. and W. Robertson, of London and
Sydney, have been entrusted with the supply of the whole
material for the construction of the forty-eight loco-
motive engines constructed by the Atlas Engineering
Company of Sydney, to be supplied for the Government
of New South Wales. The material for the first eight
engines is already in Sydney, and the remainder of
these, the first of the 48, is in an advanced state of pro-
gress. The whole of the material is of the highest
class, conforming strictly to the Government specifi-
cation in;every particular, and has passed the inspection
before shipment from England of the Government
Inspector there. The great firm of Sir John Brown
and Co. (limited), lor whom Messrs D. and W. Robert-
son act as sole agents here, have supplied important
portions of tho material, and the whole has given the
utmost satisfaction to the Atlas Foundry Co., who de-
serve great credit for the excellent work they have turned
out in finishing these engines in such a high-class style
as to call forth the favourable encomiums of tho chiefs
of the Railway Department of New South Wales.
Apropos to the alleged defalcations of Mr. C.
Watson, local bank manager, Dunkeld (Vic.), the
Hamilton Spectator says that Watson’s predecessor
threw up the appointment because the amount ha
received as salary did not enable him to mix in society
and increase the business as much as he was expected
to do.
The British Home Secretary will, of course, re
lease Samuel Clowes and Henry J ohnston, the Stafford,
shire farmers who were sentenced on the 29th of Jana-
ary, 1880, to ten years’ penal servitude fer a crime, it
has been proved beyond all doubt, they never co’m-
mitted. Tho man who swore he was “ wilfnlly mallei,
ously, and feloniously wounded" is dead; but on his
death-bed he confessed he was a liar ; that the outrage
for which Clowes and Johnston are suffering was a puro
invention. It is shocking that two entirely innocent
men should have been undergoing penal servitude for
nearly two years. The general lesson the case teaches
however, is the risk of placing implicit reliance upon
circumstantial evidence. Brooks, the supposed victim,
inflicted several wounds upon himself. Had ho mortally
injured himself, ha might easily, under tho system of
capital punishment, have sworn away the lives of two
men who never laid a hand on him.
THE WAVERLEY CUP PRESENTED TO MR. JAMES SHARP.
MR. JAMES SHARP.
MESSRS. HUME AND PEGEUM’S NEW PATENTED ERATED WATERS.
SKETCH OF THE INTERIOR OF MESSRS. HUME AND PEGRUM’S ERATED WATER WORKS, REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.- (See page 1.)


The Australian Mutual Provident
Society.
A country's prosperity is tested by her mercan-
tile institutions. Under such a test New South
Wales shows herself to be of almost fabulous
growth. The one institution by which we, as a
people, might stand with a certainty of the
grandest results in a comparison of this kind,
is the Australian Mutual Provident Society. In
a double sense is the position of this Society
an indication of the greatest value. It tells of
the wealth and also of the provident character
of the people. No one can look minutely into
the affairs of this splendid institution without
being struck by the fact, that there must be a
general prosperity here that is unknown in con-
nection with the people of any other part of the
world. The principle of life assurance has, virtu-
ally become, as it were, a part of the character of
Australians. This means a general ability to
spare the premiums, and a provision against un-
forseen circumstances, which is in turn a provi-
sion against what might otherwise be an
ever-increasing burden on the charitable insti-
tutions of the country. To the Australian Mutual
Provident Society belongs the honour of fostering
and developing in Australia the spirit of life
Assurance. This is an institution that has done
a safe, steady, and honest business from the day
of its foundation. The idea of mutuality has
been preserved with the greatest fidelity in all its
wide-spreading operations No gross idea has
tarnished its transactions, because its success has
meant the moral and material advancement of the
community. Those once becoming members have
been anxious that their friends should join them.
This ever increasing cause, with other aids, has
given rapid development to the business. Its
enormous investments, capable management and
extraordinary results have attracted wide atten-
tion. The institution has stood like a
beacon light to be seen far and near.
From a small concern for whoso business require-
ments the upper room of a grocery shop
sufficed, it has grown in thirty-three years
to an affair with an accumulated fund of
nearly four millions sterling, and an income of
£850,000 per annum. It has attracted to its Board
the most capable business men to be found in our
metropolis, and its meetings and elections have
been second only in importance to those of a
Parliamentary character. Looking at our popu-
lation and the results, it is not surprising that its
success should be denominated by the leading
London journals a “ business phenomenon,” and
as it eclipses similar institutions all over the
world, Australians, and New South Welshmen in
particular, have every reason to be proud of its
existence. The business of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society has, in fact, assumed such pro-
portions as to take the character of national
importance. Judged by its humble origin and the
position it now occupies in the mercantile world
of the Southern hemisphere, it is almost impos-
sible to predict its future or indicate the field of
its operations. The problem will find its solution
only in the great future of this country, because the
success of the one is linked to the prosperity of
the other.
Some idea of the business of the Society may be
obtained from these figures :
The Australian Mutual Provident Society was
established in 1849.
In the first year forty-five policies were issued
for £lO,lOO, with an annual premium income of
£361.
For the first five years, 321 policies were issued
for £119,015, and the income was £3877. The
second five, 1103 policies for £562,980 and the
new premium income £19,236. The third, 3374
policies for £1,579,209, and the new premium
income £57,810. The fourth, 6440 policies for
£2,667,246, and the new premium income £99,651.
The fifth, 11,723 policies for £4,279,021, and the
new premium income £158,327. The sixth, 23,353
policies for £8,362,594, and the new premium
income £286,775.
At the end of the thirty years—that is in
1878 —the total policies issued were 46,314 for
<£17,570,005, and the premium income had risen to
.£025,679.
The assurances void by death, ete., during
the 30 years, amounted to £853,913, and the total
decrease was £4,177,917, leaving a net increase
of over £13,392,121.
The business of the society, at latest returns,
was continuing to show a proportionate increase.
During 1880, 6551 policies were issued for
£2,181,258, and the new premium income repre-
sented £74,666. During the year, the payments on
account of deaths amounted to £121,413, including
£14,438 bonus additions; and eighteen endow-
ment assurances had matured for £9277, including
£2627 for bonus additions. The accumulated
fund stood at £3,379,510, showing an increase of
£445,713.
The total policies issued up to December, 1880
(the returns for last year not yet being published),
numbered 59,000, and the amount assured for
£21,854,008.
The annual income, at the end of 1881, may be
stated at £BOO,OOO.
European financiers regarded as a “ business
phenomenon ” the fact that the society should be
able, during the thirty-two years, to pay all its
claims by death, ete., out of interest receipts
alone. But, when the interest receipts duri ■_
1880 were found to exceed the combined payments
for claims, commission, and expenses of manage-
ment by nearly £lO,OOO the result was stated as
‘ entirely unique in life assurance.”
u.^u°w o^i n England, or any other part of
the Old World, can show such figures as these.
Other facts struck the English critics. There
were but one or two Societies in England whose
new assurances amounted to £1,000,000 sterling a
year, while 90 per cent, of the companies looked
upon such a thing as an un-hoped for event. The
Australian Mutual’s business for the year was
£2,181,235 —an amount “ far exceeding that of
any other life assurance office in the British
dominions.”
And it was considered extraordinary that the
accumulated fund should be increased during the
year by £445,713—equal to 87 per cent, of the
premiums received.
These figures completely lift the Australian
Mutual to the premier position among* the
world’s life assurance companies.
The English critics regard the terms under
which policies are issued as liberal to a degree
unparelled. The principle of sustaining overdue
policies out of surrender value, which has for
years been adopted by the Society, is con-
sidered sound and liberal, and, in support, the
fact was recently quoted that the society had kept
in force 1804 policies which were in arrear, paying
£33,187 on account of their surrender value.
The investment of the enormous accumulated
fund at the command of the Society has been done
with great caution and with the most satisfactory
results. Upwards of two millions of the funds are
invested in loans on mortgage of real estate, and
about half a million in loans on the Society’s
policies within the surrender value. Such objec-
tionable items as loans on personal security, find
no place in the catalogue of its investments.
With regard to the expenses of management the
Australian Mutual Provident stands first in
economy of management in connection with those
British Institutions whose new business exceeded
a million sterling of assurances, while as com-
pared with other colonial institutions the result is
extraordinary.
The ratio for the year 1880 of expenses of the
Australian Mutual to the total receipts was 9.85,
while in other Australian institutions it ranged
from 24 to 39 per cent.
The amount of profit realised and divided
among the members in 1879 was £504,382, at an
average of £l6 3s. to each policy holder.
The bonus additions to the Australian Mutual
are something tangible. Here are two groups of
illustrations, and they are a few of many
hundreds of instances;—
A person at twenty-eight years of age insured
f r £2OO, and was in the Society for twenty-nine
years and four months. The annual payment was
£4 12s. The bonus amounted to £303. This
sum, if allowed to remain, would have extinguished
the payments giving the policy-holder £l9B as a
reversionary sum, and an annuity of £8 14s. Bd.
in addittion.
A person at the age of forty-three insured
for £lOOO, and was in the Society for twenty,
seven years nine months. The bonus amounted
to £1495. Had this sum been allowed to remain
the payments for future premium would have been
extinguished, & £1125 paid as a reversionary
bonus, for an annuity of £lO6 secured altogether
outside the amount for which the life was
insured.
When.the Australian Mutual had been 29 years
in existence, a comparison was made of its busi-
ness with the average of 73 of the principal
English offices. The Australian Mutual had an
amount assured exceeding the average of English
offices by 232 per cent,, and a premium income
exceeding theirs by 268 per cent. A comparison now
would show a yet more astounding contract.
Economy of management has been one of the
distinguishing features of the Australian Mutual.
The expenditure is 13 per cent, of the premium
income, while the average of the English offices
is about 14f.
The immediate advantages of Assurance with
the Australian Mutual have been often referred
to. Here are some actual instances.
A policy for £lOOO was taken out by a member,
and during 25 years, the bonus additions amounted
to £1,133, upwards of 113 per cent of the
original assurance. The bonuses were applied to
the reduction of the premium, with the result
that all future payments were extinguished and
the holder of the policy secured an annuity of
£137 10s. 4d. for the remainder of his life. All
persons who entered the Society at 55 years of age
and were assured 18 years and upwards, received
bonuses sufficient to extinguish all payments and
give them annuities for the remainder of their
lives, ranging from £3 18s. 4d. to £137 10s. 4d.
Members who entered at 25 years of age and
were 25 years in the Society, received cash bonuses
amounting to £330 12s each.
The surplus dividend among members during
the last quinquennium, was £565,260. The en-
graving which we give of the head office of the
Society, Pitt-street, in this city, will convey some
idea of the character of that impressing structure.
It is one of the finest edifices to be found in Aus-
tralia. The total cos was about £55,000. The
architect was Mr. Mansfield, and the contractor
the late Mr. Hugh M'Master.
Big Ben,” the Cooktown alligator, who
annually comes down with the floods, was seen off the
mangroves opposite Adolaide-street, the other morning,
accompanied by two youthful sauriaus. Ben is supposed
to have a quarter of a cwt. of bullets in his carcase,
and should be treated to a dose of dynamite.
THE HEAD OFFICE OF THE AUSTEALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY, PITT-STEEET, SYDNEY.


Messrs. D. and W. Robertson’s Import
Iron Warehouse.
Fiftt-two years ago, on the slopes of the Sidlaw
Hills, on the east coast of Scotland, was born
—Mr. William Robertson, of Holland Park,
London, the founder of the well-known and
old-established firm of D. and W. Robertson,
wholesale iron, steel, and machinery merchants,
of London and Sydney. Descended on the mother's
side from the royal Stuarts of Scotland, Mr. Robert-
son has had to be the architect of his own fortune.
'l'ho youngest of ten children, he, at the early age
of ten years, by the vicissitudes of hard times and
poor harvests in the bad old times of protection,
com laws, and distress, was compelled to leave
school and commence the struggle for existence.
From then till now Mr. Robertson has lived a life
of unceasing activity. At 19 years, he was in
business as an iron merchant in Dundee. At 25,
he had established a second branch at Glasgow.
At 48, by unflagginglabour and determined upright-
ness, the enormous business had yielded him a well-
earned competency; but not believing in the prac-
tice of too many who lay aside their labour and
their business only to assume the pale cerements
of the last farewell, ha then retired, handing over
his splendid business and connection to his two
sons, now his successors and the sole proprietors of
the firm.
Following in the footsteps of their father,
Messrs. W. F. and J, S. Robertson have developed
at an early age into energetic, pushing men of
business. When but comparatively a boy, Mr.
J. S. Robertson visited Australia for the benefit of
his health; and, after a residence in each of the
other colonies and New Zealand, he pitched upon
Sydney as the field for his business career—and
here, about six years ago, he laid the foundation
of what is fast becoming the largest concern of the
kind in these colonies. Indeed, Messrs. Eobertson
are in truth the only professed Iron Merchants in
the colonies, with a stock in Sydney of the mag-
nitude proposed, and a buying partner in London,
devoting themselves wholly and solely to the heavy
branches of the iron trade, in contradistinction to
the practice of those other gigantic houses, which
in addition to attending to these branches, com-
bine the multifarious requiremeqts of the general
public.
Messrs. Eobertson have struck out an entirely
new idea —viz., to confine themselves to the
supplying of railway material, the requirements
of engineers, contractors, squatters, builders ; j n
rails, bridge work, pig iron, roofing sheets, tele-
graph and fencing wire, pipes for water and
irrigation works; machinery of all descriptions,
such as steam engines, steam pumps, portable
engines, steam launches, steam boats, and all the
heavy requirements of the iron trade, to which
their whole attention has all along been contiin d
and the importance of which now in these ci lories
call for the entire skill and energies and capital
of a business firm.
With the view of developing this idea, and in
prospect of their present store being resumed by
the Government at an early date, the Mers’s.
Eobertson have acquired a splendid block of land
PETTY’S HOTEL, CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY. -(See page 8.)
MESSRS. D. AND W. ROBERTSON’S IMPORT IRON WAREHOUSE, CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS.


at the corner of Pitt and Bathurst-streeta for the
erection of a store, 252 feet in length, sufficient
to contain a stock of their specialities, adequate
for the storing of the supply in proper style, not
only of the consumers, but of those merchants
who may see it to be for their interest to draw
their supplies from the great central depot rather
than import themselves, thereby locking up capital
in duplicate stocks, which, after all, cannot be
otherwise than comparatively imcomplete
In this way Messrs. Eobertson consider that
they can do a service, not only to the consumers,
but to the whole trade, and assist in developing
the splendid resources of this great country, for
which a supply of iron and machinery of the pro-
per description is a sine qua non. Everyone in-
terested in the welfare and prosperity of the
country at large cannot tail to bid the Messrs.
Eobertson success in their large enterprise.
We present onr readers on this occasion with a
fine engraving, from special designs, of Messrs.
Eobertson’s new offices, Kidman’s Central
Exchange Buildings, York and Market-streets,
which have been fitted up for them by Alderman
Dean in his usual handsome style for their occupa-
tion, till their new warehouse is completed accord-
ing to plans, now in preparation by Mr. Eowe.
Butler’s Great Western Cordial Factory,
Bathurst.
Of course the first thing a visitor to the flourishing
town of Bathurst does is to have a drink, and, as he
imbibes, what be first notices on the shelves of the bar
are the very elegant labels on the bottles of cordials
made by Mr. Bntltr. He naturally reasons that a manu-
facturer who is so fastidious in the small matter of the
outside adornment ©f the bottles must be very
particular as to the quality of the article within. A
visit to the works confirms the impression. They are
situated in Lower George-street, and give employment
to a considerable number of men. Some idea of the
business done may be gained from the fact that Mr.
Butler has two four-horse coaches for supplying
Blayney, Rockley, Oberon, Sofala, O’Connell, and other
outlying towns; and a two-horse vehicle and a four-
wheeled waggon for attending to the city of Bathurst.
In the centre of the factory stands the steam-engine
which supplies the motive power. There are two No. 1
bottling machines. With the one used for the patent
stopper seventy dozen per hour can be done ; the other
serves for the ordinary corks, and a rate of fifty dozen
per hour is attainable with it. The bottle-washing
machine was in full operation during the visit of our
reporter. Each bottle is made scrupulously clean,
and this at the marvellous speed of 120 dozen
per hour! The factory also possesses an excellent
syphon filling machine. There is a never-failing supply
of good water. An enormous tank contains the water,
which, on account of its being very soft, is n=ed for tbe
boiler and for making gingerbeer; and two large wells
furnish that which is used for mineral waters. Steam
is used to drive the pumps. The coppers containing
the syrups are in an adjoining room, in order that they
may escape the heat of the engine. In the next room
all the cordials are made; by means of large filters
these are rendered beautifully clear. The next room
contains the chemicals used in the manufacture of
beverages. Here is aIEO stored a large quantity of the
finest colonial sugar. The huge casks of acetic acid
require a separate store-room. The labels for the
bottles are printed in Germany at no trifling expense;
they are, indeed, the handsomest of the kind yet intro-
dnoed. The inhabitants of Bathurst and vicinity need
never lack excellent beverages while Mr. Butler con-
ducts a factory which can boast of such modem and
complete machinery. The following is a list of the
cordials, Ac., manufactured Ginger wine, raspberry
syrup, lime juice cordial, orange bitters, orange tonic
wine, cloves, Batley’s compound extract of sarsaparilla,
peppermint, lemon syrup, stomachic hitters, cura 9oa,
noyeau, gingerette, odezone, table vinegar, cider, and
all the ordinary aerated waters.
The New Patent Direct-acting
Steam Pump.
This week, in our great extra number, we present an
engraving of one of Alexander Shanks and Co.’s cele-
brated steam pumps, specially designed to meet the
requirements of miners, brewers, tanners, and for irri-
gation ; and for raising water to any desired height,
either from wells, rivers, docks, dams, or tanks, &c.
In a country like Australia, which is, unfortunately,
subjected to periodical droughts, too much attention
cannot be directed to these pumps, which arc of com-
paratively recent introduction, and are an incalculable
boon to the community. These pumps are made of an
immense variety of sizes, and, according to size, will
raise from 1800 to 51,000 gallons per hour, to any desired
height, varying according to the special pump selected
!rom 1 ft. 2 in. to 9 ft. for every pound of steam pressure.
They are distinguished by simplicity of design, sub-
stantiality of material and accuracy of working parts.
They have, moreover, only two moving paits, both being
cushioned with steam, and they have no lappets, small
valves, or springs; nor have they any “d< ad points,"
but will start at any part ef the stroke the moment
steam is admitted to the cylinder. Having a perfect
arrangement of cushioning, the piston cannot, under any
circumstances, strike the ends of the cylinder. They
are constructed with a short piston and long stroke (the
speed of which can be varied at will). They require no
attention after the steam is turned on, and are not
affected by grit or dirt. They are exceedingly compa ct,
and easy of access for examination or repair; and, 1 av-
ing only two moving parts (and these not exposed to the
atmosphere), the wear and tear is r educed to a minimum.
These steam pumps can be had either alone or combined
with a boiler complete ready for use. They can be seen
and every information regarding them obtained on
application to Messrs. D. and W, Robertson, of Sydney
and London, at their new offices, Central Exchange
Bnildings, York-street, Sydney (an admirable picture of
which we produce this week), or at their Machinery
Stores, Pyrmont Bridge, Pyrmont.
A Fitzroy (Victoria) larrikin named Moloney has
been fined £lO, or three months' imprisonment, for
brutally assaulting a woman. The magistrates on the
Bench received threatening letters from friends of the
prisoner. The lash badly wanted.
Two libel actions pending at Port Adelaide
against a silt contractor, named John Deslandes, of
Port Adelaide. One is at the suit of •• Captain ” Hay,
the! (somewhat unpopular) superintendent, under the
Marine Board, of the Government dockyard; and the
other is at the suit ot a brother silt contractor, named
John Biglands. Both alleged libels were contained in
a letter written by Deslandes, and published in Derring-
ton’s weekly, the Poet Adelaide News.
Mr. William Pritchard.
Whenever an inquiry comes to be made as to
the construction of the splendid basis on which
the trade of New South Wales was permanently
fixed, there will be a meed of praise to the un-
ostentatious services of William Pritchard. Giving
a basis to the trade, or fiscal policy, of a young
country like New South Wales, with its enor-
mously rapid development, means no more and no
less than imparting an indelible stamp to its
national character. There can be no disputing that
the stamp which the character of this colony bears
is that of steadiness and solidity. To the handful
of men who did this bountiful service at a critical
time the country must ever be indebted. The low
ebb to which affairs in this colony had reached
about five and twenty years ago encouraged a band
of malcontents to battle for an exclusive trade
policy, which, while benefiting a few, would have
isolated the whole people from the world’s great
centres of production. Inactivity on the part of
people favourable to a free and comprehensive
policy lent colour and assistance to the movements
of the exclusionists, and when they came to be
opposed they were found to be as formidable and
compact as they were aggressive. The battle
once begun was a real one. It was earnest and
enduring. It was fought not in Sydney but all
over the colony. Its grandest feature was the in-
disputable completeness and permanency of its
results. Free-trade was engrafted into the minds
of the people, and, as in England, is as likely to
be given up as trial by jury. Very many do not
know that this contest was ever fought. But
twelve or fifteen years before Protection was
adopted in Victoria as the panacea for all fiscal
difficulties, it was discarded here as a delusion,
and once and for ever the policy of the country
received a shaping that has since brought it into
the premier position, and given it to-day a many-
sided development that elsewhere is not known.
Among the men who did this valiant service years
ago were Eev. Dr. Lang, Sir John Eobertson,
Hon. 6. Thornton,Hon. H. Prince, Hon. S. D. Gor-
don, Hon. John Sutherland, Hon. James Byrnes,
W. Hezslett, E. Lowther, J. Booth, A. Cain, W.
Dean, J. Powell, J. Woods, J. A. Portus, D. Flet-
cher, George King, W. Spears, Samuel Bennett,
Julian E. Salomons, George Oakes, John Pope, S.
A. Joseph, Saul Samuel, Ben. James, Anthony
Hordern, William Hanson, John Harpur, A. H.
Macifee, W. Friend, John Ireland, Samuel Dickin-
son, William Court, Frederick Parsons, and
John Fyffe. One of the most persistent of
workers in that active organization was
William Pritchard. He was, in fact, with one
or two others who occupied positions behind
the scenes, the active spirit of the movement.
The records ot the time bear his name, and the
most notable demonstrations of the period were
the direct result of his ceaseless activity and
capable marshalling of forces. To Mr. Pritchard
entirely was due the success of the national protest
in the form of petitions against the Protectionist
policy of tbe Martin Government. Wbat the ten
or fifteen thousand petitioners demanded from Earl
Belmore was an immediate dissolution of Parlia-
ment, and, though it was denied them, theyhad the
satisfaction of seeing, shortly after, that Govern-
ment dissolved, and their retrogressive policy eom-
pletely overshadowed by one in keeping with the
enlightenment of the times and the intelligent
aspirations of the people. Samuel Bennett, of
the Empire, was one of the quiet but grand
workers of the time, and to his sagacity and Mr.
Pritchard’s activity and devotion, may be, to a
considerable extent, ascribed the success of the
whole movement. This work, occupying so much
time and energy, told on Mr. Pritchard’s private
business, but he continued with the others till the
work was done. The organization having accom-
plished its work, was wound up paying all its
accounts in full, and handing a small surplus to a
charity—a fitting termination to a movement
organised for a country’s good, and conducted,
from first to last, with unselfish patriotism. Mr.
Pritchard’s private history is that of most of our
reliable and prosperous colonists. The varied
experiences of forty years’ active business pur-
suits leave him to-day with an unsullied char-
acter for integrity, reliability, and enterprise, and
he enjoys to-day the friendships he made when he
first started in life. Mr. Pritchard was bom in
Gloucestershire, on the 18th February, 1830, and
came to this colony with his people nine years later.
Mr. Pritchard is a self-made man, and evidently
believes in the old adage, that “ God helps those
who help themselves,” and the whole of his efforts
in business enterprize, as well as in matters social
and political, have been of a progressive
character. During a period of great depres-
sion, he aided his father in very difficult
financial operations. In the milling and the
produce business, Mr. Pritchard was years ahead of
his time with respect to the character of his appli-
ances and the capabilities of his establishments
He broke down numerous rings and monopolies in
trade. Ten or twelve years ago Mr. Pritchard
launched ont into the land sale business, and we
believe he will be credited with being the pioneer
of the movement which has resulted in the sub-
division and sale by auction on the ground of the
enormous estates round about Sydney, which has
resulted in the investment of something like ten
or eleven millions of money in a legitimate direc-
tion, which has created thousands of landlords,
where, previously, there was but one, and which
has populated our suburbs to an extent that could
never have been anticipated. Mr. Pritchard was
first gazetted a magistrate in the year 1867, with-
out solicitation, among a bunch of ten or fifteen of
the best men that were ever appointed; and he was
elected an alderman for the city in the same year,
and continued one till he accomplished some
important work, when he resigned the position,
as also that of a magistrate, to enable him to
attend to his own private affairs. He was
the originator and the life and soul of the
Wrecks Belief Commission, which gave some
THE FIRST OF THE NEW LOCOMOTIVES FROM THE ATLAS ENGINEERING WORKS .-See page 8.
BUTLER'S SEATED WATER WORKS BATHURST.
THE NEW PUMP INTRODUCED BY MESSES. D. AND W. ROBERTSON.


thousands of pounds to the widows and
orphans and other sufferers by the disastrous
wrecks of the Cawarra period. Mr. Pritchard is
in active business still. He has built up a com-
petency by the business ho has conducted during
the last ten years. He has some active opponents.
They are, fortunately, the men whose opposition
is the test of value, liberality, uprightness, and
enterprise. Mr. Pritchard was, about four years
ago, when fortune favoured him, again gazetted a
magistrate, and he was also, a few days since,
unanimously elected Mayor of Leichhardt for the
current year. Our portrait is from an excellent
photo, by Boyd.
Mr. John Booth.
The gentleman, whose portrait is given herewith,
is one of the most prosperous and enterprising of
our business men, and tried by the test of many
years’ services is a first-class citizen. While
hundreds of men have been doing the theoretical
work of colonization, Mr. John Booth has been
doing the practical. His whole life, in this quarter
of the globe, proves him to have been a man cut
out for the trying work of breaking down forests
and Creating towns ; his labours on the coast of
New South Wales have been for a period of forty
years’ giant enterprise. He was one of the
pioneers of the trade of our north coast in 1840,
and to-day, forty-two years later, he is one of the
largest employers of the timber trade
of those parts. Nothing of the difficulties which
were experienced at first now besets enterprise
northward ; but almost every foot of settlement
there has its tale of daring and resolute industry
and the roughest experiences of colonial life, afloat
and ashore. Mr. Booth was engaged in the active
operations of the time, and it was, doubtless, this
innnring to hardships that gives him now—at a
time when most men cease to labour, —his great
physical energy, and his eagerness for the most
active callings of life. Mr. Booth was born in
London, and in 1838, while but a lad, came to the
colosiea. He had chosen the sea for his profes-
sion, and arriving here he soon found call for such
active services as he could offer. He became, in
course of time, a commander, and then owner of
vessels, and was quick to discover the untouched
wealth of our northern forests. Grasping the
idea of the certain development of our colonial
marine, he established a ship-building industry,
and at Brisbane Water, built fourteen or fifteen
vessels. He came on to Sydney as a better centre
for the business, and he constructed here twenty
vessels of various dimensions. The conditions o
labour changing, the shipbuilding dropped, and
Mr. Booth turned his attention to the further
development of the timber trade he had long pre-
viously opened. He established a steam saw-mill
on the shores of the harbour. Having a large
mill in operation on the Manning, and having
added new vessels to his fleet, he pushed his trade
along at a surprising rate. A few years ago, Mr.
Booth retired, having amassed a fortune, and he
let his Mills to Messrs. John Taylor and Co.
Unfortunately, a disastrous fire occurred, and the
work of years was reduced to ashes in a few
hours. Here Mr. Booth showed his true character.
From out of these ruins rose the finest and most ex-
tensive mills to be found anywhere in the colonies.
Mr. Booth tackled the work himself, and re-
solved to place in his establishment such appli-
ances as would, right off, give him the premier
position in the wood trade. Twelve months did it
all. His works now are a vast hall of mechanical
invention, and perhaps, nowhere else is afforded
such proof of the gigantic advance which mechani-
cal science has made during the last few years.
The works, a full description of which we must
leave for a future occasion, form a gigantic hive
of industry, and are situate at the junction of
Wide Bay and Johnson’s Bay, Port Jackson,
covering an area of seven acres. The water
frontage measures 1200 feet, and in connection
with the business there are six wharfs. Six of
Mr. Booth’s vessels are engaged in the trade.
Employment is given altogether to about 300
hands, and the payments per year do not fall far
short of .£40,000. The works have a 500 h.p.
vertical engine, and the usual output is 200,000
feet of timber per week. Mr. Booth, who has a
large family, has three of his sons iu the business,
and they exhibit an instinctive capable manage-
ment. Ten years ago, Mr. Booth, was brought
out for West Sydney, aad was returned to Parlia-
ment with flying colours. While in the Assembly,
though laying no claim to the oratorical art, Mr,
Booth did real good service. He was one of the
two or three men in Parliament, who could fairly
grasp the question of our Colonial marine. On
this and kindred subjects, he brought to bear
sound common sense and large experience—traits
not usual with the politician of the day. Subse-
quently, after a lengthy retirement, Mr. Booth
was returned for East Macquarie, defeating in the
contest, the famous “Billy Cummings.” Mr.
Booth found himself unable to devote his atten-
tion again, and is now entirely absorbed in his
private business. He is still hale and hearty, arid
active as ever, the owner and conductor of a
business, that is unequalled south of the equator.
Few will begrudge him long enjoyment of the
fruits of his uprightness and enterprise.
Victorian Government is preparing a Larrikin
Suppression Bill, which embraces the “ cat.”
How to keep posts from decaying. Take boiled
linseed oil and stir in pulverized charcoal to the con-
sistency of paint. Put a coat of this over the timber,
and there is not a man that will live to see it rot.
The Express organ points out that the air,
“Oh, Misery,” in the ‘.esthetic operr “Patience,” is
identical with the Catholic hymn, “ Dies Irce,” Can the
Archbishop really have been to the Eoyal ?
Chloral hydrate is the most unsafe hypnotic drug
to take, and should never be administered except under
medical supervision and advice. It is a direct sedative,
and exercises an immediate effect upon the heart.
Writes a correspondent: —“ At Professor
D’Harcourt’s gymnastic competition last Thursday
evening, H. Cansdell should have been awarded the
prize for heavy dumb-bell lifting, as his lifts were done
properly, and not with a lump or jerk; also B. Brindley
should have been awarded first prize in the junior
division. His performance was one which any of the
senior division might have envied."
An alderman in a borough suburban to Sydney,
and the foreman of works in the same berough, had a
little mill the other day. The alderman commenced
actual hostilities by going for the foreman’s bread-
basket, and received in reply a blow which skelped off
the tip end of the aldermanic nose. The alderman
came np groggy, and was soon placed hors de combat by
the knuckle-dusting foreman.
A little bird brings a billet from the Shoalhaven
swamps. There’s great indignation at the local chief
bobby being removed to Wollongong, as he is greatly
liked. The show has been a success; “ Woseby”
illumined it with his presence. Produce good, in spite
of drought. Girls lovely, especially one in blue, the
colour that angels and Australians love. Local option
has agitated the district, and now it’s cricket. A man
sn’t a man if he don’t talk cricket.
A Sydney telegram to the Melbourne World:
“ The Editor and one proprietor of the Evening News
interviewed the Postmaster-General with reference
to Press messages. They asked if the statement in the
Daily Telegraph was true that 500 words would be
allowed from each station. The Postmaster-General
replied that was not so, and that the Evening News
could receive only s'o words in the aggregate dally at
press rates. When asked what the public would do for
news, and the opinion expressed that the loss would be
to them, the Minister said ‘Let them read the morn-
ing papers;’ thus confirming public opinion that a
scandalous blow was aimed at the Evening News,
Which will cause him a deal of trouble before long.” We
wonder whether the “ which’ refers to the News, or to
the “ blow." However, we suppose it’s all the same
thing.
If we hadn’t seen this ourselves in the New
Zealand Herald, we could have sworn that it was
clipped from a New South Wales paper:—"lt has
really come about—the lion is lying down with the
lamb—the advocates of temperance and the licensed
victuallers have shaken hands. Parliament has con-
ferred upon the people the privilege of electing the
Licensing Benches. The elections are about to take
place, and those interested in public-houses and those
opposed to them are trying to come to terms, and with
a fair prospect of an agreement being arrived at.”
Why should a licensed victualler be styled a “lamb,”
though ? Is it a sly allusion to “ lambing down."
The Dunedin (N. Z.) Coffee Palace Co. has lost
£l,OOO on the year’s operations, and the Christchurch
Co. £7B for the half year.
The ship Dunedin, which sailed from port
Chalmers (N. Z.) for London the other week, had 5,000
refrigerated sheep on board.
Isaac Cohen has been committed for trial on a
charge of perjury, by making a false declaration, to the
effect that the license of the United States Family
Hotel, Sydney, had been lost.
In N. Z., all tastes can be easily suited in the
matter of climate. One day’o meteorological returns
showed that the thermometer at Westport registered
at 9 o’clock in the shade 85degs.; at Auckland, 75degs.;
Napier, 73degs.; and at the Bluff 56degs. A difference
of 29degs. between the warmest and coldest centres of
population.
“ There’s one thing I envy a pig for, ” said
Spencerton to the barber. “He don’t have to be
shaved till after death." “ Some hogs does and some
doesn’t, ’* replied the artist. There’s no use arguing
with Wigzell’s man while in his power.
MR. RICHAED TEECE.—(See page 3)
MR. JOHN BOOTH.
WEARNE’S SAFE.
FIRST BOGIE TEAM CAR MANUFACTURED IN THE COLONIES. FROM WEARNE WORKS.
(See page 1.)
MR. G. F. MURPHY’S REGENT HOUSE,
GEORGE STREET, BAIL WAY BRIDGE.
(See page 8.)


Mr. Charles Kidman’s Warehouses.
We give, in this issue, engravings of the extensive
warenonses erected by Mr. Charles KidmaD, in George,
Market, and York streets, in this city. They are about
the most extensive structures of the kind in Sydney,
and afford splendid sites for bpsiness. The whole of
the lower portions of the buildings are occupied, and
the locality is now the centre of a large and active
trade. The upper floors are being largely availed of for
offices. Messrs. D, and W. Robertson, the extensive
iron merchants, occupy the York-street premises, a
view of which, is given on page 6 of this supplement.
Ou page 8 is shown the George and Market-street
earner ,which is occupied by Mr. James Kidman as the
MOflel Grocery Emporium of Sydney. It may hero be
mentioned that Mr. Kidman’s contracts have again
teen accepted for the supply of requisites to the Gov-
ernment institutions fer 1882-83. Mr, James Eld-
man does a very extensive business, and is
about one of the largest wholesale purchasers
in the colony. A cash business, at great re-
ductions, on the ruling figures—is the explanation of his
success. In connection with the engravings we give
the portrait of Mr. Charles Kidman. We were
favoured with an excellent likeness from Freeman,
of George-street, and onr artist has, on this occasion,
I een particularly snccesefnl
The New Zealand Insurance Company.
Tiie last half-year of the operations of the New
Zealand Insurance Company proves to be no
exception to the preceding ones in point of safe,
extensive, and profitable business. Perhaps no
where more than in New Zealand has the business
of insurance companies to be carefully conducted.
The competition among certain offices in that
quarter has led to the inevitable result; but one
company in particular that has conducted its
business on legitimate and safe lines has been the
New Zealand Insurance Company. In the midst of
the heavy osses of the period, the Company shows
a great profit on a large business—pay ing. satis-
factory dividends, and more than all, winning
increased public confidence. The balance at the
audit of profit and loss account for the half-year
was ,£24,102, from which £15,000 was paid in
3a. dividends, and £9102 carried forward to next
half-year’s account. This was done after making
ample provision for all losses outstanding and
claims to date. The extent of the business of the
Company may be judged from the fact that the
salaries, commissions, &c.. make up a total of
£21,000 for the half-year. Eire and marine losses
to the extent of £40,642 were paid during the six
months, and £37,374 was appropriated for unpaid
losses. 'lhe financial position of the Company,
which has, at all times, attracted considerable at-
tention, is of increasing soundness, and the
Association must inevitably take, at no distant
date, one of the first positions among the financial
concerns ot the Australian (colonies. The mort-
gages and shares of the Company are worth
£152 327: insurance premises and other habitable
property are worth £9B 3GO. The sum of £10,500
has been invested in United States bonds, and
£61,970 in Colonial Government debentures, while
£86,500 was out in loans at call. Other sums in
large amounts are distributed in a similarly sub-
stantial way. Altogether the last half-year’s
report is very interesting and well worth perusal.
The Sydney office, situated in Pitt-street, and
managed by Mr. S. Hague Smith, continues to do
a most prosperous business, the office here being
conducted on the same safe lines as the general
business in New Zealand.
Regent House, Railway Bridge, George-
street, Sydney.
Though old established, one of the newest and
most attractive places of business in the neigh-
bourhood of the Sydney
Railway Station is Mr.
G. if. Murphy’s Regent
House. The business
has been established
thirty-eight years, hav-
ing been founded by the
lato Mr. John Murphy
in 1844. It was, for
a number of years,
managed by Mr. G. P.
Murphy, and, on the
death of his lather, he
established anew house
in the same line of busi-
ness. Regent House is
the result of this enter-
prising step, and, while
retaining ail the fea-
tures that characterised
his father’s business,
Mr. G. P. Murphy has
introduced extensions
by which almost the
entire trade of the city
is virtually centred in
one spot. Everyone is
acquainted with the
great activity there has
been in the building
trades in Sydney during
the last ten years ; well,
it is some satisfaction
to find that this one
house has been able to
keep pace with this ad-
vancement, supplying
thetrade with matenal
of the very latest design
and of the first quality.
Lengthy, connection
with the principal Eng-
lish manufacturing
houaeslhas enabled Mr.
Murphy even to antici-
pate demand, and a
visit to Regent House
at any hour Curing the
business period of the
day will demonstrate
the complete apprecia-
tion there has been on
the part of the public
for Ibis enterprise. Jn
all the varietiesla plate
glass a more extensive
irade than ever is done.
shop fronts, public and
private buildings, con-
servatories, and sKy
lights are now furnished
wiih glass of a parti-
cular character, some
of it having only ]hst
recently been imported
for the first time. Ih
the matter ot paper-
hangings, Mr. Murphy,
some time back, mace
special arrangements
with two of the principal
English manufacturers,
and he now receives, at
Regent House, per each
. - ,
mail a fresh shipment. 4)esigns ot the new-
est and most varied pattern may now be seen
in the show room. The practical character of Mr.
Murphy’s new business is demonstrated by the
fact that he has specially catered for apd secured
the great suburban business of Sydney. Hundreds
of artizans have, during the last few years, found
new homes in the suburbs, and to these Eegent
House has supplied prepared paints and all the
other materials for house decoration, enabling the
amateur painter to set off his domicile in a man-
ner that could not have previously been done.
Hand-books of instruction, with material ready
prepared, are obtainable at Eegent House, and
being free, they have been extensively availed of.
A special porter is engaged by the house to attend
to railway customers, ensuring safety and prompt-
ness of despatch, and cheapness in the matter of
freight. This suburban business is made to work
i n with the great country trade which the firm
has uninterruptedly enjoyed for the last twenty-
five years. All the principal inland contractors
and the general private, town, farm, or station
builders are supplied direct from Eegent House
with all the requirements of the trade, the figure
and character of the goods supplied being virtu-
ally unapproaehed anywhere in the colonies. White
leads, oils, colours, etc., form an extensive stock
at Eegent House. One of the new features of the
business is the celebrated wood-preserving oil,
which renders the foundations or superatructions
actually impervious to the white ant. But it is
not in this respect only that the oil has been
found to be of special value. It is now largely
used by farmers for the clearing of ground. Ap-
plied to a stump, or a tree, the oil eats its way to
the very core and the very roots, and when fire is
applied complete destruction is ensured, thus
saving an immensity of time and labour. Our
artist gives a sketch of the premises. These can be
seen from all arrriving and departing trains, and
being within one hundred yards of the Sydney
station, and likewise of the tramway routes and
junctions, are within easy access of the public.
The New Locomotives.
We are enabled, in this issue, to give a sketch of the first
of the new locomotives manufactured at the Atlas
Engineering Works to the order of the Government.
The Atlas Works, are situated at the head of Darling
Harbour. They were established on the Co-operative
principle a few years ago by a handful of the best prac-
tical iron-workers and engineers we ever had in this
city. Some of our most successful undertakings in the
engineering branch have passed through their
hands. A great portion of the splendid sugar-
making machinery used in the north of this
colony and in Queensland was made by the
Atlas Company, and the [principal' squatting pro-
perties have been supplied from the same source with
their pumping and iwoolwashing] requisites. Several
large contracts for bridges, &0., have been executed, and
in respect of marine work the Atlas Company are
credited with the most notable [success known to the
people of this country. The construction of the
Government torpedo boats is what is here referred to.
The Company built from designs prepared by Mr.
N. Selfe, two boats, whieh’run at a speed of little less
than twenty miles per hour —being marvels, not only of
great strength but of mechanical compactness and
safety. They were’provided each at a cost of about
£460 under the English'price. The locomotive work is
now absorbing the attention]©! the Company. They
have contracted for-the supply of forty-eight passen-
ger and goods engines The first engine manufactured
under the new contract is now running on the Southern
and Western line. It has undergone severe iests with
the most satisfactory results, and the Atlas Company
have been complimented by the Government on their
success. Our engraving is from a drawing specially
prepared for us. Two or three more engines will be
ready in a few weeks. The locomotive manufacturing
industry may now be said to have received here a second
start. Its permanency can be imperilled only by trade
difficulties—which we learn are, however, not likely to
occur.
Petty’s Hotel, Sydney.
Petty’s Hotel is as well-known as Port Jackson
itself. It is one of the very few hotels that
Sydney can speak of as being, in any way, com-
parable with its importance as the first city of
Australia. In appearance, Petty’s may not be
like the colossal structures of the States—all walla
and waiters —but it is, in every sense, a first-class
English house of accommodation. It is situated
on Church Hill, the finest spot in the city, and
commands, front and rear, an almost matchless
panoramic view of the harbour. It is situated
almost in the centre of Sydney, yet is one out of
five thousand houses that, from its peculiar situa-
tion and construction, enjoys a privacy that ia
never disturbed. Hence it has been for years the
hotel which visitors from all parts of the
world have fixed their eyes upon as afford-
ing a much - desired
accommodation, and
there ia no lack of testi-
mony that the way peo-
ple have been received
here has contributed to
the idea that, of all the
places on the shores
of Australia, Sydney
is the most solidly
prosperous and home-
like. The visitors’ list,
at Petty’s, at all times,
shows a most influ-
ential patronage, both
on the part of strangers
and of our own people,
and it is the hotel of
the metropolis that has
been in particular favo r
with the leading families
of Queensland and of
our own interior. The
lessee of the hotel now is
Miss Parry, a lady who
for some years display-
ed consummate judg-
ment in the manage-
ment of the Oxford and
the Exchange Hotels.
Since Miss Parry took
Petty’s Hotel, its popu-
larity has been decid-
edly in the ascendant,
especially for the accom-
modation of ladies and
families. With a liberal
expenditure of capital,
the premises have been
enlarged by the erection
of a spacious three-
storey wing and ex-
tensive internal altera-
tions that have added
materially to the capa-
bilities and comforts
of the house. Spacious
corridors, with other
arrangements, ensure
splendid ventilation and
aid in affording privacy
in connection with the
various suites of rooms.
It is quite unnecessary
to speak of the style
in which the place is
furnished, or to refer to
the character of the ac-
commodation. The din-
ing-room ia brilliantly
lighted and pleasant,
and the bar, in addi-
tion to being private,
is supplied with wines,
spirits, &c. specially im-
ported for the purpose.
The comfort and conve-
nience of visitors have
been specially studied,
and by the introduc-
tion of new appliances,
the baths on all parts
of the premises are
supplied with hot and
cold water, deliverable in copious quantities almost
instantaneously. Our artist furnishes us with an
engraving of this well-known hotel, which will be
promptly recognised as an artistic and faithful
reproduction of the original.
MR. CHARLES KIDMAN.
KIDMAN’S CENTRAL BUILDINGS, GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
