

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 11.— No. 137
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1882.
“The Confidence Trick.”
Men who interest themselves in public affairs in
Sydney are, whether they like it or not, living
lives of duplicity. The outside of the political
platter is sedulously polished, while the inside is
left unclean. To an affectation of delighted ap-
preciation of the shining purity of the political
sepulchre, the majority of public men combine a
confidential interchange of sniffings at reported
rottenness and dead men’s bones, reputed to be
hidden within the whited walls. In other words,
it is impossible to reconcile public acta and utter-
ances with private whispers. If the adulatory
language of banquets, of testimonials, of recep-
tions, of formal public utterances, be worth any-
thing as an indication of what is passing in peo-
ple’s minds, the community may, on the whole,
congratulate itself. According to such declara-
tions, it is eminently favoured by Providence.
Its chiefs are men of almost snperhnmam virtue
and ability. Its lesser lights burn with a pure
and steady radiance. Three hundred and fifty
itizens assembled, the other night, to testify that
Sir Hbnbt Parkbs is held by them in the
highest respect. A little previously, the people
of an entire district bestirred themselves to heap
acclamations upon the modest head of Mr. R.
Bwbdett Smith, as the examplar of all that a
representative man should be. During the
interval between the two events, a party of some-
bodies employed the pauses between sips of tea
and bites of buns, to place upon record their
deliberate conviction that, for integrity and
straightforward dealing in every function of pub-
lie station, Mr. John Davies bore the palm.
Similarly, several members of Parliament have
exercised their oratorical powers in insisting that,
in respect to general efficiency, ability, and
dignity, the Legislative Assembly, as at present
constituted, surpasses all previous Parliaments.
• m •
All this is for the benefit of “ that great noodle,
the public;” and when this sort of grimace and
deception is kept going by impostors of talent, it
moves smoothly enough. There are one or two
men amongst our own posturers who are quite
capable of bamboozling the public all their lives.
These have a keen instinctive knowledge of human
nature in its baser and more stupid aspects. They
know exactly how to work on the bigotry and
prejudices of professing sectarians, so as to secure
tor themselves indemnity for offences which grate
against the moral sense of religious men. They
are adepts at calculating every man’s weakness,
and know how to entangle those who would bo
inaccessible to, or would even resent, the ap-
proaches of naked corruption. Their talents give
them the key of the existing situation. They are
too keen to do aught which would force open eyes
that are willingly and systematically kept shut.
They recognise that they have to deal with a
powerful contingent—probably a prevailing con-
tingent—who would feel it due to their own
personal imposture to dissociate themselves from
acknowledged and demonstrated crookedness, but
who find it very much to their advantage not to
perceive anything of the kind except what is
forced upon their attention —that is to say, publicly
forced upon their attention, so that they can no
longer plead ignorance.
* • •
There are plenty persons of the latter class
among us. In fact, they are so numerous that
they give a tone to the community. They find
winking so advantageous that they resent being
called upon to open their eyes, when they are
themselves under observation. So long as affairs
are adroitly conducted, they are comfortable.
What disconcerts them is when, by mismanage- '
ment or blundering, scandals are created which
occasion an outcry so great that it becomes impos-
sible for them, without exciting comment, to avoid
raising their eyelids and looking straight at things.
If the ability of all our public men were equal to
that of the most capable—in fact, were the As-
sembly equal in capacity to any that has preceded
it— such clamours would not occur. But there is
a lot of incompetence and mismanagement. Affairs
are not so neatly managed as they might be ;
explanations which should be supremely adroit
are often provokingly clumsy, and, instead of
allaying, only aggravate suspicions. Then, again,
the old style of Sydney journalism is passing away.
The venerable thumb-twiddling policy of huddling’
hp unpleasant facts, and dismissing acts of
scoundrelism and hypocritical false pretences with
a gentle expression of opinion that they are “ un-
becoming,” has been satirised until it is no longer
available. The plain speaking, and downright
expressions of The Bulletin has dragged even
the S. M, Herald, despite every evidence of
reluctance and discomfiture, out of its old groove,
and in all journalistic quarters an imitative system
of calling things, at leust approximately, by their
right names, has been inaugurated.
* * *
There is no doubt that, owing principally to
these conditions all combined, public affairs ap-
proach a climax. We have remarked on previous
occasions that the air is full of rumours. Public
men begin to realize that they move in an atmos-
phere tainted, if not with corruption, with sus-
picion of corruption. This condition of affairs is
no longer denied. That stage has been over-
passed. Very strong justification has been given
for some long-current rumours, by disclosures
made by Royal Commissioners, and Supreme
Court investigations, and Municipal Council ex-
plosions, all within the last twelve months.
People, having had demonstration that there was
ample justification for some prevalent rumours,
are ready to believe that there is equal foundation
for all.
* • •
The vital questions are : How do such rumours
originate, and how it happens that it is left for
accident to bring about absolute disclosures ? The
“ Confidence Trick ” explains everything. There
are incapable men and clumsy men “ in the swim,”
and these do not know how to hold their tongues.
They mistake the prevalent indisposition to know,
for unqualified approval. Shameless and con-
scienceless themselves, they imagine that all who
wink are equally shameless. This is a radical
error. What a man will wink at, is by no means
the test of what he will deliberately uphold. The
receiver who is prepared to “ ask no questions ” is
often a man who would talk about sending a con-
stable were he offered goods with the candid ex •
planation that they had been stolen. There has been
a lot of indiscreet whispering. A recent and pro-
minent example of the “ Confidence Trick ” came
to light in the Municipal Council lately. Once the
charges against John Davies, 0.M.G., were
openly declared, it transpired that they had been
known for a long time to almost every Alderman.
But they had been communicated “in confid-
fidence.” At the same moment that a representa-
tive of the citizens was apprised of circumstances
which, by their very nature, required from him
immediate and peremptory action, he found him-
self hampered by an obligation to do and say
nothing. This “Confidence Trick” it is which
is eating like a gangrene the reputations of our
public men, and cankering public confidence in
our most responsible institutions. One is met at
every street corner with circumstantial narratives
of alleged malfeasances, corrupt acts, rascalities,
favouritisms, plunderings, conspiracies, lies, aye,
and forgeries, by men who are in high and respon-
sible positions, and to whom, on public or formal
occasions, honours are done which would not be
too slight to offer to demigods. And one of the
strangest and most disturbing features of the case
is that, in many instances, the whisperers and
narrators are among the very men who come for-
ward to take part in any sycophantic or white-
washing demonstration wnicn is set afoot.
• • •
Told in confidence ! If half the stories which
are at the present time bandied from mouth to ear
throughout the oity be true, or have even a
foundation in truth, our public affairs are a mere
cesspit, and the chief-actors in them simply
political gutter-snipes. One cannot close one’s
ears to what is circumstantially narrated (in
confidence) by persons themselves in a position to
hear much—persons of character and integrity—
but who have themselves had the facts communi-
cated only “in strict confidence.” This man
holds a document which is a forgery, but the
power its possession conferred has been employed
to his own advantage at the expense—perhaps—of
the colony. He tells the story and exhibits th’e
document—in strict confidence. Another has been
applied to for money, under circumstances which
made the application a proffer of corrupt favour.
He avails himself of the favour, and lends tfce
money. Then he narrates the event, under seal
of confidence. A third procures an appointment
for a relative, and pays for the complaisance—caakr
He tells the story, in strict confidence. With re-
spect to billets, to contracts, to land-grabs, to
every trick and turn by which money can be made
—and divided —or advantages, social or official,
gained, a whole budget of narratives, all more or
liss circumstantial, and all having corruption,
hypocrisy, false pretences for their text, are
current at this momen+ throughout the oity. There
is hardly one influential man whose character is not
more or less smirched by these reports, either as
an originator, a participant, or sleeping accomqt
plioe in one transaction or other. Were all that
is stated, credible, honours may be bought, judge-
ships may be secured, contracts can be influenced,
distinctions are matters of barter and agreement;
and the involvement is so far-reaching thafc
scarcely Ji man who could and would speak from
personal knowledge of our infamy, dare do it, lest
the exposure lead to a general pulling down of
whitad walls, and a display of his own concealed
lot iff decaying bones. There is only one remedy
that we can perceive, and that, probably, not an
ensiroly effectual one. Let some independenl
member of Parliament, after due notice,
rise and formally ask for investigation of
the circumstances in every case of ru-
moured wrong-doing attributed to a man
in public station. It would be a grisly col-
lection of charges, indeed, that he would submit
for inquiry. Not charges made by him. But
charges repeated every day at every street corner.
The very existence of public honesty depends upon
a clearing up. These charges exist. They are no
figments of the imagination. If they be permitted
to circulate as at present, no law can check their
diffusion; and, unless contradicted, they will end
in being universally believed. Let them be for-
mulated. Let the Government take the matter up.
We declare without reserve that we do not regard
1 any matter, or any measure, as approaching in
importance to the State the necessity for clearing
up these infernal rumours. Let the things be
collected, not as charges, but as shameful reports
which dishonour the country as ghosts afflict a
locality, until they bp exorcised or laid; and let
them be investigated'to the roots. Invite state-
ments—all statements, any statements, anonymous
even—and have them dissected This would be an
extraordinary course. Granted. But extraordi-
nary remedies ane'demandad’whan the situation is
extraordinary. And at this moment the situation
is—in strict confidence—frightful.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Jedges' Salaries.
Mr. Slattery is wise in his generation. For an
attorney to stand well with the judges is a point in his
favour. And in no way could an attorney better in-
gratiate himself with tne judges than by addressing
himself to their pockets. Judges are flesh and blood,
and like all human i beings entertain a high notion of
their own value. „ There is probably not a salaried man
living who does not nourish the idea that his services
are worth more than ho gets for them. That judges
should be liberally paid is but right. But we think it
will be generally agreed that our Supreme Court
judges are handsomely remunerated—either in view
of the labours they undergo, or of the responsibilities
they sustain. The Chief Justice receives £2600 per
annum, and the Puisne Judges, each, £2OOO a year. In
addition, handsome allowances are made for travelling
expenses. These sums are certainly sufficient for all
purposes. A gentleman can maintain any reasonable
dignity on £2OOO a year. We decline to enter upon the
question of elevating the Judges, pecuniarily, above
temptation and above suspicion. £50,000 a year would
not suffice were the country unfortunate enough to
have upon the Bench a man who made the aocumnla.
tion of wealth his highest aim. It is notorious that
lust of money is stimulated, not appeased, by
feeding. The eagerest money-grubber, by fair
means or foul, is the man who, having a
hundred thousand pounds, is possessed by an ambition
to swell it to a million. Two thousand a year places
any honourable man beyond the reach of temptation
due to the pinch of unsatisfied legitimate wants. The
labours of judges are severe. Their faculties, while
they occupy the Bench, are kept at extreme tension;
They may not flag. They must concentrate their at.
tention upon the most tedious and wearisome details of
cases in which it is impossible to feel interest. But
their work is not continuous. Their holidays- are
longer and more frequent than those of any other class
of officials. Weighing all things—taking into con.
sideration the average of private incomes-the judges are
sufficiently paid. Still, it may be admitted that there
is room for additional expenditure. But that would be in
the interests of suitors, not of judges. The perpetual
interruptions due to vacations are a source of frightful
expense and annoyance to suitors. There seems no
good reason why the higher Courts should not sit
uninterruptedly. More judges would be required. If
Mr. Slattery wishes to work an improvement, lot him
just divert his attention from the judges, and give a
thought to suitors. It is a common error among
lawyers to imagine that suitors exist for the conveui.
ence of their tribe, and not they for the Convenience
of suitors. Let Mr. Slattery work out a scheme
whereby delays shall be lessened, and consequent
expenses to litigants reduced, and then, although their
Honors may not smile sweetly upon him, he will have
done good service to his fellow colonists.
To be Disposed of by Private Contract.
That is a very curious statement by Mayor Harris, to
the effect that when he was a candidate for re-election
to the Mayoral chair, Mr. John Davies informed him
that if he would withdraw a seat in the Upper Hons
MR. ALEXANDER STUART, M.P.
LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION. —(See page 7.)


ROUGHS AND COLDS.
The Best Cure for the above is Earn made hot,
and taken at bed-time.
P U E E BUM,
Extra Strong,
6a. Per Imperial Quart.
C. W. ROBERTS’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
MAEKET STEEET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. EOBEETS*
NEW BAE,
GEOEGE STEEET, NEAE MAEKET STEEET,
where you can obtain for
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEANDY, POET WINE.
SHEEKY, OE BEEE,
of each a Quality lhat cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. EOBEETS*
COLONIAL WINE DEPAETMENT,
is now open la
MAEKET STEEET.
EED OE WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Fiut.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PEODUCT OF AUSTEALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPAEMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OF ALL BEVEEAGES
MADE HOT IF EEQUIEED,
Please Call and Sample.
C. W. EOBEETS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
at 4a. 6d. per bottle, is unequalled.
VEEDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
POET MACQUAEIE EED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MUBBUMBIDGEE POET
2s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MAEKET STEEET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!!
FUENITUEE I I I
* "VTTT'HEBE is the best place to buy Furniture P”
T T This question is being asked every day, and
is of as much interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the “ Happy Couple " just setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kitchen
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE PARK
FURNISHING EXHIBITION
OXFORD STEEET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(Late HAEDY BEOTHEES).
EVE BY HOUSEHOLD EEQUISITE MAY BE HAD
HEBE.
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LAEGEST STOCK OPPEES THE BEST
SELECTION.
Th« Hyde Park Furnishing' Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FUENITUEE,
ELEGANT FUENITUEE,
WELL-MADE FUENITUEE,
DUEABLE FUENITUEE,
Go to the
HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION.
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability of
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilst the Prices will be found
MiA EVELLOUSLY LOWI
This vast Collection has been selected and manufac-
tured with a practical regard for Modern requirements
and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock; you will not be
asked to buy what yon do not; want; for our object is to
RETAIN as well as OBTAIN patronage; ana we rely
on the satisfaction, good opinion, and recommenda-
tion of our customers.
Remember these important facts
DUE STOCK 18 THE LARGEST.
OUE STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE,
OLE STOCK IS THE BEST,
• OUE STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST, -
» The utmost care is given to packing and forward*
ing all Goods bought at this Establishment, and Ooon
try Customers may rely upon the prompt execution at
their orders and the delivery of their purchase in *
sound condition.
would be conferred upon him; and that Mr. Davies was
authorised by Sir Henrt Parses and Sir John Eobkrt-
son to make the offer. It was currently reported at the
time that Mr. Davies was himself desirous of occupy-
ing the Mayoral chair, so that the inference suggested
is that the two Knights at the head of the Government
attached some special importance to Mr. Davies ob-
taining that position in lieu of Mr. Harris. It is
possible that the whole story will be denied, but
until it is not only denied but disbelieved, speculation
will run its course Are seats in the Legislative
Council of this colony really made objects of barter
and bargain in this fashion ? And is Mr. John Davies,
C.M.Q., the Government broker for the disposal of such
wares ? If there is barter and bargain ill one way,
why not in another ? How many occupants of seats in
the Upper House have received their entire in exchange
for some complaisance or commodity ? Can there be a
money value of a seat, as well as an accommodation
value If Mr. Harris was worthy of a place in the
Council, and it was desirable to secure his services for
the colony, as a member of that Chamber, why
was he not placed in it, John Davies, or no John
Davies ? Is it to be understood that any alderman who
may be able to secure a majority of votes for the
Mayoralty of Sydney, thereby achieves a position
which enables him to bid for a seat in the Legislative
Council, by making way for a Government whip or
electioneering agent to mount to the Mayoral chair ?
If the price of a seat in the Legislative Council is a
surrender of a Mayoralty, what is the price of a billet
tu the Lands ? The thing looks like a sum in simple
proportion.
a man wishes to have special influence with Heaven,
and have his case brought under the favourable con-
sideration of the Almighty, he must either bo under
sentence of death, or have been shot in the hand. The
•ondemned man is “ assiduous ” in bis devotions, and,
while his victim, who had no time for repentance, is
supposed to be wallowing in perdition, my noble peni-
tent marches to the drop, like GtfiTEAtf, tinging—
“ I’m going to the Lord*,
I’m a-going."
And what more shall we say, when the publie 'Worship of
the Catholic Churches of Victoria is suspended in order
to praise God far the escape of an old obstinate cleric ?
Everybody was glad the old gentleman wasn’t shot, but
what sane man in these days imagines there is a greater
commotion in Heaven over Bishop Goold’s fingers than
there would be over a lucky escape of a fighting Zulu ?
Bulletin Monthly Number.
In response to a Wish often communicated to us, and
to meet what seems to be a general desire, we have
arranged to issue, for despatch to friends at Home, a
Bulletin Monthly Number, comprising four weekly
parts, neatly bonnd in an attractive cover. Price, one
Shilling. Sold by all agents. On receipt of stamps for
the cost of the number (one shilling), together with 3d.
for postage, the Monthly Part will be forwarded to any
address in the United Kingdom or the United States.
The forthcoming Monthly Number will be published
this morning, in time for despatch by the next out-
going mail steamers.
By the way, when the Miss Small-pex-Sonthon
row was on, one of the doctors said he went into the
nurse’s room, and found a bottle under her pillow.
It smelt like whisky, and ha told her so, and further-
more pointed out to her the well-known Lome label
She then explained that Larne meant holy in the Celtic
tongue, while everybody knew that whisky was Irish
for water. The medical gentleman, however, took a
good lot of convincing. Some say he wasn’t convinced
pill the bottle was ran dry. But this is doubtless a libel.
A BIZARRE BAZAAR.
We had often seen it, but never knew that we
should come to buy it. We had marked it fluttering in
all weathers until its cover had been bleached from a
nobby brown to a pale parchment. Though of shabby
genteel appearance, its tendencies were undoubtedly
assertive. It was always to be found on the top of the
box, propped up either by a weather-stained “Hudi-
bras,” or a very old volume of that enthralling publi-
cation, the “ Nautical Almanac.” Coming into a legacy
one day, we bought the “ Hudibras," and in doing so.
poked our old friend down to the bottom of the box.
But, next time we passed, it had again npreared itself,
and, pillowed on Pollock’s “ Course of Time,” its leaves
once more rustled in the breezes. Finally, we bought
it, paid for it in lawful currency, and bore it home.
Then, locking ourselves up in our study, we took a seat
upon the flour-cask, and with knitted brows commenced
the study of a foreign language. We had seen the
German Fair advertised—and had invested in a‘second-
hand vocabulary of the Teuton tongue.
• • *
Being all bjit perfect in the language by the
morrow, we started for the “ Jahrmarkt," which signi-
fies fancy fair in the most approved Bismarckian. The
day was bright and breezy—one of those afternoons for
which striped stockings are especially manufactured,
and ornamental embroidery particularly designed;
weather in which the symmetrical shoes of ordinary
young ladies cause a momentary forgetfulness of
plain physiognomies and top-boots figures, of thirty,
two-inob waists and moulting ohfivelures. Having
been told by expectant relations that wo had lived long
onongh, wa journeyed to the Exhibition in a tram-car,
diverting our thoughts from worldly matters the while
by a diligent study of our Ahn’s “First Course.”
Arrived at our destination, we offered up a prayer for
our provident escape from an untimely end, and enter-
ing the gates of Prince Alfred Park, approached the
stately pile which has so long been trembling in the
balance between a “celebration" temple and a metropoli-
tan meat-market. We are afraid its fate ia sealed now,
though. Since it has been the scene of the deliriously
enthusiastic welcome to the Premier, care will be taken
that no meat shall pollute the monument. And it has
been proved that no amount of “ pitch ” can defile it.
We have an affection for the “Old Exhibition." For
many years we enjoyed in it the annual joke of Joubert.
we have beheld in its classic preeinots John Davies,
John Harris, and G. L. Carter mingling in friendship
together, and marching round, sword in hand, to the
enlivening strains of “ Boyne Water." Upon its floor
we have seen royalty butting about in the mazy dance;
have beheld a noble earl smile, and heard a gallant
commander hiccup. We have seen a Fayre there, too.
Bartlemy. That was an unfortunate speculation for
the promoters, but for us it was a thing of beauty,
and a joy while it lasted. We can hear even
now the rum-deluged voice of the beadle the
hacking laugh of the consumptive olown. It was
cold and windy weather then, showery and gritty, and
the draught oame swishing through the building at
such a rate, that, directly the drama was over, the
Richardson show-girls used to huddle together in their
canvas dressing-room, wrap their cotton tights in the
11 open country " (unhooked by the property man for
that purpose), and warm themselves with hot colonial
beer, prepared by the “ third mob " with the aid of a
tin “ quart ’’ and a tallow candle. A gay old fair that
was, in no mistake. Nearly all the stalls sold oyrstal-
lized toothache, and those that didn’t sell sweets sold
imitation jewellery and the public. All the sellers
were in oostnme, too; and it was a pleasant touch of
nature, about twelve o’clock in the day, to observe
Marie Antoinette " wolfing" sausages and mashed
potatoes, and to mark Linda di Chamounix snapping
up great blocks of tripe from out a twenty-four inch
pudding basin. However, not even all these attractions
could save Bartlemy. An imperfectly educated people
was indifferent, and it was doomed from the jump.
Another Instance of worthy and enlightened enterprises
being nipped in the bud by an nuappreoiative and
grovelling public.
• • •
And yet the “Jahrmarkt” was not a failure,
although it had no beadle; it coined money, although
it had no tights. Bartlemy was the fair of the people—
who wouldn’t oome; the “Jahrmarkt" was the Mart
of JE ithetioism, to whioh a paradoxical public rolled up.
It was close upon four as we entered the German Fair.
Going in at the first entrance we oame to, we
eaconntered a gentleman with a vlolinoello. He was a
mild-faced man, with a large brown eye of cosi-like
softness. We thought he was a Teuton by his boots—
but his spectacles decided us. Here was a chance to
address him in his native tongue. Clutching the
vocabulary nervously, we said—” Guten morgen, mein
herr.” Then, as an afterthought—“ Wie befiuden si
fich ? ” to whioh he glibly responded something whioh
sounded like “ Seemelywoolandsea." Unwilling to be
crashed at the start, and wishing to enquire the way in,
we darted a hurried glance at the book, and said—" Hast
du ulles gebraoht, was znm Thee gehort." ** Where
am I to carry them ? " enquired he in excellent English,
and with a smile. “ Carry what ? ” we said, faintly.
“ The tea-things,” he replied. Like a flash we were
out on to the gravel walk, and as the full blaze of the
sun shed its glamoar on the vocabulary we foon d we
had tnrned over the wrong leaf, and asked him—“ Have
yon carried in the tea-things ? ”
• • •
The next door was the portal of entrance
proper—that in whioh we met the violincello gentle-
man being saored to the band and chorus. The
interior was very prettily decorated. The stalls ware
arranged so as to form a narrow street right
up to the stage—the fountain in the centra of
the promenade not only having been persuaded
to play, but being beautifully embellished with
plants and gaily-hung Christmas trass. We
were very glad to see the fountain playing again.
It will by no means always condescend to do so dis-
creetly. For there is a legend to the effect that when
turned on at the last Orange Celebration, it not only
deluged the chorus, but took (in a double sense) all the
starch out of the Eight Worthy Grand Master. To the
right -and left, as we entered, were the refreshment
stalls. Visions of “ eauer-kraut" at enoe gladdened our
hearts. German sausage, we were sure, we oould obtain
—fancy a German fair without German sausage!—and
la&er wo oonld have bet on. To the left stall, then, to
revel in the dainties which have made an empire famous.
No need of the vocabulary hero, thank Heaven I To a
portly lady in white muslin with a black Swiss bodice—
“ Geben sio di eaur.kraut mit lager bier, fraulein,
gefallig Ist ? ” 11 Did you say buns, sir ? ’’ enquired the
lady. “ Madam," wo rejoined, “pray do not disillusionise
us. Is, or is this not, a German fair ? ” “ Yes, air;
but I’ve only been taken on to help. What’ll you try,
sir ? ” It was a painful thing. Our eyes reamed over
the refreshment department, but we could see, at
once, that it was bereft of a National flavour.
There were little dry sandwiches, with the mustard
“breaking out’’ at the top, Sydney sponge-cake
(that alluring viand!) Australian sixpenny ices, Pyr-
mont pie, and that delightful ginger-beer which is so
delicately and artistically flavoured with india-rubber.
Wo turned sadly away to the opposite stall. There, a
stout lady, in black alpaca trimmed with silver, was
catering corned beef and pickles ; while, at a small
marble table in front, a pretty little child, in a Hun-
garian costume, was stoking herself with bread and
marmalade. “ Was foil ich ihnen vortegf n? ” said the
corned beef lady; and she pointed to a dish containing
mutton-pies—those pies that the maker inserts gravy
Into by boring a hole in the centre of them and apply,
ing a pot with a long spout, jnst as though he were
watering a garden. A number of feeble flowers were
dotted about, and there was a dreary waste of impossible
oranges. That foreign luxury, the Abernethy biscuit,
was painfully prominent; and to propitiate the counter-
lady, we purchased sixpenny-worth of this luscious
edible, and having furthermore invested in that Con-
tinental beverage known as ginger-ale, we passed sadly
on to other regions.
• • •
Here, however, was food for pleasure, though
the joy of the enquiring visitor was apt to be occasion,
ally tinged wth disappointment. For instance, at the
first stall, which was elaborately labelled “ Newcastle,’’
there was nothing on sale at all suggestive of that
entrancing Port. There was not a suspicion of coal or
coal dust, about it. A pleasant-looking, rather large
matron, and three ladles, who were very nioey-pioey,
presided. Their costumes were severely Tyrolean.
That is, each fair stall-keeper appeared to have dived
into Dada’s shirt-drawer, altered the paternal garments
to suit, and made up with red silk handkerchiefs and
dolls’ aprons. Further on, retaking pin-cushions and
photo-frames, were three little boys, commanded by an
elderly lady in a long red waistcoat and a black petti-
coat. George IV. shoes, and a coiffure composed of a
very large multi-coloured pen-wiper, and a number of
silver ornaments, her attire. This is the
costume of a Friesland servant-maid—thongh whether
it is the one she washes in, or the rig in which she
entertains her soldier, is a point upon which we feel
rather hazv. The next stall may be fairly credited
with a national character. It contained Berlin wool
and childrens' playthings. And, if Berlin wool is not
Gorman, why, what in thunder is ? We believe there
are sceptics on this point, but we make a point of
always believing in old traditions. That is why three
men are buried in our baak-yard for saying that
Joshua never made the sun stand still, and the parson
who insinuated, iin our presence, that all the French
polishers didn’t come from France is now being kissed
by the Mossman’s Bay wavelets.
• • •
The stall we liked best was one, the front of
which bore a Teutonic legend. It was, ss nearly as we
can make out, “ Csrudhoolen," which is possibly Ger-
man for wooden flower-pots, as that is what they sold
there. “Lovely woman ” mustered here in great force,
so having taken a surreptitious turn at the vocabulary,
we lingered. One of these ladies was a beautiful
brunette, —the sort of girl who, when yon meat her at
the band in earnest conversation with a warrior in dis-
guise, causes you to hate that officer with a hatred
known only in a “ Morsrue ” melodrama. She was
dressed as a “ dark girl ” should be—in blue; had a
broad-leaved fawn-coloured plush hat with a magni-
floent feather, a muslin apron, long earrings, and the
Inevitable red silk handkerchief. Another sported a
black hat with a Lancashire-Witch crown, a blue and
white skirt, and a black bodice, and resembled the
musical chambermaid who appears in “ Lichen and
Friohen,” for the comic man’s benefit “on this occasion
only." The third of these graces was exceedingly
attractive—prettier, in fact, than the “Lingering
Maiden ’’ in the time-payment oleographs. She wore
a broad straw hat tnrned up with crimson satin, and
enhancing the beauty of her oostnme was the big
buckle of the “first robber,’’ which gleamed upon her
waist. A sweet picture. There was nothing (native or
foreign) upon that stall that any mortal in his senses
could possiHv require, but notwithstanding this we
edged np. We felt bold then, as we had several rather
good things already wrapped up for delivery. The plush
hat lady approaches. Now istbetime. Weholdourflrst
finger between pages 90 and 91. Here we know “ Das
Wetter” to be found—the polite introductory
meteorological pitch. We look at her from
behind a linen tulip. She smiles. Now for It.
j “ Die sonne fiiogt nn sich zu sdegon ’’—the
1“ sun is coming out ’’—a poetic and appropriate com-
mencement. The lady smiles again, and submits
silently to our notice a small rustic object that re-
sembles a Liliputian hat-rack. Another try—“ Wie
alt mag ibr dbelm sein ?’’ “Do veu 'know him. sir ?’’
said she. Something was evidently wrong. Ontjglance
at the vocabulary explained it. Instead of a remark
about the mildness of the temperature, we had
abruptly put the following .—•• How old may
your uncle be ? ” Abashed at this failure we purchased
a timber oard-oase, and edged off.
• • •
A booth bearing the motto (another crusher !)
“Hier wird gewahrsagbt," was also attractive. One
lady here appeared to have just looked in to do a stroke
for her Church while Faust was having a smoke in the
back garden. A most fascinating Gretohen. Complete
even to the hanging bag in which she keeps the
“extras" of her (SingerV) spinning wheel. One
lady here had a “Queen of the Mav " hat with enough
ribbons on it to accoutre a round dozen of George the
Third’s recruiting sergeants. This was a Lubeck
peasant woman. She was associated with another
rustic lady, who, from the quantity of gold and silver
lace about her oostnme, would seem to have made a
rise lately out of the recent high price of butter. One
stall was devoted to sewing machines, and was presided
over by three Martha-like ladies of venerable appear-
. anoe, who were fittingly assisted by three miniature
Marguerites. The sight of the sewing-machines, how-
ever, recalling to our minds the unsatisfactory condi-
tion of our own instalment card, we passed on to
inspect the fountain. This was the most attractive
inanimate thing in the Fair, the arrangement of the
evergreens being suggestive of that
“ . . . Valley whore a brook
Its winding course in summer took ;’’
And the effect of the Christmas trees blooming in
schnapps-cases recalled to our travelled mind the sylvan
glories of Palmiste Island. Very pretty, too, was a
young lady is a silver-braided Tyrolean hat and a cos-
tume to the last extent tra-la-la-lsh—the principal
attraction of whose stall appeared to be a large portrait
of “ a gentleman in spectacles," with numerous photo-
graphs of the same party. Wo wonder who he was ?
Evidently “somebody.” Author of aa unpublished
drama, probably—or the patentee of a pop-gun. These
are only the wildest surmises, however. For the old
gentlemen wasn’t labelled.
• • •
In the course of the afternoon the German band ap-
reared upon the stage and discoursed sweet music.
While we were listening, a little Teuton—we read his
nationality in his facial expression—approached us with
a tray bearing upon it a number of bottles of that rare
Dutch curiosity, known to us as Bimmel's Lavender
Water. As he drew near, we whispered "Wasist zu
namen?" which we considered to be the language. To
which he replied “I sia’t one of them, sir, I’ve only
come here to help" Two little tots, however, who
were playing with a “ horse-and-cart" near the fountain,
notwithstanding their tender ages, spoke the language,
all things considered, quite as well as we did; and what
is strange, neither of them seemed to require a vocabu-
lary 1
« * «
The German Fair was, like the rooenfc enterprises
at St. Mary’s and the Garden Palace, in aid of a church.
It was, however, a considerably quieter, and we may add
a considerably less Hoabitish affair, than either or the
Olda Englishe Fayres in question. At the “Jahr-
markt ’’ yon were neither chaffed when yon didn’t buy
nor kissed when you did. Nobody kissed us, anyway,
notwithstanding that we invested to such an extent
tk.at this week we can’t see our grocer’s forehead for
wrinkles. Still, without these lures to commerce, the
German ladies have raked in a very large amount of
money ; enough, we should say—since for a good purpose
It has been collected—to purchase trumps and halos for
the whole of our German community. And this is all
we have to say, except that if our German is not found
to be quite up to the knocker, the blame must rest on
the “ Vocabulary," which, we may add, is now for sale,
cheap, together with two pincushions, a photo-stand, a
bleating (foil, and a pair of green wool mittens..
INTAGLIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
In the City.
tn the City,
Heart fall of love and pity,
A poet passed along,
Down the swarming street.
Bearing in his hand a flower
Exhaling odour sweet;
And the air aronnd him beat
The melody of song.
He thought of the dear wife
Who had plucked the flower, as dew
Fell and the stars began to shine
On the garden of his home anew.
1 Thank Heaven that home is mine 1
Thank Heaven for my life 1"
As the praise oame half aloud
Through his lips, and the debt
Of love made him rejoice,
A structi pet in the crowd
Flaunting, stopped, and met
Him, and said, in her raucous voice,
* My dear, give me that flower I"
Seeming to crave it.
Gently he gave it—
Fained with compassion—knowing well
The fierce insistent hell
Whose coals she ever trod.
And she smelt the flower, and cried “ My Qod I
This is the flower I used to curl
And twine about my hair
When a tiny girl.
And my days were fair.
And nay mother smiled
In pride of her child—
-1 was a child once ! And this flower
Oh, what is its power ?"
And she burst into floods of weeping
And kissed the flower, and, keeping
It near her brandy-blearod eyes.
Silenced by shattering surprise.
Went back to her filthy den.
And one of the fouler men
By whom her soul was drowned
In sin, and honour made jest,
Bose up from the reek
Of his orgies and found
Her- stone-dead
On the bed.
And the trail of those tears
Still wet in the paint on her cheek;
With the Poet’s flower on her breast.
Past trouble, past pity.
Past turbulent years.
And at rest
In the City.


ESTABLISHED
Cl 0 W L E EN3 P
AND
BRICK WOE
CiMPEEDOWII, NE;
Prioe Lint on applt
X
f
■
: f >• iv
j > V-.
'A
m
I’’
m
V.
nMOKE EUREKA
THE PARAGON OP PE
FINER THAN THE
the tobacco or
destined to eclipse AE
ALL OTHER BE/
THE ONLY TOBACCO COMBIN
OP QUALITY WITH ECON(
Each Plug is stamped with the i
SMOKERS SEE THAT YO
TAKE NO OTHEI
MANUFACTUE
SAYWELL'S TOBACCO
AT THE EAGLE 1
KENT AND CLAEENC
And cam be obtained wholesale a!
Park-street, Sydi
Sold Retail everywhere, and will b
as soon as its merits becc
EUREKA TOBA(
Registered according to Act of P
the pubho against spurious and w
MADDOCK’S SELECI
381 GEORGE BTE
THIS Library is supplied regul
Steamer with the latest Pal
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, P(
the higher class of Fiction; also, t
zincs and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway
munioation with Sydney, every fac
THE HABWi
FIBRE CHAIR S
Possessing all the qualities of a
Strength, Durability, Ease, Bea
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made
known fibres and a perfectly
and after fifteen years’ oonstanl
positively! as to its merits. It oi
neither will exposure to sun or rai
Awarded Gold Medal at the li
Massachusetts Charitable Meehan
POE RE-SEATING, it is ui
house, store, and office, are Chain
Any person can re-seat and mi
a chair that is otherwise worthli
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE
AGENTS WANTED IN EVI
i
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be ms
or boy in his own neighbourhood,
NICHOLS &
GENERAL AUENT3 FOE
I
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERC
COALCLLFF C
18s. FEB TON NET, delivered wit
„ new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well trt
fi ™ tha « “J O «ior It neither has the objectionable amok
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a char
steak none of that disagreeable odour of tha unwholesome fumes *ivei
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLE
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO
ALLAN A. MARSHAL
BONACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAC
8 and 9 MACQUARIE
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS
DIVING GEAR, &o.
'yvsro.
H"/VS
Celebrated; CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers ©f the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS & SPECIAL
Established
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitu
nHkIiPEB, and MOT?.*’ EPPP/VTIVU *.l,
hN fc . thecrea:
bEMUNIEI
ONE OP THE WORLD’,
OARSMEN.
XN a recent conversation in Kin
» representative of one of the \
the United States, Mr. Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to i
world, rave the fnllnwim. l,<> ~„i.
FEREIER’S BAKING POWDER,
If
TRADE
MARK
4
4
MANUFACTORY;
Qeobqe-street West, Sydney.
SELF EAI? ING FLOUE
YEAST POWDEE.
["Established 30 Ye,
H OD
GSON’S WHII
601, GEORGE STREET
near Goulburn-atru
B. H O D O S
Wholesale and Bet
WHIP THONG MANUPAC
Every Description of Kangaroo and (
Made to Order.
LJlill
116701 H . H I L D
6-70
fHIIDER
b oqt
MMnMn


Chemists and Dm
ABRAHAM’S PILLS
Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER B
H
9*.
St
£/0
S//1
CAUTION.—Owing to the imn
Pills have commanded, it has ini
dangerous imitations. A»k for
J. S. ABRAHAM’S
and see that each box, by whom*
inventor’s name and trade mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amer
Linctas, you will not be able to i
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177
Punch’s Hotel. _
fftIOKLE TOUR APPETIT
JL trallan Relish, made by V
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
AtLAS
FOUNDRY & I
COMPANY
HAY-STREET, SYI
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, an
and Brass Founders, Copp'
wrights. The above firm are pre
contracts for the manufacture of Mi
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Wor
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining,
other descriptions of Machinery, t
meftts.
N.B. —Castings executed with
price givep %>r metal.
T U R KISH B J
OPEN DAILY (Sundays exoeptec
from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; for Ladies, f
Bathers not admitted later than one 1
THE* BATHS have been pron
beneficial to all persons sufferir
gout, neuralgia, dsypepsia, indiges
and all complaints of this nature,
healthy, invigorating renewing of
persons obliged to lead sedentary li'
Try it, and experience its wonderi
Prices of Admission—Single bath, i
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gontleme
ticket, £5. Family tickets as p
C. A. SHE
Bligh-street.
♦
George
(Formerly of Georgi
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAR 1
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCAI
where every article ia the above lini
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED 1
n n o o»
SINGER'S SEWING
One Ounce of Fact is Worth a T
SINGER’S SEWING 1
As is usual, where ever and whe:
Highest Possible Av
Public Cmpu
pHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Ptm<
Directors :
Edward Lord, Eaq., Chairman; "V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Ji
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq. ; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willi:
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Annidale, Ballina, B;
Bourke, Bnndarra, Cassills, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulb
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton, South Graflou, Temora, Tf
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wailsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gynrpie, Ipswich, Mac
Eavenswood, UuflSkhampton, Stant
T«wnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Color
the World general
The mercantile ban:
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund..
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esc.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gldloy King, M.L.
AUDITORS
las. Soroggie, Esq
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 George-street, Brickfield I
Oiri lam bone; Qosford; ant
LONDON BANKE:
The National Provincial Ban
London Office: 15S Leaden
Director: Edward Chapi
Agent; Q. H. Alt xand
This bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mat
other produce shipped to England £
F. J. FOIi
OXFORD
TAILORING EBTABLIS
28 GEOEGE STREET,
A large and well-assorted stock cf 1
direct from the Manufacturers,
All Garments Cot n the Most F
PERFECT FIT GUAEi
Note the'Address
728 GEORGE STREET
NEAR HAYMAEK
wm ■■ ■■ ■ a tic p n n
Easiness Announcements
D’ABCY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pare, Palatable, and Pleasant.
TRADE
MARK
V'J
BARRE JOHNSTON AND CO.,
AGENTS,)
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PKIGFrASTD SAMPLES ON APPLICATION
IN BULK AND CASE.
SECTION VII -SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For their
cellection of Manufacturing Machine?, a first
order of merit—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For the Best
Family Sewing Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of construction and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
BEAD THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWAKDS.
Easy Terms, Weekly 2s 6d Weel
No Interest. No Addition to the
Chief Depot in New Son 1
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAB
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathurst, William-street
Balranald,
Dubbo,
GonlWrn. Auburn-street
Grafton, Victoria-street
Glen Innes, Grey-street
Hay, Laohlin-street
Kempsey, Smith-street
Lisraore, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mndg(
Mos»
Naran
Newoa
Barrai
Sjdne;
Tamwi
Waggt
ILLUSTRATED PRIG:
and
SAMPLES OF W(
Free rom any Dei
SINGER'S SEWING I
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & G
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF TEE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s, 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week-
And no interest oh
10 per cent, off for c
BEWARE OF IMITi
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER & *
THE ONLY " SING]
TURNER &
Opposite i
JOHNSTOf
SEWING MACHIN
HAYMARKEI
O
a:
<?
CD
uses
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE.
New Davi*.
HOWE.
COOLALTA WINP,
MOET’B PASSAGE, back of
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the frlnss or bo
the Bodega. Hot Spiced Wii
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p m.
JOHN RO i
{l5 Years Secretary of Schc
"QUEEN’S NAV 1
TOBACCON
90 KING STREET
Next to " Civet Ca
Articles of the best quality only
fully solicited.
-O
STAND
THI
KOCKWOOD, CaMPBE]
THE IMPORTED FXVK
“<HR THOMAS.
Winner of first Prize, April, 1879
national, 1879-80 Cham nion Chall
Judges Special Prize, 1883.
Teems : 4 Guineas eac
Every care taken, but no responsi
Mares met at Campbe'ltown on r
Season closes January Ist, 1833, v
be paid for and removed.
For further particulars apply to
The MAh
Kookv
w
ILLCOX
AND
Glb-BS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 Wa
HEBB L E V
416 GEORGE STI
FJ.MMBLB
STmOTYKA


w.
HOWARD SMITH AND SONS.
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o'clock,
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY,
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
PATENT PORTABLE GAS COMPANY
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL THE
Q COMPANY’S LAMPS
“ ISSUED AFTER THIS DATE
BEAR THEIR
TRADE MARK
ON THE
PG
TRADE MARJ< .BURNER.
The Company is now prepared to supply Lamps
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores, &o. The Lamps re-
quire no trimming, afford a brilliant light, superior to
coal gas or kerosene, at less cost, and can be carried in
the hand.
Samples may be seen, and lamps and fluid obtained,
at the Company’s Show Rooms. Storekeepers supplied.
Price lists, Ac., on application to Secretary.
A. O. SHELTON,
Secretary.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that be has opened those
contrally-sltnated Premises, next to the Qeorge-street
entrance Of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that tho
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
Au experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-streef.
■pj'EW PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and Splendid
SHOP, No. 607 A 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
the comer of Gonlburn-street, where he will be pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom ho renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladles, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN'S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE TOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur-
nishing a New Home or adding to the comforts of
your present Home, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M‘CREERY, & CO.,
who will furnish honsea on ths
EASIEST TIME-PATMEN T SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
Note the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M’CREERT, A CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
ARMSTRONG'S.
HYGIENIC & RELIABLE REMEDIES.
[Registered under the Trade Marks’ Act, 1865.]
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills
Stand UNRIVALLED as a GENERAL FAMILY
APERIENT for INDIESTION, DYSPEPSIA, Pains
in the Head and Chest, HABITUAL CONSTIPATION.
HEARTBURN,Giddiness, Wind Spaams, and Dizziness
of tho Eyes They promote a HEALTHY ACTION of
the STOMACH and BOWELS, cause neither griping
nor sickness, and are confidently recommended. Boxes,
Is., 23,, and 3s.
Armstrong's Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
la recognised by MEDICAL MEN as a triumph in
EMPIRICAL MEDICINE, being "the only known
core ’* for this hitherto intractable disease, relief from
pain, and arrest of hemorrhage. Can always be relied
upon in from 24 to 48 hours. 4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
Recommended by the highest MEDICAL AUTHO-
RITY AS A BLOOD RESTORATIVE and TONIC,
incombination with DANDELION and POTASH. For
the removal and permanent cure of all kind* of SKIN
DISEASE, ariaing from an impure or ov*r-aoi<J »tat* of
the BLOOD. Chronic RHEUMATISM, NERVOUS
DEBILItY, Aflfeotions of the CHEST and LIVER.
Price, sb. 6d , 10s. 64., 21s.
mr PRICE LISTS sent post free, and Goods for-
warded to all parts of the colony.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, Registered Chemist,
WHOLESALE and RETAIL DRUGGIST
160 PITT STREET,
Two Doors below Cbmpagdoni'e.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The bride of a Hobart landlord who has just
taken the fatal plunge has 30 stone of husband.
The Mayor of Forbes is peculiarly addicted to
defining himself as only Bill Stone, the painter.
Took M'Elhone last week made <£14,000 by one
speculation alone. Tallow pays John better than Old
Browne’s will. ...
Mr John Davies, C.M.G., Government whip, is
sitting as Chairman of the Friendly Societies’
Commission, which is investigating charges of corrup-
tion, , t
A well-known Hobart sharebroker attained his
ouh vear on 14th August. He has not been out of
Tasmania in his life, and has never even visited
Launceston.
Messrs. Alexander Btuart and William Owen,
barristers, have been appointed Queen’s Counsel. These
appointments have been learnt with great satisfaction—
in Dorlinghurst.
A notable individual, who lately disappeared
from the haunte of politicians, has again come to light.
He has been trying bard to drown his sorrows in the
flawing bowl, but is now a good deal better.
Richard Cobden failed as a dramatic author
before he went in for Political Economy and Free-
trade. The MB. farce, *• The Phrenologist,” was re-
jected by the managers of Covent Garden and Drury
Lane.
Mr. F. Smith (son of the Chief Justice of Tas-
mania) has come to Sydney to practise as a barrister.
The other members of the family leave for England, it
is said, in February. However, Sir Francis hasn’t yet
got his pension.
It is explained thnslyThey say he’s a money-
lender, and that he did the needful for a person in a
very high place, indeed. Hence the honour conferred
upon him. Nobody seems prepared to accept the
responsibility of its conferment.
Walker, the trance medium, has renounced
Spiritism, He sava, in effect that he has been all along
what the world playfully and without malice calls “ a
fraud,” and as he’s a fraud we shall probably soon
heard his taking holy orders—or entering Parliament.
The eminent Mr. Laurence Harnett is growing
on t of his silk tights. This bleeding country will,
therefore, foon have to provide new silk tights, or a
uew Sergeant-at-Arms Each of the legs of the present
distinguished official is. in the words of a lady at the
epening of Parliament, “a poem.”
It is said that the wife of a medico who figured
conspicuously in a colonial oonrt of law the other day
identical with the notorious Madeline Smith, the
alleged poisoner. Wo have plenty of snch celebrities
amongst us, Boulton, the woman impersonator, is in
Sydney; so is the perpetrator of the most colossal
forgeries in the history of the world.
Joseph Cook said to the Adelaide reporter who
interviewed him“ I think Australians are a remark-
able people for supporting lectures, and not‘merely
lectures of the popular sort but those of a kind in-
tended to instruct the people on difficult themes. He
meant, “remarkable people for supporting lecturers,
even when their lectures are insupportable ”
People who are interested in fashionable intelli-
gence will be glad to learn that Sieher, the German,
who prayed so earnestly for death, at his trial for the
attempted mnrder of the female hash-compounder of a
Melbourne pub. is in Pentridge making hats. His
weariness of life is now so painfully manifest that it
takes a steamer’s cable to keep him away from the
hominy trough.
The case of Charles Frost would be incredible;
only it’s true. At Brixton, London, in 1866, he was
sentenced to 10 years for robbery, but at the next ses-
sions found to be innocent, and released. In 1878 ne
was convicted of burglary at Colchester, but, after
serving two out of 15 years, again found innocent, and
pardoned fer what he had not done Turned loose,
without compensation, he neatly starved, tried to com-
mit suicide, aud was finally brought before the judges
again for that crime. Misfortune seems to be always a-
nipping Frost.
Peter Campbell, the holy bnsbwacker. has got
married. Thus the Age advertisement Married :
Campbell—Getrick. —At Melbourne, yesterday, at 11
o’clock am., Peter Campbell, lecturer, loyalist, and
friend of the people, to Elizabeth Agnes Qetnek, an
English lady, now of Melbourne.” We’re quite sorry
to notice that Peter doesn’t say he’s a gentleman.
However, as we know he’s a gentleman, perhaps it was
unnecessary. We knew Peter when wa were on the
wallaby. We used to hump round a 50lb. swag, ana
Peter, being a servant of the Looard, used to ride an
equine hat-rack, in the back-blocks.
Sir Henry Parkes is fast going down the hill*
Oa no occasion since his return has he said one good
thing • on the other hand, he has of late made speeches
which, had they proceeded from the mouth of such a
man. say, as the unhappy scapegoat, Ezekiel Baker,
would have been referred to as drivelling Idiooy-as
the gabblings of a speuter who should be put into strict
seclusion, and treated to a course of shower-baths. It
is an ominous fact that the Premier, perhaps for the
first time in his political career, used notes while
delivering his carefully-prepared, canting, gospel-sharp-
sh yabber about the Gallery question.
The other day, a well-known “man about
town,” who is in the Civil service, eloped with
another man’s wife. He was overtaken at the foot of
the mountains and thrashed within an inch of his life—
apparently with a telegraph pole-by the injured bus-
band. And that’s what’s the matter with him. The
delinquent tried very hard to make out that it was the
lady who had eloped with him. The “ men about
town” say it serves him right, for clearing to such a
place as the Blue Mountains where anybody would
naturally look for a honeymooning couple. The eloper
is now in bed and is being nursed by his “ better half
with the rough end of a brick.
The fallible organ of the infallible Archbishop
is continually making literary as well as theological
blunders. In last week’s Express we find this:— 1 Soon
after Mr. Gladstone's draft-bill on the Irish land ques-
tion appeared in the Sydney newspapers, an able writer
—supposed to be the distinguished senior professor of
the University—demonstrated in a paper published in
the Morning Herald that the provisions of the new
measure were not only consonant but almost identical
with the principles permeating the Justinian code.
Now everyone, except the innocent, though inspired,
contributors of the Express, knows that the Herald
article referred to was from the pen of Mr. W. B. Dailey.
Thus Friday’s S. M. Hkbald:— “The Hon.
John Lucas, M L. 0., who has gone to New Zealand
with the intention of proceeding from thence to America
and England for the benefit of his health, has tendered
the resignation of his office as a trustee of Scarborough
Park. When the boa. member held the position of
Minister of Mines the work of the Department was
unusually heavy, and it is understood that his close
attention to it laid the foundation of tha ailment which
has made it necessary for him to travel." On the
principle that a straw shows the direction of the wind,
this wonderful paragraph affords an excellent indica-
tion of the spirit by which the Herald is really gnided.
“ Eoment is needless."
Says the World :—“ A cause cSlehre is expected
to come before the law courts at no distant date in a
criminal form, which will relieve a noble family of high
and ancient lineage from the dreadful incubus of an
unfortunate marriage on the part of the present heir to
the title, the invalidity of which has been discovered
through the bigamous act of the woman.” The gentle-
man to whom this par. alludes is well known in Adelaide
as Lient.-Colonel Fitzroy. He was associate to the
Chief Justice, and only on the death of the late Duke of
Grafton left to reside in England. His brother, the
present duke, is childless ; therefore Colonel Fitzroy is
the heir presumptive to the dukedom and £200,000 a
year. No more—“ Prisoner, how do you plead t" now.
Mr. David Carson, “ bon.” secretary of the
Melbourne Juvenile Exhibition, writes asking us to
correct certain statements about that enterprise, and
thinks we should express regret at having published
misleading assertions. Mr. Carson states that the
committee was not self-appointed, but nominated at a
public meeting; that there were no free lunches; that
the committee paid full rent for the Exhibition build-
ing ; and that the show was a success. Mr. Carson is
quite right in believing that we regret having published
statements which prove to be incorrect. We are
always ready to express regret on such occasions. And
there’s another thing we regret in this instance, and
that is that Mr. Carson could not address us on the
subject without embodying in his letter a lot of the
language of Collingwood Flat.
Thomson, the poet of the Weekly Dispatch
and the author of “ The City of Dreadful Night," is
dead. At the time of his death he had a 200-line poem,
"A Voice from the Nile," accepted by the Fortnightly
Review, in which it has since appeared. Now that he
is dead, we may quote one stanza of his “To Our
Ladles of Death," for the terrible pathos of the poem
has a singular bearing upon his end—in misery, it is
said, and squalor
i “ Weary of erring in this desert life,
Weary of hoping hopes for ever vain,
Weary of struggling in all-sterile strife,
Weary of thought which maketh nothing plain,
I close my eyes and calm my panting breath,
And pray to thee, O ever quiet Death,
To come and soothe away my bittsr pain.”
With reference to the murdered Mr. Walter
Bsurke, it appears the deceased was not quite the
innocent harmless lamb which at the time he was de-
picted. Hare’s what Mr. Gladstone said about him, in
reply to a question, in the House of Commons on Jnne
15th:—Mr. Gladstone said that in January last the
i gentleman unhappily murdered last week evicted nine
1 families, consisting of sixty-elght parsons, for non-pay-
[ ment of rent. All these owed more than two years’
rent, and one of them nearly seven years’ rent, and
they refused altogether to pay. It was also stated that
they were led to believe that the Land League would
see to their rents and provide them with huts. It was
likewise stated that there wore no special hardships in
the case. In Galway he believed Mr. Boarke issued
ejectments against five tenants, of whom two appealed
to the court subsequently. It was on his return from
attending the court, when the tenants who appealed did
not appear, that he was shot.
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., has entered an action
for £20,000 damages against Mr. John Harris, Mayor
of Sydney, for alleged slapder in regard to the now
notorious Coonanbarra hat affair. It was generally
understood prior to the service of the writ, which
comes from the law-mill of Mr. Burdett Smith, M.P.,
that His Worship was) meditating criminal proceedings
against the hero of the railings episode. Mr. Salomons,
Q.C., Mr. Pilcher, and somebody else, have been re-
tained for Mr. Davies, and the public are eager to sea
the fun commence.Bßyithe wav, the Echo is informed
on good authority that when Mr. Harris was a candi-
date for re-election to the civic chair of Sydney, he was
waited upon by Mr. Davies, who also aspired to the
position, and who told Mr. Harris that he was commis-
sioned by Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John Robertson to
say that if he (Mr. Harris) would give way to Mr.
Davies he would forthwith be nominated to the Legisla-
tive Council. Mr. Harris declined the overture, and ii
now Mayor of Sydney, but not a member of the Legis-
lative Council.
Willie Brown, who shot himself at Tundebtin,
near Moondoorau, was the youngest son of one of the
wealthiest squatters in Australia. His father, a canny
Soot, came out to this country, some fifty years ago, as
a working overseer to the late Hon, James Walker, of
Wallerawang. and, after many years of patient toil and
thrift, succeeded in amassing a fortune second to none
in the colony. The old man is still alive, but stooped
and battered by Time. Although Willie, like the rest
of the family, was brought up in the strictest Presby-
terian dioipiline, he was always rather wild.
He had) what ief called a “.kink ’’ in
his nature. When he was only a boy of
twelve, he once threatened to shoot his father, for
saying something that vexed him. Willie never mar-
ried, but lived singly in good stylo at Tundebun. He
took a fancy to breed for the turf, and on more than
one occasion his ribbons came in first. He also took a
pride in breeding choice cattle, of which he possessed a
great number. Had he have had to work for his living,
he might be alive now. Fortune, like fancy, sometimes
kilts.
Mr. T. P. Pugh, the Police Magistrate, just now
transferred from Rockhampton to Warwick, is an old
Queensland identity. He came there in 1855, and at
once barnacled on to the Press. He was the Brisbane
correspondent of the Sydney Empire, that melancholy
spec, of Parkes’. He also became editor of the Press ;
and, four years later, i.e,, 1859, he became editor of the
Courier, then a once-a-week paper. Before Queensland
became a colony on its own hook, the Courier came
out three times a week, principally through Mr. Pugh’s
ability. Mr. T. B. Stephens was then proprietor.
In June, 1861, Mr. Pugh, without a day’s notice, brought
out the Courier as a daily. In 1833, Mr. Pugh started
the weekly Herald. In the same year ho was eleotet
member for Brisbane, and continued a Parliamentary re-
presentative until 1868, being for three years Chairman
of Committees. In 1874, he was appointed Police
Magistrate for Qundiwindi. Eighteen months after-
wards, he was transferred to Rockhampton. Mr. Pugh
is the oldest pressman of Queensland, and the founder
of Pugh’s Almanack, which was first published in a
sheet form in 1857, and is now one of the beat-known of
Northern publications.
“ Mr. M‘Bihone ; And, in the name of God, what
ability had Kendall, the poet, who had now gone to the
other world, for dealing with forestry ? How could they
expect the work to be done when such men were
appointed? He himself might as well bo put in the
position of the Colonial Secretary."— Herald Report.
A telegram to Tuesday’s daily papers states
that: “A clerical looking man, giving the name of
Arthur Graves, and representing himself as a Church
of England clergyman, lately of the Sandhurst district,
was arrested on Monday, at Melbourne, on three
charges of obtaining money by false pretences. The
prisoner is alleged to have obtained a bag of oysters,
value £2 10s. and 10s. in change from some person in
Geelong by means of valueless cheques, each of £5, in
the name of J. W. Heath, of Melbourne." Mr. Arthur
Graves first put foot in the colonies on N.Z. soil, land-
ing at Dunedin about two and a half years ago. With
him he brought letters of introduction to the present
Bishop of Dunedin. After his first week’s stay, cash
running short, he made the acn uaintance of Mr. George
Elliott, the broker, and placed before that astute and
high-toned gentleman his position, requesting him to
negotiate a bill for £25 (awaiting arrival of his remit-
tanoes). Elliott answered him to the effect
that if ho got the Bishop's endorsement to tbe
bill he would be only too happy to find
the money asked for. The following morning
the 11 reverend " Graves put in an appearance about 11
a.m. with the necessary document •• backed by the
Bishop." The endorsement was a ludicrous imitation
of the prelate’s signature. "All right," said Elliott,
•• come and lunch with me at one at the Exchange, and
I’ll write you a cheque." Of course the unsuspecting
divine was punctual, and at the trysting-plaee found
Elliott and a friend. The usual introduction took
place, and soon they were seated at the festive board.
After the parson had satisfied the inner man, and had
raged about the beautiful scenery of New Zealand, the
cynical Elliott inquired: " Well, do you feel happy
•• Hematkably so—how could one feel otherwise in such
agreeable company ?" replied the Beau Brummellsh
forger. Whereupon Blllott said he had to return to the
office, and Elliott’s friend (who was attached to the
detective force) playfully smacked his reverence on the
shoulder with—“ Bay, come and spend the rest of the
afternoon at my rooms." “ Only too happy,” ejacu-
lated the reverend Arthur Graves, who innocently
pranced into cell number something or other at the
Dunedin watch-house. Graves tried the “ insanity "
plea, but it was too thin. He got twelve months.
A recent “ Celebrity at Home ” dealt with in the
London World is ** Sir Samuel Wilson at Hughenden
Manor," This production is a remarkable one, if only
to to show how it is possible in journalism to “ come
the complete flunkey." As a literary effort it is about
on a par with “ Morty’s ” last graphic description of
his adventures in a patrician pantry, and the general
tone of the article is curiously suggestive of the enthu-
siastic notices which caterers so frequently receive at
the hands of the Sydney dailies. It begins by gently
stating that Sir Samuel is a “ compact man of fifty,"
who ‘‘owesnothing to tradition;" and finally disposes
of the great man’s pedigree hy the breathlessly hurried
statement that “ Samuel Wilson was the sixth son of
his father." After being only moderately successful in
gold-digging, Samuel, it seems “ was determined to
sell his Irish patrimony, and employ his hy no mean.? large
capital in sheep-farming .” There is no record of what
this patrimony was, but as Sir Samuel was the sixth
son of an Irish farmer, we shouldn’t be surprised to
hear that it consisted of the pitchfork of his sire and
the boots of his uncle, er that his ancestral halls were
an inverted fishing boat. The writer gives Sir Samuel
credit for his forbearance in preserving everything in
the writing-room as they were left by their former in-
significant proprietor. “ Sir Saraael Wilson’s sense
of reverence," he says, “ has gone so far as
to endure in the library the hideous yellow
haberdashery; but be was compelled to draw the
lino at the gold-plaitered paper of the draw-
ing-room, and the gorgeous curtains thereof." 11 1
Very good of the “ Celebrity " to consent to keep about
him even these relice of bis nnworthy predeceases in
the occupation of Hughonden I Personally, we are
amazed at his condeaoension I Towards the end of the
sketch, however, the gravity of the author appears
suddenly to deeert him, for he says :— •* The popularity
he long enjoyed in Australia is likely to be continued to
him here, tor he combines with his Conservative faith
very broad views en a variety of subjects." “ Popu-
larity " is good, but “ broad views on a variety of sub-
jects" is immense. To show that this is palpable
“ guiver," which all London but Sir Salmon must have
Soiled at, we will quote a few lines from “ Nicholas
’ickleby." The part is where poor Kate, accompanied
by her mother, goes to seek a billet as lady-companion
at Mrs. Wititterly’s. " * Mrs. Wititterly,’ said her
husband, addressing himself to Mrs. Nlckleby, ‘is
sought after and courted by glittering crowds and
brilliant circles. She is excited by the opera, the
drama, the fine arts, the—the —the— * ‘The nobility,
my love,’ interposed Mrs Wititterly. ‘The nobility, of
course,’ said Mr. Wititterly. • And the military. She
forms and erpresses an immense variety of opinions on an
immense variety of subjects. It some people in public
life were acquainted with Mrs. Wititterly’s real opinion
of them, they would not hold their heads, perhaps,
quite so high as they do.’ ’’ Well, we have beard a lot
about the degradation of the colonial Press, bnt we
think Sir Samuel Wilson would have had some difficulty
in getting the article we have airily noticed inserted out
here— even in the Sydney Daily Telegraph.
In one shape or another no man is so much be-
fore the public of South Australia as E. T. Smith. He
is a Justice of the Peace, member of Parliament,
Mayor of Adelaide, and by many it is believed that his
real title would be Smith 1., by the grace of Beer, King
of South Australia and its dependencies. Not so long
ago this autocrat was a poverty-stricken commission
agent away down in Blvth-street, hanging on to bigger
men and getting up raffles for rifles. Very pinched in-
deed as to circumstances, he at last found constant
employment as traveller for Edward Logne. a well-to-
do good-natured Hibernian brewer in Kent Town.
Smith, made wiser by the cruelty of failure, and pos-
sessing good business capacities, took kindly to malt
liquor, and soon won the confidence of his employer.
By-and-by he became, as much as any man can become,
indispensable at Logue’s brewery. In the nick of time
(for Smith) Logne died. His children were young.
The executors arranged that Smith should carry on the
business, and shortly Logne was forgotten in the pre-
vailing Smithian atmosphere. When, years after.
Smith's term had expired, he bought a large corner
block nearer the city, and built a hideous, roomy
brewery for himself. No business remained to be dons
at the,old place, for it followed Jthe new master bodily.
After prospering awhile. Smith visited the old country
and with the assistance of his wealthy father-in-law,
Spicer the hard and wily, made many lucky speculations
in malt. He also sent out a drinking fountain which
remains to this day dismally spouting in the Triangle
opposite the gaol-like Kent Town Brewery. Returning to
the colony, Smith was again elected member for East
Torrens, and speedily began that Mayoral career which
has vastly benefited Adelaide. Smith has always shown
a happy knack of espousing the best side of public
questions, and gives with a liberality which, though
somewhat ostentations, has earaed him everlasting
gratitude throughout the colony. Mayoral work is the
popular brewer’s hobby. His time is now pretty well
so consumed; and really, seated in his Council Chamber 1
Smith is more powerful than the Governor at Govern-
ment House. E. T. Smith’s policy has invariably lain
in the direction of progress—nulla vestigia retrersum.
Ho would do everything in his power to advance and
beautify the city—to make it a delectable abode —to
bring Adelaide up to the level of the best cities in all
modern improvements and convenient garniture. The
Mayor’s office is besieged daily during appointed hours
by numbers who wish an interview for all purposes —
from begging upwards. The rumoured visit of the
Prince of Wales, and the very colonial vision of a possible
knighthood were factors primarily in luring E. T.
Smith Mayorwarde. But, nevertheless, such a destiny
is now accepted as a proper public fact, not only by
the man himself, but by the whole civic body. If a vote
on the subject were taken this day, E. T. Smith would
very likely be voted Mayor for his life-time of the city
of Adelaide. He is cursed with an unfortunately haw-
haw method of speech, entertains right royally, and
owns, perhaps, the best pair of carriage-horses in the
colony.
• « •
Mr. L. M. Bayless was absent from Sydney
fourteen weeks, during which he travelled about 21.000
miles Skobeloif was in company with a woman when
he died. The woman was arrested, and held in custody
while an inquiry took place as to whether the General
had met with foul play, by poison or otherwise. The
authorities discharged her in a day or two Mr. J. A.
Levey, Secretary of the Victorian Bowing Association,
(brother of George Collins Levey) was the other day
married to Miss Grice, daughter of Mr. Bichard Grice,
the Melbourne merchant.
Said the Texas sheriff, as he was about to spring
the trap, “ Kick and squirm as much as you can. There's
about four thousand people present, and we want'em to
have all the fan possible."
John Lucas has’ gone to test the N.Z. springs.
His own springs here he has sufficiently tested.
In the Bye, Bar, Nose, and Throat Diseases,
consult Dr. SI’ANICH, Aurist to His Excellency, Lord
Augustus Loftus, Governor of Now South Wales, who
will give the benefit of his Services Gratis to the Poor,
without recommendation, on TUESDAYS and SATUR-
DAYS, at 50 Wynyard-squaro Sydney.
At the New Zealand Exhibition, just concluded,
Singer's Sawing Machines have carried everything be-
fore them, taking a first Order of merit, two gold medals,
and two silver medals. The New Davis was awarded a
silver medal.
BATES' DANDELION COCOA is destined to become
the most favourite of all household beverages. It com.
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa with
the well-known eurative powers of the Dandelion flower;
consequently is invaluable for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, indigestion, debility, Ac. Ask for a sample
packet from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
COULTER, Sole Agent. 107 Sussex Street. —Advt
Ingham’s Euphorbia Pilulifeba. — New
Queensland care for Asthma, Bronchitis, and all chest
affections. Testimony already received from hundreds
as to the wonderful curative powers of the Herb. No
case hopeless. Instant relief obtained. Prepared in
essence also, as an Anti-Asthmatical Tobacco. Notice
As there are poisonous species of Euphorbia, bo careful
to get that scientifically prepared only by Thomas
Ingham. See advertisement. Apply J, Manning,
Agent for Thos. Ingham, 130 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
—Anvr.
Beware of unscrupulous imitators and false
statements. The Poms Indian Teas of the Calcutta
Txa Association, are recognised as a standard brand
for purity, flavour, economy in use, and every excel-
lence, despite the attempts to imitate the brand. In-
dian Tea In packets was first sold in the colony during
the Sydney Exhibition, by Mr. Inglis, of Inglis, Brown,
and Co., who are the sole agents in N.S.W. for the Cal-
cutta Tea Association. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Char-
lotte Place. No hawkers, no retail shops. None but
genuine teas sold. Ask only for the Calcutta Tea Asso-
ciation’s Pure Indian Teas, and don’t buy “ rubbish "
packed in imitation wrappers —Advt.
If these hard words had come from men
Whom ev’ry gentle thought despised—
From some rough slaughterman—why then
We should not feel the least surprised I
But that thou, Mao, should’et bluster thus.
In truth, does somewhat stagger us 1
Thy courtly nature we know well;
Thy ev’ry action speaks the scholar;
Thy rose-bud mouth, the world can tell,
Was never formed to rudely holler I
Thy voice, so rhythmic and melodious,
The gods ne’er gave to say things odious I
Thy form seraphic—one bright dream—
Men’s envy, whene’er thou dost show it.
Quite sorely out of place does seem
When “ sitting on " a poor dead poet!
No I—for one night some envious creature
Has loaned thy lovely form and feature:


IWE AUSTRALASIAN DIAMOND DRILL
COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above Com-
pany to bore any sized holes, vertical or horizontal,
up to
3 INCHES OR LARGER,
If required, to any depth, at a reduction of
S 5 PER CENT BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
'The Company in all oases will find their own fuel and
water for drilling' purposes, and will make no charge
for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on plant, and
will also provide workmen, engineers, Ac.
The nex duplex barrell introduced into the colony by
Mr. J. Coghlan will be used free of charge to persons
searching for minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every confidence, from his practical
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will be able to
give general satisfaction, as well as quick despatch to
all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices. 283 George-etreet,
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager pro. tem.
PRIZE AWARDED, MELBOURNE EXHI-
BITION. 1882.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLASTIC TRADING
COMPANY, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of
SCHOOL, OiiXiE £ and CHURCH FURNITURE
and Educ pliaccas of every description.
R. C. TROUGHTON AND CO.,
PROPRIETORS.
Contracts taken, and estimates given for the fitting
up of Schools, Colleges, Churches, Lecture Hails,
Museums, &n ,to any extent and to any design. Btle
Proprietors, Inventors, and Manufacturers of Trough-
ton’s Reversible Desks. &o, (Registered),
AND GENERAL CONTRACTORS.
Steam Works—DlCK STREET, off ABERCROMBIE.
STREET.
Lithographs of Designs and Catalogue forwarded oa
application.
Upwards of 200 schools already furnished by us,
VJ T T IL-1 ing.-fashtonablb FRENCHV /
Jf .iV. STYLE 1 READ’S Improved Kilter, V
/\just out, 55.. at Sewing Machine Agents. /\
THE RIVER DARLING NAVIGATION
COMPANY.
To be Incorporated bt Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £200.000 IN SHARES OF £1 EACH.
Provisional Directors:
EDWARD QUIN, M.P., Tarella, Chairman.
IHOS. LUKE, Esq., J.P.. Wiloannia. ) vi „. P v oirmaTl
5. T . II * VDON, E'q., J.P., do. j Vice-Chairmen.
Hon. vV A. Beodribb, M.L C , Sydney.
W. C. Palmer, Esq., J.P , Wilcannia.
E. W. Donna llt, Esq , Gnalta.
C. H. Wreford, Eiq , Moorara.
H. C. Armstrong, Esq , Wiloannia.
Arthur Woodfall, Esq., Wiloannia.
Walterus Brown, E’sq , J.P., Wilcannia,
Charles Q. Lush Esq., Melbourne.
J. 8 Reid, Esq., Wilcannia.
J. Suqden, Esq , Wilcannia.
W. J. Holding, Wentworth.
T. W. CHAMBERS, Esq., Wilcannia, Hon. Sec.
THIS Company is proposed to be formed for the
purpose of making the River Darling contin-
uously navigable between Wilcannia and Wentworth, a
distance of about 270 miles.
Tha total fall in the River between the two places
mentioned has been ascertained by Government survey
to be only 87 feet 3 inches.
The River is known to possess great natural facilities
for Looking, the bed of it being intersected at several
places along its course by bars of roik, upon which
Locks or Weirs could bo constructed at a comparatively
email outlay. ■-
It has been determined, in order to provide funds for
having a thorough survey of tha River made and a re-
liable sstimate of the coat of constructing the proposed
Looks ,and for the disbursement of other preliminary
expenses, to dispose of 51,000 Shares in the Company,
upon which one shilling per Share is payable on allot-
ment, with a guarantee that no further calls be made
upon the said 50,000 Shares until funds are required for
construction purposes.
Discretion is given to the Provisional Directors to
expend any moneys subscribed for carrying on the ob-
jects of the Company, notwithstanding that the 50M0
Shares proposed to be sold may not be sold. -WBI
Forms of application for Shares can be obtained from
Messrs. Robertson a<td Fisher. Solicitors, Sydney.
T. W. CHAMBERS. Hon. Sec.
WILCANNIA.
Wiloannia, May 2nd, 1882.
D YDNEY WOOL SALES.
AO THE WOOLGEOWERS OP NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
In again offering you our services in the disposal of
wool or other produce, we desire to bring under your
notice the increased facilities provided for efficiently
trans toting any business with which you may entrust
ns.
Recognising the fact that the farther extension of
our Railways must divert to this market a large Quan-
tity of WOOL which has hitherto found its way else-
where, we are perfecting our arrangements for
promptly and efficiently meeting the fresh demand npon
our storage accommodation, and, in addition to our
large Warehouses at the Circular Quay, have added
extensively to our No. 3 Warehouse nt Darling Har-
bour, where every facility is pro'i Ud for the efficient
storage and display of wool to the fullest advantage.
This warehouse adjoins the Railway Terminus, at
which station all wool from the Southern and Wes
tern Dis riots is received; PROMPT DELIVERY
from the Railway is thus ensured.
We have an experienced staff, who are conversant
with all the requirements of the trade, and every care
is taken to fully protect the interests of onr consti-
tuents. Every lot displayed tor sale, whether large
or small, is closely valued betore being offered, and,
when required, owners are communicated with before
disposal.
Wool, or other produce, will be received for us at
any of the railway stations, or by the steam compani s.
and duly forwarded.
Wo hold Public Auction Sales o Wool on Wednesday
and Friday in each week, and of other produce on alter-
nate days. In any case where owners' limits are not
realized at auction, or subsequently by private con-
tract, we are prepared to ship at lowest freight and
charges, and, it consigned to our London House, make
liberal cash advances; when growers prefer to consign
to their own London Brokers, we will hand over Bills
of Lading as they may direct.
Owners desiring their consignments Insured in
transit from station will require to give specific instruc-
tions to that effect.
We desire to point out that last season a much
greater quantity of wool was sold in the Sydney market
than during any previous year, and generally at prices
which subsequent results have shown to have been in
favour of growers. The prospects of again receiving fall
prices in the local market for the ensuing season ate
eqmlly good, and we have no hesitation in recommend-
ing growers to test values hero before hastily deciding
upon shipment.
Every year the numbtr of English and Foreign
buyers attending this market is increasing, and owner*
may safely calculate upon getting prices here showing
a very limited margin on London rates.
Waybills and any further information forwarded on
application.
Liberal cash advances are made on consignments,
whether for sale or shipment.
MORT and CO.,
Wool Warehouses, Circular Quay and Darling Harbour,
Sydney,
pAP E E HANGINGS,
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
F£l£Z£S to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
Ceiling centres,
FIGURES, SCENES, ko.,
Imported by
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hnater-st.)
PAINTERS' AND DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Varnishes,
Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
UEENSLAND AGENCY.
GRESLEY LUKIN and CO.,
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLANTATION AGENTS.
Temporary Offices ; 289 Qeorge-street,
Opposite Hunter-street,
HAVE FOR SALE-
Choioe SUGAR PLANTATIONS and unimproved
SUGAR LANDS on the following navigable waters in
Queensland: —
The Pioneer River (Maokay)
Herbert Rivor
Burdekin River
Mary River
Burnett, River
Stone River
Logan River
Albert River.
Full particulars on application. Titles clear
FULLERTON'S FAMILY MEDICAL GUIDE,
NEW EDITION.
THE Enormous Sale of FULLERTON’S FAMILY
MEDICAL GUIDE is a sure proof of the Value
of the Work. It is acknowledged by all to be the Best
Book for the Colonies, as it is specially adapted to the
requirement® of the Australian Climate. NO FAMILY
SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Persons in the country,
remote from Mpdioal aid, should, above all others,
possess Ibis Valuable Guide, as it clearly and explicitly
explains the treatment of disease, and furnishes a list
of medicines that should be kept in every Household.
Fourth edition, jutt published. Price 12s 6d, by post
Us.
WILLIAM MADDOCK, 881 GEORGE STREET.
|JNDEE SECTION V., ACT 532.
ARTUNIOH.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
10.0D0 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 FRIZES of the full value of £10,060.
117 lots guaranteed, cash if preferred.
Lot I.lst prise £4OOO I Lot 3. 3rd prize £1350
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize... £4OO
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10. 1 Prize of £5O.
Lots • 1 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lots 21 to 120,100 Frizes of £4 each.
The management is compelled to extend tbe time of
drawing to the first day of August, 1882. Notwith-
standing this announcement, the drawing will posi-
tively be proceeded with seven days after the shares
are subscribed for. All unsuccessful applicants will
have-their money returned per return of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, if not a large and independent fortune,
tor £l.
Address —SETH R. PEESSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
A. A. DEBNEY AND GO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX. BAGS.
TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A A. DEBNEY AND CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARPS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an experienced
London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders received Special attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
J. THOMAS.
BILLIARD TABLE MAKER.
153 BATHURST STREET.
CUES, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS. &o.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
fTMHE FIRST EARLY SHIPMENTS of SPRING and 8UMMEE Q , . , , T
i avoutable to PURCHASERS, who receive an Equal Benefit in this Safest and b ’ Most
SPRING COSTUMES.
THE NEW FANCY POMPADOUR SATEEN
COSTUMES this season are exceptionally pretty, af-
fording ample room for choice in Colour and Design, at
the same time the prices are very reasonable. A Nice
Toadies Costume of this matorial, neatly trimmed with
Plain Sateen for 12s. 9d. Children's Costumes from
4s lid*
MANTLES AND DOLMANS. |
Specially selected from the foremost houses in Lon
don and Paris : THE NEW GRAPHIC, REAL SATIN
DB LEON MANTLE trimmed with Headed Lace
Fringe, and Splendid Ornaments, for Sis.
LACE FICHUS &a , &o., in great variety.
| HATS AND BONNETh (
The Latest snd Most Fashionable Shapes in STEAW
HATS and BONNETS for present Season may be seen
in our Show Boom, and also in one of our Large Win-
dows in Gipps-street, where every New Stylo is repre.
seated.
| SPRING FLOWERS. |
For Beauty, Variety, and Completeness, our Show
Cases present the finest display of Spring and Summer
Flowers in the City, every Colour, Shade, and Flower,
being found in this collection.
LACES.
By the use of our New Pattern Books, Ladies will
effect a very great saving of time, many hundreds of
New Patterns being so arranged, that they may be seen
almost at a glance. The very latest New Patterns are
being sold at less than Sydney Wholesale Prices, com-
prising.- French Beaded Laces, Fine Cut, in White.
Ficelle, and Black. Poict Ruese, Albany and Manolo
Fan Lace, and Point Eoubaise, Cheltenham, ard Point
Lorraine.
RIBBONS j
For the richest MILLINERY TRIMMINGS ever
introduced our Lace and Moire also Lace ana Sat"
Ribbons stand supreme, forming along with the Satin
and Merveilleux, New Moire, and Tissue Eoval the
latest novelties in Ribbons. °^ a *
SASH RIBBONS all widths and colours.
LADIESiGLOVES.
The New Shades in great variety are comprised in
first shipment, and Ladies will do well to mate choice
early of these BEAUTIFUL KID GLOVES Been
Tefl,t.. and other Fabric Gloves, form a ra:e sXt’.
uuao uaiooi auu x>esb OI OyfaLOiae.
MEN'S CLOTHING.
Our preparations in this Department, for Spring and
Reasons, enable us to offer a splendid stock of
GENTS, TOUTUS', and BOYS’ CLOTHING, in every
description of cloth and variety of Patterns, all being
well out and made, and at prices from 20 to 25 pet cent,
below Sydney usual prices.
Gents Seasonable Suits, complete. 18a 61, 25 1
Gents’ Fancy Vests, neat patterns. 6s 6d, 7a 6d
Gents Slack Cloth Frock Coata 25 a, 33<.
Gents’ Faucv Worsted Coats 32s bd, 45j.
Gents’ Tweed Trousers 3s 9d.
Youths’ Sac Coats 3s 6d.
Little Boys’ Knicker Suits 5s lid, 6a lid.
MEN’S HATS.
STIFF FELTS 3a 61, splendid value
FRENCH POCKET HATS 4a 6d. worth 7s 6L
HRAB SHELL HATS 4g worth 10a 6i.
BLACK PARIS HATS ss 61, sold elsewhere 15s.
BOOTS AND SHOES.
AT THE PALACE EMPORIUM are fully 30 per cent
Cheaper than at any other House in tlfe Colonies and
the largest Stock to select from
A very good pair of
LADIES’ BOOTS for 3s 6d.
GENTS’ ELASTIC SIDES for 5a 61.
DERBY" SHOES for 5a9d.
CALF BALMORALS for 6a lid.
CALF E.8. BOOTS (Sewn; good quality for 6a lid
CHILDRENS’ E 8. Boots from Is 3d *
GIRLS’ LEATHER E.S. Boots 10 to 13, 2s Hid
GIRLS’ LEATHER E.S. Boots 6 to 9. 2a 10$
| DRESS GOODS.
We have opened One Hundred Cases of New Dress
Materials eeieeted from the moat Celebrated Manufac-
turers of England, France, and Germany. For many
years we have held the drat position of any Drapery
Warehouse in these Colonies, for the extent of
Trade, the variety of our stock, and the mederate
I prices charged for the beat selected Dress Stock out of
England.
This Season we have introduced to the Ladies of
Sydney, Costume Materials not to be excelled by any
First Class House in Europe. We have extended our
Dress Department to double its former size, and ladi es
are always welcome to examine this extensive stock.
I WHETHER PURCHASERS OR OIHERWISB
CARPETS, FURNITURE, GLaSS AND CHINAWARE.
IMMENSE PALACE EMPORIUM,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMA.KK.KT
(ONLY).
NO BRANCH HOUSES. ONLY THE ABOVE ADDRESS.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on Hew Kbony Bhoalder Reals, fas white, klaak
and oolanrs.)
SEWING
Trade mark brooks CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
or ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
Tha following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS manufactured hr
them v-Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prise Medali London, -1861. Only First-class Prize Kedal, Paria. 1858. - '>rize
London, 1862. Gold Medal* Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal South Uriw.
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1878, for variety and general excellence. Only lw^1*dney*S* * '
Ash for BICOOK’S SEWING COTTONS .
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAfND should be to ’Warehouse,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
BIACKET A N 1) DAVY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all tie latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Denftt,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFICE
THE “PLUM E ” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
kt
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IUITATIIIO IT WILL BC PROSECUTED.
T
iHE TAILOE FOE THE PUBLIC,
F. H. HA6ON,
late outter to E. C. Hagon, of 127 Eing-street,
having) taken
COMMODIOU3 BUSINESS PEEMIBES
at
162 PITT STEEET.
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every facility will be afforded him for
having hie work cade under his
PEESONAL SCJPEEVIBION,
is nin a position to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILO BING
of a quality and price that cannot be Excelled.
"West of EaglanthTwoedrScits, to order 635.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 63).
West of England Trousers, to order, 16j 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
N.B.— AH Garments HAND-MADE.
F. H. HAG ON.!
F. H. H &.GON.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
AMUSEMENT NOTICES.
Theatre Royal,—“ Lights o’ London.” Fide advt. p. 15
Gaiety Theatre.—Clark and Lyman's Minstrels, ib.
Opera House. —“The Chimes of Normandy; or,
The Miser and his Gold.” ib.
Victoria Hall.—“ The Bohemian Girl.” ib.
Si Wart's Cathedral Grand Triduum, Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday. For prices of admis-
sion, see posters
The minstrels round at the Gaiety have got the
Sydney public by the lair, s t to speak. la
one respect—the singing—they are the best com-
pany of the kind that we have had out here for any
length of time. The set is als >an improvement on the
ordinary stage-tet of minstrel shows. The programme is
varied, and not too long. It opens with an overture by
the orchestra, played in more muslcian-like style than
these things are usually done by nigger maestros. On
Monday night, when we were there, Mr. B. Amery, an
old favourite with the public out here, started the show
along with “Good b>e till I see you again." Mr.
Amery’s voice is as fine now as ever it was. Mr. G. W.
Lawless’s song, “ The Cuckoo," was sung in a style
altogether new to Australia. It is an extremely pretty
style, too. The comic song, “Live Humble,” by
Alfred Lanton, was comic. A few other items that
were so labelled on the programme were not. And
some of the gags were old and toothless. We must tell
the truth, if we die for it. Mr. W. F. Bishop’s baritone
song, “ Good Company,” was well sung. Of Mr. T. B.
Dixon, the tenor of the company, we have nothing to
say but praise. His voice is sweet and clear, and
wonderful in range. Undoubtedly he is one ©f the best
minstrel tenors that ever visited this country. Alfred
Lanton’s specialities and parodies, “In the Bow of
Lodging Houses,” and “I had but Bighteenpence," are
tolerably humorous, as is also Gjv. Add. Hyman’s
burlesque oration. Charles Heywoot), the burlesque
prima donna, is one of the stars of the show. The man-
agement print on the programme that he “is
acknowledged by the Cognoscenti and Press of
both America and Europe to be the only male artiste
living having a really cultivated soprano voice'”
What sort of man is this to give us? We
have had at least half-a-dozen men here in
the same line who were each the only artists living
in that particular line. If Charles Heywood were to
start as the only dead artiste, he would have no rivalry
—except in the dead horse section of the profession.
But, really, he is very good. 'lhe introduction of the
doves on the stage is a pretty idea, but, somehow,
spoiled by the firing of the pistol. This sort of thing
should be left to jugglers and mountebanks.
The California Quartette consists of T. B.
Dixon (first; tenor), G. W. Lawless (second
tenor), W. F. Bishop (baritone), and E. Amery
(basso), who sang some exceedingly pretty selections.
These were more enjoyable than anything else in the
programme. The Four Black Camelias were not very
funny. But Samuel Deariu, the Musical Comique, is a
phenomenon : he played on every conceivable instru-
ment from the harp that once to the jaw-bone of an ass.
He played on umbrellas and window-blinds. He can
draw music out of anything. He can draw it out of
wood. The operatic selection which he played with his
hands on the side of his head was one of the best things
of the evening. The entertainment concluded with
a sketch called “ Board and Residence." Summing
up the show, we think that Mr. Bayless has a huge
thing in hand. The Minstrels are likely to draw big
houses for a long time to come.
** * *
Deep sleep had fallen upon us, and a ghastly
vision smote the red blood in our veins, as the red-
haired wife of the Government clerk smites her lord
when he comes home in the rosy dawn, until each
globule turned into ajlittle ice-berg and ceased to flow.
We thought we saw a man, dressed in the garb of a con-
vict, striking his forehead with his hand and moaning
and crying aloud that he was innocent. We asked him
what his name was, and he said he had forgotten—
sometimes it was Frank Darlington, sometimes Harold
Armytage; but it didn’t matter much, as there was no
difference between them. And then he would call out,
“Father” and ‘ Darling,” and dab his paw up against
his forehead again. We would have been moved to
tears, only that we felt more moved to knock him down
with a flat-iron. But as there were no flat-irons handy,
we simply sat and scowled him in the eye until an-
other grisly phantom came and curled us up as a
spotted dog is curled up by a kick in the diaphragm.
Then the scene was changed, and convicts, clergymen,
burglars, and ballet girls were all mixed up in an un-
fathomable hash, which palsied all attempts at analy-
sis. Just as our eyes were beginning to glare with the
light of lunacy, and we were preparing to crawl over
the edge of the parapet, slide down upon the stage, and
slay the stern old father, the noble but unfortunate son
and the devoted girl, we felt ourselves shaken by the
shoulder, and looking up we beheld the face of the wise
Solomon beaming down upon us with a sympathetic
glower. Then we became aware of the fact that we had
fallen asleep over the seventy-third scene of “ The
Lights o’ London,” and had been left behind by the
people. The auditorium was gloomy as the grave, or
as the humour of this play, and we stalked slowly home
thinking of calcined bones and corpse-lights playing
over murderers’ graves.
• « «
“The Lights o’ London’’ is not a cheerful
play; neither is it as spectacular as “Youth," or the
dramas that Bland Hoit created a taste for. It has
not even novelty to recommend it, for its motif is little
different to that of “Youth" There is a son in both
who is imprudent, gets into gaol, escapes, is caught
again, and finally goes home to dwell under his gum-
tree and tell lies about his hair-breadth adventures.
There is also a villain, who is foiled in the end. Virtue
always triumphs at last in these plays ; that is the
only soaring mendacity about them. The dialogue of
“The Lights o’ London” is superior to that of
“ Youth,” and the scenery is very pretty. There is a
good deal of bric-a-brac about the first scene, to which we
would have liked to contribute a brick when George
began in the old tone to tell about his troubles. But
the snow scene and the third one in the fourth act are
very fine. The acting we shall probably have time to
deal with at further length next week. Mr. Rignold, as
Harold Armytage, is better than in almost anything in
which we have seen him Cathcart, as Squire Armytage,
is—Cathcart. Mr. Oily Deeriug plays Marks, the
Lodge-keeper, very well; and Mr Dewhurst makes a
splendid heth Preene. Mr. H. E. Walton is a really
good villain—if the expression may be allowed. Miss
Eo'and Watt-Phillips (Bess), we like. Miss Solange
Navaro is a very tol rable Hetty Preene. Jarvis (Mr.
J. R Greville), Mrs. Jarvis (Mrs. Wooldridge), and
Shakespeare Jarvis (Miss A. Wooldridge), are the life
of the play. Whatever fun there is in it, they squeeze I
out as a tram-wheel squeezes out an absent-minded
citizen. More of all this at a future time.
* * **
Mr. Frank Cates’ benefit at the Gaiety, on
Friday night, was a wonderful success. The house was
crowded from floor to ceiling. The piece played—“ The
B»lls,"—is the original version of Erckmann-Chatrain's
“ Juif Polonais," written by Leopold Leurs, and played
by Henry Irving. It is a clean-cut poetical play, and
Mr. Cates had for the fir-t time for months past an
opportunity to show the grit that is in him And there
ns a lot. Ho was especially fine in the last act. Mr. W.
H. Leake and the Gaiety o mpany assisted. It wou'd
give us great pleasure to see Mr. C-tes in this part
again, with the play carefully got up. The performance
concluded with the “Area Belle," by the Lytton
Dramatic Club.
m* # *
Pollard’s Lilipntians are drawing fair audiences
the Opera House. They have been playing “ The
Chimes of Normandy," during this week. As we
criticised their performance of this opera when they
were here before, we shall not go over the same ground
again. We noticed, however, that though the interval
has been a short one, the voices of some of the cleverest
nn? 0I T? youngsters have begun to get a trifle faded.
• “Pollards start on a tour up the Northern line, next
Week.
** * *
“ Maritana,” “ La Fille de Madame Angot,”
and the “ Grand Duche’s” have followed each otherin
quick succession at the Victoria Hall, and if they have
not turned Jimmy’s head with the sudden wealth they
hive brought him, they have at least shown the versa-
v yyof bis company. On Wednesday night, Vernon
«eiq took a benefit, when “ Pinafore” was sung. Jimmy
himself appears in the character of a teneficiare, on
Friday night, “ The Pirates of Penzance” is the opera
chosen for the occasion (The entertainment, we are
informed, will be under the patronage of Major-General
Stanley and the Misses Stanley. It is a plrasant thing
to see the most distinguished members of our aristo-
cracy taking such an interest in the success of Jimmy's
benefit. The company conclude their Si dney season
on Saturday night. They will play in Wagga during
the Show week —that is next week.
** * *
Horace Bent takes a benefit at the Opera Honse
on Friday afternoon, when he will make his last appear-
ance as a burnt-cork constellation. After this he ap-
pears in such character no more forevah. It is rumoured
that he is going into strict seclusion to study for the
ministry. A good programme is announced for his
benefit.
***■*■
Clarke and Eyman’s jaunting oar has come to
grief. There was a collision last Tuesday The horses
are stopping around at the tannery, the driver at the
infirmary, and the car— ask of the winds that fan
around, &c.
** * *
That Mr. .1. H. Bainford should have a benefit
is only a delightful instance of the eternal fitness of
things. James has many claims to popularity. He is,
in the first place, the “Bismarck of stage-managers;”
and if more were wanting to make him a subject for
hero-worship, we have only to state that it was owing
to his gentle instruction in the dramatic art that the
Bomanys succeeded in paralysing the populace with
enthusiasm at their classic creations. But James is
even more than this. He has a genius for making out
theatrical ads. which is heaven-horn, being—like Mrs.
Qrudden—“ a great hand at throwing in the notes of
admiration, and knowing from long experience exactly
where the largest capitals ought to go,"—an accom-
plishment which we consider is only equal to composing
a cantata or mending a clock. It was fitting, tno, that
on the occasion of his bespeak, the amateurs of Sydney,
of whom Jim is the trusted Mentor, should rally round
him. And they did flock to the standard of their chief
in a manner that must have shed upon the bonefiyiare
an equal amount of joy and perplexity. The occasion
was under the patronage of the nremen of Sydney, also;
and such was the earnestness of the support accorded
to James by that lamb-like body, that it was all he
cou'd do to prevent the hook and-ladder company fr.’m
hoisting their machine in the pit, and the Brigade
Band was only deterred from making an earthquake in
the lobby by the temporary abstraction of their big
drum and bassoon and the artful insertion of a guard-
fish into the cornet.
# * •
Finally, however, the Hercules Dramatic Club’s
services were accepted for the histrionic part, and those
of the Volunteer Artillery Band for the “musical”
por ion, Lieut Colonel Wells and the officers of the
regiment having (sly dogs!) “kindly given their per-
mission” for their musicians to vol'ey and thunder for
Mr Bainford. Truly, fortune seemed to smile upon the
affair There had bean a good “ let ”of front seats, and
Mr. Beginald Cohen had consented to play the princi-
Sal part in “ Love and Honour,” an original domes'ic
rama, in three acts, by J. E. Carpenter, Esq. The
latter attraction alone was sufficient to draw us. We
were beating our shilling against the black and gold
doors impatient for admission long before the hero of
the drama had finished the first round off the family
quartern. For a real good thing in the dramatic line,
we have both money and patience!
• « •
J. E. Carpenter, Esquire’s, drama, is in three
acts, and in the distribution the unfortunate Gentiles
got rather a better show than is their wont, though
the parts of the superior officers (it is a military play)
were all apportioned to the chosen people, the
Christians either being rank and file or mute members
of the Court Martial. Here is the plot. A wicked
Captain (Mr. E. G. Bosenthal) entertains, though
united in lawful wedlock to another lady (who is too
busy reseating the Captain’s pants to appear in the
drama), giddy designs against a farmer’s daughter
(Miss Kate Douglas), who is beloved by George St.
Chir (Mr. Beginald Cohen), a virtuous private (un-
married) in the same regiment. Having partaken
freely of Pyrmont port, the Cap. resolves to carry off
the farmer’s daughter (no easy task, to look at her!),
and for that purpose invites her to an evening party in
somebody’s back garden. Here, when about to effect
his purpose (though in what way, having no van handy,
is a mystery), Beginald Cohen appears at the window
of a cock-loft with a blunderbuss. Then the following
dialogue takes place :
Beginald : Whath ! Captainth Melveth with Mith
Grathe ! Whath thith meanth ?
Cap. (to Jessie): Sweeth girlth be minth. Let uth
fly togetherth.
Beginald: Weth! Standth asideth or I fire.
Cap. : Ha! Bister Bt. Clairth! Take earth. Bind !
I’m your thuperior officerth.
Beginald then looks down behind to see if his friends
are holding the ladder steady, and then fires off a
charge of powder that makes glasses in the pub. dance.
The Captain falls, and also the curtain.
« # «
In the next act, there’s a Court Martial on
Beginald, which is held by two firemen and three
general postmen, and presided over by a staff officer,
the feather of whose hat is made out of “an ornament
for your fire-stove.” This warrior is very severe
on the prosecutor, but, nevertheless, condemns
Beginald to death; the letter-carriers and hook-
and-ladder men slavishly coinciding. Later, Begi-
nald is cast into a dungeon, where ho has a
soliloquy about half as long as “ Paradise Lost”—an
artful contrivance of the author’s to reconcile the
audience to the death of the hero, in which it admir-
ably succeeds. Just, however, as all the stalls are
maein? soup-plates of their mouths by grinning in
expectation of the speedy arrival of the hangman, the
President of the Court Martial enters and announces
the cashiering of the giddy Captain (whom Beginald
has wounded in the arm), and the pardon of that
chivalrous private. The next act is in the Crimea, and
we see the Bussiau army in a guinea ulster bombarding
the intrepid Beginald, whoso life the Captain (who is
now somehow a private in the regiment!!) saves, upon
which a lawyer (who is everywhere all through the
piece) tells him that he is the gallant St. Clair’s
brother; that fact he having discovered from the
circumstance of both of them taking thirty-sixes.
* • *
The acting was stupendous Mr. Cohen, who
ns the heroic private, wore a diamond ring with a stone
as big as a salt-cellar, was truly great. We were glad
to see that in his case] an admiring country had dis-
pensed with the army shaving regulatioo, and permitted
him, as a graceful tribute to his prowess, to
wear his tooth-brushes and side levers. Mr. Cohen
evidently felt his superi rity all through the p ece,
his haughty demeanour donating that there was that
within him which would brook no commands—acknow-
ledge no superior, Mr. H. Kingston played a lawyer,
who appeared to have escaped in such haste from a
lunatic asylum, that he had neglected to put his what-
d’ye-callems on and made shift with the superin-
tendent s drawers. Every article of bis clothing
denoted a different era, the nineteenth century being
represented by a rair of ten-bob shoes that were singu-
larly realistic. Mr. Bosenthal, as the giddy Captain,
has gained for himself undying glory, if only for the
martial manner in which he drew his sword; but we
would remind him that there is no army regulation
that forces an officer in any regiment to put his logs so
far through his pantaloons. Poor Kate Douglas walked
through the part of the heroine in a state of stony
amazement; and Miss Lizzie Lizette plated nn inn-
keeper’s daughter, who made up for the shortness of
her petticoats by ths size of her “ improver.” Mr. F.
Stokes was funny as Tom Pipes, a drummer, but Mr,
Boyer’s Farmer Gray was a performance that should
be exclusively confined to the precincts of a cave in a
Cannibal island. “ The Artful Dodge” concluded the
entertainment, but, as Beginald was not in it, we had
no interest in remaining.
** * *
We saw Fred. Maooabe in his entertainment of
“Begone, Dull Care," the other night. The sight of
mercurial little Mao scintillating upon the stage in the
Masonic Hall, brimming over with life and merriment,
recalled to our minds the first time we beheld this, the
prince of entertainers —before whom, as Zulu Thomp-
son remarked after the performance (he having seen
him then for the first time), “all the rest of ’em can
take a back seat.” It is ever so long ago since we first
saw Maccabe. We remember going attired in a little j
blue merino frock, a bat with a feather like the “Wild
Rider of Mexico” wears in the circus, pink socks, and
morocco shoes, with an uncle long since “ gone up,” to
the Egyptian Hall, where Fred, was giring an afternoon
1 performance daily. We remember it with peculiar dis-
tinctness, because our uncle, who was wont at public
entertainments to propound to us arithmetical pro-
blcms of a distressing nature, roared so during the
whole of the stance that he forgot even to submit to us
the bugbear of our lives, that blood-curdling question:
“If a herring and a half cost three halfpence, how
many for a shilling ? ”
• • •
Maocabe is singularly unchanged weirdly,
wondrously so. The vital spark burns within him as
strong as ever. He has the same mercurial vivacity—
the same electric power of fascination. In a marvellous
manner, this little man, who is old in years, but whose
talent no stroke of the scythe of Father Time can
impair, held a vast audience spell-bound for (with a
brief in'etval) two long hours; now inciting them to
uproarious mirth, now hushing them into a strainedly
attentive silence. It is worth while going to see this
protean marvel, if only to study the audience, with
their ever varying changes of facial expression, their
outbursts of merriment, their vooifer--usapplause. The
secret of the mimic’s success is that all his impersona-
tions are good ones. It is a difficult matter to say
which is the best when all are so highly polished—so
truly artistic. That which evokes the most laughter
is the “ lady-killerbut certainly the most difficult
assumption is that of Miss May; the “ drawing-room”
attitudes of a young lady being in this so cleverly bur-
lesqued that the effect is ludicrous in the extreme.
But whether he is a street singer or a a railway-porter,
whether ho is singing an Irish sung or ventriloqually
conversing with the “ man in the attic,” Maccabe is i
always mirth-inspiring, ever buoyant. His entertain-
ment-, in short, is one sparkle from the beginning to the
end. Mr. Maocabe makes this, his last season, one of
twelve nights only. Those who have not seen, there-
fore, this memetic marvel should walk up while there
is yet time—and take the kids.
** ♦ *
Mr. Hallewell’s concert, which took place at
the Masonic Hall on the 30th ultimo, was well patron-
ized by a swell, kid-glove, and eye-glass audience. We
had neither kid-gloves nor eye-glass, but wa harmonised
as well as we could with the prevailing atmosphere of
tan by glaring haughtily around and remarking after
each piece of singing was over, “ how very poshly they
do these things out hyah compared with the numnah
in which they do them in Yoreup, dear boy," The
opening glee was well sung After this “ The Dell of
Dreams” was sung in fine style by Mr Hinchy. This
song is rapidly becoming popular. Mias Foxall sang a
scena and aria from “ Lucia ” This little lady has a
fresh young voice, which she should be careful not to
orer-exert before P has reached its full strength. But
her forte does not lie in rendering florid music. A lady
amateur, pupil of Mr. Hallewell, sang Cowen’s “Regret”
very beautifully It was evident, in spite of her
nervousness, that her voice was pure and had received
careful culture. Signora Fabris sang several things,
and took part in a trio from “ Ernani,” with Messrs
Hallewell and Hinchy. The only instrumental item
was a pianoforte selection played by Mr Huenerbein.
i hignor Giammona sang t“ MamaNo" with elephantive
piquancy. Signor Paludini sang “ M’appari” in his
old form, and was encored to the echo. In response he
sang “La Donna e Mobile " We are very pleased to bo
able to cogratulate this artist on the recovery of his
voice. Mr. Hallewell, of course, had the lion's share of
the singing, and sang like a lion. This simile is not to
be taken literally. Revenge, Timotheus cries'," and
“ Nazareth” were his best solos, and were warmly
encored. Mr Peir, who is also a pupil of Mr. Halle-
well, took part in all the glees, and sang “ I Seek for
Thee in every Flower” fairly well. His voice is good,
but he lacks expression. Still, with such a teacher as
Mr. Hallewell, this is a defect that should in time be
remedied. We congratulate Mr. Hallewell on the
artistic success of his concert. The financial success
carries its own congratulations with it.
** * *
The Camden Dramatic Club gave their inaugural
performance on Friday evening last, in the local School
of Arts They played “The Biter Bit,” and a lot of
other things. Then there was a musical melange,
wherein everybody sang well. The entertainment con-
cluded with a farce But the Camden Club are an ex-
ception. One of these nights we shall go out and see
them for ourselves. We don’t care to let ourselves out
in higher toned criticism until we have seen a show in
person.
** * *
Mr. Frank Beverley’s “Gaiety and Comedy
Company ” starts next week for a tour of the Southern
Districts. The company consists of Johnny Cowan,
Frank Beverley, Harry Conquest, R. F. Roper, and
Robert Faraday, with | Miss Lucy Cottier and Miss May
Deuzil. The repertoire is good. The show opens in
Wollongong; goes thence to Bega, Bombala, and the
Monaro districts.
Mr. Alexander Stuart, M.P.
We give the portrait, this week, of Mr. Alexander
Stuart, the member tor Illawarra, and the leader
of the newly-organized Opposition in the Legisla-
tive Assembly. Mr. Stuart was born at Edin-
burgh, in 1825, and received his educa-
tion at Edinburgh Academy, finishing his course
of studies at the Edinburgh University. In oarly
life he entered into mercantile pursuits in Leith,
Glasgow, and London, and afterwards wont to
India. Ho came to this colony in the year 1851,
and entered the Bank of New South Wales as
assistant secretary. In 1855, he resigned his
post in the bank to join the business of Messrs.
E. Towns and Co. In 1882-3 he went to England,
and on his return to the colony was elected, two
years later, to a seat in the Assembly for East
Sydney. In 1876, Mr. Stuart was Colonial Trea-
smror, but went out of office with his Government
the year following. In 1878, Mr. Stuart again
visited England, whence he returned in 1879. He
was absent from Parliament for a brief period,
but now represents the electorate of Kiama. Mr.
Stuart is a free-trader, and one of the most com-
petent financiers in the colony. He occupies one of
the first positions in the mercantile community of
Sydney, being a man of large commercial experi-
ence and sterling integrity. Mr. Stuart's election
to the leadership of the Opposition is one of the
chief, and, at the same time, one of the most
satisfactory incidents of the opening of the present
political campaign.
“A handball match for the championship of Aus-
tralia will take place at Carlton Court, Melbourne, on
September 9,11, and 16 'lho first prize is £5O. The
competitors are;—Langnn, Keenan, Hannan, Egan,
M'Namara, and Farrell.
Splendid weather for the Metropolitan Day of
tbeA.J.C. Spring Meeting, atßandwick. Oret 12,000
attended. Eighteen started for the Shorts, which was
won bv two lengths by the fast little Twilight; Venice
and Waxworks ran a dead-beat for second place. A
protest entered against Twilight was dismissed. Hecla,
who should hare started for, and misht have won, the
Derby, won the Maiden Plate rather easily by a
length, Saiouara and Eva being second and third.
Fandango ran in blinkers, bat he was badly
beaten. Nineteen started for the Metropolitan, Sting
at the start being still kept a hot favourite. One of the
prettiest races ever seen on Kandwiok, Every one was
in it to the turn, Sting being particularly watched.
Coming up the straight, Comet and Britisher came ont
and fought for the lead. At the distance-post, Mas-
querade came up on the outside, and eventually won by
a length and a half. Comet, who had swerved, beating
Britisher by a neck for second place. Time. 3m. 33 s.,
which has been beaten three times —by Pontiff. 3 30 6 10;
Go dsbrougb, 3. 32 1-5; and Hesperian, 3. 32 4-10. The
Selling Plate was won rather easily by Preciosa,
Kanaka being ssoond, and Hopeful third. Brian Boru
was made a hot favourite for the Squatter’s Handicap,
which he just won by a bead, Hypatia being second,
and Willeroo third. Comet wore blinkers in the race
for the Metropolitan.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
Bromphas ; Much obliged for your item. We
will try (living near a foundry) to mould it int j shape.
Yon say you will write again. Good. Mind you keep
your Bromphus “A Traveller” (Townsville); You
have evidently been reithetfcally brourht up. Fancy
objecting, in a first-class N. Queensland hotel to wait-
ing for your breakfast nntii the servant girl has
finished. Why, wa remember staying at a pound a day
place and, squaring the landlord with a fiver to let ns
help the cook with the washing. You're too high-toned
for the far North. Berlin’s your dart—or Dabbo
W. H—— **; What else could the guard have said but
* a ®y gentleman who has not paid his fare will please
to hand the same ” ? Can’t see anything in it. Send
ns something we can see; oven if it's only a turkey or
an Iron railing. The former would stand an excellent
chance of insertion " Randwlok "i Yon are evidently
of an observant nature. We like people of this kind.
We knew a man who was very much so. The last thing
he observed was a fly on the beam Wo can’t chronicle
ms remarks tkeieon, though ; because, Jnet as be waa
about to say something, down fell the drop
An Admirer of The Bulletin ’’: In answer to your
query, we have to inform yon that Sir Garnet Woleeley
is a Dutchman, and, therefore, as you may suppose,
quite the cheese. We haven’t looked him up, but wo
have formed that opinion through seeing his portrait
in the Town and Countet. 2. We don’t know a cheap
shop for the purchase of curios. But we know a cheap
curio. It con be bought at Brown’s public-house any
morning for a penny. Yon had better secure one of
these curiosities while there is yet time “Bunda”;
Thanks for your Bundal of copy. If you want the first
item to appear in print, you had better start a paper
expressly to do it, and then have yourself armourplated.
You are as bod as Harriet Beecher "H.W.” (Milton):
Your communication has been held over—over the
candle. Try again. You are evidently getting into the
way of it. A par. is like a poem—or a pudding It
takes some time to loam to make it—the pudding
especially •• J.T.” (Parramatta) : We like your
horses’tale well “Passe-partout”: Thanks, Your
joke is like Colonial port—even age won’t improve It.
It will have to go in. Let’s hope it will go down
“J.C.H.”: Not much in it....“Lynoens”: Certainly....
" Verolngstorix”: Raoeivedand attended t 0...” J 8 D.’’ :
Not doubt the public are pretty tired of hearing about
the man and his corrupt jobs. However, the fellow is
a scoundrel, and must be run out now that
there is a chance of running him out. We're not to be
put off the track hy the cry that people are “ tired ”
hearing of him. To let him go now would be to give
to the embodiment of the evil genius of New
South Wales a fresh lease of life. The skilful
flogger always strikes in the same spot “ 8.8.” : Oh.
yes, we “ like.” “J.C.D.": No. John Davies is not
at present blowing; he is on strike “ Stray Leaves” •
Many thanks “Viola”: Sorry we cannot this time
afford the necessary space. “J.C.8.”: Thanks
“ Glucose” : We have not heard whether Messrs. Henry
Halloran and E. Combes intend resigning their C.M.G.
appointments..,.,.” J.F.”: Thanks. We publish one of
them, anyhow “ B J." : Thanks. Next week. .....
“ J.M.": We do not remember having seen the com-
muni cation referred to “ Anti-Snob : " As the
verses are apparently’ of a personal character, they'll
need some consideration. Antony " ; We don’t
believe that Mr. William Forster would say such
a thing; but, if he did—well, he must have “ told
a John Davies.” "Wagga": No. If a man “slan-
ders " yon, serve him with a writ, even if yon don’t
intend proceeding. You thus shut his month until the
matter blows over “Jim Crow”: Certainly. Try
your hand "Oxford Street": No, we don't want
horse-oars. We’re right against horse-flesh, especially
'bus-horse-flesh. The killing of the few is as nothing
when balanced against the convenience of the many.
Those who are killed by trams have, as a rule, no brains,
and they might as well bo mashed up as banged In
gaols or drugged to death in lunatic asylums
“ W.H.C.": It was duly posted. Thanks for the item.
“ C.W.": We really don’t remember; but if wa
didn’t acknowledge receipt, it must have been over-
looked. Send along again...” E.H.”: As they’re slightly
“ off-colour," we oan’t publish them all at once
"Ignoramus": It means: Whom the gods would
destroy, they first drive (mad .“ J.J.C.’’; No. It ie
understood that the mainspring of the next Govern-
ment is at Dixon’s Opera House Hotel—upstairs
"Currency Lass"; There’s no harm in vour drawing
morals from “ characters we meet in the ’bus," but we
don’t know that our readers would feel interested in
the result of your intelligent observation. Besides,
some characters won’t stand it. For Instance, there’s
Sailing John; he always rides inside, and nods affably
to all the other passengers, whether he knows them or
not. But who oonld draw any “ morals ’’ froin John P...
" 8.0. K.": Yon want ns to give our "oppinlon" of a
landlord whom we don’t know. We will do so with
pleasure. You sav ** Afar (sic) a week’s spree 1 was at
the Hotel shuck (sic) bonds with the propetorltor (sic)
and after a few Hours came back about half.past U
o'clock the front door being shut,” He refused to admit
you. Well, we think that if he did “ shuck" hands with
you as alleged he was rather severe, but we don't be-
lieve you went back at all. Wo are strongly of
opinion that you are the party who that night broke
into the Wagga deadhonso and quarrelled with the two
corpses there, because they wouldn’t have a game of
“ cut-throat" euchre “ Petrarch” (Crawfish Gully):
If yon have anything to send us, let us have it in a
rational form. And don’t try to make yourself out to be
a bigger fool than you ore. We are sure that it is quite
unnecessary. What do you mean by this bosh P—
“An her her paddle I soon shall hero (g ie)
Long and loving onr life shall be
And I’ll hide the made in a cipress tree
When the footstep of death is near,"
If this is meant for your girl, and she had a paddle, we
don’t advise you to go near her for a year or two. Or
you’ll find. Mr. Petrarch that she won’t be your Laura,
but your Floorer “ O.F.S.’’: If you wish us to bo
cutting about a cutting, you must send os
the cutting you want us to be cutting about
“Oxley": Your items are far too tropical. Besides,
oven though they may be "authentic," wo oan’t agree
with you that they “speak volumes." If yon have a
copy of your contributions, and wish to see them
published, send them to Brown’s pnbllo.honse, marked
“gratuitous." “J. 0." (Murrumhurrah); Our advice
to yon is to go and cool your head in a Murrumbunah
mud-hole. You are mistaken when you say the lines
you sent ns on “ The Parkesian Mission, written te
order for the Illustrated," have not reached us. They
have very likely reached the Heads by this time. The
other exercise you “annex" we have taken particular
care to also insert—in the drain “R. P.—g” (Surry
Hills): You say “ We lately conducted some music."
This is not a fact. And, like Washington, we cannot
Be. Besides, who do you think cares two-penBe
whether you get a ticket for a tea-fight or not ? Your
modesty in saying that the " music was enjoyable,”
however, is much to be commended; the more especi-
ally as you conducted it yourself. How many bans did
you likewise “ conduct "P Perhaps, it was your
fantasia on the muffins at the preceding worry which
induced the neglect yon speak of. Promise in future
to modify your variations on the toast, and wo venture
to predict that all will bo well “ Critic Certainly
not suitable in present form, and wo don’t aoospt pay
for inserting articles. We’ll try and shape it, however.
“J. Mackay" : Not bad acrostic, but wo have
more of such things than we want “ G.L N." c If we
published your half-column on “ Sidney beauties,"
they’d atop buying The Buhetin at onco....“Ovnlo’*
(Bourke): You omit to furnish names “Sup.
porter ” : Thanks.
Eating onions ilot only prevents the lips from
chapping, but usually also keeps the chaps from lip*
pin?
With Australians, the popular line of railroad
travel across the American continent, from San Fran-
cisco to Boston or New York, is the Chicago, Burling-
ton and Quincy. This line passes through the finest
scenery in the States of lowa and Illinois The general
agent in San Francisco, is Mr. Thomas D. M'Kay, who
has piloted Australian passengers along their route
with expedition and courtesy. He is, of course,
engaged by the Company to superintend the whojo
business—a chief feature in which is the Australian
passenger traffic : so that whatever attention he exhi-
bits is port of. his official duties, - and unlike the general
experience, cost the recipients nothing.


PEPPER AND SALT.
“He never shrunk, even in the presence of
Sovereigns or of Princes, to point out that for the true
acquisition of the conditions of happiness, Australia
was equal to any country under the sun.”—Sir Hknzt
Parkes.
He was a strange shearer, and he
rode by, like the Levite, on the other side.
“Ah," said the spirited proprietor of
The Dead Finish, “he don’t know me
yet.” A mile further the shearer was
accosted by a smiling traveller, who,
after expressing his opinion that “the
gory squatters were mining the gory
country," produced a bottle of fighting
rum, and proffered a drink. An hour
afterwards the “fat" shearer rode into
The Dead Finish yard. As the chucker-
out ran him, dead broke, past the land-
lord two days later, the dazed shearer
started at sight of the smiling traveller
who had proffered him the fighting rum •
"Ah,” observed the spirited proprietor,
ho knows me now.! ”
• • •
Wo shall certainly have to hide our
diminished heads when it is question of
Melbourne journalists. Oneofthem who
signs “Three Star" in the Victorian
L.V.G, writes, re the Federal Bank
note business, in the following elevated
strain :—“ 800-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-! Ba-a-a-a-
a-a-a-a-a t Please, sir, a nasty papaw that
sticks up for its supportaws has da r ed
to say it won’t take Jimmy’s notes, sir,
and its supportaws won’t take them
either, and, sir, Jimmy wants to know,
‘ wether” you can’t do something to stop
this sort of thing, sir, ’cause he ain’t big
or strong enough to protect himself, sir.”
We feel this to be truly brilliant, and,
therefore, we are not at all surprised to
read another par., by this same splendid
genius, in which ho modestly says“ I
tell yon what, my Victorian friends, the
Sydney hotel-keepers seems (sic) so well-
affected towards your paper, and your
‘ Three Star,’ that I do believe they’d rob
you of your treasures, an’ they could 1 ’»
See what it ie to bo truly great 1 This,
we suppose, means that the rolling-up of
Throe Star’s ” swag is imminent. This
is truly good news for ourselves and our
contemporaries. However, so far as we
are personally concerned, we will, with our
usual self-denial, entreat “Three Star”
not to leave the present scene of his
triumphs. We should not like to deprive
his mother of him. He must be so very
useful to the good lady—on washing
days.
“But in politics we have to accept things as
they are, and make the best of them.” —Daily Tele-
graph.
Forsooth you are, O King-street star I
A ‘‘nose ” like all the rest of them ;
Your creed, " Just taka things as they are,”
And, serf-like, “ make the best of them ! ”
The public, too, scan journals through,
And mark the bett and worst of them,
And plainly see, fawning D.T.,
With toadying you're most curst of them.
Here is a bucolic idyll:—The members of a
lately established Temperance Lodge, known as the
•‘ Pride of Bungaree," or something in that way, gave
a ginger-beer shivoo a little while ago. Beauty and
r chivalry were there and everything went sweet as
molasses out of a bung-hole 1 until two of the lealing
members, both of whom wore married lately, had a
disagreement. It seems that one of these gentlemen,
who is a haughty ganger on the railway line, offered a
prize for the beit-laid table in the room, fondly
imagining that it would be given to his wife. He ac-
cordingly dressed her in the regalia peculiar to the
Lodge, as an additional inducement for securing the
prize. This was resented by his superior officer, a dray-
man in the employ of one of the local storekeepers,
who ordered this drsss to be taken off and put on his
own wife, which was done. So ended fytte the first.
Then the grand worthy drayman noticed a very fine"
coloured jelly on the table of the vice-grand ganger’s
wife. He at ence accused the latter of colouring it
with the “ accursed thing,” and ordered a sample to
bn sent to a special lodge meeting, which he caused to
be convened for the purpose'of analysing the ingredient
of this jelly. The explanation given by the ganger
that it had obtained its suspiciously brilliant hue by
being boiled in red flannel was received with icy
scorn. So he and the drayman went out into the pad-
dock at the back of the hall to argue tho matter. The
latter was discovered half-an-hour later dragging him-
self round on his hands and kneev, looking for his left
ear. He had already given up the search for his best
eye. So ended fytto the second. Tho drayman doesn’t
look at the same side of the street on which the ganger
works now. He can’t do it without describing half a
circle, and this Is a feat that can’t be performed grace-
fully by a man wi’h a mended leg.
Says the unspeakable Nooze : “ A
remarkable coincidence. Tbe last living
thing to quit the steamer John Elder yes-
terday afternoon In Port Jackson was a
dog. The first to go on board the Sorata
when she arrived was a dog. From which
some people draw their own conclusions.”
Wo grappled the problem, and traced
the thing to its source, and have now
an inkling of the inner workings of the
Nooze office, and soma explanation of
its biting satire and perpetual habit of
barking up the wrong tree. The solution
of the conundrum is the manner in which
its staff is kept up. One escapes as a
stow-away, but what of that T Another
leaps ashore, wags his tail, takes up a
bone on the wharf, sniffs the track of
his predecessor, and before you can say,
“ pay for the buns, Davies," he is seen is-
suing from Pitt-s'reet with a wad of sorib.
bling paper in his mouth, and a lead pen-
oil behind his ear.
• • •
A correspondent, who appropriately
signs himself “Verity,’’ obliges ns with
the following valuable bit of natural his-
tory:—“The wisdom of the serpent is
proverbial, and its tenacity of life too
well-known to need comment, yet I must
confess 1 was hardly prepared for such
startling evidence of these qualities as I
the other day received. I killed, as I
thought, a carpet snake, 12 ft 2 in. in
length, and skinned him. Having
smashed the head, I did not skin it, but
out it off and threw it away, a distance of
ten yards or more. I then left the snake
for dead, carried the skin to a cottage a
mile further on, and spread it on the
roof to dry. Returning two hours later,
imagine my horror on seeing the snake
approaching about thirty yards distant,
carrying his head in his mouth, his teeth
chattering with cold, and hunting around
for his skin. I dismounted, and toma-
nawked the poor devil out of misery at
once." This is a curious narrative, and
throws anew and agreeable light on the
domestic habits of snakes. But we
know a better snake story than this.
It was in a country town down South,
An old man snake had been apparently
killed, and he was skinned just like the
other one. And he also went around
hunting for his skin. And an editor,
passing that way, took compassion on
him, and invited him to come and stay
at the office. The grateful snake used
to let the kind editor’s boy make
- —“ o uuy mane
a bicycle wheel] of him and ride him round the
township on off days; and when the staff was busy, he
need to stick a pen in the hollow of one of his joints
and coil up on the table and write lies about other
snakes for the next issue. At last, one winter night, as he
went as usual to look for the editor under the foot-bridge
the exceeding cold overcame him and he crawled down
the editor’s throat and dropped gently into the golf of
rum below, where ho lay safely preserved till spring
came round again. But, alas, when the trees were bud-
ding and the wattles were in bloom and the joyoni
jackass-bird sang his matin song, and the happy
wallaby ate as much grass as three sheep, and laughed
and was merry all the day, the kind editor shuffled off
the coil and the snake shuffled out his coil into the cold
world once again. And when a mourning creditor came
next day to have a look at the editor’s grave he saw
the snake standing on end with his tail stuck in tbs
ground and an inscription out by himself with a piece
of broken glass on his body, combining a wish for the
repoie of the editor’s soul with a hint that a keg of rum
was a good thing to keep a poor snake who had died of
grief from going altogether to decay. They pat the
keg there and utilised the snake as a post for a railing
which they put around the grave. The keg was in the
same place when they visited the churchyard—but the
rum was not. You can’t keep an editor down if you
were to pile a mountain upon him once you let the
smell of rum burrow down through the clay.
* # •
The Government, having decided on useful levis*
lation, are being inundated with drafts for new statutes.
We press on their attention the following proposal!—
Some steps must be taken to prevent bloodshed. Bet
the Government provide shark-hooks and lines, and let
the military be called out and in readiness. Then let
every able-bodied and sleepy lodger in Phillip-strset be
aroused at a quarter lo seven, and have hooks and lines
ready. At three minutes to seven he will appear around
King-street corner, with a basket of somethin? on hi*
head, and commence a roar such as passed over the sur-
face of hell when the fallen angel rolled confounded
for nine days in the fiery billows. The military will
seize that fish-hawker, and place in different portion*
of his body the hooks from all down the street. Th*
lodgers will settle the rest.
“ Anchor ” shares worth i-100 in Hobart *
week or so ago, are now quoted at £2OO.
Mr. J. M. M‘Crae, of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, has been appointed
tary of the New South Wales branch of the Mu
Assurance Society of Victoria.
It was in the Cafe Framjais, A gilded y° u th
showing one of the barmaids a walking-cane
donkey’s head beautifully carved in a . mbe '_1,.4; l ~4; «a
handle. “ Dear mo,” she said, admiringly, wn
excellent likeness 1”
Before no august King he quailed,
Nor lowly bent the knee;
Unmoved he stood, all irion-mailed
In crass audacity I
And thus he prates : “ Ah, I say. King,
If restless here you ha.
I’ll lay you on a slap-up thing
In Eden ruled by me 1
“For there alone, as in high heaven,
Pure happiness doth dwell;
If the concern was by me driven,
I’d happy make hob h—11! ”
A SYDNEY SHAVE.
A GRISLY LEGEND.
We'll not sing of a damozel,
Nor chant the deeds of soldiers brave;
We have'a gruesome tale to tell—
That tale is of a Sydney shave!
Behind a ’bacoa shop we were
(You’ll shudder, reader, very soon),
Wedged tight within a fluffy chair—
The rack of some dark fiend’s “ saloon."
A little sneezing-shop behind
(A 11 weed ” mart of the meanest type),
And, in a yard, in front, we find
A slattern female cleaning tripe.
When lathered, she has cleaned that tripe ;
We utter then a muffled howl;
We’ve seen her enter—zounds I —and wipe
Her hands upon the only towel.
That soap smells like a bone-yard yet.
Oh, pity us! for understand
It is “ the rose that dews have wet,"
Beside that barber’s dusky hand.
He strops the razor on the strop
So long we think it ne’er will end.
And then he steps inside the shop
To book some wagers with a friend.
He scrapes I—oh, torture of the rack I
And yet, when h* but halt is "through,*’
His missis bellows out “ Here, Jack,
Come on and chop a stick or two 1”
He comes back with his hands all mud,
That glass reflects a murd’rous scowl.
And wipes—wo now thirst for his blood—
His hands upon the only towel.
•i Yer ’air done ?” with a gaxliok gush
Then, with a yell, the air is rent;
Before he plies the fatal brush
He’s “ dabbed” us with his dreadful scent!
So hot and sticky we go out,
So sad anAeick and sore and vex’d.
And, as we go, the fiend does shout
Hi, wake up, butcher I—you’re the next!’’
We pause, as up the “next one” shoots,
To scan that beefy jobbernowl}
When, 10, the vandal dusts his boots,
Ob, horror! on the only towel.
Since this we can but gruffly growl;
Our harp now knows no cheerful stave j
We’re haunted by the only towel.
Our nightmare is—a Sydney shave.
REJUVENATED.
“ An old lady, craning out her neck, said : ‘ Oh,
dear I how young he looks.’ ”—Sib H. Pabkes.
As Parkee, in august state rode on,
Past “ publicans and sinners,"
And gabbled to his awe-struck son
Of princely feeds and dinners,
An old crone’s voice " went bung ” in air,
As, waving her clean “ biled” hood,
She yell’d: *’ So young I Bedad, I’ll swear
He's in his second childhood /”
SIR HENRY STIGGINS (loq.): “What! Want to come here on the Sawbath? Nay, verily. Get ye hence,
and ride in my holy trams to Botany, and rise from Nature to Nature’s sixpenny drinks.”
MR. ALDERMAN CARTER: —“ I don’t see any objection to giving little presents.”
(Can’t contractors take the hint—thus.)
KING CURLY.
A LAMENTATION.
“ At the * Central,’ on Wednesday, * King
Curly,' an aboriginal, found guilty of mendicancy, was
sentenced to bo imprisoned 24 hours.”
The woody dells thy fathers trod
Are woody dells no more ;
All shattered is the sylvan god
They worshipped here of yore.
Thy subjects camp allround about.
In tribes now grown so thin,
And ask their conquerors to *• shout,"
And get, like thee, “run in.”
And yet to think there was a time
When blacks were rulers here—
The kings of all this land sublime—
The lords of far and near!
Oh, what a falling off we trace 1
Oh, what a sorry tale!
Thy subjects cooped in Gribble’s plane,
Thy kingly self in gaol 1


BRIEF MENTION.
The diatinkshun of C.M.G. has gone Bung.
C.M.G. means —Corner Market-street Grog-
shop.
The motto of the next Government—Reid and
Eight.
A whipper-in—John Davies. A whipper-out—
John M'Elhone.
What a country editor invariably accepts—His
own contributions.
1.0.G.T. and 5.0. T., to L.Y., quite contrary.
But fraternised through C.M.G.
The Hon. John has gone to the N.Z. hot springs
—to get his first taste of brimstone.
’ Twill [take many Orange Pekoe tea-meetings
to nerve John in the present crisis.
Alfred’s man has ceased to hobble “ round the
clock." Can the clock have—struck ?
The happiest men out West are deputationists.
A cheap trip to Sydney every six months.
John Davies presented the Navy with either
St. Michael (and George) or Servile oranges.
The fashion in Hobart is for boating men of the
upper ten to be taken home in wheelbarrows.
The principal “ features” of the late big cricket
match m England—SpotTorth and his bowling.
The Bishop of Melbourne calls girl-hunting
“ killing time." There is much time killed in Sydney.
A “ soft-tack ’■ man in Dubbo has a new cordial,
eilled Odezone. Another Temperate Zone, doubtless.
It isn’t always judicious to call a man a liar.
But you’ll be understood if you say he answers questions
in the House.
The Browne-M‘Elhone case may be likened to a
Turkish bath, for a (good deal of dirt has been brought
out by a ratber hot process.
One of the Rockhampton aldermen is suffering
from blood to the head. However, none of the civic
fathers in the city of sin, sweat and sorrow suffer from
brain to his head.
A Goulburn lady objects to “ Protestant” music
being played in the Cathedral, yet the will walk seven
miles ito an Orange bootshop when she can get her
“ lasting" boots at 3s. 9d. a pair.
““ Have you ever thought,” asked a preacher in
me Domain, ‘ what you would do if your souls were
utterly lost ?" “ Walk on our blooming uppers," was
the prompt but irreverent reply.
“ What’s the matter,” said a friend to the Cupid
«t the Macieay, as their cab stopped at the Fyrmont
Bridge toll-gate. “ 1 can never help blushing when 1
see a bridge,’* was the demure reply.
A few months ago a digger 11 down in his luck”
sold his block ior £2. Last week deeds were drawn up
by a city solicitor conveying the same ground to a com
pany for the modest snin of £70,0U0.
In 16 days our pushing Railway Department
actually ran 293 cattle trucks from Uubbo to Sydney.
The Victorian Department ran the same number from
Deniliquin to Melbourne in two days.
One of the events in the human race is about to
be decided. Amongst the items on the programme are the
European and Aoatio races. The latter is now about
to b« run off in California and Australia,
The elaborate precautions against dodgery
which the reverend fathers find necessary before (bak-
ing in the hat over the new bishopric, almost rival those
adopted over the drawing for a £20,000 sweep.
The honest, industrious “sundowner” is get-
ting luxurious on the Lachlan. Ho says the stations
are too tar apart, ana "a oove gets starved out between
them." Sir John should tee to the interests of this
thriving yeoman.
Apropos of the D.T.’s leader of Monday, Ver-
juice says that to shine on the Herald a writer must
have plenty of language and few ideas, while to corus-
cate on the Etna a man should have somebody else’s
ideas and no language.
A S.A. member of Parliament recently handed
in a written resolution to the] Speaker that the ‘ flour
of Australian Parliaments views with regret the deter-
mination of the Imperial Government not to acquire
torror-Tory-all rights in Egypt."
The Forbes hospital has a credit balance of
something like five and two noughts, but the committee
can’t see their way to adopt needful improvements.
The civic council there have a ‘‘thou." to their credit,
and the streets haven’t a cent, to their credit.
A darkey, who was sent up for “ boozing” out
West some time back, thus to the anything but tee-
total presiding J.P.: —“Me get drunk, me no place go,
me get lock up ! You get drunk, you go sleep in fine
house, you no get lock.np ; only poor blaokfellow 1"
It’s a very odd thing that people can’t leave the
Moehino Bdm alone. We don’t know what they did to
Joe Cook, but here he is in Adelaide asking people not
to support fifth-rate journals. Why, tha Marrickville
busman will be turning next, and then where, in
thunder, will be the circulation ?
His face was white with passion, his eyes blood-
shot with fnry, and his lips foaming with auger. And
he rushed down Macqnarie-street towards the Colonial
Secretary’s office, armed with a railway-sleeper. He
had seen his name down amongst the new J.P.’s.
Further particulars in a suokin edishun.
At a ball in Nelson, N Z., a curled darling was
piling on the agony with his partner during the nance.
"My name is William, call me plain William," he
shouted, so as to make himself heard above the crash
of the music. The band stopped in the middle of it,
and now they call him “ Plain William."
This is how a jolly squatter down Lachlan way
•mfilled residence on his C.P. He and a certain land
official repaired occasionally to the hut, armed with a
case of whisky, and “ made anight of it." He then, of
coarse, could truthfully swear to having slept on the
premises, and the official could corroborate it.
. A lecturer said lately that there is not a native
in the whole Chinese Empire that can remove a tumour.
What nice little games soma of our Companions of
Mike and George could carry on with impunity ia that
happy land! Decapitation is the only form of execution
there, and there would be nobody to decapitate then.
Where are the police P “Now, if a pore man
Put read this gore-freezing period extracted from
the Pbskt Morning Exile's description of the Balmain
Eowicg Club Ball;—"Two daughters of the treasurer
perforated (sic) Esmeralda and Wancy Lee respectively "
crime committed, or did tho colonial wire “ take
well t “
"All is vanity!” saith the Preacher. There are
tricks in every trade. A Eockhampton parson “ holds
hot from the pulpit, but from the landing below
“• This is done to show tho congregation that his
sermons are extemporaneous, and that be does not re-
quire to make me of the “ big book" for the purpose
of concealing “ notes."
The two ambitions of every Parisian gamin,
■aya Victor Hugo in •• Les Miserable*," are:—(l.) To
npsot the Government, and (2) to have hie trousers re-
Beated. M. Hugo, we hear, is now ensrasred on a book,
nf e . Ba y. that the average N.S. W. politician
vi, wishing to re-seat his pants, want-ad to
*eep the Government in.
fears are entertained in the Bonrke dia-
tnct that there is a likelihood of the demand for
patients exceeding the supply. Why not
a lO , e ohnroh.yard tenants themselves a chance P
“ a corpse is a fit and proper person to vote at
an East Sydney election, he is able to fulfil the duties
oi a dummy on a back block.
Scene: Queen-street, Brisbane, Saturday even-
•J?* crowded with townspeople and country
, i , ■P^ aln °f immigrant ship, Jnst arrived, meets
j a ” y * on ,® of his passengers“ Well, Mrs. Brown,
vp« ° this ? Fine place, isn’t it ? " “ Oh,
jL I m a Londoner, you know, sir: and it do so
remind me of the Whitechapel Bead !’*
Pro Deo etecclesid. At the drawing connected
of A rt Union in aid ef the Eockhampton Church
»w. a s- Organ Fund, the tickets remaining unsold
0 imposed of by means of half-a-crcwn sweeps.
Bailies are decidedly objectionable, as every parson
knows, but who would dare to say a word against
shaking the bones, when a holy cause stands in need
of assistance.
* 4. lfr « d ia e° in £ Jt - Not content with bringing
to the Maitland Mercury everlasting glory, he is ap-
patently now shedding the glamour of his genius over
the Naeandbea Argus. Barely we cannot mistake
this grand, this Johnsonian style There appears
(sic) to be breakers (sic) ahead of the Parkes and Kobert-
■on Ministry.” Narandera, now, just as we were about
to clutch him 1 “ 'Twas ever thus 1"
Fred. Maocabe, who has been reading Sir Henry
Parkes’ speech on the Art Gallery question, wants to
know whether the Ministers hide the pictures in their
private houses on Sunday. He says he is prepared to
undertake a contract for tho supply of patent muslin,
which, while admitting of the pictures being viewed by
the owners on the Lord’s Day, will effectually exclude
them from the gaze of those not in the secret.
short distance, it is impossible to know which way she
is going, as both sides look alike. Advance, the Batter
District I
The Jap. officers of the Tsukuba took some
Hobart cads down nicely during their recent stay in
Tasmania. A smart fellow was “poking borak” at
them, and asked, "Is the snow in Japan tne same as it
'is in Tasmania ?” The Japs, had stood it for a long
time, but now one of them looked np innocently and
replied; " No, sir, (the (snow in Japan is bla«k it falls
The wife of a well-known innkeeper down South
spends her tima—when not at church—promenading
the public streets in a navy blue dress covered with im-
mense ail vir crosses. Behind, she looks like a priest in
penitential vestments j and in front, like the Milky
Way. The last time she was “ out," the “ talent” tried
to count how many crosses she wore, but after totting
up 29 small ones, the splendour of the two monsters—
one on the back, and one on the front—as well as two
medium ones on the "tail’’—dazzled them so that they
gave up, and have Inea cross-eyed ever since. At a
in the summer there and is very hot to touch." The
funny young cad collapsed.
The Australian Medical Gazette is to hand.
We have put it by to take in small doses when we don’t
feel well. By the way, we wonder if Kaysor, who ad*
rertises in the front page, wants to buy a dawg. The
A. •“•O.i* excellently printed, and we can recommend,
as a nice little bit of after-dinner light reading, a paper
amply labelled “A Case of Aneurism on the Gluteal
Artery, We haven't read it ourselves. We are in ex.
cellent health at present.
The European Mail (which is not generally
regarded in the light of a comic—what a marrow-freoz*
ing word that is I-paper) has the following“ Mr. J.
Henmker Heaton, a well-known and highly-popular (sic)
Australian newspaper proprietor, has just published,
through Cassells, * A Short Account of a Canonisation
at ot. reter s at Rome,* from an unsectarian point of
view. We apprehend that this noble work will havo a
very extensive tripe-shop circulation.
M*? a Pigeon-match ball at a hotel out
West theother day, conducted on entirely new prin.
ciples. While one half the company kicked up the dust,
the other polished each other off in a free light. The
"sewn up " before the fun was hall through,
and had to be roped down. Next morning there wasn’t
a dry eye in the company, throats monopolised all the
dry business. The lighting rum there bites all the way
down. Sticking plaster at a premium.
A lady, well-known in society, en arriving homo
m aoab, found she possessed no change,!and said, "I’ll
have to ask yon to call again; or I can send it —where
wre you to be found P" •• At the Union Club, ma’am.
But, shure, it’s not the laste matter, it’s raesolf that’s
proud to dhrive such a pretty lady, and " “ Oh,
then, I will send it. Will you be there to-morrow
morning?’ “Faith I’m always there, ma’am, but
(oonfldentially), ye know, I’m not a mimber.’’
He had been taking lessons of Larry, and having
been banged about by that athletic worthy for a week
or two, he sighed for worlds to conquer. He took a
cab home from the theatre one night, and paid the mau
the exact quarter of an hour. He found himself next
morning lying on a tombstone in a suburban graveyard i
and he has ever since been trying to persuade his friends
that he was trampled on by a mob of cattle. He always
travels by the ’bus now, and calls the driver “ sir."
A religious contemporary remarks:—We havo
often seen Christian people seeking shelter from the
demands of the Foreign Mission work behind the pitiful
plea; 'We have enough heathen at homo. Let us con-
vert them first before we go to the heathen abroad.
This is a cheap and shameful plea.” Of course. There
00*0 no pickings to be made out of missionary work at
home. The heathen abroad doesn't know the value of
money, the heathen at home does. That’s the differ-
ence.
It is rare that a policeman on the Stage has the
sympathy of the audience, and his discomfiture by the
clown is always delirious joy for the gods. In the
Lights o London," however, a policeman is permitted
by the author to nppeir in a favourable light by offer-
ing a girl brandy from bis own flank when
she is exhausted; in the streets. This Samaritan
act was received with enthusiasm on Saturday night,
and a husky voice from the pit shouted out *’ One in a
thousand."
A sad suicide has occurred— that of J. L. H.
Hanoe, author of “ The Atlas Series of Australian
ramphlets.” Mr. H. left his clothes and sa. in silver
on the Yarra bank. He knew, poor fellow, that the
work he clutched in his hand would bo quite sufficient
to sink him. Lot us hope that
He’s gone to that beautiful land,
Where unknown is grim poverty’s tale, O j
Where you sing on the sun-glinted strand,
Clad in glory, two wings and a halo.
A squatter in the Laohlan district lately buried
an old 'un, who had shepherded on the station for 30
years. As the men were very busy erecting new draft-
ing yards, useless fuss was avoided, and the “last
offices” consisted of six pine boards and a hole in the
sand. When the squatter’s favourite buggy horse
died, all the station hands attended the funeral in pre-
cession, at the special desire of the grief.stricken
owner. And, as work’s slack now, they’re putting up
an ornamental fence round dear old Dobbin’s grave. Of
ooursa Dobbin wasn’t the name of the man.
Eumour reports that the servant-girls in Yass
are forming a sort of trades-union or protection league.
The object of this association is to entitle each member
to have eight afternoons and two Saturdays In every
week ; thirty-six hours’ leave on Sunday ; the use of
piano, bath, pomatum-pot, tooth-brushes, etc., and to
entertain male cousins in the front parlour. In return
for these privileges, each servant promises to draw her
salary regularly, and take charge of the master of the
house when the mistress is out on business only.
Branch lodges are now forming in all the Southern dig.
triots.
A Port Douglas storekeeper combines nanny-
goat breeding with shopkeeping. At a meeting held
the other night, to consider the goat nuisance, the tea
and sugar man openly stated that be bad saved £lB
last year on goat’s milk alone. “ An’ why," remarked
he, in his peroration, “ d’yer want to rob an honest
■owl of the means to get praties by puttin’ a tax on the
harmless craythurs ?" Although that sow! owns 11»
nannies and billies, he can give the pedigree of every
one of them. So muoh for instinot. The assemblage
was ho much moved by the tale told of ;the hard death
a kid died, which bad been treated like an Irish land-
lord (shot through the neck from behind a hedge), that
it resolved not to tax the nannies.
A well-known selector of sporting proclivities, in
the New England District, had a rather inquisitive
dog. Whilst routing round a haystack one morning Toby
came across a hen sitting, and having shifted her,
leisurely devoured the eggs. The selector arrived just
as the mischief was done, and was horrified to think
what his wife (a great fowl fancier), would say when
she heard what hau happened. With the wisdom only
gamed by married experience, he got another lot of
egga and set the hen again. The wife relates constantly
to her friends, the wonderful ineident of n hen sitting a
week beyond the usual time, and appeals to her hus-
band to confirm the fact. Ho does so, and says it is
the most extraordinary case ho ever heard of.
Quito a pleasant— or, at any rate, a novel—
surprise was lately given to a man at Port Pirie. It
appears that a young lady, carrying a baby and a well-
filled feeding-bottle, called at this gentleman's house at
9 a.m., and being told he was in bed, she coolly slipped
up-stairs, opened the door of his room, walked in, and
planted the child and bottle by his side, telling him to
rear the infant well as it was his and hie alone. They
do things differently down here. The mother simply
hangs a basket containing the unwelcome little stranger
on the knob of a clergyman’s door, with a polite note
requesting him to take the greatest care of darling,
educate it liberally, and call it Reginald Montmorency.
Moral: Never stay in bed after breakfast time.
The Bourke Watchman intimates that the
gifted editor of the Bourke Central Australian is
about to rejoin the-Sydney press. By way of deaden-
ing the pongs of the sorrow they would suffer at bis
loss, the gentleman announced a lecture at the Insti-
tute Hall, on Poetry. In the course of his remarks
he said—“l have had to get my quotations where the
Scotch boy got things with a small tooth oomb, out of
my head ; ’’ and also remarked that he bad to be con-
tinually “astonishing his stomach with draughts of
cold water because he had the pleuro." On the lecture
being concluded, the audience in returning a vote of
thanks signified that after a long struggle they had
now to announce themselves quite equal to the trial of
his departure.
He was an Inspector of Stock, and also a J.P.
out West. While among the free-geleotors locking for
unregistered dogs one day, a dog whose license to live
hod not been mode out started to look for him. And
that dog found him. When he had run till ho had
jammed all his internal organs together, and worked
the studs off his shirt-front, he suddenly recollected
that he was carrying a gun. Then he turned round and
fired at the dog, but missed. He followed it to the
house of the owner, and demanded his name. Next
day the free-seleotor received a summons to appear
before the Court. When he got into the box he dip-
covered that the bench was occupied by the aforesaid
Inspector of Stock and his brother. Verdict, “£2 or
fourteen days.” Later on they met at an hotel. The
selector remarked that the sentence was rather rough,
to which the J.P replied that if he didn't like it he
could come out into the back-yard, and settle the matter
after another fashion. They went out. The Inspector
J.P. has not returned since. They buried him in the
back-yard.
TOUCH AND GO!
THIS SPACE OBLITERATED SINCE MONDAY LAST.


The Speaker ruled Mr. David Buohanatl out of
order when he said the Government had “ yoked up
their bullocks." The Speaker was right. “ Harnessed
up their donkeys" was the correct thing to remark.
Two Parramatta boys recently, while partaking
of refreshments at a penny loe-cream shop, came upon
a copy of the Cumberland Ferguson. And they sat
down together upon a log, aud perused his gory novel
That night they ware both missing. One collared £4
out of bis father*till, and the other hia uncle’s volun-
teer rifle. Then they started ont for slaughter. Next
morning when they were concerting their plans by the
bush.fi r« the rifle-boy suddenly remembered that be had
left his squirt at home. So, when the shades of night
Sind fallen, the bushrangers resolved to return and
rescue it or die. They crept softly back, and entering
the house softly by Hie kitchen door stole np-stairs.
Aud that’s all they did steal that trip. Both now are
engaged daily in the study of simple mathematics,
seated upon a stool and purous-plaster sandwich.
This occurred in New Zealand :—Brown, the
teller, went to lunch, leaving the manager in charge.
On his return, everything was apparently correct, for
his balance came out right as usual. But, next day, In
calling over from the cash book, the junior, a pretty
smart youngster, said .- “ I don’t see a credit for such
and such a firm, Mr. Brown. I’ll swear ia your absence
the manager received a credit." Brown flipped ont
and found that a three-figure sum had been paid in, and
a bank-book initialled for the amount. The matter was
reported, but the manager explained that ho had by
mistake taken the cash into his private room and left it
in his drawer. The matter was dealt with by the head
cfiioe as a mere irregularity, and the manager allowed
to go on. A few days elapsed, and a.man stated that he
had paid in £255, which didn’t appear in the books.
The manager implored that he might be allowed to
make good the deficiency. He was permitted to do so,
and all goes on harmoniously.
The Evening Noozb printed last wevk a com-
munication from a “ a valued correspondent,” anent
the doings at the Quarantine Gronad. The ball that
individual speaks of as having taken place amongst the
saloon passengers never came off, owing to the only
musical man ou the ground fan acoordejn artist in the
firemen contingent) refusing to officiate, and the affair
was accordingly postponed. The snake story was told
with all that beautiful fidelity to facts that distin-
guishes the Nooze writers, the length of one of the
crawlers being aolnally 13 feet and the other 10. No
short stick was used, save a short lump cunningly
grafted on to a gun-barrel. As for the butterflies ana
spiders, they must have beep thrown in by the imagina-
tive artist at the offloe to give a halo of romance to the
idyllic life of a batch of “ Quarantines." The corres-
poudent was spoken of as a foremast hand. The Nooze
should have taken him on as a foremost hand, as, in
points of general reliability, he would not disgrace the
present and past reputation of the Nooze.
We thought, on Tuesday morning, it was funny
the baker didn't come around, and the cheery chaunt
Of the blue-jumpered hat-raok-rider did not fall upon
i ur ear. It was not until our turn had come round for.
a half-penny read of the Yerald (the next-doT boy
having been subsidised by a promise of future tetfeo to
liokthe treacle off the “public notices”) that we began
to understand why we were neglected. Between two
gulps cf coffee we read ns follows:—“ Caution.—l, the
undersigned wish to cantion the public against trusting
any person without my authority. A. Morris." A nice
Morris-dance this is to lead distinguished authors and
eminent poets, who, despite popular adoration and tbe
“love-laurels ’’ of duchesses, find it convenient to occa-
sionally “ r. tick-up " a red herring We don’t care, in a
general way, about grovelling—except to escape the
" lash" of the Melbourne Morning Mistake,—but we
should not mind abusing ourselves considerably in
order to procure the authority of “A. Morris" on
behalf of our tradespeople for future credit. A. Mortis,
anyhow, might except us. The street runners sell our
paper.
A well-known firm of brewers in this city have
in their employ a pi-.enomenal traveller. He is pheno-
menal principally because nobody has ever seen him
drunk. When he starts out on his round in the country
districts, he fixes up a large keg in tbe baggy. The keg
is empty. Very good; ho sails into a public-house,
shouts for all hands, “ puts away ” about eighty of his
employers’ long beers per diem, and can say the hardest
word iu the English language backwards without trip-
ping over it after he has done. The way in which he
manages is this:—By some sleight-of-hand—or rather
sleight-of-moubh—the beer which should in the ordinary
tun of liquor trickle down to his stomach, is directed
to a flat vessel which Is concealed beneath his waist-
eoat. After he leaves the hotel he empties this vessel
into the keg, and is ready for a tre.ih consignment. By
the time he returns from his trip be is able 'o make tbe
whole of his relations aruuk for a week. It is sid to
think that this man will have to die like any other some
day, and still sadder to think that when he does, instead
of being saved for his sobriety, he will probably be
damned for his deception.
A correspondent sends us the following story :
Three Irish maintenance men were passing over the
Queanbeyan river bridge one night. There had been a
wadding in tha town, aud they attended. Tha conse-
quence was that, their heads being full of love and
whisky, they mistook the full moon for a cheese-cake,
which seemed floating down below ia the still, clear
waters of the river, ’j hey sat down solemuly upon the
lower rail of tha bridge and took counsel togatm-r as
to how they were to “ have her up ’’ “ Be jibers, I have
it," yelled one," —“ You, Tim, grip on to mv band, and
Tony grips on to jour leg, and then all he his to do is
to bend down and pick up the tucker." And so it was
done, but just as I’ony was prapaiing to freeze on to
the Limburger the top man cried oat, “ Hon’d ou be-
low, ye divils, till Ijshpit in me flsht." The top .. u was
missing the next day. So were the other two. T - is is
a nice story, aud none the worse, perhaps, because wo
remember having read it, many years ago, in an old
leather-bound book marked with Matbusalah’s name in
the front page. But it onr correspondent B inds us any
moreotthe kind, and continues heading , hump ‘original, ’
bo will die some day, and then ho will for over regret
having spent the shining bouts of his life in telling
lies.
Ho t©ttered out of a doctor’s house, his face
distorted by pain, bis left arm in a sling, aud his loner
lip puffed out at right nngUs with his shoulder. He
hadn’t dept along many paces before he met a friend.
“Good gracious!" said the triend, "whose donkey-
cugine have you been sparring with ?" “ It isn’t that,"
said the patient, faintly; " but I’m a member of the
Blank Brigade, and there was a fire last night. We.l,
the Dash lot was there before us, so me and Charley
Blnnker ripped their bloomin’ hose, but while we was
a doin’ it, some of their chaps planted our handles.
Some others then came up, but we wasn’t agolu’ to let
them get a stream on before ns, so we waded In and
turned over their jolly old engine. There was a rog’lar
row then, but I knocked Billy Bmgey’s eyeball in, and
San Strikers got lamed for life ; while twelve was took
off to the’orsepital. Oh, there ain’t much the matt ii
with me; only got a ankle broke, and a rib or two
crocked—besides what you see!" “ Rut the building was
eaved, I trust." "building be blowed. Who cares
about the bloomin’ building 1 What we want ia a good
blaze, plenty o’ whisky, and a square barney tefore it’s
all over." And he crept away, casting, as be went, a
shadow on the wall like a witch carrying her bag of
bones to the incantation ground. .
The Now Zealand Charles Lamb, of the Morn-
ing Herald, sent the following thrilling telegram
along tbe wires ou Monday night: “ Fins occurred
last night at Auckland and Christchurch. Several
houses were burned In each place. At the latter, a
hmlciug in which the armlets woman was showing was
destroyed, aud the learned pig was roasted.” By pri-
rate telegram wa learn that two reporters received
serious r janes iu rushing through the flames to
«scnre a louveuir of the dying scholar. They secured
it off the bind leg Alsj, that the Irish prlicemau who
was on bea. t.iat night has since begun a “History of
Cosmic Philosophy " as applied to the question of tho
relative efficacy of a long beer and a furtive pio aa a
brit e. All tbe editors wore mourning when they heard
the sad news of tho pig’s demise He was tho only
learned pig in the city wao was out of editorial harness.
Our telegraphic correspondent goes on to say that it is
much feared by those who ought to know that the dark
ages of ignorance will settle down once more upon our
avster colony, now that her noblest intellect has
departed. Sooner than that this should be, we will, at
our own expense, send over John Davies to fill the gap
—on condition that ho doesn’t come task again. He
could take the part of the Parted pig to the life, only
that he wants one thing—the learning.
There ia trouble in clerical circles up the line,
wh te reside two clergymen of different creeds, but of
similar names. The one is a handsome priest, wor-
shipped platonically by lovely woman ; the other a very
much married Church of England parson. The celibate
is the happy recipient of a never-ending shower of per-
fumed notes, and he falls in for more substantial
presents in the form of slippers, photos, and—shall we
reveal it ?—knuckle-bones of ham I The maoh-marned
parson doesn’t dwell in such an elysian atmosphere.
His correspondence consists prlncipall* of appeals for
pecuniary assistance, and millinery and dress-making
bills. And here we’va only got to mention the Post-
office, and the reader gets the hang of the whole racket.
Of coarse, the priest gets the parson’s bills, and the
parson gets the priest’s “ hams." Just like the
Egyptian question, the Porta is nowhere in the show.
The parson is quite contented, and continually hums a
little hymn about “ birds iu their little neats ’’ agree-
ing; but the priest simply gives the revised version of
the litany when he’s asked what time of day it is. This
ia how he puts his case, and there’s something in it,
mind yon ;—“ When I get Madtwne’s bonnet bills I send
them to my good friend the parson ; but when he gets
my hams he well, I suppose he eats them."
Not long ago, a deputation waited on Mr.
Lackey to advocate the extension of the railway line to
Jervis Bay. Great preparations were made for the
coming tussle. A paper was printed describing in the
moat glowing terms the different institutions of the
distriat, and a separate part allotted to each member
of the deputation : Mr. taking the mining, Mr.
the fishing, Mr. the agricultural, etc ; and for a
whole month these gentlemen burned the midnight
kerosene until Sam, studying their different roles, and
declaiming, Demosthenes-like, before their time, pay-
ment mirrors. When the eventful day came round,
Mr. Eoseby ushered the crowd in, each man’s breast
sticking out with patriotic pride and documents until
he looked like an old pontor pigeon. And the fish ex-
pounder was about to lead oil when, to the intense
disgnst of all, Mr. Roseby commenced and went
through the whole of the programme from Alpha to
Omega, in suoh an exhaustive and in so eloquent a man-
ner, that, when ho was through, there was nothing left
for the rest of the well-primed orators to say, except,
“Yes, sir; them's our sentiments." Then the lot
mournfully filed lout, hissing "vendettas" at every
■tride. When the result of the next Shoalhaven elec-
tion is known, the gifted Roseby will find the only seat
he can occupy will be on tbe back of bis old thorough,
bred hat-rack, “The bpouter,” got by “Difficulty"
out of the “ Stable."
A “ Constant Reader,” and—quiet! O flutter-
ing rib tickler!—a lady, writes on pretty rep paper as
follows “ Dear (lathe study door locked ?—Right)
Mr. Editor, —I am going to play in some amateur
theatricals (private). Could you kindly inform me what
they use to darken round the eyes ; and could you also
tell me how 1 can obtain a Town and Country Journal
of the 19th of May last. It not too much trouble,
answers to the above will oblige." “ Too much
trouble 1"
There is no mountain we’d not climb
To clutch for thee a bunch of thyme
By the way, thyme doesn’t grow on a mountain, but
it’s a convenient word to rhyme to. “X«o mnoh
trouble "
O Constant Reader 1 if a heart
That beats
—“ Coming directly, dear. Just finishing the produce
report." But to business. To darksn round the eyes,
dear C R., a marital fist generally succeeds admirably,
but lady professionals not always having a hub. haudy,
chiefly employ soot-stick, which can be either applied
with a hare’s-foot er a raute-brusb, as occasion requires.
With regard to the back number of the Town and
Country, if they haven’t got it at tbe offloe, the best
plan will be to waylay the Evening News horse and
give him an emetic. If “ Constant Reader " wants any
more information at any other time, we shall be happy
to supply it. We consider ourselves, after this par.,
rather a don at diffusing useful knowledge.
It was a pattern hotel, and her husband being
away, the landlady engaged a smart boy to assist her.
On Sunday coming round, she went off to pray with a
lodger at Coogee, and gave her juvenile retainer the
strictest injunctions not to admit a sunl‘or serve a
drink. Shortly after they had gone a knock comes at
the door, which the youth opens on the chain. “ All
right, Maria," says a voice; “hurry .up, for I’m dying
for a drink ’’ The boy looked out and saw a tall, gaunt
figure, with mud-hesmirohed clothes, a straw hat with
a hanging rim, wild eyes, a blue nose, and a face orna-
mented by a cheek-bone shave-cut “ Who are you
Marlerin* of ? ’’ enquired the boy, indignantly. “ Here I
no tomfoolery; let’s in," cried the man. “Not if I
know it," said the bov. “But I’m the master," cried
tbe voice. “Walker!" responded the juvenile, pre-
paring to close the door. “ Stop! look here,” said the
traveller; “if you hear mo tell you what’s in the
house, will you believe me?" “Goa-head,” said the
youth. “Well, all the knives h«ve black handles, and
all the forks green ones.” “Right," said the boy.
“ The bacca juice to mix with the morning rum is kept
on the top shelf of the kitchen cupboard—will that
do?" “Nearly; cot quite," answered the juvenile.
“ The missis has got a mole but you wouldn’t know
that Oh I my gold watch and chain is banging over
the bed room mantelpiece." “ No, it ain’t," cried the
boy—“ so you’re bowled out. Mr. Spanker’s got it on,
wot’s out with the missis. Be off, or I’ll give yer in
charge." . . . Later that afternoon the boy was
complimented by the lindlady on his astuteness in not
allowing himself to be imposed upon; and later still
the landlady was complimented by the landlord with a
copper-stick. “It is expected that the attention of
Mr. Justice Windeyer will shortly," &o. The boy is now
to let.
He was a Government servant, and was known
as Gentleman John, and also as Don Whiskerando, by
reegou of bis lovely “ side-levers.” He was conspicuous
Lr his elegance in dross, and his devotion to tbe fair
aex, loving them in a light and airy fashion peculiarly
his own. The Hebe who dispensed “smiles" and
“blushes," &c., behind the bar of the “Rest for the
Weary" Hotel, in tbe capital of Riverina, was one of
those favoured by his attentions, which she recipro-
cated with all the warmth of an ardent and impetuous
nature. All went merry as a marriage-bell with the
clapper out, until a dread rumour spread around that
Djn Whiskerando was-a Benedict already,—in fact, a
grass widower. It reached the ears of the fair EUne,
and she did not sit down and make moan, but acted in
the living present thusly :— Communicating with a
certain registrar, she obtained written confirmation of
her worst f-ars, and then she laid her plans iu careful
silenoe. Dear John got a note early next morning
to bid him rendezvous at the “Rest," &0., with all
convenient speed, and he made his appearance, accom-
panied by some friends, who were down to the occasion,
just as the scrubbing-out of the bar was unfait accom-
pli. Hs advanosd with his graceful manner, but the
soft light of yesfe-hiv was fled from the eyes of his
charmer, as fl muting a copy of a marriage certificate
before him. she i-.ized the floor tub and deluged her
adorer with its conten’s “Take it, you dog!" she
cried, “ and then choke," as she went for the whiskers,
but the best of them were too quick for her, and got
away safe. And row, although all tbe persuasions of
hia friends won’t induce Don Whiskerando to call in at
the ‘ Rest," and give the lady an opportunity to apolo-
gise, and comb the slucese out of those lovely side-
levers, yet that bar has been crowded for tbe last wrek
by customers for a “longbeer," and a glance at the
“ Spark Extinguisher."
Wo have at length received h communication
after our own hearts. It ia simply entitled :—“ Tbe
AUSTRALIAN PHRENOLOGICAL, PHYSIOGNOMICAL AND
Hygienic Magazine." It consists of eight pages and a
cover, upon whicd is a portrait, presumably of the
editor. This gentleman appears to have had his head
shaved, and we are sorry to sec that some ill-conditioned
persons have placarded his scalp while he was asleep in
the hotel-parlonr with a variety of inscriptions, many
of which are of a jocose order. The magazine before
us contains an article on “ Babes and How to Wean
Them." a notice of Sir Henry Parkes (by way of
novelty), and among.it other things (and this Is certainly
a novelty in a first number), “ Answers to Correspon-
dents ’’ One of these—and this, mind you, leads u« to
the conclusion that the editor is rather a sly dog—is to
“Emilia," who puts the following simple query : “I
feel so annoyed at myself after a long study and per-
severance in learning music and singing, when I find
that smorg some that I know I am nowhere —I feel
that I could give it up and seek some other employ-
ment. I do not like to bo beaten What would you
advise mo to do ? ” To this touching question the
editor, after invoking the muse ia various ways, simply
answers as follows: “Do what yon can;” a reply
which, all things considered, cannot bo said to err on
the side of recklessness of resource. It would seem,
however, that tho editor ia a man who is not accus-
tomed to burst himse'f—suoh is tho common Colonial
idiom, he'las I —in answering any questions which do not
immediately affect the fate of the country j for, in a
notice, ha plaoidly remarks: “If am enquiry fail to
receive attention within two months, the correspondent
should repeat it; if nob then published, the inquirer
can conclude tha answer is withheld for good reasons
by the editor." Wa should think tha A. P. P. and
H. M. ia destined to have a large circulation in the
course of time, and we can confidently recommend it if
only aa a guide (on communicating with the editor) to
any branch of knowledge that nobody is in a particular
hurry to acquire.
A man who had all his life been accustomed to
city life, writes from the country“ From morning to
night I find the monotony intolerable. It was all very
well far a few weeks, but now it is got insufferable.”
Just so. Here’s the contrast: —
Edward Yule Lowry waa the model honest man
ot Maryborough, Q. He was a family man in good cir-
cumstances, a prominent citizen, a leading light in
Oddfellows and Orange lodges, and the founder and
assiduous organiser of the juvenile Good Templar
lodge ; so zealous was he iu his church attendance that
after his men bad worked all day Saturday loading log
timber, he would make them pall at the sweeps all
night in order to be in Maryborough for his Sunday.
If the barge happened to be unloaded on Saturday, he
would generously give his men the benefit of the day-
light ou the Lord’s day; bnt as soon as it was dark they
would have to toil again at the sweeps, and he would
join them up the river after church hours. Well,
lately a number o( Maryborough storekeepers had been
losing stock. Suspicion at last fell on Lowry, and be
was closely watched. He was caught in the act of
stealing goods and putting them into a handbag. He
was arrested and looked up. The police searobed his
residence, and there found, packed away in wardrobes,
ohests ot drawers, and other receptacles, large quan-
tities of naw goods, a large portion of which, to the
value of about £l4O, Mr. Miller identified as goods which
had been stolen from his premises. All the plunder
was transferred to the police station and sorted out.
The holy one’s opsrations had been of great magnitude.
The display of plunder would make a complete and ex-
cellent stock for a town shop. There were piles upon
piles of drapery of every sort—clothing, -diks, tweeds,
dozens of towels, five expansive parasols, several dozens
ot hats of various patterns, stockings, 10 pairs boots or
slippars, fancy giods, soaps, jewellery sufficient
to fill a large cash box, and two other boxes.
Eleven pairs bangles, an ulster, buttons, cottons, wound
silk, and in fact almost everything to be met with in
the leading drapers’, and nearly all of the very best
quality. A quantity of other goods, identified by local
tradesmen, as having been purloined from their shops,
were amongst the loot, and included handsome clocks,
hundreds of pieces of cutlery of all sorts, several
packets of plated forks and spoons, large silver-plated
teapot, portions of a valuable silver tea service, two
very fine revolvers, large cish-box, sausage-machine,
scale and weights, brushware, carpenters’ tools, oruets,
pocket-knives, locks, trays, and numerous other
articles. In addition, there was a large quantity of
provisions. It’s really wonderful how many holy,
sanctified, white hypocrites have of late come down
from their pedestals in these colonies. In bydnay, our
idols are crumpling up every day in the week. By and
bye, when people see a pious fraud who shaves his upper
lip, and wears a nimbus, and a halo, and a suit of blaok,
and a face like a benediction, instead of regarding him
as a saint until he’s found ont, they’ll treat him as a
thief right away, and ns ha passes button up the
pockets of their pants. If the present state of affairs
continues long, the burglarish, Bill-Sykes faced man
will come to bo regarded as far more konest-looking
than the elder or the deacon.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Squatters are not the only class who empley
dummies. Most well-to-do selectors work with the
same tools.
Parkes’ consistency. (1) He opposes the open-
ing of the Art Gallery on Sundays. (2) He thinks that
there should be on Sundays an early-morning delivery
by letter-carriers from the Post Office.
In Switzerland, the signature of 30,000 citizens
against any Act passed by the Federal Legislature
necessitates an appeal to the people. The minority
thus have thorough representation.
The Speaker rules that David Buchanan’s ex-
pression, “The Government have their bullooas well-
yoked to-night," isn’t Parliamentary. But it’s quite
true.
Sir John Robertson says that when the Insolvent
Court has done with Day, jun., he will have “to do
with him." The question is, what will he do with him P
Make him an inspector of conditional purchases P And
what about the other Day ?
Mr. Copeland says that the study for an hour of
some of the works of art in the Public Gallery would do
a man more good, spiritually, than he would derive from
listening to the bea: of sermons for a month, or from
some sermons if he were to listen to them for ever.
Within the last two hundred years, England’s
soldiers have fought in very many countries, and daring
that period she has expended upwards of eisht hundred
million pounds in war aleno, It's either this or the
Bible which is the secret of .England's greatness.
S.A. returns for year ended 30th June, 1882 -. —
Imports, £5 890,972 ; export*. £5,281,584; exports of
produce and whe«r, were 3,018,578 bushels ; flour, 75,661
tons; wool, 43,287.4081 b. ; minerals to the value of
£162,253 ; wins, 69,173 gallons; shipping ia and out
comprised 1,313,923 tons.
Thus “the Giraffe : “ A few years ago a
humble school teacher at Maitland married Miss
Wisdom, daughter of Robert Wisdom, then a poor,
practising barrister. Since then, the Honorable Robert
nas become Attorney-General, and his son-in-law is now
Deputy-Sheriff at £5OO a-year. Yes; we want a new
Civil Service Bill, or else a lot more Attorney-General’s
daughters for poor men’s wives."
One of the objections taken to the opening of the
Art Gallery on Sunday is that it contains statuary
which is likely to give rise to bad thoughts. If the
objection is a good one, the Gallery ought to be closed
altogether; hat cauuot the people who raise it see that
the man who can associate vicious thoughts with
statuary, would be a most out,rageous scoffer if he were
ever induced to go to church ?
Mr. M’Elhone got a nasty knock in the Assem-
bly, the other night. He asked, with au air of much
indication, “how it was that these two Sims boys
had been appointed to the Sheriff’s Office ?’* The reply
was that one of “tha boys” had received his billet on
the personal recommendation of Mr. M’Elhoce him.
self. John, who had evidently forgotten all about it*
fell back amid the roars of tha House.
Report says that Mr. R. B. Maohattie, formerly
licensed surveyor at Carcoar, but now of Cobar, intends
to offer himself as a candidate for the Bonrka electorate
at the next general election. Tom Matthews, a loci!
ex-pnblican squatter, ia also mentioned as having the
saat in his eyes. The “uneasy member" will be mada
no easier by the knowledge that h!s chances of re-
election are being thus discounted.
The holy howler who does nothing in Parlia-
ment, except rave about religion and teetotaiisra, and
try to out down the salaries of underpaid civil servants
was, on Friday evening last, afforded an opportunity to
deliver a sermon on the immoralities of the racecourse
and the inadvisability of members visiting snob a place
If members did nothing worse than that, we do not
think there would be anv complaint made against them
except by the Roseby-Methody crowd.
The N.Z. Mining Aofc of 1872 contains a number
of clauses only suitable to Victoria, and these are
therefore, practically a dead letter. Mr. Whitaker has*
explained the reason therefore. He says that, in 1872
h« happened to walk into the Law Offloe, and found the
officials engaged in promiscuously snipping out clauses
from a Bill Sir Julius Vogel had brought over from
Melbourne, pasting the said clauses on sheets of paper
and sending them on to the printers. And this fakeal
up Bill passed tbe Honao without debate.
Dan O’Connor said one of hia smart things the
other night, in answer to Mr. Roseby’s contention that
the House ought to meet as usual on Tuesday afternoon,
and not lose three hours for the sake of the races, as
was proposed. Dan’s idea was that none but the Sana,
timonions Eosebyites would be in attendance at half,
past four o’clock, and “it would never do," said he,
“ to leave our business in the hands of suoh dangeions
people." Dangerous, Dan, is too mild a word. These
men, who would rob ns of almost every vestige of onr
boasted liberty, are one of the banes of the age.
Mr. Ryrie, the member for Braidwood, accounts
for the lenient way in which the Day business has beau
treated by the Press by the fact that newspaper pi o.
prietors are positively afraid to assail public men on
the ground of corruption. He is certain that the de-
cision of the Supreme Court in The BuLLETiK-Clontarf
case has prevented the exposure of glaring abuses.
Perhaps Hr. Ryrie will champion the cause of the
Press, and Insist on the Government bringing in a bill
to protect journalists from blackmail when it is clearly
shown that they have justice on their side.
The tardiness of the Governor in making hia
appearance to open Parliament caused members of both
Houses, and the entire body of spectators, a bad
quarter of an hoar. Sir Hercules Robinson was alwavs
punctual to the minute. The “ wait ” was employed in
various moralizings and speculations. “ Punctuality is
the politeness of Princes—and Givernors” was a
popular maxim. Opinions varied as to what could have
occasioned Lord Augustus’ lapse, till a rumour spread
that a favourite Dorking hsn was ia tbe s‘raw, and His
Excellency had refused to stir until the critical moment
had passed.
There have been many versions of the massacre
at Alexandria, but a private letter from Cairo published
in the Paris Temps gives an account which differs
altogether from all that preceded it. According to this
writer, it was the Arabs, and not tha Europeans, who
Sot the worst of it. Instead of there being only four
.rabs killed, the five hospitals of Alexandria* have
received no fewer than 1140 Arabs killed and wounded
against only 210 Europeans. The writer declared that
he know two Maltese who, from behind a barricade of
tables and chairs, slew more than fifty natives. Au
Italian barber killed sixteen. Tbe massacre of Arabs,
in short, was frightful.
Could Sir John Robertson have been aware,
when ha taantad a gentleman on the opposite side of
the House with being young, that he placed himself
beneath the lash, made for the back of every dotard,
who dares to presume on the forbearance which his
years, were they not a reproach to his conduct-, would
command ? Pitt, in reply to a like taunt from Walpole,
said—“ The atrocious crime of being a young man,
which the honorable gentleman has, with suoh spirit
and deoenoy, charged upon me, I shall neither attempt
to palliate nor deny; but content myself with wishing
that I may be one of those whose follies may cease
with their youth, and not of those who continue igno-
rant in spite of age and experience," Ac.
Mr. Fletcher; “ A Victorian refugee.” Mr.
M'Eihone: “ That loafer from Victoria who is not
worth his salt." These are remarks that were applied
to that most obliging civil servant, Mr. Harrie Wood,
the Under-Secretary for Mines—than whom there is
no man in N.B.W. who has a better knowledgoof mining
matters. Is it not contemptible in the extreme tc at-
tack in this manner an able cffleer—who is not per-
mitted to reply to his accusers—for sins of omission
and commission which arise from the ignorance of his
superior ? What can be expected but blundering from
a Department of Mines which is presided over by a
dictatorial medico, who, though a clever surgeon, knows
as mnch about mining as some men do absut honour and
honesty ?
In the debate in the House of Lords, jnst prior
to the bombardment of Alexandria, Lord Sails bury,
referring to the naval demonstration, said “If it had
not been for the fleet, much wonld not have happened
of what has occurred. If it has not been able to do
anything else, it has been potent, to inflame
the passions of the Egyptian people. It is not
too mnch to say that upon those who sent that fleet
there, without the resolution to follow up their act,
without the necessary force at hand to give effect to
their policy, that on them lies the responsibility of the
blood that has been shed by the passions which the
presence of the fleet provoked." This is just what wa
said, too, at the time, and since, and we didn’t tip Lord
Salisbury the wink, either.
Mr. Heydon, the newly elected member for Yass
Plains, out rather a sorry figure in the House last week.
He spoke from the Sabbatarian point of view on tbe
question of the opening of the Art Gallery, and made
a direct appeal to hia co-religionists to vote against the
motion. Rather cool for the most recently elected
member of the House to ask his co-religionists, who, if
they have been consistent in one thing more than
another, it has been in their advocacy of the opening ol
various public institutions on Sundays, to vote against
the motion. The division list will show that the re.
quest of the “ modest member," as supporter* of the
Government are apt to call him, has been totally
ignored.
The war with Egypt has diverted attention from
another matter of considerable significance, and at the
same time has invested the matter with peculiar signifi-
cance. Italy has quietly settled a colony at Assab Bay
on the Red Sea Coast, and shortly before the war
diplomatic notes were passing between Italy, England,
Turkey, and Egypt with reference to that acquisition-
Signor Cairoli had found it necessary to “refute the
English Foreign Minister’s apprehensions with respect
to a post of the kind being established flanking "Eng-
land’s road to India." The peremptory steps with respect
to tha Suez Canal taken by Sir Garnet Wolsley and
Admiral Seymour since the war. have wakened np tn®
Italians to the notion that the Canal is also “ Italy a
road to At sab.”
David Buchanan has introduced a |bill giving
any woman who has been seduced the right to munttm
an action and recover damages. Wo suppose—and nop
—Mr Buchanan means seduction under a cleariy-denn
promise of marriage. The bill is a very lawy< ei-i
one, and its enacting clause contains a most enno .
blending of sentimentality and business, for it P rovl °
that the court may, in any action where the da-nag
shall amount to £lOO or over, order the se t“ B “Lii
on the plaintiff of the amount of the verdict. We a
have more to say anon concerning this denoate *
jeot, but would, in the meantime, urge the hon. me
her to amend the bill in order that those mem e
Parliament who have been seduced from their alieff l
to virtue may be able to maintain actions for e
against those who led them into temptation,
such the ease, what a long bill of costs there
against the Government! _ .
Mr. Forster’s latest indictment against **
Henry Parkes: “ Tbe honorable gentleman h*«'
cated a superiority to which few of us cau at .sing
superiority in the disregard of such a trumpery ,
as principle, which is highly becoming in a state te ,
this rising country." Mr. Forster founded hi k
ment on the fact that Sir Henry “ has V ir ?®l V. turned
on himself on the land question;" that he has
right round" on the education question; on t
“ The breezy call of incense breathing morn
(Oh give me back the early hawker's horn).
The swallow twittering from the straw-built shed,
(No early paper here to read in bed).
** The rosy milkmaid and the foaming pail
(Where is that barmaid and my early ale P)
The lowing cattle and the barn-door fowl,
Usurp the music city mongrels howl.
“ The soaring lark, upipringing into heaven
(How faint beside tue milkman's howl at seven).
And the dews i clover glibt’nng in morn’s rays,
(Wetting your feet, and shortening thus your days.)
“ Now the high clouds have dappled all the sky,
(No doubt poetic when your feet are dry,
Let me but stand upon a pavement level.
And your damp knolls may all go to the devil.)
“ I love the breath of music halls; the dance
Of dubious nymphs that round the stage lights prance,
Where is the fun of rustling forest leaves ?
Ah, where’s the joke in seeing standing sheaves ?
11 Te stupid rivulets that rippling jump
O’er rooks, —What are ye to the pump
Or brass-nobbed tap back in my city home ?
Ob, city mine, once more to thee I oome 1
“ Give me mv lodgings thirteen feet by six:
Away, ye straw sheds I Once again, ye bricks.
And broken spouting jnst below my pane.
And battling urchins screaming iu the lane.
“ To ye I oome I Farewell, ye quiet scenes
Of stupid cornfields and broad tracts of beans !
Welcome, ye gutters, and ye jostling throng.
Ye dusty pavements, and ye Nooze boys' song !"


GENUINE IRISH
WM. JAMESON & CO.’b DUI
UNBURPABSI
TT Is bottled in bond for Exp
Dublin, and consumers ma'
It has not teen in the hands of
When you ask for it, see that y
trade mark J in diamond on label,
DALT bSOT:
Sole Agents for N.B.W. ai
'OLD MATURED' SCC
“ As we Drink it in 8
THOM AND CAM
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate a
WHISKY as they drink it " at 1
be a welcome boon.
DALT BROT:
Bole Agents for N.S W. ai
Importers of IBIBH and SCOT(
General Merohan
809 GEORGE STJ
IyrONET ADVANCED T(
WITHOUT SECt
At moderate interest and easy t
No Delay. All transactions'hi
MR. G. W. GOI
178 PHILLIP £
Near King-stre
BW OL F F I
• Manufacturers
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Oh*
Materials, and Stations!
Makers, by appointment, to Her 8
and the Bank of Ei
Office and Warehouse: 55 Qt<
coin’s Inn Field’s, W.O Factory :
Battersea. London, S.W A full
seen and farther particulars obtai
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Arent f<
Messrs. Feldheim, Qotthelf and
Sydney.
NOTICE—TO THE PBOFEIfi
CAL OPERA COMPAQ
TO LET.—The newly erected
Rockhampton, one of the n
Queensland, being 75 feet by 40 w
and centrally situated
Application to be
The Secrets
bubernii
BONNET and G
SURVEYOI
Draftsmen, and Map
HEARS’ CHAM
138 PITT STREET, BYDNEI
■ /
vi BREL LAS
RE COVERED.
s
TU
Have y<
re-i
Paraeo
e<
J. I
51
Bricl
Liverpo
Paras
tnmee. J
AUTIJ
ARE THE BJ
SWISS Cl
CITY CATERING
315 GEORGE ST:
A NEW CATERING*
Comprised of professional workr
tioal experience, nearly all from t
of Compagnoni and Co., who p(
and carry on the working of th
general manager.
It is not a public company, and i
the expenses appertaining thereto
N.B.—Since opening, on 22th
sucoessfelly catered THE Ldißb
CULT, and MOST EESPONSIffI
have taken place here to the pres<
The Consular Dinner, in our new
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic
and Banquets, and all Entertain
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worshii
talned their R.H.’e PRINCE AI
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Offl
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constltat
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.B.W. Constitt
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.'s PRINCE A 1
to Lithgow Valley Mines and
Busae, for 60, in Government Pa
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,0«
Sueen’s Statue Demonstration—
OTICE, only receiving the or
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m.
Visit of THEIR E.H.’s PEI
GEOEGE to Captain Cook's I
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon
100, under VERY BHOKT NO'
at 9 30 p.m., to he ready on the
The Lady Mayoress* reception, T<
The (Union Club) " Bachelor's
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Hoorn.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judg
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Buss® at St Paul's Col
of the Church of England Syno
Dinner d la Russe to the Inter
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Eefreshmen
gentlemen, at the turning of th(
Bros.* New Bailway Bolling St
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshmet
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Te Olde Eng
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of :
Dinners, 1 easts, Ac., <fcc.
The CITY CATERING COME
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, C
and all requisites for Balls, Picni
and will be glad to send out th
Taetry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confo
Civil and attentive waiters al
services required.
We have in our possession lette
high standing in the city, oomp
manner we have performed the dr
CHAS. R. SM
(Lata of the firm of the original C
MALT 811
The great Cure- for Indlgestio;
Complaint, Weakness, &o.
PRICE 71 ...
A. O. KEBBLEWHITE,
i 3 Erskino btl
AND
W. H. SOUL, Pitt
KOUMISS ! (MILK DIE!
CUBES
ALL STOMACHIC DlbnEl
Consumption
Aoidity
CUWji
Heartburn
Registered Trade
CALL at the KOUMISS MANC
,w£^ Y ’ 8 Office, 161 Phillip-s
BANDMANN us. “ HONGKONG TELEGEAPH."
BIE8 IE GBOKGE PHILIPPO, Chief Justice of Hong-
kong, gave the following sentence upon one
Phaser Smith, Editor and Proprietor of the Hong-
kong Daily Telegraph, for maliciously libelling the
celebrated Tragedian, Herr Bakdmabn, in his paper.
HU Lordship said ; It U a case in whiob I feel the sen-
tence cannot be a light one, and although Mr. Band,
mann does not press for a heavy sentence, yet through
his counsel asks for one that will mark the sente of the
court of the gravity of the offence you have committed.
I have carefully considered the sentence I should pass
upon yon, and I think It must be one of imprisonment,
&e. The sentence of the court is that you be imprisoned for
two months. I might, perhaps, have given you a long«r
sentence, but I think that will be effectual, and I take
into consideration the period of the year.
Mr. Francis (Count el for Mr. Bandmann) asked for
costs.
His Lordship:— Yon are entitle! to costs.— Over-
land China Mail, August 3rd, 1882.
not of protection—being the only member who had
var proposed a motion in favour of the encouragement
native industries; on capital punishment j on ad
valorem duties ; on gold-field electorates—which he was
\he means of establishing and abolishing; -on volunteer
nrders which he established and abolished ; on the
nnestion whether the Treasurer should be director of a
Public company; on the Illawarra railway; on tri-
«nnial Parliaments, and the registration of voters,
this is the “ greatest statesman in Australia 1"
On his own confession, the Minister of Justice
fMr Foster) is not the immaculate maa he is repre-
ssed to be. la the House, the other night, he said
that it was not the interest of justice that prisoners
should have such an extreme right to challenge jurors
® thev have, but he went on to say “ When I have been
defending prisoners I have advised them to challenge
“ full extent, so as to exhaust the panel and cause
the case to be put off till the next sitting of the court.
This may not appear to be a proper or legitimate act,
nnt it is, because it is right to give an accused person
the benefit of all the law allows ” - It it is not in the
interest of justice that the act is done it cannot be jus-
tified on any possible ground, except it be the selfish
«ne that the barrister wh» is accessory to it may have
the chance of getting two fees Instead of one. And
weald anyone suppose that such a consideration wonid
have any weight with a professedly good Christian like
Mr Foster, who eschews all such worldly trifles, and
who looks upon this life as a “vain and fleeting show f ’
Mr. Heydon was sepulchral in his maiden speech
tho other night. He talked of worms, and Job's boils.
The atrocious M'Elhone disconcerted 1 the sucking
orator during his “agony and bloody sweat," by sailing
him “ Job's-boils." The Heuse laughed, Mao. grinned,
and H. looked as savage as a native oat. Mr. Heydon
perhaps won’t feel complimented when we tell him
that he has gone straight into the ranks of a class of
oolitioiana who are tho curse of this country. He has
ijlied himself with the snnfflabusters, called upon his
co-religionists to vote en blo\ and though a straightont
Protectionist, he gives an unqualified support to the
Ministry. This is what is generally called trimming—
though Mr. Heydon wishes it to be understood that
he’s not a trimmer, but only an independent member.
Uow, what’s the good of an “independent" member
under our present system of politics P What’s the use
of talking when you don’t act P Or of prating about
independence when all the time you're slavering to
inflated empirics, who regard yeu as only a creature to
be used at convenience P The only “ independent "
member worth his salt is Jack M’Elhone. Mr. Heydon
is opposed to the Ministry on every cardinal point of
their policy. He advocates remission of interest, is a
Denominationalist, and a rabid Protectionist I Yet he
supports the Ministry.
Our dearly-beloved Brother Henson was too
severely indisposed to attend iu his place in Parliament
during the past week, and the result was that there was
a gapnlohral gloom about the establishment. Even the
osly M’Elhone seemed to ke affected. The other beloved
brother who is bold enough to talk of tho goodness of
the Looord within the holy precincts of the Legislative
Chamber had to act as deputy for tho Canterburylte in
complaining of a grievous insult which was offered to
him in being asked to pay £3 3s. entrance-fee to the
refreshment-room club. The good man’s conscience
would not allow him to pay the money, because he was
afraid that it might be indirectly applied to the supply
of spirituous liquors to other members. Fancy such
paltry bigots being elected to represent the people in
Parliament I We heard it remarked the other day that
the qualification which a man must have to become a
member of Parliament here is that he be either a rogue
or a fool; and, truly, recent events would seem to justify
the assertion. Tnere are in the house some wretched-
looking teetotallers who thoroughly answer Mr. David
Buchanan’s description “ A mean, emaciated, yillow-
skinned individual, whose stomach is hopelessly dis-
ordered, walking about c'othed in the garb of worldly
sanctity, with no fear in his heart of giving offence to
Qod, but trembling in every limb at the bare thought of
giving offence to man."
A petition, purporting to be signed by 5648
"mothers and aaugnters of New South Wales,” pray-
tbe House “ to put a stop to railway and tram traffic on
the Sabbath Day, and also not to sanction any request
either for increased labour or for further facilities for
pleasure which would lessen the sanctity of the Lord’s
Day,” was presented to the Assembly last week. The
signatures to this document were collected by elderly
ladies who wear curls down their cheeks, who walk into
people’s houses whether they are asked to do so or not,
and after offering up a hypocritical prayer, produce
collection cards and solicit subscript! us for such
highly deserving institutions as the Warangesda mission
and the Society for distributing the Holy Bible-in
Greek text—amongst the oanniba's of the Sandwich
Islands. The hypocrisy of these people is detestable.
They have no compunction in driving to ohuroh on
Sundays in their carriages, yet they would prohibit
other people from enjoying Gild’s pure air on the only
day in the week when they are at liberty to go abroad.
The next thing we shall hear ot will be a petition call-
ing apon Parliament to stop the sun rising and the
little birds whistling on Sundays. Toe petition was
presented by Sir Henry Parkes, whose face beamed
with intense satisfaction as he handed the ponderous
document to the clerk.
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M L. A., has made 23 ap-
plications either iu bis own name or associated with
others lor permission to mine under, roads, rivers, and
harbours. The applications cover an area of 8 >,708
seres; eight of the applications have been granted for
an area ot 7330 acres. Says the Minister for Mines,
"The Government have no guarantee that mining
operations will ever be commenced,except the conditions
subject to which the permits are granted ” Tue only
condition known to the public is that the holder of the
land shall pay 6d. per ton royalty to the Government on
all coal raised. Of coarse, the holders take good care
to wait until some oae else nas proved the existence of
ooal in the locality. The issue of these permits is
authorised by regulations which are in direct contra-
vention of the Act. They lead to this glaring anomaly,
that a gold miner who takes up a lease has to employ a
certain number of men, otherwise his lease is subject to
cancellation, and a man who takes up a mineral condi-
tional purchase has to pay so much tor it and expend a
certain amount within a given time ; whereas a gieedy
monopolist, without any capital, and who has not the
least intention to prospect the ground, may take up re-
serves of thousands of acres and hold the right to mine
under them to all eternity without paying at all. Of
course Mr. Gilrett simply docs what is open to any
ono else to do, but there can be uo doubt that the out-
ride public would be better satisfied if members of
Parliament were not mixed up in such transactions.
Dummyism is not the only form of land-sharking
prevalent in the colony. There are raining applications
by whioh the oracle can be worked beautifully. The
Newcastle Morhing Herald recently showed up an
jastai oa. Messis. X. Garrett and G. M. Ltruach applied
for 4030 acres on the Parramatta aud Line Cove
rivers, “their only object in taking this acreage up”
being “for the purpose of letting it out on royalty, if
Wil in ever wvked in the vicinity.” According-to the
Newcastle Herald, in the aggregate, Messrs. Garrett
and Larnach hoid not less than 70,000 or 80,000 acres in
one part or another of the colony. “ They have spent
oo money of their own towards developing mineral
resources; they have made no improvement whatever
jo the laud; aud have paid nothing during the time
they have held it. It has been hinted that a new
Mining Act is to be brought in during the next session
of Parliament; and it is just possible that these gentle-
men, being behind the scenes, aud knowing what is
“**ly to take place, are anxious to gat hold of as tuuch
mod as they possibly can before a more stringent
measure becomes law.” These kind of land-jobbers
stand in a very much safer position than do erysipelas
dummies. Their dep-sits cannot be forfeited, for the
of 1 / B | mp ' e reason that none have been made A sheet
or fooiecip, an envelope, a penny stamp, and a know-
jooge of the “ropes.” is all that, is required to secure
rn\*a T9a ' between 8 ) 000 and 90,000 acres, it is esti-
mated, have been thus applied for since the last pro-
roguing Parliament. And the game still goes merrily
in^i r ‘ ® eor ff e Day, M.L.A., was a veritable Jack-
li, v u during the last session of Parliament, but
nubs seem to have become paralysed during the
ecess. Ha has spoken only once since this session
m '’bced, and then he was as “ mild as any sucking
, l>. “ u t he had personal business in hand, and under
ij.j' “ O'rcumatancee it is becoming to assume humility.
the J n,6 mov^n ? f° r tba production of the papers in
•a. c *' 10 of Day, jin., was not as successful as Dry,
o« .! anticipated it would be. He was evidently afraid
; Q ® . on *y M'Elhone—the terror to evildoers—as ho
i£ e ju the faintest whisper. Me. M’Elhone was not
House at the time, but an unexpected assailant
was lying in ambush for the crestfallen Day. Mr.
®« the member for Braidwood—a gentleman who
seldom speaks, but, when he does, says something to
the point—said that he could not allow the motion to
pass without making some remarks upon it. Ha do-
tested hypocrisy, he said, and Mr. Day had been guilty
Of this, because in season and out of season ho had been
always declaiming against the villainy of the people
who resorted to dummying, whilst it had been proved
that he was practising the villainy as much as anyone.
Mr. Day assured the House that when the papers were
produced he would be able to clear his character from
the aspersions which had been cast upon it. Mr. Day
may rest assured that the Government will not be al-
lowed to keep the papers back, no matter how mnoh
they may wish to shield the gentleman who takes suoh
a deep personal interest in the Colonial Secretary—an
interest which impelled him to propose that £3OOO of
the public money should be paid to Sir Henry I’arkes
to cover the expenses of his reoent trip. Wo should
not be surprised to find the unbounded assnranse of
Mr, Day showing itself in a similar proposal this
session.
For a choice specimen of the oironmlocntion art,
commend ns to the doings of the Queensland officials
over the case of the Uon. A. H. Brown, who, through
ill-health, resigned hia seat in the Legislative Chamber
Had this happened in the Solomon Islands, the matter
would have been settled in five minutes; b it here's the
way the Queensland Solons act First, the resignation
ef Mr. Brown is ordered to be printed. Secondly,
Keturn to an address of the hon. the Legislative Connell
of Queensland, dated 6th July, 1882, praying that His
Excellency the Governor will be pleated to cause to be
laid upon the table of this House, (1) Copy of the resig-
nation, addressed to His Excellency by the Hon. A. H.
Brown, of his seat in this Chamber; (2) Copy of all
correspondence received by His Excellency connected
with the said resignation, and of His Excellency's
acceptance thereof. Then follow (1) Sir Arthur Palmer's
letter to His Excellency, enclosing the resignation—
which resignation is published in full; (2) a letter from
His Excellency, acknowledging the receipt of Sir
Arthur’s communication, and adapting the resignation ;
(3) a letter from Sir Arthur Palmer to the Colonial
Secretary, stating that he had received His Excellf noy's
approval of the resignation; and (4) a letter from toe
Earl of Kimberley, acknowledging the leceipc of
sundry despatches respecting the resignation of
Messrs. A. H. Brown and T-. Borne, and the
appointment of Messrs. G. and A. J. Thyune to
fill the vacancies. N' t half a dozen people oared
whether Mr. Brown w>, in or out of the Chamoer; and
yet seventy or eighty lines of printed matter had to be
printed on of foolscap, and hundreds of copies
sent all over tb« ojlony. We are afraid to gne<s what
all this cost, a*a still more afraid to think—are we any
better oil ourselves.
St. Leonards electors mow claim that their dis-
trict is now entitled to two representatives in the
Assembly, as the number of voters now exoe eds 3000
A biar and successful Sydney firm of woolbrokers
have, during the last few days, floated their business
for £lOO,OOO.
We regret to have to state that Mr. S. P.
Turner, for the last eight years accountant in the
Sheriff s office, Sydney, and who, by his genial disposi-
tion had made himself a general favourite with the
public, died on Tuesday.
" THE TERROR.”
A fonr days’ beard upon his ohin,
A frown upon his beetling forehead.
About hie mouth there plays a grin—
A kind of gruesome grin that’s horrid.
He rises to address the chair
Mid’st silence that does death resemble.
And, at his bark of 11 Mister Mayor,"
He marks the gen’ral start and tremble.
He calls this Alderman a knave.
And says his swindle ho will rae it.
For long hours he will loudly rave—
To st«phim none have pluck to do it—
And e’en amidst his boist'rous blare.
If he should fall into an error.
To interrupt him none will dare—
They shrink before this awful terror.
He’s blacked an Aldermanic eye;
He’s been a Member’s claret tapping;
Blanched faces you can oft descry
« hen ho the table’s fiercely rapping.
He’s far from big and rather old.
In strength, than half of them, he's weaker;
Tet meek’s the boldest of the held
The moment he yowls “ Mr. Speaker."
“NOSES.”
(AN ODOROUS ODE, DEDICATED TO OUR PARLIAMENT.)
If, as a Ministerial Chief,
You seek a bed of roses,
Just rally up to your relief
A strong array of “ noses " I
The upright Governmental head
On no soft couch reposes j
Bub, loud snores he, whose party’s led
Hap-hazard by their noses 1
On some, the handling of the reins
An ardn ms task imposes ;
Bn*- he requires nor pains nor brains.
Who has a suite of “ noses ” !
Once, leaders wero not made, but born.
As Gladstone, Bismarck, Moses ;
Now, any ass can bribe and fawn,
And master toady “ noses ” 1
True men, a trifling error oft
From their high post deposes,
But a crass knave may crow aloft
Who boasts a troop of * noses “ I
And, palisaded thus secure,
He, heedless of all foes is ;
He laughs, " 1 know my billet’s sure.
Thanks to my faithful “ noses ” I
And, while on dunghill thus he crows.
The style in which he blows is
Enough to shook the strongest nose
Of all his stench-proof “ noses ” 1
And thus, in politics, the sknnk
Saigas oft till his life closis,
Or, till his down-trod party *• funk,”
And cease to be his “ noses ” I
Tae moral which this little rhyme;
To all most plainly shows is.
That Senates oft are beds of slime,
“Chock full” of dirty “noses”!


.'Business Announcements
A U3
TEALIAN “HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers —to make a few extra shil-
lingo profit—ore offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
EXPRESSLy
o
s
Wl
c
m
6n
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit information of the attempted sale of coun-
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action In protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE HOW,SOLE OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE £4 0 0
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVER COMPLETE ... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND C0 f
WYNYAED LANE, SYDNEY.
" mar
r -\ A r'
<
AND
m
NO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
mm
m
u
NION
MORTGAGE AND
COMPANY.
DISCOUNT
Head Office: 760 GEOEGE-STEEET, HAYMAEKET.
To Small FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS,
This Company is prepared to grant loans on mort-
gage of freehold cr leasehold properties. Advances
upon tVe deposit of deeds, on completed buildings, or
on houses in course of erection, in the city cr subnrbs,
repayable by the smallest weekly or monthly instal-
ments, taken by the society in this city, as (he follow-
ing table will show: —
For every £2O borrowed, 2s 2d
„ £3O „ 3s Id
„ £4O „ 4s 4d
„ £5O „ 5s lOd
„ £75 „ 8s 4d
„ £lOO „ lls 8i
and up to any amount at the same ratio.
For further information nnplv at the cfftoes.
WM. P. SMAIL, Secretary.
CH. FERGUSON,
• UNDERTAKER,
Late Manager of W. and H, Kinsela’s principal shop,
George-street, has commenced business on his own ac-
count at
835 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Railway Gate, a few doors higher np,
and 195 DEVONSHIRE STREET, Near RILEY-ST.
Is prepared to furnish Funerals CHEAPER than
any other house in the trade, and, having purchased
everything New, hopes by civility and attention to
Business, as hfi has done to his late employers, to merit
a share of public patronage.
C. H. FERGUSON,
UNDERTAKER.
SOLE AGENT FOE BLACKMER’S PATENT
ELECTRIC SIGNS.
J. W. WIXIOUGHBY.
General
95 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
and at London,
MANUFACTURER, IMPORTER, and FITTER of
Electric Bella, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated Wire,
Improved Patent Fire and Burglar Alarms, Speaking
Tubes, Lightning Conductor*, Medical and other Coils,
Electro-Magnetic Machines, Eleottio Grs Lighting,
GilO” tr aod Plating Material, Electric tight Apparatus
on taw latest and most improved principles now In use
in London, P/ris, Ac.
Literal Discount to the Trade.
Indents of every description of Electrical Apparatus on
the most favourable terms.
Estimates Submitted Free of Cost.
C. H. GLARKE AND CO.,
ELECTRICIANS.
CROSSLEY’S TELEPHONE DEPOT.
MANUFACTURERS and Importers of Lightning
Conductors, Copper Wire, Hop# and Bands,
rio Bells. Billiard Markers, Thief and Fire Alarms.
Mining Signals, Apparatus and Batteries, Blasting by
Electricity. Estimates given for fixing same.
79 ARCADE, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL Description of Old Articles Repaired and n.
Replated Equal to new by I?
J. M’TEAN AND SON,
Watchmakers and Jewellers
Showrooms : 21 1
Business Announcements.
yVTOiriJV]
o
o
V
t Jky'i
m
JSi
Jk\
£
39_ & 341 Q€Qfy
'
NCAPI»Y OPPOSITE POST Off
or 295 ®eopce
Tobacconists
ove
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGESIOP
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facta are compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should he read with
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on 288,3031 b.
All the others paid duty in 1880 on 58 ',609 lb,
DIXSON AND SON* paid duty in 1881 on 478,9351 b.
All the others paid duty in 1881 on 620,992 lb.
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
on for the two years was only 307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
TANKED DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUBT, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and onlj
genuine "Tin Tab," each plug branded with a
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped “ Con-
queror” or " Yankee Doodle."
ALL TOBACCONISTS GOODS. PIPES, &c.
V N V
READ THIS ! READ THIS!
A. SALMON & CO.
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware,
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGUEE3.
. Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STRE I T ’
BRICKFIELD HILL,
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
• ”
IE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., ffno^’e o *'
to inform the public that they ba e keep op
1 arrangements which will enab.e the
GULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
re in a position to take on fresh ousto
be given to men on carts, or sent t
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HAEBOU*-
i&HT—Try WILDEKS.m*—
WATER never use any other lot wo#a<f f<
5 " All-healing Lotion
all bad sores on man or beast, "s C
mg & Co.. Sydney. Felton-unro pu
mnmans, Laws and Co.. Melbonrt .
r w ” an "l-
Hotels, fco.
Q. U N S L E E’S
HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
R
OBERT BUTCHER ft
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
COXJHTET OSDXBS RECEIVE PEOMPT AxTEKTIOH.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
303 GEOEGE STREET.
' r f£ffl/?ATE c: ’
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMPIELDB
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BITTERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
'TiNTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
'
NOTICE TOJHJBLICANS.
'■THE Sale over the bar of inferior and adulter-
I_ ated liquor fraudulently put into genuine
bottles bearing the registered labrli of Wolfe's
Mchnappa has induced legal action in Viotoiia, in
three different instances, and the Publicans have
been fined up to £lO with £4 4i costs, or one month’s
i-n prison it ent as reported in the "Argus" of May
19, May 31, and June 15th.
It having been proved that similar frauds are
being practiced in this colony, NOTICE IS NOW
FORMALLY GIVEN that Legal Action will be
instituted in all instances coming to the Knowledge
of the Proprietor, who has determined, regardless
of expense, to protect the reputation of his
Schnapps, and pi event the Public being wronged
and injured. Evidei-.ce upon the subject is invited,
addressed to the Sole Agents,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD LANE, SYDNEY.
FOSTER’S Bugle Br*nd.
Hotels, fro.
JOHN A. WILKINSON’S
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
11 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD-COOLALTA, BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
M
AQNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold.
Imported by ns direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buver in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES f^rCASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and tost them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. Wo have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rtfjbish.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, Qeorge-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-street, Bathurst ; Auburn-street, Goul-
burn ; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-Street,
Brisbane,
No matter where yon Uve we will supplv you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
JJISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.’
As Fvf. tcmptf-' the Firit Man, to EVE
TEMPIA THE PRESENT MAX; but, luckily,
not (he same Eve, bot
JAMES EVE,
149 KINO-STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance,
With the best brands cf AM Tobacco and Cigars.
JW. R. f! LAR. K E.
• BuOKsELLER AND STATIONER.
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS.
GEORGE Sr«EET, SYDNEY.
Opposite Market-street.
W
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 346 Kent-street, near King-street.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
R. Whittiughom and Co.'s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft A Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen A Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.'s Gonlbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
346 GEORGE STREET, SYNEY.
STUBBS & SMITH,
(Late Joseph Bullard.)
TAILORS, MERCERS, AND GENERAL
OUTFITTERS.
A Large Assortment of
HEADY-MADE MENS’ AND BOYS’
CLOTHING,
ALWAYS ON HAND.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
346 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
Gr
EORGE P MURPHY.
REGENT HOUSE,
869. GEORGE STREET,
RAILWAY BRIDGE.
CENTRAL
OIL, COLOUR,
and
PAPER HANGINGS and PLATE GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
The most convenient stores for town and country cus-
tomers, at the junction of the principal tramways.
Trams pass the door every ten minntea.
IMPORTER OF
G’ass (all sizes out
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornanental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat
and rolled)
Turpentine
Ncatefoot Oil
Kerosene < >i
MIXED PAINTS READY FOR USE,
any shade requited,
ALL O.TDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED
by Rail, Steamer, City or Suburbs.
Shop Fronts and Sashes Glazed.
•AXLE GREASE for Buggies, Govts. Lorries. Ac. SUL-
| PHUR for Vinegrowcrs and Form jra, GLASS
‘ for Garde tors, Ac,
Warehouse —859 GEORGE STREET.
Side Entrance —Stores and Workshop—HAßßlS-ST.
White and Red
Lead
Raw and Boiled
Oils
BruSb ware
Varnishes
Colours forllonse
and Coach pain-
ters, Plasterers
Ac.
Castor oil
Papcrhanger.)
Canvas
Gold and Silver
Leaf
Paperhangings
Wood - preserv-
ing Oil
Tar
Resin
Black Fish Oil
Cement, &o.
1
m
Hs
imiEmn
Rsn
1
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS'S PALE ALE t
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE,
MERCHANTS.
VIBQOE, lON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Bpring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES. BEERS, and SPIRITS,
ai d general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
T LAWLER, 608, George-street, Bedding Mamifac-
• tarer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock- Established 1860.


SPORTING FIXTURES.
h „U be qiad to have this index posted up by secretaries
gracing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
u c '«f g :::::;::::::“r:z::^pie^£S7'
O Derby Meeting September 16.
S ; A i'luhrook 7. ....September 20. 21.
n ”woueh (Q j September 27, 28.
SdiM lN Zl Spring September 28, 29.
Melbourne Hunt Club..*. September 30
>leioour September 30.
Canterbury JO. Spring November 7. 8. 10.
Parramatta J.C .November 9. 11.
’ November 15, 16.
Morrumbidgoe Turf Club Nov. 22, 23, 24.
rwiadin (N.Z.) Spring November 30, December 2.
Adelaide Racing Club January 1.1883.
Gantarbnry (N Z.) Summer Janury 1,1883.
v r r New Year Meeting January 1, 1883.
Sydney Turf Club January 26.1883.
Annkland (N.Z ) Summer Jan. 26, Feb. 1,2, 1883.
n madin (N.Z ) Autumn February 21, 22, 24, 1883.
Tasmanian R. C. Summer Meeting... February 20,22, 23.
AQUATICS.
niflheß C. Senior Pair Oar?, Mr. T. Punch’s
06 Prize September 16
Mr Frank Punch’s Prizes October 3,5, 7.
m s’ W. Rowing Association Regatta October 14
North Shore Rowing Club Annual Regatta... October 21.
(Jardiner Cup, Mercantile October 28.
lilflbe R C. Junior Double Sculls, Mr. P. Punch’s
W prize October 28.
Kru* Champagne Trophy November 25.
ftardiner Cup, Amateur ...Dooember 16.
intercolonial Eight-oars, Parramatta
Interim March, 1883.
PEDE3TRIANISM.
nine’s School Athletic Club, Parramatta
Ground September 9.
foaiarn Suburbs A. A. Club, Association
Ground September 16.
Svdney A. A. Club, Association Ground... September 23.
WaUeend Athletic Club Sports November 9.
FOOTBALL.
Glenhead v. St. Leonards September 9.
BICYCLING.
Suburban Bicycle Club Two Mile Race,
Military Road September 16.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Scarborough September 7,8, 9.
LeocU September 11, 12, 13.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Barber gave Hecla a close shave on Satur-
day.
Chaplin did not turn up for the race at Naran-
dera with Stevens.
Since the Metropolitan, the tipsters have worn
sackcloth and ashes.
A Steeplechase for gentlemen riders is to take
place at Eyde Eaoes on 30th September.
Entrances for the Punch prizes will be received
at Punch’s Hotel on 16ch September, 1882.
An amateur gymnastic and athletic club is being
formed at Parramatta. Two hundred names have been
subscribed.
Narrabri has a race meeting in October. IA big
handicap pigeon match will take place two days prior
to the races.
Charles Beal played in the Northampton match,
and was bowled second ball for 0. He caught the top
scorer.out in the second Innings.
“ A four-in-hand is worth two in a bus,” molan-
cholily observed a man as they laboured up Oxford-street
with three retired Wavetley steeds.
Triokett, Layoook, Eush, Largan, Pearce, Mac-
donald, Hearn, Edwards, Lynch, Power, Beach Eey-
nolda, and Perkins will probably compete for the Punch
prizes.
According to the published list of fixtures, the
Australians p’ay to-day (Thursday), Friday, and Satur-
day at Scarborough, and on Monday, Tuesday, and
Wednesday at Leeds.
“ He's got a good many admirers now,” said
Joe Thompson, of Segenhoe, in the saddling paddock,
before the Derby, “ but I don’t think he’ll have so many
when he comes back."
“ Fandango ! Fandango! ” shouted an excited
youth in the stand, as the horses rounded the last corner
in the Welter Handicap, i" Damfango I" he muttered, as
the horse ran off the course.
Some of the cognoscenti have seen Perkins, the
new sculler, do a flutter on the river, and they are
much pleased with bis style, considering him one of
the neatest oarsmen they have ever seen.
D. Nicholson rode like an artist on Masquerade
in the Epsom Handicap, on Saturday. He brought the
horse up between the two leaders just at a time when
an attempt.to go round would have lost the race.
The Yictoi ian Cricket Association forwarded a
cable message last week congratulating the Australians
on their victory over the All-England team. We have
not heard whether the N. S. Wales Association have
done likewise.
The King’s School Athletic Club hold a meeting
on Saturday on the Parramatta Alfred Club cricket
ground. The programm ■ includes a 220 yards handicap
for ex-stndents, 220 yards all-schoois, and 220 yards
handicap for all-amateurs.
The j6lO cup given by the Bathurst Gun Club
has been won twice successively by B. Pedrotta,
and it now becomes bis property. He was handi-
capped 23 yards and on the first occasion killed 9
pigeons out of 10,; on the second 7 out of 8.
The Belvidere C.C. held its annual meeting last
week. During the past season the first eleven played
to matches, lonr of which were won, seven lost, and
three drawn. The trophy winners were E. Sheridan,
"• A. Holden, S. A. Lindeman, C. P. Lindeman, A. N.
Barnett, D. J. M'Lachlan, and G B. King.
Eockhampton has resolved to bring up there the
*on Ivo Bhgh’s team of English cricketers, and it
would show wisdom to import at the same time a good
Sydney club to meet them. If arrangements are to
remain as they now stand, here’s a prediction: —Local
Eighteen, all out for nil ; Bligh’s Eleven, score—6oo for
iba loss of one wicket. Maton—a drawn one for obvious
reasons.
In the race for the Epsom Handicap, on Satur-
j y> ® ri an Born was leading down the straight and
ooked a winner when Masquerade stole up on the inside,
ane crowd at the fence must have frightened Brian
noru, as he swerved right across the course, and lost
be race by a head. A double rail ought to be ereeted
or about twenty yards from the winning post, and no
“ore close finishes could be spoilt.
.. ■^‘ a c °lt, entered for the jumping competition at
Show, made a fair jump when it covered
9 ib. and cleared a four feet hurdle into the bar-
gam. The tamo colt made, while following the hounds
°? ca «OB. a jump at which every other horse
i..®- 0 * funked. The leap as measured at the show
• en by an English horse with 33ft. ■tin.
Jumps have been beaten—at Wairnambool, Vic-
na by a horse called Phantom.
Mr At the football banquet to the Queenslanders,
>a was very rough on 11 Laatherstooking j”
raked him tore and aft, and left him a total wreck.
Next day the pressman took hia revenge by saying that
Mr. M. Arnold returned thanks for the toast of the
Southern Rugby Union in a “ humorous but digressive
and illogical speech ’’ The hit was rather unhappy, as
the speech returning thanks was neither digressive nor
illogical, nor was it made by Mr. M. Arnold.
Palmer was unable to play in the big cricket
match in consequence of having accidentally received a
severe kick in the groin a day or so previously. It we
had been beaten, we would have an excuse that one of
our best bowlers was hors dr. combat. So we take to our-
selves more credit for having won without him. Palmer
on a wet wickot wants a deal of watching, and the
victory might have been more decisive if he could have
helped Spolforth to scatter the English stumps.
The pigeon shooting match at Maitland was
concluded on Tuesday week. J. Smoker, with a total
of 20 points, won the first prize; J. A. Brown and
T. King agreed to divide the second and third moneys;
E. Underwood was fourth. A match for £2) was shot
between S. A. Fullford, of Sydney, and M Dermott, of
Queensland, double birds. Fullford killed the first
tnree pairs, and won after a bier match 26 competitors
shot for £1 sweep; Brown, Fullford, and Thompson
divided with nine birds each.
Cricket in N.S. Wales has lost a zealous sup-
porter by the death, from phthisis, last week, of Mr.
W. B. Walford, junr. He was an old member of the
Warwick C.C , and lately his duties as honorary trea-
surer of the N.S.W. Cricket Association had.preoluded
him from taking an active part in the field. He was a
genial sportsman, and although he had many un-
pleasant duties to perform in hia official capacity, he
never lost a friend. Old members of the Warwick will
long cherish the memory of poor BUly Walford.
A sparring entertainment was given at Messrs.
Newton and Nathan’s Athletic Hall ou Saturday week.
The principal event was a glove contest for a “ buster "
and a bye-bet, between Messrs. Brooks aul Bob King,
two local artists. Twelve rounds wore fought. Brooks
got the best of the first round, but his opponent drew
level in the second. Both shaped well to the fifth
round, when they showed signs of exhaustion. They
continued rough fighting till the twelfth round, wlieu
King, thoroughly “ busted,” gave in. The hall was
crowded.
A cricket match came off on Saturday afternoon
at the Quarantine Ground, between teams got up from
the “saloons," and from the " fore cabins " and fire-
men. Thompson and Corby, for the saloon, did all the
scoring, and took all the honours, which, however,
didn’t amount to much, as that team lost by seven
wickets. Kennedy and Anders «u were especially good
for the lower stratum, Kennedy scoring more in one
innings than all the saloon men pub together. Later
on, the “ fooroe ’’ had a turn with the firemen, resulting
in the latter’s entire discomfiture.
There was a good attendance at the Adelaide
Park (8. A ) Kaolng meeting on Saturday. Euchre won
the Hurdle Race beating Rifleman, the favourite, easily.
Sweetlips won the Selling Rice. This was a boil-over,
3 to 1 having besn laid on Glory, who was s icon I.
Gymjahana won the Juvenile Stakes by a neck, Bis Bis
and Lady making a dead heat for second place.
Eleven started for the Steeplechase; Knave of Diamonds
won in a canter by two lengths ; Hotspur was second,
and Casablanca third. Revenge woa the Selling Hnrdle
Race, and the Adelaide Park Handicap was cleverly
won by Luna ; the favourite, Wizard, being second.
The Mercantile Rowing Club held a meeting last
week to inquire into the rumours that had bean circu-
lated with reference to Mr. W. G. Brett. After a loag
discussion, the meeting passed a resolution that Mr.
Brett had given sufficient reasons to exculpate himself
from all blame. This must be satisfactory both to the
club and to Mr. Brett. He has been in a manner tried
and acquitted, and the sporting pablio who are so ready
to attribute crooked form to untoward results (Segen-
hoe’s defeat in the Derby to wit), should accept the
verdict of the proper tr.bunal who have made the
strictest inquiries into the case. Mr. Lookyer, the
captain of the M.R.C., deserves the thanks of members
for endeavouring to maintain the integrity of the club,
and of Mr. Brett for having swept away from his
character a dense cloud of suspicion.
On August 31, September 1 and 2, the Aus-
tralians ware engaged to play at Tunbridge Wells
against a United Eleven of England. The weather was
nnpropitions, and on the second day play was not
resumed. On the third day the rain ceased, but there
was not time to conclude the match. There was a very
large attendance on the first and third day. The Aus-
tralians went in first, and on the first day had scored
131 runs for the loss of 7 wickets, when play was stopped
through the bad weather. On the third day they
increased the score to 182 Bounor 45, Gillen 40, Black-
ham 35, and Garrett 20, being the principal scorers
The United Eleven scored 126, Morris Read being top
with 30. The Australians made only 49, M’Donnell
11, being the only doable-figure scorer. The match was
drawn, the home team having 106 runs to make.
The Carlton C.C. held its annual meeting last
week. Twelve matches were played last season by the
first eleven, five of which were won, throe lost, and four
drawn. A. C. Bannerman, with the splendid average of
54 1-10, takes the batting trophy, and A. Geary the
bowling trophy, with an average of 14 6-35 runs per
wicket. Messrs. Oraney and F. Magorney take the
trophies for the second eleven. Mr. C W. Baal was
re-elected hon. secretary, and a good working committee
has been secured for the coming season’s operations.
There is no doubt that this club will have a deal to say
in the straggle for the Challenge Cup, and the Uni-
versity Club will have to strive hard to maintain their
supremacy, particularly as at the early part of the
season the latter will play without Jones and Garrett.
The Warwick match showed how weak they had become
last season through the absence of the cracks.
Read, whose scoring in the Players’ match con-
tributed much to the English victory, Studd whoso
batting won the Cambridge match, and A G. Bteel wire
disposed of for nil when ll runs were wanted to gain a
victory for England. A cable informs us that the bet-
ting was 60 to 1 on the Englishmen an hour before the
finish, From this we reasonably suppose that the
“ring” was ia the pavilion. Now, wa have tried to
raise the purely Australian game of cricket to a high
standard, and have endeavoured to thoroughly eradi-
cate the betting element. The few lapses that we have
made have been attributed by the English press to the
fact that we allow betting men to patronize our cricket
matches; and we have stood no end of lecturing shout
tha practice Now, whan the odds are so important ou
a match in England as to be cabled, it is time we should
" round ” on our English cricketers. Without express-
ing our regret that cricket in England should have
sunk so low (indeed we are glad that cricket supremacy
comes to a home where It shall be kept pure and miue-
flled), we merely hope that one or two of our Austra-
lians were patriotic enough to take the 60 to 1 offered
and plenty of it.
The latest addition to journalism is the aesthetic
sporting reporter. Here is the utterly ko., account
from a London daily of the doings of the 2 i cricketers,
who recently fought at Bedford Bark .—“la the centre
space, level and close-shaven, the light terms of the
cricketers flitted incessantly, with, over conspicuous in
the middle of the picture, the darkly-clad and statuesque
umpires; and encircling all, as a rich background, rose
golden laburnum, comely beech, graceful ash, sombre
fir, delicate birch, immemorial elm, and magnificent
chestnuts." Possibly the account of Tug Wilson and
Sullivan’s next “mill” will read:—“The gladiatorial
combatants now advanced with graceful mien, whilst
the eager spectators gazed with yearning eyes, and
declared their intention to place all their worldly pos-
sessions on Mr. Sullivan. Mr. Wilson opened the soul-
ful entertainment by violently propelling hie sinister
hand beneath bis adversary’s dexter ear, Mr. Sullivan
immediately responding by caressing Mr. Wilson’s
nasal organ, from which sprang a red, rnby spring,
pure as a maiden’s early love, and copious as the morn-
ing’s dew which gently laves the tender, op’uing
flowers." This will joggle along much more “ intense "
than simply saying: "Sully now landed Tug a rap on
the smeller and the claret at once bubbled out in
bucketfuls," but we doubt it the " talent" will under-
stand it.
Saturday was an enjoyable day for the opening
of the A.J.C. Spring meeting at Randwick. Fully
15,000 people attended, and the racing generally was good
There have been several important improvements
effected on the course, notably the elevation of the turf
beyond the Legor Stand, enablingthe ground spectators
to have a better view of the races, and the erection of a
booth on the centre of the ground for the convenience
of the public " over there.” The facilities for traffic
by tramway were as bad as usual, and matters were
made worse by a motor going off the rails just when the
public most wanted carrying home. Sportsman and
Annie Laurie wore made groat favourites for the Hurdle
Rice, but Basilisk took a long lead from the start, fly-
ing at the jumps, and eventually won easily, Sportsman,
ridden by that groat artist, Corrigan, being second, and
Annie Laurie third, Saionara was made the favourite
for the Trial Stakes, and justified the choice by cleverly
winning by two lengths; Ball Bird being second, and
Brunette third. Four started for the Derby,
viz.:—Segenhoe, Navigator, Lord Loftus, and Nicho-
las. Seganhoe was made a hot favourite, the
ring requiring 3to 1 to back the flald. The race was
one of the worst ever seen. Nicholas, in the interests
of Navigator, went to out out the running, and Began-
hoe and Navigator kept well together. Lord Lottos
was never in it. Segenhoe, who was by no means
wonderfully ridden, was brought up in the straight,
but compounded the moment he had to race
Navigator, who won by a clear length, Segenhoe
floundering in about six lengths in front of the other
two, who tied for third place. This was done in the
extraordinarily slow time of 2min. 48Jieo, and the
public are not satisfied altogether about the race The
Epsom Handicap brought out a field of 18. Masquerade
was the pick of backers, and ho won a great race by a
splendid finish, just passing Brian Born on the post.
The latter swerved across the course. Balthazar was a
good third. Barber and Heola made a great race for
first place in the Spring Stakes, Haola winning by half
a length, and The Drummer b-ing third. Sixteen
started for the Welter Handicap. Fandango, the favour-
ite, led into the straight, and bolted to the other side of
the course, leaving Waxworks leading. The latter tired,
and Sauntersr, coming with a rush, landed the prize a
half-length in front of Miss Whiffler. Hastings, who
had been blocked, was third. >-
This par. should be heralded by a flourish of
trumpets. We have trod on the tail of the British
Lion at last. An immense crowd attended the Ken-
nington Oval to see the picked Eleven of England wipe
out the Australians, but they didn’t. The Weather was
fine on the first day, but on the second it was more or
less showery, and the wicket was not in first-class order,
proving somewhat bumpy. This accounts for the phe-
nomenal bowling. Palmer was unable to play, and
M Donnell was left out of the team. Murdoch was
lucky enough to win the toss and the boys wore disposed
of for 63. Blaokham, 17; Murdoch, 13; Garrett, 10;
Bannetman, 9 ; Spofforth. not out, 4; Horan, 3 ; Giffen,
2; Boyle, 2 ; Massie, 1; Bonnor, 1; Jones, 0 ; sundry, 1.
Barlow took 5 wickets for 19 runs ; Peate A wickets for
31. The Englishmen made 101, the scores being—A. G.
Steel, not ont, 27; Ulyett, 26; Barlow, II ; Read, 9;
Luois, 9; Barnes, 5; W. G Grace, 4; Hornby, 2;
Lyttelton, 2; C. T. Studd, and Peate 0; sundries, 6.
Spofforth took 7 wickets for 49, Boyle 2 for 21. and
Garrett 1 for 21. With 38 runs to the bad, the Aus-
tralians had to go in on a wet wicket. Massie hit out
in his usual vigorous manner and obtained 55 before be
was bowled; Banuerravn was caught for 13, and Murdoch
was run out for 29. Three wickets for 97 raised the
hopes of the Australians but the remaining
wickets foil in quick succession—Bonnor 2, Horan 2,
G lien 0, Blaokham 7, Qatratt (notout) 2, Boyle 0, Jones
6, Spofforth 0, sundries 6; the total being 122. Peate
took four wickets for 40 runs; Barnes, one for 15;
Ulyett, one for 10; and Barlow, no wicket for 27 runs
(Massie, eh ?) With 85 runs to win, the Englishmen
mast have been jubilant, and the innings was com-
menced auspiciously. Grace got 32, Hornby 9, Barlow
0, Ulyett 11, Lucas 5, Lyttelton 12 Giving the sundries
(4) in, the game stood here, six wickots for 73 runs, with
12 runs to get, and four wickets to go, the five batsmen
being Steel, Read, Studd, Barnes, and Peate. The
two latter got two each, but the first three were dis-
posed of for nil, Studd being not out, and the Aus-
tralians won by 7 runs. The match was evidently a
bowlers* game, and Spofforth must be considered as the
hsro of the day. In the second innings he took seven
wickets for 44 runs; Boyle, three wickets for 19 runs.
20,000 people witnessed the match. The London
Standard says that the victory was thoroughly de-
served, and is somewhat mortifying after Layoook’s
defeat ot Boyd. Tne Sportsman hopes that the defeat
will teach tho Englishmen to control their nerves and
cultivate some determination. This means that tho
Englishman funked when they had to play an uphill
gams. The last five wickets fell tor four tuns.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The prize for the Temora Handicap is .£BO
During the past season the Clarence River J.C. Uis
bursed £472, and 90 members are now enrolled The
Qlendowor, a new iron steamship, arrived at Melbourne
on Saturday, having on board the celebrated trotting
horse Childe Harold and two Clydesdale mares for
Sydney A ploughing match took place on 30th Aug.,
at Elizabeth Farm, Parramatta, for £4O aside, between
M. Redden nnd M. Power, resulting in favour of
Redden, who used one ot W. Ritchie’s ploughs,
while Power had Leunon's, ot Melbourne (Vie.)
Our Boys, ia the return match with Blayney at Bathurst,
won by six tries to nothing The Parramatta Alfred
C.C. played, last season, 16 matches, of which nine were
won, live lost, and two drawn Mr. Vivers, the well-
known starter at the Glen lanes races, suddenly dropped
dead lately whileplayingdranghts. He was the breeder
ot Rainbow, Wide-a-wake, Regulation, and other well.
known horses London Socieit thinks that Largan
is now a superior mau to Boyd, and states that a race
between tho former and Elias C. Layoook would
be by no means a moral for tho “ bushman."
Every novelty to attract tho unwary is now practised
by the talent. To show there is no deception (there
never is) monkeys, guinea fowls, geese, ana even pea-
cocks are trained to select a card or marble from the
box. It is strange, though, bow often the winning num-
her is held by a buttoner. "My place to hide, your’s
to find," was tha continual cry of the innocent darkie
who was manipulating the apparently simple strip
trick on tho race-course. Ho bid well, and tbe crowd
found —they wore wrong generally “Going for half
a crown," said the man at Randwick ae ho throw an-
other copper Into the purse and sold it to a rough bush-
man. “ I’ll go for a crown," said the irate purchaser
when he found he had been “ had." Aud he did. Ho
knocked the mm off his porch and got his money back.
... .at theCooktown races,on August3o, Richmond Beau
won tho Maiden Plate, and Ace won the Town Plate
During tha gallops at Randwick on tho morning of 3ist
August, Arrowttight bolted aud threw her rider, who
had a narrow escape. Whan Rupert was galloping he
passed close te Solitude, who kicked Gorman, Rupert's
rider, out of tha saddle. The lad was badly hurt, and
Rupert was crippled The Victorian Coursing Clubs
oppose the proposal for the repeal of the close season
for hares The Victorian Football Association reoon-
sidered tbo disqualification for twelve months of Tan-
kard and Ooultnard, with tho result that Tankard’s
disqualification was removed and Couithard’o- case
confirmed The North Shore Rowing Club bade good-
bye last week to a member, Mr. Robert Little, wno is
going to New Zealand, and presented him with an
illuminated address. Bumpers A monte-player last
week got seven days’ imprisonment for playing an un-
lawful game on the Brisbane racecourse. Tbis was a
test oise, as the racecourse is now proclaimed a public
place Ihe principal winners at tbo Queensland Turf
Club meeting were :—Mr. Black, £81; Mr. Callaghan,
£76; Mr. Jost, £67; Mr. Goerty, £43; Mr. Chappie,
£4O First Try and Jenny Lind had a flutter lately
at Wollongong racecourse, Jenny Lind winning easily
The third race for the twenty-five miles’ professional
bicycling championship of the world between F. Wood
ot Leicester, and R. James, ot Birmingham, camo off at
Leicester on 24th June. Wood was the favourite and
led to within twenty yards of the winning post; Jamas
then passed him and won by three yards in I bonr 23
minutes, 15 seconds, being 40 seconds better than tbe
previous best record made by J. Keen on the
Surbiton Grounds on the 23rd August, 1880
Sutton, the bookmaker, laid 100 to 2 against Doctor for
the Hurdle Race, on Saturday Geelong v. Essendon,
at Geelong, on Saturday, resulted in favour of tho
former by two goals ton behlnds to seven behinds
This match was for the premiership ot the season. Tue
Essendon team had just returned from a Tasmanian
trip, and were unprepared for a big match The
South Australian stud horse, Countryman, died on Ist
September Carlton v, Melbourne, at Melbourne, on
Saturday, resulted in a draw. Each side having
kicked three goals. Tnere were no free lights
A IOU-yards race for £5O came off on Saturday at Vex e
table Creek, between Dana nnd Ellis, the former win-
ning by a foot, in 10J sec At tho Albert Park (Vic.)
Regatta, on Saturday, tho First-class Yacht Race was
won by the Sirocco, F. C. Canning; the No Rudder
Race was won by the age Two jockeys, Gainsforth
and Russell, who were refractory at the start for ths
Epsom, have been disqualified lor the rest of the meet-
ing. Tbis is a different kind of start from the one they
intended to get Jimmy Asnworth is recovering from
tne injuries rooeivel at the Hawkesbury mooting
Harry Johnson, the Rockhampton sculler, will not be
allowed to take part in the next champion four-oared
race. His three companions agree in stating that while
he’s in the boat it is not a case of rowing, but of towing
a mountain of flesh. Harry is fat,: fair, and forty
• ♦ •
Fred. Archer, the celebrated English jockey,
had fifteen mounts at tha last Chester races, and won
no less than eleven of them Two good judges o-tf
horseflesh posted themselves, one at each end ot Rotten
Row during the time when the Park was at its fullest
and filled with riders and horses. They ewnh put a
value on each horse as it passed, and after an honwr tbejv
compared notes, and found that they had arrived at au>
identical average of £l7 per nag. We had better e«n*l‘
home sotneof onr worn-out haeks to improve the breed..;
Referring to tha match at Chichester wherein a United
Team selected by Mr. W. G. Grace, were defeated by
the Australians in one inaings, the Loudon Sportsman
says The All-England Eleven at first constitutes
should have been forthcoming, and then probably a
widely different history of the match would have had
to be told.” This is tootling rather too early, for tho
Australians have defeated every other United Eleven?,
besides vanquishing the representative team of All-
England at Kennington Oval In July the Players*
beat the Gentlemen by 87 runs, the soores being—-
Flayers, 135 and 207; Gentlemen, 105 and 150.
Ye Governor and Ye Agent-General.
A LEGEND OF FIJI.
George William dee Voeax was a Governor great.
Had a very fine house kept with very great state.
With five thousand per annuir, with extras to spend,
And " cleared ’’ all his wines and liquors without end
Quite free of all duty—an epioure he,
(That’s the phrase when the subject’s ot noble degree)
He’d risen from nothing—a stipendiary onn* —
And reported to be just a bit of a dunce;
But he knew how to work with the good people all
Who bang out their colours at Exeter Hall.
He knew that the whites wore but fit for correcting,
And the blacks—pious Christians —lor carefcl protect-
ing ;
So he raised a Commission in famed Demerara
On the planters who called him tanata ca sara. •
He got tabooel a 1 round, and everyone hatei him.
So Granville, the gracious, a ruler created him.
With eight-hnndrel a year—he had struck the tight
key—
And at last ho was transferred to govern Fiji,
On the time-honoured method of strictest economy—
To do nothing but simply to stifle autonomy.
(Though, ’twixt me anl you, his Government screw
Was about 5 per cent of the gross revenue) ;
So ha stuck to (hs maxim, so old and so true,
Just do as I tell you, and not as I do! I
Now, this Governor greit had a swell protege.
And who helped his exemplar to govern Fiji;
A young gentleman tbie, of the thoroughbred kind.
Whom Dame Nature had clearly a ruler designed;
He know very little—spent two or or three years
Of his life in the country, to hisreooed appears.
But he well knew the tactics that raised up his master
Anl kept him secure from official disaster.
He didn’t want money—but be went in for glory—
For protecting the blacks, and correcting the planters.
By bleeding the latter, while the coppery ranters
Were helped and encouraged in each little "story.”
Now this modsl young man quite improved on the
plan
Of his master and patrons—and quite in the van
Of Philanthropies eminent shortly he rose—
For most of the planters he turned into foes.
Sometimes in the night-time he'd pay them a visit.
And he’d question their " labour ’twas pleasure
exquisite
To worm-out complaints—and he took care to mind
’em,
For he bullied the masters and summoned and fined
’em.
Now n lot of old asses—a large congregation >
Of Fijian planters—called an Association,
Met and talked on the matter—just fancy their cheek,
Ot such a young man in such fashion to spaak;
For they called him a meddlesome fool and a donkey.
Who had played up the deuce with his own hanky
pauky;
And than, as a climax, they agreed to a motion.
Intended to act as a pill or a potion
To physio this youngster—for whom they’d no love nor
Respect, and they sent it at once to the Gov’nor.
Now, then, mark the sequel: that “Excellent” man —
Who had simply done nought since his era began,
Save in humbugging those who'd hid business to do,
And to collar his hundred a week of a screw—
Oh ! he waked up and rubbed his official eyes
In a manner thau plainly betokened surprise.
11 What on earth can they mean by this tangle of lies ?
Can’t they really agree with my sprightly AG.?
The worse for them, then—why on earth can’t they see
That ho cannot do wrong—he was put in by ME I
I'll give them a dose that will keep their months quiet
4nd stop all such wordy impertinent riot.
What if they don’t like him-my system of things
Is not like Australia or England, that brings
Jl common outsider just level with ns I”
With the help of a writer, he managed to hatch
A pleasant and humorous kind of despatch.
It was published, of course, and its broad handsome
lines
Took a big double column in the Fijian Times.
And wasn’t it warm I ’Twas refreshing to see
How that Governor stuck up for his young protegl.
“ You may think ho is wrong, but I think he is right j
And, as to his coming on visits at uight.
He knows what the men are far better than you.
And you mast bo a very demoralised crew
Or you wouldn't complain—pray, take this as a warning,
For your conduct in this is atrocious I alarming I
I AM Governor here, you have nothing to say,
Have by court'sy—and than in the most humble way.
And, if I condescend to take note of your talking,
'Tie in compliment only—l’m not here for working !
In conclusion, allow mo to just intimate you
It you won’t be contented I’ll find means to make yon I"
Now, somehow, my record just here makes a breaking,
So I can’t tell the end of this gay undertaking;
But I heard from a prophet the pleasant prediction,
Although it’s quite open to strong contradiction,
I give it yon now as I had it from him,
And it it’s all wrong, still its sense isn’t dim.
Go slow, please, go slow, George William de Vceux,
Sir Arthur went on in that style, do yon know.
Both here and New Zealand he had a fair show.
But he’s got now a case ot compulsory GO,
Because ho imagined himself comme ilfaut.
And worked on high pressure when he should have
worked low.
Ha has had his dog’s day—popularity’s flow
Will affect you, I trow; you can't “ say ” yes or " no ”
Without thinking of those who don’t see you’re tees haul
You’re steering the State craft, 'tis true— but we row.
And we’ll row clear of rocks that would cause an o’er,
throw.
You have grounded before avec tresplus honteux,
You’ll be grounding again, if not taxon in tow.
So don’t talk too much •’ law ” with a chuckle and
crow;
Keep your schoolboy in bounds—check his bluster and
blow;
Take warning from Gordon—go slow, sir, go slow,
Or you’ll tumble like he did—George William de Voeur.
ALECK.
Suva, Fiji, August 15, 1882
♦ Tamala cusara—a, very bad man.


RILEY BRO
886 GEORGE STREET. 1 )
600 GEORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET, j
GOULBURN,
NEWC
AND
10 COLEMAN STRE:
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN C(
the oriqinato
NOTED £5 £
BLACK SILKS, BLI
EXTRAORDINARY SPEC
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NO
ALL PARCELS SENT B
A Black Silk Dress is always fa
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers have pleasnn
Country friends that their Pari
out the CHEAPEST AND BE
SILKS ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers have determine
and give their customers a turn :■
Lot 1 A Beautiful Gros Grain 8
2 Rich Corded Gros do Sue:
3 Heavy Corded Gros Roy a
4 Rich Drabs, Fawns and Qi
Suitable for Weddings
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in eaeh (
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Special Silks
for, and we will send full direct
meat to Ladies requiring dresses
All Parcels Packed Carefully, at
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTH
JSB BALE WAR]
38S QEORQE-STREET, NEAE
aud 600 BRICKFIELD Hi:
JSB Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
S yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or tm.
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Winoey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men's Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2| yards Qambroon for
strapping
8 yards Strong Brown
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Mpu’s, Women's,
or ChMt*a Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons. Buttons, Hooka
and Eyes, Ac. Ac.
Mo
2 Lad
2 Lad
2 pail
X Lad
1 pail
1 Lad
2 pah
1 Lad
4 Infa
2 Infa
2 Infa
1 Infa
M
2 Infa
1 Infa
t dost
Sc
Puff b
1 Flat
2 Bibe
1 pair
1 Infa
1 In
Sq
Ox
1 In
U(
JES
1 paii
1 larf
10 yar
20 yar
12 Str
20 Wu
10 goo
6 yar
A 1
wearin
£B Men’s Clothing JSB
Baie.
1 Snit Tweed Coat. Tron- 1 null
SOCIAL.
About forty couples attended the first ball of the
Balmain Bowing Club, which is to bo an annual stfiir.
Id was un 'or the patronage of the Mayor and Alder-
men. The Mayor (Mr. W. A. Hutchinson) was present;
and there were also several persona thereof distingue
appearance, who might reasonably be suspected of being
aldermen; bnt, without positive knowledge, we will not
assert what might hurt anyone's feelings. Among
those present, however, were Mr. 8. H. Hyam, Dr,
Evans, Mr. and Mrs. John Plummer, Captain and Mrs.
Hez-'ho.t, Mr Fraser (captain of the olab), and others.
Hf-ldom has a hall been better decorated; bunting,
flowers, foliage, sculls, &i, tastefully disposed; and
iu the spacious supper.room, open all night, Mr. W. E.
Dance, of Darliug-street, provided a delicious repast,
wiih civil attendants. A good number of spectators
gathered in the gallery, and the view was a very pretty
one from than coign of vantage. Some gentlemen
appeared in character, several in white flannel cricket-
ing and yachting “togs;" one was a soldier, and two
or thr. e were in raiment of snob wonderful magnifl ■
oence that they must have been either kings or bank-
clerks—no one else oould afford so much splendour.
Mr, Frank J. Smith was a Yankee in striped
pants and a long-tailed blue ; Mr. Harry Greer
represented Hamlet. If ever Hamlet insets Harry
in “ that bourne,” As., there will be a very
excited interview. One youth was in blue trousers,
red coat, and sou’ wes'er hat with a scarlet crown. He
never smiled—sa much variegated glory overwhelmed
him. It is due to the aommittee, and especially to Mr.
W. R. Ainsworth, to say how smoothly the ball went;
everything was thought of, and nicely done. No time
was wasted, the floor was good, and masic also, ana a
special steamer lock a few visitors back to Sydnay at 3
o’clock. At midnight, the gentlemen descended to a
lower room, where somebody proposed the health of the
Club. He spoke briefly, observing that it was not
rucessrry to say much —which was fortunate. Mr.
Fraser, the captain, responded. His speech was some-
what as follows: •* Mr. Chairman and gentlemen,
Heaven helpanione who rows against a Ba'mrin man,
hipipoorar I” Wo then all sipped a pint or two of what
the funny member told us was “rowed-erer," and went
up stairs again—a happy and contented club. There is
nothing else to be said about the ball, unless, perhaps,
we might mention that several ladies were present.
Miss Stewart was particularly observed, because her
pick eatin. and pink rosea, and pink wreath ware {ast
what wool I suit a pretty girl—and they did
suit one. Her sister was esculent in blue satin. Miss
Aggie Brown wore black velvet and blue satin; Miss
Carrie Morrtn carried elf admiration in crimson satin.
A married lady wore light blue and sunflowers ; Mrs
Hezelton, black satin, yellow plush cap and flowers;
pud a your g lady, a bright costume of white atd eerie
eatin. Two dresses made precisely alike—one plum
satin, the other p. leaden blue satin, and trimmed with
cream fine. Of the fancy characters. Misses
Hyam were noticed for dretg and dancing; the elder as
E-uncrelda; Miss Ettie as {fancy Lee, with pensive
face, blonde curls, and 11 R.C ou o;ja arm. Miss Davies
was My Pretty Knave, a rustle costume prettily con-
oeived. Miss Morran was Stella (“Tambour Major")
correct and captivating. Miss Booth, in tintelled
tarletan, all white, glittered as a Shower of Pearls, and
the tine white wig completed a beautiful peisoaa-
tion Joseph'ne was Mir s Leslie, the pors issor of a pretty
steel satin, and prettLr face Miss Thornton, a Greek
peasant; Miss Porter, as Mari tana; Miss James, as a
Oitana; wrre all ex o Bent. Mrs. Kebblewhite wore
the favmrite black velvet, white lace and pearls, of
Marie Stuart; and her sister. Miss Castle, was a
Captain’s Daughter. Miss White was a good military
character, with a black sisb bearing the words 11 Bal.
main Rowing Club,’* in gold letters. Last comes
Folly, or rather two of them. Miss Hawkins made her
debftt in a dress that was a picture of simplicity and
neatness, while the palm for dancing undoubtedly rests
between her and Miss Bessie Brown, who was tastefully
dresstd as “ Fol pw-the-drum. Other costumes were
prettv, though not prominent. During the evening,
Mr. Hwalstrom’s baud played the “Balmain Bowing
Club Shottisobe," composed by him for the occasion.
• • •
At "Rocky Mouth, a few bachelors treated the
ladles to a ball lately. Invitations were limited by the
size of the hall, and were mostly local. The caterer
(from South Grafton) did well, though pressed for
room; and the baud from Grafton was good. Neat
invitation and programme cards, and dancing till day-
light. A married lady in white and maroon satin,
trimmed with white laoe, looked and danced well; her
sister wore white. A iooal lady was becoming in black
Batin, with cardinal bows and white lace; so was a
charming little Grafton lady in white costume and
satin, and another in pink delaine trimmed with white
satin and laoe. Two sisters, late arrivals, were splen-
didly dressed, one in cream sateea trimmed with old
gold satin ; the other in pale blue sateen trimmed with
brocaded silk of same colour : their dancing was excel-
lent. A tall Grafton lady wore a cardinal brocaded silk
bodice, white Uce skirt and satin killings. The
bgjobelQFß jutend to make the ball annual.
• • •
A ball took place afc Wflodvillo School of Arte,
po fhe }nt instant, at whioh all the Iqoal beauties and
pfigible young men of tlfat picturesque neighbourhood
assembled. Liberal programme, giod supper, dpassis
mostly tasteful, whits predominant. A pretty blende
in light blue was decidedly belle of the ball, while her
sister looked well also in light blue. A lady in black
Jooked nice, and three or four young ladies in white
ware very jolly. Dancing was kept up till the small
boars grew big.
• • •
A lovely afternoon drew a largo crowd to the
Gardens ou Monday. Spring toilets are hardly in yet,
ard very few were seen; the prevailing hues were dirk
brown and green; but some exquisite black velvet
costumes were displayed. Of the light raiment, two
airy ivories were toe first to catch the eye, beautifully
worked up in puffs and crinkles, and shaded by two
parasols to match, unothered in ivory lace. A lawyer's
wife and a lawyer’s sister were in differing cress—one
wearing a fairy creation of cream, puffed and shirred;
fUe pther a dark grey cloth intersected by silver threads.
A pretty girl, fair, was in a quiet dress of light grey
jbeige. wjth tjghr-fltting bodice of brown velvet —such a
ppe as the tply Wijliam recommended, “neat, but not
gaudy.'' Coming to deeper shades, therg was a skyblue
satin; an,d then, a grand constrqotipp of jfroen flatiny,
the bodice of olive shade, the sjkirt being of stripes of
lifht and dark green alternately, pattern, largo
gash bow behind, and various green trimmings; white
bum and white sun-defier completed a showy costume.
A pur o bljck velvet was contrasted with an underskirt
of moot viyi4 crimson satin, kilted. A similar velvet
was set-off by a brpad saeh of watered grosgrain, form-
ing a dull band of blapk across the bright black. The
hostess of “ Chatsworth" wore a fine black figured
satin, black parasol. A slender Woollahra blonde was
another velveteer, being in black cloth skirt, black
velvet bedice and hat. Again, a neat form was clad
in a shapely black velvet, set-off by a broad
snowy collar, and a a'eel beltj black plush hat. The
hostess of Cara bell a (Mrs. Byd. Want) was in a plain
black satin, black beaded bonnet and large white roses
on the crown. Two costumes were entirely of moirt
antique—one dark green, the other plum colour. A
laurel green cashmere was stylishly combined with
figured silk, and moonlight fringe. A dress that drew
much attention was a cloth of the new brown, cut coat-
fashion with square flaps at the bottom, with gleams of
cardinal here and there, at the hem, on the arms, <!fcc.
The dress of an elderly lady was remarkably rich : it
was a long black velvet overdress, showing a short
length of underskirt, except in front, where the flaps
opened at the waist and fell away triangle shape, ex-
posing a face of black satin and velvet in alternate
handbreath stripes, the underdress being similar. A
stately brunette from Crown-strcet displayed a costume
exceedingly rich ; the tunic was of fawn moird antique
with lace of same hue, and the ikirt of qnilted fawn-
coloured poplin, poke chapeau trimmed with moird and
fawn lace. With her was the sister-in-law of a voluble
member from Palmer-street, in a dress equally hand-
some. Seal brown velvet plush was the material,
trimmed with cream lace; the skirt way of shaded old
gold and striped brown plush; princess bonnet with
cardinal trimmings. Many other toilets were meritori-
ous, but the number of black velvets was the feature of
the lawn.
» • •
The Mayor of Woollahra and Mrs. Butcher,
gave a considerable party last Taursday. A peculiar
feature was, that while some of the four-score guests
may possibly look forward to matrimonial experiences
in the misty future, scarcely any could look on the
hymeneal ceremony as a thing of the past. The ladies
vied in charms, and gentlemen eyed appreciatively. I
From Stanmore two sisters, verging on the extremes of
blonde and brunette, came in painted satins. A New.
castle brunette wore a rich dress, of cream plush
bodice, primrose satin skirt and ruby velvet. The elder
daughter of the hostess was atlired in pink satin and
white, and the second, jewel-named, was equally taste-
ful. An amber satin and one rose graced a Melbourne
brunette. Two handsome Queen-street sisters appeared
in cream and blue, with flowers; and in floured blue
satin figured two sirens, who inherit the name of the
ancient lawgiver, who was a sort of Arab: Bey in Egypt
five thousand years back. Two primrose satins, very
full, draped with Spanish lace, were admired. Singing
and dancing—twenty-four dances on the carte, to De
Groen’s music—comprised the chief doings, but supper
and the verandahs were rot neglected Altogether,
Mrs. Butcher’s house was made decidedly attractive
—for, at any rate, bachelors—on the last of Aagust.
• * •
A gallant naval officer this month marries the
daughter of a well-known Sydney physician.
* » •
Sol shone bravely on the Darby Day; and his
beams of golden light streaking across me Bandwick
lawn fell on many a notable toilet, and well-known face.
His Excellency and Lady Loftus were present, and re-
ceived.'siany visitors in their Stand box. The graceful
form of Mrs. Purves wis conspicuous in a costume of
light cream and lace, trimmed with lavender satin and
greenish-golden plush, cuffs and bonmt of the plush,
and long train. Under the white polonaise of oatmeal
cloth worn by another lady, was a skirt of brightest
crimson plmd, with largo bow of ;same below the
waist, the warm red glow showing very vividly against
the lighter hue. A little lady displayed a jacket of
garnet, trimmed with golden passementerie, underskirt
of brownish purple. An all-brown satin and lace cos-
tr me was nice ; and so was a satin drtss of dark and
light green s;rijei alternating, large sage green sash at
waist, and well-fitting olive green bodice. Lichen green
satin was the drets of a tall fair lady, skirt finely puff jd,
narrow edging of deep yellow, green beaded velvet
bonnet. A married lady wore a magnificent dove-
coloured satin, brocaded bodice, and straw hat trimmed
to match. Iwo or three striped dresses appeared ;in
one, light brown and green stripes merged (as seen in
«nako skins) on the panler, while above was a white
bonnet, and ie ow a tioh brown satin skirt, well pnffed.
A pleasing face and shapely slender figure helped to
draw attention tv a delicate oincamon-hrown dress, very
neatly made with long jacket body, three flo moos, a
u ack hat and scarlet roses In front. One costume was
a 1 bright sapphire blue velvet, large brimmed
nat of same, and fine bine feather; while another
was all bright crimson, parasol ditto. The son of an
eminent personage was chevalier to a lady wjoso taste
took an original line, her cloth dress being of dark stone
or snuff-brown, fashionably cut, with very ample tk rt.
while a draping of vivid tolferino satin was bunched
round the hips. Some scarcely liked it; ether,,
admired the noticeable costume. Taere were several
brown satins with brown cloth underskirts, deeply
kilted. Indeed, kilted gkirts were quits in vogue.
Several cogtumea consisted of white polonaise, w.th
bright red, b’ue, or bpown aatin shift below, and
all su«h were exceedingly tasteful. Qua brown poqtame.
worn by a short-haired lady, was of velvet, trimmed
with brown watered moir<?, and above was a brown
velvet mob cap. Under a laterally striped parasol was
displayed a costume of coffee-brown, deeply kilted skirt
and punier bodice of broad grey stripes. It was very
neat. Mrs. Bouverie’s pearl white costume was
gathered and puffed, and charming and chaste, em-
bossed in white silks, and with a parterre of flowers up
the breast; her parasol vyas white with greenery on the
summit; and her bonnet wag \yaite and lovely. A tail
girl, ip white edged with lines of narrow
gold braid, balanced a very large hat trirqmed with
dark brown, aqd a parasol one floating mass of black
lace : when the air chilled, a magnificent seal kin jacket
was donned. Mise Bobertson’s costume of faint
green drapery was pretty for its delicate colour
and its taste. A tall blonde wore two shades of
dark green, brocaded bodice and sbk sleeves, a
camellia, green bonnet en suite. A brunette from
Coalopolis was in light mauve Batin, with yellow straw
hat lined with black velvet. Sage green silk, with fine
white lace, adorned a stutaly form; and two saga green
cloth oostqmcg appeared at intervals. Mrs. Sydney
Want was arrayed in silken blue pompadour overdress,
Snd kUted cream skirt with lace. Two cardinal com-
in at ions of satin and plush, elaborately worked, with
hats to correspond, were gorgeous to gaxe on; the
wearers were American ladies. Asa contrast, one might
tarn to a grey shepherd’s check silk, flounced, black
stripad sash; quite a subdued dress. Mrs. A Q Jones
wore all lilac, with long train; and a tall dark lady
from Wagga, a rich port-wine dress. Light costume t
were few; dark brown, blue and green plentiful. At
the back of the Stand, a small table and snowy cloth
indicated the rendezvous where membira of the Union
Club, who came In a four-in-hand drag, provided their
lady friends with a four o’clock tea On Tuesday, the
attendance was scarcely as large, many costumes were
repeated, a few were changed, and some were new. A
flounced satin of bright copper odour was the only one
of its kind, doru lace round the neck. Mrs C. J.
Roberts wore a rich brown broohd, bonnet to match ;
and her fair companion a pretty white, flacked with
bright Hue, and floral bonnet. \ very fair
ladv, v*th very blue e;*a, wore all white
satin, a rieh robe; and parasol to match.
T-vo black satins were worked with handsome flowers in
crewel work. A portly lady was In cure brown satin,
ge l ien gimp trimming, A handsome daughter of Judah,
of fine physique, wore brown brocaded silk, bronze
beaded, a brown hat of ridged plush, feather, and large
yellow roses. Exceedingly choice was a dress of verv
pale groes, minutely shirred, with broad sa«h and shaded
green round the skirt. So was a costume of India mut-lin,
flounced with lace The wife if a leading mercantile
Hebrew wore a myrtle green satin and moire antiqne,
trimmed with eiru laoo, flounced and kilted, bonnet of
yellow blossoms. A heliotrope satin, trimmed with
lavender plash, and black laoe collarette, was delicious
Fashionably quiet was a dress consisting of slate-
coloured bunchy overskirt and kilted moird antique
skirt; cardinal contrast in the bonnet. But, two
lavenders were enchanting; both were of beautifully
delicate hue. One was worn over a skirt of bright claret
velvet, eastellated at the bottom, and hem of lavender,
close lavender bonnet; the other was a lavender silk
overdress, the skirt pure white, lavender triangles let in
roqpd the hsrQ, while anfl yellqw roses on the bonnet,
k’st another lavender ( a splendid flowered silk polo-
naise, opening in front and disclosing on the face of the
oream satin skirt most elaborate embossing in white silk,
violet velveteen streamers on each hip, cream laoe bonnet
and parasol. Cream and white laoe parasols were more
numerous than other. There were Indisputable indica-
tions of orlnolette in several instances,
• • •
The Maswellbrook Amateur Race Club Ball
was held in the School of Arts on the 22nd Aagust last,
nnd passed off with great eclat. Some of the costumes
were splendid. A tall dark lady from Balmoral wore a
nandsome cardinal figured silk, with cream front; A
dashing widow from seven Hills donned cream satin
■S'* br ° oh< *> dimmed with white lace, pink roses and
? a Tf*- Black and gold, trimmed with rose-
coloured silk and lace, gold leaves, Parisian gold orna-
ments to match, were worn by another Balmoral lady
From Gonlburn came a tall fair visitor in cream satin
?“ d \ 1 i ad , e ' 1 plllsb > Sported from England. A lady
rom Mudgee wore white satin and peacocks* feathers
Heneral opinion bestowed the palm of belle on a dehu.
tanti in pure white silk. Music divine. Attendance
• * •
At “ Merville/' DarUnghtirst, a eav galaxy ot
youth and charms gathered last Friday. Dancers pre-
-4 young lady, known in musical circles,
deliciously, and a fascinating blonde piano’d some
nice selections. C istumes were charming, spirits high
and hostess heartily kind. K ’
• • •
St.Vinoent’a Ball came off last night, and will
be fully noticed next week.
• • •
,? any Pretty dresses were worn at the
HalJoweli concert, last Wednesday night. Amongst the
e " WOr , th * 0f i?i°l e 7*l a white ,atin « slashed with
ruby velvet, which looked handsome. Mrs. Patrick
wore palo pink »atin and white wreath. Two sisters
mtl e f. b - OWn 7 elvet d f*sees, richly trimmed with passe-
menteno and moonlight fringe, white hats trimmed
J “°f, entirely with white ostrich plnmes-the tout
ensemble being effective. A little maiden looked charm-
tt.Par“ white corded silk, which was elegantly
made and trimmed with white silk and chenille fringe
Mies Foxall looked dainty in a navy blue satin skirt,
ZHj J®‘ vefc cut-away polonaise of eamo colour, edgea
with gold passementerie. The lady amateur who sang,
were an elegant drees of cream brock iS satin, with long
a “ d br ®a d of same colour. Black dresses
are favourites for concert wear. A black grenadine was
seen, out square with breaat-knot of deep pink camel-
lias, and same in hair. Another was black velveteen
witn iaoe sleevsw, and cascade of soft creamy lace from
aro r^!hZ t to , the blce mittens and black gloves
are rather out; white kid gloves, or tinted to match
the costume, are most wc.ro.
** * *
The Stanley Cricket Club held a party in the
tutt-street Academy on Thursday, moderate attendance,
not dressy, plenty of room. Those gentlemen who
oavaliered some friend's spare si*ter were most for* noate
as there was a scarcity of ihe sex who support the pin
manufactories The Gan Club ball will gooff at Tam-
worth this month, after the pigeon match. Open with
-inV of a y° un » boating man in the
M nes wiil Hhortly take a first mate, who will provide
ballast for life’s voyage A plain and fancy ball took
place at Petersham on the 30th Anansfc, under the
patronage' of the local Volunteer Fire Brigade.
Enlh « r * o rd, E-q., ot Bathurst,
entertained about one hundred friends at a ball
in the School of Arts, on the 28bh. It was on a liberal
“ aSIB Kot dead yet! Spelling bee at Forbes a few
days ago, but only five competitors. Miss Lilian Free
was the queen bee The Chief Justice at Adelaide
gave a conversazione to over a thousand leading resi-
dents recently, at the University. Science, art, and
supper ....Police Magistrate W. e. Caswell, of Welling,
ton, was banquetted at Momya, where he had resided
years A large ball at Brisbane a week ago, in con-
nection with the Exhibition, was a success Athletic
and gymnasium club formed in Parramatta. And the
Kose Hill Bowling Clnb are to have a formal opening
at the end of the month. They are to erect a pavilion,
and lay down an asphalt lawn tennis rink. . . A remarkable
feature at the Balmain Ball was the decorations ■
especially the flowers in the supper-room. The flags
on the wall were covered with flue bouquets. The
trouble was almost thrown away, as the flowers did not
show against the coloured flags, but it was well meant
v y° UHB e«t dancer at the ball was the only one
who adhered rigidly to propriety, in dec ining to be
twirled,’ Folly’s dancing was a type of grace . A
calico ball took place at Moruya, last week, in aid of the
Cottage Hospital At the 'iowusville bachelors’ ball,
a lawyer’s bride was belle Mr. J. Fletcher, M P
gave alar .re bail at Newcastle, on the Ist September, in
the City Hall. Several well-known guests from Sydney
......There will be the fortnightly rink and dance to-
m-ht at Glammis HaH The M.U.0.0 F., at Rooky
Month, held a bill on the 22ad of this month .. An
in erefltlpg naral affair is on the tapis. The gallant
captain of the Miranda weds a charming young lady of
this city. Big ball looming “ A,nonyma " was con-
spicuous on the Bandwick lawn, last Tuesday Next
Thursday the last but one of ttys season’s North Shore
assemblies ©ventilates.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Union Qlub Sail Sept. 8.
Bachelor’s Assembly (Nithsdale) Sept. 8.
Bail and Tramway Fionio and Ball Sept. 14.
Bar wood Private Assembly S apt. 15.
Balmain Assembly Hept. 15-
Eastern Suburbs A. AC. bports ..... Sept. 16
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale).... Sept. 22!
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports Sept. 33.
Bailway Officers' Picnic (Botany) Sept. 26.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
THE WAR AGAINST EGYPT.
Freshwater canal at Kaasaroin polluted by
corpses at men sad camels Mahmoud Fehmay,
Arab! b chief of stall, captured by the British, supplies
General Wolseley with military details of Arabi’s for-
tifications at Kassaroin and Tebel Kibeer Highland
Brigade quitted Alexandria lor Ismailia Arab! pro-
posed Mmistioe for eight days. Wolseley offers one
day Reported that Egyptian Notables despair of
snooess is the war Egyptian losses at Kassaroin
oatlmatod 400 British troops suffering severely, ex-
oessive heat. Cholera prevalent along Rad Sea. Light
siege train, 30 guns and 1400 gunners ordered to Egypt
......Horse Guards charged Egyptian gnus at Kassarion,
and made a l allure. Useof heavy cavalry condemned...
Bodies of British slain at Kassaroin found mutilated
by Egyptians .....Wolseley contemplates using balloons
for reconnoitring Arnbi selling European property
in Cairo Arabi entrenching his forces close to Kas-
saroin Proposals for armistice believed insincere..
Difficulties arisen relative place where Turkish troops
shall land Porte proposes land troops at Alexandria
and march to Aboukir Transport difficulties impede
advance of British army Khedive’s ministry, with-
out consulting British, ordered YWspia from Bombay
to be quarantined on account of cholera at that port.
The arrival of Indian cftntjmaent is thus intercepted,
and British Qafunat has formally protested Ample
Supplies now at front to permit of operations British
entrenching at Kassaroin to protect themselves from
attaos by Egyptian army 5000 more troops ordered
to Alexandria British at Alexandria preparing to
let sea into bed of Lake Mariotis, to protect their
flank.
• • •
Mampion, Zulu Kinglet appointed by Wolseley, re-
ported to have massacred *ieco ceul and many of hie
followers Prince Leopold scratched for all his en-
gagements—till he stops bleeding Austral’s cargo of
mutton in splendid order, sold at 6d. per lb.; market
depressed Severe fighting between Greeks and
Turks Ogle, the Melbourne absconded clerk, com-
mitted for trial £15,000 worth of bonds stolen from
the Stock Exchange Chief John Dunn h,ailk Goto-
wayo s restoration..—Matthew Arnold {Sweetness and
Light) visits Australia Prince better
'J remendous cholera at . ...Lusitania’s meat
sold at 51d...... Miners’ strike impending at Manchester.
• •••;• Or. Xait (Archbishop of Canterbury) apparently
orißg int rvention between Greeks acd
Jnghting suspended Large number Irish
eoustabnlary resigned in consequence of dismissal of
leada. s late agitation for increased pay. 2000 Orange-
men volunteered as special constables Military
ordered to occupy police stations Serious rioting in
Dublin owing to absence of police. Military dispersed
the rioters by bayenet Aavg'g Majority pehee
returned to duty.
On 4th September, the Australians commenced
the return match against Nottingham for Osoroft's
fina > attendance large. Anstraliana,
131 j Murdoch. 7%, Notts., $ wickets for 41,
We paid our threepence on the pier,
To cross the watery plain,
Where steamboats urge their swift career
T wards somnolent Balmain.
Up mountain paths of fearful height
vVe left our weary tracks,
To meet with —in the halls of light,
■With—hem ! Balmaniacs.
We found that every horrid street
Whs rocky, steep and rough ;
But t Gating belles are passing sweet.
And fair, and smooth enough.
We always thought—don't be surprised !
The people there were blacks.
ut, really, they’re quite civilised.
Those gay Balmamaof.
No more we’ll such injustice do,
la thought, to those dear girls.
To each aquatic hero, too,
Who '* pays out," "iHlfj," and •• furls,”
Who "cleaves the briny with his prow,"
(Ia that right ?) and who •• taoko,”
We've altered our opinion now
About Balmaniacs.
As shade beneath a burning tky,
As island in the sea.
As oasis in desert dry,
One memory will be.
One spot in life will still be bright,
Whatever else it lacks—
T > think that we have danced a night
With fair Balmaniacs 1


pAIE T Y T :
Lasse® 3 Messrs. L. M. Bayless
Directress.. Mrs. M. Gladstane-Bi
Return of Mr. BATLESS ft
bringing with hii
CLARK and EOMAN'S M
Who made their first appearance at
on SATURDAY, September 2nd,
every Evening until further notice
INAUGURAL PROGR
Part I.
PALACE OF MIN ST J
PRANK M. CLARK (Oastenets).
(Tambourine). GOY. ADD. EYil
Overture—" Operatic ” F. PERKIf
Sang—" Good-bye till I See yon aga
Tyrolean Song—" The Cuekoo **
Comic— " Live Humble ” A
Baritone Song—“ Good Company ”
Comic— "A Well-known Man”,
Baby’s Lullaby
Finale—* 1 The Brave Hussars ”
INTEEMISSIOI
Part 11.
ALFRED LAWT
in his Specialities and latest Paro
Bow of Lodging Houses,”
Eigheenpenoe.”
CHAS. HEYWOOD, Burlesqui
acknowledged by the cognoscenti
America and Europe to be the onlj
having a really cultivated SOPEAN
GOV. ADD. ETMi
Burlesque Oration. Subject—]
THE CALIFORNIAN QU
in choice vocal select
T. B. DIXON. Ist tenor; G. W. LA 1
\V. F. BISHOP, baritone; E. AME
The"
4 BLACK CAMELL
CLARK, DBARIN. OLIVER,
SAMUEL DEARIN, the Mus
and Originator of Comedy lustrum
lar melodies on Umbrellas, W 1
of Teeth, and the smallest Violi
world.
To conclude with the New and 0
formed by this Company on
BOARD AND RESIDI
Gr
AIE T T
T E
Messrs. BATLESS and EEYNO
requested to furnish the ROYAL C(
IN QUIET re THEATRES with th
pied by the visitors in leaving the
was accordingly tested on Satnrdai
ingthe dispersal of the VAST AUDI
by FOUR LEADING GENTLEM
who agreed that the building was etr
2 minutes 31 seoom
2 minutes 31 seoom
from the fall of the on
from the fall of the oui
without recourse to either of the 10
DOORS. By using these ESCA
theatre could be emptied on a on
MINUTE.
Gaiety theatre.—in ori
PATRONS OF THE THE AT
EVERY COMFORT. NO PORTAE
BE ALLOWED IN THE AISLE
ON ANY PRETENCE.
Gaiety theatre-no fe
EXCEPT TO THE ACCREi
t <t THE PRESS.
TJI H B A T E E
‘ Leasee,.,,, m
Treasurer.. ,
„ Under the manageme
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, ai
Doora open at 7 .15; commence at
0 clock,
ANOTHER TEIUM
, the LIGHTS O' LO
by the PRESS and I
GRANDEST and Most Perfect Pr<
nessed in Australia.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS of Mr. QE
THIS and EVERY EVENT
will be acted a new and original ]
entitled the
LIGHTS O’ LOND(
Prices as usual. Box plan open fr
secured six days in advance. Tlcl
I,.house Lloyd’s, next theatre.
“M[.price. NO FREE LIST.
SEATS SECURED BY TE
Tho Thnotrn Pyrrol , „ i i
TO THE OPERATIC AN]
PEOPESSIOI
NEW OPERA H
WELLESLEY STREET, AL
Sole Proprietor, H. N.
THIS Magnificent Building is i
THE MODEL Opera Hons
the Largest and Most Com modic
Erected on lastest models, it will 1
every Modem Comfort and Luzui
the curtain) appertaining to
Theatres in the Old and Now Worl
J 9 perfect. All parts of the Hou
and egress from broad, light, and a
precaution has been taken to savi
ease of fire, and the Auckland City
inspected and higblv commended t
to that end. Magnificently and
its Luxurious Private Boxes, Di
chestra StaDsi, together with its
Stalls Accomodation, are features
Colonial Theatres. This Opera
by the WHliamson Patience Con
commencing from 23rd May las
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror for si
to be had from both managemanti
gers, Agents' “ Stars," and Combi
apnjy to the Proprietor for terras
trofi.
iVTE. AND MBS. jT
J ' J - L (MISS MARSTON L
Arrangements completed for ene
June Ist, 1882, under the mi
MESSES. GARNER, WILLIAMS'
EW TOWN HAL
MAIN HALL OPEN FOR E
PERST-CLABS SCENERY, QAI
Applications for engagements 1
ebejse;
Sydney gy
LIVERPOOL STB
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’
ALL BRANCHES OP ATHLI
G. H, d’HAECOURT, ]
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, o
dating 1800 people, is now av
and othet performances. The sta)
depth, and has a neat proscenium
DAVID
mo THEATRICALS.—WANTE
_I, Musicians, a Female Impet
batio Song and Dance Men, a (Sii
tleman, and a Dutch Comedian ; n
by letter, state terms, and ser
M'LEAN, Point Piper Road, Wool
A I E T Y
CORNER CASTLEEEAGH Al
STREETS, SYDN
JAMES SHARI
Late of the Colonnade Hotel, cor
tlereagh Streets, desires to inform
public generally, that he has rei
hotel, which has been lately known
Hotel, ” and which he has thoroug
trusts that by bis usual strict at
combined with the best brands of
to merit a fair share of patrenai
state that he still draws the famom
‘•SILVER CUP I
AUCTIONEER’S
T. S. HUNTLEY (late Gener
Coffee Palace Company, and Cas
freshment Rooms), begs to inform '
anoes, and the public generallv, tin
business as an Auctioneer, Value
Agent (13 years’ English experieuc
solicits a share of their patronage.
SpecialitiesSmall Propertief
General Merobai
Outdoor Sales c
turo, &0., with j
Office—lo, Minerva-chamber
SYDNEY PERMANENT FR
and BUILDING SOC
Established 1875. Reserve Fun
received on fixed deposit; it for 12
allowed. Savings Bank Departure
notice required (or withdrawals J
M.
T H
IMPORTER O
WORKS OF j
GERMAN AND SWISS WC
ARCADE BUILD]
SYDNEY.
T EQAL.—Mr, T. M, |
SOLICITOR, has oo
practice of his profession, ai
PITT-BTREET, opposite
News Office.
BICYCLES AND TRI
SOGIABLEJTRIC
IKE LIGHT RUNNING
The Lightest Running and Stron
For Racing, Road, or Tourist, the
THE BEST INVESTMENT OF TI
The Latest Novelty is the Soo
Cushioned Seats for two persons,
know what real enjoyment is, ghoul
TRICYCLES FOR 1
The Latest Design. Cannot Hpse
arms or collar bones. Travel with
No Boy should be content till he
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUB
IEENNICK, KEMBLEI
88 CLARENCE BTI
SYDNEY.
lIMUBIAC
CLARKSON
ml
' ~: ■ .V.
w.
H. PA
PIANOFORTE WAKE]
352 George-street, Syi
jllpltati
■ g
I immm
PIANOFORTES, PIAN
Just unpacked, s
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST
ME NTS, by
EBARD (Paris and London),
fLEYEL,
COLLAKD and COLLAR]
SOUFLKTO.
BURDEN and C
TROBT
AUCI
And other First-class Makers, in
Black and Sold, and Wal;
AMERICAN ORQ
by
BELL and CO., _
WATERS and SO*
SM
ether Renowned ]
harmoniu
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE FERE
first-class Manutaot
A Larae Assortment of New an
ways on hand at
W. H. PAL
352 GEORGE
OPPOSITE WTN TAR
SYDNEY.
V (r
BOOTH'S
HYDROPATHIC BATHING
ESTABLISHMENT,
CORNER OP COLLEGE AND OXFORD STEEETS,
HIDE FARE.
JOHN
NEW
GARDEN SEEDS,
FOE PBESENT SOWING.
A Collection of Twelve
Leading Varietloj of Veget-
able SEEDS, in Twelve
Sealed Paoketi, sent free to
any address in New South
Wales, on receipt of Stamps
for 3a. 61.
G
TRESEDER.
NEWI
FLOWER SEEDS,
FOE PBESENT SOWING.
Twelve of the most Showy
Kinds for the Flower Garden
sent free by post to any ad-
dress in the colony on receipt
of 2s. 6d, in stamps.
•T Address direct to thr
S aed Stores and Nursery—
W The quality of my
Seeds cannot be surpassed.
A trial will prsve this state-
meat to be correct.
JOHN G. TBESEDEE, UNDERWOOD NURSERY, ALT STREET, ASHPIELD
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS,
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE. |
197 PITT STREET. OPPOSITE FARMER’S.


MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OP T
WHEN PURCHASING YOUI
ask (or
A
n
D
S
A
F
E
8
T
PANTER AND P A
NEW EXTRACT O:
AND SEE THAT YOU GK
SUPERIOR TO ALL O
T*E ; T Washing and Disinfe
tion known, for Clothes,!
Crcft'kery, Paint, Glass, and eve
pt(rtj6se. Used and recomm
Larabdry at Government Ho
nooffr (Inspector of Nuisances
! Orient Laundry), and by i
udges to be the best article mi
REMEMBER I
Washing and cleaning don
time, with half the Labour.
Everyfling Cleaner, Health:
pleasant alter using.
HOMES MADE HA:
TO BE HAD OP ALL Q
WORKS, 700 QEORGE-ST
IN THE WORI
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
*
*
v
*
O
D
O
a
drink
liquid yieldi
ORDINARY
tar BOLD BY ALL G]
OLD AND NEW S
Re-Pi nted fron
THE SYDNEY MORNIN(
By Pbbmibsion of the I
BY
EDWARD HORDERN
Cable Address;
“ Clipfoed.”
Post Office Box.
No. 328.
Clifford, Love, & Company.
EASTERN MERCHANTS.
FOO CHOW,
CHINA.
and
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AND CHINA,
COFFEE,
RICE,
PEPPERS,
SPICES,
TAPIOCAS,
CHUTNEYS,
INDIAN PRESERVES,
CHINESE PRESERVES,
„ SILKS,
„ MATTINGS,
„ SPECIALITIES and
Give Special Attention to the Purchasing of
EASTERN PRODUCE.
JOHN DA
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Win
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, 40.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
r<
PITT
YDN
BEAUTIFUL .
•Sx'W
„ Mi
OR '*•
ALLWOOL
JTWC
%
M
K
*
iS.Oi
gUTllnsths
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns' ochoose 0 choose fhi
HLSUMMERFIEU
PITTSTSYDNEY
EVERY COUNTRY RESIDENT
after reading the above advertisement, should write tor
my new guide to self-measurement and illnetrat
styles, with a choice assortment of patterns, sent P OB ' 1
free.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR, SYDNEY,
Wear only Smith and mannell'B Shirts
11 They have stood the test of public opinion for r >j
years, and still retain (as thousands can testify) 1
superiority over all others.”
We are now selling our
CELEBRATED MAKE of SHIRTS, READY MAU ■
at 305., 405., and 50s. the HALF-DGZB •
MADE TO MEASURE OR PATTERN (FIT
GUARANTEED),
50a., 635, and 755. the HALF-DOZEN.
SMITH ANTMANNUL'
SHIRT MAKERS. HOSIERS, AND
MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney,
Near Hunter Street.
Established 1841.
—
ie Thumb of subscription for The ® r fi LLST^ari»rL T '
idvance, per annum, 125.; ha * f 'T e V e mittanc«J^
ia.; booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Kemitt .
be made by stamps of any Australia mJ *nd C 6 "*
jr by money order, payable to w. o-
-84 Pttt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
inted and published by W- 9’ **
Thu Bclletim office, 24 Pitt-street, 3
Wales.
James MAKTI
389 6EORGE STREET, SYDNEY (opp
The HOBNSBT-MARTIN
RELIABLE
STEEL STRIPPER
Wc wish the Earners of N.S.W. to note that wo were
the first to introduce
STEEL GEARING ON STRIPPERS,
and that no ether firm in the colony cm offer this impro v<*‘
ment. We state this, as onr sui'cess has iurtucid our co m f
petitors to call their Strinners steel, whilst they only clai m
their comb to be steel, a point which is Riven on the chea p 1
eat and commonest Strippers made. As this
COPYING OF THE NAME OP OUR STFIPPER
might oonfase intending purchasers, we explain—
OUR HORNSBY-MARTIN 1882 STEEL STRIPPERS AR
For thev are fitted with BEST WROUGHT STEEL UOMBFIKUE
WHEELS, BEST WROUGHT hTEEL BEATERS, BESI’ WkOU
Farmers, do not be misled, for it is just as rediculoua for our comrvtit
fingers are steel, as it is for them to call tinir Road Wheel Wrought Ir
FARMERS, wo guarantee to show you that our Horns-by-Martin Reli
points to this so-called Steel Stripper, and all we ask intending purchase
per with the Strippers of our competitors, and we know how they wiU
own merits, not under tke name given by our competitors. Write for Pr
BEST
<W£s M</?ry/v co /vsw
of time, and loss of
We shall
samples 0
made eft
•ole ever
uarante*
jecause 1
price, it t
T A I L. O JS ,
y>
1
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOE
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Tears in Sydney.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 15a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. M
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£4 4a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 10s.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS!
PEA P E S & SHAW
KEW t?mSo T ooS™™ S™ 1 " 0 ”
CHILDREN’S FRENCH KID GLOVES
in Blacks, Dark Colours, and Fancies.
LADIES' "FIRST CHOICE" FRENCH KID GLOVES, from TWO TO TWENTY BUTTONS, IN OUR
CELEBRATED MAKES, ‘‘FLORA" and CLEoPAIEV."
THE NEW SWEDE MOUSQUETATRE GLOVES.
NEW TAFFETA GLOVES, IN TWO, FOUR, AND SIX BUTTONS.
«3T Note All the above goods are made to out special order.
NEW FRENCH WOOLLENS.
IN THE GENTLEMEN’S DEPARTMENT we stall show OUR FIRST SHIPMENT OF FRENCH
MANUFACTURED WOOLLEN®.
Our oast experience has confirmed us in the opinion that these peculiarly Light, Soft, yet Durable Goods
1 the most suitable class for this warm semi-tropical climate daring the Bummer months.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
