

THE BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 104.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1882.
Price—3d
SATUEDAY, JANUARY 21, 1882.
An Agreeable Rattle.
The colony has been, in one sense, very fortunate.
It has been enabled within the space of little more
than a week to plumb the depths or shallows of
the two “ great statesmen,” who, after a quarter of
a century occupied in trying to trip each other up,
and to get the country to believe that each '3
unworthy of confidence, suddenly discovered oi o
fine day that it had been all a mistake, and that
they were quite of one mind, and equally necess" ry
to the colony. The great Sir Henry has ta jn
the country into his confidence one week, ana he
great Sir John has opened his mind the next.
Each has displayed the resources of his intellect,
and the wealth of his conceptions, in his own parti-
cular fashion. Sir Henry impressed by his
magniloquence; the pomposity of his periods and
the serious weightiness of his delivery, astonished
and awed a listening people, jno will probably
take some time to disoov,; Vat ' nlendyi WS.
envelope of words wrapped up r 4
significant kernel of matter.
* * *
Sir John Robertson, on Friday last, followed
suit, at Mudgee. in his own light-hearted style.
As heavy tragedy, impersonated by Sir Henry,
stalked off the political scene, light comedy, sus-
tained by Sir John, ambled on. In each case the
performance has been eminently successful. The
talented actors have attracted immense audiences,
have been received with distinguished favour, and
have been equally successful in eliciting ample
demonstrations of “ cheers, tears, and laughter.”
But when the delighted audience, after the play,
begin to consider what it has all been about, the
discovery dawns upon them that they have been
impressed and tickled alternately by a portentous
and by a frisky mummer, and that really there has
been precious little matter in the piece, after
all.
• • •
Sir Henry’s magnificent deliverances turned
out, on analysis, to resemble a chemist’s prepara-
tion. A very minute proportion of operative sub-
stance, a Very great amount of diluting material,
and colouring matter sufficient to please. The
feats which were to transcend the exploits of the
greatest conquerors turned out to be no more than
the removal of metropolitan rookeries, and the
sinking of artesian wells, or the making of dams.
Even Sir John seems to have been not unaffected
by the splendour of his colleague’s imaginings, for
he, too, babbled of conquerors. He had every-
where been received, he remarked, like a con-
queror. Flattering unction this, no doubt, to lay
to his own little soul; but on reflection, and after
examination of the facts of his career, just a trifle
ridiculous when applied to the enthusiasts who
worked themselves up to so high a pitch of
dulation.
# *
On the whole, however, Sir John was faithful
to his natural role. It was as an agreeable rattle
that ho, at Mudgee, tickled the ears of the ground-
lings His speech was constituted chiefly ot
frisky nothings. Anyone who seriously sets him-
self to work to gather from that oration what may
be the probable future in store for this nascent
nation under the guidance and inspiration of bir
John Robertson, must discover that, like Can-
ning’s knife-grinder, “Story! God bless you, sir,
he had none to tell,”—or, at least, none worih
troubling about. Sir John, while admitting that
ho is getting on in years, gaily claimed to feel as
young as ever he was. But he afforded unmisuake-
able evidence that he has really aged. One of the
distinguishing attributes of senility characterised
his speech. His thoughts were busy in the past.
The turn of his mind was principally retrospective.
He had much to say of old times, a little of the
present, and of the future (which chiefly interests
the colonists) scarcely anything. His claims to
the confidence of the people, he based almost
entirely on what he once was, and what ho nas
done in time gone by. This is a blunder. What
the people of the colony should look to—and
certainly will, when they coljeet their senses is
what their leading men propose to effect hence-
forth. •
* * *
For that reason we will not trouble to follow Sir
John through the long retrospect which occupied
the first part of his speech. The sketch of Sir
John Robertson’s early political career could
scarcely have been drawn by a more flattering
pencil. We may be allowed to doubt whether
it will be accepted as material for history.
When Sir John embraced Sir Henry
Parkes, he practically cancelled his political
past. We all know what great things
he would, according to his own reiterated
declarations, long ere now have done for
the country, had not that same pestilent (but now
admirable) Parkes perpetually hindered and
upset him, his projects, and his Ministries. How-
ever, the Coalition removed all obstructions, and
all that need concern anybody now is to learn
what vast projects engage the attention of the
knight, and occupy his active and capacious mind.
A careful study of Sir John’s speech elicits
nothing more prodigious than that ho has some
hopes—under certain circumstances —of being
able, by and bye, to consolidate the existing land
laws. We may be excused if we venture to hint
that there is not much in this. If consolidation
of existing statutes bo all that Sir John’s inten-
tions rim to, a competent Parliamentary Drafts-
man, reasonably conversant jsith the operations
of the laws as they are now*" worked, could
manage the whole affair by a few months’ close
application. Considering the amount of clucking
Sir John did at Mudgee, it must bo admitted that
he laid a remarkably small egg.
• * »
We will not trouble our readers just now with
a, disquisition upon the land laws. But the
general fallacy which tinctures Sir John
EOBERTSOn’s mind on that subject broke out into
exceptionally queer sayings at Mudgee. The
can scarcely have been innocent of
intention to delude the bumpkins when he coolly
claimed the moneys derived from auction sales as
revenue. And he certainly was not ingenuous
wh'm he pretended to account for the money. It
i hau aeoif'Used, he proclaimed to his ' v n ‘nod
hearers, to pay ott millions of pounds q' old debts.
Sir John Eobertson must be perfectly well aware
fits the country had derived from the agrarian
legislation of which he is author. He never
approached the contention of his critics, that his
legislation has doubled back on itself, like a weak-
springed jack-knife —and that instead of settling
the people on the lands, it has chiefly been in-
strumental in shutting the country against the
people, by enabling the pastoral tenants to con-
vert themselves into great freeholders. Sir John
seems to live in the past. He has only one date —
1861. He kept replying to the criticisms of that
period, not of this. The squatters and their
advocates at that time, raised piteous howls that
Free-Sedection Jack was abont to ruin the
pastoral interests of the country. And the said
Jack, after twenty years are past, and the
squatters have found their way round and through
the law, till their revilings have turned into bless-
ings, still keeps on answering the charges which
then rang in his oars, and seemingly turned him
deaf.
» • »
What Sir John Eobertson promised the peo-
ple in 1861, was that the country should be dotted
with smilingdiomeateada. Squattages were to be
replaced by farms ; sheep and cattle by men,
women, and children. Yet, to-day, all his pride is
sheep; He,jammed “ sheep, sheep, sheep,” down
the inviting gullets of the Mudgee crowd. Our
sheep had increased in such and such a ratio.
Surely this was never Free-Selection Jack
whg®; the people were cheering! Sheep are
p-nd thoir increase might very well keep
1 plot.' with augmentation of settlement and im-
that, although N.S. Wales has certainly paid off
her old debentures as they fell due, she has gone
steadily on increasing her borrowings abont
triennially. Our debt has never been reduced one
shilling, notwithstanding that we have received,
as Sir John says, twenty millions for land.
# * *
But undoubtedly the most astonishing part of
the speech at Mudgee was that in which the
new Minister for Lands claimed to show the bene-
proved styles of grass-farming. But it was
wonderful that the great advocate of settlement
should, on an occasion like this, have chosen to
spread himself in sheep statistics, while preserv-
ing an absolute and suggestive silence about men
statistics. It is proof of the barrenness of the
community in public men that there is not one to
whom the popular mind naturally looks at this
juncture to smash the feeble manifesto of Sir
John by demonstrating, as might easily be done,
that, even according to his own showing, all that
his land laws have effected is to make N.S. Wales
par excellence the squatters’ paradise and the
heaven of sheep-breeders, while the legislation of
other colonies has fostered the settlement of
population in a very much larger proportional
degree.
# # *
There remains but one other portion of
Sir John Robertson’s speech to bo alluded to.
Almost a third of his oration was devoted to
abuse of his critic and would-be opponent, Mr.
Greenwood It is a remarkable thing that,
judging by the frequency of the applause, our
heading statesman appears to have made a greater
hit when slating Mr. Greenwood than when
treating of the economic interests of the coiljitry.
He was more cheered for a bit of chaff about an
opponent than for his demonstration that he has
been instrumental in settling 61 per cent, increase
of sheep on the lands of the colony during the
past two years. Sir John and his Mudgeo
audience appear to have been entirely en rapport,
tind quite worthy of each other.
John Dillon, Esq, Stipendiary Magistrate.
Mr. John Dillon is a native of N.S. Wales,
having been born at West Maitland. His educa-
tional training was commenced at a primary school
in that township, and was continued at the High
School, where he had for a schoolfellow the present
leader of the Queensland Opposition, the Hon.
S. W. Griffith, Q.C. Mr. Dillon was subsequently
transferred to the Maitland Grammar School, which
was at that time connoted by the Rev. W. K.
Colyer. From this ablishment, he went to
St. John's Collog" he University of Sydney,
where he was in theitoC-class in classics and gradu-
ated as Bachelor of Arts in 1868, taking his degree
as M.A. in 1876, prior to which —in 1869 —he
was called to the Bar of New South Wales, and
in 1870 was elected member for the Hunter, being
at that time little over 21 years of age. At the
next general election, Mr. Dillon was defeated,
but in 1877 he wooed the suffrages of the Tenter-
field people, and was returned. From that time,
he has continued to represent Tenterfield in the
Assembly, until a few days ago, when the Govern-
ment, without any direct solicitation, offered him
the appointment of Chief Magistrate for the City
of Sydney. His acceptance of the post rendered
it necessary for him to resign his seat in the
Assembly. Mr. Dillon has travelled the Northern
Circuit during the past six years, doing nearly
all the criminal practice and the greater part of
the civil business. To this constant gyration
may be chiefly attributed his readiness to
accept the post he now occupies. So
much travelling, and such frequent ab-
sence from his home were involved, that an
inclination for some change, which would enable
him to enjoy a larger share of domestic life, grew
upon Mr. Dillon. Like most men, who have once
been drawn into the excitement of a political
career, however, Mr. Dillon looks back with some
degree of regret upon the active scenes from
which he has separated himself, and may, after a
while, be again in the arena. Mr. Dillon entered
the married state in 1881 —a fact which probably
had a good deal to do with his subsequent disin-
clination for his previous nomadic professional
life. There are those who would fain trace a con-
nection between the regard which the Government
has displayed for Mr. Dillon, by tendering him
the position he now holds, and the attitude he
assumed in reference to the Roman Catholic
authorities in the course of the debate on
the funeral of the late Mr. Fitzpatrick. This,
however, appears improbable To offer Mr.
Dillon the post of Stipendiary Magistrate could
hardly have appeared to the Ministry in any other
light than that of a mauvaise plaisanterie, in view
of the opinions which he had unreservedly ex-
pressed in Parliament with regard to the proposal
for making such appointments, and the probable
calibre of men who would be likely to accept the
position. Speaking of the Stipendiary Magis-
trates’ Bill, which he opposed very strongly, Mr.
Dillon is reported, in Hansard, to have said:
“ After what we have seen in the House during
the present session, when some of the greatest
blots ever cast on the institutions of this country
have been brought on ns by the Government, it
is hard to say what is likely to happen in the way
of patronage or where pecuniary reward is con-
cerned.” Again, he expressed himself as follows :
“ I have heard it said by the Colonial Secretary—
I think during the discussion on the Licensing
Bill —that it was the intention of the Government,
as far as possible, to appoint to the positions of
folic e magistrates gentlemen with a legal training,
t may be that they will be able to get
gentlemen with legal training to occupy
them; but my opinion is that the gentle-
men with legal training for whom they will
seek and whom they will get are men in whom
the public would have no confidence.” And
on another occasion, Mr. Dillon, speak-
ing with reference to the same subject, asked s
“Who were the class of persons who generally
applied for an appointment when an office of
police magistrate became vacant ? Seedy-lookin gr
JOHN DILLON, ESQ., STIPENDIARY MAGISTRATE.


men, who had nothing to do, and who probably had
been living on their wits for some time. That was
the class of men who, as a rule, were made police
magistrates. What could we expect of such men P
And if that had been the case hitherto, was there
any reason to suppose that the Government would
select a different class of men in the future ? . .
The salary of .£BOO was not sufficient to induce a
young solicitor to relinquish the chances of his
profession ; and if the appointments were offered
t) men who had failed to obtain a practice,
tie public would not be satisfied. The
worst step which the Government could
take, therefore, would be to appoint lawyers.” It
is one of the mysteries of mysterious time how
the Government happened, unsolicited, to affront
a gentleman holding views so pronounced, by
offering to him —a lawyer—a position which he had
declared no lawyer should be given, and relative
to which ha had said that no lawyer whom the
Government would seek and get would be a man
in whom the public would have confidence. We
trust that Mr. Dillon will prove himself an ex-
ception to the rule which he himself has laid j
down.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Social Sydney.
Tub season of festivity is over, and business and plea-
sure will resume for a few months their normal state.
Town and country have had reason to rejoice over a
year of prosperity and progress; both have eagerly
Bought for pleasure in their past holiday, and, we hope,
hare found a good measure. Public facilities for change
and enjoyment, if not as good as they might be, hare
never before been so great here. Excursions by land
and water were plentiful, and were plentifully made
use of. But, amidst all this gaiety, is society social
and healthy ? Are homes homely, and home pleasures
abundant ? We fear not. How does a large proportion
of the young people of both sexes spend its spare time ?
la the improvement of the mind—in pleasant social
intercourse P Walk down our principal street any
evening after eight o’clock, and you can see groups of
well-dressed young men lounging about in an idle,
purposeless manner; the public-houses and billiard
saloons are full of the same type—young men of the
middle classes. Civil servants, office clerks, and a con-
siderable muster from the various professions. Some
like that kind of life, and it is but their own inclination
that they follow; a greater number do not, but can
obtain no other. And our girls. What do they do ?
Some wander about, even at night, in the street in
pairs and groups, and in the afternoons are strewed
plentifully through the parks and gardens, looking, not
only at the flowers, but (quite naturally) at the young
men; and some are even ready to receive advances, if
judiciously made, and if appearances are satisfactory
Acquaintances are in this way found, future meetings
are arranged, which they and others have sometimes
reason to regret.lS Pater and Mater, look to it! Are you
giving your sons and daughters the opportunities of
mixing socially and healthily with those of the oppo,
site sexes ? Or have they some reason for adopting
this nomad, vagrant plan, to obtain society which they
hope to find congenial? Is your time, Pater, all
devoted to business ? Are shares going up P Is your
latest land speculation so engrossing P Is your head so
full of figures, and your hand so busy with the pen,
that you can find time for nothing else ? And you.
Mater, where is your maternal organization for bring-
ing young people together? Think of the little plots
and the plans that were formed for you in your
young days, the social gatherings that were arranged—
perhaps the castles that were built in the air, but have
dwindled to no less pleasant cottage realities. Do you
exercise the same maternal solicitude for your children ?
Do you give them opportunities, or have they to find
them as best they can in parks and gardens ? This is a
question which is more important than it may seem at
first sight. It affects not alone the young people of to-
day, but those of future generations. Vagran tiam is but
a mild form of larrikinism. This is said by some to be
the most homely and social city in the Australias.
Certainly it cannot compare in that respect with similar
cities of the old country: we doubt if it can with many
bore. In a changing population, such as we have, we
cannot expect society to be so well arranged as in older
and more established countries. But is it so well as it
might be P Do heads of families endeavour to make their
homes the most agreeable to their children ? Homes
which are loveable and worthy of respect are the greatest
(if not the only) checks to vice and immorality. If we
lose them, we lose a very great deal: something which
will not be easily recovered. It takes many generations
to remedy the evil.
Harlequin Jack-in-the-Box.
If, as has been said, it is the mark of a truly great
man to rise superior to circumstances, then is Sir
John Bodertson truly great P No circumstance, no
combination of circumstances, and nothing in the past
or present, or prospoccively in the future, can hamper or
Impede the marvellous versatility of that gentleman’s
movements in the slightest degree. He is a competent
law unto himself, and no consideration of public de-
cency or political self-respect is allowed te stand for
one moment in the way of any one of his contemplated
Protean changes of character. From time immemorial
he has been in the habit of periodically startling the
public and grieving his friends and admirers by weirdly
strategic movements of this description. It is notorious
that on one occasion he led a vigorous Opposition
attack on the Ministry of Sir James Martin late into
the night, while the morning found him gazetted as
an office-bearer in the ranks of the enemy. But his
last feat eclipses, perhaps, any with which he has yet
ventured to test the good sense and forbearance of the
colony and constituencies at large. During the last
few months the strategic knight has filled no small
■pace in the public eye. His action in the Milburn
Creek business attracted universal attention. His
convenient loyalty to bis friend, and his Constitutional
objection to the course taken in that matter, drew
Upon him a perfect storm of friendly and hostile criti-
cism. His retirement from the Ministry at such a
critical juncture was hailed as a fortunate and honour-
able step,—one taken, designedly or not, in the true
Interests of Parliamentary purity, and calculated to
Clear the way for a free exercise of the representa-
tive right. By this last manoeuvre, however, he has
effectually destroyed that impression. Eomembering
his well-known character, the public does not fail to
estimate the motive of his action in that matter at its
true value —taking it simply as the result of another of
those eccentric impulses of the flighty veteran’s weird
genius, with which the same public is already so
familiar. Whether his last step is merely a playful
I eccentricity, however, or an action calculated to make
Parliamentary life ridiculous, and its emoluments and
distinctions a matter simply for irresponsible scram-
bling, are questions that public opinion—and not
that of the Mudgee electorate alono—must settle. As
it is, the recent action of Sir John has had the effect of
exactly reversing his action of a few months before;
all his personal friends but one having left office, it has
landed him in the unique position of leader of the
Cabinet of his quondam rival, scarcely a member of
which believed in Sir John as a leader in the past;
and, finally, it has definitely closed the way for a fair
reform in the land laws of the colony, or in the system
which makes the product of the sale of public lands
take the place of current revenue. In matters political
everything has, within the last few months, undergone
a complete reversal. Things political are all “at sixes
and sevens.” No oontortional feat of absurd panta-
loon or clown could bo more startling and successful—
as a contortion—than this last freak of our leading
citizen. No more bizarre allocation of attitudes or
figures than that presented by the present tableau in
the public life of the colony could be met with out of a
harlequinade. But this is the pantomime season.
Sydney Bloodsuckers.
Tkekk is, perhaps, no more costly undertaking with us
here in Sydney than the exposure of a well-ascertained,
proven, and dangerous abuse. It is true obscene gloom
and the darkness of obscurity which are its best pre-
servatives; and the broad light of day, or the incidence
of a healthy public opinion, is fatal to its continuance.
But to bring these to bear requires money and capital—
the latter not inconsiderable, to meet the damages of a
probable judicial faux pas. If the abuse directly in
question concerns the very poor,—if, as is sometimes
the case, it borrows its very raison d'etre from their
poverty—then its continuance is certain, and nothing
can interfere to check its baneful effects. This is
specially and prominently the case with the nefarious
system of barefaced swindling and extortion practised
by a largo class of money-lenders on necessitous
members of our community. I nexperienoed persons
and females are the usual victims. These are induced
by the force of circumstances to borrow money. To
extend their business, or relieve a present difficulty,
they pledge their goods as security for the sum ad-
vanced, and agree to the exorbitant interest and fees
demanded, trusting in their ability to pay their way.
But through some accident, they fail to meet their
engagement—the foes and charges for expenses are in-
creased, and the victim is harassed and pursued, until
at last, in sheer despair, the security is given up, and
the lender’s real object is secured, while the helpless
borrower is ruthlessly robbed and ruined. This is no
fanciful description,—no air-drawn sketch of what may
be, or what has been in the past. It is notoriously
occurring every day around us—while the law, if it
does not actually legalise the process, at least tacitly
encourages it. Only within the last fe w weeks a case oo-
curred, strikingly illustrating the working of this system
of swindling and extortion. A poor lady—keeping a board-
ing-house, as is the wont of such—borrowed £29 from a
meney-londer, to furnish a larger house. For this she
was charged interest amounting to 50 per eedt. tor the
period, the amount payable in weekly instalments of
£l. These proceeded regularly till the fourth, which
was allowed to stand over for a few days, when a bailiff
appeared, and remained in possession until the £1 and |
10s. for expenses were paid him. On this being done,
the lender claimed 10s. more for bailiff’s, and 10s. 6d. for
‘‘counsel's’* fee,threatening to take possession in default.
The value of the furniture thus claimed as security
was from £250 to £3OO. Being threatened with an
action, the usurer withdrew his later claim.
As already indicated, the victim’s poverty is the
usurer’s safeguard. The danger of publicity
alone will make him relax his octopus-like grip-
And this is a fit case where the law should
step in and protect a deserving and persecuted class
which is unable to help itself. If the money-lender’s
vested interest, or his influence, is too great to admit
of reform in the present system, then let it be swept
away altogether. A necessitous class must always
exist. And such being the case, it is advisable
that something even distantly resembling the
French Mont de PUte be established, nnder Govern-
ment supervision, to meet a crying want and to remedy
a cruel wrong.
“The Cloture” and Mr. Gladstone.
The threatened adoption of “The Cloture” in the
I British Parliament is an innovation of a character so
I ont of consonance with the spirit of oar boasted age «f
progress, that it is surprising that a strong protest has
not already proceeded from the English people. Freedom
of debate, it is true, is one thing, and unbridled license
is another; hat whilst admitting that the Irish members
in the House of Commons (the body for whose chastise-
ment the instrument is being framed) very often ex'
ceed the lawful limits that should bo observed in a
deliberative Assembly, no true liberal can view without
repugnance and apprehension a proceeding so liable to
abuse as the introduction of a borrowed foreign
custom; a legalised gag upon one of the dearest rights
we possess—liberty of speech. It would appear that
even in the Imperial Cabinet there is grave dissension
as to its advisability, for we learn by cable that only a
bare majority of the Ministers have given their assent
to the proposal. Granting that some restraint has been
found necessary in the case of the Irish members, what
guarantee is there that the same machinery may not
be put into motion to silence their English and Scottish
brethren P We do not say such things are likely to
occur, but we know when a Parliamentary precedent
has once been established, it readily finds argument for
enforcement upon other occasions not originally con-
templated. It is a remarkable fact that daring the pre-
sent administration of Mr. Gladstone more acts of an
arbitrary and oppressive character have bean perps-
trated than during the preceding quarter of a century.
The Coercion Act, with its countless small attendant
grievances, the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act,
Ac., Ac.; and now, like the sword of Damocles, “ the
Cloture" is held over the devoted heads of the op-
ponents of the Government on the fated Irish question.
We find it hard to believe that despotism has found a
home in the heart of one, who, in earlier years, was the
foremost champion of freedom in its highest and purest
form. Can it oe possible that the erstwhile eloquent
sympathiser with oppressed Italy and the fervid de-
nouncer of the wrongs of the nationalities held in throlj
by effete, worn-out Turkey, is one and the same with
the author of the proposed Act to hamper liberty of
speech in the Parliament of Great Britain ?
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Lady Ferguson, who died the other day of
cholera, was the third wife of Sir James.
On dit. —lt is probable that an eminent Q.C.
will lead to the altar the widow of a late eminent Q.C.
Miss Braddon, who is thoroughly mistress of the
Gallic language, ;is writing in French a story for
Figaro.
Mr. James Mair, P.M. at Armidale, has been
appointed to Newcastle. Mr. Leopold Bate, now C.P.S.
at Tass, succeeds Mr. Mair at Armidale.
Mr. M'Crae, manager of the Bank of Austra-
lasia, Adelaide, leaves for England. Mr. Balbernie Vans,
of Maitland, succeeds him at Adelaide.
A supposed pauper, known as Thomas Edrar
Year Farley, who died in Melbourne Hospital, is dis-
covered to have left £lO,OOO worth of property.
“ Will Honeycomb,” of the Dubbo Dispatch,
says that a back blocks stockman has just dropped in
for £5O 000, and is heir to one of the oldest earldoms in
England.
The Hon. Mr. Pharazyn, M.L.C. of N.Z., who
was the other day sentenced to an hour-nnd-a-quarter’s
imprisonment for having voted twice at one election, is
over 80 years of age.
It was Mr. Bernal Osborne, just deceased, who
announced in Parliament his firm resolve to support the
Bill for legalizing marriage with a deceased wife’s sister
because it would enable a man to have only one mother-
in-law.
According to “ The Vagabond,” the articles
beaded “ Sunday in London," which have of late been
appearing in the S.M. Herald, are from the pen of
Mr. W. Senior ("Red Spinner”), late head of the
Queensland Hansard staff.
Dan. Mayne held his last levee at Her Majesty’s
Reception Rooms, Bathurst, last Monday. Tho crowd
of visitors was so great that the business of tho town
was paralysed for the time being. Dan. expects that
nsxt Tuesday his foot will be on his native heath.
Just before Parliament prorogued, Mr. David
Buchanan made some unfavourable remarks on Mr.
Plunkett, of Qulgong, as & magistrate. At a public
meeting, a few days ago, Mr. Plunkett was presented
with an address, signed by 550 residents, expressing
confidence in him.
Tho Newcastle Herald says that Mr. Alfred
Rose is delivering a course of lectures upon the Austra-
lian colonies with remarkable success throughout the
West of England and South Wales. The fact is, how-
ever, that the old gentleman—wo mean Mr. Rose—ar-
rived by the Lusitania, and is now in Sydney,
* According to a cablegram, Garibaldi is just now
very ill. A correspondent thus describes the present
appearance of the Italian Liberatorl never in all
my life beheld a living being so death-like. If I had
not seen his eyes and his lips move, I should have
believed him to be dead; his face was absolutely livid,
tho yellow-white of a corpse, and his hair and beard are
perfectly white.”
oBy an unfortunate accident, Mias Kate Blakeney,
daughter of the Queensland Deputy-Registrar-General,
lost her life near Prauklyn-Yalo (Q.), where the young
lady was on a visit to the house of Mr. P. Ricardo.
Miss Blakeney was out riding with a party from the
station, on a very quiet horse, which, nevertheless,
ran away with her. In trying to throw herself off,
she was dashed against a tree.
A young lady, now 18, the only daughter of
Protestant parents residing near Tamworth, was sent
by them some years ago to a neighbouring Dominican
Convent as a boarder. Her term of pupilage having
expired, she was to return home, but, on being asked
to do so, she at once intimated that nothing could dis-
suade her from spending the remainder of her days
among the sisterhood. Her parents learn that she is
about to don the veil of a novice.
Truth recently insinuated pretty plainly that
the Princess Louise and her husband lead a cat-aud-dog
life. That inspired organ, the Whitehall Review,
feels itself called upon to contradict tho statement, and
to assert, “on the most reliable authority ” —probably
that of the Marquis’ under-oook—" that the home-life
of the illustrious lady and her noble consort has always
been attuned to a very beautiful harmony, and, further,
that they have enjoyed and do enjoy uninterrupted
happiness,”
Shortly before travelling with Mr. Gold, Lefroy
called upon several of the leading actresses of London,
but, as they knew nothing of him, they declined to
receive him. During his imprisonment be talked a
great deal about Miss Violet Cameron, whose name
somehow or other got mixed up with his in the papers.
Whereupon Miss Cameron wrote to one of the journals,
saying that she had no personal knowledge of Lefroy,
but had received from him, prior to his condemnation,
"a most unaccountable and distressing letter, which
she had handed to Mr. Forbes Winslow.”
The chief instigator of the accusations against
Mr. M’llwraith, the Queensland Premier, which led to
the famous " Steel Rails Commission,” was a certain
Mr. Hamilton, chief clerk in the Agent-General’s office,
whom Mr. M’llwraith had dismissed. When Mr.
Sinclair, Mayor of Brisbane, was addressing the electors
the other day, he stated that when Mr. Hamilton came
from England, he visited him (Mr. binolair), and
authorised him to inform the Premier that, if he (Mr.
M’llwraith) paid the expenses of Mr. Hamilton and his
family to Queensland, he would say nothing more about
the matter.
j The Pope is not at all afraid of work, but
1 spends from fourteen to sixteen hours a day in his
study writing and transacting business. He also likes
to know what the Press has to say on most subjects,
manifests a keen relish for the Paris Figaro, and,
though his secretaries read the papers first, and mark
the articles they consider most important, the Pope
exercises his own judgment, and by no means confines
his attention to their choice. This reminds us that
Archbishop Vaughan is very fond of The Bulletin,
which he religiously reads from leader to imprint,
week by week.
Prom the Sheerness (Eng.) Guardian :—“ In
the Times of the 23rd November, the death is an-
nounced at Surry Hills, Sydney, N.S.W., of Edwin
Brindley, grandson of the late Thomas Brindley, Esq.,
of Frindsbury, Kent. The firm of Thomas and Joseph
Brindley was well known on the Medway, some years
ago, as eminent shipbuilders. This firm built soma
forty-odd ships for the British navy, many of which
fought in the great naval encounter off Algiers. The
Brindleys also built the famous ship Shannon, which
fought the American ship Chesapeake, and, after a
quarter of an hour's engagement, beat her."
Dr. Forbes Winslow, the leading English
authority on insanity, said that Lefroy was mad and
irresponsible. On the other hand, Mr. Marwood, who
is rather an expert fin hanging than in mental meta-
physics, expressed the opinion that Lefroy’s plea of
insanity was not a strong one, as the convict seemed to
do everything and talk in a reasonable manner, and
write so sensibly that it was difficult to think that there
could bo lany insanity. Mr. Marwood’s judgment ap-
pears to be a little biassed by the fact that he naturally
objects to all endeavours to reduce the number of his
jobs, for he also "condemned the way petitions for re-
prieve were often subscribed to by persons who knew
nothing of the case.” By the way, Lefroy was a few
years ago staying at a country house for Christmas. It
was suggested that some charades should he arranged,
each person naming a subject. Lefroy chose as his the
murder of a man in a railway carriage.
The Duke of Albany is engaged to be married.
There isn’t the slightest objection to this; but there
doesn’t appear the slightest earthly reason why every-
body should thrill with joy, as tho D.T. says it should
and insists that it will “ I can understand a man
man thrilling with joy,” remarks an English writer,
" because he’s going to be married himself, but for the
life of me I can’t see why he should thrill because
another fellow has found a sweetheart. I may be a
Jaundiced, crabbed, cynical, and generally objectionable
specimen of an Englishman, bat I never yet understood
where the national rejoicing at a royal marriage came
in. Furthermore, although I carefully studied the
laces and demeanour of my fellow-oitizens on the day
the announcement was made public, I didn’t observe a
solitary one smile, or olap his hands, or stand on his
head, or shout 1 Hurrah 1’ or dance a pas seal. Prince
Leopold is a very estimable yonug man. I never heard
an unkind word said of him. lam not, however, aware 1
that .V e J ejo j C6d wh « n 1 *ot married, and lam sure he
weuld think me a humbug if I protended that there
was the slightest cause for glee on my part now that hi
is going to imitate my example." U 0
A West Australian paper deals very savagely
with Richmond Thatcher. Ho was a collector Xf
shells,, and a very good fellow. His versatility was
such that ho could turn his mind from sermons tl
comic songs at a moment’s notice; but ho couldn't
turn it back again. He did many strange things, wise
and otherwise; one of them was to run a manuscrim
journal in a small township, but as the people could
not read what he wrote they didn’t take it. Ho than
toured round and wrote for the Press, his trenchant
stylo of writing bringing several obscure journals in in
public notice —through the libel court. As a theatrical
I agent, he made two or three etars out of very nnlikelv
material. His last literary production is " A Travelled
Actor,’ and therein he has given great offence by call
Albany (King George’s Sound) a “ queer little
village, and says, in a faint-praise style, that Perth is
bad W>rt of place.” These remarks have made
the Western Australians wild.
Among the friends of Prince Leopold, says an
English paper, surprise at his approaching wedding i 8
the prevaUing sentiment, for he is m a most delicate state
of health. Like many other invalids, ha hates it to be
thought that he is not strong and well, and frequently
runs serious risks in order to prove that he is not so
weak as people make out. Apropos to the prospective
wedding, we are told that in the year 1863, the Bth
Regiment of Prussian Cuirassiers was quartered at
•S- 0 ’??' .Amongst its officers was Prince Albert of
Waldeck-Pyrmont. Amongst the English colony at
Bonn was a Miss Dora Gage, daughter of the Rev
Robert Gage, of Rathlin, Ireland. Miss Gage had
attractions, and rode well, and she won the heart of the
youthful Prince. In June, 1861, a morganatic marriage
was celebrated at the chapel of Dublin Castle, and the
bride took the name of the Countess Von Rhoden. If
the recently-announced Royal marriage takes place
the Griffon Yon Rhoden, nie Dora Gage, will be aunt by
marriage to Prince Leopold, as she is already to the
sueen of the Netherlands.
Reference has recently been made in more than
one paper to the bon mot which ruined poor Walter
Cooper’s political career. There can be no doubt that
Walter’s talent for epigram, not being supported by an
•qual degree of solid abilities, or by abiding tenacity of
purpose, did a great deal to mar his fortunes The
particular mot, though often referred to, is now pro
bably forgotten by most people outside journalistic
circles. What Walter Cooper said was in reference to
tree selectors, whose stock in trade he described as
consisting, in many cases, of •• a harness cask and
bullet mould. ’ This insinuation of predatory prac-
Dices “ did for ’’ Walter with the “ poor man;" and ho
managed to alienate the "unoo-guid" and "whited,
sepulchre " class, who are so potent in public affairs'
by a cutting sentence about men " who save their souls
in Pitt-street, and their money in King-street " We
may as well explain, for the enlightenment of readers
out of Sydney, that the Congregational Church, at that
time devoted to the worship of God and certain
wealthy men of this city, stands in Pitt-street, while
King-street is the locale of the InsoWenoy Court.
A ° o " e . s P° ndent saya : “ You are wrong abon
Mr, Fisher a marriage to Miss Ada Ward. It took place
not at Brown’s River, but at I he exquisitely pretty village
of St. Leonards, about three miles from Launceston, on
January 4th, 1879. After the ceremony, the wedding
party-there were but three of us-ad j ourned to an hotel
kept by one Harris, a celebrated runner and “ snort ’•
where, with mine host and hostess, we pledged the happy
pair in " cham." The Fishers played very soon nftir
wards at Westbury, Evandale, Longford. and Delorahio'
and then left for Hobart. Poor Hugh Filher I he
an artist and a gentleman, and it was a bad day for him
when the fascinating actress dropped in at the Cafd
during a round of globe trotting. He had a good billet in
a store, a partnershiplm an illustrated paper, and wm
stage manager to the local amateur company. Miss
War- -Mnjkgad -as lea4mg man to come to Australhi
the resolution to marry him, did not per!
mit of his appearing on the stage, as she was averse to
wed in the profession. Their married life was w ?
happy one. Hugh was sensitive to a fault, and the lady
never overcame her love of admiration aid petite soinf.
They left for England, and from thence went to th.
Cape together, but Miss Ward returned to London
alone. On her way out this time, a reconciliation was
effected, and Mr. Fisher was to have followed his wife
but as you already know, ho succumbed tothe after-
effects of fever."
In our paragraph, last week, relative to the
attempted murder of Prince Alfred at Clontarf. there
were a few inaccuracies. We did injustice to the
generous gratitude of the Prince and his august Mother
Mr Vial s reward was not a watch and an annuity of
AiO. It was a watch without any annuity, but with
an inscription—furnished on paper with authority from
the Duke to have it engraved by H.R.H’s watchmaker
in Sydney, Mr, Cook—which was worth all the annuities
ever conferred upon a toady-in-waiting or a loyal
trimmer. The drawback was that Royal Alfred forgot
to pay the cost of the engraving, and Mr. Cook holding
Mr. Vial responsible, the latter had to " stump up "
Her Most Gracious Majesty, however, did not omit the
annuity altogether. Mr. Vial himself was then a hearty
man, and likely to live long,-so our gracious Sovereign
gracefully remarked that the service done to herself as
smother, she could not more fittingly recognise than
by making easy the declining years of the mother of
the saviour of her son. So Mrs. Vial, senior, became
the favoured recipient of an annuity of five pounds !
The oid lady, on coming to think over it, after a while,
let the blessed pittance slide. For three years, less
three days, she had not drawn the money—when she
died. But her daughter, reckoning that the Queen
W . OU f? e °. f helping to pay the expenses
of old Mrs. Vial’s funeral, as compared with the outlay
which the venerable lady’s son had saved in connection
with obsequies for Prince Alfred, applied by letter for
the arrears, and her Majesty was graciously pleased to
—refuse them.
_ Tu® l fc ? dy , of histor y ia no* excluded from the
Public School curriculum in South Australia, an.
i- At a recent examination of the Kapunda
lodel School, some rather remarkable questions were
propounded—Mr. J. A. Hartley, 8.A., B.Sc., Inspoc-
tor General, and Mr. C. L. Whitham, District Inspec
tor, being the examiners. Among other questions, tho
P. t & l i 8 T chll< S en , of about —were required to state
What was the character of George IV j>" Now if old
Piddy had, instead of going into the book-selling line
turned pedagogue and instructed the children of S
Australia in Modern History, there might have been
no harm in that question, and tho pupils would pro-
bably have replied off-hand that he was a benefactor to
h]s people, and had conferred upon them the blessings
Of Catholic emancipation and Parliamentary reform
But on such points there are differences of opinion’
and the Adelaide L. V. Gazette, commenting upon the
fact of such a question having been put, quotes an an-
swer, in case the kids have not satisfied the examiners
as follows“ George the Fourth was known as the
‘First gentleman in Europe/ He was a liar, a debau-
chee, a drunkard, and a gambler. He counted his
mistresses by the dozen; and his favourite amusement
in his intervals of sobriety, was cutting out pairs of
breeches. He married, morganatioally, a woman (Mrs.
JTitzherbert), and afterwards cruelly deserted her He
took another woman, Mrs. Robinson (‘ Perdita ’),' from
a profession in which she was occupying a virtuous and
lucrative position; and after a short interval, turned her
adrift to starve. He gav® the Marquis of Conyngham a
billet in exchange for his wife. He got up a conspiracy
against ms own wife, Caroline of Brunswick, to get rid
of her; but on her aquittal at a State trial refused to
acknowledge the justice of the decision, and signalised
the event by taking unto himself half a dozen fresh con.
cubiues. He wore stays, and had his debts three times
paid by the nation. He used to boast that he led the
j last charge at the battle of Waterloo—which is a fair
specimen of his ability in lying. He was a bloated,
lecherous old satyr; a disgrace to English history
Caroline of Brunswick was the moat unhappy wife of
this ‘fat eld Florizel.’ as Thackeray styles him in his
• (Four Georges."’ This is an accurate enough sketch,
yet, after all George was a harmless sort of scoundrel
compared with Piddy’s martyred Czar. George IV was
a disgustingly lecherous and mean beast in his private
life, but he never had the power to plunder his whole
people, or to send crowds of Whigs and Radicals to rot
in quicksilver mines, or starve in frozen deserts. Nor
had hehceuae to institute a seminary for the education
of the daughters of his nobility, and use that as a re.
serve for him to pick mistresses from, as the lata
sainted Czar undeniably did,


HOP BITTERS!
ARE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valaable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine over made,
and no person or family should be with,
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing ou abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over.
- taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with eare and
work,
Hop Bitters Will Restore Ton.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting,
Hop Bitters is Wh vt Yon Need.
If you are old, ar d you ■ blood thin and
impure, pulse fetl I®, 1 ®, /our nerves un-
steady, and your fa < nit es waning,
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Sitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
un P BITTERS,
have no sickness or suffering.
ORE, STUART, ft CO.,
6S PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR,
FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOE AUSTRALIA—
MOtfTHFIORE, STUART & CO
JJENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
(or general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use o(
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a groat.saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
la approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.I
T
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGE
COALCLIFF C(
|HIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY suppli
THKIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. FEB TON NET, delivered witlii
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky (
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desid
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoi
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given (
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLES!
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W
;vv '-S’
482 ...,484-GEORGE S
# <
"m
ROB I
'i T i
7 THE
MARKET CLOTH
OPPOSITETHE FRUIT MARI
ESTABLISH ED 18f4
A LARGE and well sele
WOOLLENS ; hew a r t
DIBEI I FR01,4 THt MANUFA
FASHIONABLE
AMD
f IKS T-GLASS CARN
, "C OROFR
/'LLV/OOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitun
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
DAMP RESISTING SOI
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be ;
Particulars on Application to
B. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Char
... N EWDA
(II I i AWARDED the
THE NEWSLETTER.
In 1881. the revenue from gaol labour in N.S.W.
was £17,839, or £8022 more than the receipts from the
same source in 1880.
The Perth Morning Herald, run by
Mr. James Pearce, of the Feeemantle Weekly Herald,
is be first daily journal published in Western Aug-
tralia.
A man and his wife were fined £2 each with
50s. costs, at Melbourne, for leaving a railway carriage
in motion. Both were knocked down while getting cut
of the train. This is adding insult to injury.
The seventeen steamers which at the present
time wear the “red funnel." and fly the flag of the
Union Steamship Company, of N.Z. will bo shortly
augmented by five new ones, whose aggregate gross
registered tonnage amounts to no less than 6850 tons.
James Whitton, alias Dick Whittington,
Victoria’s champion criminal, was sent to gaol for ono
year, last week, on suspicion of being a loiterer. This
will be tho 47th year of imprisonment to which ho lias
been sentenced, and the 36th wbicli ho has actually
served.
Under the now Licensing Act, all billiard and
bagatelle rooms have to pay a license fee of £lO.
Keepers of saloons are liable to a heavy fine if they
allow youths under 18 to play either billiards or baga-
telle. Play must be discontinued at 11 p.m., whether
or not the room is in conjunction into a public-house.
Tbe other day, at Melbourne, a woman was
(on her almost uncorroborated testimony) awarded ss.
per week in an affiliation case —immediately at tbe
termination of which she was sentenced to one month's
imprisonment on a charge of robbery. This only
shows on what slender evidence frail woman sometimes
gets a verdict from sympathising justices.
When small-pox declared itself on board tho
Garonne, five of the stewards were, according to tho
Melbourne World, put in irons for refusing succes-
sively to wait on the sick man. The crew thereupon
planned an open mutiny, but this reaching the officers’
ears, the captain thought better of his astounding
action, and the stewards were released—at least so tho
World says.
The other day, in a New South Wales country
town, a prisoner on trial, named Thomas Jones, stood
before the police magistrate tightly handcuffed. Hia
counsel requested that the handcuffs might be removed,
hut the police opposed the application on the ground
that the prisoner would instantly attempt to escape.
Thus, became Government have not provided a suitable
criminal dock at Cobar, a man takes his trial in a posi-
tion which augurs a foregone conclusion as to his guilt.
By tho way, the local paper says that Jones is “ a dimi-
nutive man, of about II st.. and any one of the three
policemen in court could easily have overpowered him.
There is nothing very ferocious in his appearance.”
Let’s see—Jem Mace wasn’t much over 11 st. when ho
fought Goss. Hanlan’s rowing weight is ten ten, and
Larry Foley has “ nothing very ferocious in his appear-
ance. ’ Quite the reverse, in fact.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Melbourne World, the new penny paper
sent a special reporter into quarantine with the small',
pox patients per Garonne, in order to supply more full
and reliable information than was being: given through
Goveniment channels The blacks around Eockhamp.
ton (Q.)have developed a mania for opium. A local ] apcr
say# that the poor wretches are so mad for the drug
that they will perform any amount of drudgery to obtain
itr—preferring it Ito tobacco or brandy—and that they
are rapidly dying off owing to excessive indulgence
At Dungaree, last week, three urchins endeavoured to
explode an old blunderbuss, loaded pretty well to the
muzzle. The gun was obstinate for a long time, but at
last went off, lodging its metallic and rusty contents in
one of Mr. E. W. Cox’s draught mares. Mr. Cox eati-
mates his loss at £4O, and finds he can only whistle for
redress It is said that the Chinese who vma recently
murdered by niggers atSamsder’s Eush (N.Q.), brought
his fate upon himself, by having wantonly fired on gins
and children.. Several horses which had been stolen
from Mr. M'Cann, of Blackman’s Valley, were found in
a gully crippled. There is reason to believe that fho
thieves, bearing Mr. M’Cann a grudge, stole’ the horses,
not so much for the sake of lucre, as to deprive
the owner of the use of them, and that, find-
ing the pursuit too hot, they tumbled the
horses down the gully to get rid of them
Last escort from Charters Towers took away the largest
quantity of gold yet raised on that field in any period
of five weeks Mr. Edward Thynne, late C.P.S. at
M&ytowD t Palmer, has died there of dysentery
Frozen Meat Export Co., capital £20,000, formed'at
Christchurch, N.Z A woman at Dunedin, N.Z.,
named Mary Anno Weston, was found drunk in the
street, at a late hour at night, with a dead child in her
Some splendid specimens of stone from the
Mexican p. 0.. Charters Towers, are on view locally
They are from the 480-feet level, and are taken from a
reef 22 inches wide, of which there is plenty in sieht
and through which gold is thickly distributed. The
shareholders have spent some thousands on the claim
People are rapidly leaving the Tebbooburra Diggings
through want of water Detectives raided Jem
Mace’s pub. in Melbourne, at 3 in the morning of
Sunday last, and arrested thirty-one gamblers, found
playing hazard. Nine dice were seized, of which five were
false. Mace was arrested in bed, and charged with
keeping al common (gambling house, and a man, named
Archibald, for conducting the same. Mace pleads that
he merely sub-let the room to Archibald An nn-
lucky fool named M'Pherson attempted to pat tho
head of one of Wilson's lions, at Albury, which shook
his preferred hand—off, and the arm with it. The man
is not expected to live. The lion i 5...... A committee of
magistrates in Melbourne has been arranging with tho
Inspeotor-Qeneral of P.;nal Establishments and Crown
Law Officers, with the object of devising measures for
the repression, by legislation, of larrikinism Hubert
do Castella urges that Australian wine-growers should
provide prizes ef £lOO, £75, and £5O for Au-tra>ian
wines at the Bordeaux Exhibition. He starts a fund
with £35 Tho carpenter of the barque Oasis com.
mitted for trial on a charge of setting fire to the ship...
A raft, which had evidently been intended as a means
of escape from a ship, has been washed ashore near
Shoalhaven A man who was permitted to travel
through the King Country in New Zealand, was shown
a quantity of quartz slacked by the natives, and thickly
studded with gold A sanatorium is to be established
at the Eotorua (N.Z ) hot springs John Graham, on
Saturday, surrendered to the police at Uralla, charging
himself with having, a week previous, murdered hia
brother, Johnson Graham, with an axe, at Jamberoo
Several South Australian M.P.’s intend visiting the
Northern territory Three men have been committed
for trial as principals and abettors at a prize fight in
South Australia, which resulted in the death of one of
the boxers A piece of land in Adelaide, bought two
years ago for £l2 10s. per foot fetched, on Friday last,
£4O per foot Joubert, in conjunction with capitalists,
is treating to construct a narrow guago railwxy from
Beverly (W.A.) to Albany on the land-grant principle
Tho quarantined passengers at Hobson’s Bay, ex:
Garonne, are still detained,...Hurricane at Fiji wrought
havoc among the banana groves Another boat-load
of Frenchmen, supposed to be New Caledonian escapees,
have arrived on the Queensland coast near Bowen.
The Melbourne 4ge chaffs Sir Henry Partes:
—“ He has measured the whole value of the twenty
years of not undistinguished life into Which Napoleon
crowded a thousand victories, the construction of
countless magnificent works, the compilation of a
code, and the reconstruction of France. He is not in-
sensible to the splendour of these achievements, but ho
knows that he can do greater things than these. It
quite elevates us, amall men as wo are, to think that we
are contemporaries of Sir Henry Parkes. . . . We
suppose it is very unreasonable, but we confess wo wish
the Sydney prophet had looked twenty years into the
future, instead of ten. What wo should like to know
is whether, when the lands are sold and their proceeds
spent, tho people of New South Wales will be consoled
for taxation and public debt by the reflection that Syd-
ney has a fine bridge, and once possessed a state.: man
who could give points to the first Napoleon."
The last thbftg in pathetic ballads is, “My dar-
ling’s Shoe." This will probably be followed Ito
“ Baby’s pottle.," or, “Bring the Castor-oil Phial,"


Chemists and ]
CAUTION. —In our atyl
sudden changes of ten
and sunshine often intermin
it is no wonder that our (
relatives are so frequently
looted colds, half the dea
from this cause. A bottle of
Syrup kept about your h
will prevent serious sickness
and perhaps death, by the
doses For curing Consul
Pneumonia, severe Coughs,
of the Throat or Lungs, its
derful, as your druggist
Syrup is now sold in evei
this continent. Sample b
regular size, 3s. Wholesa,
BROTHERS.
STEER’S R
AND
GINGER
FOR
INDICES
AND
STOMACH COM
They are also much reoo
tive for Females, being safe,
their operation, leaving no dii
and being free from any tom
irritation in their action.
Sola Proprietor and Manufaotn
F. E. SL
DISPENSING ESTABLISH!!
OXFORD STREI
J S. ABRAHAM’S PI
THE GREAT LIVE
And successful substitute fo
Podophyllum, and all
Famous as a Restorative to I
Famous as an Invigorator of
Famous for the Cure of all D
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Ti
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either se
take thei
Be careful not to g
IN BOXES, ONE
» Invented and Prep
J. S. ABE
At the Laboi
434 ;george stre:
COUGH WHILE YOU
taking Dr. Thompson’s A
Linctns, you will net be able
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S,
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle tour appe'
tralian Relish, made b;
177 Pitt street, price one shillii
♦
Gr B
0R G E
(Formerly of G(
IMPORTER
CHINA GLASS AND E
Begs to announce that he
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY AR
where every article in the abov
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVER
BUSINESSES
Business Annon
S
[.Legal. J
HOETEE, FITZGEEAI
SOLICIT
69 CASTLEEEAQH STE
and
MACQUAEIE STEE]
Hr. Shorter, Kota:
Legal.— Mr. t. m
SOLICITOE, has
practice of his profession
PITT-STEEET, opposii
News Office.
CH A E L E S
(from Messrs. P. N. Ei
Manufacturer of Cooking Si
Mountings, &o. Off No. 517 (
Bathurst and Liverpool streets]
Jj'OTICE OF 1
THOMAS WEBB
GLASS MAN UP,
and
IMPOETEES of EVEEY DES
and EAETHEN
Beg to announce that they have
EEM O V
to
269 GEOBGE .S
Next but One to the M
A magnificent selection of Ne'
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
S. H E B B L E
416 GEOEGE S’
F.T. WIMBLE (
STEREOTYPE ,
-AND-
-0
§
F
2 Hamilton
s'srrDi
Public Com;
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOI
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, witl
£1,000,000. Reserve F
Directors
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman
Esq. j W. A. Long, Esq.;
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; W
General Man
Vincent Wanostroc
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE
City and Suburban Branches:
Glebe, Burw
London Office : 18 King W
BRANCHES IN NEW S
Albury, Annidale, Ballina,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, €
bran, Coonamble, Copeland No:
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Go
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill Eu
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleaj
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Roc
ton, South Grafton, Temora,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallse
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbur
BRANCHES IN QU!
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Chai
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, 1
Eavonswood, Rockhampton, St
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Cc
the World gem
''HE MERCANTILE
establishe:
INCORPORATED BY ACT O
Paid-up Capital.,
Reserve Fund....
_ DIRECTOI
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.(
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip GicUey King, A
AUDITOR!
Jas. Scroggie, E
H, E. Cohen, Es
MANAGEI
P. A. A. W
SECRETAE
Hector Alb
BRANCH!
687 George-street Brickfield
LONDON BAN
The National Provincial B
London Office, 30, Ore
Director—Edward Cl
Agent—G. H. Alex:
This Bank transacts all usual
Agency Business on the mostfai
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances
other nrodnoe shipped to Englai
S
COTTISH
IMPERI
COMPAN
CAPITAL
FIRE RISKS AT LO'V
NIXON &
Chief Agents for
7 BRIDGE STREET
Sub-Agents wanted in To
SINGER'S SEWING
ARK MADE ON
The Singer Manufacti
Head Office
34 UNION SQUARE, NE
Chief Office in i
39 FOSTER LAN!
Depot for New Son
Kilting, Cording, an
160 FIRST P]
EASY TEEMS—2s. 6,
AGENTS IN EVEI
LOCAL DEPi
BOLTON STREET, NE
WILLIAM STREET, I
AUBURN STREET N.,
PEEL STREET, TAMV
VICTORIA STREET, G
No. 1 DARLING STOR
HARBOUR g
JgINGER’S SEWINI
TURNER &
ARE THE
becognised
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER mat;
TIME payme;
2b. 6d. per week—2s, 6d. per we.
NO INTEREST
10 per cent, off foi
BEWARE OF IMI
Agents for the ONLY GENDIN
TURNER i
THE ONLY »«SIN
TURNER i
Opposit
JOHNSTO
SEWING MACH!
HATMARKI


TO PERSONS IN DIFPK
the Mutual Trade Protection
cover your debts or obtain the best
Address to the Secretary, 65 Piti
WANTED, SUBSCRIBES
net Bulletin. W. Rov
News Agent, and Stationer, Queens!
OP GOOD
We beg to draw yo
PARTICULAR ATTEI
to the
ASIATIC TEA 0
PACKET TEA
Facked|in pounds and halt-]
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s. and 2s.
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
2s. 6d. and
PUEE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d. and
PUEE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. and
Special Quotations given to Who!
Country Orders promptly ai
ASIATIC TEA COM
279 PITT STEEET (next Sob
SYDNEY.
MASON BROT]
14 & 16 Si
Syc
Have always in I
to the TBAD
SALE BUYEI
lEONMONQER
QENERi!
GLASS
A
EAR T H I
WINES, BEER
and {
BULK ME)
Agei
JOHN WALB
Old Highh
J. SOEIB
Coi
J. T. G
Schnapps
A. MELVI]
Edinburg
New buildings, now i
Buildings, 29, 81, 33 Park-st
FURNISHING AECADE. H. LE
draw the attention of the Public gen<
stock of English Furniture just open
for sale at their large and beautifu
Rooms, comprising Drawing and Din
Plate glass door and other Wardrobes
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and B<
Glassware, Hollowore, and every re
about to furnish. CENTRAL FU
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
A GREAT Variety of Piano
makers just opened at the <
NISHING ARCADE, and arc to bo f
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 39. 31. 31 P
NOW is your time for Bargaii
very large shipment of Austr
open, and must clear some of our la
room for now goods. H. LEVY
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Time
£l5 up to £lOllO at the CENI
ING ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-street
H. P A I
PIANOFORTE WAREH
A TIME WITH "THE TALENT.”
Now that the Evening News’ “ special commis-
sioner” has commenced his trip round the world, and
proved himself to be such an adept at descriptive writing»
it is not without some trepidation that we commence this
airy trifle, knowing beforehand that it will be nothing
if not picturesque. Before Alfred’s special departed on
his trip, which, we already perceive, is destined to be
a voyage of history, we fancied ourselves to the extent
of balling off a bagatelle upon any subject that did not
necessitate a deep knowledge of the Scriptures or the
continued use of polysyllables; but now we have
perused the coruscation of humorous and descriptive
gems which appeared in the Alfred on Monday, we feel
ourselves to be withered by Withers —crushed by the
commissioner. Under these circumstances, we throw
ourselves upon the breasts of such of our readers as
have any, solicit their sympathy, and entreat their
indulgence.
It was Saturday afternoon —the carnival of the
cricketer, the festival of the frisquettist, the hour of
glory for the Garden Island bait-bobber. And it was a
scorcher. There was a hare of heat upon the city, and
what languid breezes lapped now and anon through the
wider streets were hot and sulphurous, and served only
to stir up feeble clouds of dust in the roads and to sum-
mon up profanity in the heart of the pedestrian. Every,
one seemed affected by the heat. Smart men whom you
remembered to have always seen spick-and-span as to
their apparel, and neat as to their boots, appeared to
have shrunk into their clothes, and to have borrowed
M'Elhone’s feet. Pretty girls, whom you had treasured
up in your minds as angels of beauty, were shiny as to
visage, and walked as though they had just finished a
day’s washing,and were going home to Kent-street to giv e
the “ kids ” their bread and dripping. Hotel Hebes, re-
nowned for their good looks—barmaids whom you had
said tender things to, and allowed to keep your change
—cruelly disenchanted you. Their hands were clammy
and red, their faces mottled, and about the comers of
their eyes and on the bridges of their little noses were
little volcanic eruptions of glycerine and fuller’s earth
which were very distressing to behold. The fellows at
Giblin’s who are always talking about a gun or a horse,
or relating little Actions to each other about making
“forty off the spot,” were limp and inert. Languor
was in every countenance; lassitude in every limb.
Men who had made appointments to go for a drive, sat
down to drink absinthe and play dominoes. The hansom
cabmen on the stands borrowed the Telegraph, and
composed themselves inside their vehicles to spell and
to slumber. Policemen lingered in the shade of pub.
licans’ verandahs, and watched their chance to dart in
at side-doors for “ long shandies.” Dogs wont about
with three feet of tongue hanging out; and the ice-
cream man was mobbed by juvenile customers at street
corners. Evan the newspaper boys were slow in tread
and husky in voice, and their cry of “ The B’lartin ”
was but a raven-like croak. Heat, dust, and glare were
upon the whole city. One chance alone for coolness,
then—to leave it.
* • •
Whither to fly ? Manly ? — too far. Clontarf ?
too expensive. Chowder ?—too Clontarfy. Whither
then? Coogee is associated with Bondi
with—ballet-girls ; Randwick with races—the hoarse
roar of perspiring Israelites, and the howl of the shilling,
sweep fellows. One place left—Botany. So be it!
A cab, then. Off we go! Down George-street—past
the Tower Inn, said to bo still haunted by the shade of
old Hancock—past the Railway Station, which looks like
a meat market, and the old Exhibition Building, which
looks like a railway station. On.amid a cloud of dust,past
thundering'buses, crowded with passengers, who whoop
wildly and puff strongly at briar-root pipes ; on through
the toll-gate and past the brick-works of martial Major
Goodlet. On by the tannery and the “ boiling-down” of
Blighted Berry; and so, with a crowd of other cabs
and buggies, up the carriage- drive of the Sir Joseph
Banks Hotel, and nous vnild I
• • *
The Sir Joseph Banks consists of an hotel, a
pavilion, and some trimly laid out ground—the whole
place in its studied neatness forming a striking contrast
to certain shanties we could name—establishments
(how which appear to oe all designed upon the same
curiously the word sounds!) principle; that is, they
have a limited shed for dancing and drinking in, a
limited lawn for fighting on, and unlimited scrub for
other recreations. The hotel at Botany is kept by
a nobleman darned Smith, who, with Mrs. Smith (who,
by-the-way, is a bundle of sunshine), improves each
shining hour and slakes the thirst of a panting public
at sixpence a pop. On our arrival there, we at once
perceived by the character of the company assembled
that something unusual was on the tapis. The ring
was well represented. That little tightly-made man
there, with a hard, determined face, yet who has a
merry twinkle in his eye, too, is Dave Ingram. Dave
has fought many battles, baited many men, and won
many belts. That well-built young fellow, oleon-shaved,
who is dressed rather like a new-ohnm, and wears a
horse-shoe pin set with diamonds, is “ Young Dutchey,”
the champion light-weight of England. He is shortly,
it what we hear is true, going to have a friendly spar
with a colonial celebrity. Seated at the scales there,
and weighing that diminutive, dapper little fellow who
is all humour and watch-chain —and none other than
“ Billy Swords,” of “ bookish ” fame—is Mr. J. L. Hall,
the well-known comedian. John is astonished to find
that Billy weighs down the scale at 13 st., but, after
taking 56 lb. weight of metal from his pockets, and a
4 lb. weight cucumber from down his back, the come-
dian’s astonishment vanishes.
* ♦ •
Everybody is drinking and smoking, and talking
about a walking-match that will come off directly in
the Pavilion. We drink and smoke, and talk about the
walking-match. Men come up and loudly offer to take
“ three to two about the boy.” We decline; not know,
ing (and oaring very little) who “the boy” is. Then
there are more grog and cigars, and a whisper goes round
that a (roseate) barney is brewing. At this the mercury
of our spirits rises considerably, and wo feel that our
interest in “ the boy ” has increased very much. Sir
Francis Smith, the landlord, then proposes an adjourn-
ment to the Pavilion, where the match is to be walked,
and, although tho place is but a couple of hundred
yards off, we all insanely take a parting nip before we
go, just as if we were all special commissioners going
to Europe with the Premier.
» « •
The Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion is a fine atruo-
t ure. It is very lofty, and is admirably floored. People
skate in it, and dance in it ; and the Butchers’ Picnic
always dines in it. A few were skating when we all
trooped in, but there were no ladies present. The band
might have played that day till it was black in the face,
and not a properly-assorted couple would have slid the
inviting varsoviana, or tripped the merry mazurka.
There was something more serious on the board. Soon
“ Dutchey " made his appearance, carrying something
in a lemonade bottle, and the starter, Mr. W. Frank,
also put in an appearance. In a little while the walkists
came out from separate rooms, wearing circus costume,
their feet, however, begirt with slippers. They proved
to be J. Raynor, a crack long-distance man, and Joe
Assenheim, “the boy,” a muscular youth, broad*
shouldered, and with much length of limb. Raynor is
a tall man of about thirty, very wiry, and possessing a
singularly mild and pleasant face. The race was a two-
mile walk, and for £lO aside. There was a great deal of
confusion about electing a referee, and at one time it
seemed as though the “barney” would eventuate.
Things cooled down, however, but not before one
gentleman—a stranger to us—offered to “ put his fist in
the eye” of another gentleman—also a stranger—a
proposal which was, however, declined. While the
men were being ranged up together, everybody seemed
to be wanting to bet three to two and two to one, and
nobody caring to take it. We, just to oblige a gentle*
man, took “three to two,” backing what we fondly
hoped was “the boy." We, were, however, somewhat
disconcerted to find later that we had laid three to two
on the other man, who lost. Our explanation that it
was a mistake was met with a request to “ shell out.”
Having shelled out accordingly, we were told “that
that sort of thing might happen to any man ”—a state-
ment we most religiously believe,
• • •
The race, as it turned out, was rather a hollow
affair. They started away at a great rate, Raynor
seeming to have something the best of it, but very
soon he went inside a post instead of outside, and as he
had to walk round the stanchion again, his chances of
winning the race immediately became on a par with
Joe Eokford'a chance of the Premiership. “ The boy "
was a great card. He travelled along at about eight
miles an hour, every individual portion of his body
seeming to aid bis legs in getting him round that track.
At a little distance hs looked like a big white spider—
at long range like a Catherine-wheel. He was in good
condition, too, and though his head was surmounted
by a very thick black ohevelure, it was confidently
stated that when he had done the first mile in seven
minutes and something, he had not “turned a hair.”
Meanwhile Raynor, who had lost about thirty-five
yards, now lost a shoe, too, so went pelting round the
Pavilion in the rear of his companion, in a manner
which reminded one of Don Josh’s pursuit, under
peculiar circumstances, of Don Juan, in Lord Byron's
prize temperance epic of that name. But he never
caught him. He worked hard, though, for his sup.
porters, but his condition was not what it might have
been. A young gentleman of pleasant appearance, who
was his principal backer, had unwisely given him
“ sherry " (the Sydney acceptation of the term) on his
way out, and the consequence was that before he had
gone far, this mysterious mixture commenced to
“ well " out of him at an alarming rate. It appeared
on bis face and arms in drops, which became streams—
streams, which became rivers—rivers, which became
cataracts. Before the first mile hod been accomplished
he was bathed in sherry, and he shone like a new
dollar. This could only have been expected, for it is well
known to the initiated that the greater part of the
sherry out here is composed of methylated spirit,
furniture-polish, and rosin. The two miles having
been concluded, Raynor’s backer challenged “ the boy,"
on the spot, to walk another match for seven miles.
Joe’s people, however, declined ; so there being no
more laps to be done in the pavilion, it was suggested
we should do one at the bar. This being carried, the
pavilion was evacuated with all speed, and soon every,
body was again drinking and smoking, and talking of
‘■events” that had passed, and events that were to
come—of the weights in this meeting, of the handi-
capping in that j until we really began to congratulate
ourselves upon the extent of our sporting knowledge,
and to sigh somehow for a pair of tight trousers and a
bird’s-eye necktie.
* * *
To watch the talent together is a curious study.
Here, now, were mixed up—and all spending money—a I
considerable number of men, none of whom appeared
to have any trade or profession outside some sporting
speciality. Here were pugilists—yet there are no fights j
scullers and twiners—yet there are, at present, no
races; there was a sprinkling of flash cabmen, too, and
more than a soap9oll of the better class of magsmen.
Mark carefully that short, stout man there, with
long whiskers, and peg-top trousers. He is the
cleverest man in his line in Sydney. He passes his time
“ living on the whisper.” When he is not living “on
the whisper," he is living “ on the neverand when not
“on the never" he is living “on the bluff.” His talents
are as varied as they are extensive. He can do every-
thing in the game line. He is the Bismarck of skittles,
and the Gladstone of ten-pins. In a shooting-gallery he
can “ ring the bell" every time, and if he happen by a
miracle to miss, somebody else rings it for him. He
can pull, and box, and run. His topographical know-
ledge is extraordinary. Though he never leaves
Sydney, he has always jnst come down from the place
the guileless rustic has. He knows every stick in
Murrurundi, bless you!—was bom at Cooma j and has
an aunt at Qoulburn ! This man earns a good living,
and though he never appears to bo doing anything,
works hard; and his profession, though perhaps a trifle
lower in the social scale than that of a testimonial-
taking parson, is infinitely above that of a picnic-
policeman.
* * •
On the hottest afternoon in Sydney, there is
always a breeze at Botany; and so a stroll about the
grounds was enjoyable. By the time the walking-match
was concluded, a number of visitors had arrived—
chiefly, be it said, male members of the dramatic
profession with non-professional ladies (probably,
duchesses), and other fellows escorting other fellows’
sisters. Some of these young gentlemen were in that
romantic condition to which we ourselves, when we
were young and beautiful, have been no strangers.
There was a weak-eyed Florizel there who had upon his
arm a lady in pink. They sat down upon a seat to-
gether, and he gazed into her counteuace with a look of
unutterable devotion. Yet, she was “ skinny ” and ill-
shapen; frosty and freckled. But ha loved her. For
he not only went in search of porter for her, but subse-
quently presented his love with a “ five-hob bunch ” of
variegated flowers—a proceeding on his part, by-the-
way, which the other young men appeared to take very
ill; since the ladies they escorted immediately began to
I talk floriculture, and to make pointed allusions to the
decline of gallantry in the nineteenth century.
* * *
It was a pleasant drive home in the cool of the
evening; pleasant to watch the lights starting up one
by one in the thin mist which enveloped the great city
until the veil of heat which overhung the vast expanse
of buildings became tinted a rosy red with the illumi-
nation. Pleasant, too, to listen to the fitful hum, al
that the breeze could bear out thither of the roar of the
traffic—a sound which came now in a drone, now in a
throb, falling upon the ear like the rhythmic beating
of the city’s pulse. All this was pleasant—very plea-
sant; but, perhaps, even pleasanter still were the steak
and oysters and bottle of claret which concluded the
afternoon’s entertainment.
856 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
Six-storey tobacco factory (Dixson’s) going up at
the corner of Park and Elizabeth streets.
The Governor of a poorhouae in the north of
Scotland stated the other day that he had never known
a total abstainer apply for admission during- his eighteen
years of office.
“A Methodist minister was arraigned before
a recent conference for attending a circus.” He
pleaded that he wont in with an order, and was trium-
phantly acquitted.
The land racket is not confined to Sydney.
There is a big sale at Oubbo, on the 19th instant, and a
lunch, gratis, to which a special train takes people for
“nix" all the way from Bathurst.
The champion mean man :—James Hubbard, a
ship’s apprentice, who had been rescued by a lifeboat
from a sinking ship on the Essex coast, stole an oil-
skin and south-wester from one of the lifeboat’s crew.
He was sentenced to a month’s imprisonment at the
Thames Police Court.
Scene; Table d’hote at a watering place.
Time: Sunday. Brown: “Oh, Miss Jenkinson, you
down here again.” Miss Jenkinson (languidly) : “ Yes.
Papa always insists on our spending the season at a
watering place." [Note.— I The Jenkinsonian “ season ”
extends from Saturday to Monday.]
In the examination of an Irish case for assault
and battery, counsel on examining one of the witnesses,
asked him what they had at the first place they stopped P
He answered, “ Pour glasses of ale." “ What next ?”
“Two glasses of wine." “What nextP” “One glass
of brandy.” "What next?” “A fight, of course."
He had her round the waist in the back garden
when the old man was abed. “ I love you, Mary," he
quavered. “Do you love me. ducky P Answer, if only
by a syllable.” “What kind of syllableP" asked
Mary, demurely. He knew he was lost if he made it, but
malignant fate urged him on. “ A polly-syllable,” he
replied. “Trifler!" she cried. And with a look of
scorn, her flowing form was lost to view in the darken-
ing shades of the washus.
The way of the world. — He ; “ And so it’s fifteen
years since we last met. Well, well, and you don’t
look a day older—time has indeed dealt lightly with
you." (To himself “ Why, I left her a slim girl, and
now she’s grown stout and blotchy, and * assists’ her
complexion; and to think that once I was in love with
her —what an ass I must have been.") She: “ And you
are quite a boy still; you really must have been bathing
in the spring—that makes one young again, as the poet
says.” (To herself. “ The horrid, musty, frowsy, old
bachelor—he smells of snuff, too; and he’s fifty, if he's
a day.”)
The other day, a man was released from Dar-
linghurst Gaol, alter serving over twenty-one continuous
years of imprisonment. The warder, on searching him
prior to his release, found a scrap of paper, which he at
first suspected to be a smuggled letter, but which proved
to be a “ Farewell to my Dungeon," written for him by
one of those erring mortals in whom crime and culture
had got interminably intermixed. The ode was as
follows: —
Great activity amongst the sewing machine
companies. It appears that the Australian maret has
been flooded with counterfeit imitations of the world-
renowned “ Singer,” of inferior construction and manu-
facture, under various names, which, by the way, were
very pointedly referred to in the judges’ report on the
Sydney Exhibition. And so the Singer Co. have gone
on the war-path, and have opened sub-depots in New-
castle, Bathurst, Goulbum, Tamworth and Grafton.
The chief depot for New South Wales is at No. 1 Dar-
ing stores. Harbour-street Sydney. Latest betting
1,000,000 to I, oa “ Sigaer.’*
INTAGLIO.
Humble Heroes.
" I have tried to believe the average toiler as heroic and
as worthy as the soldier.”
Oh! mock not the mirth of the emigrant there,
Who laughs his farewell on the quay;
You see not the sorrow that none may share.
Yon hear not the ory of dismay and despair—
The wail of the exile at sea.
At sea I while the ship speeds her merciless way.
And widens the gap that would close
The space 'twixt the now and the not distant day,
When he brushed from his eyelash the first briny spray
Of the storm in his heart that arose.
That arose, as “ good-bye ’’ was laughed over the side,
When each sought the eye of his friend.
With visage disfigured by sorrow and pride.
And anguish of parting, which each strove to hide,
With a courage too noble to bend.
One cheer at the last! ’tis a heartspeaking cry!
And then all recedes from his ken.
Like memory glides from the wounded, who lie
On the ground where they fall, which they hold till
they die.
With the pride that makes gods of brave men.
Our hearts leap to those who defend our fair name
’Mid cannon and sabre and gun.
As they make their last stand, with a wild bid for fame,
In that red line at bay tipped with steel and with flame:
Bravo! mighty hearts, ’twas well clone 1
Let song roll its echoes o’er mountain and dell.
Let widows forget how to weep,
Let all stand uncovered while peals the joy- bell
And cannon roar triumph—no more fitting knell
O’er the grave where ’tis glory to sleep.
But not less we’ll honour the exile, at war
With the trials and toils of the day.
Who still keeps his face to “ the wolf at the door,"
Disdaining to turn, or for alms to implore;
All praise to such heroes, we say.
LOGAN.
Pambula, December, 1881.
“ Oh, yes, I will ova wo are dear to each other,
And for many long years I’ve been constant and true;
But as liberty's instincts I never could smother,
'Tis easy to guess my aversion to you.
"Long fettered and tied to your narrow dominion.
The attachment of years in a moment expires;
Of your powers of reform I hold an opinion,
You can never quite quench dishonest desires.
" No more, with remorse and revenge, contemplating
The schemes for my future I long loved to trace;
In the first flush of freedom, my hate is abating,
And the spring-time of hope will resentment displace.
11 You know that my days, my years, my existence.
If justice demand them, are wholly your own;
But from peelers and pals I’ll keep a good distance.
And go on my midnight excursions alone.
11 Tor the present we part—I will hope not for ever.
For the Judge may insist on our union once more;
To extend our estrangement I’ll always endeavour,
And try to keep out of the pale of the Law.’’


ANTHONY HOKDEKN
PALACE EMPOR
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
GREAT CLEARING SALE of GOODS comprised in
during the week; and onr Customers are reminded that tl
chasing SEASONABLE GOODS and the CHOICEST NOYEI
been heard of in this city before.
BARGAIN.
40 CASES OP NEW DRESS GOODS. WORTH
B*d., WILL BE SOLD POE 3id.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH CHALLIS, WORTH Is 2d, WILL BE
SOLD FOR 6d.
BARGAIN,
FRENCH BEIGES, 4id., 6*d., 7id., 9d.: WORTH
FROM 9d to Is 2d per YARD.
BARGAIN.
HALF A MILLION YARDS OF DRESS GOODS.
MUST BE SOLD TO MAKE ROOM FOR
FRESH IMPORTATION.
BARGAINS.
60 pieces of coloured Silk at manufacturer’s
price 2s. 4d. per yard.
BARGAIN.
120 pieces of coloured Gros Grain Silk at 23 id ,
worth 3s,
BARGAIN.
40 pieces of Pompadour Velveteen, 12d. and 15d.
yard, worth 3s. 6d. and 4s.
BARGAIN,
Tinselled Tarlatans, every colour, 9d., worth 2s.
BARGAIN.
200 pieces black Gros Grain, 30 per cent, under
manufacturers’ prices.
BARGAIN.
200 washing Costumes, prices from 18s. 6d, to 30s ,
clearing price 10s. each,
BARGAIN.
200 satara-cloth Dolmans, 14s. 6d., worth 21s.
BARGAIN.
Gaahmere and Laoe Capes, 2s 6d., worth 7s. 61.
BARGAIN.
10 Cases
BARGAIN.
1000 Gen
BARGAIN.
3000 yar<
Is. 9
BARGAIN.
10 Cases
wort
BARGAIN.
1000 pair
good
BARGAIN.
200 Men’
BARGAIN.
Ladit s’ 1
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ S
BARGAIN.
LADIES
4i. 6i
BARGAIN.
LADIES
MEI
BARGAIN.
FERNCI
BARGAIN.
LONG, (
6d.
BARGAIN.
Two-hut
Swiss Ei
Plain an
Lawn Te
CAUTION.—MAKE NO MISTAKE; WE HAVE ONLY T
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM
HAYMAEK
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME”
MOLESKIN TR
UIUITC iun ddiu
Lessee
Treasurer Mi
Stage Manager Mi
EVERT EVENI
GRAND CHRISTMAS P
SINBAD, THE Si
Doors open at 7 15 p m.; comma
[DISCLAIMEI
I BEG to state I am not the
whose name appeared in the i
Royal Pantomime, in last Thursda
Bulletin.
PRANK BEVE:
Late of Garner
Bombala, 11th January, 188 a.
Victoria
CASTLEREAGfI.
(Near Zing-street; close to Tram
TO LET NIGHTLY. ON TERM
_ for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENT]
The above Hall has Seating A<
people, is WELL VENTILATE
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft , v,
WINGS, Ac., and is in all respects
the School of Arts, which it now si
Half-price charged for Charit
For Terms, apply to
T
J. F. SCHOLE]
107 Ca
HEATRE EOYAI
OPEN FOR ENGAGI
Will seat seven or eight hundr
with Gas; lately patronised by the
Terms moderate. Apply to
V
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, oi
dating 1300 people, is now av
and other performances. The sta*
depth, and has a neat proscenium
DAVID
■JVTE. EDWIN PALMER,
J-tJL CHARACTER OLD MAN
TRE. NIGHTLY.
THE “PRODUCER"
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with,
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public,
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
American Waltham Watohea, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adt,
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
Pantomimes and “Olivette” still in swing. Odds
on the latter; the Eoyal the next pick.
Meetings being held re larrikinism. The only
thing for it is to let the cat out ot the bag.
As trophies for the late cricket match,
Horrnn has selected a lady’s gold chain, and Cooper a
lady’s bracelet. Comment is unnecessary.
In the Herald, in the list of new insolvents,
after the statement of liabilities, we read, ‘‘asses,
£37 9s.’’ Perhaps this refers to the creditors.
We are going to have the electric light at our
chief railway station. This is good. There has been a
deal too much gas about this Department lately.
We were rather disgusted at the shipment of
soiled clothing from the Garonne, received hero the
other dayr Dirty linen of this kind should certainly be
washed at home.
King Billy, of the Woady-Yallock tribe, has died
of lung disease at Linton. His Majesty was laid out in
state beneath the Eoyal Standard—at least, in the stable
of the hostelry so named.
Agitation for seats and police-supervision in
suburban garden-squares. Nothing but grass and
larrikins at present. And yet, les convenances are often
outraged where “ forms " are not neglected.
We are advocating opening to the public and
straightening one of our pathways in the Exhibition
grounds “ for symmetry’s sake.” When a cemetery
is in question, we are closed up and straightened out
without asking.
“Tenders about to be called for erection of new
coal-gears.” This is matter for public rejoicing. lathe
domestic circle, however, there is very little tenderness
knocking around when the estimates hare to be agreed
to for new sootable gear.
Collision s.s. Julia Percy and Nelson settled.
Nelson’s captain suspended six months; other repri
manded. Nelson could have got on well at sea, but for
the Percy, which she couldn’t from the lee see. The
statement must be taken per ee.
In the match, Press v. Stage, our mutual friend,
B. N. Jones, made 10—the second, highest score. Ben-
nett, the Eoyal prompter, made 10. Cates, Titheradge,
and Deoring only contributed one apiece. Howard
claims the sola duck-egg. The Press won by 25 runs
and six wickets.
We notice that Professor Mikulicz has invented
an instrument for illuminating and inspecting the
contents of the stomach. This is all very well, but if
some of our dietary preparations were treated in this way
before we attempt to get outside them, a deal of trouble
might bo saved. “ What’s the contents of a German
sausage, sir ?"
Wo have abandoned pepper-throwing, and
adopted rotten eggs for our Salvation Army. This is
rough on the Christian Workers. No leas than eight
promised tete-a-tSUs at the close of the service, have had
to be abandoned. Even one of these gentle martyrs
found it impracticable to rest her golden looks upon a
shirt-front flavoured with “ shopuns."
Last week, two fellows brokeinto a tobacconist’s
shop. When our politicians put a tax upon our luxuries,
we came out strong on “rob a poor man of his beer and
'baccy," and soma of us would have willingly consigned
them to the hangman. The thieves, however, in spite
of bad characters, only got 12 and 6 months respectively.
This is encouraging. Wo still draw the line between
burglars and M.L.A.’s.
Catherine Burke, who shot at the gentle Chap-
man for having seduced and abandoned her, has
been discharged by the City bench and the Lying-in
Hospital at the same time. A well-known Sydneyite’s
O induct, while over here, was in marked contrast to
this. He, too, had gained a young woman’s affections ;
but he never thought of escaping the consequences.
No; ho marched round, cap in hand, and not only
collected a subscription, but spent it for her.
De Gille, mining speculator, went sneaking
around Beehive Company’s works at Eaglehawk, with
the ostensible object of seeing that the men were not
neglecting duties. The men refused to recognise the
humour of this representation of Paul Pry, and fastened
him up. He went to watch their movements; they put
him on a chain, and kept guard over him. Had ha
moved, they’d have stop-aotioned and jewelled him with
a swivel-gun in 99 holes. Thera .ore wheels within
wheels.
At St. George’s Hall, Prof. Miller and other
athletes have been showing. The Federal Australian
describes William as a “ beefy personage.” Why is
this? If be wore an Oxonian, we could understand it.
Our own Florence Neville is of the company. Prof’
Simon, a phrenologist, follows. Grattan Eiggs doing
well at Sandhurst. Ditto for W. J. Holloway at
Ballarat. The pads show signs ot decay among the
ballet, and there is gloom in theatrical matters in
Melbourne.
At East St. Kilda, the other day, the clergyman
who was to have officiated at a wedding, was so en-
grossed in his books that he quite forgot the appoint-
ment. There was much consternation among the
friends of the bride, and a gleam of hope sparkled in
the eye of the male victim. He offered to go in search
of the truant, but the stern eye of the bride’s eldest
brother rendered a repetition of the suggestion im-
politic. Eventually, the best man was despatched, and
soon returned with the apologetic sky.pllot, who
promptly tied the knot, pulled the bolt, and shot the
chief characters out among the matrimonial breakers.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed .]
•'C. J. S.” : No it’s not true. It is a fact that three
out of four of the 'bus-horses travelling in the streets
named are gone in the knees, hut we don’t believe that
the drivers have ever to tie knots in the tails of their
cattle, to prevent their bodies slipping their collars
The Comet All true, but indiscreet. Prejudice too
strong yet. You write well. Let us have something
else “ A J.P." (Charters Towers) : Splendid
“Alf. H.L." : Thanks; held over “Delta”: Wo
don’t understand “ J.M.” .• Very much obliged
“C. J.’’: The passage reads thus :—“ Corrnpisse dicitur
Cluentius judicium pecunia, quo minimum suum inne-
centem condemnarot." (Cluentius is said to have
squared the judge with greed, that he might condemn
his enemy, though innocent.) “ A.0.G.”: Eight you
are "XT.”: Thanks, Write again “0.K.”:
Deuced funny, but really we mustn’t “P J.W." : 1
We apparently can’t get you to understand that items
such as those you send are really of no public interest.
Head The Bux,x.sti». Wo never print anything like
them ..“Pambula”: We have polish: d a little
cruditv here and there, but your ideas are good.
Do your best, and send us some more “ Dick Dead-
eye”: Send along supplies “Social": Cannot make
head or tail of your mem. about a gent, in Macquarie-
street “Scrutator": Your par. would be simply an
advertisement- Send up ss. an inch, and we will put it
in “Pairplay”: Obliged for items “ G.M. Cole":
Both yarns old, and not witty. You say the story of
the rat and mouse was told to you seventeen years ago.
You’ve evidently made a mistake, old man; it must
havo been 1700 years ago. We recollect it nearly as
far back as that in our “ child’s recitation book," under
the title of “The thrush and the starling." “L J.”:
We don’t notice communications written in disguised
hand “Coo-ey": Welcome “C.D.”: Thanks
“ Bus ”: You’re rather late forjthis issue, but will have
a show next week " Tingha ’’: Yon should have sent
name “ Tangent Most acceptable. One or two
held ovor “L.A.”: As we cannot make out the
initials of the gentleman referred to, we have had to
hold ovor the item “Arcanum”: Scarcely good;
wo might be able to improve it, perhaps “Sic ost
vita”: There’s no point; servmts often gat drank, and
so, for tho matter of that, do their masters and mis-
tresses “ W.B. Smith”: Eight.
Produce Report.
tMce, Jan. 17,1882.
0* the wharves to-dayv prime green lucerne is selling at
£3 iSa. to £4 p*r tdn 1 medium quality £2 15s to £3 55.;
inferior staples, 40s. to 455. per ton. Maize, 4s. 9d. to
Ss. Oats, 2s. 9d. to 3s. per bushel.
tthnter River onions, 3s. 3d. to 4s. 6d., ditto potatoes,
3s. to 4s. 3d. per cwt. Victorian onions, 6s. to 6s. 6d. i
ditto potatoes, 4s. 3d. to 4s. 6d. per cwt.; ditto chaff, £k
to £5 Ss. per ton, bags inclusive. WartnambOo). potatoes
£5 per ton; butter (in keg); 3d to lOd. per lb.; eggs.
Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. pet do*en i bacon, 6d. to Bd.: cheese,
sd. to Bd.; ham, lid. to Is.; honey, 4d. to 6d.; lard, 4d.
to 5d.; boos Wax, 9d. to lOd. per lb.; millet brooms, 7s.
6d. to Ss. 6d. per dozen.
Wheat.—The wheat market is bare at present, and
any to band is readily placed at an advance on last week’s
rates. We notice the Southern market’s alteration.
Prices are—for Adelaide wheat 6s. 3d.; New South
Wales, ss. to ss. 2d.; Victorian, 55.; Launceston, 4s.
9d.; New Zealand, 4s. 6d. per bushel.
Flour—Business is rather dull this week, and owing
to the warm weather, bakers are in want of good old
flour, which is now becoming scarce. New and infetlof
brands are not in demand. Prices are—for mill flour,
superfine, £l3: household, £l2; seconds, £lllos. per
ton; New South Wales country brands, £l2 to £l2 10s.
per ton.; Victorian, £ll|los. to £l2 10s.; Adelaide, £ll
10s. to £l3. Bran and pollard. Is. Id. per bushel.
Fat Cattle.—At the Homebush) fat stock sales yes.
terday, the market was slightly lower. Best beef sell,
ing at 21s. per 100 (lb. Fat sheep were firm j 50 lb.
wethers sold at 10s. 6d.
Fresh Meat.—At the Riverstone Meat Company's
sheds. Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh
country killed beef take place daily, a fair supply
arriving and selling freely. Prices are —for prime
bodies of beef, 2}d.; medium, l}d ; inferior, IJd to lid.
per lb. all round. At the Glebe IslandjAbattoirs, sales
of fresh beef and mutton take place daily. Prices are—
Beef, prime quality, 2id.; medium, 2d.; inferior, lid.
to lid. per lb. all round ; mutton, prime, lid.; medium,
lid., and inferior, Id. to lid. per lb. all round.
Poultry.—At the various auction marts, fowls are
selling at 3s. od.; ducks, 3s. od. to 45.; geese, 7s. to Bs.;
turkeys, from Bs. to 18s.
Sir'Charles Eyan, a new arrival, has been sum-
moned at Melbourne for abusive language to a railway
porter, who asked him to show his ticket.
Several of the engravings of our Illustrated
Supplement are from photographs by Bay lies, of Qeorge-
street (next Lassetter’s), who executes architectural
and landscape views in splendid style.
We are very sorry, indeed to hear that that most
enterprising, successful and liberal of colonists, the
Hon. Patrick Higgins, M.L.C., whose health has for
many months past been the source of much apprehen-
sion to his friends, is suffering from a severe cardiac
malady,(diagnosed by several eminent physicians as
aneurism of the aorta.
Bishop Turner held Confirmation Service in St.
John’s, Tamworth, on the 15th instant, when about
one hundred candidates presented themselves. His
Lordship preached at evening service to a crowded
congregation, on (the subject of "Matrimony." He
didn’t say " Don’t," but gave good advice, which, if
adopted, would prevent many domestic shipwrecks.
He is one of the most outspoken of our ecclesiastics.
He declaimed severely against private marriages and
the union of affinities—notably of deceased wives’
sisters with their brothers-in-law—censured the care-
lessness of parents in not being cautions enough in
suoh matters, and condemned the practice *of getting
daughters “off their hands." He said that if it were
as easy to get a divorce here as it is in America, there
would be no end to releases ah vinculis matrimonibus.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Notwithstanding that seven revolving suns/
and the samf Humber of *' revolving moons,” have closed
their course, the theatrical season as yet remains
without a ripple; the only startling event in the
dramatic world this week being the donning of anew
costume by the Princess in “Sinbad the Sailor"—that
illustrious scion of a royal house having come out all in
pink, like a cherubic infant when deposited by the fairies
under a gooseberry-bush in the back Miss
Horan’s new dress, though as yet innocent of the imprint
of the " glover’s clump” of Wangdoodle, is by no moans
an improvement on the old one. The pink satin of which
it is composed is good enough, and there is enough
silver lace) about it wherewith [to caparison a nabob’s
charger, but it is as guiltless of style as “ Australie's”
verse is guiltless of poetry; and the pair of pink hessians
she mounts are strongly suggestive, by reason of their
size, of the seven-league boots of Blunderbore. It is
due, however, to Teresa to state that she looks charm-
ing, even in this ill-fltting rig. But, then, she is the sort
of young lady who would look well in anything, and
batter in hardly anything—which, by the way, is a good
deal more than nine-tenths out of the real Princesses
can say. Of Mias Horan’s performance we have already
spoken, but wo feel that we should be doing that young
lady an injustice did we not state that we perfectly
endorse the masterly criticism upon her given by the
Evening News, which states that “ Miss Horan and
Miss Lena Edwin play and sing as if they liked it."
* • •
Mr. Garner’s arrangements are to take the
pantomine to Adelaide at Easter; but as considerable
modifications will have to be made in the male portion
of the cast, doubtless) the management will find it
necessary to greatly strengthen the ladies’ part of it
also. To be successful in a burlesque opening, it is
absolutely necessary that the actresses should not only
be able to sing and dance, but to do both well. They
want verve too, and chic, and an articulation with a
clear, decided tinibre. In “ Sindbad,” undoubtedly the
best song sung by any of the ladies, is that of the
Princess—
“ I love a sweet sai-lah,
Such a sweet sai-lah;’’
but the effect of the ditty is greatly marred by a Lin-
gardish twang—not the real ‘‘Down East” business —
but a kind of Deadwood drawl and Sydney snuffle with
which the singer insists upon investing the words. Mr.
Garner has! turned on the brain tap of the great drama-
tist, and drawn forth a supply of new “locals," to the
hearing of which we are looking forward with lively
interest. We think it would) be as well, now that the
piece has run for a considerable time, if the actors
would provide themselves with new songs, for although
those they sing are for the most part tuneful and
amusing, it is just possible to have too much even of
“On the job," and the “Sweet little sai-lah," already
alluded to.
* * * *
After the run of “ Patience” hero, which will pro-
bably be until the end of the season (the 27th instant),
it is definitely settled that the company start for New
Zealand, returning to Melbourne in time to open, with
“ Patience," at the Theatre Boyal there, on that house
coming into the possession of Williamson. Garner, and
Musgrove. It is improbable now, therefore, that we
shall have the opportunity of hearing the present eom-
pany in English Opera this trip. Well, we can’t have
everything we like, you know, in this world— excepting
always in the case of damages against newspapers.
* * ♦ ♦
Mr. Joe Goodman, the treasurer of the Opera
House, has been in luck this week. Not only has Vice-
royalty visited him, but he has been invaded by the
Navy. To see the gallant treasurer receiving the com-
pany in a dress-suit, which is a vision of splendour, and
a smile which is a dream of loveliness, was a sight to be
long and feelingly remembered. The officers could but
ill-conceal their admiration, and little Gussy sent down
one of h ; s attendant barristers to enquire of Joseph the
address of the banger manufactory.
* * * *
At the Gaiety, still the “Green Lanes,” andafter
the Green Lanes, “ Michael Strogoff," we are told, until
Easter, when Mr. Dampier’s engagement closes. Wo
trust that after this protracted reign of melodrama,
Mr. Bavless will give us a short season of light comedy
and burlesque. It is undoubtedly to this style of enter-
tainment that his beautiful little theatre is most
adapted. How about something in the blonde way now
—something lOlivettish, being Clontarfy, eh F
A programme to draw all the young men who used to
be tumbling against each other down the pit lane of the
Boyal after the performance of the “officers” was
over. If L.M. nods acquiescence, we can whisper in his
ear the names of several local and Terpsiohorean stars
who are dying at this moment to exchange the steak-
and-onions of retirement and propriety for the cham-
pagne-and-oysters of an engagement and diablerie.
One managerial wink, and it’s “ a go."
* * * *
Mr. Charles Huenerbein gave a popular pro-
menade concert at the Garden Palace on Saturday
afternoon last, and there was a very tolerable roll up.
The event was rendered additionally interesting on
account of the d6but in concert of Miss Marie Tre-
vanion, who was until recently a member of the Mon-
tague-Turner Company. Miss Trevanion has a very
fine presence, and what is better still (for the general
public) a clear mezxo-soprano voice, which has both
volume and flexibility. The young lady sang three
songs —“ Kathleen Mavourneen," “ Should he up-
braid,” and “ There is no place like Home." In the
second of these numbers, she scored a distinct success,
and was loudly encored. Possessed of much vivacity.
Miss Trevanion would, we consider, make a capital
burlesque or light opera bouffe artiste, and it is a matter
of wonder she did not secure an engagement for Christ-
mas in one of the pantomimes, when we consider the
quality of some of the female talent that has been
engaged. Signora Fabris sang a grand aria from
Verdi’s " II Forza del Destino,” with splendid effect.
M ; ss Foxhall, Mr. H. E. Phillips (flautist), Mr. C.
Huenerbein, Miss Sherwin, and Signor Vittorini, also
appeared. These popular concerts are a very good
idea. Only let them be “ popular."
* * * *
Last Thursday night the Glebe amateurs per-
formed “Pinafore” at the local Town Hall. Wo in-
tended to be present at the performance, but were
detained on important business in town holding a wool-
skein. As they play again at the Sydney Town Hall (a
place of amusement which is in our own country) we
shall make a point of attending, and promise the ladies
and gentlemen performers a rose-bud and violet-
X>owder notice. All we ask the amateurs to do for
us is, —Ist, to place our chairs near enough to the
Mayor to make people believe we belong to the Muni-
cipal Council; and, 2nd, not to nod to their relations
all the time they are singing “ We sail the ocean blue.”
We shall be on hand, anyhow. The only rook upon
which wa can possibly split this week is the washer-
woman.
* * * *
There is a par. this week in a Melbourne paper
to the effect that “ Sinbad the Sailor ” had been with-
drawn after one week's run, the piece having proved a
failure at the Sydney Theatre Boyal. Directly Mr.
Garner read this, he packed off to the editor of that
brilliant journal a bottle of soda-water, a cinder, and a
flask of Dr. Leslie E. Keeley’s Gold Cure. The whole
was neatly done up in a soap-box, upon the cover of
which was stuck a portrait of Maggie Oliver, together
with this legend, written to order by the Boyal
laureate :
“ Prom Sinbad comes this gift, old son,
To celebrate a three weeks’ run.
Ere next you write about this show
The seda take, and then * go slow! ’
Christinas seems to last by far
Too long, dear sonny, where you are!"
* * * *
Mr. Allison, who is now in Sydney (having, it
seems, relinquished his trip to the Continong for the
present), is making arrangements to produce “Antony
and Cleopatra ” on a scale of superior splendour at the
’theatre Boyal here, early in February. It is whispered
that the oast will be one quite unparalleled for strength;
but who is going to play Antony, and who Cleopatra,
is a mystery at present- We suppose, however, that
la helle Pomeroy will be engaged for the giddy Queen,
for the simple reason that there is no s f ar—barring
Mrs. Gladstone—at present in Australia capable of
giving a satisfactory interpretation to the part. We
shall warmly welcome a short season of what Alexander
Dumas used to call “ The Divine Williams," and we
only hope that Mr. Allison will find the speculation a
paying one.
** * *
John Wilson is very sorry for the man whom
one of his lions maimed at Albury, but he has the
melancholy satisfaction of seeing it recorded in the
country papers “ that little doubt can now exist in the
minds of the most sceptical as to the genuineness of
the animals." John opens in Melbourne in a few days
—the show travelling by rail.
** * *
Grattan Eigga drops us a lino, under date the
14th instant, from Sandhurst, where, under Dodge’s
management, he has been playing a very successful
season. He is good enough to forward us a newspaper
catting containing a critique on the ‘‘lrish Detective,"
from which we glean that “ Mr. Biggs has proved him-
self beyond a doubt to be a great exponent of the Irish
character, and oso entitled to be ranked foremost
amongst all Irish comedians ; " an opinion, of course,
which will be echoed by all intelligent people through,
out the length and breadth of the civilized world. Mr.
Biggs goes to electrify the Hobart people next, and we
trust he will have a good time. We also hope that
when he next favours us with a communication, he will
content himself with being humorous inside his en-
velope instead of outside. Or, perhaps, it would be os
well if he confined himself to being funny in his
dramas I
** * *
The Pantomime at Brisbane having run its
course, “Pinafore” was put en with great splendour,
and has proved a furious success. The theatre has been
splendidly re-decorated, and has now acquired a popu-
larity to which the house had long been a stranger,
Duncan Maoallum did a wise thing in engaging South’s
company. There is good stuff in this crowd, including
as it does, Eeiuvenesoent James, Vernon Beid, Edith
Pender, and Emma Eogers. All these have played
“Pinafore "so often now that it has become second
nature to them. The words are engraven on their
hearts, and it is reported that whenever the fair Edith
kneels down to pray that her James may grow less
beautiful, she can get nothing from between her ruby
lips but a statement to the effect that she is a captain’s
daughter. It is impossible to run a theatre success-
fully for any length of time unless the thing is done
well, and this Mr. Maoallum seems to understand. He
wUI, therefore, only treat with first-class combinations,
and in sticking to this, he may rely upon being sup-
ported. The time has gone by for a presdigitatory
bungler with a stock-in-trade of three battered tin cups
and a pack of greasy cards to draw the general public.
The stilts and gifts will rake in the clergy, it is true, but
what the ungodly groveller wants is a good show for his
good shilling.
»* # *
Mr. G. L. Goodman will, during Mr. Allison’s
rdgime, retain his post of acting-manager and treasurer
at the Boyal,
** * *
We have received a letter from Zulu Thomp-
son, who is doing splendidlylin Dunedin, at the Queen’s.
He says :—“ I see in your issue of the 24th you say,
• De Lias has the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, for Janu-
ary,’ whereas I am the lessee until the Ist of February.
I then leave for Christchurch, playing at Oamaru,
Timaru, Ashburton, en route. I have engaged the
Gaiety for the Exhibition month. Wellington to fol-
low." We are sorry we made this mistake, but doubt-
less William will forgive us, especially as he is raking
in the “ spons" by the ton. We would ask how the
little William is, but for not having had our informa-
tion on that little head verified. Anyhow, the coral
and the fork and spoon have been lying in our ormolu
bureau for the last three months.
** * *
Phil. Stuart has gone to Melbourne to take the
management of a big thing to travel. Said to be a
comedy company—and to include Myra Kemble and
Billy Hoskins. Mira-bile, in fact.
** * *
Miss Liddiard, “ Lady Angela’s” eldest sister,
has, we are told, been for the last five months diligently
studying elocution under a master, and Fitzgerald’s
“ Principles of Comedy” under herself. She will, it is
rumoured, shortly appear as an exponent of the art of
Thalia, in thelcharaoter of Lady Gay Spanker.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
We have a letter from Luscombe Searell, who
dates from Victoria, British Columbia. Our enter,
prising friend has just completed a most successful
season through the Western Pacific States of America
with his opera, “ The Fakir of Travauoore,” and was
about to start to-morrow —the small man but great
composer forgot to date his letter; however, it is post-
marked December 10th —for San Francisco, en route
for England. He expects to be in London in about four
weeks from date of writing, and is in treaty for the pro-
duction of “ Fakir*’ in that village. We hope to hear
that Luscombe has the Cockneys by the wool. He is a
clever little man —a native-born Australian—and the
only living composer save Wagner, whom he would
greatly resemble if Wagner’s appearance were different
from what it is, who composes both the libretto and
the music of his operas The Mendelssohn Qnlntette
Club commence a season of three nights in Bathurst
this evening (Thursday,). If the School of Arts be not
crowded every night, the local musical taste must be
very poor indeed St. Leon’s circus at Forbes At
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, a benefit was given,
recently, to Mons. Victor, whose hand was fractured
while wrestling with Mona. Camille, in Professor
Miller's entertainment Mendelssohn Quintette Club
open at Duboo on the 27th instant Harkins played a
round of Shakesperian characters after “The Colonel,”
at Wellington (N.Z.) The N.Z, “Pirates” Co. are
now travelling on their own account, R. W. Cary hav-
ing severed his connection Signor De Vivo, who has
been piloting Wilhelmj through N.Z., is again in Mel-
bourne Pomeroy Co. put on the well-worn “East
Lynne” when at Christchurch, Oh, Louise!!
Johnny Hydes boasts of a show in N.Z. called "The
Bohemians.” They appeared at Timoru, recently.
Business, however, has been bad, so these Bohemians
cannot be said to have been connected with the press.
At Rockhampton (Q.) the Alma Variety Company
have been showing. Variety is their lino. Miss Alma,
the " star,” is not considered superior to Ellen Terry,
except by her aunt Clara Stephenson and her crowd
are at Armidale. They made money in Dubbo. On
Tuesday week Miss Lester, and Messrs. Russell, Inglis,
and Cargo (members of the Stephenson Dramatic
Troupe) took a benefit at the Masonic Hall, under the
patronage of the Mayor and Aldermen. “ Milky
White” and “111-treated II Trovatore.” Miss
Louise Pomeroy’s Galatea, in Gilbert’s comedy, gets fits
in Dunedin (N.Z.) Hoskins’s Chrysos is a great hit
The net proceeds of the concert generously given by
Miss Clara Hamilton at the Protestant Hall, recently,
in aid of the Vinegar Works Relief Fund amount to £6.
Wilhelmj, Conron, and Vogrichan immense success
in Wellington (N.Z.). Kohler is also there with his
waxworks Lyons’ Tourists, at latest, were at the
Gaiety, Christchurch (N.Z.), with a pantomime, entitled
“The Island of Tulipatam.” Louise Pomeroy re-
visits Melbourne shortly The Juvenile ‘'Pirates”
are to open at the Auckland (N.Z.) Royal on 23rd Jan.
Mr. Craig, who was with the Lingards in the colo-
nies, was about to be married when the mail left
America.
* * *
A pretty London soubretto nightly wears a
diamond valued at £3OOO Kossi’s Boston season was
an artistic success only Emily Soldene has bean
giving “ Carmen” with much acceptance at the London
Standard On October 14, Lawrence Barrett and
Edmund Booth appeared together at a matiuee for the
benefit of the Michigan fire sufferers. Booth playing
Othello to Barrett’s lago. There was an immense
audience, the gross proceeds being about 6200d0l A.t
the conclusion of the performance of “ The colonel,"
at Abergeldie Castle, Her Majesty sent for and com-
plimented Miss H. Lindley, who sustained the part of
Mrs. Blyth, This lady, once a popular member of the
London Haymarket Company, is the wife of an officer
in Her Majesty’s service A new comic opera, “The
Twelve Jolly Baehelors,” has just been produced in
Boston, and will be a success as soon as the public can
get used to seeing the bachelors remain on the stage in-
stead of coming down and occupying the front seats
during the ballet H. B. Farnie is at work on a bur-
lesque for the London Eoyalty. It is to be called
“ His Little Hatchet.” Arthur and Nellie Vivian are
engaged at the Tivoli Opera House, 'Frisco. Arthur is
styled “The Great Australian Comique.” Lecocq’s
now opera bonfie,Le Jour et la Nuit," is said to be
more catching in its music even than “Madame
Angot." The plot, however, is just a bit “ Clontarfy."
P.lMerritt madofiSOOO in one season out of “Youth,”
and Sims £l2OO in 50 nights out of “ Lights o'lLondon.”
Little Jenny Lee, of " Jo" fame, is a great frost in
New York. Her company has disbanded, and her trip
to Australia is, therefore, off Christine Nilsson re-
ceives 1000 dollars each for 100 concerts in America
next season. Manager Abbey, in addition, pays all
travelling and hotel expenses, and gives her one-half
the receipts after 3000 dollars Adaptation of “Le
Fils de Coralie" called “The Adventuress” at the
Queen’s, Manchester, great success A play called
“ Baffled," by a Mr. Sadler, was recently produced at
Newcastle. After the play, so were the audience
Sara Bernhardt, when hissed at Amiens, told her
audience that she wasn’t accustomed to geese In
twelve nights Henry Irving, at Glasgow, took over four
thousand pounds Joaquin Miller is quarrelling with
another American author about the origin of “The
DaHitss." Miller says he wrote it; the other says|it
was written by a starving penny-a-liner, and the poet
of the Sierras retorts that his opponent is a colossal
liar I
SOCIAL.
Much excitement was caused in the City of the
Plains a few days ago by the elopement of a prim but
pretty little maiden. The heroine might be not inaptly
called a colonial Little Dorrit, since her father
keeper of the gaol, while her amorous partner had just
graduated, probably with honours, at the same estab-
lishment. In Sydney a very.reverend was at once
interviewed for certain obvious purposes, which were
successfully accomplished. Love rules the court, the
camp, .the—jug.
• • •
The American papers say trousers will come in.
So long as they were merely advocated by dress re-
formers on moral grounds, there was no chance of it.
It isn’t moral women who lead the world of fashion as
a rule. It’s " my lady Dolly" who starts a new style,
and her moral sisters take the plunge after she has
broken the ice. So that neither morals nor health
could hold up the “ duals," and say—wear them. But
when the dressmakers issue the command, it Is quite
another thing. The flat has gone forth, and trousers
will come in.
• • •
Fair “ Aurora” saw a paragraph some weeks ago
about the 46 marriageables at Wollongong who “ go for”
anything eligible who presents himself, and she writes
an indignant protest. She does not deny the fact, but
pleads justification thus : “ The fair demoiselles whose
good fame has been so mercilessly assailed reply, with
a sarcastic bitterness which sufficiently shows the extent
of their anger, that wore it not that the hobbledehoys
of their own locality are so destitute of gentlemanly
feelings, and even decent politeness, the fair ladies of
the butter district would not need to seek consolation
in the smiles of admirers from other scenes.”
• • •
“ The Vagabond,” speaking of the dresses worn
at the English cricket match in Sydney, writes to the
Auckland Star that he “ never saw such a collection
of badly, vulgarly-dressed women in any quarter of the
globe." Bough I
• * #
There is to be a grand ball on St. Valentine’s
night at the School of Arts, Condobolin, in aid of the
funds of that institution. Mr. H. A. Bichards has con-
tributed towards it, so the local "ad.” says, "the use
of his newly-erected store and show room, together
with a recherche touper a la fourcheiie.” The local aris-
tooraoy have been studying this tempestuous blast of
Gallic industriously ever since it appeared, and a French
dictionary would fetch a higher price than a good
draught horse in Condobolin now,
* * •
The ball-room which Mr. W. J. Clarke is having
built at his Sunbury mansion, will bo ns luxurious and
splendid as money can make it. The floor and decora-
tions are now in hand, and when Mr. and Mrs. Clarke
return from Europe, Melbourne society may expect
something grand in the way of balls.
# * *
A handsome Cobar squatter is engaged to a
Tnmut brunette. Wedding in March.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs Flower, of the Commercial Bank,
Muswellbrook, gave a private entertainment on the 12th
Januarv. First came “ Beauty and the Beast, which
was well put on the stage. The parts were taken by
local ladies and gentlemen. The second item was a
farce called "Trying it on.” which produced plenty of
merriment. Dancing was then indulged in till the
small hours, and as tho weather was tolerably cool, the
affair was pleasurable all through.
• • *
H M. ships Miranda and Emerald leave Sydney
for Hobart to-day. By the way, the captain of one of
these vessels will shortly marry a Sydney lady.
* * *
A large party was held on Friday evening last
at Kingstangley, the residence of Mr. P. A Pearce,
near Seven Hill*. Every care had been taken to ensure
the comfort of the guests, the rooms being prepared to
give convenience to the dancers, while greenery, lan-
terns, and other ornamentation rendered them pleasant
to the eye. Dancing was the chief amusement, and
was kept up till daylight, to the excellent music of a
string band engaged for the occasion, and local belles
pervaded the scene in all the blooming beauty of
country health. Pale blue and pink were the predomi-
nating hues, and the costumes were rich and attractive.
A tall and stately lady from Muswellbrook wasm cream
and cardinal silk, with diamond ornaments; and her
sister, in pale blue satin trimmed with white lace, with
handsome gold|and diamond j ewellery. A graceful blonde
from Sydney was attired in pale blue, bodice cut square
and low, fitted in with lace, and sot off with pearls. A
costume of black Spanish lace and pink satin, adorned
with coral, was much admired. As regards the belle,
opinions were divided between a relative of the host,
who looked fascinating in pale blue, and a pretty girl
from Pennant Hills in white. About a hundred guests
were present, some dozen couples or more going from
the metropolis, who returned by the early morning
train It was one of the most enjoyable entertainments
given in the district for a long time, and a young
gentleman, who is peculiarly susceptible to the charms
of the antagonistic sex, was heard to observe that
Seven Hills seemed to be as prolific of pretty girls as it
is of prime oranges.
« » *
Mr Alderman Butcher gave a pleasant musical
soiree at " Avenel,” Woollahra. last Thursday evening,
to about forty guests, who also indulged m dancing. A
black silk dress, embellished with a large sun-flower,
a Id “ Patience.” was worn by a pretty brunette. The
daughters of the house were, it is needles* to say,
charming. The musical selections were excellent, and
the Cinderella rule of breaking up early was observed.
# • *
A ball is to be given at St. Leonards, on Friday
to a nu merous circle of friends, by Mrs. C. B. Pitt and
Mrs. L awry. The affair will be given in Meyer a Booms.
• • •
A gr and wedding is fixed for next week at W est
Haitian A.
* * *
Coming marriages: A pastoral man of i ass
Plains will shortly lead to the altar the fair daughter
of a local widow lady, and contemplates a honeymoon
trip to the old country.—A city stock and station agent
is to join hands with the sister of a well-known medico.
—A country gentleman meditates an early marriage
with the daughter of a Burwood parson.—The Five
Dock and Yosmar marriages, so long in perspective,
will positively take place in March. A bank oflmsal and
a suburban medico are the gentlemen concerned.
# * #
It is not generally known that Shakespeare
wrote the question, “ What’s in a name P" about a
fortnight before he joined ths Good Templars. Such,
however, is the case, and a moment’s reflection must
convince one that it is so. How could any man per-
fectly sober ask such a question ? Why! there’s
everything in a name. There’s fully a hundred per
cent, more character in some names than there is in
the people who bear them ; while other people have to
carry all through life an incubus of ridicule because of
their parents’ folly in naming them wrong. There are
boys of fair ability who might have made a good figure
in the world, if their mother hadn’t insisted on calling
them Nioodemus. That crushes them. What’s the
good of fathers calling their progeny Horatio Nelson P
Why, the very responsibility of such a name makes a
boy, in sheer desperation, turn a liar and a coward
before he is eight years old. A man’s whole career is
affected by his name. Take even the effect of it on
other people. Imagine two persons starting as rivals in
some profession; it’s as certain as the sun shines that
the man whose name is a forcible one, that the publio
catches and clings to, will leave the other behind.
Some names circulate instantly—you like to mouth
them; while others repel before you even see the
person. This is really the secret of name de thSatre.
Just fancy the leading singer in an Italian opera called
Thomas Green I A man couldn’t sing Italian with that
name. Try to conceive Bridget Maloney the leading
fairy in a burlesque I The piece would be ruined. But call
her Stella, or Sybilla, or Mademoiselle Leonie Montar-
line, and you’re in love with her before you have seen
anything more than her name, in big black letters, on a
wooden boarding. Again, in social circles, John Smith
is nobody—he’s scarcely an individual; but Godolphin
Smith must be an aristocrat. James Brown is a nonen.
tity, but Sequard Y. Brown, or Urban Browne with an
"e," is head and shoulders above common humanity.
Some men cannot be separated from their initials or
Christian name. John Stuart Mill is spoken altogether,
almost like one word. The names Bret Hnrte seem to
go in company. Mr. Harte, without the Bret, would
not mean anything more than a petty grocer; but put
Bret to it, and you have a name that is a perfect pleasure
to roll fondly over the tongue. If you take away G. A.
Lloyd’s initials, where is he? Even Melville does not
indicate a great man until you put Ninian before it.
That lifts him out of the crowd at once. It is not well
to call the eldest son after the father. It only provokes
irreverence. If Mr. Bobert Thomson parsi tain christen-
ing his son and heir Bobert,after himself,nothing on earth
can save him from being dabbed “ old Bob Thomson"
before his hopeful is sixteen. If he thinks people will
call him Mr. Thomson, senior, he's just under a miser-
able halluoinat ion, because they won’t. And when a
man is called “old Bob," it’s utterly impossible for
anyone to respect him. Many a man has been a life-
butt for beastly punsters, because his parents blundered
initialing him. If he is called James Alfred Manton,
or Thomas Philip Oliver Traddles, he’ll have to listen
to drivelling asses calling him “ Jammy," or greeting
him with ‘‘Hullol Tea Pot," until he hungers for
their blood; and yet he has to spread the same ghastly
smile, year after year, and pretend he things it a splen-
did joke. His life becomes a burden. Such names as
Faith, Hope, Joy, would be exceedingly pretty and
suitable, If you could be always sure the bearers would
“ live up to them j" but sometimes such a name is a
bitter irony on life and character. Yes, it’s quite clear
William must have "smiled" more than once in the
back parlour of the " Stratford Arms ” the day he
wrote “What’s is a name?” or he’d never have let
himself loose on such a conundrum. There’s heaps in
it. However trifling a name may appear, the fact
remains that its sound or appearance suggests an idea
of its owner. And when a man gets an idea that way,
he grips to it—you can’t shift him any more than you
can shift a small boy from a circus. Parents, then,
would often do well to sacrifice some foolish whim of a
moment, rather than give their children names that
may be a shame, a source of ridicule or embarrassment,
or that will for ever condemn the bearer to the common-
place.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
A letter in London D.T. having called attention
to similarity between Hawkins’ Hill Gold Mining Co.,
lust projected, and British Australian Gold Mining
Co., which failed to float recently, Mr. Ashurst Morris
writes, stating that the property is the same in both
cases—that the directors believe in the bondfidcs of tho
spec., and that Mr. Alfred Fairfax says the mines aro
very valuable An accomplice of the man arrested on
the charge of stealing the late Earl Crawford’s corpse
oilers to disclose where it is hidden Australian
butter per Europa arrived in London in good order—
fetched lid. per lb.; tho mutton wont off slowly at
barely 6d Four members of the Irish Ladies* Land
League sent to gaol for holding a meeting Two
Staffordshire farmers, sentenced, in 1879, to ten years'
imprisonment for violently assaulting and multilating a
man named Brookes, are now found to be innocent,
Brookes having declared their innocence on bis death-
bed Qambetta ha s introduced his bill for the revision
of the French Constitution Duchess of Connaught
has been confined of a girl Fire at Galveston, U.B.
Damage, a million dollars The Turkish Government
retorts, in reference to the joint declaration of Franco
and England, that no foreign power has a right t»
interfere in the internal and foreign affairs of Egypt.
The Sultan demands an explanation from Franco and
England, and formally protests against their attitude.
Railway collision between Albany and New York
(U.S.) Cars heaped up on one another, caught fire.
Twelve legislators and others killed and wounded
Explosion on board H.M.B. Triumph off Chili. Three
seamen [killed and seven wounded Qambetta’s pro-
posals for the amendment of the French Constitution
have been coldly reoei ved KingTheebau, of Burmab,
is not dead, as was reported The Archbishop of Can-
terbury, Cardinal Manning, and other religious chiefs
are promoting a movement for pecuniary succour to the
Buffering Jews in Southern Russia. A leading London
Jew has given £lO.OOO. A petition to the Czar is in pre.
paration The Egyptian Notables proposed a Consti-
tution which will make Ministers responsible to that
Assembly. The Ministers resist.
I (Mr. Nixon, Sydney agent for the Scottish Im-
perial Insurance Company, has presented us with a
gorgeous blotting book, the covers of which are
irresolute whether to be an advertising almanac or a
picture gallery. This is very good; but in future wo
don’t mean to notice any almanac which isn’t in tho
form of a three-volume novel, or an address and purse
of sovereigns.
Tho prizes won at the sports of tho Modern
High School on the Association Ground, some time
since, were handed over at Glammis Hall, on the 23rd
nit., by Mr. Barton, M.P, The principal winners were
H. Martin, Q. Wall, P. Forster, A. Solomon, H. Parker,
L. Cooper. A. Phillips; and some special prizes weio
given by Mr. Weiss, the head-master. On the same
occasion, Mr. Barton likewise presented a large number
of school prizes; and, from the report read, it appeared
that the school had been very successful in its opera-
tions.
The following resolutions were unanimously
carried at a public meeting, held on Monday night, at
Ward's Victoria Theatre, Temora. Over four hundred
business people and miners attended. Resolution No.
1 : “ That the telegrams appearing in tho S.M. Herald
and Evening News, for some time past, have been in-
correct, and calculated to mislead the general public as
to the state of affairs at Temora, which ij not so de-
pressed as the telegrams would lead people to infer, and
that whoever the correspondent may bo he is unworthy
of credence, and, therefore, unlit for the position bo
holds, as be is incapable of giving an impartial report.”
2nd- ‘‘That the foregoing resolution be forwarded to
the S.M. Herald and Evening News, with a request
that they take steps lor procuring a reliable corres-
poudont.” 3rd: “ That a report of the proceedings at
this meeting be tolegrapbei to the S.M. Herald,
Evening News, Daily Telegraph, Bulleiin, and
Freeman's Journal for publication.”


PEPPER AND SALT.
We have heard one rumour that Mr. Thomas
Chapman, who loft Melbourne rather unexpectedly, has
given £IOOO to found an Orphan home. A second report
says that some kind, large-hearted Victorian philan-
thropist has taken the unfortunate girl, Burke, to his
home, and intends to shield her from a cruel world's
cold frown, and to place her in a position of comfort
and respectability. And we may remark just hero that
the one report is just as great a lie as the other. People
only do those things in George Darrell’s plays, and
eighteen-penny novels. The seducer here may rule the
land, but the poor seduced one must live in bitterness
of soul, and “look for death even as men look for
treasures.”
“ And this day’s rose, so fresh and sweet.
Is to-morrow spurn’d beneath our feet.”
By the way, ke-yind Kor-istiau friends, "are wo really
doing our duty towards the heathen ?” D our own
—let us worr/up and wash the niggers.
• • •
He was a bullet-hoaded young chip off the block
of an early English family, in whose veins flowed the
very much diluted blood of William the Conqueror’s
pirates, and he was started across the pond to gain
colonial experience. Being quite a smart young mania
his own way, he acquired all he wanted (or thought he
did) in three months, and trooping into one of our
largest wool stores here, he asked, in an off-hand way,
what the senior partner thought of the idea of opening
up anew trade for wool in the China and other Eastern
markets. The senior partner thought, if put into proper
hands, it would lead to millions. “Then; replied the
much-travelled Britisher, “I’ll start at once, and em-
bark all I have in this glorious venture —I suppose it
will be necessary for me to take along a sample, eh ?
“ Certainly—by all means, take a sample,” said the
now-admiring merchant. " Ah —well —yaas,” replied
the shepherd king—” how would it be if I took as much
as half a bale now ? “ Why, you blasted young galoot 1"
exclaimed the disgusted senior partner—and then he
sank down in a tub of fat, as the yardman lifted the
Norman out on his boot, and then softened his head
•with an axe-handle. This is a fact. Home papers
please copy. # # #
When a courageous constable kicks in a peace-
ful citizen’s ribs, he pays 20s. for his special privilege j
ibut when the peaceful citizen bangs the courageous
constable over the head with a rock, it costs him nearer
to £2O. We thus see how much better it is to be a
“‘trap " than a tradesman.
• • •
From a well-known divine, we learn that there are
noless than nine papers now in full swing at Bathurst, a
town where a tropical vegetation flourishes on the house
roofs, and a pawnbroker could only afford to lend 183.
on the Prince of Wales’ best bedstead. But we have
also learnt, that there are four flour mills in Bathurst
also, and so paste is cheap, and all things find their
equilibrium.
* • •
We read in a Newcastle paper, that “the
garden of Mr. Eremlin, M.L.A., has produced a now
species of fruit, one side nectarine and the other peach,
the two distinct types showing clearly in the fruit."
By their fruits shall you know them." On this prin-
ciple, Mr. Eremlin must be a two-faced legislator. We
shall look forward patiently to further developments in
this direction. We hope yet to see trees in the garden
of a certain distinguished politician, producing anew
kind of fruit—one half orange, the other halt potato.
# * #
At the Citizen’s banquet to Sir ’Enry, the Hon.
J. B. Watt, like Mr. Silas Wegg, “dropped into poetry,"
and quoted the lines—
“ Checked by the scoff of pride, by envy’s frown,
By poverty’s unconquerable bar—
In life’s low vale remote has laid him down,
Thou sunk into the grave unpitied and unknown.”
With customary confidence, the S.M.H. attempted to
grapple with the above verse, and the Hon. J. B. Watt
called round at six in the morning, accompanied by a
large American axe, and, after chasing the whole ef the
staff for an hour, he finally cooled down and asked what
the “ revised edition" they meant by making him
eay—
“Checked by the scoff of pride, by envy’s frown,
By poverty’s unconquerable love.
In life’s low vale has joined above —
Then sunk into the grave unpitied and unknown.”
* * *
Husband, at breakfast, breaks a seal, and roads
as follows :—“ Tho Reverend Crawley Stiggins, of our
Little Bethel hero, will iirrive by the mail which brings
this letter. He is a godly man and a great wrestler with
Satan and all his legion, and ho was also the shining
light of our dear Sawbath Schools. The little ones all
loved him dearly, and he was always getting up picnics,
and gospel tents, and things to please his faithful flock.
Cherish him well —he is an earnest worker, and will
lodge with you a month." Paterfamilias immediately
jumps up as if ho had sat on a cactus, and roars—" Pack
up your traps, Maria, and clear out with all tho girls to
Melbourne, and give all the servants a month’s leave on
full pay, except the Chinaman cook and the nigger
coachman—l don’t mind them—but you remember after
the last • oraw-thumper * settled here it cost us a heap
to get rid of Sarah.”
* * *
n Tho new under-sheriff, Mr. Constantius Euca-
lyptus Belshazzar Maybury, has a lot more names at
home, and prisoners mustn’t therefore All their beads
with the idea that his parents grudged the money for a
proper set of brands to keep him from getting mixed
with other boys. When he ties on the whole array,
the string is as long as a tailor’s memory, and people
trip over the knots in dozens. We expect there will be
quite a rush on Mr. Maybury, as there’s some credit in
being slipped off by a gentleman whose names are as
great as the Town and Country’s published ciroula-
tion.
This reminds us of a good story told by Dumas
yicrc, of a Spanish Don, who knocked at a small road-
side inn, at midnight, and asked admittance. “ Who’s
there P" asked tho night-capped landlord from an upper
window; and then the reply came, “Don Eoderigo
Alonso de Ercilla, Fernando Amadis Qonzalo Hor-
rmandes y Cordubo Vinoenzio ” 11 Here, that’s
enough,” said the landlord, “ I haven’t got rooms
enough for half of you." So saying, ho slammed down
tho window, and Eoderigo unbuttoned his collar to
enable him to curse with Spanish ease and dignity.
* * #
The Herald says that “ the announcement of
the approaching marriage of the youngest sou of the
Queen, has been hailed with cordial satisfaction by all
classes.” Prince Leopold is to be united to a Princess
3l<Sl£ne, who is, it seems, to make one more of the little
tamale German sausages that have been grafted on to
tho Eoast Beef of Old England. The father, we hear,
.is Prince Wflldeck-Pymont, and rules over a vast terri-
tory, the capital of which, Arolseu, contains 25,000 in-
habitants. At first, when we road the name Waldeok-
Pymont, wo thought perhaps one of the Harrises had
Invested in a German principality (which he might
easily do), and, disguised with a moustache and a cap
■with a gold band, had made the running far a pretty
daughter—both having previously been instructed in
the language by the great Holtermann. A little strain
at our memory, however, convinces us that this cannot
ho the case. In our travels we have visited Arolsen. It
is a city about half the size of Newtown, andthe Prince
lives in a castle that looks like a lookup that has been
married to a clock tower. The Prinoe takes his re-
•venues in what he can get, and when the Eoyal family
are out walking, each man keeps a sharp eye on his
wood-yard. Parliament will be, of course, asked to
give Hd eue £ls 000 a year, which it will do; and then
Pyrmont senior will have new feet put into his socks,
and treat the old woman to a pair of lasting boobs and a
Paisley shawl.
• • •
An unrevised edition of Young Australia sat on
the fence that surrounded his father’s mansion. Said
mansion was built of slabs, and surmounted by a won-
derful wattle-and-dab chimney of the Condamine or
zig-zag pattern, being accurately modelled on the lines
of a dog’s hind leg. Swell, riding by, reins up and
exclaims: “ Haw, what a quite too curious chimney 1
My boy” (patronisiugly), “ does that chimney draw
well?” “My colonial,” quoth Young Australia; “it
draws the attention of every (adjective) fool that
Swell’s horse starts off at a canter, and swell
says something about a scheme for storing water and
an Irish acquaintance of the name of Larry Kin.
* * *
In the Far North, recently, the teacher of the
Mandoola Provisional School became so obnoxious to
the Local Board that they resolved to get rid of him,
and for that purpose they assembled in the back parlour
of a sly-grog shanty. The task of corresponding with
the Education Office so " overcomed" the secretary
that he mistook the ink-jar for the other bottle, and
drained it to the dregs.
» # #
Shepherd is recovering from a recent spree.
Neck of bottle is seen protruding from his pocket. The
Meenister of the kirk arrives—
S. loq ; I want to join the Temperance Society, and
have come to get you to take my name, but
I want you to date the affair to-morrow to
allow me to finish up this here grog.
Parson: No! I can’t do that; you must sign the
pledge at once, and never mind the bottle.
Shop’d: Well! I’ll tell you what I’ll do—l’ll sign,
and yon take the grog as a present.
Parson: Oh, no! I could not accept of it; you had
better break the bottle right away.
Shep’d; What I you won’t take the grog. Well, you
must be ad and fool I
Curtain—Blue fire.
N.B. —Parson likes a “ woe drappie.”
• • •
The Tramway authorities have upon recent
festive occasions, manufactured largo quantities of gas.
They should spare a little of it for lighting up the cars
at night, and thus prevent those public vehicles
from becoming nocturnal Clontarfs.
# # #
The Daylesford paper says that a man was
standing with a black bottle in his hand, in Yictoria-
street, when the bottle was struck by lightning, leaving
only the neck of it in the man’s hand. The man, how-
ever, denies that it was a black bottle. He says he was
contemplating the fury of the elements through a tele-
scope, and that a neighbour who thought he had
killed his cat, threw a brick at him the moment his at-
tention was diverted from earthly matters. He con.
siders that the damage sustained by his reputation, by
reason of the garbled account given of the disaster,
could not be compensated for under a full bottle of rum,
or a now telescope. He will, probably, got the tele-
scope.
* • »
The absurdity of presenting the Wolverene to the
colony, and so inoculating us with an incontinent lust
for gold lace and high-sounding titles, is apparent.
Parkes on his passage to Yankeeland, will be casting
about in his mind for someone who will “ part" enough
for a Ministership of Marine, and all the first families
will vie with each other in raising Deputy-Assistant
Paymasters-Qeneral and Colonial Lieutenants.
* * *
Mr. William Grisdale, pawnbroker, of New-
castle, is contesting the election there with Mr Thomas
Hungerford. As might have been expected, Mr. Gris-
dale asks the electors not to “ pledge ” their votes,
and assures them that he would not “ take them in.’’
Mr. Grisdale’s “ticket” is the working man’s, and b fi
ominously remarks, in his address to the electors, that 0
he is “acquainted with them all.” This being the case,
it is not to be wondered at that he "knows their
wants.” We presume his motto is also "Advance
Australia," and that he will “ do his utmost to further
the views of his constituents," so long as they can even
leave a flat-iron in the care of their member. Mr.
Grisdale requests their votes, and, of course, their
“ interest," In a word, he wants them to " put him
in," and, as may be expected, has done a very large
amount of" spouting.” So far as he has got, Mr. Gris-
dale seems to have the same chance of going in as a
Domain howler has of going to heaven.
# # •
The Carcoab Mary says that at Mount
M'Douald, " Mr. Ellis, the new catechist, held service
last Sunday night, in the billiard room, to a crowded
congregation. There were quite 100 in the room, the
heat of which became nearly unbearable.” The young
gentleman made such an impression by the cue he took
fer his sermon, that it was agreed a Canon was his
proper rank. He warned his hearers against the black
pool which a social miss—in or out of baulk—might
plunge them in. They were likewise cushioned by the
t ev. gentleman against “ going through " any of the
orld’s players; and he furthermore charged them to
member that though they had three lives in a general
pool, they had only one immortal soul. _ It was late
before he took a rest, and by that time eight showed
on the board; and he had worked himself up into such
a heat in the close atmosphere that someone made the
remark that the room was as hot as Ellis. Much relief
was experienced when he pocketed his book, and
carried off the marker.
« « *
The Reform Club people once gave Sir John
Eobortson a dinner. It happened that the club had, at
last by dint of hard business at the bar, managed to get a
balance on the right side of the ledger; on the occasion
of the previous annual spread there was a heavy debt
hanging over the concern. So when Sir John arose to,
thank them for proposing his health, he facetiously al-
luded to the improved financial position of the club, re-
marking that its members were the only men he had
ever known to drink themselves out of debt.
Which recalls another story told of the Knight of
Clovelly. He was one of a company invited to taste
some colonial champagne. They tasted, said it was
good, and decamped, with as much grace as they could
manage to associate with their hurry, to get some
whisky. " What d’ye think of the champagne,
Robertson ?’’ asked a man who was trudging behind
" the game bird of the Upper House —“ don’t .you think
it would be better if it were a little drier ?* ’’ “ kes,’’
quoth Sir John, “ I think it would be a- sight
better it were dry altogether."
• * •
The Kennedy District (Q.), has its champion
mean man, and his claim to the title is based on the fol-
lowing facts: —Some years ago ho was a “ waterhole
squatter," and had in his employ, as shepherd, an an-
cient mariner who had lost a log in the service of his
country. When the “gentil shepherds ” paced the
streets of Bowen with a cheque in his pocket, he wore a
gorgeous cork leg, scarcely distinguishable from its
mate, the Simon pure; but when he promenaded the
banks of V Creek, at the tail of his j umbucks, an
humbler substitute for the missing limb sufficed; as
Tom Hood hath it —
“ A wooden leg—a sort of peg,”
and he stowed the full-dress cork leg safely (?) in the
squatter’s store. Unfortunately, he lost some sheep,
and, as was the custom in those days, was discharged,
the value of the missing sheep being deducted from his
wages. Said wages, however, would not cover the price
of the lost sheep, and the storekeeper intimated as
much to the squatter. “ Never mind,” said the worthy,
“111 keep his leg for the balance." And he did.
* * «
Scene Office of well-known electioneering
agent. Wealthy candidate: "Then you advise me to
go up? Agent: "Certainly." W.C.: "What’s the
first thing to be done, then ?'* Agent: “Get a requisi-
W.C.: " But how long will that take ?” Agent:
Not a minute, I’ve half-a dozen all ready in the safe.”
Next morning in the papers: “ Owing to a most flatter-
ing expression of feeling from the electors of Jingo-
balgery, Mr. Pnblicouse has consented to stand for the
electorate." And that’s the way the thing is done.
• • •
It seems to be our lot to offend poor old Fergy
of Parramatta. He is so angry because we bowled him
out about his “original" poem by Burns, that he
advertises us to his hundred and fifty penny mourners
in a leader which is twice as long as the Lord’s Prayer
and reads like a circus-bill written by the gas-man He
uses the poor, played out old gag—so feeble and so
false—about no home being too sacred to be noticed by
55;- Well, at any rate, John, there is one home that
will be sacred for us. We will not trouble that. The
old zinc bucket, the four chairs, the tum-up bedstead,
and the broken towel-horse have no charms for us. All
we want you to do, John, is to keep your hair on.
Though perhaps it might be questioned, when taken
into consideration, whether this would be a wise
proceeding.
* * •
“Merry Christmas,” wires Erunker, M,P., to
Joe, M.P. “ All your good wishes recuperated," tele-
graphs back the chosen of the Wollombi.
• * •
It is really astonishing that the Council ever
placed much faith in the ex-city architect. They might
have known from the first that he was a designing
man. All architects are. No, David; there is no
libel.
# # *
The three proprietors of Monte Carlo, the
gambling-place near Nice, are Prince Pierre Bonaparte
Princo Eadzeville, and the Prince of Monaco, Yet
London Truth calls them simply “hell-keepers.”
How many thousand pounds now would it cost us if we
called the proprietors of several of the gambling: places
in Sydney by the same opprobrious epithet P And they
are not princes at all, mind you! Wo expect to have
to dub a magsman reverend soon, and fill our reading
columns with apologies only.
# * *
At Eaglehawk, recently, a prying shareholder in
a gold-mining company was chained up for some eight
hours. This was regarded as brutal conduct on the
part of the miners in this instance ; but we think that
if at the general elections that course were adopted
with—-say, Messrs. C. J. Roberts and Dalveen —popular
opinion would rather favour the measure than other
wise. Nothing but a 14-inch cable and a cast-stee-
stanchion would prevent either of these irrepressibles
from contesting an election; and nothing but an
hermetically-sealed dungeon would keep from either
that inevitable “ requisition signed by a large section
of the most influential people in the electorate.”
» » •
Fact. Heard in the Treasury : — Clerk : “ I’m
going to resign to-morrow.” Junior: “What for?”
Clerk: “ What’s the good of stopping here. My father
hasn’t got a vote in his electorate.” Resigns*
* * *
In the inquest over a recent corpse
some of the jury had a good old time, and, after being
locked up eight hours, many were, as the News mildly
puts it, “slightly under the influence,” &o. They
started their amusements by a game of cricket —six a
side—but just as the game was getting exciting, and
the coroner down-stairs was wondering where the
thunder came from, the indiarubber ball burst, and they
had to fall back on “ chequers,” euchre, pitch-halfpenny,
and who could tell the biggest lie. The man who won
the latter game was a landholder down the harbour,
who said that the libel law was in a satisfactory state.
One juryman, however, went so far as to make a kite,
and another, when they got a banquet up the lift from
the kitchen (their prison was the dining-room), had the
audacity to suggest sending down an invitation to the
coroner. It was only when all the grog was gone, and
every man had sung all the songs he know twice over,
that they agreed upon their verdict, which was given
amidst a broadside of hiccups, and received by the
coroner with stern displeasure. The remarks of the
corpse, upon being thus cheerfully sat upon, have not
reached us.
# * •
It turns out that Samaritan Cocks is not such a
bad sort after all. He has collected, in coppers and
threepenny-pieces, about £3, for the wives of the poor
fellows who were smothered in the Vinegar Factory.
This is a ‘good line to strike, and we advise Mr. C. to
follow it up. Or, if he must preach, let him do so in
some building in which ho has a high and inaccessible
stage all to himself, with a piled-up heap of road-metal
on either side of him, and a garden-hose ready in the
pulpit. Then let him sling a text and a lump of gravel
alternately, and it’s a hundred pounds to Ferguson’s
high-lows that the only interruptions that will occur
during the service will bo when the door is opened to
enable the corpses to be carted to the dead-house. He
might advertise it “ Gospel and Granite,” —“ Religion
and Rooks,” —“ Devotion and Damper ; ” and we can
promise a par. every week in “ Sundry Shows.” Come,
Cocks —Now 1
• « •
He had got his son by the hair of the head, by
the seat of his pants, by the collar of his coat, by the
flap of his waistcoat—everywhere at once, and was
kicking him down the steps of the Woollahra mansion
into the street. “ Why, what’s the matter P ” enquired
a friend, who was passing. " The matter 11 swore I’d do
it, to any one whom I found out. It has nearly driven
me mad. It is stuck upon a board and I read it weekly
and squirm. Oh, you villain I ” and he fell to cuffing
the young man once more. When his offspring had
been rolled comfortably into the gutter, the friend said
—“ What's he done P—robbed a church ? ”
“Worse!” “ Stolen a blind man’s dog.” “Worse!"
“ Sworn that horbour-pionics were moral institutions P *’
“Nearly as badP” “What thenP” “ Written for
Punch," At these dread words a demoniacal expression
overspread the countenance of the father’s friend; and
exchanging a glance of significant sympathy, they fell
upon the youth and slew him.
» * •
The Tasmanian correspondent of the Tele-
graph is evidently a humourist. Here is one of his
wires :—“The Premier will give Sir W. Stawell and a
dozen other illustrious strangers and ladies a picnic to
the Salmon Ponds on Tvesday.” And wo learn in an
earlier issue that Mr. Joseph Eckford, M.P., is on a
holiday visit to Tasmania—
Where perceptive pow’rs may not be keen.
But —well— you know, Joseph, what we mean.
# # #
A Wollongong man was taken ill and pro-
nounced dead by the family Pill-box. His wife, how-
ever, called in another doctor, and he being of the same
opinion, she went round and ordered his coffin. In
order to be quite sure, the wife summoned a third
medico from Sydney, who, on prodding the patient
with various pointed things, took a rise out of him.
Animation had been suspended six hours, but the
patient came to in his usual health. His first proceed,
ing was to call for two ales, and his second to go round
to the undertaker and countermand his coffin. When
the undertaker saw him, he took it very ill that he had
come to life again, and would not believe it until he had
seen him drink a pint of beer. That convinced him
directly. The coffin is now for sale, cheap j or will be
let out on reasonable terms by the day to water-parties.
* * *
It is gratifying to learn that the breed of horses
is improving in Turkey. The Levant Herald tells us
this, but it doesn’t say anything about the breed of
rulers, for precisely the same reason that we are silent
upon the breed of (Kamschatkan) judges.
* # *
When the steamer from Manly saluted the
Russian fleet with a few bars of that mellifluous melody
about Britons never being slaves, the Russians turned,
their melancholy visages towards the shore, and saw on
all sides the well-beaten surf.
* * *
At the Pilliga Police Court, Mary Anne Morris,
aged 59. and residing at the Merri Merri Station, on
the Castlereagh River, was charged with stealing some
meat, flour, a clothes-basket, and a pot of •pitch from
the shearers’ hut. The Bench dismissed the case.
“ Sing, hey, the Merri Merri maiden and the tar I "
• • •
Up Mudgee way lives a pawnbroker, boasting
the dulcet nomenclature of Henry Jerry Berry. A
lady reeently observed that Mudgee had this one ad.
vantage over the “ Cabbage Garden "—that whereas the
latter is cursed with aivti-Berryism, the former is blessed
with wnclc-Berryism.
• « •
Jones of Ours says that the two fastest horses in
.Sydney are those attached to the police van. For they
can carry you in ten minutes to a place from which
it often takes twelve months to get back.
• * «
It was the Omega of a delightful spring-day—
the hour when gardeners mind their peas and billiard,
markers their cues—and a lustrous-orbed damsel soul-
fully enquired, “Augustus, what do people mean by
aestheticism ? ” Augustus heaved a languid sigh and
said, “ Seraphina, it is the iconoclastic intensity »f an
"The ample fortune with which Providence has rewarded your career of honorable en-
prise."—(Extract from Testimonial).
We've bowed when thou hast spoken, Joe,
Our heads with admiration low;
And, though a harsh and cruel fate.
To thee’a denied the aspirate !
Though Lindley’s shade does not see fit
To always on thy shoulders sit I
We ever have —now, own 'tis so—
Proclaimed thou wert “ The Only Joe."
Thy bluoher now imprints the strand
That does begirt a foreign land.
And there indeed, it is but meet
That they should grovel at thy feet j
And when thy genius they discuss.
All write thee down 11 illustrious ” !
How warmer yet that word could be.
If they knew thee as well asioo;
Tet while to give thee, all do strive,
The mantle representative,
Oh, Je-osoph take our little tip.
Accept their cup, but give no “ lip.”


individualised and idyllic ideal of infantile insouciance,
and yearning is its siw qua non.” " I see,” said Sera-
pbina, gracefully; and then the thought struck her,
" Poor pa must be an cost bet io personage, for ma says
he is a beggar to yam.”
* # *
“Lieutenant Ponaonby has been expelled the
British navy for seducing a barmaid, who committed
suicide through shame."
Ponaonby was so great a knave, he
Ruined a pnbiic-honse "slavey,"
Whose morals were wayward and wavy.
Before Captains and Admirals grave, he
Was straightway expelled from the Navy.
And now every public-house slavey.
In shunning him, cries “ Canem cave.”
• * •
There was an old maiden of Cowra,
Who of acid-drops was a devourer;
Distorted digestion
Was out of the question,
For she of the two was the sourer.
• • •
He was a tramp, and was carrying something
like a fifty pound swag along one of the Northern roads
when a man in a buggy drove up. " Give me your swag,
old man,” said the driver, “ I can’t give you a lift, as
I’m full already, but I’ll leave yonr swag at Mr. So-
and-so’s pub., and yon can get it there." [(Then aside.)
•< xho might as well knock down his cheque at my
place as any other." So he took the swag in. and also
the owner.
• • *
There was a row at the Police Court, one day
last week, between lawyer and client. “ Don’t give me
any of your impertinence,” said the attorney;“ please
remember that I am a gentleman by act of Parliament.
•« You*re the kind of fellow,’* was the retort* “that it
would take an act of Parliament to make a gentleman
of.” But the lawyer, who was making out his bill of
costs on ourl-paper, pretended not to hear him.
m « *
G. H. Reid is one of the few men who wear eye-
glasses and are really short-sighted—in other words,
George doesn’t carry his "quizzer” for the sake of
mere effect. But there is a well-grounded prejudice in
the minds of the populace against eye-
glasses, and it says much for the acu-
men of George Thornton, junr., that he
should have said to the other George,
on the occasion when the latter was
about to address the Bast Sydney
electors for the first time: “ Reid, if
you wear that pane of glass on the
hustings, it’ll cost you hundreds of
votes." And Q.H.R. acted accord-
**** *’ *
Perhaps it was a consequenoe of
the new Licensing Act. Anyhow, it is
said that the most genteel, best-
dressed, and cleanest-shaven of our
M.P.’s was seen, the other day, coming
out of a lemon-iced-drink shop wiping
his mouth with his coat sleeve and the
back of his hand. But it is really hard
to account for Mr. Parvum in Multo
visiting Mr. Mnltum in Parvo.
* * #
It was at the Reform Club, and
they were talking about a poor devil,
an Englishman, who had oome out to
the colonies with £40,000 a year, gone
the pace, and killed himself. "It
isn’t every fellow who knows how to
spend £SOOO a year," remarked one of
the company—“ what can any man do
out hero with £40,000 ?" "Do with
it P” replied a veteran politician,
" Why buy up every vote in the
Assembly."
* * #
In the Far North. Poor Dr. —,
after a long drinking bout, took poison,
but when almost in extremis repented
himself and sent for the other local
medico. “ Oh, what can I do—what
can I do ?” exclaimed the dying man.
But the other doctor, who had also
been communing with Mr. James
Hennossy, |w»s at once of opinion
that the case was thoroughly hope-
less. So ho drew himself up to his full
height, looked calmly around, and
replied: "Well, I think you’d better
just take off your boots and die like a
gentleman."
* * *
Mr. Buchanan “ honours Mr.
Heydon for his political opinions."
Mr. Hoy don is a solicitor and Mr.
Buchanan a barrister.
* # *
At the Church of England bazaar
held recently, up the line, a complete
betting book was—much to the horror
of the good people standing round—
drawn from the dim recesses of a lucky
bag by a little girl. It is supposed
that it was put in in a mistake for a
pocket edition of the revised.
» * *
“What!” cried the candidate
to one of his workers after having read
some “ copy ” ready to be sent to the
newspaper, "You say , . . ‘He
was received by a torchlight proces-
sion of enthusiastic electors!’ Why,
that’s Wangbungey—the place where I
got hit with a potato in the eye.”
“ Oh, so it is, said the worker,
" hang it! I forgot that. Oh, well, we
must make that ‘ received by the lead-
ing residents, and charming all by the
bonhomie and intelligence he displayed.*
How’ll that do ?’’ " But, then," said
the candidate, taking up another slip,
‘how about this ? ‘At Kilrango, at the
‘conclusion of his address, he was chaired by the peo- i
pie i* Why, that’s the confounded place, don’t you
remember, where we had to scramble out at the back
door of the pub., and, before we could get into the
buggy, some butcher fellow knocked your hat off with
a dead cat." “ Very well, then, the chairing shall go
as a Sydney telegram.”
• • •
At the nomination for Northumberland, one
candidate, Mr. W. Grisdale, in answer to the question
whether he would tax imported cereals, said “ Certainly
I will—l have always objected to Chinese." The elector
who questioned replied that he did not say Chinese, but
cereals. This fairly staggered the would-be member,
for he replied, in amazement, “ Who are they. Which
only goes to show that a very excellent pawnbroker,
who has a great contempt for Chinese, may not be a
success among white electors.
f • •
The following epistle was picked up last week
near the Sheriff's office“ Dear Nosey Bob, I have
at last cut the Gordian knot which bound us together
in a bond of professional brotherhood. My reprieve
from a life of hemp-tie vanity has come at length.
Ton, who have been my right-hand supporter in having
so many suspended, will, perhaps, be glad to learn that
lam myself promoted. So hang out your banners on
the outer wall. Though duly conscious of the perils
pertaining to an exalted position, I have been prompted
by an ambition
As far as the hangman’s pinion,
Or.the condemned’s light swing can soar.
For years we have been associated on one common plat-
form, and though I shall doubtless be condemned by
you for taking leave of this narrow vale of ours, yet
you must remember that even in this I am faithful to
Executive instructions. We can scarcely be said to
have worked together without a hitch ; and had 1 not
obtained this appointment, I should have been simply
ropeable. When I am, as ef yore, energetically exe-
cuting the functions of office, memory will doubtless
ar ry me back to the .eremonial gatherings at which we
ha ve assisted, and to what we have together seen of the
vagaries of the human race—how Nioholls and Lester,
having simultaneously caught the judge’s eye, even-
tually completed a dead-heat; and how Glover and
Hawthorne were only a neok short, when a blanket
covered them both. Together we have enforced the
poet’s adage, *He that is down need fear no fall ; * and
I well remember how, whon you and I had Mary Monks
on a string, you wore the first to ‘Carry the noose to
Mary.’ So, a long farewell, Nosey. Over the anguish
of separation let ns draw the white cap. My heart
gives a heavy thud at the thought that henceforth our
roads in life are different. Faithfully execute all
official commands in the future as in the past, and be-
lieve me to be, yours unhinged, .’’
* * *
“ Charles Brous, a broker’s clerk, at Dundathu,
Maryborough (Q), committed suicide last week by
hanging himself to a door-handle.” And, in memoriam—
Before I died, I was what I may term
An ill-paid clerk in a broker’s firm;
I was “ broke ’’ so often I could break no more.
So I hung on the handle of the big front door.
• • •
“ Frost —Snow. —On the 10th instant, at
the residence of the bride’s parents, by Rev. R.
V. Danne, Thomas W. Frost, manager of Bank of
Australasia, Bright, to Emma, second daughter
of Alfred T. Snow, of St. Kilda.”
Frost and Snow—the wedding’s meet!
We wish yon joy and all that’s sweet!
And you, dear Frost, we wish, you know.
That you may cause a little Snow.
• • *
“A suspected case of ‘ infanticide is engaging
the attention of the police at Ultimo. The dead body
of a newly-born infant was discovered wrapped in a copy
of the S.M. Herald.” Who can help admiring the
discernment of the erring mother in making the Herald
the temporary tomb of that in which there was ne
longer any vitality P There are cynics Forsterian enough
to assort that the Herald,” being ever grave in its
promptings and ever cemeterial in its productions, was
fitly selected to be the dead babe’s Aceldama.
* * •
“An old, worn-out woman, named Bridget
Callaghan was sent to gaol for three months, at the
Central Police Court. The unfortunate creature was
perfectly destitute. That was her only offence.” This
extract is from the Evening News, and reading it re-
called to our memory that there is in Sydney an Evan-
gelical Alliance, members of which now include many
men of wealth and power. The following stanzas, ’•hen,
offer a suggestion to those truly good, holy, and chari.
table men, which they would do well to carry out
Poor Fergie is in a doleful way about the bowl-
out he got relative to his “ original ” poem, “ Words o
Cheer,’’ and is ‘'glad to find” that his Evening
Oyster Wrap is found handy in the way of suggesting
subjects to The Bulletin, All right, Fergie, old hoy,
keep on being glad. We can generally get amusement
out of a fellow who makes an ass of himselt.
Wo hope Pergie will keep on accumulating
mould for fifteen more years in Parramatta. By
the way, as Fergie probably doesn’t know the commence-
ment of his “ original ” composition, we print that
portion for his information. He can write it out, and
thus be in a position henceforth to show the entire
original in MS. to his friends. Here are the verses he
forgot to compose. Wo take them from " Poems from
the Inner Life,” by Lizzie Doten :
A man whom we don’t believe, tells us
that during the sojourn of the Eassian fleet in
Sydney waters, a deputation of patriotic citizens braved
the intensity of the summer sun, and interviewed
Admiral Aslanttobooff to urge on him the propriety of
effecting the barter of a few imprisoned Nihilists for
the right-honorable Alexia Piddington, Esquire, M.L.C.
The deputation was hospitably received, and regaled
with a richerchi spread of Muscovy ducks and parboiled
tallow candles. The beatific Beyers, who introduced
the deputation, said that the colony generally, and the
“interior" in particular, was infected with a sturdy
sympathy for the cause of Nihilism, and as yet the
nearest approach they could propagate was almost ex-
clusively confined to the moral regions of Clontarf and
Manly. To improve and extend the strain, it was thought
desirable to import a few notorious Nihilists, in whose
veins the blood of barbarism had trickled for genera-
tions, so that by giving the element adequate rope its
members would arrive at the conventional conclusion
ail the quicker. In exchange, they had nothing to offer
but old Piddington, who would prove an invaluable
acquisition to Russia, inasmuch as an army of axes and
a battalion of bomb-shells would find him too tough for
annihilation, and he was an adept at shuffling just far
enough to fall short of shuffling off the coil of mortality.
His politics would be found so sublimely severe that he
could be relied on to keep the Siberian mines full-
handed. Admiral Aslanttobeoff was so affected by the
generosity of the proposal that he wept tears of bleod,
and pledged his word to return with a barrow-load of
soulful-eyed Nihilists, and take away “ Old Mortality"
as soon as Dillon gets absolution and Sydney enjoys
immunity from small-pox. The deputation, before
leaving, presented the Admiral with a pamphlet, styled
“Victoria in 1882, or the advent of Free-trade in Cabbage
and Salary.” # #
There is an assassin, called Guiteau,
The devil and all to skiteau;
A placer of might before righteau,
A mass of malevolent spiteau;
Oppressed by a deadly frighteau.
At finding his chances so slighteau
Of evading the rope which is tighteau.
• • •
iEathetloism has given the death-blow to one
hackneyed quotation, Remonstrative ladies never now
say "Et tu, Brute.” They simply say “Et tu, too.”
BRIEF MENTION.
“Dummying” has doubled at Dubbo since a
recent zig-zag in the cabinet.
Cattle are looking well at North Lismoro, con-
sequent on their grazing in the cemetery.
Mr. Cobley, of Newcastle, went out fishing, and
nearly got bit by a shark. He must have been a very
hungry shark to want to bite a man with a name like
Cobley I
The Herald, in its leader referring to the
failure to arrange a commercial treaty between Pranoe
and England, remarked that the uo-go-tiations had
been resultless.
The difference between a drunkard and a mur-
derer, as they stand in thq dock at the Police Court, lies
in the fact that one has enly a " drop ” in his eye while
the other has a beam.
The Indian Government make about six millions
sterling, every year, by the opium trade with China. It
is such little ventures—and her Bible—which are the
secrets of England’s greatness.
Almost every doctor hangs out a rod light before
his door. This is intended as a danger signal, and is
probably intended as a kindly warning to keep sufferers
away. Now, if the lawyers would only
A Bathurst citizen sealed up the tap of his
meter and used candles, but even then found the gas
men ahead ot the game, his bill for the quarter being
mora than he had paid for the actual lighting of the
bouse.
A far Northern man thought the party next
door slighted him. He swore to be revenged. Know-
ing what a pride the party took iu his garden, he pro-
cured a goat. Since then the party’s happiness and
garden have muchly diminished.
There was an old loafer of Cobar,
Who never was known to be sobah,
He whetted his knife.
And mangled bis wife.
And ironed her out with a crow-bar.
The Rockhampton Jackass has, after announce-
ing the arrival of its lithographic plant, and the removal
of the paper to more commodious premises, come out
with a litho.’d supplement, which purports to represent
Keppel Island, and other places.
There are three pictures in all. The
first Yeppoon—looks like three
pen’nrth of sugar-candy; the second—
Keppel Island—looks like a plate of
bash, and the third —Ross Crook (sic
resembles as much as anything, a cut
off the joint, with the accompanying
gravy. We recommend our little con-
temporary, since it has made such
strides, to give us next week a Sicilian
lake at sunrise; or a study of Mont
Blanc from the Lake of Geneva. If
the Jackass goes on at the rate it is
going, Bobby Byrne will have to come
eut of that hat and put on a spurt, lest
the Jackass squelch him.
The King of Ashantee has
slaughtered two hundred girls solely for
for the purpose of using their blood to
repair his building ! Awful, isn’t it P
But pray, how many thousands of
people have the sovereigns of Europe
slaughtered in order to keep a paluco
roof over their heads ?
All the storekeepers of a North-
ern town, with one miserable exoep-
tion, agreed to close their shops on
26th and 27th December. The man
who stayed open took Is, 4d. during
the day, as a set off against which his
old tom-cat broke 20s. worth of
crockery. Thus doth Providence get
level with the mean man.
“ George Darrell is doing well in
America,” we hear. "Run to Earth
or The Blood-Soaked Dagger of the
Dark Ravine," was the last play of his
that we noticed. However, we are
now informed, on the most unreliable
authority, that George is busy on a
new drama, “ The Holy-Haunted-
Hideous-Hell-Bouud-Hated-Hound, or
The Grim Ghoul of the Ghastly Grave,
the Gory-Ghost of Goblins, the
Gallows-Guest Galore." We hope ore
long to seo this airy trifle on the
boards of the Queen’s.
The English makers of tooth-
brushes. egg and salt spoons, knife
and fork bandies, etc., have found it
necessary to deny that human bones
are ever used in their business. How-
ever this may he, it is certain that
there is a tremendous importation of
human bones going on at home, and it
has been publicly stated that when
there have been no battles to make
the foreign fields prolific, the home
cemeteries are searched, and old burial-
grounds are ransacked. It isn’t plea-
sant to help yourself to salt, and think
that perhaps the spoon is part of your
great-grand-fathor’s elbow.
There was a plain and fancy
dress ball given in Armidale the other
day, and the gentlemen being sharp-
set, snapped up all the cold corned
beef and pickled cabbage before the
ladies could chip in. It was a pitiful
thing to see stout matrons and their
"wall-flowers" foraging amongst the
debris of the feed after the supper, like
camp-followers amongst the dead after
a battle, and to behold pretty girls
worrying captain’s biscuit, and gnaw-
ing at cheese-parings and the crusts
left by the superior sex. At the next
ball in Armidale, either no men will be
invited, or else every lady will bring
with her a sandwich-box and a sherry-
flask. Snch cavaliers as these, being
themselves insufferable, are apt to
make a party insupportable.
Dr. Toul, the Melbourne city coroner, who the
other day said that Melbourne Hospital reeked with
pyaemia, has now been likened by one of the hospital
orators to "a gas-pipe," apparently because he had
brought a light to bear upon the condition of the
Institution.
Saturday—in the paper of a Far Northern dis-
trict !—“ We regret that a aeries of untoward ciroum.
stances have militated against the successful bringing
out of the present issue; but -’* Wednesday pre-
vious—in the Police Court: “ Second offence, 10s. or
seven days.”
A correspondent alleges that in cases where
members of the police force resign and apply to the
Department for certificates of discharge, their “ oha-
raeters" are, even where they have committed the
most trifling offences against the regulations, labelled
“ indifferent."
The other day a lady went into a city restaurant
to have some lunch, But when, from her point of
vantage at the window, she saw the Chinese cook take
the vegetable marrow from the dish with bis hand and
put it on the plate destined for her, she made up her
mind not to have lunch.
The self-styled “ Father ot the Public Instruc-
tion Bill" withdrew his opposition to Sir John Robert-
son because “ there was only one hotel in Mudgee ha
had the honour of knowing." It is therefore a fair
presumption that the hotel in question was one at
which the grog was "secular, compulsory, and free.”
Parramatta Fergie has a “Looking-Glass”
column, in which are recorded the vast thoughts that
arise iu his mind while brushing his hair. Last week
there was a lot about “open sores” in that column.
When Fergie uses the looking-glass he should be
careful to keep his mouth shut, in order to avoid mis-
takes.
A Northern woman, after reading The Bul-
letin’s interesting description of “ Webb and Son’s
New Premises," says it would give a great impetus to
the business of that enterprising firm if they wore to
discover a suitable clay out of which to manufacture
hats. Simple enough. Let the inside or frame-work
be ot cork, covered on the outside by a thin coating—
THE NEW GAME.
THE PETITIONERS “And we therefore humbly pray that the disgraceful condition of Elizabeth-street on the
tramway route—”
SIR JOHN ROBERTSON (for Government ): “ Stop; I’m not going back on my sainted colleague I recognise in this
a covert attack on the Education Question.” (Collapse of the Deputation).
Hear this, ye snulilers! ye that turn
The “ brown ” whites of your eyes up,
To succour all, ye say ye yearn,
Then now ’ s the time to rise up 1
O holy men that pray and sing,
Your voices upward raising ;
Go find a home for this poor thing
To spend her final days in 1
Come, think! This poor old sinless dame
Now in the gaol is lying;
And to this sunny country’s shame,
Perchance e’en now is dying !
Will not this melt you, “holy men”—
Think not we’d be “ a scoffer ” —
But tell us: for this dame have, then,
Ye naught but pray’rs to proffer ?
Oh! shall we ask ye all in vain
This poor old soul to succour P
Think that the lines of age and pain
Her wasted face do pucker!
Think of your mothers weak and ill.
Shut in a cold cell dark’ning.
And do not start your pray’rs until
Unto our pray’r you’re heark’ning.
"WORDS O' CHEER.
[Given under the inspiration of Robert Burns.]
-
Gum Friends :
“ Although not present to your sight,
I gie ye greeting here to-night j
Not claiming to be perfect quite,
Frae taint o’ passion.
Yet will I hanld my speech aright,
In guid Scotch fashion.
" 0, could some cantie word o’ mine,
But make your care-worn faces shine.
Or cause the hearts in grief that pine.
To throb with pleasure;
Then wad ray oup to auld lang syne,
Fill to its measure.
*• The gracious powers above us, know
How sair a weight of want and woe
Must be the lot of those who go
Through Earth to Heaven;
But aye the life a boon will show
Wherefore ’twas given.
“ And that guid God who loves us a',
Who sees the chittering sparrow fa',
Will never turn his face awa’.
Though you should stray;
But all his wandering sheep will oa’.
Back to the way.
«• So muckle are the cares &' men.
That Truth at times is hard to ken,
And Error, to her grousome den.
So dark and eerie.
Wiles those who have na heart to men’j
Puir wanderers weary,
«• Alack! how mony a luckless wight
Has gane agley in Error’s night.
Not that he had less love for right
Than countless ithers;
But that he lacked the keener sight
Of his guid brithers."


Bay, of porcelain. Chapeaux of this kind would neither
lose their shape nor colour. Besides, they couldn tbe
gat upon with impunity.
Pluglesa word-spout.—Domain ecclesiastics.
The real Town Hall “ frauds ” —the Aldermen.
Fools keep racehorses. Wise men lay against
them.
The latest equivalent for it —“ Let us Jaw-
wash."
“Hard times for Irishwomen. Four ladies sent
to gaol for meeting one another.
On the first visit of the Russian Admiral to
Government House, he was announced by the hired man
ffe “ Admiral Hustlemoff.”
From the Tropical Thadeus “Wo observe
in the manifest of the Wentworth ‘3 bellows,
Jackson.’ Won't he blow this year P"
Mr. Combes, in a speech at Kelso, said “ ho
wanted M»~C. J. Roberts as a colleague." He wants
not much, but he is likely to want that little long.
The Cobar and Louth Herald begins a
leader thus:—“That crime exists is an indisputable
fact." So it is, and it is to the credit of the Cobar
Herald to have been the first to find it out.
The Wollongong Argus has a par., calling
its readers’ attention to the case of the cabman who
was fined for refusing to pay for a drink. It has the
following highly complimentary heading: Caution to
Loafers."
Father Sheehy, the rev. Land leaguer, stated
in Paris, the other day, that he would rather be with
Mr. Parnell in Kilmainham. Meanwhile the rev.
jrontleman remains in Paris. There's disinterestedness
for you 1
Worldly sinner to Salvation Army “ private : ”
••Why do you wear that'uniform ?** * Because lam
a soldier.” “A soldier of what?” “A soldier of
Heaven." “Then, all I can say is, that you are a
devilish long way off your barracks.’’
“ Proper supervision at the starting places of
the steamers, and the presence of a strong body of
police at each of the picnic grounds, are the only
effective remedies that can he adopted. We reprint
this as a curiosity. It was wrung from the Morning
Missionary.
According to Reuter’s cable messages, as pub-
lished iu the S.M. Herald, the Duchess of Connaught
bus given birth to “ a princess." The same Co.’s cable-
gram, as published by the Daily Telegraph, affirms
that the Duchess has only had a “daughter.” Now, we
wonder which it is that H.R.H, has really had 1
WHAT THE PUBLICAN IS NOW.
An eleven-o’clock young man,
A six-in-the-mom young man,
A shut-np-on-Sunday,
To open on Monday,
Please-name-your-poison, young man.
A company of the Salvation Army has been
formed in Blackall (Q.), under the generalship of Mr.
Worrell, and on Sunday evenings a large number of
residents congregate together, and indulge in Moody
and Sankey ad libitum. We would counsel the Blackall
Army to abjure the temptations and vanities of this
Worrell.
Many persons are under the impression that
they can read aloud until they try, when they only
succeed in making themselves ridiculous. A case in
point: A Northern woman takes up her Bulletin, and
begins to “singsong" thus:—“Miss Lizzie Costello
has begun practice at Brisbane as a coach-house (accou-
cheuse).”
Mr. William Turner has formed an excellent
opinion of the worrukin man. He considers him to be
the most enlightened, free-handed, intelligent, unselfish
creature in the world. This is not all he thinks : but
William will let them know the rest alter he has re.
caivod his testimonial. Mr. Turner is to be a truant
inspector.
Amidst a blaze of splendour, composed of
diamonds, laoe, bridal dresses, and high-falutiu newa-
p ipi p iragrapha (American), the daughter of Bryant,
tho celebrated New York nigger minstrel, has been mar
r.cd It is reported that the father was so out up to
lose’ hie daughter) that he did a break-down on her
departure.
A good yarn is told about an up-oountry Bench
of Magistrates, which consists of father, son, ard son-
in-law An Iriahmamwho had had a case on, and been
beaten, replied, when asked how he got on, “ Oh I I was
hate intirely.” “ How’s that! who was on the
Bench P” “Oh 1" replied Mick, “ the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost.”
Says the Evening Nuisance : “ The list of
nasseneei-n arriving this morning by the Garonne is not
yet obtainable. It requires disinfecting." It would be
intensely interesting to learn how the amaranthine
Alfred proposes to disinfect the passenger list. If he
succeeds in his endeavour, he ought next te try and
deodorize the Brevity-man’s pittance.
According to a correspondent of the S.M.
Herald, the North Shore Ferry Company is the
champion nigger-driving association of the universe.
Shareholder" asserts that its employes have to work
145 hours out of the 168 that compose the week—that
they work twenty-two hours per dav on week days and
nineteen hours on Sundays 1 ! ! ! ! I ! ! !
The Melbourne Evening Mail, the Argus’
half-penny baby, had, on the 11th, a sensational head-
ing, “ A Bank Accountant Drowned." Of course, in
view of recant disclosures as to banking affairs down
there, some allowance must be made, but we must pro-
test against this sensational fashion of showing surprise
that a bank accountant was not hanged!
The Chief Commissioner for Inland Dray Roads
confidently expects to have the timber—at least naif a
chain wide—removed off tbe existing snake-track
between Dubbo and Cobar long before the railway
reaches Mount Browne; in fact, thirteen miles and a
quarter across Qingin and the Scalded Plain have already
been completed and, we presume, paid fpr.
The Lithgow Tabgett considers that Mr.
Hey.lon will make his mark. Targett himself is cele-
brated iu the Blue Mountain district for the same thing.
He is a terrible man to make his mark on the
imported “Cheshire,” at the Zig-Zag hotel, while dis-
cussing the political situation with the landlord. Ha
does more than make a mark—he makes a cavern.
Two blackfellows were recently overheard by a
squatter having a dispute on soma matter, when ho who
was getting the worst of the argument, and who had
lately returned from a visit to Adelaide gaol, sud-
den 1 y put on an air of great dignity and observed—
* Now, wat you know about him, you only cranky black
fellow, you nevah been long a gaol, nevah bin see it
Railway 1 ”
“ Does anybody vant to buy a dawg ? ” If there
be let him trot along Pitt-street, Redfern, and he will
find several high-bred poodles that will probably suit
his purpose. Ho needn’t hurry, however, as they will
probably lie for several days; and if the warm weather
bolds out, and the carts (as usual) let the poodles rip,
they will raise an aroma strong enough to trip up a
Redfern tramcar.
If we had our will about that ‘ ‘ Hungry Traveller, ’ ’
who kicked up the “devil’s delight” in the Herald,
the other day, because the railway fellows down South
gave him no longer than seven and a half minutes to
operate on a bottle of beer, leg of chick, graen peas, and
other “ lixeue,” we would send him to Bathurst once
every week for a month. The Blue Mountain scramble
would kill such a man.
What queer things they do telegraph to the
dailies. Tuesday's Nooze tells us that Mr. Somebody,
8.A., who, at Adelaide, occupies the onerous and dis-
tinguished position of “ Assistant Clerk to the Sergeant-
al-Anns," has got eight months'leave of absence, and
in going to England with his wife and family. It’s
really t oo bad for the sistar colony thus to cast a shadow
on the glory of our Premier's reception.
Fact. Scone; Maryborough (Q.). Lady adver-
tisas in local papers—“ Wanted a general servant," &c.
Next morning a very stylishly dressed girl calls, and the
following conversation takes place:—Girl: “ I see’d your
advertisement —so I’ve come to sea if you will suit me."
Lily: “The work will not bo heavy—l—” Gill
“Have you a boy?” Lady (blushing): “Oh,uo; wo
have only teen married five months." Girl: “I mean
do you keep a kanaka boy?" Lady: “No, there’s
not—" Girl; “Why, who’s to clean the knives and
boots, and sweep the house, and do the scrubbing 1 , and
light the flro P I’m afraid, mam, you won't suit me—’*
And off she bounced.
One of the students of St. Stanislaus’ R. 0.
College, Bathurst, was ashed the other day by a
stranger, who had heard the young gentleman say he
hod just came down from Bathurst, 11 was Dan Mayne
out of Limbo yet ?’’ The scholar took the question as
a reflection upon his Holy Religion, and was, as a
natural consequence, instantly prepared to “ spill his
blood" on the spot, or, wo presume, any other man’s.
The following peculiar advertisements appear
in a country journal 11 Wanted to purchase, three or
four young Istrong Kangaroo Dogs, twelve to eighteen
months old. Those preferred that may hunt up an
editor for the Molono Express paper. Apply to .
Dilga, January 4th, 1852.’’ “ Wanted, tenders for the
conveyance of a Lunatic from near Dilga to Tarbau
Creek. Apply, by letter, M.N.0., Express Office,
Molong."
The other day, in Central Queensland, a woman
died and was to be buried on Sunday, that being the
day on which the clergyman did his usual round. But
when the holy man came, he declined to stay at the
little diggings township an extra half-hour for the pur-
pose of reading the burial service. He had, he said, at
another place to attend to the necessities of nine living
people, whs were of far greater consequence than a
single dead one.
The Melbourne Evening Mail is a nice little
paper, bnt it is j ust the smallest bit in the world too
ingenuous. It says” The excitement over the go-as-
you-please contest between the two pedestriennes,
Wallace and Phillips, for the championship and £lOO,
prows keen as the finishing day approaches." Oh, cer-
tainly t “very keen!" You never can tell, you know,
till the numbers are up; or, rather, hardly ever. It’s a
very old *• gag," it is true; but then, the Supreme Court
is a very old Court 1
It is evident that M'Elhone is beginning to be
appreciated in the right quarter; because, a short time
ago, one of the sable original possessors of tha soil
called npon the police officer in (say) the Never-Never
district, and wanted his blanket before it was dne. The
sergeant, in dulcet tones, said 11 Baal blaugey come along
till along um Queen’s Birthday.” Darkey: ” Baal mo
get um till um Queen’s Birthday—mo no got um, he go
yabber along nm Jaoky M’Elhone, and then up goes
your blooming apple-cart."
The Rev. Dr. White is delivering a course of
lectures on the " Apostles’ Creed." In the course of
the initiatory lecture on "I believe,” ho remarked that
we had to exercise faith in men; that few of us had
seen the New Hebrides, but we had faith in the men who
had seen them. The premise would held true about
Skuthorpe—few have seen him —but those who have
faith in him are fewer still. Besides, we’ro among the
scoffers who don't believe all the New Hebrides mission-
aries tell us—although Dr. White may.
The Education Department has built a school
at Tirrinia Creek, which is so situated that the children
have to cross several tidal gullies to get to the edifice.
At low tide, the other day, tha water was up saddle-
flap high. The Department won’t have a pnnt con-
structed, at a cost (say) of £lO, so the children have to
get across as best they can, and, of course, under the
Compulsory Act, they must go. One thing is certain—
if the Department doesn’t get a punt, it will have to
employ a trooper to flog the youngsters across.
Fair woman’s charms have strange effects some-
times. A little while ago, Maud Bransoombe was asked
to subscribe to a charity, on the ground that the appli-
cant “ could not walk out without seeing her beautiful
face in a shop window ;" and now a Jamberoo young
man has gone off his head. This is really what he wrote
to the cause of his trouble:—“ Miss Blank , Hear-
ing of your abilities as a singer, and of your beauty, I
take the liberty to ask yon to our consort.” Miss Blank
is a belle at Broughton Creek, but she did not go.
We have just had a glance at the Rockhampton
Jackass. Writing about the races, it says that "the
clerk of the course performed his duties in the orthodox
manner, the starter was very successful, and the j udge’s
office a sinecure, as there were no close contests. The
clerk of the scales gave satisfaction to all." We ore
pleased to observe that our little contemporary has
carried out its promise, and has come out at last as
a first-class comic paper. We should think, however,
that there is still room in Rockhampton for a second-
class comic paper.
Grisdale, the pawnbroker, remarked the other
night, at Newcastle, that he "had not the slightest
doubt in the world that he would be returned head of
the poll by the largest majority yot recorded in the
colony." He also said that notwithstanding the fact
of Mr. Hnngerford being a squatter, he (Grisdale) had
the oonfldence of a largo number of the upper section
of the community, a remark which elicited a storm of
satirical boohoos. Grisdale, it is rumoured, will, until
polling-day, lend an extra penny on flat-irons. Then if
he don’t come in—aa-a-hr-rr I
It would appear from the English papers that
the man who, in cold blood, cut his sweetheart’s throat,
at Preston (and has since been hanged), booked a first-
class place above. A friend, who was anxious for his
soul, having called npon the young man in prison, the
Interview is reported. We cull from it this choice
flower. Friend: “ Promise to meet me in heaven,
John." Murderer: “I promise. I will meet you
there." We really should like to come across a mur-
derer just for once who believed It was quite on the
cards that the gallows was not the right platform for
passengers to Elysium.
“Fairplay” writes to us from Launceston,
Tasmania, that he saw, on the same day, two fashion-
ably dressed women, who were intoxicated, furiously
driving a buggy over a principal crossing in defiance of
warning, and cruelly beating the horse, but nothing
was done to them; but a little later, a poor woman,
also the worse for liquor, but quite harmless, was “ run
in," by six stalwart constables, in a go-cart. He asks,
why this difference? We can only suppose that the
transit officers at Launceston are Jike some here, and
that tha picnic policemen are a trifle more valiant.
Very possibly, too, people don’t like to say anything,
because their Sunreme Court may also resemble certain
other Supreme Courts.
We observe with satisfaction that the good old
time-honoured custom of tin-kettling is still main-
tained in the interior. The other night, wo read, the
harmony and peace of Mount M’Donald were “ fright-
fully disturbed” by a band of larrikins who evolved sweet
music from out the weird depths of the rude bullock-
horn, and diligently thundered at the shiny kerosene
tin with the iron-shod heel of the worn-out blucher.
The occasion was, of course, a wedding, but, to quote
the sapient country editor, “in the present case the
happy couple had sense enough not to allow themselves
to be intimidated into giving the 3oang ruffians a gratni.
tons drink or a money consideration, and so the
nuisance was continued to tie disgust of all within
bearing for throe or four hours."
A West Australian paper has apparently fallen
into the hands of well, merchants. Messrs. Gray
and Co., of Geraldton and Qreenough, in advertising
that they have for sale or hire the plant of the
Geraldton Observer, say that: “To any person pos-
sessing a reasonable supply of brains and sense to
practise their use decently, together with sobriety and
honesty, a very profitable opening exists for the con-
ducting of a respectable newspaper on liberal principles,
of which not any now exists in the rapidly rising town
of Geraldton and districts adjacent thereto, which con-
tain a population of near five thousand persons. For
further particulars apply to the proprietors, H. Gray
and Co." All of which only goes to prove that a man
may sell good candles and get a bill of sale over the
poor country editor, and yet not be a literary success.
Discharged prisoners receiving free railway
passes, were ungrateful enough, according to Mr. Bent,
the Victorian Minister of Bailwavg, to sell the same.
We manage things better in Sjdney. When a man
comes out of Darlinghurst and wants to go up-country,
he gets from the governor of the gaol a document
addressed to the railway department, saying that John
Smith has just done ten years for libelling a picnic
f round, and wants to go to Dubho. And as it isn’t
every man who is willing to identify himself with John
Smith the ruffianly criminal, John finds it vary difficult
to sell the document, on the strength of which he gets
his t icket Of course, he can sell it to another criminal,
but as the object of the Government seems to be to
send all tbe released gaol-birds to Bathurst, and other
such places, no objection is raised against a libeller
selling his pass to a burglar.
We have received the Bugaboo Brass Band
almanac for the year of grace 1882. It is a priceless
treasure. The existence of the snn ia ignored; such
small incidents as sunrise and sunset being too trifling
to notice, though the dates on which that marvellous
mixture of muddled brains and smudge ink, the Buga-
boo Brass Band, was established, is carefully recorded.
The moon is treated hotter, it does not appear between
July Ist and August 29th, but all the rest of the time it’s
there. Some of the letter-press is hazy, but that is
arranged purposely, in order to exercise the ingenuity
of readers, and thereby develop their intellects. Among
the miscellaneous information is the news that Buga-
boo is a telegraph township, situated "on a river of the
same name.’’ Any father whose boys are in want of
kites should lose no time in securing a copy, as the
paper is just the right sort to make tails of.
The Maryborough (Q.) Counoil ordered their
Mayor (Nick Tooth) to send a letter of condolence to
the widow Garfield. A most gorgeous one was pre-
pared, and only awaited Nick’s signature. Meanwhile,
The Bulletin heard of it, and made some remarks on
the subject. It now turns out that the letter has not
been sent, and some of the aldermen want to know the
reason. No one will admit the authorship of the
document. His Worship accuses the Town Clerk, who
in turn accuses a well-known cricketer dubbed “ Lord
Harris’’ but the latter indignantly repudiates the
charge. The letter is generally supposed to be the
joint production of two gentlemen hailing from the
White Lion and H.M. Customs, assisted by a well-
known butcher. Several ladies have been heard to
remark that they would not mind being widowed if they
thought Nick would write them condoling letters. See
what it is to be the handsomest Mayor in Queensland I
Mappin and Webb, of London, have made a
spotting knife for Cetewayo, which is 6 inches long, and
contains: —One large sheep-foot blade, a pruner. button-
hook, serow-drive, two fleams, bow-saw, leather punch,
one pen blade, sack needle, saw, disgorger, nail file,
champagne opener, flloout, sterling silverfruit blade,
com blade, corkscrew, gimlet, and horse-hook. It also
comprises a No. 12 cartridge extractor, 18-inoh rule,
steel lancet, tweezers, forceps, scissors, compass, picker,
and silver shackle. As his Majesty is to bo presented
with this little plaything prior to visiting England, it is
some (comfort to know, that Cetewayo’s feelings towards
England, which not onlylburst up his kingdom, but shut
him up in an old fort for a year or two, are of the most
amicable description: otherwise, John Brown would,
perhaps, have rather a poor time ef it at the meeting of
the two Sovereigns. That “sack-needle’’ would prove
rather an awkward instrument where a kilt was con-
cerned.
A grand aesthetic ball was recently given in a
wool-washing room up North. Dancing kept up for two
days, liquor for three, and fights all the week throufh.
Fashions, “ utterly too too,’’—moleskin trousers, per-
forated shirts, cabbage-tree hats, and occasionally
boots amongst the gouts; and black silks, trimmed
with green bows, scarlet ribbons, and blue sashes most
conspicuous amongst the ladies. The belle was a hog-
skin-ooloured half-caste girl, dressed in a digger’s hat,
and a serge shirt of the soogee-bag description, the
graceful folds of which, being looped up with lemonade
bottle wire and bits of "rope, enabled her fortunate
admirers to note her elegam, home-made flannel petti-
coat, and to wonder if she ever got it washed since
King John put his mark to Magna Cbarta. The guests
broke up all the furniture and crockery first, and the
ball broke up soon after. Everything went as smooth
as a tin can with the tail of an active dog at the other
end of it.
Everyone knows him down the harbour. Ho
has a flaxen figure and tall hair, a reasonable ameuut of
assurance, and an eye for the beautiful—at a short
range. A fair siren at a shrine of Bacchus had enmeshed
his soul, and he loved—-wildly loved 1 She saw it, and—
Ah I how could she refuse ! —she promised to meet him
behind the Church of England at half-past eight. Love,
lemon squash, and sea air had nerved him to a state of
supremost ecstacy, and at 8.15 he feverishly cursed the
tardy moments as they flew. At last, she came, he
tingled with joy, and striding to the loved one’s side
he went to whisper in her shell-like-aar—when suddenly
the air became vociferous with derisive shouts, whizzing
of half-bricks and crashing bottles, shrieks of laughter,
and retreating feet. The cruellest discovery was that
the trim little figure he had so amorously approached
was a “ he.” There are two places the young man does
not visit now, i the hotel, and the back of the
Church of England down the harbour.
From Carooar : —“ Well, Hans, how ia the claim
getting on, have you bottomed yet ? '* “No, not yet;
you see I lose two week through my horse and my wife
get into pound.” “ What ? your wife got into the
pound ? ” “ Nein, nein, but my wife get my horse in
pound, you see. I lose mine old cart-horse, Blitz, and
I take my bridle and go look all in the ranges, and no
And him there. Mein frau says, 1 Look, Hans, soma
horses go past to pound, and I think old Blitz went
with them, you go see ’ But I say, ‘Never, what busi-
ness women know about horses, and I will not go to
pound.’ Then one week, two week, I look all in ranges,
but Blitz can never see. Then the ponndkeeper says,
* Hans, your old moke is ia the pound, if you do not
release him I will sell him.’ Then Igo and pay 275. for
Blitz all through my wife. Suppose she had not tell
me go to pound at that time, then I would go and look
there and not lose two week looking in ranges,—for
what can a woman know about horses P let her mind
her house I”
An old couple, who had not travelled to the
metropolis for 40 years, took passage in a sleeping-car,
at Dubbo. Their aged innocence caused much fun to
their fellow.passengers all along, which culminated
when bed-time arrived. The conductor led the old
lady to her own compartment, and on turning round
saw the faithful husband at his heels. He explained
that he could not go with her for the night; that the
sexes had to be separated for purposes of general con-
venience. “What.” said the ancient Joan, “can’t my
husband come with me?” The official politely in-
timated that that was exactly how the case stood.
“ Well, look here, young man,” and she folded her arms
and fixed him with her eye, “my old man and I have
been in the same bed for 45 years, and we ain't going to
be separated now. No, young officer, them as God has
joined, no railway chap can put asunder.” The old
couple sat up on the one plush-covered seat through
the long watches of the night, and they’ll never ride
again in a vile invention that interferes with the most
sacred relations between man and wife.
Cooma had its little picnic on Boxing Day, too,
and Haining, a saddler, got all the worst of it. There
were drinking troughs (or booths), and kiss-in-the-ring,
and the combination, as usual, bred trouble. Mistress
M'Canu and other ladies called out to Haining, who
“ wont for ” one Chandler, and told him he ought to be
ashamed of his carryings on. Upon this. Chandler
varied the nature of his amusement to flght-in-the-ring,
and cut Haining’s eye. The local Express is very
ironical about the business, and throws out little sar-
casms such as: “ The ‘ Dodger ’ in his element on
Tuesday last—Police Court.” “ The witness who swore
at the Police Court that a certain individual was a
‘gentleman,’ should be prosecuted for perjury.” A
glance at the police report explains all. The editor of
the other rag gave evidence for Haining, who, it ap-
pears, committed himself to the remark that “ Spring
is a gentleman, which is a site (sic) more than you
are.” This choice language makes it clear that Hain-
ing is a real judge of what constitutes a gentleman.
“ A Wooden-legged Man ” sends us two queries
of soma interest; the first one asking, “ How long is it
since thoso man-traps on the tram-lines, at the inter,
sections of Elizabeth, Bathurst, and Park-streets, were
laid down P ’’ whilst the second asks, “ How long are
they to remain there, and murder people P ” Bespeot-
ing the first query, wo can distinctly remember falling
over ono of these ingenious, curse-provoking shin-
bruisers, as we were hurrying up to welcome Captain
Cook on his first arrival; but the oldest inhabitant’s
father asserts they were laid down the day Joshua made
the sun stand still. From this we infer that Joshua held
the contract, and had to stretch the hours to enable
him to fulfil his gigantic undertaking. However, we
have “ cabled ’’ over to old Rainses No. 2, to enquire it
these traps wore part of the plagues of Egypt, and, if
so, how many of the first-born broke their classic conks
before the ancient gas company lit up their 80-oandla
burners. Touching the second query, we believe the
ornamental nuisances referred to will bo removed as
i eon as some leading judge breaks his neck thereoa, or
that bridge is finished to tho North Shore.
Tho D. T. is a tremendous champion—no satire
intended—ofjMr. C. J. Roberta. It complains that Mr.
Roberts’s opponents have charged the talented ex-
Mayor with being implicated in the Town Hall founda-
tions job, and adds, that tho accusation “is an unwar-
rantable slander, and those who are circulating it must
know that they are striking a foul blow." We quite
agree with this, because (amongst other reasons) it ia
now generally understood, that nobody is responsible
for the Town Hall frauds. Mr. Eoberts, or some one
who uses his name, has, however, by no means spared
his political adversaries; they having been accused in
sensational advis. of being "starvelings,” billet-
hunters, humbugs, and the like, and the distinguished
candidate's wealth has been flaunted in their faces.
So, of course, the world being audacious at election
time —C. J. must expect reprisals. This incident of Mr.
Roberts's election, ia of interest to us, simply because
it shows how difficult it is sometimes for a wealthy man
to get into Parliament, yet, how easy it is for men to
get a leading article in a newspaper.
Extract from the eloquent speech of an East
Macquarie candidate:—“ Fellow Electors, I present
myself before you—[A Voice: “Dry up!”]—As I said
before, lam here to-day—[A Voice: “ Stand us a long
sleever."] The interests of the farmers—[A Voice:
*' A pint of beer and a drop o’ dark brandy.”] Railways
I consider necessary (laughter). They can, I think, be
termed superior modes of transit to the old coaches
(uproar). I have many qualifications for Parliament
(prolonged pandemonium). Bogmauy Point, where 1
reside, is .” [Confusion, and a voice from the plat-
form : •' It’s no go here, till I’ve seen and reasoned with
these stout-hearted, shock-headed, clod-brained, wall-
eyed, enlightened citizens."] Meeting breaks up. Par.
in the paper next day:—"Mr. Blank, the popular can-
didate for this electorate, addressed a numerous and
enthusiastic meeting of the electors yesterday, at
Burrabung, and the recaption accorded him was of the
most flattering description. Mr. Blank touched, with
great lucidness upon the railway, question, the recipro-
city treaty, and various other subjects, his remarks
being cheered vociferously throughout. A unanimous
vote of confidence was passed in the candidate.”
We have received from “ X.Y.” some verses,
written with a considerable amount of force. Owing t«
the fact that all people do not regard things in the same
light, we cannot publish the verses as sent. For in-
stance, our friend says some severe things against the
Pope, and portly Roger, and other Catholic institutions.
He is right enough, of course, from his Protestant point
of view; but all our readers are not Protestants, and we
do not specially want them to be, either. Not being a
religious paper, we do not take particular delight in
hitting a brother a Christian slap in the face every time
we see a chance ; and, judging from the ring of honest
indignation in “ X.Y.’s ” verses, we do not believe that
he does, either. Most likely be did not stop to think
that others might be as right as himself. But when he
deals with public scandals, which are something more
than mere matters of opinion, wo at ones give him a
show. " X.Y.,’” so far as we cau judge, has probably
been having a law case in the Court. He puts it thus >
Your pious contractor may swindle the nation.
And oily-tongued parsons may chant your salvation;
For all that the one cares, his building may fall.
While the other just cares for your money, that’s all.
Smug prayer-grinding rogues, hand-in-hand, you may see.
But whisper it, only—it’s rank blasphemy.
If you’re summoned to Court, and charged with a libel.
For writing what’s more true than most of the Bible,
A fatuous judge, or a jury of four.
Say plainly—“ Go write not the truth any more: ”
Though Bacchanal orgies all round you may see.
You must not expose them—that’s flat blasphemy.
Jay Pease and Em Pease may gamble and drink.
And each in his own petty vices may sink,
No scruple of conscience may curb their desires,
When lust is awakened, or virtue expires ;
But it men of less note in common agree
To cite their example—that’s gross blasphemy
POLITICAL POINTS.
Re Northumberland election. —“Tommy, make
room for your uuele, for he’s a little tear,”
Billy Brookes has been elected for Brisbane (Q.),
beating the Mayor by 873 to 658.
The Hon. Sam. Griffith, leader of the Queens-
land Opposition, starts immediately on a tour through
N, Queensland.
Polling for East Macquarie to-day (Thursday).
Candidates: 0. J. Roberts, Sydney Smith, A. J. Pechey,
and T. M. Dalveen. Show of hands favoured Pechey.
Mr. Greenwood announces that he will, at the
Masonic Hall, on Friday evening, reply to the attack
made on him at Mudgee by Sir John Robertson.
It is not generally known that Sir Julius Vogel,
Sir P. A. Jennings, and the Hon. Thomas M'll wraith,
the present Premier of Queensland, were rejected by
Vietoriau constituencies.
Mr. S. C. Brown says that the statement
printed in the News of Saturday—that he was about to
resign the Postmaster-Generalship and be succeeded by
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., is a—well, merely an Evehino
Knws item.
The President of the French Republic receives
a salary of £40,000 per annum. The President of the
American Republic receives a salary of £lO,OOO per
annum. Her Majesty Queen Victoria pockets annually
£385,000 sterling, or £335,000 more than the combined
salaries of the French and American Presidents.
The N.Z. teetotal advocate, Sir William
Fox, irritated by his Parliamentary defeat, so com-
pletely lost control of himself at the official declaration
of the poll, that he roared like a lion. What enraged
the defeated candidate most was the grotesque antics
of a local resident, who walked about the streets with
a pair of dogs on a leash, a red coat and whip, with
something like a fox’s brush.
The Melbourne Aa®, the only really Liberal
leading paper in the colonies, thus comments on Sir
Henry Parkes’ .pretentions:—" Sir Henry Parkes, if
unlike the first Napoleon in every other respect, re-
sembles him in this, that there will be a terrible
retribution for the long years during which the lands
of New South Wales have been alienated without the
slightest regard to any economical considerations, still
less to the interests of future generations,”
The geuteel way of doing it. “ The corpse waa
elegantly clad by directions of his devoted wife, and
his coffin was made to conform as far as possible to the
comforts with which ho was wont to surround himself
in the home he has left.”
Peregrine tells how he saw a pretty girl dispose
of a piece of beefsteak, about as large as a small brick.
" She plunged her fork into it desperately, lifted it in
mid-air, gazed upon it pensively, opened that coraline
mouth, as if it had been red India-rubber, wider and
wider. It was a keyhole, a tea-cup, a well, a bay.
window, a church-door; and into that yawning entrance
went that piece of meat entire, and than jaws, thorax,
larynx, and skull bones, want to work on a job which
ought to have been let out by contract.”
We have come to the conclusion that Eve waa
rather a bad lot. It will have been remarked how fond
women are, when in a rage, of saying waspishly, “ I
don’t care.” Well, Mrs. A. first originated this phrase
—and not very mildly either. When they were being
turned out of the Garden, Adam said, ” Confound
yon, why didn’t you leave that pippin alone ? I gave
you plenty of plums and half a water-melon.” This
piteous speech rather touched the angel, and ha was
about to pass them in again with a caution, when Adam
cried, “ Nice thing to be evicted like this 1 ” “I don’t
care, Adam,” said Eve; and that profanity settled it.
Very, revised edition of the Pentateuch.
The editor of a Northern paper, gives a brother
quill-driver this first-rate notice: “The volcanic,
pimplo-headed, blister-brained, owl-faced, spike-nosed,
weasel-eyed, web-footed, peg-legged, lilliputian, foggy,
pettifoger, of the Yell does not like our personal
appearance. Until this foul-mouthed, brazen, debaser
has been run through a sieve, filtered, scoured,
scrubbed, swabbed, sponged, and disinfected; until ho
is a fit object to enter decent society, we will forbear
having anything to say about him. ”
• » •
This reminds us of an Australasian notice
of a pretty girl’s dsbflt: —“ When Miss first ap-
peared, her blue eyes and lovely face attracted evorv.
k>iy. But when her beautiful pearly teeth were dis-
closed, there came such a cataract of diamond-drops
of melody that the house seemed, as it were, deluged in
a spray of harmony equal to that which one might
imagine would come from a cataract composed of iEohan
harps. '*


RILEY BROI
386 GEORGE STREET,)
600 GEORGE STREET, J. SI
165 OXFORD STREET, )
BATHURST,
QOULBURN,
NEWCA
A*o
10 COLEMAN STREET.
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COL(
THE ORIGINATORS
NOTED £5 BA]
£5 Family
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
0 yards White or Rad
Flannel
12 yards W incoy, Frit*, Ot
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2i yards Gatnbroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
3 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 LjnCu Damask Table
, Cover
1 paif Strong Tweed or
moleskin TroJsSrs
1 pair Matt'S* Women's
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
Jdoz. Pooket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Fins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &c.
£5 Men’s Clothing:
Bale*
1 Suit TWofid COnt, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large Slue
2 best Cotton Shirts, largo
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longoloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
Jffiotl
1 tadi
2 Ladi
2 pairs
1 Ladi(
1 pair
ILadi
2 pairs
1 Ladi
4 lufai
2 lufai
3 Infai
1 Infai
Mo
2 Infai
1 Infai
i doz«
Sot
1 Plan
2 Bibs
1 pair
1 Infai
1 Inf
Sqt
Qui
1 Inf
Ho
£fl
1 pair
iWe
10 yard
20 yard
12 Stro
20 Win
10 good
6 yard
All
wearini
£5 I
1 pair
1 whii
3 yard
10 whii
Cal
6 whii
12 yard
12 yard
4 pair
1 pair
1 Dar
6 stroi
6 Bro’
4 larg
3 yard
T*
Thi
£5 W
25 yds.
3 yard
1 dozs
1 Blac
1 Lad,
1 Trit
1 pair
C
RILEY BROTF
12 Infant’s Parcel. £2 I
Infants’ Shirts 61
Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hand
Infants’ Long Flannels Long
Haircord Monthly Gown rich!.
Infants’ Rollers 1 Infan
dozen Diaper Squares Squa
'aS Box, Puff, & Powder silk
Flannel Head Square l lufar
Bibs Silk ]
Pair of Wool Boots Can
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s jp2 ]
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nigh
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chem
1 Best Cotton Shirt 2 Pair ]
TO CLOSE PARTNERSHIP
CHESTERFIELD HE
THE RESIDUI
of
THIS VALUABLE Ei
will be
SOLD BY PUBLIC AT
ON THE GROUN
IMMEDIATELY AFTI
TANCO ESTA
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
LITHOGRAPHS NOW OB:
HARDIE AND GO
HAVE received instructions
auction,
ON THE GROUN
on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
THE UNSOLD POE'
of the
CHESTERFIELD HEIGHTS
To Close Partnership 1
TEEMS.
YANCO HEIGHTS,
YANCO HEIGHTS,
YANCO HEIGHTS.
ON THE GROUN
SATURDAY, _JANU
22 CHOICE BUILDINC
Each having frontages varying froir
NELSON ROAD
ALBERT STREET
VIRGIL STREET
ST. THOMAS STREE’
By depths varying from 100 fc
TITLE, FEEEHO:
HARDIE AND GO
HAVE received instructions
auction,
ON THE GROU
SATURDAY, 21st JA
THE
ABOVE-DESCRIBED PI
LITHOGRAPHS NOW 01
ANNIVERSARY JDAY,
Grand Picnic and I
TOWNSHIP OP NE\
■pixtwater
CLEARANCE
ALLOTMENTS FRONTING Q
BBACOJ>
.. GLADjn
SPLENDID VIEWS. GRAN
MILLS, PILE, AND
XITAVE been instructed to b<
ON THE GROUI
TUESDAY, JANUARY 24,
MOSS YALE.
ELMWOOD ESTATE.
815 ACRES formerly known as SAUNDERS’ DAIRY
FARM, subdivided into about 15 COUNTRY
VILLA BLOCKS from 15 to 33 aores each, including
the Cottage and Orchard.
THESE BLOCKS are beautifully undulating country,
(rood soil, and only 3 miles from the MOSS VALE
RAILWAY STATION.
THE MAIN ROAD from MOSS VALE, to the
celebrated FITZROY FALLS, passes through THE
ES I'ATE, and it is bounded on the east by Govern-
ment Water Resirve, and surrounded by “Mount
Ashby, " the residence of HERBERT THROSBY,
Esq , and the residences and country seats «f
ALEXANDER OSBORNE, Esq., Messrs. J. and B.
R. FAIRFAX, thus giving an idea of the high
estimation in which the district is held for country
residences and gardens.
Here the choicest varieties of ENGLISH FRUITS
grow to perfection, and hero are the richest
pastures in the colony.
Here arc the cool nights without any mosquitoes.
MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST
HAVE been instructed to sell by auction, at
the Land Sale Rooms, 114 Pitt-street, on TUES-
DAY, 24th January, at half-past 11 o'clock,
THE ELMWOOD ESTATE.
Comprising 315 acres,’subdivided into 15 rural blocks,
from 15 to 33 acres each, including the cottage and
various improvements.
As a proof of how genial and cool a climate is found
in this district, we cun not do better than mention the
followingHlLL VIEW, the property of Mr. R. P.
Richardson, has just been purchased by the Govern-
ment as a COUNTRY RESIDENCE for the
GOVERNORS of the colony. The property consists of a
dwelling and about 123 acres of land, within easy
distance of the Moss Vale railway station, and the
price given was £6OOO. Earl Belmore, on# of our former
Governors, rented Throsby Park, Moss Vale, as a
summer retreat.
Mr. SURVEYOR BlNSTEDhassubdivided theland,
and plans can now be obtained at the rooms.
Terms Easy.
■JJNDEE SECTION V„ ACT 532.
ART-UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAREE JUNCTION
ESTATE
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each,
120 PRIZES of the full value of £lO,OOO.
117 lots guaranteed cash if preferred.
Lot 1. Ist prize £4OOO I Lot 3, 3rd prize £1350
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize...,., £4OO
Lot 5 to 9, 5 Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10, 1 Prize of £56.
Lot 11 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lot 21 to 120, 100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management have increased the number of prizes,
and thereby increased the chances to nearly a certainty
to win a substantial prize, if not a large and independent
fortune, for £l. Drawing on the 28tn and 29th March.
Unsuccessful applicants will have their money returned
per return post. No commission will be paid to agents
after this date.
(■Address —SETH R. FERSSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Olfico, Ballarat*
READ PROSPECTUS.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 13th January, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS POE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR EENWICK.
No. 1087: John Cain and others; Portion No. 94:
County of Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; 20 aores.
Application No., Veg. Creek 424.
No. 1088; John Cain and others; Portion No. 96;
County of Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; 20 acres;
Application No., Veg. Creek 425.
M.
THO M A ,
IMPORTER OF
WORKS OF ART,
GERMAN AND SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
P
URE CHINESE TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART & CO.
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the French Caf<3),
AN AGENCY FOR THE FAMOUS
LOON SHAU TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co. will also submit for
public approval Silks and General Merchandise.
N.B. —Mr. QUONG TART has just returned from
a visit to China, where he in person selected the above-
mentioned Teas, so that their purity can be guaranteed.
INSPECTION INVITED.
300 GEORGE STREET—SHOW ROOM, UPSTAIRS,
Near Hunter.street.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.
Modern high school,
MOORE PARK.
The Education is thoroughly Practical. A sound
English Course constitutes the basis of instruction given,
but rmpils are prepared for Commercial Pursuits and the
various Professions end Examinations. Vacancies for
a few Boarders. Copies of Examiners’ Report, and
Prospectus on application.
M “ F. LYON-WEISS,
Headmaster.
WITH PARKES.
[BY TELEGRAPH]
FROM OUR OWN COMMISSIONER.
RiS.
Ait*)Ww*4ni
If in this, my first communication to yon, you should
think my style to be a bit too tall, just tone it down; I
shan’t mind. The tact is my cabin is shared with
Alfred’s man, and I feel myself to have caught, during
the last few days, a good deal of that ecstatic soul which
he infused into his now historical Masonic ode. While
on the subject of onr cabin, I may remark that it is
placed as far from the pantry as possible—a circum-
stance tVhi.ch may bo accidental, blit which i believe to
be pfegiiant with brutal significance, iiy cOmpahldii
in literature has been busy taking notes ever since we
started, As long as he could stand it, we took Parkes
alternate hours, but being taken ill early on the second
day, we declared that fate was a bas’un and the climax
retched, and so retired from active duty; an example
Which Was soon followed by Sir Henry, who,however,was
bonSidbratb ehongli td leave his fCet-cdvirrings butside the
floor for general inspection— tills dondeSdenSiotl Wh thd
Premier’s part being the cause subsequently of some
heavy wagering—people of a sporting turn betting upon
the sire respectively of the ship life-boats and Sir
Henry's shoes. Mutual congratulations were exchanged
amongst the ladles at the Premier bringing on board
articles that would be so useful in case of shipwreck,
and the foundation of tbe great man's popularity was
at once established. After a couple of days Sir Henry
came out in a large pattern plaid suit and a pot hat —a
costume which, he informed me, in confidence, he was
going to do the Continong in. No particular incident
occurred on that day, except a complaint made by the
Premier’s neighbour that Parkes kept him awake at
night through wrestling with the French language, and
h reqdest from the captain (made through the second
Steward) to the NoOze nlan that he Would have the nails
takeii odt of his boots. The Premier is a bit distant
With rile, but he is very affable to Alfred’s Commissioner,
Wild, therefore* £ets all the fat Of it jdSt ntiw, find
is distinguished by being allowed td pißk dji thfi Pre-
mier’s quoits, cut his books, get his sherl’y, anti fulfil
a hundred little duties which all more or less help to
distinguish him from the common herd. I stumbled
across a little bundle of Alfred’s Commissioner’s notes
the other day. They were apparently commenced on
the dav we started, for I see one slip marked : —“10
am. Instructions from Alfred. Spare no money,
but arrange your hotel bills at circus tariffs." Then we
see—“ No ulster required. Keep below in the cold
weather, and sit on a hot-water pipe." Then comes a
reference to breakfast on board, headed “ Impressions."
They were aB follow • —“ Now the dazzling splendour of
hiy position bursts ih all its glory dptta xfie. At last my
molars can rUn fCttcytrefi Stfidligsv otttlSts, Hfimj liver
IVnd baton, tea. and coffee. There are potatoes* too 1
t'ancy potatoes for breakfast anywhere out of a palace
on the Bosphorus. Had my plate changed three times.
My dream of joy is at last realised ” When Sir Henry
arrives in London, he is going to stay at the West-
minster Paluce Hotel, and Withers says ho is going
there too. He told Parkes this in my presence, and I
thought I distinguished a twitch of pain pass over the
Premier’s features That evening when the stars were
oat, Sir Henry called Withers np on deck, and feelingly
recommended him to take some quiet lodgings in the
old Kent-road. One cold and rainy night when Alfred’s
Commissioner and I, wishing to study the coast-line,
were on deck late at night, I happened to run down into
our cabin for some matches. On arriving there; I found,
to my horror. Withers’ luggage open, and the contents
gone. Bushing up on deck, I cried —“ Good heavens,
oid man, where on earth’s your outfit P " He gave a
momentary start; but recollecting himself immedi-
ately, he said, quietly—” Oh, it's all right. It being
rather chilly, 1 put my outfit on.
The day before arriving at Auckland, I walked with
the Premier after breakfast. He asked me if I thought
it would compromise his dignity if he allowed.
King Kalakaua an interview with him at Hono-
lulu. “I don’t want," he said, “to make my-
self too cheap at first." I recommended him to
unbend so far as tbe King was concerned. “It needn’t,
you know," I said, “be generally known." “Very
well,” said he; “ then I’ll receive the King. Perhaps
he might give me an order, or something, that would
do for John Davies.” Directly Parkes arrives in
London, he is going to call on “Manchester," and get
him to return the call at the Agent-General’s office, on
purpose that he may impress the Duke with a sense of
his (Forkes’s) greatness, by making Saul Samuel band
around the sherry and biscuits. He then enquired
what I thought a bronze monument would cost, from
which question I gather that ho intends purchasing one
prior to visiting his birth-place. Just before starting,
all the passengers were asked if they had any super-
fluous baggage which they wished put in the hold.
Withers, whose outfit consists chiefly of bound files of
the Town and CoUntbt Journal, gavo out a basket
for that purpose. By some mistake, however, it was
put into the freezing room instead, and it hereupon it
the brand of a well-known Sydney fish-merchant.
When we arrived, and Alfred’s Commissioner, finding
that the enamelled-iron collar began to chafe his neck,
enquired for his luggage, it was taken out from
amongst the fish and poultry; all his shirts were frozen
so hard that the third engineer had to prize the arm-
holes open with a crow-bar, and when he got one of the
garments on, no one could sit next to him at table,
because his teeth chattered so. If. any of your readers
are sceptical as to the genuinen£ii l of this anecdote, I
at once refer them to Sir Henry. My next will pro-
bably contain tbe interview between the Premier and
Kalakaua,
LATEE.
The following message has just been received by
Alfred’s Commissioner :—“ On no account miss any
opportunity of seeing everything of importance that
costs nothing."
A portly, not to say important, person, well
known in the G.P.O , strolled into the Palace Em-
porium, at a time when Hordern’s houris wore tripping
into their day’s work, and “ garden chairs, only 3s. fid."
caught his eye. The bland shopman followed his eagle
gaze, and flashed out one of the articles immediately.
“ Bear you, sir ? bear anything that can get on it, from
the fat man in the markets to a pair of Clontarfy
lovers.” With a child-like faith, the portly gentleman,
with tbe big beard and the dignified mien, majestically
lifted his coat tails, and taking aim at the centre of the
chair, sat down on the floor! Then a big, big D
floated on the air, profuse apologies, mingled with sil-
very giggles; and there was more joy among the comely
milliner girls over that one broken chair than over
ninety-nine chairs that needed no repairing.
The Hawkins’ Hill Gold Mining Co., respecting
which the Dailt News has commented, is designed to
work the combination of mining leaseholds at Hill End
which Mr. Alfred Fairfax and other gentlemen of this
city had acquired and amalgamated with the Star of
Peace claim. Great quantities of gold have been
crushed out of the reefs at the upper levels in almost
all these claims, but on sinking deeper either the reefs
or the gold appear to have run out. We believe it is
the latter, and that the reefs still run down and show
gold, but not freely enough to pay when worked on a
small scale. Whether the attempt to float the com-
pany is bond fide or not, must depend upon the price
asked, and the representations made. The company’s
property might, perhaps, be altogether unsaleable in
the colonies, yet afford justification for representations
that, it operated on with the economy which working
with plenty of capital and on a large scale would facili-
tate, substantial profits might be made, while there is
always the chance—and we have heard that mining
authorities regard it as a very good one—that the heavy
gold which was in the stone near the surface may be
renewed when the reef shall have been followed down
to a greater depth than has yet been tested. The Star
of Peace and its allied claims are certainly not in the
Bonanza business at present, but they may be capable
of paying 10 or 15 per cent, on a large capital, with the
chance of a big thing being dropped upon as the work
proceeds. As to the bond Jides of the promoters, we
can answer for one. There’s no mistake about Alfred
Fairfax’s belief in the mine. Ho stuck to it for years,
never flinching, and always confident and assured that
it would be a mine of wealth one day. He used to
generally have a smelted button of gold from the last
crushing in his waistcoat pocket, which he would pro-
duce and expatiate on in his jolly hopeful way.


Hotels, fcc.
Kiama hotel, KIAMA.
G. TORY, Proprietor.
Commercial Travellers, Excursionists, Holiday-
seekers, and persons travelling generally, will find this
hotel the best and cheapest on the Southern coast. A
splendid table kept, and every convenience for families,
travelling shows, &c. Sample room for Commercial
Travellers.
The “ haycock” Coach meets the steamer, and carries
passengers, luggage, &0.. to and from the wharf or to any
part of the country. Buggies and horses always for
hire. Billiards.
T
ICE ICE ICE
E
nnHE CITY ICE COMPANY, having made such
ADDITION to their WORKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE per diem,
are prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, &c.,
Apply to
3 WYNYARD STREET,
OR TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
R
OBERT BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
USTRALIAN “HOME” SHUTTLE
SEWING MACHINES.
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a few extra shil.
lings profit—are offering for sale worthlets Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
s
s
o
IsA
C
2
I
*
&
CL A/
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate,
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit information of the attempted sale of coun.
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE NOW SOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE
Do., WITH COYER COMPLETE ...
No charge for oases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
£4 0 0
6 0 0
7 0 0
M. MOSS ANQ CO,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Knnt-street, near King-strhet,
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburu Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
G. CHURCH WOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES :-147 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
S
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street South.
S
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
British plate and sheet glass
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869,George.street South.
■p APERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-streetJSouth.
WHITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
&C., &G.
Q. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
LATE GLASS. PLATE GILASS.
GEORGE E, MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Tobacconists
TIN TAG!
TIN TAG!
Caution to Storekeepers.
ANYONE selling Tobacco with any Round Tin Tag
other than those hearing onr brands
“CONQUERER" or “YANKEE DOODLE"
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded against
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Mann-
factnrer has been sending out one of his inferior brands
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YORK STREET.
TOBAiCCO SMOKERS,
Note the Above.
s*B
fet)V
A
J.EVB . TOBACCONIST .149.
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
■p LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINQS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, &o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEORGE-ST.
INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY.
705 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket (Only).
Our Star of India Teas are noted for Purity and
Weight. Backed fresh every day on the premises ia
ilb., 11b., and 21b. packages.
Superior Sugars, General Groceries, and Christm
Fruits of first quality; cheap for cash. Good deliver
in Town or Suburbs daily, free.
R. OLIVER, Manager,
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES 0001
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost ,
incombustible. For laying under carpets,
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat;
great saving of fuel; apply several layers
1 The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paper Works, Liver-
pool, Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Price, 4£d & 6d per yd.
30 & 40 inches wide,
any length
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.•
Hotels, Sto.
ROBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
AT.T, THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cookburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 16s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The compagnoni catering company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nounoing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior " Aloook table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager-.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering C ompany *
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ CaM, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAPE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen,
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire,
CHA S. R. j§ MIT H,
MANAGER.
S
CHWEPPE’S MINERAL WATERS
as supplied
MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
HER
can bo obtained of the principal hotelkeepers, wine
merchants and chemists throughout the colonies.
SODAWATER.
LEMON AD E,
GINGER ALE,
POTASS,
LITHIA (for
gout),
SELTZER,
TONIC,
MAGNESIA
Waters.
51 Bernbks-steeet, London,
and
58 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
S 3
9M
t*.
N.
%
'4=
:Z~
r
m
3
&
-i--
m
t/.
£
15?
'cr
_£■
i—--s-
- -;
*a
il
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPEES AND WINE;
MEECHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
wins
AND
uu
BUM
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should bo carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLEES,
105 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUAEIE WINES.
Burgundy.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTEALLY SITUATED CELLAES.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLAES at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LAEGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TEADE.
mr Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WAT.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MUEEAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
WQRA-^,
The Nunc of M. MOSS & 00.
ererj Genuine Bottle.
R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-sweet),
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Peed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wins and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ao.
N.B.— Orders by post punotnally attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
gMI T H AND YBALE,
PROPERTY SALESMEN, LAND-and ESTATE
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Properties placed in our bands for positive sale, we
advertise free.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TET
W O K M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
ashgdfasg
BOOTS.
BOOTS.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 10th January, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
oned Gold-Mining Leases within thirty days from
this date, they will bo declared void.
ARTHUR HENWICK.
Turner and Agelong Mining District.
No. 101; Morgan O'Connor and others; Portion No.
l 15; Victoria Reef, county of Clarendon, parish of
Eurongilly; 6 a.; Application No. Gundagai 80-5.
No. 103 ; Edmund Burke; Portion No. gl 10; County
of Selwyn, parish of Beaumont; 2 a.; Tnmbaruruba
78-8.


Q HEISTMAS HOLIDAYS
EXCURSION PARES.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
For all particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA.
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
ooiviuo wui oe mnmtamea by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going* ou by succeeding
steamer within a month; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
Pares, to Loudon, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO .
Joint Managers of the line ; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
2G7 George-street.
Q r lENT LINE OP STEAMERS
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Cor
v-eyauce of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line o
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will bo received at this office, and receipt
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date c
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For furthe
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
... „ , Manager of Orient Line in Australia.
267 George-street, Sydney.
c
[ash price list op wines, ales, ane
SPIRITS.
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bonffier’s Pinean..
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
per doz.
9s Od
10s Od
Us Od
12s 6d
13s Od
WHITE.
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
15s Od
_ _ „ per do
J. T. Fallon’s Port 25a (
Adelaide Gronaehe
(rich Burgundy
Adelaide Port
30s 0
30s 0
Good Port
Brown Muscat ... 15a 0
Muscat, vintage 75 21s 0
Adelaide Tokay ... 30s 0
Tokay, vintage 73 30s 0
FOREIGN WINES.
24s to 36s Od I Good Sherry 24s to 36s o
Champagne from... 60s Od | FrenohljlTarotfrom
SPIRITS.
Imperial ** Scotch
59a Od
Hennessy’a • Case
Brandy
Hennessy’s
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Vaughan Jones’
U squebaugh
Scotch Whisky 38s 6d
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky 40s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
42a Od
Irish
Irish
Bull Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
■ „ pints
, Stout, qts.
~ „ pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar's Head Stout,
pints
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts
ditto
Imperial ♦** Scotch
Whisky
Burke’s •••
Whisky
D’Aroy's
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Casa of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
11a Od
8s Od
Us Od
8s 0d
10s Od
7s Od
10s Od
7s Od
10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts.;
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar's Head Ale,
pints
Helles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
25a (
42s
44s
40s
38s
48s i
52s I
43s
44s
7s
10s
7s
10s
7s
Us
12s
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quar
4 dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, quar
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Sto
quarts, 4 dozen in caskj pints, 7 dozen. Pig Bra
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Foste
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen qua
in case; 7 doz. pints.
tar Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be fo
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen exl
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial W
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamp
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address
town, or to the Wharves or Redfern Railway Stati
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
D
A L
avid M ‘ c
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh. I
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmo
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M (
Hi, 8 Excellency Lord Augustus Loftn
hand?* ® onrsin * Material of Newest Designs always
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen's Saddlesjat t
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875,
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Shoalhaven January 24, 25.
Gunning .' January 26.
Broulee January 26 and 27-
New England J.C January 26, 27.
Newcastle January 26, 27.
Geelong January 26, 28.
Parramatta January 26, 28.
One Tree Hill February 2.
Wellington (N.Z.) R.C. Summer Meeting,..Feb. 2 and 3.
Northern J.C February 7,8,
Vegetable Creek February 9, 10.
Ararat (Vic.) February 9,10.
Victoria A.T.C February 11.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 15, and 16.
Inverell February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24,25.
Wentworth March 3, 4.
V.E.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12.
Albnry March 16,17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club March 16 and 17.
Qundagui March 16, 17.
Wagga March 22.
Corowa March 23.
V. A.T.C March 25.
Great Northern E.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
bale Turf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
A.J.C. Autumn Easter Week.
Lachlan R.C ....May 4, 5.
AQUATICS.
Stockton Regatta January 26.
National Regatta...., ...January 26.
Port Jackson Swimming Club Matches January 28.
Auckland (N.Z.) Annual Regatta January 30.
Nanlan v. Boyd, on the Tyne April
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May.
Hanlan y. Ross, on the Thames June 20.
CRICKET.
Inter-University, Sydney v. Melbourne,
on Association Ground January 26, 27, 28.
Intercolonial, at Sydney February 10,11,12.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven January 20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January 26, 27, 28, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2,3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February 14,15,16, against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park ; February 17, 18, 20, against
New South Wales Team at Sydney; Victorian Eleven,
February 24, 25, 27; Australian Eleven, Sydney, March
3,4, 6; Australian Eleven, Melbourne, March 9,10, 11,
PEDESTRIANISM.
Muswollbrook Handicap (150 yards) January 26.
Franks v. Murphy, £lOO, 3 days’ walk February 4.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The great English racehorse, Bend Or, has gone
to the stud.
The race properties for the Parramatta meeting
realised £668.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club, cleared .£3OO
by its last meeting.
ft Harry Kelley says that Hanlan shunned another
meeting with Trickett.
The great English horse, Eobert the Devil, was
lately sold for 8000 guineas.
At Grafton, preliminaries are being arranged
for another regatta to be held shortly.
It is reported that Mr. Do Mestre intends mak-
ing Ballarat his head training quarters.
The Otago cricket team which played against the
Englishmen was considered a weak one.
Mr. Hornby, the English cricketer, contradicts
the report that he intends settling in America.
A blue shark, nearly eight feet long, was
captured by fisherman off the Isle of Wight in October.
The opening match of the Canterbury week in
England, will be between Kent and the Australian
Eleven,
Lady Emma, Louis d’Or. or Grip will, it is
thought, win the Wellington (N.Z.) Cup, to be run on
Feb. 2.
Mr. A. Towns’ annual sale of thoroughbred and
draught yearlings takes place to-day (Thursday) at
Richmond.
The race for 14 ft. dingies, postponed from Pyr-
mont regatta, was sailed on Saturday, and was won by
Young Jack.
At the Queensland Turf Club annual meeting,
Judge Pring was elected President, and Mr. C. S. Wein,
Vice-president.
A man was killed in a prize fight at Adelaide
last week. The principal and abettors have been com-
mitted for trial.
M. Rush declined to receive the proposed testi-
monial from Clarence River friends, on the ground that
he is not leaving that district.
The wrestling matches at the Cobar sports
resulted as follow i—First prize, J. Woolcook; second,
W. Croft; third, W. Graham.
A.8.C., whilst running at the V.B.C. meeting,
slipped and injured herself so severely that it is doubt-
ful it she will ever run again.
Jarvis, the South Australian player, is said to
have wonderfully improved in his batting, since his re-
turn to Adelaide. We liked his style here.
The fourth-class race under the auspices of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron was sailed on Saturday
afternoon, and resulted in a victory for the Mabel.
For Dr. Carver and Mr. Stuart-Wortley’s
pigeon-shooting match, on Decembers, 10s. was charged
for admission to the ground, and £1 to the enclosure.
A rowing match in Newcastle harbour on Satur-
day afternoon, between Lawrence and Blaokwall, for
£5 aside, resulted in a victory for the former by two
lengths.
Maoriland, a full brother to Hilarion, got cast in
his box at Auckland, and lot his hip down. The colt
was purchased in Sydney, when a yearling, for 270
guineas.
Venture appropriated the Marton-Eangati-
kei (N.Z.) Railway Handicap, beating the Slander
filly by a head; Wilberforoe third. The Hurdles fell
to Monk, Grey Momus second.
A wrestling match for £5O aside, between W.
Smith, of Sydney, and T. Proudlock, of Bulli, came off
on Monday week, and resulted in a victory for the first-
mentioned, who scored 3 falls to 0.
The cricket writer in an Adelaide paper, says
that “the evergreen Horan was to the front with 124,
which, in all probability, he would have added con-
siderably to, had he not been run out." Just so.
The pair-oared race in watermen’s skit's was
rowed on Thursday morning, the course being from
Cowper Wharf, round Pinchgut, and back. iThe winners,
Messrs. Knight and leleff, did the distance in 21 min.
At the Manchester Assizes in November, two
betting men, who were convicted of conspiring to obtain
the contents of sporting telegrams from telegraph
messengers, were each sentenced to six months, hard
labour.
At the second rifle match for the Mayor’s
trophy between members of the Maitland Volunteer
Infantry Corps, Private Gilligan made top score, 56,
Lieut. Sloan 55, Private M‘Phie 55, and Private
Feran 54.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club held the
second of the series of evolutions for the present season
on Saturday afternoon. About twenty boats mustered.
The weather was rough and uninviting, but the evolu-
tions wore very creditably performed.
At the Adelaide Racing Club’s meeting, on New
Year’s Day, about 8000 people attended, and £2638 was
invested in the totalisator. At the South Australian
J. C. meeting, on the same day, 1000 people attended,
and the machine reeoorded £2lOO invested.
The Australian-bred Bundoorah (by The Peer
out of Argosy) won the Ohoka and Eyreton (N.Z.) Cup,
carrying 7st, Farewell (Bst.) was second; Pippin (st.)
third; and The Lad (7st. 31b.), Dick (7st. 71b.), Can-
stance (6st.), and Fair Play (Bst ), unplaced.
Wyndham (Vic.) Eaces, Saturday.—Hurdles:
Hyllus 1, Selling Race: Glad Tidings 1. Compli-
mentary Handicap : Petrel 1. Steeplechase: Actress
IAII the other starters fell. Galloway Handicap:
Queen Mary 1. Welcome Plate : Don Quixote 1.
At the Paroo J.C. races (North), on Boxing
Day, while the stewards were otherwise engaged, an
unauthorised person (merely for a “ lark’’) started the
hack race. A new booth was burnt to the ground—
supposed to bo the act of an incendiary. Lots of fun.
Selection committees are always unpopular.
There are some people who think that even the four
captains of the rowing clubs cannot pick the best crew
for the Intercolonial Eight-oar race. If they can’t, who
can ? However, the moot point always is—will they ?
In the match for the Cleeland Challenge Cup,
the South Melbourne Club mode 360 runs—Baker scor-
ing 126, Slight 78, and Rosser 68. East Melbourne lost
five wickets for 142. In the match, Melbourne v. Fitz-
roy, Melbourne scored 450 for nine wickets —M‘Donnoll
being top, with 109.
The South Australian Jockey Club, keeping up
the war-to-the-knite business with the Adelaide Racing
Club, intend holding a meeting on the Queen’s Birthday
this year, and will offer a prize of 1000 sovs. to be run
for. The A.R.C., it is presumed, will “ pass ” on that
day.
won the Victorian Champion
Stakes, commenced this season by running second to
Sunset in the Essendon Stakes at the V.R.C. Spring
meeting, beating Tourmaline and six others ; next day
he finished fourth in the Maiden Plate, won by Tour-
maline.
A pigeon-shooting match, 21 to 28 yards, 11
birds each, is to take place at Goulburn on Anniversary
Day. It is to be a sweep of two sovereigns each, with
a purse of 50 sovereigns added, for the winner. En-
trances closed on the 18th, and the handicap will be
published on the 21st.
Barraba Races, New Year's Day:—Maiden Plate:
Elinglton 1, Skyrocket 2, Yellow Jack 3. Novel Race:
Regalia 1, Whalebone 2, Lady Beaaoly 3. Grand Handi-
cap : Rosebud 1, Yellow Jack 2, Wonder 3. Hack Race :
Sir Walter 1, Bully 2, Hector 3. Flying Handicap:
Skyrocket 1, Illumination 2, Melrose 3.
A sculling match has been arranged between
Albert White, of Mercury Bay (N.Z.), and George
Carter, of Sydney (the winner of the sculling race at
the Mercury Bay Regatta), for the sum of £5O a-side.
Albert White is to pull in Carter’s boat, and Carter to
pull in Albert White’s boat; course, 3} miles straight.
Atwo-mile walking match for .£2O, between J.
Assenheim and J, Raynor, took place at Botany on
Saturday, resulting in a win by about 60 yards for the
former, who covered the distance in 16min., the first
mile being done in 7min. 38sec. On the 28th instant
Assenheim and Q. Lindsay are matched for £5O for a
seven miles walk.
The Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Racing Club have
disqualified E. Murtagh from ever riding, training, or
entering any horse at any meeting under the auspices
of the Club, for his conduct in the saddling paddock,
for wrongful entry in the Maiden Plate, and receiving
money to pull Angler in the Hurdles at a late meeting
in the Hawke’s Bay province.
The third Australian Eleven, is likely to make
its debut at Sydney on 3rd March against the English
team. A return match is to be played in Melbourne six
days later. It is said Evans and Massie are to be in it,
and our own Charley Beal is to be manager. Charles
Bannerman, intends to accompany the team in its
English tour in a private capacity.
The Nimrod Fishing Club held its first outing
on the 12 th instant, with 37 members. 250 fish were
caught. The captain of the Commodore was presented
with a handsome tea and coffee service. Mr. E. Jones
has presented to the club a valuable gold medal for
competition during the present year. Broken Bay was
the ground chosen for the day.
The steeplechase at the Adelaide Easing Club
meeting on New Year’s Day was a series of disasters,
throe horses coming down at the first fence and all the
riders being badly bruised, C.P. broke his leg, and had
to bo shot. At the end, the remaining horses having
baulked, a great race ensued between Taraxacum and
Red Lancer, resulting in favour of the former by a short
head.
The first match of the English Eleven in New
Zealand terminated on Saturday in a decisive victory
for them. Dunedin, first innings, 84: second, 74 ;
English Eleven, first innings, 156; Bates being the
highest scorer with 58. Having but three runs to win
in the second innings, Ullyett and Barlow obtained the
number, but the team continued batting till time was
called, and made 45 for the loss of six wickets.
There was a capital attendance at the Lower
Heathcote, Canterbury (N.Z.) races. Tasman won the
Cup, Nonpareil second, Chancellor third. A protest,
which was entered by Mr. Hereford, the owner of Non-
pareil, against. Tasman, for going inside posts, was
heard by the stewards, and af.er taking evidence, it
was decided to hand the stakes to Nonpareil, the second
horse. Fleur-de-Lys won the Flying Handicap.
The Melbourne Cricket Club has accepted the
Hon. Ivo Bligh’s proposal to bring out an English Eleven
next season. The team is to consist of eight gentlemen
players—namely, the Hon. Ivo Bligh, Hon. A. Lyttelton,
Messrs. A. Q. Steel, C. T. Studd, G. B. Studd, C. P. H.
Leslie, A. P. Lucas, and G. F. Vernon,—with four pro-
fessional players, to be selected from the following:
Barnes, Bates, Barlow, Flowers, Peate, and Morley.
The London Sportsman, of December 2,
publishes the articles of the match between Hanlon
and Boyd. It was arranged to row it on the Tyne, on April
17, for £2OO aside and the championship of the world.
Boyd will not row for a higher stake, ashe is backing
himself. We fear that the match is now off, as it was
recently cabled that Hanlan and Ross are to row about
that time on the Thames, and Ross claims precedence
to row Hanlan for the championship.
The five-mile race at Dunedin (N.Z.) Caledonian
sports produced a most exciting finish—Burke, the man
at scratch, losing by two or three yards; time, 28 min.
45 sec. The Border wrestling was won by Strong, who
caused Robertson (a Maori giont) to slip his hold. In
the Consolation wrestling, Hudson also threw Robert-
son, which was a great surprise. Thornton and Robert,
son wrestled, Cornish style, half an hour without result,
when Robertson, tired out, drew off the jacket and
gave in.
The gold cup, presented by E. E. Jones, to be
run for on the Anniversary Day, at the Newcastle J.C.
races, has been on view at the manufacturer’s, Mr. Evan
Jones, of Hunter-street. The bowl is egg-shaped, and
of burnished gold, with two handles, formed of a sprav
of fern leaves, and at the apex is a silver horse and
jockey. The stem is composed of a silver fern tree,
with a gold climber entwined around it. The base is of
gold, and the cup stands about two feet high, upon a
polished ebony pedestal.
The annual meeting of the Mercantile Rowing
Club was held on the 12 th instant, The report of the
past year’s proceedings was highly satisfactory. The
following are office bearers for the present year .—Presi-
dent Hon. J. B. Watt; Vice-presidents, Messrs. R.
Fowler. C. L. Sahl, J. B. Holdsworth, C. K. Moore,
Hon. W. M. Alderson ; Captain, W. Benson; Treasurer,
E. Keddie; secretary, J. Blackman; committee : W.
G. Brett, C. A. Bros, A. P. Bros, A. W. Coker, N.
Lookyor, D. Murray, C. H. Williams, and H. E.
Wilkinson.
Bega Eaces, January 13 :—Maiden Plate :
Lily, 1. Trial Stakes: Hill Top, 1. Bega Cup: Cap-
tive 1, Rainbow 2, Sea King 3. A hard struggle for
first place. Welter Handicap: Reindeer, 1. Members*
Handicap: Sea King 1. Second Day.—Hurdles Whip,
cordl; Pluto fell at the last jump but one, and was
crippled. Town Plate: A dead heat between Captive
and Rainbow. In the run off Captive won easily.
District Purse : Warrior 1 Flying Handicap : Juram-
mic 1. Forced Handicap: Jurammeil.
The intercolonial eight-oar race is to be rowed on
one the of two Saturdays at Eaatertide. The race for the
Krug Champagne Cup is to come off six weeks after,
wards. The cup, value 50 guineas, presented by Mr. W,
Gardiner for senior oarsmen in four-oar outriggers, is to
be handed over to the club whose crew may win it for
the third time. The cup presented by the same gentle-
man, for competition by the crews from mercantile
houses, is to be rowed for annually under the'auspices
of the N.S.W. Rowing Association,
From the London Sportsman of Noy. 22 wo
glean that an association for the revival of the prize-
ring exists in the heart of London. On Sunday morn-
ings, in a den in the East-end, cock, dog, and prize
fights come off in the presence of a large number of
spectators, amongst whom are titled gentlemen and
ladies of fashion and gentle birth. The whole concern
is a kind of private club, to which only members are
admitted, and these are ef a very “ select’’ class, known
to each other by an alias,
Santa Claus appears to be a dangerous horse at
the post. In the Champion Stakes, before the start,
he lashed out at everything that came near him, and
Coriolanus narrowly escaped several kicks that were in-
tended for him. At the Victorian Club meeting, when
the horses were at the post for the V.C, Cup, the vile-
tempered brute let fly, and kicked Bouquet on the stifle.
This accounts for the backward position she held in the
race. With such an animal as Santa Claus, the starter
should take care that he is placed in a position whore
he could not interfere with other horses. Our Master
Avenel is another of the sort. He makes all the horses
waltz at the start, and the beys have to watch him more
than the starter.
On the second day of the Wiloannia J.C. meet-
ing, a match for a mile and a half over six hurdles was
made between Monarque and Actamn for £2O aside.
Actmon’s rider lost his stirrup shortly after
and had to get another. Monarque was then far
around the course, when he collided with a stranger’s
horse that ought not to have been on the track. Both
horses fell, and Monarque got away without his rider.
Act aeon then came up and finished alone, and Monarque
was afterwards caught and ridden in to the winning
post. A protest was entered against Actseon that he
had not taken one of the hurdles. Six respectable
witnesses gave evidence of his having gone round the
hurdle in question. There was no evidence to the
contrary, except that of the rider of Actceon, but the
stewards did not enter!ain the protest, the race being
decided in favour of Actoeon.
In America it is the custom to describe a person
who is slowly recovering from a heavy drinking bout,
as suffering from a big or swollen head. A contempo-
rary states that the other day a well-known character
pensively strolled into a liquor saloon, and requested
the bar tender to favour him with a “ corpse-reviver "
of extra potency. “ Look pretty sick this morninv,”
genially observed the barman, as he deftly compounded
the stimulant. “Yaas," returned the afflicted one.
“Fact is, took too much distilled corn last night.
Won big pile over Foxhall for Cambridgeshire, and
treated the boys all round. Get very big head this
morning. You mayn’t believe it," he continued, as he
incorporated the eye-opener with his system, “ but I
had to use a shoe-horn this morning to get my hat
onl”
Two matches of the second series for the
Thomson Challenge Cup were commenced on Saturday
—Osborne v. Derwent, and Surrey United v. Woollahra
Victoria. The O.C.C. made 153, of which Brown, who
recently made 120 in a contest for this trophy, con.
tributed 63, Cowcher 28, and Lucas 33. Brown has not
a prepossessing stand at the wickets, for he plays seem-
ingly with a cross bat, but as the ball reaches him he
gathers himself together. He hits splendidly, par-
ticularly on the off. This is one of the men that the
Thomson Trophy has brought into notice, and we advise
the senior clubs who are in wont of a batsman to go in
first, like Massie, to make runs, to secure him it they
can. The Derwent Club made 44; it is unlikely that
they will go on with the match. The other match will
be a closer contest; the Surrey United made 58—Jessop
21, Croker 16, Spears 10. Woollahra Victoria, 42
Holds worth 22. Surrey United, second innings, 5
wickets for 44—Deery 20, J. Searl (not out) 11. The
match will be continued on Saturday.
On Saturday on the Association Ground the
Albert and Carlton Clubs opened the contest for the
Holdsworth-Gardyne trophy. The Carlton team
succeeded in keeping the wickets during the whole
afternoon, and obtained the good score of 270. Aliok
Bannerman, by a fine display of batting, made 111, thus
making a tie with Allen for the highest individual score
yet obtained during the Cup matches. This is the third
century he has (made this season, and it is singular to
note that atrophy having been offered for the highest
scorer in these matches this season, he led off with 110.
This was beaten by Allen, with 111, Jones having got
near lit twice with 100 and 107. The next match
Bannerman again scored 110 only, but this time he
seemed certain to beat Allen’s score, but was
caught off a leg-hit at 111. Nunn played a flue innings
for 65; Callachor made 25 by some smart play, and
Webster hit up 19 in a very short time. A new Albert
bowler, J. Docker, was rather effective, and is worth
further trial; Bannerman might have been run out
when he was about 50, and he afterwards gave point a
chance.
In a conversation with a St. John Telegraph
reporter, Wallace Ross made some interesting state-
ments:—" What do you propose to do this winter,
Wallace?” “I do not expect to leave St. John, nor
will I sit in a boat. I intend to stay here until spring,
and then go on to Portland, Me. I have had an offer
from an Englishman to go across the water, but as yet
have no idea that I will accept. If I do go, it will be
for the purpose of rowing Hanlan for the Spoetsman
Cup.” * Do you think Trickett means business in his
challenge to Hanlan P’’ “It looks like a square thing,
Trickett is not given to bluff. That is one reason why
he came over here. He wanted to meet Hanlan again.
Trickett should have won his heat at Toronto. It was
so arranged that each man should round his own stake-
boat, and the Australian having rowed the others out
in going down, found that he was away from his boat
and had to pull some distance to go around it.” “ How
do you think he will compare with Hanlan ?" "In
England Hanlan was the better man of the two.
Trickett gave him a hot race for two miles, after which
Hanlan had things his own way. No doubt both were
affected by the climate over there. I think Trickett
can beat almost any man in the country. He had
a good man with him in the person of Harry Kelley. A
good race would be one in which Trickett would be
matched against either Davis, Kennedy, or Conley.”
“ How will Trickett compare with Hanlan ?’’ " Had
they rowed together at Toronto this fall, in my opinion
Hanlan would have come out second best. In condition
Hanlan should beat him. Trickett is a good man, but
has had hard luck.” "In Trickett’s challenge he
wishes Hanlan to row for the championship, and wants
your permission. What have you to say ? ” " Only
this. It is nothing to me when they row, but I do
object to Trickett competing with Hanlan for the
championship. That is a privilege I claim. I am
willing to row Hanlan to-morrow, if he likes, or he can
row anybody else; but if the title of championship is
to be decided, I intend to have something to say. But
then the championship is nothing—it will not pay hotel
bills."
During session term in a Northern court, the
other day, a budding barrister, while elegantly manipu-
lating his handkerchief, was somewhat puzzled to know
the cause of the tittering among ‘‘the uncombed,’*
until he looked at his hand, which held not a “ nose
wipe," but a baby's chemise. “ Chceur en grand silence
" ’Tis nice to be a father,” &o.
“Vigorine!” exclaimed a sad-nosed man, who
said he was a reporter for the respectable end of the
city press, and wore his own socks—" Vigorine ! what-
ever kind of stuff is that—will it make y* drunk ? ”
“ Nosir, not the lease, sir," replied the picnic waiter.
“ Well, take it out of this,” said the respectable rep.;
“ an’ gimme a long beer with jest a lump of ice in it.”
Things, as usual, passed off pleasantly—but the mud
dried, and those pants had to bo soaked a whole day
before they could sit down without looking like a
section of bog from the carboniferous period. |


WIFE IN ENGLAND-NOT IN
FRANCE.
A STORY IN ONE CHAPTER.
BY ANGUS BAMSAY.
The place —a London suburb : time—evening, in
a fine August (therefore the reader will infer that
the date is some years since, as indeed it is). An
elderly person of peculiar, but decidedly respect-
able appearance, and wearing quite a taking cap
(purchased as a remarkable bargain), might have
been Been peering London way from the window
of her best parlour, which offered better opportu-
nities for observation up and down street than
were to bo obtained in the chamber which should
have been an honest front kitchen, but which was
almost a dishonest-looking morning-room.
Her name was Gibson, concerning the English
aspect of which name nothing need be said.
“Here she is, at last!” thought the anxious
and lean, but highly respectable woman.
There was only one figure advancing along the
“ park ” at that particular moment, for it was a
lost little thoroughfare in a weedy corner of Now
Clapham, and led to nowhere. The figure in
question was that of an active and cheerful-look-
ing girl, as fresh as the fair blossoms in the pot of
balsams she was carrying, and dressed in that
close-fitting lustreless black which betokens the
more respectable of the working women of the
metropolis.
Jt was then quite half-past seven o clock.
The now-oomer smiled as she saw the figure at the
window, apd, with barely perceptible movement,
just raised the pot of balsams, for the respect-
ability of Plantagenot Park had to be unceasingly
considered. On one side the houses were those of
Tqdor Crofts; the other styled itself Guelph
Terrace. They were awfully grand in Planta-
gpnot Park, and rarely visited that they might
hide their very general poverty. There was a
lodger in nearly every house, and in some two or
three, but they were called friends, and you never
saw a notice of lodgings to let up in Plantagenet
Park. Lodgers were obtained through the medium
of the public press.
“ Well, mother, dear,” says Ellen, as she enters
the house by the little fiight of steps which leads
to the area and thence to the morning room, which
BhouJd be an honest front kitchen, “now are you?
Give me a kiss. See, I have brought you home a
beautiful pot of dowers. Why, what ails you ?”
“ My dear, the most wonderful thing in the
whole world. I have scarcely recovered my
breath yet, and it was after breakfast this morn-
ing that it was quite taken away.”
“What took away your breath, dear mother!
Here comes Mary with the tea! How glad I feel,
for I am quite thirsty. It has been so hot to-day
in the office, and the lady superintendent has been
hotter. Good evening, Mary —what is the matter
with you ? Have you had your breath taken
awa y J
“ Yes, miss. I has!” says Mary emphatically.
“ Pray forgive me, Nellie, but it was impossible
to keep the news to myself, or I should never have
got back my breath, and I have made Mary vow
not to say a word about it to any living soul.”
“ Never, mum, upon my wud !” says the serv-
ing maiden. ,
About what ?’, asks the cheery daughter.
“ About you!" says the mother.
Then, as she watches her daughter’s amaze-
ment, she says to the servant maid, quite repre-
hensively, . . , ,
“ Mary, why are you stopping ?—leave the room
Yes, mum,” says the maiden, quite meekly,
and thereupon she vanishes.
“ Now, mother, dear, let me sit down, so as not
to be completely overthrown. Here I am, on the
sofa. Now speak.” . ~
“ My dear, I have had a proposal of marriage.
“ la it possible P And you have accepted, you
wicked woman P What! am I at my ago to have
a step-father ?” . , „
" No, no. A proposal of marriage for you.
The girl was serious in a moment, and the
character of her face altered very much for the
better , ~ . , ~
“ You know, mother, that I am engaged.
“ You mean to Jess?”
“Yes: to Jesse Tilset.”
“You are truly absurd; engaged to a man
whom you do not even know to be alive. He may
have been dead these three or four years, Has he
written to you once in all that time ? ’
“ You know that he said ho would not write.
You know that he hates writing. 1 am sure that
ha is alive, and am equally certain that he will
come back.” ....
“ Complete nonsense; and even if he is alive,
and even if he came back, he would not deserve to
find you waiting for him. The idea of a sensible
man going away to Australia, and making an
agreement not to write until he was in a fair way
to possess a fortune. No girl of any spirit would
endure to bear with any such a compact.”
“ My dear mother, wisely or not, I remember
that I made it.”
“ When you were a foolish girl of seventeen,
and when you did not know your own mind. Now
that you are a woman you ought to understand
that Bn oh a promise was more than ridiculous. He
was a boy and yon were a girl. Now you are a
woman, and he, if he is alive, is aman —if, indeed,
you can call an individual a man who engages the
affections of a woman, and after never writing
onoe through four years, expects her to keep true
to him.”
“ Mother, dear, you do Jess a great wrong.
You must not judge of him as you would of
most other mortals. You should not forget that
at seventeen he was braver than most men, Think
of his telling the Rector down at the dear old
place in Kent, that the special hop tithes wore a
robbery—as they are |”
“ He was a quarrelsome and upstart young
man !”
“ Ho was a brave and frank youth, and I for one
still approve of his courage in declaring that
farming in England would soon bo impossible—he
thereupon going away to Australia (when he was
little more than a boy), to try his fortune in a
new land. I would rather wait for Jesse all a life-
time than marry any one of his bettors —if betters
he has.”
“ I am afraid that you have too much of his
spirit. You in your turn would go away and earn
your own living, although I pointed out that you
were the first woman of your family who had fallen
to such an extent as to gain her own living.”
“ Then I very much pity the family.” said the
young lady. “ My dear mother,” she continued,
“ think over it. When we left our Kent farm,
after my dear father’s death, we had ninety pounds
a year, the interest of about three thousand pounds
in Consols. Was that enough for two women to
live upon? Yes ? Perhaps ; but I preferred that
you should at least spend the greater part of your
income upon yourself, and, in a word, I became a
telegraphic woman-clerk. And here, at the end of
hree years, I am making sixty pounds a year ! It
is trne that I work pretty hard —but I like it, and
I am independent.” . ~
“There is Jesse speaking again, said Mrs.
Gibson. . , , ~ . ~
“ I could not speak with a better voice than
his.”
“ But if he were dead, do you mean to say you
would remain single all your life?”
After a pause she said slowly,—
“No. I do not say so. But I am willing to
declare that if I did not find a husband I should
not quite break my heart. Perhaps I even respect
Jeise more than I love him. But I am sure that
he is not dead.”
" And you will have nothing to say to our dear
Mr. Evan Lloyd?”
“ Oh—the offer is Mr. Lloyd’s ? I like him.
Perhaps if I had never seen Jesse Mr. Lloyd might
have pleased me more ! but I cannot think of him
is a husband ”
“Is he not respectable? Did ho not have the
best of references, and has he not been a moral
man since he has lived in my house ?”
“ Yes ; but I do not like the man well enough to
marry him.”
“ He is prosperous, he is educated, and if he
has droll ways with him you should not forget
that he has lived a good deal abroad,
foreigners are very different from ourselves.”
" By which you mean to say, dear mother, that
if he proposed to you for me, instead of to myself
in the first place (as is the practice here in Eng-
land), the act is the result of his being almost a
foreigner. That does not help him in my judg-
ment at all
“You refuse him ?”
“Yes, absolutely. Give me another of your
capital cups of tea, dear mother.”
But no girl is. in her heart, angry with a man
for proposing to her. She knows that the act is a
compliment if nothing else, while in the case in
question Miss Gibson felt that the proposal made
by Mr. Evan Lloyd was in no way one that she
should resent. Ho was obviously a person of
means, and was evidently of superior social posi-
tion to herself and her mother.
She was grateful to the man, and she almost
pitied him. It was time for her silent lover to
write or arrive, for the moment a woman begins
pitying a man it is a good augury to him
How could the active, industrious, telegraphic
woman-clerk know that the man (self-styled a
stock-broker) had learnt that she was the sole
living relation of hqr father’s only brother, a
bachelor, and a man of very considerable wealth ?
How could she know that also he had obtained
the particulars of the administration by Mrs.
Gibson to the dead father’s estate, and that be
knew as her husband he could claim two of the
three thousand pounds placed in Consols, leaving
the widow to her melancholy thirds—in this ease
just about one thousand pounds.
Unfortunately, persons of small means, es-
pecially women of limited fortunes, are all too
fatally ignorant of the laws affecting property,
and rarely for a moment think over the tremen-
dous changes made by marriage in relation to
women’s property—when the lawyers have not
been sot to work to prevent the husband becoming
the actual possessor of everything.
Mrs. Gibson said no more concerning the pro-
posal made by Mr. Evan Lloyd for her daughter.
But that perseverance which characterised her
daughter in a very marked degree had in part been
inherited from the mother, who had always been a
keen-witted woman.
She gave Mr. Lloyd an ambiguous reply, basing
her statement on the alleged belief that Ellen was
piqued at the offer not having been made directly
to herself. Thereupon, as she expected, Lloyd
offered at once to speak to the young lady. Now,
this was precisely what the mother wished to avoid.
She had been quite prepared for this suggestion
on the self-styled lover’s part, and she was equally
provided with an answer.
“ Do not speak to her for three months, Mr.
Lloyd, and I undertake to say that at the end of
that time she will accept you when you propose.”
“ It is a long time to wait,” he said, “ but true
love knows how to endure ; I will not speak to
Ellen on this subject for three months, and then I
will learn my fate ; indeed, I shall have to be in
France the greater part of this time, for my mother
is ailing, and she wishes to have me near her. I
shall go backwards and forwards during this period,
and comfort my mother all I possibly can.”
“ A good son,” said Mrs. Gibson, in recounting
to her daughter the details referring to these in-
tended journeys. “ A good son, and a good son,
my dear Nellie, generally makes a good husband
—believe me so far at least.”
Then the mother set to work to obtain from the
Embassy at Paris (through a very distant cousin
of her own, who held a post in the Foreign Office)
some information touching the family of Evan
Lloyd,
The replies were of the most satisfactory char-
acter. The father and mother, of whom the latter
was an invalid, were settled at Passy, near Paris,
where they had lived many years. They were
persons of consideration, and very well to do,
Evan Lloyd being their only child.
There appears to have been no suspicion on the
part of anyone concerned in this cruel plot to
obtain a large sura of money by way of marriage,
that the man Evan Lloyd could be any other than
an Englishman. His name was English, or suffi-
ciently English, to prevent any supposition of his
having been born out of the English Isles, or of
any other than Welsh or English parents : and he
spoke English rather bettor than did the Gibsons
themselves.
When the information gained was repeated to
Nellie she was certainly surprised.
“But, mother, why make enquiries about Mr.
Lloyd?—you know that I have no interest in him.”
“ You respect him p”
" Certainly.”
“ I am interested in him,” said the mother.
“And I should bo, for be has wished to assure a
happy home to my daughter for life, and to make
her an admirable husband—if I am not very much
deceived. I do not think I am.”
Now all this moral pressure brought to bear
upon the poor young lady (for lady she really ex-
isted), was beginning to tell. And still no letter
came from the silent and eccentric Jesse Tilset.
Then Mrs. Gibson drove her implacable and
mest rash energies in another direction—a mother
is so frequently purblind when acting in the sup-
posed interests of her children. This is especially
the case when she is the mother of only one
daughter. She put herself in communication
with Tilset’s family, with whom she had quarrelled,
and with whom she had in no way communicated
since the death of her husband, followed almost
immediately by her removal from Kent to London.
The information she finally obtained was very
startling, and, moreover, it served her fatal pur-
Eose terribly. She learned that Jesse’s two
rothers were both insane, and incarcerated in the
County Asylum. She made no inquiry into the
causes which had led to these catastrophes, or
she would have learned that the two unfortunate
young men, after losing their farm by following in
their brother’s defying footsteps, had taken to
evil courses, and had driven themselves into
delirium tremens, upon partial recovery from
which, their minds were so broken that it was
found convenient to keep them in the county mad-
house.
Mrs. Gibson fatally construed the news after
her own fashion, and shaped it to her own rash
“Would you marry a man,” she said, “who
has two brothers in a lunatic asylum? You
would not dare do such wickedness. Do you
comprehend the immense cruelty of bringing into
the world children who are condemned even in
their birth?”
This mode of reasoning on the part or the
mother formed a terrible weapon, which she used
at all possible times, and in all ways, throughout
two whole months.
So that when, in November, Evan Lloyd pro-
posed to Nellie, after waiting through the three
months with edifying meekness, she hesitated
and was lost.
“We must have a very quiet marriage, dear
Nellie,” he said. “ I hate fuss, and I know you
do.” .
She was oven then only half-hearted in the busi-
ness. Her aoceptanoe of the offer was as much
the result of growing indignation and pique at
Jesse’s silence, as of pity for the man who had so
patiently waited for her.
She quite agreed as to the advisability of a
private and an unostentatious marriage. But she
demurred to his suggestion that his father should
not be asked over to the wedding. “He is old,”
he urged, “ and he hates England. He has not
been in this country through fifty years. Again,
my mother is ailing, and he would hesitate to
leave her—for they are deeply attached, and they
have not separated for a day since they were
wedded.”
“But you are his only son,” she said; he
would like to see you married! ”
Then, after a pause, she said quickly, “ So be
it—but let us at once go to Paris after the mar-
riage, so that I may knowyour people.”
“No,” ho replied: “I should prefer that we
deferred our visit to France until the Spring —say
April, when Frgnre is quite charming.”
She yielded again. Her peculiar order of mind
prompted obedience where obedience was due.
She felt in duty bound to think as a wife, even
before she changed her name.
Upon the day of the marriage (which was almost
meanly private) and after they had left Plants,-
genet Park on their way to Bath (where this
strange bridegroom elected to pass a short honey-
moon), he said, “ By the way, Nellie dear, when
does your mother propose to pay over to me your
little fortune ? ”
“ What fortune?”
“ Your two thousand pounds ! ”
“ Surely, Evan, you do not want my mother’s
money?” t ...
“It is not hers beyond a third —it is mine; for
what is yours is mine 1 ” t
“ But she would not have enough to live upon!
“ Nonsense, —with the two thousand I shall
make more in a day than she receives in a year.
Then, again, it will come back to your mother,
since we remain in the house with her.”
Nellie said no more. But it struck upon her
heart as something wrong that her husband was
about to touch her mother’s meagre fortune, and
possess himself of two-thirds of its amount.
Upon the Thursday, as Ellen was married on a
Tuesday (a seventh of December), Mrs. Gibson
received a letter, of which the following is a
copy :
•• To Mrs. Ann Gibson, late of the Wold Farm, Chip-
ping Cray, near Ashford, Kent.
K 6 «Bth December, 187-.
"Dear Madam,
«• We have to inform you of the death, on the sixth
instant, of Mr John Esoorby Gibson, of Bloomreigh
House, near Northallerton (Yorks), and brother of
your late husband, Thomas Esoorby Gibson. This
gentleman, our client for many years, leaves a will, by
which he devises all his property to his only rela-
tion and niece, yonr daughter, Ellen Gibson, and her
heirs and successors, if Ellen Gibson should be dead.
We shall bo happy to hear from you at your earliest
convenience, and to wait upon you at any such time as
you may appoint.
MWe have the honour to be. Pear Madam, your
obdt. 8Vt.8.,
“ Summerbt and Sausbcuv,
“ Solicitors,
“ 108 b, Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London.”
Vaguely the hapless woman, who had pressed
on the marriage of her daughter to a comparative
stranger, and who had never thought of consult-
ing a lawyer in relation to this union—vaguely the
poor, almost ruined woman recalled that her hus-
band (who was a Yorkshireman) had mentioned
hia elder and half-brother, with whom he had
quarrelled when both were little more than boys—
quarrelled to part, and never to meet again.
As she thought over those long-since uttered
confidences, she remembered that her husband
had spoken of his brother as being a supplanter,
who had robbed him of all hia inheritance.
With trembling hands she put on a bonnet and
jacket, and hurried down to Lincoln Inn Fields,
that noblest of open London spaces and tree-
scapes, the enjoyment of which by the lawyers
thereabouts residing has certainly not been dei
served by them. _
When she announced herself in the outer office
she was received with marked consideration.
Let us pass over the preliminary conversation
between the meagre householder in Plantagenet
Park, and arrive at that point whence it becomes
of interest, inasmuch as it foreshadows the
iniquitous chain of events, the cruel links of
which form this strange narrative.
“ Mr. John Gibson has died rich,” said the
lawyer, Summerby,
“ Indeed, sir ; 1 only just knew that my husband
had a brother. My husband rarely spoke of him.
I am under the impression that Mr. Thomas
Gibson, my late husband, held, rightly or wrongly,
that his brother had done him a great wrong.”
“ Our client was under that impression himself,
my dear madam, and had been so for many years.
By his instructions we have kept you in sight
since you left the farm in Kent, albeit we have
never made ourselves known to you. Our client
gave us distinct directions in no way to communi-
cate with you unless we learnt that you were in
actual want. But, as you showed no signs of
poverty, acting on our instructions we have not
made ourselves known to you—doubtless it has
been our loss” —bowing politely.
“ And what is the amount of the for tube left to
my daughter ?”
“ About seventy thousand pounds Here!
Jenkins, Jones, some watpr, there I”
For the poor woman, suable to bear the great
news, had fainted.
When she was sufficiently recovered to be more
fqfiy interrogated, the lawyer said,—
“ Where is your daughter?”
“At Bath.”
“ What is she doing there E”
“ She is on her marriage trip, sir. She was
married on Tuesday }ast.”
“ Good heavens ! and our client died on Mon-
day. The news only reached us yesterday. Wo
at onoe wrote, Wednesday ; and you have called
to-day, Thursday.”
Then followed the question he was so desirous
as a lawyer, to put—
“ Whom has she married ?”
The wretched woman was forced to make the
confession, —
“ A gentleman named Eyan Lloyd, who lodged
in our house.”
“ A Welshman ?”
“ No; an Englishman, I believe.”
“ You believe; have you not been introduced to
his people ?”
“ No ; they live in Paris.”
“ Paris—it is a city not more than ten hours
away.”
And then came another question which the
cautious lawyer was most desirous of putting ;
“ Was there any settlement made of your
daughter’s property?”
“ I do not know what you mean ?”
‘ ‘ Do yon venture to say that this marriage has
taken place without any lawyer being consulted.
“ Certainly ; I never thought it necessary to sec
a lawyer. It would have cost money.”
“ But she had some property her father died
not absolutely poor and intestate.” _
“ I have three thousand pounds, sir.”
“ You have nothing of the kind —you have only
one thousand!”
“ Indeed,” she said ; and then with evident
relief after a long pause,—“ but the other two
thousands are my daughter’s, and she will remain
in my house; or, at all events, she wo aid have
stayed there, but for this wonderful change in her
fortune.”
“ I beg your pardon; if the money was not
settled upon your daughter, her husband can
claim this two thousand at any moment, as no
doubt he will. He cannot be an honourable man,
—every honourable man insists upon his wife
having a settlement made upon herself of her
property.”
“ Then he is our master.”
“ More than you think for. John Gibson died
on Monday, the day before the wedding, and
unless there is some certain clause in the will
(which I fear is not in it), then there being no
settlement, your daughter’s husband will have
absolute control over the whole of our late client s
fortune. This is very grave, Mrs. Gibson, and
your conduct has been most rash. It is clear to
me that you did not know the man who has
married your daughter sufficiently to justify such
an alliance, and you have not only given away
two-thirds of your own little fortune to a stranger,
but you have made him the master of seventy
thousand pounds, which you and your daughter
otherwise practically would possess. When—
when will people learn economy, and consult
lawyers upon every one of their important ac-
tions?” ,
“I am overwhelmed, said the good woman.
She went home far more wretched than when she
had started— albeit in the interval she had heard
of a legacy of seventy thousand pounds.
It was as the lawyer feared. There was no
clause in John Gibson’s will bequeathing his tor-
tune to his niece for her individual, solo, and
separate use, and as there was no settlement, and
as Gibson had died the day before his niece a
wedding, it was very clear that the comparatively
unknown bridegroom was master of the fortune.
Lloyd was more fortunate than oven he had
anticipated. Ho had quite counted upon the two
thousand pounds, but he had never soared above
enjoying conjointly with his wife the fortune of
the uncle, whom he had known abroad.
It was the information as to John Gibson s tes-
tamentary intentions (which Evan Lloyd had
learnt from the man himself) that had prompted
him to seek out the coming heiress, and to obtain
an introduction to her through the medium of his
position as a lodger in her mother’s house.
That was his simple plan to possess a groat
fortune. He obtained his lodging in the house by
knocking one fine afternoon at the door, and then
pretending to have mistaken the number He
had thereupon expressed the happiness he should
feel in lodging in so pleasant a home, and—in a
word —he paved his way to becoming master of
John Gibson’s wealth. .
But the great charm for him took the shape ot
wonderment at becoming so suddenly the complete
and sole owner of this vast wealth.
He had known John Gibson was doomed ; that
he was suffering from a mortal complaint. But he
never anticipated fortune would be so kind, as on
the one hand to save him from the chances of losing
this wealth by its accruing to Ellen before the
marriage (when she might change her mind) and
on the other hand to favour him by the accident
that his wife should unknowingly inherit her
fortune before the marriage—by which chance,
there being no marriage settlement, the fortune
would become his.
He determined to claim and to hold possession
of every penny of that seventy thousand pounds,
and what is more (the demon of greed holding him
by the throat), he insisted upon immediate pay-
ment of the two thousand pounds due from Mrs.
Gibson to Ellen immediately upon the marriage of
the latter.
In event of Evan Lloyd deserting the women,
they would be nothing better for the uncle’s for-
tune, while in relation to their own money they
would be two thousand pounds the poorer.
This was the position in which Mrs. Gibson's
insane desire to see her daughter married had
placed them.
Three weeks after the marriage—a time suffi-
cient for the discovery on Nellie’s part that hey
husband had no affection for her—the man
informed his two victims that his mother was
worse, and that ho mast cross the channel.
“ Let me come with you,” said Nellie.
No,'’ he said, impetuously; “ she does not
know lam married. The shock might kill her.”
Three days after there came an imperative com-
mand from Paris, directing that all the money
accruing under the Gibson bequest should bo sent
to him in Paris, at the earliest opportunity which
the lawyer could find.
On the evening of the day upon which this letter
arrived the silent and desolate house was suddenly
startled from its sobriety by u. sailing knock at
the door.
The girl Mary ha;) been sent into the town for
some necessaries, ‘and the already deserted and
impoverished wife opened the door.
Nellie, dear,” said a cheery voice, “I have
mad,e my fortune; my sheep brought me in
i*17,000 last year, and they will bring me ha
420,000, this There are heaps of fellows in Aus-
tralia make as much.” *
He had learnt these words by hestfb and recited
them many and many a star-light night conunjf
hpme on the P. 0. steamer, end as, unable to
sleep, he sat beyond tu® canvas partition which
bounded the sn\c&ins compartment on the quarter-
deck.
W And uow kiss me,” he said, “ for I am come to
take you home to Australia.”
She did not recognise the slim youth in the strong
and cheery, determined-looking man before her.
He saw no marked change in her.
* This is no exaggeration. Several Australian sheep-
farmers are in London as these lines are written, whose
ncomes are nearer £30,000 than the sums named here.


Tailors, Drapers, bo.
m
M
"ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.
JJ AYE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
238 Pitt Street?
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS.
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
484 GEORGE STREET,
DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns ore unequalled
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
KING STREET, SYDNEY
O # (two doors from George-streot),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting-
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS, Newest
styles every mail from Paris and Now York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, la. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
t A 1 KING STREET,
XU A SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway),
MADAMifwEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Drosses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child,
ren furnished with illnatra
tiona and directions for mat.
ing up. Sold at prices rang,
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stomps accepted.
Address t
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King.street, Sydney.
ULEC T R I 0 BELLS.
The Largest Assortment of—
Electric Bells, Indicators, Cells, handsome Pushes,
Gutta-percha and India-rubber covered Wire,
Magnetic Needles, Galvanometers,
Portable Showcases, Burglar Alarms, Thief
Detectors, Telephones, Electric Light Apparatus,
&0. &0., ever landed in Sydney,
now to hand, ex Altcar.
JOHN DANKS,
119 Liverpcol-street.
R. T. M U R I D G E.
DENTIST,
Graduate of Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery-
late seven years of 80 Brook-street, Grosveuor Square,
London West.
Consulting Hours— lo to 1.30.
189 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK TERRACE,
DEAFNESS ! —I have an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing corajdaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chief of the Loudon Royal
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queeu yearly subscribes
£100). Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAPORD, Auckland, New
Zealand,
WINE versus SPIRITS and BEER.—
Man requires a stimulant duringjthe Summer
season. The most natural tonic is the matured juice of
Gripes, pure and well-fermented. Medical men
recommend our high-class Wines, as they are the pick
of the best vintages throughout the Australian
colonies, and are found to strengthen the liver, promote
digestion, and invigorate the system generally. H.
HO IKINGS & CO., opposite City Bank, Pitt-stroot,
Sydney.
B
UEKB, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AG
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
BROOK S SEWING COTTON,
MELTHA M
NEAR HUDDERSFIELD,
ES
TBEADE MARf
MILLS,
ENGLAND.
THE following liafc of EXHIBITION PHIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
manufactured by them
THE ONLY PRIZE MEDAL. LONDON EXHIBITION, 1851.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS PRIZE MEDAL, PARIS EXIBITION, 1855.
PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1867.
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OP HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873.
MEDAL AND AWARD. PHILADELPHIA, 1876.
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA, 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYDNEY, 1880.
ASK FOR BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
afsflas
9 MACQUAEIE PI ACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTOEY,
BON-ACCORI
WOEKS,
This is the most effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac. • is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelhgent lad with perfect; safety.
This Q4B is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace •
in some cases almost nil Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. ’
TA.LLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in perferenoe
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, Ac. Shipments Received month!r
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER,
LATE SPORTING.
.£7O surplus from the late Adelong J.C. meeting.
Cartliona C.C. beat Callan Park C.C. by 23
runs.
The Grafton Regatta ia fixed for Queen’s
Birthday.
A two days’ racing is fixed for Moruya on 26th
and 27th inst.
Strathearn v. Hero of Waterloo. S C.C. 71—
Syddens 30. H.W.C.O. 46.
Our Boys v. Australian. 0.8.C.C. 32 ; Au s *
tralian 20. The lowest scores of the season.
Mr. F. Thomas is to be starter and Mr. J. P:
Qarvan umpire for the New South Wales Natlona 1
Eogatta.
A publican at Sandhurst was fined £1 with
£3 3s. costs for conducting a totalisator on the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Arundel v. Lassetterand Co.’s Junior Club was
won by the Arundel C.C. in one innings with 13 runs to
spare. Hannibal took 6 wickets lor 1 run.
The English Eleven defeated the Oamaru
Twenty-two by one innings and 29 runs. The English
score was 146, Midwinter being top score with 40.
Corio v. Parramatta Alfred, at Parramatta.
P.A.C.C., 74—Sweeny 22, Butter 14, Miller 11, Hayes 10,
C.C.C , four wickets for 103—Burton 23, J. Smith 32,
Melly (not out) 23, W. Smith (not out) IS.
The Referee, in noticing R. W. Boyd’s
letter, intimating that he is ready to visit Anstralia,
suggests that he should first visit Canada, where, if be
is really anxious for his country’s sake, much better
business can be done.
Messrs. Massie, Faithful, and Beal have been
again appointed selection committee for the coming
cricket matches. They made a good choice last time,
but it is hoped that, for the sake of appearances, they
will attend some of the practices.
A match for £25 a side takes place at the Cross
Roads Hotel, Liverpool,on Saturday, 21st inst., between
Mr. J. Lackey’s horse, Toby, and Mr. H. Stanfield’s
True Blue. True Blue is also to meet Mr. Williams’
Reuben in a spin for £5 a side the same day.
Sir John is to be asked to place a further sum
on the Estimates for the repair of the Domain Ground,
This ground, upon which thousands of rounds had been
expended was destroyed, but it was offiioialy promised
that it should be restored it to its cricketing condi-
tion. Se far, only £3OO has been granted.
A hop-step-and-jump contest, for £lO aside,
was to have taken place on Saturday afternoon last, on
the Liverpool cricket ground, between Byrnes, of South
Creek, and Nicholson, of Appin. At the appointed
time, only Byrnes and his friends put in an appearance,
so the match fell through, to the disgust of many who
had ridden miles to be present. Byrnes covered forty-
five feet recently on the Association Ground.
The handicap pigeon match at Inverell, on
Saturday, was won by Mr. A. Baldwin, of Tamworth,
Mr. C. Baldwin second. Mr. Qraney, of Vegetable
Creek, bet Mr J. K. Doyle, of Tamworth, £5O to £4O
that he would not shoot 30 birds out of 50, 25 yards’
rise and 80 yards’ boundary. The event came off on
Monday, when Mr. Dayle lost, shooting only 28 birds.
Another match £lOO to £9O, same conditions, is to take
place in March,
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
It was elicited during the hearing of an assault
case at Maryborough (Vio.) the other day, that bribes
had been offered to competitors to jostle some of the
runners .Alexandria v. Hkbald Office. A.C., 50—
Eidley 15, Jas. Macintosh 11. H.0.C., 28—Green 12.
For the A.C. John Macintosh took six wickets for 13
runs, and H. Ellis accomplished the “ hat trick."
The first excursion of the Nimrod Club took place on
the 12th instant —37 went out in the Commodore,
weather bad, schuapper scarce. A tea and coffee service
donated to Captain Francis, and a gold medal promised
by E. E. Jones for competition daring the season.
After deep sea fishing off North Hoad and Broken Bay
a return to Sydney was made in daylight.. The Bin-
gera and Barraba clubs meet at Barraba on Anniversary
Day. The latter club intend te bring their best eleven
into the field to “paste" the demon bowlers of the
Bingera team.
A Bavarian private has been sentenced to
three days' imprisonment, because he applied the
epithet of “You villanons beast 1” to the baulking horse
of one of the officers. The charge against him was
“unbecoming behaviour towards an officer’s horse I”
She stood mute, horror-stricken—overwhelmed
With the weight of the error she had committed.
“ I—l am married, Jesse,” she said at last, in a
strange voice.
He suddenly leant against the door-post of the
villa. But he said in a very short time, and in
quite a steady voice, “ How long have you been
married?”
“ Not a month,” she replied, in a tone of utter
despair.
“ Lord pity mo,” he said; “if I had not missed
the last boat.”
For, keen man as he was, he did not require to
be told that her marriage was a failure.
“ Where is he?” he asked.
“He has gone away to Paris. Will you not
come in? ”
“ Yes,” he said sorrowfully.
What a “ coming home ” it was ! Yet, in the
depths of his despair, he only reproached himself
that he had clung to his boyish promise not to
return or write to her until he was on the high
road to fortune.
“Mother,” she said, opening the door of the
little parlour, where sat Mrs. Gibson (who had
aged considerably in the past week or two)—
“ Mother, hero is Jesse come home,”
Poor creature! She was far more affected than
her daughter.
“ Well, mother,” atlast said the rough-seeming,
careless, and burly, honest-looking young Austra-
lian millionaire—“ I have no home but this, and
while I am in England I hope I may stay with you.
I am afraid I shall not trouble you long.”
“ Certainly, Jesse,” said the poor repentant
woman, alljtrembling. “ Certainly—l have always
looked upon you as one of the family. You will
stay with us while yon are at home.”
“ You mean from home —my home is in Aus-
tralia. Or, rather, it was—for I am afraid it is
broken up now, mother.”
“ Sit down,” says Nellie ; “ I will get you some
tea.”
Tea ! It is always an honest woman’s consola-
tion in all her afflictions —a cup of tea.
She was glad to escape from the room.
Then J esse spoke more freely.
“ I hope he ia a good husband. Is he doing
well ? If not, I’ll help him if he likes—you do not
look very well off here. Excuse my roughness :
it’s a way we have in the colony. Is he poor ?
What is he ? ”
“We are not poor,” said Mrs. Gibson. “On
the contrary, we have become very rich. An uncle
has left Ellen £70,000. But her husband claims it
all as his.”
“ Why is he in Paris ? Is he a Frenchy ?’ ’
“No; his name is Evan Lloyd. It is a Welsh
name.”
“ But why does he go to Paris ? ”
“ His father and mother are there.”
“ Why doesn’t he take hia wife with him ? ”
Mrs. Gibson shook her head.
The keen, fearless, if unpolished, Australian
sheep-farmer shook hia head.
“Heis a bad one, mother. But you rely on me.
I’ll pull you through ; and if the worst comes to
the worst, you must go back both of you—all three
of you, if you like, to Australia. I’m not jealous,
though I am out up a bit severe. If he wants
help, lam there. I’ll do it for her sake, for I’m
all alone—all alone in the world.”
Three weeks after the arrival of Jesse Tilset in
England he was on his way to Paris, practically as
the agent of poor Mrs. Gibson, to ascertain why
Evan Lloyd did not return to England, or write to
his wife.
He had been too busy making his fortune to have
improved his education, and therefore he did not
speak a word of French. It was necessary to em-
ploy an interpreter ; and, armed with this conver-
sational help, he started for Passy, having once
reached Paris.
The house of the elder Lloyd was soon found.
A crowd was seen about the gate-entrance, which
was occupied by a carriage.
“ It is a wedding going on,” said the inter-
preter.
Jesse directing him to make inquiries, the
amazed Australian heard that one Evan Lloyd
was about to be married to a young French heiress.
No—although ho had an English or rather Welsh
name, he was not British. He had been born in
Prance, And, as his father had become a natural-
ised Frenchman immediately after his marriage
with a Parisian lady, the son was essentially a
Frenchman, although he spoke English like an
Englishman.
That misfortunate Australian followed to the
church, and saw the man who not two months
previously had married Ellen Gibson in England,
go through the ceremony of marriage with a French
girl in a Paris church.
The hapless man dropped in a state of uncon-
sciousness. When he recovered, ho learned from
his interpreter that the marriage party had entered
the sacristy for the purpose of signing the usual
documents.
The ceremony was over.
He waited therefore until the marriage party
left the registry, and then he said, as the white-
faoed bridegroom was passing—
“ Scoundrel—how long is it since you were
married in England? ”
Amongst the whole marriage party only the
bridegroom and his father spoke English.
The bridegroom turned angrily—to see only a
stranger.
“ I was her lover, you stole her from me, and
now you desert the poor girl.”
“ Stand on one side, fellow.”
“ Fellow! ”
The next moment the church was echoing with
cries of alarm and with piercing shrieks, for the
strange rough-looking man had sent the miserable
bridegroom sprawling. Need it be said, that the
luckless Australian was arrested and taken to the
nearest station-house ?
Next day, before the “ Judge of First Instance,”
he explained the circumstances. The judge shook
his head, and said (through Jesse’s faithful inter-
preter), “ All this is very sad, but there is no
remedy. We do not recognise the marriages of
young Frenchmen while out of France, to foreign
women. Tell the prisoner he is at liberty.”
The Australian, (much cast down) then and
there, despite his interpreter’s entreaties, insisted
upon calling upon the elder Lloyd. Having heard all
the circumstances, the father said—
“lam a legal Frenchman—so is my son. French
law does not recognise the marriage of a French
subject abroad, unless the proper legal permission
on the part of the father and mother has been
given. I never gave that permission. I would
rather die than see my son the husband of an
English woman.”
“ But he is,” said Tilset.
“He is—in England. In France he was my un-
married son yesterday morning. By mid-day he
was the husband of a Frenchwoman.”
“ But he has committed bigamy ! ”
“ Not in France. He may be a bigamist in the
eye of English law.”
“ But he has taken his English wife’s fortune.”
“If England permits him to do this, so much
the worse for England.”
And with this shameful news, the hapless
Australian millionaire returned to England.
Need it be said that recourse was had to Mr.
Summerhy, the Lincoln’s Inn Fields lawyer.
“ Yes,’’ said the lawyer, “It is so. If English
girls will be so rash as to marry foreigners, especi-
ally Frenchmen, they must bear with the con-
sequences.”
‘‘But, sir,” said Jesse, pleading probably for
himself, “ cannot my poor friend obtain a
divorce? ”
“ No, for he has not deserted her, since he sends
you, Mrs. Lloyd, a miserable pound a week. The
English law can take no cognizance of his behavi-
our out of England. At law, your husband has
done yon no harm. He is here yonr legal husband,
and can claim in England all his legal rights over
you, while he corresponds with you, and sends you
money, no matter how little. And at the same
time he is in France legally the husband of the
French girl he has married.”
“ But cannot we prevent him taking all our
property? ”
“ No ; by a cruel chain of circumstances he is
absolute master ot your daughter’s fortune.”
“If that ia English law,” said Jesse, “tad-
vise you two to come away with me to Australia,
and live amongst my droves of sheep.”
“ That is precisely what I should advise them to
do, Mr. Tilset,” said the lawyer, “though it is
very improper legal advice. Your husband, Mrs.
Lloyd, has you and your property completely in
his power; and at law, while he supplies you with
the bare necessaries of life, you have no remedy
against him whatever. This comes of marrying a
foreigner,”
“ I thought him an Englishman ! ” said the
poor girl.
“ You should never think, my dear young lady;
yen should make sure. I strongly advise you to
escape (that is the word) from England—with your
mother he it understood, and to accept Mr. Tilaet’s
offer. Your husband has really deserted you ; his
French wife will be wretched, so debauched ia he ;
and the man will spend every penny of your for-
tune before he dies of hia dissipation.”
The two women, poor victims, took the lawyer’s
advice and fled from England—under the guar-
ianship of Mr. Tilset.
Unfortunately, Mrs. Gibson died within the
year. It would be useless to record here the re-
sult of the scandalous condition of international
marriage law between France and England as it
affected Ellen’s position in Australia.
Both she and Jesse were honestly the victims
of a legal complication of the most monstrous
kind.
Happily, as these lines are written, such com-
pensation as the present can make to the past has
been made, and Ellen, widow of Evan Lloyd, is
the wife of Jesse Tilset. But they are not received
in the best Australian society.
The ruffian, Evan Lloyd, died as the lawyer
anticipated he would expire, of sheer dissipation.
Long before his death he deserted his French wife.
When he laid down hia worthless life every penny
of Nellie’s legacy had been spent.
It is to be hoped that the time is soon coming
when the two countries, France and England, will
come to this simple and natural arrangement;
that a marriage recognised as legal in the country
where it is contracted, shall be accepted as legal
in the other.
In the meantime, every English girl who marries
young Frenchman under twenty-five, and with-
out the written permission of his father and
mother —and (possibly) even his grandparents, is
his wife in England only. In France she is his
mistress.
Here has been set out some account of the life
of a woman who by nature and inclination was
perfectly upright and honourable. But the com-
bined actiou of the law of France and of England
in relation to her marriage, ruined her, disgraced
her, robbed her legally of every penny she had in
the world. Finally it forced her away to Australia
under conditions of social degradation which this
woman, (most honest at heart) will never surmount.
Her life should be a warning to all English and
Australian girls to aveid marriage with Frenchmen
—except where the lawyers settle preliminaries.
Even under those circumstances such a marriage
is not likely to ha too happy.


/"'t LIFFORD, LOVE,
TEA IMPORTER!
EASTERN and COMMISSION
Receive regular Consignments, and
TEAS—INDIAN, all Qualities ;
from RATION to the F
CONGOUS.
It has always been their aim to im;
FIRST CROP PURE 1
and their thorough knowledge of the
them to guard their constituents f
being purveyors of what is in Chi
"LIE TEA.”
The wisdom of their policy of imp
FIRST CROP PURE '
although at the disadvantage of smi
selves, has been most gratifyingly
large trade in New South Wales, <
Australia, Tasmania, &o., where t
aware of the many advantages which
combined with the highest skill, is e
CLIFFORD, LOVE, A!
are the importers of
CELEBRATED TABBING
and
MOGUL MIXTUB
CLIFFORD, LOVE,
79 YORK STREET, SY
H N D
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswr
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric I
Butchers’ Brine Pu
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, 4t(
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
MARTIN & Fi
1HF0RMA’
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our customers and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered, gfl
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI-
CAN Makers we now notify that wo are .... —
AGENTS eoe
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie’s 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
READ
OUR Bi
Before Orde
send foi
Our Price I
AND
All Particul
MARTIN
and PI
389 Georgi
SYDNE'
Intending Pure
Cutters offered tt
INE BUNCLB.
John Bunole. o
his Chaff Cutters,
cast on fly-wheel
faoture.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE S
X
SILVER^. 'WATCHES
FROM jj.4,10.
/,e i uriiNC
9. 11 HUNTER •S.T
-ches SYDNEY.
send for
CATALOGUE^
fTIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REA
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syd
MOST PLEA:
Wanted to b:
that the best cleans:
TANT and Deodoriser for tl
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DIS
can be found by n
PANTER AND PARRY^SN
which not only contains th
dients for the greatest cleai
ever yet introduced to the
composed in its mauufacturi
best disinfectants.
(MADE J-UEE1VJEOK
known, and admitted in all
throughout the globe. Comb
it is free from all injuxiou
pie ug smell, will not injur
3 X e hands, is the greatest
laoour, rendering any article
with o th purest whiten;
marvellous short space of tirr
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed f(
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crocke
Paint, Floors
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which i
EACH PACKET, which m
from all Grecers and Storek
OUtt WORK8f*W GEORGE
IN THE WOF
Dispense Prosoriptions cheat
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English pn
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spong
aix kinks op nanooisTS' i
Send for a Price List. Country
ally attended to. Don t forget
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s Now Bi
W. KER
MANUFACTURING i
WATCH AND CLOCB
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s (
Medals of every description, Masc
sentation Trowels designed a
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT
A Hew and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, from
118
KING STREET S
s
STANDARD
p\eADV-MA0E-3UITS
UAUTY VACHTING
g\c~j'"5 tl-A "*'* T X
unWasseo \Cncl4eting
Picnicing
‘' Standard ” Summer Tweed Suits *“_2 c
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 1 1Z £
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 u
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits }}r n
“ Standard ” Superior ditto ... * 15 °
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats ,
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
PEAPB8 & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FEAFES and SHAW, PEAPES an
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH1
The Universal s e wm
Haa all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New


SUPPLEMENT
TO
THE BULLETIN.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1882.
SATURDAY. JANUARY 21, 1882.
The Business Enterprise of Sydney.
The prodigious strides which are being made in
the development of trade in Sydney are deserving
the special recognition of the Press, Matters
of social interest, the various departments of
literature, art, and sport, receive the fullest atten-
tion each week in almost every newspaper
published in the metropolis, but our great
industries and businesses, from which all else
derives its vitality, are almost completely ignored.
The Bulletin, however, inaugurates the new
year with a fresh departure in this issue with pen
and pencil, and brings to the front some of the
active business enterprises of the metropolis.
Continuing this work in the best style of art,
substantial results may be expected for the ener-
getic man of business. With these few observa-
tions, we place before our readers our special
illustrated supplement. The articles descriptive
of the various businesses are well worth perusal.
They indicate to the public the establishments
most worthy of their patronage, and in addition
give to the trade in general some new ideas
necessary to the creation of an extensive and
prosperous business.
The Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L.C.
The portrait which we give with this issue of The
Bulletin is that of a gentleman whose features
will be recognised probably by a larger number
of persons than that of any other man in this
colony who has led a life equally unobtrusive.
The Hon. John Brown Watt has been for so
many years the presiding spirit in the firm of
Gilchrist, Watt, and Co., and that firm has taken
so extensive a part in pastoral enterprise, not only
in this but in the neighbouring colony of
Queensland, that the features represented by our
portrait will be familiar to a multitude of per-
sons from the banks of the Murray to the shores
of Carpentaria. Mr. Watt was born in Edin-
burgh, in the year 1826, and educated at a public
school, to which he was sent while yet a child of
7, on the death of his mother. When he was
but a little over 14, he entered as a student at the
University of Edinburgh, in accordance with the
Scotch practice of sending to the University boys
who in England would still be under the dis-
cipline of a grammar school. While yet in the
full business of studying “ the humanities,” as
the dead languages” have been termed in Scot-
land from time immemorial, even earlier than
the period when Sir Walter Scott has represented
Dugald Dalgetty as acquiring that culture at the
Marischal College, Aberdeen, the youth was
offered an oportunity to accompany his uncle, the
late John Gilchrist, to Sydney. He availed him-
self of the opening, and arrived in Sydney in the
year 1842, forthwith entering the office of Messrs.
Gilchrist and Alexander, with which firm (sub-
sequently changed in style by the substitution of
his own name for that of Mr. Alexander) he has
been ever since connected. It is nothing new,
assuredly, in the domestic histories of colonists,
for a prosperous uncle to bring out from the old
country a young nephew, and taking him under
his wing, afford him a chance of working out,
under favourable conditions, a career for himself.
But, equally, there is nothing new in the young
relative, thus favoured by the good luck which,
especially among Scotchmen, flows from practical
appreciation of the maxim that “ bluid is thicker
than water,” neglecting his opportunities, losing
his head, and converting affection and interest
into annoyance and disappointment. Young Mr.
Watt was, however, not a lad of the racketty
kind. Ho settled to his work from the outset,
and by diligent devotion to business rapidly made
himself acquainted with the details of every-day
business, and became an indispensible assistant to
the firm. His steadiness and industry were
enhanced and supported by a decided natural
bent for business which, when the young man’s
exertions and seryices were rewarded by admission
as a member of the firm, fuller scope for develop-
ment was afforded rapidly won for him
the honourable but arduous position of
managing partner. Twenty years ago the firm of
Gilchrist, Watt, and Co., was (if our memory
serves us) constituted—apart from any sleeping
share which the founder, Mr. Gilchrist, then in
retirement in the old country, may have retained —
of Messrs. J. B. Watt, John Young, and John
Taylor. Both the latter were considerably senior
in point of years to Mr. Watt, and each was a
man of approved experience and ability in
mercantile circles, but the youngest of the trio,
the subject of this notice, was, even then, the
presiding and moving spirit. His unceasing
energy pervaded every department. Yast as
were the transactions of the firm—embracing
mercantile enterprises, shipping affairs, and
especially squatting agencies in every part of N.S.
Wales and Queensland —Mr. Watt was master
of every detail. The more important correspon-
dence was almost entirely written by his own pen,
and his bold caligraphy was well known on a
hundred stations. The Hon. Mr. Watt has at
no time thrust himself forward as a sseker after
prominence or local distinctions. Such honours
as have fallen upon him have sought him, not he
them. In 1861 his position in the community
was already a prominent one, for although he had
never courted notoriety, ho had participated in
every description of legitimate mercantile enter-
prise, and had taken a share in nearly every
movement to promote the interest of commerce,
not escaping an occasional touch of the infection
of prevailing speculative follies. In this year,
when the Legislative Council was given its present
form, Mr. Watt was nominated a member, among
the first creation of life members under the
present Constitution of the colony, Sir John
Young being the Governor, and Sir Charles
Cowper Premier. Mr. Watt resigned his seat on
going home in ill health, in 1866, but shortly after
his return in 1868 the Government re-appointed
him a member of the Council, and he has assisted
at its deliberations ever since. Mr. Watt’s solid
judgment, equable temper, and inaccessibility to
epidemic crazes and the passing passions of the
hour, render him a valuable legislator. His wide
commercial experience and the acquaintance
which he brings to bear upon almost every aspect
if mercantile affairs, have pointed him out as the
chief representative of the commercial interests
of the port and city of Sydney alike in and out
of Parliament. At the present time Mr. Watt
is Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce, a fact
which gives particular appropriateness to the
place which his portrait occupies in the front page
of the first distinctively business supplement
issued by The Bulletin, The engraving is from
a photo, by Newman, Oxford-street.
Alexander Munro, Esq., J.P.
Indomitable energy, combined with industry,
enterprise, and perseverance, is the national
characteristic of Scotchmen. They succeed in
life, both a!* home and abroad, because as a rule
from early age they resolutely aim at success,
and seldom falter in its attainment. The means
to the end may in the beginning be very insigni-
ficant —often ludicrously out of proportion to
the result—but men duly penetrated with the
force of the axiom, that “ every mickle mak’s a
muckle,” and who, in consequence, utilise all
resources (including lucky chances), are sure
to crown their efforts at last, by reaching the
desired goal. We have a remarkable instance of
these remarks in the career of the gentleman
whose genial features adorn our second page to-
day, and the simple story of whose life reflects a
very obvious moral. Alexander Munro was born
at Campbelltown, near Port George, Invernes-
shire, on the 9th August, 1812. His father was
a builder, and wished to bring his son up as an
architect; but the youth, after leaving school,
yearned for a wider field of activity, and accord-
ingly left Scotland in his sixteenth year for
this colony. He made his colonial start at
Singleton, in March 1830, when it was a petty
hamlet. He became , a carrier, and prosecuted
the business with zeal for nearly three years,
diversifying its monotony by a dash at specula-
tion in buying and selling teams. Ho added to
his humble means by periodic progresses over the
Northern districts as a shearer, and was never
once—his proudest boast —lambed down. Ho
next opened a grocer’s and baker’s shop in the
town he was afterwards to serve so signally, and
subsequently, the Sir Thomas Mitchell Inn,
which he himself conducted for a considerable
time, till he found that as the reward of
many years’ hard work, he could venture on
pastoral pursuits. The first station he purchased
was New Audle, on the Bundarra River, after-
wards Tarrieroo, formerly held by Sir John
Robertson, and finally Woolabra, from the late
Mr. Thomas Parnell. Mr. Munro found him-
self in a pecuniary position, some sixteen years
ago, to gratify a long-cherished object of his
ambition —to establish a vineyard, which he
hoped would be famous in many lands—at least,
he determined to make it so ; and when a man of
his temperament and pluck resolves on a thing
it is sure to become an “accomplished fact.”
Bebeah vineyard is situated about a mile from
Singleton, and forms a bright spot in a flat mono-
tonous landscape. The plant is of the most ap-
proved modern kind, and the oellerage capacious
and well-ventilated. The vast iron-bound casks
contain 125,000 gallons of wine, consisting of
red and white hermitage, port and sherry, claret,
reisling, pineau, champagne, and other “ blood
of the grape.” One fact is better than a column
of laudation. Mr. Munro has received 130 first
prizes at various Exhibitions, the principal being
Paris, Melbourne, and Sydney. Ardesire House,
built on a gentle elevation, near the vineyard, is
the residence of the proprietor, and a hospitable
retreat for many a wayfarer. It is not by the
wine industry alone that Mr. Munro is making
Singleton one of the leading Northern towns;
he has by his unaided efforts lighted it with gas.
When in Europe, two years ago, he purchased a
complete gas plant, and on his return built the
necessary premises. Some six or seven weeks
ago, the town was first lighted with the purest
gas in the colony, got from coal procured in the
neighbourhood. Mr. Munro’s services to Single-
ton have been several times gratefully recognised
by its inhabitants. On his departure for Eng-
land, he was entertained at the largest banquet
ever given in the Northern districts, presented
with a flattering address, which, unlike most
documents of the kind, was true, because it con-
sisted mainly of a statement of facts—to wit,
what Mr. Munro had done for the town and
district, and over three thousand people assembled
to bid him “God speed” on his journey. He
was first (and twice afterwards) Mayor of the
Borough, is Yice-president of the local Asylum
—a patron of the hospital, a neat and well-ap-
pointed building—towards which he has contri-
buted munificently—one donation being £looo—
is a magistrate of the territory. He has
been frequently asked to offer himself as a candi-
date for Parliament, but his sterling common
sense taught him to shun the doubtful honour,
and keep on the “ even tenour of his way,” im-
proving his valuable property, and doing good to
others as a large employer of labour. He is, al-
though a septuagenarian—halo and hearty,
and has in his active mind several “canny
schemes ” for the good of the town where he
first won the smiles of fortune. He was married
in 1842, to Miss Sophia Lover ; only one of their
children survives, a daughter, who married Mr,
Henry Levien, M.P, Would it not be “gild-
ing refined gold” to add a word of eulogy on a
career bo bright as that of Mr. Munro ? *
Mr. Charles Kidman.
The portrait on page 8 is that of one of the
foremost of the enterprising business men of
Sydney. During the last few years this gentleman
has completely revolutionised in Sydney the par-
ticular line of trade he has conducted, and while
amassing a competency for himself and family,
has conferred no small benefits on the community
of this great metropolis. Wo have had a Free
Trade port for the last thirty or forty years, but
it has only been during the last ten years when
THE HON: J. B. WATT, M.L.C.


Mr. Kidman entered extensively into business
that the people reaped in the grocery and pro-
vision line the full benefits of our liberal fiscal
system. It can be stated, without fear of dis-
proof, that in these particular lines Mr. Kidman
lowered the price of living in Sydney fully 25
per cent.; by one swoop be reduced the great
staple of life more than 50 per cent, and all the
large bakers were reluctantly compelled to follow
suit. Having in this particular branch made a
pronounced success Mr, Kidman undertook to
establish in all the populous quarters of the
city, grocery stores run on the cash principle.
Many people will remember the sensation caused
by Mr. Kidman’s radical reductions. He was,
virtually, the originator of the cash system, by
which he was able to undersell all competitors,
and, moreover, by this new departure in the
retail trade, he imparted to the people ideas of
frugality and providence that have manifested
themselves in a variety of ways all over the city.
Mr. Kidman had seven large establishments in
the city: —No. 1, at Oxford-street; No. ?, at
Paddington ; No. 3, at Campbell and Castlereagh
streets ; No. 4, at William-street; No, 5, at
Lower George-street; No. 6, at Parramatta-
street; and No. 7, at George and Market streets.
Here all the articles for household consumption
are obtainable at a tremendous reduction on
the ruling figures. Extensive purchases for cash
enabled Mr. Kidman to effect the desirable
changes with which he is justly credited. Mr
Kidman was born in England, and arrived in this
colony in 1845, and commenced business in Sep-
tember of that year. He has been twenty-nine
years in business, and attributes his success to
the cash system, there not being now £5OO owing
to him in connection with the transactions of
that lengthened period. In fact, an active and
judicious employment of a large capital, always
at his command, is the secret of Mr. Kidman’s
success. He has never once in this respect
been in the slightest manner hampered,
for the last twenty-six years he has car-
ried on large Government contracts, supply-
ing the various Government institutions at
figures that no one else could compete with. A
large milling business was likewise conducted by
him. Mr. Kidman has now retired from
business ; but he has signalized this act by
erecting in our city one of the finest structures
that characterises new Sydney. Recently Mr.
Kidman purchased a grand block of land, extend-
ing from George-street to York-street, with an
uninterrupted frontage to Market-street. The
old houses which once occupied the ground have
disappeared, and as if by magic, lias sprung up the
splendid edifice shown in the accompanying
engraving. This range of buildings is the
loftiest in Sydney, ranging as high as five storeys.
They are built to afford at the basement splendid
sites for business, and overhead capital con-
veniences for offices, stores, &c. Mr. Kidman’s
son, who succeeds to the business, occupies the
George and Market street corner, and the other
portions of the establishment have been promptly
secured for other lines of trade. Mr. Kidman
superintended the erection of the buildings him-
self, and thus concluding his thirty-five years of
active industry in the colonies, well deserves the
holiday he proposes shortly to himself in the
shape of a trip to England, his birthplace. Our
portrait is from a photo, by Boake of the Arcade.
The New Davis Sewing Machine.
Me. B. O. Holtermann’ s visit to Europe and
America, some few years ago, was of manifest
advantage to this colony. At the expense of some
hundreds of pounds, he got together the largest
and finest collection of photographs of Australian
views ever known, and, at his own further ex-
pense, exhibited them at Paris, Vienna, and
Philadelphia. He thus did more to advertise the
wealth and greatness of this colony than all the
officials, English or colonial, that ever drew a big
screw in the name of patriotism and importance.
He opened up fresh trade in many ways, and
having his eyes open to the special requirements
of his own adopted land, secured one or two
agencies—the extensive trade in which has since
justified his predictions, and done justice to his
practical common-sense. Ho was the first to
introduce the now popular Austrian furniture to
this market, and he selected, at Philadelphia,
the celebrated New Davis Sewing Machine;
several other articles, new to the Australian
market—notably German and Austrian art manu-
factures —out his chief success, is, as it deserves
to be, the famous Davis Sewing Machine. This is
an entirely new invention, its great principle, as
claimed by the inventor, being the vertical feed.
By this means the very best description of work
is done, the upper and under ply of the goods
being carried along simultaneously and with the
greatest exactitude, ensuring even and durable
work throughout. The inventor claims this as
one of his greatest triumphs, and innumerable
exhibition experts and tradesmen unreservedly
endorse his statement. The inventor has intro-
duced the best steel for all the working parts, and
he has reduced these working parts to a minimum.
All the old complicated notions are rejected for
the simplest mechanism, in the Davis Machine,
and it has virtually no under works to look after,
or to get out of order. Its nine-inch arm enables
it to do the greatest variety of stitching, from the
lightest cambric—through all grades of fabric —to
harness leather ; and do it so well that the same
machine may be used either in manufacturing or
family sewing, with equal facility. It excels in
hemming, felling, tucking, braiding, cording, bind-
ing, quilting, ruffling, &c., for all which it has
attachments especially adapted. At the Sydney,
Melbourne, and Adelaide Exhibitions, the New
Davis was awarded first prizes and gold medals,
after an arduous contest and a most critical ex-
amination. The agency is in good hands with
Mr. Holtermann, who is a sterling man of busi-
ness, likely only to be associated with what should
and must be a complete success. The business of
the firm is carried on at 671 Georgc-street, Sydney.
The Wonderful Wertheim Sewing
Machine.
One of the descriptions of sewing machines that has
of late come prominently into notice is the Wertheim,
an appliance which, the inventor claims, has manv new
and practical features, and combines the best points of
the other improved machines. The Wertheim is
certainly a marvel of compactness, elegance, and
strength, and bears the stamp of thoroughly honest
manufacture. The inventor has aimed at providing an
appliance which, with pare, would last for years, and
which would he thoroughly adapted to all descriptions
of household work, from the coarsest to the most
artistic proauction. Its various parts are made with
the utmost accuracy, and of superior metal, to impart
unequalled durability; they are adjnsted in the simplest
manner, and work with surprising correctness and ease.
The machine is so constructed as to be secure from
break of any kind in the event of aecident or sudden
stoppage while working. A self-acting bobbin-winder
is supplied with each machine, by means of which the
bobbins are filled as evenly as reels of cotton, without
the operator touching it or even holding the thread.
Eighty yards can bo put on at one time, thus saving the
frequent removal of the shuttle, and consequent loss of
time. Patent drop rollers are provided, so that the
machine may be wheeled about at will ; and
the patent has this peculiarity, namely, that with a
slight touch of the foot the machine; when about to be
used can be brought down on its own solid feet. The
tables are beautifully finished, and are each stamped
with a yard measure. In fact, the machine is brought
as near to perfection as mechanical ingenuity, large
capital, and minute supervision can make it. The auto-
matic machinery which finishes the parts is designed
and patented by Joseph Wertheim himself, and the
work of manufacture is carried on by managers and
operatives from the German Polytechnic Schools—the
excellence of whose system of manufacture in iron and
steel has been thoroughly demonstrated to the world.
Most of the large working houses of Sydney have given
the machine the highest testimonials for its practical
work and the simplicity and durability of its manu-
facture. The head office of the firm in this colony,
Messrs. Beale and Go’s., is at 612 George-street, Sydney,
and there are branches at 161 Oxford-street, 12 Market
Buildings; Hunter-street, Newcastle; High- c treet,
West Maitland; Howick - street, Bathurst; Queen-
street, Brisbane; Anbum-street, Goulburn; and
Church-street, Parramatta. The firm are doing a very
large business at each place, the time-payment system
b?ing found to work well.
On 2nd January, Lithgow indulged in a grand
concert, to raise wind for a church organ. All concerts
are grand; if wo heard of one that wasn’t, we would
pawn onr ping hat and go to it, just for a change. This
was grand to the extent of a shilling, and those who
went thought four beers would have been grander for
the money. The tenor was one of Macoabe’s “top-
note” minstrels. After listening to his “music,” we can
understand why Saul wanted to “ pot” David with his
javelin; and, after hearing the comic recitations, any-
one could read Genesis and find it a relief.
Writes a correspondent : —“ Proctor was not
allowed to lecture on a Sunday, but the Colonial Trea-
surer can keep some of his clerks all day on the
making out returns to appear in the paper on Mo I ,
morning. This is consistent, because the Hon.
says the work was necessary, and of importance; but,
admitting all that, why did he not pay them for work-
ing on Sunday ? A man is worthy of his hire, and if he
work after hours he should be paid for it. Would the
firm that Mr. Watson represents have the audacity to ask
the men they employ on the Grafton Wharf to work
after six in the evening and on a Sunday for nothing ?
Decidedly not; but the much-abused Civil servant has
to submit to this, and why?—because an imperious
Scotchman holds the reins.”
An unfounded report that the tomb of Napoleon
111., at Chiselhurst, had been rifled by body-snatchers
caused considerable sensatioa throughout England and
France.
The Singers Sewing Machine.
Some returns have recently been issued with
respect to the manufacture and sale of the Singer Sew.
mg Machines, which tend to show what a gigantic suc-
cess that celebrated mechanical invention has proved.
It is about thirty years since the inventor brought his
new pattern before the world. Since then the various
factories called into existence by the discovery have
manufactured close on 3,000,000 machines, and their
production is still going on at the rate of 4000 per week
at New Jersey, U.S., and 3000 at Glasgow. This latter
fact is a splendid testimony to the practical character
of Singer’s invention, as the sale and manufacture not
only keep up, but increase in the face of the keenest
competition. At the last American Centennial the
manufacturers exhibited their two millionth machine,
and the Press of the States rightly regarded the fact
as one of the greatest triumphs of modem mechanical
genius. In 1866, the Singer Company sold 32,220
machines, and in 1877, 282,812. In 1880 their sales
reached the enormous total of 538,609. Its exhibition
record all over the world is 160 first prizes, and its medals
bear the stamp of every kingdom in Christendem. Imi-
tations, as might be expected, have frequently been
placed on English, American, and Colonial markets,
with the result, however, of detection and complete
exposure. The legitimate trade mark is to be found on
every machine, and with a little care on the part of the
purchaser, is a complete protection against fraud.
ome time back the firm hit upon a practical plan of
extending to the humblest the advantages of their
splendid invention. The time payment system enabled
persons of all conditions to resist the attractions of
imitation articles, and purchase the best description of
the binger machines. We are assured by G. J. Wells,
No. 1 Hunter-street, (the original authorised agency),
that the sale in Australia is extending with the growth
of the colonies, and that the machines are to be found in
operation in every quarter which is reached by the tran-
sit arrangements of mail, steamer, coach, &o. At G. J.
Wells' establishment in Hunter-street, the various
makes of the Singer Company are to be found displayed,
with competent assistants to explain or instruct.
Machines for every known description of work are
shown, together with the attendant appliances whicu
now make the Hewing Machine a marvel of simplicity
and practical utility. Mr. Wells has energetically built
up a grand business, and he well deserves a continuance
of his present success. At this season of the year
special facilities are offered to the public by Mr. Wells,
the terms being a heavy discount for half cash and
three monthly payments. Instruction is given free at
the head office, the old authorised agency, G. J. Wells,
No. 1 Hunter-street.
Messrs. Peapes and Shaw’s Establishment
Very few men in business in this city have been
more successful than Messrs. Peapes and Shaw,
whose establishment is here illustrated. These
men are representative honest traders of this city
who have built up a most prosperous business on
a continuous labour of 15 years. It is a
lasting tribute to their integrity that they enjoy
to-day the patronage of men who did business
with them when they first started ago, and it is yet
more creditable to them that in the height of their
success the condition and comfert of their
numerous employes formed one of their first
considerations. As a natural consequence, there
is to he found on the premises a contented, pains-
taking, and capable gathering of employes, in
whose work the proprietors have thorough reliance
as being artistic and excellent to the most minute
detail. With all its extent, there are in Sydney only
about a dozen real working houses in the retail
soft goods business. Peapes and Shaw’s is one of
them—and one of the most prominent of them.
Slop shops within reach of their competition
perish in no time. The crowning effort of the
proprietory, in fact, has been to compete in price
with inferior productions, while manufacturing
goods whoso intrinsic value in style, material, and
make would virtually obliterate all comparison and
competition. A glance any day at the various
departments of the establishment will tell how
completely successful they have been in this
respect. And, speaking of an inspection of the
house, there is perhaps no other place in Sydney
where there,is such a surprise for the visitor on
his walking through. First of all, it is divided
into several departments, in each of which there are
numerous assistants engaged; and then it is a
busy hive of industry, over 150 people being
employed manufacturing or executing orders —
some branches of the work being of a character
not attempted in any other house in Sydney or
Melbourne. The various departments are
well arranged, and on the first and second
floors are brilliantly lighted, and so furnished as
to admit of a splendid display of goods. The
ladies’general department is very extensiv 9, and
Verses Inspired by my Old Black Pipe.
The following verses, from the pen of the late Adam
Lindsay Gordon, are not to be found in “ Hippodro-
mania,” the heading under which Gordon’s “ Pipe ”
collection of sporting lyrics was printed. Many of the
public will, doubtless, recall the event to which the
linos, written for an intimate friend of the horseman
and poet, relate
Ay! many a sport old Homer names,
Bv Achilles held “ at his little games,”
On the banks of the swift Scamander:
And Pindar sings the Olympian deeds
Of the ivory car and the milk-white steeds,
Of Catullus or Lysander.
How clouds of dust aloft were spurn’d
By wheels that grazed the goals as they turn’d,
TUI the bright sparks flicker’d redly;
How the strains of mingled mirth and fury
That swell’d in the chant of the ‘'Morituri,”(
Proclaimed when the sports were deadly.
Ah! little we cared for classic loro,
When Greek was a task and Latin a bore.
THE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
In school-days that are deemed of yore;
And who will venture to chide us.
If better we lov’d the play-field green,|
And the black-thom hedge that serv’d as a screen,
In the mills that settled our boyish spleen.
From the tutor’s eye to hide us. i
Who envies the bygone days of old P
They never were half so good as we’re told.
Their loss is not worth bewailing.
We have E63n Young Camel’s slashing stride.
And Archer’s rush and Mormon’s pride:
And the deer-like bound of Ingleside
At five-feet three of a paling.
We’ve seen how the sides of Falcon bled,
And the hopes of Aruma’s backers fled.
When the Rose of Denmark shot ahead,
And never again they caught her;
How false were the shouts of “ Barwon’s first”
When she came “from the distance home” with a
burst,
A.nd the favourite’s friends devoutly cursed
Old Premier’s gamest daughter.
What cheers for King Alfred’s white-faoed sou
Were heard, when the Western chase was done,
And the fudge’s verdict given ;
While Vandyke fell in the beaten ranks.
And the red spots show’d on the mare’s great flanks.
How vainly the steel was driven.
And, with anxious longing, we wait the day,
When the prads must strip for the coming fray,
To be criticised in rotation ;
But to spot the winner we will try.
For a mist obscures our mental eye,
And we have not the power of prophecy.
Nor the spirit of divination.
Yet, in fancy’s glass we may scan the course.
And hear the bookmakers’ challenge hoarse.
The odds incessantly dunning;
We may watch the starter’s signal fall.
And the nags may picture one and all.
For the Cup in a cluster running.
And mark, as they sweep before the stand.
How Ebor is going well in hand.
And Banker is pulling double;
How longer each moment grows the tail.
As one by one the outsiders fail,
And get into grief and trouble.
How Trainor pulls out of Waldock’s track,
And Morrison steadies the Caulfield crack.
While up on the right comes the rose and black,
Like an eagle that scents the plunder;
How round the turn they jostle and crush.
And Simpson clears his whip for a rush,
And then on the crowd comes a lull and a hush '
And then a roar like thunder.
And when Beaufort collars the Western Pet,
When Greek meets Greek unconquered yet,
And the tug of war commences ;
As stride for stride, with the stroke of one—
Like greyhounds running with couples on—
Together they fly their fences.
There’s “Yates” and “Rhyming Richard,” too,
Dan tell much better than I or you
What nags are likely the trick to do ;
Nor will I their judgments sneer at.
If the gift of second-sight were mine,
I’d make my fortune, and then “ I’d shine,"
But I haven’t got it, and so I’ll sign,
“ Qui Meruit Palmam Feeat."
MR. G J. WELLS' ESTABLISHMENT (SINGERS
SEWING MACHINE AGENCY.)
ALEXANDER MUNRO ESQ., J.P.-(See page 1.)


urnishod with a large and varied stock of haber-
dashery, gloves, real and imitation lace, ribbons,
Manchester dress goods, &c. Overhead, on the
second floor, is the ladies’ millinery department
(illustrated), which is reached by a stairway, in
which are shown a grand collection of presentation
goods, in the shape of Bohemian glassware, albums,
Worcestershire chinaware, &c. The millinery
department, is well-lighted, open, and furnished in
splendid style, both in respect of its appointments
and the goods displayed there. In this line of
business, Messrs. Peapes and Shaw have occupied
one of the first positions in Sydney for the last
ten years, and the costumiers and others engaged
thore are the best procurable in the profession,
Mantles, costumes, underclothing, hats, bonnets,
&0., are shown here in the very latest style, the
firm making it an essential to have here by the
speediest means the latest fashionable produc-
tions of the Parisian and London houses. The
bridal trousseau is a sub-department, from which
suites have, from time to time, been turned out in
style never excelled in the colonies. The outfits
for some of our most notable bridal events have
been fabricated here ; and, likewise, cup and ball
dresses of the highest artistic excellence, which
have won praise against the costliest importations
from Paris and London. The fame of the house,
however, for this line of business is proverbial all
over the colonies. The secret is having several
artistic designers and a number of expert hands
specially selected for the execution of the work,
On the first floor are the tailoring and the shirt
and collar departments. Three or four cutters,
and between forty-five and fifty tailors are em-
ployed on the premises ; and _ for the shirt,
collar, scarf, and tie work, there is quite an inno-
vation. Peapes and Shaw’s is admittedly the
only establishment in the colony which has a
legitimate shirt, collar, tie, and scarf factory,
Shirts are ordered on measurement, as in
the tailoring department, and then the
two or three cutters pass on the work to
the operative branch, where about twenty-five
hands are engaged. The work is, of course,
good, and the material the best procurable. Over-
head on the second floors are the standard clothing
department, where low figures and excellence
rule; and also the hat and portmanteau branches,
where all descriptions of travelling requisites are
displayed. There are several other departments
equally well stocked, and taken altogether from
under the roof of this one establishment may be
obtained all that is required for people in every
condition of life, at figures and in such a style as
to render competition from other quarters almost
out of the question. There are at the rear of the
selling departments, the various working branches
—the millinery, underclothing, costume, shirt and
collar, glove, and tailoring departments, in each of
which from twenty to twenty-five people are con-
stantly employed. The arrangements for the
accommodation of their employes form, as already
hinted, a matter for the particular consideration
of the proprietary. First of all the work rooms
are thoroughly well ventilated, and net over-
crowded. Then there is a classification of the
[ employes, with lavatories, &c., specially set apart
for each class. It is not surprising that many of
the hands have been for years in the employ of
the firm. Short hours is one of the principles
of the firm’s business. Fifteen years ago
Messrs. Peapes and Shaw started business
in this city in the most unpretentious way.
Now they employ 150 people on their pre-
mises, and fifty additional outside, and in
the course of the year do a business ranging
between <£55,000 and £60,000 ; and not only in this
city have they their trade—their business con-
nection extends all over the colony, and to Queens-
land and Victoria, where patronage has been
secured solely on recommendation. So long a
period of energetic business is creditable to any
man, and to Messrs. Peapes and Shaw, who havo
thus laboured and succeeded, the public will, wa
are sure, give the fullest measure of credit, and a
continuance of the splendid patronage accorded
them in the past. Our engravings embrace a view
of the exterior, and one interior view—viz,, the
millinery, costume, and underclothing only, Our
sketches are from excellent photos, by Bayliss, of
George-street.
MESSSR. PEAPES & SHAW'S ESTABLISHMENT, GEOEGE STREET.—EXTERIOR VIEW.
MESSRS. PEAPES & SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENT, GEOEGE STREET.—AN INTERIOR VIEW.


MESSRS. ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS ' PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET.


Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Sons’ Palace
Emporium, Haymarket.
In respect of the business which Messrs. Anthony
Hordern and Sons carry on at the Haymarket, it
can safely be said that Sydney takes the lead of
all other cities of the Australian colonies. Indeed,
it may bo remarked that, with the exception of
one or two houses in London, Paris, and New
York, the Palace Emporium of Anthony Hordern
and Sons is surpassed nowhere in the character
and extent of the business done within its walls.
This is a very strong statement to make, but it
can easily be proved by facts which will be given
in this article, and which may, any day, be verified
by a visit to this great emporium of the Southern
hemisphere. It is known in Melbourne that their
biggest houses could be stowed away in some of
the departments of the Palace Emporium, and a tour
through these splendid structures is now con-
sidered a paramount duty for sight-seers arriving
in Sydney. Not only do people from the other
colonies receive a surprise on visiting the Palace,
but tourists from all the big cities of the Old
World, and the New World likewise, express aston-
ishment at the existence of such an enormous
establishment in so young a community as ours;
and with regard to its management, the proprietary
have been credited with unusual energy and
practical judgment. This enormous business has
been built up in the course of a few years by two
young Australians, neither of whom is much over
30 years of age ; and their triumph might well be
regarded as the most beneficial success
yet placed to the score of Australians. The firm
of Anthony Hordern has been long established, it
having been founded over half a century. At the
death of the late Anthony Hordern a fortune was
left to his sons, a good portion being in real estate
and the remainder in cash, a small portion of
which was devoted to the business then being
carried on at the Haymarket. Six or seven years
ago, the house of business comprised a shop of
about 50ft. deep, with a frontage to George-street
of about 30ft. Upon the death of their father,
Mr. Anthony Hordern, his two sons, Anthony and
Samuel, the present proprietary, entered actively
into its management. They can now show on the
floors of their extensive establishment how the
business grew by inches. Year by year there was
a greater development. Dwellings were absorbed,
and fresh floors added with ramifications in every
direction, and then the business took a bound to
the rear across a street, where a splendid site for
new and extensive premises had been secured.
With immense capital at their back, the young
Horderns speculated largely at favourable
moments in the London and colonial markets, at
times buying out some colonial import merchant
at a reduction of 20 per cent, on the manufac-
turers’ prices, and in a corresponding way their
business still grew. The stores erected across
Parker-lane, were thought sufficient for the next
quarter of a century, there being accommodation
for 8000 people at one time; but the
trade advanced with prodigious strides, and
by an investment of about .£lOO,OOO, the firm
secured extensive frontages to Parker-street,
Gipps-street, and George-street, virtually giving
the business a frontage to four principal streets,
and creating on one block a business centre where
there were more activity and trade than could be
found in any other part of this populous city.
The Palace Emporium, shown by our artist, Mr 1
Maoleod, indicate the magic change that has come
over tho locality. Excavations to the depth of
15 feet or 20 feet were made in the solid rock, over
an area of 240 feet by 90 feet. And from this
foundation rose the splendid structures shown in
the engraving. Excellent cellarage was likewise
afforded, and yet deeper in the solid rook were
sunk wells, from which, in case of drought or
accident in the ordinary city supply, the premises
could be provided with water to the extent of
some thousands of gallons per minute —pumping
appliances, of course, being always in readiness
to lift the water to the roof for the purposes indi-
cated. The architect for the building was Mr.
Albert Bond, who, through a business connection
of some years with the firm, knew exactly what
was required in their new great Emporium.
The building is about 70 feet high, with massive
walls and enormous windows, affording splendid
ventilation and light. The floors are about 20
feet apart, and are supported by handsome iron
pillars, which are artistically ornamented, and
the ceiling of each department is decorated in the
best style of art, every branch of the work being
in oomplete harmony with the extent and grandeur
of the edifice. The stores extend right from
Parker-lane to George-street, the floors being
from wall to wall, affording a spectacle at all
times grand and impressive. And, if the interior
looks impressively grand, the exterior is yet of
greater attraction. Standing on the pathway and
gazing upwards, the edifice looks like a mountain
of architecture, relieved here and there with
handsome ornamentations and wide expanding
windows, either for the display of goods or for
the lighting of the interior. The iron girders
used m the building are the biggest ever made
in the colony, and the windows are the largest
put up in this quarter of the globe. Yet, with all
the extent of floor space available throughout the
buildings, there is, almost every day, such a vast
crowd present doing business, that it is somewhat
difficult for one to move. Where the multitude
of purchasers come from, and how they are
served and attracted back day after day all the
year round, is a perfect mystery. • But that such
is the case, and that this enormous business is
still young, affords unchallengeable proof that
the wants of the whole community are here
catered for under one roof, and upon such terms
as to leave Anthony Hordern and Sons an undis-
puted field, and ensure for thorn a business whose
ultimate proportions it would be impossible to
describe. What the great Stewart was to America,
Anthony Hordern and Sons are to Australia.
Their aim is to make their establishment one in
which every article required in all conditions of
life in Australia may bo obtained. Their premises
now are an emporium of the principal manufac-
tures of the world—not only in respect of clothing
and personal necessities, but of household re-
quirements—embracing, in fact, as already stated,
the ten thousand wants of a great and growing
community.
A walk through the establishment will at no
time be devoid of interest. The warehouse in
which business was first carried on many years ago
fronts George-street, and has in its windows a
splendid display of boots and shoes, in which the
firm now do an enormous business, special
arrangements for this new branch having some
time back been made in London. Passing into the
premises, the department is found stored with a
large open stock of gentlemen’s clothing, nursery
requirements, hats, caps, &c., tweeds of every
description j and overhead is the reserve stock,
already marked, from which the departments below
are regularly fed. Over forty hands are engaged
here, and the business transacted is astounding.
Across Parker-lane is the old Palace Stores, an
extensive building of two expansive floors, where
the second great development of the firm’s trade
took place. The ground floor is devoted to the
carpet and furnishing business, and here is to be
found a Imost every known make and variety of
carpet, oil-cloth, linoleum mattings, and fur-
nishing requisites. The stock is the largest held
by any one house in the line in the colonies, and to
meet the exigencies of business a large department
for measuring off and displaying goods is set apart,
where ten or fifteen hands are constantly employed.
The trade in this line extends all over the colony,
and most of the principal houses in the oily and
suburbs have been supplied from this quarter.
The second floor of the building is devoted to
reserve stock, and there is also on the same floor
a department exclusively allotted for stock-mark-
ing, through which all the goods sold by the firm
pass. Leaving this edifice, the visitor passes into
the great Palace Emporium, by way of Parker-
street. The first floor is reached by the grandest
staircase to be seen this aide of the line, and tho
view is the finest in art and architecture imaginable.
The floor appears extensive enough for a cricket-
field ; it is magnificently lighted ; and in addition
to the fine display of goods, is fitted with the grand
show-cases that produced such a bewildering effect
at our own International and the Victorian Inter-
national Exhibitions. These splendid show-cases,
the highest production of European art, some of
them running up to .£6OO in value, were purchased
by Anthony Hordern and Sons at the close of the
Exhibitions, and placed in their respective positions
for the effective exposition of various assortment
of goods offered for public sale. On the first floor
is a great display of silks, dress materials of every
description, parasols, flowers and feathers, Man-
chester goods, linens, cottons, laces, perfumery,
&o. Each of the lines has a sub-department to
itself, and does a great business. There is every
convenience for customers, and numerous assist-
ants are in immediate attendance. The Berlin-
wool and flower and feather lines have been a
stupendous success on account of the enormous
quantities for sale and the surprisingly liberal
reduetions made here for the first time in the
New South Wales. There are also on this floor
kid and silk glove departments, and likewise
divisions for the display and sale of toilet re-
quisites, fancy stationery, bronze, and cabinet
goods. The various lines are illustrated in their
methods of manufacture, affording no slight in-
terest to the purchaser. The show-cases all
through these departments are replete with at-
tractions, all marked with plain figures. About 200
assistants are here employed, and, as might be
expected, are kept pretty busy throughout the
day. The second floor likewise presents a grand
sight, there being a splendid lot of show-cases
and quite an art exhibition of costumes, &c., of
the latest patterns and styles. This floor is
devoted to costumes, millinery, boots and shoes,
&c., in each of which lines a most extensive
business is done. Some of the best known manu-
facturers of London and Paris supply these
departments under special arrangements, and the
newest designs are opened here simultaneously
with their introduction to the London and
Parisian houses. Passing on to the extensive
departments extending over Parker-lane, the
same idea of magnitude and completeness presents
itself. The ground floor is the gentlemen’s tailor-
ing department, where the firm intend to do an
extensive business ; and on the second floor there
will be departments for hats and caps and gentle-
men’s clothing, &0., for which special arrange-
ments have been made in the local and the English
markets. The trade already done in tho costume
millinery, and boot lines is of great magnitude,
as many as sixty people being employed in these
three departments alone. In the toy department
there is likewise a large number of assistants.
On the basement of the Great Palace Emporium
there is an extensive department for glass and
crockery ware, where the supplies for every
household are obtainable. It is impossible to
walk through the establishment without being
impressed with its extent and management. The
clerical and cashier’s departments are devised and
conducted on a plan which demonstrates the exer-
cise of capable mental exertion on the part of the
proprietors, and it may safely be said that in this
particular the house has no superior even in
London. Each department and each of the 50® em-
ployes is under a constant and never failing check;
so that thorough efficiency is at all times attain-
able. The requirements of the employes have not
been overlooked by the firm —in fact their comfort
and convenience has always been a matter of con-
sideration for Messrs. Anthony Hordern and Sons.
There are special lavatories, dining-rooms, &c.
for the various classes of the lady employes,
milliners, &c., and likewise for the gentlemen
employes, who, to the number of 300, are dined
every day on the premises—expensive, well-
ventilated dining-rooms being provided for the
purpose on the uppermost floors. Numbers of
the hands have been for years in the employ of
the firm, some up to twenty-three years, and at no
time has good conduct or faithful energetic ser-
vice been overlooked by them.
Beading of the great success of this firm, the
public will doubtless be interested in a few parti-
culars concerning Mr, Anthony and Mr. Samuel
Hordern, the gentlemen who now form the pro-
prietary of Anthony Hordem and Sons. Wo give
the portraits of these enterprising men. Mr.
Anthony Hordern was born in 1846 in Victoria, and
came to this colony with his parents at an early age.
When fourteen years of age, he was sent to Eng-
land to be educated, and spent two or three years
at Bugby. On his return to Sydney, he entered
his father’s business, and very soon mastered all
its details. About three years ago, Mr. Hordern
started on a Continental and American tour,
returning via Bombay, Calcutta, and Singapore ;
and he completed his trip in five months —at that
time thought to be really impossible of accom-
plishment. Mr. Hordern is now in Europe
arranging for a practical and further extension of
the business, virtually placing the art treasures
and industrial products of the world directly
within reach of the people of Sydney. Already
the firm has opened an office at Pekin, China, for
the purchase of mattings and Eastern novelties,
and Mr. Hordern is now opening offices in Eng-
land, Scotland, Ireland, Prance, Belgium, Ger-
many, Austria, Italy, and America, where goods
will be purchased and sent direct to the firm in
Sydney. Mr. Hordern will return to Sydney in
about twelve months’ time.
Mr. Samuel Hordern was born in Sydney in
1849. He first went to school in Fort-street, and
afterwards spent three years at Camden College.
Hero he finished his education, and, at the age of
scarce eighteen, he entered his father’s business,
and became one of the firm. On the death of
their father, Mr. Anthony Hordern, the two
brothers, eminently suited for the work in hand,
resolved to develop the business to the utmost
extent To this end Mr. Samuel Hordern- visited
England and the Continent and arranged for
extensive importations, which have since proved
in every way suited to colonial requirements. Mr.
Hordern’s trip occupied seven months, and not-
withstanding his business engagements, he found
time to visit all the great capitals, touring through
Egypt, Italy, Prance, Germany, and Austria. The
result of his tour has been an enlargement of his
ideas, which has found manifestation in the in-
creased proportions of the business of the Great
Palace Emporium at the Haymarket, Sydney.
There was a little girl, and she had a little curl
that hung right down on her forehead j and when she
wa« good she was very good indeed, but when she was
bad she was horrid.
“ What brought you to prison, my coloured
friend ? “ Two constables, sor.’’—“ Yes, but I mean
had intemperance anything to do with it t " —" Yes,
sor, they was both drunk.”
A newly-married man says if he had an ino
more of happiness he could not possibly live. His wife
is obliged to roll him on the floor and pat him with a
brickbat every day to keep him from being too happy.
As you like stories about animals, I’ll give >
one: —“ A dog, who had lost the whole of her interest-
ing family, was one day seen trying to poke a piece of
crape through the handle of the door of a New York
sausage shop.”
A Bathurst man recently killed a sick cow, ill
whose stomach was found a large brass pin, a hair-pin,
and a quantity of hooks and eyes, A jury of the neigh-
bours, informally summoned for the occasion, returned
an oral verdict, that the unfortunate deceased had, pro
bably, swallowed a milkmaid at some period of her adult
life.
We read that “ Mrs. Thomas Evans, of Strang-
ways (Vic.), is the mother of a female child, which, at
seven weeks of age, weighed, clothes and all, just 2ilb.
It is healthy, and a perfect model of human beauty.
Mrs. Evans, who is a woman of unusual attractions, is
well-built, as is her husband.
A girl, eleven years of age, in Melbourne, has
gained a verdict against the Mayor for £350 for damages
done to her by falling down an embankment. Now, in
Burton-street there is a Corporation man-trap to which
we have half a dozen times directed attention. When
someone falls into it, and breaks his neck, the citizens
of Sydney will pay, perhaps, £5OOO to mend it.
Ebenezer Oliver, champion light-weight wrestler
of New South Wales, is dead. He went from Sydney to
Illawarra to act as referee in a wrestling match, and
while under the influence of liquor, saw a horse tied up
to the Cricketers' Arms and galleped it furiously round
a corner. The animal fell and threw him violently.
Ho died later on in f he hospital, insensible.
How they do it in America. “ Patrick Garroll,
for interfering with a policeman and an assisting
civilian making an arrest, has just been sent to the
Vermont State Prison for five years I” But perhaps the
Yonks, made a mistake. Far better to have given him
three months' “ solitary " on starvation diet and three
fifties at the triangles.
Clara Stephenson is having a good time at
Dubbo, playing “The Fair One with theQolden Locks,"
which is turned into a pantomime. Lily Marsh is in
it, and has created havoc in the hearts of the men of
beeves. Her back hair is, we are told, a great
sight' She ploys Queen Luciadons, and her sister
Annie, Papolotina, though whether there is “olotina”
or not the paper doesn’t seem to say. Clara is so full
of go that she will stay in Dubbo some time, Ada
Lester, Harry Power, and Messrs. Douglas, Wills,
Inglis, and Russell are also in it. The Dubbo Dis-
patch heads its critique “The Christmas Pantomine."
This must bo catching. Those entirely new dramas,
“The Plying Scud," “The Streets of London," and
"The Flowers of the Forest," are to follow.
There is a strange mixture of worldly wisdom
and callousness amid all the pathos and solemnity of
the genuine Scottish character, but never did it find
more pronounced expression than in the old wife of
the southern county, Dumfries, when her hnaband lay
a dying. He had been noted for his piety, and she for
her parsimony ; and as is the frequent custom, several
of the neighbours had assembled to hear the utterances
of the dying saint and to try the temper of his whisky.
Life’s spark was flickering feebly. A solemn silence
reigned in the chamber, broken only at intervals by the
faint voice of the dying man, and a smothered sob from
the hard-featured wife so soon to he a widow. The
shadows deepened into night, yet still her ruling failing
would not allow her to light the wax candles that had
been procured expressly for the season. A rigorous
custom necessitated that there should be spirits on the
table, and already her quick eye detected that the
whisky and the daylight had been waning simultane-
ously. At length, with a sigh of relief, she heard the
clatter of the minister’s mare ontside. The woman’s
face brightened. Shaking the pillows and lifting up
the wan waste! figure, after lighting the candles, she
whispered in his ear, load enough, however, to be heard,
“Noo, John, the minister’s come, an’ I’ve lichted the
oannles. Dinna linger 1 Dinna linger I”
MR. ANTHONY HORDERN.
MR. SAMUEL HORDERN.


Wlgzell’s Success in Oxford Street.
It was predicted some time back by very knowing
peojfle that the enormous which_ C. E.
Wigzell, of Oxford-street, was going to in the
erection of baths, etc., hitherto never attempted
anywhere in the colonies, was injudicious, and
would result in failure. The very reverse has
turned out to be the case, and Wigzell is proved
to have attempted and carried out the very thing
required in a big city in a climate like ours. The
undertaking has actually conferred a boon on the
eastern portion of the city; and now that the
tramway runs up from the business centre of the
town (allowing people to travel up and down
within thirty minutes) its advantages are more
extensively availed of and appreciated. Mr.
C. E. W. keeps a record in the correotest style of
the business done at his establishment, and the
returns show a total for the year of 38,949 cus-
tomers- Yet the proprietor is ahead of the demand.
His capabilities are over 500 a day. His records
run up here and there to 430 per day. This year
the returns, judging by present results, will be
much higher. The bath-rooms, as is now generaUy
known, are not to bo surpassed in the colonies, tne
conveniences and appointments being tip-top.
The ladies have availed themselves largely of their
department—this being the only place in the
city where there is anything of the kind
specially set apart for them. Hie establish-
ment has, in all, about ten departments,
in each of which a very large business is done.
This is the practical wig-making and hair-working
dep6t of the colonies. Wigzell, himself an expert,
has numbers of young people trained to the art —
thus opening up quite a new industry in our midst.
The stock of goods for theatricals, fancy dress and
character balls, is very large, embracing the most
notable ancient and modern types ; and the ship-
ments to hand per the John Elder, Parramatta,
and Garonne, make it highly varied and extensive.
The hair-cutting and hair-dressing rooms, etc., are
fitted up in capital style, the chairs being of the
latest American mechanical invention. There are
departments specially for ladies and for children
under discreet supervision, and the manner in
which they have been conducted has won patronage
that is hardly conceivable by other establishments.
A very large stock of general goods in keeping with
the business of the house is on view, and the pro-
prietor in this respect also enjoys almost the entire
tra"de of the city. Wigzell has worked hard for his
present success, and deserves it. But while suc-
ceeding himself, he has not forgotten his employes.
They now enjoy a half holiday in every week, and
in other ways their welfare is considerately cared
or by their thoughtful and enterprising employer.
Sturt’s Freemason’s Hotel, Burwood.
Burwood is one of the rapidly advancing suburbs
of Sydney. Its streets are wide, and even in the
business centres the arrangements in respect of
thoroughfares and buildings preclude the possi-
bility of its ever becoming inconveniently or dan-
gerously crowded, as is the case, unfortunately,
with some other suburbs. The improvements
near the railway station have been great and
rapid. Among the ntunerons new houses of busi-
ness is Mr. J. Sturt’s Freemason's Hotel, which
is situated about fifty yards from the station.
Mr. Sturt, who has been actively engaged in
trade in various parts of the colony for the
last fifteen or twenty years, started^ business at
Burwood about three years ago. Building opera-
tions on an extensive scale were commenced by
him, and quite a small town has sprung up on the
spot first fixed upon by him. Several resi-
dences, an extensive hall (now to be devoted
exclusively to the purposes of a store), new
shops, &0., seem to have sprung up like magic.
The hotel is equal to many of the best hostelries
in the city, and in its internal arrangement
is not to be surpassed out of Sydney. It is an
hotel In the true sense of the word, having ex-
tensive dining-rooms, private and public bars,
commercial rooms, parlours, and first-class ac-
commodation for visitors or boarders Most of
our suburban hotels are sadly behind hand in this
respect. But a liberal expenditure of money and
first-rate business tact has changed all this forthe
Fr eemasons’. The bar of the hotel is divided into
a public and private department, and is of the
m ost elegant style, the work having been done by
the best artists in the line in Sydney, Messrs.
Palmer and Weekcs. The parlours and commer-
cial rooms are neat and private, and well appointed.
Spacious balconies, good table, and the very best
description of liquors, make the hotel a boon to
the neighbourhood. The billiard-room is being
completely renovated, and will be conducted on
the subscription principle—to ensure the best
patronage. A first-class bottle trade, the best,
certainly, in the district —is done at the hotel, at
Sydney prices. Near the hotel, Mr. Sturt has a
livery stable, where visitors from the city meet
with every accommodation. The energetic pro-
prietor has a farriery in connection with the
business, and has likewise provided a rew hall
exclusively for the purposes of friendly societies’
meetings. A large grocery store has been erected
opposite the hotel by Mr. Sturt, and in the imme-
diate vicinity a large butchering establishment has
been opened by Mr. Eoss. Mr. Sturt is assisted
in the management of the hotel by Mrs. Sturt—so
that it has all the attractions of a private residence
with the conveniences of an hotel.
A genuine Chinese almond-eyed beauty, 17 years
of age, fresh from the Celestial Empire, has joined her
husband, Le Tit, a storekeeper at Haddon, Vic. The hus.
band and wife had never seen each other until they met
on board steamer here. They had been married in China,
when both of them were mere children, and unknown
to each other.
Mr. A. Huenerbein’s Pianoforte Ware-
house.
The well-known establishment of Mr. A. Huenen-
bein, at 411 George-street, a few doors from
Lassetter’s, is one of the business houses of our
prosperous metropolis. The name of Huenerbein
is associated in the musical mind with the intro-
duction here of some of the best makes of piano-
fortes in the world. The introduction in an exten-
ive way to these colonies of the celebrated iron-
framed Gorman pianofortes was the first notice-
able thing done by the firm, and the enormous
sale which these splendid instruments have had
has in every way justified the expectations of the
importers. These German instruments, which
boar in every feature the stamp of German
solidity, are made as if specially to suit the char-
acter of our climate, and preserve the soundness
of their frame and the excellence of their tone for
twenty-five or thirty years, or in reality a life-
time, in our varying climate It is, as already
stated, by the extensive importation of these mag-
nificent instruments that the firm has become
widely known; but Mr. Huenerbein has in his
establishment, in George-street, a collection of
pianofortes, which represent all the principal
makes of the world —English, French, Austrian,
American, &0., as well as German. This collec-
tion is an art exhibition in itself, and is about the
fairest thing that could bo done for the manu-
facturer and the public. Every description
of instrument is shown in splendid tone by accom-
plished artists, and purchasers can thus suit them-
selves by comparison. The house is specially
suited for this arrangement, the show-rooms being
of great depth, and with excellent acoustic pro-
perties. The furnishing and decorations are in
very good taste. The pianofortes shown are
Bliithner’s, Lipp’s, Eonisch’s, Brinsmead’s, Otto
Bors’, Schwechten’s, Wehage’s, Kriebel’s, Chal-
lon’s, Erard’s, Ressner's, Anchor's, Bord’s, <to.
Bliithner’s is a representive German make. Its
frame is of massive gun metal, and stands a strain
of twelve or fifteen tons, the total strain of the
strings being about ten tons. The strings are laid
on the double oblique princip’e, and full trichord
check action is insured in*the most perfect way.
In most of the German pianofortes the pedal
action is entirely new and remarkably effective.
The whole collection is well worth critical inspec-
tion. The figures rise to over one hundred
guineas, and fall of course to the lowest ruling
in Sydney. The first floor of the warehouse is
the show-room, where there is now a display of in-
struments not a fortnight out of the ship’s hold.
The second and third floors are used for storage.
The establishment is the recognised entrepot in
the city for popular song and dance music, in which
a very large business is done. The sketch given
by our artist depicts the window of Mr. Hnener-
bein’s establishment, as it appeared with the
portraits of the ninety members of the Metro-
politan Liedertafel, lately on a visit to Sydney.
Mr. John Hunter’s Warehouses.
Ir there is one branch of trade in which New South
Wales completely defeats all her colonial competitors,
it is in the boot trade. Notwithstanding the advan-
tages given to foreign manufacturers by our free port,
our industries have thrived with surprising expedition,
and we have, in consequence, in this city a rivalry that
is probably elsewhere unknown. The foreign manu-
facturer finds an active competitor in the Colonial
manufacturer, and the competition, as might naturally
be expected, is of direct financial benefit to the com-
munity on the one hand, and of the greatest advantage
to colonial industry on the other. Our wholesale and
retail market for boots is the cheapest in the colonies.
This is one ot the results. Thera is a manifest im-
provement in the character of all colonial work. This
is the other. The colonial artisan sees the admitted
excellence and elegance of the manufactures from the
older countries ; and there can now, when desired, be
obtained, at a lower figure, hoots of colonial make of
equal artistic finish as any ever imported to this
colony. But the aim of our manufacturers, as yet, ap-
pears to be to meet the general trade and turnout work
cheap and durable, if not very elegant. The presence,
however, of the best makes from the older
countries completes what is required for all sorts and
conditions of people, and, as stated at the outset, we
stand in this respect Jar ahead of any of the other
colonies. These interesting facts may be proved any
day by a visit to the wholesale and retail establish-
ments of Mr. John Hunter, in this city. Mr. Hunter is
one of the largest importers in this line that we have, and
he is at the same time one of the best patrons of colonial
industry. Ic is something to be able to say that in two
establishments in this city a person may see the pro-
ductions of the world in the boot line. Loudon, Paris,
Berlin, Vienna, &c.. show their splendid work beside
the ready and durable manufactures of the colonial
markets. This very exhibition tells of the infant
character ot our industries and the old, educated, and
developed character of those of Europe. The English
manufacturer, working with the best material in the
world, turns out a boot of lino make, aud of remarkable
durability; yet in point of elegance he is tar away
behind his continental competitor. In Paris, for
instance, the manufacture has been raised to the per-
fection of art. Much the same may be said of Berlin
and Vienna. At any rate, the best work from these
great centres of human industry is picked out and
imported here for the colonial trade by the enter-
prising man whose name lias been just mentioned,
while the best local manufacturers are encouraged with
most subst aatial patronage. Mr. John Hunter has been
about twenty years in the business—the greater portion
of his time in the interior. Four years ago, seeing an
epening for business cm an extensive scale in Syduev,
he arranged for the establishment of what should
first-class depot. The Palace Boot Warehouse, here-
with illustrated, was the result. It is admittedly far
and away the finest establishment of the kind in
Sydney, and importing direct for himself as well as for
the trade, he put into it a class and variety of boots
that could not be surpassed. The other great thing he
accomplished was a radical wholesale reduction,
which had an immediate effect upon the market
all over the city. All this succeeding well,
Mr. Hunter went to work to develop hia im-
port connection, conscious that ho could in this
respect likewise lead the van. First, extensive
premises were taken in George-street, but these soon
proving Inadequate, he transferred hia wholesale busi-
MR. J. STURT’S FREEMASON’S HOTEL, BURWOOD.
SKETCH OF THE INTERIOR OF MR. C. WIGZELL’S BATH-ROOMS, OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.


ness to a splendid new warehouse in York-street, Wyn-
ynjd-square. \ sketch is given here of this new ware-
house. It is a handsome and commodious structure of
fotfr storeys. The front presents an elegant appearance,
tein'gof the best Pyrmont dressed stone. The goods
are received at the rear ot the premises, and are trans-
ported to the various floors by moans of patent hoists.
The different classes of goods are all displayed for the
inspection of purchasers. For this branch of the busi-
ness, Mr. Hunter has eight travalters in the country
and three in the city. A large business is done all over
the colony, and likewise with Queensland, New Zealand,
and the Islands. Recently, within the last three
months, Mr. Hunter established a wholesale boot ware-
house in Brisbane-street, Launceston, Tasmania, with
very satisfactory results. The retail business at the
Palace Boot Warehouse in George-street, near Market-
street is extraordinary. It presents the appearance of
a large bazaar day and night, patronage being secured
on account of the variety and character of the goods,
and the astonishingly low figures ruling there. The
windows show a most varied and rich display of the
goods on sale within. The very best articles manufac-
tured in the world are shown, those hand-paintel,
elegant productions of the Parisian and Berlin artists
being, of course, the greatest attractions. The figures
run up to £5 ss. and £7 7s per pair. Inside is to bo
found an extensive stock of almost every known make
of boot, and the display is such as to enable the pur-
chaser to taka the pick of a hundred or more different
descriptions. The general trade is done on the ground
floor, and the batter description of goods is on view,
and for sale, on the first floor. This department is
reached by a splendid stairway, soma distau e in from
the street. It is most elegantly furnished, and is
decorated with mirrors and show cases, which produce
a most taking effect. The business done here is with
the leading families in the city—the department, in
fact, being devoted exclusively to this branch of trade.
The Palace Warehouse is about the only boot estab-
lishment in the city that has this desirable arrange-
ment, and the result in point of patronage and business
is most satisfactory. Pew will begrudge Mr. Hunter
his great success. He has brought capital and unusual
business tact to his assistance, and wo shall not be
surprised if we hear of yet further enterprises on his
part to suite and retain the trade of this great and
growing community.
Messrs. Arthur Cooper & Co.'s Wine and
Spirit Warehouse.
The architectural improvement of Sydney moves
in cycles. Fifteen years ago, King-street was the
boundary of improvement for the mercantile
houses, and the business of the colony may be
said to have been all transacted for years between
the thoroughfare mentioned and the Queen’s
Wharf. Suddenly there was an extension. Pitt
and George streets improved southward at a
great rate. Now the contractor and builder are
operating still further southward in those great
thoroughfares. Residences are giving place to
splendid structures, and every other available
spot is being seized upon as a site for business.
The warehouse herewith illustrated, where Messrs.
A. Cooper and Co., wine and spirit merchants,
carry on business, is an instance of this advance-
ment. It is situated in Pitt-street, between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets, and is a spacious
-.nd stoutly-built structure. Tlxe foundations rest
n the solid rook, an excavation of several feet
xaving, in fact, been made for cellarage. It is
milt of the best Pyrmont dressed stone and of
xriok. The building rises to the height'of three
storeys, and is furnished with patent hoists ope-
rating on each floor, and likewise in the cellar.
This latter department is deep, cool, and well
lighted. Extensive arches, based on the solid
rook, support the superstructure. The cellar is
stocked with an enormous supply of spirits and
wines in bulk, some of them of the greatest age
to be found in Sydney. The upper floors are
stocked with barrel and case goods—a supply
which, for quality or extent, is probably not sur-
passed anywhere in the colonies. The firm is a
vigorous offshoot of that founded upwards of
thirty years ago by the late Mr. Arthur Cooper
who, up to the time of his death, conducted busi-
ness in the neighbourhood of the Haymarket.
The firm has a reputation for the supply of the
best brands of spirits, old wines, English beers,
&c., and is now, by energy and good management,
seeking yet further to extend its trade all over the
colony.
At the Penola (S.A.)' Court, Elizabeth Hailes
sued Thomas Fennell, selector, for £250, for breach of
promise. According to Lizzie’s version, Tom hrd been
very naughty, but Tom denied the soft impeach-
ment. It seems that she desired to place to his credit
in their account current, a fine healthy boy, in whose
features she averred could be distinctly seen a resem-
blance to the said Tom. Tom, however, held a different
opinion, and strongly asserted that little Tommy rather
resembled his brother George. Not only did Thomas
deny that he was the father, but he was so earnestly
determined not to be made one inadvertently, that
sqonetwfcfean marry Elizabeth he said he would hang
himself on a gumtree. There was a good deal of hard
swearing in the case; she said he did, and he said he
didn’t —and the only fact that seemed clearly proved at
last was the only one that did not need any proof,
namely, that little Tommy was there, alive and kicking,
but there was nothing to show how he got there. The
case was dismissed, and Tommy is still in search of his
Pa. .
“STRANGELY CAUGHT.”
BY JESSIE SALE [?]
There are few left who know of the existence of “ Silver
Springs ” although it is a perfect little fairy-land, with
its calm, soft, steel-grey lake, fed by a rippling rivulet,
which comes down in feathery foam and sparkling rush,
over a thousand rocky boulders, past regal fern trees,
and sedgy reeds, from the sombre hills above; which
lie-violet-hued among the clouds and vapours, hazy, and
indistinct as a half-remembered dream, and on again
from the dark deep lake in a babbling brooklet, divided
here and there by a grassy ait, crowned with verdant
willow trees, drooping their leaves into the water, and
making a score of little eddies with their rise and fall,
as they sigh to the gentle breeze with soft and sleepy
undulations, forming beyond a tiny stream, where the
s r all channels unite into one, and flow along in har-
mony past meadows, 1 where the patient-eyed oxen graze
content, and no sounds startle the timid deer, who
freely bound over the park-laud, pausing to drink at the
cool, clear stream, or jumping the narrowest parts,
making crystal sprays with their hinder feet, and dart-
ing off again, as if exulting in their spring and buoy-
ancy.
In the distance, among the trees, an old mansien is
visible, red-bricked and stone-coped; and as far as can
be seen of Elizabethan build.
Past this, with artistic curve, the brook proceeds,
through banks bine with forget-me-nots and feathery
rush grasses, to a cottage, not pretty in itself but
rendered so by a rustic porch, upon which wild roses
climb in plentiful profusion, intermixed with perfumed
honeysuckle, the fragrance of which is carried on the
breeze and waftedlon the evening air, and passes along,
met by other sweet scants, laden with earth’s frankin-
cense, born of God’s most lovely gifts—the flowers.
For the cottage garden is filled with those dear old-
fashioned plants, which remind one of childhood, and
the simple nosegays of wall-flower and sweetbriar, with
here and there a jonquil er narcissus prized above the
rest ; a cluster of lilao with its purple blossom against
the faint sweet hawthorn: and a spray of southern-
wood, a dark polyanthus, a purple pansy, a crimson
daisy, and the laburnum “ drooping gold.”
Very different, indeed, from the bouquet of to-day,
yet not less beautiful one whit.
But there was something more to recommend “ Silver
Springs " than its beauty; it was one of the best trout
streams in England, though there were few who profited
by that fact, for the owner of the property, who lived
in the red house in the park, was an invalid, who, unable
t,o enjoy the sport himself, was churlish enough to deny
it to others; so the fish grew and multipled, and no one
wont near to disturb their tranquility save Sylvia, Mr.
Raymond’s only child, the heiress of all the vast Silver
Spring estates, who was & gentle votary of Sir Izaak
Walton's, and, like him, loved the sport of fishing.
‘ Many a solitary ramble had Sylvia, splashing in and
out, among the boulders, and wading in the deeper
wafer, with her skirts firmly tucked down into her long
waterproof boo 1 s. . ~ .
One other only had the right to fish there ard bring
a friend—that was the head keeper—hut like Mr. Ray-
mond, ho was a somewhat churlish man, and, so far, he
had contented himself with a dish of spackled trout for
his own breakfast, and had not availed himself of his
privilege in favour of anyone else.
Business, however, took John Samson into the
market town of Sandiford, and there he met with a
serious accident at a street corner, where the angle was
sudden and sharp ; a fast trotting horse in a deg-cart
had knocked him down, and he had been picked up,
carried home and carefully attended by a young sur-
geon named Angus St. Clare, wha having taken a liking
for the rough open spoken keeper, declined to make
him any charge, and after some days ot attention and
nursing, sent him away with a hearty hand shake.
Now if there was one tiding Johnloved.it was his
money ; and the doctor not having touched that, bis
gratitude was deep and lasting. Mr. St. Clare, on the
contrary, was fond of sport, and to John’s question,
“how ho could ever repay him for all he had done?”
had laughingly answered, “Give me a good day’s fish-
ing now and then, Samson, and I shall be amply re-
warded."
And having said this, he straightway forgot all about
it, in his daily round of onerous ill-paid duties.
Not so the keeper; and when the time for fishing
came on, Angus St. Clare received a letter written in a
crabbed hand, giving him permission to fish in the
“ Silver Spring" streams daring the season, and in-
viting him to spend a few days at his cottage.
It was not often that such a chance offered for the
hard working young doctor, and he hailed it joyfully.
He would certainly accept the good man’s invitation
to his “ humble home,” as he styled it, for the time
specified; and after that, ho could often rnn over by
train to the station of Mainsby, from whence a walk ot
five miles would take him to the stream : and Angus St
Clare congratulated himself on his good luck in having
made a friend of Mr. Raymond's keeper.
In vain had all the fishermen in the county petitioned
for “a day,” these applications were invariably refused
and often not answered at all.
It was a lovely evening, quiet and calm, and the trout
were rising to the fly as fast as the young pisca tor could
whip the stream.
He was so intent on his sport, that a figure approached
him uuperceived, and strolling under the spreading
branches of the park-land trees, camo with graceful un-
trammelled easy walk over the mossy yielding turf with
noiseless steps, and standing near, watched the hand-
ling of the rod in those skilful fingers with glistening
eyes, and parted smiling lips.
All went well with Angus St. Clare; one after an-
other the speckled beauties rose, wore captured aud
landed, and again the fly was lightly thrown with a
slight backward sweep once more into the water.
Another of the finny tribe had been slipped into the
bag, and with a “ swish ” the fine lino flew through the
air; and there was a sudden twitching and a soft cry,
which yet betokened pain; and turning round, Angus
found that the fish he had hooked was a beautiful blue-
eyed girl, who regarded him with a half-amused, half-
frightened glance, that;was wholly mischievous and cap-
ti vatin g.
“ A thousand pardons," he cried, dropping his rod,
and running to her assistance.
“Do not mind it, it is nothing,” she answered with a
smile, which finished him; “only I don’t quite know
how to return you your property; the hook is iu
rather deep, I fear; I am sure I cannot get it out.”
And already the crimson blood was stainir g the thin
white dress, which scarcely hid the soft, fair round
shoulder, into which the barb had deeply buried itself.
"I am a doctor,” he replied, gravely; “if you will
permit me, I can extract it; but I fear it will give you
pain.”
She looked at him with uncertainty for a moment,
and there was a timid shrinking expression in her blue
eyes.
Then she put herself aside, and thought for others.
“Thank you, wo are strangers; but it cannot matter
—if you are a medical man, I shall be grateful for your
services. It would only frighten papa if I were to
send for our doctor; and he is ill aud nervous enough,
without my adding to his worries.”
Without another word he took her hand, and led her
to the shelving bank, and with deft fingers, but not
without pain, removed the cruel hook ; then asking no
permission, dressed the wound with the necessary
applications, which, doctor-like, he carried in his
pocket.
She uttered no sound, though it did not escape him
that she suffered.
The rosy lips were pressed together in two thin lines,
and the sweet face grew pale.
When he had fhushed, she quietly thanked him, and
essayed to go.
“You must still allow me to he your medical
adviser," he said kindly. “It will be better for you to
rest for a short time before you walk home; I hope
you have not far to go.” .
“ Oh, no I ” she replied, sitting down again ; "1 live
at the red house which you can see through the trees.
I generally walk down here in the evenings. I have
never known any home hut this, and I have learnt to
love this brook —it is quite a friend to me.”
“ I hope you have some more congenial companion
than this silent water," ho answered kindly.”
“ I do not find it silent,” she said, with a far-off look ;
«< when people are very much alone, they find comrade-
ship in tilings which to others would seem very irres-
ponsive.” .... .
He looked down upon the fair girl seated at bis feet,
with wonder. ....
“ What sort of a life could her’s be, he asked him-
self, “ to be thus clouded at it’s sweet budding time ? ”
And as she raised her head, the eyes of these two
met, and somehow she knew she had found tetter com-
pany than the babbling trout stream, which now
rippled unheeded by.
“ I did not know anyone was here,” she stammered;
wbile-lier cheeks hung out rosy-red banners, which yet
were not signals of distress.
“Papa did not tell me, and he so seldom gives anyone
leave to fish here."
“Then I suppose lam speaking to Miss Raymond,
said Angus St. Clare: “ and I must explain to you that
I am uot a friend of yonr father’s, as you suppose, but
of his keeper, John Sameou. I was fortunate enongh to
render him a service, and he has repaid mo."
“You then are Mr. St. Clare," she returned, with
kindling eyes; “Oh! I have heard of you—-honest
John has sung your praises. lam glad you are not a
stranger."
“Ami not?” he answered, smiling; “yet we have
never met before.” .
The colour deepened almost painfully on her fair
face, but her reply was open and fearless.
“ You see, I have lived out of the world; I dare say
I am very unconventional, but I have often thought of
yon since I heard of your kindness to Samson, and even
papa has spoken of you ; aud I think of so few people
outside my daily life; it has been a sort of solace to
find that in the world, which is unknown to me, there
are good people ; for papa does not believe in that sort
of thing—he thinks everyone has an object iu every-
thing—but you could have had none when you took such
care of our keeper."
“ Yes, I had, my object was to cure him."
“ Ah ! but that was a good one."
After a slight pause, he suddenly continued :
“ I am staying for a few days at the cottage, Misa
Raymond ; I should like to teach you a different creed;
I should like to draw you a few sketches of scenes,
which iu my medical capacity I have witnessed, where
unselfish love and devotion have placed a halo round
many a humble head.”
He had spoken eagerly, and she had watched him
with brightening eyes.
“Ohl I am so glgd,” she murmured with a sigh of
relief; “ I cannot bear to believe people bad : nature is
so beautiful. You arc like the river to me, Mr. St. Clare,
you tell me pleasant things."
«Then you will let me call upon you—npou your
father, I should say," he continued earnestly. Again
the blood mounted to cheek and brow, and she shook
her head sadly.
“No, no; you must not come; he would to
think you wanted something ! He has never seen visitors
since Mamma died; poor mother! her’s must have
been a sad life j but you canuot think how much she
loved Papa “Ho only admits Samson and the doctor
besides those of his own household.”
A great compassion rose in the young man’s heart
for this lonely girl before him, and as bis eyes again
rested on her, he told himself that never ha d ho seen
anyone to his mind so lovely and loveable, although
the beauty of Sylvia Raymond was neither statuesque
nor regular, but was peculiar to itself; it’s great charm
lying in the clear blue eyes, the truthful and trustful
expression which came gleaming ever and anon from
the pure and innocent spirit, like sunshine between
clouds; and a profusion of warm brown Vair; and as he
100 ed, he asked himself whether her father would bo
far wrong iu his idc«s ? Did he not indeed want this
girl beside him, for all that he had seen her but once ?
Love at first sight!
He had heard of it often, had even laughed at it, but
sure now it had come to him.
“ I am' afraid I was a great coward about that hook I”
she said, with a smile, breaking in upon his preoccu-
pation.
“You behaved beautifully,” he answered enthusias-
tically. “I wish all my patients were as good at bear-
ing pain ; but you looked faint.”
“ I felt so, I am afraid,” she laughed ; “ I should not
do for a heroine, Mr. St. Clare; but I have quite re-
covered now, you will see. I can run alone,” and she
sprang lightly (run the mossy hank.
“ Don’t you think it is best to ruu in couples ?” he
asked in a kindly voice, “ I should like to walk homo
with you.”
“ I should think you had better not, ” she answered,
raising her eyes frankly to bis. “ Papa might be an-
noyed ; ” aud she stretched out her hand to say good-
bye.
“ Are we not to meet again, then ? ” he asked earn-
estly, holding it in his own.
A puzzled look flitted over her speaking face.
“ I should be sorry to think so, ” she said sadly,
“but I do not know.”
“ i should be sorry, too, child,” he returned gently.
“ God bless you!”
He lifted the small white hand to his lips, and was
gone.
That was not however, the last meeting between the
MESSES. ARTHUR COOPER & CO’S. WINE AND
SPIRIT WAREHOUSE PITT-STREET.
MR. JOHN HUNTER’S IMPORT BOOT WAREHOUSE, YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
MB. JOHN HUNTER’S CITY BOOT PALACE, GEORGE STREET.
MR. A. HUENERBEIN’S PIANOFORTE WARE-
HOUSE, 411 GEORGE STREET.


heiress of Silver Springs and Angus St. Clare, and after
each he told himself two broad facts; first, that every
day he loved her more, and secondly, that she was
altogether out of his reach.
He had never repeated that simple act of reverence
with which he had parted from her on that evening,
when he had been involuntarily impelled to render it,
scarcely understanding himself; but since then, walking
beneath the twinkling stars ou thpse calm summer
nights beside the brooklet, which said so much to her,
he had found out all the truth, and knew now that it
had been his brightest and his blackest hour when he
and Sylvia Raymond had met.
"Words grew very scarce between these two, and soon
his holiday was over, and the hard working doctor had
to return to his duties.
Their hands had clasped, and their hearts had ached
at parting, though naught but “ Good-bye” had been
said bv either; and he did not see the tears in the blue
eyes, nor did he hear the low sob of the girl he loved,
as she fled homewards, knowing at length how dear the
stranger had become to her.
In vain he stood watching for the last glimpse of her;
not once did she turn to look back at him, and he
started off wearily to the cottage, and from thence to
the station.
Sylvia fished very often now.
Perhaps tho sport took her out of her own thoughts
—perhaps it reminded her of Angus St. Clare—perhaps
she loved it because he, too, was fond of it.
Whatever was tho reason, when she was able to get
away from her father’s room she was down by the brook-
side, or paddling in the stream.
It was certainly not that she expected to meet him
there for he had not once mentioned to her that his
order was for the season, or that he was likely to re-
turn Indeed, he had gone away with the determination
to try and "live it down;" but he found the task he
hod set himself was impossible.
Sylvia’s wistful blue eyes were for ever pleading to be
remembered.
A month of struggling against hislfate, and once more
he found himself walking from Mainsby Station towards
Silver Springs.
Now, there were not many people in the world for
whom John Samson did care, but for Sylvia Raymond
and Angus St. Clare he had formed a strong attachment.
He was not half so dense as he seemed to be, and the
meetings by tho brook-side had net escaped him. He
knew pretty well how the land lay, as he would himself
have expressed it.
So when tho young doctor appeared again on tho
scene, with a face of innocence he advised him to go
and fish up beyond the lake among the rocky boulders.
“But I have no wading boots,” objected Mr. St.
Clare.
“ Ton’ll not need them,” replied the keeper, “ and if
no one else knows where the sport is to bo had—surely
I must.*
Thus answered, Angus reflected that Miss Raymond
never came out for her walk until evening; at least it
had been at that time that he had always seen her,
and ho could be back by then, and yet have an hour or
two of fishing. So off he started, with a word of thanks
and a cheery smile to the keeper, who, when his back
was turned, relapsed into a broad grin, and chuckling,
retreated into his cottage.
“A nice couple they’d make; I’d like to see them mated
and that I would. Poor little lamb, she has a dull life
of it so far, and he’s the only man as ever I see who
is worthy of her. Ha ! ha! he’ll enjoy his sport. I'll
warrant, but ho won’t bring back many fish in his bag 1"
On walked Angus St. Clare, unconscious of the trap
laid for him by the old keeper, who having armed him-
self with certain accounts, marched on to the old red
house to “ keep his master amused,” as he mentally
phrased it.
The young doctor had haunted the lower part of the
stream hitherto, always In tho hope of a glimpse of
Sylvia, often glancing towards her home among the
green forest trees.
Once only had he passed the lake, and now the beauty
of the scene struck him afresh; a calm seemed to fau
upon him as he stood gazing at its steel-gray depths.
Then, remembering that time was precious, ho went on
again, and was som in sight of tho stepping stones,
and the boulders beyond, rising one above the other, as
they became larger and tho hill grew higher.
He decided, after a few moments’ hesitation, where
to throw his fly; and went on, springing from stone, to
stone.
Then at once ho stopped so suddenly as almost to
fall from* the slippery rook on which he was standing,
and his heart beat with an overwhelming rush.
But it was not the violent exercise which had caused
such a commotion in the young man’s pulse.
■ Only a slight girlish figure, nearly up to her middle in
the water, splashing through it in long wading boots,
into which her skirts were firmly tucked.
A large straw hat, tied under her chin, and a tight-
fitting blue serge jacket, displaying the perfect proper-
lions of her form, while with graceful easy movements
she thrashed the stream.
He was close beside her before she noticed him, then
with a little cry she dropped her rod from her hand, and
her sweet lace changed .from privet white to red, and
back again.
“ I did not know anyone was about,” she said at length,
while ho secured her rod, which the current had carried
to his feet.
He could not help thinking what a picturesque little
creature she looked, standing amid the white foam and
the dork boulders.
“ Sylvia, I want to speak to you,” he said simply.
He had never so addressed her before, and she raised
her clear blue eyes to his, wonderingly, while a faint
blush rose again to her cheek.
It had been pleasant to her to hoar her name so
spoken.
For a moment she looked down in hesitation at her
boots, and her colour deepened.
“ Would you mind going away for a minute ? ” she
asked, with childlike innocence.
He gave her a smile, and disappeared by the descend-
ing stepping-stones, then awaited her upon the bank.
In a few minutes she joined him with a happy look.
“ It was rather awkard,” she said shyly, “ and I was
wondering how to get rid of you; but remembering the
saying * honesty is the best policy,’ I thought I would
profit by it.”
««Let us rest hero, Sylvia,” began Angus St. Clare;
*» I want to talk to you."
She trembled a little, bnt sat down where he indi-
cated, and raised her innocent eyas confidingly to his.
"Sylvia do you know what I have come to say to
you?”
No answer, but the dark fringed lashes wore hiding
the nluo eyes now.
" Sylvia, I have loved you ever since that first night
when I so strangely caught you.”
Only a bright glad look,
" My darling, I know what a difference there is be-
tween ns—you, the heiress of * Silver Springs,* and I.
only a hard-working doctor. But, Sylvia, it is you I
want, nothing else, believe me; not your money,
What will you father say to me, dear one ?’’
“ It is of no use,” she murmured, “ I will toll him,
bnt he will never consent.”
«« jjy dearest, who, t will you tell him ? Sylvia, do you
return my love ?”
She held out her hand, with a gesture of trust.
“ Ton know I do,” she answered low, and they
remained there in silence, hand clasped in hand.
“ Is it quite hopeless ?” at length he asked. “ I want
no dower —you would be content to be a poor man’s
wife and companion I think, dear, and to help him in
his up-hill struggle, and in his efforts to do good, would
you not F”
She answered him with a confiding glance and fair
smile, and then it faded.
“Oh! Mr. St. Clare,” she murmured, "you do not
know papa; but I shall never, never forget you, and
never could I love anyone else.”
He was still holding her hand, when suddenly before
them stood the keeper, his face pole and agitated.
“ For the love of God, be quick, doctor,” he cried,
“ I believe he is dying.”
With a cry, Sylvia started to his feet.
“John, John, do yon mean my father ?”
“Hush, hush, my lassie, we have a doctor on the
spot, thanks bo to tho Lord. He’s a clever man, and
maybe ha will pull him through; do not fash yourself,
my pretty; he will run on alone, quicker than you
could go, and I will stay and take core of7<>?-
She' raised her voice to say she would go I with him,
but active Angus St. Clare, leaving all his fishing
tackle behind, had already jumped the hedge and the
ha-ha, and was speeding aeross the park, towards the
old Elizabethan house.
It was a serious case of syncope; and the first from
which Mr. Raymond had ever suffered.
The young doctor resorted to prompt measures, and
undoubtedly saved his life; and from that time the
fractious invalid, living in dread of another attack,
refused to allow him out of his sight.
Angus St. Clare then told his simple story. from the
night when throwing his fly, he had accidentally caught
Sylvia with his barbed hook, up to the very afternoon
when he had told her of his love, knowing full well that
it was hopeless, yet deeming it was due to her and to
himself to tell the entire truth; and in the midst of his
confession John Samson had arrived with the tale of
his (Mr. Raymond’s) suffering; and now how was it
possible for him to remain under the circumstances.
A long silence followed.
“ Everybody always wants something I ” broke out old
Mr. Raymond, somewhat irritably—“ Tom, want Sylvia I
I want you /” Well, well—it’s a bargain. But never,
as long as I live, must you leave me. lam not going to
die like e dog I"
A month later, and the bells of tho little ivy-clad church
which stood within the broad acres of Silver Springs
rang out, and told that Silvia Raymond was Silvia Ray-
mond no longer.
And never had she need to seek the companionship of
the brook, or to listen to its babblings, for there was
one ever beside her ready to enter into her every thought
and feeling.
While, under the influence of Angus St. Clare’s cheer-
ful strength and manhood, and firm strong mind, the
fretful invalid forgot to find his days wearisome, and
learned to be content.
And the old keeper went about with a quiet knowing
laugh. “Ahl it was I who told him to go up and fish
above the lake among the boulders," he chuckled.
“Sylvia,” said Angus, in a low happy voice, as he
clasped her in his arms, with a bright smile, " I wonder
was any other wife so strangely caught 1 ”
Professor Miller, the wrestler and athlete, is
giving “ statuesque ” exhibitions at Melbourne.
A London medico — Dr. Lawson —has been com-
mitted for trial on a charge of poisoning his wife’s
brother in order to obtain certain property which would
devolve upon him in the event of his relative’s death.
London Society journals have all a playful way
of arrogating to themselves exceeding brilliancy ef
style, and Teuth more especially—the organ of Mr.
Henry Labouchere, M.P.—is, of all the class papers, the
most self-sufficient and intolerant. Last week, we laid
before our devouring thousands a specimen of the
prose ©f the Whitehall Review— a journal supposed
to be subsidised by the Duke of Norfolk, inspired by
Royalty, and accepted as an authority on social matters
by the “crumpled-rose-leaf" section of the British
E.C. community generally: and now wo will lay be-
fore our readers a sample of tho original poetry which
appears in Teuth— a publication popularly believed to
be esteemed by the aristocracy in consequence of the
large amount of “ culchaw ” embodied in its columns.
The piece from which we select the two stanzas which
follow, is called “Tho Dying Boy.” Mark this
now:—
“Eight months before he he’d left his home,
A hale and hearty lad;
With a tender heart, and quick and smart.
And mischievous, not bad;
Though his mother, loving him too well.
Much trouble often had.
“ So, when she heard her boy would be
Well-cored for at Mile End;
When 'twas told to her that the manager
Was the poor’s most trusty friend;
And the School Board, too, said ‘All was right,*
She determined him to send.”
The boy he makes out, in about 40 more stanzas of
similar ealibre, was beaten to death at school. His
material is good enough, but his performance—what we
have seen. We will, therefore, for lack of a well-
rounded prose-period, celebrate him in a little
stanza: —
Insensate bard, thy half-hung lyre
Into the gutter fling,
And set a frog upon a log
And let us hear him sing.
We pray thee cease to yowl about
The dying urchin thus;
For though the cane was death to him.
Thy verse is death to us.
To any person who has read of the barefaced
and systematic, as well as extensive, frauds in the
matter of the manufacture and sale of whiskys, which
were recently exposed in press and pamphlet in Eng.
land, it is a matter of the greatest satisfaction that in
the introduction of any lino of whisky there is the
guarantee of absolute safety and purity in the name of
the importers. It has been indisputably proved that
white spirit is shipped in extensive quantities from
London to Scotland and Ireland, and returned to tho
London market as genuine whisky. The best guarantee
against such a trade is the name and position of the
importers. To Messrs. Gilchrist, Watt, and Co., one
of the first houses in Sydney, the public is indebted for
the introduction of the genuine rare old Scotch whisky.
Royal Blend. It ia imported here in exactly the same
condition and quality as supplied to His Royal Highness
the Prince of Wales, and a slight experience of the
whisky as sold here will quickly prove that’it is of royal
flavour. This rare old whisky has the distinguishing
feature of a bouquet as in fine old matured wines. The
great London analyist, Mr. John Moss, P.1.C., F.C.S.,
&c. &0., says:—“My analysis of five samples of the
Royal Blond whisky chosen by myself in your cellars,
from bottles, jars, and ettsks, shows them to be abso-
lutely uniform in character and of great purity. In
addition, they possess an attractive aroma and bouquet
suggestive of fine old wine, are remarkably clean and
soft upon the palate, and quite free from that bugbear
of whisky drinkers—fusel oil.” Gilchrist, Watt, and
Co t^o sole agoJl ts for the Royal Blend whisky in
Naw Soutll Wales. 3
MR. CHAS. KIDMAN'S STORES.—MARKET STREET VIEW.
MR. CHAS. KIDMAN’S STORES-YOEK STREET VIEW
MR. CHARLES KIDMAN—(See page 1)
MR. CHAS. KIDMAN’S STORES-GEORGE STREET VIEW.
