

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.— No. 116
SYDNEY, SATURDAY. APRIL 15, 1882.
Prioo—3d
Inlletin.
o w
SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1832.
The Police.
The sensation occasioned by the committal of
Constable Mahood to stand his trial on a charge
of perjury has died away, and, to all appearance,
matters in connection with the police force are to
bo permitted to go on as they were. We do not
think that moments of popular agitation are often
favorable to the investigation of supposed abuses,
but still loss do wo hold that because an excite-
ment proves to be ephemeral, evidences of dis-
organization in such a body as the police should bo
Permitted to pass without being instrumental in
ringing about exhaustive inquiry. As the ease
wo refer to, although recent, seems to have
slipped out of people's memories, very much as
Mahood himself slipped out of the observation
of hia brethren, we will briefly recount the fact*
Certain constables on board an excursion steamer
had in custody a youth arrested for riotous con-
duct. Suddenly they pounced upon another youth
standing near, and in spite of his protestations,
arrested him also on a charge of having incited
the other to escape. On this charge the new prey
was brought before the bench, and Mahood
swore roundly and in detail against him, even
specifying the expressions he was alleged to have
addressed to the prisoner. On behalf of the youth
other lads gave exculpatory evidence, but the
oaths of the constables —men presumedly of estab-
lished character and impartial aims—would have
prevailed, had not an unexpected witness volun-
teered hia testimony. This was a solicitor who had
been present when the arrest was made, and had
seen and heard all that then passed, from first to
last. In the teeth of the police evidence he
positively swore that the youth before the Bench
had done and said none of the things alleged by
the constable. The puzzled Bench adjourned
the case to permit of further testimony being
brought.
« » «
The next episode threw a truly startling light
upon the possibilities connected with a police
prosecution. Two seafaring men came forward
with declarations that Mahood had employed the
interval allowed by the adjournment to hunt up
false witnesses, whom he invited, on the promise
of money, to come forward and corroborate his
own statements. Had Mahood been a shade
more lucky or discriminating in selecting his per-
jurers, his plot would probably have succeeded.
The additional testimony would have loaded the
scales of justice, the innocent prisoner would have
been cenvioted, and—still worse—the good citizen
who had been at the trouble of coming forward in
the interests of justice, would have been branded
with infamy as a wretch, who, for motives not
apparent but easily imagined, had entered upon
the profession of false swearing.
« * #
It may be said that the foregoing is an isolated
case, and that it would be absurd to draw ex-
clusive conclusions from premises so small. It is
truly an isolated case in one essential. It is ren-
dered exceptional by the circumstance of a by-
stander having put himself to inconvenience to
come forward and see justice done in a matter
which did not immediately concern himself. But
it is not isolated or exceptional as regards other
features quite as suggestive and essential. Con-
flict of testimony in oases of arrest by constables
has been of repeated—in fact, common—occur-
rence at our Police Courts. Instances of the
evidence of arresting constables being contra-
dicted by other testimony have been very numer.
ous. The public hear of such cases only when
the case presents some strikingly peculiar features
—when, for instance, the prisoner is so fortunate
as to be able to adduce strong corroboration of
his defence. But as a general thing the sworn
testimony of a presumedly impartial peace officer
outweights that of outsiders. The prisoner is,
ordinarily, hia own principal witness, and his
mouth is, to all intents and purposes, closed;
while whatever representations he may make are
prejudiced by hia very position, that of a—
presumed offender speaking from the dock.
Magistrates have naturally and reasonably leaned
towards the police. There has been a presump-
tion, fair enough in the main, that constables
would not put themselves to the trouble and
labour of “running in” innocent people, from
more offioiousneas.
* * *
This presumption is no less fair now than it was
before the recent exposA As a broad rule it is
probably quite safe to reckon that in the vast
majority of instances the person who is locked up
on a charge of misdemeanour has not been
arrested without cause. But this is not sufficient.
Circumstances demand some sufficient guarantee
that each case shall bo weighed on its own merits,
and not affected by a system of averages and
general presumptions. It will be advantageous to
asoertain what, if any, inducements may be offered
to constables, by the existing plan of departmental
administration, to distinguish themselves by the
number of arrests they make. It will bo im-
portant to learn whether there exist any oceult
reasons why an officer of police who has made a
poor “ bag” should endeavour to recover prestige
by scoring a conviction or two by foul shots. In
addition, there are other matters which fairly
invite scrutiny. It is no secret that an impression
is widely diffused that some members of the police
force, oven of the grade of constable, have accu-
mulated property with a rapidity strongly inoom-
Eatible with the general experience of what it is
onostly possible to accomplish with the salaries
paid to these officers. Such an impression
may be justly founded, or it may be
based on a misconception. But there is
no blinking the fact that it exists, and
that its prevalence seriously impairs the confidence
and respect in which a police force should be held
by the community. Decent officers who have by
self-denial, good fortune, prudence, or sagacity
acquired considerable property would welcome any
investigation which would relieve them from par-
ticipation in a stigma which they know to be in
their cases unjust and undeserved. Honest con-
stables, who have done their duty with singleness
of purpose, and have been resolute to resist
temptations to prostitute their offices for illicit
gains, would rejoice at any proceedings which
would be effectual in discriminating betweem them
and their corrupt comrades—should there be any
such. It is a pity—perhaps it is a shame —that
such rumours are current, but it would be worse
than useless to go on as if they had no existence.
Their very currency constitutes a grievance which
mustjehafe the decent members of the police, who
must desire above all men that such matters be
probed to tho roots, and themselves justified and
cleared in the regard of the public. The principle ef
the law which requires certain persons to show how
they become possessed of goods not likely to be
honestly acquired, may with perfect fairness bo
brought into action in the case of a constable on
two guineas a week, who without other ostensible
means of making money, becomes in a few years
the owner of considerable properties.
* * •
It is particularly important that confidence
should bo established in the police at the present
juncture. The New Licensing Act invests mem-
bers of the force with powers far exceeding any
heretofore entrusted to them. The whole body of
publicans are placed at the mercy of officious
constables, and their very livelihood is at the dis-
posal of any junta of corrupt officers who might
plot to let a publican become conscious that he
must either pay black-mail, or run the risk of
losing his license in consequence of repeated con-
victions due to manufactured evidence. Since the
passing of the Act, complaints of undue offioious-
ness, and instances of positively wanton eagerness
to induce publicans to offend the letter of
the law, with an obvious view of enjoying
the plunder to be gathered from the proportion
of fines' which are payable to informers,
have been perpetually before the public. There
is some reason to believe that the police force
needs purging. There are a thousand why the
force should bo relieved from the stigma which
recent incidents have fixed upon it. The past
cannot be undone. No investigation could suffice
to undo the results of the conviction of innocent
persons for misdemeanours which they never com-
mitted. The Mahoods of'tha police —if that con-
stable be not a solitary offender —have had a long
spell in which to work their will. But for the
future tho interests of justice and of tho police
themselves demand that some guarantee be
afforded. Nothing less than a searching and com-
prehensiye official investigation into the whole
constitution of the force will suffice for the pur-
pose.
The Case of Preacher Cooks.
P rom a correspondent wo received, a week ago, a
communication couched in the following terms
“ Every man who holds forth in the Domain on
a Sunday afternoon is protected against violence
and insult, save one, and that one perhaps the
most earnest of the preachers and lecturers
James Cocks has boon several times brought
before the Bench: for whatp For causing a dis-
turbance, and in this, wise:—After insulting and
assaulting him for hours on the Park, a mob of
the scum of the aity followed him down the street,
and continued their filthy practices. For this
Cocks has been fined, and ho most naturally con-
siders that justice is a miserable fraud. Week
after week he works hard to benefit those whom
ho considers to be in error, and each day is ho
brutally assaulted, and no protector near him.
For a civilian to interfere would bo madness. Two
Sundays ago I saw him prone on the grass, his
table placed on him, and brutal larrikins pushing
each other on to the table. I thought the poor
follow was dead—ho looked like it. An expostu-
lation to the assailants only produced a volley of
verbal filth. Last Sunday very nearly the same
course was pursued, and no one was near to appeal
to. All the other preachers have sympathisers
ready to aid, and b/uecoats’to protect them, but
this earnest fellow is left alone. Ho may be right
or _ wrong—park preaching may or may not bo
objectionable—but fair play, of which so much
blatant boast Is made, is in the outer Domain
conspicuously absent on Sundays. The lowest
scum of the city there vomits forth oaths and
obscenity, but all this is winked at owing to the
total lack of official interference. That this scene
is acted is known to all, and to the bitter shame
of our common humanity it is silently approved of
by the powers that bo. If Cocks is doing wrong,
then all the rest of the speakers are doing wrong ;
if right, then let him enjoy the same privileges,
and be relieved from the brutal and cruel assaults
of the vilest ruffians in the country. For a man
to have been in the hands of the police appears to
be sufficient to deprive him of all manhood’s
rights, but recent events have proved how some
men can get into the clutches of the ‘ foorce.’ ”
# # #
So, our correspondent. Wo have made inquiry
about this Cocks, with the result that we learn
that the incidents stated are a scandal and dis-
grace to those whose function it is to preserve
order. Cocks is a trusted employe at Messrs.
Farmer and Co.’s. What he preaches ha
practises. Ho spends his earnings in helping
poor, diseased, and crippled people. He collects
money for charities without respect to their sec-
tarian distinctions. Some three years ago he
rescued an unhappy deaf and dumb cripple, who
was permitted by well-to-do-rfelativea to experi-
ence a living death in an outhouse. The affair
was made public by the Evening News, and the
public all over the colony, shocked by the
exposure, subscribed towards the maintenance
of the poor wretch whom Cocks had relieved.
When the subscriptions were expended Cocks
still supported the unfortunate creature. He and
his family minister to the necessities of all the
miserable and suffering whom ho discovers, and
whom the Priests and Lovitea of the present day
pass by on the other side.
* • •
CocKSis eccentric. Just so. We wonder whether
the “respectable” Jews eighteen centuries ago
regarded The Saviour as quite right in hia head.
Cocks is so very eccentric that ho actually does
practical good, and| gives all he has to the poor—
his time, his energy, his life’s devotion, his money,
instead .of striving to get on, become a “ good
business man,” make a fortune, and tip the
clergy to chant his praises as a model citizen
and sound churchman. He has been subjected to
the most outrageous treatment on the public
parks. And all apparently because, like the
Master he claims to serve, he allies himself to
no sect or organisation, and holds aloof equally
from our Pharisees and our Sadduoees. Had
Cocks been wise, like “the children of this world,”
he would have fastened on to some society or
clique, and then he would have been protected and
glorified of men. When “Pastor” Allen re-
sorted to the public parks to froth out words of
hatred and venom upon a rival Christian Church,
the authorities wore moved by potent wirepullings
to send out a detachment of the permanent
artillery to protect him. Poor Cocks, who
preaches only peace and Christ crucified, is
assailed by brutal larrikins, while the police, like
the Pharisee and the Priest of old, look on with
indifference, or slink smugly by.
• • *
The whole business is a disgrace to the authorities.
If it be decided that open-air expounding in the park
is a nuisance, then Cocks and everybody else who
attempts it should be marched out as soon as they
open their mouths. But in no case should earnest
men, whatever their creed, bo abandoned to the
THE LATE DANIEL HENRY DENIEHY.
FROM A MEDALLION.
(See next page.)


HOP BIT
ABB
THE PUREST AT
MEDICINE EVER
T hey are Compound*
Hops, Bnohn, Mandrake
The Oldest, Best, most B
Valuable Medicines in th
in addition, contain all
most effective curative pn
other Bitters, being the g
Regulator, Blood Purifi
and Health Restoring Age
Ask your Drug-gist o:
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, one
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bittei
drugged, drunken nostn
Purest and Best Medicin
and no person or family sh
Out it.
VALUABLE TB
If you are suffering fron
or languishing on abed of
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will t
If you oi
Weak and
knowing wi _ _
Hop Bitters Will B
•e simply aih,h:
Dispirited, tVi
If you are a Minister, a
taxed yourself with your pa
or a Mother, worn out v
work.
Hop Bitters Will R<
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the
every-day duties, or a m
toiling over your midnighi
Hop Bitters Will Stre
If you arc suffering froi
or drinking, any indiscreti
tion, or are young and gro
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Be
If yen are in the wort
at the desk, anywh
that your system needs Cl
mg - , or Stimulating, with
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your 1
Impure, pulse feeble, yoi
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give Y<
Vigour.
HOP Bitters is an elej
and refreshing flavouring 1
drinks, impure water, &
them harmless, and sw<
mouth, and cleansing the i
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND EN
with
HOP BIT!
■ad yo« will have no slokne
MONTEFIOB.E, METC
65 PITT STREET, STDH
General Agents for A
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGIN!
MOST DELICIOUS I
FREE FROM ALL ADU
larrikins. Poor Cocks ! Give him an education, fill
hia heart with that hardening silicate, worldly wis-
dom, give him a geneva gown and bands, shove him
into a pulpit, and intersperse his remarks with
the performances of a choir and the wheezing of
an American organ—then he would be an esteemed
Pastor with a stipend, an occasional purse of
sovereigns, and a trip to Europe. Or send him
early to college to study theology and chicken-
hazard, ordain him, give him a mitre and a cathe-
dral—he would be an eminent Bishop, and could
spend most of hia time at home, take a young
maid to wife to warm his old blood, as David
did, and yet die in the odour of sanctity, after a
life full of “sweetness!and light” which acoom-
Elished nothing in particular. But since ho takes
is religion in the spirit, is constant in season and
out of season, goes into the highways and bye-
ways to “ compel them to come in,” he is disre-
£ntable. The soiled touzled wretch, rumpled by
nikins, with stains on his face, and mud on his
torn clothes, must indeed be a sorry spectacle for
gods and—policemen! But, when one comes to
think of it, such a creature, bruised, bonneted,
and rent, must furnish a much nearer resemblance
to Saint Stephen, for instance, or any other of
the martyred apostles, than even Mr. Jefferis
in the pulpit, Archbishop Vaughan at the Oide
Englyshe Fayre, or Bishop Barker lying placid
and saintly in hia spotless shroud.
Daniel Henry Deniehy.
The life-story of moat of the central figures of
Literature is a sad one. The character of genius
seems impressed with a distinctive principle of
misfortune. The roll of names is a long and
brilliant one of those who, while tracing with
inspired stylus in the adamant tablets of Fate
their own title to immortality, would have been
glad, meanwhile, to catch the crumb of creature
comfort, or the ray of happy content, which might
68004)6 from the luxurious tables or the pleasant
homes of their less intellectual but more fortunate
follows. A striking instance of this class is afforded
in the person of the gifted subject of the present
brief sketch. Daniel Henry Deniehy is Australia’s
representative litterateur. Born in Sydney, in
1828, he went at an early ago with his parents on
a short visit to England. On his return, while
yet young, ho attended school in Sydney, leaving
which he was articled to Mr. Stenhouso, prepara-
tory to entering himself as a solicitor. Ho prac-
tised a short time in Sydney, and afterwards in
Goulburn ; but this is a comparatively blank
episode in his short but brilliant career. Mr.
Deniehy appeared prominently before the public
of Now South Wales in the dual capacity of a
politician and a litterateur. In 1853, the Consti-
tion Act being just passed, he came forward in the
Liberal interest. His polished eloquence, and, at
that early time, his clear and vigorous thought,
gained him at once the ear of the public. He was
adored by the people, and being elected, unfortu-
nately for himself, took his seat in the Legislature
for Argyla. Frank Fowler, the author of
Southern Lights and Shadows,” speaks of him
at this period as the most accomplished man in the
Chamber j at a time, too, when it was filled by
much of the promise—long since perfectly de-
veloped—of the colony. At this, the sunniest
period of his life, his home was ever the happy
refuge of all poor workers in the fields of Art or
Letters. Gifted with the subtle oritical faculty of
a Do Quineey—on whose style of diction and
thought ho had manifestedly modelled himself,
as far as the originality of his own self-assertive
genius would permit—he added to this, conversa-
tional powers as brilliant as they were profound.
“ His grasp of subjects,” says his friend, Frank
Fowler, “ is wonderfully extensive ; while his rare
and highly-cultured intellectual faculties dart into
every nook and cranny of a topic, con vexing its
hidden recesses into sharp and vivid relief.” This
sketchy writer gives us a pleasant little cameo-pic-
tnre of the home of this gifted child of genius at this
happy epoch of his life. A cottage home at the
edge of the harbour of Port Jackson, overhung
with vines prodigal in purple clusters, trailing
their cool green leaves in all directions, clinging
to wall and hedge, and covering the ground so that
one might press out the juice as he walked ; while,
within in a pleasant room, the table —covered with
the magazines and books, which evidenced the
cultured taste of their owner—was surrounded by
a party with similar tastes, who spent an hour or
two in social or literary converse before they
joined in a quadrille on the well-clipped lawn.
This is a pleasant picture enough, but it was soon
to be shadowed, as the sequel showed. About
the same time that he entered on public life (1853),
Mr. Deniehy delivered a course of lectures on
“ Modern Literature,” being then twenty-five
years old. “In these lectures,” says Barton, an
admiring contemporary, “he discussed the most
eminent English, french, and Italian authors of
modern times, giving convincing proofs of his
power as a oritical analyst.” This was the first
manifestation of his literary talents in public.
Beading one of these lectures now, one is struck
at the vast and varied acquaintance with
books and writers, and subjects of art and
literature generally, which it evinces. When it is
recollected that the gifted lecturer mastered
these subjects by himself, under difficulties
incident to the state of affairs in these colonies
thirty years ago, it will be seen that his vast
mental powers and his fine critical taste have not
been overrated. Mr. Deniehy, notwithstanding
his accomplishments, however, achieved no politi-
cal successes; and as a man of letters he left
little behind him to convey a just idea of what have
been well described as his extraordinary powers.
He contributed extensively to the Southern
Cross and Freeman’s Journal about the years
’57-'6B; the latter paper, which has literary tra-
ditions connected with its history second to none
in the colonies, honouring itself by giving place
to many of the most brilliant products of his
polished pen. He edited the Southern Cross,
supporting the Forster Ministry strenuously. In
18(52 ho went to Melbourne to edit the Victorian ;
and it was about this time that the failing which
eventually quenched the rare lustre of his genius
began to make itself more severely felt. In
1864, the Victorian having collapsed, Mr.
Deniehy returned to Sydney. His mind was at
that time so far affected by constitutional causes
that all literary power had vanished. Prom this
point, the descent to a neglected grave was rapid
and signal. His friends made many and sin-
cere efforts to rescue their fallen leader,
but without effect. Mr. Dailey, with char-
acteristic warmth of friendship and liberal
generosity, did much ; Sir Charles Gavan Duffy
offered him the Victorian Attorney-Generalship;
but the fate of Australia’s representative genius
was already finally disposed of. An ill-advised re-
course to stimulants—the last resource of a
paralysed and enfeebled will—soon finished the
wreck of what was once indeed a man. As we re-
call the last scones in that brief but brilliant life,
—scones at the recollection of which our pen
pauses sympathetically in the recital, —we tenderly
draw a veil of pity over the circumstances. It
were well that the sorrowful tale should not again
be told. In a dishonoured grave in an unconso-
cratod corner of tho Bathurst Cemetery the re-
mains of Australia’s first-born of genius lie huddled
ignominiously away,—unblessed, unshriven, and
unsung No stone marks his resting place, and it
is doubtful if any one so much as knows the exact
spot where he is laid. He lived comparatively
neglected, even by most of those—with a few
notable exceptions—whom he so much charmed
and delighted in the bright heyday of his sunny
youth and giant power ; he lies neglected in death
in a grudgingly-given spot of that fair Australian
earth which gave him birth, &nd which his genius
has so much honoured. His mother, stricken in
years, is dependent in Sydney on the precarious
charity of those who knew her son ; his daughter
earns her living laboriously. And the people
of New South Wales take no action. Daniel
Henry Deniehy died in 1864, at tho ago
of thirty-six years. As we think of him,
and of his fate—of his genius, his rare gifts,
and his brilliant and winning graces of intellect
and culture, we cannot but think, too, of what he
might have been under brighter conditions and in
more favourable circumstances. “ 0 sad! sad the
life-story of this grandly-endowed being! ” were
his own words in writing of Do Quincoy’s death,
and the same may bo applied to himself.* The
natives of this colony owe much to Mr. Dailey,
whoso tender memories of friendship for their
most gifted countryman prompted on a recent
occasion those graceful and touching words, con-
juring up “ that pale image ” of one who, but for
such timely remembrance, might have faded from
their national records as silently as though his
unique and signal genius had never lent its lustre
to their history.
Our engraving of the medallion is from a photo,
by Mr. Collins, of George-st., Sydney.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Cue from Menippas.
I» Mnnipppa, that prince of snarling’ cynics, were
suilrlonly reincarnated, and again assumed the censor’s
garb, ho would assuredly find here more scope for his
scathing satire than the philosophers of his own time
afforded him. Ho would soon diseorer that the age is
mainly one of sham and shoddy, with Cant sitting in
high places as its crowned King and hierophant. Ho
would And Humbug formulated into a modern science
of infinite perfection, and a vicious insincerity eating
like a social gangrene into the heart of tho body politic.
The multitudes of philanthropic projects which are
over afoot might perhaps excite within him hopes of
letter things ; but ho would quickly note that much of
our current benevolence is of tho kid-glovod and Brus-
sols-carpot typo, and that its gifts are less for tho relief
of tho sufferer than for the solf-glorifying of tho giver.
In the matter of religion, our philosophic Pagan would
undoubtedly find himself faced by an insoluble enigma.
Iho few that feel, tho many that feign, and the vast
majority who do neither the one nor tho other, would
divide his astonishment, and furnish a field for all his
acrid comment. Missionary zeal, as at present in.
dulged, would especially perplex our nineteenth-
century Mpsippus. and ho would, perhaps, like many
others, appraise at less than its orthodox value the
oly illogical energy which ransacks remote regions for
proselytes, and neglects the nearer heathens of our
towns audacities. These and and other anomalies
would inevitably bewilder our resuscitated Pagan • and
tho probability is .that, puzzled past sanity, he would
repeat his suicidal feat of long ago. and evade a philo.
sophic vexation by hanging himself up.to his own hat-
pCg.
The Civil Service.
Sneers at the Civil Service are very commonly met
with in the press. We occasionally indulge in a little
scoffing ourselves, because we honestly believe that in
the Government departments there is neither the zeal
nor the industry which prevails in private establish-
ments. But we don’t for a moment imagine that these
shortcomings are due to the entire absence from the
Service of capable men with an industrious disposition*
The defects of the Service are clearly attributable to
the fashion in which the are abused and
disheartened. In a private establishment, the interest
of the employer constantly operates to induce him to
reward merit and efficiency. For his own sake he must
put the fittest man to the most responsible work, and
reward him with the highest salary. Were the same
principle permitted to operate in the Civil Service there
would soon be no room for sneers. Ability would make
its way to the front, and whatever energy officers, from
the highest to the lowest, possessed, would be constantly
brought into play by competition for advancement
But no one has any right to expect efficiency from a
Service in which men are promoted chiefly by favour
and unfriended officers, however efficient, learn by ex!
perlence that the most strenuous industry has but
very subordinate influence upon their fortunes. Every
day they know of new men being pitchforked into
superior positions which old officers had for years hoped
some time to attain. Every day they see incapables, who
chance to have friends at court, kicked up-stairs into
desirable vacancies, on which, according to every
rule of justice and fitness, older and abler
officers had a distinct claim. No reasonable man could
expect to get whole-hearted work out of a body of men
so handled. The fortunate ones, conscious that they
will bo cared for whether they work or not. are naturally
disposed to take life easy. The unfriended ones, feeling
and perceiving that no strenuousness of application to
their duties countervails the back-stair influence of
more lucky competitors, are under constant inducement
to accept their fate and make the best of thing, by
likewise taking things easy. That there are men of
brains and energy in every department of the service
is undeniable. The machine would cease to revolve
altogether, despite the ridiculously redundant number
of hands engaged to push it along, were there not some
pretty vigorous pushing done. There are men in the
service who are energetic by habit, and men who are
industrious by principle. And again, there are some in
superior offices who enjoy the exercise of authority,
and without meaning more than to air their import!
ance, incidentally do useful service, in an offensive way
by playing the slave-driver. There is no remedy for
the defects of the service that we can discover. Until
wo have high-minded legislators who would scorn to
solicit billets for their relatives and hangers-on, irre-
spective of fitness, the service must remain as it is.
And until we have constituencies too enlightened to
return to Parliament any but men of elevated character
Civil service patronage must still be one of the instru!
ments of corruption.
Tub objections urged by military men in England
against tho construction of the Channel tunnel are 1
practical enough. Tho immunity from hostile invasion
which Groat Britain has heretofore enjoyed has been
due not alone to the difficulties which exist in the way
of making a descent upon her shores. There has always
been a secondary consideration, that an expeditionary
army, even when fairly lauded, might find itself cut off
from its continental base. Even in the days of Nelson,
when the supremacy of the British power on the sea
was undisputed, it might have been possible for an
invading force to slip over. The great Napoleon
believed it to be quite possible, and there is historical
certainty that the great army which he had assembled
at Boulogne’and Ambleteuse could have got across on
several occasions without meeting the British fleet.
Two or three times, the blockading squadron was blown
off by tempests, and forced to take refuge to refit-
Once or twice the fleet was decoyed away. But on
every occasion that the Channel was thus freed from
guardians, fortune intervened, and the wind came round
and blow adversely to the French flotilla. In these
days of steam the chances for slipping over are immeu-
soly multiplied. But few commanders would care to
risk an army on such an the proba-
bility that it would be immediately shut up in Great
Britain without possibility of succour or reinforcement
in case it should meet with a chock or a reverse, and
totally unable to retire should it be decisively defeated.
Now, if there were a channel tunnel, the chances of an
invader from France would be vastly improved. Once
landed, he would strike for the British end of the
tunnel, and that once in his possession ho would fortify
it as a tiite de pent is fortified, and be enabled to intro-
duce men and material at his own discretion. Of
course, in war time, the tunnel would bo flooded. But
it could bo pumped out. It might even bo blown up in
places, but partial destruction would admit of tolerably
rapid repair. The military objectors, are, therefore,
probably right in opposing the scheme, from their own
point of view. But, on the other hand, it is not the
existence or non-existence of this or that facility for
attack or defence that can preserve a nation from over-
throw. A manly determined national spirit is the only
sure defence. The British Channel can no more pro-
tect England from decadence tliaa the Great Wall
could preserve China from Tartar conquest, and the
Channel tunnel has no more real significance than a
casual breach or gate knocked in the Great Wall.
SOCIAL.
A ball on ft princely scale takes place at Pyr-
mont House, on Thursday next, the 30th iust., to
celebrate the attaining of his majority of Mr. W. C. H.
Lippmoun, the grandson of William Webb, Esq., tho
oldest resident of Pyrmont. Over a hundred invita-
tions have been issued and accepted.
• • •
The first Oddfellows Ball held in the old Exhi-
bition Building, on Easter Monday night, was a great
success. Some very nice dresses were worn. Black
and cardinal wore the prevailing colours.
• • •
On the 19th instant, a grand ball is to be given
by the Mayor and Mayoress of Petersham at the local
Town Hail.
• « •
At the Tamworth Guildlßall on Easter Monday
night, several Clontarfy gentlemen made themselves
very conspicusus by smoking in the hall, much to the
annoyance of tjie other visitors. At the supper it was
with difficulty, owing to the scramble, that many suc-
ceeded in procuring a cup of tea.
• « •
Miss Agnes Niven Service, "the elder surviving
daughter of the Hon. James Service, was last week
married at East Melbourne, to Mr. Brooks Priestly
Bilbrough, of Croydon, England.
* * m
Captain Webster, of the s.s. Albion, was mar-
ried at Auckland, on 29th March, to Miss Quick.
There was a very smart wedding and a four-foot wed-
ding cake.
• • •
A Naval man at present doing duty with the
Squadron in Sydney is to he married to a daughter of
Mr. D. C. Macarthur, tho “ father of Victorian bank-
ing,**
• « •
A Public School in a Southern suburb of Sydney
is to lose its pretty little mistress, who is to be carried
off by an energetic medico in a Southern colony, noted
for his giant stature.
• # •
There is to be a ball at Liverpool on the 18th
instant.
• • •
A Citizens’ Ball Iwas given to the Marquis of
Normanby, at Brisbane, on the sth instant, and a large
number attended, including Sir Arthur Kennedy, Sir
Arthur Palmer, Lord and Lady Phipps, Judges, and
members of Parliament. The day before the ball a
letter appeared in the Gouriise, from the Eov. J.jSntton,
Anglican minister, protesting against the ball being
held in Holy Week. It was then too late to alter the
arrangements, but some stayed away in conseqmenoe.
» * •
Last week the employes of the Newcastle Steam-
ship Co. presented Mr. T. Chandler (Sydney agent) with
an address and a silver-mounted emu egg, on the oooo-
sioa of bis departure tor Europe per Cuzco.
• • •
After all tho rain, lovely weather dawned on
the opening day of tho Agricultural Show on Saturday
There was no mud, but the sand was heavy walking
and the seats were much appreciated. Sir John
Eobertson opened the Show, Owing to the postpone-
ment, several good bicyclists were absent from tho
race of the steel steeds. The jumping was the sight of
the day. It only lasted five minutes. The fences were
stiff three-railera, 4 feet 3 inches high, and the take-off
vary soft. Bundah cleared one fence. Safeguard
balked, and Veno fell over his rider, who narrowly
escaped a crushing. A rush was made to see the ladies
ndmg them hacks, but the ring was too small, and tho
exhibition not brilliant. Some handsome drosses w«re
visible during the day. A Parramatta belle, with a
graceful figure, was very attractive in a costume of
Grenat velvet and satin, hat of cream lace and feathers
light gloves. A stylish suburban lady displayed a neat
black cashmere beautifully worked with small steel beadr-
hat to match. An Illaworra lady proudly carried the
the blue ribbon, which denoted that she had won the
prize for riding. A cream cashmere, with broad-
pleated body and waistband, and large pearl buttons,
was decidedly neat. Among remarkable dresses, were
two satins of bright red and copper colour, a fashion,
able rich brown, edged with gleaming brown beads
striped brown underskirt, collarette and trimmings • n
light blue, with hat, feather, and fringes to match • and
a peculiar dress, shading from brown to silver, with
brown chenille fringe. Two handsome sisters were
tastefully attired in complete black. A charming
blonde from North Shore wore a. beautiful black satin
brochd, heavily ornamented with flashing steel beads
Pink was scarce, but Princess bonnets were verv
numerous. A specially stylish costume was a long
double-breasted jacket of grey cloth, set off with
cardinal plush, and a cardinal Gainsborough hat
shading a handsome face. The daughter of a titled
member of the Council wore a tasteful blacked puffed
satin, with flaino-hued hollyhocks; while the wife and
daughter of another member were in damson blue satin
brochd, and maroon trimmed with watered momi Tho
band played, so did a Miss Wholmes, E.A M
weff-kSown Roarer cToth considembly hnprossed
K« ! a.ss. e bi ,w “ u “ h »


TRADE
CERiM.
FOB
URIAH
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Backache, Soreness of the Chest, Gout,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swellings and
Sprains, Burns and Scalds,
General Bodily Pains,
Tooth, Ear and Headache, Frosted Feet
and Ears, and all other Pains
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals St. Jacobs Oil as
a safe, sure, simple and cheap External Remedy.
A trial entails bafthe comparatively trifling outlay,
of 50 Cents, and every one suffering with pain l
can have cheap and positive proof of its claims.
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IN
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-sfcreet.
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-etreet.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George-street.
I. JACOBS & Co., Hunter-street.
PEEEIEE’S BAKING POWDEE,
£
VIRTUTIB GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER, TOU NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it aplinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
■teak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
ft— —
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
SELF RAIDING FLOUR
SSSSjiS
YEAST POWDER.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o.; if
le, clean, and durable, and oanbe made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
Phis G*Sis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoko. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the fnrnace|;
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TA.LLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Govommentßailways in perference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &o. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFEECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which rem
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can bo applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS/
85 CASTLBREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL. ’
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
<3
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
LEVERS,
vS*
A. J.HUFTON
»2
Ll*
ooo^
$
JJ3
0
imM
m
m ■ • 1
•A
i
%
UFt,f^
.DEPARTMENT
638 GEORGE STREET.
MANUFACTORY:
Georuk-stbeet West, Sydney.
H
[ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.]
ODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Qoulburu-street.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MAN UP ACT ORE R. Ac.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thonga
Made to Order.
i
SBii
JZ
■ 'H"
■
670 h.HILDE R.67G
6-70
16/0
*HUo r o
DER
UllDFR
BOOT
tWORlUty
m
H. HILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
CENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
571, GEORGE-STREET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GEQGER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
o£ tbe Best Quality in the Trade,
ATrlal respectfully solicited.
Note the Address-
571, GEOBGE.8TR6ET,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn Streets.
VANITY: FAIR.
One of the latest novelties in Paris is embroid-
ered kid in the design of a dress. It is used chiefly as a
trimming for velvet dresses, and the shade of the two
materials ie always the same, but the glint on the sur-
face exhibits a good contrast A very pretty Comtesse
appeared in a dress of the popular myrtle-green velvet,
tfith a flat tablief orl fbe front of the skirt covered with
kid in open-work embroidery, showing the velvet
through. Below were tbrde xdyrtle-gfden satin
■ flowers: while the bodice was of plain kid,
Wore - fitting. Long kid gloves to match...,..,
A few years ago, French modistes were autocrats, pure
and simple; they declined to carry out designs of their
customers if original, for fear they might be called
eccentric. Now, that is changed; originality is the aim
of all. Clients often come provided with sketches of
dainty ideas of their own, and the result of consultations ‘
i 3 sometimes found to bo as charming as novel...Sulphur ,
co’dur is a good deal worn, mixed with brown; a lovely 1
dress worn on {he stuge by Mdlle Ugalde having given
it an impetus. A beautiful specimen was a skirt of seal- I
brown velvet, tunic of sulphur coloured brocade, with
large brown velvet flowers raised on it, mantle of brown
velvet with sulphur chenille fringe on the edges, ,
and embroidery down the back. Bonurt of brown -
velvet, with sulphury brocade and wreath of yellow
chrysanthemums Ridged plush is a new fabric
for cloaks Camel’s hair glores have been in- .
troduoed....Chenille was becoming popular in Sydney.... '
Xa “old Euglyshe Payre” is to be held at Auckland,
N.Z , during Easter week The King of Siam recently >
bought £210,000 worth of furniture in London At an
English school, “Bon Juan" has been chosen as the
text-book for a boys’ class competing for a 11 literature
and history ” prize. The prize was founded some time
agj by a clergyman, who probably did not foresee this
text-book The scion of a well-known aristocratic
family in England applied to his mother to relieve him
from money embarrassments, caused by the pressure of
a West-End usurer. The usurer happened to be the
financial agent to whom she entrusted her investments.
She had been lending money at ever so much per cent.
to her own son I Mrs. Langtry is probably the “ most-
portrait-taken’’ woman in the world, and one of her
enthusiastic admirers suggests that she should be
invited to a f6te, and be presented with a testimonial on
the occasion of her 500th photograph being produced.
It would he good to take the opportunity of having a
Langtry Exhibition, at which all pictures of her—
whether in photography, Woodbnrytype, graphotype, ,
beliotype, mezzo-tint, etching, wood-engraving, litho- '
graphy, oils, water-colours, chalks, pen-and-ink, pencil,
sepia, or charcoal on a white wall—could be collected or
shown. Thousands would pay to see it When the
office of chief of police at Birmingham was vacant, a
lord was one of the applicants for it—Lord St. Leonards.
However, his Lordship was unsuccessful
Ferdinand Danger, who has just died at Paris, was
an inventor of a curious character. His profession was
inventing popular games. He had a hermitage to whose
seclusion he would retire, and there meditate, like a
poet or modiste, on his next creation. Some were of a
questionable excellence, such as baroque billiards, a
great swindling game, and several 3-card tricks. He
invented the querist’s album, so popular now,
wherein victims are pestered to unburden their
souls ns to favourite colours, names, heroes, <fco
A Eusslan Count had £25,000 stolen from him (in
jewellery) last year. The thief was troubled in con-
science, and has delivered up the money and himself.
At an English town, a couple were married and not
married; tor, after the ceremony, it was found the
church was not lio»nsed, and the bishop, on being tele-
craohod to, said the wedding was no wedding. The
parties had gone on their honeytmwn, but on returning,
the bridegroom—noble man!—again went through the
or j ei l A glass manufacturer proposes to build houses
of glass bricks. People living in such such houses won’t
throw stones One of the most curious advents of a
“ little stranger ’’ on record, was that of a promising
child who came in the middle of a dinner party at a
friend’s house. The guest and mother was the lady
artist known in London as Mrs. Poynter The Czar’s
uncle. Grand Duke Constantine, has taken a house in
Paris, and intends to stay there. Constantine and
Alexander don’t love each other At the coronation
of herself and husband, the Czarina is to occupy ja
throne set with 1810 precious stones A lady pretty
-ell hit the truth when she said that the numerous
societies for women’s dress reform, on hygienic princi-
oles, all fail for the same reason: they do not provide
pretty dresses for pretty women. Plenty of girls would
not object to wearing healthy clothes, but they won t
be mode guys The three doctors who attended
Governor Sir Charles Botham's death bed, in 1855, are
still alive and practising in Melbourne Of the Mel-
bourne doctors, Balls-Headley dashes along in a high
tilbury; Beaney and Gillboe ride in broughams with a
pair of bays; Neild (“Tahite," of the Australasianj
Melbourne correspondent, of the S.M. Herald ; and
« Theophrastus ” of the Echo) walks, by choice; Kay,
the homcepath, goes in a gig.
•■ • •
The Belgravia stocking suspender is taking the
place of garters ; the belt fits on the corset, from which
depend elastic braces with clips, which, not having teeth,
do not tear the material they hold.... Neat little tapues,
made entirely of feathers, are now seen in every street;
they are principally of rich dark hue, such as bine,
brown, bronze, green, dark red. Silver, gold, bronze and
other metallic crowns of satin or plush are worn, and
sometimes trimmed with feathers. A big green frog
with yellow glass eyes may be a novel ornament, but is
not pretty A fashionable complete costume, very
popular in England, (a few lately arrived), and used for
garden or croquet parties, is pale blue satin dress, and
enormous hat of pale pink plush : the whole affair being
called by the suggestive title “ Oyer the Wall’* A
now winter garment for ladies is the 11 Policeman s
coat,” of dark-blue cloth, fitting tight, with large cape.
Steel trimmings ought to make young men very
careful: and with this, or some other object in view, a
London modiste has introduced steel gorget, cuffs, and
armlets, made like old chain armour, ring within ring ;
they arc best suited for dark dresses Berthas again
in vogue... Trains are made oval, and detachable... Lemon
colored satin with white brocade is anew mixture, pretty
at night With very rich evening robes, court trains
are worn of great length, attached to the shoulders
Bridesmaids at fashionable English weddings wear caps
of white mull, with f ull Moorish crowns gathered into
a satin band covered with rich lace. A watered ribbon
about six inches in width is twisted through this lace,
terminating behind in long fringed ends, which arc
0 uite a yard and a half long, and are intended to reach
nearly to the foot of the dress A feature of Paris
life is the puritanical simplicity with which many
ladies are garbed in the street; all the dazzling rich-
ness of attire being reserved for evening wear, at
theatres, balls, or at home, where some are clad almost
as gorgeously as the princesses in a fairy tale Genoa
velvet much used for mantles Worth’s dresses go
all over the civilised world. Wreaths of roses are
worn under the brim of Spanish and other large hats...
Linen lustre is coming into fashion again; our grand-
mothers loved it The latest freak in evening dress
effect is to have small birds perched on the shoulder or
neck, in a natural position, as if just alighted. It has
the very pleasing result of drawing attention to a pretty
arm or white neck, and an admirer can gaze—on a bird,
you know—without being improper A fashion paper
says “ the massive silver jewellery worn by ladies is
doomed to be discarded.’* Of course it is; but when ?
For girls, collarettes of large leafless flowers are
pretty, say roses, asters, poppies, with buds on long
stalks to look like pendants Young ladies now wear
ball dresses in black materials, but very light
make, such as grenadine, gauze, and tarlatane, with
silver, flower, or coral ornaments A remark-
able costume at a fancy ball in Paris consisted
of a cock and a hen, represented by a young married
couple. The cock wore a bright yellow coat, a jabot of
white feathers, knee-breeches of fawn-brown feathers,
silk stockings, black shoes, and a field-marsnal’s hat,
with a cock's crest in golden feathers. The hen was in
white satin, covered with snowy white down feathers,
plush bodice, feather paniers made to resemble wings,
and turned up at the back with the most ridiculous
little tail: she carried a tiny basket of golden eggs
Printing is replacing brochiS on many materials now.
Light moire antique, for instance, is printed with large
roses of very bright colours : and striped fabrics, say
of moire and satin alternating, are printed with rows
of flowers on them In olden days, partners lor a
dance were chosen by the ladies throwing all their fans
on a table, and the men drawing them by choice
The Empress of Austria has invented a plan of her
own by which a lady’s riding habit will be at once de-
rached whoa she falls from her horse, thus saving her
from being kicked or dragged. The Imperial huntress
wears silk velvet habits, her favourite colour being
myrtle with gilt buttons
3
THE BULLETIN.
April 15, 1883,


Chemists and Dr
S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GREAT LIVES
And successful substitute for (
Podophyllum, and all Nc
Famous as a Restorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of tin
Famous for the Cure of all Diso
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Toni
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
taka them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE £
Invented and Prepar(
J. S. A B R 1
At the Laborat
434 GEORGE STREET
COUGH WHILE YOU Cl
taking Dr. Thompson’s Ame
Linotns, you will not be able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, XT'
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appeti
tralian Relish, made by i
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
OP GOOD
We beg to draw
PARTICULAR ATT]
to the
ASIATIC TEA <
PACKET TE
Packed in pounds and hi]
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
23. and
PURE INDIAN TEA,
23. 6d. (
PURE CEYLON TEA,
2s, 6d. i
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. i
Special Quotations given to W 1
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA CO
279 PITT STREET (next t
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U I
182 PITT STRE
from
D. JONES & (
Respectfully invites an inspect!
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEAI
BE]
All of the best quality, and seta
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS
Furniture re-covered and carpet
charges.
♦
George
(Formerly of Geor(
IMPORTER or
CHINA GLASS AND EAI
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCA
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a:
at the
SYDNEY AR I
SINGER'S SEWING ]
AES MADE ONLT
The Singer Manufacture
Head Offices ■
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eur
39 POSTER LANE, ;
Depot for New Sooth
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAJ
Sydney.
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TEEMS—isTed.
AGENTS IN EVERT
___ Offices in Sydnei
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
stores, harbour i
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET. NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., Q
PEEL STREET, TAM WO
VICTORIA STREET. QR,
NARANDERA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BB
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
gtNQER’S SEWING
TURNER A C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CEUBBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2e 6d. per week—2g. 6d. per week-
And ho interest oh
10 per cent, off for o
BEWARE OP IMIT.
Aorkts for the ONLT GENUINE
TURNER A i
THE ONLT •• SING]
TURNER &
Opposite 1
JOHNSTOf
SEWING HACHIK
HAYMARKEI
Public Compai
JIHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN:
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p
£1,000,000. Reserve Fun
Dieectoes :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; 1
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Manag:
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE SI
City and Suburban Branches: 1
Glebe, Burwooc
London Office: 18 King Willi
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Annidale, Ballina, I
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Con
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innos, Goult
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambtou, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockb
ton, South Gralton, Terr.ora, T
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbum, ’
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charte:
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stan
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Celoi
the World genera
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED !
INCORPORATED BT ACT OF ;
Paid-up Capital...,.
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hav, K.G.A
Hon Heurv Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hob, Wb, Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wiise
SECRETARYt
Hector Alien.
BRANCHES;
687 George-etreer, Brickfield
Gitilambont; Gos
LONDON BANKF
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 158 Leader
Director—Edward Chap
Agent—Q. H. Alezand
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other oroduoe shipped to England I
GRAHAM
• IMPORTER AND QENEE
17 BRIDGE STRE
Chief Agent foi
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL ISSUE:
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBAI
WHISK T.
ANDREW USHER’S CELE
SCOTCH WHISI
AITCHISON’S PALI
READ THI
the baking f
MANUFACTURED BV US
AS DOCTOR
WAUG
Business Announcements
[Legal. J
HORTEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
1 SOLICITORS, *
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
J£ AVE YOU BEE
TO
R. MORPH EX’S,
288 Pitt Street 7
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to aencuuco that they hare
JUST RECEIVED
a Largo Consgnmcnt of
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOOES and HALLS.
ILLCOX
W
AND
QLbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £llos
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shelters,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS.
Walnut
Woon,
Ac, Ac Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T.WIMBLE&CM^
STEREOTYPE\
*
-AN D-
Foundry
—AND—
PRINTERS'
r WAREHOUSE.
Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
SYDITEV.
"Also at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STEEET, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEARNK,
ENGINEER A IRONFO UNDER.
MINING, TRAM, »nl RAILWAY ROLLING STOC
FI hE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES.
COLON I .A 1
OVENS,
DIED
BOXES,
Ac., Ac.
Works: SUSSEX STEEET, A GLEBE FOUNOK
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT BTREE r.
MASSEY AND SON, 10 PAEK STEEE'
IMPORTERS
PIANOS,
by every makei
renown, from ,
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PAEK STEEET, SYDNEY.


w.
HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
STEUTH'S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON*
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street,
S
TEAM TO
LONDON—ORIENT
1882.
LINE.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIQA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under,
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
Date.
April 14
April 28
May 12
May 26
June (j
. noinuo wiii oe maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the Journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a month; but failing room, then by drat
subsequent steamer having room.
Iheie steamers not touching at Aden, passengers
Mn proceed to Suez and tbe Continent (the Italian
Ports included) without fear of being detained by
quarantine legulations.
Fares, to London, 15 ts 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
hor plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the line ; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
267 George-street.
QRIENT LINE OF STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Cor
veyance of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line c
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz -
2s. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will be received at this office, and receipt
Issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date c
■afling All freights payable in Sydney. For furtke
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILI*
ocr n . Manager of Orient Lino in AustraDa.
267 George-street, Sydney.
CASH PRIG E LIST OF WINES.ALES,
AND SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
BED.
per doz.
. 10a 0d
. 11a Od
. 11s Od
. 13s 6d
per doz
Sweet Shiraz „. 15s 0c
J. T. Fallon's Port 27a 68
Adelaide Port ... 80s 08
Relating...
Hock
Madeira
Bouffler’a Pineau..
WHITE.
10s Gd
lla Od
12s 6d
16s Od
Brown Muscat ... 18a 0<
Adelaide Tokay ... 80a Oi
Tokay, vintage ’73 30a 0(
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24a to 48a Od I Good Sherry 24a to S4a
Champagne from... 60s Od | FrenohClaret frem 80a
Henneasy’a • Case
Brandy ... ...
Honneasy’a
Cose Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker's Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
SPIRITS.
Imperial •• Scotch
ditto 42s l
Imperial ••• Scotch
Whisky 44s I
Burke’s ••• Irish
Whisky 40s i
Rum, Red Heart... 48a I
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz... S2s I
Vangban Jones*
U Squebangh
Scotch Whisky
Imperial * Scotch
Whisky
59s Od
71s Od
45s 0d
45s Od
4Ss Od
42s Od
33s 6d
40s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key. Case of
46e
u*, n-ey. I.IUM OI
15 Bottles (med.
size) 43s
Wolfe’s Schnapps 43s
ALES AND STOUTS.
Bull Dog Ale, qts.
Ball Dog Ale, pints
Boar's Head Stout,
quarts
Boar's Head Stout,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
lla 3d
8a 3d
10a 3d
7s 3d
10s Od
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Hellos Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
7s 9d
10s Od
7a 6d
lla 6d
12s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts,
4dozen in a cask; pints, 8 dozen. Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; lints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Boar’s
Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts in case; 7 doz. pints.
•a* Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 17s. 6i. by Post Office Order or
Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Redfern Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN BAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of acoomt
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatri
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, ap
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane
T
IHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of
ZULU WAR.
ACADEMY OP MUSIC, CHRISTCHURCH,
ONE MONTH.
THEATRE ROYAL, WELLINGTON, BASTE
MONDAY, *
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bismarck was 67 on All Fools’ Day.
Warden De Boos, of Temora, is very ill.
Thos. Cope, for many years M.P. for Portland
(Vio.)i is dead.
Sir Alfred Stephen has at last admitted that he
is an old mm.
Mr. Angus Mackay, of the Daily Telegraph,
h?s we regret to hear, been confined to his room by
severe indisposition.
Tilden is to be the Democratic candidate for the
American Presidency in 1881.
The late Mr. G. Coleridge Davis left a library
valued at two thousand guineas.
Lieut-Colonel Lemarchand has re-entered the
Victorian Volunteer service. He has of late years had
a clerkship in the Education Department.
Mr. Arthur Patchett Martin leaves for Eng-
land in June. He is to receive a theatrical benefit,
also a testimonial, prior to his departure.
Alderman Michael Chapman has been ro-eleoted
a Transit Coanmisioner for the current year.
We are sorry to hear that the eldest son of the
Hon. E. A. Baker died at Bundanoon last week.
On his recent visit to Fiji, Sir Arthur Gordon
was hissed while passing along the main street of Suva.
Dr. Edward Neild, the well-known literary
medico, of Melbourne, celebrated his silver wedding
last wesk.
A great-grandson of Crabbe, the poet, is head-
teacher of a provisional school at Parramatta. Ha was
married last week.
This year Qneen Victoria will be 63 years of age,
and will have lived 21 yoarj a maiden, 21 years a wife,
aad 21 years a widow.
Mr. Ormond, of Victoria, who has spent so
much money in tho interests of education and charity,
id, like Mr. W. J. Clarke, a native Australian.
Lord Augustus Lottna has been very ill lately.
He suffers from extreme debility, and blames the
drains at Government House for must of his sufferings.
“ Yon may get into trouble,” said Sir Henry
Parkes a few years since, “ but you eau alwavg live it
down." Sir Henry has lived it down with a vengeance.
The few hundred men who figured at the
Victorian Easter encampment don’t look much of a
force to defend a territory able to borrow twenty-two
millions.
Charles Stuart Parnell is of English descent.
In the seventeenth century his family lived at Congle-
tm, Cheshire, and lent all the aid in its power to the
Democratic party.
Young Mr. Nicholas, who Ashmead-Bartletted
ii Melbourne the other day for £lO.OOO a year, has been
taken by his elderly bride to an unknown locality for
the honey(?)moon.
The Marquis of Huntly, who Milburncreeked
an English money-lender, has, like a certain other
gentleman, managed to settle his little affair satisfac-
torily to all save the public.
The Princess Helena is a stout, healthy girl,
with rather more bloom than is generally to be seen on
a German face, while Prince Leopold looks more and
more the invalid he really is.
Mr. T. E. Eawlinson, for many years a Victorian
colonist, and an eminent civil engineer fa brother of Sir
Henry E-iwliusou), has died at Southport, England.
Wheu in Victoria, Mr. Eawlinson resided at Belfast.
The Burrangong people are about to present to
their late Police Magistrate, Mr. G. O'Malley Clarke,
now one of the Metropolitan Stipendiaries, a scuvenir
consisting of a handsome set of silver dessert trays.
Mr. Franks, of Wimble and Co., Sydney, was
bailed up by a N.Z. detective in mistake for Oliver, the
pedestrian, who is alleged to have stolen a gold watch.
Mr. Franks had to be identified before the officer would
release him.
Mr. G. H. Bailey, the Tasmanian cricketer who
played so well with Dave Gregory’s Australian Eleven,
has left the “tight little island" for Albany, West
Australia, where he takes the position of manager of
the Union Bank.
The eclat with whioh Sir Henry Parkes has
been received in American, Canadian, and English
aristocratic circles, is due in no small measure to the
kindly offices of Lord Augustus Loftns, who literally
loaded him with ifitrodnetions.
Mr. Qnick, who took his acl eundem degree of
M A. at Sydney the other day, is now to be soireed and
public-meetinged at Melbourne, “ in honour of his
consistent support of the Liberal party, and his success
in attaining the degree of LL.D.”
Mr. Sheaffe, M.L.A. (Q ), the well-known owner
of some splendid copper-mining property in the Clon-
onrry district, has been visiting Cobar, and expresses
much astonishment at the magnitude of the local opera-
tions. He is surprised to find Cobar without a branch
line of rail.
Messrs. De Courcey Browne, G. Cass, and other
gentlemen will, it is said, shortly issue, in Sydney, a
weekly iournal on an extensive scale, specially devoted
to the advocacy of the interests of the Free Selectors.
The concern will be under the directorship of several
members of Parliament, who will form the proprietary.
A few years ago a man named Claus Spreckles,
of Honolulu, was laughed at for buying 10,000 acres, at
ten cants an acre, at the foot of an extinct volcano,
covered with a crust. He broke it up, mixed the dust
with vegetable mould, irrigated it, and planted sugar-
cane, and is now the richest man in the Sandwich.
Islands.
Mr. Frank Weston and his brother claim .£2OO
each from the Parramatta Borough. Council for the
results of their recent buggy accident. Modest enough,
too, considering current rates of compeiisation for
injuries of a Jolimontary nature. The Council decided
to oppose the claims in the hope that that course will
end them.
It is narrated of Sarah Bernhardt, whose mar-
riage with M. Damola has just been announced, that
being in the gallery of the Boyal Academy with her
handsome son, a lady, innocent, but malicious, asked
her whose child he was. “ This," exclaimed the
actress with inimitable manner, “is one of my little
accidents ”
Hon. W. H. Bundey, Q.C., ex-Attorney-General
of South Australia, returns to thatjcolony this week.
He went home a year ago for the benefit of his health.
He is a great sufferer from deafness. Mr. Bundey is
everywhere popular, and is to be honoured with a public
reception by the B.A. Yacht Club, of which he is the
Commodore.
A dissipated-looking individual, who was once a
journalist and a member of the Victorian Legislature,
was brought before the Melbourne City Beach the
other day, with two low women, charged with insulting
conduct and obaceno language. The trio, who had all
previously been before the Court, were each fined 20s ,
or seveu days in default.
It will interest many Northern readers to learn
that Mr. Fred. Sinclair, one of the founders, thirty
years ago, of the Maitland School of Arts, is still an
active contributor to the Sydney press His son.
Dr. Henry Sinclair, after highly distinguishing himself
at the home Universities, is now one of the resident
surgeons at Sydney Infirmary.
Mr. Denton, the well-known American lecturer,
is a total abstainer. He does not smoke, nor does he
drink tea or coffee. He is an animated fossil of the
glacial period, cast up by an earthquake, and entrusted
with the growth of the planet, and to whom the
unnatural habits of the present age, in devouring
alcohol and tobacco, arc exceedingly repulsive.
The late “Barney” Rhodes, of New Zealand,
(in favour of whose half-casta daughter the Privy Coun-
cil has just pronounced a decree carrying £400,000) was
the identical fellow who “went for” a newspaper
editor for having put his (Barney’s) name in the list of
the elite at a certain chavoo. “ What the blank blank,
d’ye mean,” cried Barney, “ by calling me a blooming
halite ?"
Mr. W. M. K. Vale, that mirror of polish and
suavity, is on the Ford Railway Board, Victoria. His
only concern is to find out whether there really is any
“ terrorism " in the railway department. The officers
of the Victorian Law Department, as they think of the
reign of Vale, are struck speechless with admiration at
his denunciation of his own darling sin, His nickname
now is the “ Vale of tears."
We are very sorry to hear that since the return
to Melbourne of Mr. J. M. Lynch, late editor of the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, his eyesight has become
much worse, and that he has, in consequence, had to
undergo a severe operation. Mr. Lynch’s affliction
dates back many years. He suffers from chronic
ophthalmia, contracted at a time when, like many
another good man and trne, he drove bullocks up
North.
With respect to the appointment of John
Plomer, the schoolmaster at Terong Creek, just con-
victed of indecently assaulting a female pupil, the offnial
papers show that the department made all reasonable
inquiry as to the man’s fitness and character, and that
anyone might have equally been deceived by the repre-
sentations made. It is now said that some of the cre-
dentials by which Plomer got his teachership, were
forgeries.
Mr. David Buchanan, the only orator, has
fallen beneath the thick whip of the Town and
Country. This comes of Dwid sending the editor a
shilling book and expecting a guinea notice. The
reviewer quarrels with David’s assumption that to be
virtuous you must hate criminals, and instances the
career of the great Englishman, Howard, who spent his
life and fortune in alleviating the sufferings of prisoners.
We have improved on all that. Our Mr. Howard gets
paid for putting the criminal out of his misery.
Archbishop Vaughan’s health has of late been
most unsatisfactory, and has been considerably shaken
by his Lenten work. This is, perhaps, one of the rea-
sons which prompt him to take a trip home. Some
time since, the Archbishop underwent an operation at
the hands of Dr. Harman-Tarrant, who successfully
removed from His Grace’s head a small tumour, which
promised to be troublesome. The doctor was rewarded
by Dr. Vaughan with a hundred guinea case of instru-
ments.
Gresley Lukin, baulked in hia railway syndicate
project, intends to establish a central agency for
Queensland mining properties in Sydney. At a meet-
ing of directors and shareholders of companies at Gym-
pie, of March 31st, it was unanimously resolved: —
“ That this melting considers it desirable that an
agency should be established in Sydney, that it has
thorough confidence in Mr. Lukin as the agent, and
will do its utmost to carry out the objects that have
been under consideration.”
Mr. Burnett, the late locomotive super!tendent,
felt compelled to resign rather than acknowledge the
superiority and right to interfere of Messrs. Oily Gam-
mon and Co , the eminent professional politicians. He
is not the first able officer who has left the public ser-
vice for the same reason. But now that he has gone, it
does not sound well to hear one of his late colleagues,
or superiors, endeavouring to defend the department by
casting aspersions upon the professional character of
the victim, in the bar parlours of the city.
This is the straight tip. Two of the judges are
very wroth at the Herald’s pronunciamento respecting
Sir James Martin and Sir William Manning’s bad law,
in respect to the matter of Clontarf costs. And they’re
especially wild in view of the fact that an ex-judge sup-
plied the data for the Herald’s extinguisher, if indeed
he did not write the whole of the article. Judge Win-
deyer expresses much regret that an appeal was not
mads to the Privy Connoil. Sir George lanes’ judg-
ment in re the costs of a slander case the other day,
was apparently intended as a slap in the face for the
Chief Justice.
An Adelaide paper recently made the egregious
blunder of publishing a portrait of Dr. Weatherhaad, a
S A. medico, for that of the too-heavily-iasured prin-
cipal in the big insurance swindle. Strange to say, a
Melbourne paper followed suit, and presented to its
readers as the likeness of the phthisical deceased, a
picture of a fashionably-got-up young gentleman in the
perfect bloom of health. The real Simon Pure was a
scrubby, hollow-faced individual, whose lank jaws were
covered with, a beard of good length, whioh was never
shaved. Both portraits were as much like deceased as
Piddington is like an angel.
It is now stated that the real name of Henry
Bryant, alias Coant de Beaumont, is Fitzgerald. He
was a political deport e from France, his offence having
been an endeavor to incite the Communists to use
Greek fire. He was ‘ half a doctor,” and had a fair
knowledge of chemistry—ordinary and analytical.
After his pardon, he stayed in Sydney for a short time,
at Dalveen’s Great Northern Hotel; next, he went to
Melbourne, where he came to temporary grief for
forgery. His last caper was the Age Russian scare. It
is rumoured that a speculator has engaged him to do a
lecturing tour of the colonies.
Mrs. Kirwan, a very old Hawkeshury resident,
died the other day. She arrived in the colony 84 years
ago, when a mere infant. She married at 21, at the old
house on the property in which she died, and there
brought up fourteen children, of whom there are now
living, six daughters and one son, the latter being now 63
and a grandfather. Another son died of starvation, while
exploring in the Diamantina country, years ago. The
whole of Mrs. Kirwan’s children, except two, were mar-
ried at the old.;home they were born in; and her hus-
band. who formerly had what is known as “ Kirwan’s
Mill” died there, at the age of 57.
The great J. J. Casey, of Victoria, has been
sporting his neat figure and Parisian accent in Sydney
within flie past week. He came over as Prime Minister
of the Federal Bank of Australia, whioh has swallowed
up the Sydney and County Bank and opened a branch
here. It is said, but we don’t credit the rumour, that
J. J. attends all meetings of the Board of Directors,
dressed in his court suit and cocked hat. He now talks
familiarly of “ mes chers amis, les frires Baring, et mon
ami intime.”’ Oui, oui, Casey. “King” Casey is the
most courtly of Victorian public men, and exhibited at
the opening of onr International a bow which would cer-
tainly have obtained a prize at the hands of Miss
Kennedy.
Mr. Thomas Skene, of Hamilton, Vic., being
about to join a number of young Victorians who have of
late acquired big sheep properties in New Mexico, was
the other day entertained at a farewell spread by his
Western district friends. The continued exodus to
New Mexico of Victorian squatters goes to show that
those who first settled in this big new grazing field
have done well. This is satisfactory; still more satis-
factory will it be (remarks the Hamilton Spectator)
if, after making fortunes, they return to Victoria to
spend them. It is a singular coincidence that, exactly
twenty j ears ago, Mr. Skene’s late father and Mr, T.
M’Kellar were similarly entertained in the same room
on the eve of their departure for Europe.
Archibald Forbes will leave San Francisco by
tho March mail, but will stay at Honolulu for the next
steamer arriving in Sydney early in May, His first
lecture in Australia will be “ Royal people I have Met,
or Sword and Pen." Five lectures are proposed in each
of the principal centres of Australia and N.Z. Mr.
E. S. Smythe has arrived at Adelaide, and says Mr.
Forbes “ will commence his colonial tour in Sydney or
Melbourne, according to which city has the best hall
available on arrival ” Now, what’s he giving us ? Why
doesn’t he say, straight-out, that Forbes will give Mel-
bourne the preference. However, a great agent has to
be a diplomatist. You know, it would never do to
offend the Sydney people. It was announced months
ago that Forbes’ intention was to open in the South.
Dr. Henry von Lossberg was recently under
treatment by the Supreme Court of Queensland for
administering a dose of scandal to the public of Ipswich
concerning Dr. Macartney, late surgeon of the Ipswich
hospital. The Supreme Court physician, after carefully
considering a clinical report from the counsel for plaintiff
as to the unsatisfactory condition of Dr. von Losaberg’s
mind in this regard, considered that there were unmis-
takeable symptoms of a malicious form of scandalitis.
A oousultation was then held by a British jury, whioh,
after due deliberation, entirely coincided with the chief
doctor’s diagnosis. A sharp discussion ensued as to
the treatment. Phlebotomy was at last decided on,
and defendant was accordingly bled to the extent of
£ 100 and costs. The doctor’s banking account has since
been successfully treated with a sudorific, aad the tem-
perature lowered considerably.
Mr. Jokn Quick, junior member for Sandhurst,
Vic., has gained the dignity of Doctor of Law. Ha is
a young Australian, and was formerly a pressman. He
made his debut on Sandhurst papers, and then effected
an entree into the Melbourne press under the ffigis
of Boss Syme, of the Age, Vanity is his chief
failing, but as he is clever, hi? push and egotism
are now to some extent excusable. He bad not
been much more than a year on the Age when he
got “written into the ’Ouse" by the great Liberal
organ. Hia eagle eye is on the Attorney-Generalshio,
and, as he agrees well with Mr. Syme, his turn is sure
to come as the wheel goes round. He had not the all-
round capability to make a brilliant pressman, but
has quite enough baruacle-like tact to do well as a poli-
tician. And they say he will one day marry beauty
and cash combined.
The other day, a pungent and well-turned sub-
leader, setting forth the annoyance cansed to the
general public by hordes of foul-mouthed Victorian
bookmakers travelling in ordinary railway carriages,
appeared in the S.M. Herald, and elicited from one of
the metallieians, signing himself “ a Voice from the
Ring," a* exceedingly neat reply. A vary big book-
maker is credited with tho authorship of the article in
question, which is certainly the most correct and
gentlemanly sample of English we have for a long
while read in the S.M.H. The “ book.’’ referred to has
hitherto most effectually disguised the literary ability
and culture now manifested in his epistle to “the
leading journal," which, when in want of a high-toned
social leader, should certainly appeal to the King of
the Ring. We hope that Joseph will often write for or
to the Herald, which, just now, is rarely enlivened
save by a smart aub-leader. Dr. Neild’s Melbourne
Letter, or the outpourings of a vivacious casual cor-
respondent.
The other day, Mr. Norman Vane, the actor,
was informed by his wife that a person residing in the
same lodgings had acted in her presence in a grossly
indecent manner. Mr Vane intimated to the indi-
vidual in question that it was his intention to thrash
him next morning—and he kept his word very hand-
somely, judging from the appearance that the thrashee
presented when he appeared before the Water
Police Court as plaintiff in the inevitable assault case.
The injured one did not admit the truth of the whole of
defendant’s story ; em the other hand, however, ho did
not deny having presented himself on a stair-landing
(possibly in view of the lady) attired only in a night-
shirt. Tho Bench fined defendant £5 and costs; but a
number of gentlemen, totally unknown to Mr. Yana,
haying read newspaper reports of the case, and being of
opinion that, as he took the only course open to him as
a man and a gentleman, he should not be put to any
expense in the matter, will forward him a cheque
covering tho amount.
Five years ago, Sir George Henry Lowther,
fourtlOEarl of Lonsdale, at the age of 21 took over
the title of his late father, and with it unencumbered
estates estimated to produce between £lOO,OOO and
£150,000 a year. Two years about town and on the
turf embarrassed his ciroumstanoog ; his estates went
to be “ nnrsed ’’ for the benefit of his creditors; now
he is dead. His wife, who was one of the Court
beauties, was Lady Constance Gladys Herbert, daugh-
ter of the late Lord Herbert of Lea. He leaves issue
one infant daughter. There is no truth in the report,
so widely circulated in society, that an heir to the earl-
dom is expected; the Hon. Hugh Lowther succeeds
immediately, and enters at once into the possession of
the vast landed estates, properties iu coal mines, &o ,
which, though considerably dipped into daring the life
of the late earl, still realise an immense rental. There
have been interred in the Lowther Church three Earls
of Lonsdale within the short space of tea years.
That emperor of business agents, the puffing
little steamtug'C. S. Smythe, has another big vessel in
tow. Mr. Archibald Forbes has been in nearly all tho
recent big battles, rubbed noses with all the crowned
heads and most of the distinguished personages of
Europe, and made a name scarcely second to that of the
veteran Dr. Knssell. Mr. Forbes is altogether an
interesting individual. The son of a Presbyterian D.D.;
once a private soldier ; once also a love-sick swain who
tried to elope with a young lady, and was, alas! caught;
he has led from the first a life of adventure. He owed
his rise in the ranks, we are told, to his being the only
man in the company who could solve the following
stupendous problem:—“lf one man is allowed the thirty-
seventh part of an ounce of pepper per day, what is the
amount to be drawn for two hundred men per week ?’*
He once worked an essay on the colonies, about whioh
he knew nothing, from an [old encyclopaedia, and won
the prize 1 His career is an illustration of “ L'audacc,
encore I’audace, toujours I’audace.”
His Honor Judge Windeyer was entertained at
a banquet on the 6th instant, at Wagga Wagga, by legal
gentlemen and leading residents. Mr. John Leitoh,
J.P., waa chairman, and the tables were spread at tho
Criterion. In responding to the toast of his health,
his Honor, perhaps unconsciously, made some very
suggestive remarks. Ho appreciated the compliment
paid to him as a greater one than such usually are,
because, in many cases, the entertainers might have
other objects in view besides that of honouring their
guest. “ But," said he, “I am not like a Minister of
the Crown, or a Member, from whom, if he be flattered,
there may be some expectation of future favour. I can-
not build you a bridge, procure you a contract, or
withdraw your land from lease, or create, or cancel a
reserve." In describing the sad, solitary grandeur
that environs a Judge, his Honor became plaintive.
"It is not,” he observed, "for a judge to enjoy popu-
larity. All that he may hope for, after years of toil, is
that: he may win the confidence of the intelligent-
thinking portion of the community, and get them to
understand that his only desire is to see the right suc-
ceed, and the truth|establisbed. Of popularity beyond
this he can know nothing. One of the drawbacks at-
tending the judicial position is that it very much cuts
one off from social intercourse with one’s fellow citizens,
if one would abstain from all appearauoe of evil."
Truly, this is enough to make a man of social tendencies
very doleful, and to Mr. Windeyer it must seem like a
shadow of gloomiest murk thrown over the sunny path-
way of his domestic life. Judge Windeyer, by the way,
forgot to say anything about the “ Press.”
« « •
The prospective bride of the heir to the Duke-
dom of Wellington is lame, but wonderfully pretty and
very clever. She bears the extraordinary name of
“ Hwfa." The late Capt. Edwards, of the s.s. Queens-
land, was only 35.
People who eat fast should order their coffins
and insure their lives.
A little stranger is soon expected at the London
Zoo. It he comes, he will be a little elephant.
There’s a “ British Goat Society” in England
Shades of Waterloo! The Duke of Wellington is presi-
dent.
The owners of gardens at Aahfield, finding that
it costs several pounds to keep a goat for one week, in-
tend to erect one pound to satisfy the whele flock,
Mattrasaea filled with gum leaves are said to re-
lieve rheumatism; a decoction made of gum leaves
boiled similarly to tea, is stated to be good for a cold or
for inflamed eyes.
To make steak tender, let it remain for a few
minutes on a dish in a mixture of three tablespoons of
salad oil and one of vinegar. To make a man tender,
apply three pints of whisky. 1
At Lexington, Ky,, “ Major ” Hicks, who, while
under sentence of death, contracted smallpox, was
nevertheless hanged. He appeared on the gallows in a
moribund condition. The Hangman and his assistant
have since died of variola, and the clergyman
who attended Hicks in his last moments was at
latest seriously ill. The execution has since caused
great sensation, as it has just been discovered that the
supposed victim of Hicks was lynched for horsestealing
in a neighboring state.
The City Fire Brigade are rather disappointed
with the awards at the late Firemen’s Demonstration.
They contend that, in one particular event, they per-
formed the work in accordance with the printed pro-
framme, and in the quickest time, and were then
isqualified without knowing why. Should they con-
sent to take part in any future similar demonstrations,
they intend to first satisfy themselves that a disin-
terested party is to act as starter and referee, and that
the judges are not totally ignorant of the working of a
fire engine.
A fact. A Sydney traveller, arriving at a bush
hotel up uor’-west, was unable to get a bedroom to him-
self, and was introduced to traveller No. 2, whom he
would have to roem with. The conversation wandered
from horses to saddle-oloths, and the necessity for keep-
ing the latter elean. Said T. No. 1: “ I always get my
saddle-cloth washed at least once a week." T. No. 2 :
“ Well, I never wets mine, but 1 serves it jest like I
does my own socks; when they get ’ard, I takes ’em
off and rubs ’em in my ’ands, and they’re jest as well as
if they’d.bin washed."


ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPORI I
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
WE have now opened onr Principal Shipments of this WIN r
so placed them that Persons visiting the PALACE EMP
in inspecting the NUMEROUS NOVELTIES we have succeeded
JNENT MANUFACTURERS IN ENGLAND and the Contin
GOODS and LATEST STYLES of London, Paris, Berlin, &c.
Ladies, Maids, and Children’s JACKETS, PALE-
TOTS, and DOLMANS, in Black Mixtures, and all
colours ot FRENCH and ROYAL CASHMERE, DIA-
GONALS, JERSEY CLOTH, GERMAN BEAVER,
ENGLISH, CHUDDAH, INDIANA, QUEENSLAND
CAMEL’S-HAIR, and BECTITE CLOTHS. Also, in
SILK, SATIN and SEALSKIN ; also, FUR-LINED
CIRCULAR SILK CLOAKS, Ac.
Choice Dress Materials in PLUSHES, VELVETS,
VELVETEENS, BROCADED SATINS, SILKS, and
VELVETS.
Charming Costume Cloths, Soft in Texture, very Ser
viceable, and well adapted for the present Style of
Dress.
BEAUTIFUL RIBBONS, plain and shaded. All the
newest Colours and Shades in PLUSH, MOIRE, VEL
VET, and SATIN. SASHES in greatest variety to
matoh.
LACES: Avery Large and Beantiful Stock, com-
prising every known make and Latest Novelty.
KID GLOVES, hy the best makers, in all colonrs
and styles FABRIC GLOVES, Plain and Fleecy-
lined.
For Balls, I
and Varied As
TED and BUI
BULLION
LACES, ORA
VER BUTTOI
and SMOKINI
ORNAMENTS
MALTESE C
CHORS, Ac. &
CRETONNI
manufactured
TABLE CO
Clothing of
Boys. Boat b
HARD and
newest styles,
An immens
BOOTS and g
the very I-es
House in Syd:
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM
HATMARK
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” I
MOLESKIN TR
WHITE AND PRIN
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINA
ARE TO BE OBTAINED I
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPE
CLOTHIERS THKOUCHOU
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH
THESE GOODS WII
CHEAPEST AND BE!
m
THE BRAND IS RECIST
IMITATING IT WILL BE P
MASON BROTHERS,
AWAROAI^fi^S
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE)
to the TRADE and WHOLES*
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE?.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EAETHENWAEE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISES.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
LATE SPORTING.
On Easter Monday .Petersham defeated Bathnrst
in one innings by 108 runs.
The Our Boys and Oriental Clubs are
a tain on Qaten’s Birthday—bub alas? nob for the
Cup
Kempsey regatta— Easter Monday. . i ailing
rl .e« for open boats: Zephyr, Messrs. G. and T. Law-
eon, 1.
Canterbury (N.Z) races on Easter Monday, the
.T.C. Handicap was won by Salvage. Time, .2mln.
4lsdcs«
A. porridge eating match is to take place on
Satn-day. between David Binuy and John Buzzey,
for £5 a side.
A footrace between William Noud and
ITO yards, for £lO aside, came off at Grafton, on April
il, and resalted in a win for Noud by two yards.
■FA pigeon match took place on Easter Monday
at Bathnrst between the members of tbe Sjd y
ninb and three local sportsmen, Bathnrst scored 2/
points, and Sydney 16.
Wallaend J.G. Meeting. Second day.
Handicap; Echel.l. Hardies: Sir Watkm. l. Walls
ond J.C. Handicap: Loohmyar, I Novel Bace: Piracy,
1, Forced Handicap: Verdict, 1.
Onkaparinga (S.A.) races, Easter Monday.
Hurdles- Triplet, 1, Maiden Plate: Sterling, 1. Cup:
Mtious, 1 Steeplechase: Hotspur 1. Handicap:
Sterling, 1. Members' Steepleohase: Fishhook, 1.
Australian Surry v. Eedfern Cambridge Club.
T> cC C °l. A.S.C.C., four wickets for 97—Hmchy
15), Blackman 32. Blackman, for tho A.S.C.C., secured
Bovon wickets for 5 runs.
Before Mr. J. E. Fairfax departed fo England
h j offered to tho Yacht Club the use of the Magic for
t ie members, outhe condition t hat tho Club would keep
tho little beauty in good repair. The offer was declined.
Mechanic C.C. v. Alliance C.C. atMoore Park
on Saturday, Bth. Former won by thirty rues and
three wickets. For the Mechanic E. Scope 31, and
SRayford 20. batted well. Stewart also shaped well for
the Alliance.
The Carthona C.C. played at Gosford and Blue
Gum Flat daring the Easter holidays. They scored a
■wm against Gosford, but were defeated easily at the
litter place. The trip was a very enjoyable one, and
the vi«itin«r team were hospitably treated during their
dtay at both places.
The Eedfern Football Club holds its annual
meeting tuis month, and is already rallying up.its
members. Tho trophies including the President a (Mr
E. Barton), are in the hands of tho jewellers, and will
be ready for presentation on tho above night, mr. J.
j. Allen will again 1111 his old position.
Clarence C.C. v. Creedraoor C.C. on Saturday,
8 h resulted in a win for the former by eight wickets
a id three runs, the scores being Clarence, first innings,
0), and second, 63. First innings treedmoor, 6„,.an A
second, 57. Bevan 33 (not out). M’MilUn 13, and Kelly
10, butted well for the winners; also Barker 19. bo a th-
ere 26, for the losers.
Footballers generally— not to speak of cricketers,
win appreciate the efforts of the Agricultural Society
to establish the premier ground of Australia, on Moore
Park Sydney is very unfortunate in the matter of suit-
able football grounds, and this attempt will meet with
a very general support, and what is more, will tern
out eventually very remunerative to our reorganized
society. ,
At the conclusion of the Champion Swimming
Match on Saturday last, W.F. Corbett, theex-champlon,
cnallengtKl the Victorian (Walter M’lndoe) to a contest
for the championship of Victoria. The match was
a nail v arranged on Monday evening last. The stakes
are £4O a side. Mr. W. Wynne, of the Daii.y Thi.b-
oraph. acts as stakeholder, and the event is fixed for
Saturday, the 22nd instant, at Foley s Baths, Domain ;
distance, 1000 yards.
The Tamworth Hospital sports, held on Easter
Moudav. passed off very satisfactorily. The big money
went to W. Hoary (10 yards), with P. Aisbett (U yards)
very close second, beating T. Giles (5 y ards) by a breast.
The second big event was carried off by Giles (.5 yards),
who ran a great race, beating Priest and Henry on the
tape All the events wore closely contested, and
nothing disagreeable occurred in any way to mar the
day’s amusement.
The Parramatta Alfred Cricket Club visited
Ooulburn on Faster Monday, to try conclusions with
tho team that represents that district. Tho Alfreds
complain bitterly at the treatment they received on
this occasion. It appears that not one of their ope-
neats came near them ; nor did they appear to trouble as
to how the visitors were to get out to the ground,
Which is situated a considerable distance from the
town After waiting some time they engaged a ’ bus pro-
prietor to drive thorn there. At luncheon time they
were invited to partake of some dry bread and cheese,
but this they politely declined to do, having previously
taken the precaution to convey a hamper containing ham
m mdwiches and sundry bottles of beer into the pavilion.
The Alfreds won the match by 35 runs, and then
left, each man vowing that, on the next trip, to
Gpulburn, he would carry the photograph of a pullet
pasted in the crown of his hat.
WOMAN ITEMS.
“ All grass widows,” says an unfortunate Nor-
thern editor, “ are by no means green.”
A Mias Dexter lectured last Saturday, at Cundle-
town, on “ Women in Ancient and Modem Times.”
He was jealous and said: ‘‘Your intended is
Yery eccentric —unlike other men. “ Then X shall
marry him," she replied.
Mrs. Johnson, the squatter’s widow, who, the
Olier day, became the wife of Nicholas, a Melbourne
bmk clerk, has £40,000 a year.
The Victorian Alliance (Melb.), a new tem-
■bsrance body, means to try and obtain legislation pro-
hibiting the employment of barmaids.
A lady passenger, whose dress was recently
Clcoilt by soot from the chimney of a W. 8. N. steamer,
new seeks re-dress from the company.
At the Victorian Shops’ Employes Commission,
A witness said " he got a better class of barmaids by
only working them ten hours a day 1”
“ Would you take me for 35 ?” said a coquettish
Spinster. “No, I should not,” he replied; “i should
Want at least forty-five—forty-five ‘ thou.’ ”
The extraordinary fact has come out that
coloured women never kiss one another. It implies, of
coarse, that they have a love of the beautiful.
One English domestic landed from the Almora
at Cooktown. Thera were twenty applicants for her
ser /ices. See accepted one oiler— of ns arriage.
Wife: “ Did you call me ' a thing,’ you nasty,
low cad i 1” Husband (who knows a little flattery torus
away wrath) : “ Yes, dear. * A thing of beauty.’ "
“ When yesterday I asked you, love.
One little word to say.
Your brother interrupted us,
So please say Yes-ter-day."
The Princess of Wales has commissions all over
Europe for the purchase of pearls, to compose a collier
of three rows as a wedding present for the Princess
Helene of Waldeck,
Jones (to Brown): “ Yonr wife is very ugly,”
‘•Ah yes- she has a good mind. She is beautiful
within.” Then,” repeated Jones, “ why don’t yon
tarn her inside out ?”
The Hekald says that Canada is the first
colony to legalise marriage with a deceased wife’s
sister. The/act is that Australia has never had a law
prohibiting such unions.
Daniel Lyons, of Adelaide, after a domestic
quarrel, sold his horse, hia only means of support.
Catherine, his wife, responded to his insanity by
immediately cutting her throat.
Should the Baroness Bnrdett-Contta survive I
her marriage ten years, she will hare paid, without in-
terest. £750,000 for a husband, talon* her loss con
sequent on marriige at £75,000 a year. An expensive
luxury.
A Virginia law prohibits intermarriage between
the races, and coloured members of the Legislature are
trying to get a bill through, making it a felony for
white men to cohabit with negro women without
marriage.
Judge Johnston, of N.Z., has reserved his de-
cision on the question whether a trustee in ba-nkruptcy
can comp ala bank to pay a draft of £l6O received from
the bankrupt's father, and claimed by the petitioner s
wife for maintenance.
A hat, a cane, a nobby bean, a narrow lane,
a whisper low, a smile, a bow, a little flirt, an ardent
vow that's cheap as dir*. A hand to squeeze, a girl to
kiss, quite at one's ease, mult needs be bliss. A nng,
a date, a honeymoon, to find too late it was too soon.
At an English chapel muffin-struggle, the affair
was a “ tea-fight ’’ in more sense, than one. As a lady
was pouring out the hot tea, a young man suddenly
crabbed the teapot, wrenched it from her hands, scald-
ing them with the boiling tea, and rushed oil in triumph.
The old thing—jealousy.
On dit that the fashionable colour of hair is to
be again changed. A year or two ago it was bright
golden ; lately it has been a bronze brown ; now it is to
partake of that tint of red that Titian loved. It wiU
not be wholly red, but artistically touched with ruddi-
ness where the light catches the ripples and plaits.
Yes, he remarked, to a friend, “I am engaged
to her and I suppose I ought to be very happy, but
f omebow I am worried about a former attachment of
le-s. Thera’s that infernal blackguard, Jones, who"
—“ Why, bless my soul I You stupid fellow, she hates
him like poison," “ Yes, yes; I know—that’s what
troubles me. She hates him too bitterly not to have
loved him once.”
A widow of two months’ standing took it into
her head to marry again. She found her man, and when
the couple appeared before the dominie to be made
twain, hia reverence suggested that as her husband had
been dead only two months, it didn’t look well for her
to marry so soon. “ Ah, yer riverence," replied the
widow, “you forget to give me credit for the ten
months my husband lay sick.” She got married.
A New York dentist sends circulars to young
ladies about to be married, offering to set thoir teeth in
order. Ho says: “ The first impressions of married
life are ineffaceable, and thoir consequences of the
greatest gravity. Have your teeth, therefore, tho-
roughly attended to.” Whatever may be thought of
the Yankees’ “ cheek," it is certain many persons allow
their teeth to go to ruin just for want of having their
attention called to the matter.
The eccentric young lady who personated the
lamented Lord Arthur Pelham Clinton, and victimized
some wealthy people in England recently to the tune of
A’,0,000, is the daughter of a distinguished English pro-
vincial surgeon, named Pearnenux. She successfully
pasted everywhere as a man ; but, strange to say, when,
to avoid discovery, she assumed her own garb, and
entered service as a governess, she was dismissed by
the lady of the house on suspicion that she was not a
woman.
There are now lady professors who guarantee
to make eyelashes long and thick, and everyone knows
how that improves the appearance. With the tiniest
scissors they are trimmed, and then with a marvellous
delicacy of touch the roots are anointed with a salve
made of nitric oxide of mercury aud lord, the lids being
fl> sc washed with warm milk and water. A lady can
have her eyelashes transformed almost into fringed
enrtains, it she will only suffer enough operations aud
pay enough fees.
“ What are we to do with our daughters ?” asks
Pioa.ro. Responds the Sydney Echo : “ Make them
domestic in their habits, good housekeepers, and don’t
over-eduoate—they will stand a better chance of getting
married; and it they do not, have the option and the
capacity of earning a respectable livelihood in positions
that are by some females most unaccountably denomi-
nated * menial.’ ’’ In other words, the Hunter-street
Solomon wants plenty of bnttons on his shirts, plenty
of darns on his pants, plenty of chops, and less of
Chopin.
The female breast is the garden of romance.
A cultured and charming girl arrived at Auckland from
home, and took a situation as lady companion at a
clergyman’s bonse, where she was much liked, and she
shone at tea-fights and teaching texts in Sunday school.
Suddenly, no one knew why, she said she would be a
barmaid. No expostulation could deter her, and she
entered on the duties in a leading fashionable hotel,
where her history made her an object of curiosity. Now
she is married to a rich young planter, and adorns a
happy home. However, the moral of all this is not
that every young lady who wants a rich husband should
turn barmaid.
At Wellington, N.Z., a Mr. Arthur Anderson
married the daughter of a Mr. E. W. Mills, who agree 1
to give Miss Mills £ 1,000 as a marriage portion. He aid
not pay the sum over, but arranged with his daughter
and her husband that he should temporarily have
the use of the money on paying 10 per cent, for it. He
want insolvent; his son-in-law proved on hia estate for
£l,OOO, but the full court has ruled that no action could
have been brought by Mr. Anderson in respect to agree,
in- iit made at the time of the marriage, aud that Miss
Mills’ husband has no legal right to a dividend in the
insolvent estate of his wife's father.
Produce Report.
Bulletin OfiSce, April 11,1883,
On the Wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is
selling from £5 15s. to £G, other samples £5 to £5 15s.
per ton, a good supply arriving, bnt owing to the late
holidays business is rather dull. Maize, ss. per bushel;
oats (seed and feed), 3s. lOd. to 4s. per bushel; Victo-
rian onions, £4 to £4 10s.; ditto chaff, £5 15s. to £6 per
ton, bags inclusive; Warrnambool potatoes, £3 10s, per
ton; butter, in keg, Is. 6d. per lb.; eggs, 2s. per dozen ;
bacon, 7d. to 94.; cheese, 54. to 84.; ham, Is. to Is. Id.;
honey, 4d. to 5d.; lard, 84. ; beeswax, 94. to lOd. per
lb. ; millet brooms, 7s. 64. to 10s. pur dozen.
Poultry Market.—At the various auction marts,
poultry, &0., was in good supply, and sold fairly. Fowls
brought 2s. 6d. to 55.; ducks, 3s. Hd. to ss. 64.: geese,
ss. to Bs.; turkeys: cooks, Bs. 64. to 14?. 6d.; ditto
hens, 4s. to 65.; pigeons. Is. 6d. per pair; parrots, Bd.
to 134. each.
Fresh Meat Market.—At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s
Sheds, Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh coun-
trj-killed beef take place daily, there being a fair sup.
ply, and selling freely. Prices are—For prime bodies
of beef, 2|d. to 3d , medium quality, 2} 4. per lb. all
round ; prime mutton also sells at 21., medium quality
IJd. per lb. all round.
6
April 18, 188&
the bulletin.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
The cracked mirror of our boarding-hoi 180 is
Wore us us wo write. We take a kaleidoscopic v iew of
■irseWes There is no denying that we arc fair, a ccord-
to the Kalmuck standard of beauty, but this lias no
L.nfort for us. We are as barren of ideas as aliboA-case
qirvman Cellarer, the Malvoisie ! Ah ! this is the. best
throe peunorth we have drunk since Julius Ccesar died.
And now the lyre
O Sundry Shows, O Sundry Shows
Your charm has fled ;
Time was when we would joy to pose
As a dead head.
But we are changed—so is the note
We had to-day—
How can we chase without ]a groat
The “ blues away ?
Bright thought —we’ll read the TEhEOKJPfi }
We cannot weep;
Amd as it cannot make us laugh
'Twill mako us sleep.
* * #
We have slept the sleep of the just, and wake up
like giants refreshed. The sun is rising over the hills
like a poker-player that goes one better in the night. A
Tittle wind precedes it that flutters the strings of our
sweet Amati. Return, Sicilian muse ! She comes—with
the l>eor jug under her apron, for we live in an aristo-
cratic terrace, and cannot afford to forfeit the respect
of our landlady. Once more we strike tho strings.
They are taut —to tell the truth. Wo can only get a
.couple of quartraius out of thorn. Voila tout
Tho “World” is here, brought by Bland Holt
The pride of the “ perfesh,”
Thank Heaven, wo already have
The Devil and the flesh.
* * *
And again—
Bland Holt has given a jolt to most
Prophets—and Cyril’s ghost;
For has he not unfurled
The programme of tho World ?
• * •
This clay (** The World ”) has been performed
at the Theatre Royal to immense during the
week It is as sensational as a railway accident, ler-
rible events tread upon tho hsels of terrible events
from beginning to end. The opening tableau represents
tho wharf at Capetown, and passengers leaving for
England. Tho next shows the ship blown up—worse
than ever Milner Stephen could blow her through his
red flannel—by an infernal machine. Then eomesa
death struggle on a raft upon the open ocean. I hings
tone down a bit after this, until we reach the eighth
tableau, where Mr. Herbert Flemming is smashed up
into hash by falling down a passenger elevator. This
sentence seems a trifle mixed, hut then so was our
Herbert The world, according to the writers of this
ulav is a very wicked place. It swings around m its
orbit, and conies up to time right enough every year,
but there has to be a heap of blood and a considerable
quantity of thunder to keep things going. Still, that
there is plenty of foundation for the very goriest
details of this play, no Christian, who lias a mother-in-
law will deny. But then one is apt to get a mistaken
idea of life when it is pictured after this Chinese fire-
screen fashion. Wo, however, cheerfully admit that
we don’t know any process more calculated to take the
stings out of death.
# * *
Mobs Jewell (Mr. Bland Holt) is a person with
a slight touch of the Jew about him. He is also a
money-lender. Perhaps the peculiarities of the Hebrew
race are a little bit exaggerated. Still wo notice that
the chosen of the Lord come every night and throw a
Semitic glamour over the dress-circle. And they ought
to be the’best judges of what concerns them. Moss
Jewell is a flrst-class scoundrel, and the real backbone
of the play. Bland Holt is a success in this character.
So is the gentleman who did a small bill for ns a month
ago. , . *
Sir Clement Hnntingford (Mr. H. H. I ,Vincent),
Ikeeps his vertebral column too erect for any body of
less social importance than a C.M.Q. And he talks too
deliberately fer anything less than a waiter at a six-
penny restaurant. Otherwise he is well—we hope.
# # *
Harry Hnntingford' (Mr. H. Flemming), is a
man of different type. We have occasion to chide .the
irentle Herbert for {previous impersonation#, now it
brims our cop with joy to say that he is hero a# nearly
perfect as a man can he with a disagreeable port.
• * *
OM&rtin Bashford, an adventurer (Mr. Charles
Tr«u«wavl is—like the paleolithic hash now waiting
Sr ns at the boarding-house table down below-a little
overdone. The other male characters are too numerous
to mention here. We shall remember them when we
start an enoyolopcedia.
* # *
But the ladies. Once more, gentle muse.
We love them, hut our love is lost
Betwixt so many,
For first to Julia we turn.
And then to Jenny.
For Clara we declare a flame
Which splits between a
Pair, for—don’t we hanker for
A lien on Lena ?
* * *
Mabel Hnntingford (Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner)
is one of the best characters in the piece. Miss Lena
Edwin (Mary Blythe) needs to throw a little more
vigour into her acting, aud should not seem as familiar
with death as if she bad been brought up in a coffin-
factory Otherwise, her impersonations is most satis-
factory Mrs, M'Tab (Juiia Merton) is great fun. The
acting of Miss Clara Neilson (Alice D’Aubon) is just
the least thought too realistic tor our modesty. The
ladies of the ballet are fair unto distraction, aud ankled
.unto madness. # # #
Taken as a whole, “ The World ” depends for
its interest, like Wilkie Collins’s novels, not upon tho
sharp analysis of character or the picturing of heroic
passions, but upon intricacy of plot You don t care to
take the novel up again, nor sit the play through, a
second time Still, we hope we shall not seo the End
of the World for a good while yet.
** * *
Mr Leake opened the Gaiety in “ My Partner ”
with a great house and as much blood, and fun ns a
r«l fornian digger-play will permit Mr. Bartley Camp-
bell to stuff into it. Yon require new billycock hats for
Messrs. Leake and Boothman—plenty of open collar
and bass voice, and a digger’s hut with gi-een wood
piled on the fireplace to freeze a quart billy on. There
must bo a handy Chinaman, who can dance and play
euchre, and have no trouble in walking into the parloiir
saving “Hi-yah!” and helping himself out of a bottle
of raspberrys Mr. Carey, as Major Britt, a candidate
for the Legislature, must make a speech, such as Ben y
gives ns this week, and generally sees through the
constitution of things. Jssiah Scraggs (Sefton) as his
name plainly indicates, is the heavy villain bound to be
ultimately slopped in the triumph of horny-handed
virtue, notwithstanding the red scar on his cheek, got
in old times, almost justifies him in seeking to rum Mr.
Brandon, the Misses Brandon, aud every body else. It
appears that Mary Brandon (who had no mother to
guide her, saith the bill—and therefore might fairly
spark with two men at once, and give her dad cheek),
was the cause of the trouble, for, just as Joe Saunders
had asked her to c»me np to Bluenose Gulch, and share
his damper and gin aud sardines, he finds ont hia
Partner had been there before him. Six-shooter, ef
course—every Californian wears that instead of a shirt
■ —and Joe weeps and wails and hands her oyer. The
partners meet in the old hut. The small sardine
tin of gold is tipped eut on the table; the gener-
ous Joe separates it into two heaps roughly with
a knife, and vanishes with his three-quarters on
a tour around Greenland to cool his liead. The
villain Scraggs appears, murders Ned, scoops the
gold, and skips hack to see how much of a hole he has
made in old Brandon’s happiness now. Joe, compun-
uous, is supposed to step iu just after the murder and
xplain that he wouldn’t go away, and collapses on
dead Ned’s neck, in time for Scraggs to be able to ran a
hundred miles and bring back witnesses at the window
—time, Smin. ii.sec. Joe to bo hanged; Hi-yah, welly
muchee likee blaudee, scours through Mexico and
Arizona on the strength of nine plates of grasshopper
soup, and comes into the drawiug-room in time to
verify Bret Harte’s ideajot the heathen card-trick, and
gives evidence that acquits Joe and runs in Joaiah.
Tho moral of this piay is oppressive. So was the
atmosphere on Easter night, and the squalling of
babies that had picnicked in the Domain on ginger
beer which didn’t tally with mother’s milk. The
orchestra played the “ Heart Bowed Down ” every five
minutes till it had its effect. Mr. Boothman has a
bald spot on the top of his head; but his legs—in those
tights ! No wigs fell off, and such ankles as we saw
were too good to be referred to here.
** * *
Now lighter themes demand ont strain,
Fill up the flowing bowl again—
We’ve filled it now a dozen times—
We’ll sing the Children and the Chimes.'
• • •, .
At the Opera House, Pollard’s Lilliputian Op dra
Company is doing good business with the “ Chimes oi
Normandy.’’ The small actors and aetressea are as
clever as most actors and actresses axe—not.
• • •
Little Amy Brooks plays Jobo, Clerk of the
Court, as naturally os if she had been bom in an ink-
bottle. Tho Serpolette of Miss May Pollard is the
most diminutive and the daintiest we have ever seen. In
the “ Look at that, and look at this ” song, she curves
her little body, poses, pirouettes, and throws her small
limbs into position better than tho prettiest maiden
that ever danced her soul away upon the Brocken. Tho
Bailie of Coruevillo (Master E. Osmond) is exaspor-
atingly funny. Ho is a sort of goitre-headed idiot that,
being incapable of anything else, was made an adminis-
trator of justice as a warning to all evil-doers. We
wanted to laugh tho tops of our heads off at his antics
before high Heaveu, but his awful resemblance to people
iu high places whom we had seen on one or two occa-
sions when we were on a visit to Kamschatka caused
us to stifle the laugh in our bosom. Gaspard (Master
U. Salinger) is a kind of pocket-edition of an old miser ,
of the worst type—one who would not lend a man the
price of a drink iu the dog-days. Master Salinger has j
caught the conception exactly. The scene where the >
miser is discovered with his bags of gold is striiingly |
well acted. Pretty little Jermime (Miss Lena Salinger)
sings the Bell song like a blue bird with a glass tail. _lt
is astonishing how sweet the song sounds from the lips
of children. Perhaps they had been eating treacle
previously. Quiensabof The Maypole dance is a feature
in the opera. We shed tears as we looked at it. It I
reminded us of ourselves, in tho days of our innocent
childhood, coursing round the kitchen-table with the |
old man at our heels brandishing a strap.
But he is gone, the poor old chap
Who used to thiuk, forsooth,
ThiiJ all we needed was the strap
Tom like a strapping youth.
• * *
This is effeminate. Children, wo have taken i
you, like strawberries, from the top of the basket. We i
have no time for the little ones. And now yon can go \
and play.
** * *
As a paternal Government stopped the represen-- !
tation of “ Ostracised” at the Victoria Hall, the |
Ticket-of-Leave Man” has been substituted. This j
wonderful drama has, during these years back, been |
pretty well played—out. It would somewhat ease our j
troubled domestic life if we could know of this play,
like the good Samaritan when he passed off tiro spurious
pennies upon tho innkeej e~, '“hat we should see its face
no more. - ’ tsti l, tne presentation at the Victoria Hall,
in spite of comparatively poor audiences, is fair enough.
Mr. C. H. Bnrford makes a very decent Bob Brierly.
Mr. Qaorge Collier, as Hawksbaw, does not look much
like tlio conventional gimlet-eyed detective. He seems
more like a burglar who has got religion—taken the-
kingdom of heaven, by “ jimmies,” so to speak. Mr.
J. W. Sweeney does not hit our fastidious taste as Jim. I
Dalton the Tiger. Ho rather recalls the gorilla, i
Melioo Moss (Mr. A. Andrews) in a very washy son of
Abraham.
* • *
Thera came upon the stage just as we wore<
beginning to get interested in the blue devils of Mr.
Bob Brierly, three ravishing damsels who seemed to
have no connection whatever with the plot. They
smiled at us. We did not know what they meant, or
whether they meant anything ; but we fixed our oellu- •
loid incisors firmly down in the gams, and smiled back.
All three were slowly carried off the stage. The manager •
has a theory that they vrero struck by lightning, but we <
know better. They were struck with ns. Edith Clifton
(May Edwards) will never make the angels weep with
her pathos ; but she is, for all that, quite as good an
actress as any that are now playing in this city. That;
reverence for truth which has, so far, kept us from
wading through bloodshed to a throne, prevents our
saving more. Miss Cora M*lan is, as compared with
the rest of the cast, a slashing Mrs. Willoughby. And,
if we had ever had any unpleasantness with Sam Wil-
loughby (Mias S. Brown), we should kiss and be friends
as long—as she would let us.
* * **
The Hudson Surprise Party are raking in a very
respectable pool at the Queen’s. Dennis Mulvaney
(Mr. Charles M‘Carthy) is the best Irishman we have
seen out of a brick-yard. Eight from beginning to end
of his performance the audience look like rows of clams
upon the half shell. Miss Louise Alvina’s ventrilo-
quisms are clever. The programme was entirely
changed on Thursday night. To-morrow night (Friday,
14th inst.) Mr. Hudson takes a benefit, when a special
programme will be gone through, for the particulars of
which bill of fare our readers must look to our adver-
tising columns. Saturday is the last night the Sur-
prise Party perform iu Sydney. They leave on Monday
for Goulbum, where they play for three nights ; thence
to Wagga, where they also appear for three nights;
and thence to Melbourne to return to Hudson’s Novelty
Theatre
** * *
On Tuesday afternoon Miss Pomeroy gave three
recitations in the Fancy Fayre at St. Mary's Cathedral.
As these were gratuitous, and for the glory of God. wa
shall not criticise them. Miss Pomeroy had to wait
upon the platform for nearly a quarter of an hour while
what sounded like an elephant and rhinoceros fight
was eonolnded in the Bichardson show next door.
When the recitations were over. Mr. Daniel O'Connor
thanked Miss Pomeroy in the Greek tongue on behalf
of the audience, and alluded to our lost Louise as a
“ gifted artist." Louise replied, aud said that Dan.
was a gifted orator. That concluded the gift distri-
bution.
m • *
From Adelaide we learn that “ Tambour
Major,” played by the same company as in Sydney,
with the exception of Miss Emma Wangenheim, who
takes Pattie Laverne’s place, is drawing large houses.
The Adelaide papers iu their original and jaunty style
say of Miss Wangenheim that “while it is not neces-
sary to enter into any invidious comparisons, we may
safely say that the lady who interprets the character
sings and acts it in a manner that leaves nothing to be
desired." Miss Consuelo, however, in their opinion
makes only a “passable" Duchess, despite her lovely
league of length.
** * *
The first performance in Australia of Arthur
Sullivan’s sacred Drama, “ The Martyr of Antioch,”
took place on Good Friday night at the Theatre Koyal.
The Sydney Musical Union were the performers, aud
Mr. Sydney Moss, L.C.M., conducted, and is responsi-
ble for the production of the work. The Martyr aloue
constitutes a programme of sufficient length, but, for
a reason which became apparent, oxiening pieces were
preluded from other works. The war-march of the
Priests, from Mendelssohn’s “ Atlialie ” was first played
fairly—by the orchestra, the separate instruments of
which were not too accurately in tune. Samuel’s
Evening Song from Costa’s “Eli," by Miss Marie St.
Clair, with orchestral accompaniment, and followed by
the Angels’ chorus, came next. This was succeeded by
an “ awful pause ” terminated by the appearance of a
“ first murderer ” in evening dress, whose fell purpose
was indicated by an M.S. address which he held ready
for action. This blood-curdling apparition beckoned in
a ghostly and awe-aspiring manner, and, at the dread
summons, Mr. Sydney Moss, L.C.M., slunk on to the
stage in white kids and a cold perspiration, keeping his
coat-tail view presented to as much of the audience as
he could in that manner blot out from his consciousues 3.
The Assassin, whom the audience already ro-
garded with instinctive abhorrence, heaved aloft a
I grievous and oppressive forefinger—which instantly
brought to mind that fat forefinger of Mr. Inspector
Bucket in “ Bleak House, ** which that astute officer
used to consult as if it were his “ Familiar." At the
sight of this forefinger Mr. Sydney Moss, L.0.M., became
paralytic and limp, bending before its proprietor in an
attitude of heart-broke* humility. Keeping his victim
fascinated with this potent member, the aggressor,
who tnrned out to be a Vies (of loquacity, no doubt)
President of the Union, proceeded with weighty deliber-
ation to tell Mr. Sydney Moss, L.0.M., that he was a
remarkably fine fellow. Ho recounted all Mr. Moss’
merits, or as many as he could remember, and knocked
them down, like an auctioneer with a lot of good
character on sale, with his important forefinger, as fast
as ho had tallied them off. He said that the ladies
loved Mr. Sydney Moss, and made several Jokes, any-
one of which mnst have, separately weighed—not
reckoning the forefinger, which was thrown in in every
instance—totalled atont as mnch ae the MafiJ.axD
MjiWir's last monster pumpkin.
• • ■
Mr. Sydney Moss, L.0.M., has merits so numer-
ens, or else the First Murderer spread them eut so
Ujin, that the audience, who at first had supposed that
tko Murderer was going to sing a solo, or else was a
bailiff about to levy on the chairs of the chorus, began
to te Impatient; and when the orator, after a peroration
nearly as brilliant as the Sydney Gaslight Co.’s gas or
a Boarke fat-lamp, and about ns long os the S. and W.
Kailway, produced a moroaco case and presented Mr.
Moss with a gold watch and chain, the cheers were
deafening- The universal sigh of relief which pro-
ceeded from all parts of the theatre blew off the
juvenile wig of a very smart old man in the dress circle,
and gave such a blast down the ear trumpet of a deaf
man in the pit ithat he asked hastily if it was the Day
of Judgment. People were lust settling down for more
ixusic, when that awful forefinger was observed to
agitate itself anil rear up again. A subdued groan
escaped from a thousand suffering breasts as that
awfrl Vice recommenced his ravages. From this point
the audience became tot encouraging. They cheered
till he stopped, and as aocn .as they were quiet, up
soared the forefinger again. There never was so popular
a forefinger. It hod only to »hw itself to elicit a round
of applause. It took some time before it dawned upon
the orator that he did not shtfre the popularity which
was showered upon the forefinger, When that truth
had penetrated his skull, he retired, looking jealously •
at his distinguished digit.
• • *
Mr. Moss, the moat modest and nervous of men, |
had stood all this time the picture of misery, and now
accepted his release with resignation, and the fewoatj,
possible words. With ft sense of relief that Mr.
Moss had not fainted and necessitated carrying him
out in one of the soprano’s slippers, the audience settled
themselves to enjoy the Antioch Martyrdom—havlu g
got through the Sydney one.
• • •
The “ Martyr” is a trying work to produce, and
the performance of the Union can only, all things con-
sidered, he ranked as un meeds d'estime. Mr. Moss had
done his share well. To meet the demands of the modern
instrumentation which Dr. Sullivan makes so prominent
a feature iu most of his works, the conductor of the
Union had got together nn orchestra very well balanced
and nearly complete. Two bassoons, an oboe, and a
horn helped out the effects materially, hut it must he
admitted that the proportion of amateurs was too con-
siderable to allow of a perfect rendition. The time was
not always exactly observed by some of the executants,
nor was the intonation accurate on occasion. The
chorus was woli drilled, and the altos —60 often weak
were reinforced by a number of hoys’ voices, with the
best results. Amongst the soloists, the best achieve-
ments were those of Miss Marie St. Clair and Mr. William
S uch. The former secured a fervent encore for th*
•• jo Ptcau,” the honour being, however, fairly divided
by the orchestra, which in this instance sustained their
share admirably. Mr. Smith was in splendid voice, and
his sympathetic organ has never been heard to better
advantage. Miss Madeleine St. Clair looked charming
in a black dress, which set off the whiteness of her arms
and neck. We may say without hesitation that her
beautiful shoulders were whiter than those of any ottier
among the ladies—by several chalks.
** * *
Louise Pomeroy commences & tour of Shakes-
perean and other readings to-night, (Thursday), at
Goulburn. Frank Weston has gone ahead, hut Pickers-
gill, lucky Josh 1 remains with the star.
** * *
The public up North showed which side it took
in the Stevenson v. Marsh squabble, by presenting the
latter ladies with £43.
** * *
Her Bandmann is in India quoting Othello. “ Dat
I dit luff dis old man’s tochter it is most tgrrhoo."
** * *
A correspondent has kindly furnished ns with
the following from a friend in England Our con-
certs at the Albert Hall have so far this season been a
great success. Mr. Bamby has weeded out a number
of the old voices, and it is really a great improvement.
Our next concert is to be on Feb. Bth, ‘ Hymn *f
Praise * and ‘ Stabat Mater.* Maas has been greatly
distinguishing himself this season. I like him better
than Lloyd now. In * Samson ’he simply brought
down the house. Albani has been in Berlin for some
time past, and so we have not had the pleasure of hear-
ing her this season. Mrs. Langtry has gone on the stage
at the Haymorket at *6O per week. I went to see her
last Thursday in ‘She Stoops to Conquer.’ Her ap-
pearance I admire exceedingly; she is a beautiful
woman, and she has a splendid figure, but she cannot
act. She would do very well for amateur theatricals,
but not for the stage. Of course, for a time her name
will draw audiences, but that is all. She paints
furiously. ‘Patience* Is still being played at the
Gaiety Theatre in the Strand.**
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
At Mexico, on 'January 15, “ A great crowd
assembled to sae the balloon-ascension ot Sonorita
Catalina Qorgoria, a beautiful girl only seventeen years
old. There was no car attached to the balloon, only the
trapeze on which the girl performed. The balloon shot
up amid the deafening cheers of the crowd. Catalina
meanwhile was seen alinging to the trapeze and per-
forming daring teats of agility. When the balloon was
three-quarters of a mile high it suddenly burst, and the
girl fell to the ground, crushed and mangled to death."
The electric light has marvellously improved the
acoustics of the Grand Opera House, Paris F. Luer,
manager of the Camilla (Jrso company, was in Chios go,
in January Fred. De Belleville, late of the Louaon
Comedy Co., will probably be leading man at the Union
Square theatre (N.T.), next season .. Baker and Farron’s
business in the U.S. Has been very light this season
‘The startling information comes from London that
Mrs. Langtry’s ankles are slender. That’s all right as
long as her talents do not correspond Haverly’s
Mastodon Minstrels were playing in London, and were
softly singing one night to a crowded house the chores
in “ Old Kentucky Home." When the last notes
melted away, a strange-looking figure advanced a few
steps from bis seat in a dark corner of the pit, and the
auditors were startled at hearing a voice say earnestly
and distinctly, “ Sing the dear old song again—sing for
me. I’m listening hard. I'm listening low, boys, and
every word is a friend to me, home to me—everything.
Say, will you sing it just for me, right now and here ?"
It was the figure and voice of Ben. Leland, an old
minstrel, who left America several years ago, and
after playing in Australia made his way, a broken down
old man, to London. Here he supported himf ef by
playing the banjo, but generally eked out a miserable
existence. The Mastodons sang the chorus again, and
the figure sank back into its seat. When the audience
dispersed it remained motionless, and when an attend-
ant came to arouse it be found Bea. Leland dead...„,
An actress so accustomed to hear mention made of her
•• beautiful feet," “ beautiful hands," •* beautiful eyes," 1
fco., the other day inadvertently murmured : “ I’ve
such a cold in my beautiful nose." The cruel rejoinder
was : “ And I such chilblains on my ms the tic tie*."
Catherine Lewis, we learn, will head a company of her
own in the States next season, under the management
of her husband, the fascinating and courtly Baron 1
Oscar Arfwedaon What an American paper calls
he Anglo-snobbish effort to make American ladies
sit bare-headed at Wallack’s Theatre,” has failed... y
The lending sensation in Paris theatricals is entitled
“ A Thousand and One Nights.” It is a fieri* in three acta
and 15$ tableaux, and surpasses in magnificence anything
yet placed cm the French stage. One of the scenes
represents the Court of Cleopatra, in Which figures a
procession of three or four hundfed persons in Oriental
costumes, as a setting to three live (flephants procured
from an English circus. The most sensational scene*
however, is “la Chasse Infemale,” in which a pick of
sixty hounds cross the stage in full cry, folio wed by
banters at the gallop. The decorations are said to bei
superb, and the scenic effects of unequalled splendour;
It is, after all, only a spectacle at the best, yet the
Gitrtois deems it of sufficient importance to nil more
than six columns descriptive of the piece and actors
Joseph Jefferson (“Hip Van Winkle”) has leased the
Union Square Theatre, N.T., for six weeks, beginning
about the Ist Sept, next The American papers say
that Catherine Lewis has of late developed a habit of
weeping on the stage, especially when playing with
actors of recognised ability J. K. Emmet apparently
a tremendous success, in New York, on Jan. 9. Popu.
laxity inexhaustible. About the eame date, Madame
Jauanschek was playing a round of characters in New
York, to splendid bis,., Mary Anderson, it is
announced, will as usual, continue this year to
celebrate her 18th birthday At latest, B. D.
Davies, ventriloquist, had made a hit in New
York. He goes to England in the Spring...,,..
“Ain’t it lovely, Teddy P" Dear little Emide Melville
was taken seriously ill in Chicago recently, and was un-
able to sing “ Patience ”in the evening. The cause ct
her indisposition was highly romantic—bad oysters,
Fireproof actresses will be in demand when Ouida a
new play is produced. It is made necessary during tl o
action for the heroine’s dress to take fire, but her gallant
lover is on hand to instantly extinguish the flames.
Anna Dickinson’s Hamlet is described as very enjoy-
able. It is now conceded that Anna has again taken
the stump in purple tights. Hamlet is sure of elec-
tion—to stay at home. Anna’s limbs were neither reu-
naissance nor custhetic, being very early American ...
“ Da greddest ugder in do vorrld” has bean drawing
crowded houses in Calcutta Barnum, who with his
World’s Menagerie Is laid up in wintar quarters at
Springfield, Mass, says that if ho could only secure a.
baby elephant, Getewayo, Quiteau’s body, and Archibald
Forbes, he could die happy.... W. J. Florence addressed
the following lines to Oscar Wilde, on the latter’s
arrival at New York
Thou lean but fat and tripey child.
Intensely too, supremely noodle.
Lank, limp, and splay-foot Oscar Wilde,
Chief of Asses, Prince Flapdoodle,
Welcome to this land of gulls.
Land of shoddy, shams, and flunkies!
Thou'lt find among us kindred fools.
So like thyself, msthetio donkeys.
And when you’ve taught them how to gush,
And slop, and wear short-waisted collars.
And blather platitudes of mush.
Then fill your vest with Yankee dollars.
Skip back to Cockneydom, and wiuk.
With finger on your nose gigantic.
And laugh like blazes when you thiuk
What fools live on this side th’ Atlantic.
Here is a specimen, from Beece’s “ Aladdin,” at the
Gaiety, of the sort of writing the noble English public
admire in pantomime openings t
“ To-day in China, and next day in Booshia;
Pooh! ‘Jlowers ’ indeed! I tremble tor owcfuschia I
Flowers 1 when all you do’s put down as failure.
And fears of prompt dismissal dahlia aiahlia.
Minions to one who’s care’d not what, as yet
His minion drank, or what his mignonotte /
When none of us, who fain would his abuse shun,
Knows here in China-as-ter its conclusion;
In fact, I ask (so many woes befall)
Whether there peony good in life at all.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed]
“ Ellison (Thargomindah) i In Great Britain
there are 28,000,000 sheep; in the Australian colonies
and N.Z.,J75,000,000 "M.J.C." < Not intruding, car;
tainly, but the item has been published before “ Dick
Daadeye": Will keep “ Kyamboona” i Tou lose
your bet. When you put your finger In your ear ihd
roaring noise you hear is the sonnd of the circulation
in your finger. It clearly mnst be so, for if you ill up
your ear, no matter how completely, with any other
substance, you will not hear the noise “G.8.J.”
(Araluon) : The now patent mitrailleuse pistol has sot
yet come into extensive use here. It has four barrels *
all of which are loaded at once by a patent quad-
ruple cartridge, which is ejected automatically... JH
“Caustic”: Your clever pars, will appear next wee*
T.H.S.”: Thanks “Constant Header"! We have
not heard the rumour. As competition is increasing,
suoh an event may be looked for “Carooar"i Yep,
i the abandonment of proceedings reminds one of the ex-
pressive American verdict: “We find that the prisoner
committed the theft of which ho is accused, but
through admiration at the audacity and extent of the
fraud we honorably acquit him." “ A.K.": Thanks j
but we have had a par. something like your intei-
eating scrap. Write again "Wee Waa"! Paper
not received “E.A.8.": Par worse things done
by the police every day of the week "Kappa":
Thanks “ Australian": Pastoral sonnets are scarcely
in our line. Can’t you send ns something as good, but
more lively and local f.. Typo ” (Queanbeyan):
Eight “0.C.8.”: Thanks for item "Sub" (Gun-
dagai): Yon want us to give some one a dig, for your
private satisfaction. Can’t do it "One of the
Crowd Glad of items. Will yen send some next
week? and leave year card at the offles “Nation
Ik is understeed that the next instalment of “Neig
Iceland ” will be published simultaneously In Parte,
London, and New York in the beginning ef July
• Kate Thanks. Write again “ E.W.M.’VVerv-
welcome matter “S. Biggs”: Crowded out till nei*£
week "H. 8." (Woollahra): Your friends poetry ia
not at all suitable for ns “H.J.M," (Bnngsndore):
We cannot undertake to answer suoh questions,,,,,,
“W.Q.L." (Liverpool): Items received; nut what oo
you write with? "E.M.": Very good “Eye-
opener”: Good again "C.E.V.”: Always glad to
hear from you. Your letter next week “Martin-
dale”: We don’t know who selects the Crown Prose,
cutors. Some of the outsiders now get a show, and
prisoners have a fair chance of acquittal “English-
man”: You will find your inquiry met, fully, in tin's
issue "Magic” (Cooktown): Writeagain. Wehold
over your verse “Alethea": Ambergris, highly
valued in perfumery on account of its agreeable smeli,
is a morbid secretion ia the intestinal canal of the
spermaceti whale, derived from the bile; its present
value is about 80s. per ounce. It is found floating on
the sea, cast u pon various coasts, also in the stomach
of the sperm whale “Sic itur ad astra"; Thanks.
Will use the verse; one of the stories we have seen
before “Swagman”: All right. Strictly confiden-
tial. Biß
When we publish a contributor’s views, it need
not be supposed we endorse them. We desire to show
all sides; and all that appears in The Bulletin is not
the outpouring of the souls of the stall. When a man
has anything to say, and says it fairly and well, we give
him a show; but we don’t insert everything that every-
one sends. We strongly object to essays and sermons,
also to antique jokes. Whatever is sent must be new,
or seem so. We will not publish spiteful things to
please one man, free puffs to advertise another, or
vulgar personalities to feed the conceit of a third.
When we get jokes too subtle or simple for our own
understanding, we hand them to the dustman; he
understands everything that we don’t. Meaningless
inanities, whether esthetic or otherwise, should be sent
in about sth November, in balk, as we have a pyro-
teihnic display on that day annually. Writers whose
aiook of adjectives is limited to the phrases " utterly
utter,” and “ too too," will oblige by endorsing their
contributions " basket” i it saves time. All cnmmmfc
cations covering more than three pages of foolscap,
telling how Jones “ lays on jam," should be addressed
to the office boy-diract, as they are his perquisite:,!
People can write just how they like. Our care in reac.
ing is exactly equal to the amount of care bestowed on
I the writing. The adoption of this system enables
smsrt young men who * dash off” efforts of genius in
I tin ancient Phoenician style of caligraphy to gange
beforehand the chances of insertion. _


PEPPER AND SALT.
Jones was jealous of his wife —needlessly so,
she told him. Coming home unexpectedly one day, he
met Captain X. at the dooT, and heard his dearly
beloved say, “ Ton'll be sure to be in time ?'* “ t give
yon my word,” was the hurried response of tire gallant
X. Jones employed a private detective, and, as a
result, was next night bowling out to Moore Park in a
hansom, in hot pursuit of another “ safety ” containing
X. and the lady. At the Captain Cook the guilty pair
got out. So did Jones. They strolled through the
Park towards the cricket ground. Jones’s pilgrimage
extended in the same direction. When they thought
that nobody saw them, X., in am affectionate and mili-
tary manner, put his arm round her neck. Then Jones
sneaked up, the captain measured his length on the
turf, and a voice (not that of Mrs. Jones) exclaimed :
" Ton Villain I” It was his sister-in-law.
# * #
Writes “Tantalus ” in the Town and Coun-
Try : —“ There are times in the lives of men when
they’ve got to do awkward things. I’m in that way
now,” Then, why not, oh Tantalian humbug, follow
the bent of your inclination ? Do it while the melan-
choly fit is on. No one will mourn, and perchance a
sagacious jury will moderate the stigma of suicide by
the qualified addendum of “insanity pro tem.”
# * w
O- CAUTION.
No love-letters need in future be sent to the
pretty nurses at the Infirmary. Before being spelt out
by the intended recipients, all billets-doux are officially
perused by people in authority. It is not until after
such documents have been carefully reviewed by the
committee, and fully annotated by the students, that
the fair charmer, in the agreeable privacy afforded by
the dead-house, presses to her palpitating bosom your
dear illegible scrawl. N.B.—This doesn’t apply to the
missives of young doctors.
* * «
Jumbuck was rich, and Montmorenci Browne
Wps in the Lands and in love with Miss Jumbuck. The
Old man frowned, and when Montmorenci, having ob-
tained the girl’s consent, interviewed her father as an
empty formality prior to the arranged elopement, he
was astounded to find his prospective father-in-law
quite affable. “Tou want to marry my daughter, do
you ? Well, I’ve no objection. Kate has always been
a nuisance to us at home, and since she got that new
set of teeth and false back hair, she fancies herself the
beauty of the family. Take her and welcome.” Browne
didn’t take her, and yet her teeth and hair were not
false. She is now married to a back-blocks squatter,
and has a paternal settlement of £5000. Montmorenci
still lives in an eighteen-shilling boarding-house, and
carries his lunch in the Protestant Standard.
• • •
Nepotism grows apace, and corrodes the heart of
the Civil Service. The attention of independent mem-
bers of Parliament is directed to numerous cases of
recent occurrence in which j nnior officers, or absolute
outsiders, have been promoted over the heads of well-
tried servants of the State, merely because they, the
juniors or outsiders aforesaid, happen to be sons-in-law,
actual or prospective, of people in high places. A certain
Macquarie-street department here we stop. Had we
a fair show in the Supreme Court of N.S.W., we’d tell
the whole story. But we mustn’t (here we quote Sir
James Martin) “ drag forth a family’s private affairs,
and pander to vicious feeling.” If we did so, “a state
of things wonld(n’t) grow up which, we have no hesita-
tion In saying, is a disgrace to America.”
* * •
Chopin, the eminent pianist, being once asked to
play at an august assembly, sat down at “ the Grand,”
willing to add his mite to the joy. He put his feet
where the pedals ought to have been ; but they were not
there. The Countess who had invited him explained
that they had been sent to repair and not returned.
Here was a dilemma. Liszt, who was present, with the
generosity only known to the professors of Art, crept
under the key-board, and pulled the pedal wires with
his hand Does not history repeat itself ?
When Sironry wants to play a fantasia on the political
piano, those on whom he used to set his feet are “ gone
to repair and not returned.” Then the wire-puller
crawls underneath, and we hear a ponderous refrain in
the key of C.(M Q.)
• • •
At Sydney Infirmary, it is the first step which
costs. Do you wish to enter that institution as a
patient, but not in forma pauperis, you pay a fee of two
pounds, and yon may stay there for two years without
paying any more—in fact, you may stay till you’re
cured, or till your rich relatives order your sarcophagus
and call with a velvet-lined cedar coffin for your poor
clay. What is ostensibly an institution for the benefit
r.t the poor is grossly abused by the comparatively
wealthy. For example, take this incident. In the out-
patients’ department, one doctor enquires tho time of
a colleague, who turns out to be also watchless—having
perhaps lent his timepiece to a relative pending an
Increase of screw at the hospital or the occurrence of a
vacancy in the back-blocks. Then a gentleman, care-
fully got up in an elegant suit of black, which throws
into strong relief his massive watch-guard, produces
his ortistioally-chased Kodanow and gracefully informs
the medicos that it's twenty-two and a half minutes
past eleven. The well-dressed individual is an out-
patient, who is waiting to see the doctors at the
Infirmary, instead of consulting them on the opposite
side of the street.
• • •
Mr, J. Henniker Heaton has, we are delighted
to hear, been contributing statistics on education to
the London papers. We are further enchanted at
learning from “Anglo-Australian” that “among the
presentations at Court, or rather at the held on
February 23, by command of the Queen (the presenta-
tions to the Prince of Wales being considered equivalent
to presentations to Her Majesty), 1 noticed Mr. Hen-
niker Heaton. I happened to drop across him as he was
issuing from his Club to proceed to the Palace, and it
struck me that his Australian friends would have had a
difficulty in recognising him. He was fully arrayed in
Court costume —that is, with a cocked hat, a sword,
gold-buttoned coat, and gold-striped continuations.
The dress is a very brilliant one.” There’s a touch ef
sarcasm in “Anglo’s” allusion to H.’s dress only, and
it is also noticeable that the writer says nothing
about how the genial Henniker looked as he “ issued
from the Palace to proceed to his Club.” It will, we
are sure, be universally admitted that wt now shine, if
with but a reflected radiance. We anticipate with
pleasure the happy time when Sir Henniker Heaton,
K.C.B., will bo Governor-General of Australia, with his
Court in the old reporters’ room at tho Evening News
office. “ Kevenge" will then bo ours. Henniker’s a t
Court 1 Some of his late mates were at Court, too, and
now they’re in gaol. We really wonder that things are
not “ the other way on.” There must be a hell.
# # *
A Mysterious Stranger glided through Ye Olden
Payre with some knotted thongs in his hand, sighed,
And passed back to Heaven.
• • •
Petersham Church was beautifully decorated on
Easter Sunday. The clergyman apologised for rejoicing
over the Resurrection of his Lord rather than grieving
over the death of his Bishop 1
The following little lyric is addressed (by per-
mission to
THE HON. NICHOLAS BEELZEEBUB, ESQ.,
J.P., C.M.G.,
Late Architect and Contractor.
"D<ar sir,—Your bronze medal, —but no more. Here
it is :
The Tkmoea Bailey tells an extraordinary
goat story. It seems that goats down there are in the
habit of sallying out at night with crowbars and prizing
off the lids of camp-evens, to get at the “pastry and
tarts” (as Bailey calls them) inside. Of course, we
know he means dampers and johnny-cakes; but, then,
a man must be mighty high-toned in epithet if he wants
to run a paper at Temora. A miner, who had been
robbed of some euphnistic dampers in this way, com-
plained to the owner of the burglar-goats. He was
comforted by the assurance that the dampers would do
them no harm. But he is a carious man, this miner.
He is now sitting up at night to try whether those goats
can digest a meat-axe.
• • •
A squatter who lives not one hundred miles
from Condobolin, and is a godly man, was paying off
two of his station-hands. While the book-keeper was
making out the account, one of the men drew the boss’s
attention to a native dog that he had shot, and asked
him whether an allowance for it would not be made.
Squatter replied that ho would give five shillings—and
then, after telling the book-keeper to credit the dog-
shooter with that amount, he wrote on a piece of paper;
“Charge them an extra penny for meat and flour.”
Getting the blood-money for that warrlgal cost the
station-hands over a pound.
The London World says that the Victoria
Cross is sullied by being worn next the star of St.
Michael and St. George.
One C.M.G. has got the bulge
On this obnoxious rule.
For he already has a cross—
A cross of knave and fool.
* • •
“ Sara Bernhardt has been quietly married to
M, Damola, a Greek.” Che sara sara.
The Gallic stage will bo
Sahara,
When you desert the boards.
Sweet Sara.
You never saw our face
Fair Missus,
Or you would leave your Greek
To kiss us.
Damola man need core
For “ blues,” sweet.
If he knows Greece agreece
With you, sweet.
• • •
Who’s to have a statue — Gordon, Marcus
Clarke, Deniehy ? No. Dr. Beaney, the advertising
surgeon, of Melbourne, who is president of that guild of
fat old men, the Fitzroy Bowling Club. He is giving
his fellow-members a dinner, and £IOOO is the amount
set down to be expended in the guzzle.
V « •
Sir James Martin ia right. The Press must not
be permitted to become a tyrant. Two in the field
wouldn’t do.
* » •
An English newspaper has discovered that Sir
Samuel Wilson possesses a great veneration lor what
is historic in art and nature, and says that Hughenden
will not suffer in his hands. Sir Samuel confided to a
crony the other day, as he spread his chubby legs under
the mahogany, that he was graciously pleased to admire
the place. Laying his podgy hand on the spot where
he keeps his gold chronometer, he observed in the
sweetly musical voice which is his chief charm, “ I was
so delighted with the drive from Maidenhead to
Wycombe, that I felt I had never met, in any part of
the world, scenery more beautiful. I shall keep these
splendid grounds in order with jealous care, and with-
out stint as to cost.” And then Sir Samuel rose up
from the wine and walnuts, and wrote a note to his
managers at Yanko and Toorale, and Longerenong and
Ercildoune, and Lord knows where else, to pull down
the boundary riders’ wages another bob.
After a certain distinguished statesman had
refused a testimonial from the public and a Parlia-
mentary vote for the expenses of his trip home, he was
“ written to” by a gentleman to whom ho is largely
indebted. The following was, in effect, portion of his
reply: “I was never in greater difficulty than at
present, and am quite unable to send you even a £5
note.”
• « •
One of the most pious and snuffling of our
millionaire squatters kept a servant girl to do the cook-
ing, washing, scrubbing, nursing, fencing,
mustering, and to assist generally in all light house-
hold work, for which he, of course, remunerated her at
the lowest possible rate. One day she brought a cat to
the homestead, and, as mice were plentiful, the
squatter, though he bewailed the fact that the animal
had to be fed, was, on the whole, tolerably well
pleased. In coarse of time, the cat had kittens. A
few weeks lator the squatter missed one of the kittens,
and asked his wife what had become of it. Being told
that the girl had given it away, he expressed himself
thus:—” What right has she to give away my goods ?
She might as well have made anybody a present of one
of my sheep or horses. Stop half-a-crown out of her
wages next time you pay her.” And she was debited—
“ To kitten, two-and-sixpence.”
* * *
Father F., of a whiskyfied borough in the
South, was recently called to visit an old lady out on
the plains who was in extremis. Of course he went, and
having made her sowl comfortable, he, like the good
Christian that he is, cast about him for means to cheer
her spirits up a little. “ Shnre,” he remarked, “ did ye
hear that Parkes has shot the Queen?’’ (it was just after
the sews arrived of M’Lean’s attempt.) “ Glory be to
God!’’ exclaimed the dying penitent, rising up in her
bed, “ now I’ll live to see him hang.” And she still
lives—in hope. This is truer than death.
* • •
At athletic sports held in a very Far Northern
town, on St. Patrick's Day, a race for "married women”
was on the list. Nine ladies entered, but protests were
lodged against eight of them on the score that they
could not produce their “ marriage lines.” After two
members of the committee had “ had it out” in a
24-foot ring, it was decided that the fair creatures were
sufficiently married for the purposes of the programme.
So, after tucking up their skirts, olenehing theirjteeth,
and carefully securing their back-hair w ith additiona
two-prongers, they started in the race, which was the
most aesthetic spectacle witnessed at Warregoyarraman
since the commencement of the rush. Mrs. Chain*
Lightning won, but proved all the same, while doing
her 100 yards, the truth of Mark Twain’s impudent
assertion that “women and cows shouldn't run.”
• • •
“ Eevolting disclosures have been made regard*
ing the Melbourne hospital. It appears post-mortems
are conducted in the dead-house, a place used as a
receptacle for dead bodies and amputated limbs. The
practice followed is to remove the intestines supposed
to be affected into a large trough, to await examination.
The vacuum thus created is filled by intestines kept over
from the last dead body operated upon. The operator
has been known to cram the brains of two dead men
into the head of one, and to place in the coffin of dead
patients as many amputated legs and arms as possible.
The intestines of two or three bodies are frequently
lying mixed under a tap, and the water running upon
them finds its way into the street, end thence through
the city.” .... Evening Horror,
On a station out West, a big buck nigger
(African variety) was pumping water for cattle. A
visitor came up, and noticing only the colour of the
pumpist, remarked encouragingly, “ My word, you
budgery fellow, you pump’em well.” “ Blank 1 blank II”
exploded the nigger, “d’ye think I’m an adjective
blackfellow ? ’’
* * •
When the clergy requested Bishop Moorhouse
to pray for rain, he said, “ Dam it.” This is a fact.
Humanity Anatomized.
BY A CYNIC.
No. I.—Lawyers.
A lawyer is an acidulated am algam; of technicality
treachery, and tergiversation. To resolve him into his
elements is to dissect and depict diabolism—to decipher
and diagnose demonology. The law, itself, is the
spurious son of Avarice out of the unblushing harlot.
Fraud. Lawyers, therefore, have subtlety and greed
ingrained ia their very nature. They head the list of
social birds of prey—sub-genus, rapaces. Unlike the
votaries of other vocations, they shrink from com.
memorating the anniversary of their patron-saint.
This is because history is not precise about the date on
which Ananias distinguished and extinguished himself.
The truth is not in lawyers; or, if it is in them, nature
and art have alike combined to block every mode of
exit. This is part of the wise provision of Nature, for
truth cannot live on the lips of a lawyer. If their
asseverations, by any stray chance, are based upon truth
they resolve themselves into mendacity pure and
simple for the plain reason that the tongue of an
attorney is unfitted to be the habitat of Truth. Law-
yers are, by nature, nearly as unromantic as the Gardgrind
whom Dickens etched. They differ materially from that
immobile model; inasmuch as Gradgrind was an adaman-
tine block of hard, stern, and uncompromising facts,
whereas the legal condors warp their realities into
romance, according as self-interest expands some of
their idioms and contracts others. Cupid’s dart can
drive them in no other direction but cupidity. They
have no love for the arts, no affection for the sciences,
no craving for anything except filthy lucre, and they
concentrate every effort to clutch the Guineas more
than ever does the best-bred two-year-old at the
Hawkesbury. They never hunger and thirst after
righteousness, but they are sempiternally tortured with
the atm saera fames— the holy (or unholy) famine —for
six-and-eightpences. The most of them have nerves of
iron and hearts of brass. They wage war with their
tongues, and pervert damaging fact into accessory
fiction. They win bloodless battles by dint of in-
domitable “ cheek,” which with them is cere perennius—
more enduring than brass. Their polemical peculiarities
are as varied as the hues of the rainbow, and they
worship individually and respectively at the same altar
as their richest and most influential clients swear
A BALLAD OF BLAZES.
The devil took himself by the horns.
And a mad fiend was he.
For the damned had got so used to burn
That they didn’t care a D.
He swore some very horrible oaths
Which wound up with the yell—
That “ sooner than stand this sort of thing
He’d see himself in Hell.”
But ev’rything went on all the same.
The row did not abate;
He couldn’t speak without being told
To “ go to the Devil ” straight.
For the damned were having a high old time
Passing around the bowl.
Some danced. Each body for partner took
Its own immortal soul.
The fiddlers fiddled and all went sweet
As any marriage bell,
O, there wasn’t then in the whole wide world
A happier place than Hell.
Eaeh sinner footed it toe to toe,
Down the middle, until
The body of Barney O’Houlahan
Damned by Father M’Gill
To eternal fire because he had not
Paid up his Easter duos,—
Took up right quick a bit of a shtick.
Such as the Irish use.
And struck its own sowl over the head
(As surely a body may ?)
Because his sowl at his body had looked
In a shupershilious way.
Then to it they fell with stick and stone.
All of the damned fell to.
And they tore up the flagstones of Hell,
And one of them fell through
To the earth again, and went about
Disguised as square-toed ghoul.
And now he is a contributor
To the Weekly Holy Howl.
The fun grew fast and the pavement passed
Till the last chunk was gone.
The devil was floored with that same chunk
Of good Inten-tion.
Then he slowly rose, and softly said.
As he rubhed each broken limb.
That “if Hell wasn’t hot enough for them.
It was much too hot for him.”
“ Go up,” said he to a faithful imp,
“ To earth as smart as you please—
The Church will open the gate for you.
For yon know it keeps the keys—
And bring me the Sydney papers down.
Punch and the Telegraph,
And Evening News and Herald, for I
Take no revenge by half.”
The imp he went and ho brought them down
In the compass of a wink.
But an Evening News man still found time
To “ touch ” him for a drink.
Then the damned rolled up, and one by one,
Did they those pages turn;
No need to insure them, for they were
So damp that they couldn’t burn.
The Devil stood by and watchedjthem road,
And said with an inward scoff,
“ My fine friends, p’r’aps, you’ll know next time
What it is to be well off.”
And then did the Herald readers straight
Fall down in fearful pain.
And a chorus of Sydney souls struck up—
-11 The old rag once again I”
And those who read the Evening News
And Punch and the Telegraph,
Now tear out their hair and gnash their teeth
And weep—they never laugh.
So was the row put down in Hell
By the rags we have to bear,
God grant that copies are no more sent
By the time that we get there.
“COMING FROM THE FAYRE.”
“Four miles to get home, and my last threepence gone!
Oh those girls!!”
Last night wo had a fearful dream
—This far we had just read—
Corpse after corpse we saw arise.
The disembowelled dead.
As, when its staunchest friends desert,
A Government (is crossed,
So these vexed bodies sat and mourned
The members they had lost.
Some had no noses, some no eyes,
Some were without a head.
Like figures children bite in two—
Like men of gingerbread.
And still by tens of thousands rose
The dead. We saw the swarms
Of legal lights without their legs.
And armies without arms.
And twelve good men and true were there
Whose heads were made of —would
We could but say—they’d lost their own.
But these were just as good.
Grave judges, too, had made mistakes —
Brains they had got, instead
Of what they’d carried until now.
Intestines—in their head.
And brains were slopped ia anyhow
To skulls they didn’t fit;
So holy men grew full of fun.
And comic men of wit.
And Ugliness did ogle, and
Old Age skipped round like Youth;
And jurymen were sensible.
And lawyers told the truth.
One wise old judge—a friend of ours—
Took off his head to cool,
And lost it, so he wore instead
The skull of a blind mule.
And stalked about as solemnly
As e’er before, because
Both skulls had been constructed for
Interpreting the laws.
A priest’s legs with a pressman had
Gone off upon a drunk.
The priest’s head, like a passenger,
Was sitting on its trunk.
Good Lord I it was an awful hash
That we were gazing at;
Mankind, like an old patchwork quilt.
Around Jehoshophat.
Parsons ware there who had no mouths
To take a bite or sup.
Give them their due, they seemed to be
Exceedingly cut up.
All Heaven was boiling glue to keep
Heads unto bodies jammed
Jnst long enough for them to be
Brought up and judged and damned.
Judge, juries, lawyers, were so mixed,
“ Qabe” would have smashed his trump
In sheer despair, but Satan yelled—
“ Oh I damn them in a lump ! ”


by. Their mutual creed is all Mammon: their pro-
fessional policy all gammon. They make the Temple of
Justice a house of preying, and at this ne plus ultra
standpoint recognise that they have no need to turn it
into a den of thieves. In cases of committal, they are
advocates of Bail; in all other instances they are
accomplices of Baal. In the science of blood-letting
the medical profession ranks, by contrast, as a cypher.
Beneath the strategy of men entirely great the legal
suavity is greater than tho lancet’s point. Lawyers
drain a plethoric purse until the interior is as hollow a
vacuum as the region where conscience in them should
have existence. Every attorney is a consolidated
human integer of the horse-leech and his two daughters,
not alone crying for more, but demanding and enforcing
it. In their bills of costs they exemplify their love of
vunuUce. They charge for winking at you, for blinking
at you, for thinking of you, for shrinking from yon, and
for drinking with yon. When they exact a fes for all
these individual exercises of professional perfection,
they quadruple the total for fear of losses through
omission. Knowing that the Prothonotary is apt to
file their bill of costs, they give him something to file at
by making it uncommonly rough in the first instance.
It is a common assertion that there are some honest
lawyers. If there are any, they reserve their honesty
as an uaexercised principle, being too modest to let
integrity of heart interfere with impulse of rapacity.
Honest lawyers are rarer on earth than good angels in
Hades. If all the honest lawyers now on the face of
the earth had been ratepayers in Sodom and Gomorrah
when Abram helped to take a plebiscitum of their moral-
ity, destruction would have fallen upon those cities just
the same. The legal profession has two grades—distinc-
tions with very little differences. Tbore are lawyers and
barristers. But the lawyer is to the barrister as the
Triton to the minnow. Many of the most successful
barristers are no lawyers, and this is all the good that
can be said of them. They ore clever in securing post-
ponements, arranging for now trials, and conniving at
c i r oumloontion.
They furnish
more grist for the
mil when thev
dilly-dally in this
fashion. Emin-
ent b a rristers
love fat fees bet-
ter than they love
their Creator.
There’s a lot of
"wholesome
fan ” in a fat fee,
and a lot of whole-
some fat in a Q.C.
lawyers can
quarrel in Court
like ent-throats,
and out of Court
shake hands as
friendly as
brothers -“in-
law.” An honest
man, prompted
to bring his son
np to the law,
would do better
to handicap him
with a mill-stone
round his neck,
and then start
him afloat in the
world’s go-as-you
please. The poet
says " there's
good in every-
thin g.” And
there is even a
special purpose
in the existence
of all plagues.
Lawyers are al-
lowed to cumber
the earth to as-
gist the weak and
the wicked to a
foretaste of what
may be expected
in the dim fu-
turity, when that
arch-lawyer,
Beelzebub, shall
permanently pre-
side on the In-
fernal Woolsack
The existence of
lawyers proves,
moreover, that
there is necessarily a fiendish hereafter, when Satan finds
some mischief still for legal hands to do. Sometimes
lawyers grow old and foolish. The whirligig of time
makes them become old. It is an easier and less gradual
transition for them to become foolish. Polly is often
only a deeper depth of knavery. Bat when the winter
of life has sunk them into a determinate dotage—when
age has brought imbecility, and indifference «f reproach,
and has appended an increase of vindictiveness to a
decrease of intellectual vigour—when time has chilled
the faint residue of humanity, has mildewed reason,
consumed charity, nurtured vanity, surcharged hypo-
crisy, inoculated venom, soured the last vestige of
amiability, and fanned tyranny to the culminating point
—it is then that some corrupt and callous Administra-
tiona degraded communities recognise In these
forensic incinders the essential elements of
upright, wise, and impartial Judges. Judges
often hate newspapsrs, becanse they represent
Public Opinion, before which Judges tremble. But the
ultimate destination of all lawyers has been foretold
from the beginning. Instinct and intuition inspire
them to recognise the threefold significance of the
threat, “ For without are dogs—and liars—and sor-
cerers."
“ Old Niek saw a lawyer killing a viper
Behind his dunghill stable.
And Satan grinned when ha called to mind
The relations of Cain and Abel.”
A society, having for its objects “the mental,
moral, social, and political welfare ” of drapers, must
have the warm sympathy of every one. Such a society
ii now being formed in Sydney, and it will, among
other things, provide facilities for self-improvement, a
registry for employes, a fand for aged and unemployed
assistants, and endeavour to shorten the hours of
labour. These objects are all good, the last one
especially so, and should command the co-operation
of everybody. There are few classes of toilers that
have not some sort of organization to protect their
interests, and the claims of the drapers should entitle
them to liberal support in their efforts to establish such
a one for themselves.
BRIEF MENTION.
Milk in Sydney is derived from the water-butt.
Hence butter.
M. Bryant, Comte de Beaumont, has gone to
compare notes with Skuthorpo.
The oystermen have formed an Association. It
is now time for the Press to move.
Scores of bank clerks get .£lOO a year. Not a
few messengers in the Civil service draw £lfiO.
Sydney small-pox hospital to let. It is intended
to use it as a debtors’ prison, or as alt asylum for
jurymen.
Berry is coming overland, but Major Smith
prefers the sea, and is rigging up jury-masts in one of
his boots.
The receipts of the Melbourne general cemetery
last year were £12,575. It is better to run a dead horse
than a live paper.
For pulmonarily weak volunteers, the correct
thing to take to the encampment is undoubtedly a
water-tight coffin.
Captain Burnaby sailed over to France in a
balloon which was inflated with gas from his book,
“A Hide to Khiva.”
At Ballarat, a magpie struck a match and set
fire to a house. It had lost its pipe, and would any-
how light up something.
An action for alleged breach of contract has
been instituted by the manager of a Sydney religions
print against his directors.
At present, three largo'groupa of sunspots are
crossing the sun’s disc. It is feared they portend a
rise in the price of sausages.
The Bendigo Advertiser wants to know what
is to be done with Mr. Bryant. Admit him to the Bor.
He is a first-class liar already.
41 How to Kill the Blues ” is the heading of an
article in a bush newspaper. This shows how un-
popular the force has become.
We are pained to notice that the Edinburgh
Review is reprinting articles from the Bedferu Onion
Bag without acknowledgment.
Iho township of Newry, Gippaland, had its
nm wedding about a fortnight ago. A fresh market
for broom-handles and flat-irons.
“ Whenever one meets a freethinker, he meets a
blackguard,” says the Eedfern Bag. No sleep for
Tyndal and Spencer, if they hear this.
Confound these parsons ! They never can take
a joke. We only chaffed them a little about praying
for rain, and they flooded our paper store.
A N.Z. Town Council turned out en masse to
patronise Denton’s great lecture on the “ Ago of fiep-
tiles." They couldn’t see the satire in the title.
Billiard rooms, well conducted in connection
with leading hotels, must close at 11, while the iniqui-
tons sixpenny dens may keep open until midnight.
Rag and bone gatherers to be licensed. The
object is to enable householders to leave the broom in
the back yard without keeping a mangy Newfoundland
dog.
One of the engineers in a certain big Government
work has such a taste for hydraulics that he was recently
found studying the science in a water-butt—head down-
wards.
From the Northern Miner ; “ A prohibition
under the Licensed Publicans’ Act has teen issued
against the supply of liquor to George Jones.” This is
the only thing which can put a Northern man out of
society.
Some one is intent on getting the orthographical
prize in December, for he has painted a sign outside
the Garden Palace announcing a “Juvenile Indnstral
Exhibition.”
At Clare, S. A., they keep the mortuary statistics
right up to date; —“ Three deaths have taken place
yesterday and to-day 5 and another of an old resident
is looked for.”
“ Touch the harp lightly,” said a Brisbane
music seller, as he collared an Italian sailing out of hia
shop with King David’s favorite instrument on his hack
unpaid for.
When sorrow rends the throbbing heart.
Its wild pulsations who may tell f
But ah ! when Sydney Punch’s smart.
We fear no more a future hell.
Twenty-five ladies fined by Mr. Love, P.M.
for assisting at a bazaar.
Love may be fickle but not blind—
So five-and-twenty ladies fined.
Here’s a bit of “ wholesome fun.” When the
N.S.W. wine commissioners to Bordeaux Exhibition
were appointed, there was a great run on Ahn’s First
French Coarse I
A pair of pythons, and a Bengal tiger have arrived
for the Melbourne Zoological Society. They onght to
keep in good condition if the Society league with the
Hospital authorities.
Bookmakers are not the only nuisances to be
met with in railway travelling. Members of Parliament
are sometimes tolerably foal-mouthed. Besides, some
of them are very poor.
Mr. Jackson having resigned the Mayoralty of
Charters Towers, the Council have decided not to widen
Mossman-street, its present breadth being sufficient for
the new Mayor to walk up.
Mr. Tahaterogalivakye was arrested last week
in Melbourne, They intend, should he bo put into a
solitary cell, to leave bis name outside for the use of the
hangman, so as to save rope-bills.
The S.M.H. says a pair of candlesticks pre-
sented to St. Mary’s Cathedral bear the “legend”—
* Sanotus, sanotus, sanotus.” The "legend" of "ye
o’de Englyshe Fayre ” is “shelle ont."
The Dispatch states there are every week
thirty to forty funerals in Dabbo. We don’t wonder at
it. Any change must be for the better up that way.
Death loses its sting when it reaches Dubbo.
The Mackay Standard complains about “ our
extremely ill-regulated climate.” If there is any
money in Mackay our rain-dervishes will go up and
howl till the Almighty is brought to his senses.
Dr. Schliemann has again commenced burrow-
ing into the site of ancient Troy. He expects this time
to dig* np fossils enough to supply the Bench of New
South Wales with judges for the next hundred years.
A social club has been formed on the Barooo —
Rejoice, O gilded back block youth,
A club for the pur sany.
Is formed where until now was seen
Only a boomerang.
The Queen has thanked the Petersham Town
Council tor saving her life, or being plpasod that it was
saved —same thing. The aldermen all expect to be
made C.M.Q.’s, Poor fellows, they’re prepared for
any slight!
At short distances, according to Emerson, the
senses are despotic. This was the phrase of an Echo
man, as ha barked his shin On a foot-bridge while
chasing another Yes pern An reporter who had stolen
his savelov.
The Double Patent Back Action Hardsholls are
willing to back thoir pastor against the)Hellflre Snuffle-
busters for orthodox doctrine and sound divinity.
Wagers to be decided by the number of inches round
the paunch.
Eev. T. E. Ick, of Melbourne, says that larrikins
should be flogged by their parents, and not brought
before the Bench. We joyfully concur. Mr. Ick
should be canonised, and under his new style (st-ick)
used plentifully.
Is it a fact that at a certain public charity,
maintained in part by Government funds, the employes
are compelled to buy from the person who “ bosses "
the establishment all dresses, linen, &3., required for
their private use ?
This ia from the Burrow A Burns’ report of
a police court case, and is a true bill:—“timothy
Cobbey deposed: ‘ I have seen O’Hara since the first
summons ; what Funnell swore is false, and my evidence
is as true as his.’ "
Of all the races, says a Ear North contemporary
to whom the contact ef civilization has been fatal, there
is none more swiftly or surely dying out than the Queens-
land blackfellow. This is a pity. Material for intelli-
gent jurymen is becoming scarce.
A worthy canon was walking out on a Sunday,
not months ago, at Manly, when he encountered
several men fishing. Did he read them a homily ? No.
He simply said, “YonTl not catch anything here; go
over there, I caught lots yesterday !’’
From Wright’s Australasian and Ameri-
can Gazetteer: —“The Viceroy and Governor-General
is supremo. He is assisted by a Council of six members,
besides the Commander-in-Chief. This body forms
what is called the Supreme Court of India.”
Prince Leopold’s wedding is postponed on
account of his indisposition. Ours hangs in the balance,
on account of the indisposition of the old man to take
into his house a hearty lodger who is a widower with
nine children and a steady repugnance to work.
Tenders are invited by advertisement for the
pnrchaee of the Kent-street Primitive Methodist
Church. To what purpose this consecrated building
will now bo applied is uncertain. However, as clean-
liness is next to godliness, let us hope ’twill be a
laundry.
A Lands official promised marriage. The mor-
row found him with a changed mind. But he dis-
sembled. He wrote her a note, renewing his pro-
testations, but added that he was the recipient of an
Exhibition bronze medal. She has since married a Par-
ramatta man.
The Temora Herald invites tenders for floor-
ing its office. Most of the space of that journal has
lately been devoted to slating the Star people in so
virulent a style as to render it probable that little
Bailey will ere long call tenders for shot-proof mail and
padded pants.
During certain hours on Good Friday publicans
are allowed to sell liquor, but it is “ not to be con-
sumed on the premises.” Last Friday, several boni-
faces sold through window and door to hundreds of tho
thirsty, whilst the energetic policeman was being con-
stnnedly chaffed by lookers-on.
A Melbourne paper says that an ex-employd of
the N.B.W. Government, on asking for re-appoint.ment,
was informed that though he was zealous and efficient,
his request could not bo complied with, because he
" was a spiritualist and freethinker, and had recently
been lecturing on these subjects.”
Exhibitors at the Christchurch (N.Z.) Exhibition
were informed by a well-known gentleman that a first-
rate order of merit —a silver medal—meant a foe to him,
suh-rosa, of five guineas. This gentleman was simply
incautious. A N.S. W. commissioner couldn’t be got to
put his terms on paper in that way.
In the Upper House, once, Sir John Robertson
remarked that Adam and Eve were expelled for breach
of conditions. " Quite time,” added Sir George Innes,
with the recollection of the fig-leaf vestments in his
thoughts, “ and at the same time reduced to a condition
of breeches," This is “ wholesome fun.”
The following advertisement appears in the
Northern Star:—“£2 Reward will be paid to any
person that will lead to the information of some
wicked designed persons that have broken into the
original Provisional School at South Lismore, and
taken therefrom one clock, master’s desk, furniture,
books and slates, and several other things destroyed.
The undersigned having received instructions from the
Department, of instructions to retain every thing until
further orders When this was written
the schoolmaster was evidently abroad.
A Presbyte-
rian minister late-
ly thumped over
the reading desk,
and then fell
headlong after it,
breaking the
flask in his breast
pocket.
At a meeting
of the members
(all squatters) of
a Queensland Di-
visional board,
they passed a re-
solution to pay
for their dinners
(2s. a head) ont of
the funds of the
board.
The richest
joke in the Eev.
Mr. Childe’sOlde
Englyshe Fayre
Book is a full
page advertise,
ment of the Mel-
bourne Cup
£20,000 Consulta-
tion. And this
in aid of two
churches 1
When thes.a.
Leura was in im-
minent danger,
the passengers
would have given
10,000 times their
wealth to be on
land, but, when
the captain had
by cool courage
and skill brought
them into smooth
water, a collec-
tion was made to
purchase a testi-
menial to the
gallant sailor.
The aggregate
value they placed
on their lives was
—six pounds 1
Mr. William
Pattison.of Eock-
h a m|p ton, at-
tempted to lash
the editor of the
Jackass. The
latter, who’s
master of the art
of handling "the
illegant sthick,”
gave the would-
be man-whipper a
sound drubbing.
A local daily pre-
tends to console
the poor Justice
of the Peace (sic)
by wishing him
"better luck next
time ” —meaning,
sub rosa, a better
licking.
A teetotal bagman, last week, went to bed at an
inland hotel, and dreamt that the drought had broken
up. Suddenly he awoke, and found his dream true.
Some convivial spirits had carried him asleep on his
mattrass into the bath room, and placed him under the
shower, which they ingeniously worked from out-
side.
A Welsh pony recently died at Glen Innes at
the advanced age of thirty-eight years. The proprietor
of the local papor is now advertising for another editor.
By the w.iy, we never have a fair show in the horse-
obituary line. By the time out weekly is out, up-
country enterprise picks out the eyes of current sen-
sation.
Enquirer: “ What do yon think of Sir Henry
Parkes as a statesman?” Cynical native: ‘‘Oh, Sir
Henry Parkes ? He’s a long-headed ’nn; he got the
new Licensing Acl. passed, and then baited oft to
’Meriky and England before it was put into operation."
The pair immediately drowned their sorrows by ballot-
ing for drinks.
A very popular Ipswich citizen entered a
draper’s shop the other clay, and while examining some
new tweeds gave it as his opinion that one sample
shown was “really splendid.'* Here his vocabulary
failed him, and on coming to a much finer piece, he, to
give full vent to his admiration, exclaimed : “ This one
is simply obnoxious.”
The fashionable natives of Samoa stain their
brown bodies white, and dye their raven hair red. The
Samoan aristocracy do not take in the Down and Gum-
tree, or they would see that the order of enamelling is
reversed here. We remember when it would have been
considered cowardly to desert one’s colours, but time
and have changed all that.
N.S.W. is becoming Puritanical. Ladies who
raffle at bazaars are fined; a publican’s daughter may
not play the piano in her father’s house; it is a penal
offence to sell lemonade on Sunday; and those uncleanly
people who persist in shaving on the Sawbath may be
put into the stocks. Government will shortly call
tenders for a full supply of Curfew bells.
A gentleman whs was at Campbelltown last
week, sent a telegram at 9.45 am. to his home in
Sydney, explaining his non-arrival by the 11,30 a.m.
train. His message was delivered in Sydney at 6 35.
p.m. Only eight honrs and fifty minutes on the road,
and not on a public holiday. Had a messenger been
despatched by the train leaving at 3.40 p.m , he would
have arrived at his destination by 5.30 p.m., provided,
of course, that the messenger was not drunk !
THE LAST STAGE!
“OH! JEE—RUSA—LEM, I’VE KILLED HIM!”


The Victorian Salvation Army was pelted with
tomatoes at Richmond the other day, Alas 1 poor toe-
m Up r North, an ultra-loyal firm “sacked” all
their Scotch employ'd, because they were of the same
nationality as tbe lunatio who shot at the Queen,
Pawnbroking J.P. adjudicates in case of waist-
coat stealing. Witness deposes that the garment is
worth 17a. Cl. His Worship: “Seventeen and six-
pence 1 vhy, I vouldn’t advance ss. on it 1’
The trams havo knocked tho ’buses “ kite high.’’
A certain Waverley ’bus.lprior tojtho introduction of tho
trams, used to bo crowded every morning. It now
matntlnally carries three passengers—a postman and
two Chinamen.
The Boys’ Brigade has been started, under the
able leadership of our eminent friend, Frank Hntobiu-
aon. You can now get anything sent home, from the
baby to a half-hundred weight of potatoes, for the
small sum of sixpence.
Thousands of hungry souls craved for food at
Randwickl on Monday. Not a morsel was to be had.
Whore was the Inspector for the Suppression of
Cruelty toJAnimals ? Wo saw a mother giving a three-
days-old child a " shandy gaff.”
, Writes tho “ scientific Paris (?) correspondent ”
of the Sydney Daily Shiver :—“ Wheat is subject to a
malady known as rust or smut." Tho italicising of the
conjunction is onr own doing. It shows what a really
scientific stall Angus keeps at Paris.
On April Fools’ Day, two enterprising young
jokers posted, at 4 a.m , on tho gates of a Victoria-
street mansion, largo yellow plackards, bearing the
legend, “BMALL-POX—BEWARE I” The milkman
fled precipitately; so did the butcher. There was no
breakfast that day.
At least jthis can’t bo contradicted. A poor
woman sought relief at tho Rockhampton hospital.
She addressed the resident medico thus : “ Docthor,
alanna, I’m very bad. Please sec what ails me. Be
lookin’ Into me intearyar (interior) with your tele-
scope." ’Twas the stethoscope she meant.
Upon the verandah of a Northern hotel ha
stood talking to a friend. His conversation was
vulgarly loud, and Beamingly addressed to anybody but
the person to whom he was speaking. Among other
things, he said, “ I’m to have a meeting to-night.” A
passer-by “ chipped ” in with —“of creditors.”
The united forces of the Victorian Anglican and
Presbyterian* some years ago established a Pastoral
Aid Society, to provide Sunday services in sparsely-
populated places. However, old Feuoingwire has now
abruptly stopped.his customary annual donation, hav-
ing discovered, after subscribing for three years, that
tho association has nothing to do with sheep.
A Sydney photographer having hoard that some
blackmailers in England had hit upon a plan for dis
tortiug the features so as to look in the picture as drank
as an Owl Club, is about to prosecute the English vaga-
bonds for infringement of patent. Ho long since applied
for and obtained a patent for a process of throwing an
expression of intelligence into a juryman’s face.
Thomas Walker, the Melbourne lecturer, chal-
lenged the Rev. Dr. Gilchrist to a religious controversy.
That holy man declined because “the Presbytery would
not allow him to go into a public discussion.” Tho
Presbytery very naturally objects to its ministers
making fools of themselves in public, though it cannot
alter tho immutable decrees of Providence ia private.
The following was posted at the Warden’s Court
in an inland mining township in Queensland “ Noti*
—I, am in on Bisenes in Conaotion with 4 Try it
never more P.C.’ getting out Tols and et. et. and i am
in and Unhelty Oodtion, i have Posted a Notie on
Claim. Signed by me . 22nd March 1882." Under
this some wag wrote in pencil: “ Try Cookie’s Pills, or
Keating’s Condition Powder*."
Mr. B. G. Davies, ex-Chairman of Committees
in the Victorian Assembly, reports that the temperance
drinks at Hamilton railway refreshment rooms, are not
up to tho mark. Now, no one ever expected to hear
B Q. say that temperance drinks mere up to the mark.
An exchange says Mr, Davies “ is inspecting the liquors
with energy.” We should say that “ liquors with
energy ” would be more in his line.
During the hearing of a celebrated sly-grog-
selliug case, at Charters Towers, some hard swearing
was going on. Young D— —, aged 5j years, who had
just entered with a telegram for his father, asked, with
the natural curiosity of his years, “ What is that man
going to do in that box, papa ?” “ That man swears to
toll the truth, tho whole truth, and nothing but tho
truth, my boy.” “And, papa, mill he P”
A man named Thomas Mayne was starting for
England, the other day, but a “matoh-box-trick” man
scooped him of £2OO. The “ match-box.triok" man says
the Tower of Loudon is the finest building heaver saw.—
Tom Mayne, you shouldn’t play with rogues,
For they can throw the Mayne,
But you have made your bed and so
Must lie in that, Tom Mayne 1
Under the present Licensing Act, the hours for
gelling drink on Good Friday are from 7 to 9 in the
morning, 1 to 3 in the afternoon, and 8 to 10 at night.
Only travellers may be served at the bar during those
hours. And yet the State professes to have severed its
connection with religion. If we’re compelled by law to
keep Good Friday holy, why not also Ash Wednesday,
the Feast of Tabernacles, and tho Chinese Now Year ?
The Bourke Watchman, commencing a leader
recently with tbe apologetic words, “ Perhaps it may
not be altogether the province of a public journal to
counsel and countenance any infringement of the laws
of tho land,” plainly suggested to the landlords of
Bourke to run their houses as clnbs, with a view to
avoid making the alterations necessary to obtain re-
newal of their licenses Tho Watchman, for this action
alone, may fairly lay claim to be a “public” journal.
On tho Palmer, a roofer named Hart, who had
raised a pile of rich stone at his claim, suspected that
advantage was taken by passers-by to purloin rich
specimens from tho heapduciug his occasional visits to
tho nearest township, about three miles distant. Ho
therefore posted tho fallowing warning on tho quartz
heup :—“ Anyouo caught by mo in my absence hand-
ling specimens on this claim will be shot on tbe spot I”
Tho Vagabond haa informed tho 'Frisco News-
letter that Baron Maclay bamboozled Lord Augustus
Loftus, humbugged Sir Henry Parkes, and sailed
away, after taking accurate bearings of tho harbour
defences. Now, wo wonder whether it was His
Excellency’s third footman who bamboozled tho Vag.
with the first item, or the assistant messenger at the
Colonial Secretary’s office who humbugged him with
tho second ?
Tho Eavenswood Mining Journal, which a
little while ago informed its legions of readers that
“ tho lightning rattled and tho thunder flashed,” has
boon at it again. “ Goats” are tho subject of tho two
leading articles in a recent issue. One writer champions
tho goats, and the other denounces them. In the words
of the distinguished Tbadous O’Kanc, “genius alone is
capable of producing two loaders on the same subject,
each flooring the other most successfully." The editor
ii quite unconscious of the fun.
The other Sunday, a Eedfern bonifaoe was
Sean by a police sergeant taking a social glass with
a friend at the bar of his “pub.” and was told
that ho had no business to he there daring pro-
hibited hours. “ Surely a man can both drink
ami stay up as long as ho likes in his own house,”
replied the astonished publican. A day or two
afterwards, ho was lined £5 and costs. It was only
when the lino wnu inflicted that ho could bo made to
understand that ho was not in his own house, but in a
pub., at the time.
At a Public School in the Cumberland District,
the teacher allows the children to give catoh questions
to each other, and, in default of a correct reply, to
administer the cane themselves, while he stands by and
laughs nt the contortions of the whipped. It conse-
quently happens that tho daughter of a professional
man may bo subjected to a legalised thrashing from the
sou of h*r father’s stableman. Certainly a novel idea
of discipline. Wo wonder what tho system of Public
Instruction under a responsible Minister of the Crown
li coming to ?
Two men rode together from Bourke to F' , >
and on arrival there Brown was asked iiow he oiiwifi to
navel with* such a thief as his companion. “It's a
wond'er ho didn’t rob you,” said the friend. “ He tried
it hard, 1 admit," said Brown. “ Every night ho used
to search my pocket s and, grope about my bed, but he
couldn’t find xoy money. “Why, where used you to
put it?” "Why, under his own pillow." But the
tri«k isn’t new. It has often been practised with much
success by husbands who object to their pockets being
rifled in the silent watches of the night.
Another Australian at home ! Dr. On Lee, the
Chinese medico, formerly of Sydney, has established
himself in a fashionable quarter at the West End of
London. He claims to be acquainted with many new
and sovereign remedies for various diseases. Quick-
ness of diagnosis is, we hear, the celestial’s great card.
The doctor is represented as having “ passed in Aus-
tralia.” Houp-U. By the way, the Chinese specific
for ophthalmia is oats’ eyes and sugar. A blind Mon-
golian was, the other day, choked while trying to
swallow the cataractio optics of a venerable old tom.
He was a “Robert” in disguise, and walked
into the " public " on Sunday elegantly attired in a
•ilk duster and a soft felt hat. The host, a keen-witted
Hibernian, detected the cloven hoof at once. The
stranger asked for a drink. “ Faith,” exclaimed the
licensed victualler, " an’ its raeself knows what it is to
be dhry whin you’re thravollin’; coma in.” Ho then
led the stranger through the side passage into the
yard, where he presented him with—a dipper full of
cool water, remarking that he could refill the utensil if
ho liked. Then Robert asked for brandy—and got
kicked out.
There was much fun during the Clontarf trial at
the virtuous airs assumed by the artists of the trom-
bone, big drum, &a., employed at the dancing pavilion.
" I’d have dropped me instrument and walked out if
I’d seen that kind of conduct,” said one. " I’d have
crept inside the drum if the ladies had swore such,”
remarked another. The law has now silenced the big
drum. No more shall the Lydian strains of these
saintly musicians call the excited larrikin to his para-
dise, and start his cramped anatomy in the mazy
whirl. No more I Hang up the tambo j take down the
cross-cut I
Between Menangle and Liverpool, there is a
bridge, somewhat the worse for wear. The other day
a man driving a horse attached to a spring cart
suddenly discovered that ho was driving nothing, and
narrowly escaped a serious injury. The hindlegs of
the horse had slipped through the planking, and as
the rotten boards gave way, tbe entire body of the
horse followed, having completely slipped through the
harness. The horse was with difficulty rescued from
the creek under the bridge. This bridre was con-
structed, and is supposed to be maintained by the
Government. -
In olden days, Sydney had a coronial “cure,”
who, whenever he happened to be sober, was deliberately
attempting to get drunk. Apart from this, his loading
characteristic was a habit of mixing np the most bias
phemous ejaculations with the official oath. A habihu!
of Durand’s Alley, enjoying the patronymic of Mulally,
was about to bo sworn. She approached the coroner
bowing and scraping. " Come on, now,” he said, rudely
thrusting the book into her hands,—" Kiss it, so help
yon, God. Now spit it out, and no d d nonsense.”
On another occasion, he administered the oath in this
fashion j" Now, take the book. There 1 So help you,
Ood, —and you’ve got mo into a devil of a mess."
When the late Daniel Morgan, Esq , C.M.G., was
io full awing, he used to do a little of the high-handed
Dick Turpin business, which was highly appreciated by
the Sundowner. By Morgan’s august decree, it was con-
sicured advisable to treat all swagman with marked hos-
pitality, or woe betide the squatter. When at last the
bushranger got his quietus, the terrorism was reckoned
at an end ; and when next a whaler appeared at a well-
known station, ho was reminded of the altered state of
things. But the tramp remarked confidently: "Tes,
Morgan is dead, I know, but (significantly tapping a
mateh-box) Bell and Black are not 1 ” He got what ho
wanted, and no arson had to be recorded that night.
A telegraph line repairer up in the Gulf country
was porohed up a telegraph post bousing on the insu-
lator, when he suddenly felt a piercing sensation in his
left arm. “ Darn them blacks 1” he growled, regardless
of grammar, “ they’ve speared my arm to the pole,”
and he waited patiently for his coup de grace, shutting
his ©yes and humming an impromptu funeral dirge.
But nothing came of it. At last ho looked down at his
left arm and found that it was pinned to the tele-
graph post by the proboacis of a giant mosquito. He
finished his foe with one blow of the tomahawk he
carried in his belt, and descended safely to the ground
He is now lying in a hopeless condition. N.B. Our in-
formant is also hopelessly lying.
Public schools, all through the country, are over-
crowded, hut it will be many years before relief is given
at the present rate of procedure. Look at this:—
1. Schoolmaster reports to department. 2. Report
sent to Inspector of the district. 3. Report sent to
Assistant Inspector, who, when ho has full leisure,
visits and reports to District Inspector. 4. District
Inspector, when quite convenient, forwards report.
5 Report forwarded to Clerk of Works, who in a few
months, finds time to deal with and return it. 6, For-
warded to architect. 7. Plans and specifications pre-
pared in the course of a year or two, and properly
pigeon-holed. After the lapse of a generation, some-
body asks about tbe promised increase in the accommo-
dation at Bingebullawobbedah Creek Public school, and
is politely informed that “ everything is ready for the
calling of tenders, but there has been no outside pres-
sure brought to bear upon the matter.”
The publicans have tried to drive the " coach
and horses ’’ through the Licensing Act, but so far they
have not succeeded. It was nearly done last week by
Elijah Alexander, who was summoned for “allowing his
lamp to go out before the rising of the sun, contrary to
the Act in such cases made and provided.” Elijah ad-
mitted that ho put his light out at a quarter to six, and
as it was a foggy morning he asked the Bench “ who
saw the sunrise?” Nobody did, but Elijah was mulcted
in 10s. and costs. It is quite evident that if appeals
were made in many of the oases, the decisions of the
Bench would bo over ruled. The S.M.'s have got so
used to it that they gently murmur in their slumbers,
“fined £5 and costs.” Is there no Theodore Hook
among the recalcitrant Bonifaces who can invent a de-
fence that will turn the stipendiaries out of the to
weil-worn groove ?
The revengeful compositor who the other day
•polled a whole edition of the London Times by inter,
polating what is described as a “ hideous obscenity,”
perpetrated the most expensive printing-office joke
since the affair of the “ Wicked Bible,” for which the
Honourable Stationers Company was fined in the sum
of £20,000. The “Wicked Bible” omitted the rather
important word “not” in the Seventh Commandment.
Future oditious of the “Curiosities of Literature” will be
enriched by the scandalous hoax passed upon the
Times, and copies of the condemned sheet—already
selling at £lO apiece—will be treasured np by biblio-
maniacs in all time to come. By the way, old residents
of Sydney have not yet forgotten the terrible practical
joke played by the late Mr. Wilkes on the S. M. Herald
in tho matter of “the Wonderful Wnssor.” Now-a-
dnys such things cannot be more than alluded to ; it
will therefore suffice if we say, for the information of
those who are not in the secret, that poor Wilkes’ fun
was on that occasion of an extremely Rabelaisian
order.
Some of the poetasters of Sydney Punch
appear to possess rare intellectual miscegenation. On
the whole, perhaps, it would be better for humanity,
and better for the pictorial world, if these unhallowed
tamperers with the muses would devote their leisure
hours to sampling dynamite instead of scribbling verses.
Here is a gem, culled from the fertile field afforded by
perusal of last issuo:—
11 In his right hand, all safe to land
Tho papers brought in style that’s grand !
A statesman bold I!”
There is one feature about these poetical gymnastics that
all men must admire, and that is the discernment and
grace with which the notes of exclamation are dls-
tributed and regulated. To be sure, it puzzles one a
little to understand the relative distinctness between
!—and 11, unless the one is intended to suggest a pause
for giggling, and the other a long rest for the disten-
tion of the month to give proper vent for a cachinna-
tory earthquake. But will the vermicular Chatterton
relievo onr throbbing brain by answering the following
queries—Whyjwas duly his right hand “all safe to the
land” ? Did ho follow up his first clutch at terra firma
by securing a similar advantage for his loft mauley ?
If tho hand had not been “all” safe, would a search-
warrant for tho missing portion have authorized a
scrutiny among the maws of sharks? What motive
had the papers in bringing “in style that’s grand a
statesman hold.” Where was tho necessity for gran-
deur ; and lastly, which pays hotter ?—making up tho
monthly bills for the impecunious butcher or mangling
versification for Punch ?
THE NEWSLETTER.
Last Copeland escort, <£4197 worth of gold.
The frigate Loire has arrived at Noumea with
1100 souls, half of them convicts.
Italy and Spain are sending condensed grape
juice to France. Australia will follow.
In London, on 25th January, ordinary last year’s
lambs wore fetching 60s. to 70s. a piece.
The champion light-weight baker of Wellington,
N.S.W., has just paid £43 10s. and costs.
The bakers have raised tho price of bread a
farthing a loaf. This means to the people of the colony
an extra £330,000 annually.
At the inaugnration of the Christohuroh Exhibi-
tion 10 0000 persona were present. The Governor of
New Zealand performed the opening ceremony.
More splendid shows on the Wild Elver.
D Jones and mates found a new lode and in two or
three days picked several hundreds worth of ore.
The Bischoff Tin Company, Tasmania, has de-
clared another dividend of £6OOO, making a total of
£282,000 paid since the formation of the company.
Senior-Sergeant Wood, of Carooar, was recently
appointed an Inspector under the new Licensing Act.
It was too much for him, and, ho blew his brame out.
T n S Australia, last year, there were 10,708
births, 4012 deaths, and 2308 mamAges { respective
proportions per thousand of population, 37.11, 14.55,
and 16 77.
In Melbourne, the briefless barristers are eating
one another. The other morning, at the County Court,
although only undefended oases were taken, 18 members
of the bar were present in wig and gown.
Bourke hospital is overcrowded, and many
broken-down and penniless applicants from Mount
lirowne and Queensland— some of them had tramped
500 miles —have been refused admission.
The Chinese firm which has displayed bo much
(momv in sugar cultivation near Cairns is about to
select 1500 acres on the M’lvor or Morgan, with a view
to growing sugar, coflee, pepper, and nee.
Melbourne Meat Preserving Co. slaughtered
last half year 114,557 sheep, and beef to the value of
£3469 • credit to profit and loss, £4338 ; dividend de-
2s. 6d. per share; balance in baud, £2988.
Out of 54 appeals from the decisions of the
Supreme Court of N.S.W. carried to the Privy Council
since 1815, 31 decisions have been reversed 1 and 23
affirmed. Ex-Judgo Hargrave’s judgments were rarely
upset.
Orient Company duns Government for the main-
tenance of passengers per Garonne during quarantine.
The Government at present don t see it. Perhaps Sir
Henry might talk the matter over with Florence
Nightingale.
The latest from the newly-discovered coalfield
near Cooktown is that in the first shaft, at 40 ft., seams
of 3 ft 6 in and 8 ft. wide have been struck, and in the
second shaft, at about the same depth, a seam of 8 ft.
was travel aed.
The New York firemen experience great danger
at fires whore the electric light i. in use. If they at-
tempt to out the wires with any instrument—unless the
handle be of wood and quite dry—they are struck dead
by the current.
The Secretary for Works has consented to the
removal of live stock from drought-pestered districts at
the actual cost of transit to the Railway Department,
stipulating, however, that he eannot convey more than
10,000 sheep per week.
Says a Melbourne paperH.M.S. Nelson
can only be docked at the Allred Graving Dock.” This
is all very well, but the big vessel can’t go up Hobson’s
Bay. We can’t send our friends Port Jackson; they’d
bettor try and send us over thsir dock.
Malicious people up at Charters Towers (N.Q )
say that you can never find a policeman in Miner-street,
because there is no public-house in it. A similar satire
might be applied to Sydney, since the new Act came
into force—t « , if you could find a pub-lees street.
The price of the Melbourne Abo us is to be
reduced from threepence to twopence, and that of the
Evening Mail, which ia the Echo of the Argus, raised
from a halfpenny to one penny. The first step will
prove to be a huge mistake j as to the latter, the Argus
should never have issued a halfpenny paper.
At Mudgee, a miserable Chinese was charged
with asking food from constable Miller. He had a bag
with a quantity of bread and meat in it, and 10s. 6d. in
his pooket. He was ordered to be looked up for twenty,
four hours, and then to leave the town. Of course, the
Dogberry who issued the latter ukase exceeded his
powers.
Tom Bent, the market-gardener who, in
Victoria, is Minister for Railways, went incog, tho
othsr day to two of his porters and told them that a
man was smoking on a railway platform. The slaves
told Tom to go and smoke himself till he got black in
the face. But Tom didn’t smoke—he only fumed.
They are suspended now.
Connoisseurs of wine met last week at Scott’s
Hotel Melbourne, to taste French and oolonial clarets,
under’ conditions which prevented them from knowing
which wore of French and which were of oolonial
manufacture. Two to one of the tasters gave votes in
favosr of Caldwell’s No. I claret as against the French.
The former costs Is. 6d. pet pint; the latter, ss. 6d.
The Melbourne Argus, Age, Herald, and
World, as well as the Queensland, S.A., and N.Z. press
have again reviewed The Bulletin case, and are unani-
mous in condemning the conduct of the presiding Judge,
tho jury, and the Full Court; and in expressing surprise
at the existence in a supposedly free country of such a
lihel law, which is considered worthy of a Crown colony.
There’s a wealth of satire in the latter remark.
A coroner’s jury at Carooar returned a verdiot,
the other day, that Senior-sorgeant Wood died by
suicide while temporarily deranged in mind, caused by
over anxiety in administering the Licensing Act. This
verdiot is an illegal one. There is a special act in force
in this colony relieving j uries from pronouncing in a
case of suicide, whether it is felo de s» or suicide under
temporary insanity. Their duty is simply suicide or no
suicide.
Captain Duncan Matheaon, 60 years of ago, met
with a shocking accident at Auckland, which terminated
fatally. While helping to lift a heavy spar it fell on
him, dislocating his shoulder and breaking both logs.
The sight was a most painful one, the left leg being
smashed at the ankle, and the bone protruding. The
right leg was ftaetured above the knee. His sufferings
wore terrible. Had he lived, both logs would have had
to be amputated.
Tho captain of the schooner Prima Donna, which
sank in a whirlwind off Bondi, and drowned all hands
tave the master, is a plucky man. Ha swam ashore on
this occasion through a terrible sea, and has more than
once found himself in a desperate position in the sea.
Some years ago, he was on tho ship West Riding, which
was wrecked, and ho was more than thirteen honre
keeping himself afloat in mid ocean before a passing
vessel picked him up.
Victorian Torpedo and Signal Corps is to be
re-constituted on a stipendiary basis under the Disci-
pline Act, similar to that of the Naval Reserve, the
members of which receive a retaining fee of £l2 per
annum upwards, according to rank. The corps will be
increased from 25 to 60 members, who will be divided
into classes of skilled electricians, intelligent artisans,
and seamen. Electrical examinations will be held
annually for the first two classes.
At a Bungoworgari Bridge shanty, when the
news of the attempted assassination of the Queen
arrived, an Englishman named Boyes jumped to the
conclusion that a Land Leaguer was at the bottom of
mischief, aud was so exceedingly indiscreet as to give vent
to his indignation by condemning Irishmen generally.
One Mr. Quinlan, an Irishman, ready for a fight, heard
this, and the pair “ wont at it” with so much enthu-
siasm that both were laid up far several days.
Mr. E. C. Murray, Geological Surveyor, of
Victoria, has decided on sinking artesian bores across
tho whole area of ihe Wimmera district, at intervals of
from two to ten miles. Tho result of hi* local re-
searches toud to indicate that there is an immense sub-
terranean flow of water seaward in that part of the
country. Should the operations of the divining rod b
successful, the Wimmera district will become one o»
the richest of Australian agricultural centres.
At Eaglehawk (Vic.), lately, an old resident
having died suddenly, two of his friends said they were
aware he had made a will in their favour, and at once
set to work with pick and shovel to search all about tno
place, but found it not. They found bank note*, deposit
receipts, and gold to a large amount, but could not, or
course, claim the wealth, which was handed to tno
police. But they still persist that the will was made,
aud intend to search further and claim what they have
given np.
It is now eighteen years since the first Queens,
land sugar was put into the Brisbane market. By lotu
the production had reached 3000 tons ; four y®urs after,
it totalled 12,000 tons. In 1880, there were 12,306 acres
under cane, and 15,564 tons of sugar manufacture .
North of Capo Palmerston, 260,000 acres of 8U8“-land
were selected last year. If only tan per cent, or tn
bo put under cane, the total production of 811 «ar in
Queensland will be more than double tbe largest quan-
tity yet manufactured in any one year.
The fact that Minnis, the wretched assassin of
Pillinger, near Brisbane, was not found guilty of mur-
der was owing to the presence on tho jury or a man
oppos'd on principle to capital punishment. Even tne
wretched compromise by which the jury shirked them
duty would not have been effected had two ot the jury*
men not been assured by another of their number tnat
the highest penalty for manslaughter was Aye years. IO
quote “Bobby” Byrne, “the fabricator of that pious
fraud deserves the thanks of tho whole community.
Dr. Belgrave told tho Medical Association the
other night that the examination by lodge doctors or
candidates for membership in Friendly societies was
merely perfunctory; tho reason he gave was that tne
medicos were not decently paid, and took no trouble to
inquire into the state of a man’s health, or even his state
of mind. Excepting a protest from Dr, Maokellar, who
deprecated such a wholesale attack on the profession, a
silence giving consent told Dr. Belgrave that ho was
not disbelieved. Here’s a man for tno Royal Commis-
sion to examine.
A sailor at Melbourne, who was suffering
from d. t., tried to commit suicide on eleven parts of
his body at once. Ha took a razor, gashed his throat
in three places, made two slashes under one knee and
one under the other, furrowed three slices out of hi*
left arm, and one out of his right, and wound up, after
the Japanese fashion, by ripping open his stomach. But
the “ sweet little cherub/’ had left sitting up aloft
and had gone ashore with “ poor Jack;” so the attempt
failed. And yet Shakespeare told u» that anyone could
his “ quietus make with a bare bodkin.”
According to a new Noumea paper, La Nouvel*
LiBTE, the death of Lieutenant Luokraft was not pro.
perly recounted to us. LeNouvellistb says that shots
were fired on the approaching boats before the orewa
effected a landing; that Lieut. Luokraft died mstantane*
ously; that a “complete battue of the whole island
followed, and tho soldiers had vengeance on everything
they met, animate or inanimate,” and that the Cor.
moraat left tkirty men on tho island of Espiritn Santo
as a party of observation. However, the Cormorant
people altogether deny the truth of the Nouvellisti a
story.
The Our Boys Brigade is an adoption of a
Yankee idea, noticed by Sir Henry Parkes, and utilised
by Mr. Frank Hutchinson of literary fame. Notion
is to have smart youngsters at all the principal street
corners, dressed in uniform, whose duty it is to run
messages within the city boundary, and bring an answer
for the small sum of a “ tanner.” Suburban messages
must be lodged at the secretary’s office, in King-street,
The idea is good, and should “gee." The difficulty,we
are informed, is to get bovs who, in this paradise of
youngsters, prefer the easier, if less dignified, calling
of selling matches, or pestering drunkards lor coin.
When at Emerald Hill (Melb.) Court, one
Charles McCarthy was charged with having criminally
assaulted his own daughter, Mr. Daly, who appeared
for the defence, said that prisoner already stood with
one rope round his neck, being under committal for
attempt to murder his wife. He applied for a remand
on the ground that, if prisoner were committed on this
charge it would prejudioel him in the eyes ot the jury on
his trial. It was net fair to take him red-hot from bis
cell and charge him with a second capital offence.
The police objected, and the Bench decided to hear
thel ease, whereupon Mr. Daly exclaimed: Then
erect a scaffold outside and hang him at once, for 1
won’t defend him,” —and left tho Coart,
David Fienberg, of Erskino-streot, Sydney, ia
the name of tho scientific experimentaliser who has
discovered a new use for blue goggles. David was drink-
ing tea with his goggles on, when one of them dropped
Into the cup and slid down his capacious essophagus as
easily 0 s a cricket ball would bowl down the greased
gullet of an old emu. The blue goggle glass wouldn’t
digest readily, and David tried the stomach pump, but
this machine couldn’t dislodge the intestinal intruder.
It David were to try a pint or so of hydrofluoric acid
there is no doubt that the goggle would bo dissolved,
but then there is the trifling drawback that the dissoln.
tion of David himself would also be un fait accompli.
And Science doesn’t call for any more martyrs in her
cause jnst now.
“ Those troublesome blacks” constitute a bug-
bear with which every new chum who starts up North
is frightened, and Northern papers are eternally de-
voting their columns to relations of aboriginal raids and
murders. Bahl The “ civilised white man,” with his
o. p. rum and bluestone, his 'baoca, and his love for
black Mary, is the prime cause of one half of these so.
called "outrages." To the benighted minds of tho
blacks these “outrages” ate merely just retaliations
the satisfaction for crimes committed against them.
Who that has travelled in the bush has not met tho
aristocratic squatter driving in his buggy, or riding on
horseback, atteudei by his black page—a young giu
dressed in male attire ? Who that has travelled in the
bush has not heard of the state of concubinage such
“pages” live in, and of the constant injuries inflicted
upon aboriginal females by white men of all degree ?
Who that has been up North has not hoard pumbers of
men boast that they would “ think no more of shooting
a blaokfellow or a Chinaman than ot sucking an
orange?” Tho special reporter for tho Press in the
Northern Territory deserves thanks for mildly insinu-
ating at some of these practices; but the tale haa
been told often, and plainly told, long ago, in these
columns. All Australia is cognizant of the facts. Yet,
justice halts where a blaokfellow ia in one scale and a
white man in the other. The wholesome lesson taught
by the late Mr. John Hubert Plunkett, who, when
Attorney-General, secured the oouviction’aod execution
of seven white scoundrels who had shot down a yard
full of blackfellows, has bean forgotten.
“ Our gallant defenders ” have been undergoing
tho fatigues of camp life during the past week. All
has not been brass bugles and pipeclay with them, hut
they have had to undergo much real hard work. Aud
they have stood the fatiguing tost well. The added
rigors of the inclement weather during tho early part
of tho encampment were laughed at as our citizen
soldiers tossed down tho regulation tot of grog supplied
by tho commanding officer's orders; and, in spite of
rain and storm, the men worked contentedly and
heartily. The site of the Artillery encampment was
Middle Head, while that of the Volunteer Artillery
was Victoria Barracks. The former was under the
command of Colonel Spalding, and the latter under
that of Lieutenant-Colonel Christie, Acting Com-
mandant. The strength of the two encamp-
ments was as follows : —Middle Head, 30 officers
and 498 non-commissioned officers aud gunners; Vic-
toria Barracks, 9 field officers, 15 captains, 30 subalterns,
2 medical officers, 3 adjutants, 8 sergeants of the Per-
manent Staff, 3 trumpet and bugle majors, 72 sergeants,
62 first corporals, 3 second corporals, 31 trumpeters and
buglers, and 1014 gmmsrsaud privates. Special mention
is deserved by the Torpedo Corps under Major Crack,
nell, who helped, to make up the Middle Head Camp.
Besides parades', and other kinds of camp drill, the
troops were subjected to imaginary attacks, and had to
turn out ab'auoxpectod moments. They showed their
readiness/and mustered with expedition ; but, in some
instanced, tho defective transmission of instructions
led to/mistakes which, in tho presence of a rea l foe,
would nave led to annihilation. The artillery practice
firing was specially accurate. On tho whole, much
practical good may be expected to result from tbis
camp training. But, nowfwo have to record a bit of
official tyranny which is simply atrocious. The reward
that these sons of guns got for having done their duty
is that they have been—one and all —“ dismissed.”
The girl who wished her lover to do something
1 eroio, has been satisfied. He eloped with her mamma.


CITY CATERING C
315 QEOEQE STEE
A NEW CATERING C
Comprised of professional workruei
tical experience, nearly all from the
of Compaguoni and Co., who pers
and carry on the working of the 1
general manager.
It is not a public company, and th«
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th A -
sucoessfeUy catered THE LAEGEi
CULT, and MOST EBSPONSIBLE
have taken place here to the present
The Consular Dinner, in our new ba:
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, fi
and Banquets, and all Entertainm*
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, f<
Building, at which his Worship,.
taiued their B.H.'s PEINCE ALB:
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officei
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constltutior
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Constitute
Sydney,
Visit oi their E.H.’s PRINCE ALB
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zi
Russo, for 60, in Government Palai
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—m
N OTICE, only receiving the ordei
ready on th« spot at 12.30 p.m. thi
Visit of THEIR E.H.’s PEtNi
QEOEQE to Captain Cook’s Lac
Botany Bay Picnic luncheon ai
100, under VERY SHORT NOTH
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the sp
ing day.
The Lauy Mayoress’ reception. Tow
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Bi
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to J udge W
Banquet Eoom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Eoom.
Dinner d la llu*se at St. Paul’s Colle;
of the Church of England Synod.
I Dinner d la llussa to the Interco
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Eefreshment
gentlemen, at the turning of the 11
Bros.’ New Bail way Rolling stoc
ville.*
The Luncheons and Refreshment B
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshmont
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at Ye Eayro of yi
Mary's Cathedral.
Refreshments at Yo Oldo Englyi
Palace.
Together with a numerous lot of Pr
Dinners, Beasts, Ac., &j.
The CITY CATERING COMPA
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Gli
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics
and will be glad to send out the
Pastry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confoc
Civil and attentive waiters aln
services required.
We have m our possession letteri
high standing in the city, oompli
manner we have performed the dut
CHAS. R. SMI
(Late oi the firm of the original Co
American Waltham Watches,
prizes, Melbourne International
Higher awards than any exhibitors
—A DVT.
It is necessary, during hot
beverages likely to heat or stir
Ooooa, deprived of the superfluous
absolutely pure, is a most soothi
refreshing beverage. Be sure tl
BUEY’8 COCOA ESSENCE whci
imitations are often pushed by e
sake of extra profit. Makers by t
to the Queen.—(Advt<)
Trade mark, Waltham, Mas
Watch Company, of Waltham, Ma
hereby give notice that their tra
Mass., is now registered in the A
Victoria, New South Wales, and !
ceedings will be taken against an
imitating same, or any vendors et
sale Watches bearing colourable i
way infringing our rights.—AM
COMPANY, Waltham, Mass. —Adi
Db. Stanich, Eminent Spi
Editor.—Sir, My eyes have bee;
mnch inflamed. The constant wate
coming from them was horrid. I
for about six years, and durine 1
every doctor that I was recommoi
number. One of those gentlemen
the leading eye doctor in Sydney, h
any relief, ev en from him. The syi
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen]
1410 people at the Museum on Sunday after-
noon.
M. Rochefort’s first literary effort was a hymn
to the Virgin Mary !
A Chinese gentleman has given JE'2OOO towards
the new Christian College at Foochow, China.
The Chinese Government has published an edict
exempting Protestants from assessments for heathen
ceremonies.
The Hon. J. Colton, M.P., ex-Premier of S.A.,
is one of the leading supporters of the Salvation Army
in Adelaide.
A certain suburban divine violently denounces
the fair in the R. C. Cathedral. However, he never
objects to bazaars in his chapel.
Neither Heaven nor Hell touts very vigorously
for the soul of that Sydney man who is ashamed to go
to church and afraid to stay away.
Bishop Hale, of Brisbane, las published three
strongly-written sermoaa in defence of the inspiration
of the Bible and the divinity of Christ.
The conflict of religions in Japan is deepening
in interest. The heathen priests seem powerless 10 stem
the rapidly advancing flood of Christianity.
The “ Italians” at Rockhampton are quarreling.
Twenty Irish Catholic priests have petitioned against
Hr. Cani being appointed Bishop of Rockhampton.
Bishop Williams, an English ecclesiastic, refuses
burial to drunkards, and Bishop Wiggins awards the
same treatment to publicans who give such men liquor.
The Rev. Charles Strong left by the mail steamer
on Thursday, on a six months' visit to ihe old country.
We don’t generally subscribe to parsons’ gadding trips,
but must admit Charles has earned his.
A writer in the London Missionary Herald
sayg .— ■« j have nowhere in Christian lands found men
and women of a higher type than I met in North China
of a liner spiritual experience or a nobler spiritual
life."
Bible-reading in State schools is a vexed question
in S.A. as wall as in N.S.W., bnt agitators don’t know
how to organise. In S.A. there ttr ®,J o2 * 570
between the ages of 5 and 21 years : of those only 46,7-19
attend Sunday schools, which number 593.
A curious provincial saying is: “ As sure as
God’s in Gloucestershire.’’ It originated through the
enormous number of churches there, for the simule
folks thought that where there were so many churches,
God was sure to ha. They are not so simple now.
Bishop Moorhouso’s position in respect to the
prayor-for-ram controversy is considered by the ortho-
dot utterly untenable. The Presbyterian Messen-
ger. (Melb.) savagely attacks his Lordship, whose ideas
ou the subject are, it declares, altogether at variance
with Christian belief.
The Roman Catholic Bishop of Maitland, the
Ri<rht Rev Hr. Murray, arrived at Newcastle on Satur-
day fortnight, aftsrnearly two years’ absence on a visit to
Rome. A large number of clergy and laity assembled
to receive the Bishop, and read an address of welcome.
Hr. Murray proceeded to Maitland the same day.
The Rev. Mr. Brown, of Penrith, in an address
on prayer and supplication, on Easter Sunday, In the
English Church, spoke very strongly with reference to
Bishop Moorhouse’s views, and pointed out that
although the Bishop occupied a high ofllee, hia views
on any subject were in ho way binding—in so far ae they
were out of accord with the pray* l book.
De Witt Talmage, whose reputation as a preacher
is wide-spread, also appear* to be a smart business
man. He recently let the pews in his church by public
auction, and himself posed as the auctioneer. The
highest bid for one pew was £39, while the number
which was taken at a premium upon the ordinary rental
was over two hundred. The total fixed valuation of
the rental pews is £3559, to which was added £734 in
the way of premiums.
Shellharbonr Easter offering. At the early
communion service, on Easter Hay, a cheque on the
local bank, in favour of the clergyman, Rev, P. R. S,
Bailey, was placed among the offerings in the collecting
plate, with a kind letter from the churchwardens, in
the name of the contributing parishioners. A suitable
reply was made by the grateful recipient at the evening
service in the same church. This is the clergyman
who. with his wife and family, got into such trouble
for entertaining an ecclesiastical dignitary of another
denomination.
The following closing utterance of the E. C.
Arohishop of Sydney in his Lenten pastoral makes
pretty clear what Hr. Vaughan’s church at this day
teaches on the doctrine of Transnbstantiation AnC.
now at this moment, the Mass is said, the Sacrifice i*
offered. His Blood is 7.runk, and His Body is eaten, by
priest and people throughout the world We
can compreh-’ d what has been said (concern ug this
doctrine) on t.. 0 supposition that Christ U G .1; on any
other supperition, onr faculties are simply pn alysed.
There is p.otound truth in these last nine words.
A few days ago Rev. Mr. Archih ild, a Presby-
terian clergyman, handed iu his re ignation to the
Monaro presbytery, with the polo « bnt pathetic inti-
mation that “the financial state of the congregation
with regard to the stipend fund was not in a favorable
condition.” The clerk, the report goes on to state,
said he would hold the resignation till the congregation
paid Mr. Archibald what was owing to him, and after a
short conversation the meeting closed with prayer. It
would probably have closed with the additional eclat of
praise if the coin in question had been planked.
Archdeacon Slattery, of “ free and flashing
aword” notoriety, who has been engaged in a lively
disputation with Bishop Moorhouse, thus sums up the
prayer-for-rain controversy in a Melbourne paper:—
«• if onr daily bread may mean a spiritual sunbeam;
if the bread of life may be only a figure and representa-
tion • if the Son of God may be the son of man in an
Arlan sente, and therefore not God at all; if hell may
moan Hides, or a place in the moon, or anything else;
then, by this etherialising process of sublimation, every-
thing may mean anything or nothing at all at the dis-
oration or caprice of anybody and everybody.”
An extraordinary case was that in which, the
other day the Rev. J . M. Ware sued the churchwardens
of St. John’s Church, Young, for wine supplied for
Holy Communion. Mr. Freestone, who appeared for
plaintiff, said he had seen Mr. Ware that morning, and
was instructed to withdraw the case, as th» rev. gentle-
man who had only just returned from Tasmania, was
too ill to attend. It is understood that the communion
wine account in dispute has been paid by Mr. W. C.
Tnrland, a late resident of the town. Such law suits
are remarkably edifying, and raise the disagreeable
problem whether the wine got on credit is really cal-
culated to advance one’s interests in the next world.
It is extraordinary that, while the E. C. hier-
archy frown on the Irish agrarian agitation, many of
the Anglican clergy strongly censure the landlord
clans. Addressing a vaf t congregation, the Archdeacon
of Kildare said that in former days England had too
proudly employed, towards the Irish, physical force
instead of benign powerful and enduring forbearance;
that the memory of the infamous peual laws still lived
and rankled; and that the recklessness and love of
pleasure which had characterised the wealthy, who
forg t that property had its duties as well as its tights,
and cared not what exactions wore enforced to give
them the means of living in ease, were bearing bitter
fruits.
The Rev. A. C. Gillies has been showing in N.Z.
how useful a foal may sometimes be to a rival’s
cause. Mr. Benton, the geological lecturer, has been
“deniunood” by the rev gentleman at Hunedin, and
this is how A. 0. G. hurled the rooks of ages at the
scientist: —. . . . “Why, the little flsger of a
Raikos or Guthrie had done more good than the whole
body of the infidels. (Laughter). The father of infi-
delity was Rousseau, and other names after him were
Hanton—not Benton—(great laughter)—Marat, Tom
Paine, Byron, &o. Every infidel now was a great scii n
tist, and if he could only speak a few big words such as
‘ paleozoic* straightway ho was accepted as a savani—
(laughter). . . . The infidels were always chatterrng
pnd jabbering like so many monkeys before their dinner
—(immense laughter)—while Christians were giving
many many millions to christianize and civilize the
world and raise society. . . . There were some
infidel millionaires, and one was James Fair, who re-
fused to give him (Mr. Gillies) a red cent, when taking
round a subscription list for a church object, and ho
had on another occasion given £8 when he might have
given £BOO without misnng it. These were the sort of
men rich infidels were. (Applause.)” It’s quite clear
that Mr. Gillies is an eighth century man.
The pretty little church of St. Mark’s carried off
the palm, as usual, on Easter Sunday. The decoration*
were more tasteful than on former occasions. Over the
north entrance above the gallery was placed an exquisite
cross, more than 5 ft. In height, white and glistening
like the purest alabaster, a d most perfect in shape and
form. It excited universal admiration, and numbers ,
lingered after the services to gaze upon it. The altar
was beautifully adorned with choice flowers arranged in
gold vases; the same being placed over the Bishop’s
chair —a graceful tribute to his memory. The cross,
however, was the chief thing of bcauty—the first of the
kind seen in this colony, and reflecting the greatest
credit on the skilful hands that made it.
Mr. Denton has raised much holy wrath in
Dunedin. His geological lectures drew large audiences,
but the “good bodies" of New Edinburgh have been
terribly scandalized at the wickedness of a man who
dares to tell them that the world is more than 6000
years old, and Genesis is not literally true 1 There has
been a free and theological fight all round; ortho-
dox and heterodox have been dealing one another apos-
tolic blows and knocks with most unholy vigour, and
people who don't know obalk from clay are confident
that Denton is going straight to Gehenna. But he
isn’t; ho has only loft for another town, where his
agent has gone *• to prepare a place ” for him. And it
isn’t likely the rocks will fall and crush him, in spite of
the denunciations of these fatally fluent good men who
hate him so well.
Mr. Swinburne, on the persecution of the Rus-
sian Jews:—
O Son of Man, by lying tongues adored.
By murderous hands of slaves with feet rod-shol
In carnage deep as ever Christian trod;
Profaned with prayer and sacrifice abhorred
And incense from the trembling tyrant’s horde.
Brute worshippers or wielders of the rod,
Most murderous even of all that call thee God,
Most treaehereui even that ever called thee Lord ;
Face loved of little children long ago.
Head hated of the priests and rulers then,
If Thou see this, or hear these hounds of thine
Bun raven'ng as the Gadaretn swine,
Sav, was not til's Thy Passion, to foreknow
In Thy death’s hour the works ef Christian men ?
Clergymen have rough times of it up Bundaberg
way (N.Q.) A rev. gentleman started with his wile in
a buggy on a 2)-mile trip across country, moat of the
ranges being about the same angle of steepness as a
leaning wall. At ono place, going down hill, the descent
was so steep as to lift the hroechiug above the horses’
backs. The buggy coming on them caused a panic, and
they slewed round till they backed down hill tail first,
and the horses and the clergyman were face to face,
staring into one another’s frightened eye*. In this
position they came to n precipitous drop of 30 feet, and
nothing but a wild pull with the strength of despair
brought the vehicle up across a tree, on the brink of the
jump. One horse was killed, and almost all the harness
broken. A start was made again, and at dark the clergy-
man, wife, and child, had to camp without water, till,
by the merest chance, a horseman came by at midnight,
and afforded relief. The clergyman says he understands
the parable of the Uood Samaritan better since that
night than he did before.
The row at Eookhampton, anent the reception
to bo given to the new Homan Catholic Bishop, Dr.
Caui, was of the most vivacious kind; the Catholic
l»ity wore divided into two camps—both chiefly Irish.
The convener of the meeting designed to pick a crow
with the bishop-elect on his arrival, and opened fire
with a resolution that certain charges made at Borne
against the late Bishop O’Quinn and the Irish clergy,
which charges Dr. Cani is suspected of having had in
his possession over two years without giving Bishop
O'Qaiua any inkling of them, were false and malicious,
A few ef the charges were read at the meeting. Here
ars some of them:—“That the persecution to which
Italian priests are subjected by the Irish priests is so
great as to be simply incredible. 'I bat they allow the
sin of simony to permeate all priestly functions, offer-
ing everything sacred, even the seven sacraments, for
sale. That the Bishop of Brisbane and his Irish priests
are so given up to drunkenness, that they are often in
a state of delirium tremens." The feeling of the majority
was against Dr. Cani, and although a minority of about
80 seceded in a body, a motion was carried to cable to
Boms for an investigation into the circumstances.
“ Jacob Terry,” the San Francisco correspon-
dent of the Otago Daily Times, says:—“At the head
of American Freethinkers stands the Kev. Dr. Froth-
ingbam. He is by long odds the ablest exponent of the
Gospel of Doubt. For many years the head of the
Universalista, he drifted away from that exceedingly
latitudinarian sect, and took up with Freelovism, Free-
thoughtism, eternal Nihilism, and, indeed, every other
• ism ’ opposed to creeds and Christianity. Yet his
life has been a pure one all through. Like Colonel
Ingersoll, he stands free from reproach among men—a
saintly character, clothed In white raiment. Well,
this champion debater has published a card, addressed
to the American people, in which he admits the failure
of his mission and life. While recanting nothing, and
regretting nothing, he is yet forced to admit that there
is a subtle power in Christianity too strong for the
combined assaults of pure reason. Every attempt to
substitute something else for Christianity he admits
has failed, and in the presence of this fact he doubts
the propriety of continuing the fight. He is filled with
gloom. Faith he has not and cannot have himself ; it
is repugnant to his reason ; but he donuts it he should
continue to undermine the faith of others. Those who
know Colonel Ingersoll best believe that he is a man
capable of making as heroic a confession of the
failure of the Gospel of doubt as Mr. Frothingham has
already done.” “ Jacob Terry ” has, like the majority
of people, drawn too large conclusions from Dr. Froth-
Ingham's candid confession of disappointment with the
poverty of results effected by his teaching. Since Dr.
Frothingham so expressed himself, the pulpits and
religions papers of the United States have celebrated
his “recantation” in various terms of exultation and
insult. But Dr. Frothingham has since calmly pointed
out that the sense and spirit of his regrets have not
been comprehended. His opinions are unchanged, and
his inferences unaffected. His complaint is that while
people are ready to perceive the fallacies of the old
dogmas, they are terribly slow to appreciate and re-
cognise the beauties and force of the still older moral
law which underlies all creeds, and remains like pure
gold when tke dross of superstition and error has been
consumed by the lire of criticism and reason.
• # #
The Eev. J. and Mrs. Monahan, on the Gth
instant, were presented with addresses, an album of
views, and a purse of sovereigns, at a public meeting in
Wagga, on the occasion of their leaving the Wesleyan
Church there to go to Wollongong circuit Dr. Ellis
“ demanded alms" on behalf of Chinese, hie own
brethren (herald), and the blacks, whoso “territory
we have stolen 1” Kev. J. E. Carruthers (Wesleyan),
of B*ga, comes to North Shore A suit has been
instituted against St. Paul’s Presbyterian Church,
Auckland (N.Z.), for allowing a public performance in
an unlicensed building The Melbourne Salvation
Army advertised as an attraction at a recent meeting
that “four blood-washed wonders" would apjeir
The Congregationalists of Australia have 280 churches.
They nave also some newspapers Bev. Chris. Brom-
by, formerly curate of St. Peter's, Melb., and lately of
Hobart, has been appointed incumbent of a large parish
in Cumberland The Komau Catholic Bishop of Cm-
ciunatti has forbidden dancing after dark at entertain-
ments for church purposes, and circular dances
altogether. This reminds ns that the Kev. A. Copeland,
of Adelaide, condemns round dancing as indecent and
immodest Mrs. Baeyertz, the “lady evangelist,"
who is said to be a “ converted Jewess,” is holding a
ssries of services at Kapunda, 8. A. Mrs. Hampsou,
the othsr lady preacher, is holding foith to geod
houses in N.Z. towns Father John Gaffey, a popular
priest, has removed from Toung lo Cootamundrs, on
account of ill-health Bev. H. K. Haweis has had his
church (St James's), London, lighted by electricity....
The Disestablishment Question is uppermost in Scot-
land The Carlton Hotel, Margate, costing £lO,OOO,
has been given by Mr. G. Williams to the Louden
Y.M.C.A., who will use it as a seaside residence
Young Tommy Spurgeon is apeing his distinguished
fatherland is about to build a •• Baptist Tabernacle ” at
Auckland, N.Z., at a cost of £BOOO.
POLITICAL POINTS.
N.Z. Parliament meets 15th May.
Victorian selectors’ rent arrears amount to
£230,000.
State aid to Denominational schools ceases in
N.S.W. this year.
Sir George Grey has been invited to form a new
Ministry in New Zealand.
N.Z. Ministry have resigned owing to the illness
ot the Premier, the Hon. Jahn Hall-.
How far are we off realization of the scheme of
local self-government promised by the Ministry ?
Holders of .£28,000 worth of Victorian Treasury
bonds, 1889, decline bo surrender until the currency is
out.
Victorian Government favourable to penny post-
age throughout that eolony: first year’s loss estimated
at £55,000.
David Buchanan, who is going to defend some
eminent horse-thieves at Dnbbo Circuit Court, will
address the Dubboites oa the subject of “ Protection."
Sir Henry Parkes was a frost in America. The
newspapers did not report his speeches, and the
Chamber of Commerce banquet at New Tork was a
fiasco.
Here’s what a certain distinguished politician
said the other dey:—“ When Garrett escaped from the
Milburn Creek business, Parkes didn’t oaro a fig about
any further prosecutions."
The Britisher pays in taxation on drink 17s. 4d.
per head, or £30,009,000; the Gorman 2s. 10.V1., or
£5,633,840; the Frenchman and Russian about 7s. 61.
each; the N. S. American Is. less.
The Ballaeat Cotjeiee recommends an in-
oreato in the number of members of the Victorian
Assembly from 8C to 120. The extra 31 members, at
£3OO psr annum each, would cost the colony £10,209.
Mr. Day, M.P., says that ntf honest representa-
tive can serve both the selectors’ and squatters' in-
terests, He also states that there are now twenty-one
stauneh supporters ef abolition of interest in Parlia-
ment.
Sir Henry Parkes hints to his twin brother
knight that he won’t bo back here from England before
July 26th. Is the transaction of the whole Parliamen-
tary business of the country to await the pleasure of
the knight-errant Premier P
Mr. Suttor is going “to consider” the advis-
ability of appointing a technical education Board, and
of asking parliament to pass a separate vote for even-
ing technical schools. It will be interesting to observe
how long this promise will remain in doubtful pregnancy
of practical issue.
“ iEglea ” says that no Ilongkong-born China-
man cau be refussd admittance to tuis country or made
to pay a poll-tax. Hongkong was ceded to the British
in 1841, and every child born there since is therefore a
British subject A hint liko this won’t be lost on the
Celestial. We’ll soon have an enterprising Chinese
sueing Government for damages.
There are more newspaper men in N.Z. House
ot Representatives, when the relative strength of the
two Cbambsm is considered, than in the English House
of Commons, the former having three newspaper pro-
prietors and eight journalists, besides a number of con-
tributors. The English Lower House numbers twelve
proprietors and eight journalists.
0. E. Jones, of “ mint sauce ” notoriety, who
contests the Geslong vacancy, opposes the O’Loghlen
Ministry, approves of the Edusation system, desires to
promote agriculture either by the conservation of rain-
water or a system of artesian wells, advocates a reduc-
tion in the cost of patent*, support* penny postage and
loeal option, and wants political peace and practical
legislation.
History repeats itself. The New Zealand Go-
vernment has fallen to pieces in consequence ef the
resignation, through ill-health, of the Premier, Mr.
Hall. The present South Australian Ministry owed its
existence to the ill-health of Mr. W. Morgan, the far-
mer Chief Secretary of Australia. Of course, theee
sudden changes don’t occur ooinoidently with varia-
tions in the political weather glass ; it is the fatiguing
wear and tear of office, "don’t you knowp"
Sir John has snubbed his Minister for Mines.
The doctor, when up North, appears to have been so far
led away by the waving of cabbage-trees and tbe tint-
ling of bullock bells as to consider himself the
Ministry personified. In reply to a question he, pro-
bably in an unguarded moment, hinted that the Queens-
land graziers would be cornered by the imposition of a
grass-tax by N. b. W. The stock-owners of the North
became alarmed, and inquired at head-qnarters, but
were assured by Sir John Robertson that the proposal
as to a grass-tax was the property of the Minister for
Mines, and not of the Ministry. Dr. Kenwick would
make a much better Minister of Religion than ot
Mines ; and a lithotrite or a scalpel would be far safer
in bis hands than a drill or a box of dynamite.
The Whitehall Review boasts a writer (on
Parliamentary topics), whose impudent abuse, mixed
with religious cant, must render it difficult for honest
men to leave him alone. He describes Mr. Bradlaugh’s
rejection by the House ot Commons on the opening day
when claiming his seat, and talks ot him as “ the
unholy blasphemer whom the gentlemen of England
say shall net sit among them, and whose coarse, ill-
lormed, flaeby lineaments accorded well with his lum-
bering gait as he strode to the table.” When Sir
Btalford Northcote moved the resolution against his
admission, Mr, Bradlaugh, we are told, “ gnashed his
teeth with impotent rage," and this is followed by a
high-falutin description of Sir Stafford “ arraigning
the Atheist in the very midst of the Chamber,” and
an insinuation that Mr. Gladstone was absent because
he was afraid to coma to the House. Mr. Gladstone’s
life’s actions disprove such a slander. Then there is
this thrilling apostrophe ■. “ Dear old Mr. Newdegata I
How vigorously he took up the cause of God and the
Queen I’’ This is a specimen of the cant which the
Whitehall serves out to its readers. But the crown-
ing piece of impudence on the part of this precious
Parliamentary critic is as follows: “ Bradlaugh
actually had the audacity to propose a bargain between
himself and Sir Stafford Northcote 1 This was really
t>o good a joke, and nee all laughed immoderately. Even
the Prince of IVales, whose sense of humour," &o. After
such nauseating bosh as this, it is not surprising to
find, a little further on, all those 228 members who
voted for Bradlaugh’s admission stigmatised as "sup-
porters of Atheism, irreligion, immorality, impurity,
and indecency "—while Mr. Gladstone is termed a
“ supporter of Atheism, who has fallen to the very
lowest conceivable depth, and stands to-day humiliated
in the sight of God and man!" The Whtehall
Review is the champion lickspittle and bigot oi the
universe.
It isn’t “ for wearing of the green,” says
Dagonet, but for whistling “ Harvey Dutt," men aie
put in prison now in Irleand. Consequently, when
Miss Parnell invited him to whistle at a Dublin conceit,
the astute George prudently replied, “ Most happy,
only I den’t know the tune."
The special train conveying W. H. Vanderbilt
ard party to the Beading election, Jan. 9, ran from
Jersey city to Philadelphia, Bound Brook route, 89.4
m iea in 90 minutes. On 11th Jan., the same enjine
made twenty-eight and a half miles in twenty-five and
a half minutes. One mile was run in the extraordin-
ary time of forty-two seconds.
At the big-gun practice on Tuesday, Gunner
M’Kelvie shot uway the target, and no sooner had it
been replicea, than Sergeant-Major Bennett smashtd
it to pieces with a shell. We have not heard whether
the offenders are to be charged with destroying Govern-
m«ut property. By the way, the Echo says the Ser-
geant-major blew the target to pieces. This is all blow.
Some of the N.S.W. post office officials are
evidently fond of Thb Bullstin. We are fond of glory,
of course, but when our readers get their papere stolen
they don’t like it. Now, we should like to meet the
post-office people half-way in this little matter. What
can we do to induce them to bo honest ? We shall be
pleased to receive suggestions on the subject from
any official in any of the departments of any post office.
Come, now, boys, try and act square with us. Give the
blind men’s trays a turn of a year or two, and let onr
subscribers pass their Sundays without indulging in
profanity.


Tobacconists
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OP
AMEBICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facta are comrhed from official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
special inte'est: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on
All the othtrs paid duty in 1880 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 on
All the others paid duty in 1381 on _
Imported manufactured toha*ca paid duty
on for the two years was 0n1y... ... ...
2P8.303 lb.
58 '.6f9jlb.
478,935 lb.
626,992 lb.
307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SOK’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM.
CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “ T in Tag,” »f ch plug branded with a
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped “ Con-
queror" or Yankee Doodle."
ALL TOBACCONIST*’ GOODS, PIPES, &c.
°on\
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold.
Imported by us direct, and manufactured expressly
or this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
fEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
in meet sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TEEMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
11l our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
econd-hand instruments s or cheap rubbish.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-etreet; 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howick-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Oonl-
bum ; Church street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
r NDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY.
705 GEORGE STREET,
Hatmakkit.
OUR "STAR OP INDIA” TEAS
Have been proved to be
SUPERIOR TO ANY OTHERS
FOR
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND EXCELLENCE,
Sold only at our Establishment—
-705 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMAEKET,
OPPOSITE HORDERN’S PALACE
EMPORIUM.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPEEH AN GIN GS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAP, 40.
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK, 281, GEOEGE-ST.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets,
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of beat;
great saving of fuel; apply several layers
The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paperworks, Liver-
pool. Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Price, 4Jd & 6d per yd,
80 & 40 inches wide,
any Ituglb
'Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
r 36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. "El
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Cartlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
WASTE PAPER for SALE, apply Bulletin
Office, Pitt-street.
‘Business Announcements
Australian “home” shuttle
SEWING MACHINES.
Unprincipled Dealers —to make a few extra shil-
ling’ proflr—are ottering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
o
*
</
HOt*''
cLai
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit in’or.ination of ti e attempted sale of coun-
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines ore not
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
Post Olfice Order.
WE HAVE ?iOW SOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE £4 0 0
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVER COMPLETE ... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND CO,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
jp R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spieit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
Stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRI
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
543 and 345 Kent-stbeet, near Kino-street.
L,
SOLE AGENT for the uadermentioned :
R. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late O.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallaw and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,’
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburu Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
DEAFNESS I —l have an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Auri st-in-Chief of the London Royal
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100). Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAFORD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
G. CHUECHWOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEES.
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES :-147 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-strect South.
8
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY.
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
B
RITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869, George-street South.
iAPERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street] South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
Ac., &c.
O. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 859 George-street South.
JJLATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Hotels, &o.
FITZROY HOTEL,
STEE'
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ROBINSON'S - m
WILLIAM STREET,
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
1b PER BOTTLE. T^-wriT-i*
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cookbnrn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston's Best Billiard Table, ia One of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
T
10 PUBLICANS AND STOREKEEPERS.
To Let,
A HOUSE coniaining 9 Rooms, with Elegant Bur and
Bar Fitlinva, Kitchen and Stable, built for a Public-
house, but ut present occupied as a store. Also, a Store.
Apply to the proprietor, „„ T . W ,
FREDERICK TEELOW,
Copper Mines,
Njmagee.
UNSLER’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
F
ALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards Knined by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
ai d the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Cv.ntrai. Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MUERAY RIVER VALLEY, nesr ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibition" :
London International
Paris „
Vienna ~ ] if,
Philadelphia ~ IH/b
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, Now South Wales, Queensland, and 10 e IKSI-
- and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE.
Relsling Aucarot
Verdeilho Drown Muscat
Tokay
Champagne, Medium Dry.
RED.
Shiraz Hermitn ge
Carbinet Malbec
Burgundy
Champagne, Dry.
II
OBEET BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
Hotels, Sec.
T LOYD’S HOTEL,
JJ HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers, Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
FOSTER’S Bugle Bra.nd.
S 3
1
- :
3 S
• v .
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE;
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
tORITi
■iic
-
fMn&JJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into Now South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 pec cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
JJI MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42a per dozen,
ALBURY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will bo transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
nr Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of 1 he Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The Pures rSiiNiuiflUT
Th« Kama of M. MOSS & CO.
la on every Genuine Bottle.
mmmwm
£
This rar e old S coick Blend
s dijfingu'i shed by hiving a bouqu sT
s 'in fine old matured wires. -o'*"'
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOE NEW SOUTH WALES,
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
B
USINESSES FOE SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and
AGENTS,
Offer for Sale Hotel" in Sydney, Suburbs, and Coni
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO Intending Purchasers, who favour u» with a
JBIU.UUU. xiiwcimiu* x iuuuopwo!
•a.ll, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79 Pitt-strcet.
[ PRIZE
GOULBURN
ASK FOE
WOOl) AND CO.'S
CELEBRATED GOULBURN
BOOTS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOOTS.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
r . REPOSITORY,
CORVEE CLARENCE AND MAEGAEET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies— Single and
Donble Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.
12
April 15, 1882.
THE BULLETIN.


RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, f SYDNEY.
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND,
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DRAPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE ORIGINATORS OP THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
I White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or ua-
bleached Sheetiug
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men's Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2i yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. &o.
Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies' Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs I adies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Plaul. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant's Stay Band
i dozen Infants' Diaper
Squares
Puff box, Puff* Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christ’ing Robe
1 Inf a n t’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
<£s Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Pelt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
JES Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good lougeloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White -.ow
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Thread, &c.
£5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS 1
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, <fc Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’a
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pockeihankerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
1 Elatsic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Robe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Ladies’ Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
We wish it to be distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOB BOYS.
School Saits, 2s 6d
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Picnic Saits, 3s lid
Sunday Suits, 7s 6d
Youths’ Suits. 12s 3d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakspeare Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shiits, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 9*d
Linen Collars, 4|d
Elastic Braces. 3d
Cotton Socks, 3d
Neelies, 3d
FOR LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12s 9d
Satteen Prints, 3|d
Dress Materials, 4Jd
Black Alpaca, Sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hats, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2s 6d
Muslin Edging, 2id
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 9d
Infants’ Goods
Bdby Linen
FOR MEN.
Working Shirts, Is 6d
White Shirts, 2s 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 4*d
Seamless Socks. 6d
Elastic Braces, 6d
Tweed Suits, 19s 6d
Summer Suits, 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9s 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed Pngets, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s 6d
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakspeare Hats. 2s 6d
Colonial Tweed, 2s 6d
Silk Umbrellas, 7s 6d
FOB THE HOUSE.
American Longcloth, 2 id
Nightshirt Calico, 4jd
Grey Calico, 2jd
Double width Calico, 74d
Pillow Calico, 6Jd
Swansdown Calico
White Flannel, 7id
Wide Flannel, lltd
Scarlet Flannel, 7vd
Saxony Flannel, ll|d
Cotton Tick, 3|d
Linen Tick, 74d
Stripe Bed Tick, 5Jd
Unbleached Sheeting, 7id
White Sheeting, 7kd
Twilled Sheeting, 9id
Mosquito Net, 6id
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS PRICE LIST. —Persons who may read this
ad vertisement must not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
common. They are by no means the commonest goods
We have lower prices still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydm *
but with manufacturers in England, that good ar’icl 6
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHER?,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN U
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general,]
RACING.
A.J.C. Autumn... April 14,15.
Forbes J.C April 13, 14.
Bocoaooio v. Von Moltke, Trot, Eastern wick
Oberon April 20.
(Vic) April 15.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C April 20, 21.
Wilcannia April 20, 21.
Echnca April 20, 22.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
Sydney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn...... ........April 25, 26.
Ouunedah J.C April 25, 26,
Deniliqnin April 37, 28.
Lachlan S.C ~,, May 4, 5.
S. A.J.C May 6, 11, 13.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Winter May 24.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Adelaide R.C . May 20, 24, 25. 27.
Bligh A.T.C. Mudgee May 22.
Copeland J.C May 24,
Murrurnndi J.U May 24, 25,
Queensland T.C May 24, 25.
Parramatta J.C May 24,25,
Manning River J.C May 31, June 1.
Watrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
Brewarrina J.C June 8, 9.
Rockhampten July 6, 7.
Clarence K.J.C July 12,13.
AQUATICS.
Watson’s Bay Eegatta April 29.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Eace April 29.
Glebe E. C. Trial Fours, in Outriggers April 29.
Beach v. Reynolds, £lOO, Parramatta River.... April 29.
Triokett v, Marxian, £5OO aside on the Thames.... May 1.
M.E.C. Junior Single Sculls (President’s
Trophy) May 6.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 37.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Ross, £2OO aside June 20.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Carcoar Athletic Sports May 24.
Tamworth Athletic Club May 24.
Eiverina (Hay) Athletic Club May 24, 25.
SWIMMING
Port Jackson Swimming Club matches April 29.
FOOTBALL.
Victorian Match (Association Ground)...May 20, 24, 27.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Oxford hag now won the great boat-raoe three
years successively.
The athletic handicap at Grafton on Easter
Monday was won by Thomas Noud.
The Nelson (N.Z.) Jockey Club Handicap was
appropriated by Hero, Satelite 2, Magnolia 3.
The Oberon Jockey Club hold a meeting April
23. The race?, six in number, will be run on the new
course.
The Australian Coursing Club’s St. Leger meet-
ing, April 20. The races, six in number, will be run on
the new course.
Beach and Reynolds have made a match for .£5O
a side, to be rowed in light skiffs, on April 29, over the
champion course on the Parramatta Eiver.
The Australian Eleven arrived at Galle on April
3. All had enjoyed the|passage except Percy M'Donnell,
who had been very ill, but was then recovering.
At the Orange athletic sports, on Easter Mon-
day, the President’s Silver Cup was won by Gardiner,
and the handicap of £2O by Cnlversen, of Williamson
Creek.
Wallsend Easter races. Flying Handicap:
Faust 1; Hurdles: Eileen Alannah 1; Wallsend Plato:
Godiva 1; Prinoe of Wales Stakes: Eaven 1; Trial
Stakes: Koberto 1.
Owing to the recent lamented death of Mr.
Kite’s eldest son, in England, the pen was run through
the names of all that gentleman's horses entered for
the A.J.C. Autumn meeting.
At the Rocky Mouth regatta, on Easter Monday,
the all-comers’ race was won by Donald M'Donald; the
double sculls by the brothers M’Donald; and the
amateur sculling race by Lowe.
We learn from a very reliable private source
that Mr. Dave Ward, formerly Hanlan’s chief sup.
porter, is convinced that Trickett will regain the
world’s championship on Ist May.
A billiard match for .£lO took place at Tatter-
sail’s Hotel, Cobar, last week, between W. Edmonds,
j unior. and John Stritch—the latter conceding 200 points
in 1003. Edmonds won by 476 points.
The Committee of the N.S.W. Coursing Club
desire to correct the erroneous impression that the
Club is a private one; any person proposed and seconded
by members of the Club is eligible for election.
O’Brien, Freeman, and O’Connor, had a largo
crowd at their sports in Auckland on April 1. The
champions did not have it all their own way, O’Brien
being defeated in the half mile and Freeman in the 220
yards.
I)r. Weir, the American gentleman for whose
services in the interests of trotting the colonies are
under obligation, last week lost his fine stallion.
Primero, for which he only recently refused 600
guineas.
Mr. Pitzwilliam Wentworth’s <£2200 horse,
Waxy, fell dead after a gallop at Band wick on Satur-
day morning. This is hard luck for that good sports-
man, his owner, who only purchased him just prior to
the last Melbourne Cup.
Williamstown (Vic.) Races, Easter Monday.
Hurdles: Black Prince l.| Altona Handicap : Hunting-
don 1. Telegraph Slakes : Glad Tidings 1. Galloway
Stakes ; Cock Bobin 1. Steeplechase ; Cruiser 1. Sea-
ford Handicap: Whisper 1.
At Glen Innes Autumn Meeting, April 5 and 6,
the Maiden Plate was won by Eoyal Blend, and the
two principal handicaps by Lemonade—another victory
for the teetotallers. The settling passed off satisfac-
torily. The Athletic Handicap was won by Pearson.
Goulburn races—April 5. Trial Stakes : Crown
Head 1; Selling Stakes: Johnny Crapand 1 ; Hack
Eace : Victor 1; Autumn Handicap: Dante 1; Ladies’
Mile: Crown Head 1 j County Purse : Prophet 1;
Flying Handicap: Blackbird 1; Hack Eace : Thorn-
topper 1; Grand Stand Handicap: Prophet 1; Forced
Handicap: Minnie Warren 1.
Dave Ward says, in a private letter, that
Trickett has done some wonderful sculling on American
waters. Some of his performances, though accurately
timed, are almost incredible. However, as the dis-
tances were pulled over still lake waters, where there
are no tides or currents, the time-test must bo unre-
servedly accepted as reliable.
Messrs. Baker Bros, have presented to the
Forbes Jockey Club a singularly neat cup of frosted
silver, and, in conjunction with Messrs. Murray Jones,
Band and Co., have given to the Condobolin J.C. a very
handsome cap, goblet shaped. The latter was made a
special prize for gentlemen riders at the late meeting,
and was won by Mr. W. Eichards, junior, on Baronet.
Twenty eminent citizens of Dunedin, including
an M.H.E., the Mayor, a few J.’sP., and a Chinese mer-
chant, have been charged with gambling. The result of
the action enriched the State to the extent of £3B.
Nineteen of the defendants were fined £2 each; the
twentieth escaped. The heinous infraction of the law
punished by the fine was bolding some little sweeps
of a pound a man on 23cd February.
A two-hours’ walk, for .£2O. between A. Phillips,
of Jamberoo, and T. Lees, of Geningong, came off at
Jamberoo on March 31. During the first hour the
walking was tolerably slow, and at its conclusion
Phillips was leading four or five laps. The contest then
became exciting, and Lee, by making some splendid
spnrts, almost overtook his opponent, who, when time
was called, was only four yards ahead. The distance
walked was something over twelve miles.
Mr. Franck, proprietor of the totalisator, haa
notified to the police his intention of forming a clnb in
Melbourne to bring the totalisator into use. The
authorities intimate that no evasion of the law will be
permitted, and the club must boot a bond fide nature.
Of course, there will bo no evasion. The constitution
of the clnb will be approved by the authorities, and
intending backers may plank their sovereign as boldly
as if there were no anti-totalisator element in the
Betting Act.
John P. Sullivan, who lately defeated Paddy
Eyan in the great American prize-fight, is 23 years of
age, and Eyan 29. The fight lasted eleven minutes,
during which nine rounds were fought. After the
battle, a doctor examined Eyan and found his left jaw
broken in two places, besides several other severe
injuries. To add to Patrick’s misfortunes, while he
was fighting, some other rascal entered his room at the
house at which he stayed, and stole all his clothes and
300 dollars in money.
Another “ Carter” in New Zealand. The
Oamarn Mail says“ The announced foot-race over
three distances—loo, 125, and 150 yards—between P.
Smith, a Ngapara man, and ‘ John Allen, of Sydney,’
came off on Saturday. The match was for £25 a aide,
and the Ngapara man caught a Tartar, ‘ Allen’—who, we
believe, is none other than Joseph Jullien, a celebrated
Victorian runner—winning the first two events very
easily. It is stated that Jullien haa already ‘had’ a
Southland running man, and that he is still on tho
look out for other innocents.”
Dr. Carver, who had backed himself to kill, at
30 yards rise, 75 out of 100 of the beat Lincolnshire blue
rooks, lost his money. As in the match with Mr.
Crawshaw, last October, he killed 93 out of 100, the big
wager was looked upon as a gift to him. He left off for
a moment at 25 with 22 to his credit. In the second 25
he made four consecutive misses, but he killed the
whole ten from 40 to 50, and out of the first 50 grassed
41. But when 90 birds had been shot at, he had m issed the
25, and, as the 91st fell out of bounds, that settled the
matter. The doctor, however, shot out the full score,
and was beaten by three birds, having knocked over 72
and missed 23.
Writing to tho Herald in respect to that
journal’s attack «a the bookmakers, “ A Voice from
the Eing ” says “ he has not observed in his own pretty
extensive experience of our charming colony that the
people of New South Wales are peculiarly remarkable
for any special charm or choiceness either of manner or
of language.” This is rough, coming as it does from
one whose “pretty extensive experience” has doubt-
less been derived from the most aesthetic corners of
colonial society—dog-fights, prize-fights, and “ school”
during the small hours. However, as wo have a Licen-
sing Act and a Police Act to preserve our morals, we do
object to have them criticised by a horsey censer
morum. Don’t abuse us, Joseph; “round" on your
book, if you can.
The swimming match for the championship of
Australia and £2OO aside, between Walter M'lndee, of
Victoria, and Ernest Cavill, son of the well-known
English professional, took place at Lavender Bay baths
on Saturday afternoon, and was witnessed by 1000 spec-
tators, The course was about a mile, in 28 laps—of 60
yards each. Both competitors swam on their right
side, and used a strong overarm stroke. MTndoe at
once assumed the lead and kept it throughout, com-
pleting the half-mile in 13 min. 25 sec., while Cavill took
14 min. The Victorian reached the winning-post 43
sec. ahead of his plucky little rival. Winner’s time
for the mile, 27 min. 47 sec. It is understood that
before leaving, M'lndoe will swim a mile match with
Corbett, the ex-champion of N.S.W.
Australian Jockey Club Autumn meeting. First
Day. Hurdle Eace, 2£ miles : Blackall 1, Kaffir 2, Scud
3; time, smin. Bsec. Seven horses started and five fell,
therefore Blackall, who jumps splendidly, had it all his
own way. Autumn Stakes, 11 mile: Progress 1, Lord
Burghley 2, Pell Mell 3; time 2min. 48-’aec. Won
easily. Champavne Stakes, 6 furlongs: Navigator 1,
Hecla 2, Jessie 3; time, 1 min. Iffisec. St. Leger
Stakes, 1| mile: Wheatear 1, Somerset 2, Monmouth 3;
time, 3min. 25Jsec. Doncaster Handicap, I mile and a
furlong: Stella 1, Prima Donna 2, Gunild 3; time,
Imin. 57seo. Trial Stakes, li mile: Mistaken 1,
Saionara 2, Hilltop 3; time, 2min. 14|sec. The racing
all through was good, and Mr. Eouse was very success-
ful as a starter. Mr. Ashworth, on Strathearn, offici-
ated as clerk of the course. The “welshers" were
conspicuous by their absence, but there ware a few
cases of levanting amongst the list bettors.
The sculling race between Hearn and Messen-
ger, for £lOO aside and the N.Z. championship, 3J miles,
resulted in an easy win for the former. At the start
the betting was slightly in favour of Hearn, but in some
instances two to one and six to four was laid on him.
A good start, by mutual consent, was effected, both
gripping the water simultaneously, Hearn apparently
assumed the lead with a stroke of 38 to the minute.
Messenger rowing 37. Every stroke Hearn increased
his lead, and when three-quarters of a mile had been
covered he was six lengths to the good. Hearn was
pulling a very pretty stroke, while Messenger at times
was splashing. At the two-mile post it was evidently a
certainty for Hearn, as Messenger was hopelessly in
the rear, and showing signs of distress. On passing
the Baths, a short distance from the finish, Hearn
spurted, and pulled clean away from Messenger, rowing
in the easiest of winners by nearly twenty lengths.
The time was 21min. 29 sec., water being very calm.
Hearn, on leaving his boat, was carried shoulder high
into the Pier Hotel, where his health was drunk in
bumpers of champagne.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The second match between the Australians and
Nottingham is to bo played for the benefit of Oscroft.
This is the last match at present arranged in England,
and it will take place on September 4 At Wagga.the
other day, H, M'Dara cleared 108 ft. 8 in. in ten jumps.
A foot-race, 200 yards, for Chinese, was one of the
features of the St. Patrick’s Day sports at Lawrence,
Otago. There were four competitors. Ah Pel and
Ken Chew ran a dead heat, and divided first and second
money The V.AT.C. have made since June last a
profit of £2200 The Dunedin totalisator paid a divi-
dend of £6B over Louie’s win in the Napier Handicap,
there being only £1 invested on her A Dunedin
(N.Z.) writer describes the "management” of tbe
totalisator at the recent races there. After telling how
he was handled in getting a ticket on the Cup, he says:
“One gentleman had every button ripped from his
beautifnlly-got-np white waistcoat; another had two
ribs fractured; a third had his sovereign knocked
out of hia hand, and could not for the life of him
get his hand into hia pocket for another; while a
fourth gave a ‘fiver,’ expecting £4 back, but was
hustled out of the way, and never received it.”
A 100 yards foot-race for £lO, between G. James and
W. Smith, took place at Oamperdown on Saturday
week, resulting in an easy win for James by three
yards, J. Morrison has to use crutches in con-
sequence of the accident ho met with at Sale. Vic.
On March 29, the Mines and Occupation Bramah of
the Lands played a cricket match on the Association
Ground, the former winning in one innings. One bats-
man made the brilliant scores of 0 and 2 and was pre-
sented with a tin plate on his final return to the
pavilion. It was a joke, but the batsman could not see
it. Mr. George Morgan made the presentation speech.
Mr. B. Livingstone, of Maryborough, challenges
any boat-builder in Queensland to row at the next
Maryborough regatta, on 24th May, a race in single
sonli gig skiffs for £lOO up to £2OO a side A match
took place at Coolangatta between Jetson and M'Don-
ald, to see who could lift most with his teeth.
M'Donald lifted 2241 b., but Jetson raised 2261 b. easily....
It is proposed to hold two race meetings at Christ-
church, a general athletic sports gathering, an inter-
provincial football tournament, and an interprovincial
bicycle meeting during the Exhibition period Three
guns killed 500,000 rabbits in New Zealand in throe
months The pigeon match at Bega was won by a
Moruya man......1n the Hay district, wild turkeys have
been poisoned by phesphorised oats laid for rabbits
After all, the deeply-injured Mr. Lance raced his horses
at Dunedin last meeting... Frank Oliver, tho well-known
pedestrian, has been charged at Dunedin with the
larceny (as a bailee) of a watch, chain and ring,...Bent,
the Victorian Minister of Railways, refused to grant
our representative eight, free passes from Wodonga to
Melbourne Tho Petersham cricketers were defacted
by the Orange club by 14 runs Copeland y. Stroud,
cricket match on Easter Monday, resulted in a victory
for Stroud A six-days’ go-as-you-please, between the
horse Conquering Hero and Edwards the pedestrian,
comes off at Geelong (Vic.) shortly. You can’t
ante-up much specie upon a hand like this, for
the winner is bound to be the conquering hero..
* * *
In a six days’ go-as-you-please, at New York,
Patrick Fitzgerald covered 682 miles 55 yards An
American millionaire is now renting deer forests in
England at £16,000 a year. What he enjoys for this
outlay is, to have the deer driven to him as he sits on a
camp-stool, lire at them, and—miss ! A Baltimore
house is manufacturing for Maryland sportsman a com-
plete suit of rubber clothing, arrayed in which he
expects to slaughter wild geese galore. The headpiece,
which will be only part kept in view, is to be made
exactly in the form of a wild goose sitting upon the
water. It is to be furnished with magnifying glass
eyes, throngh which the wearer can see his way among
the game O’Leary and Dobler gave a pedestrian ex-
hibition at Nashville, TJ.S. The former walked 20 miles
in 3hr. 20min. 235e0.; while the latter ran 24 miles in
3hr. Bmin. 65sco.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Egypt cries—“ I want my mummy.”
A picture of health—A painted woman.
The bobby’s standing joke—“ Move on.”
About to be hanged, he said, “ Struck coil!”
The bump of destructiveness—A railway col-
lision.
Europe is arming in haste. It will pay up at
leisure.
Every man has his forte—if he only knows how
to hold it.
She took up scrip as he advised— the cursed
stock broke her.
Ayoub Khan fled to Herat, but now he cannot
be found thereat.
A sign of indigestion—' ‘ Gone to dinner; be
back in five minutes.”
Some bakers are well-bread, but they have a
bad weigh of showing it.
The sluggard told to “go to the ant” most
probably went to his uncle’s.
A baby fed on elephant’s milk gained 201bs. in
a week. It was a baby elephant.
Sydney has many sculptors. Hundreds now
chisel their tailor out of suits of clothes.
In some parts of America, obituary press no-
tices are sent to the dying for perusal and correction,
‘‘We should always thirst after righteousness,”
remarked a wag as he walked from the church to the
pub.
Said an Irish M.P., recently: “As long as Ire-
land is silent under her wrongs, England is deaf to her
cries.”
An exchange says the Nihilists threaten to put
Alexander 111. “in a hole.” Wouldn’t that be czar-
chasm P
A malicious story is afloat that a girl turned off
her lover because he was so bow-legged she couldn’t sit
on his Jap.
“ Lie still, Biddy,” said Pat, “If the burglars
should find anything, bejapers we’ll get up and take it
from them.”
The Americans want the Lord’s Prayer revised
again. They can’t get over the Kingdom Come, with
their Republican principles.
“The Politician” is a new toy for children.
Ton just pull a string, and it moves every way. One
hand, however, is always behind its back.
Longfellow used to wear his frock-coat but-
toned to the chin. The question now is, who sewed
the button on tha poet’s facial extremity.
Turkish General to Turkish Colonel; “ Colonel,
the day after to-morrow is pay-day. You will take care
that to-morrow we have a warm engagement.”
A sailor said to his sweetheart, “ What kind of
a vessel would yon like best ?” She blushed and
said, “ A little smack.” He gave her a clipper.
“I don’t see what they want with pumping
engines and all that,” growled a boarder. “Why
don’t they utilize the strength of this butter ? ”
A city ’bus got smashed up in a collision the
other day. The horses kicked the cash-box to pieces,
and knocked three half-crowns straight into the ’bus-
man’s pocket.
“ Yes,” remarked the poor, broken-down bur-
glar to his eldest son, “ there’s nothing like eddioation.
If I’d only got schooling, I might have been a defaultin’
cashier to-day.”
A henpecked Scotchman got drunk, and saw
Old Nick. “ How are ye, old mon P” asked Sandy,—
“ Gie’s a shake o’ your hand, for I’m married to a
sister o’ yours.”
A clergyman,annoyed at persons entering church
late, intimated, one day, that the first hymn was not a
march. Perhaps not, but when a lady comes in we
often se a polonaise.
• • «
Raining oats and dogs is nothing to hailing cabs
and'buses Rather neat—raw spirits Wax works—
beehives Shrew’d men —henpecked husbands
“ Dis-cord will kill me," as an African said on the gal.
lows Never joke with a policeman; never play chess
with a widow; never contradict a stutterer The man
who always goes to work with a will—A lawyer.
To make “ fruit salt ” :—Take 2oz. cream
tartar, 2ox. tartaric acid, 2oz. carbonate soda, 2oz.
Epsom salts, and 2oz. citrate of magnesia. Grind up
finely with 4oz. crushed loaf-sugar, bottle, and keep
thoroughly dry.
A member of the Admiralty visited a London
benevolent establishment, of which he himself was a
governor. He made himself so agreeable to an old salt,
who evidently mistook him for a recently-admitted
inmate, that the latter said : " Look ’ere, mate, I like
you; you seem to be as right as a trivet. It’s agen the
rules to have grog here, but I don’t mind telling you
that I have a bottle of gin under my pillow, and you
can have a swig at it, my hearty.” The Admiral
swigged.
In the “ Black County,” England, there is no
need for a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. The miners are too kind-hearted, as for
instance: —Levy Booth, a barber, lost a pet pigeon in
a pipe-drain, 12 inches in diameter. He stripped his
nine-year-old son, strapped his shoulders so tightly as
to be able to compress him into the required compass,
and forced him head first into the drain. The boy
stuck, and was with difficulty rescued. The father was
fined 55., because he loved his pigeon not too wisely but
too well.
Last Christmas, one of the most famous ships
in the world was condemned as unfit for further use, and,
at the age of 85, her ensign was finally taken down at
Brooklyn, in presence of a large naval gathering. The
“ Constitution,” or, as she was nicknamed. 11 Old Iron-
sides,” was the third vessel built for the United States
Navy, at Boston, in 1795. She did more work than any
other warship in American history of her time. Her
greatest adventure was in 1812, when one day, the
fog suddenly lifting, she found herself nearly sur-
rounded, in a dead calm, by the whole British Squadron,
Her boats were lowered to tow her, the British took the
same course, and for 37 hours the crew of Old Ironsides
tugged at their oars, with 15 British vessels behind.
At 8 o’clock the second night the chase was abandoned.
She fought battles at close quarters, broadside on, so
severe that there was hardly a plank in her that was not
shattered, and she was never singly defeated. She was
the theme of story and of song, and many years ago,
when it was proposed to break her up, public opinion
was so strong against it that the U.S. Government had
to forego the intention. The Constitution is now
turned into what is called “ Rotten Row,” in Brooklyn
Yard, where she will probably fall to pieces as the years
roll on.


THE FANCY FAIRS.
Ye Ryvalls Ryvalls.
A rie Visione of ye Olden Tymo—
'Of mc'rrie folke in haloyone holy dales,
'5! verdant meadea, and jocunde
Bystveet Arte raised 1
“Saint Georg© M'ttri'e Englandei” With
right regal proclamation, and much inspiriting fan-
Farronn’to of and other glad noises, the rival
vela haWtSOh opened. For the moment, under their
r>iCtaTesvt an guise, the scenes of an elder age are to be
ireVitiM, and figures that have long since flitted Iran-
Mnntly across the world’s wide stage, and evanished
into the shadows of the widgs, are te?*i rehabilitated
anew by the scene-painter’s and ceetiilinter’s art. What
a wealth of old-world ram i *'is'ie l Ace the “ Olde Englyssha
S’ay re ” coni ores up! Plow graphic this representation of
the antique mAbhfcrS and customs of our simple-minded
IfotbeaTs,* A’lio lived and flourished in the midst of all
this (\halbt caractere of tbe olden tim* —of “ ye daies
of in storye, when Englande was Merne Eng-
iande 1” A walk through these old-fashioned streets
brings back th. 9 faded colour and tarnished glory of
romantic Eld with a vivid reality that no legend or lay
of monkish chronicler or mediroval minnesinger could
possibly re-produce. These gabled booths, with their
glittering wares and signs of rare and curious device,
and all the colour and beauty of rich costumes and
** lovelie maydens,”—all these are rather the property of
tl e past than affairs of our practical to-day. It would
i e,ii as though some weird old necromancer of yore
lomo Nof tradamus or Paracelsus, perhaps—with a wave
of his magic wand, or a touch of his mystic magnet,
stone had really conjured back the past, with all its
picturesque bitarrerie, its fanciful simplicity, and its
fair visions of old-world beauty. It is a dream of the
rmst with all a dream’s anachronistic disorder. Here
are dresses of the time of the Crusades, side by side
with a bevy of fair damosels, whose powdered hair and
hooped skirts tell of the age of Queen Anne. An
Elizabethan damsel here, and thsro a veritable to.
embodiment of one cf Mftliare’s nrfa«us«s (—Belinda, an*
La Triste HeriLiere.—a well-to-do burgess’ daughter, and
n Provencal peasant-girl. It is a kaleidoscopic medley
of every costume and every time—and net necessarily
early English, either. But let u» wander through the
Fay re.
• * •
And first, the opening processions. As we view
the rare costumes of the Sadies and the beefeaters, and
the heralds, the henchmen, and the halberdiers, we
recall Froissart’s chronicles and Monstrelet’s graphic,
descriptions of the spectacular pageantry of the.
Middle Ages. The passing scene fades for a moment
and the reality of those gorgeously illuminated medioeva
manuscripts takes its place. Shadowy tinsel gives way
to courtly splendour, with professional pomp and cir-
cumstance, wherein we catch again a brief glimpse of
the sheen of the gold and gems, and hear the on»p
rustle of the silks and brocades of those who pass
the ionglenrs and trouveros, and morris-dancers, with
minstrehie and music, and stately dames whose costly
trains flashing with embroidery of jewels, arc borne
by pagesTn satin and velvet and gold; heralds in their
emblazoned tabards, with banners and gonWon*. with
ecclesiastical concomitants, too, of surplioed chorister
mid tonsured cleric, and “prelates swinging incense
liigh ’’ The fair faces and quaintly fantastic dresses of
T.,hn de Meung’s Komanco of the Rose are again ap-
parent, while dreamy romannt and lay of troubadour
iivo up their ceutral figures to grace the airy pageant.
If our Favrcs, however, cannot boast ot a similar re-
gard to the unities of time and place, their very variety
and freedom from restraint invest them with a charm
of their own.
« • •
There are two Fayres. With that bland in-
difference and desire to be pleased which are our charm-
fug characteristics. we will distribute ourselves im-
partially between both. Of course, we know our
popularity ; and that if we ventured to breathe, amid
Scene of revelry, any intention of ours to visit a
rival Favre, we would be incontinently confined in one
of those delightfully secluded curtained reoesses-
hnunts of mystery I—whence every now and then a pair
of bright eyes or a laughing face become momentarily
visible, to tantalise the helpless observer who is for-
bidden to intrude. Even onr desire to probe this
luvrtcry, however, will not tempt ns to risk our liberty.
We have the fate of a certain brace of languishing
captives too vividly before our eyes for that We wiU
remain discreetly silent; free, meanwhile, to flit like
the wanton winds whithersoever we listeth.
ft * *
It would be difficult to say which of the two is
the more sueceasful from a realistic point of view. Each
possesses advantages which the other lacks. The
Garden Palace, with its well-lighted transepts and im-
mense available space, is excellently suited for its pur-
pose. There the street of the olden time is a most
artistic representation. The scenesare carefully painted
to represent the age-worn gabled booths of old Cornhill
or Chepe. The rafters, picked out with gay colouring,
harmonise with the mass of colour beneath, while the
glazed side-lights allow the effect to bo brought out
without the disadvantage of over-due shadowing. The
street is wide enough to display to advantage the taste-
Cut and varied covtumes,—which we will notice anon.
Tim Cathedral Fayre, meanwhile, is perhaps even more
artistically successful, though the want of space must
affect the pecuniary returns as much as it does the
comfort ot its crowds of visitors. The spectacular
effect is. however, exceedingly pleasing. Perhaps the
character of the building has much to do with this.
The Gothic pillars and arches, fitted with their painted
booths, garnished with quaint signs, and the church,
windows at the back throwing a tinged and mellow
li -ht athwart the picturesque and busy scene,—sof ten-
ing the brilliancy of the groups of rich colouring
beneath, and falling lightly over all like some faint
suggestive reflection of tho light of other days,—-these
combine to make this particular slice of old world geni e
intrinsically more realistic.
ft * *
Place aux dames ! What galaxies of rich-robed
bnuties! The magnifleent costumes muse at the Garden
Pilace must bo as valuable as they ar-.i tasteful. To the
<■ isual observer, however, those at the Cathedral pre-
sent a greater uniformity of effect. Elegant and appro-
nnate chintz costumes of tho eighteenth century, mtx-
poesivo in themselves, form the chief feature On the
other hand it would seem that the stall holders in tne
‘n'hrdral Favre aim rather at reproducing the richer
and more striking characteristics of antique costumes,
though 1 strew a hero and there are many a simple
peasant girl, and coy and graceful old-time maiden.
The effect, even if irregular, is very picturesque. Let
iii individualise a few of the characters represented,
choosing them promiscuously from either Fayre a*
they happen to strike our erratic and somewhat be-
wildered. fancy.
ft * •
And first the Marie Stuart of the Fleur-de-Lya
nl the Garden Palace, This lady is emphatically the
o men of the Fayre. Who can look at her tasteful eos-
tame singularly appropriate in the minutest detail
from the velvet coif, garnished with pearls, from which
a ileecy lace veil depends gracefully, to the rosary of
pearls which makes music as she walks—without r«cog-
pißintr the ill-fated and unfortunate, but beautiful and
r 'mantle, Mary of Scots-the Mary of Darnley and
K zzk. of the gay Court of Bon.-bon. and of the gloomy
exe-mion-hall of Fotheringay? It is an old picture
come to life: the face and expression are almost exactly
-if the gentle lady whose lineaments have been so
be familiar to us all. Perhaps this, and
the Cathedral, may fittingly take the first places.
This other is a costume of a lady of Edward 11. s Court.
Vi >r colouring and general effect it is a chef d teuvre of
character representation. The rich costume of yellow
s uin and black velvet, the veil, the lace ruff, and, *«r-
/ . t i._ i,leasing and regular features of a face which
gives^tote I Mb aresimply above criticism. We might
easily weave an airily imaginative romance about suca a
face aXprosenoe as that. This lady is out of plr-.co
amid such a modloy scene
She should have lived in olden time.
The golden time of chivalry.
When knights to beauty bant the knee,
And for the guerdon of a glance
Did buttle with the sword and lance.
Wc can easily imagine her as ladje of the lists at so se
ohfvftrio tournament, where g diant cavaliers might be
t.roud to flaunt her gold-spun scarf in the sunlig it,
£ad defend it with their lives. But the age of chiva.ry
is gone!
tn both Fayrea are excellent representations qf
Good Queen Bess. The lady in the Garden Pa ace—if
we may criticise without ill-natura-ißtd o drmind.far
too handsome to personate accurately . thed
daughter of the Tudors After these) m
come the welWtndwn costumes of Enbens wires the
festive Peter Paul hart two-con secutively,, of course
His favourite figured in and
softness «f his magic lines did ample Justice to nw
pleasing subject. The character is as popular and pretty
as that of Gainsborough's picture. The large ruby hat
with drooping plumes, the rich crimson colouring so
dear to the painter, and the costume itself
“ charged with collars and chains
In golden withes—her fingers full of rings—
Her sleeves blaring like uutoe a crane s wynges
are fittingly reproduced in the Fayre. The lady who
fills the character best is a worthy repreaontative and
the encomiums passed are as frequent as they are wwU
deserved by the pretty face and pleasing manner of the
recipient. The bower-maidons. too. are appropriate.
It does no violence to the fancy to picture them m
attendance on some fair and courtly lady, or with deft
Angara weaving those subtle tapestries, which are
among the few remaining relics ol the Moyen Aq«.
* * *
“ Ye Hollie Branohe,” at the Garden Palace,
is an attractive stall. It is brightened by Gainsborough
costumes in different colours, —rich satin dresses dis-
posed in cunning folds, and
“ On eche hedde an hatte
Brode as a bokeler or a targe,”—
producing a very picturesque and pleasing effect. Then
we catch a glimpse through the maze of colour ana
beauty, of one of those towering head-dresses of the
earlier times—of the age of the
peaked summit, from which a veil falls to the ground
at the back. This is one of the features of costume
which provoked such withering denunciation from tne
moralists of those days j a certain Friar Conecte waged
a persistent and bitter war against these towew. IWJ
character is well sustained—a yellow-haired Chrimhilde
perhaps,—some heroine of the Niebelungenhed. In
olden times the bravest knight-errant would do devoir
for such a ladye bright. And here we are reminded of
another character wo saw at the Cathedral lay .
This lady was dressed in white—soft, fleecy w Wte, with
another ef those becoming lace veils. **
among her glittering wares, her eyes ‘ like soft lush
blue-bells dimmed with dew,” the softened Bsmiight
from the stained glass suffMing her w nwn
glew. till she seemed transfigsrsd In a halo of herown
beauty, wo could not but call to mind the P o6 *
ful story. She might form an appropriate Christine
for the legend of the White Lady- Cl^ 8 £ in ? n 7 8
tiring maid to a great Italienne—beautiful, en-
shrouded in some vague mist of r .o“ a “^®
The noble dame was much devoted to Chnstine. One
day, as she sat before her mirror, while her maid bound
Tp in Jewelled coif the waving tresses of her golden
hair, her lord came in before leaving for Venice, to bid
farewell. As he left, a gesture and glance ioChnstine.
more tender than usual, were reflectod in tho g eaming
„i aBS That night all was over. That dreadful aeyice
of tho chequered Middle Ago-altornately light
and gloomiest shadow-the muroto, force.
In a deep vault beneath the antique oastio, where the
thickness of tho walls defied detection, a tomb for the
living was hollowed out for Christine, and there
“ Fresh as a flower just bloomed,
And warm with life her youthful pulses playmg.
She was walled up within the Castle-wall.
’Tis a sad tale, this legend of the White Lady. Her
representative in the Fayre, however, may cougratulate
herself that if the light and colour of old daye have
departed, their accompaniments of secret violence have
gone with them.
* * •
Much remains to be said about the beauty and
attractiveness of the rival revels. There are many
graceful and handsome costumes to be noticed, aM
much airy romance to be woven. We could saymuch
about those bevies of nymphs of the P«nod im-
mortalised in Pope’s verse, with their powder and
catches, and old-fashioned air, reminiscent of Bath
card-parties and sedan-chairs—ef Bean Bmmmel, and
Lady P Wortley Montagu. And of these groups of
figures of old French court life—dames of the meille
noble***—the vivacious centres of
artistic circles of the gay Parisian ■ capital of Louis
Ouatorze. And ol the two court ladies in the Cathe-
dral Fayre, of the courts of Queen Anne and Elizabeth
respectively. The lady of rank ol the former period is
most successful j dress, lace, and figure in exoellent
keeping with our ideal ol the lady of the Then
flip unassuming maiden, in wimple and snood, types of
the class which forms such nn attractive feature
English life, composed of comely damsels, who held a
modest demeanour on ordinary occasions, wearing
satin on solemn days.” But some ot these must wait.
We say nothing of the address, nor of the odes, nor
the May-polo dances, nor the Richardson s show, nor
that dire place where the fearful dragon " swmdges the
scaly horrors of his folded tail;” nor ot thedisoonrtesy
of certain people to whom we had occasion apply for
necessary information—at least, not yet. Man It johy
viendra. _ m m
A GLANCE ABOUND.
Tho whole of the Garden Palace nave and
transect were used, one end of the nave being taken
up by about thirty stalls, and the other three pwls ol
the cross devoted to promenade, concert hall, and
•‘outside” shows. While waiting for the ceremony,
these portions were inspected, and first on the right
hand was a prepossessing young lady in a rich Eastern
dress of white satin and ruby velvet, in charge of
photos, and fancy frames, but most persons preferred
to look at the vendor rather than her goods. Then
came a large refreshment room, waitresses in modern
black and white, well patronised through the day.
There were furniture shows, crockery shows, Richard-
son's theatre, swinging boats, electric and weighing
machines, jugglers, acrobats, and mid beasts. An
exceedingly wild-looking man, with red legs and a yellow
body, yellod out invitations to step inside and see the
lion cubs, and tho native bear, and the wild man o the
woods, and sixpnns ’ll pars yerin.” A passing glance
at this individual was enough, however: we did not
want to see any more wildness; and some incredulous
people suggested there were not any animals, but that
he combined the whole menagerie in his own
person. Then came Hordern’s large shop, a furniture
show, art gallery, the t*a tent, and facing the
fountain, wore “Old Trim’s Fayrings. chielly lollies
and biscuits, and opposite to him were two of the
Fay re stalls proper—ye Silver Ghnrne, and ye Goldmine
Anchor, both selling refreshments, and tended by dainty
damosels. As the time for tho ceremony drew near,
lines were formed at the entrance for the procession to
pass through. Two Heralds, after a vigorous trumpet
blast, went first (no connection with our morning con-
temporary, which never goes farst), next two burly beef-
eaters in scarlet uniform, followed by the Rev. S. H.
Cbilde in full black robes and trencher, some halber-
diers. then tho Lieutenant-Governor m court cos-
tume, supported ou his left by the inevitable
Mr. John Davies. C.M.G., and followed by a
retinue of old English characters, fare brigade men,
pages, and so on. At the fountain, the Fayre m&ydens
left their stalls, about 200 of them, and joined the pro-
cession, which then resembled a comet, inasmuch as
the tail was its brightest part. A Herald haying cried
the necessary proclamation, prefixed by lend Oyeres,
Sir Alfred Stephen, from an elevated pedestal, read me,
loud, distinct voice, a short address on old English
fairs generally, and the object and character of this one
in particular, and then declared the Fayre open.
Cheers for Her Maje»ty were given, and the Rival
Biigade, who had blocked the end of the street,
allowed the general public to enter. The Hrge proper-
tion of the general public who had not been allowed to
enter before seemed dreadfully jealous of the small pro-
portion of the genteel public who had got ms but there
was not room for everybody, and it is strange that people
should be in such a hurry to got crushed. The press
was very great, in fact, it was mighty, and prevailed.
This is not allegorical—in N.S. Wales. In a few
minutes walking was difficult, and it was impossible on
the first day to give due attention to the beautiful
articles on tho sta Is. Sales commenced without
delay, and the wigged and powdered beauties who
conducted them, tin ugh evidently strange to counter
business, made up ii a variety lof ways for their lack
of experience. Maiy hard individuals, no doubt,
entered that street firmly resolved that as
they did not want ai ything, they would not buy any-
thing, but dotermina ion had to give way. Bright eyes
brought out sixpences, smiles sought successfully for
shillings, and sweei requests were rewarded with
crovns. But there was no dunning. The fair sales-
women were never otherwise than courteous and graceful,
and where their beauty failed to make a *°°f‘®P r ® s '
sion, their tact prevented importunity from ma g
bad one. tn short, money was not extracted, but at-
tooted from thb bflyers’ |)ooketB. Many, of
the ladyes came from North Shofe, and ibe di p y
figures, faces, and fashion, of all that charts and
fascinates in the queens of creation, was bewilden g.
As stall after stall was passed, each was the cause or
fresh admiration, each forming a set of mesdamea and
maidens en suite with one another, butdifferent
all the other sets. Not alone was the Elizahetnani era
represented, but a range of era extending_from> that of
the ancient Gauls, down through the Plantagenets,
Tudors, and Stuarts, to the Brunswicks. was adopted.
The dresses could only be glanced at, but they wc-re
sumptuous and elaborate. There were tavoarit ,
whether by reason of their wares or otherattraotions
we dare not ;ay. but of course some artides sell more
readily than others. For instance, no °°®Jfuld expect
a lady to sell furniture as fast as an . ot . h P' uld mJ*:
pose of bags of lolly or boxes of bairpms The
Red and White Roses were unapproachable all
day long, while admirers were nevertiredof gazingat
stalls graced by an Elisabeth or a MMie Stuart. more
beautiful than ever were their ancient originals. We
write this calmly: wo will not take it back. At the
Chelsea Bun House, a fair young face seen, perfect
as a poet’s dream, sunny, bright, and hjPPJ' ,
Easter morn, and no wonder buns were bought and
never eaten —at that counter.
• * •
Within a sort of bungalow, used as a Tea
Saloon, real Asiatics served out really good tea, under
the supervision of Mrs. Fellows, a white lady whose
personation of an Asian girl, in all the barbaric sp en-
dour of bangles, rings and jewels, gold and , B^®r, f .
gaudy garb, was so complete as, even in daylight, to
deceive almost every one. Hour after hour, with a
vivacity that never flagged, She dispensed the
cup. Twilight pervaded the tea tent to such a degree
that cups and saucers were constantly endangered,
though a glance into the corners proved that the
obscurity was not at all detrimental to spoons. We
paid Od. to go into Richardson s Show, hut all we saw
for the investment was a number of people, who had
paid a similar sum, staring at one another vacuously.
and looking as if they would rather have had a seat for
half an hour than any show. We stayed there » 'while,
but did not see anything of Mr .^ B C r h p SL “ ho
awar. Then there was a Fortune-teller, Miss * alk, wno
unravelled ss much of the mystic future u she. could
invent at short notice. Any gentleman, by allowing
his palm to bo inspected, could at once berome the
happy possessor of a wife, a fortune, and ether tnfleg
in return for which, he did not pay any fee, but was
requested to buy a shilling cigar, or a (togßle-eyeddoll.
Two maidens industriously earned round a large box of
paper parcels at 01. each, and made conscientious
endeavours to lighten the box by soliciting any one of
affluent appearance to purchase. At the stall for Ye
Bookc of ve Fayro, were to be seen a pretty Greek cos-
tumed and two ladies from North Shore, whose stained
kin and Japanese dresses were so cleverly deceptive
that few thought the ladies were anything but the
pagans they seemed.
Owirur to alterations in the book showing the
names of stall-holders, it was difficult to identify some
of them. One of the most conspicuous dresses m the
building Iwas that of Queen Elizabeth, worn by Mrs.
Lark of Rose Bay, at Ye Peacocke stalk The skirt
was of very old fashionable brocade, with a Court sweep-
ing of crimson velvet, lined with plush pink; bodice and
hanging sleeves to match, mil of old Greek lace, around
the neck and in the hair il magnificent suite*>l pearls
and diamonds, and jewelled buckles on the shoes. Her
Maids of Honour (Mistresses Bioxsome and Tancred)
were superbly attired ; the beautiful brocade skirts,
with immense Court sweepings of peacock green, old.
gold lined, with lace and ruffs, being greatly admired.
Mr. Lark was a Royal Jester, in hose black and red, with
jacket of crimson and old gold plush, bells and punchi-
riello staff, and golden plush shoos. At the flower-
stand Mre Sydney Want and Miss Cadell were n
dresses ©imprecisely similar style,
shade —chintz Jpamers over coloured quilted skirts;
kerchiefs, aprons, and caps of white muslin, with black
velvet band; At Ye Bed and White Roses, scentes from
distant Arabye and Parys were sold by a bevy of beau,
tiful girls who assisted Mrs. Monarty. Their costume
was very noticable—white surah silk dresses, trimmed
with satin, long trains, and wide flowing sleeves, laced
in front Surmounting the golden blonde wigs were
conical black velvet hats, two feet high, with gauze
veils from the peak to the shoulders; the costume
being that worn during the Wars of the Boses. The
back of the stall was of rich green drapery, bordered
with sunflowers, and was an effective contrast to the
creamy white dresses. Costumes of IGth century were
worn at Ye Olden Crowne, and very charming they were.
Misses Winton and Chambers, m pink and black velvet
and satin, with large hats to match, were conspicuously
nice. Miss Powell, in a splendid blue and black velvet
and satin, represented Rubins’ wife. Master Fred.
Wvatt wore the handsome attire of a page in Eliza-
beth’s time —gresn tunic with gold braiding black
hnse and grey Robin Hood hat and cardinal feather.
The little Misses Ward, at ye Poste Office, were charm-
inalv attired in white mus’ln, trimmed with tartan
plaid, with tartan caps and cross garterings: their
postal business being combined with sales of posies
and all sorts of flowers and bouquets.
# * *
At ye Hollie Branche, a little maiden in black
velvet and white lace, with the very daintiest of straw
hats and a snowy wig, was ever so pretty. Mr. Mann
walked about in a Hindoo suit, impersonating a black
man The large stall beneath the sign of Ye Blue Lyon
was graced by a pair of the fairest disciples of Diana ;
the costumes of Miss Baar, black and cardinal velvet,
and Miss Cohen, dark green velvet, as huntresses,
were exquisite. Mrs. M. Cohen was a court lady
of the reign of Louis XIV., and Miss Reuben
a waiting maid of that era. -A magnificent
pair of satin costumes, one blush pink, and
the other straw yellow, with enormous bats,
and feathers to match, were worn by Mistresses Fuller |
and Dorothy Monteflora, a little golden palette carried
on the breast making* them complete; wbibe mge* At I
Ye Fleure de Lys, Miss McFarland made a superbly
beautiful Marie Stuart, in black silk velvet and pearls,
white lace and starched ruff, assisted by Ye Four
Maries. Amongst the galaxy at Ye Crusader, Miss
Windeyer was seen in a Watteau costume of bright
cerise damoscene skirt , covered with knots of rosebuds,
and the whitest of hair surmouuted by the smallest of
rustic huts, —a pretty conception. At Samte George
and Ye Dragon, Miss Phillips m Navy blue velvet and
cream was the Beautiful Duchess, and her helpers w
disposing of y o dolls in daiutye apparyl, were in tne 17ih
century attire. Mr. E K. Cox wore a handsome page s
dresi of that time. At Ye Chelsea Bun House refresh-
ments of various kinds were sold by Mistresses Greer
and Daisy Walsh and others, quaintly pietty in dairy-
maid costumes of the Georgian «r: launched over dresses
of green chintz, powdered hair, snowy muslin caps
with cherry ribbons, and spots to show the beauty
of thoir fair complexions. The spots were unneces-
sary though. Mistress James Mauning presided
nt Ye Olds Tabarde, assisted by divers pretty damsels
in maroon 1 velvet and grey dresses, with velvet
Gainborough hats and sweeping pink feathers, i air
white arms were bravely bared to “do the washing up,
and delieate Angers tugged courageously at obstinate
corks Sticky bands had to be held out to friends, and
a general prevalence of sloppiness and cake-crumbs
had to be suffered by the good girls for the sake of Ye
Church. Another refreshment stall at the opposite end
of the Fayre was Ye Silver Churns, presided overby
milkmaids of the “ Patience’* stamp, with large straw
hats decked with corn-flowers, wheatears and poppies,
and dresses consisting of chintz ovsrskirts, turned-up
sleeves, and coloured quilted petticoats. Masters
Leverick and Blaxland were rustics in smock frocks,
coloured neckerchiefs, and felt hats. Whether they
would have been such willing cowboys had the milk-
maids been less fair, is doubtful. The Maypole oould
not bo used for a day or two, for want of room.
♦ s s
At Lady Stephen’s booth, the pretty daughter
of a clergyman wore a picturesque dress of red and
black, ana a tall headdress of rod, covered with trans-
parent muslin. The four daughters of a bank manager
assisted their pa in a Commercial speculation, worked
hv means of a revolving box and sundry tickets, which
wore ail prizes and no blanks. Their costumes were
simple black and white, but exceedingly tasteful, and,
served as a contrast to the colours so common. An
enormous wedding cake at Ye Anchor was—suggest!ve.y
enough— hollow, and enclosed a variety of articles. A
shilling a dip was charged, and whan a lady chanced <o
draw cut tobacco, and a gentleman a box of tape, tne
advantages of the “ spec." were at once demonstrated.
Master Trim paraded the f ayre in navy bine velvet,
white apron and white beaver hat* laden with singer,
bread and other delicttcies. Dame Trim’s pretty Oipey
Girl, in red and black, was much admired. A conceit
given on Easter Monday afternoon was thronged, and
subsequently, Masters Wyatt and Mackenzie, dis-
coursed sweet music on the grand piano at intervals;
Zadkiel* the Astrologer, walked solemnly by, bttt
business was slack in his line. There was no raffimg.
« ♦ •
“Ye Olde Toffoe Honse ” of Dame Haynes, or
« Trim Fairings,” was a staU which “drew consider,
ably. Mr. Trim is a thin gentleman of diminutive sue,
while Mrs. Trim is a tall, graefeful lady. This pair 13
aided by young Brandy Ball, a little girl, who a
ballad addressed to sweet-toothers— Comb, buy toy
slap-up brandy balls.” Her voice is loud inversely to
her size, and passers-by. hearing the song, almost
invariably look about to gee from whence the voice
proceeds. 7 Two sisters from North Shore, dressed as
Mistress Stapleton, solicited you to buy pictures of
themselves, and he who refused must have had an
unimpressionablo heart or a vacuous pocket. ith
these ladies is a Gipsy of darkest brunette type dressed
in harmonizing rich colours. Thelittl..Welsh “an
next her looks very quaint m her ball hat, cleck
neckerchief and apron, with her hands busily knitting,
• ♦ *
Two striking costumes were worn by the
daughters of a Liverpool-street doctor; the skirt of
was orange-oolonred, that of the other cream,
coloured; both embraidered with pearls. These ffldies
wore old-fashioned, large pattern Cretonne over-akuts,
with bodices and sleeves to match; the hair was
powdered and set off with entwininga of rosea. Their
appearance was quite sensational. To many eyes, a
lady from Double Bay bore the palm with a fawn,
coloured cashmere dress, trimmed with the newest
shadoof old gold, and bonnet to match The costume
was simply rather than elaborately and the
tall graceful figure of the wearer set It off to its fullest
advantage. * * •
The Duchess of Gainsborough was represented
bv two charming North Shore belles, dressed in black
velvet skirts, with old-fashioned long oyer-skirts, looped
nn It the side with cord and tassel. The immense hats
and destructive to the style of sune faces
United them exactly, and their graceful carnage and
general* eniemMevery well hit oi the Duchess whom
they imitated. # #
Doubtless, there were many more stylish and
elegant costumes worn, bat their beauties were hidden
in the dense crush. In such a gathering the shabbiest
and plainest attire would have almost passed un-
noticed, and the richest and coatbest costum o would
have had no opportunity to excite admiration. Black,
trimmsd with diflerently-coloured passementerie seemed
to be the most prevalent taste affected.
• * *
At the stall of “ Ye Red and Ye White Bose ”
was the daughter of a local poet. She was charmingly
dreased in I ruby satin skirt, white cashmere over,
skirt, swiss bodice, and a mysterious headdress which
though trying to meet beauties, only served to heighten
toe effect in this instance. Of course, Bho had patrons
galore, human nature asserting itself as usual with the
foung bloods who honoured the Fayre with their pre-
fence A formidable and equally conquering rival was
found in a young lady attending in the Chelsea Bun
Honse, 1 whose supply of buns could hardly keep pace
with the demand. If her customers only suffer as much
from her bright glances as they will from the
reckless manner in which they distended themselves
with buns, we cannot undertake to vrognoaticate the
fatal consequences. Alas I yes; the Nautchgirls.
To be sura, a striking costume. What a
sensation they are with their large nose-rings and
splendid jewels. The ring has its effect on the human
as well as on the bovine nose. The bull is gentle when
led by the nose, and henpecked husbands might take a
hint from these Nautoh girls. The effect onsomo noses
is peculiar—e.g., it gives a Koman fall to a hm
retrouUi. These Nautch girls did nt J
the principal business done in the novel Calcutta tea
tent seeming to be of that serious and confidential
character which has for its ingredieats n
posed of opposite sexes, and isolation. The Nautoh
men were not a novelty, as their prototypes can be seen
by every mail steamer. One of thorn, however. performs
the local feat of imitating the cry of tho wild peacock
to perfection.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Gladstone denounced Conservatives for partisan
action respecting the Irish 5ituati0n............ Agra r urn
murders increasing in Ireland J. R. Lowell, U
minister. London, again intercedes for Irish,-Aidencan
suspects Radicals agitating for Forster s recall from
Ireland . Sara Bernhardt has married a Greek named
Damala’...'....President Arthur vetoed Chinese Exclusion
Bill Sir Henry Parkes to be banqueted by Colonial
Institute on April 18tb; Duke of Manchester presides.
...Cardinal Jacobin! resigns Pontifical Secretaryship
of State; Cardinal Zigliara succeeds him .....Imperial
Govt stayed channel tunnel operations pending military
reports... Russian Govt, rxpels from Russia all foreigners
who have not been naturalised subjects for five years...
Mansion House committee formed to encourage immi.
gration from Great Britain to Canada .....Senator Miller
introduced a Bill to Congress to exclude Chinese from
the States for ten years; anti-Chinese leagties being
formed all over the States Turkey has sent troops to
Tripoli Sir Henry Parkes has interviewed Miss
Florence Nightingale respecting Australian Hospitals.
Right Rev, Frederick Barker, D.D, Bishop of Sydney
and Metropolitan of Australia, died at San Romeo,
Northern Italy, on April 6th, from the effects of heat
paralysis U.S- Senate has failed to override Presi-
clent Arthur’s veto to Chinese Exclusion
Fenian, Kinsella, who killed an informer in Dublin,
recently, has been found guilty of ‘'manslaughter
London Spectator advocates the release of Irish
political “suspects." Irish agrarian criminals to
L tried by special tribunals Nihilist mine Mos-
cow railway discovered; 80 persons arrested. Police
advise Czar not to have coronation at Moscow, as they
despair of preventing outrages Port Niugennino, on
the African Gold Coast, blockaded by i reach Kunboats
in retaliation of the murder for 1 ronch traders......
Dennis Florence McCarthy, Irish poet, 18
f.> Sir W. F. D. Jervois retires from the British
army with title of Lieutenant-General..... .Cyclones m
Kansas and Miehigan. U. 8,.. .French troops have
defeated Tunisian insurgents under Bon
baiting in Russia still prevalent .M- do Criers BU >'
ceeds Gortschakoff as Minister for Foreign Affairs m
Russia. Gortschakoff retains the dignity of
Chancellor...... Russian army to be reduced by WLO
men No-rent agitation spreading in the Highlands
of Scotland Parnell released from Kilmainham Gaol
on a week’s parole, to permit him to attend his sister s
child’s funeral 3COO Chinese have left Hongkong for
the O S Russia fortifying her seaboard t0wn5......
Military activity in Turkey .Slav insurrection in
Austria spreading Zululand harvest a failure......
Distress prevalent in London; unemployed urge
Government to provide means for assisted emigration
to colonies discovered that St. Petersburg!! and
Moscow railway mined in eleven difleient pUces hy
Nihilist* Prince of Wales and Duke of Cambr^dg
reviewed 90,000 volunteers at Portsmouth jorierday...,.
Priaoe Leopold recovering Plot discovered to ma <
der Arab! Bey Gabriel Dome Rosetti, age d 5t years,
is dead .. ..Mr. John Gome. Chief Justice of F iji, has
bten knighted Mr. Smythe, landlord w West Meath,
has written to Gladstone, that he holds the right om
gentleman personally responsible for the recentm _
by Fenians, of hie sister Over 100 persons bad eymp-
toms of poisoning at Inverness, Scotland, after eati g
hot cross buns. _
In the South Coast district there lives a kindly
and much-respected minister of the Church of E g
who has a very large family, and » on the
colonial equivalent for forty pounds a y®ar. .
out that he, while taking his walks abro-d one at-e
noon, saw a bad-tempered mother, whoae daughtci »
offended her by marrying against parertal advice.
down on her knees and invoke all 9* 0i her
head of the wayward girl. Amongst variety
things, she prayed that her daughter wih^>,
family, eternal poverty, sickness—. . iuat w* - .
my good woman," chimed in the gemal g-
<• you’ve asked that she may have many children ana
money—yon need go no farther,"
14
April IS. 1882,
THE BULLETIN.


T
HEAT B E
'tilmiifrtt 1
BRILLIANT SUCC
of
BLAND HOLT’I
Drury Lane Speotai
THE WORLD,
THE WORLD,
THE WORLD,
written by Paul Merritt, Henry Pe
Harris.
Entirely New and RBALIBTI'
Startling Mechanical Effects. Novt
Hundreds Turned Away
Holders of tickets unable to gain
night, can use them this
THIS (Wednesday) EVENING, a
THE WORLD. THE M
THE WORLD. THE Y
THE WORLD. THE V
Characters by BLAND HOLT’S
Combination Compt
THE EXPLOSION OP THE INPE
THE GREAT RAPT 8
THE ESCAPE PROM THE
TUB GREAT MASQUER*
PANTOMIME BALI
arranged (through special favour <
Oreville, and Hennings) by Mons.
Master of Theatre Royal, Molbourn
100 AUXILIARIES
Prices as usual. Box Office a
Tickets for all parts of the house
theatre. Children in arms not adn
at 7.15.
Businas Manager for Bland Holt—
COMB EARLY TO AVOID 1
JAMES ALI
Q
UEBN ' S T I
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRA
LAST WEEK
of the Renowned
HUDSON'S SURPRISE
THB DONATORS OP
Oar Mew Programme, the Greatest
Admission as neual. H. SAB
NOTICE—
to-morrow EVENING,
APRIL 14th, Benef
TOMMY HUDI
MONSTER PEOGR.A
SATURDAY, 15th, Farewell Appeal
Party in Sydney
MONDAY and TUESDAY, 17th an
(Party perform at Qou
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY,
Wagga Wagga.
M
B. AND MBS. JAS
(MISS MARBTON LI
Arrangements completed for ene
June Ist, 1882, under thema
MESSES. GARNER, WILLIAMS!
JJEXT SATtTEDAY,
ON THE QROUI
at 2 p.m.
PLEUES, PLEDES, FLEURS,
subdivided into
FARMS, FAnirsL FARM
varying from
20 (Twenty) Acres to 50 (Pift.
with
WATER FRONTAGE to E
TITLE, TORREN
TERMS MOST LIBI
viz,, one-third cash deposit, the
equal yearly inataln
v A SPECIAL TRAIN will
STATION at 10.55 a.m. on day o
tending purchases to Sonth Creek t
special ’buses will take them to Pl<
•T FREE TICKETS and PLAN
BATT, EODD, and
N
EXT
SATUEDAY,
AT 2 P.M.
ON THE GROUI
A9HPIELD, BLAND, and WIL
Choice snbdlvisioi
Mr. J. TEESEDER’S PROPERTY
During the past year you have
plained that it was difficult to got i
You have heard that the last season
poor in quality, and that enormous
and low grades are accumulated in
please ask your grocer or storekee
packet of the Calcutta Tea Associa
Teas ?—a blend of the most famous i
the world; kept by all thejleading si
and country. Wholesale Wareho
place.— Advt.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 5
and though be has not been establi
Domini 49, he knows about as much *
We trust our readers will not negleo
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-sl
anything in the boot-line, from a pa
pump, you hod better call at 581, am
matter with Hannah." The foregoi
true upon our solo. Boots ought to
now, if only for the kicking of lit
Abvs.
Theatre royal,
OPEN POE ENGAGEI
Will seat seven er eight hundrec
with Gag; lately patronised by the S<
Terms moderate. Apply to
W.
3EKTEAD
BEDDING MAN
' i rv
STEAM BEDDING I
and
PDENITURE WAEEI
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25,
T. WEIGHT, 529
SYDNEY.
Department of IV
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS :
LEASES
NOTICE is hereby given th
sees execute and take deli
mentioned Mineral Lease withir
this date, it will declared void.
AKTI
No. 1233; William Simpson anc
No. 390; County of Gough, parish o
Application No. Tingha 441.
Department o
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PO
LEASES.
"VTOTICE is hereby given th
J-v sees execute and take deli
mentioned Gold-mining Leases ’
from this date, they will be decl
ASTI
Huntbk, and Maclnay Mini
No. 567; John Collins and others
rvl fll/an/lAafaN rxiriah rtf Ri
-fc
VISIT R. BTJRGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiouy.
T
HE PAINLESS CORN RELIEVER
A Sure Relief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Qympio (sola
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros. A Co. Syd-
ney and Brisbane; and sold by all patent medicine
vendors,
ASK FOR HANDBILLS.
fJIHE CLONT ARE LIBEL CASE
PORTRAITS OF HAYNES AND ARCHIBALD.
BEST PHOTOS. YET PRODUCED.
WCOLLINS (LATE NEWMAN), PHOTOGRAPH ER
GEORGE STREET, NEXT POST OFFICE.
■\Y. H * p A
* PIANOFORTE WAEEI
352 Gcorge-stroet
• v
m
i w-t
1.1
PIANOFORTES, PTAN
Just Unpacked, s
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST.
MENTH, by
EBARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLAI
SOUPLETO,
EEEDKN and
TBOBT
THU PAINT FOB IRONWORK AND
GALLEY’S TOEBA 1
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving (
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDSHE ACTION OF HEAT A 1
BLISTER CRACK., OR FLAKE OF
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, E\
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEM
— — or » TTfrT cm bthM I', dim
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FO]
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DETC
Mm
FOB
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS. TIMBER MERCHAN
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWER
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS
We have a large stock of tho above in our Stores and to arrive, an
and other particular on receipt of your
H. P. GREGORY
ENGINEERS
AND MACHINES
17 PITT STREET, STDS
482 t .T t 4B4- CEORCE S
o°
ROB I
k THE
MARKET CLOTH t
OPPOSITE THE FRUIT MAR
ESTABLISHED 1064
A LARC E and WE LL SF I F
•. ■■■■'%■■:- or
WOOLLENS, NEW FATT
15
AjrU 16, I*B2,
THE BULLETIN.


MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTEE AND PARRY’S NEW EXTRACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
v PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pie ng smell, will not injure the most deli-
- 9a , e hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with o th purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of Hum. fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOU T IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of „ ,
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Point, Floors,
and pvery Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grecers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
I
v.
than
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper ~
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, Ac.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES.
Bend for a Price List. Country orders pnnctu-
Hy attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
on cannot mistake it—
XL, Opposite Hordern’s New Build ngs.
lW 3.
•I
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description^MasonlO Jewels and Pro*
sontation Trowels designed and made On the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER!
A new and Choice Assortment of Good* per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
THE ORIGINAL FIRM,
UNTRAMMELLED AND FREE !
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
FOR
BLANKETS, SHEETINGS, QUILTS, DRESSES,
VELVETS, STAYS, HOSIERY, FLANNELS.
To newly married couples and those abont to furnish,
we would specially recommend onr BLANKETS. The
beauty of these well-known blankets is that there is
PLENTY TO TUCK IN.
Wo would particularly draw the attention of our
kind patrons in the country to our only address, viz.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
Near LIVERPOOL STEEET.
ESTABLISHED 1823.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
[7» 0 W L E E’S POTTERY
L AND
BRICK WORKS,
AMPERDOWIT, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our customers and tile
Farmers of N.S.W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered,
addition to all the well-known ENGH3H and 4-M ERI
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGE STS POE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us wittf
their orders early, as
William Richie's 1882 Flonghs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
PAEMBES NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
MARTIN & PAIN.
389 GEOR6E-ST,
, Sydney*
Before Ordering*
send for
Our Price Lost
AND
All Particulars.'
INFORMATION for CHAFF-DEALERS
Owners of Horses* &(•
READ WHAT PRACTICAL :<CN KAY ABOUT /
OUR BUNCLE’S MACHINES
i
MARTIN
AHD PAIN,
389 George St, 9
SYDNEY. ___
Intending Purchasers should be careful to see that Chaff
Cutters offered them as Bunde’s pattern are THE GENU-
INE BUNGLE. . . n—
, John Bunole, of Melbourne, has been BB years perfecting
* his Chaff Cutters, and any machines that have not his name
cast on fly-wheel and mouth-piece, are not of his manu-
facture.
THE DEPOT FOR BUNCLE’S MACHINES.
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4c I"ORING jE.WEVA.t-'
3. 8c II HUNTER STREE
SILVER WATCHES
£.4.10.
SYDNEY.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
GOLD WATCHES
FROM J .5.10.
o**
rjIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ABE IN EVER Y WAY COMPLETE.
TEY ONE. FOB
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street. HAIR - CUTTING,
SYDNEY . STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
$ And Ornamental Hair W ork.
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
YIN ORDINAIRE
8/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES per dozen.
Shiraz ■> Fruity .
MADEIRA J Wines $ hrt rt
BURGUNDY
RIESLING
} Wines ] 2l/ ‘
1 G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
WINES.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
Ac., Ac.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PEE GALLON.
PUBLIC NOTICE
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPINQ MIXTURE afid
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor wh o
endeavours to deceive the public by SUBSTITUTING
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
bearing' 8
“ THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE.”—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Importers
thus— ’
s Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PURR
TEA, must be certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not careless],
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ARE GUARANTEED
TORE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—*
P. BUTCHER,
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Qasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUHfSERFIELD,
235 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER, Ids. 6d.
H* L. SUMMERFIELD!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, A 3 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Guarantees a perfect fit i
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Sends Self-measurement forms free by post!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by post!
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the BEST CITY CUTTERS 1
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
Speciality Suits to measure, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR
Speciality Trousers to measure, 16s. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
235 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other Public
bodies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and Splendid
SHOP, No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
fee corner of Goulburn-street, where he will be pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN'S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-claas Style.
A Visit is requested.
e Tbbms of subscription for The are-"
idvanco, per annum, 125.; half-year, 6s. ; quarter j.
Is.; booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances m y
)e made by stamps of any Australian colony orst-
>r by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and G •»
it Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W. ____
Printed and published by W. H. Tiuinn & Co.,
The Bulletin office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, «•
Wales.
wk
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
JORL
Business
PROMENADE
Tr6\elltn.6
"Standard Tweed Suits £1 5 0
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 6
"Standard” ditto ditto, Superior Quality... ... 2 2 0
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits ... ... 112 6
" Standard ” Superior ditto 115 0
White Military Drill, and Wavy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to season, extra well cut, and
well made.
PE APES and SHAW,
PBAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
, SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all tie latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
I Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine. J
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
6 8 KINO 818 BE T, BTDNE7,
NEXT TO ’Btfo OFFCE.
