

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 11.—Wo. 133
SYDNEY, SATURDAY,, SEPTEMBER 16, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16. 1882.
How About the Land Bill?
Ministers are content with the situation. Hav-
ing a compact phalanx of fifty “ road and bridge ”
members at their backs, there is no danger of an
adverse division. Consequently, the instinct of
self-preservation prompts the party in power to
do nothing, and that is exactly what they mean to
do. The need for trenchant legislation in land
reform and Local Government, is plain to every
man with brains enough to comprehend honest
politics, but such action as may be taken in
reference to the first will be equivalent to an
attempt to skin over a cancer, and, if forced to
deal with the last, it will take the shape of a
system of parish relief administered under politi-
cal influences. We mav expect, then, in regard
to these important matters, either sham measures
or no measures at all, and it will remain for the
country seriously to consider the position.
• • •
There is a close connection between the prodi-
gal mismanagement of our lands and the expendi-
ture on public works. The reconstruction of
the one will inevitably lead to the administration
of the other being placed on a different footing.
Any land reform worth more than waste paper
will heal present discords, and will confer
on every branch of country industry, whether
conducted on large or on small holdings,
he boon of security of tenure. Two-
hirds of the present land revenue is
derived from the purchases made by owners of
squattagea to protect their paddocks and dams
against the intrusion of selectors. If we termi-
nate this fend by a fair award, defining and limit-
ing the claims of squatters and selectors, then
these great land sales will cease. The party that
supports every strong Government, the “local
members,” or “road and bridge men,” is kept
together by profligate expenditure, the means
having hitherto been provided mainly by the buy-
ing up of southern stations. If, by an altered
land policy, this expensive method of defence
becomes no longer necessary, then the funds that
support political corruption and log-rolling will be
cut off at their source, and local government with
self-taxation will become inevitable.
• « •
But we are far from this yet. Such a thorough
reform is the last thing that either the Govern-
ment or the local members would like to see. A
shrunken land revenue, with no longer any surplus
to lavish on supporters, and each country electo-
rate called upon either to make its own roads
and bridges, or to do without —would look to the
majority in +he Assembly like political death. But,
to the people of New South Wales, such a change
would be the harbinger of a resurrection to
Political life. Two ulcers that are now eating into
the vitals of the colony would be healed. The
destructive alienation of the territory _ would
he arrested, and an expenditure which has
been conducted without regard to either
economy or honesty would be brought to an end.
If the sense and conscience of N»w South Wales
were in harmony with the existing scheme of waste
plunder, then there would be little chance of
reform ; but it has been very plain for some time
that the brains of the country reach a higher level
than the current politics. This influence is leaven-
ing the people, and it may be only a question of
Weeks or months till a wholesome discontent may
Psrvade the electorates. When the fact is grasped,
that the true settlement of the lands as well as
producing industry, is not merely retarded,
th oc^ By the same policy that is wasting
the best of the country, and squandering the
. avenues in buying votes, then this long-
*nffering community will quickly make an end of
he quackery by which it has so long been duped.
# * *
ofTuition in New South Wales is one
, the most extraordinary muddles that ever per-
plexed humanity. When Sir John Robertson
fought forward hia Bill in 1861, an Alienation
ct was wanted, and one, in some shape, would in
J ® ase have been passed. However, people
. 0 knew the colony said that such a measure
ould not be rushed recklessly through, but
due consideration. A groat deal of the
had been occupied for long in one way or
.l ther; so the legislators would not have a blank
„i®t of paper to work upon. One part of the
„ t ., n y had been from the first under freehold
j n ‘®®ent; and to deal with the unsold lands
W rac t would be comparatively easy,
am r mu *h larger tracts had been under
mere grazing tenure for thirty years ;, and
it was considered wise and expedient _by all
reasonable people that the resumption of
land in these last should be conducted with con-
sideration for the work going on and the interests
concerned. Moreover, it had been the custom of
all civilised people, as it remains yet, to measure
land before it was sold. Australia, right through,
is a land consisting of oases of 'grass and water,
patches of good soil intersecting comparatively
barren tracts, the frontages to rivers and streams
being invaluable —whoever holds these, holds the
keys of the country round. Suck being the case,
a preliminary survey was desirable to prevent the
country being wasted, and cause it to be sold fairly
—the bad with the good.
• * «
All such views were, however, condemned and
outvoted by Sir John Robertson and his sup-
porters ; and his invention of general scramble, or
free selection became law. Above all things, he was
well warned of the flood-gates of evil that would be
opened if ho sold land to one man while under lease
to another, but all such suggestions advocating
reason and fair-dealing were pooh-poohed. The
Father of Land Reform showed as much rae-ard for
the warnings of common-sense as Jack Cade did
when he swore that his palfrey should eat grass at
Charing Cross. Everybody was to get anything
he liked, and down with the———squatter!
• * *
Mountebank statesmanship like this had rarely
appeared on the world’s stage. Mischief soon
began—Pantaloon and Harlequin sat in high
places, while apes and magpies chattered and
filched in the purlieus of the Legislature. Mem-
bers who had cracked their voices on the hustings
singing the joys of agriculture and the praises of
the poor man began to make money as land-
agents. They turned their experience into coin
by showing squatters how to use the Act to resist
selectors. Sham selection, sham improvements,
dummying in all shapes, were invented by legisla-
tors who had helped to pass the Act. False
declarations grow themselves, prompted by cir-
cumstance and example. When a Minister for
Lands went out of office, he perhaps opened a
land agency, and earned money by showing how
his own Acts and Regulations could be evaded.
Such a thing has happened.
• • *
This is the Parliamentary history! of free selec-
tion. As to the lands themselves, the cause of
strife, where are they ? The late census shows
beyond question that there is almost no progress
in the occupation of the interior: that less crop is
grown per head than was grown twenty years ago;
and that the new population of the decennial period
is crowding into the towns and living by anything
but agriculture or productive industry. We
know this, too—that the richest of our lands are
now held neither by the traditional squatter nor
by his foe, the selector; but they are falling into
the shape of huge freehold estates, measuring
twenty miles across, inhabited by overseers and
boundary riders, and belonging to unknown indi-
viduals living elsewhere. The end is neither
settlement, nor any use of the soil for human
welfare.
« m m
These valuable lessons are, however, entirely
wasted on Sir John Robertson and his faithful
followers. A law that prompts litigation, as free-
seleotion does, and provides fat fees for Members
of Parliament acting as land agents, gets all the
support due to a cherished vested interest. Mr.
Garrett said, some years ago, that no one whose
opinion was worth listening to wanted any change
in the land law ; and is not his name blazoned in
its annals ?
* * •
The Hon. Edmund Webb appealed, the other
day, to the flourishing land revenue as a proof of
the beneficial working ®f the law. The honorable
gentleman, with grocer-like logic, estimated the
success of the land policy by the cash taken over
the counter. He might judge the policy of the
Egyptian war in the same way by the profits of
the army-contractors and canteen-keepers.
« # *
Sir John’s devotion to his old Act, and his utter
recklessness of consequences, are proven daily.
The Volunteer Land Orders, under hia auspices,
became the best of weapons for beating off
selectors ; and in the “ pine scrub ” clause of the
Forests’ Act he saw nothing to object to, though
everybody else (with the exception of its pains-
taking author, Dr. Eenwick) saw that it was an
underground attempt to bring large tracts of
country under an exceptional tenure. Wherever
the cypress pine grows, from the head of the Caa-
tlereagh to the Mnrrumbidgee, the usual Parlia-
mentary land-agents’ influence would have been
subsidised to bring runs under its provisions.
• • •
All who want a better state of things would
like well to see squatters acquire security of
tenure, within restricted limits, but that is a very
different thing from juggling whole stations out
of the public hands, under the pretext of encourag-
ing the destruction of scrub.
• # •
When New South Wales was forty years
old, and the defined area measured only
twenty-five millions of acres, it was easy
for any man to get a good-sized holding. Then,
there were no gigantic stations and no free
selection. Now, with nearly two hundred millions
of acres, and most of our people living in the
towns, land can hardly be got for any purpose
without the risk of a lawsuit or a feud, involving
ruin imminent in one shape or the other. You
read one day of the honest Frenchman, Durand,
being hemmed in and persecuted because ho
ventured to buy, and cultivated, forty acres on the
river frontage of a station. The next day you read
of a selector taking up land in another man’s
paddock and impounding his sheep. These are
but bubbles on the surface that show the simmer-
ing beneath in the witches’ cauldron of the land
law, where the wealth, peace and industry of New
South Wales are seething to corruption.
• « «
Tl*o land law that the people of this colony must
have, and will have yet, is one that will give them
back the peace, security, and other advantages of
the early times ; one that will cease to provide a
land revenue to buy the votes of political dele-
gates, that will make no fortunes for land-sharks
and lawyers ; but that will provide scope for all
industries through a well-considered policy of
survey. It will not lease the same land to one
man and sell it to another ; it will not set the poor
and rich at each other’s throats ; further, if any
doubtful points appear in framing the measure,
it would be well to avoid any precedents laid down
by Sir John Robertson.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Week of Carnivals.
The central idea of Christianity is the renunciation of
Self, and the deep-rooted conviction that the present
life and sordid scramble should be subordinated to the
struggle with everything tending to bind us to earth,
or draw off the mind from the awful issues of eternity.
A stroll through the streets of Sydney any day last
week demonstrated how far, after 1800 years, the idea
is focused in actual life. In a city of a quarter of
a million, three carnivals were held at once—each with
a distinct purpose; and for each, it can he alleged
that the improvement of human conditions was the
object sought. There was the racing carnival, which
tends “ to improve the breed of horses,” thereby adding
to human comfort. There was the voting for a
bishop, the need fen: a directing head to a
clerical army being the subject of anxious
deliberation and keen electioneering. And that
Christian men might rise to a just conception of the
miraculous origin of their religion and the divine
authority of the Church, bishops and priests turned
out in hundreds, and presented a first-class theatrical
display in St. Mart’s ; at prices ranging from £1 to
half-a-crown. The button-holeing and lobbying at the
Phillip-street Church Registry was no less keen amongst
the black-coated voters than amongst the groups that
expectorated and laid the odds at the same hour in
front of “ Tattersall's " or at Punch’s corner. While
the swarming clean-shaved priests who had come from
all the colonies were here, there, and everywhere,
whipping in the coin of the faithful, Bishop Joseph
Thompson came over to see how fast the improvement
goes on in horse-breeding. Archbishop Vaughan and
Bishop Everybodyelse mounted their 100-guinea
suits—all cut after the fashion of the Nazarene,
—who was there at the Altar—and proved
the divine compassion of that Man, inasmuch
as they and their Richardson’s Show were not
consumed : whilst the Anglican clergymen
and the few laity returned to their homes, each
with the grim determination that his man
should draw the £2OOO a year, which is all
that remains memorable of a late deceased prelate.
In it are the same methods—the same reversal of
Christian contempt for this transitory world and its
‘deals, and the same glaring contempt for the principles
THE LATE CAPTAIN ROBERT JOHNSTON, R.N.—(See page 7.)


£1 [O UQ H S AN D COLDS
The Best Cure for the above is Ram made hot
and taken at bed-time. *
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. Per Imperial Quart.
C. W. ROBERTS
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT*
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. ROBERTS*
NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
6*7
A GLASS ,OF WHISKY. BRANDY, PORT WlNv
SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at aav
other establishment in the world. 1
C. W. ROBERTS*
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED OR WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PRODUCT OF AUSTRALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPARMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OF ALL BEVERAGES
C. W. ROBERTS* SPECIAL WHISKY,
4a, 6d. per bottle.
clynrlish’ whiskey,
s, per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE POET
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR ••• PALE BRANDT.
6s. pvr Bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE]
FURNITURE 111
" m>A7"HERE is the best place to buy Furniture?"
T ▼ This question is being asked every day, and
is of as much interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the “ Happy Conple “ just setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kitchea
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HYDE PARE
FURNISHING EXHIBITION
OXFORD STREET. SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANOELSON AND DAVIS
(Late HARDY BROTHERS).
EVERY HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAY BE HAD
HEBE*
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; bat remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
Tha Hyde Park Furnishing Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE FURNITURE-
GO to the
HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION.
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled
whilst the Prices will be found
MjAEVELLOUSLI L 0 Wl
This vast Collection has been selected and
tuned with a practical regard for Modem require®
and improved taste.
We Invite you to inspect our Stock; yon
iked to buy what you do no* - want; for our ohje® ,
RETAIN as well as OBTAIN patronage j
ob the satisfaction, good opinion, and recomw
tion of our customers.
Remember these important facts :
OUR STOCK IB THE LARGEST.
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPBEHENU
OLB STOCK IS THE BEST,
-OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAP
KS- Tlw-otmost oare is given to packlng and
ing all Goode bought at this Establishment. £ y
try Cugl-orpen. may rely upon the , I
their orders and the delivery of their par
sound condition.
•» which churches are supposed to be built. There
-they were—horse racing, ostensibly a harmless pastime
nhd indirectly a source of wealth to man, become a tool
for the unscrupulous scoundrel to fleece the public; and
the presumed means for raising humanity a prey to the
vanity of priestcraft, or the clerical dice-box. Every
thoughtful man hopes for the triumph of Christian
principles, but for any spectator of last week’s Pagan
life in Sydney to pretend that wo have advanced one
stride in that direction implies that he is either a
shallow fool or a tacit knave.
The Buckle in the Saw.
When Mr. Herbert Spencer wished to say a word or
two en botch legislation, he compared it to the attempts
of an unskilled man to hammer a buckled saw level.
You bring down your hammer on the raised part and it
disappears, but a new bulge comes up elsewhere. A
blow on that (an Amending'Act) and a fresh bulge else-
where. The laws designed to prescribe what men shall
do on Sunday are an illustration of this. Thou shalt
not drink beer nor see pictures during certain hours, and
the free and enlightened citizen travels to the sea and
helps to enrich a few publicans, and has the e*tra treat
thrown in of riding home on a tramcar enlivened by
the instructive and chaste anecdotes of the polished
larrikin, and the chorused refrain of harlotry. We
draw big revenues from the most powerful incentive to
vice, only to devote it to its repression. The heedless
and worthless are made law breakers, and the comfort
and liberty of the worthy.upon which the public money
should be spent, supports a policeman where a picture
should be bought or looked at.
The D.T. and the Poets.
IA. short time ago, the Daily Telegraph contained a
leader intended to set the public right about Australian
poets and poetry. The writer of this luminous article
spikes Henry Kendall, Charles Harpur, and Sir
Henry Parers on the pinnacle of fame, just as beetles
are spiked on pins by the zealous entomologist. Parkes
is called a poet of “no mean order.” If the order of
Michael and George is meant, we quite agree, because
Chinamen have been found who were not ashamed to
sit beside Companions of the same. But who is this
scarecrow who presumes to express an opinion on
poetry, when he should be driving a dray or selling
tnpe ? He is, gentle reader, a well-known figure in the
ranks of what are ironically called the “ pressmen ” of
this city. He is young or old, as the case may be, but
age makes no difference in him, except outwardly. His
brain-pan is almost always empty. When it isn’t so, it is
full of ooze. It is like a hollow in the rocks by the sea-
side, only reached by the highest tides, and, as it
gradually dries up, a lot of crooked little notions
and humpbacked theories crowd into its crevices
as crabs crawl into the crevices of the rock-
hollow, and squat there until necessity hunts
them. out. It was one of these that suggested the
article in question. We have no quarrel with people of
this kind. They have to live—we suppose—and though
we consider they should be making their living by
brickmaking, yet it is no fault of tbeirs if their employ-
ers consider them qualified to instruct the publis. As
long as they stick to police-court paragraphing, writing
up fires, and interviewing “ stiffs,” they are safe. But
the moment they show symptoms of wanting to soar
above this, and of a desire to dissertate on poetry, they
should be taken out to the yard at the back of the
office, and gently, but firmly, knocked on the head with
a poleaxe. It is better to do this at first, becasse once
they get the craze into their skulls that they are fitted
for something better than hack-work, a garden-rake
will not remove it, and they are not fit to bo trusted by
themselves ever after. Now, with regard to this
article. No mention is made therein of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, who wrote some of the most stirring lyrics in
the English language, and who was the greatest master
of nervous, fiery verse we have yet had in these lands.
Nothing is said of Bbunton Stephens, whose “Con-
vict Once ” is one of the few poems that have tended
to invite outside attention to our budding Australian
literature. These latter, remember, are the only men,
apart from Kendall who have written anything with
the passion of song in it, and yet smelling sweet of this
•oil of ours. But Henry Parses—here is the bard for
you whose hearts are hungry for song. Stay your
stomachs with this junk from “Murmurs of the
Stream." The piece from which we extract it is called
a “ Common Grief,” and tells of a “ simple Irish
maiden” (poor thing!) who, strolling into a neigh-
bour’s orchard, “sneaks” the fruit therein, which
“ lays low that gentle child.” This is the natural con-
sequence of eating green apples; but, with the
tender instinct of the true poet, Henry throws a
halo over this fact and goes on to describe with intense
pathos the fate of the maiden. Bead this and weep :
“ Low in her mother’s dear embrace.
And with soft-drooping eye”
She murmured in that resting-place,
Beneath that loving, watching face,
* I’ll die, I’ll die, Fll die!’”
This verse is entitled to much critical attention. It is
unique. The metre is catching, so much so that we
have adopted it with groat effect in an entertainment
we are writing for the Quiribunger Amateurs. The
“Mad Butcher” is the name of it. That is why the
neater is so suitable. Behold:—
His tonzled head was very red.
And madly did ho'cry ;
“ Shoeps’heads, fine tripe, and tip-top chops.
Much cheaper than the other shops !
Who’ll buy, who’ll buy, who’ll buy ? "
Here is another blob from a piece, by ,the same starry
genius, placarded “ Freedom ” :
•• Wooed to the populous city art thou.
And the glorified multitudes fealty avow !
But dimmed is thy light bj the terrors of 'crime.
And thy voice dies away in the murmur, ‘Not time 1’ ”
What grandeur of expression—what sublimity of
thought, are here 1 Mark the rhythmie cadence, the
touching pathos of the concluding line—“ And thy
voice dies away in the murmur— * not time 1 ’ " Bat
the beauty of the poem is marred by the
ghastly suspicion, which crosses the reader’s
mind after he has read this verse, that the
baa-d is in the pay of a time-payment furniture-
warehouse, and will wind up his fiery lyric with tbe
statement that two hearts that beat as one can fornish
« house for £l5, paid by weekly instalments, jast ns
well as by purchasing at retail prices, and planking the
money down. What grudge has the Daily Telegraph
against the Premier that it should call him a poet?
Every man has, at some time or other, [done things
tbat he has been sorry for, but this is no reason why _
they should be cast in his teeth in the after time. If’
the Daily Telegraph people will leave things that they
don't understand severely alone for the future—which
means, practically, that they must net touch upon any-
thing mentiosed in an encyclopoedia—we will leave
them alone. And gladly : because we begin to feel as
one who has been kicking a pole-cat—nearly as mal-
odorous as our victim.
Wanted—A Bishop!
The world has seen some soft things in Bishops since
the article was invented. Prom Hildebrand of the
Moyen Age and the Papal tiara to the much-married
Bishop Potts, of Max Adelbb’s Mormon burlesque,
the range is a wide and comprehensive one. Little
wonder, therefore, is it that the dignity of the episcopal
office is represented by divers types of personality and
varying species olinen, and that the institution which
sent forth a Moorhouse should also send forth a
Barker, or that the crazier of a Folding should develop
pto the weapon of assault of a Vaughan. Just at the
present moment, Sydney is clamouring for a wearer of
the lawn-sleeves in the room of Dr. Barker. Except,
perhaps, among the “books,” and the voters, there is
possibly little of this clamour; but there is scarcely
any one in this colony, with any stable interest therein,
who does not view the proceedings of the elective
Synod with more or less pardonable curiosity. In the
expressive and graceful dialect of the aboriginals, a
Bishop, if at all a capable man, must continue to be,
for some time yet, a “budgeree big feller” in these
colonies. We have had in thii’colony the spectacle of
a Bishop who was scarcely a capable man In the com-
parative sense ef the word. In another celony, we have
the spectacle of a Bishop who is in all respects such a
capable man. Will the Synod kindly send us round
another Moobhousb, if possible, and entitle itself
thereby to the thanks of the community ?
John Dunmore Lang.
The meeting held at the Town Hall on Monday last to
devise means whereby the services of Dr. Lang to this
country might he suitably commemorated, was, as it
should have been, a success. The matter will be dealt
with on a future occasion, at a larger meeting, and
therefore some aspects of it need not be spoken of. It
was not to be wondered at that the attendance of
members of Parliament was small. Dr. Lang, for
whatever else he may be held in grateful and reverent
memory, is deserving of perpetual praise for the purity
which he not only taught but practised in his political
relations. Therefore it is in compliance with that law
which decrees a fitness to exist between movements and
movers, that few members of the most servile Parlia-
ment that has ever existed in this colony, and whoso
parallel, with the single exception of Queensland, does
not at present exist in this group, should have been
present to offer tribute to the memory of the most
independent of members and the most searching of
critics. As to the services of Dr. John Dunmore Lang,
whoever needs to be reminded of them should be told
to read the History of New South Wales, cujus magnet
pars/wit. It has been complained that his history of
the colony is, amongst a few other matters, a bio-
graphy of Dr. Lang. It was in the nature of both the
writer and his subject that this should have been so.
A man of almost savage vigour of both mind and body
could not throw himself into the arena where the his.
tory of a new country was being made and her destinies
shaped, without infusing his magnificent vitality
through the whole, and influencing it, according to the
nature of his co-actors. With Dr. Lang as a Presby-
terian clergyman, the public has nothing to do; but, as
a pressman, as a statesman, as a student and priest
and as, rarest character of all, as a patriot—here the man
and his work become full of an intense interest to us ;
and, with an admirable good taste, the gentlemen at
Monday's meeting dealt only with that latter side of
his character. There remains one thing to be said
respecting the choice of his memorial. Let it not be a
statue. We are sufficiently provided with these —
what with that monument of toadyism, the Prince
Albert statue. Let it be something which shall be
equally a monument to our taste as to our liberality,
and which will, at the same time, subserve the higher
interests of the community. Let the Scotsmen build
a kirk to the good Dr. Lang’s memory, if they wish;
but let us, New South Welshmen, have something wider
and nobler than a religious memorial.
The “foorce” is the most interesting subject under dis-
cussion in Melbourne atpresent. Longmore, the smiling
cadaverous Chairman of the Police Commission, is
“ pumping ” the Bourke-street publicans in succession
and extracting some deleetable items of information.
To wit, that the officers have come to regard the pubs,
as testimonial banks where accommodation can be had
on the most delightfully uncommercial principles ; that
“numbers av the foorce” have only to say “Arrah,
me mout’ is as dhry as a loime-bumer’s wig,” and
free drinks will immediately ensue; and that certain
hotels at “ business corners ” are undisguised
houses of assignation, under the patronage of
well, certain officers of the Melbourne Police Dis-
trict. All this is decidedly novel and interesting. It
shows how the Cabbage-Garden is improving in Baby-
lonian fashion. But there are people who decline to
see the improvement, as for instance the Argus, which
has just come out with a thundering leader describing
the “foorce” in familiarly epigrammatical language as
“ stinking in the nostrils of the public.” But worse
still remains behind, for, if rumour is to be believed,
Longmore, when he has done with the bonifaces, intends
calling upon the principal “ ladies of pleasure” for
particulars in reference to their compact with the
police authorities, by virtue of which they are per-
mitted to parade Collins-street in unblushing freedom.
As a matter of fact, no respectable woman now ever
attempts to enter Collins-street East after dark. From
the Treasury to the Town Hall—in front of the 101
doctors’ mansions—is given over by tacit consent to the
nymphs of the pavi. The spectacle therein presented
shows conclusively that despite all the religious agencies
at work, human nature continues the same. The old
world Babylon has its counterpart at the antipodes.
The Eev. Dr. Wazir Beg has written a ludic-
rously funny letter to the Herald against the opening
of the Art Gallery oil Sundays. Ha gives statistics to
show that in "those countries, where the Sunday after
noon and evening ate spent in amusements, theatres,
publio gardens, singing saloons, dancing saloons, art
galleries, caft s a, &o.” illegitimate births are excessively
above the proportion of other countries. The Eev.
Wazir Beg doesn’t attempt to distribute this increase
of among the various items of theatres,
saloons, &o.; but Bogs the question by simply saying
—ergo, shut up art galleries on Sundays, and you keep
down illegitimacy. Dr. Beg may know all about; the
Confession of Faith; but he doesn't appear to be strong
on the Theory of fjove. Has he ever compared the
statistics of illegitimacy between towns whore love-
feasts and ohoir-praotices are in vogue, and towns where
they are not ? His mania for side illustrations might
prompt him to try this. Sir Walter Scott told ns that
“love rules the court, the eamp, the grove :” but it was
reserved to a Sydney parson to apply the rule to art
galleries.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
Yamga”: Your poetry is very good—just good
enough to tack on to a five-shilling obituary notice in
tbe Herald, jto which place send it when your mother-
in-law dies. The verses remind ns of the woman who
in speaking affectionately of her deceased husband said
that he made “ the prettiest corpse she had ever seon.”
“ John C" (Warialda) writes: “I have n dummy,
not from Parramatta, who has completed residence and
has just transferred the 640 to mo. As I don’t want
him any more, would it be legal to swap him for a dog
and then shoot the dog ?” It all depends on whether
the dog’s a member of parliament or an alderman
“Mudgee”: (1) No. (2) Parkes’ bed at the Colonial
Secretary’s Office cost the public £4oo—so it’s said
“C.M.G.”: Thanks; but we have supped full of honours
lately "Joseph J.”: You’ve twisted the circum-
stance to suit your own views. Mr. G. was once accused
of misdeeds, and straightway gave his accuser notice of
action, laying the damages at something tremendous.
There the matter ended. The dodge is an old one
“Airy Mission” : We agree with the Eev. D. Perkins,
of Gnndagai. The shelling of Alexandria was simply
the result of a fright conceived by money-lenders that
their securities were endangered. Perkins asks, justly,
“ What good result can arise from the preaching of
missionaries when the Government of the nation which
sends them forth acts in such direct opposition to the
Gospel tenets,” and butchers women and children as
well as armed combatants “ A.J.S.” (Elizabetb-st.):
You and your friends belong to that numerous and good-
natured class of people who let scoundrels live merely
because lit’s too much trouble to knock them on the
head. We didn’t ask you to buy The Bulletin, dear
boy, and strongly advise you never to read it unless you
think it’s worth while “ Pater Nolens” ; No interest
would attach to the publication of your communication
unless we and our readers knew to whom it referred.
There are lots of men in Australia worth£lo,Cooa year....
“ Philharmonic Society: You named it truly—“ dog-
gerel,” and of the most mongrel kind “Barney”:
We suppose he’ll get out of it—by producing a receipt.
” J.L.C.” (Marnoo): The whole story reminds one
of Balz»c’s yarn about the unfaithful lady, who, seeing
that her husband was going to shoot her lover, ex-
claimed : “ Miserable! Would you kill the father of
your children ? ” “ Subscriber ”: If we
printed your let f cr “to oblige you and a
good many as well,” we’d Duly succeed in oblig.
mg 40 lawyers. No, dear boy “ J Henriques”: Mr.
Hugh George was arrested and confined in Parliament
Hpuse. Melbourne, because he, as general manager of
tf rgus. had printed a leader stating that a certain
s h of Sir James M'Cnlloch, the Premier of the day
itled with falsehoods.” As a souvenir of the occa-
sion, Mr. George received an appropriate present, a
•handsome silver claret) jug....“ Charles” (Tamwotth):
No. Joe Cook is no longer “reverend.” “One of
them ”: Much obliged for your invitation to us to come
and see you skate at the Pyrmont Public Hall on Wed-
nesday. Last time we went there, we saw you eat.
We could|not dream ef anything funnier than this; so
we didn't trouble “ Federal ”: Impossible to do
much with your item. There’s very little in it, and
what there is, is rather decollete “ Australian Will
consider for next week “Snip” (Waterloo): Much
obliged; bnt there is nothing new in your communica-
tion, a* Ben Allah’s Ben Allahs the same kind of fellow.
The interview, however, is very funny, and the editor
must be a bold mas. If he wrote like that in Sydney,
he would hold Wrtill the end of the quarter—and
hold horses aftqr ft “ 0. J. Crane ”: We really don’t
know why Mr. Bishop, the burnt-cork artist who sings
about" Our Jackj-V should uronounoe it “ Our Jhaaick.”
Probably It is because Mr. Bishop comes from Andalusia.
Passepartoht ” : The horse, lawyer,receipt, and hell
yarn, though adapted beautifully, is old “ A.L.T.” :
Thanks “J.T.”: Eight “Bunaga”: You don’t
send your name “Subscriber” (Cootamundra): The
match played at Middleborough, on July 20, 21, and 22,
against United North, was won by the Australians
“E.J.8.”: Don’t think it will do “V,”: There is
no truth in the rumour that John Davies is going to
the N.Z. Hot Springs. He is in hot water already. If
he ever leaves the pot it can only be to go into the fire.
“Aleck”: We had already something in typo on
the subject of your verses, which, however, may do
next week. We are sorry to have to tell you that we
rather believe in Dr. Maokollar as Health Officer
“ Anxious ” : We don’t know the age of the English,
not the NZ , Sir George Grey. The DT. says he was
born in 1899, and the D.T, like George Washington,
never lies “Scrutator ” (Yaes): Where’s the point ?
“Dick Deadeye ” (Broughton Creek) : Communi-
cation to hand too late to be perused this week; will
read “F.W.E.” (Bnndaberg) : " Storrington,”
“ Dens,” “E. J. 8.” : Will look at next week
“Charlie” (Numba): We never insert such items
"1.L.”: We give your conundrums up “Puck”:
Thanks....” Aleck ” (again): Next week “ W.F.A.” :
No. Send aleng “ F B,”. We cannot express such
an opinion while the matter is sub jndice “ Travell-
ing comp”: Thanks “A.E.C”: It is plainly his
eon’s portrait he is looking at. “ Sisters and brothers
have I none; but that man’s father is my father’s son.”
That man’s (A’a) father (B) is my (B’s) father’s (G'e)
son (B), [A host of correspondents whose communica-
tions arrived late will have a show in next issue.]
Among the passengers by last outward Califor-
nian mail was Mr. W. H. Traill, of The Bulletin,
who goes home to secure improved appliahees for the
production of this journal, which has now a circula-
tion of 22,500 copies weekly, apart altogether from the
large issue involved by the publication of the month’y
number. Advertisers wishing to test the accuracy of
this statement are referred to Messrs. Cowan and Cs,,
paper merchants, Wynyard Square.
INTAGLIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The Shadow-Sweetheart.
It was in Dreamland long ago.
Ere ever the light had died
Out of my life, as out of the low
Gray skies in the eventide
The last light of. the crimson sunset dies.
That I saw By sweet face start
From the dusk, as a star from death-dark skies,
Sweetheart, sweetheart I
Green dawn and golden afternoon
Had then no message for me;
But night came singing a dear old tune.
And brought me a dream of thee.
And methought I saw in a bloom-bright smile
Thy marvellous rose-lips part.
And my heart was happy in dreams awhile,
Sweetheart, sweetheart I
Alas, my life-days wane apace.
And the wings of dreams are furled.
And never verily face to face
In ways of the waking world
Have I seen thee, lily of love; thine eyes
Have grown of the dusk a part.
And the stars are dead in the death-dark skies,
Sweetheart, sweetheart!
VICTOR J. DALEY.


ESTABLISHED 1837.
fo W L E EM3 P O T T E B Y
AND
BEICK WGEKS.
CAMPEBDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
jT
:*
S
moke eureka tobacco.
the paragon op perfection.
FINER THAN THE FINEST.
OF THE AGE!
TOBACCO
the
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERSEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
THE ONLY TOBACCO COMBINING EXCELLENCE
OF QUALITY WITH ECONOMY IN PRICE.
Each Plug is stamped with the word *• EUREKA.’*
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU OBTAIN IT.
Take ho other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYWELL’S TOBACCO CO., LIMITED,
AT THE EAGLE WOB«3,
KENT AND CLARKNCB (STREET,
And can he obtained wholetale at their Warehouse, 6
Park-street, Sydney,
gold Retail everywhere, and will be used by everybody
as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of I aril ament, to protect
the public against spurious and worthless imitations.
MADOOCK'S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET.
rfTHIS Library is supplied regularly by every Mall
'I Steamer with the latest Publications in History,
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Popular Theology, and
the higher class of Fiction j also, all the leading Maga-
zines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway or Steamboat com-
munication with Sydney, every facility is afforded.
THH HARWOOD
FIBRE CHAIR SEATING
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness and
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly Waterproof cement,
and after fifteen years’ constant use, we can speak
positively! as to its merits. It cannot split or check,
neither will exposure to eun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
FOR EE.SEATING, it is unrivalled. In every
house, store, and Office, arc Chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new
a chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart man
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.
GENERAL AOENT3 FOR AUSTRALIA.
82 CLARENCE STREET.
THE APOLLO COMPANY, LIMITED
FREMONT, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
JOHN KEEP, Esq. | E. T. REMINGTON, Esq.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
Office 348 George-etreet, Sydney.
Manufacturers of
the Celebrated APOLLO STEAEINE CANDLES,
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and FANCY SOAPS,
GLYCERINE, CRUDE and REFINED
PRIZE MEDALS
PARIS,
PHILADELPHIA.
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
oy
St-
m
m
The Great Bonanza Consultation
on the MELBOURNE CUP, 1888.
*O,OOO Shares, at Is each. 1000 Prizes, value £25000.
First horse £lOOO
Second horse 200
Third horse 100
•tarters divide 100
Non-starters divide. 100
5 prices, of £lO
£5O
50
60
Bto
2600
To every Subscriber sending £l, the price of 20
Tickets, we will forward One Extra Tieket (PRES),
*hns enabling the getter-up of a Club ef 20 Members,
* °°snee of winning £lOOO without investing a single
I’wmy himself. Drawing to take place 2*th October.
Shares forwarded by return post. Result of Drawing
Poeted to Subscribers, and advertised in the daily and
?*”“y Papers■ Application by letter only, enclosing
p. 0. 0., or Stamps, with Stamps lor reply and
Address-BONANZA, care of J. THOMAS,
80, Sw&nston-streot. Mzmotoks.
X.
VIRTUTia GLORIA MERGES.
COAL CLIFF COAL.
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies tha CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. FEB TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting!
and cleaner Are than any other. It neither hag the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal. Inor does
it splinter and fly off like the Wes tint, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English ooal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a ohoreoal or breeze fire, while it impart# to the
Steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
BON ACDORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD, & IRON WORKS,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OP CHANDELIERS. BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS.
DIVING GEAR, &o. ’
PUMPS, HELMETS,
SSii DRESSES, HOSE,
■
pi SPRINGS, guernseys;
STOCKINGS. BOOTS
(with lead solos),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &o.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and fasten#
the window at any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, Ac.,
required.
Celebrated; CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS * SPECIAL
Established
ROLLER SKATES,
always on hand,
and all Accessories,
able Tallow Gas Apparatus,
and cold water
and Boilers.
PRIZE HOLDERS.
1855.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SUNS' Pnro Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can bo applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
cO W A K>D AND TEMPLE,
GENERAL MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS’ AGENTS,
CLARENCS-STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS .FOE
WM. SUGG and Co. Ld.—“ Christiania,” Self-Regulating Burners, &o.
MALKJN, EDGE and Co.—Encaustic Tiles, Chinaware, &o.
STEVENS and Co.—Galley’s Celebrated Torbay Oxide Paints.
JOSEPH CLIFF and SONS.—Enamelled Bricks, terra-cotta ware, &0.,
and other firms,
a stock of whose manufactures is always on hand, and to arrive. Also Gas Cooking, Heating, and
Boiling Stoves, Gas Engines, Meters, Chandeliers—Black, Galvanized, and Barff. “Anti-oorrodo ”
Cast Iron Pipes, Pig Lead, Sugg’s Lanterns, Mantelpieces, Bedsteads, Japanned Ware, Tia
Plates’ Riley’s Patent Vices, Fancy Soap, Winea'aad Spirits, Pianos, Pictures, <fco., &o.
Y
TTIOIIRWILLERS BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., &c„ &0.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other particular s on receipt of your enquiries.
H. B. GEBGOM & ro.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 1
TBAJ)B ifh
HU
ONE OP THE WORLD'S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN s recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost Journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to Vow any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
" I have found St, JACOB'S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex,
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.*'
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about ; and now he says
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST’S SELL IT, PRICE HALF-A-
CEOWN.
WHOLESALE BT-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
8. HOPPNUNO & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MTEBS and SOLOMON, Qoorge-street.
I. JACOBS A Co., Hunter-etreot.
PERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
SELF RAISING FLOUR
%
>
trade
MARK
»
MANUFACTORY:
QKOBaE-STREBT WEST, SYDNEY.
HFBGF
[Established 30 Tears.]
H °D
fISON’B WHIP PACTOET,
601, GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Ooulburn- street.
B. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, fto.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
[TiTiimm
670’ H . HI L D E H, 1,6 70
®7O
70
Mu
I,LDER
HiLDEK
m'
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER
670 GEOEGE STREET, STDET.
Mr. T. F. DeCOURCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman ef the Mining Board of New
Sooth Wales).
Avtbob or the ** Mimaa' Handy Book,” fto.,fto.,
MINING EXPERT
ABBITEATOE, ADVISER, AND AGENT,
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
lt6 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &o


I
Public Compax
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOIN!
Paid-up Capital, £600,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Fun<
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; \
Esq. I W. A, Long, Esq.; Ji
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Manach
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willii
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Armldale, Balhna, B
Bourke, Bundarra, Gnssllls, Cone
bran. Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen limes, Goulb
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lamhton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mndgce, Narandera, ]
Partes, Raymond Terrace, Rookie
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Walleend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbnrn, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Alloro, Bowen, Ohartei
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravenswood, Eflfchampton, Stant
T®wnsvllle, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Color
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF 1
Paid-np Capita 1....,,...,.
Reserve Fund
DIRECTORS!
The Hon. Sir John Say, E.C.M
Hon, Henry Mort, M.L.C.
Ssorge S. Caird, Esq.
on. W«. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas, Scroggie, Esq
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield J
Qirilambone; Gostord; am
LONDON BANKS
The National Provincial Ban
London Office: 158 Leaden
Director: Edward Chapi
Agent: Q. H. Alexand
This bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiate! and advances mm
other produce shipped to England f
F. J. FOL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLIS
28 GEORGE STREET
A large and well-assorted stock of 1
direct from the Manufacturers,
Am, Garments Cut n the Most F
PERFECT PIT GUARI
Note thc'Addrest
728 GEORGE STREET
NEAR HATMARB
TIIIIII A Q UICDD
(SINGER'S SEWING
One Onnefl Of Fact is Worth a T
SINGER’S SEWING I
As is nsnal, where ever and whff
Highest Possible Av
Chemists and Dm
—«■»■»■»■>.
J t ABRAHAM’S PILLS
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVBE I
ST
m
£/>
SAUTION.— Owing to the imi
fi have commanded, it hue in
dangerous imitations. Ask for
J. S. ABRAHAM’S
atfft see that each box, by whom!
inventor's name and trade mark.
/TOUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson's Amei
“ you will not he able to
fOTON H. SOUL'S, 177
*■ Tfotol.
fcOKLfi TOUR APPETn
tralian Relish, made by V
ARAS FOUNORY &
COMPANY
HAY.STREET, SYI
INGINEEES, Boilermakers, an
I and Brass Eonnders, COpp
|hts. The above firm are pre
acts for the manufacture of Mi
Jines, Boilers, ahd Girder WO!
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining,
other descriptions of Machinery, \
mefits.
N.B.—Castings executed with
priOfe given far metal.
TURKISH B 1
OPEN DAILY (Sundays exceptei
from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. ( for Ladies, f
Bathers not admitted later than one 1
fT\HESE BATHS have been pron
1 bonefloial to all persons snfferir
gout, neuralgia, dsypepsia, indigos
and all complaints of this nature,
healthy, invigorating renewing of
persons obliged to load sedentary lr
Try it, and experience its wonderi
Prices of Admission—Single bath, 1
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gontleme
ticket, £5. Family tickets as p
C. A. SHE
Bligh-strcet.
George
(Formerly of Georg*
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EAR’
Bens to announce that he baa
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ABCAI
where every article in the above lin<
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED 1
CROSS 1
Business, Sfri'nnp'mQyniwn^p
D’AECY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pare, Palatable, and Pleasant.
TRADE
MARK,
m
BARRE JOHNSTON AND CO.,
AGENTS,|
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PKICirZAND SAMPLES OPT AI'PL.rCATION
IN BULK AND CASE.
SECTION VII. —SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For their
collection of Manufacturing Machines, a first
order of meric—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For the Beat
Family Sewing Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship ana ma-
terial, simplicity of construction and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company,—For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines. —Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
BEAD THE AWAEDS.
READ THE AWARDS.
Easy Terms. Weekly 2s 0d Weel
No Interest. No Addition to the
Chief Depot in New Sonl
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAB
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathnrst, William-street
Balranald,
Dnbho,
Goulhnrn, Anhurn-street
Grafton, Victoria-street
Glen Tones, Grey-street
Hay, Lachlin-street
Kotnpsey, Smith-street
LismOre, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Madgi
Moss
Naran
Newee
Parrai
Sydne,
Tamwc
Waggs
ILLUSTRATED PRIG:
and
SAMPLES OF WC
Free rom any Dei
SINGER’S SEWING I
gINGEE’S SEWING
TURNER & 0<
Are the
RECOGNISED A
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week-
And no interest oh
10 per cent, off for oi
BEWARE OP IMITJ
AQents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER Sc i
THE ONLY « SING]
TURNER & i
Opposite <
JOHNSTOft
SEWING MAOHIN
HAYMAEKEI
%rs^sraig
HOME COMPANION. /
HOME SHUTTLE,
New Davis. /
HOW£ - /Cj /
Ac., &c. /
COOLALTA WINI
MOST’S PASSAGE, back <
Paling and Co.’i
Choicest Wines, fey the glass or b
the Bodega. Hat Spiced W
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
JOHN R 0
(15 Years Secretary of Scb
“QUEEN’S NA-V
TOBACCOS
90 KING STEEE
Next to " Civet C
Articles of the best quality onl,
folly solicited.
10 STAND THI
AT
ROCKWOOD, CAMPBE
THE IMPORTED BXM'
-aiß THOMAS
Winner of Eirvt Prize, April, 1871
national, 1879-80. Champion Choi
Judges Special Prize, 1882.
Terms : 4 Guineas ea<
Every care taken, bnt no respons
Mares met at Gampbslltown on i
Season closes January Ist, 1833,'
be paid for and removed.
For further particulars apply to
The MAI
Eooki
akd
GIbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 los
S. HEBBLE'V
416 GEORGE STI
F.T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE^


HOWAED SMITH AND SONS,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET,
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and PEIDAT at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY,
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street,
PATENT PORTABLE GAS COMPANY
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL THE
Q COMPANY’S LAMPS
ISSUED AFTER THIS DATE
BEAR THEIR
TRADE MARK
ON THE
PG
TRADE MARK IBUENER.
The Company is now prepared to supply Lamps
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores, &o. The Lamps re-
quire no trimming, afford a brilliant light, superior to
coal gas or kerosene, at less cost, and can be carried in
the hand.
Samples may be seen, and lamps and fluid obtained,
at the Company's Show Booms. Storekeepers supplied.
Price lists, Ac., on application to Secretary.
A. G. SHELTON,
Secretary.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
eon trail y-situated Premises, next to the George-strtet
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watch**,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street.
E W PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and Splendid
SHOP, No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET, otle door from
the corner of Oonlfeurn-stroet, where he will bo pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladles, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN’S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,*' ~
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit Is requested.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur-
mailing a New Home or adding to the comforts of
your present Home, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CREBRY, & CO.,
who will furnish houses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
IN SYDNEY.
Note the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M'CREERY, & CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
606 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Centra} Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
ARMSTRONG’S.
HYGIENIC & RELIABLE REMEDIES.
[Registered under the Trade Marks’ Act, 1365.]
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Fills
Stand UNRIVALLED as a GENERAL FAMILY
APERIENT for INDIESTION, DYSPEPSIA, Pains
in the Head and Chest, HABITUAL CONSTIPATION,
HEARTBURN, Giddiness, Wind Spaams, and Dizziness
of the Eyes They promote a HEALTHY ACTION of
the STOMACH and BOWELS, cause neither griping
nor sickness, and are confidently recommended. Boxes,
Is., 25., and 3s.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Files
s recognised by MEDICAL MEN as a triamph in
IMPIRICAL MEDICINE, being “the onlt known
ure" for this hitherto intractable disease, relief from
>ain f and arrest of hemorrhage. Can alwajs bo relied
ipon in from 24 to 48 hours. 4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
’rice, 2s.
rmstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
ommended by the highest MEDICAL AUTHO-
T?S A BLOOD RESTORATIVE and TONIC,
imbination with DANDELION and POTASH. For
removal and permanent cure of all kinds or
EASE arising from an impure or over-aoid state of
M^ODTChronic RHEUMATISM, NERVOUS
3ILITY, Affections of the CHEST and LIVER,
e. sb. 6d., 10s. 6d„ 21s.
*v PRICE LISTS sent post free, and Goods for-
warded bo all parts of the colony.
B. B. ARMSTRONG, Registered Chemist,
WHOLESALE and RETAIL DRUGGIST
160 PITT STREET,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’e.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
There is in Sydney a nun who weighs 16 stone.
Lord Normanby, the Governor of Victoria, will
. retire, when it is expected that ha will be suc-
ceeded by Sir William Jervois, now Governor of B.A.
They say Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, the Victorian
■Premier, who, as is well-known, has long aspired to a
fAf-eship, has his eye on the seat which will soon be
vacated by Mr. Justice Molesworth, on whom Time is
laying a heavy hand.
T) r . J. E. Neild, who sustained concussion of
the brain by being thrown out of a buggy near Heales-
vilie (Vic.), some time since, has, we are glad to see,
so far recovered that he is able to return once more to
his literary and medical labours.
Mr. Hammeraley has resigned the sporting-
editorship of the Australasian, and has been succeeded
hv Mr. Chapman (“Au»nr”). It is mainly to Mr.
Hammersley's ability, judgment, and gentlemanly In-
stincts that the Australasian owes its high position
in the sporting press of the world.
There is in Australia but one match for Mr.
Julian Salomons, Q.C., and that match is Mr. J. L.
pnrves, of Melbourne. Mr. Purves is a member of the
N S.W. Bar, and will, if report speak truly, have au
opportunity of breaking a lanoe with onr pert little
boss-lawyer in an approaching cause cdlebre.
“ Salvator Rosa Wakefield, of Adelaide, Esq.,
has been appointed to the commission of the peace."
This is from the S. A. Government Gazette. When it
j 8 remembered that the original Salvator Boss, the
painter, spent most of his time amongst brigands and
notoriously bad characters generally, the appropriate
nature of this appointment to a seat amongst the great
unpaid will he at once perceived,
Mr. W. L. Zincke, the junior representative of
the Ovens, is the silent member of the Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly. He is a religiously regular attendant
of the House, but never troubles the Speaker im the
least. In the corner of the Ministerial benches he sits
with a broad-brimmed hat over his eyes and a large
muffler concealing the rest of his face. He is a martyr
to neuralgia, and probably never speaks without
swearing.
Apropos of Tiohborno Claimants, another
turned up a few years ago in Western Australia, He
somewhat resembled the original claimant, and wrote
vsriors letters to the Government and other high
officials asserting his rights. They, however, made
short work of him there, for they locked him up as a
lunatic. He was after a time released, and no one has
ever since heard him whisper a word as to his Tich-
borne claims, I
Governor Ord swears by the Ohinkie. As a
strong argument in support of his recommendation to
introduce them to West Australia, he adduced the large
revenue that was likely to be derivable from their con-
sumption of opium, whloh is so heavily taxed! When
the W. A. delegate some time back refused to endorse
the Chinese Bestriction Bill, he no doubt had this little
tax in his eye, and yet he was a Chief Justice, and knew
—but never mind.
It may interest one or two of the C.M.G.’s, or
some of the readers of the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
to learn that the office of hangman and flageilator at
Melbourne will shortly be vacant. Mr. Upjohn, the
artist who holds the billet just now, was originally
engaged at a salary of £9O per annum, with quarters;
but his conduct recently has been so unsatisfactory
that it has been determined to deprive him of his
salary. He declines to be paid by results, and so has to
retire from the “ position."
He was a reverend delegate to the Synod, and
stopped opposite a Dutch auction-mart in King-street.
“ This beautiful gold chain is going for two-and-threo,"
roared the knight of the Dutch hammer. “At two-
and-three. No advance f No advance ?’’ 11 Two-and-
six,” cried the Synodical dignitary, as he entered the
mart. " It’s yourn," said the auctioneer, and one hour
later the Synod was dazzled with the shimmer of new
jewellery, the old silver chain having been displaced in
the street. Gospel.
“Look here, old fellow.” said Gold-Discoverer
Hargreaves’ Victorian Parliamentary 1 agent in 1883,
“look here, old fellow, this thing [meaning the £5OOO
vote] won’t pass unless yon drop the £619 I have to
give six in that House —£50 each, and So-and-so is
always a £5O man." He was not able or not willing to
“ part,” so there was a count-out that evening. This
enraged the nugget-hnnter, and he “blabbed," This
enraged the House, and it "kicked." Hargreaves has
felt sore ever since.
It appears that Archibald Forbes is not likely
to witness the Egyptian mill, as representative of the
Daily News ; love, not war, being his present game.
At least the great correspondent, has, as yet, made no
sign. Edmond O’Donovan —O’Donovan of Merv—is
also “ out of it” this time. He isruralising at Chipping
Camden, completing his work on Central Asian travel,
which, it may safely be said, will be the book of the
season. In his stead Dr. W. H. Bussell has gone to
Egypt as the special of the London Daily Telegraph,
and Lieutenant E. Armit represents the Morning Post.
“ Mad Wyndham ” is the best-known name of
a queer hermit who, for years past, has encamped
himself beyond Lake’s Creek—Bookhampton way—aud
occupied his time with fishing. Close to his
humpy was a blacks’ camp. The other day, Wyndham
surrendered himself to the Bookhampton police, stat-
ing that he had shot a blackfellow. His version
of the deed is that the nigger came and asked for his
gun. Wyndham refused, and, in a subsequent struggle
for possession of the weapon, shot the aboriginal
through the temple. It is said that “Mad Wyndham "
—whose real names are William Trevelyan Wyndham—
is the scion of a noble Cornwall family.
A story ia going the rounds of the Italian papers
that the man who died recently at Caprera was not the
real Garibaldi, but an impostor who, bearing a striking
resemblance to the famous patriot, assumed his dress
and continued his life, for purposes best known to the
Qaribaldian family and its Interests. The genuine
Garibaldi is said, according to these papers, to have
been killed at Aspromonto, Singular to relate, this
strange story has been in circulation for many years in
Italy, and some believe that it accounts for the desire
on the part of the peison who died lately at Caprera to
be incremated, so as to leave no trace behind whereby
he could he identified.
Robert Francis Burns, who was, the other day,
tried and acquitted of the murder of his mate, Charles
Forbes, and whs is now before the public again as having
murdered his other unfortunate mate, Quinlivan, is _in
bad odour. He is suspected of having murdered, in 1879,
a (third) mate named Francis Heenan who died suddenly
in great pain at the railway works Jbetween Wiokliffe
Bead and Glen Thomson, on 19th February of thatyear.
Sergeant Chambers has applied for authority to ex-
hume Heenan’s body, as it is thought that death was
due to arsenic, and not to English cholera, as was at
the time supposed. Burns, even if acquitted, will be as
generally odious as was the notorious'New Zealand
Sullivan.
Earl Spenoer, Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, must
feel sympathy by force of circumstances with the Czar
of Enssia. All visitors are watched closely, from the
moment they enter the Phoenix Park gates until they
arrive at the Viceregal Lodge door. Mounted police-
men patrol the avenues and roads of the Park, detec-
tives lurk in the bushes, and soldiers guard the ap-
proaches. Lord Spencer has lately taken to driving
four-in-hand, but must still be escorted by the Dragoons,
who have to follow the coach; and —really it is rather
absurd—all who have the honour of accompanying the
Lord-Lieutenant are warned not to start without their
revolvers!
Mont Blanc has claimed another victim in Mr.
F. M. Balfour, a very distinguished Fellow of Trinity
College, Cambridge, and, though only thirty years of
age, professor of biology and animal morphology in the
University, as well as the possessor of an established
European reputation. Mr. Balfour, with one Swiss
kuide, undertoook the long and toilsome ascent on
Friday morning, July 21. He was hardly convalescent
from fever, and made too large a demand on his physical
powers. At some critical crevasse, or creeping round
some slippery boulder, he became exhausted, vertigo
ensued, and traveller and guide were plunged into the
abyss.
It appears the Queen has really something to do
besides fainting over death-warrants and drinking
Pnger-coedial. The European Mail says she " often
receives as many as forty telegrams a day, allot which
she sees and takes note of. Apparently she is deter-
mined that the Sovereign’s duties shall not be of a
nominal character.” There is something consoling
about this. We only thought before this that Her
Majesty lay on the horsehair sofa all day, re-d Martin's
11 Life of Prince Consort," and watshed Beatrice play
with her white mice and eat bread-and-treacle. We
don’t grudge the three hundred and forty thousand
now. On the contrary. We wish it were more—and
that we had it.
The Governor-elect of New Caledonia has, dur-
ing his stay in Sydney, taken up his residence at a
Phillip.street boarding house. Should our own Gov.
ever go to La Nouvelle CaUdonie, he will not be lodged
in the gaol there, but will probably share the Governor's
hospitality. If we were blessed with a Colonial
Governor, and the incident we have recorded occurred,
the whole of London snobocracy would hoot colonial
boorishness and want of hospitality. There must be a
profundity of something somewhere when the uniform
of the most chivalrous nation in the world becomes the
advertisement of a boarding-house. Perhaps, however,
the fault does not lie with Lord Augustus Loftus.
Perhaps it lies with his Gallic brother. Perhaps
Government House isn’t big enough to hold two
Governors. Perhaps—but we must cease speculating.
Such little affairs should be explained.
He was a Sydney bank manager, up at a
squatter’s estate for some shooting. The game was
big—no less than the kangaroo. Behold our hero sally-
ing forth with rifle loaded, and sights arranged for
three-quarter mile distance. Behold also, the old-
man kangaroo waiting under the gumtree, having his
sights arranged for any convenient close distance. The
banker did not see the marsupial until within three
yards of it. Uttering a short prayer, he raised his
weapon, shut both eyes, fired, and when he got out
of the adjacent waterhole, he was in such a hurry that
he left his gun, his pants, the best part of his coat and
shirt, a slice of his abdomen, and the whole of his left
nostril to the “ old man,” and struck a bee-line for the
homestead, because “ he thought he heard the eooey
for dinner." Later on, the squatter’s son came across
and slew the kangaroo. Another visitor remarked that
the animal bove a very human appearance, and that
budding wool-king replied“ So he ought, he’s got
most of tho bank manager’s features 1 "
We hear that Mr. E. A. A. Morehead, the well-
t known merchant and manager of the S.A. Investment
Society, who lately built at a cost approaching £lO,OOO
a splendid house and business premises in Philip-street,
has commenced an action for heavy damages against
the Government, on account of the depreciation in his
property caused by the tramway being brought through
Philip-street. Mr. Morehead is a citizen of very old
standing, and a shrewd business man. He has had the
best legal advice before commencing his action. Should
it succeed it will establish a precedent which every
house property-owner along the main line will be able
to follow up with confidence, and tho result may be that
the Government will have to disburse as compensation
amounts which in the aggregate would have bean more
than sufficient to have paid for the construction of a
railway to Circular Quay instead of a tramway. Which
British Government was nick-named the Government
of plundering and blundering P
Thus the World, which evidently doesn’t
fully endorse Mr. Archibald Forbes’ opinion of the
great Russian GeneralSkobeloff did not die of
heart disease, as originally reported. How he was killed
is still a mystery; but it is certain that he died a vio-
lent death, and not in the most respectable company, at
a pothouse in Moscow, where he was entertaining chance
acquaintances. Skobeloff was not the rash soldier and
bluff lover of hard knocks that the British public has
always Imagined him. He was personally the bravest
of tho brave, and utterly careless of danger, but ha
never exposed his own life or that of his men without a
full appreciation of what he was doing. He valued the
lives of the soldiers as little as his own, and, thoroughly
appreciating the cool and indomitable pluck of tho
Russian peasant, he never hesitated to sacrifice the lives
of hundreds or thousands when he felt confident of
having sufficient numbers at hand to carry his point by
sheer force and courage. In the Tekke expedition
Skobeleff exhibited in his long and careful preparations
all the steadiness and capacity for calculation of a
Moltke; and from tho moment his columns were really
in motion towards Geok Tepo there never was a hitch
in the proceedings till the final assault was successfully
made."
Poor old Edward Hammond Hargreaves is again
before the public with that “ little bill.*’ Ho tolls us
this time that he has thrown away the meat and made
a grab at the shadow. Victoria gave him £2381. which
he has spent in following an ideal £5OOO. He isn’t the first
man by a long way who has spent his substance pursu-
ing an El Dorado in the realm of dreams. But Edward
was not always in pursuit of a more phantom. Ho
struck gold at Summer Hill after following it from tho
hills and lovely valleys of California in 1851. Before ho
found gold here a man was not so valuable as a horse,
and a horse could bo bought for £2. Since then, a
labourer is almost worth his weight in gold. Before
Hargreaves’ discovery here, sheep on stations were
selling at from one shilling to five shillings a head. A
good fat bullock could be bought for £llos.. and store
cattle at soven shillings a piece. Within a few mouths
of the time that he announced to the world that there
were gold mines in Australia rivalling in riches those of
the Pacific Slope, we had the Old World at fever-heat
respecting the marvels of the Ballarat and Bendigo
alluvial. Hargreaves is tho link which connects the
epoch of valueless cattle running over wild wastes with
the epoch of big stations, millions of pounds of wool,
big cities and International Exhibitions. He is an old
man and an importunate. Perhaps, it would be but a
gracious act to give him some money and let him die in
peace.
Dr, Haynes Gibbes Alleyne, lato Health Officer
of Sydney, and President of the Medical Board, died of
apoplexy last Sunday, at his residence. Flagstaff Hill.
Dr. Alleyne, who only recently retired from his official
position, in which, it must bo stated, he had been
allowed to survive his usefulness by about twenty years
or so, came of a good old Devonshire family, and on his
mother’s side was a grandson of General Sir Fitzroy
Maclean. He was born in tho West Indies, and gradu-
ated as M D. in the Edinburgh University about the
year 1835. Soon afterwards he came to Sydney, and
took to squatting pursuits. On the outbreak of the
first Maori war, he wont to N.Z., was appointed to a
regiment, and greatly distinguished himself for acts of
gallantry as well as for medical skill. After the war,
he returned to N.B. Wales, and was appointed coroner
for Liverpool. He was next made Health Officer for
Port Jackson, a position he retained till July last,
when his health began to fail. He was a medical ex-
aminer for the Sydney University, and was profession-
ally connected for many years with the Sydney Infir-
mary, the lunatic asylums, and other public institutions.
The doctor was a good-hearted, genial man, and was
known in town, not as the Health Officer, but as the
curious old gentleman with the shocking bad hat, who
used to frequent the Australian JClub. The remains of
the deceased were interred at St. Leonard’s on Tuesday
afternoon, many well-known citizens being present.
The Government have appointed the Hon. John
Macintosh, M.L.C , to succeed the Honourable John
Davies, C.M.G., as a member of the Metropolitan
Licensing Bench. Mr. Macintosh was on the Licensing
Bench once before, in the “ good old times," when each
side used to drum up its own crowd of beaks, but he
didn’t shine by any means. Mao. of course always dis-
pensed justice, properly so called, to the best of his
little abilities, but there was a time when, outside the
Court, at any rate, his sympathies were very much
with those who like to look upon the wine when it is
red, and “wet the other eye," and so on, than with the
pious zealots of the extreme temperance party. Now,
however, Mr. Macintosh is no longer a Macintosh, for
he’s not waterproof—he’s a member of the great cold-
water army. By the way, it’* astonishing what a number
of Johns have lately been on and off the Licensing
Bench. John the First “couldn’t see it,” John the
Second was, to put matters plainly, simply hooted off.
Who will say how John the Third will end ? They re
not only all Johns, but Good Templars too. The
resemblance ends there, fortunately. “Honest John
Macintosh 1” cries the Echo. We heard * Honeet John
Bobortaon ’* cried once. “ Aa I am an honest man, is a
favourite Cameronian expression. Shakespeare has a,
similar character. “ Never praise a man till he is dead,
said Solon.
Dean Baokhaua (8.C.), of Sandhurst, has Just
died, aged 70. He was an eccentric old German gentle-
man, who never out his hair, but wore it trailing down
his back after the fashion of the great musicians of his
country. He was a musical enthusiast, and was credited
with a genius for financial speculation—but his *®P**t#d
success was no doubt due chiefly to the fact that ho
hid a chance of profiting by the Jopportumties of|the
early days of old Bendigo, when nuggets were thrown
into the collection-platea with more liberality than
threepenny-pieces in these degenerate days. Dr. Back-
haus and the Rev, William Henderson, of Ballarat,
were the only two clergymen who denounced the deings
of the Black-Wednesday Bsrry Ministry from the
pulpit. Since the decease of Dr. Baokhaus, who during
nislifetime was said to be almost a millionaire, it has
been stated that he leaves little money, and that it all
goes 11 to the Church.” More than one reputedly wealthy
Roman Catholic priest has died lately in the South,
and “ cut up” for very little. Not long ago the will of an
old gentleman who was expected to leave £50,000 or so,
was found to dispose of a sum no greater than about
£2so—£loof which was devoted to “masses for the
repose of his soul," and the balance given to his niece,
a young lady whose name had theretofore been 1 popu-
larly supposed to be Anastasia Montmorenoi O’Hooligan,
but whose appellation in full, as enunciated by the
Supreme Court Judge when the will was proved, turned
out be Bridget Anastasia Momtmorenoi O’Hooligan. So
that what she gained in one way she lost in another.
Hugh Fraser, M.P. for West Adelaide, S.A.
is a remarkable man. He is a stone-mason by trade, a
politician by profession, a boon companion by natural
instinct, and a poet by way of “ extras.” Ho has been
called the "Robb ie Burns of Adelaide," but this is I
generally by way of guyver. He once succeeded in
gaining a verdict for £25 for an electioneering ** pome "
he wrote for a dunder-headed swab who was putting up
for the Legislative Council. There is another attribute
he has which is as striking as his poetry. It is his
nose. It’s colour is dead-orange by day, and phosphor-
escent by night. Hughie once attended one of Matthew
Burnett's temperance lectures in the Adelaide Town
Hall, and astonished the farinaoean water-bellies by
going on to the platform and giving a recitation from
Burns. He took oooasion at the same time to state
that, though he wns not a teetotaller, yet his heart was
with the cause of temperance; adding “ I don’t drink
halt as much as people give me credit for I" This naive
admission, coupled with the unusual iridescence of his
groboscis that evening, brought down the house. This
eing understood by the reader, the following joke now
convulsing Adelaide will be appreciated also. Hnghie
Fraser recently made a speech on the Ooean-Dook-at-
Largs-Bay question, and said: “I intend to visit ;
Great Britain shortly, and I shall deliver a number ef
lectures in Scotland, for the purpose of showing what a
great field there is in this colony for the advancement 1
of intelligent, sober men. I believe that the truthful
rendering of my own history would induce many of my
countrymen to come to the colony."
• * «
Mr. G. A. Brown, of the Australasian,
author of “Sheep-breeding in Australia," and of the
interesting “ Bruni ” papers on the sugar districts of
Queensland which recently appeared in that journal,
passed through Sydney last Thursday on his way to the
South James Gordon Bennett is worth §8,000,000
and has refused §4,000,000 for the N.Y. Herald. Which
isn’t such an enormous price, after all, for our Herald
returns far better interest on £1,000,000 than the
amount named would give if invested in city property.
Mr. Q. Lamb O’Neill, one of the medical students
at Sydney Hospital, left for Europe by the s.s. Clyde
for the purpose of finishing his course, and was ** seen
oil" in the orthodox manner by a number of sucking
Sawboneses Mias Fanny Parnell, the energetic and
talented sister of Mr. C. S. Parnell, M.P., recently
died at New Jersey, United States Lord
Normanby, who represents Her Majesty and runs
Government House in Melbourne on economical
principles, has astonished thejnatives by a donation of
£2O to the charitable fund of the Mercantile Marine
Association Mr, Blake, the recently-murdered
steward of the Irish estates of Lord Clanrioorde, al-
though a stern business man, was extremely kind-
hearted. An examination of his papers, subsequent to
his murder, revealed the fact that he held receipts for ,
£5OOO lent to various tenants out of his own purse, in
order to enable them to tide over temporary difficulties
Cardinal Manning celebrated his seventy-fourth
birthday on Saturday, the 15th July, and on the follow-
ing Sunday he officiated at three churches and preached
twice Mr. Jones, the English millionaire, who
amassed a fortune during the Crimean War as army
contractor, and who recently died leaving enormous
art-treasures to the South Kensington Museum, also
made other amiable but singular bequests. Legacies
were left to “ every one of the cooks yet living who
ever roasted and boiled " in his service; also to “ the
greengrocer who helped his servant to wait at table."
Those legatees are promiscuously and obscurely scat-
tered, goodness knows where, by this time Scotland
is excited about what is known as the Newtownwards
will case. Mr. H. Smith, the testator, a Dumfriess-
shlre l&ird, bequeathed the whole of his property, worth
about £lOO.OOO, to his servants, the shepherd, one |
Alexander M’Oowan, receiving the bulk. This fortun-
ata’Hegateo has agreed to pay £27,500 to the heir-at-law
and other relatives, who had raised an action in the
Court of Session for the reduction of the will Ad-
miral Sir Charles Beauchamp Seymour is a lion in
fight, and a most agreeable man in society. He is
known as “ The Swell of the Ocean " in London aristo-
cratic (circles Mr. Twopeny is determined, if pos-
sible, to make the Christchurch Evening Telegraph
the first paper there. This shouldn’t be hard to do, lor
the opposition dailies are horribly slow. The Star and
Globe are scarcely worth calling by the name, being
mere reprints of the morning journals, with short
leaders of an inferior character attached It is under-
stood that Mr. J. M. Perrier, lately of the Central
Australian, rejoins the staff of the Sydney D.T.,„„
Professor Pepper has given up lecturing tor the present,
and is assaying minerals from various South Queens-
land mines. Rumour has it ho lately received £5OOO
from a relative who has gone to the sweet bye-and-
bye Mr. John Alexander, a native of Australia, a
lieutenant in the London Scottish Rifles, and a partner
in the firm of Redtern, Alexander, and Co., Australian
merchants, London, was found lying dead in his camp
tent, on July 16th, at the late Wimbledon Rifle Meet-
ing He had j ust taken his matutinal tub, and the body
was found lying naked behind the bed Sir Samuel
Wilson ia coming to Australia to lecture on “ Dinners
I'have given," “ Snobs I have known," “Snubs I have
met," and “Toadying experiences in both Hemis-
pheres." On July 14th, when the Queen went with
the Princess from Paddington Railway Station to
Buckingham Palace, the authorities considered it neces-
sary to line the whole road with policemen, stationed at
from twenty to thirty paces apart, “ for the protection
of her Majesty." No one was allowed on the arrival
platform at Paddington Station except the railway
officials... Sir Richard Emmanuel Moore, tenth baronet
of Kess Carbery, Cork, has just died in poverty at the
age of seventy-one. At one period of his life he held
the post of third-class turnkey at Spike Island; at an-
other period he was selling, from door to door, copies
of a book written by his wife; and lastly
ho tried to sell coal, bat failed to make it pay.........
Arthur Sieber, the Hungarian lunatic, who tried to
kill Ellen Maher, has had his death sentenee commuted
to twenty years’ imprisonment. Wnen a man really
aches to be hanged, the Government is hound to re-
prieve him Mr. Charles T. Gedye, of the firm of
Dangar, Gedye, and Co., has been appointed Now South
Wales Consul for Sweden and Norway Queensland
has lost an old colonist in Dr. Challinor, who died at
Brisbane on Saturday night, aged 68. He was M.P .for
Ipswich in the first Queensland Parliament, and lately
was Health Officer at Brisbane. Strangely enough, he
expired on the very same evening as our ox-health
officer John Clark and B. J. Price, old S.A.
colonists, died at Adelaide last Monday.
Said the dying plumber: “ Alas ! Igo where
water-pipes never freeze up."
There ia considerable talk in the Reporters’
Gallery at the House of Commons at the news that a
new system of stenography has been invented which
can easily be mastered and practised by the blind. Dr.
Arendts, its invonter, thinks ho may be able to revolu-
tionise the present system of shorthand writing.
Sir J. Robertson declared the sermon on Friday,
at St. Mary’s, was "ad good sermon,” but he
" never was such a d long time in church before."
Mr. Dan O’Connor, M.L.A., was asked not to sit on the
chairs reserved for the priests, but he declared he had
as much right there as any priest. So he took his
seat as the Lay Archbishop, and no one turned him out.
The fair sex in full-flg mustered strongly—but the vast
array of good-looking priests, and the handsomer arch-
bishop, occupied all female eyes, so dresses were at a
discount. Dean Leonard did nob even wear a cassock,
but only an overcoat —Heaven only knows why. Many
ignorant people took him for the sacristan. Dr. Oolleti
and Father Petra, representing Italy and England, did
the polite to the ladies, while Father Mahpney, who
comes from Greece, had to tnrn them our. Father
Garvey collected over £lOOO on the first day.


finHE AUSTRALASIAN DIAMOND DRILL
JL COMPANY.
CONTE ACTS will be undertaken by the above Com-
#l ny to bore any slaed holes, vertical or horizontal,
up to
3 INCHES OE LAHORE,
if required, to any depth, at a reduction of
as PEE CENT BELOW ANT PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Oompanv in all oases will find their own fuel and
water for drilling purposes, and will make no charge
lor loss of diamonds or wear and tear on plant, and
w also provide workmen, engineers, &«.
The nex duplex barrell introduced into the colony by
Mr. J. Coghlan wiH be need free of charge to persona
» arobiug for minerals.
Mr, Coghlan has every confidence, from his practical
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that ho will be able to
give general satisfaction, as well as quick despatch to
a 1 orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 883 Geerge-streeS,
JOHN OOGHLAK,
General Manager pro. tern.
P
RIZB AWARDED, MELBOURNE EXHI-
BITION. issa.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLASTIC TRADING
COMPANY, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of
ECHOOL, OiiijE E and CHURCH FURNITURE
and Eduo pliacoas of every description.
R. C. TROU6HTON AND CO.,
PROPRIETORS.
Contracts taken, and estimates given for the fitting
np of Schools, Colleges, Churches, Lecture Halls,
Museums, &e ,to any extent and to any design. Kale
Proprietors, Inventors, and Manufacturers of Trough-
ton’s Reversible Desks, &o. (Registered),
AND GENERAL CONTRACTORS.
Rteam Works—DlCK STREET, off ABEECEOMBIH-
STREET.
Lithographs of Designs and Catalogue forwarded on
application.
Upwards of 200 schools already furnished by ns.
v yxz" ilting.-fashionable fse»ch\ /
X STYLE I ilfiAD’B Improved Kilter, V
just out, 5a., at Sewing Machine Agents. X\
THE RIVER DARLING NAVIGATION
COMPANY.
To bb Ikcor'porated bt Act ok Parliament.
CAPITAL, £200,000 IN SHARES OF £1 EACH.
Provisional Directors:
EDWARD QUIN, Eeq., M.P., Tarella, Chairman.
THOS. LUKE, Eeq., J.P.. Wiloannia, ) Vi „ p r v o , r „„,
T. J. HAYDUN, E»q. t J.P., do, j Vice-Chairmen,
Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L C , Sydney.
W. C. Palmer, Esq , J.P , Wilcanniu.
E. W. Donnki.lt, Esq., Qnalta.
O. H. Wrbford, Esq , Moorara.
H. C. Armstrong, Esq , Wiloannia.
Arthur Woodfall, Esq., Wiloannia.
Walterus Brown, Esq , J.P., Wiloannia.
Charles G. Lush, Esq., Melbourne.
J, B Reid, Esq., Wiloannia.
J. Susden, Esq , Wiloannia.
W. J. Holding, Wentworth.
T. W. CHAMBERS, Esq., Wiloannia, Hon. geo.
THIS Company is proposed to be formed for the
purpose of making the River Darling eontin-
■nously navigable between Wiloannia and Wentworth, a
distance of about 270 miles.
The total fall in the River between the two places
mentioned has been ascertained by Government survey
to be only 87 feet 3 inches.
The River is known to possess great natural facilities
(or Looking, the bed of It being intersected at several
places along ita course by bars ef rock, upon which
Locks or Weirs could be constructed at a comparatively
pro all outlay.
It has been determined, in order to provide funds for
having a thorough survey of the River made and a re-
liable astiinate of the cost of constructing the proposed
Looks ,aud for the disbursement of other preliminary
» xpenees, to dispose of 30,000 Shares in the Company,
•upon which one shilling per Share is payable on allot-
ment, with a guarantee that no further calls be made
upon the said 50,000 Shares unttl funds are requir&d for
construction purposes.
Discretion is given to the Provisional Directors to
expend any moneys subscribed for carrying on the ob-
jects of the Company, notwithstanding that the 30,000
Shares proposed to be sold may not be sold.
Forms of application for Shares can be obtained from
Messrs. Robertson add Fisher. Solicitors, Sydney.
T. W. CHAMBERS, Hon. Seo.
WILOANNIA.
Wiloannia, May 2nd, 1882.
WOOL SALES.
aO THE WOOLGROwEKS OP NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
In again offering you our services in the disposal of
wool or other produce, wa desire to bring under your
notice the increased facilities provided for efficiently
translating any business with which you may entrust
It*.
Recognising the fact that the further extension of
cur Railways must divert to this market a large quan-
tity of WOOL which has hitherto found its way else-
where, we are perfecting onr arrangements for
promptly and efficiently meeting the fresh demand upon
our storage accommodation, and, in addition to onr
large Warehouses at the Circular Quay, have added
extensively to our No. 3 Warehouse at Darling Har-
hour, where every facility is provided for the efficient
storage and display of wool to the fullest advantage.
This warehouse adjoins the Railway Terminus, at
which station all wool from the Southern and Wes
tern Districts is received; PROMPT DELIVERY
from the Railway is thus ensured.
We have an experienced staff, who are conversant
with all the requirements of the trade, and every care
is taken to fnlly protect the interests of onr oonsti-
tnents. Every lot displayed for sale, whether large
or small, is closely valued beiore being offered, and,
when required, owners are communicated with before
disposal.
Wool, or other produce, will bo received for us at
any of the railway stations, or by the steam companies,
and duly forwarded.
We hold Public Auction Sales o Wool on Wednesday
and Friday in each week, and of other prodnoe wTalter-
nate days. In any oise where owners’ limits are not
realized at auction, or subsequently by private con-
tract, wo are prepared to ship at lowest freight and
charges, and, if consigned to our London House, make
liberal cash advances; when growers prefer to consign
to their own London Brokers, we will hand over Bills
of Lading as they may direct.
Owners desiring their consignments insured in
transit from station will require to give specific instruc-
tions to that effect.
We desire to point out that last season a much
greater quantity of wool was sold in the Sydney market
man during any previous year, and generally at prices
which subsequent results have shown to have been in
favoured growers. The prospects of again receiving full
prices in the local market for the ensuing season are
oqutlly good, and we have no hesitation in recommend-
ing growers to test values here before hastily deciding
upon shipment.
Every year the numbtr of English and Foreign
buyers attending this market is increasing, and owners
may safely calculate upon getting prices here showing
a very limited margin on London rates.
Waybills and any further information forwarded on
application.
sar Liberal cash advances are made on consignments,
whether for sals or shipment.
MOET and CO.,
Wool Warehouses, Circular Quay and Darling Harbour,
Sydney.
p
AP E R
H {A N G I N G S r
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
EUR3ERT PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, Ac.,
imported by
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hnnter-st.)
PAINTERS* AND DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Osnulne White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Varnishes,
Brushes, Gold Leaf, to.
QUEENSLAND AGENCY.
QRESLEY LUKIN and CO.,
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLANTATION AGENTS,
Temporary Offices : 289 Geoege-street,
HAVE FOR SALE-
A number of lightly stocked STATIONS, the highest
class of sheep country, including areas from 2100 square
miles downwards, in districts of
Wirrego
Gregory, North and South
Bourke
Cook
North Kennedy.
A Permanent Steam Mail, and Cargo Service is now
established between Normantou and London, via
Thursday Island.
A A UTIE R'S
ARE THE BEST
SWISS CIGARS,
TRY THEM
TO BE HAD OF All TOBACCONISTS.
u NDEE SECTION V., ACT 532.
AET~UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription,
10.030 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 eaeh.
120 PRIZES of the fall value of 1110,000.
117 lots guaranteed, eash if preferred.
Lot I.lst prise £4OOO [ Lot 8. *rd p»i*e..,„„.£1350
Lot 2. 2nd prise £3OOO | Lot A 4th prise £4OO
Lota 5 to 9, Prises of £l5O each.
Lot 10, 1 Prise of £5O.
Lots 11 to 2«, 10 Frizes of £lO eaeh.
Lots 31 to 120,100 Prises ef £4 eaeh.
The management is compelled to extend the time of
drawing to the first day of August, 1808. Notwith-
standing this announcement, the drawing will posi-
tively bo proceeded with t.even days after the shares
are subscribed for. All nnsncoestful applicants will
have their money returned per return of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize. If not a large and independent fortune,
for £l.
Address—SETH R. PERSSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat,
READ PROSPECTUS.
A. A. DEBNEY AND GO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX. BAGS.
TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A A. DEBNEY AND CO.,
Have Just opened a large Shipment of Superior
HOSIERY, MERCERY. SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest Loudon Styles, by an experienced
London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders reseived Special attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & 00.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
J. THOMAS.
BILLIARD TABLE MAKER.
158 BATHURST STREET.
CUES, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS, &c.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
THE FIEST EARLY SHIPMENTS of SPRING and SUMMER GOODS have Men Sn»nlomont«d
Arrivals of the Latest and Mott Fashionable NOVELTIES, by Mailand other
article of LADIES’ APPAREL. LIGHT CLOTHING for MEN and B 0 Y s7c UKTAINB LIMENS &i form 7
mg together, such a display of SPLENDID NEW STOCK as cannot be found In the'whiff
tralia. And the prices being baeed as usual upon the CASH SYSTEM introduced bv A H &SONB Mnfi
Favourable to PURCHASER#, who receive an Equal Benefit in this Safest and Best of Systems. ’ ‘
_ SPRING COSTUMES. |
T|PS takct pompadour sateen
COS1UMES this wmo» are exceptionally pretty, af-
fording ample room for choice In Colour and Design, at
the same time the price* at* very roasoaable. A Nice
Dadies Costume of thl* material, neatly trimmed with
Plain Sateen for 12s. II. Children's Costumes from
4n lid.
J MANTLES AND DOLMANS. |
Specially selected from the foremost houses in Lon-
don and Paris : THE NEW OBAPHIC, HEAL MATIN
DK LEON MANTLE trimmed with Beaded Lace
Fringe, and Splendid Ornaments, for Sis.
LACE FICHUS &o , &o., in great variety.
HATS AND BONNETS.
The Latest end Most Fashionable Shapes in STRAW
HATS and BONNETS for present Season may be seen
in onr Show Eoom, and also in one of onr Large Win-
dows in Qipps-street, where every Now Style is repre-
sented.
SPRING FLOWERS.
For Beauty, Variety, and Completeness, our Show
Cases present, >he finest display of Spring and Summer
Flowers in the City, every Colour, Shade, and Flower,
being found in this collection. j
LACES. | {
By the use of onr New Pattern Books, Ladies will
effect a very great saving of time, many hundreds of
New Patterns being so arranged, that they may be seen
almost at a glance. The very latest New Patterns are
being sold at less than Sydney Wholesale Prices, com-
prising: French Beaded Laees, Fine Cut, in White,
Ficelle, and Black, Poirt Entse, Albany and Manolo
Fan Lace, and Point Roubaise, Cheltenham, and Point
Lorraine.
RIBBONS
. For the richest MILLINERY TRIMMINGS ever
introduced our Lace and Moire also Lace ana Satin
Ribbons stand Supreme, forming alone with the
and MerveiUeux. New’ Moire, and TlJiloVovaf the
latest novelties in Ribbons. Koyal. the
SASH RIBBONS all widths and co’ours
LADIBSiGLOTBS.
The New Shades in great variety are comprised In
first shipment, and Ladies will do w«(l to make choice
early of these BEAUTIFUL KID GLOVES K
Uo ll '* aU< * 0t^er * a ' 3no Gloves, form a rare stlec-
MEN’S CLOTHING.
Onr preparations in this Department, for Spring and
Seatons, enable us to offer a splendid stock of
GENTS', YOUTHS’, and BOYS’ CLOTHING in everv
description of cloth and variety of Patterns, ’all being
well cut and made, and at prices from 30 to 25 pet cant.
beleW Sydney usual prices.
Reasonable Suits, complete, 18g 61, 25 i
Gents Fancy Vests, neat patterns, 6s 8d, 7s 6J
Gents Black Cloth Frock Coats 25», 33s.
Gents’ Fancy Worsted Coats 32s t>d, 45s.
Gents’ Tweed Trousers Ss 9d.
Youths’ Sac Coats 5s 6d.
Little Boys’ Smicker Suits 5s lid, 6s lid.
MEN’S HATS.
STIFF FELTS 3s 61, splendid value.
FRENCH POCKET HATS 4s 6d, worth 7s 6d
*5 HATS 4a 6d, worth 10s 6d.
BlAGK PARIS HATS 8s 61, sold elsewhere 15s.
BOOTS AND SHOES.
AT THE PALACE EMPORIUM are fully 30 per cent.
Cheaper than at any other House in the Colonies and
the largest Stock to select from
A very good pair of
LADIES’ BOOTS for Ss 6d.
CENTS’ ELASTIC SIDES for fo«d.
DERBY SHOES for 5s9d.
CALF BALMORALS for 6s lid,
(Sewn) good quality for 6s lid.
CH ILDREN S E S. Boots from la 3d.
gikls* leather e.s. Boots 10 to is, 2* iill
GIRLS’ LEATHER E.S. Boots 8 to 9. 2s 10$
DRESS GOODS.
We have opened One Hundred Cases of New Dress
Materials selected from the most Celebrated Maunfac-
tnrera of England, France, and Germany, For many
years we have held the first position of any Drapery
warehouse in these Colonies, for the extent of
Trade, the variety of our stock, and the moderate
prices charged for the best selected Dress Stock out of
England.
This Season we have introduced to the Ladies of
Sydney, Costume Materials not to be excelled by any
First Class House in Europe. Wo have extended onr
Dress Department to double its former size, and ladi es
are always welcome to examine this extensive slock.
WHETHER PURCHASERS OR OTHERWISE.
CARPETS, FURNITURE, GLaSS AND CHINAWARE.
IMMENSE PAIiADB EMPORIUM.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
H
ja k
A
NO BRANCH HOUSES.
BROOK’S
M A
(ONLY).
ONLY
THE ABOWE ADDRESS.
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(■pacially wound on Her Ebony Bboaldar Reels, in white,
and colours.)
Jff SEWING-
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
COTTONS
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THB WORLD,
The following U*t of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS maA-rfactowd by
them :—Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prise Medal. London, 1861. Only First-claes Prise Medal, Paria, 186 A Prise Medal!
Ixindon, I£C2. Gold Medal; Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma-of. Honour, Tienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South Sirica IfJT
Madal and Award, Philadelphia, 187«, for variaty and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, ISti. ’
Ask for BROOK'S SEWINO COTTONS .
AJI Corrospondenca for AUSTRAXJA and NEW ZEAX.A'ND should be addressed to their Warehouse,
Wynyard Lane. Sydney, New South Wales.
BIAC KE T AND DAV Y,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
GARRET AND SON'S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
/
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Denftt,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFICE
THE “PLUrfIE” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IX STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
qualities
A
A
A A’
A
A A
AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PER BOW
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
fjpHE TAILOE POE THE PUBLIC.
H.~HAGON,
late cutter E. C. Hagou, 0f'127 .King-street,
haviugitaken
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PEEMISES
•' at
162 PITT STEEET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every i ooillly will be afforded him. for
ie aojy In a pyeition to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILORING
of a quality and price that cannot be Excelled.
West of Eagland'TweadPSnits, to order. 635.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 68-t.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16W5d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 1 16 s 6d,
N.B.—All Garments HAND-MADE.
P. H. HAGON.'
P. H. HIQON.


RILEY BROT
386 GEORGE STREET, ~)
600 GEORGE STREET, (■
165 OXFORD STREET, )
GOULBUBN,
NEWCA
And
10 COLEMAN STREE
THE CHEAPEST
IK THB
AUSTRALIAN CO
THB ORIOINATOI
NOTED £B B.
BLACK SILKS, BLA
EXTRAORDINARY BIECI
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NO'
ALL PARCELS SENT B - '
A Black Silk Dress Is always fa
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers hare pleasure
Country friends that their Pari
out the CHEAPEST AND BE*
SILKS ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers hare determine
and give their customers a turn
Lot 1 A Beautiful Grets Grain 8
2 Rich Corded Oroe do Sues
3 Heavy Corded Gres Royal
4 Rich Drabs, Pawns and Qi
Suitable for Weddings
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in each i
may hare any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Special Silks
for, and we will send full direct
meat to Ladies requiring dresses
All Parcels Packed Carefully, ai
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTH
BALE WAR]
883 GEORGE-STREET, NEAI
and 600 BRICKFIELD HI
£B Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or tea-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wlnoey, Print, or
other Drees material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Ootton Tick
2) yards Gambroon (or
strapping
8 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Mm’s, Women's,.
or Child's Boots
I Belt or pair of Braoee
J doz. Poeket’kerohiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o, Ac.
Mo
2 Lad
2 Lad
2 pair
1 Lad
1 pair
1 Lad
2 paii
1 Lad
4 In fa
2 Infa
2 tula
1 Life
M
2 Infa
1 Infa
1 dozi
S<i
Puff b
1 Plai
2 Bib*
1 pair
1 Infa
1 In
Sc
i t
H
£B
ifi
10 yoi
20 yar
12 Btr
20 Wt
10 goo
6 yar
Al
wearin
AS Men’s Clothing £B ]
Baie.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou- 1 pair
SUNDRY SHOWS.
ANUSEMENT NOTICES.
rr*f ITU* royal —“Lights o’ London.” Vide advt. p. 15
" * theatre.— Clark and Byman’s Minstrels, ib.
npkEA^ House.-” The Bohemian Girl" ib.
JIASOSIC HALL.—“ Begone Pall Care. ib.
There is a realism in the “ Lights o’
t rldon ” the workhouse scene especially. That swell
•worth a mine of gold, if only for his extraordinary
** semblance to a « baronet s son, by Jove,” whose head-
narters so often are the Soup Kitchen. And, by-the-
,v the wooden-legged “casuals” are the correct
rticle—those disabled warriors you see begging about
oVdner under the pretence of selling illuminators at
••a penny-a-box." Not, however, that any of the
timber-toed ancients ever enter the poorhouse in real
rfp although they condescend to do so for a shilling a
11 It 0 n the stage They have all—if not, like the
lovers of the " Periwinkle Girl,” “ balances at
Poutts’s at least a corner in the ledger in Barrack-
.treat Talking of the “Lights," the Gifted Alfred
■largest* that the title of the play originated from a
verse in “Locksley Hall." We should say, taking the
neculiarities of the drama into consideration, that it
was far more likely suggested to Mr. Bims by a passage
• •• Oliver i'wist.” It occurs in the part where Noah
and Charlotte are making for tho Great City with the
nrooeads of Mr. Sowerberry’s till, and £is as
follows : —“ ‘ls it much farther 'i ‘ asked the woman,
resting herself against a bank, and looking up
with the perspiration streaming from her face
, flinch farther 1 Yer as good as there,’ said
the long-legged tramper, pointing out before him.
‘Look there! Those are the lights of London,’ "
In reference to the piece, we might suggest that if the
o ds would permit Mr. Greville to begin to speak before
they commence to guffaw, they would hear considerably
more of a dialogue that is at different times brilliant,
pathetic, and humorous. However, Mr. Greville is
very funny. Mr. Bignold is very manly, Solange is
very wicked. Miss Watts-Phillips is very touchiig, and
all the rest are very something, including Goodie, who 1
is very nice. There is a rumour to the effect, by the
way that “ J. 8." will play Hamlet with a pantaloon's
waistcoat for his benefit; and a piece of information of
more importance (if possible) is that “ La Mascotte ” is
to be given at the Royal when Mr. Riguold’s season is
ended. And that is about as much of praise, criticism,
information, and anticipation as we can cram into one
par without exceeding the limits and causing the
comps to yell out for “ more fat.”
* * **
Business at the Gaiety during the last week,
has been at a perfect Hood tide. A good many ex-
cellent people prefer burnt cork fooling to marrow-
freezing tragedy, and wo are not the least excellent
among these. Perhaps one of the funniest things in
the performance of the Minstrels is their burlesque on
“ kouth.” Pour rag-stacks whose war-gear is made up
of contributions from the uniforms of the horse and
foot of half a dozen different armies, march on to the
stage in single file, and one of them command “John
Elliott ”to step torch. John Elliott s eps. His head
is covered with a wig, that looks as if it had been used
for wiping a butcher's meat-block, before it came into
the possession of the present owner. Then there is a
momentary hush broken by tho exclamation "Frank
Darlington, as I am a living man!” The whilom
cemma«der then assumes the fathership of Frank, and
striking an attitude remarks “ I am a minister and in-
capable of telling a lie, bat I never saw that man in my
life before." “Father!” yells the gory-wlgged man.
“Holdl” interjects a third tatterdemalion, grasping the
gushing youtn by the wrist, “ that is what he would
have said it you had been his mother.” All this is
carried out with such stony gravity that everybody
who sees it—supposing that they have also, seen the
original—must either laugh or die. A# a comique,
Allied Lawton is as good as any we have seen here for
& long time. His song “ The Bow of Lodging Houses,”
a parody on “ The Blue Alsatian Mountains,” is what
most parodies are not —funny. “ Sally in our Alloy,” a
song written by Methnsaleh and set to music by Tubal,
is sumg every night by Mr. J. B, Dixon, in very fine
style. The California Quartette sing delight-
fully, but they might change their songs a little
oftener with some advantage. Gov. Add. Ryman's
sketch, " Tho Unorushed Tragedian,” played
at the conclusion of the performance, is
very laughable. But the funniest thing in
this show, on the night wa were there, wgs
not in the show at all. We were standing outside during
the intermission, practising one of Charles Turner's un-
conscious-eloquence postures, and smoking a stick of
sheepwash that a wooden-legged man had sold us as| a
"rare Havana.” Two men, whose olive-green faces
and onion-smolling.breath marked them as waifs from
the shores where dwelt the Gunman sibyl in the days
when fortune-telling was as lucrative a business as
dummy selecting, stood in the gutter and played on
stringed instruments the melodies of their native land.
A tew yards off, a couple of grotesques cut in charcoal
looked on and grinned. They were tho first-fruits of
the soil, and their minds were too full of the traditions
of the old tom tom-playing maestri for them to stand
this innovation of alien music; so they remonstrated
with the Ausonian troubadours. One of their remon-
strances was sufficient to stop the flow of melody. It
was about the size of a potato, and hasn’t disappeared
from the Aasoniaa nose as yet. But the old Roman
courage that is still alive in the Italian breast swelled
the shirt-fronts of the itinerants, and they gathered up
their fiddles and—cleared. The blackfellows, flushed—
if such a term oau be used in such a connection —with
triumph, then wanted to go in and see tho show free
on the strength of blood-relationship with the per-
formers. A dentist in a street close by was exhibiting
their teeth next day. The programme-boy had gathered
these up fd>m the floor of the vestibule after their
previous owners’ interview with the ticket-taker. There
U to be a change in the programme of the Minstrels
shortly.
** * *
Fred. Macoabe ia, perhaps the only man who, by
himself, could draw full houses night after night to see
his performance at a time like the present when the
place is filled with attractive shows of all kinds. But
he does it, and does it without an effort. Fred is as
genial and gentlemanly as he is clever, which is saying
a great deal, and deserves success. His good qualities
deserve it, and his ability commands it.
** * *
The Montague-Turner Opera Company opened
at the Opera House on Saturday night in the “ Bohe-
mian Girl.” The house was filled. After the long
spell of hybrid shows that we have had for some time
past, it is refreshing to have tno chance of seeing a
really good performance. And tho •* Bohemian Girl"
was all this. Mr. Turner sang the Thaddeas music very
finely. Perhaps the song of all others that he sings
best is “.The Fair Land of Poland.” His delivery of
this is superb. Besides possessing a splendid voice he has
also the advantages of a dignified stage presence and a
grand smile, which conquers the hearts of all who see it.
Of Miss Annis Montague it is hardly necessary to say
more than that she sings as deliciously as ever. Those
who have heard her voice will know what this means—
those who have not will please themselves, the com-
pany, and us, a good deal better by going to the show
and forming their own judgment than by asking us to
take up a “ stick ’’ of space in giving ours. And
though Annis is not a sylph, she manages to look
mighty picturesque on the stage ; so much so, indeed,
that we begin to veer round to the opinion that the
Flemish ideal of beauty wears as well as any other
wter all. Signora Venosta pla>s the Gipsy Queen,
icier style of vocalisation is a striking but harmonious
Mntmt with that of Miss Montague. Besides, the
‘ u * e mdy, like all of her race, can act. Mr Gordon,
II makes up well mid sings splendidly. As
R r ' Ualn °r , s performance of (Vint Arnhoitn was adver-
tised as his first appearance, we don’t like to say any-
arSf l eTy k ar< * °* bim. But he will have to improve a
great deal before he oau make a compromise with our
ooneciences so far as to allow us to say anything adula-
talk ° f .mt He sings capitally, but walks and
bah 88 ** be had a pain in his stomach or was
an Invisible pole on his nose and was
The .1 , »ny sudden exertion might shake it off.
him 8 ? c ‘ efic i enc ies may be made up in time —in time for
-Jr* to take a hand in the heavenly chorus, but not
sooner, we are afraid. We reserve our final summing up
CIU we hear him again.
f ** * *
8 Op. ora Company started for Wagga on
bnaitfo *?. v^ *****£•. H is probable they will do a big
ness there during the present wees. With refer-
enco to tins company, it is only a fair thing to say on
behalf of a clever lady, that Madame Anna King con-
ducts the orchestra, and with Mr. Vernon Reid’s
assistance drills the chorus in a manner that no male-
musician would he ashamed of, and that many would
bo glad to rival. Mr. H. J. Whittington, the agent, is
also a gentleman who deserves a line. He .has been
twenty years in the business, and has acted as agent for
i the shows that have visited this colony during
that .time. Besides, he has one other advantage over
evsrv other professional we have ever met. He can say
the Lord s Prayer right through at three tries. Heals*
carries with him wherever he goes, a little leather-
backed bib'e that his mother gave him, which he uses
every morning. He uses it as a razor-strop.
** * *
A benefit concert is to be Bfiven to Mr. J. A.
Delany, on Sept. 23, as an acknowledgment of the
successful manner in which he orgamiied and conducted
the Triduum at St. Mary’s. It is a pleasure to
be able for once to praise a prophet in his own country
—a pleasure that comes about ns often as the flower that
blooms once a century. Several new songs are to be
sung at the concert, and the best vocalists in the city
will give their services.
** * *
Mr. Charles McCarthy has been engaged by Mr.
Bay less to play for a season of six weeks with the
Clarke and Eyman Minsirels. Charley was on board
the 'Frisco mail steamer which was just about to start
when Mr. Bayioss came on board and brought him back
tons once more. We are glad of this, because Charley
is a nice clean-looking fellow, and clever at the same
time.
** * *
Zulu Thompson, the Great Babt, and Lili-
putiau Lieutenant Herman, are in Sydney. W. H. looks
truly lovely, and has so many “ rings on his fingers ”
that not even “bells on his toes" could render him
more attractive. William has taken the Vietorierall
for Christmas, when his invariable star, the suite of
furniture, will once more “enthuse” the multitude.
In New Zealand, Mr. T. has made many thousands of
pounds, and he is now laying on his oars, and consider-
ing which new universe to conquer. We didn’t mention
W.’s arrival before, as we wished to give him a show to
make his purchases before papier-machti trays and
drawing-clocks went up in the market. See how artful
we ore —and how considerate 1
** * *
Young Dutohey, the champion light-weight of
Amsterdam and New South Wales, takes a benefit at
the Victoria Hall, on Thursday evening, 14th instant.
All the nomadic talent of the city is i il ed to appear
on this occasion. The entertainment will he brought
to a glorious conclusion by the broad-shouldered
beueficiare engaging in a desperate conflict with Pro-
fessor Meenan. Dutchey will also attitudinize as
“fifteen of the Grand Roman Grecian Statutes.” This
is a performance we must see at any cost. We have
never yet had the chance of seeing a man come out
in the character of the laws of Lyourgus and the code
of Justinian. The typographical error, however, will
not atfect the entertainment. We have slain many a
c*mp. fora slighter mistake, and yet we come out as
light-hearted as ever on Thursday mornings. All
disputes are this time referred to a body of stewards
selected in honour of Dutchey by the jurors of the
Amsterdam Exhibition, have are sworn to decide events
by any code but the bloody Draconian .
** * *
We have received a copy of “The Dell of
Dreams,” written by Mr. Victor J. Daley, and set to
music by Mr. J. A. Delauy. This is the song that Mr.
Hinchy so successfully rendered at the St. Vincent de
Paul concert in the Garden Palace, and at Mr. Halle-
well’s concert at the Masonic Hall. The words are
sweetly sentimental, and Mr. Delaney has hit upon a
happy theme In wedding them to his melodious music.
It is written in D. major, a key that should suit ordin-
ary singers, and the effective accompaniment is simple
enough for most players. The letter type is well
printed, and an elegant title page, designed by Mr. J.
H. Flynn, complete* a publication which is very credit-
able as a colonial production. Messrs. Nicholson and
Co. are the publishers.
** * *
Thus our Adelaide correspondent about the
Simonsons. His impressions fit in very accurately with
those we (.expressed while the Simousens were here.
Simonson’* Opera Company have produced “ Faust,’’
“ Grand Duchess,” and “La Pille de Mdme. Angot’’
The audiences have been numerous, for people hero are
particularly fond of anything operatic in shape, whether
it be good, bad, or indifferent. Perhaps it would be
libellous to state in what category the performances of
this company might fairly be placed. In many respects
it is a unique organization. There Is a generally re-
ceived impression among a certain class that voices are
necessary in lyric undertakings,yet, beyond the Simon
sens and Signor Coy, voices have been conspicuously
absent during the past week’s performances at the
Royal. Then again, some people have boldly assorted
that the first and most important use of an orchestra
waa as an accompaniment to vocalists. But
under M. Simonson’s guidance the instrumen-
talists scrape or tootle each at his own tree
will and most effectually subdue those whose duty it is
to sing behind the footlights. Musicians, too, are not
agreed that when the orchestra contains a plenitude of
string, reed, and wind instrument?, the a iditional pre-
sence of a coarse-toned pianoforte, banged in season
and out of season, is an unmitigated good. Yet M.
Simonsen obviously is held by other ideas, and so is
Mr. Harcourt Lea. Who dare controvert the action of
such experienced performers? Not a humble corres-
pondent. Meanwhile, the singers wrestle hard with the
orchestra, and arc not likely to leave the combat vic-
torious. Signor Coy, when the musio suits him,
displays great vigour and vocal skill. He is not so even
a singer ns of yore, aud never was anyway inclined to-
wards histrioaic achievements. Whore is Signora Coy P
Is she vocally defunct ? If she oould come forward
and warble in “ Rigoletto," or “ Ballo in Maschera’*
deliciously once again, we shonld Indeed be grate-
ful just now. Mdme. Simonsen acta with con-
siderable vivacity, though her liberal lines are not
fitted for juvenile parts. She still sings cleverly,yet
fascinates us not in opera bonffe. Her daughters are
skilfully trained, aud had Nature been more lavish in
her endowments, might eventually obtain a position in
opera which, it strikes ns, is, after all, beyond them.
Yet Leonora’s was a capital study of Margherlta in
“ Faast”—a great undertaking bravely carried out,
when one considers the comparative inexperience of
the impersenatrix. Martina’s Lucia also was gracefully
sung, though dramatic intuitions seemed few and far
between. Understand, it would be premature to dog-
matise regarding these ladies, and future performances
may place them cm an entirely different grade. One
thing and another considered—particularly the re-
mainder of the company—it would almost seem as
though M. Simonsen had, like the late Howard-Qlover,
started an academy for the cultivation of lyric art.
The difference is that all M. Simonsen’s pupils practice
in public, aud soft-hearted playgoers pay to hear their
exercises. By-and-bye, perhaps, the various aspirants
will become fitted to shine in opera. At present
numbers of them could more readily shine on a boot-
blacking stand.
* * *• *■
We have received a nice unsophisticated little
note from the manager of the People’s Concerts, at the
Temperance Hall He seems to imagine that we made
fun of his show because we found some difficulty in
getting in. But wo didn't find any difficulty. We sail
into any place, from a church to a lock-up, with equal
t ase and saugfraw and make ourselves at home at once.
We have a winsome smile that carries us through any-
where—anywhere where there are no bricks handy.
Let him note this smile when next w« go round. And,
p rhaps, it were as well that he should say an inward
prayer before ho chances one eye on us. But, solemnly,
we mean well by him and the entertainments he pre-
sides over with such touching dignity. Only we have a
somewhat erratic way of expressing our good wishes
now and then. However, we’ll call in and see his show
one of the»e nights, if we can arrange with our under-
taker to have the family hearse around at the con-
clusion.
** * *
Eererrinf? to the wreck of his “Wreck,” little
fcearrelle thus writes to the NT. Deamahc News
S*‘lu the stage box on the opening night were Mr. Gil-
bert, Mr. D’Oyly Carte, and Mr. Clement Scott, the
critic of the Daily Telegraph. lam in receipt of
proofs that, after the opera was concluded, the repre
sentativei of the ‘free and enlightened press’ met
together and arranged a plan of action, whicn plan they
carried out.” This, however, is rather inconsistent
with another statement that Luscombe makes, which
is to the effect that, though his opera was praised by
all the Sunday papers, it was damned by all the Mon-
day ones. The lilretto is described as being principally
compiled from “ Sixpenny-Side-Splitters, ’■ and circus
wheezes, while Searrelle's little airs, it is suggested,
wer# all written for the Jew’s harp. It is to be
regretted that, while the critics walked into the
“Wreck,” the ghost didn’t walk in the theatre during
the whole of the ten days’ run, a state of affairs that
has been gloomily commented upon by the theatrical
papers. It may be remarked that Mrs. Lingard, who
had come over to witness the triumph of the “ Wreck,”
returned with Luscombe by steamer to New York, “on
her little pink ear." Searrelle, however, is not
crushed. He is going tc write another opera, destroy
the grinding monopoly or—bust. He will, it is con-
sidered by those competent to judge, probably bust.
The late Captain Robert Johnston, R.N.
Captain Egbert Johnston, E.N., who died at
his residence, Annandale, on Friday, September
Bth, aged 92 years, was a native ot Sydney. He
was the second son of Lieutenant-Colonel Eobert
Johnston, of the N. S. Wales corps, or 102nd
regiment, who was the chief actor in the events
which led to the deposition of Governor Hligh.
He was born on March 9th, 1790. When 7 years
ot age, his fatiier took him home to England in
H.M.S. .Buffalo. Young Johnston was educated
at Newington Butts, Surrey, whore he remained
until 13 years and 5 months old. While at school,
he was one day passing the Admiralty Yard, when
he noticed a one-armed naval officer talking to a
sailor with a wooden leg. The lad stayed till the
officer retired, and then went and asked the sailor
who the former was. The officer was none other
than Lord Nelson, whose name was then in every-
body’s mouth. The boy's heart thrilled, and this
simple incident had a groat effect in determining
his tuture life, it was young Johnston’s lot some
time afterwards to be present at Lord Nelson's
funeral; and on this sad ooocasion he had a narrow
escape from being crushed to death, just avoiding
that fatality by having the presence of mind to
bolt under the belly ot one of the Horse Guard’s
horses, after which he joined in the procession.
When he left school, he entered the navy as a
volunteer of the first-class on board the 50-gun
ship Malabar. He served in the blockade of
the Dutch and French Fleets in the Texel; joined
the Namure as middy, and was soon transferred
to the 36-gun frigate flemiramia, commissioned for
active service off the ooastof iSpain and .Portugal.
He was present at the battle ot Corunna. In 1880
he joined the Norge as master s-mato, was present
at the storming of Cadiz by the French under
Marshal Soult, and took part in the attack on St,
Mary s, wtere he was in command of a rocket
boat, and narrowly escaped death through the
boat being sunk by a round shot, and those who
were not killed left struggling in the water until
a rescue could be effected. With another
officer and 150 men, ho next safely took
the captured 80-gun French ship, Neptune, to
Majorca, and returned with the Norge to Eng-
land. Mr. Johnston afterwards joined Vice-
Admiral Sir Alexander Cochrane's flag-ship, the
Asia, sent to the American Station. At Bermuda,
ho was made a lieutenant, and placed in command
of a despatch boat. This introduced him, on one
occasion, to Sir Thomas Hardy, Lord Nelson’s
fighting captain, a recollection he cherished to his
death. Ho was, in this capacity, present at the
capture of the city of Washington, and afterwards
joined Sir Peter Parker, Bart., who was engaged
blockading Baltimore with the Menelaus frigate.
He fought in the attack on Moorefields, in which
skirmish Sir Peter was killed. He was afterwards in
the New Orleans expedition, and, after peace was
concluded, was appointed second lieutenant to the
Asia, under Captain Alexander Skeene. On one
occasion during his naval career, the ship in which
he was then serving was struck by lightning
which killed several of the crow and injured many
more. It was afterwards discovered that the
vessel had narrowly escaped being blown up
as the copper covering attached to the magazine
was found to have been fused. When the Asia
was paid off, Lieutenant Johnston applied to the
Admiralty tor active service, but that not being
available, he asked for aud obtained leave ot
absence in order to visit his family in Australia.
He arrived in Sydney in October, 181 G, and his
services were almost immediately secured by
Governor Macquarie fqr navigation and explora-
tory purposes. He discovered the river Clyde,
and attei wards, alone, ascertained the source
of the Warragamba Eiver. When his leave
of absence had expired, and he was about
to return to England, his elder brother died.
This compelled him to remain in the
colony and supervise the family interests. He
entered into pastoral and agricultural pursuits
with his brother, Mr. David Johnston, and with
such success that he lias left behind him large
aud valuable station and other properties. In
1831, he married the eldest daughter of the late
Mr. Joseph Weller, of Hammershaw, Bucking-
hamshire, England, by whom he had a family of
seven sons and two daughters. His oolenial
career was notable for some exciting incidents.
When returning to Sydney from the Cape of Good
Hope, in command of the Queen Charlotte, in
1818, that vessel would have been shipwrecked at
King’s Island, Bass's Straits, but for Lieutenant
Johnston’s presence of mind. At night, ih a
heavy gale, there was a cry of “ Breakers ahead
while high cliffs loomed apparently over the
vessel. The crew implored Lieutenant Johnston
to order the helm a-’starboard, but he rushed to
the wheel himself aud jammed it hard a-port.
Daylight revealed to the astonished men that this
action was the only possible one that could have
saved their lives. Later on, Lieutenant Johnston
single-handed sallied out to arrest two bush-
rangers, who were reported to be asleep in an
oak-brush on the George’s Hall Estate. He was
badly wounded in the face and thigh by a sheath-
knife one carried; but he captured one man, and
the other fled. In 1822, he was stuck-up by
Tennant, the bushranger, who, however, came on
a peaceful errand —none other than asking
Johnston to intercede for him with the authorities
in respect of mitigation of punishment, if he
delivered himself up to justice. Johnston suc-
ceeded in gaining the consent of the authorities,
and Tennant surrendered. In 1865, Lieutenant
Johnston was promoted to the rank of Commander
in the Eoyal Navy. Four years ago, at the age
of 88, he took a trip to New Zealand. Within a
week of his death, he was driving about as vigor-
ously as ever. He was buried in the family vault at
Annandale. Over 1000 people attended the ceme-
tery on the occasion of his funeral, which was a
military one, a party of blue-jackets from H.M.S.
Nelson having been deputed to fire a volley over
the grave of the fine old warrior, who has gone to
his long rest.
In the Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Diseases,
consult Dr 8i ANIGH, Auriut to Uis Excellency, Lord
Augustus Loftus, Governor of New South Wales, who
will give the benefit of his Services Gratis to the Poor,
every TUESDAY and SATURDAY, at 50 Wynyard-
square Sydney.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Wagga is in a thrill of expectation. A new
band is to be organised, and already a local editor ha B
been appalled into writing a leader on the situation and
asserting that “tho undertaking is a bold one.” It
appears that in times past, Wagga bands have had hard
luck. The men themselves used to tout for subsorip-
scriptions, and get them—sometimes." The townsmen
used to hire the band, and get its services—sometimes-
Then enthusiasm slackened. The cornet was reduced
to feeding on hoof-parings which a reckless blacksmith
used to throw away. The bassoon died suddenly at his
Instrument, and the drum, while dining off the parch,
xnent, accidentally choked himself with a brass screw.
The band-master fled, and now edits a country paper on
a “tucker claim.” So tho local editor may well take a
gloomy view of the new undertaking, which is to be
under municipal guidance.
• • •
Black despair engulphed hia soul, even as the
luscious treacle overwhelmed the unwary fly. The
fighting rum had given out; so had his cash. The only
reliable thing he had about him was “ hot coppers,"
and they were not a legal tender. So, as the next black
dog chased him round the room, and the green, open-
mouthed sea-monster in the corner made a spring at
him, he resolved to give it best; and began looking
round for a bare bodkin, in order to make his quietus.
A friend in the next room heard him softly welcoming
Death, and rummaging around the scent bottles on the
dressing table to see if spirits of any kind were avail-
able. The friend came in and saw his intention. His
gentle soul went out in sympathy to tho would-be
suicide. "My friend," he said, “ don’t use cold steel;
it hurts. I've got some laudanum. ’Twill ease you
down the dark valley without pain." “My noble
benefactor,” sobbed Jimjams, "bring it along,” A
dark-looking fluid soon gurgled down the sufferer’s
throat; and the weary-worn drunkard went to his little
bed and lay down to die. Ho didn’t die, however, for
in the night watches a writhing form was seen—well, it
was black draught, anyhow.
At the ball (M.C. to “ Character ” in “ costume”)
—"What did you say you represented ” Char,
(slowly over the stones)—" II moreoheese dye Villiam-
broeo.” M.C. " Thank you. Your own name V " Char,
*• Jinkins, Christened Chorles.”
SAINT ’ENERY.
A Sabbatarian saint, lo 1 ’Enery poses,
A consecrated vessel for his " noses 1”
But, know ye not, a pious rest on Sunday,
Gives god-like man fresh strength to sin on Monday ?
• • •
Thus the Howl : —“ The Dancing Dervishes.
The Mayor of Sydney, Mr. John Harris, is, we under-
stand an aroh-purpleman. His obligation implies a
positive effort on his part to resist the encroachments
of Popery.and a discouragement of its means of ad-
vancing its power and influence. St. Vincent’s Hospital
is undoubtedly one of those means.”
WHAT IT MAY COME TO.
“ The i emarkable divorce case in which Dr. Hora
was concerned has attracted attention to the large
number of medical men who are now figuring as co-
respondents in matrimonial causes.’' —English paper.
" Your wife is worse, sir,” said the nurse ;
" She has the chills upon her.
A doctor try—’’ “ Faith, no, not I.”
The haggard husband then did cry,
" Death before dishonour! ”
• • •
Recently, the Chinese of Tumut assembled in
their grave-yard and ate baked pig and drank brandy,
being, it seems, under the impression that this proceed,
ing afforded nourishment to the departed souls. We
have seen a good deal of this comfortable philosophy on
earth. If the baked pig and brandy put away by the
directors could fill the little bellies of the Randwick
children, what happy, what plump little people they
would be ! Wait till the foreman of the Clontarf jury—or
someone we love equally well—dies. We won’t be licked
by the Chinese then. Let the undertaker but give us
notice, and the Necropolis shall reek with cold pig for
a fortnight after the obsequies.
aid Dr. Beg at the Presbyterian meeting : “ He
elieved that hundreds ot people used the trams and
railway on Sunday simply as a matter of pleasure. He
was opposed to the opening of the Art Gallery on the
Sabbath.”
The Czar and C zarina (how she wishes she was
hack in Copenhagen making cocoa for dada!) went to a
review not long ago in St. Petersburg to try the pulse
of the populace. They got on splendidly until they
arrived on the ground, for, though the bridge they
ought to have gone over gave way, and their carriage
burst up en route, Alick Missis were all right,
for (hey had taken to drive round
through the back slums iu an ammunition waggon.
Just as their Majesties had decided, after six changes,
the spot in which to take up a position for tho march
past, about half a'mile of tho fortifications gave way*
and fifteen staff officers simultaneously shot up into the
air like rockets. These little contretemps, however,
were not observed by the Empress, an artful equerry
having taken care to engage her in conversation, and,
with the exception of a Krupp gun pointing directly
towards the Imperial carriage being found to be loaded
with round shot, nothing occurred to mar the har-
mony ef the occasion during the rest of the day. The
Emperor is so elated now, at this rapidly-increasing
popularity, that he has stated his intention before long
of transferring the Imperial Conncil-ohamber from the
drain to the catacombs. The Empress is also san-
guine at this improved state of affairs, and lives in
hopes that when she sends out for a pound of trotters,
she will soon be able to risk eating one herself.
« • *
The Earl of Mundy—we mean Shrewsbury, the
fellow who recently ran away with another man’s wife
is going it. He was recently presented with a sword by
the regiment of Yeomanry of which he is Colonel. It
bore the following glowing inscription :—" Presented
to the Earl of Shrewsbury on his attaining his majority
by non-commissioned officers and members of the
Stafford Troop of the Queen’s Own Koyal Yeomanry.
November, 13,1881.” The noble Earl entertained the
deputation presenting the weapon, and subsequently
delivered the following ©ration : —" Ole flers, —Mush
(hie)’bliged for your'tention in calling. (Applause.)
Proud to know you—Whash it all about ? (Laughter.)
Swordsh ?—wha’ swordsh? Oh, (bio) orri—Yesh, doosed
fine muffin-toastersh. (Laughter.) Lesh have’nother
bottle (hear, hear !).’’ Three cheers were then given by
the deputation, who retired, followed by the Countess’
shoe. In the country paper—the Stafford Staggerer,
appeared the appended account of the interesting cere-
mony :—“ Presentation to the Premier Earl.—Wednes-
day last was a gala day at Alton Towers, a select deputa-
tion of the Yeomanry non-commissioned officers having
journeyed thither to present the Bight Honourable the
noble Earl of Shrewsbury with a splendid silver-mounted
regulation sword. Tho presentation having been made
in suitable terms by our esteemed townsman Sergeant
Portergaff, his lordship replied in an eloquent address,
in the course of which he trusted he might one day
come to wield the weapon in tho defence of his country,
and concluded by adjuring those present to defend with
their life-blood their hearths and homes, and keep their
powder dry. After being regaled in a princely manner,
tho deputation were presented to the Earl’s beautiful
bride, and finally left the Towers charmed with their
visit.” Then, on the other sido was the folio wing :—
“9462, B.W.D. Special, 10s. 6i. Payable by the
Towers butler."
# # «
The London Figaeo (which, we are beginning
to think, is edited by Henniker Heaton) ha s a par
commencing "Lucky Hobart Pasha 1” and states that,
the Sultan has presented Hobart’s wife with a handsome
Arab horse, and ingenuously adds: " The Honorable
Mrs. Hobart-Hampdeu has a slight, youthful figure,
and not only looks well on horseback, but rides to per-
fection. His Imperial Majesty has, it is said, often
expressed groat admiration for her style.” Let us die 1
This can’t be Mortimer, for he isn’t twins, thank God I
—so we really think it must be Henniker. All we can
say is, that if "His Imperial Highness” gave our
missus oven a smile, we should put up the double-demy
for sale, and, pending the auction, arm the staff with a
musket. And she shouldn’t so much as hang out the
clothes, till the steamer had carried us clear of the
Bosphorus. But, then, wo haven't got the " advanced
liberalism of the Orient ” yet. We shall have to drink
a little more lemon Kali first.
Since her marriage with Prince Leopold, the
Duchess of Albany has had a gay old time. They went
to Claremont for the honeymoon; but it was balf.pagt
four the next afternoon before the valets could get the
royal Duke unscrewed, and then ho had to be wound up
with the galvanic battery, to have his right eye-ball
scoured, his left knee-cap fixed in, both his ankles
“ served ” with gutta-percha easing before he was
ready to have hia rib-splints changed, a fresh porous-
plaster put on the back of his neck, and his iib.‘‘Pui.
vermacher ” adjusted. Then, having had his heart
timed by his physician, and his cough-mixture having
been given him, the gallant Colonel was lowered down
by a pulley into the garden to meet the bride. They
put him on an india-rubber cushion in a patent chair
which wound up with a crank, and then the youthful
pair were for the first time alone. It was a touching
interview. When the Princess spoke to him, and le
was not too drowsy to answer her, he made a sign and
she would raise him up into a sitting posture by means
of the crank. This is how they got on. “ Leopold! l *
she cried, pressing his hand, . Then ha madea|sign,
and she wound him up. “ That’s only myiindia-rnbber
hand,” he said, faintly ; “ the other one’s the right one,
only play lightly on the wrist. The glue on that wood
takes a deuce of a time to dry.” " Oh, say you love me,
Leopold,” she cried, toiling at the crank till the was as
red in the face as an Oriental sunset. “ Why, cert’nly,”
he gasped; “ but don’t wind up so fast ? You’ve shaken
all those cough-drops into froth as it is.” She then
plucked a luscious peach off the wall and offered it to
him on her knees; but he thanked her kindly, and
excused himself on tho ground that peaches disagreed
with him. Dinner being shortly announced, bread and
milk were spooned into the bridegroom by the Master
of the Horse; after which, he was hoisted up again by
the household, and tho Duchess was left to “ wolf” tie
banquet alone. Wo are sorry to hoar, though, that a
few weeks of the delirious excitement attendant on this
madly agitating houeymopn have had the effect of
“seriously impairing His Boyal Highness's health,’
and that a cruise has been deemed necessary to restore
him. Leo. will go by himself, though, this trip.
far as tho Princess is concerned, her part of tho honey-
moon doesn’t extend beyond Claremont. As it is, she
is rather queer, too, all her hands being blistered
through working the crank, and her nerves being un*
paired by the continual inhaling of hartshorn and oil
and turpentine and liniment.
# * *
In eighteen months an average of one fourth of
the number of the whole population of Wiicannia has
been fined for drunkenness. This is a fact, and, there
fore, cannot lie. The W ilcannia Waltebus, however,
says: "The drunkards that appear before the Con
don’t belong to us;” and tho paper also denies the
rumour that “we won’t support a Minister." Eire
we gave the fact; and facts cannot lie. And now we
have given the editor. Well [The remainder ot
this paragraph has been editorially struck out. Ed.
# • *
Says the Etm ; “In a of wife assault
before the Portsmouth magistrate, the woman st*■*
that, during her twenty-one years’ married life, she
received 200 black eyes from her husband, who was
the habit of spending 183. a week in beer." There
record, however, as to what he spent in black c
In tho hack slums about Ultimo black eyes are,
should think, almost as plentiful as at 1 ortsmon ,
Not long ago, the wife of a striker (appropriate
there sent her little boy away on a visit. One a
met his mother non-decorated in Georgo-s.re-
didn’t know her. Then she sat down on tbe ket
and wept bitterly. Three days later she “*** it |,
countered him, and he rushed to her arms 3 e
joy. It was Monday, and ho knew her by LT * wo rld
optic. “ One touch of Nature makes the w ® j a
kin." One touch of tho father’s fist bnt °
obvious.
The Ministry of Vigour—The New Postmaster-
General.
In the seaport town of well, dear boys, we’ll call it
Callao
And then a libel judge and jury can’t keep tally ho—
There dwells a good sea-captain, who’s so pious, on our
word.
Ho won’t allow, on Sundays, butcher’s meat to come on
board.
He goes to church and chapels, always prays aloud and
groans,
And does a heap of dropping down upon his marrow-
bones ;
And often to tho sailors, when he spends his time on
board,
Will he, with snuffling fervour, expound the “Word of
Qord.”
That volume is his log-book, quadrant, compass, and
mainstay.
And so this trusting pious sailor never makes leeway
One night, when noting Eve was made from Adam's
. spare rib-bone.
He read the words, “It is not good for man to be
alone,”
Straightway he hired a housekeeper, a buxom, taking
blonde;
And what was more, he took her from tho ranks ©
demi-monde;
His only wish was to convert, and so, upon our 1
Ho palmed her oif with the Site as, “ M d dar
wife I ’’
• * •
“ If the opening of the Art Gallery involved
labour, they could employ a couple of Jews."—Mr,
Copeland.
And so, despis'd, insulted Jew,
At last they’ve found a use for you.
'Tis yours to aid—for you strange work—
The Christian your dead law to shirk
Crass Christian, who this truth can’t scan,
“ Tho Sabbath, it was made for man 1"
But, in his blinded zeal, still blabbeth,
“ Man’s made to be slave of the Sabbath
Well said, thougoed and faithful sheet,
'Tis bravely writ of thee 1
How dare he, that “ arch-purploman”
Do aught, for charity ?
How dare he, with his presence, strive
To aid the sick and sore ?
For such degrading baseness, oast
Him out for evermore.
Your talons fix right in his heart.
For he’s stretched forth his hand
To help those gentle sisters in
Their work in this fair land.
But what of them ?—such sentiment
Oh, rightly ye do flout—
He’s done a gentle action, so
With fury— Cast him out ?
THE GREAT TENTERFIELD DUEL.
Let’s sing a song of Tenterfield
(No “ dusty legend ’’ this is);
Boniface to arms appealed.
And this, all through his missis!
He thought—and this was “ what's the matter,"
A “ chap ” had cast a “ sheep’s-eye ” at her.
“ I do not fight with fists,” said he,
And so his pistols loaded;
And 10, behold, he laughed with glee,
Bnt not a laugh his foe did.
He shut himself up all day long
(The key to this find in the song).
They met in a far distant park
One lovely Sunday morning;
All had been kept so very dark 0
That quite a few had warning;
And yet of carts and nags a lot
Assembled at the fighting spot.
Tho Boniface with pislols came.
Attended by a neighbour ;
The “chap” (supported just the same)
Showed up—but brought a sabre.
(His father many years had found it.
And he had “ bnllooked hard ” and ground it)
“ Come on 1 ” the “ cove ” did bravely yell;
“ And I’ll your hide bo flaying.”
“ Oh, Walker— that’s all very well—
I know no sabre-playing;
This pistol take lest they all hoot you ;
Then shut your eyes tight while I shoot you."
“ I fight with swords or not at all,
Hear that, degraded minion! ”
“ With pistols I or stand or fall,
Yes, sir, that’s my opinion.”
Thus spake the husband and the “ chap,"
While loudly all who heard did clap.
An hour they stopped and glared (or more),
Gave taunts and made dread faces;
Then, as there were no signs of gore.
The crowd got up some races.
And «oon, amidst full many roars,
Tho foes sat down aud played “ all fours.”
This world is all a fleeting show
For human torture given;
“ The grave one leg,”
Says Doctor Beg,
“ Must hold, or we’ve no Heaven.
“ Haul in the siller as ye g®,
Through sax days oot o’ seven,
But, Sunday trammed.
You’ll sure be dammed,
An' no meet us in Heaven.
“ Prepare for misery below.
And by tho kirk bo driven;
And ere life’s o’er
Your Sawboths snore
• Neath us —and ye’ll reach Heaven."
SUSAN'S SOLDIER.
(A SYDNEY ROMACE.)
There lives within this World of Sin
One Susan, parlour-maid, sirs,
Who had a soldier-sweetheart in
Tho Shandygaff Brigade, sirs.
He often came bis Sne to see ;
He’d leave her broken-hearted;
And when he went.away, 10, she
Invariably “ parted."
•
Each “first ” he’d her a visit pay
(A week to her seemed ages!),
And then he’d take her heart away—
And also take her wages.
Love’s nail into (believe it yen’ll!)
Her soul he deep did drive it
(We may remark he was a fall—
A frequently full—private).
And thus the course of love was still
As set-milk in a dairy,
Till Cook got tight and had a spill
Head foremost down the “ airy."
Another cook then turned up whose
Ex-missis, with much pleasure.
Unasked, did very kindly choose
To write her down " a treasure."
•
A month passed, when tho “ gal next door ”
To .Susan hissed— 11 1 told yer 1
When last night in the play I sore
Your cook long with your soldier.
“ And mighty luvin, understand —
A pretty bloomin’ racket I
Quite close they sat, and 'and in 'and,
A kivered with her jacket."
Poor Susan gave a ghastly grin.
Though when alone she blubbered;
And taking up the rolling-pin.
She “ planted ” in a cupboard.
She waited till the night came on.
(White-lipped, she was no laugher;
She knew that giddy cook and John
Were doing a “ Flagstaffer.")
At length she heard a martial growl,
Some huggin’ and some kisses—
Said cook —“Come down an’ *ave the fowl
I biled to-day for missis."
“ Where’s Sue asked ho.].“ Sue’s not here then,”
Said cook in tone emphatic;
“Why 'fora the clock is gone of ten
She's snorin in her attic."
Then down they came, in pleasant haste.
That cook and soldier fickle: i
“ Your arm, John, take from round my waist —
Yon naughty boy—you tickle I ”
The door ope’d softly; they came in;
Then'Sae, that outraged creeter,
Gripped firm her trusty rolling-pin,
And then turned off the meter.
Bang, bang I and oook was in the grate.
With frenzied fear a yeller.
And crack! Sue’d tapped her soldier’s pate;
Of her cove was a feller !
Now cook is in another place.
And Pate’s decree, 10, such is.
That lady wears a dented face.
And John—Tie walks on crutches.
A tale without a moral is
Some think a bit disjointed;
Well, there’s a moral, dear?, in this,
Bub wo’ve no time to point it.


POLICE REPOET (Condensed).
One Charley Chow behaved no how.
And met with some reverses;
He got quite tight and swore at night
A cool six pounds of curses.
No more then let Chow bo despised,
For he’s become quite civilized.
There’s a visionary in Auckland. He is boss of
m store, and John Lucas called there recently and
5 fahed to purchase “ balf-a-orown’s worth of gum»-
Tiresumably for a sample. This large order made the
p man indignant, and we read in one of the local rags
fh t the surprise of the bland and obliging Maclndoe
■better imagined than described: his first impulse
I 8 - n? to * hick the intruder into the reclamation works’
" i. This is very funny indeed. Fancy kicking
the hon. John into anything ! John’s purchase wasn’t
ch truly, hut it would require a very extensive one
even to hoist him up after prayer-times. On the whole,
however, Mr. Lucas is popular in Auckland ; but some
of the boarders at his hotel object to cattle being
slaughtered on the premises. The bread trade is un-
wontedly brisk, and the hon. John’s coat having caught
iu a nail while passing under one of the triumphal
arches erected in his honour, black doe skin cloth is
practically unobtainable in the city. We have intelli-
gence of an interesting event which lately took place in
connection with the distinguished visitor. Being in-
vited to the annual banquet of the Auckland Rowing
Club, John, on being called upou, concluded an eloquent
apeech by announcing his intention of presenting the
Association with a couple of boats, suitable for picnic
parties got up by the members. This statement being
received with deafening cheers, the hon. gentleman
arose, and proceeding, amidst breathless suspense to the
ante-room, brought in a pair of his galoshes. And being
stimulated by the enthusiasm of his hosts to further
acts of generosity, he further announced his intention
of shortly giving his handkerchief and toothpick to the
Cricket Club for a marquee. His health was then
drunk with musical honours, “ and the proceedings ter-
minated.”
* • •
The great sensation at the London Alhambra
now is a giantess, 8ft. high, who marches round with
the Amazons in ** Babil and Bijou.” She is only 17*
and we have it on the infallible authority of the theatre
••ad." that she is still growing. Several ancient peers
are reported to be much taken with her, and one noble
Marquis is having a pair of ebony steps made, in order
that he may chuck her under the chin between the acts.
She is very fat—which is a safe conduct to future
opulence; and is stated to resemble Henry Irving’s
Ellen Terry. Marian, at present, is stated, however, to
be the reverse of giddy, and when any of her suitors,
after the customary diamond locket, say
“ We do not ofier marriage rite,
So please dismiss the notion ” ;
she replies in the words of Gilbert’s immortal heroine—
“ Oh, dear I why then that alters quite
The state of my emotion.”
On the whole, such is the sensation that Maid Marian Is
creating that she may [be said to have divided with
Cetewayo the honour of succeding Parkes as the lion of
the season.
* • •
“ jt having been discovered that there was
already a loss on the refreshments at the N.Z.
«< Bellamy’s ’’ on each member of over £1 a week,
retrenchment is now the order of the day. Eggs to
be banished from the breakfast table when their market
price is more than Is 6d per dozen; cold meat will be
served for lunch ; and at dinner-time hash and Irish
stew are to find a place in the menu." This is what the
papers say. There is also a rumour that the retirement
of one of the members for Timaru is imminent, and
that a certain well known politician, now resident in
the colony, will be asked to contest the scat. Humph 1
* * *
Here is a little nut for the bull-dog faced gentle-
men who corroboreed together to clean out the faithful
during three revolutions of the earth last week to
crack with their after-dinner wine. The pro-cathedral
was not used for sacred purposes last Sunday, oonse-
quently the congregation had to go to St. Mary’s
where the Triduum was in full swing. And if they
went there they had to pay, unless they chose to he
crammed in the little pig-pen set aside for deadheads.
Now, as the congregations of Roman Catholic Churches
are not mainly composed of hankers and money-lenders,
it is reasonable to suppose that a number of this par-
ticular congregation could not pay the price charged
for seats unless they did an injustice to their families.
And there wasn’t room enough in the “ flat for a
quarter of the number of people in this position. The
alternative was either to go for that day to another
church or not to go to-Moaa at .all. But
it is a well-known and irrevocable law et
the Church that those who wilfully miss Mass
will be dammed. The conclusion is that ono-third of
the congregation of the new cathedral can make snre-
unless they bluff the devil by getting absolution or a
plenary indulgenoe-of meeting their cronies in hell
one of these days. They don’t charge for pews there.
« * •
When will the world learn to be charitable?
Here are people now saying things about a bewitching
widow and her coachman. And all because, when out-
side Peapes and Shaw’s, he said, “Home Jane?
and she replied. “ Yes, ducky.” There looks a lot in
this, doesn’t there? Well, now let’s at once silence
scandal by jeeringly writing that when he put the query
his thoughts were intent upon somebody else s sister
and when she answered it. her’s were spread out on th
old man’s tombstone. We are glad to give this explana
tion, because rumour says But never mind what
rumour says.
• • •
"The brilliant”solver of queries in the Down and
Qumtree thus assaults a party who wants to know all
about the snake-bite cure “ Without a moment s de.
lay tear your shirt or get a string somehow." When
the writer added that saving clause—" get a string
somehow ”-he evidently had in his eye a heavy-eyed
member of the staff, whose shirt consisted of a whitey
brown two-year-old collar, and a beer-saturated, penny
“dickey,” gracefully enveloped in a high-buttoned,
second-hand, renovated, long-tailed blue. Under such
circumstances it would ho easier to cure the snake-hito
than to “ tear your shirt.”
At the Ballarat Juvenile Exhibition £960 was
given in prizes to juveniles ; at the Sandhurst 01
£550 was given to adults and juveniles; at G ® el 9“f • ■ ■ .
£IOOO given in prizes, only £IBO wasgiveu tojuvemlQS :
at Melbourne £I3OO was awarded to juveniles exclu
Bively.
BRIEF MENTION.
Triduum! Echo —Tri-do-’em.
“ I parted,” said he. Yes, dear reader, “he
parted, ’
At Bathurst, the poundkeeper is also a music-
seller. He knows “ the tune the old cow died of."
Should John Davies recover .£20.000 damages
from the Mayor, he’d, be able to buy 4,800,000 buns 1
When Sir ’Enry was at home he was told that
C.M.G. was a title reserved for Colonial Money
Grubbers.
The Mary river runs nearly all round Gympie,
and sometimes nearly all over it, and yet they talk of a
loan for water supply.
An American lecturer wants to prove that “ the
human skull is becoming thinner." H« has evidently
never heard of John Davies.
“ Are these prison clothes?” enquires a convict
in the “ Lights o’ London." “ Yes." "Well, then, the
sooner the Government change their tailor the better."
Under the head of “ Farming Notes,” a late
Down and Qumtheb describes the capture of a lunaticl
Which member of thek stall, we wonder, was in train
that morning ?
In West Australia an intoxicated person may bo
dragged from his bed in his own house and looked np,
W. A. would be hardly a Paradise for some of our *' great
unpaid" and “ P.W.C.T.’s."
The Holt Howl (it’s wonderful how some
people get hold of the pious papers) refers to the case of
the C.M.G,, and adds “ May God defend the right."
This is hot on on whom ?
Sydney telegram in recent issue of Brisbane
Coceier '“ No tramway accident during the last
twenty-four hours.” Now, guess what newspaper office
supplies Buzzy with his wires?
The next new comedy company will be members
of the Municipal Council. Their first piece is “ The
Bobbers,” which will run throughout the season, Jack
M'Elhone playing the detective.
Two Gracomere graziers were having a barney
«• How is ifc that you're so cocksure that them a Mul-
hall’s brands?" " Bekase," replied thoother, “ I seen
'em wld me two ©jes in the Qovermint s Gizzard
desert their rocky channels, yet
hope and friendship, the elevative and endearing
emotions, cannot die.” That genial sentiment is all
very well to come out of the oflice of the Shoalhayen
News, but nobody ever drops in here to ask a writer
“ if he has a mouth on him.”
Prior to his appointment as a schoolmaster in
New South Wales, Plomer was convicted in Victoria
for four different offences; “yet, says Mr. Suttor,
<■ he was highly recommended by clergymen andother
people who pass for respectable citizens. Moral:
“ Put not your trust in princes —or parsons.
In the “Lights o’ London,” now running at
the Eoyal, a big point is made where a street Arab,
when asked where his father is, replies “In gaol for
for breaking mother's n ,'l se ;”™ ‘ ■f n . and
mother?" "In gaol too. What for . Oh, she
went out and stole some money to pay a lawyer to defend
father."
John Tuck M.E.C.S., writing about the recent
Brisbane Suing case, says: "Chemists should dis-
pense for doctors, for doctors have all they can do for
their patients to think about. Just so; tuck your
patients in bed, and make them tuck in pills and
potions carefully prepared by your ohemist-thus pro-
viding tucker for all."
The Protestant Standard comments on the
action for £20,000 entered by John Davies against
Mayor Harris, and ejaculates-" May God defend the
I "Ahem I It is plain that Providence doean t
trouble about libel or slander actions in the Supreme
Court of N.B.W. It sends down to the Old Gentleman,
who deputes such affairs to the lawyers.
“It is not generally known that a copy of the
Daily Telegraph is printed on satin every ■
forwarded to the Queen wherever ah* may be, says a
London journal. It is not so with our own Rum. A
copy of that is printed on a soogee-bag and forwarded
t 0 the boss bellman of Timbuotoo, wherever ho may be.
The bellman, it is generally understood, manufactures
anew kind of guano.
Sydney Licensing Magistrates are determined to
uphold the new Act. Many of their first flaca were
quashed on appeal to the District Court. But the
“ beats ” know a game worth two of the old 'un. The
first fines were £5 and upwards ; remit, appeals. Now
they fine something under a 11 fiver," and appeals can’t
be made. Who is their instructor, we wonder, now that
John Davies has resigned ?
A drunken man ran against a member of Parlia-
ment. “Do you know, sir, who lam?” said tho mem-
ber, “I am Mr. , M.P." “ What," irreverently
answered the man, 11 are you Mr.——, the greatest
fool in the House ? ” “ You are drunk,” exclaimed the
M.P. “Even if lam." replied the man, "I have this
i advantage over you—l shall be sober to-morrow, whereas
; you will remain the fool you are to day.”
They have at least one sensible correspondent
on the T. and C. Jouenal, He lives at Shellharbour,
and this is tho way he punches the—“ Weather—We are
in want of rain. Wo have not had any for some time,
and the ground is becoming very bard. If rain comes
in sufficient quantity soon, we will deubtless have a fine
spring.” There is a logioal sequence in this par, which
would mako tho writer’s fortune as a school inspector or
a bellman.
The Holt Howl is giving Mr. John Davies
sundry unkind thrusts. What can it all mean ? Here
is a chip ”It was half-past seven o’clock before the
tables could be cleared away. Meanwhile Bros. Rev.
Dr. Barry, tho D.Q 8., Bro. 8. Murphy, and Bros.
Davies, C M.Q., and Q. T. Collins, arrived from Sydney
by the evening train, hungry ns hunters and nothing to
oat.” This is a covert reference either to trussed hawk
or collared tram-tickats 1
It was the refreshment hour, and a well-known
country representative was just opening the door of the
Assembly refreshment room, when a huge throbbing
sound echoed through tho building. ** Good gracious 1
what’s that, waiter?” he cried. “ That, sir,” said the
man, pointing to a rabid teetotaller, who was seated at
a table poising his steaming sauoer ou the tips of his
fingers—" that, sir, is a temperance member’s gulp,
sir."
“ The stars, perhaps, forget to shine, the sun
might pale Its glory, but love immortal sheds its lustre
forever, and becomes an adorning gem of future life,"
is the style in which an editor in the weirdly wonderful
West winds up ft paragraph intimating that Jimmy the
ronseabout had been hlfcohod to Sally tho station-cook
the day before. No man need think to make a living m
the interior of this colony nnloss he can write in this
fashion. And even then the undertaker has the best of
it.
At the opening (first day) of St. Mary’s Cathedral
the attention of the jovial Knight (this terra is a direct
plagiarism from a contemporary) of Bt. Gregory was
called to his sword. " Oh, I wear it because lam one
of the head men of this affair,” remarked Sir Pat.
“ Yes, my dear sir,” was the rejoinder, ” you are a head
man here, but not the headsman." Sir P. gave a start,
and, glancing down, saw that ho was wearing his weapon
on the right side. He changed it directly, of course,
but it wouldn’t have mattered mnoh, as he didn t have
to draw it. All the “drawing " necessary was performed
by His Grace and the talented company that supported
him. But, 5ti11....
“ Civilization is advancing with giant strides in
New England," raid the Gibbon of the local paper in a
paragraph intimating that a hot-pieman had arrived in
the cathedral city of the North. And then the wily old
rascal hinted that “the vendor of mysteries ought to
keep the Chronicle’s imp supplied with pies for about
three months after this favourable notice.” Ho didn t
explain, however, that the imp in question is rigged up
with a patent compressing collar around his neck just
like those the Chinese fishermen fix around the neck of
a cormorant to choke him oil a fish at the very
moment ha gets his teeth around it. It was a country
editor who lirstj'said that necessity was the mother of
invention. '
An English paper in making some remarks about
the celebrated Elizabeth Gunning—the beauty of her
day, and the wife of two dukes in succession—states
that this lady’s shoemaker “ used to make throe guineas
a day in pennies by showing her shoes Nothing is
said as to whether Elizabeth stood in them or not,when
the hat was passed round. Wo know a boarding-house
in this city where they make a good deal “ore ut o
cast-off boots by catting them into shoes and dishing
them up as tripe. A reporter once wont to live there,
and thought ho had them euchred When ihey oame
to carve his cockroach-squashers they tell to m«£eß.
Vain finesse. Next day he broke one of his front teeth
over the toe-plate of one which he found in his hash.
When savagely cross-examined your object
should be to keep your temper, and make your inquisi-
tire friend lose his. The other day, in the course of
the Darling Harbour compensation case, Maiden, Hill,
and Clark v. the Crown, Mr. Rogers cross-examined the
only M’Elhone, who cruelly sold the learned counsel
thus :—Mr. Rogers : ** Then, Mr. M‘Elhone, it comes to
this, that yon think it was a very foolish thing for
Maiden, Hill, and Clark to buy the land ? * Witness:
•• I think it was a very good thing to buy it. Mr.
Rogers: “WhyP” Witness: "Because the Govern-
ment are offering £5000 for it when it is not worth near
that sum.” (Laughter).
Early in July a number of infernal machines
were discovered near Bradford, England. Prom a Brad-
ford paper we see that the parcels containing the
machines bore inscriptions thus : —
•‘T 4532
E Kapunda (a)
Adelaide Nonkea
Warbu 17, Pas
Paratoo [this is written four times]
London Dock [this is written five times in blue pencil]
B 550,600.959.”
Now, what does the above mean ? Kapnncla, Adelaide,
Warbn, and Paratoo are all South Australian names !
This Noakes us.
“ Some of them were as proud to wear this little
hit of tinsel on their coats as a servant-girl was to go
out in a new coat."—Mr, Piddinqton.
Behold him branded C.M.G.,
Pit theme for laureate’s sonnet:
No baubled fool more preud with glee.
Nor " slavey" with new bonnet 1
Full soon the good old title, “ Mr.”,
To stand on will not have one peg;
Its sound will smart like Mao’s strong “ blister ”
Applied to St. John’s “ wooden leg I ’’
“ A Stranger ” writes us from Melbourne: —
“In going over the T.M.C.A.’srooms hero, a day or two
ago, I saw a photo, which turned out to be that of
Thomas Walker, the repentant spiritualistic medium,
hanging upon one of the walls. The picture was covered
with tissue-paper. Upon inquiry, I found that the
young men under Mr. Marsh, who runs the show,
prayed for the conversion of Walker, and that, when
he was • converted,’ they would pull the tissue paper
from off the face of his effigy- We’re very much
afraid that Walker’s picture will yet remind the young
i men of the Prophet of Khorassan, who was a most
unsatisfactory kind of creature when onoahe had his
veil oft. But, ’twas ever thus. We oneo loved the
little widow across the way with all the ardour of our
romantic nature. But we have since seen the freckles on
her nose.
Cutting up large blocks of land into allotments
and selling them by auction is a favourite amusement
among sharp speculators throughout the colonics. The
practice has raged for some time past in South Austra-
lia, where it is calculated there arc ten vacant allot-
ments for every man, woman, and child who form the
population. Lately, at an auction sale, a surveyor who
knows the value of land, was surprised to hear a solicitor
biding outrageously high for a certain allotment. That
allotment was eventually knocked down to the solicitor
at £6 a foot. Then some earnest stranger gave £5 for
the adjoining allotment, and many genuine sales were
sequentially made at proportionate values. Feeling
that the solicitor had paid about three times too muon
for his investment, the surveyor said to him, after the
sale : “ What on earth made you give £0 a foot P It
cannot bo worth anything like the price." ” Ah, my
dear boy," replied the lawyer unctupusly, "it was a
mere matter of arrangement with us. We had merely
bought the allotment some days before the sale at
nearly vour figure. That is the way we work it, old
follow.”
In North Queensland—we won’t say what part
of North Queensland—lives a man named Adolphm.
Adolphus uses long words, but doesn’t know what they
mean. He has an idea, for instance, that "ana-
chronism ’’ is what the squatters of ancient Greece,
used to call a gin-sling, and that "hyperbole” is only
a roundabout way of saying that you "feel good.’
Well, one evening Adolphus found himself stuck up by
floods at a shanty on the tank of a river, and thrown
into the company of a young Indy who was on her wry
down to get married. Under those circumstances, she
was of course impatient at delay and she eagerly clutched
attho faintest indication of a change in the weather ora
fall in the river. “ Ah I" she hopefully exclaimed to
Adolphus, with all the ardour of her vpung and hopeful
nature. "it’s going to clear up.” "I am afraid, Mi-h
8.,” thereupon remarked the learned Adolphus, who
could see no break in the clouds, "that you bavea voiy
sanguinary disposition.”
Thus a correspondent:This is how in a cer-
tain fashionable c.ty restaurant, where high prices are
charged, and where it is often the outton er, aud not
the attendant, who waits, they make that ordinarily
harmless and refreshing drink, " lemon-squash.”
Sydney, bo it noted, is the capital of- the land of
lemons, and t here is no season of the year when, at any
leading hotel, a man cannot get a properly made
“squash” or a fqueexoof lemon in Ids whisky. But
lemons are dear justnow.and the restaurateurs inques-
tion, when you call for a "squash" in their ladies-
room, impudently servo to yon a nauseous mixture
consisting of “lime juice" (made of citiic aoid and
syrup) and flat soda-water drawn fronl a "syphon-
bottle.” Floating on top of this are an infinitesimal
scrap of lemon and about ten drops of an oily liquid
which one’s nose and palate speedily tell one is ordinary
culinary essence of lomon. For this they charge you
sixpence 1 The molecule of lemon is dropped into the
glass for precisely the same reason that they drop into
your (’’oyster-") soup-plate at the same establishment
one solitary, hungry-looking, leather-like mollusc. So,
when you go into the swell restaurant and are treated
•thus, decline to pay, on the ground that you haven’t
been served with what you ordered."
There is joy in this office. We were leaning our
head upon our hands jn a state of utter melancholy
half an hour ago. Wo thought that there was no more
fun in the world, and that we should have to emulate
the proprietors of the Daily Telegraph and run a
paper for the amusement of the dead. But there was a
sleepless eye and a flashing non in Maitland that came
to rescue ns from this dreadful fate. This is the noble
lyrio that dazzled our eyes as wo opened hia envo-
l0,’e *“ ADDRESS TO ALCOHOL,
Tempt me no more —to hell I will not go;
Should that goal be reached through drink
The raven’s "Never ’’ haunted Poo
And may haunt mo to the brink.
Enslave me not, you hateful fiend,
Think I’ve no heart to love my God,
Take heed you goul (sic) that I’m redeemed
Salvation reigns where devils trod.
This is the sort of thing that makes the blood of the
rum-seller freeze within him, and causes the lamber-
down to shave his head and divide his wealth among
his victims. We want to get a lot of contributions of
this kind Our office hoy is an orphan, and we allow
them to him as perks.
If there is anything wo love bettor than most
things it is patriotic poetry. Mr. L. M. B. Mills has
written some of it, “on the occasion of the 13th Anni-
versary of the Royal Windsor Orange Lodge. Ihere
are some beautiful thoughts in Mr. Mills s production,
and a considerable amount of language. Hear him
•• With reverend thought remember ones (sic)
Who health and strength did spend.
To further this, our glorious cause,
M’Gibbou,—brother, friend I
" Now let ns give the welcome due,
With rounds of Kentish Are,
To him, who bears the hononred name.
Of Henry Hicks, Esquire 1"
The gifted bard means well, no doubt; but why on
earth can’t he let well alone ? Hero is the hot weather
coming on, and all tho people down in the vaults so
busy getting their summer shrouds ready that they
have hardly time to open the daily papers, yet L. M. B.,
regardless ' of this, deals a blow with his poetry which
may unsettle things tor a good bit. However, though
indiscreet, Mr. Mills is undoubtedly a bard who merits
notice, —and now we have noticed him, ho may go back
to the cart.
Scandal down South. Two masters, A. and B.,
teaching in the same Collego-A. married, B. bachelor—
A good-natured, B. indolent—A. takes evening duty
frequently off B.’s hands-Mrs. A. complains regretfully
of A.’s absence— A. one night changes hia mind, aud gets
C to become the substitute ho was to have been for B,
—A. returns iiome—Tableau: Pretty wife and B.—A.
" tumbles," and divorce coming off.
“SUB JUDICE.”
Another way to gag the newspapers.


A little stranger—The new comet.
■“ The new Speaker Mr. John Connery.
Ingratitude. The Evening Nooze calling the
“ Dirty Sydney.’*
Was the “ silver cradle” presented to the Mayor
by the owners of “rockeries" with the view of rocking
him to “ sleep ?’*
“ The Sydney Government Lick-Spittle” is
authorised to contradict the statement that Graham
Berrv was offered the appointment of Stamp-sticker in
the General Post Office here.
Peppercorns are getting obsolete, and it is de-
sired to find an equivalent in peppercorn rent leases.
In future they will read: “In consideration of the pay.
ment of one well, Botomahana hat.”
One of Clark and Ey man’s niggers thus sum-
marises the speech of Brother Henson, M L A., on the
Parliamentary - refreshment-room-anbscriytion que -
tion“ I'm a great pie-eater, but I don't drink."
A correspondent wants to give a hint to the Hon.
George Thornton, protector of aborigines. He asks,
respecting a small town on the Kichmond Eiver; “Why
fchould a tine little child with bine eyes and snow-white
akin be allowed to remain in the blacks' camp when the
father is well able to support it ?"
The Central Queensland Times says that
■“Pomery (sic) is to open on the 2nd and should be
accorded good support." This is a safe prediction,
i’or pommery is the only star—except three-star—that
would be sure of obtaining good support in “ opening "
in Bockhampton.
A Southern postman, two-thirds of whose time
is taken up with fighting cooks and fighting rum, haa
applied to the department for assistance. People want
to know whether the assistance it required la the
poultry department or the rum department. One thing
is certain —he must be overworked in postal affairs, as
be can never spare time to be civil.
They were father and son—Presbyterian minis-
ter and civil engineer. They attended a local railway
meeting. The C E suggested a new route, bnt was
hooted. He retaliated by “going for” one of the ob-
jectors, and a general Limerick fair ensued. The
minister's Highland blood was roused, and, grasping a
trusty blackthorn, he walked into the crowd like Sam-
son armed with the j iwbone of an ass, did into the
Philistines. Next scene will be —Eev. gentleman pulled
up for unlawful assault.
Obituary.—Milbnrn Creek Company, Esquire,
of sanguineous apoplexy. Mr. Edwara Nathan, Mayor
ef Orange, presided at the funeral services. Number of
cortege not stated. The will of deceased showed that
hia estate had a credit balance of 13 half-crowns, which
was immediately squandered in champagne. The
Government were severely blamed for persecuting the
oid man into his grave; and for hunting E. A. Baker out
of Parliament. E.I.P.
A Copmanhurst man, named Michael, had 101 b.
weight of blasting powder in a canvass bag under his
arm. He was an admirer of Longfellow, and, as he
passed the village smithy, he looked in to see the film-
mg sparks fly from the forge. The forge isn’t there
now, the village smithy Is a wreck, and Michael says
no one can point out beauties in Longfellow’s poetry
to him anyhow. Strange to say, nobody was hurt
much—only singed, and wondering where the eaeth-
quake came from.
Sir John has evidently frightened the wits out
of some dummies. An Inspector under the Land dot
called at a selection in the Gwydir district recently, an
old man emerged from “the improvements." Conver-
sation as follows :— 11 Whose selection is this ?" “ Mr.
Squeezebale’s." “ What are you doing here ?” “Mind-
ing it for Mr. Squeerebale." “ Who selected theland ?'*
“I did.’’ Eesmt —enquiry; at which Mr. Squeezebale
and not the old man appears. Inspector: “ Why do you
appear, Mr. Squeezebale?" “Oh, I’m the old man’s
agent." “ Well, then, will you explain why the selector
told me *ffiat the selection was yours though he selected
it?" “ That’s easily explained; he thougnt you were a
detective and was afraid to say too much." Usual re-
sult.
A man was brought up down South the other
day before one of the newly-app anted magistrates, and
onarged with drunkenness. He pleaded guilty. The
great unpaid gazad sternly at him, and said “ You ate
discharged with a caution,” and ne was. This is an
improvement, however, upon something that happened
not so long ago in the back-blocks A blackfehow was
charged with stealing a pair of boots. A magistrate
who knew the darkie well took his seat on the Bench,
and without waiting for the usual formalities com-
mencsd somewhat in this way, “ Well, Tommy, you
blackguard, you stole those boots, did yon? Yon in-
fernal scoundrel, you deserve six mouths." Having
delivered himself thus, the magistrate left the Bench,
and Tommy the court And there is no record of that
little incident to be found in any deposition book. The
quality of mercy is not strained up country sometimes,
it is ladiedout thick—when it suits.
They were closeted together. “ He voted against
us hist night, you see," said one old man, rapping bis
despatch-box angrily. "Yes, confonnd him!" muttered
the other eld man. “ What can we do to pay the traitor
out, to inflict upon him some insult that will rankle,
some affront that though deftly and unobtrusively given
the world will talk of ?" sdd No. 1, angrily. "I have
it 1" cried No. 2. “ What?—Speak !" cried No 1. "He
has betrayed us, and he shall suffer." “ I would " con-
tinned the other, in a broken voice, willingly have spared
him. I loved him once when he trundled a hoop in a
little blue frock, and gave bis aunt a Post Office No
matter I t must be firm. Bench me that printed form
than. So, with a scratch of my pen he is at once the
scorn and derision of men." Explain yourself," said
the first old man, breathlessly. Then in deep, sepulchral
tones came the dread answer:—"l have made him
a J P."
Copy of letter from George Webber, Inspector
for the Animals Protection bcciety, Sydney, to the Czar
ot all the Bussias: —'* May it please your High and
Mighty Czarship, yi ur excellent Imperatorship, and
most eminent Oossudarsbip : —My humble duty to you,
Hospodar and Samodershez. I have noticed that you
are troubled with.the Jews in your dominion, knowing
the clemency of your Imperial Character, I humbly beg
t) presens yon with a receipt for the easiest and most
humane method of killing Jews, as demonstrated in
corpore bovis by one Philip Phillipstein, Jewish
slaughterer, of Sydney, New South Wales/Australia, in
a recent case iu which I prosecuted him for cruelty to
a bullock, and during wh'ch it was stated in evidence
that the eminent Dr. Bichardsou, of hygienic celebrity,
was ih: favor of the system. The receipt is as follows:
First catch the Jaw. Eipehim round the neck and
throw him down on a cement floor three or four times ;
pa-s a hooked chain round his off-hind leg, and haul
him up by a windlass to a convenient beam until his
poll just does'nt touch the ground y then open his
m juth and jam a pole between his jaws to the depth of
.wo fact; and lever his head well back by means of this
i-ole. Ail is now ready for cutting the throat. The Jew
iay bellow and exhibit symptoms of terror and pain;
it don’t you believe it, your Czar ship—he is in-
usible and asm dhetioised. Now cut his throat with
*tnesi and de-patch and let him hang till ©very drop
blood has clotted upon the cement floor. You will
i >y the spectacle, but the method is so humane that
Jew will enjoy it beat of all. And your humble
£ . ant, Eminent Goseudar, will ever pray.”
A CHARITY CAPER.
He ia a dingy aspect, and he lives
in a little ack is the yard of a crumbling
tenement near Hon rr wq treet; a fusty old fellow with
a black cloth cap on his head and a smut on his nose*
Ho hangs out no sign—paints' up so legend to denote
the nature of his trade. Only a few of the neighbours
know what he really is; the majority being divided as
to Whether he ia an Evesiso News poet, or an expert
in mangling. Owing to the extreme dinginess of the
old gentleman’s appearance, the former surmise is the
more popular: indeed, it is not long since a dirty
piece of paper containing twelve mottled postage-stamps
was thrust under his kitchen-door, —a request being
almost illegibly inscribed upon the missive that
tha recipient would "tip” the sender “a werse to
Marier.” But despite the veil of mystery which would
seem by this to envelop the old gentleman, there are
many periods of the year at which he is in no incon-
siderable request. At these times he is sought out by
Civil Servants —hunted up by tradesmen. Chemists'
assistants “run round” in their dinner-hour and whisper
anxiously in his oar ; smug merchants “ drop in ” and
deferentially consult him. The queries of his clients
are invariably long; his replies to their questions chiefly
monosyllabic. In a great many cases, money passes
between the parties visiting him and himself, and it is
worthy of remark that it is only in the event of a client
having "parted” to the old gentleman, that he leaves
that smoky ancient with a face attuned to anythiag
approaching composure. Quite an autocrat is the old
man in his way. Distinguished persons have frequently
visited him, and alternately coaxed and threatened in
vain. And it is even whispered that on those swells
becoming unduly importunate, ho has been known to
mockingly dismiss a Member—to jeeringly request a
Justice to retire.
• • •
Having been “put on ’ to this venerable her-
mit, behold us, one dusty afternoon, p eking our way to
his residence. We forget the name of the street in which
he lives, but it is near a little public-house before wbioh
three weary-worn musicians are perpetually playing—a
cornet, concertina, and a flute. Many times we have
watohed this trio of tune-torturers with much interest.
They play just long enough to earn three-pence each,
and, that consummation attained, they go inside and
spend it. Occasionally the band numbers two only :
that is either when the concertina is “ lumbered,” or
the landlady has temporarily impounded the flute. On
these occasions, the remaining two, being put on their
mettle, enlarge their " busking” area, and, meandering
as far as Castlereagh-street, are presented by the
populace with an alternate shower of beef-bones amd
half-pence, largesse, wo grieve to ear, however, which is
not nnfrequently varied by an occasional brick. It was,
indeed, one of these ** musicianers ” who indicated to
us the exact position of the old gentleman’s residence;
information which he supplemented by an alcoholic
whisper to the effect that his domestic affairs were in a
condition of chaos in consequence of the " kids ’’ being
eiokly, and the missis “on a bast.” Arriving at our
destination, wo found the old party enshrined in a
bower of faded stage dresses, rusty muskets, and mis-
cellaneous boots. Avery mild-looking post-office clerk
was busy, as we entered, selecting a fancy dress for the
Bt. Vinaent’s Ball—the mission he had come upon, wc
blnshingly admit, being identical with our own. A
wonderlul old costumier that. He had, when a young
man, been a stage carpenter, and had amassed his stock
by purchasing cast-off and other dresses of needy
actors, and taking old ” props ” (by weight) off
managerial hands. He had such an assortment on hand
that he could dress any piece (after a fashion) from
“Othello” to “Formosa." If, for instance, you re-
queue 1 him to shoo the Boman army he would
cheerfully execute the order, and turn Caesar’s soldiers
out in a mixed assortment of friars' sandals
and mediaeval slippers; while a line regimeat of his
providing would contain such a lot of the Fire Brigade
element that it was a hundred to one, in the battle-
scenes, that the gods wonld yell out for the engine, and
derisively knock postmen’s knocks on their wooden
benches. Still, a “fancy dress” is only a fancy dress
after all, and it is a convenient thing to be able to hire
one for a moderate oost at very short notice. That is
why the old gentleman was at a premium at costume-
ball times.
• * *
“ Here you are,” he said, pushing towards the
> P.O, gentleman a hat like a funnel decorated with re-
cruiting sergeant's ribbons, a velveteen jacket em-
blazoned with pink and blue braid, and a pair of shorts
that would have been a tight fit for a hop-pole ; “now,
you're fixed. Corsican bandit’s your dart, and you must
find your own so«k*. Oh I here, I forgot," he added,
pulling a moulting blue feather about three feet long
out of an old trunk—“ stick this in thq. band of your
hat, and the finishing stroke’s done.” The mild offleiaj
did as requested, and afterwards fixed the hat on the
back of his head; and doubling his body in two, he
managed to survey the effect in a dwarf’s shaving glas».
This done, he heaved a deep sigh, and paid the deposit.
Poor fallow 1 his was a sad fate. She had arranged to
go as Zarlinaand but let the flat candlestick which
lighted the interview repeat the grisly story I Wo drop
a tear of sympathy for that bandit, —and proceed. We
had an extended interview with that costumier, but all
to no purpose. Having declined to go as a snuff-shop
Highlander, a Nigger-Minstrel, Hamlet (black camlet
cloak and low comedy waistcoat), or as a Sentinel of
the Time of Edward IV. (block-tia hat, and paste-
board breast-plate over dungaree jumper), he finally
proposed, “ Cavalier l7th Century." Brighten,
ing at this suggestion, he produced an emerald,
green coat with “ Jack Sheppard ” cuffs, a
pantaloon’s waistcoat, murderers' yellow boots,
a staff offi ser’s hat, and white satin breeches patched
with a darker shade of calico. The exhibition of these
treasures decided us. Our dream of glory was over
and we indignantly departed. It must be evening dress
or nothing; and, as it couldn’t very well be nothing,
we bought a penny ink-bottle, borrowed a needle and
thread, and having requested our “ French laundress”
to “send it home" early on Wednesday afternoon, we
looked forward to the coming caper with a tranquil
spirit.
« • •
We alighted at the old Exhibition—scene of eo
many scenes of phrenzied enjoyment I—at about a
quarter past ten, bringing up just behind a well-known
sign-painter, who was garbed a* a forester. He had a
green coat, brown boots thrust into circa 3 tights, and
a shovel hat adorned with a hen’s feather. Round his
waist was a broad leather belt, and his general appear*
ance was equally suggestive of a modern Forester and
an ancient headsman, A bunch of keys, however, would
haVe converted him into a first-class gaoler. Treading
Close on to the russets of this gidfly masquer was a '
lively party in a white tunic and breeches trimmed
with red calico, cotton stockings, and a long limp hat
with a Bardolphian feather. We asked him what he
was, and he said, “ a Troubadour." Then, by way of a
little innocent chaff, wj said—“ But you should have
brought a musical instrument—your concertina, for
instance," “ Tes," said ho innocently—" wouldn’t have
been ’arf a bad line " And he entered the halls of
dazzling light, picking hie teeth with a hair-pin. We
went to the cloak-room then, and shedding our over-
coat got a printed number from one of a battalion of
perplexed persons, who were wading about knee-deep
ia hats and wrappers. We turned away then, but a
thought striking ns we went back in a moment and
presented onr ticket. “ Where was it ? I—let me see
—one moment, sir.” As we thought. Couldn't find
it 1 ,
• • •
Inside. White and red between the pillars, our
old friends the flags, and some nice evergreens. The
fountain in full swing, decorated in the basin by the
plants left by the gallant Teutons. The usual impos-
sible shields were grouped here and there with the
orthodox bannerets, and the general embellishments
were on the whole rather of the “ pie-shop” order. All
the effects were circus effects, moat of the combinations
being startlingly suggestive of a billiard table at a game
of “ general pooh" From the gallery the flags of all
nations flattered —many of which, if they haven’t once
* braved the battle," have made up for it by very often
braving the “ breeze.” There have been a very great
many public balls given in Sydney of late years, and
yet we don’t seem to learn much in the art line as
regards decoration.. The Mayor’s Hop to the Princes
was the only really artistic effort at internal embellish-
ment wo remember. With the rest, calico and bunting
always seem to be de rigueur. We don’t ask decorators
to be Botticellian, for that would be too much; but
even the eccentric harmonies of JEstheticism are prefer-
able to the garish gorgeousness of Greenwich Fair.
Flags, by the way, are like fireworks—highly effective
jn the hands of the skilful, but instruments of torture
under the manipulation of the inexperienced. Many
persons profess to find in an oleograph the beauties of
an original painting, and the former have a very large
sale here. Well, as the critics of the dailies crack up
the shield-and-banner style of ball-room decoration, we
suppose it is they who buy up all the oleographs. It is
only people who love oleographs and wear "regalia” that
are admirers of Mrs. Walker’s School of Decoration.
And as it was a lady who adorned the Exhibition on the
occasion of St. Vincent’s Ball, we are sorry to have to
adversely criticise her efforts; but, with all this, we
glean a little comfort in the tuonght that her name is
not a more romantic one than *• Walker."
• • •
But though Mrs. W’s. effects would have shocked
the artistic sense of Sir Samuel Wilson, they didn’t in-
terfere with the csup d'ceil afforded by tbs dancers,
which was exceedingly picturesque—at a distance. As
the night grew on, there must have been folly 1200
people present, and then there was mush (from the
gallery; to admire, and not a little to smile at. Besist-
ing on onr entrance the passionate entreaties (it’s done
with the eye, you know) of many lovely women
to join in the “ mazy," we stationed ourselves down-
stairs at the North end to watch a quadrille. In the
set nearest us was a young gentleman, who had come
in a costume of calico lithographed all over with land
sale “ ads." He had “ deposit only required" painted
on hie hat; and a pair of dusty boots, and indifferently
benzined “ three-bobbera" made up his attire. Either
the calico wasn’t good, or the colouring was indifferent,
for after a little while this dress looked the reverse of
attractive. Indeed, towards the end it got so tonzled
and crumpled, aad creased, and greasy, that if the
wearer had had only a slice of very red beef sticking out
of his coat-pocket, he would have resembled less a
land-sale " ad" than a land sale sandwich. Dancing
in the vicinity of this gorgeous masquerader was an
Irish peasant (he rather spoilt the illusion through
being so clean) who bad with him an Irish rnaiic
maiden (equally clean) with a pair of bright eyes and a
large display of stocking. These were faced by a lady
in a Polish costume, consisting of a Pola-onaise trimmed
with catskin, and a red skirt; the realism of her imper-
sonatlon being enhanced by her bearing in her hand a
sixpenny riding-whip. Subsequently we were informed
that ithe lady represented the Grand Duchess, bat as
this information was gleaned by us from a sailor who
had forfeited all respect by coming to the ball in his
cricketing pints, we gave the statement but little
credence. Near the lady in catskin was a remarkable
personage-one of a clique that pervaded the hall,
and cut an astonishing figure. He was dressed in what
talois term a “diagonal pag-t suit" —the ordinary
walking business—ana he wore a large white tie, pumps
and white cotton socks. In bis breast was stuck (ap-
parently) a tent-fly, and his button-hole (which was
close to his ohm) exmbiteda white camellia, as big in
circumference as the top of a jam-tin. His hair was
abundantly greased, and as he mounted a very large
pair ot cloudy gloves, he seamed to think be was in very
lull dress indeed; a delusion, we trust, that no oae was
uncharitable enough to dispel. Another gentleman ap-
peared in a frock coat,, but being a sly dog, this, he had
got the Misses to tack the sides of the tails up for him,
which gave him just the aspect of the “ straight man,”
who used to come on with Tommy Hudson in “Slo-
cum’s Dog." i here was a “kullua" gentleman, too,
present, who also appeared possessed of original ideas
on the subject of evening dress, and a stout party was
painfully conspicuous, who flgure-l in afternoon cos-
tume, and a large lavender tie, uka the bridegroom in a
fares.
• » •
But if some of the gentlemen evinced a cheer-
ful indifference to the condition of their attire, they
were not mure sinning in this regard than their fair
partners, Many of the ladies were mere "Adelphi
Guests,” in such "beggarly raiment" were they at-
tired. One of these mounted a short blue sateen dress
trimmed with fire-stove flowers, a Jack-in-the-green
head-dress, lisle thread stockings, and beaded " seven-
leaguers." Many were in high dresses, and one matron
showed in a black dress, which the kids had dotted all
over with spaugtes. Very uark and sombre—what oonld it
be? An! Bmail-poxl We suggested this to one of
the Masters ot Ceremonies, so he went over and asked
her. Hi came back and said it was "Night." After
that—good-night I”
* • •
One young lady came in her Pa’s gaiters,
her brotner’s|hat "Axed" up with the tail pulled out cf
"over the way’s" rooster, a home-made drum and a
volunteer's cross belt. We don’t know what she called
herself—Oriolet, probably, or the Daughter cf the
Begiment! Another fair enslaver was attired in a
little red jacket, and a grey stuff skirt. A man came
up and told ns this was Little Bed Biding Hood. »e
then asked him how much it would cost to buy a wolf.
A lady, who attracted much attention, was one who
appeared in a yellow calico gown spotted all over with
tobacco-plates, ami yel ow top-boots ornamented with
saffron cords. We sent a friend to her to enquire if
she represented "Yellow Fever.” He (never came
back, so we suppose she killed him.
• • •
There were lots of Josephines and sailoresses —
those nice little dresses, you know, that ma can run
up with the machine while the dear girls cut the raw
edges off pa’s collars, aud try the potatoes with a fork,
A pretty little girl, who once presided over "Keishan's
pan,” represented Olivette; and a lady who once
benefited humanity by keeping a oafd turned up in a
gorgeous black dress embroidered with flowers. And,
if you have any doubts about the company being select,
we bare only to tell yon that a butcher appeared before
his astonished friends feebly disguised in a red coat and
cords, though whether he was meant to be the Clerk
of tho Coarse, or the Clerk of the Peace, will
ever to ns be a mystery. Though gorgeous,
this ccstnme was not without its icconveniences, for (in
view ;<jf certain contingencies) when be wished to he
seated, he had to be "lowered down" by his friends,
and whan onoe dowa it took the whole resources cf the
smoking-room to get him up again. Another noble
sportsman (there were several red-coated men there—
though seme might have been postmen) distinguished
himself by carrying his sporting proclivities so far as
to commence smoking a very indifferent cigar at the
ball-room refreshment-counter. He was, however,
promptly and very properly requested to proceed in
thus carrying out his impersonation in the stable.
Present, also, doing a fan ily shufflo, was a gentleman
wlose claims to social eminence are based upon the
fact that he frequently t haves us. He was habited in
the glittering garb of Kizzio, and might, so far as
looks are concerned, hav i been a duke. Near him,
doing the amiable to a little lady in a white basque,
blue bodice, and striped petticoat—Saroolette or G aoe
Darling; either—or both !— was a gent'eman who looked
very much like the Captain of the Pinafore when he
had his hat on, and very much like a doctor's servant
when he hadn’t. A footballer—one of many—skipped
about too, but as he had no mud about him, his costume
was received with cool contempt. Fancy a footballer
without mud. We’ll hear of a fireman without a black
eye or a barked shin next.
• • •
A nice lady was in black satin sewn with stars
and half-moons. Sympathy with Arabi this—"or Even-
in* Star." A very juvenile young lady, prematurely in a
decolleU costume, was attired ss a shepherdess with
oiook complete. She looked tired as she sat in
a corner, and probably felt cold. We experienced a
desire to advise her to go home and eat more beef.
What’s the geod of getting a little thin girl up as a
shepherdess in a low dress, when, with a model of a
steam-engine in her hand, she would have made a real-
istic little sawmill ? Charity balls are no places for
delicito little growing girls. Charity for them begins
where the baef is—at home.
• • •
Moat of the swells hung about the dais or stage,
upon which the Naval Brigade Band performed popular
dance music with such variations as they considered
would sound well. It Is 1 he fashion to say that they
played 11 under their bandmaster, Mr. J. Devlin." So
they did on this occasion. And we may also add that
on the night of the ball wa are frivolously chatting
about, Mr. D. looked pale but collected. We think the
Naval Brigade is a very good band, indeed. When we
are dying—very, very near death,—we will gat them to
come and play beside us—-" by kind permission, of
course, of the Colonel and Officers of the Begiment."
Sir Patrick, who may be described as the Patrick —we
mean patron—saint of the hospital, was there, looking
blooming. F-te wore his order of St. Gregory—two cf
them we think—and his K C.M.G. star. And he
danced—we saw him—with a young lady in pink and
white, who was smiling like a little tea-onp with
pride at the honour. That young lady’s sister will have
a poor time of it, on the morrow, when she wants to
borrow her sister’s dolman. " The Cupid of the
Maclaay’* was there, and straight in it as usual. We
buttonholed him near the fountain, and asked him if he
could give us a bridge across our back-vard for the wet
weather, and a ** Westminster ” lamp just opposite the
parlour window. Ha said he could not, since we were
not electors of the Maoleay, nor he a Sydney Alderman.
He admitted, however, that it was but natural we
should make the request of him, and regretted not being
able to oblige us. Dan. O’Connor shed the lustre
of those “ large grsv eyes ” around, and
Alderman Young, with Mrs. J. D., looking divine
in a combination of pale yellow and bine satin,
were scintillating amongst the giddy throng. J. D. did
not appear, as is Eis wont at fancy balls, in the glittering
garb of a Highlander, but contented him*«If with the
fantail-banger cf modem civilisation. Vice-Royalty
only showed up in the person of Hts Excellency's
private secretary, who, we may remark, appeared to
devote no inconsiderable amount of attention to
—well, the handsomest lady in the room.
• * •
The refreshments were on a scale of gorgeous-
revs that instinctively reminded us of the Austrian
Ball. The Herald reporter calls it a "symphony of jelly
and sandwiches." This is very pretty o( course, but we
are under the impression that he got all the jelly and
sandwiches, and we got all the symphony. The waiters
were civil, but despondent. And no wonder. Fancy
beisg continually asked during six hours for mayon-
naise and aspic jelly, and having to k-'ep pushing for-
ward sausage rolls and jam tartlets. After a nice dance
with a young lady, whose costume of satin and gold sug-
gested the idea that she had come as "Anything," wo
enquired if she would take any supper. She said she
would ; so we started for the tucker part On onr
arrival there wa put to a gloomy attendant the question
that the banquet be served. "We have got some
corned beef here,” he murmured. " Have you got any
hash P" we enquired gravely. But ho shook his head
sadly and walked silently away. After that we attended
on ourselves. She supped on a cheese-cake, half an
orange and a penny ice; while we contented our.-elves
with a glass of colonial wine and a cracker-motte. Both
articles have since disagreed with us. The drinks were
all sent in gratuitously, and a great deal of it was
of by no means of three-itar qualuy. There was some
brandy there which was stronger than Samson, rougher
than a fence rail, and more “ penetrating " than a brad-
awl. We sipped it, and then, concealing a supper-knife
in onr coat-sleeve, went to look for the caterer. We
found Mr. Smith upstairs, but at once reading our in-
tention in our eyes, he said : “ ’Tis useless. Save yonr
steel;" and, unbuttoning his shirr, he showed us a
bright steel cuirass very much dented. ‘ My only
wounds—and all to-night," he said sadly; and, turning
our heads in the direction of the organ, we wept
together. He then gave his explanation. Let us put
It, to break the menotony, in a metrical form :—
THE CATERER’S EXPLANATION.
(To Slow Music.)
“ For truffled turkey you all yell.
For galautine and fowl as well;
For game and tipsy-oake you howl,
And ’cause there’s no Champagne you growl!
Now, how can I," he sadly said—
“ Give tnese for two-and-nine a head?"
• • *
The smokingr-room was a delioioas retreat. It
was not only refreshingly cool, but one had, besides the
enjoyment of the soothing weed, the pleasant spectacle
of the waiters boiling all the tea and coffee for the
festive trippers. Frank Punch was seated there
thoughtfully smoking, and Prank Smith (who won
1 5000 over the Metrop.) was making of a few fashion-
able friends inquiries as to the probable price of the
lease of a mansion in Grosvenor Sqeare. It is obvious
from this that he intends going home shortly and
dividing public opinion as to which is the more suitable
man for a society star—he or Sir Salmon. We think
the odds are abont six to four on Frank—but stay I—we
forgot the "Metrop."—■*’ Francis!" Before leaving, no
had a final look round. The dancers had thinned’ by
this time, and most of the wall-flowers had gone £ hiver-
ing homo. Lots of them here yet. A Sailoress in blue
and white satin, and high boots d la debar dear 1 Theie
is something so French about this rig that it almost,
inclines us to shout—“ F’lan 1" or ** Houp-ld I" We whis-
per it instead, and take note of a Prince Paul, who has
a deal more of the baker abont him than the Prince-
and of a Roman Lady in blue and white whose lower
limbs are heavily protected by bangles-a proper pre-
caution that ladies of the Coe mrian era used to take (re
suppose) against kicking husbands. There was an elderly
female 100, dressed as the Evening News, whom wc were
grieved to see so long against the wall on sale or return.
Then there was a fellow who was black on one side and
white on the other—a costume typical of a politician—
or a glass of half-and-half.
* • •
As we tore ourselves away from the festive
scene, having madly scrambled with many more f >r our
coat and hat, we cast one last look at the brilliant
scene, a id were much impressed with the enthusiasm
of the couples who still tripped it to the merry music.
The Evening News had by this time got a partner, and
the Land Ad. man was still capering round with an-
diminished vigour. The waiters clashed their knives
together, as they gathered them up, with cruel signifi-
cance, and anv couple asking even for a mutton-pie
would have fallen a just sacrifice to their long pent-up
vengeance There was but a distant streak of daylight
in tne East as wa crossed Prince Alfred Park, and save
the occasional rattle of a hansom, or the assertive
jangle of a suburban " fly," no sound broke the sad and
chilly silence of the night. . . A little later, as one
pioneer golden bar shed its glamour on the horizon, a
hungry, dusty, tired, and demoralised mortal might
have been seen knocking with the mad energy of star-
vation at the shutters of a Kodfern cookshop. That
was We,
A BLOOD-CURDLING CALAMITY.
Unhappy Barrie, 'tis with grief we see
That dire misfortune has o ertaken thee!
That tnou in comfort cairn no more can rest.
But art of late, alas I become nnblest I
Behold, now Fortune clouds thee with her frown.
And gruesome care thou’d s*«k in rain to drown 1
That world which once to thee was gay and bright,
Is now bereft of one sole ray of light!
Once loved, thou’rt tut the theme of cynic chaff,
The jester’s topic, and the witiing's laugh ;
And when to walk the streets thou mayest hap.
The delving churl ejaculates—“ Poor chap 1”
The politician passing soft does hiss,
“To think, alas I it shonld have come to this 1“
The messenger thy room door opes a bit.
And softly hopes—“ thou’lt soon get over it.”
Thy biggest enemy—e’en M Elhone—
Hpeaks of thee in a sympathetic tone ;
While lynx-eyes watch thee when by hood and tide,
Men know thy sorrow and fear suicide I
They know to thee calamity has come.
Thou hast been buttered by tho Mobninq Bun.


PROSPECTUS
OF THU
OPHIR BLUFF GOLD MIKING AND QUARTZ
CRUSHING COMPANY, LIMITED.
(To be Registered under the Companies Act.)
Capital, £25,000, in 25,000 Shares of £1 each,
Of Which 17,500 are offered to the public on the following
terms ;• —Is. on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment, and that
portion of the balance required as the money is wanted, by
calls not to exceed Is. (sd. per share, and at intervals of not
less than one month.
The lien. O. H. Cox, M.L.O,
Andrew T. Kerr, Esq,, M.P.
J.P.
John Newton, Esq.
Frederick Treweeke, Eeq.,
J.P.
Provisional Directors :
Esq„
Edward Combes,
C.M.G., M.P,
James Dalton, Esq., J.P.
Henry Austin, Esq., J.P.
W. S, Spencer, Esq., M.D.,
J.P.
Bankers :
Amstralian Joint Stock Bank.
Broker :
C. J. Auckland, Exchange, Sydney.
THIS Company is formed to purchase and work the
riah Gold Mining Leases belonging to Mr. George
•later, at OphnO eontaining about 44 acres of Gold-
bearing Heef Lanca, at the well-known “ Bluff,” neer the
junetion of the Lewis Ponds and Summerhill Creeks, and
adjoining the eelebratod “ Belmore ” Mining Property.
Ophir is situated about 15 miles from Orange, and is
the loeality where gold was first discovered in Australia,
and, in the immediate vicinity of the “ Bluff,” the first
alluvial gold mining was successfully carried out in 1851.
The gold in its character was generally nuggetty, and
pieces were found weighing up to 120 ounces each ; many
ef the smallest of these pieces were attached to quartz,
and were sold under the name of “ specimens.”
The “Bluff” iteolf has evidently been formed by the
Suiiunarhill Creek impinging against the hill side, and
cutting sway a large portion of rock and earth —thus
forming an almost peipcndicular cliff, and exposing an
enormous quart* reef. The “Bluff” Reef is, in the
opinion of all miners, the main reef of the Ophir Gold
I'old, nnd there can be no doubt that the alluvial gold in
immediate contiguity came from this reef, the mechanical
action of tfce water having played the part of a quart*
mill, disintegrating the reef stone, thus setting free
the gold, which, after untold centuries, the niggers
collected in their cradles and tin dishes. But if any
further proof were wanting, it is furnished by the
fact that, about 15 years ago, Driscoll and Party made
a great discovery of “ specimens ” immediately under a
huge mass of slate rock, which had evidently fallen
from the “Bluff.” Those '‘specimens” of quartz and
gold had been Imprisoned in a crevice, at the slaty bottom
of the stream, by this heavy covering, and contained—
after being crushed by hammers—an immense quantity of
gold. It Is towards this reef that all the leaders which
have been, and still continue, so rich in the immediate
vicinity are, apparently, directing their course. Of these
may be mentioned the one on the top of the “ Bluff,” in
Mr. Slater’s ground, from which 200 ounces of gold wore
obtained in a few hours, and those in the celebrated “Bel-
more ” claim, which are now so rich, and from which a
large parcel of stone, recently treated at the Mint, yielded
at the rate of 4,300 ounces of gold to the ton. The report
to the Minister for Mines from the Warden of the Orange
Gold Field, John T. Lane, Esq., dated July 17th, 1882,
mentions this discovery. His report is given with the
prospectuses in circulation.
In the principal Gold Fields of Australia, notably at
Ballarat, Sandhurst, and Clunes, early attention was paid
to quarto deposits. Mines have been working for many
years, and hundreds of thousands of tons of quartz raised
to the surface from depths of from 1,000 to 1,600 feet. This
shows the permanency of quartz mining, and proves that
wdien quartz can be obtained in quantity, a few dwts. of
gold to the ton of quart* will pay handsome dividends, as
for instance, the “ Criterion ” ground, at dunce, yielded
for 30,120 tons of stone, <,457 ounces 4 dwta. of gold, or
at the rate of 4 dwta. llj grains to the ton, and paid
regular dividends; while, during the last twenty-five
years, the “ Black Hill ” lode, at Ballarat, has been made
to pay well for an average of about 8 dwts. Numerous
oases of large dividends being paid from poor r-efs could
be quoted.
At no place in Australia does quart* appear In larger
Suantities than at Ophir, and gold can be obtained from
ie stone along the entire face of the exposed reef, which
ie over 40 feet in width. This quart* could be followed
from the surface at the bottom of the “ Bluff” into the
hill, thus affording at once hundreds of thousands of tons
of quartz for back sloping, and permitting its being
obtained at n minimum price i therefore it is contemplated
to work these huge reefs by moans of modem appliances
and labour-saving machinery. Rock Drills, driven either
with steam or compressed air, when used to bench off the
quart*, will lessen the ordinary cost of mining fully one-
half, and the admirable position for crushing machinery,
immediately contiguous to an inexhaustible and pure
water supply, guarantees the most efficient means of
saving the gold and auriferous pyrites, as well as the
Cheapest means of crushing.
By reference to plans supplied, it will be seen that the
leases and machine site adjoin one another, except where
Damper Street appears. The sole right to mine under the
street has been sesurod by Mr. Slater, so that the area
available for the Company is actually more than 44 acres.
The machine site is embraced in the offer of the property to
the Company, but the area is not included above. Mr.
Surveyor Blaoket’s report follows with others. The actual
distances of the workings on the enormously rich veins in
the Belmore Company’s ground from Mr. Slater’s boundary
are there set out.
A thorough examination of the property has been made
bv Mr. Norman Taylor, the well known and talented
Victorian geologist, whose report also accompanies the
prospectus.
Machinery to crush 500 tons weekly, with patent percus-
sion tables for saving pyrites, stonebreakors, and the
most improved and complete stamping gear, can be
erected and set to work for £7,,000.
It has been calculated that the cost of working will bo as
follows for one week, viz.:—
To wages of 80 men employed in the mine
raising quartz, &0., at 50s
Do. 3 engineers driving mill
Do. 4 men employed at mill at 40s
30 cords firewood at 20s
Wear nnd tear of plant and general expenses
Management a
£75
13
8
30
20
10
Rsturns. £l5O
500 tons of quartz will, at 0 dwta. gold per ton,
yield 160 ozs. This, at the average value
of Ophir gold, say £3 19s. fid. per o*.,
amounts to 696 5
0 0
Leaving a profit of ... £440 5 0
or. at the rate of £22,893 per annum; and this profit is
irrespective of lar/c sums obtainable from rich patches,
which are certain to be met with occasionally, if not fre-
quently.
It will be seen that this handsome profit is estimated
to be made on the low return of 6 dwts. per ton of quartz,
and that low average is purposely given because Mr.
Norman Taylor saw prospects crashed and panned off,
indicating an average of 6 to 7 dwta. per ton, but there is
reason to believe that a much higher return mav be con-
fidently expected! and this fact must not be overlooked - a
larger number of stampers than are required to crash 500
tons of quartz per week, when employed, would give even
more than the same proportion of profit on the outlay, a*
some expenses would not bo at all increased. Mr. Taylor
went so far as to report that the whole hill would probably
pay for crushing.
The terms under which Mr. Slater offers this magnifi-
cent property to the Company are—£2,soo cash and 7,500
shares fully paid up, out of the total number of 25,000
shares, and the only other charges upon the Company’s
fund? will bo for usual brokerage, printing, &c.
Early application should bo made for shares, as a large
number has been applied for privately.
The quartz being simply ready for quarrying at a
moment’s notice, and no dead work to be done, the right
is reserved to declare the Company formed when 12,000
contributing shares are allotted, as it is very desirable to
give the order for crushing machinery without anv delay.
In the event of the Company not being formed, deposits
•will be repaid in full, to applicants.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To Mr. C. J. Buckland, Exchange, Sydney, Broker for
the Ophir Bluff Gold Mining Company, Limited.
Sir, —I hereby request that you will allot mo
Shares in the above Company, and now enclose One
Shilling per Share as deposit, and I hereby undertake to
accept the above Shares or any portion thereof that may
be allotted me, and to sign the Deed of Settlement when
called on to do so.
Dated the..... ....day 0f..»<«..1882.
Name in full r.
Address
Occupation -
CITV catering coup y,
815 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of Ion? arid
tioal experience, nearly all from the OR IGIN .A
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
1 prao
FIRM
and carry o« the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a pabllo company, and therefore free from all
the exp eyes appertaining the
N.B.—Since opening,
sncoesSfßlly oatAfftd Tl„
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE dndeHAkiilgs that
have taken plSce here to the present tiJae, viz.
The ConSulSr film: • - - ‘
Hifl
April, 1881* we have
ifcST, MOST DIPFI.
finer. in ont neft
room
Ilf.
. Exhi
ir, at wmoh hit Worship. John HArri;, «Snior.
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBEIt T and GEORGE,
Earl Clanwilihan, and the Officers of the Detachod
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, f0r'1252, Exhibi-
tion Bnilding.
Masonic Ball, N.B.W. Constitution, at Tdwn Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
H> Lithgew Valley Mines and Zigzag. Bln tor A la
traveflin 1 ° W eminent Palace Dining Car while
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school ohlldrfli—rs
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under VBRV SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m,, to be
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following dav
Vlait of THEtB E.H.'b PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon andfrefreshmcnt. for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9.80 p.m., to he ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ThelLady Mayoress’ reception, Town Hall.
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Ball,” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windcyer, in onr new
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in onr now
Banquet Room.
Dinner d lo Eu*«« at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod,
Dinner d la Russ* to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams.
Town Hall. *
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladias and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of " Hud ton
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock Works,” at Gran,
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bara at Hawkesbury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resroshment Bara at Raadwick
Racec, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Payre of ye Olden Tymo. St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together w ih a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, 1 easts, Ac., Sea.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let eut on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods. Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Blnnera, eca.
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
fastrjr, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, Ac.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
Wo have m our possession letters from gentlemen In
high standing in the city, complimenting us on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
GBAB. K. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the original Oompagnoni and Co.).
'AHASEjB.
MALT BITTERS!
The great Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Liror
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE ... », 2s. Gd.
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, Ac.,
A 3 Erskine btroek;
AHD
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET.) KOUMISS!
ALL STOMACHIC DISARRANGEMENTS,
Consumption
Acidity
Heartburn
( u i
"'tf r
Debility
Indigestion
Wasting
Diabetes
Registered Trade Mark.
CALL at the KOUMISS MANUFACTURING CO I
-I'AN Y 8 Office, 101 Phillip-stroet, where nuene
ous TESTIMONIALS from well-known and highl
respected residents may bo seen, and Pamphlets co
taming full particulars. Highest Medical opinion
favour of KOUMISS as a curative for above discus
can bo obtained. The following gratifying Testimoni
was kindly sent to us by Mr. Q. ISLAUB. of Pete
sham
" Wheelwrights’ Arms, Petersham,
„ _ r i , “June 25 th, 1832.
< ... “ RNTI ' ,:MEN i —l desire to express to you my heai
felt thanks for the groat benefit I have received throm
the use of your KOUMISS. I had for four or fl'
years been troubled with indigestion in its woe
poemsj I tried several doctors, but could got no roll
till I was advised by a leading Physician in this city i
take KOUMISS. 1 took it for some time, in fact till
was CURED. Since then I have had no return of m
md complaint, andara now enjoying the bast of healtt
You are at liberty to publish this, as all my friend* ca
corroborate my statement. Yours truly,
’’ G. ISLAUB.”
DON’T BUY, DADIES,
UNTIL YOU HAVE INSPECTED THE QUALITY
OP THE GOODS AND THE PRICES AT
MRS. I. C. HIN C H CLIFFE’S.
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
OUTFITTING ESTABLISHMENT.
121 and 123 OX P ORD STItEET,
SYDNEY,
BABY LINEN, DRESSMAKING, HOSIERY.
UNDERCLOTHING,
dolmans, mantles, jackets.
REAL LACES.
MILLINERY,
MOURNING OUTFITS,
WEDDING OUTFITS,
ball costumes. Ac , Ac.
You can get the very lest quality and style for the
same prices as you pay at other houses for “IN-
FERIOR” goods otherwise sailed “ (JUEaF,"
Goods always Marked in Plain Figures.
TRAMCARS pick up and set down passengers at the
door.
121 and 123 Oxford-street, Sydney.
CALIFORNIA ART STUDIO.
HE only AMERICAN PORTRAIT PAINTER on
. this coast has removed to No. 3 Bridge-street.
The Best Style of Painting Guaranteed.
CHARLES MERCK, ARTIST,
To Crown Leasees, Free-Selectors, Miners, and Othe
JAMES CARROLL,
I AND AGENT, Ac ,
WENTWORTH HOUSE,
Church Hill, Stpnst,
Inbham’s Btjfhobbia Pilulipeba.—N«w
Queensland earo .^ or Asthma, Bronchitis, and all chest
affections. Testimony already received from hundreds
os to the wonderful curative powers of the Herb. No
ease hopeless. Instant relief obtained. Prepared is
essence also, as an Astl-Asthmatical Tobacco. Notice
As there are poisonous species of Euphorbia, be careful
to get that scientifically prepared only by Thomas
Ingham. See advertisement. Apply J. Manning,
Agent for Thos. Ingham, 130 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
—Advi.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Mth August, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINEEAL
LEASES.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Mineral
_ Leases are hereby called upon to show cause,
within thirty days from this date, why their leases
should net be cancelled for non-paymenf of rent
due thereon.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
_ No. 1012 j A. M Ilveen, W. R Irvine, J. Tonkin; Por-
tion No. 538 j County of Gough, parish of Herbert; 20
acres; Application No. Ticgha 369.
No. 1137; E. U. Tnomaa; Portion No. 418; County of
Gough, parish of Herbert; 20 acres; Application No.
Tingha 439.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 29th August, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINEEAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from
this date, it will bo declared void.
AETHUE EENWICK.
No. 1274; John Moffat and othws; Portion No. mi
250; County of Gough, parish of Flagstone; 40 acres;
Application No, Vegetable Creek 325.
IHE DOUBLE BAY AMATEUR REGATTA
WILL TAKE PLACE
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
4th NOVEMBER, next.
Programme, and full particular* iu next issue.
W. 8. WILLIAMS,
Hon. Secretary
Box 87, The Exchange.
SM. HERALD, Evbfikq News, Hcho, hulletie,
• Town and Countet, and Mail, with all religious
weekly papers tent to tbs Country at effloe {rices;
Month or Quarter. Dog Forma 2s 4d p»r KXi, pout paid.
U. WALLACE, King-street.
HEALTH and BEAUTY.
THE ORIENTAL
BEAUTY, HERB, OR BERKTB
PRESERVES the BEAUTY and FRESHNESS of
Youth te an advanced age, clearing the complex,
ion of all blemishes, and giving It the transparency
and loveliness of the rose. It is much in nse by the
fashionable ladies in Paris, as it BRIGHTENS the
EYES and speedily removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SCALY SKIN, MOTTLES.
ROUGHNESS, SCROFULA,
ECZEMA, SALT RHEUM, PIMPLES,
BUMPS, LIVEB SPOTS ITCH, MOTH,
BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
and any eruption upon the face or any part of the per-
son of either sex. It is not a Face Powder or Lotion,
but is taken internally, is perfectly harmless, and gives
that crowning glory to women—
A COMPLEXION OF MILK AND ROSES I
a skin of Oriental softness, and transcendental parity
and beauty.
Fall Directions accompany each package.
PRICE 3s. SIX PACKAGES. 15s.
Sent by Post, under plain cover.
Ask your Chemist for it, or send your order direct to the
HOLE AGENTS :
FRESHMAN & CO.
859 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W.
LADY AGENTS WANTED.
HEARING RESTORED, without Pain or Medicine.
Thousands Cured. Send stamp for Book, 4th
Edition. FRESHMAN and Co., 359 Geocge-stroet,
Sydney.
NEXT SATURDAY.
HARNLEIQH ESTATE,
THE PICK OF MAREICKVILLE,
immediately
OPPOSITE the WARREN GATES,
Within five minutes' easy walk of the Tram.
55 CHOICE VILLA SITES, together with the com-
modlous FAMILY RESIDENCE on part
of the property known as
HARNLEIGH HOUSE,
with about FOUR (4) ACRES of LAND.
SATT,5 ATT, RODD, and PURVBS have received
instructions to sell by public auction, part if
s HARNLEIGH ES PATE,
ON THE GROUND.
NEXT SATURDAY, 16th SEPTEMBER,
at 3 p m.,
Situate on the HEIGHTS of MARRICK VILLE, and
commanding unrivalled views over Sydney and
suburbs, Botany Bay, the Hoads, Cook’s River,
the Blue Mountains, &0., five minutes from the
tram,three minutes t. om the new proposed station
on the H aw.irra Railway, having frontages to
main street, none of which are less than 60 ieet
wide, surrounded by first-class residences, and in
the beat part of Harrickville, one of our most
thriving suburbs. Harnleigh must within a very
short time GREATLY INCREASE IN VALUE.
“HARNLEIGH HOUSE" is a handsome 2-story
residence, replete with every modern convenience, built
of brick on stone, and containing 8 lar*e and lofty
rooms, kitchen, bath-room, verandah, and numerous
out-offlces, GOOD STABLING, coach-house, &o. It
is surrounded by over 4 ACRES of LAND, laid out in
LAWN SHRUBBERIES, planted with choicest trees,
shrubs, fee.; kitchen garden, and paddock.
TITLE—TORRENS’ ACT.
MOST LIBERAL TERMS.
FREE ’BUSSES leave the Rooms at 2 p.m. sharp.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Who is the Government-whip since Sa no,
John Davies fell ?
■n r Benwick lectured the House last week ; but
ila net taken kindly : hi# reading wa* defective. We
him “to sing it” next time. It will vary
the monotony.
qn, 0 “ Separation League ” in Northern Queens-
«is wiring in. It ha# secured already in Townsvill#
about 200 members. The committee are adverti-
• efor a delegate, who U t» bo paid £6OO per annum
Sid no travelling expense#.
How was it the Minister for Education said that
.. e were no complaints against the examiners when he
had suspended a lady teacher for complaining against
them ? What Mr. Suitor should have said was: •’ Com-
nlaints have been made, but I toek steps to prevent
their renewal."
“The eight months’ incubation has not produced
fine healthy chickens, bmt has left a lot ot addled egg#,”
” g Mr. Jacob, speaking of the Government measures.
Mr Jacob might have gone a little further, and have
siid that the Government hens are only capable of
cickliag, and he might have asked whether the ancient
bird who rules them is not responsible for this unsatis-
factory and unprofitable state of things.
It seems to be pretty well understood, notwith-
standing Sir John Robertson’s protestations to the oon-
trary, that the “unscrupulous persons" who avail
themselves ot the privileges accorded to them by the
land law, are not to be checkmated atjpresent. The pre-
liminary motions for the introduction of a Land Bill
have not yet been given notice pf, and, as the Criminal
Law Bill—a measure of about 400 clauses —is to be pro-
oaeded with, it looks as though there is no intention to
deal with the land question this session.
Mr. Garrett “turned up” in the Assembly on
Thursday last. All eyes were directed towards him
when he walked into the Chamber; naturally enough,
everyone was curious to see where he would locate him-
gelf. He took up a seat on the Opposition cros--
benches, bat what his intentions are no one but himself
knows. He must feel that he is in a peculiar position,
seeing that the leaders of the Government are divided
i n opinion respecting him. It could hardly be expected
that bo would support Sir Henry Patkes, and he would
lie very ungrateful were he to oppose Sir John
Robertson, whose political jugglery saved him from an
ignominious kick-out from the Asfembly.
Mr. M'Elhone made Dr. Benwick squirm more
than once last week. There is no man in Parliament
who has weight equal to M’Elhone’s when he makes up
his mind to sit on conceit; and the doctor politically
is, as everyone knows, all vanity. Unfortunately for
himself, he is over-sensitive. M’Elhone understands
the doctor's disposition thoroughly, and, as his special ity
is to make capital out of other people s weaknesses or
peculiarities, he does not allow the Minister for Mines
to escape. Th# latter would certainly aot recognise
the picture, if a photographer were to present him with
a likeness of hisjfacial expression on Thursday evening
when M’Elhone remaned that he would be known
hereafter as the doetor-Hinister who produced abor-
tions—political abortions, of course.
Notes taken at a few recent Irish trials :
Tralee: Whiteboy offence. Jadg# Lawaon says to the
jury, “If you do not convict the prisoner, I way say
good-bye to law and order in this country.” Jury dis.
agreed. —Waterford : Intimidation. Boron Dowse to
jury, " It you believe th# #Tidenoo, you ought to find
prisoner g«ilty, and wh#t diffianlty you can have in
bslieving it I cannot tell." Jury acquitted prisoner. —
la another ease before same Judge—alleged conspiracy
—Judge says to jury, “ There ie no doubt a conspiracy
has been proved. If you believe the evidence, you
ought to convict prisoner." Verdict of acquittal fhtre
was point in the way Chief Juetice Morns put the case
the other day when,- charging a Carlow jury, he
observed that, “the evidence was so strong that no
niMi outside the jury-bom could fail to be convinced by
t.”
A Murrumburrab storekeeper was recently
appointed to the position of Land Agent at Goulburn,
at a high salary. Ho had never been in the service
before, but he h«d this paramount qualiflcatiou-—he wa#
one of the Treasurer’s warmest political supporters.
Mr. Gannon, the member for the district, “ walked
into" the Government for making the appointment,
ani they justified it on the ground;th at the office re-
quired a good accountant. There are in the service
hundreds of men who are in receipt Jof half th# salary
paid to this officer, who areflrst-olass accountants, and
who have been long and faithful servants j yet they
are overlooked apparently because it happens that none
o( them have ever aoted as electioneering agents a
M inister. If a poor underpaid civil servant is detected in
a litile peculation there is a general howl of indigna-
tion at hi* villainy, but the men who drive him to it
by depriving him of his rightful claim to promotion,
pass muster as paragons of virtue.
Dr. Beaney, the “ diamond doctor,” is ambitious
of legislative honours, and has issued an address to the
electors of the North Yarra province in the reformed
Legislative Council. L. L. Smith, the “ advertising
doctor," will bo irate at this attempted intrusion into
his domain, for “ L L." has been the only medical man
in politics for a long time past, though Bosisto, the
present Conservative member for Richmond, was once
a chemist and druggi st in that go-ahead suburb. Other
candidates for seats in the reformed Counoil are the
present Mayor of Melbourne (Mr. C. J. Ham), the ex-
Major (Mr. G. Meares), the veteran actor (George
Coppin), the Bourke-street bootmaker (Mr. Lang), the
railway advertising lessee (Nathaniel Levi),—an old
member ot the Assembly—and the genial and richly-
brogued Pat O’Brien, J.P., of whom it is recorded that
ten years ago he travelled through Ireland with a
monster portmanteau labelled “Mr. Patrick O’Brien,
Eaq., J.P., M.L.C., Victoria, Australia."
Mr. Forster put a rod in pickle for himself the
other day. He tabled a motion having reference to the
appointment of certain magistrates, and complained
that three residents of a country town who had
been nominated had not been appointed. Mr. Abigail
landed the hot member a staggerer when he mentioned
that one of the gentlemen named cultivated rather too
intimate an acquaintance with a domestic ot hi# house-
hold during his wife's absence, with not an uncommon
result, and not uncommon subsequent proceedings on his
part, inasmuch as he turned the girl adrift and she was
forced to become an inmate of the lying-in asylum.
One of the other gentlemen was said to be too much of
a toper to warrant his being appointed. Mr. Forster
acknowledged his ignorance on these points and
evidently felt that it would have been better for him-
self had he left the business alone.
Sir Wilfrid Lawson has proposed that the
inscription to be placed on Lord Beacontfield's monu-
ment should be supplemented by a line commemorative
of Gladstone’s faithful imitation of his predecessor’s
b°hey. Vanity Fair thinks that when the “Grand
Old Man " pegs on', the coaola ling lines of his epitaph
should read—
A PROFOUND ADVOCATE OF PEACE AND ADMIRER
Of FREEDOM,
HI BOMBARDED ALEXANDRIA AND BROUGHT NATIVE
TROOPS FROM INDIA
TO CRUSH THE NATIONAL PARTY IN EGYPT.
HI EAENedJthe GRATITUDE OF THE OPPRESSED EGYPTIAN
BONDHOLDER
ASD THE EVERLASING CONTEMPT OF ALL CIVILISED NATIONS.
HIS END WAS WAR 1
,Jhe Ministerial doctor had a lively time of it
fa *®°k, when he had charge of Bills dealing with the
question# of forestry, watering p’aocs, and diseases in
takK the various debates, he showed numis-
»D.y that hie knowledge ot the subjects was the
ad Job* * c J arn ™ing,” and some of his opponents took
r-irJet 1 l K ?,° * this, and made his position decidedly as-
*or kim. When his measures had been
a tmrf * ■ m halt-a-dozen different points, he appeared
W j J lec “ Pmture of indooUion and inoompetenoy for hi#
.-a- a member supported by a vigorous speech the
P n l? UB Proposition, ha would have readily
hu mii 40 I* 1 ’ knt Sir John perceived the danger of
Nodnnt*^? 6 8 Position, and kept constantly beside him,
hnmii.-i.- Bir John’s advice saved the doctor from many
re»o,ila i ? J floorers.” The experience of the week
■ strongest po»sib!e light the absurdity
in# position of Minister of Mines, demand.
Ittiain* 1 “ oe8 ’ 5? intimate knowledge of our land and
S laws, which are so complex in their nature that
i*™i d tak ® a» ordinary man the beat part ef hi* life.
“ as their mtrioaoiea—a gentleman who has
devoted his whole life to the stndy of medical science.
• • •
nriTlii 0 Review says that the real
origin of the Egyptian difficulty is “ Mr. Gladstone's
an( ir>, denunciation# of the
> Reform League is preparing
in w i) l(3 h every member is allowed to
ai j'?. ls orotchets Payment of member# has been
i® 4 * «“ Qneeailand Parliament. Those
faithful to the Miaiitry are paid otherwise,
• aT . in f money and time Another Land
, i. way , Bch , eme on for the Never Never
ine butchers in the House “ cut up rough ” on the
Pieces and Reserves Bill Says the Gympie
) Miner;— '• The greatest question with which the
country will soon have to neal is undoubtedly the
Run question.’* This remark applies to theN.S.W.
l aruament. And they are our “ patriot# " who must
got the tun. ’ Twig f National party in Ireland
proposing to make the receipt of salary compulsory
|'PO n members of Parliament elected on the popular
ticket j they hope by this means to secure good men
instead ef noodles.


Business Annotmcemen
i
m
E±^
o
z
539 &
NGARJiYOPPO
W/ OF 29
Tobacconists
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE
AMERICAN TOBACCC
THE following facts are compiled
resources, and, therefore, should
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 o
All the others paid duty in 1880 on ... .
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 o
All the others paid duty in 1881 on ... .
Imported manufactured tobacco paid dut
on for the two years was only
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQ
SIR ROGER, GOLD FI
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL Ml
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are orig
genuine “ T in Tag,” each plug brum
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped
QtrEEoa" or “ Yankee Doodl
ALL TOBACCONISTS GOODS, P
5> N V
<£> in
?oov
READ THIS! READ 'I
A. SALMON S
FURNISHING DEPC
'Business Annoanc
■jyroNEr advanced to
WITHOUT SECUB
At moderate interest and easy tei
No Delay. All transactions' hole
MR. G. W. GOD)
178 PHILLIP S’
Near King-street
TH WOLFF A
Hi* Manufacturers 0
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalk
Materials, and Stationers’
Makers, by appointment, to Her Ma
and the Sink Of Eog
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great
coin’s Inn Field's, W.O Factory ; F;
Battersea-. London, S.W A fnll so)
seen and furtherjartitnlars ebtaint
B. B. WOLFF (Sole Atrent for
Messrs. Feldheim, Qotthelf and Ck
Sydney.
NOTICE—TO THE PEOFESSIO
CAL OPEBA COMPAnI]
TO LET.—The newly erected HI
Bockhampton, one of the mOt
Queensland, being 75 feet by 40 witl
and centrally situated
Application to be m
The Secretary
Hibernian
BONNET and GO]
SURVEYOR?
Draftsmen, and Map P
MEABS’ CHAMBI
133 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY,
j^TUP
Have you
re-co’
Parasols
*qu
J. S
50
Brickfl
Liverpool
Parasoli
tumes. fie
’More L las
ii
flt-tOVEKSD.
T7ITATSON AND
~ * NICKEL and SILVER
Ship and Bath Fittings, Surg
Instruments, Fire Irons, Bii
and metal surfaces, Nickt
Best Style.
Old Electroplate ware of everj
silver-plated equal t>
STEAM, BEASS. & ELEOTR' 'PI
336 PITT STBEI
SYDNEY PERMANENT FB:
and BUILDING SOC
Established 1875. Eesarve Fbtk
received on fixed deposit; If for 12 i
allowed. Savings Bank Depattmei
notice required for withdrawals A
the Society's usual liberal t-erms.
313 Pitt-street.
AMD
WO
ND
ALL CHEST AFFE
BB6SSS
Hotels, fro.
a
U N S L E E’ S
H O T E IT,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
OBEET BUTCHEE A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNET.
COITNTET OiDEKS RECEIVE PBOMPT AtTIWTIOW.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
30S GEORGE STEEET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMPIELD3
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BITTERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY.
WM. JAMESON & CO.’b DUBLIN WHISKY IS
UNSURPASSED.
TT is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that
at has not teen in the hands of “ Whisky Doctors.”
When you atk for it, ree that you get it, look for the
trade maik J in diamond on label, cork, and capmle.
DALY BROTHERS.
Sole Agents for N.3.W. and Queensland.
*
'XeLEßßtfW-
° x fr§cotdW^
m
‘OLD MATURED’ SCOTCH WHISKY
“ As we Drink it in Scotland."
THOM AND CAMERON,
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate » ellow OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY as they drink it at hame,” thi > spirit will
be a welcome boon.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole J* gents for N S W. and Queensland,
Importers of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES and
G.-neral Mercbandi-e.
SO9 GE9BGE STREET.
Buglk Br^d.
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. WII
COOLALTA WINE C
11 PITT STREET
YINEYAED—COOLALTA, BE
SOUTH WALE
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coolalta Red
No. 2 „ „
Burgundy
Tort
Yin Ordinaire
WHITE WINE!
Muscat ...
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta ...
No. 2 „
Via Ordinaire ...
M
AQNIFICENT TRON-FR.
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rose
Imported by us direct, and man
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WAEEj
YEARS. They are of very handso
are most sensitive, sweet, and powe
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYM
Examine and test them before pi
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMP.
1, Oxford-street; 612, George-;
Buildings, Bydne
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Higl
Howick-streeb, Bathurst; A
burn; Church-street, Pafrftmi
Brisbane.
No matter whqre you live we will
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
H 18TOEY EEPEA
As Eve tempte'. the PirO
TEMPTS THE PRESENT MA
not the same Eve, but
JAMES E
149 KING-STREI
Opposite Theatre Royal
With the best brands of AM Tol
JW. R. Cl
• BOOKSELLER AND ST
5 and 6 MARKET BUT
GEORGE STftEET, S'!
Opposite Market-st
W H. A R
” T • PROVISION MEECj
AND GENERAL COMMIBS
343 and 345 Kent-stbeet, keai
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lon<
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victor!
Bencrait & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria!
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria Con
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Gonlburn B
Sance.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, neai
346 GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & fi
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BT ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE)
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, lON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AST)
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, ahd SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON ST
Edinburgh Pals Ale.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
I._ wi be olad to have this index posted up by secretaries
clubs and managers of sporting events in genera I.]
eacing.
InaweUbrook-.... September 27, 28.
laryboron? ('1 September 28, 29.
leraidiue (N.Z.) September 30.
telbourne Hunt September 30.
tyde....-• • • •"W ‘Vic! 8 piping October 3.
lawkes Bay (N.z,.) J op s October 11.12.
jamwortn.... •••• jv * goring .November.
UoklandjNZ.) 8.0. apxmg —" gl> NoV- 2( 4 .
r B J O spring November 7. 8.10.
lanrerbury J O. opr s November 9.11.
Parramatta _ _ ..November 15,16.
Jendigo ••■•••/• •••■ • • Nov, 22, 23, 24.
b m ? Z I Spring......... November 30, December 2.
Onnedm (N.Z.) December 7, 8.
F 1 q Raein eC iii b..'" January 1.1883.
Canterbury (N.Z.) Summer Janury 1.1883.
S»"’“
jandelo January 11.12.
Bcga ••‘mU'-f rinVi .' January 26, 1883.
3yan £il l C 26. 27.
tnokland (N.Z ) Summer -.Jan- 28, Feb- 1 . 1883.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn February 21, lBB3.
rasmaidan E. C. Summer Meeting... February 20, 22, 23.
AQUATICS.
glebe E. C. Senior Pair °“f ’ Mr ;. . Stember 16
Mr Frank Puneh’s Prizes October 3,5, 7.
m h W. "Rowing Association Regatta......... -. October 14
NOTtb Shore Rowing Club Annual Eegatta,..Ootober 21.
cLrdiner Cup, Mercantile ..October 28.
ffieE. C. nlor uWo ®°: BB^ M .:;.f;.,^O n etoLr 28.
Knig Chmpagne Trophy .'..... November 25
ISfiner Cupf Amateur... December 16.
Intercolonial p a™ March. 1883.
PEDESTRIANISM.
s S™a A " i«.
Rvdnev A. A, Club, Association Ground.. .September 23.
winter's Hill A.a! Club Sports September 30.
Walleeud Athletic Club Sports November .
FOOTBALL.
Glenhead v. St. Leonards September 9.
BICYCLING.
Suburban Bicycle Club Two Mile Race. 16
Military Eoad id.
AUSTEALIAN ELEVEN.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Hie N.S, Wales footballers were defeated at
Auckland.
The settling over the late Randwick meeting
was satisfactory.
Twenty-one events on the programme for the
Balmain Regatta on November 9.
The racehorse Sting has been purchased by Mr
E. Weekes for another for 1600 guineas.
The Blayney cricketers intend to tackle the
H*n. Ivo Bligh’s team. How has mighty English
cricket fallen I
The City Surveyor has selected a piece of ground
to the south of the Agricultural Society’s enclosure,
for the N.S. Wales Football Association.
One of our big yachts sailed her maiden trip of
the season on Saturday last in a nice southerly wind.
On the 15th instant she goes to the Hawkesbury for a
fortnight. ,
A five-miles’ bicycle handicap came off at the
Albert Club's sports at Melbourne, on Saturday. The
winner was H. Woolf, of the Victorian Club; Stokes, of
the Melbourne Club, being second.
The final heat for prizes presented by Mr. T.
Punch tor senior oarsmen of the Glebe R.C., took place
on Saturday, resulting in a win for Messrs. 1 air-
weather and Smith by about six lengths.
The rowing clubs at Brisbane, Rockhampton,
and Maryborough have decided to form a QneeMbmd
Rowing Association. Mr. H. Coles, the secretary of
the N.S.W. Association, has been about.
The Double Bay Annual Regatta is to be held on
November 4. A good working committee has been
formed, and all the Bay youths are in full training
already. A successful meeting may therefore be antici-
pated.
Mr. A. T. Holroyd has given a handsome silver
trophy to be competed for annually by the bowling
clubs of the county of Cumberland. The trophy is in
the form of a bowl ordinarily in use, and is to be called
the “ Holroyd Silver Bowl.”
According to the published list of fixtures the
Australian Eleven play to-day (Thursday), Friday, and
Saturday, at Glasgow against an eleven representing
the West of Scotland; and on Monday, Tuesday, and
Wednesday against Harrowgate and District at Harrow-
gate.
In the first week in July, Roberts
billiard matob. In London, against Cook for £lOOO, 5000
up, Roberta conceding Cook 750 points. Cook
968 points. The Prince of Wales was present at the
conclusion of the play. Some splendid breaks were
made.
Last week a deputation from the N.S. Wales
Football Association waited upon the Mayor to ascer-
tain if a suitable site at Moore Park for football pur-
poses could be granted to the Association. The Mayor
favourably considered the proposal, and said he would
instruct the City Surveyor to visit and report upen the
site selected.
On Saturday, in the race [for the Members
Handicap, Morpeth fall at the seven-furlong post, and
Williamson, the rider, had his eollar-bone broken.
After the race for the Wavorley Handicap, Britisher,
pulling up, came into collision with Harebell, and
Craoknell, who rode the latter, was knocked out of the
saddle and severely shaken.
The Hon. Ivo Bligh’s team will leave England
by the P. and O. steamer on 23rd September, and will
arrive at Adelaide about 30th October. The opening
match will be plaved on 9th November. They then
play an eleven of Victoria at Melbourne, an eleven oi
N.S. Wales at Sydney, and will again return to Mel-
bourne to meet the Australian Eleven.
The Albert C.C. held its annual meeting last
week. Daring the past season the first eleven played
nine matches, winning four, losing two, and three being
drawn. The trophies were won as follows: Batting
average. H. Moses, 64.1; bowling, J. F.fDocker, 10.17;
best bowling, U M'Neil; highest individual score, H.
Moses, 101. Mr. V. Cohen was elected hon, secretary,
and H. H. Hassle hon treasurer.
There must be a soft spot in the composition of
Strathearn. Ho has been “ thrown in" in several handi-
caps and has always failed to score a win, but on Satur-
day the pot boil«d over, and he won the Wavorley
Handicap easily, beating a large field of good performers.
Another “ takedown" was Hotspur’s victory in the
Steeplechase. This gay young X7-year old fenced beauti-
fully, and at tbe finish when Kanaka made his rush, he
waltzed away from him.
The names of the Auckland team selected to
play against New South Wales in the football match
were;—Messrs. J. Webster, J. Warbriok, T. Ryan, R.
Whiteside, J. Wood, W. Ring, T. Henderson, J. Arneil,
T. O’Connor, C. H. Croxton, T. Maoky, J. Bimß, T.
Sibbin, T. Jewitt, G. Spencer. Emergencies—Carter, ,
Biggs, Bindon. Very little time was allowed the Auck-
land team for practice, Mr. A. G. Bate, of the Wel-
lington Rugby Union, only intimating to the Auck-
landers, by wire, on the day our team left Sydney that
they had definitely decided to visit Maotiland.
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club hold
their Spring Sports Meeting on the Association Ground
on 30th September. The programme Includes—one-mile
fiat race; quarter-mile race for Challenge Cup : Half-
mile race for Challenge Cup for residents of the dis-
trict ; one-mile handicap walk; 300-yards flat race,
handicap; and a 3-miles bicycle handicap. The entries
for the handicaps close 16th September, and for others
en 23rd September. Any one desirous of presenting a
special prize is requested to communicate with the
secretary, who will be in attendance at the Exchange
Hotel between 8 and 2 p.m. on the above dates.
A good 2-mile race among members of the
Suburban Blcyole Club took place on Saturday after-
noon, on the Middle Head Road. Entries were—J. Bar-
nett. Cook, Barker, Moyse, Hamilton, T. Barnett,
Hinder (2), Meikle. The handicap resulted in the com-
petitors being all well together at the finish, though the
winner, J. Barnett, 125 yards start, was about 100 yards
to the good. H. Moyee, scratch, was second ; Barker,
75 yards start, third. Number |of spectators. First
prize was a handsome trophy valued at £l5 15s , given
by Mrs. J. Voung, of the Glebe. It consisted of three i
silver barrels* with bands* taps and labels* to represent
spirit casks, exceedingly pretty and novel. Second prize
was given by J. B. Holdsworth, Esq.
Cornhill’s Magazine endeavours to scien-
tifically explain the prowess of the Australian team
thuswise; “Australia, as everybody knows, is a wonder-
ful place for the discovery of such antiquated and else-
where obsolete creatures Its indigenous
mammals are all marsupials; ita mud-banks are bur-
rowed by still more archaic ornlthorhynoi; Its fields
are inhabited by the primitive echidna; and its fresh
waters are tenanted by such a simple Ganoid type as
the barramnnda." Massie, therefore, is a • marsupial
mammal,” and Bannermana developed "barramnnda
of the good old simple Ganoid type. The ‘‘primitive
echidna " are, doubtless, represented by Spoflorth and
Bonnor, , .. , ,
The Warwick C.C. held its annual meeting last
week. Daring the past season the first eleven played
eleven matches, two of which were won, five lost, and
four drawn. The trophies wore presented as follows :
Batting average, H. Hiddlestone, 23.11; bowling, H-
Hiddleatone, 11.22 runs per wicket. J. Austin won
both the Second Eleven averages : batting. 13. , j bowl-
ing. 5 72 ; highest aggregate, J. Austin, 384 runs; most
catches, J. Rigg. 17. Mr. J. Rlgg was re-elected hon.
secretary, Mr. J. Austin assistant secretary and trea-
surer Mr. J. Rollick was presented with the Albert
Ground Challenge Cup in recognition of hie past ser-
vices to the club. In a very able report, a tribute was
paid to the memory of Mr, W. B. Walford, who was an
old member of the club.
The match between the Australian Eleven and
the Zlngari Club at Scarborough, resulted in a draw.
The weather was fine and the attendance large, ine
wickets were excellent, and the play was generally
brilliant. The Australians went first to the wickets,
and scored 153-Massle 51, Horan 32, and Bonnor 17,
being the highest scorers. The Zmgarla made 279.
When time was called, the Australians, in their second
innings, had scored 423 runs—Bannerman (not out) 131,
Bonnor (not out) 122, Giffen 15. being the principal
scorers. In the course of the match, Gillen severely
hurts his knee, and Blaokham, whilst wicket-keeping,
missing a ball from Boyle, received the full force of the
blow in the mouth, loosening several of his teeth.
The return match between the Australian Eleven
and Nottingham County Eleven, for the benefit of
Oscroft, the professional, resulted in a win for the Aus-
tralians by 159 runs. The weather was generally fine,
and the attendnnee large. The Australians, mttar
first innings, made 131, Murdoch being top-score with
72. The Nottingham team were disposed of for 111
runs—Shrewsbury 28, being the highest scorer. The
Australians, in their second innings, made 213
M‘Donnell scoring 63, Murdoch 26, andßonnor-O.
Notts, in the second innings, collapsed, the batsmen
being unable to make a stand against the Australian
bowling, and the innings closed for 48. Thera were no
cablegrams about lunch matters, so we presume that
this time the arrangements were most complete.
“ Charon,” in the Mail ot last week, has a long
article on Haycock, which is practically an elaborate
defence of his rowiAg tactics when last In England. It
will be remembered that Haycock *' gave up in the
Sportsman’s Cup, being beaten by Hargan and Pearce,
and he shortly afterwards beat Boyd In the fastest time
on record—licking anything Hanlan ever accomplished.
Of this sudden break-down in a race In which he was a
long way the favourite, Haycock afforded no explanation
at all in England, although he inoss to ' «■
Then, naturally enough says the writer, I askea nim
why he did not explain matters, when ho replied with
characteristic bluntness that it was nothis !
thev were at perfect liberty to blackguard him or not
a* they thought fit, and that ho had become used to it.
P*eople are waiting to hear Haycock’s own explanation,
“ Oharon's/* by no means, suffices.
The University C,C. held (its annual meeting on
21st August. The first-eleven played thirteen matches
last season, ®f which seven were won, four lost, and
two drawn. The trophies were awarded as fohp^®:
Batting—R. 0. Allen, average, 28; highest individual
score, R. C. Allen, 111 runs; highest aggregate, S.P.
Jones. 420 runs. Bowlin* average—H. M. iaithfull.
10% S. P- Jones obtained a batting average of 52j
runs but failed to play ia the requisite number oi
matches! Balance in hand, £32. The following officers
were elected:—Patron, Sir William Manning, Kt.,
Chancellor* president. Professor Hivorsidge; viae-
sir Wigram Allen. Kt., Professor Gurney,
Jndge wTAdejer.Mr E, Barton. M.H.A.; delegate to
NS W Cricket Association, Mr. K. Teece; honorary
Lretary. Mr? R. C. Allen; honorary treasurer. Mr.
R. M. Sly ; assistant honorary secretary and treasurer,
Mr. Mere wether.
A London society paper says:—‘‘lt is difficult
for us to form a conception of the ultra dryneas and
dustiness of an Australian crlckot-ground. But horeia
a detail which will help us to Imagine what It is. An
English visitor to the Antipodes,
Hf-rlDtlon of a match played at Sydney with Shaw fl team,
says' the ground was so dusty that he saw a man keeping
fWo snnrA with his fingers on a friend 8 h*.oK- we
have seen this Englishman, and, as far as credulity Is con-
ceded, we will back his throat against tho<£f any
fhi ft side of Gehenna, was the drlest-wlttod,
man we ever met? But we think it is hardly the square
thing for a man, after he has been soaked in Australian
wf to write home and ridicule the dryness of the
Australian climate. If any of his friends in England
would like to write to him, wo will get his address next
time wo see him. He comes to clear oar dust-bin every
week, which is another striking instance of the impar-
tiality of Providence—the very thing this man sneered
at ho now gets his living by.
For the third day of the A.J.C. Spring meeting
the weather was fine and the attendance fair. Twenty-
two started for the Suburban Handicap, which proved
mthpr a boil-over, Rupert, who had been but slightly
S2&.‘ ridden well b/o'Brlen, won bv a nock block-
A _ 3.u A fovonrlte. being second, and Hesper third.
The’Grand Start Plat?wSs a gift to Brian Born. Hope-
ful being second, and Balthazar third. The Craven
Plate was won by Sting, who beat Sweet William by a
head after a desperate race. Considerable Interest was
rivXn In the A J.C. Mores' Produce Stakes, which was
a?tu<M * between Navigator and Hecla Navigator won
hv two lengths, Heola. compounding justas mysteriously
-JSegenhoe did in the Derby. The latter had smashed
the queering of his hoof and was unable to start.
Twentv-threo started for the Sidney Handicap, which
was won by Sardonyx after a grand finish with 1 rootor,
Hoimnnil HAouciiig third place. Kour horses* including
Harebell and Masquerade, fell at the homo turn, neither
horsee nor riders sustaining any severe injuries.
The last day of the Australian Jookoy Club’s
Spring meeting brought the largest attendance ever
seen a* Randwiok. Fully 15,000 p.ople The
racing was excellent and surprising. Poor start'd foe
the Hurdle Plata, which Nigger won easily, the othare
ref using to negotiate the jumps. He was sold to Mr.
E WmloTforOO sovs. The Members' Handloap was a
gift to Malmaison, Boscawan being second, and Bel-
videre third. Eight started for the lhree-mile Race,
, sting and Proctor being favourites; Hord Butghley out
tent the running for Sting, wHo made a up the
straight, and beat Drummer by a length, i.iweet vv uiiana
being third. 14 horses started for the Waverley Han-
dfcap, in which the uncertain Strathearn showed his
mettle by winning it easily, Harebell being second, and
Balmoral third. Nine started for the Steeplechase,
which was won rather easily by Hotspur. Kanaka being
second, and Blackall third. If the latter had not
fallen, he would, doubtless, have gained a better place.
15 started for the Free Handicap, which was won com-
fortably by Gipsy Cooper, Comet being second, and
Prima Donna third.
The mile footrace between Bnrke, of Dunedin,
and O’Connor, who lately travelled with the Australian
peds., for the championship of New Zealand and £lOO,
created immense excitement at Dunedin, where the
race was run. Nearly five thousand persons were present.
O’Connor was a slight favourite for some days previous
to the race, but the betting changed from 6 to 4 on him
to even at the start. The day was fine, but there was a
strong wind which, in addition to a heavy track,
rendered time poor. O’Connor went oil at a great pace,
and quickly showed that his tactics were to obtain so
commanding a lead that Burke, whoso finishing powers
are remarkable, would not ba able to catch him. On
entering the fourth lap he had a lead of about forty
yards, which Burke had reduced at the end of the lap
to between twenty-five and thirty. O’Connor was still
running strong, and few thought Burko could oatch
him, but putting on speed by a wonderful effort, Burke,
in the fifth and last lap, gradually wore him down, and
when ever a hundred yards from home passed him,
winning by fifteen yards amidst uproarious cheers from
his local admirers. O’Connor stuck gamely to it till
the finish. Time—4 min. 38 sec. An immense amount
of money changed hands. O’Cornor’s supporters wore
dissatisfied with the result, and another match will,
probably, bo run in a fortnight’s time.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The deciding football match between Geelong
and Melbourne, was played at Geelong, on Saturday,
the farmer scoring eight goals twenty-two behinds to
Melbourne’s four behinds. The latter played with six
substitutes George Thompson, the jockey, familiarly
known as “ The Squeaker,’’ died a short time since at
Singleton.. The Adelaide Licensed Victuallers
Advocate, speaking of one of its Consultation adver-
tisers says, “We have occasion to believe that he is
pocketing the money forwarded, and does not evea take
the trouble to send tickets to his dupes." Raymond
u. Surry United, opening match: S.U.C.C., 97 J.
Seatle, 15: Croker, 48. E.C.C., 1 wicket for 17. Sep-
tember 9th, E.C.G. v. Irondnke C.C. 1.D.C.C., 81—A.
Biddons, 17 ; Harney, not out, 18 ; Q. Slddons, 12. E.C.C.,
6 wickets for 96—Watkins, 18 j J. Wilson, 10; Saunders,
not out, 18 ; Baker, not out, 22. Howe secured eight
wickets for 23 runs Kensington Park (Via),
including the racecourse, was sold on the 11th
September for £4B 000 for sub-division purposes
At a meeting of the Royal Sydney Yacht Club last week
Mr. E. W. Knox was elected commodore for the ensuing
year, and Mr. F. B. Lark as treasurer. The opening
day of the season was fixed for Saturday, October 14
Candela races are to come off on 4th and sth Jan. 1883.
Prizes amounting to nearly £3OO are offered, and £4OO
has been expended in improvements on the course
Lask week, Black Swan dropped a foal at East Maitland.
Goldsbrough was the sire, and the new-comer should
make a mark on the turf. Black Swan’s sire was Yat-
tendon and her dam Maid of the Lake The Armidale
Jockey Club held its annual meeting last week. A
credit balance of £25 was shown. Races are to be held
at the opening of the railway, in addition to the annual
races on 26th and,27th January. The running ground
is to be ploughed and otherwise improved, and a new
grandstand erected The South Australian Yacht
Jlub have unanimously re-elected Mr. Brindley
as their Commodore for the season ••••The
annual meeting of tho Prince Alfred Yacht Club is
to bo held on tho 4th October A 150-yards’ nice for
£5O, between Ellis and Dunn, came off on Saturday at
Vegetable Creek, Ellis winning easily Grand Fla-
neur’s first son from Amethyst is a very fine c01t......
8000 spectators witnessed the football match at Mel-
bourne, on Saturday, between Essondon and Carlton.
The game resulted in a draw—Essendon scoring
3 goals 12 behinds to Carlton’s 3 goals 5 behinds......
Glebe Strathmore C.C. v. Our Boys C.C. was won by
Our Boys by 44runs. G.8.C.C., 33—Brown 13, Pnddy
10. Dennis, 5 wickets lor 15; Stedman, 4 wickets f«r
10. Our Boys, 77—Spears (not out) 30. Marr secured
10 wickets for 27 runs. Out Boys have a glorious cam-
paign before them, the indefatigable secretary having
arranged matches already up to 28th April, with but
four open dates The Taree C.C. held a meeting on
the Ist instant. Mr. F. G. Crofton was tho highest
average scorer, but he, having presented the trophy,
awarded it te the next man, Mr. Warden. The averages
in the second eleven were not kept, so the players will
have to “shake in the hat" for the trophy. Tho
pavilion is to be enclosed, and! a rule was passed pre-
venting any player from going bare-footed into
the field. Mr. A. J. Druitt was elected seore-
tary, and Mr. F. G. Crofton treasurer, to the club
Mr. Halifax has written to a New Zealander that there
is no possibility of the Australian cricketers visiting
them, as their articles of agreement do not admit of
further extension of their tour after arrival in Mel-
bourne, where they play two matches against Bligh s
team. They may, however, go over, not as a team, as
Massie and others are anxious to visit Maoriland.
Halifax is appointed to arrange for a visit of Bligh s
team to Now Zealand Wellington (N.Z.) Racing Club
annual balance sheet shows the receipts for the year
to have been £1790 10s. 3d., and the expenditure,
£1845 16s. The bank overdraft is £6B os. 2d., including
£l2 14a. of last year. Tho Lotteries Bill, it is said,
sadly interfered with the attendance on race days
North Canterbury (N.Z.) Steeplechase Handicap was
won by Kosoiusoko, Levant second At Jem Mace’s
showat Dunedin (N.Z.), lately, there was an eight hours
go-as-you-please contest. It was won by a youth
named Noel, with forty miles. He and another
youth fainted at the conclusion of tho contest
Auckland (N.Z.) Stud Co.'s Cap-a-pie has been sent to
Wanganui for the season Mr. John Kerr, of Nelson
(N.Z.), having been challenged to match one of his
recently imported American trotting horses against the
Marlborough mare Lucy Glitters, publicly offers to
back one of his horses for £5OO against £250 by Lucy
Glitters. He also offers to trot a Nelson horse
against the Marlborough mare for £lOO n 5ide.......
A New Zealand bookmaker backed Cunnamulla in
Dunedin for the Melbourne Cup for about £lOOO, getting
the money on at prices ranging from 100 to 2 to 100 to
3 ...Tho football match between the N.Z. provinces,
Otago and Canterbury, resulted in a hollow victory for
the former by five goals and three tries to nothing.
Canterbury was tho favourite at starting, but was over-
matched in every department of the game. One of the
principal heroes of the day for Otago was young Taiaroa,
son of the Maori M.H.E., who played magnificently.
His High School companions were frantic with delight,
and carried him shoulder high off the ground A Now
Zealand Journal says that a full sister to Himalaya, the
crack huidle and steeplechase horse, is in New Zealand.
A Mr. Hobbs, of Hawera, has a fine upstanding chest-
nut mare by Y'onug Obscurity from Himalaya’s dam,
and has a filly foal by Puriri from her. In Australia
the pedigree of Himalaya was always a mystery, but
the dam of this animal was bred somewhere about the
Murray district, and ran on Mr. Hobbs’ station with a
wild mob for some years At a recent entertainment
given by Jem Mace in Dunedin (N.Z.), one of the prln-
oipal features was the wrestling between Strong and
Blade, the latter, after an excellent contest, turning
tho tables on Strong, by throwing him twice out of
three times Irvington, the trotting stallion recently
imported from America by Mr. Kerr, of Nelson (N.Z.),
the pick of the lot, was sold at Christchurch for 800 gs.
The Temora J.C. are quarrelling already with one
another A second cricket club is to bo started at
Bathurst A N.S. Wales man, writing from Now
Zealand, says that “a good team from N.S. Wales
would beat anything in New Zealand." Ho speaks
highly of the play of Taiaroa, a Maori, and of the pass-
ing of the Otago men, but he says there la lack of that
espnt de corps which is so lem irkable in the play of the
N.S. W. men. He means tho “ mangling de corps
At a recent up-country Queensland meeting, yuntlemen
riders, a horse was pulled, and was after-
wards disqualified for the meeting Fully 1500
people wore present at the Newcastle cricket and
football club’s athletic sports. Throwing the cricket
ball at wickets was won by S. Sneesby; drop kick, J.
Murrell; Member*’ Handicap, 100 yards, i. W. Ash,
11 yards, in 11 seconds; Hurdle Race, 200 yards, C.
Thomas; Boys’ race, 75 yards, J. Burke; Veterans
race. Gates; walking race, 1) mile, A. ? j
second: Bioyolo race, 1 mile, Brown; 440 yards handi-
cap race, Wilson, 40 yards, 1. Time, 53) secs. Boys,
tricycle race, 440 yards, L. Graham, 6 yarns; Cricketers
'and footballers’ race, W. Miller, 2 yards; pol ® r^J t s ’
Clarke, Bft. 3in.; 880 yards race, Johnson, scratch.
* •
One of the drollest cricket collapses of the
English season has been tho defeat by an eighteen of
Drumpellier (a country club about ten miles from
Glasgow) of Shaw’s Australian Eleven—the All-England
Eleven who recently visited the colonies under Shaw s
captaincy. Shaw’s men only scored 26 in the first
innings. Seven of the finest professional batsmen in
England made 16 runs between them ! A canny Scotch
professional named Watson took five wickets for seven
runs, and all clean bowled, too I In tho second innings
the Englishmen did a little better, and ran up 88 for
six wickets; but, as they had 183 to make, they would
certainly have lost had there bean lime enough to play
out the match, "It was absurd, however, ’ says
Society, *• calling the other team Eighteen of Drum-
pellier; they were, in fact, eighteen of the bast players
in Scotland. Bub still that 23 remains as one
of the curiosities of cricket A New Zealand
“bookmaker’’ was expelled from the “ring at
I Liverpool for welshing. He got struck at Ascot
The Grand Prix Wimbledon was won by Sergeant Law-
rence of the Dumbarton Rifles. The second was Captain
Gilbert. Lawrence is a printer in Dumbarton. At the
three ranges his scoring was ns follows : —7OO yards, 17
points ; 800 yards, 20 points; 100 yards, 23 points; total,
65 The testimonial to Lord Harris consisted of a
pair of very handsome silver candelabra with a volume
containing the names of the donors, nearly eight hun-
dred in number London Truth .speaking of the Eton-
Harrow cricket match, says that it was a competition
of guzzling rather than of skid and muscle. At tho
close of the play there was a row. Tho piny—from a
cricketer’s standpoint—was beneath contempt; and
although tho match seemed to be going in favour of
Harrow when stumps were drawn, it would be difficult
to say which was tho worse eleven Gloucestershire
was beaten easily by Notts in July, the former being
dismissed for 49 in the first innings Roberts, tho
billiardist, offers any man 500 points start in 5000 up for
£lOO9 aside This is the nice way Vanity Pair re-
cords the pulling of a horse in the race for tho Good-
wood Cup. “ Corrie Roy was one of the runners—may
it not rather be said was not one of the runners.” In
July the Gentlemen beat the Players by eight wickets,
the scores being :—Gentlemen. 371. Lucas, 107 ; G. T.
Studd, 100: and 2 wickets for 77. Players 163 and 237...
Hanlan was reported dead in London on 13th June.
“ The real reason,” according to Vanity J
** why the Hor«e Guards were seat to Egypt, 1b th
present Minister ot War is yery anxious to i
them altogether, and that, being well aware of t
suitability of heavy cavalry for operations in Egj
expects to be provided with an argument as 1
uselessness in time of war.*' The same writer t
“ Our soldiers do not seem to shoot better ir
than they did in the Transvaal, Fancy a con
the third battalion 60th Biflea firing a delil • >
aimed volley at a largo body of Arab cavalry ac •
in the open, and only wounding one horse I’*
To-Day.
(FOR THE BULLETIN).
Now, as the centuries stream behind us, we,
Standing on this small plank of Time, to-day
“Halt-fearful close out eyes nor dare to see,
shut out lips nor dare to say.
What if out Bible, deemed the Word of God,
Be not a revelation save in name ?
What if none supernatural ever trod
This earth and, blameless, suffered for our blame ?
May not the tale we children learn’d to lisp
Young at a loving mother’s knee, be sham
Conventionality of creed—a will-o’-the-wisp
Which leads past Faith to Doubt, then sinks to damn ?
Why should we shrink to face the ntterest truth.
Though that truth’s nascsnoo rising sweep away
Long-held beliefs, fair idols of our youth.
Serving their purpose once—outworn To-Day P
Is it not easier to believe than doubt ?
Blest if we could infallibly be taught
And know it surety I Who would wait without—
His heart-aches over and his battles fought P
First in the thoughts of men behold the Christ,
Dear and revered 1 A shape sublimely thrown
Against the Past’s dim background—held unpriced
By millions, if not given th’ Almighty’s throne.
Has He not saved the world P Did He not die
Upon the cross for us P Was, then, His death.
That we might live, a proof of lineage high
Transcending ours P Have they who own the breath
Of mortal lathers never, martyr’d, died
And freely yielded life for others’ good ?
E’en Maori barbarism cannot hide
Our birthright. Pipi of Otaki* whose blood.
Tainted with pestilential fever, burned
Fell poison through hie veins, believing then
His body venom to his people, turned
And slew himself—a savage among men—
That they might live I
There by blue Galilee,
The great Physician was nnvexed by aught
Of those unceasing cares and ills which grind
The brain in these our larger times. He wrought
Free from the storms which wreck the modern m
Is he most perfect who holds most aloof
From fleshlihood, nor knows the happy thrill,
Striking through sense, when ’noath the holy roof
Of married mates a babe is born P Can still
This far avoidance rank as hoavenliness P
Each tonsured priest, cramping the generous gift
Of manhood, learns that lesson, nor does loss.
Are miracles celestial charioteers P
If it wore possible to separate
The truth and error of two thousand years,
What would be left ? Besides, the self-same state
Of wonder-werking is affirmed To-Day—
In misty visions of enthusiasts
Who find new saints. No I Jesus is the Way,
The Truth, the life 1 His power outlasts
Deification ; yet He is Divine-
Divine as man who, like an ocean-bird.
Bests on the windy shrouds of Life, a sign
Of being; for a moment then is heard
And seen no further. From the Eternal he
An emanation, as ourselves, supernal—so.
Remembering thus our twinu’d Divinity,
It will no more content to range below.
Fired by this faith we shall ascend the heavens;
Jesus has " gone before ’’—ho said—and 'tie
The spirit of his words which lives and leavens j
That only, and no mythic act of his.
Through truth-dishonouring dogma, piled above
Formalized fallacy, have Christians read
The simple wisdom of his God-like love;
Born with the heart’s blood, in the conscience bred,
Purged from this parasitic, soulless load.
The Master’s teachings still, To-Day, remain
A light to lighten all on life’s dark road,
'Twixt Heaven and Earth an always-binding chain.
And following Christ, our brother, wo shall rise
To higher being ; to unselfishness;
To live for others’ good with clearer eyes;
Or die for others’ good; to die no less
To sin, that each one for himself may make
His peace with God —the real Atonement. These
btamp men divine —not because Jesus spake.
Expressing them, but that they are decrees
Breathed, in the essence of humanity.
By the Creator when mankind was made —
Part of Himself—true Revelation.
We
Thus providenced, may journey unafraid.
G
'An old Maori chief.


Beware of unscrupulous imitators and falsa
statements. The Puke Indian Teas of the Calcutta
Tea Association, are recognised as a standard brand
for purity, flavour, economy in use, and every excel-
lence, despite the attempts to imitate the brand. In-
dian Tea in packets was first sold in the colony during
the Sydney Exhibition, by Mr. Inglis. of Inglis, Brown,
and Co , who are the sole agents in N S W. for the Cal-
cutta Tea Association. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Char-
lotte Place. No hawkers, no retail shops. None but
genuine teas sold, Ask only for the Calcutta Tea Asso-
ciation's Pure Indian Teas, and don’t buy “rubbish
packed Jn imitation wrappers.— Advt.
Dr. With says :—Tha effect of Koumiss upon
the COMPLEXION, is very remarkable. The dirty,
billons colour of the face, or the paleness of the skin,
eoon gives place to a pink and white complexion, which
the people in Moscow have given the name of “KOU-
MISS COMPLEXION.’’— Advt.
We are very sorry to have to state that Sir Henry
Parkes was, last week, attacked with illness consequent
upon debility and nervous exhaustion, and has remained
since in a very low condition. Only a few of his most
intimate friends are permitted to see him, and he is to
be removed to Toxteth Park (the residence of the Hon.
the Speaker) as soon as practicable.
Wigzell, of Oxford-street, has arranged to
accommodate, daring the coming summer. 450 visitors
daily at his baths. His projected alterations will make
hi* premises the attraction of Oxford-street.
“ A nice thing,” said Lord Eustace Cecil, in the
House of Commons, “to send men 6(t. 2in. high to
ride donkeys in Egypt ” “ The noble giants take their
own herses with them,” returned the Government.
“In that case,” retorted Lord Eustace, “none of the
animals will return.” Gladstone squirmed.
The Mayor of Petersham is to wait on the
Attorney-General to point out to him how the City oi
Sydney Improvement Act does extend to suburban ana
other pmnioipalities I
Anglican Dioscesan Synod of Sydney can’t raffle
worth a cent. Out of twenty candidates for a sqnar
chance, not ’one has "thrown the main” in the nrss
round.”
Archbishop Vaughan’s tnduum a swinging
success. Grand pomp, magnificent ceremony. t-atno
eloquence, several thousands raked in at the doors, a
£2269 scooped in at the subscription-list first aay-
Total pool—£lo,ooo !
Winding-up of Darling Harbour Compensation
Cases Maiden, Hill, and Clarke, who originally cll “
£20,462 165., but afterwards reduced t0£12,000,
by verdict £4950, or £440 less than the
Government offered. The other four case ?, °
hearing have been withdraws, two being bm ll )’ ® , J
Macarthur, who claimed £25,605 135., has oe« P .
£12,000, without interest and without cost , o
previous Government offer having been £10,450.
who wanted £45,151 3s. 8d„ and who was oflerert .
is to compromise for an amount not yet deter
upon.
SOCIAL.
ttte gaslight, the glitter, and glare of it,
Fririging the fountain, where splashes the spray;
‘Up in the gallery—fall, every chair of it,
Down by the dais where the sailor-men play ;
vl-ftily the ball goes ; the hundreds that spin in it
Flushing with pleasure, go galloping by;
What though the parson says—" Terrible sin in it,”
Sport while you may,” is the giddy ones’ cry.
Fair girls, apparelled with glory ablaze on them.
Stand off apart from the bustle and shove ;
There, in dim corners, with no one to gase on them,
Blushing ones list to confessions of love.
Circle bold sailors with epaulette suits on them—
Ever gold laoe has a charm for the fair 1
Tiny feet trip, while the high-buttoned boots on them
Scanned are, and quizzed, by the officers there.
Youths adore maids, and lay siege to the hearts of them;
Maids long for Jelly—think passion a bore;
Dancers, whose heels seem the principal parts of them,
Batter acd bruise every foot on the floor.
Qauy the bnJl goes; and, ere we’re aware of it.
Flying h ars thin ont the ranks of the gay,
Gone are the glories, the glitter, and glare of it.
Vanished like phantoms by dawn of the day.
St. Vincent's Ball last week waa one of the beat
3[et, less Crowded than it has been, and not rough. His
-Axcwllenoj’s patronage consisted of an apology, but
JGomtument House sent, nevertheless, some guests.
There was a posse of naval officers, and a party of the
elite, one of whom came to see “how these people
dance." The lady most have been surprised to find
that “ these people " dance just the same as some of
those who hover on the gilt edge of society. Chief
features of the ball were: comprehensiveness of classes,
many old dresses, but a fair number of new ones, good
behaviour, bare arms, shows of hose, plenty of seats,
and the man who fell in the fountain. Supper was up-
stairs, whore it should not be. We know it is a charity
ball, but it’s not charity to compel tired ladies to
scale two flights of stairs for a tart. Sooner than
do so, some oouples tried dancing in the gallery, hut
without much satisfaction, for the floor is not good.
Mr, Mayor Harris was present, but did not dance, the
loading partners in the opening quadrille being Sir P,
Jennings and Mrs. Harris, the latter wearing lavender
corded silk and black moire trimming, vin-a-vis to Mr.
W, H. M'Carthy and Mrs. Kelly, the lady in striped
lilac, with rows of cream lace, and white blossom
wreath. For a while the gold epaulettes of the naval
warriors who are such a terror to cocoa- nut trees flashed
through the throng, but they went away early, and then
ordinary citizens had a chance for a smile. Only a
few gentlemen wore fancy costumes ; seme were poor,
hut there good exceptions. One of the best was a
cavalier suit worn by Mr. Brown, of maroon silk velvet,
trir.no. xl with gold bullion, and a genuine cavalier hat
with magnificent white plumes that must have made
many a girl yearn as she thought of the spring hat
that a to be “ done up ” next week. Other characters
C'ero; Mr. J, Sim«, Spanish nobleman ; Mr. B. Meyers,
Jacques ; James Murphy, Prince ef Poins ; C E. Braga
and F. A. Weber, Huntsmen; Joseph Cody, Tim
Flaherty; A. Bodcook, Lord Dundreary; E. Dwyer,
Bunt borne; J. T. Keating, Chang; J. J. Hughes, Prince
Rupert; Owen Carroll, English court dress : C. Ander-
son, Charles II; E. Heath, Willy Reilly; Mr. Bones,
Night end Morning; and A. R. Stone, Land Sales.
Also wore present, the Governor of New Caledonia,
JDr. O’Connor, Dr. Milford, in uniform, Commander
Menderson, R.N., members of Parliament, soldiers,
iseilars, jockeys, and an individual who called himself
n Spanish Paddy. No lady was recognised as belle of
the ball, Mrs. Fred. Horne, as America, was a centre
of interest. A lady sometimes greatly enhances her
charms by dressing in character : a fair chevelure placed
over a pair of dark eyas will confer a magical advan-
tage, and manufacture beauty of the highest, or at least,
the scarcest, type, straight away. The rich dress worn
by America showed n flue flgnre at its best. Tight
bodice of blue satin, leaving the arms bare from the
shoulders, r red, white and blue satin skirt, not too
long, draped with crimson sash and glittering with
spangles, looked very brilliant. Miss Bessie Parker,
os Queen Anna of Denmark, were a pretty blue satin,
telle ved with bauds of old gold on the skirt, blue satin
headdress and pearls. Her charming sister, pink satin.
Mrs. Griffiths, whose dancing was poetry, was attired
in black velvet and moir-, trimmed with black beads
and laoe, low neck, while blossoms in the hair,
A Worth dress of light blue, garlanded with daisies,
was nice, bat not more striking than can be seen any
day in Pitt-street. Mrs. E. Prondergast’s dress was a
tine'one of ivory satin, gold btooadings, sunflowers, and
dead leaves in her tresses. A rich ivory satin was dis-
played by Mrs. C. J. Roberts; and a blaok satin robe,
trimmed with black laoe and beads, and a salmon
bonnet, by Mrs. Fischer. A married lady of pleasant
mien, not long ago one of the leading belles of Hobart,
wore a. handsome black moire antique, well trimmed
With jasmin. Miss Shekelton, who comes from that
very lively country "where the grass grows grsen,"
was a Fine Night. Mrs. Cope was an Alsatian Peasant;
Miss O’Brien, the “Pirates” Mabel; Miss Richardson,
Starlight; Mrs. M. Richardson and Miss Bones were
Snow; Misses Bnrns, Hargraves, and others, Clandine;
Missea Alice O’Connor and Denieffi, Gipsy Queens;
Miss Agnes O'Connor, Court Lady of the 16oh Cen-
tury; Master Edward Slattery, Sir Walter Raleigh;
Miss Ashton, Brittany Peasant; Miss A. Burns,
Country Girl; Miss Lily Banks, Spanish Coquette;
Miss Morton, School Girl; Miss M. Garrick, Snsssn
(from "Madame Favarf’); Mieses Nellie Kelly and
Agnes Tigho, Colleen Bawns; Miss Jones, Spanish
Girl; Mri Drake, Florian Shepherdess; Miss Sweeney,
Red, White, and Blue; Miss F. Peate, Watteau
Peasant: Mrs. J. Barnes and Miss Grounds, Night;
Mrs. J. Selig, a Bride; Miss Newton, Black Rose ; Miss
Hosier, Mary, Mary, quite Contrary; Mies T. Hosier,
Nancy Lee; Mrs. J. Erwin. Court Lady; Miss Nellie
Edwards, Vsmoralda; Mias Farrall, Summer; Mrs. E
Newton, Rose of Castilla; Miss Graham, Spanish
Gipsy; Miss M. Cooper, Irish Peasant; Miss C.
Sampson, Qitana; Mademoiselle De Simino, Lady
Teazle; Mrs Myers, Mother of Pearls; Misses
Williamson and Cameron, Daughters of the Regiment;
Misses Fvfe and Williams, Patiences; Miss L. 8t“vene,
Cherry Ripe; Miss Steading, Huntress; Misses
Weekes, Garret, and Malzard, Follys : Miss M'Cusker,
Morning Star; and there were many Peasants of all
nations. Mrs, W. H. M'Carthy personated Lady
Archibald Campbell in a magnificent oostume and hat
of cerise and crimson velvet; Miss Oliffe taking the
same character, in black velvet and bine satin, as worn
at the Fayre. Miss Walker’s Columbia was effective,
the bodice being a dazzling mass of spangles. Rather
novel was Mrs. J. C. Cornish’s conception of Silver
Mirror—a Ipink dress studded all over with eonvex
mirrors, a large one waa carried in the hand, and an
article strikingly like au inverted stewpau rested on
the ht-ad. The isdy needed to bo handled
with great core. Miss Kate Adams and Miss
Patrick were singularly pretty. Miss E. Hayes
was fair, in white raiment trimmed with flowers,
from which she took her name, Forget me not; and
onr memory will have to be very hayesy when we do
forget. Each dressed in white satin, with a wreath,
were a quartette of pretty girls; Miss Dwyer, Miss
E. Butcher, Mias Williams, and Miss E. Jones. Miss
Amy Morley was a slender Queen of the Emerald Isles,
and her costume was preUy —variegated in hue, but
pink satin most observable, with front of skirt of green
satin, embroidered in gold ard spangles, airy trimmings
bore and there, and pearls on the neck. A capital Ruth,
from the "Pirates," was the character of Mies Rem-
brandt. Mrs. O’Grady’s character was Olivia Primrose,
her dress consisting of dark cretonne polonaise, with
deep red underskirt, laoe, white wig, the conception
bring well carried out. Miss Ruby Butcher was in an
evening dress of pretty soft bine, V-shaped back and
front, with blue fringe and wroath. Mrs. Purvos wore
a chaste costume of white satin broehd, with white
bugle trimming on the bodice, and pink sash draped
round the skirt, and a large rose on the shoulder. One
exceedingly beautiful satin was of straw colour, well
shaped, and gathered and pleated with all the modish
mannerisms of ye milliner; and the wearer was a pretty
brunette. Another was a brocaded robe, where all the
metallic tints from copper to go.d merged in a large
flowered pattern, which rendered the dross worthy of
much admiration. The Evening News was represented
by a linen dress covered with columns of news printed
iu the office of that wonderful journal, dated September
2nd—stale news, as usual. The inevitable Nigger was
there, and succeeded in spoiling gloves and dresses
with his dirty hands. Little Miss Murray made a
capital Hungarian maid, in black velvet trimmed with
fur, square velvet cap crossed with silver cords, trim-
mings of silver, and crimson satin cape over one
aheuldet with for. Mum PuxcoU’fa flue figure was
representative of Nancy Lee, in red white and blue
satins, blue sailor jacket with gold buttons, and sailor
hat. Mrs. P. R. Larkin was also an admirable character.
Two charming Orphans were Misses Angle and Taylor,
the dresses being good, and the ladies looked yery
happy, although the reason was not a-parent. As they
divided a good-looking Spanish Noblemaa between
them, the want of a pi didn’t trouble the bereaved girls
much. The idea of Australia was personified bv Miss
Donoghoe, in loose blue satin, held by a steel belt,
trimmed with silver fringe, and surmounted by a crown
bearing her title. Marguerite, from 11 Faiist," was
presented by Miss Ebheredge, In long flowing robe of
white, blue border and flaxen wit. And that dainty
danse use, Mrs. Fred. Wnrskitt, was a Highland Lassie.
The dresses of Mrs. Morrison as Zingara Gipsy, and
Miss 0'8hanghnesay as Rubens’ Wife were rioh and
appropriate, as was also Miss Carroll’s dress of white
satin, laoe and swansdown. A young lady appearing
as " Lily of the Valley," had all the pretty modesty ef
that shy, sweet flower. In bronza satin, trimmed with
Spanish lace, and festoons of white and scarlet
carnations, a piquant* blonde was charming as a
dancer; while the "Morning Star" waa bright and
beaming all night, in the person of a tall graceful
girl from Darlinghurst. Only in one instaaae waa
bad taste obtruded. The stage dress of a drummer was
so very sparing that it was quite a question with some
which sex the wearer adorned—
So scant a dress, from head to foot,
Might please the taste of some,
So scant, the whole lot might be put
Within her little drum;
So scant, 'twoald in a teacup go
Uncrushed, with room to spare.
So scant, that wa should like to know
How came that drummer there ?
So scant—though it our feeling hurts,
The truth we must admit—
So scant, that ha who looked for skirts.
Found not a single bit.
So scant, that people stopped to a.ak—
How oonld a woman wear,
Without a blush, without a mask,
So scant a costume there f
Fair refreshments were provided, though lomo things
were, liko the drum mors dress, spare. Possibly, the
fact that the general public eould not get enough
lemonade was due to the tact that a few got ohamptg ae.
Only a few. Arrangements in the cloak-room were
somewhat hitchy. Music by the Naval Brigade Band
waa good. A very interesting feature of the evening
was the way in which a certain distinguished young
gentleman, well-known in society, “ made the running "
with certain gay ladies who are even bett<r known as
being out of society. Supported by a fair one on each
arm, the distinguished one processed majestically up
the building, his happiness only equalled, probably, by
his innocence of the social status of his fair com-
panions. Which reminds us of another feature. A
teetotaller, seated on the edge of the fountain, sud-
denly thought, “ now’s the time for disappearing," and
raising his feet slowly from the floor, he just went
gently backwards, and tried all he could to stand on
his head in abont eighteen inches of water. Thinking
he was busy at something and didn't want to be die-
turbed, no one for a while attempted to rescue him, but
on the suggestion of an intelligent bystander, who said,
" pull him out, carnt yer but did not risk his own
immaculate gloves in the operation — the inverted
gentleman was seized by the feet, and canted back to
an upright positi n. It was none too soon, for by that
time he was about half full, and as they held him steady
while the water ran down his face Into his waistcoat
pockets, it was evident that in a second or two more
the “ directions for treatment of the apparently
drowned " would have been unavailing. When h* got
his mouth empty, he explained it ell in one word. He
said—" Zoedone 1";
# e e
The last Glammis Hall Fortnightly was better
than usual, inasmuch as there was more room. Mr
Ini ban’s band of three provided lively music, and
fifteen daueee made a full programme till midnight.
Nearly half the costumes were black—some beaded,
some trimmed with satin—but the quiet gray garb of
two tall sisters was very neat. A plump little figure in
vandyke brown velvet danced beautifully. A talkative
young lady in black, with an elaborate coiffure, would
bo best described a* "chatter and friz;’* while the
peculiar dress of a Paddington young lady, pink covered
with laoe, would amply justify am otic in calling her
"strawberries and cream." On the 21st Instant, the
last party of the season will be held, amd the closing
ball, which promises to be large, is intended to take
place in Needa’s Rooms early in October,
e e
Seventh Bachelors’ Assembly at Nithsdale on
Friday; about fourvoore and ten present, the tea repre-
seating the proportion of Benedicts. Fourteen dances
done by midnight, to the music of Mr. Needs, junior
Nething stronger than coffee in the supper room;
but then there were flasks in ulster-pockets. The
majority were not only good at dancing, but at dress-
ing, too. Glebe lady wore handsome brocaded silk of
chocolate hue, white laoe—fine dancer. Paddington
lady in pale blue sateen and silver. Handsome
Darlington girl wor# black brocaded silk, richly
trimmed. Surry Hills slender brunette wore old gold
sateen and black velvet, with sunflowers In her hair.
A little Woolloemooloo maiden made-an appearance in
pale blue and ivy leaves; while a tall lady from thence
was garbed in cardinal, trimmed with velvet to match.
Last assembly of the year next month.
» Urn
Most of the Bandwiek dresses on Steeplechase
Day had made their appearance before. A nice spring
costume was of cream cambric, with laoe and satin bow
to match, and straw hat. cream parachute. The
daughter of a Burwood solicitor was in a light pea-
green cashmere (well suiting her fair complexion),
trimmed with lichen green velvet. Pretty was a silver;
cream satin and laoe skirt, gathered into inflated puffs,
over it being a dark brown satin polonaise, cream
parasol edged with lacs. The wife of a well-known
Wagga resident was attired in a light dress of black
material, edged with wbi r a laoe, butter satin bonnet
One parasol was a truly extraordinary construction : it
was Of mahogany brown laoe, in countless layers, very
large, and bore on one side two roses, a dark red and a
yellow one, about the size of a dinner plate. The roses
had evidently not been ont off in the bloom of youth.
A corded silk of peculiar dark green was lightened by a
trifle of cream lace trimming. An old gold satin and
cream lace had a stylish look. The wife of a merchant,
fair and rotund, was in a costume of deep blue satin,
trimmed with striped satin of blue and red rnst hue,
black bonnet. Lady Loftus, who took a few turns Oh
the lawn, wore myrtle green satin, with pompadour
velvet edging, and an ivory embossed Indian shawl. A
very prepossessing young blonde' displayed light blue
cashmere, with flue erewel and honeycombed silk work,
and fringe, in harmonising tints. A cloth dress of green
plaid, witn dark green strips let in the hem of the
skirt, was the only one of its kind. An elderly lady
wore blaok velvet trained, with blue satin shirrings
down the front. A soft slate-colored dress of satin and
cashmere was choice; and a lavender cloth and satin
dress worn by a Potts’ Pointlndy was as unobtrusive as
it was handsome. A splendid contuse was of cream
satin, hand-painted, and drared with light lace, cream
benuet. Two petite sisters from Eastbourne were in
twin apparel of ivory satin, broehd and lace, yellow
straw bonnets and feathers. The parasols of cream
lace were so large and the young ladies so small that io
a spectator from the sunny side there was often scarcely
anything but parasol visible. Grey beige, brown satia
trimmings and peacock feather bonnet, looked tasteful
on a little lady with ehort tresses A few figured
eateene made their appearance, coming, like the
" buttercups and daisies, to tell of sunny hours." It
eoald scarcely escape notice on the lawn that blondes
wore quite in the majority.
• • •
Last Monday, fewer assembled to hear the Nelson
Band in the Gardens than on the previous week, and
good dresses were not so plentiful. Two cream cos-
tumes, one oatmeal cloth and ens cashmere, were as
noticeable amongst the dark ones as they were for their
own neatness. Two young ladies with pretty faces
earns from William-street, is mourning black. Two
maidens, also young, displayed effective claret velvet
and aatin dresses, with piquant hate te match. A taste-
ful dress was of coffee-brown saiin and cashmere, with
gathered front, and plain cashmere cape, trimmings of
biscuit-coloured laoe, close bonnet tn suite. Another
niee brown waa worn by a stylish young lady from
Double Bay. It was of velvet with clo*h top, pockets
to match the skirt, gold buttons and Rubens hat. A
brown velvet polonaise dress, with bronze-brown satin
skirt, deeply kilted, was in pleasing harmony with a
dark green plush headdiess. A handsome black velvet,
with watered moire sash and trimmings, and black
seaweed fringe, was worn by the Olivia Primrose of a
i late ball. The band played, not in the rotunda, but in
a by no means well-selected spot amid shrubbery, no
doubt to give the grass of the usual rendezvous a ohanoe
of recovery. And, as nasal, the bandsmen seemed in the
greatest danger of being swallowed alive by the open-
mouthed crowd, who formed a ring close round them,
as danse (in two senses) as a brick wall, and stared as if
they had merer seen a arum in their live* before.
* • *
Subscription ball at Glen Innes on tha Ist.
Piftv present; belle to be picked out of four—the sister
of a Government official, daughter of a store manager,
and wives of financial and pastoral managers. Most
noticed dresses were pretty light blue with short
eleevee two other blues with pretty wearers, flesh-
coloured sateen with flower pattern on a lively lady,
and a fearful and wonderful costume of salmon-haed
mmlin with polled sleeves. Best dancer was a tall
graceful lady from a neighbouring station; and a Clair-
tuux lady was bewitching in blue with silver leave*.
Two loeal maidens, daughters of a musician, received
merited attention. One gentleman ought to have hired
a separate reom, as he had nine dances with one lady.
But then he most likely could not prevail on any other
te “favour him,” Smooth ball stopped rolling at
2.30 a.m.
• • •
First marriage in St. Mary’s Cathedral took
place on Saturday morning, when Mr. G. Coleman,
formerly a etndent at St. John's College, and now a
rising solicitor in the City of Crows, was united to Miss
Maria Tighe, of a well-known city hostelry. Breakfaet
was splendidly laid ont at Sandringham, where a party
of friends assembled.
« • •
At Bourke, Mrs. Neville gave a party on the Ist
September, and dancing continued till four next morn-
ing. Some dresses were handsome, notably that of
Miss Jame*, of dark old gold. Mise Topbam’s dancing
was admired; and a lady of graceful physique from the
Pest Office, in cardinal and black velvet, was equally
fortunate.
• m •
The Agent-General for Victoria, in London,
Mr. Murray Smith, and hie wife, were entertained at a
grand banquet at the Crystal Palace, a few weeks back,
by Mr. and Mrs. Westgarth. 250 eat down, including
many colonial notables, and among the toasts that of
“ The Victorious Australian Eleven,’’ by Mr. Sargood,
was one of the most watmly welcomed.
* • «
An unusual gathering took place at the Pitt-
street Academy on Monday evening when Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph Steel, well-known in the city, marked with
festivity their silver wedding day. 70 guests wore pre-
sent ; many old, both in years and friendship. But
beauty was not scarce either; it was present in a
younger daughter of the Steele tree, in pale pink, with
plqnant face and eyes; in a blonde In all sea*green ; and
in a Balmain brunette in cream and ruby with silver
flower wreath. Then, a Cook's River brunette had a
face that an artist would love to paint. In
a long trained cream satin and ivy leaves was a
Crown-street maiden. Mrs. Steele was neatly attired in
black toilet, with passementerie edging. During the
evening whist was played, speeches made, compliments
paid, and net a shade fell on the brow of youth or age.
# * •
Events of more or less importanceA young
and eloquent parson in a Northern town and the pretty
Bister cf a postal official ar-nott strangers now. He is a
poet Lively divorce ease on the tapis at Melbourne.
Deceased wit*’* sister the cause of trouble, only the
wife isn’t deceased yet. Husband rather too previous
in his ideas In a Dunedin divorce, T. K. Stuart was
shown to have married Grace M'Nab for her money,
but when he coaid not nab as he expected, he com-
menced deliberate ernelty, Finally, he “ cleared ” for
£4OO Om tke 26th ultimo, aa Armlfiale journalist
married a surveyor's sister. Consequently, the popular
young man of the opposition paper is in doable the
danger he was in betore Another Burdett-Coutts
affair np North. He is a surveyor, On dit thata
well-known athlete in the G P.O. and a dark-haired
damsel from “the Palace’* have become “pals" for life,
quietly.,;....One of four young partners in a George-
street firm near the Royal takes to himself a young
lady of sweet disposition, from iWaverley, in a few
weeks.
* * «
Grand Masonic Ball in Adelaide, said to have
been the best ever held there, was attended by 500 per-
sons. Masonic ceremonials were very imposing, the
craft in full regalia sailing through the first quadrille,
i«stead of at “high noon,’’ as is usual here. English,
Scotch, and Irish constitutions, and masons of all
degrees, from “Entered apprentice” to “ Royal Arch,"
were represented. It was remarked by a philosophic
mason that though ladies soon tired when walking, it
wns peculiar that no amount of dancing could affect
them ia a similar way. This remark opens out a large
field for scientific investigation.
• • *
The Cinderella Party given by Mr. John Harris,
the Mayor, on Tuesday night, was an exceedingly plea-
sant one. Over 300 people were present, including
many persons in leading positions of society. The
ladies slightly exceeded the gentlemen in number.
Law and the Civil Service were well represented.
Aldermen also, and Parliament, Press, and Commerce.
Heveral Heads of Public Departments were there.
Physic, Finance,too: and, as a distant visitor, may be
mentioned the portly Mayor of Bourke. A large pro-
portion of the elderly guests did not dance, some
formed a oomtortable-looking edging round the floor,
others stray el into open room-, looked over photo-
graphic plans and pictures or smoked, or chatted in the
carpeted corridors. Mr. Woolcott assiduously kept the
dancing arrangements in order, and just a sensible
interval occurred between the items, of which four-
teen appeared on the programme To get these accom-
plished, punctuality was necessary, and soon after 8,
the music (a beautifully soft string band of nine) com-
menced. There was at no time a crowded floor, but it
was fullest during the “ squares **; several waltzes
were provided, and it wa* easily evident that the
younger folks, at any rate, executed them con amort.
The daughter of a poetical C.M.G. wae eeen circling
gracefully with one of the gold-decked and btonze-
facsd officers of the Miranda; and two of his com-
panions were also adepts at dancing. We won’t speak
of them in ether regards—the ladies know all their
other excellencies. Anether daughter of the well-worn
official, who now enjoys the repose well won by fifty
years’ faithful service, is his best poem. In black
satin, with a gigantic lily crosswise on her breast, the
famous Whit# Ro e of the Fayre, with her languid
lustrous eye*, drew many and many a glance towards
1 he corner where her admirers thronged. To attempt
a description of raiment, where so many ladies wore
such richness, would be a long task. Even to “ place ”
those that were be-it would bo too emharassing for a
modest recorder. But, certainly, most prominent was
the fnir-haired and majestic wife of a judge, whose deep
blue s tin, covered with black lace beading, wns beauti-
ful. Two sisters from .Redfern wore exquisite pale
s raw satins, precisely alike ; while two daughters of a
suburban Mayor in blue figured silk, cashmere fringe
and forget-me-nots, all of a hue, could cot be un-
noticed. Then there were two brides in their altar
r bes of whi e striped satin, wreaths and trains, both
pretty and young. And, to leave the pairs, there was a
tall girl from a “Point," who exhibited the
most unique dress, a pearl satin hu r g and gemmed
with pearls, an Elizabethan ruff and pearls
in the hair, whicu was drawn opnards on to the head—
a picture of mediaeval days. Similar in quaintneus of
coiffure was a piquant* damsel from Pyrmont in fawn
figured silk. But enumeration is impossible. All
colours were shown, many trains were thrown their
stately length on tho shining floor, and the scene
altogether was one whioh was extremely gay. Mr.
Harris was conspicuous all the evening among his
guest*, helping te their enjoyment; and, to avoid
crushing, two rooms at different corners of the hall
were thrown open for refreshments, where every deli-
cacy was on the tables. Among the dano** wa* tho
“Silver Cradle” wait* The Cinderella rule was
strictly observed, and it was twelve te the very tick
as the last strains of the grand old tune died away
high above the chandelier in the fretted panels of the
beautiful dome.
e e •
On Tuesday, a farewell banquet! was given by
friends to Mr- R. G. Trouvhton, of Dick-etreet, at his
timber works, and from 7.30 till midnight, everything
wae as convivial as possible. The “ spread " a la Euase,
by Callaghan, wae capital; the speeches were all either
funny or hearty; and songs, recitations and musk
followed freely. Mr. A. Bubb, was a genial chairman
Mr. Troughton is combining business with pleasure oii
a voyage home, and as he is a worthy worker who “ has
grown” by his own efforts, he carries lots of good
wishes.
# # #
There will be an innovation in the usual pro-
oeedings at the Athletic Sports on Saturday. Mr. H.
N. Cansdell has arranged with the committee for the"
display of a few feats of strength and gymnastics in
front of the stand, by members of the Sydney
Gymnasium.
• • *
Mr. and Mrs. E, C. Webster, of “ Edithville,”
Ashfleld, gave a party on Friday; about 60 guests,
mostly good dancers. Commencement at eight, and by
twelve the programme of nineteen dances was com.
Dieted, waltzes being favourites. The fair hostess
looked her best in a handsome heliotrope satin and
cream veiling, trimmed with broad Spanish lace. Also
pleasing were a matron from Redmyre in black silk,
pearl-coloured cap ; Croydon sisters in blue and white;
a sweet face from Redmyre, over a white dress witlx
pink sash ; two cousins, one in bright blue, the other
in pale pink satin. Two languid sisters in pink veiling
and white muslin were from Croydon. A white satin
from Redmyre was decidedly aesthetic. Ball-roem
beautiful, verandahs better, lawn best,;;
e * *
A nice ball was given at “ Wentworthville,”
Petersham Boulevard, a few nights ago, when the house
was decorated and lighted gaily, twenty six dances, a
local aad efficient caterer. Mrs. C. Saunders, the
hostess, woe charmingly dressed in cream silk and
cardinal. A Regeat street; lady was pretty in pale pink
satin draped with cream lace, pink coral and silver, and
■he sang; nicely. Another Redfern lady wore cream
silk and black lace, while two lively Surry Hills young
ladies in bluok, with bunches of white flowers, were
admirable girls. Dancing till dawn.
** * *
The very excellent ball given by Mr, Fletcher,
M.P., at Newcastle, lately, was to celebrate |Miss M.
Fletcher’* having reached her majority. It took six of
the Newcastle young men to reply to the toast of “The
Ladies.” .either the yonng ladies must be of great
account, or the yeung men of very little, up there
Last of the Dubbo winter parties occurred the end of
August. Ia pink dresses, the stationmaster’s daughters
were nice. A solicitor’s sister, in cream sateen and
oerise satin, ana a Sydney lady in blue silk, as well as a
married lady in white llama and lace, were among the
observed...... Glen Innes bachelors attempted to organise
a dance recently, but at the last moment they quarrelled
with Jshe ladies on the committee. Tho bachelors are
now in a critical condition. Shows that 11 fools rush in
where ang*l»"—don’t want them The Parramatta
Rowing Club Ball is to bo held on the 6th proximo, if
the new hall is finished A Bachelors’ Ball at Goal-
burn, last week, was quite a harmonious affair; large
attendance A clnb in Brisbane is the “ Geselligkeit,”
and it celebrated its first anniveriary lately by a re.
union, consisting of concert, supper, and dance Miss
Florenc* Leon, the well-known Melbourne vocalist, will
shortly wed Mr. Maurice Brodzky, who used to be on
the Evening News and la now on the Melbourne
Herald There is to be a Swiss Village Fair in Mel-
bourne shortly, under the grand treble patronage of
Governor, Bishop, and Mayor Mr. Jon. Tozer, late
manager of Bank of N.S.W. at Walgett, was publicly
fed and preseutised on his departure to Gnnnedah
Mr. Mayor Harris was presented with Bxs inch silver
cradle on Saturday, by his Municipal colleagues, in
commemoration of an event. This is the second time
something has happened,...The officers of the Japanese
frigate Tsukuba had a good time at Auckland, and
pretty well monopolised the ladies’ programmes. They
not only danced well, but were well posted in the
gallantries which are so potent with tne fair The
Osborne Cricket Club had t heir annual picnic oh Satnr-
day, at Fern Bay. Attendance large, weather warm,
and plenty of dancing The closing ball
of this season’s Newtown Skating Rink is to
take place in October A nice little dancing
party, the outcome of the Ladies’ Bread-and-
Butter dance some months ago, took place on Friday
night in the Assembly Hall, North Shore. The build-
ing being’ of limited size, Saurbier on the piano was
quite enough. Light refreshment, and boat back about
three o’clock It was the first wadding in the edifice,
and they say “her old man” paid 50 guineas for the
glory; but this statement is, probably, as John would
observe, absolutely without foundation Union Club
Ball took place last Friday at the Exhibition, when
there wrs a large gathering of fashionables; some
splendid costumes and dancers.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Rail and Tramway Picnic and Ball Sept. 14.
Burwood Private Assembly Sept. 15.
Balmain Assembly „.... Sept. 15.
Eastern Batnrbe A.A.O. Aperts Sept. 18.
East. Suburbs Hort and Wild Flower Show
(Garden Palace) Sept. 21.
Woollahra Private Aesembly (Nithsdal#)..., Sept. 22.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports :. Sept. 23,
Railway Officers’ Piemis (Botany) Sept. 26.
Ivanhoe Quadrille Assembly’s Ball, (Town
Hall) Sept. 29
Rowing Club Ball (Parramatta) Oct. 6.
Newtown Skating Rink Ball (Nithsdale) Oot. 6.
Naval Promenade Concert (Garden Palace). Oot. 14.


AIE T T
THE A T E
Lessee* Messrs. L. M. Bayleis and W» Reynolds.
Dirac tress.. Mrs. M. Gladstaae.BaylesS.
Sale o( reserved seats at Nicholson and Co.’s, 325
(jeorge-street. Doors open at f. 15, curtain rises at 8;
carriages at 10,15.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY. SEPTEMBEE 14.
SECOND WEEK'S PROGRAMME.
CLARK and EYMAN’S MINSTRELS.
T. B. DIXON, “ Sally in our Alley.”
THE GREAT CALIFORNIA QUARTETTE,
T B. DIXON, W. F. BISHOP. G. W. LAWLESS,
and E. AMEEY,
in their choice vocal selections.
ALFRED LAWTON, Parodist.
CHA&. HEYWOOD, Burlesque Prima Donna.
GOV. ADD. RYMAN, Burlesque Orator.
SAMUEL DEARIN, the Musical Comiqno.
CLARK and RYMAN’S MADRIGAL BOYS,
F. M. CLARK and A. RYMAN.
FREDERICK PERKINS, Musical Director,
OPBEA HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager W. J. Wilson,
VICTORIOUS OVER ALL OPPOSITION.
The Grand English Opera,
MONTAQUE-TUENER.
The finest Lyric Organization in Australasia.
Mr. Chas. Turner Proprietor,
Signor D. Db Vivo ....Manager.
Mr. J. Scanilebuht Secretary and Treasurer.
MONTAQUE-TUENER
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY NIGHT until further notice,
at 8 o’clock. Doors open at 7.15,
THE BOHEMIAN GIRL.
Miss Annis Montague Arline.
Mr. Charles Turner Thabdeus.
Signors Vbnosta ....Gipsy Queen.
Mr. R. Gainor .Coant Arnheim.
Mr, J. Gordon Devilshoof,
Mr. Peecy Shannon Florestein.
Miss E. Williams B«dda.
Conductor, Herr KOTEABOHEK.
Box plan and stall tickets at Huenerbein’s, 411
Qeorge-street. Stall and pit tickets at Johnstons, to-
bacconist, under Opera House.
Bay your tickets to-day, to avoid crushing to-night.
HaAT» B R 0 t A
Stun Bhftae.
Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the management of
Messrs. Williamson. Garner, and Mawfove.
Door* open at 7 .15 j commence at 7.45. Carriages 11
o’clock.
TENTH WEEK OF THE EIQNOLD SEASON,
and SECOND WEEK of the
BRILLIANTLY SUCCESSFUL DRAMA.
THE LIGHTS O’ LONDON,
written by GEORGE R. SIMS, Esq.,
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 7 45.
will be acted a new and original Drama in 5 acts entitled
THE LIGHT! O’ LONDON.
Prices as usual. Box plan opes from 11 till 4. Seats
secured six days in advance. Tickets for all parts of
the house at Lloyd’s, next theatre. Ohlldrln under 10,
half-price. NO FREE LIST.
The Theatre Royal is connected with the Telephone
Exchange. Subscribers can book seats through this
medium.
jyjJ'ACCABE’S FAREWELL TO SIDNEY.
There is~a tide in the affairs of
ALL MEN.
TAKE IT IN TIME, AND SEE MACCABE.
MACCABE.— MASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
Lessee and Manager Mr. F E. Hiacooks.
EVERY EVENING DURING THE WEEK.
FREDERIC MACCABE.
in his highly successful entertainment
“BEGONE DULL CARE,*’
proclaimed by the Press and Public the most success-
ful entertainment ever sustained by a single Artist.
ACCABE'S ADIEU TO SYDNEY.
If you have never seen him, be sura to see him
now. If you have seen him before, come and see him
once again ere it will be too late. The sun which sets
to-day will set to-morrow j but this is not the case with
the Son of Momua who is now about to leave us, for he
will leave no to-morrows in which to be visible in his
numerous.
IMPERSONATIONS and VOCAL ILLUSIONS.
MACCABE.— MASONIC HALL, YORK STREET.
FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY.
In all his great and original assumption of
Characters, Songs, Improvisations, Delineations, and
Sartorial Surprises, replete with eccentricities of the
most novel kind, as performed during the past nine
nights at the Masonic Hall to the largest and most dis-
criminating audiences, and avowedly the meet fashion-
able assemblages of the season.
Admission—Fantenils, reserved, 5s ; seats, 3s : body
of hall, 2s j gallery, Is.
oan he seen and tickets obtained at Mr.
" •“• Paling’s Music Warehouse , Gaorgo-streot.
Doors open at 7.30 1 commence at 8.
JOHN F. SUTTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
ROUTE’S OPERA COMPANY*
After a most Successful Season in Sydney,
wii} appear in
WAGQA, DURING SHOW WEEK,
Opening, SEPTEMBER 12th.
NARANDERA,
HAY
DENILIQUIN,
And Victorian Towns to follow, en route.
H. J. WHITTINGTON, Agent.
T*AIN B E • S
m GREAT DIORAMAS of the
’ AMERICAN
and EUSSO-TURKIBH WAR.
QUEENSLAND TOUR,
Commencing Albert Hall, Brisbane, September 23rd.
rpHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of the
ZULU WAR,
COUNTRY TOUR.
_ Oris
BATHURST, TUESDAY, 12th September.
ORANGE, WELLINGTON, and DUBBO, to fellow.
W H. THOMPSON...... Proprietor.
LIEUT. HERMAN.,. Agent.
Jglo 3 ooo FOE A SHILLING.
MONSTER ART UNION.
. ir6t Prize, Ten Thousand Pounds net. A large
“*tune for one shilling. Twenty Prizes. £lO,OOO net
9 "r “opaid to the winner of the Ist prize- £2060 ditto
mcA 10j0 ditto 3rd, £5OO ditto 4fch, £5OO ditto sth,
fSfJ'6bh, £3OO ditto 7th, Bth, and 9th ; £3OO ditto
12 th, 13th, 14th, and 15th; £lOO ditto, 16lh,
P V\ Bth A 19th * and 20th.
“1 10 Drawing I Public Drawing I Everything square
above board. Distribution in shilling tickets to the
amount of £16,500. Who misses a shilling ? What
“appiness to the winners of the different prizes. All
directors reoeived promptly banked in the name of the
What happiness to the winners of the different prizes.
to to the Old Country and settle down
oftH™ 1 *. 101 Ilf o ? Are yon tired of the close work
mount counf „ ul S house ? Are you wearied of the daily
fesaionSf °* dodgery ? Have you abilities for a pro-
All ,? 0n! w *iieh money alone debars you entering t
the sh bom 1 bave addressed, send for some tickets in
b«i-.„_ Te ' Everything honest and straightforward
and my clients.
Hclo^t 008 in . stamps, P.O. order, cheque, or coin,
l envelope for reply to
TONY LUMPKIN.
Care of A.L.,
65 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
TO THE OPERATIC AND THEATRICAL*
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA HOUSE,
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z,
Sole Proprietor, H. N. ABBOTT.
T lfßuilding is now completed. It Is
J- _ THE MODEL Opera House of Australasia, and
Me Largest and Meet Commodious in New Zealand.
Hr*«led an lawtest models, it will be found replete with
•W ®**sn Cewitert and Luxury (before and behind
tfe cwwln) appertaining to the host appointed
Thortros hi
I and New Werlds. The VentSatian
ft serfeoi. Ifl parts of the House are easy of Ingress
and egress from broad, light, and airy corridors. Every
M* been taken to save life and property in
«**• df ape, and the Auckland Oily Council have recently
iSetan and mfflly commended the measures adopted
•jfcend. Mftgnifloently afld Brilliantly Lighted,
,arm»rrs Private fidxes, Sress Okale, and Or-
ix* Gm«#, together with its utiAiirpaascd Pit and
Is Aooomodatlen, are features hllmsrfco unknown in
-..octal Theatres, This Opera Souse was opened
by the WVllaiascm Patience Company for one month,
opmtnenehjg from 23rd May last, followed by Znlu
ThompajfJ « Colossal Mirror f*r six weeks. RefSreOoes
to be lad from both managSmflnt*. Theatrical Mana-
gers, Agerrte' “ •tars,” and Com vinationa are invited to
aoEly to the Proprietor for terms and farther Informa-
TnS mRs." JAMtes caSMJT.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH.)
M
B,
Arrangements completed for ene year, commencing
June Ist, 18S2, under the mafia gtnnent of
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMSON, A UBQROYB.
N
BW TOWN HALL, MUDQBE.
MAIN HALL OPEN POE ENGAGEMENT.
FIRST-CLASS 80BNEET. GAS, SEATS for fIWA
Applications fox engagements to he orwarded to
EBENEZER LOVNJOY.
Tow* Clerk.
fITDNET GYMNASIUM
LIVERPOOL STREET
LATHES' AND GENTLEMEN'S CLASS DAILY.
ALL BRANCHES OP ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
G. K. d’HABCOURT, Instructor.
A LBtflRT HALL, Brisbane, capable of acoomrao-
Jj. dating ll®o people, is now available for theatrical
\nd othat performances. The stage IS over SO feet ip
spth, auffhas a neat proscenium. Per terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisba
E T Y
HOTEL.
G A 1
CORNER CASTLKBBAGH AND BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Colonnade Hotel, comer of King and Cas-
tlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends and the
public generally, that he has removed to the above
hotel, whloh has been lately known as the " Hyde Park
Hotel, " and wkieh he has thoroughly renovated. J. 3-
trusts that by his usual strict atteatlon to business,
eotnblaed with the best brands of Wines, Spirits, Ao.,
to merit a fair share of patreaage. J. S. desires to
state that he still draws the famous
« SILVER CUP BEER.”
QHOWDER BAY PLEASURE GROUNDS
CAN BE ENGAGED FOE
SCHOOLS AND OTHER PICNICS
AT
CHOWDER BAY OFFICE, CIRCULAR QUAY,
With Steamer licensed to carry 260 passengers.
PICNIC PAETISB CATEEED FOE.
FAMILY MEDICAL GUIDE, with plain direo-
tious lor the treatment of every ease. By
GEOROE FULLERTON, CM., and M.D. Pourth
Mitten. Price, 12s. 81. j by poet, 14s. William Mod-
Seek, 381 Qeorge-etreet.
UCTIONEBE’S NOTICE.
T. 8. HUNTLEY (late General Manager Sydney
loffee Faiaoe Company, and Caetaer'a Railway Re-
•AfihMV**** Room*), bsga to inform hie friende, acquaint-
nooe, and the public generally, that be has commenced
usinee* as an Auctioneer, Valuer, Houeo and Lend
.gent (IS years’ English experience), and respectfully
olicits a share of their patronage.
Specialities:—Small Properties.
General Merchandise.
Outdoor Sales of Household Fuml-
tore, Ac., with prompt settlements.
Office—lo, Minerva-ohambers, Pltt-street.
s
ALB OP BOOTS AND SHOES.
H. HANNAH wishes to inform his numerous friends
and customers that he intends having
A GREAT SALE of
BOOTS and SHOES,
in consequence of Alteration in his Premises, which he
fully intends to carry out in the greatest extent. Sale
to commence on
FRIDAY, 11th August,
and to continue till cleared out.
Don’t forget the Address—
H. HANNAH,
548 George, street.
The new south wales mont db
PIETE DEPOSIT AND INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
TEMPORARY OFFICE,
121 Castlereegh-street, opposite St. James’ School,
CAPITAL, £50,000.
Incorporated un*er the Companies’ Act, 18X4
(B 7 Tie., Ne. 10).
Directors:
Hon. 8. H. TERRY* Esq . M.L.C , Chairman.
A. H. M*CtTLLOGH, Esq.. M.P.
ALEX BOWMAN. Eeq , M.P.
T. F THOMPSON, Esq
W. H. PALING, Eeq , J.P.
This Company has h««n formed for the purpose of
advandeg money upon ooilateral or approved personal
aeenrity 1 alee, upon every deeoripteen of merchandise,
wake bee, jewellery, mudeol. eurgCoai, and mathematical
Instruments! mortgagee on land, depeelt ef d«ede,
scrip, bonded oertUtoateo, dll* of lading Ac , at a
a, noo lower rate of iateeest then now eh urged by money-
lenders and pawnbrokers. Particular attention la sailed
to the loot flint no meaey-lendiug effieea or pawn-Hrok-
lag estahliahments oallifig themseivne Mont de Plate
have any ooaneetien with this Company. At present
there will only he ene headeffioe, end my alteration the
nuHUs will be made acquainted with in duo course.
The pledging rate* ef interest will be publehoi when
new peemiaee are erected.
Discount and other leans hr tußangemeni.
Teadaro have been aoewted ter the areotien of a suit,
able budding on part ef the site pnrohased, 16*. ÜB, liA
and 108, daetlareagh-stxeet. Business will be oasied
on at the Temporary Office, 121, Castlereagh-etrect,
os v as regards loans, sorip, calls, Ac.
'.Jjee pledging department wil be defened until oem-
tpletlen of new premises.
Office hours, from 10 to 4.
All communications must be addressed to the secre-
tary, Mr, DAVID BARKER.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
THOM A , (
IMPORTER OF
WOEKS OF AET,
GEEMAN AND SWISS WOOD CAEVINQS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
T BQAIi.-Ml. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 335)
PITT-BTREET, opposite the Evehimo
News Owiox.
BICYCLES AND TRICYCL
SOGIABLEJTRICYCLEb.
TEE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
The Lightest Running and Strongest yet invented.
For Racing, Road, or Tourist, they are Unexcelled.
THE BEST INVESTMENT OP THE PRESENT AGE.
The Latest Novelty is the Sociable Tricycle with
Cushioned Seats for two persons. Those who want to
know what real enjoyment is, should try one of these.
TRICYCLES POE BOYS.
The Latest Design. Cannot Wpset. No more broken
arms or collar bones. Travel with lightning speed.
No Boy should be content till he has one of these.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUBS and the TRADE I
IRENNICK. KEMSLEY, * CO.
38 CLARENCE STREET.
SYDNEY.
L
D. W, CLABRO9N, TAILOR,
Removed to 97 Market Street, near Elizabeth Street.
Tweed Suita from £S 3s. Tweed Trousers, 19s. 61.
E. JANSEN,
TOBACCONIST
GEORGE STREET,
B
472
XGS to inform his customers and the public in
general, that ho has
REMOVED
FROM MARKET STREET TO GEORGE STREET
Opposite the Markets.
w.
H. PALI N' Q,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
332 Cta>rg9-rtreett Sydney.
■ '.lf
mm
■4 ■/.
mi
m
why* <?£*&ss%> &**s&/}
. ? ->y
■
O*R
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERABD (Paris and London),
PLBYHX.,
OOLLARD and COLLAED,
BOUFLBTO.
RURDEN and CO..
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class Makars, in elegant Rgsewood,
Stock and Gold, and Walnut cases,
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON.
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
other Renowned Factors.
H ARMONItJMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PEBE efc FILS, and other
First-oiass Manufacturers.
A Large Assortment of New and Popular Musio al-
ways on hand at , _ _ „ _
W. H. PALI MO,
352 GEORGE ,
OPPOSITE WYNYAED STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
y
m
XT'ISIT E. BURQIB’ NEW TAILORING
¥ ESTABLISHMENT, ITO PITT STREET,
Cos
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
BOOTH'S
HYDROPATHIC BATHING
ESTABLISHMENT,
CORNER OF COLLEGE AND OXFORD STREETS,
HIDE FARE.
JOHN G. TRE SEDER.
NEW
GARDEN SEEDS,
FOB PRESENT SOWING.
A Collection of Twelve
Leading Varieties of Veget-
able SEEDS, in Twelve
Sealed Packets, sent free to
any address in New South
Wales, on receipt of Stamps
for 3s. 6i.
W The quality of my
Seeds eonuot be surpassed.
A trial will prove this state-
meat to be correct.
N
re
HEWI
FLOWER SEEDS,
FOE PRESENT SOWING.
Twelve of the most Sh >3
Kinds for the Flower Oar a
sent free by poet to any a
dress in the colony on receip
of 2a. 6d, in stamps.
«• Address direct to the
8 jed Stores and Nursery—
JOHN G. TBESEDBR, UNDERWOOD NURSERY, ALT STREET, ASHPIELD.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS,
85 CABTLEREAOH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KINO STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE. |
187 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.


SOLE AGENT tPOR BLAG I
ELECTRIC SIGB
J. W. WILLOI
General .Electric
95 MARKET STREET, I
and at London,
MANUFACTURER, IMPORTEI
Electric Bells, Batteries, Indicate
Improved Patent Fire and Burgla
Tubes, Lightning Conductors, Medi
Electro-Magnetic Machines, Elec
Gilding and Plating Material, Elect
on the latest and most improved p
in London, Paris, &c.
Liberal Discount to thi
Indents of every description of Elec
the most favourable \
Estimates Submitted Fre
G. H. GLARKE Al
ELECTRIC
CROSSLEY’S TELEPHO
Manufacturers and imp
Conductors, Copper Wir
rio Bells. Billiard Markers, Tl
Mining Signals, Apparatus and Ba
Electricity. Estimates given for fl
79 ARCADE, KING STR
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
, Delicious
Light
*
V
*
V
❖
O
C
a
c
drink
liquid yield
ORDINARY
SOLD BY ALL G
OLD AND NEW S
Re-Pi nted froi
THE SYDNEY MORNIN
By Permission of the
by
EDWARD HORDERN
MARTI
389 QEOR6E STREET, SYDNEY (opp
The HORNSBY-MARTIN
RELIABLE
STEEL STRIPPER
Wo wish the Farmers of N.B.W. to note that we were
the first to introduce
STEEL GEARING ON STRIPPERS,
and that no other firm in the colony can offer this improve-,
ment. We state this, as onr suooess has induced our com 1
petitors to call their Strippers steel, whilst they only clai m ,
their comb to be steel, a point which is given on the cheap- 1
est and commonest Strippers made. As this
COPYING OF THE NAME OF OUR STRIPPER
might confuse intending purchasers, we explain—
OUR HORNSBY-MARTIN - 1882 STEEL STRIPPERS AT
For thev are fitted with BEST WROUGHT STEEL COMBFINGI
WHEELS, BEST WROUGHT STEEft* BEATERS, BEST WROI
Farmers, do not he misled, for it is just as rediculous for our comnetit
fingers are steel, as it is for them to call thoir Road Wheel Wrought L
FARMERS, wo guarantee to show you that our Hornsby-Martin Rel:
points to this so-called Steel Stripper, and all we ask intending purchase
per with the Strippers of our competitors, and we know how they will
own merits, not under tke name given by our competitors. Write for Pi
BEST
MA&Ty/V Co A/SiV
of time, and loss oi
We skal
samples 1
made of
pie ever
uarante
jecause
price, it
Cable Address;
“ Clifford."
Post Office Box,
No. 323.
Clifford, Love, & Company.
EASTERN MERCHANTS.
POO CHOW,
CHINA,
and
TORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AND CHINA,
COFFEE,
RICE,
PEPPERS,
SPICES.
TAPIOCAS,
CHUTNEYS,
INDIAN PRESERVES,
CHINESE PRESERVES,
„ SILKS,
„ MATTINGS,
„ SPECIALITIES and
Give Special Attention to the Purchasing of
EASTERN PRODUCE.
JOHN DANK
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass ware, Sanitary Wars
Gaaflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
PITT STREETSTDNn
BEAUTIFUL
OR '*•
ALL WOOL
TqJV/EEB,
tel
WEED
SUITS
cS.Es.
CUT lengths
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns'°chqose from
H.LSUMMERFIEIO
PITTSTSYONEY
EVERY COUNTRY RESIDENT
after reading the above advertisement, should write fo r
my new guide to self-measurement and illustrated
styles, with a choice assortment Of patterns, P° st
free.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR, SYDNEY.
■ only Smith and mannell’s Shirl-
ey have stood the test of public opinion for $
md still retain (as thousands can testify) tn
irit.y over all others.”
We are now selling our
SEATED MAKE of SHIRTS, READY MAUt,
30a., 405., and 50a. the HALF-DOZEN.
ADE TO MEASURE OR PATTERN (PIT
GUARANTEED),
iOa., 635, and 755. the HALF-DOZEN.
SMITH ANTTmANNELL'
[IRT MAKERS. HOSIERS, AND Mi-iro
• MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney,
Near Hunter Street.
Established 1844.
le Teems of subscription for The Bl ? L f
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, w. , 4 „ B y
to.; booked, 6d. per quarter «£ra ?«jjger
be made by stamps of any Australian coj wjd (#,
or by money order, payable to W. H- a
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W. rf^
unted and published by W, H-T R A
The Bulletin office, 24 Pitt-street, °y
Wales.
X
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Tears in Sydney.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 ss.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, <£3 15s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. £4
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 4s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 10s.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
PEAPEB& SHAW
SHIPS ROME and CLYDE.
•'PPAPPS and SHAW beer to say that they HAVE NO DESIRE TO DESCEND TO THE VULGAR
CLAPTRAP. AND PERSONAL ABUSE OF THE IK BRETHREN IN ThADE, NOW (they regr-t to say
SO MITCH THE FASHION «monwt a certain section of Drapers m this city in advertising their wares, they wi 1
Ky enumerate the VARIOUS CLASSES OF NEW GOODS RECENTLY OPENED.”
They are as follows
ALL THE NEW SPRING COLOURS IN OUR FAMOUS FLORA and CLEOPATRA KID GLOVES, fro m
two to twenty buttons.
THP NEW MOUSOUETATRE SWEDE GLOVES CHILDREN’S KID GLOVE 3 , IN ALL SIZES
COLIHJRS TBE NBWE3T ifld AIOS r FASHIONABLE LACE GOODS. CHARMING FRENCH
printed' SATEENS EXCLUSIVE PATTERNS. A VERY BEAUTIFUL VARIETY of DOLMANS.
SHO CILDE E CAPES and MA NTL ES, in LACE. SATINS. »nd RICH SILK I. An EXQUISITE ASSORT.
MENT d NEW PARASOLS bURAH SILKS, THE MOST FASHIONABLE SHADES NEWEST MASH
RIBBONS, STYLISH DRESS IRIMMINQS. HAND-PAINTED FANS lor: and EVENING
WEAR A Imve variety of inexpensive Fans for ordinary use. FRENCH and ENGLISH MILLINERY. LADIES
Zd CHILDRENS 'HAnTsEWN and MACHINE MADE UNDERCLOTHING. NEW and PRETTY
CHILDREN’S COSTUMES.
In our GENTLEMEN’S DEPARTMENTS full assortments of GENTLEMEN’S SCARFS. TIES, and BOWS’
in ourwrir. * Jn M fche NKWEST SPRING PATTERNS. SHAPES, and COLOURINGS.
CHRISTY’S HATS, in all NEW SHAPES. GENTLEMEN’S WHITE OXFORD and REGATTA SHIRTS,
Entirely new ranges of patterns In the two latter.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
Onr EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS of the yery best ENGLISH, SCOTCH, and FRENCH WOOLLENS are now
open, and our frienda would do well to pay ua an early viait.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEOEGE STEEET.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEOEGE STEEET.
