

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 11.—N0.i3l
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 29, 18182.
Prlo#—
Wyt bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1882.
Twe Egyptian trouoie does not improve upon
acquaintance. The detailed news by the mail
just arrived contains no alleviation of the mis-
givings which have arisen on the information by
cablegram. On the contrary ; the fuller intelli-
gence merely intensifies the disquieting features
of the situation as previously outlined by tele-
S*aph. It is now evident, for example, that
reat Britain has not been guided into her present
situation, by her own statesmen at any rate. So
far ss they are concerned, there is ample evidence
that the present position was scarcely foreseen
when the mail left, and not at ail provided against.
As lately as the middle of June, Her Majesty’s
Government was evidently reckoning, in a
troubled uncertain way, on the co-operation of
Franco, whatever happened and clutching with
feverish anxiety at the chance of Turkey consent-
ing to “ aot as the mandatory of the Western
Powers ” —in other words, to take all the kicks in
order that England and France might secure all
the half-pence. This was, of course, a very sin-
gular thing to count upon, considering that it was
known to every sucking diplomatist in Europe
that Turkey’s dearest hope was that she should
get the half-pence, and the Western Powers—
especially Great Britain under the “ unspeakable ”
Gladstone —be exposed to the most copious
possible infliction of kicks. There is evidence, in
short, that, at the very time when intelligent
guidance was most needed, our country has been
permitted to drift. If this had been all, the situ-
ation would be serious enough. To succeed in
any momentous undertaking, one of the first
essentials is that every circumstance connected
with the enterprise should be taken into consider-
ation, all the probabilities scrutinized, and the
influence of every contingency properly ascertained
and allowed for. If, after this has been done,
and opposing probabilities have been weighed
and balanced, the chances of success are clearly
preponderant, much will still depend upon the
completeness of the preparations for the carrying
out of a project.
• m •
It is evident that nothing has been deliberately
and of set purpose done to bring affairs to their
present posture. The Gladstone Ministry has
not “compelled circumstances,” This is clearly
proved by the fact that so important a member of
ths Cabinet as Mr. John Bright only resigned
last week, after the bombardment of Alexandria.
Mr. Bright is a man of principle, and, had such
action been definitely pre-arranged, he would
assuredly have separated from the Cabinet when
the decision was arrived at. The fact that our
country has been allowed to drift into her present
extremely awkward position is bad enough, when
regarded as evidence of the vacillation and
shortsightedness of her Ministers. But it is
infinitely more serious when it is considered that
there is evidence that the drifting was not con-
trolled merely by chance, but that its direction
was governed by secret and dexterous manage-
ment by foreign and ill-disposed influence. The
evidence is not so clear here—in fact, it is still
obscure ; but there are numerous circumstances
which point to the conclusion that the drifting and
undecided course of Great Britain have been
secretly turned to advantage by the unscrupulous
leader of European policy—the German Chancellor
Bismarck. The hesitation of France and the
impudent duplicity of Turkey, which have, each
in turn, given alternate checks and divergences to
the shifting and tentative course of Mr. Glad-
stone's policy towards Egypt, are, obvioasly
enough, due to the machinations of Prince
Bismarck, although the end sought to be accom-
plished by that modern Machiavbl does not yet
fully appear.
• • •
It is, at any rate, absolutely certain that, unless
it suits Prince Bismarck, France dare not and
cannot help Great Britain in the war against the
Egyptian people. It is equally clear that Turkey
can make no move that is not prompted by the
same master of the situation ; while, if the moral
support of the Austro-Garman Confederation were
given, the Porte is quite in a mood to actively
resent the attack upon her dependency to which
Great Britain now stands committed. Italy, we
are told, is mobilizing her forces. We have yet to
learn with what view. None has yet been de-
clared. But one thing is certain, that no Euro-
pean nation will go to the expense, and undergo
the disturbance of mobilization, merely out of
quixotic sympathy for our nation. When nations
prepare for war, they intend to fight, like Hal o’
tub Wtnd, for their own hand ; and upon their
own interests will depend the direction their
alliances will take. There seems to be some idea
that England, France, and Italy may agree upon
» partition of Northern Africa, and join their
in Eyypt upon a basis of that kind. But there
are innumerable difficulties in the way. Nothing
for nothing, or the gospel of selfishness, prevails
in diplomacy. If France or Italy were to fight
for England in Egypt, they would assuredly stipu.
late for a share in the spoils, and might naturally
demand that in the event of a Mahommedan
rising such as the appearance of the Franks in
league against the Faithful would most likely
cause along the whole of the Mediterranean States
of Africa, England should fight for France or
Italy in Tunis and Tripoli. But, as a matter of
common sense, a basis of agreement does not
exist* and can scarcely be conceived. Prance is
feverishly jealous of English predominance in
Egypt, and Italy madly prejudiced against French
advances and appropriations in Tunis,
7 V «
Meanwhile the Egyptians have to be fought.
The national leader, Ababi, has practically given
the lie to the coloured reports which, as usual,
succeeded the first encounter. His ignominious
flight has resolved itself into a deliberate retreat
)of a few miles ; the “ demoralization ” of his
forces has taken the form of a greatly augmented
army busy entrenching itself in a moat formidable
position. And what is still more significant is the
fact that the only Egyptians who have not shown
themselves to be in sympathy, heart and soul, with
Ababi, are the miserable Khedive and his re-
tinue of courtiers, now in the hands of the British.
The “anarchy” in Upper Egypt, so much dwelt
upon, cannot by any straining of interpretation be
made to bear the significance of internecine
struggles between two parties of natives. There
is not a symptom of a Khedive’s party, outside
the British lines. Evidently, therefore, the task
before ns is not to “ restore order ” and put a
stop to intestine feuds, but simply to fight and
conquer the united Egyptian people.
• • •
It is much easier to get into a row than to get
out of one. as everybody knows. Once entangled
in this struggle for the conquest of Egypt, the
influence of Great Britain in other directions will
be wonderfully curtailed. In this fact may pos-
sibly lie the explanation of the direction given te
affairs by Prince Bismarck. Ho may have busi-
ness of his own in view, which he desired to carry
out free from inconvenient interference by Great
Britain. Anyway, the fix is an ugly one, and the
more we look at it the less we like it.
Teachers’ Troubles.
There is reason to believe that the administra-
tioa of the Public Instruction Act is spreading
discontent and irritation broadcast among the
Public School teachers. When the Bill was under
the consideration of Parliament, Sir Henrt
Parkes, in deference to the clearly prevailing
feeling among members, offered assurances that
the clauses regulating the treatment and classifi-
cation of teachers would not be given retrospective
effect. Teachers who, at the time of the passing
of the Act, wore in charge of schools, were not to
be exposed to disturbance. The Council of Edu-
cation were in a position to permit themselves a
certain elasticity of action in dealing with employes
and promulgated a regulation which granted to
teachers whose work in their schools had for three
consecutive years been up to a satisfactory stan-
dard, classification to a higher rank than pre-
viously held by them. This classification
has, however, been annulled by the Education
Department acting on the new Act. A craze for
examining everybody—except the examiners—has
seized upon the Department, and the result is
a chaos of bewilderment and discontent. Veteran
teachers, whose credentials are the pupils who
have passed through their hands, and the excel-
lence of their classes and system, find themselves
suddenly called upon to present themselves for
examination, not only respecting the subject which
it is their business to teach, but Regarding acces-
sory and non-essential branches of knowledge
which they had long ago relegated—as most men
deal with knowledge not entering into their special
business requirements—to comparative neglect.
• • e
Thus, unexpectedly required to " cram,” the
present efficiency of such teachers is seriously
affected. They have to “ work all day, and study
all night,” if they would hope to avoid a failure—
which is, to them, an infinitely more serious
matter than “plucking” is to an undergraduate
at a University. A youth, at the outset of life,
has plenty of time before him. If he fail, he oaa
try again without much disturbance. He drops
back, naturally enough, from the examination
hall to the class-room —whence ho had just
emerged. If he should not succeed at all, he can
turn his attention to other aims, and choose a
course of life different from that which he origin-
ally aspired to. Bat, to a man of mature years,
already committed to the teaching profession, and
conscious of having worked out a successful line
of tuition—not, perhaps, exactly modelled to any
departmental rule of thumb, but still effectual —
—the ordeal of an examination is a very serious
matter. A man may have stored in bis mind a
noble magazine of general knowledge, yet find
himself utterly at a loss if called upon to marshall
his information in the formal exactitude demanded
by the pedants of examination halls. Besides,
the mere thought of failure must, to many
teachers, have at» unnerving effect. The penalty
would bo too great. Blight of professional pros-
pects of advancement—nay, possibility of a re-
duced grade—and, beyond all, the unspeakable
mortification and humiliation of returning to duty
a plucked man, sniggered at by bumpkin neigh-
bours, and held in derision by the very children
under one’s charge.
• • •
In view of these evident difficulties, and of
others equally patent, it was incumbent upon the
Education Department to take the most sedulous
precaution a, if old and classified teachers were to
be examined at all, to so frame the questions, and
so to arrange the scope of examination, that the
whole affair should have a distinct affinity with
the practical lines of tuition. The unhappy
teachers —thus suddenly called upon to become
neophytes once more—should be examined in what
they had been actually teaching. And it was of
prime importance that the examining staff should
be so constituted as to command the respect, and,
by the unassailable status of its members, to silence
the cavils, of even unsuccessful examinees. In
each and all of these essentials it is com-
plained that the arrangements have been
farcically defective. Examiners have been
appointed to preside over the tests for
admission to grades which they themselves have
never attained '1 here has been a positive invita-
ion to ask the question, “ quis oustodiat eos
ustodias?” Examiners who have never passed
m certain subjects have been charged with the
f unction of deciding who shall or shall not pass in
those subjects. Hence have naturally arisen
complaints that the papers put before candidates
have contained unanswerable questions and in-
soluble problems.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Inquiry Courted.
Mr. R.- D. Bannistkb, Secretary to th« proposed lutsr-
colonial Exhibition, has sent us a letter in reply t© ©or
inquiry, last week, “Who pays the piper?” Hr.
Bannister writes that “ the funds are provided by the
Hou. Treasurers, uud voluntary subscriptions from
gentlemen who sympathise with the movement"
“ These gentlemen have found the means to pay the
salaries of Mr. Bannister and the staff, so far.” Now
this is extremely indefinite. Does Mr. Bannister
mean that the Hon. Treasurers have put their bunds
in their pockets and paid money down, or that they
have simply got an advance from the Government, or t*.
bank, on the speculation of being protected by the pro.
fits from the show ? Or, does Mr. Bannister mean that
he and his staff are eating up the voluntary contribu-
tions, ns these come to hand. It is to be regretted that
Mr. Bannister offers no explanation as to how the
Committee, of which Mr. John Davies is Chairman,
came into being at all—by whom elected, or by what
authority constituted. A little information might
serve to showthat itisnot übogus affair—like the Vice
Presidential body, constituted, as that is, of every man
who, on getting a circular inviting him to join, did not
write refusing to accept responsibility for an
affair he had no voice in Initiating and no power to
control. Mr. Bannister states that the Govern-
ment “having every confidence” in this mysteriously
created Committee, “ have responded liberally t#
their calls for assistance in granting the tue
of the Garden Palace for the Exhibition, free 5
also executing the, necessary printing, use of telegraph,
and carriage free for the exhibits on the railway.” Oh,
indeed! The Governments of South Australia and
Victoria, and various steamship companies, have, Mr-
Bannisxer states, made similar concessions; apcl th«
THE LATE HON. S. D. GOEDON.-(See page 10.)


ROUGHS AND COLDS.
The Best Cure for the above is Bam made hot,
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. Per Imperial Quart.
C. W. ROBERTS’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
MARKET STREET,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. ROBERTS'
NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY. BRANDY, PORT WINE.
SHERRY, OR BEER,
of inch a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED OR WHITE,
only
3<L per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PRODUCT OF AUSTRALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPARMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OF ALL BEVERAGES
MADE HOT IF REQUIRED.
Please Call and Sample.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
at 4s. 6d. per bottle, is unequalled.
VERDEILHO,
a lovely White Wine, Is. 61. per bottle.
POET MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MUERUMBIDGEE POET
2s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!
FURNITURE ! 1 I
WHERE is the best place to buy Furniture ?”
This question is being asked every day, and
is of as much interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the 11 Happy Couple " just setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a Kitchen
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
;htde park
FURNISHING EXHIBITION
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(LateJjHAEDY BROTHERS).
EVERY HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAY BE HAD
HERE.
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hydo .Park Furnishing’ Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE FURNITURE,
Go to the
HYDE PAEK FURNISHING EXHIBITION
For good Workmanship, Excellence atd Durability of
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilst the Prices will be found
m:a rvellously lowi
This vast Collection has*been selected and manufac-
tured with a practical regard for Modern requirement*
and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect onr Stock; you will not be
asked to buy what you do not want; for our object is to
RETAIN as wall as OBTAIN patronage; ana we rely
on the satisfaction, good opinion, and recommenda-
tion of our customers.
Remember these Important fast* i
OUR STOCK IS THE LARGEST,
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPBEHENSIVS,
OLR STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST.
.ear* The utmost care is given to packing
ffig all Goods bought at this Estaojiehment, and Coo»
try Customers may rely upon the prompt execution
their otders and tho delivery of their purchase in
sound condition.
gentlemen who have initiated the Juvenile Exhibition
are prepared to carryout their undertaking, and bear
*ll the responsibility, without fee or reward. We may
he permitted to remark that their first steps don’t seem
to tend that way. They have already managed to shunt
* good slice of the "responsibilities" on to the
•boulders of tho tax-payers of New South Wales, who
maintain tho railways and pay the expenses of the
fiovernmeut Printing Office and Telegraph Depart,
meats. And as to tha initiators of the show being
willing to do everything without fee or reward, Mr.
Bannister s modesty interferes with his perception.
Was not he a very active initiator, and does he not
write about his salary? Now, we have nothing to say
against a IJuvenlle Exhibition. But we have a great
deal to say against dodges for getting at tho public
treasury by a back-door. We want to know who elected
the Committee, and by what authority any part of the
expenses of the affair ie being imposed upon tho public.
Mr. Bannister saye the Committee “courts inquiry."
Well, here’s a slice el what they eonrt. It admits of
•ategerieal reply.
Railing’s and Revelling.
The charge ef corruption brought against Mr. John
Davies, C.M.0., should assuredly be probed to the
very root*. Briefly stated, it i« that, when certain
tenders for iron railings had been ealled for by the
Municipal Council of Sydney, the lowest tenderer was
Ms. Josen Kmrr, the well-known wholesale ironmonger
of Barraek-street, but that Mr. John Davies interfered
and need Ms influence so that Klir’s tender was put
aside, and fresh tenders in another form were ealled for,
with the reeolt that one Bradford got the contrast,
and that Mr. John Davies was complimented with a
present of sailings by Mr. Bradford. Now, this
alleged transaction is precisely of tha kind which ha>.
Been suspected to have been going on la connection
With tho expenditure of public moneys for a long time
The problem as to how (apparently) penuiles?
qjablio men live, and how others, who are nol
penniless, bat have no ostensible trade or busi-
ness, manage to accumulate property, has been
popularly regarded as soluble by the presump-
tion that “tip” is taken after this fashion. The
charge against Mr. Davies was common rumour. It
was discussed at every street corner. The currency of
®uch a report was calculated to intensify the contempt
fn which public men have of late been becoming held.
To pretend to ignore it would certainly not have been
good policy. People would merely have concluded that
representative men were either leagued together to
shelter each other from public inquiry, or that all
were so tainted with iniquities, similar to the alleged
one, that none dared throw the first stone. Mr. Ddvies
has met this charge as an honest mam should—
so far. His reply has been decided, frank,
and straightforward,Jas far as it goes. He had bought
tho railings from Mr. Bradford, and had paid for
them. Mr. Bradford himself wrote to the Herald
and stated that he received "net cosh ” for the goods.
A great deal depends upon what Mr. Bradford meant
to convey by the expressive *• net cash." If he meant
that Mr. Davies, 0.M.5., handed over to him sover-
eigns or notes, the transaction was certainly unusual
In these days of banks and paper dealings it is not
once in a hundred transactions that anyone pays snm»
exceeding £2O fn coin or notes. If, on the other hand,
the usual course was pursued, and the money paid by
cheque, nothing can be easier than to trace the trans-
action by the records of the banks, and place the affair
on a footing distinctly beyond cavil. If Mr. Davies
paid by cash it was a very unfortunate circumstance
for himself* for Mr. Bradford, and for the community.
Still more unfortunate is the fact that Mr. Bradford
had no satisfactory entry of the sale in his books.
In consequence of Mr. Bradford’s neglect in
tbis respect, the public has no assurance that
the charge against Mr. Davies is not true
except the denial by Mr, Bradford and himself.
In a eommumity which has but recently had the satis-
faction of examining statements attested by oue legis-
lator’s word of honour, there cau of course be no
hesitation in believing the simple asseveration of
another representative man.
Traffioking in the Temple.
How various are the ways of making money in our
days! Of all, the worst is through the instru-
mentality of religious ceremonials. These have been
instituted for the purpose of investing religion with
dignity and splendour, so as to attract the devotion of
bho simple-minded towards the substantial truths they
are supposed to clothe and symbolise } but when dese-
erated for the sole purpose of making money, they
become suggestive of something akin to the Simoniacal
•rime of him who bargained with the apostle for the
power of conferring the Holt Ghost. What would be
thought of our churchmen letting a church to some
speculative individual cm the occasion of some excep-
tionally grand spectacular religious f6te, in the same
way as a theatre would be hired for the exhibition of
*• Heury the Fifth,” or the “ Babel and Bijou” of Dion
Boucicaulf; with an agreement that a certain portion
of the proceeds of the guineas, half.guineas, Ac., should
go to the enterprising hirers of the property
built by the hard - earned savings of the
ppor struggling “faithful?” But, is it not
a greater mockery of our religious sensibilities
that clergymen themselves—directly, and without the
intervention of an intermediary—should bargain and
sell the leasehold of seats in a cathedral on the days of
its opening ? Yet this is what is about to be done in
St. Mart's. The well-filled bags, weekly and monthly
paraded at the pro-Cathedral, were the offerings of the
poor, who, im thus helping to build the Cathedral,
hoped, too, one day, to have the happiness of assisting
at the first services held therein; but, alas! even
this privilege is now denied to them, unless out of
their scanty weekly earnings they can give for its
enjoyment an additional, and, it might bo said, to them
impossible, sum. The rich Roman Catholic, and the
•urious Protestant, may assist at the rites, and sea
the gorgeous opening, by paying; but the poor credu-
lous servant-girl can stop at homo, with the consoling
assurance that she will be called on, the week after, for
her mita—towards the erection of an altar or a statue
ia the temple which, built oa consecrated ground, and
lately sacred to Punch and Judy, is bow devoted to
the Lori*.
Press Anonymity.
■ln a dissuasion in the South Australian Parliament
wjiaa a Press Bill, whereby greater liberty is to be
ncoured to the Press In South Australia, by making it
exceedingly difficult to cbvnmfe'uce vexatious actions
a must “good marks” of the Fourth Estate,. Mr.
Kingston condemned unhesitatingly the anonymity of
the Press, and moved a resolution making it compulsory
for the editor of a newspaper to print the names of
the contributors along with their articles. Now, at
first blush, this looks fair; if a man has got any public
matter to bring under the notice of the authorities or
of his fellows, why not hare his name, and let it be seen
who he is f A little examination only is necessary to
show that the proposal is fair in appearance, and not
otherwise. What a man may have to say is, in most
cases, valuable exactly in proportion to the extent to
which he is not concerned in it} for it is an axiom that
whenever a man’s interest enters, you must allow for
his bias. This is especially the case in public matters;
a man may have a complaint or a proposition J
to make vitally affecting the public good, and
which his own personality does not concern a whit.
Besides there is the chance that a man’s personality
might endanger the recaption of his principle. For
instance, would Sir John Robertson pay any attention
to a proposal about the Public Lands over the*signature
of “ Capri eornus,” or with what scornful emphasis
would not Mr. William Forster peruse a letter over
the dear signature of Sir Hbnrt Paries ? And yet
these respective ietes noirts might have valuable com-
munications to make on a matter of pressing public
moment. There is another way of looking at this
matter. Many men know intimately the defects of the
organization with which they are come-te', and it
might be a public service for them to point out sncb
defects ; yet who would dare under his full name to do
so ? Would any of the gentlemen conducting such a
pedantic and long-winded correspondence in the daily
Press on the shortcomings of the Education depart-
ment (and incidentally, on their own) sign their full
names under their pronouncements ? Or, again, would
in intelligent man in the Lands Office dare to point
jut any of the multitude of faults of that huge circum-
locution office, or show hew the public business might
be expedited ? If he did, his days in the L and* would
be assuredly numbered. And the public are too un-
grateful to these services to make it worth anyone’s
while to try the experiment.
Mr. Hush Tatlor threatens to "go for'* the S.
M, Herald, Evening News, land Cumberland Inde-
pendent in the matter of their comments respecting
bis connection with the now celebrated “erysipelas”
dummying case. The Parramatta Times, a paper
which is understood to be in the confidence of Mr.
Tatlor, publishes a report purporting to contain “the
total of the molehill out of which the newspapers have
built such a mountain of iniquity.” Fergt, the counsel
for the defence, so to speak, says that Mr. Hugh
Tatlor simply called upon Mr. Adams, clerk and over-
seer of the Erysipelas Hospital, Parramatta, and asked
that gentleman “ to point out to him six strong men
who were willing to go to work on a station, splitting
and fencing.” Six strong men were found, who “ were
delighted to get a chance of going.” Against this
Piroussian “molehill,” there are these plain facts;—
Mr. Hugh Tatlor introduced a Mr. Walsh to the
Lady Superintendent, and selected six inmates, who
were supplied with clothing. These inmates were
heard to say continually, " We’re going dummying.”
Within three weeks previous to June 27th, the '
following patients were discharged John Smith
Jones, Husk Dick, Hush MTvor, Samuel 1
Henbt Britten, Joseph Smith, and William
Thomas Jones. On June 22, two men, named John
Smith Jones and Hugh Dick, each “ selected” 640 '
acres on, respectively, the South Oreel and Merrywin-
bone runs (Narrabri district), leased by John Walsh,
Thomas Elliot, and John Rennie. On June 29th, four
more men, named Samuel Hbnrt Britten, Hugh
MTvor, Joseph Smith, and William Thomas Jones, *
selected 640 acres on the Pockataroo run (Walgett
district), leased by John Walsh, Thomas Elliott, and
John Rennie. Thus, six men left the Erysipelas
Hospital, Parramatta, saying they were “ going dum-
mying.” These same six did go dummying. Mr.
Tatlor’s point is that he engaged them for “ station
work" for a Mr. Walsh. Mr. Walsh is the name of
one of the lessees of the run being dummied. So far,
the chain seems complete. As to Mr. Tatloe’s ignorance
or knowledge of the real purpose for which the “ six
strongmen were wanted—the public can sum up the pro-
babilities and j udge for themselves. Anyway, one thing
is clear. If these six were strong men, able to work,
they had no right whatever to be sponging on a public
institution, and living on State funds. Mr. Hugh
Tatlor certainly chose a singular establishment from
which to procure strong men capable of splitting and
fencing. But perhaps he meant splitting straws and
fencing with questions.
The railway demonstration at Hay has been produc-
tive of a trifling unpleasantness in that town. The
local committee, under the auspices of which the jubila-
tions were organized, has fallen out with Host Perrin, u
of the Hay Commercial Hotel, and, while it has passed ►
for payment all other items of expenditure, declines to
liquidate the bill for £5l odd, run up in two days by
a certain distinguished gentleman, in entertaining his
friends and visitors with champagne and other fixings.
The committee, after ripe consideration, resolved to
pay only half the amount, and were unanimously of
opinion that even that disbursement constituted quite
severe eaough a lesson for them to remember the illus-
trious one by. It is not quite clear whether the res-
pected host was sanguine enough to think he could
make a good thing out of his eminent guest, or
whether the guest had resolved to " lamb down ” the
Hay committee. Leaving this enigma for time to elu-
cidate, there yet remains the question r—Who is to pay
Mr. Perrin the balance of bis account ? If it had been
the Premier who was in question, there would be no
difficulty in settling who would not pay it. But, as it
wasn’t the Premier, but another, who was trusted for
his liquor—hum!
Ik a rider to a verdict means anything, what should
follow the expression of opinion given by the jury who
“sat upon ” the body of James Larkin, who fractured
his skull the other day at the Arlington Hotel, Five
Dock, while in a state of intoxication? The jury said
that the deceased had, in their opinion, been given
more drink than he should have been supplied with.
• ♦
Corporation and corruption have, in Sydney, coma to
be regarded as almost synonymous terms. The Press
has been excluded from the JoHN-DAViES-cum-BRAD.
FORD railings enquiry, and some astonishing statements
concerning facta elicited at that “ investigation " float
round the street corners; yet the rioh dailies are
mealy-menthed, and that servile print, the latest addi-
tion to morning journalism, actually propounds the
startling and highly moral proposition that even if the
“ underground engineer " of the Government whose
advertisements it lores so well did accept tho iron as
a present, everything is lovely and serene, so long as it
can't be proved that Mr. Bradford gave Mr. Davies to
understand it was a bribe.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Corre [?]pondente who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their co[?]cations noticed .]
“ Winks” : Both are correct. It is immaterial
in which order the affixes “ Junr ” and “ Esqre,” follow
a name “ Omicron" : The pill item is more than we
can swallow “Viking”: Nol we won’t recommend
von to seek the nearest bedlam. What we wonld prefer
is that you should retire to the bedlam farthest away.
“Tommy” : The purpose of a Catechism is to
disgust the rising generation of to-day with the foolish-
ness of the ancients...." Current* Calamo ” : Excellent.
“Jim Crow” (Wagga) : You needn’t consider it an
instant. It’s as weak as an erysipelas selector
“A.D.N." (Boone): Communications of such a nature
should, if intended for insertion, in all cases be accom-
panied by cheque (marked good) for £20,000...“ Stookey”
(Forbes): Wo must decline. Mr. Buchanan's attack on
Mr. Jones, C.P., Inspector at Condobolin, is severely
reprehended by the local Press, which said that David’s
mud wouldn’t stick as there was no affinity between
the dirt and the object at which it was thrown......
•'Reflex": Thanks “Pugnacity": The most scien-
tific thrashing machine wo know of is Larry Foley
•’Petersham": (1) Undoubtedly. (2) B adding societies
have their advantages, but would-be purchasers should
carefully regard the •' interest paragraph ” in the form
of agreement, which, in the end, often adds 50 per cent.
to the original amount “Comas”: Good. Yes.
•• Warrego ”i Not worth re-opening subject, but thanks
for correction “A Subscriber” (Casino); Cannot
insert in that form, perhaps in another. But we don’t
take pay tor inserting jokes...” F E.M.”: Right: we’dbe
sorry to annoy "One who was present": Too trifl-
ing “T.A.P." (Newcastle): Account in type when
your note oame, bat very similar, as you will see
“ Noble Tomy ’*: Your par. is very slow, and, tor all we
know, may not be true. Try again) but don't aim
higher this trip than the Mayor, or the Small Debts
Court bailiff •• Herberton The truth is a shining
light. Try and use it. It may save your life “ A
Fact "t Nothing in it. Besides, if we advertised all the
Sydney lawyers for nothing, we should have no room
for the other reading matter “ Hay ": What do you
mean by sending us all these blatant queries? We
don’t ‘ insert" these things in any "issue." But,
though we have no heart for the copy, we have plenty
of sole for the author ." Salvo ”t You have evidently
"adapted" your poetry. Send us the name of the
book “ One Accord ”: Give us a rest. Or rather give
us a joke if you can muster one. We shan't "correct."
“Molestus" (Boree): Why not pat it in this way,
and save pot-hooks and hangers:—
Boree boasts a pious old crusher.
Whose godfather named him Bill Lusher;
He tried—the old fool—
To stop •• Devil’s Pool;”
But he couldn’t: we all gave him " brasher."
"Querist"! Your package, not being a bona flde trade
sample, can only go by post as a letter ; cost over 10s.
Yonr cheapest way would be to get it up through some
local storekeeper “Smith": The fact that the Tas-
manian press failed to "talk straight” about the case
of Smith v. Smith only shows at what a low ebb public
opinion has reached in Tasmania, and how terrible
speedily becomes the moral and social condition of a
people who are taught to “ respect their betters,” and
to accept the dicta of such a rag as the H T. Mercury.
“Idler": Yon have evidently some idea of it. You
needn’t, however, spell revels with two " I’s." One
"1" ought to be enough for any man—if we are to be-
lieve Dr. Beg "Schorum”: Used. Your poetry is
not so good as your prose j and your prose is not very
good. Judging by your handwriting, we should think
that the tar-pot was about empty, and it is nearly time
you Invested in a new clothes-prop. The up-strokes are
very thick “Orpheus": Someone must have been
playing up with your lyre. Get Earydice to touch it
up with a little kerosene and brick-dust. Who is
Parks ? and who is J. P. Davis ? Go to. Now, what’s
all this?—
“ Why should a Club
Be permitted to serve drink ?
Whilst the working man can’t get a dram,
Unless he fees a Government tram,
Or is satisfied with nothiuk."
However, try again. Your idea is good, Orpheus, but,
as with n bad hangman, your “ execution ’’ is indiffer-
ent “Boggabrl": This paper is not The Bulutin;
and you’d better send your yarn to the Protestant
Standard. Particularly as it’s a "Mahooder.”
•' G B.”: Noticed elsewhere. Send us some more of it
•’Q A.'" (Pallamallawa): 1. When Porkes hanged
O’Farrell for shooting the Duke, he averred someone
was always following him about with a view to a second
shooting incident. The mystic " someone" was never
seen by anyone but Parkes himself, hence it was oaSlei
the Kianm Ghost. 2. Foley is light-weight champion
" JB.T”: May have something further to say about
the matter " Chanterpuff”: An excellent hand
“ R.T.” (Rylestone): Too broad. Have sent it to the
Herald “W. P.”: Will consider and let you know
“K.B.”: Bight "J.C.S.": We will see what we
can do jwith it) but your anecdote—“ romance" yon
call it—is not very easy to manipulate. Drop us a line
about an alligator, or a startling item anent the Sunday
School “R.K.”: The price of the S. M. Herald we
have heard is twopenae per copy. Possibly, if you
offered 3d. for it they weuid take it. Respecting the
other daily you speak of, we must refer you to the
'busmen of the city " M'Ginnie": It only shows that
young men shouldn’t wear clothes which fit them too
quick “Soapy”: Wo approve of your suggestion
and don’t see why, considering that there are “very
reverends” and “ mist reverends” there snouldn’t also
be “ rather reverends.” We know a lot of ’• rather
reverends.” "Therese”: Write to the Rev. Joe
Cook. Even if ho showed salvation free, and a circus
happened to bo on the other side of the street, with
girl-riders, barefooted clear to the roof, and at three bob
admission, the eirons would have the biggest congrega-
tion of truly good people *,C.W,” (King-st.) : Have
made use of your letter. You ask for an opinion of
your poem. As you say it is tha effort of nineteen years,
we will treat it seriously. The sentiments are un-
donbtedly good; the ideas are evidently gleaned from
an advertising circular; the rhvme and rhythm ora
utterly faulty, and betray complete ignorance of the
first rules of versification “G.Q.C.” (BombaU) ’•
Amusing enough, but too local and too long " R. V.”
(Qoulburn): Nothinglu it. If you forward short account
wi'l reply “ T.S " (Cooma) : In about three days
“R.S.”: Next week “Supporter”: As nobody at-
taches much importance to D.T. utterances, it's hardly
worth noticing “Maggie”; Thanks; but why not
have sent next morning, for last issue? Glad to
hear of anything promptly. Not too mueh
dress, please “Orion”: Items used..
“Viola”: Verses scarcely suitable for us
J. 8.5." : Next issue " Supporter ’* : “ One is odd
two is even" is grammatically correct. What the sen-
tence is intended to convey being that the number one
is odd and that the number two is even “ Teacher.” :
Wo are not aware whether Mr. Wilkins, the Under-
s (’retary for Education, understands French. Even
i ii< doesn’t, Mrs. Bard well does “Stranger”:
Next week “Will read and consider.
Notwithstanding the present startling prises
ruling in the food department, the Fresh Food and Ire
Co. of 21 Harbour-street, Darling Harbour, is making a
strong bid for popular favour by keeping its rates ns
low as they were when the market was most favourable
to its enterprise. Canny housewives will adore the
directors for this.
The Asiatic Tea Company have only one address
578, George-street, Sydney. Ask for Asiatic Tea Com-
pany's Packet To* to avoid mistake We would point
out that none are genuine unless Asiatic Tea Com-
pany’s Packet Teas are marked on wrapper. All our
packets are seaUd at ends with square labels, prices
appearing in white figures in circle, 2s. black, 2s. 6d.
Red, and 3s. Bluet—he only registered tea label of this
description in New South Wales. We were the first iu
Sydney to pack pure Indian Tea in one pound and half,
pound packets. Wo also pack Asiatic Mixture, con-
sisting at pure Indian and China teas in one pound and
half-pound packets. For purity and delicacy of flavour
they excel all other packet teas sold iu Awstralia.—
Asiatic Tea Company, 678, George-street, Sydney.—
Adtt.
2
THE BULLETIN.
July 29, 1882.


F
ESTABLISHED 1837.
o W L E E’S P 0 T T E E
AND
y
BEICK WOEKS,
C AMPEEDOWIT. NEAE SYDNEY.
Prion List on application.
EURE
KA
s
MOKE eueeka tobacco.
THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
FINER THAN THE FINEST.
THE tobacco of the age
destined to eclipse and supersede
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
the only tobacco combining excellence
of QUALITY WITH ECONOMY IN PRICE.
Each Plug is stamped with the word " EUREKA.”
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU OBTAIN IT.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYWELL'S TOBACCO CO., LIMITED,
AT THB BAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE JSTEEET,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse, 6
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by everybody
as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to protect
the pnbl’c against spurious and worthless imitations.
~MADBOGK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
381 GEORGE STREET.
THIS Library is supplied regularly by every Mall
Steamer with the latest Publications in History,
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Popular Theology, and
the higher class of Fiction; also, all the leading Maga-
zines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway or Steamboat com-
munication with Sydney, every facility i* afforded.
THE HARWOOD
FIBRE CHAIR SEATING
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness and
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly Waterproof cement,
and after fifteen years’ constant use, we oan speak
positively! as to its merits. It cannot split or check,
■either will exposure to sun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
FOE EB-SEATING, it is unrivalled. In every
house, store, aud office, are Chairs with seats broken.
Any person oan re-seat and make ns good as new
a chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
POE SALE BY THB TRADE FOE HOME USE.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
Prom £3 to £3 a week can be made by any smart man
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.
GENERAL AGENTS FOE AUSTRALIA.
82 CLARENCE STREET.
IHB APOLLO COMPANY,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY.
LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
JOHN KEEP, Eeq. | R. T. REMINGTON. Esq.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
Office 348 Gaorge-street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of
the Celebrated APOLLO STEARINE CANDLES,
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and FANCY SOAPS.
GLYCERINE, CRUDE and REFINED
PRIZE MEDALS
PARIS.
PHILADELPHIA,
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
DRUNKENNESS
IT
never
fails
BOOK
FOR
STAMP
all cOmmunications^confidential.
address at once,
®° r §-e St.. SydneV
Replated Equal to new by
J. M’l EAN AND SON,
Watchmakers and Jewellers
_Sho wrooma : 21 Hunter-street, Sydney.
VIBTUTia GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
rp B
““ OHEiMST . CLEANEST,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
„ a J diunßht.Md mug® and bare keot well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting.
I nolt w e f has tlie objectionable smoky flare aad soot of Newcastle coal, ’nor does
Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some hinds of English coal of
iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and eleanly as a ohar.-oal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
■teak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off bv a breeze or gas lira
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WH§LESALECUSTOMEas!
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD, & IRON WORKS,
8 and 9 MACQUAME PLACE,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OP CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS
DIVING GEAR, &o.
PUMPS, HELMETS.
DRESSES, HCSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEY'S,:
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles).
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ImrTfon
ACCESSORIES, *o.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Preverts all rattling, and fastens
the window at any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &0.,
required.
Celebrated CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers ef the Fort*
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS & SPECIAL
Established
3S
ROLLER SKATES,
always on hand,
and all Accessories,
able Tallow Gas Apparatus,
and cold water
and Boilers.
PRIZE HOLDERS.
1855.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SUNS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which reu*
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
■•iLuuauur-T-
-FLOUKMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, &c., &c., &c.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in onr Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other particular on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & TO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX'CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS manufactured by
them Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal; London, 1851, Only First-class Prize Medal, Paria, 1866. Prize Medal,
London, 1862. Gold Medal* Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South .kfrioa, 1*77.
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special Pim Award, Sydney, 18#f.
Ask for BILOOK’S SKIVING COTTONS.
II Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and N£W should be addiesaed. to their Warehouse,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales#
TKAPK Jf.niAUK
THEGREAT
ONE OP THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kiugirton, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost Journal* *f
tho United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who ia at prewit open to row any mao U tho
world, gave the following as hi* opinion.
“I have found St, JACOB'S OIL a sure and certain
enrr, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cared
me of aurora pains in the back, brought on by ovn-w
ertion in rowing. It it a pleasant, safe, and erne
remedy, penetrating at once to the sett of tho disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.**
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of pratee from one
who knew what he was talking about: and now ho says
that St. JACOB’S OIL anl good athletic training, or
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PRICE HALF*A*
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Plit-utreet.
8. HOFFNUNG A Cos., Pitt-atroet.
E. PROSSER & Cos., Pitt-streot.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Goorgc-etreet.
I. JAOOBS A Cos., Hunter-street.
FEEEIER’S BAKING POWDER,
rr
MARK
B TRADE
MANUFACTORY:
Qkorqk-btrbbt Wkbt, Stdnst.
SELF RAPING FLOUR
TEA ST POWDER.
H
[Established 30 Yeaes.]
ODflSON’fi WHIP FACTORY*
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Qoulbura-streot.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER. *o.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
a&fitua
-•
T
-----
ITZE
Jim* v$gF^
670 H . H I L D E R.S6 70
STO
<T70
N Klioj
dcr
H1LQER
boot
*v -»
WHO
•Ml
H.
MUM ttMto mmm
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
c
ENTBAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
671, GEOEGE-STEEET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND UTTER
of the Beet Quality im Hu Trade.
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address—
571, GEOEQE.SXHEET,
Between Liverpool and Ooulhnrn Streets.


Chemists and Dm
ABEAHAM’S PILLS
Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER B
ST
m
$A>
CAUTION.—Owing to the imi
Pills have commanded, it has in
dangerous imitations. Ask for
J. S. ABRAHAM’S
and see that each box, by whoms
inventor’s name and trade mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Am ol
Linotns, yon will net he able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle youe appetit
tralian Relish, made by V
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
ATLAS FOUNDRY Sc
COMPAQ
HAY.STREET, SY!
XTINQINEERS, Boilermakers, ai
Ini and Braes Pounders, Copi
wrights. The above firm are pr<
contracts for the manufacture of M
Euginoe, Boilers, and Girder Wo
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining,
other description)! of Machinery,
ments.
N.B —Castings executed with
price given for metal.
JOHN E U i
182 PITT SIRE;
from
D. JONES k C
Respectfully invites an inspectii
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEAJ
be:
All of the best quality, and selei
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS
Furniture re-covered and carpeti
charges.
GE O E G E
(Formerly of Gcorj
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EAI
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC A
whore every article in the above lii
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
Public Compau
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with pc
£1,000,000. Reserve Punt
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq. s W. A. Long, Esq. ; J(
Esq. ; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE ST:
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office: 18 King Willit
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albnry, Armidale, Ballina, Bi
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Go nib
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rookie
ton. South Grafton, Temora, T«
Tirana, Wagga Wapga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbnm, 1
BRANCHES IN y CEE:
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gyngpie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravenswood, RMcnampton, Stant
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Anstralian Color
the World general
■JIHE
M WRCAN TILE RAN
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF ]
Paid-up Capital.
Beuerve Fund...
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.E
Hon denry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wbi. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L
AUDITORS (
Jas, Soroggie, Esq
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY
Hector Alien.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield
Girilambone; Gosford; an
LONDON BANKS
The National Provincial Ba:
London Office: 158 Leader
Director: Edward Chap
Agent: Q. H. Alexand
This bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the must tavo:
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England
F. J. POL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLH
29 GEORGE STREET
A large and well-assorted stock of '
direct from the Manufacturers
All Garments Cvt n the Most I
PERFECT FIT GUAR
Note the Addros
728 GEORGE STREET
NEAR HATMAI'd
TUn M A C UirDD
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
One Ounce ot Fact is Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINE^
As is usual, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest Possible Awards.
SINGEE’S TBIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition, 1892—Singer’s Sowing
Machines.
FEIST OBDBE OF ME BIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO BILVEE MEDALS
Business Announce
To Farmers, Grazie
THE FRESH FOOD & ICE
are open to male amusements witl
to send milk to Sydney; also, to <
tiocs for ensuing spring.
Farmers and others having mil]
requested to communicate with the
MOST FAVOURABLE
Fall particulars regarding prese
for future business, can be obtali
suppliers to state quantity that can I
from station, and facilities for keep
tity throughout the year.
21 HABBOUR STREET,
The Fresh Food and Ice
request customers to see that th<
receipt, the number of which will
see that the c llice stamp is on each
In ease of dispute, the Compan
ledge payments as shown by rec
form.
Customers will greatly obligo by
neglect of a'-ove, or any alteration
Si I Harbour Street, Bar
F2ad July, 1882.
. WAS A WID
kM
W
ILLCOX
AND
GlbdS
Automatic
Si'ent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
SECTION VII —SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For their
collection of Manufacture g Machines, a first
order of meric—Gold MjUal
Singer Manufacturing Company —For the Best
Family Sewing Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of construction and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For sped-
'mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
READ THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWAEDS.
Buy Terms. Weekly 2s 6d Weel
No Interest. No Addition to tbe
Chief Depot in New Son!
No. 1 DARLING STORES. HAD
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Batliurst, Wllilam-stroet
Balranald,
Dnbbo,
Goal burn, Auburn-street
Grafton, Victoria-street
Glen Innes, Qrey-stioet
Hay, Laotal in-street
Kempsey, Smith-street
Lismore, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mndgi
Moss
Naran
Newoa
Parrai
Sydne
Tamwi
Waggi
ILLUSTRATED PRIC
and
SAMPLES OF W<
Free rom any De]
SINGER’S SEWING I
(RINGER'S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MAND
TIME PAYMENT
2«. 6d, per weak—2s- 6d. per week
And MO INTEREST ot
10 per cent, off for c
BEWARE OF IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A
THE ONLY •* SING
TURNER A
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHD
haymarke:
Singers king
Machines
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE,
Now Davis.


w.
HOWARD SMITH
SXBUTH’S WHAEF and NE
(Foot of Kiwj-street
OmCßfl i 7 SPRING ST
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and Fill]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
EOCKHAMPTOJ
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH a
PATENT PORTABLE GAI
(Limited),
53 YORK STREET, 8Y
AI
Q COMPA
“* ISSUED A F
BE4
T R AI
PG
TRADE MARK
o
B 1
The Company is now prepared
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores, ,
quire no trimming, afford ft brilliai
coal gas or kerosene, at lots cost, ai
the hand Samples may be toon
Office, and the tamps obtained from
mongers and country Slori keepers.
A.
July 15th, 1882.
CHARLES TWEMLOW dosi
friends and the public that hi
centrally-situated Premises, next t
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, wi
and specially selected stock of J
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical (
fully invites an early visit, which
goods, which are all marked in plain
moderate in price and of the best qi
An experienced staff of workmei
Presentation and other jewellery mi
Watches accurately repaired, a
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmi
v,
Wear only Smith and xoa
“ They have stood the test of pn
years, and still retain (as thousand
supeiionty over all others.”
We are now selling
CELEBRATED MAKE of SHIRT
at 305., 40a., and 50a. the H
MADE TO MEASURE OR P
GUARANTEED
505., 635, and 75e. the HA
SMITH ANTMAi
SHIRT MAKERS. HOSIERS,
MERCERS,
298 George Street,
Near Hunter Str
Established 18
CASH PRICE LIST OF 1
AND SPIRI
COLONIAL WI
BED.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
In the action v. Pat. Perkins over the Brisbane
Brewery shares—the fourteen Victorian shareholders
who want their money back, retained the four (4) lead-
ing barristers in Brisbane—but Pat handed young
Lilley (the chief’s son) fourteen retainers 11
Under the bequest of the late Chas. David
Smith, the National Shipwreck Belief Society of N.8.W
and the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb and Blind
have each received the nett amount of £1984 14s. 3d.—
one-seventh of the nett estate. The Sydney Bagged
School has benefited to the extent of £992 7s. Id.
Sava a writer in the World : —“ One more
word I will tell you about Madame Patti; but though
it will startle you I shall tell you no more : 1 Je voua
invite a mon manage,’ were Madame Patti’s last words
to me. Do not ask me any particulars, because 1 shall
give you none.”
Mr. Edward T. Newtown, who recently apoplexed,
aged 08 years, at Alberton, South Gippsland (Vio ), was
of old an intimate friend <Jt John Batman, the founder of
the “Cabbage Garde*” After years of engagement in
commercial pursm , =•■ «ted grape-growing in Gipps-
lan- 1 , became a lo > • 'nian of celebrity, and served
as presiding Saire »a.. i .r.
A certain Calu vt Minister of a neighbouring
colony was so drunk at a recent Licensed Victuallers
annual dinner that he could not respond for the “ Agri-
cultural, mining, and pastoral interests I " Things are
coming to a pretty pass when a man who can reel oft
inflated bosh by the yard has to be pulled down by the
coat-tails by his ashamed chief on so familiar an
oratorical occasion.
Major Legge, B.A., a Tasmanian by birth—is
likely to succeed Colonel Angelo as Commandant of
Volunteers in the Island Colony. Major Legge hasn t
done any fighting yet, but he is a sharp capable officer,
and was only recently selected to superintend the
mounting of the great guns at Woolwich—his chief
qualification, however, is that he is a Tasmanian ! A
broomstick born in the colony, is regarded as a prodigy
—down there.
The following, from the recently published and
interesting “ Experiences of Horgeant Ballantine,” will
be read with pleasure by the Honorable John Lucas •
"However Innocent Lerd Melbourne may have been,
Sir John Campbell was not justified in stating that his
client * solemnly and upon his honour declared his in-
nocence.’ Most clients would do the same if they
could find counsel who would lend themselves to re-
peating the assertion.”
The irrepressible Francis Skeffington Carroll is
once more posing before the Adelaide public as a
literary light in the revived Lanteen. He announces
that he has " taken over ’’ the property known as the
Bulletin and Lanteen, and means to dun the public
for its book debts We wonder whom the public will
dun for sundry liabilities of the late “firm" of Messrs.
J. J. Eoohe and Co. There’s a curious history attached
to it, and, perhaps—but no matter.
It is claimed on behalf of Dr. William Thomson,
F.E.C.8., of South Yarra, Melb., that he first discovered
the germ theory of disease, and it was he who on that
basis originally put forth the idea that consumption
is contagious. Dr. Thomson is a hard-headed Scotch-
man, a most successful practitioner, and has written
with much ability on the typhoid fever question. Hia
work on “ Phthisis in Victoria " attracted great atten-
tion, and he is also known in connection with the well-
worn “ Did-Baoon-write -Shakespeare ’’ controversy.
Henry Lemon (son of the renowned editor of
London Punch), who died in a cab the other day of
congestion of the lungi-, while being conveyed to Mel-
bourne Hospital from that home of many a waif, the
Model Lodging-house, was a pronounced Bohemian.
Unfortunately for himself, he inherited all the faults
and none of the abilities of his dead father, a remem-
brance of whose name prompted the journalists of
Sydney to aid Henry Lemon, when, in the course of
his aimless vagabondage, he struck this city a year or
two ago.
The late Edward Macdonald— Attorney-General
of Tasmania many years ago—a clever, witty, genial
fellow, just a little too fond of the toddy tumbler—was
the possessor of a most extraordinary relic. Readers
of the life of Napoleon will remember that when at
St. Helena he suffered from tooth-ache, and after much
persuasion had the aching tooth extracted by his resi-
dent surgeon. The doctor was a personal friend of
Macdonald's, and.presented him with the tooth, which
was afterwards set in a ring. The relic is still in_the
possession of Tom Macdonald's! (Edward’s brother)
family
John Qurner, solicitor, died in Sydney last
week, aged 90 years. He came to this colony in 1816,
in company with Judge Field, whose Associate he was.
He next became Chief Clerk of the Supreme Court, till,
in 1841, he entered into partnership with Mr.■ William
Minithorpe. The firm afterwards became Minithorpe,
Garner, and Thompson; then Gurner and Thompson;
subsequently Gurner, Thompson, and Eobberds ;
and in 1856 it changed to Gurner and Kobberds. This
partnership was never dissolved, thongb for some
years previous to his death, Mr. Qurner took no aotlvs
part in business matters, but left everything to Mr
£. W. Eobberds.
Sir Arthur Gordon’s departure from Wellington,
N.Z , was a quiet one, the now-acting Governor, Chief
Justice Prendergast, being the only person who drove
to the wharf with him. He was courteously cold to
the M.H.R. assembled, hut he lifted his hat to Sir
Georg® Grey, and there was a shade more emotion in
his face while so doing than when addressing other
people. When air A Gordon stepped into the boat one
of the Maori members said, ** There goes the best man
the Maoris have had in New Zealand*” while another
added, “He is a great chief.” Ho went away without
giving his assent to the Peace Preservation Bill, main*
taining his consistency to the last.
Robert Barlow, who effected the capture of the
Maori Winiata, (the man who killed Packer) is a half-
caste, 31 years of age. He stands 6ft. 2Jin. in height,
and weighs 18st. lolbs. He was born at Rangiaohia,
one of the frontier settlements of the Waikato. His
father was a European storekeeper and dealer, who
married a chieftainess of the Ngatiapakura tnba, and
w aa also connected with the Ngatimaniapoto. i oung
Barlow left JKangiaohia when the Waikato war broke
out, and removed to Mangere, where he resided with
his relatives op to about three years ago, when he re-
turned to the Waikato, and began to cultiva te land and
engage in oattlcdoaling as Mohoanui, on the Waipa.
Mr. Charles Simeon Hare, the * 1 ancient of
flays” in South Australia, has just died at Adelaide.
He arrived in that colony in 1836, and has been a pro-
minent public man ever since. His age is stated at 74
years, but according to many orally-related autobio-
graphical incidents, he must have been more nearly 174
years. He was in the early days Superintendent of
Railways, and, we believe, ran the first engine to
Qawler. He took the engine-driver’s place in order to
show that he was a thoroughly " practical " man, and
to impress Lady Charlotte Bacon, (let us not forget
that Lady Charlotte was Byron’s “ Ianthe”)who was a
passenger, and whom he promised that he would attain
a rate of speed of 60 miles an hour. The train ran off at
a curve, and, after ploughing recklessly along on its
own chosen track, turned a sidespring and cama to
grief. Simeon, however, saved his dear Bacon, and
never took the engine-driver’s place again.
“ Arthur Sieber, the Hungarian, who attempted
to murder the pretty housemaid, made another attempt
to hang himself, but was prevented by the Hospital
warder." Here is something by Tennyson on an un.
happy lover who sought to end his troubles by hanging.
“ Sure, never yet was antelope
Could skip so lightly by "
" Siond off, or else mv skipping-rope
Will hit you in the eye ! ”
"How lightly whirls the skipping-rope 1
How fairy-like you fly 1 ”
*' Go I got you gone; you muse and mope ;
I hate that i illy sigh I ”
** Nay, dearest, teach me how to hope.
Or tell me how to die,"
“ There 1 take it, take my skipping-rope.
And hang yourself thereby."
When Mr. Edward Wilson, one of the late pro-
prietors of the Melbourne Akare died.be directed in his
will that a portion of his estate should be annually ap-
plied to aid such “ charitable, religious and useful”
Victorian institutions as the trustees might think fit.
Mr. Wilaon, the next of kin, found himself in a quan-
dary in trying to carry out the terms of the will. His
difficulty was Ito find an institution which presented
itself to his judgment as being “ obaritable, religious
and useful." (We;may here digress to remark that
The Bulletin is not a Victorian institution, or this
hitch could net have occurred.) Mr. Wilson, therefore,
brought a friendly sn*t against the Attorney-General
before Mr. Jnstioe Molosworth, to obtain a decision as
to the legality of this portion of the will, or whether
the bequest is not void on the ground of uncertainty.
His Honor said that the subject was new to him, and
ruled, with expressed doubts, that the trust was good,
but directed the costs of the parties to be paid out of
the particular fund settled or bequeathed to institu-
tions in Victoria. A few C.M.Q’s. might now, with ad-
vantage, start an institution over in Melbourne.
We gave a par. a few weeks ago about the
invention of a stenographic machine. The Express
now has this item“ Mr. E. Qovott, at one time a
member of the Melbourne press, bat now on the staff
of an Adelaide paper, has patented a stenographic
machine, which is said to be capable of reporting
speeches verbatim at the rate of 275 words a minute.
Recent trials are reported as having demonstrated the
efficient character of the invention. Mr. Qovett is a
Victorian, and eon of Dr. Govett, formerly of Hamilton.”
The Express, as usual, is wrong. It has mixed up
Ernest Govett’s cousin Charles with the Jyoung
inventor himself. Mr. E. Qovett was never on the
Melbourne press, but graduated on the Port Adelaide
staff of the 8. A. Advertiser. He io not more than
twenty-two or twenty-three years of age, while his
cousin Charley, who was a Melbourne pressman (after
throwing up a position in a bank) is over 30. The last
we heard of Charley was that ho had gone np Rock-
hampton way, and, though he is said to have returned,
he has apparently disappeared from the literary firma-
ment. Before he went up North he was for a time on
the staff of the Sydney D.T. Ernest Govett is a rising
genius devoted to chess and mathematics. He is the
champion chessplayer of Port Adelaide, and runs Henry
Charllok, chess editor of the Adelaide Observer, very
dose for the championship of the city of Adelaide
itself.
Writes an obliging New Zealand correspondent:
—“That eminent geologist and very successful lecturer,
Mr. Denton, has been travelling N.Z., and has seen
more of it perhaps than any other man who has visited
the land of the moa and the Maori for years. Mr.
Denton has visited &U places of interest—some of them
almost inaccessible. One week he would be found
among the coal mines or the • beautilul stone quarries*
of Otago; the next among the glaciers of Mount Cook,
fossil-hunting amongst the mountains of the Southern
alps, or taking a Turkish bath a, la Maori, at the boiling
springs of Bototnahaua. He has succeeded in procuring
skeletons, fossils and curios sufficient to flu a small
museum. His collection of skeletons of the extinct
moa is a very valuable one. He has got the remains of
an extinct,eagle, which, he thinks it probable, need to
prey upon the moa. A navvy presented him with a
monster shark's tooth found in a deep railway cutting
The tooth is really huge—nothing to approach it hat
been met with before—and Mr. De . ntoa
that its owner could not have been less than 00ft. long.
It is surprising how learned the railway labourers have
become during Mr. Denton’s stay in N.Z. They now
sit and discuss evolution while munching tucker.
The pious youths of the Y.M.O A.
great opposition in Dunedin—the result being that the
lecturer had overflowing audiences."
Somebody has written us in the interests of the
Administrators of the estate of *]} e jm'
High eft of Victoria, who to the Govern-
meat for some £7OO which the deceased had os principle
refused to draw, he being opooeed to payment of mem-
bers. Mr. Hiarhett left behind him •‘pickings to the
extent of £200.000." The anonymous writer says wo
were " rather sarcastic" in our reference the Executors’
dart for the £7OO. On reflection, we believe we wore
rather so However, here’s what the Executors pleadi—
In the first place I believe that if the administrators
did not make the application and endeavour to obtain
payment, in Equity .they would bo liable to be called to
account for it; and even, (supposing the liability exists)
did the parties entitled to the distribution of the estate
give their permission a perusal of the following might
cause hesitation. "A married woman, who by her
entreaties has persuaded a trustee to commit a breach
of trust to rescue her husband and family from ruin,
has shortly afterwords made the trustee liable for that
breach of trust by filing a bill against him.—Smith,
Equity Manual, 12 Ed. p. 234.” In the second place,
supposing that there is no breach of trust in neglecting
to make the application referred to, I do not
think it excessively despicable to obtain sneh £7OO.
As far as I have been able to see, each successive Vic-
torian administration helps to waste the public funds.
Useless railways we have all over the Hail-
way accident# are costing money every day. Many of
the public buildings have been accorded a far too lavish
expenditure, and their beauty may very well be quo*
tioued. The more they cost the uglier they are, and
they never look worth half their cost. Many a £7OO
has been wasted unnecessarily, and why should not
Highett’s administrators prevent the waste of a parti-
cular sum, when they have the power, by the Vietonan
Government p M It never strnok na tkut way betove. Bnt
then, of course, we don't know the heirs so well as the
executors do. Of coarse, they m«V he capable of any-
thing. As to the second point, we give in on that too.
We’re convinced, and we perceive now what a mistake
the jury made in not allowing the Hon. John Iino&fl hts
full claim of £70,000, simply to prevent the money
being squandered. Wo think the entire revenue of
Victoria should be handed over to Highett’s heirs,
merely os a measure of economy.
County Court Judge Cope, of Melbourne (Vie.),
laid up with oolio Mr. Bussell, chief officer
of the Te Anau, on promotion to the Manapourl,
at Dunedin (N. Z ), was the recipient of several addressee,
and a handsome testimonial, from the officers and crew
of the former vessel The renowned Billy Little starts
as an auctioneer at Herberton, Queensland. This
makes nine auctioneers in the township of Herberton...
Richard King is the largest ranoh-holder in Texas, He
has in all half a million bead of sheep, goats, horses,
mules, and cattle. His ranch, the Ban Oertradas, Is 76
miles in length, and includes nearly the whole of two
counties in Texas... Mr. Goldie, the New Guinea natural-
-Ist. has arrived at Thursday Island, Torres Straits, for
a spell Mr. H. L. Hurst, manager of the mails de-
portment of Adelaide Post Office, died on Saturday of
fatty degeneration of the heart; quiet, capable, re-
spected man; B.A. civil servant since 1853 -Mrs.
Meymott, wile of ex-Judge Meymott, is dangerously ill.
A Birmingham woman haa just been cured of
Spiritualism. B ho had seven “ familiars -dead uns,
who were “ not lost, bat gone before.” One of these
told her that she wonld die on Hie MHh February. while
seated at an American organ, and that a pet oet would
be the principal mourner on the occasion, bo sne
bought an organ and fed up the oat Bnt, just as aha
was going to give np the ghost, a friend came m to ta 1
her that her husband had bolted to Aa«“
servant girl. That demolished her filth to the «ww
revelation. II you meeta woman who say« she son tta
tx'Sil ol a sqainteyed fool andja red-headed girl why
thafs "her."
ELDERLY PARTY: “Are you engaged for thish
dansh?”
“No.”
E. P.: “Then Goshake see me home” (hic).
1. THE FLAT ANTIQUE.
2. THE EARLY UTILITARIAN.
3. THE MODEBN PRETENTIOUS.
"Trade Secrets."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In Melbourne, recently, publicans refused to
tell with what they adulterated their liquor, claiming
that it was a * trade secret.’"
The priests of Isis wrapped their rites
In mystery profound j
Strange Jargon hid their subtle creed
Of Myths, and fenced it round.
Their secrets were transparent, if
Comparison be made
With what our priests of Bacchus call
The “secrets ef the trade."
The priests of Isis juggled for
A dull and senseless crowd.
Where penetration could not pierce
The filmiest veil of eloud:
Our Alcoholic priesthood (far
More skilled and wary elves !)
Dare cheat the keen and bawkdike sight
Of scientists themselves!
What human eyes can penetrate
Or pierce the thick black veil
That cloaks the manufacture of
A glass of modern ale!
Minerva, helpless, shakes her head.
And like a sheep is dumb
Before the awful mystery
Which makes a quart of Bum.
The eye of Science looks afar
Through starry Helds of light.
And, plain as printed volume, reads
The constellations bright;
But feebly blinketh, blinder than
The eye of mole or bat,
When shewn a glass of gin, and asked
To " take a squint at that."
The eye of Faith roams further still
Than Wisdom’s optic keen—
Up through the vaulted sky—beyond
The farthest planets' sheen;
Up to the “pearly gate” Itself.
It darts on agile wing—
Bat even Faith’s bright eye grows dull
Before a “ whioky-sling."
Man burrows deep into the earth
Beneath her fruitful soil.
Unlocks her secret treasure-house.
And bears away the spoil.
He spans the widest river-beds.
He measures lofty alps;
His skill can count the stars—the hairs
Upon a thousand scalps 1
But there’s a darker secret still;
Its depths no man can plumb—
Bote many pints of nicotine
Go io a cask of non !
Go to I lot scientists dispute
About the Sun’s last *• spot;"
Wo want the mysttry unmasked
Which hangs 'round “ whlskies-hot 1
Let “ mediums ” meet in dark Beanos
To peep behind the scenes,
And list while spirit-flngers drum
On ghostly tambourines.
Can all the “ tambour-majors ” from
The realms of Spirit Land,
Tell one plain, honest truth about
A flask of Horse-Head brand I*
Or take a cask of giu or rum.
And tell ub how 'tls made.
Or say how many forms of Death
Its queer contents pervade P
When we can learn such matters bom
A Walker or a Slade,
When shades of quondam brewers blab
“ The secrets of the i rade i"
W hen at Important truths like these
Through “ mediums” We can get.
We’ll sink a whole week's wages, boy
A banjo and planohette.
And, led by lambent " spirit-lights,"
With joy we will invade
Each dark and unexplored reoees—
Each “ secret of the Trade."
IRONBARK.


ANTHONY HORDFRN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMARKET (ONLY).
THE ORIGINAL GASH SYSTEM FIRM.
NO BRANCHES.
NO OTHER PLACE OP BUSINESS.
ANNUAL MID-WINTER STOCK TAKING.
COMMENCED
MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1882.
GREAT BARGAINS OFFERED IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.
GOODS CAREFULLY ARRANGED.
NO TIME NEED BE LOST IN PURCHASING.
EVERY FACILITY FOR INSPECTION.
Bargains in Costume Cloths.
Bargains in Dr« ss Goods.
Bargains in Wool Wraps.
Bargains in Ladies Ulsters.
Bargains in Children’s Ulsters.
Bargains in Wool Goods.
Bargains in Wool Fiohus,
Bargains in Wool Clouds.
Bargains in Millinery.
Bargains in Fleecy Gloves.
Bargains in Ribbons.
Bargains in Laces.
Bargains in Ties.
Bargains in Parachutes.
Bargains in Men’s Hats.
argaius in Men's Overcoats.
Bargains in Men’s Trousers.
Bargains in Youths’ Overcoats.
Bargains in Youths’ Suits.
Bargains in Little Boys' Suits.
Bargains in Ties and Scarves.
Bargains in Men’s Shirts.
Bargains in Hosiery.
Bargains in Boots and Shoes.
Bargains in Flannels.
Bargains in Blankets.
Bargains in Carpets.
Bargains in Umbrellas.
BARGAINS EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT THE
IMMENSE PADAGE EMPORIUM,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMABKET
(ONLY).
A Trams stop at QIPPS STREET close to the PALACE EMPORIUM.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN'S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
<w I TATI MO IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VEET SUPEEIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Earning.
NO SMOKE OB SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Redaction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER ANI> CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE FAINT FOR IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVER
BLIHTEB CKACK., OB FLAKE OFF.
IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST,’EYEBYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
BOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
Trade
Mark
D<sartment of M
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS P
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given thi
sees execute and take deli’
mentioned Mineral Lease within
this date, it wul be declared voi(
AETH
No 1213 j E. Irby and others;
County of Gough, parish of T«mt
plication No. Vegetable Creek 5'J7.
Department
Sydney, ‘
NOTICE |TO APPLICANTS FJI
LEASES.
is hereby given th;
.131 sees execute and take deli’
mentioned gold-mining leases \
Irom this date they will bo deola
ARTE
New Enolanp Mining 1
Ne-181; Thos. Flannery and ant
n X. Bio j County of Buller, parish o
Application No. Boorook 80 ;
No. 1W; A Btuait and others;
County of Buller, parish of K icgsrt
•atioa No. Boorook 1.
No. 187; U. K. Murray and other
County ef Olivo, parish of Blox
plication No. Boorook 31.
No. IN) j £. K Murray ; Portion 1
•( Buller, paribU ot Boorook; 4 aori
Boorook 13.
No. 198; W. J. Sandford and o
n i, 2; County of Butler, parish of 1
Application No. Tenterfleld 7!) 90.
No. 191; P. M'Namara and auothi
Tl; County of Clive, pariah ot Bot
plication No. Tenterfleld 80-4-
No. 195; Henry Dyer and othei
10; County of Clive, parish of B x
plication No. Tenteffleld 5.
No. 197; W. J. Sandford and at
A.J, 4; County Of Bailer, parish ot 1
Application No. Tenterfleld 818.
Department of J
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FO
LEASES.
THE lessees of the underme
ing Lease are hereby cal
cause, within thirty days fro:
their lease should not be cano
menfc of rent doe thereon.
ART
Hunthe and Maclbat Mjni
No- 419; S. Tucker and W. M
• ». 240; County of Gloucester, ;
acres ; Application No. Copeland !’
Department of I
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FO
LEASES.
■JVTOTICE is hereby given tl
Ll gees execute and take del
mentioned Gold-mining Leases
Irom this date, they will be deo.
AttT.
New England Mining
No. 131; John Donovan and E<
No. • l. 13'i County of Buller,;
10 acres; Application No. Boorool
Batheest Mining Di
No, 170; Robert Besston ; Port
Creek ; SO acres ; Application No. <
No. 17S; Joseph Dillon and Eob«
No. 92 ; Mill.urn Creek ; 8 acres; .
coar 177.
Department of Mi
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given tl
sees execute and take del
mentioned Mineral Leases withi
this date, they will be declared
aet:
No. 1270; J Davidson and oth
20; County of Buller, parish of i
Date of Application Tenterfleld 78
No. 1S13; John Moore and A. J, 1
101; Patihh of Boone, county of Gr
Q
UEENBLAND
GRERLET LUKIN an
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLAN'
Temporary Offices t 289
HAVE FOR S A Li
A number of lightly stocked SIA'
class of sheep country, including an
miles downwards, in districts of
W wrrego
Gregory, North and S
Bonrke
Cook
North Kennedy.
A Permanent Steam Mail, and 0
established between Norman ton
Thursday Island
THE RIVER DARLING
COMPANY,
Te be Incorporated »t Act oi
CAPITAL, £300.000 IN SHARE
Provisional Direct,
EDWARD QUIN, Eeq., M.P., T
THOS, LUKE, Esq., J.P.. Wiloann
T. J. HAYDON, Esq., J.P., do.
Hon. W. A. Bbopribb, M.L (
W. C Palmer, Esq , J P , W
E. W. Doknkllt, Esq , Gnall
C. H. Wrepord, Esq , Moors
H. C. Armstrong, Eaq , Wile
Arthur Woopfall, Esq . Wi
Walteeus Brows, Esq , J.P
Charles G. Lush Esq., Melt
J. 8 Keip, Es,q., Wiloannia.
J. Susdkn, Esq , Wilcannla.
W. J. Holding, Wentworth.
T. W. CHAMBERS, E.q , Wi!
THIS Company is propose! to
purpose of making the Ei\
uoualy navigable between Wilcannl
dial ance of about 270 miles.
TbJ total fall in the River bet,
mentioned lias been ascertained by
to be only 87 feet 3 inobes.
The River is known to possess gi
for Locking, the bed of it being i
places along its course by bars «
Lock* or We re could be construct,
small outlay.
It has been determined, in order
having a thorough survey of the ]
liable estimate of the coat of const.
Looks, and for the disbursement
expenses, to dispose of 69,000 Shu
upon which one shilling per Bhar
ment, with a guarantee that no f
upon the said 50,000 Shares until f,
construction purposes.
Discretion is given to the Prc
expend any moneys subscribed foi
jaotff of the Company, notwlthstnr
Shares proposed to be sold may no
Forms of application for Shares ,
Messrs. Bobertaon add Fisher, Sol
T. W. CHAM.
[IHE TAILOR FOE THE PUBLIC.
F. H. HAGON,
lute cutter to E. C. Hagou, of 127 King-street,
havinir taken
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
at
182 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every facility will be afforded him for
having his work cade under his
PERSONAL SUPERVISION,
is now in a position to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILO RING
of a quality and price that cannot bo Excelled.
West of England Tweed Suits, to order, 63a,
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 63a.
W«st of England Trousers, to order, 10a 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 16a 6d.
N.B.—All Garments HAND-MADE.
F. H. HAGON,
F. H H&CtON.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
303 GEOKaJi SI’BJSET.
f/ii
<SJaSa
m
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE~AQENT
for
BROOMFIELD3
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAOEN METIERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.


™9? e w*Jt lie ?'2 plo^S 2 f * s y dn0 y firm—Messrs.
Thes. Webb and Sons,889 Gaorge-street-claims to have
discovered the long-kepfc secret of the manufacture of
the celebrated Portland vase. He is now making for tho
nrai a similar vase, the value of which will be £3.000,
Aho Sydney Exhibition brought Messrs. Webb|and Bona
to "ydney 'J heir latest enterprise wag to send home to
the English firm a collection of photographs of Acs-
tralian coeuery, and (they have had alt softs of plated
Ware hand-painted from these photographs. Their cut
glassware is also worth inspection.
The Rockhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring to the widely and well-known Palace Mote).
East-street, Rockhampton, saysWhen visiting
Kookhampton don t fail to see the only sight of the
town, riz , the Pioture Gallery of the Palace Hotel,
f hi ® HeU1 , on. of the handsomest
fitted up bars In town j also, the best furnUhed sitting
rooms In town. The Billiard Boom contains » bablo
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Boem.
ia large and well ventilated, will be fonnd a
bmlllant-toaed piano. Ion will find cool drinks of
8 PP*^p r finality, manipulated and served by the motft
charming of young ladies7* The lease, eta , of above
r i apidJ y bar business, to bo
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Inter,
colonia! Agency Company, 91, Eluabeth-atreei. Sydney,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The following parajrrapha we commence to write
Standing: upon our head, believing that at the present
time we can write just about as well in that fashion as
in any other. But, if anybody expects that they are
going to get something flamboyant to read, they are
mistaken. Our fua j ist now is of a very sick desorip.
tion, and enr wit is as flat as if John Lucas bad sat
down upon it sudden'y. Pact is we have been in
Tophet for the last seven days—in other words, we have
been “on it"—even now we are not Tophet However
here we Join our little hands together, and sweah that
aevah, nevoh mcah will this Etbkimo News-Uso
conduct occur again. How is this for a fresh start in
lifer—
Thera are a number of ether bar-odalisques, with eyes of
assorted colours, to whom we should like to say aa
eternal farewell until to-morrow, but tbero is not
enough paper in the town to hold it, in consequence of
the extraordinary crush there has been in the paper
market since Cyril Havlland started the Debater. A
man can t write exhaustively on a series of subjects
ranging from Buddhism to buck-j ampin?, and from
Free Thought to Free Brings, on less than a fonr-ineh
square handbill, even though he can take portraits of
spirit-babies walking on their heads as Cyril can do. If
nobody would like to dispute this statement of ours,
we shall herewith start writing about the shows.
** * *
“ Youth ” ia still drawing good houses at the
Royal. Wo omitted to mention anything about this
theatre last week, because wo were so much exercised
in mind about what Arabi Bey was going to do, and
about the success of a new bind of dnnk that a Tele-
sraph reporter had given us the recipe for, that we had
ne time for the discussion of extraneous matters. How-
ever, we were glad to find, on descending from our
mediation on these empyreal subjects, that business
has boon good at the Royal ap till the present time,
and that it takes the lilies - 1 ’ th,-.v fi-.„ oua
better than Solomon, the J*av4 usher ah that Jfc.lace
of the Drama, for glory o, diu.
coveries of this kind lighten up the gloom of an exist-
ence unblessed by the howls of teoth-outtiug darlings
in the dead of night and unsoothed by the sight of
small threes gone at the heels lying around the boudoir
where we pass the happy hours away in stertorous
sleep.
*# ♦ *
The Simonsen Opera Company sang their last at
the Gaiety on Saturday night. On Friday night,
“ Montana " was performed by them for the first time
since they arrived in Sydney. If all the perform-
anoes given had l>eeu as good as this was, Martin
would have made more money than he has done.
Vernon Reid sang the part ot Don Caesar de Bazaa.
His voice is of the Marsalaesqne kind—light and sweet.
But he sings smoothly, anyhow, and sympathetic
persons like ourselves can listen to him without being
in a oold sweat lest Ms voice should die ent in a ghostly
wail, or fall down suddenly, like a weak spider,
from its thread when he is on the top note. This
tenor would be worth money to Martin—and we
imagine money would be worth something to Martin
about this time—it he could secure his services. But
Vernon is the fidm Achates of Jimmy South with whom
he gees off on another trip into the country. The
Simonsen Company start for Adelaide, whence wo hope
to hear—
There is a flour that hloometh.
Whereby their business boometh.
** * *
We are now trying io hold in onr palsied hand
a magnificently got-up and terrifically worded hand-
bill, which informs an open-mouthed publie that
Kellar and Cunard, the Illusionists, are going to begin
their entertainment entitled “ A Night in Dreamland, ’
at the Opera House, on Saturday night. There is an
Egyptian extravagance about the adjectives used by
these gentlemen to describe their show, that lays over
anything we have ever read. From what we se for
understand of it, it will bo something like a combina-
tion of a hand to hand conflict between Satan and Joe
Cook, and a oioraraa of Pandemonium with con-
umdrams afterwards. Kellar and Canard are oer.
toinly—as far as what the Press of the rest
ot the world say is worth v of notice—about
the cleverest members of their profession now
poing up and down the earth and to and fro upon
it. Bat as we don’t earn much for what any other
papers, except the PEEgurrEßiAir and our own, say on
theatrical matters, we shall wait to see the perform.
Race of those gentlemen before we let our enthusiasm
tear things to pieces. It is, merely as a matter of news,
as well to say, however, that a rumour ia going about the
town that they have received overtures from the Synod
to run one of their automata for the vacant Bishopric.
This, if true, puts a head on our own ambition of run-
ning (or the billet ourselves. Anyhow, we are hardly
enough, and John Davies, C.M.G., would probably
bluff us at the last moment by jumping the Bishop’s
throne himself.
* * *• *
South’s Opera Company have left town for a
three weeks’ tour on the Southern line. They will
visit Yass, Murrumburrah, Cootamundra, Temoro, &c.,
and return to give a season in the Victoria Hall.
** * *
, The want of a first-class central entertainment
tlall has, up to the present time, corroded the brows of
our Melbourne friends with the wrinkles of secret
grief. Now there is going to be joy in the city. The
very kind of hall wanted is soon to be erected on the
block in Bourke-street, between Elizabeth and Swans-
ton-street. The new building is to be called the
u; ton a Hall, because Our Gracious Queen is expected
to shed tears ot joy when she hears that Mr. F. E.
msoqoks and Mr. James Allison are to be the leasees*
’l, 6 hind of sympathy that has endeared her to
er subjects all though the glorious empire upou which
the sun never sets.
** * *
called “ King Lear,” written a long time
n a ° , man a piebald head, was produced
and z'i 0 ?' 1 v,T Eeatro, °n Saturday uight, to the largest
Ltj . fashionable audience which that morguo ha*
a lay. Mr. W. E. Sheridan played the
ami Iw And here wo stop for words. His perform-
OM i °® in letters of gold, and we can
iiWv'ii 01 '* 1 wr ’ ts i Q inh made up of a combination of
thousand S £° V9 j' P °i is E- We are now turning sis
monsand three hundred years old, aud during that time
from^rvLf 6 ? 11 ev ® t T t hing in the shape of the Draraa-
trounn toting his little property-wagon and his
the of tatterdemalion tragedians around Hellas, to
representations of -Eschylus and of
oipnodes under the blue sky of Athens. Of anything
blush TvLa U t C ? re to s P e;ik > but we admit without a
narfftrin W A. k ava never in our life seen a finer
nightf 011100 * ''Eat of Mr. Sheridan on Saturday
S.* * •
There is one thing to be said to Mr. Sheri.
m addition to all the others. That Is, he
in tho „u a , 6 hi B power about the most trying thing
and h« E°la range °f tragedy. One slip at any moment,
down*ftTu U H Eave been like an Alp-olimbor dashed
the whio Jowest depths of failure. Bab he seized
io a i character in all its lights and shadows
Tit i „ * perfect grasp. The performance was
looted 0 .t lll ginning to end. And Mr. Sheridan
wh. 9 T? ry ia °E a king," aud a king, too, in the
last n,ft™ Q t E ore were giants in the laud. And at the
Sftey t E at sorrowful last sceue, when the
'•eud far.! 8 OI j ? ol< * mad king swept over his daughter’s
a broken an ' l , moaned out “ Cordelia—Cordelia "iu
n voice, the moan seemed uot only to strike upon
M imte aII th « Pores of tha
KTh . ) 9 L th i m 7 opk with terror and
I* Thl * 18 fcha klal <* «« we call a
• • •
We Bfcoo,J otlfc in relief
not f ® Bt U°i the Per ormers in this play if it had
Trulr thn f l^f kh r ,' Th9 ’ ram » r presence of tha King
a wearv^n^^n W f a ar lk r th ? ® haolow o{ a great rocs in
fol *. 8 ®4sr ar was very power-
U in fact, now and then a little too powerful This
!“ m . 0d 2°’ P'raps, because he has such a cavernous
Iver TK man nood n T r cavo in on thi9 account, how.
strength 8^! 8 T ln J h , 9 , wood » was terriflc. The real
shown l wi M V Lea s lungs and dramatic force was
I°*“ hl “re. where, in the guise of Poor Tom, he out-
much c h f o fh* in * ? in /:, . Wo weuld not care to see very
hlS m° rt ° f thin? for nll that—in fact, a very
£2s* i P °. O S,T,° I !?, 1 wonl( l go a much longer way than a
hoy ahead of Old Tom with us.
• • •
Iho ladies played up to the dignity of their
parts exceedingly well, all things considered. And, of
course, the ladies themselves are the fairest parts of
the things considered. They all looked handsome. an d
03A almost as handsomely. Miss Marie Wilton
(Goneril) looked especially stately. Still, she has a
way of speakinr that we would be sorry to consider
natural. Miss Marian Willis (Cordelia) performed with
considerable ability in the final act, and in the last
scene thereof, when she was stretched out in all her
ioveiy length on ths boards, made the mo-t charming
corpse we have ever seen laid out in the morgue. Miss
■Nellie Montague (Regan) was fair to middling—the
middling refers to her aotin?, the fair to h rself.
• • •
And now for the noble dukes and knights and
squires. Wo can only call oat one or two of them lost
now from the ranks. Wo expect to meet the others
again In a better land. Mr. Charles Burford (Elmond)
and Mr. Leigh (tha Old Mm) ware not enthral.ing. but
n ?V ar ba ] ow "hat was required of them.
And the Pool (Mr. W. J. Madus) was about the )ea»t
fool Of any there. This is very guarded praise, you will
observe, but our experience of fools is Umittd to the
Bench and the “Fooroe,” and we don’t care about
recognizing the claims of aliens.
• * #
■Finally, the play was well put on, and ought to
run for a good time longer. Great improvements have
mad e ’u the interior arrangements of the theatre
by Mr. Selim—whose pardon, by the way, we beg, for
having committed the unpardonable sin of mis-spelling
his name in our last lissue—the smart aud gentlemanly
manager for Mr. Sheridan. A certain portion of the
credit for the success of the whole thing i« al>o due to
Mr. Arthur Vivian, his business agent, who is also
smart, and handsome as a houri’s dream. And now let
ns all blush together.
** * *
“ Blow for Blow ” was produced at the Opera
House on Saturday night. This is a nice little comedy,
but, as we have seen it some times before, another
analysis of it would, we believe, pall upon the taste of
the gentle public. And we love the public too well to
make such a mistake as this. But we can say anyhow
that the performance was good aud well attended.
** * *
Let uh begin to write while we are yet sane.
Wo have Just returned with tottering steps, and nerves
shattered for ever, from seeing Walter Reynolds’
“ Vanity Pair," at ihe Gaiety. Understand us: we
don t say that it is the fault of the play, it simply is
the fault of our offoto constitution. Wo have never
been accustomed to such excitement us Walter gave
us. There are eleven tableaux in the play, in each of
which there is either a deadly struggle, a ship in flames,
a railway collision, or another deadly struggle. If this
Is not sensational enough for the present public taste,
then the only next thing to do will be to have each
murder, collision, or shipwreck performed in reality.
We perceive a bit of a hitch about the possibility of
this, but that wouldn't stand long in the way of an
enterprising manager. The plot of the play is some-
what complex, but yet may be stated in a few words.
The Earl of Dunbar has two sons, one legitimate, the
other iliegiiimate. The former succeeds to the estates
and title. Afterwards, the illegitimate son contrives to
show that places ought to be changed, and that he
should occupy his brother’s position and his brother
bear the brand of illegitimacy. A few murders have,
of course, to take place before this little matter can bo
place;! upon a fair footing. Certain sweethearts and a
professional beauty waltz in, but of these we have no
space to speak just now. If they will call round to tho
office, we~we will explain im full. Then Nemesis arrives
on the scene, and things are all sot right again. Bat
this cannot be done wi hout a fire at sea and a railway
collision—otherwise io would not bo in accordance with
the style in which events of this kind are brought
about in every day life. The dialogue of the piece is
wonderfully mild for such sensational situations ns it is
uttered in. The wit here and there sparkles fairly
enough but, is not enunciated with suffloiont>har].'nes3
to pierce through tho proverbial Scotchman’s head at
every thrust. There are some good maxims soatt' ad
about hero »ud there, and these never fail to bring the
house down. Somebody has said that the heart of the
British public is in the right place. As far as the heart
of the Australian public is concerned, we believe it is
mostly to be found in the gallery and at the bacn of the
pit. Taken altogether, we think the piece wants to be
considerably boiled down and some of the terrific ele-
ment left out in order to be entirely g od of its kind. And
as for the ladies, it would take a week to sum up their
excellences, et cetera. “Et cetera, 1 ’ ladles, is the
Grer.k for “charms.” So we shall take a week, and
continue the interesting subject in our next.
** * *
Mias Davenport, said to be a very handsome
woman, and an excellent actress, is on beard the in-
coming San Franc sco mail steamer, and is engaged to
support Mr. W. E. Sheridan in his performances.
** * *
St. Leonard’s Musical Society give the third
concert of their second season to-morrow (Friday) in
tho local School of Arts; programme of twenty-j»ue
items.
** * *
The Musical Union gave an excellent concert in
the Masonic Hall on Saturday night. The opening
piece, theovertnreto “ Nabuco,” was a gem, the flutes
and oboes being particularly telling—especially the
latter, when taking up the air, “Go, sweet Fancy.” The
seldom sung, but ever beautiful love song of Beeth-
oven’s, “Adelaida,” was undertaken by Mr. W. Smith.
Most excellent as Mr. Smith’s singing is, we were led
to expect a little more tenderness in his rendering of
“ Adelaida; " but after all, he sang it sufficiently well
to pleasela critical audience, who loudly encored him.
A voice of iare sweetness is that of Herr Ohman ; a
little deficient in po*er, perhaps, Vmt quality now-a-
days goes for more than quantity. During his singing
of “ Trollhattan,” such perfect stillness reigned in the
hall that not a note was lost. Herr Ohman sings with-
out effort, and his sty.e is decidedly good. Mr. Toms
took the piano in the concerto in G miuor, and was well
supported by the orchestra. Haydn’s Surprise Sym-
phony met with the appreciation it deserveJ. The
violins led off the theme, which was subsequently
taken up by the oboe in a staccato variation. The
violins, before tho symphony was finished, were the
merest thing out of tune, but not bo any disagreeable
extent. “0, come let us worship,” sung by the mem-
bers of the Union, had better have been loft out, as it
did not add to the .enjoyment of tha concert. The
voices were so out of time that it was a relief when
the motet was finished. In the choruses from “ Wil-
liam Tell, ’ a slight improvement was perceptible, but
not enough to cause any great enthusiasm iu the audi-
ence. The Sydney Li dertafel lent their valuable ad,
and sang four of their choicest part songs, for each of
which they obtained encores. “On the March” is
always a fav urite, aud on Saturday night they sang it
even better than at their own concert sometime ago.
Mr. Moss accompanied the songs with judgment and
taste, especially in tho case of “ Adelaida.”
** * *
Writes our Auckland correspondent, on 12th
July:—“Zulu Thompson is at Abbott’s Opera House.
He has dona big business all through N.Z., aud may be
expected in Sydney about the cud of next month,
Lieut. Herman is.ono of the company.”
* # •
The same correspondent states that Johnny
Hall's season at the Auckland Royal was very success-
T l Hl Vi^ w * n * •»<««» of the •ppoaitloa show,
Johnny determined to compete in the gift, business, and
one erenimf announced that he would giro away hla
emerald ring If that would fetch a house. And, on
another occasion, it was advertised that Barlow, the
oapturer of Winiata, the murderer, would appear and
relate a narrative of the adventure Barlow did not
appear, and, not being an ordinary professional, found
an original excuse—which wasn’t indisposition Fact
was, he telegraphed that the authorities objected to his
The season closed with a benefit to Hail.
On the whole, it appears Johnny was "out of it "in
Auckland.
** * *
Wo hare reoeirad a lawyer's letter on behalf of
Mr. Herbert Flamming, who complains of the opinion
expressed by our Adelaide correspondent respecting
the stage-management of the Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
Mr. Flemming has a right to his opinion, and represen.
tutive* of the press have, we conceive, a right to express
theirs. Mr. Flemming it appears from (*ie letter received,
is stage manager, and feels aggrieved i-hat the opinion
we published did not correspond \ygth his own. We
think Mr. Flamming can scarcely pretend to be a judge
of his own merits j and he himself appears to be of that
opinion, for with his lawyer’s letter are forwarded
copies of communications—from Mr. Allison, lessee of
the theatre, who is really the responsible person if ths
stage appliances are inadequate—from Mr. Grattan
Riggs, who is playing under engagement to Mr. Allison
—and from Mr. Alfred Dampier, who has been similarly
employed. All of these gentlemen concur in stating
that Mr. Flemming's management is admirable. Mr.
Flemming could have got us to state as much,and perhaps
more, had he had the good sense to drop us a civil note,
Because it does not appear to us that Mr Flemming was
referred to at all by ear correspondent, whose exceptions
had clearly reference to the general mise-en-eoene,
** * *
Poor little Lasoomb# Soarrelle has got un-
mercifully ohatfsd in London abont his “ Wreck of the
Pinafore. ' The authors were called before the curtain
at the conclusion of the first act, when little Luscombe
said he would ‘'cable" Lingard the favourable verdict.
At the end of the second act, however, Lusey didn't
say anything about cabling. He only said “ dam."
* * * *
Miss Annie Ma,yor, after her six months with
the Holloway Company at Ballarat, rested some weeks
with her parents in Adelaide. She received many
offers of engagement and at last signed with J. O.
Williamson. She appears along with Jenny Lee, Mars,
ton Leigh, Dooay Stewart, Maggie Haight, J. P. Bur-
nett, Harwood, Vincent, and others at the Princess'
Theatre, Melbourne, in '* Where’s the Cat P" During
her time at Ballarat, besides usual characters, Miss
Mayor appeared at Juliet, Ophelia, Viola, Katherine,
Rosalind Adriano, Portia, and Cleopatra—heavy work
for a girl of her age. She has a remarkably quick
study. When "New Babylon" was produced in Ade-
laide, she played Eunice and B*l Loriwor at three-and.
a-haif-honrs' notice, and was word-perfect by the
time the curtain rose.
** * *
Thus our Adelaide oorrespondefifc :—“ Mr.
Grattan Riggs’ last performance in Adelaide was as
Pete in •* The Ootoreon " Hie promiscuous introduc-
tions of impromptu text and original action would
doubtless astonish the great Dion, but forced the old
nigger into considerable prominence, and gratified the
Sods. And is not this much of modern dramatic art P
[erbert Flemming made a very decent Salem Soudder,
particularly in the brighter scenes. He has a future,
may be, as a comedian, but the oracle cannot speak in
such terms regarding Herbert's passionate and senti-
mental undertakings. Mr. W. G. Carey made math of
Wah-no-teo—very much-- A ram Indian and no tea,
indeed. Bat Mr. Carey, whether successful or nasne*
eoni’ni, invariably works hard and conscientiously, and
ths fact that no two people think alike on the matter
of stage creations should always be remembered in his
favour. The Zoe of Miss Marion Melrose was so cap.
tiv sting that a rich, hoary squatter in the stalls wanted
to top M'Closky’s bid, only being recalled to hi* com.
won everyday meanness by an aspect ant nephew, who
objected with the sharp handle of an umbrella. Mr. H.
A. Douglas’s villains are, we are afraid,becoming integral
portions of his anatomy. People shun him in the
streets now, and even his landlady declines to aeoom.
pany him anywhere in the dark, in the •• Green Lanes
of England," produced by Mr. Dampier last Saturday,
Mr. Douglas justifies the deseription given in the play
—i.e., that in countenance Bill the Slogger resembles a
ball-pup. (Dampier himself, as Gentleman Gsorge,
made a good impression. The play per «e did not | but
the management have actually mounted It with new
and pretty scenery, so that possibly the des gued fort,
night’s run will be attained. The *' Green Lanes " is
bad stage carpentery— owns no single character worth
an actor’s study—and its best scene from a dramatic
point—the reading by Margaret Wheatstone to her
father of the letter oontn'ning the confession of her
shame—is unblushiny ..oved from the " Willow
Copse." Miss Amy _jefe, despite her fascinating
litho, is not entitled to any position beyond that of a
very ordinary stock professional. She whines much
aui lengthily, thereby considerably delaying what
action there is in the piece. Sue Is possibly, also, re-
sponsible for the slow drawl infecting little R ise Dam-
pier’s utterance, which will, if persisted in, greatly
discount the child’s chances of future distinction. Sam
Poole proves facetious as the " affsotioned ass,” the
“only Jones." He plays almost always ut the gallery
boys, who are made confidants of his smallest asides.
Yet Samuel amuses out of the very depth »f his ab.
surdity, and seeing that Allison’s company includes no
other low comedian, he will doubtless be useful "in
that sphere of life in which," Sco.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
George Coppin had a “farewell benefit” at
Ballarat last week. He is on a farewell tour. He is so
death on farewells that his friends say that even when
laid in the family vault he will after a few nights cau-
tiously propose a benefit, and ask the other corpses to
Slay for him Melbourne Theatre Royal proprietary
ivide 20 per cent, for the last quarter A new
dramatist named Kohon, who adapted “ Serge Panins,"
has recently made hie ddbut in London. “ Sergo P."
however, was damned on sight, so the playwright may
be said to have Schon for one night only Miss Lily
Marsh has now a troupe of her own. Another evidence
of the Marsh of time. She paid all her ads. in the
Tamworth papers “ down on the nail," a proceeding
which caused those Journals the most intense surprise.
They all gave her valedictory paragraphs of a touching
nature. D’you see P They were “ touching " in a
double sense. Eh ? A false rumour has been going
the Proas rounds that Mr. F. H. Digby, of Christ-
ouuroh (S.Z.), (Solaoge Navaro’s husband) was dead.
It is not true, Mr. Digoy still being confined in the asy-
lum there.
• * •
George Sims’ new play is called “ The Romany
Rye," and “ Carudas" tells an anecdote about it and the
Times which forcibly brings to our mind the policy of
The UtD Qmi. under similar circumstances. Here is
the anecdote:—The advertisement [of the play] was
sent for insertion in its agony column. The advertise-
ment clerk took the piece of paper, and saw the mysteri-
ous three words. He first smelt them, then called the
manager, who examined them witb a microscope, then
retired to a convenient distance, and sent a small offlue-
bay to ho.d a light near them to see if they would go
oil, and then inquired of the importer of the strange
document— ‘ And what ‘the deuce is • The Romany
Rye?’ " “O, if you please, sir,” answered the messen-
et' r, who had been sworn to secrecy before leaving
Wilso i Barrett’s office, ‘ U, if you please, sir, I think
it s the name of a new liver pad " “ Well," said the
incredulous but by this time witty clerk, "the Times is
a great paper and oin do without padding. Take it
away." And the advertisement was refused.
Linthorpe Football Club met the 2nd Rugby’s
on Saturday, and scored one goal three tries to the
latter's three tries.
From the local paper of 12th July" Tester-
day the bakers of Cobar baked their last baking of
bread. Two bags of flour were purchased the same
day at £lO per bag.” At Bonrke, the 21b. loaf is up to
4s.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
mm °,t or * Ade l aid<) H-A-) rooeinw! a
swhlifni 8 ‘ b * ‘sectary of tbe Souto Molbosmo
j* ?* th * amo of «•'«“ eney room Ted,
„ n *“ ?ldu ring «*• recent trip|of ihe tea - to that
colony. The money is to to towards the oo«t of the
| bookm«k*r« n of* ® he . Adel "Wf Oral On the 19th the
a *t By l n ? y held a • 0olal: fathering at
daF f*t?\ *ohw^? pla y 9d * andaT6r t euje.fatda
the 4 *“‘hat sp trtly* way known peculiarly to
tneelll r^;“‘ ,Ths , Que^ nBland Tnrt Club will hold a
special raoe m®»ting of aix events om August 26 h.
Tht°aWh«dI itk lh * NlMon * l A.roolatlon
Kusbr rnl« a?** w "« in f i» their allegiance to the
a lon* Vt!s .„. At ? “wtlng last week there was
tonnf e d dlBc n»*ion as to whether the club
"so V i ot °rian rules. It was eventually
tharT^ hha r t 0 t K ßa » b 3 r nl ” It is under-
toSvdnrnr hXi°°a Pearo ° " e 0,1 their way hack
tj Sydney by the Sorata, which left Plymouth o« 15th
coma'oiTaf M°, ra e 4 * foot ™o«. for a side is t®
Chsnlin nv £ aranderi V on Mth August, between W.
*v f P ? rb *** and R- Williams, of Narandera.
£ “ to” d T ilt6d - Willlams f‘r«« his opponent
Mr HiohJln aol h# r J°® run at Narandera .".
Gibson, of Barbistou, has purchased twe
auHnf n?’ A f rskire j < ? W8 ~' Ada of DrnmlanrigandDuoh-
w2 f rau *i. anrl f—direct from the Duke of Bneeleuoh's
herd, the price paid for the two being £*oo net This
oatthT h o*e e M Paid ln *hsoolony for this breed ef
*»• *>*•*>ok the ohampiea prise at
E^wto^rinwl# Bjrd n«y the Commercial
mowing Unb of Brisbane (Queensland), are about
b | St f ? ar -° ar ® d boats, a flrst-
ThT **»! and » double sculling bout
e^»i™iSll are A 01 th « f a ®« of football are blaek
nf and i»rearms.,..ln consequence
Wb«. dissatisfaction expressed by owners of race-
horses as to the nature of the course used by the Yass
Hnilf/ ni 9 eomrn ittco waited upon Mr. J. K.
wfa O kindly granted a site for a new course two
™WrWd t0 * D A , ) Wh l ch ' i4 18 b6lieved > wi| l he second to
rri‘;"i At tt ? r n. en 21st JulTl at Persse's Hotel,
~«i^ 4re Pi j Btallion nam ed Young Ace of Clubs
WtrnTid o Tlf at v. h ' and fc ho stables and hotel property
Bnn™‘ Phe T horse formed one of tho prises in the
dungaree Art Union The Qoulburn Turf Chib
erMteS” o^ 8 ° ld » rand ' Bta od. and it is to be
ThaßrSt. fc .he new course at Gandary
ridL R fn^ f |r Sv oket olnbß hit upon a novel means to
vitafciona d ar,/ hey g * yo ft °, onoe , rt latel y and issued in-
Dnrin* ?ho w B oOn .“ eqUe ?i ly tho hall was «owded.
During the intermission the plate was sent round
recent ioolldent 8 i n jur i «B th ey received by the
«™V^ Cl f nfc ',w h *. atear aßd Bir have been
scratched for a!l ti eir important engagements during
have K two Th da^* ra “ a . ta dooke y xT Cluu have decided to
nth * J raclDf on November flth and
Prtmtor 2# v? i gTe x TtTy liberal Prizes Tho
/natrrmt thn Vl I °. toria has promised in Parliament to
ESSZJZMS”** Pj; eyoQ ‘ the formation of bogus
in* hi. 1b A Praucks has succeeded in form-
-o^ab» a Q d at the next Fleming! on meeting the
machine will be in fall swing, but only available for
s^i b o e " n i-;". Th 6 rooe,Tod an enthn-
S?vSlZ?t!2?h h T # * ° ve r flva hundred persons.’with
Thfl V toam a! b f a H d, *? S * B i? bUd afc tba i ft ll w ay station.
r!,nnin ll d i h ® th ® atre afc the invitation of
PP \u ho ‘ dnnn » the interval, complimented
A h h!?v P< i a their BBocess in Now South Wales
ak tV am€d A ‘ Brookes fell down In a fit on
r™ J „7 at the corner of Litllc Lonsdale-street, Mol-
«nd on «« H i W y S l ake “ t 0 the hospital by a constable,
and on coming to his senses, found he had lost £273 In
gold and notes.. A pigeon match for £lOO a-sid» took
Messrs T J T y w at Pl ‘nfs Paddock, Forbes, between
Messrs. J. L Waugh and Joseph Workman, 21 birds
kifled IWo w tCh h- Wa o WOa by Mr ' Workman, who
d ll! fco Wa°» h 8 9. A great many people were
oluAod n :£ hl l> anar and p ‘k«on Show at Melbourne
“™ e A°" Saturday. Two homing matches took place,
WOn bj L Mr - J * Chadwick's kvd|
the other from Moe, won by Mr. Arkington's .. Tho
Adall?da nn°2 fc^all^ Club S’® 4 the Victorian Club at
WindsV?hSiV Urday ’ a a,ored *hree goals «fteeu
The Snnfh opiwnents* two goals and one behind.
f^t««^ tl l I v^ k ,> b6at 4 . be Pcrt hy two goals tiff behinds
to seven behmds At the Hsrberton (Q ) Annual
Races, the principal race rnn was that for the Members*
guineas, with 40 so vs, added money, won
pffs^tAd^* C M 0W Ty y S i Lim ,® r ok .‘ A heantlfnl start wag
b y.Jfr* I Douglas, Crowley’s horse going oft with
b«binH d ' lth E «»n*«>, Bally and Lottery i n this order
behind. Coming past the post the first time, Limerick
tried t° ewervo but wab kept well on the course. At
V heguard was spurted up to
Limerick and in the straight also, but failed to head
the tartan, though he ran a good second, Bally third. ..
1 oung Dutohy is perfecting the nobleart In Tam worth.
.Lately, he had a boxing contest for eleven-stone men.
under the Queeusberry rules, which was won by Giles!
who gamed a gold keyless watch The Maryborough
champion crew-Messrs. Foster, Fetheretone! B Bar-
Wilaott (stroke), and J. M*Dowrll (cox)—
If t n« b v}s Plona > intend to take part In the regatta
k ph l a ß o ,\ lB ‘ August The Commercial
A'Tan “h-nS: 4 B . riBbane aro building a new shed, to
cost £BO They intend to purchase a best-aud-best
four-oared boat, £soj a string. lent, *l* £l5, and a
double-souUing boat, £25, Mr. f. O’Hulllvau
~a s be . en elected captain of the Club
ihe Sydney Tnrf Club hive fired to hold a race
2!X inBr T? t ; i ElBC ?M ic . k ,? n Thursday, 10th August, and
Sydney Tattersall s follow with a programme on Satnr-
day, the 18th. Oa Friday, 7lh July, a young man.
? a “ ed . , W / lark > of the Corowa football team, k oked a
kl m\ 65 ? ud wi6h a P lace kick kicked 714
yards. There was but very little wind blowing
ADIEU TO ALCOHOL.
Adieu—good-by*—adieu!
Anew we cry to you.
Adieu,
0 AloehoLwe’ve burnt our throat to swallow
So long. We find you are too aleohollow.
Adieu, which is solong.
We find you for too strong
A dew.
Farewell, fair dame, farewell.
Ton sell the same too well,
O fay—
It doesn't matter that our readers follow,
Black-eyed is she os is the wing of swallow.
The fay we mean—and she
Is, ia all coquetry.
Aw fait.
A new Song for a Modern Miriam.
In c b , on ,l a e, e ’Death proud Pharaoh’s rule
Of old the Hebrew toiled.
Till Moses, with his wondrous rod•
The tyrant's fury foiled.
Fnto the Jews he cried: " Behold I
Deliverance comes in me I"
from those eurs'd Egyptian bonds
He set the people free.
From years of misery and toil
He freed them in a day.
Then Israel borrowed Egypt’s gold,
And journeyed on her way.
A contrast strange 'twixt ancient time*—
And those may be discerned*—
Since then, indued, tho tables have
Bean singularly turned.
Now Israel loans to Egypt’s sons
The spoil of many a land ;
Yea, to her quondam task-mastera
She lends with lavish hand.
In bondage, for a time, she holds
Her former lords, 'tis true 5
Bat, ah 1 these latter •• bonds,” like those
Of old, get broken, too.
Andgreedy Hebrewa grimly smile,
While British cannon smash
Egyptian forts about their ears
To get back Rothschild’s cash I


PEPPER AND SALT.
The people at Blayney are unhappy. A time-
payment dealer In brazen earthquakes recently visited
that peaceful village, and from that hour confusion has
reigned in the neighbourhood. When a meeting was
held amongst the musically inclined, it was resolved
that lots should be oast for instruments, and the trom-
bone fell to the blacksmith, the big drum to the pound-
keeper, and the ** serpent ” to a romantic young baker,
who was only accustomed to the ilnte. These instru-
mentalists, in company with the others, practised in-
cessantly for a fortnight, during which period bread
was only delivered every second day, and milk was an
unprocurable article. Considering themselves, at
length, perfect, the band gave an exhibition in public.
They played the “ Beautiful Danube ” with a big drum
obligato, and ‘‘Rule Britannia,” with intricate varia-
tions (original) on the trombone. Then the townsfolk
advanced in a body and remonstrated. On this, in a
spirit of defiance, the band struck up ” The Girl I left
behind me,” when the indignation of the audience took
the form of rood metal. The concert then ended ab-
mptly, bnt the next evening the band turned out as
good as new, with an Evening News posted over a hole
in the drum, and the clarionet mended with lemonade
wire, and banged and clashed all through the silent
watchee of the night. There is now great excitement
in the town. Business is at present suspended : and it
is considered probable that before long the band will be
in the same predicament.
# * •
There was a row at Pratt’s Club—one of the
meat aristocratic of the London clubs—the other day.
A member named Grant bad annoyed people, and the
committee wrote to him, signing the Duke of Beau-
fort’s name as president, “admonishing him as to his
conduct in the club.” Two or three nights afterwards
Grant met the Duke at Pratt’s, and struck him with
his glove, at the same time tolling him that ho was
Buffering from softening of the brain. Our reason for
chronicling this little incident is simply to call atten.
tlon to the fact of a dnlw having any brains to soften.
The last sample of the breed we had out hero seemed
from his utterances to have ah intellect entirely com-
pelled of boot-heels.
The coolest card we’ve sam-
pled for some time Is one Kelly,
who eloped with the forty-five
year old spouse of the Fleming-
ton Vicar. Not content with
carrying off this full-blown rose,
he wrote a letter to the husband
suggesting that it would be “ cor-
venient for all parties” if she
conld return home pending the
eventnation of what is generally
considered to be an interesting
eironmitanoe. This is the sort of
man who would break into your
house at midnight, and ring the
bell for the butler to light his
dark lantern. Mrs. Mandells hes
also written to her hub. a plain-
tive letter asking for her stock-
ings. When he saw this epistle
the son and heir, alat. 24, ex-
pressed himself with considerable
force. Without chronicling his
remarks, we will content our-
selves by stating that they were
distinct in every particular from
the other songs without words of
the other Mandellson.
• * •
There was considerable com-
motion one Sunday morning lately
at St.. Bartholomew's, a fashion-
able suburban church near Adelaide (S.A.) One of the
Misses N had long been celebrated for wearing the
tightest of tight clothes. Miss N is always tight;
but, on this particular occasion, she was tighter than
usual. She is “ engaged," and near the middle of the
Litany suddenly remembered that the engagement for
that morning was at St. Peter’s, a college chapel some
half-mile|nearer the city. Miss N—— rose, shut up her
prayer-book, left her pew, and made for the door. Flee-
ing on love’s wings, she became incautiously fast, and
stumbled over some ragged matting, falling in the
middle of the aisle. " Good Lord, deliver us!" said the
congregation. Miss N was quite unable to stir,
conscious that anything like a struggle would result in
the violent partition iof her elegant garments. There
she lay, not dating to make an effort for uprightness
even in a church until two or three able bodied young
fellows issued from their seats, covered their eyes with
one hand, and with the other unitedly placed her in an
upright position. The parson said afterwards that red-
and-blue striped stockings are demoralising and onght
to be abolished. Miss N—— is always found at the
other place now.
• • •
Thus Tuesday’s B.M. Herald re the Lucas
“ monster meeting of sympathy” “ Our reporter
entered the sacred portals, ascended the stairs, and
would have entered a room from whence proceeded the
sound of many voices, and which he concluded to be
the meeting he sought, but he was firmly yet gently
arrested by hie arm being grasped by a young member
of the fair sex, who remarked in emphatic accents,
* You cannot go fn there, sir, there is somebody being
made.' Onr reporter naturally smelt a good paragraph
In this act of creation, and replied that he would like to
witness the process, but he was informed by the fair
Cerberus that the meeting was one of the Sons of
Temperance, and the * making * meant merely the indi-
cation of anew member."
That’s exactly what every horse-thief and forger
says. “ I bought th« orse (or I changed the
cheque) for a man who, I believe, has gone up
country. I never saw him before, and haven’t seen him
since. I don’t know his name.” Now, what does this
relate to ? Gentle public, we don’t know.
Henniker Heaton has awakened and found him-
self famous. He has t..ld the Boyal Society (of litera-
ture I) all about the Australian aborigines, and illus-
trated his lecture by “panel pictures, ’’ and a grisly
collection of native weapons hired (with the option of
purchase) from Ikey Solomon's Dwarf Show. As a
matter of fact, Henniker’s personal knowledge of the
blacks is about on a jar with Alfred’s familiarity with
the works of Coufucius. In his canvassing journeys
for the Town and Countby Journal, Henniker’s ex-
plorationa were invariably confined to the main road,
and the mere sight of a disused gunyah would instantly
cause that hero to stick a three.pronged fork Into his
umbrella-rack, and seek that seclusion which the
nearest homestead afforded. On one occasion, hew*
ever, Henniker did come across the blacks. That wae
when nearing St. Lawrence in Queensland, and, grass
being scarce, and the portable supply of office paste
(the steed’s chief article of sustenance) having run out,
the animal caved in shortly after dusk, H. H,*
having vainly endeavoured to arouse the dormant
energies of the quadruped with a Saturday number of
the News |cut ;up small and mixed with gum-leaves,
resigned himself to the inevitable, and sat down at the
foot of a tree to await developments. These soon came.
Henniker had only just time te commence his letter to
the paper by ecstatically praising the corned beef and
carrots at the last station, and to make a mental note
of how useful his horse’s head would boas a portman-
teau if the animal happened to succumb, >hen—the
Black Man of the Forest stood before him. Henniker
started, but seeing "Zing Jango" written on his
collar, rose and said: “ The journal I represent, your
Majesty, has the larg " “ Gok’em ’bacoa?”
interrupted the King. “No,” replied Henniker;
“but, in the pages of this voluminous newspaper-
price sixpence a copy—you will find valuable hints
upon the growth of ” " Boojery man, give poor
blackfellow sixpence," was the next interjection.
“ What need has your Majesty, in your happy hunting.*
grounds, for dress?" enquired Hinniker, "that coin
you can obtain by bartering your natural pr*y in these
sylvan dells, and, with it. six Evening Newses would
be your joyous lot." At that moment one ef Jsngo's
wives arrived in her native costume, and the gifted lec-
turer kept his hand over his face until the Broadsound
mailman happened to ride past, when he was conveyed
pillion-fashion into the township. On arriving at the
hotel, he entertained the guests with a brilliant ac-
count of how he had been accosted by the ferocious
King of the Forest, but was rather taken aback when
informed by the landlord that his Majesty was ” boots "
at the hotel, and that he would back him against
Henniker at euchre all night long at half-n-orown »
corner. Whitehall Review, please copy
* * •
A lady corn-doctor has sent us her card with »
request that wo will look round. Well—
We always used to have a man
To cat our corns— now we feel fickle.
But there, dear, we’ll come if you can
A solemn oath take not to—tickle.
• • •
Two-thirds of the Queensland Civil servants ars
Irish. Some time ago. Judge Lilley was absent on
leave, and a raw young Dublinite, who had a brother in
the Survey Office, presented himself to the Hon. Mr.
MTlwraith to ask for an appointment. “ What’s goin’
’jist now ?” inquired the Milesian airily. *• Well, there’s
only the Chief Justice’s billot vacant just now, and
that’s only a temporary appointment," replied the
Premier, with a serious face. “ What’s the wages f"
was the next question. “ £1550 and ooals and candles,”
said M'H wraith. ” Then I’ll take it,” was the rejoinder,
" and when he comes back you can put me in the police.”
That most pious of purely
comic journals, the Peotestab?'
Standard, last week exhibited
signs of considerable vitality.
We observe in it a recipe tot
“ inexpensive black • pudding, ”
and an account of a Goulbum
celebration in which “ a solo was
pleasingly rendered by a lady, and
then another young lady played a
gallop (sic) on the pianoforte W*
oollently.” The editor pathetb
cally describes “ inexpensive blaqjt
pudding *» as “ a good finish to tbs
Monday dinner, as it can be steam-
ing on the back part of the stove
while the washing is going on;”
a piece of intelligence which wil l ,
doubtless, be of no small value
to a’few embryo “own commit,
sioners ” who are, at present, sob
slating entirely upon that infant
journalistic food —the saveloy.
There ore also, in last week’s
issue, advertisements of so veiy
delicate a nature that the PS**
tkstant Standard should i*
future bo under every respectable
table.
# # *
The Melbourne Age says that
Sir Bryan O'Loghlen is filling tbs
Bench with political soara*
crows, and men who cannot even write, and only kno*
the nature of a profane oath. How different It is with
us! Why, our various Premiers had appointed each •
brilliant collection of persons to the post of honorwf
justice that, for fear they, in their vast learning exi
grand critical acumen, should cause jealousy amongst
the judges proper, it was found necessary to do aw«y
with them altogether. Such is the force of habit, the*
some of these brilliant students of jurisprudence stiß
eoatinuo to lurk about the -o nes of their tozoet
triumphs. They don’t core about entering the court,
though. The policeman is no more obsequious, end
the no longer trembles. Besides, they don’t
care about those whom they once ruled so aristoorartfr
ally seeing them humping about those big Bible* s°
oleographs with which they entrap the wife of tlx
THE CRUISE OF THE WOLVERENE.
THE MONSTER MEETING.
There is a “ big” capitalist—we’ll say his name is—
Brown—
Whose house—we’ll just suppose—is in the groves of
Camperdown;
To rake in seventy thousand, was this large man’s little
whim ;
Ho didn’t get it; so some friends felt ” sympathy ” for
him I
To practically show it, 10, they all announced one day,
A meeting they termed “Monster” in their sly
satiric way;
The ad. went in the paper, all seemed to promise
fair.
For, 10, the Mayor of Camperdown had vowed to take
the chair.
The Herald sent a gentle scribe—one generally mild—
Ho couldn’t find the meeting, and was nearly getting
riled;
He sought the nearest „*• Public” and was entering,
when said
A modest girl: ” You can’t go in, for someone’s being
made."
Let’s sing the warship “ Wolverene,”
Whose masts and spars are slim ’ans;
Let’s sing Commander Symonds, whom
The unsoaped will call *' Simmons.”
'Twas mid-day; and the Cap.’s sword was
Across the deck a danker,
When “ Heroes," howled he, “ be so good
As just wind up the anchor.
“Up stunsail booms; the snatch-block splice;
The engine quickly turn on:
'Tis well. Haul on the cross-jack tack,
Te brave boys of the * Vernon.’ ”
There was a gallant crew on board.
Twelve tars, all told—our “Navy”—
And each man was a terror to
His daily beef and gravy.
The captain took his telescope.
To spy the ocean green 0,
A lot of other glasses too.
For “ Pommery and Greuo.”
He’d Ouida’s latest works—all read
By Austral’s fairest daughters;—
His whist book, so that he could cast
Hoyle on the troubled waters.
The gallant ship steamed bravely on;
The hands all piped to quarters;
'Twas dinner-time and smiles beamed on
The faces of rt porters.
On, on, to face the tempest grim
That off the Heads did glower.
The warship scudded bravely on
At three bold knots an hour.
A scene pathetic soon occurred,
More so than poem of Tupper’s;
No Vernon boy a rope could reach,
Yet all retched in the scuppers.
“ Ho ! man the gun," the captain cried.
All hands the tube then loaded;
And each man held his neighbour by
The hand as it exploded.
The cabin guests all feebly cheered,
(Some of them helped to load her)
Then each stretched on a sofa and
Said faintly—” Steward—soda."
" Port main brace,” the captain cried;
But here the crew made faces
" This is a country free," they said,
“ We’ll haul on no man’s braces."
• • 9 • •
At 4 p.m. some ladies met
These guests : each was a rum bean ;
And each one swore he’d no more cruise
In Parkes’s whitewashed Jumbo.
HOMEWARD BOUND.
A MAN OF WEIGHT.
GOING TO THAT SYMPATHY MEETING.
Then that reporter blushed until that phonographic
child.
All over was the colour of 'a lobster when it’o bil’d j
He coyly bit his huger, and said “ Miss, I’ll toll you hat,
I. really couldn’t gaze upon a spectacle like that I"
Outside the Council Chambers stood a beery artizan ;
* Say, tell me where the sympathetic meeting is, my
man ? ’*
That wight then cried (and laughed so much that he
could hardly stand) :
** There ain’t no bloomin' meeting ; as for sympathy,
be
“ I am going into the country,” said a certain
well-known patriot, “to have a rest.” What he meant,
of course, was " to avoid arrest.”
THE ONLY POSSIBLE MEETING OF SYMPATHY FOR MR. LUCAS.


i* her hours of industry. We said to a Mel-
***** “ the other day: “If ell yorrr honorary
were shelved, what would become of themf ”
STwswer came like a flash: “They wM aU jo hwk
& jcO, tgafa” m m •
Mr* Barracoota, down in Tasmania, who is now
an ewermous ewell-in fact, the recognised loader of
the fen of cottoneoraey-fWM “calling” at a certain
lady's bona#, not long ago, when—Jast as “ Jeames” the
footman returned to the "oarridge winder” with a ]
menage of “ not-at-homo" (aheml), a very deaf, and
rather band, eld lady came out of a email garden gate—
accepting Mrs. B.’s proffered offer of " a drive into
town.” The old lady seated herself amongst the downy
cushions, and, anxious to know the name of her bene-
{settees, ohattily.lnqnired, “Now, isn’t it etupld of me
net to know your carriage; but, dear me, one never
knows who's got a carriage now-a-days-for all the
vulgar people in the town have them—why, they tell
me that oven that dreadful Mrs. Barracoota has just
got a grand new landau 1 What are wo coming to-
isn’t it quite awful.” Mrs. Birraoouta thought it was,
indeed, a great deal too awful.
• m m
The Campbblltown Hebald, we see, is I
fjjraiinnlly usurping the fuUOtiOUB of th.o CODBT Cl ECU I
aah It now not only devotes sparkling columns to I
public event?, but, in its own inimitable style, bands I
private parties down to posterity. It would seem that I
at Beeswing Cottage, Boogilly, lives one Eegimdd
Delorme. The home ot Mr. D.-an excellent gentle-
man—is a mansion consisting el a suite of (our rooms,
independent ot tbe waibua. At tbo residence ol Mr.
Buttenabaw then was given, what the writer terms
“ tbe first at home of the season.’* W e learn that “th”
dancing commenced about eight o clock 5 Mr. Dei-
ccme’s larqs jraf-i tvrloyt was (or the nonce turned Int >
a beautiful ballroom"; also that “theentextainmen
was unique, and there wqa a/rca.aud-6®3V style about th >
whole affair,” of which the writer appeared highly to
tgpioTe. Ho further etatee that " although at these
*<s hmt&' people a;-c wet supposed to appear ia/atJ dm; ,
yet ... a charming JOWt widow had on a dud
grey sateen just short enough to display a pair ot pink
satin shoos on shapely ankles.*’ Bnt if the loving
widow wore her shoes on her ankles, not so the hostess;
for she "had on (sis) a short book muslin|trimmed with
bhio ribbon, with Elizabethan ruff, black hose, and stout
wnn boots." We further learn that “one of the
principal events was a break-dawn (between Mrs. Hel
and Mr. P. Hickey, the footing being faultless.” Now,
this la the kind of party for which our soul yearns.
With rapture, we can imagine how the widow in the
sateen shovelled down the corned beef and carrots, and
our prolific brain can depicture the sly pull at the jug
to which the hoetess treated the reporter after he had
noted down her boots and bock muslin. We shall give
a party like this ourselves soon. But not before the
price of corned beef and carrots goes down, and we are
confident of securing the invaluable services of the
Campbell town chronicler. Wo want to make a sensa-
tion In our street.
Moodie (whom we immortalised iu our last issue)
has been writing some more of his “ poetry ’* in the
Adelaide papers. It is called a -Sunny mornings
aoag,” and breathes the true spirit of bunkum wo
mean Duncan. The opening period consists of 3 > lines.
and in it we are told how the great wave
_ « Comes heaving to the shore
Ere yet, as surging high, it booming falls
In true poetic motkm on the strand;
Where Titan trees run sheer into the sky.
Thea, as the morning grows older, we suppose (wo
haven’t read any more) that we hear all about the
madrigal of the milkman, and the card of the coster,
monger. We think that D, C. F. could (having e
father) have done much better work it ho had left the
Titan (ominous word!) trees alone, called his poem a
•■A Sonny morning's song,” and slapped down some-
thing in this line
The silver grey of dawn breaks in the sky,
The cobbler’s cook is crowing loud and shrill,
When in a brace of shake* the youngest born
His blue eyes opens on the universe
Then list unto his soft, melodious trill,
And tael the oluteh of those two shell-like hands.
Then, quick as thought plunge shiv’ring out of bed,
The saucepan heat, and fill the feeding-bottle.
This is not quite in such a lofty strain as Moodie s, but
there are more touches of nature in it. All we claim
for this verse is, that while Duncan’s should be in every
lunatic asylum, ours should soothe the mother in every
nursery. If any mother feels herself either morally or
physically benefited after perusing it, we invite her t
communicate with this office.
• • •
They were engatrod. and ho had called to take
her out for a drive. He had slipped in by the garden,
and waited in the dining-room, which was separated by
folding-doors from her boudoir. She was talking to a
friend and he listened. . . . That afternoon he was
absent from the barouche, and the next morning she
received a chilly note intimating that he was going
away on very particular business wherever her pretty
cousin, Geraldine, was. Yet this is all he had heard r
A Voipe: “So you went] to sae Marshall last night?’’
His Beloved: “ Yes, dear; and I laughed so much that
I could hardly keep my teeth in.” Probably, ho
argued as she could hardly keep her teeth in, she
would have, under othnr circumstances, an equal diffi-
culty in “ keeping her hair on.”
# # *
A well-known London Marquis is a notorious
kleptomaniac. He will, when out driving, steal any,
thing that comes into his way, from a pine-apple to a
hen-coop. He would even, it is rumoured, steal a fence
if it wore loose; and, as his proclivities are well-known
aud provided against, his mansion contains a very large
collection of tin cruet-stands, and pewter table-ware
This eccentric nobleman was invited, in due course, to
he banquet at Prince Leopold’s wedding, and, as he
was about to depart, John Brown requested a moment s
conversation with him. The interview was granted,
and his lordship was relieved, in a few moments, of a
gold entree dish, two pairs ef diamond earrings, five
gold watches, and a bottle of champagne. One pair of
the earrings he had stolen from his own daughter. Her
Majesty is now much exercised about the noble Mar
quit. She can’t exclude him, because he is almost of
Royal blood; but the old lady trembles for her salt-
spoons and kettle-holders. It is rumoured that at the
next grand ceremony, the patrician kleptomaniac will
be asked to attend in a cage.
Ha was a party of the name of Johnson, and had
lately arrovo from England, with large-hearted intro-
ductions and an appearance to correspond. He went
South In search of “ station property,” and was made
welcome by the •'Haristooraoy” of Crowtown. He
was driven around by the “ agents” in a fonr-iu-hand of
clipped bays, inducted to the " club,” cbampagned and
•• permitted” to win a lew hundreds at " nap.” At all
events he did win them. The ladies worshipped him
for his gay and debonnair grace, and he loved them in
return, wisely, if not too well. A day or two ago he met
a party of his dear friends at the Eoyal. and having
come to terms lor a brace of squattages, and appointed
one of the said friends manager, at a salary of «500 per
annum, as a matter of course the ” Hz*” began to cir-
culate. Soon ho became too full lor utterance. After
vainly endeavouring to demand his little bill, and re-
ceiving tho burly host’s as,urance that he " wished it
were a thousand,” Mr. Johnson hold up three fingers
Of one hand and wifi the other pointed to the empty
bottles to denote that he required three bottles more.
Everybody was carried to bed in du.i course, hut when
morning dawned the jovial stranger had taken a
mysterious and deeply lamented departure, and Crow-
town knows him no more. And now, if you go into
that hotel and hold up three lingers to the landlord, look
out lor a clear get-away before hand.
The Herald is sometimes frightfully satirical
—by accident. It thus commences an article on Old
Sydney" There is no institution in the colony richer
In interesting reminiscences than the Supreme Court
of New Sonth Wales. With it have been associated the
names of many of the best and biggest-braiued men we
have had in Australia; and its history would furnish
materials for a peculiarly interesting volume, affording
an insight into many phases of the political, legal, and
social life of the first century of this infant nation.**
lost so! Especially the legal and the social.
Down South bank managers seem to be wealthy
men. Only the other day one had orders to shift, so ha
put up hie household furniture and a retriever pup for
sale. The lot fetched thirty shillings I
GOOD-BYE, JOE.
Don’t sail away
Joe, ere we say
What we must say, or “ bust,"
About your gome
pine* here you came;
Don’t shiver I we'll toe just.
Sweet Joseph Cook,
That nasty book.
Ton would resuscitate.
Is quite as true,
•Twixt me and you.
As Sydney bakers’ weight.
You say you know,
Bay—pious Joe,
We all have souls; but that
No comfort brings
To os poor things
Who haven’t got a sprat.
You say that we
Can never be
Saved in a future state,
" Unless we leva
What Gord does love.
And hate all He does hats.”
Now, Joseph Cook,
That ancient book,
Which is your stock-in-trade,
Says ” God made all
Tilings, great and small,
And hales naught he has mads.
And Joe, 'Us said
You shake your head
And yell your huts like thunder;
And then your oos
We can’t excuse
This extra vulgar blunder.
“ You love all men,”
You say, and then
Around the hall you look
In such a way,
That we should say.
All men are— Joseph Cook.
B. E. V. Joe
When hence wo go,
We care not whore it is.
So that it be
Whore we can’t see
Your anti-Grecian phi*.
THE MOGULS' BANQUET.
Upon one afternoon there sat—
An afternoon quite murky, sirs—
Twelve men who were exceeding pat-
Blotio and “ rekerkd,” sire.
Oh, yee; exceedingly " rekorkd ”
The *• pitch*’ was of champagne and turkey.
* When Parkes arrives,” cried Jamieson—
That most disinterested vessel Ivr
*• It's colours let the City don.
And with a banquet let him.wrestle.
L««s than a tt ousand tickets Mt one—
And let the gorge, sirs, be a hot one.
«* I’U buy two hundred pounds’ worth, and
My reasons you may be dissecting;
My gold I pour with lavish baud.
On ibis occasion so affecting;—
Kor Honey I've supreme devotion
i.ad here he broke down with emotion.
Another patriot " ups" and epeak*.
Cries be, " You talk a lot of bosh, sir;
wo tried it on for weeks.
And then we found it wouldn't * wash,’ tir.
The scheme went high as any rocket
(I’m twenty.six quid out of pocket).
•' (Tb are his friends. Each wears his heart
In open da? upon his sleeve (it
Really seems an awkward start
That some curmudgeons won’t believe it).
But, to be frank—no use to try’em
With tickets, for they will not buy ’em.”
Cries Jamieson, “ Oh, bosh I pooh, pooh 1 ’ f
•« You x pitch,” quoth levies, ”is most loose, six;
While Solomon, he sings out, " Booh 1
Don’t let’s have nothing har tar JfiwW', sir.”
Each then kept to his own conclusion,
Sp this “feast” ended in confusion.
THE LATEST.
'Tia not a private seandal; no 1
•Tia flaming in the journals,
Discussed alike by high and low,
By costers and by colonels.
The rumour is, to out it short,
A big colonial lady
THE NEW LICENSING COURT.
JOHN (to applicant): “It’s no use your coming here, my man.
Ib thought to have, by Queen and Court,
A reputation shady.
Yet, when she was presented, phew !
By Jove, she’d got ’em on, sir,
Her ornaments were diamonds too,
A duchaas was her sponsor.
Now she is told the palace floor
No longer she may toe it
Who’s this ?'* a thousand readers roar—
Ah, wouldn’t you like to know it ?
CRUSHED.
Outside a pub. on Sunday morn
A workman, with a face of scorn,
Eeo lined;
It was but early in the day.
Yet he’d a way that seemed to say
He’d " dined"
“ What! Gall this bloomin’ place,” said he,
“ A land that’s free ?” (His voice, you see.
Was thick )
** Not only’s mutton got so dear,
But folks can’t get a drop of beer.
Bah—hie.”
PATRON AND CATSPAW, OR MORE "HONOR."
The storekeeper stood bafore the Board,
And a funky man was he.
For in spite of his patron’s encouraging grin,
He knew he’d committed a paltry sin,
He’d tibbed—like a child of three.
Oh, the patty display of those magnates there
Was pitiful to see.
A liar, confessed, before the “ Chair;’’
Yet unreproved by a “ worshipful’’ mayor,
And a “ ohloken-lunoh " J.P.
What scorn must flash from a true man's eye,
What stern contempt be stirred,
When he thinks of the magistrate sitting by,
Who calmly listened, and heard the lie.
Yet upspoke never a word.
On the Bench of Justice he takes his seat,
This roan of honor rare ;
Ah 1 musty may bread be, and tainted meat,
But we know something that’s far less sweet
Than either. This precious pair.
IN MEMORIAM.
THE EVENING FERGY.
And thou art dead I—and yet the #>rld goes round,
O rag that in its greatness did despise us,
With grief we’re (all, for where will e'er b« found
Another sheet to kindly advertise us ?
All shivered is thy Looking-Glass, 0. John,
Thou art the butt of publican and sinner;
But yet there’s joy thy steam power’s face upon,
Hti’s treating metal, and ho gets a dinner.
Adieu I—the coruscations of thy brain
By us, most noble John, will be missed sorely
But give not way to frenzied grief inane.
Take soda and a cinder if thou’rt poorly 1
# * *
At last we’ve got to very used
I To aldermanio failings,
Wo think it natural their debates,
Should tike the ferm of railings.
John Davies is indignant, and
Lo, Bradford’s ire it rouses;
Thera’s naught but virtue talked of now
They—all have built their houses.
WHO CAN IT BE?
Ob, it must be a pleasant life,
A sweet existence, balmy,
A lot with ev’ry pleasure rift.
To be—haw!—in the " ahmy.”
four voice, girls think more musical
Than violin of Urso;
There never never was a gal
Who didn’t love those spurs so.
But other things these dears adore:
Well—bracelets, say, and lace?.
Perfumery, and gloves galore.
And velvet jewel-cases.
A warrior bought heaps of those
While some sylph’s soft sighs supping,
The "man" then wanted—just suppose I
Him to be “ ante-upping.’*
*' There’s time enough," the soldier said.
At least, it’s so reports!;
But, lo! the shopman sbooh his beau —
And Mors was District-Courted.
To this small rhyme, we’ll frankly say,
Dear reader, there no ley is;
We’re really in the dark, to-day.
To state this time who she is.


BRIEF MENTION.
The Lroaa Case—Waist and Want.
Baker, Garrett, Luoas, Day, Taylor, Davies.
Better times in Ireland—4o infernal clod
Imported!
The latest form o invitation: “ Come and hav
a vitriol."
Last week's Presbyterian is responsible
the statement that the weather has been very cold.
“ In this case I leave,” said the pauper, as the
nailed him down in an unpainted slab hoi in Bathurs
A job lot of real good damaged wire can now anc
then be picked up for 15i. a ton. and patriotically sole
lor £l5.
When a man read “ Twioo round the Clock ”
Saturday’s Noose, he said that once round would t
him in future.
■ This is the season when the young cookato
looketh into the barrel of his father’s gun and Hut
that it’s loaded.
John Davies, A to Z, doubts if any publican ea
properly be called a gentleman. This is supposed to I
a remark of the tu, quoque order.
A young aboriginal from the Mission Station
Victoria, onuoked away his boomerang, emoraoec
Christianity, and forged a cheque.
A new export has sprung up at the South. I
the export list of a recent steamer from the Blaff 1
Melbourne is the item, "one corpse, Johnson."
Country Telegram.—” Mr. So-and-so died i
his bath to-day. He was an old and res pea tod resident.
Fatal mistake of the doctor; ho gave him the order o
the bath.
“ An English king,” says the stately historian
"perished of au aliment induced by excessive indu
geuce in lampreys." M'Elhonesays bir Henry *• bustec
bis bingey."
John Davies said in the Municipal Council : “
defy any man in creation to say truthfully that I hav
done anything that lam ashamed of." What! utter)
shameless, John ?
Said a Victorian Conservative; “Yes, poo
fallow, ha died of Blaoc Wednesday." Replied
Liberal; " I should be rather inclined to think that h
died of dark brandy."
The great advantage of the “ Hobart” Club is
that you can meet all your tradespeople there in th
evening and *• give your orders" without troubling them
to call round next day.
The Morning Mackat classes Qovernmen
appointments of registrars of births, deaths, ant
marriages announced in the Gazette, under the heoc
“Domestic Oocurrenoes."
He was travelling for a firm of printing ink
manufacturers, and called upon Alfred “ What," en
quired the gifted jourualis ; “now what do you charge
for your very worst quality ? ”
At the Oddfellows’ Ball at Armidtle, some person
threw two plugs of tobacco Into tue too- toiler. Th
Sunday School boys of that neighbourhood have bee
chewing the tea.leaveo ever since.
The statement that none of the aldermen o
Hobart can wr t« their names is a scandalous slander
Several of them oau both read aud write. £ruu the
doubtful* cau make their marks."
Cabby and gentleman quarrelled about fare a
Darling Point, nesult: A square tigbt, cabby defeated
The vlotor requested him to •• go farther and fare worse,’
as none but the brave deserve the fare.
A whole lot of men have been committed for
passing spurious half-Jameses at the opening of the
railway. They made Hay whil? tbesuu shone, and now
Hay has made them. The mown now is ou their side.
A correspondent at Port Douglas (N.Q.) writes
1 1 us that th»re is a J P. up North who is cul.ed “Tom
the Snake." ** Our esteemed," etc,, forgets to add that
Vila Worship Is only called that by those to whom lie
his not al owed the " option.’*
An ” honorable” in one of the colonies is ore
dited with having, while enjoying me position of a
Minister of the Crown, signed a number of document
which be styled *' male contracts " He is noted for
doing a big bis. in the ironmongery line.
The Ltbe says that “ the committee sitting on
Mr. John Davies still decline to admit the Press to
tneir proceedings." The reason of this is that the
committee meetings are bald In a small room, anc
lavender-water is hulf-a-orowu a bottle.
The Campbelltown Herald states that four
of their stall aru Good Temp ars. 1c won abe instruc-
tive to know how many of the staff are not total ab-
stainers ; and, also, what are the especial proclivities
of tke motive power of the double demy.
The Herald, commenting upon the fact that
Arabi Pasha has out the aqueduct by which Alexandria
la supplied witn fresh water, remarks that he has ex.
posed tbs inhabitants to some “ inconvenience." Ex-
actly. Quite " unbecoming" on Arab! s part.
Application for relief at the Hobart Benevolent
Society is now regarded as a criminal otteuoe ! The
‘'administrator" proposes to classify the applicants!
Aristocratic impeoamosts—starving mendicants —and
hungry arabs—pounds—shillings— and pence !
Joe Cook, who comes here to try and work off
dummy t elections in Paradise, which have ulreudy been
miri gaged up to the eyes by Pastor Chimquy, is, as
beff.s a sueuessur of the apostles, barefo tea—on the
Cop i £ his head—when he hasn’t got his wig on .
The writer of “Rough Scribblings” in the
Balkaut Inhepeebent :— *• We live and learn. A
man was killed ou board ship by a • goosebo id ’ falling
ou him. Now, wiiat is a goosehcad Y ’ It is evident
that the next door oat has broken this man’s shavuig-
glass 1
A new paper has appeared It is called the
Weeki.t Citizen. Tnis eoing toe case we might, with-
out offence, prescribe for him a little cod-liver oil. We
do not suggest bier, for obvious reasons. The Citizen
should be popular. He holds two pounds of sugar
nicely.
At a gift show up country, the other day, a man
ccjw au anvj fora prize. *’ What shall lUo with an
anvil?" sod the wiuner, who was the local barber.
Thera was an awkward pause. Then suddenly a voice
in the shilling seats called out, *' Lend it to Lucas for
a tooth t ick."
We have eighteen years to the end of the oen-
tnrv. and Joseph Cook says if Chrisianyty is proptrly
worksi the w-riu will be Chnsviao. Joseph knows
Ihvt m exactly one hundred times I hat space wo have
pot him expounding a tuology mat would be unintel-
ligible to mi Apostlei.
There was ono.i a Judge who arrived on horaa-
t»ok in on Australian town, which he hadn’t vinituu ert-r
isiuoe bo Lad been a giddy uounsul. Ntar the hotel, he
met a p.dty boy oi 6 years. •' iou don’t know who X
hu',’* su'd the Judge, playfully. * kts, X do,” wua the
reply ; “you’re my dada."
No. 3 of Tub Debater has been brought round
by the Heavy wagou. .Re Debater has eviuently bean
started to tlfeit something, it may possibly vffoet a
reformation iu sevtral thing ■«. bet we are certiinly of
mo opinion that it won’t effect tnat winch is impera-
tively necessity to every newspaper—a rale.
K ilebrooke Place, the West End of Hobart,
turd iof> sanctum sanctorum, of the Tasmanian ario-
toon.cy, is oe.-ojiiug so uvspasred upon, by ‘those
pocipl-.’’ the retire i bit not letiriug— sliopooracy.
that the pu o Merinos are o t iblivbiug a new vV often
in the oauo dtspi el locality of Battery Point
Prom a Milton paper :—“Two gentlemen were
fishing in hi >1 lu.yie wh-n they ho i.ed a lOdflfth of
about, four le it iu lengt h Having lauded the mounter,
they opened 1 1m, and found two op;o sums (sir; in his
stomach. ’’ Well, if hey did they only Unit d one " p,”
'Thus do we blend amassment with tuetruoti n.
Everybody hasn't got the D.T.’s about Parkes’
udtraorigal piogress iu Vurrip, lor Mir John Robert son
refuses to signalise the return of the Dictator bv even
a public null-holiday, and the aldermen won’t officially
we ooii,o bagk the man who delights in snubbing them.
John, the amateur Beaming magistrate; John, whom
Milner Stephen made stand up and walk ; John, who
ran the Barb at Bandwiok; mid John who sells socks
and stays—these will join? as ia their wont, in attempt-
ing the diffloult task ot enveloping Eu. r m honour and
in accomplishing the easier one ot soaking themselves
in a bath of glory—of a kind.
Who Says the publicans of Sydney are not God-
fearing men P The elegant note-paper of a wealthy,
retired hotel-keeper bears the motto “ Sncoessas a Dao
est” (Success is from God); and a well-known pub ,
lately pulled down, had the following inscription over
its mam entrance, “Jo me fie en Bleu" (la Qod is my
trust).
Daring the week of the Phoenix Park soare,
Herbert Gladstone was jobbed into a place worth BiCOj
a year. Daring the excitement attendant on the Parkes
return there ought to be a chauoe for O. E. Maclean.
Nothing but " monster meetings " oas be done for the
claimant's crowd now. All tusy want is sympathy.
They have got everything eke.
A Mr. Caporn, of .Rockhampton, has a wonder-
ful goat. He has only to say to her: "Nanny, I want
my pnnoh. Qo and see if the saucepan's boiling, like
a good girl." Off nanny polkas to kitchen. Pokes her
horn under the handle of the sanespan lid, raises it
deftly and peers in. If the water is simmerin', she
cries ma"; if not, the cries “ bah 1” Tah!
A lot of robberies lately. Adelaide, ,£I2S and
300,000 (I) tram-tickets ; Petersham Station, over a
hundred, and—Grafton. And Quinndi; and Oxford-
street; yes, quite a lot of robberies lately. And
curiously enough the police, though over "on the
alert," are only in one solitary case “on the track.*'
Dreadful times these, truly. The only tbiag safe to
leave (about now would be a packet of Parkee bminat
tickets.
Another revered idol knocked off its pedestal.
We always thought that the *'Pith and Point" stuff
of the Hekker was written by an Australian bliok-
fellow. We now know differently, because the writer
says that “ all the books on anatomy, aided by all the
dictionaries, fail to render a translation " of MElhone's
expression that Bir 'Enry bad “ busted his bingey at
dinners."
The Melbourne Bulletin man talks of Emilie
Melville “ beaming on him from her barouche." No
doubt it was a source of surprise to the fair canbatrloe
to see so many patches in one pair of pants, and snon a
lot of hair sticking out of one plug bat. Bo she beamed
whilst searching tor a shilling. With oharaeteristij
delicacy our contemporary does not say anything about
the shilling.
Effect of Paul Merritt’s sensational Melodrama.
—First Small B»y (to second small boy, wno is going
home): “ Hi, Ginger I wuat’s yer bloomin' lay P Are ye
cornin’ alouger me to the gaff ? " Second Small Boy j
“ Gaff be sugared 1 Don’t 1 hold it.’ I'm going to guy
a whack to my own Medina." There is evidently a
good deal in what fiellew used to say about the theatre
educating the people.
After William Rowe, the Melbourne publican,
was fined for using vitriol to fortily spirits, the Excise
officers, in accordance with a danse in tne Act, placarded
the premises with notices of the conviction, i his
should be a warning to ail those genial hosts who now
run the r sk of seeing over their doors: “John Smith,
vendor of oooenlus indicus swanker, niootimsed tangle-
foot, and vitriolised fighting-rum.
Dog-fights, horseraoing, whisky drinking, <fco.,
are considered legitimate Sawbatk amusements at
Georgetown (N Q.); but the local police, being of
opinion that something should be done to elevate the
moral tone of- the community, stopped the Papan Co.
from pumping water the other Sanday. The result was
that the shanty keepers had to serve cut whisky
“straight," and there was a universal “drunk."
A benevolent parson in N.Z. overtook two poor
country women roiling along a barrel of butter, and
took It up In his buggy and carried both wbmen and
barrel a miU. He was aoout to roll it out when he saw
on It XXX. Horror! But when he offered to lift It
down tuey said, “ Nut here. Doctor—it's for the shanty
over the way." “ Backcloth and ashes, and please
throw on a handful of soot," prayed the good man,
driving away.
A Tasmanian Judge, whose initials contain the
letter “ I,” commenced to sit upon Mr. Himllton
Bromby, the well-known counsel, "fcnrely, you must
see, Mr. Bromby," remarked His Honor, ** that erasing
even one letter of a man’s name might be a very signifi-
cant point. Surely, yon must see that P’* " Precisely,
your Honor," repuea the counsel; “just the same as
if I knocked L out of yours."—(And just don’t they
love one another I)
A messenger of the Tasmanian Houses of Parlia-
ment visited the Old country some time ago, and
presenting himstlf at Westminster Hall, " sent in his
card” (kI.H.A.) to the Bergaant-at-Arrus, requesting
admission to the stranger's gallery, a courtesy which
was at once extended to so illustrious a visitor. Little
did the sergeant and his ushers imagine that the
mystic letters, M,H.A., represented "Messenger,
House of Assembly."
There was a buggy smash at Hexham on Mon-
day week, and a groom named Coombes nad his leg
broken. The Bishop of Newcastle and Mrs. Pearson
were thrown out and not injured, therefore the Echo
heads its par , "Accident to une Bishop of Newcastle."
This ju-t point* out,the difference between the Echo and
Ihe Bulletin ; we would have headed it “ Accident to
groom." The next time a bishop accidentally doesn’t
reak his leg, we shall know better.
An American lady writes in a newspaper that
Mrs. Langtry is overrated as a beauty. Evidently the
fair critic is unfair in her judgment. For has not the
Prince of Wales (whom God defend) said that Mrs.
Langtry is a sweet creature p Out here (and Mrs Langtry
is coming to Sydney) a suspicion to the contrary
would be rank disloyalty apd would offend John
Davies, to whom Albert Edwatd recently sent a bauble.
Let us sing " Auds allround" and grovel together.
The Protestant Standard says that when
the Falmer-etreet Presbyterian Church was being
built, the dilatory workmen of those days didn’t get on
fast enough with the work, so Dr, M G-bboa seized ham-
mer and nails and put down the flooring with his own
bands, bo that the difference between the deceased
gentleman and Pastor Allen consists in this : That while
the former did all he oonld for some days to pat bis
floor down, the rev. pastor has for many years been
doing his level best to bust his root cff.
This is verbatim from a recent letter from the
South (bar names): —•• The members of the Archipelago
Mutual Improvement Society requested me to write
you respecting a privet room for permission to hold
their weekly meetings thare. Mr. Blank said we would
be better write to you. Pleas concent. Socrates junior,
secretary.” The Archipelago Society ought to get the
room. It their secretary is a fair specimen member,
they ought not to be kept waiting.
A Charters Towers grocer named (it appears)
Belcher calls attention, at a committee meeting of the
.School of Arts there, to the “ enormous price of adver-
tising in the local papers." Thady U’Kaue retorts with
the statement that the committee only advertised with
him to the extent of I*. 61. in one mouth; and calls
attention to the extravagant charges made lor kerosene.
Mr. Belcher’s spare time is now thoroughly occupied
iu going about and “ wishing he hadn't spoxo."
“A few of the more thoughtful and ambitious
of our little comm unity have determined to institute
and sustain, if possible, an effort standing in clear
definite relations with the life of the intellect and the
soul." This was written by the Argoon branch editor
of a Sydney weekly paper, who can be teen free of charge
by any one who passes that vyay. What he wanted to
explain was that two or three of them were starting a
debating class Tyndall and duxley won t be aole to
Sleep when they hear this.
The motto of the Mount M Donald Miner.
which the fair Mary aim mucus Ingen iously to be on
its last leg-, is “ free audj ut shackled —
Free and unshackled, Mary P—No I
Bwea Car oar Eo. e. you’re no tusk thing ;
Bn hard and fast yon’i e ijOuu I we UOW,
With garland and a gold..n ring.
Tight seem tte bonds, out j .ist defy ’em
And 'tie the devil to untie 'em.
The Echo heads the race in sensationalism
going on b.-twoen the metropolitan papers just now.
it starts a telegram with too heading "Aa Egyptian
Trattor." From this we find out that Bagtaeb Pasha,
late Premier of Egypt, has bean getting, into a corner
and conspiring with Arab! Bay for the deposition of
tr.e Khedive. Also, the tragic news that •' Eagheb’s
dismissal is extremely probable." It is an agonising
thought tons that this proceeding is likely to hurt
Eigheb’s feelinr* We mean by this, ef osar,-*, the
publicity given to the fact in the Boh®.
Ha had just palled a drowning nun out of the
water at Circular Quay, and, after having seen that the
man had recovered consciousness, ha elbowed hie way
out of the crowd that had gathered, and proceeded on-
wards past the Manly Beach wharf. Juet then, an
strolled a “perlioe," who, with his hand to his month,
whispered in dulo«t tones, “ I say, sorr, cad yer tell mo
is that a foight over there P ” On being assured that it
was merely the case of a half drowned man, the gallant
bluebottle’s No. U'g Immediately made acquaintance
with his ooat-tails as he sped to the rescue.
There’s a Northerner who ocxnsionally write* to
the looal papers. He’s near sighted. He begins by
sticking his Hose on the paper, and as soon as his pen
commences to mive, the red-topped proboscis follows
sfter, effacing tue writing, and leaving in its place a
series of black lines. Ihe printers naturally wearied of
this kind of thing; so the next time one of hie dark
effusions presented itself, they printed it thns
And stack his name nnder it.
Bokhara, the Indian beggar was arrested for beg-
ging the other day and £306 odd in money and eeonrites
was found upon him. The man was sentenced to 7 days,
whereupon a lady in a crashed bonnet who was likewise
“going up" for the same brief period, commenced to
exhibit the utmost solicitude aboat him. " Bmma 'll
lead him over, ear jiot," ehe said, '* the poor dear man,”
and a grateful look lit up the dusky orbs of the Oriental.
As coming events are said to oast their shadows before,
we think we may prophesy that at the expiratio* of 7
daye, in Sydney. as in Asia, will be found that historic
character, the Bmma tf Bokhara.
There are lota of commissioner* of one kind and
another about arranging the affairs of the ooiony, bnt
the Herald s special is the man that keeps his eyes
open while ha travels. At the Warange-da aboriginal
meeting he notsd a vary curious ethnol-gioal specimen.
“A boy of about eight years of age had a decidedly Hiber-
nian oast of features, and his hair was an anmistakoable
rod ” The colony will be anxious to learn from the
report of the Commission how they account for this.
We remember a blaok gin up North who, when a-ked
how it was that her children weroa’t so dusky ae they
ought to have been, replied: “Too mnohee eat im
pfioar,’’
On the 2lth May, Australia’* star litterateur,
J. Hennlker Heaton lectured before the Boyal Society
of Literature, on the Aborigines of Australia. Prince
Leopold, the Chairman, was—absent, bat the ex-Chief
Justice of the lonian Islands presided. The purity if
Mr Heaton’s diction was, we believe, much admired;
and a learned discussion afterwards atose as to the
possible profit to be obtaiued by the exportation of
frozen h’s. The lecture was largely Illustrated, and
Heuniker ** explained the use of the bomerang." 111
There is no record, however, as to whether his ornaments
were diamonds or not. W« await, with breathless inter,
ost, the text Conn? Circular.
The statement that H.R.H, the Duke of Con.
naught has been appointed General of * Division of tue
army in Egypt will at once serve to allay any (ears
which might otherwise be felt for the safety of our
soidiers. It the Duke of Albany had only been ap-
pointed to a command also, victory would have been
regarded by all sensible po jple as a foregone oonolu-ion.
We should line to hear of Prince Arthur distinguishing
himself—vtry much indeed. Bat wo don't thii k ho will
have a very groat eh iw for personal glory, since It's tea
to one Her Majesty hoa liven Sir Garnet Wilacley
strict orders never to allow Aitnnr bo issue commands
oat of the pnblio-nouse cellar.
There will be fore shed soon it that fascinating
tram-guard don’t watch it. Since he has •* got ’em on'
to the extent of a new fit-out, ladies who only hell
tickets for Moore Park go dreamily on to handwidk,
and fifteen little bonnet-makers have sacrificed their
fathers’ Sunday salts for tram-tiekets. There is an airy
grace ab*ut that guard which breathes destruction
to the female heart, and he hands a lady in with each
an air that there is a whisper going over the city that
he is one of Peaces and Shaw's shop-walkers in
disguise. The snspieion that he is a Hn-ieian officer is
dispelled by the fact of his dropping snob a quantity of
h’s when picking up a plethora of passengers.
A rev. gentleman up South has settled the
question as to how a clergyman can keep horses and a
buggy, and neither atteud to them him.eif nor keep a
groom to do so. He simply employs, at 10s. a week, a
household servant, who, in addition to her domestic
duties, has to clean the horses and the harness; and
when th'j man of God goes out on bis pastoral visits
she has also to harness up, and hand him the whip.
More, this pious man has a dower garden, and when he
loosens the weeds with bis tpade this “ maid of all
work'' has to trundle them out of the garden in a
wheelbarrow. This parson is evidm.tiv r f opinion tnat
as the curse was introduced Into the world by woman,
she shall, as far as he is aide, have her iair share of it.
The Hekkbr, with its elaborate all-rounded-
ness, sums up the Bandwiok Asylum meat difficulty
thuswise “ What was shown was that the contract
required the meat (mutton) to be sent to the institu-
tion in large pieces, and the superintendent had per-
mitted it to be sent in small pieces." From this <t
argues that the superintendent; was not to blame. Bat
what were ths small pieces P The answer to this ques-
tion is the kernel of tue nut. The mutton was to oe
supplied by carcase. Jnqw, a carcase contains fore and
hindquarters. Supposing these small pieces ’’ were
all foie-quliters and scrag-ends ? We only ssy “sup-
posing "—we are uoo in the butchering line ouroelves—
cut here lies the detect in the Seeker's reasoning.
If any fellow can’t suit himself with a wife hero,
he’d better go to Kangaroo Valley. There are pretty
girls there leaning oat of every humpy, and they all
want husbands badly. The Kangaroo Valley young men
are out of it. They won't go to temperance picnics, or
iern-gathering, or choir-practice, or any Christian
amusement. They pass their time flaying “heading
’em," and snob is the wickedness of the district, so
far as the men are concerned, that they will even ring in
the ‘ tall grey" on their own brother, and the man with
the kip is never to be trusted. No ceremony more reli-
gious than a dog-fight has taken place amongst the
gentlemen for years,and any male resident caught with a
standard classic would be put into strict Coventry.
The new men, therefore, will make all the running.
Why, here’s a Paradise I—any amount of pretty girls,
three churches, no police, and a pub. “ Walk up.
There is some journalistic enterprise in Mait-
land, anyhow. The proprietors of th-j Mercury, hav-
lug, doubtle.a noticed our repeatedly expressed ad-
miration of Alfred’* style, have evidently engaged him
at a high flguie. Teat their enterprise will be repaid
with golden results, who can question, when this is the
noble author’s first essay :—“ A great many dogs has
been poisoned this last few days about the main streets.
Cue gentleman in particular lost a valuable dog. It
appears that only the good dogs get the bait; it is very
bud the person or parsons cannot be found out. Great
sympathy is felt for the gentleman losing his dog,
everyone was so fond of it as he was himself." It is
easy, now, to conjecture whit the next effusion will be
about. Here you are: “It is rite you should now that
the lam sail is to-day, at Mr. Blank’s yards; this lam
sale is put somewhere else in our colnms ; this will be
a very nice lam sale; also pigs and taller.” There 1
that’ll save A If. a whole heap of trouble.
More joy. Goodooga had its first wedding th«
other day, when the blacksmith’s striker persniued the
hotel-slave—who had long been rlngle—to alter her
decision. After the ceremony there was * a sumptuous
repast,” viie Waloett Mail, at the bride’s t mporary
residence E ery thing was on the most genteel scale
pos.-ible. Corned beef and carrots at the top of the
table, carrots and corued oeei at the bottom B. ked
lei and potatoes in the centre ai d nnsh wherever it
to put it. Bread o j the floor, ant every
gu st «. separate pint to start on Ou tie bride’s left
Wo,- tin hotel host, nd oa th k g ">ona’s rig tit the
ba aher’s d--righto -the only bridesmaid Dancing
was indnlgtd m after the leed, and in the end the
happy pair depart d in a spring cart amd-il a shower
of oid boot, aud oatmeal—rice not being then procur-
able. Pleasing remii i-ceuccs of this gatbeiing will
Idagbe entertdnel by mmy—especially the erioe, who
was ne .rly scalped by an old biucher in the first volley.
There are two remarkable people no at Lambton
The one is a newlyraade Benedict, the other is ft
widow. His name is Jacob Hall; hers, Mrs. Graham*.
He is blissful, she unhappy. Not long ago he was
a bachelor storekeeper, well-to-do, and pining for a
wife. He wanted a “ fat nugget of a woman ; a good
weight-currier.’’ Women—especially fat nuggets—are
****** nj Lambtou way, so he confided his sorrow t*
widow Graham. She volunteered to procure for him
within a week ** a good fat nugget of a wife, and a good
weight-earner—fat tfl a beer barrel—like himself.” The
operation, however, took six weeks, and he repudiated
the widow’s claim ford!9 195., although he married the
"nttgget" four days after introduction. The widow
Graham only received half-a-orown oh account of ex.
pensee, and a similar sum from the fat bride in grati mde
for introducing her to a suitable partner. So the
widow Graham sought the order of the Court to oorape
the " beer-bdrrel ” to shell out. But the Court de-
oided that it had no Jurisdiction. Here ehdeth the
first chapter,
'Jhey hare the liveliest kind of dead men in
Tamut erer seen ont of an Irish wake when the whisk\.
bottle was carried too near the nose of the noble corpse,
W» hare had oooosion l<i a previous issue to notice the
goings on of two old “ stiffs,” named respectively Brown
and Simpson on the tombstones. They used to get up
at the hour when, churchyards yawn, and plunder from
each other's graves the offerings that affaction’s hands
had placed there In the day-time. This conduct has, we
hear, been going on ever since, and bete are freely made
as to which of them will aoonmnlaie the largest con.
serratory by ihe year's end. At the present, Simpson is
leading down the straight with two fuchsia-pota and a
stumpy weeping willow, that was planted on Brown’s
last home a few days ago. Intense interest is excited
throughout the whole neighbourhood as to the result of
this cadaverous raoa. We have instructed our Tumut
correspondent to keep onrsportiug|eritlc properly posted
in the progress of the same. It might not be out of
place just here to suggest that, keeping this and recent
events in view, the name of the township should in
future be written Tombnt ?
Th« Eev. W. Gardner has been lecturing at
Bembala, N.S.W., on the late President Garfield, and
has told this yarn of the latter when a hoy of eisht
years of age i—“ On one occasion about this time, when
he and a buy named Edwin Mapes were getting hen’a
eggs, Edwin got a pullet’s egg, smaller than the others.
‘I oan swallow that I • arid Jamee. ‘Whole?’ ‘Yes
whole!’ ‘You can’t do it!’ ’Yes, I can!’ ‘I dare
you to swallow it,* said Edwin, eager to see the ex-
periment tried. • Here it goer,’ cried James. James
pressed, got red, pressed it down again, and got redder
still, ‘Shell and all, I suppose,’ said Edwin. ’What
if it sticks in your craw, you will then bo in a nice fix.
James tried again, the pullet’s egg burst, and filled his
month with mush. He ran in and got a bit of bread,
and swallowed it with the egg, shell and all. This
shows that James could not be easily beaten. Hd was
none of your never mind, don’t osre, can’t help it drones
that have no purpose, and rover rise in the world."
Tbe Bev. Gardner is Wrong in his facts. It wasn't a
pullet’s egg at all. The boys were gathering water-
melons, and the rest of the story is pretty true. Then
Edwin tried his hand at swallowing a pumj kin, but
was so long about it that the pumpkin sprouted and
Edwin was choked Ja ies then buried him in the dark
depths of the stilly forest, and tell nobody; the inci-
dent bring afterwards discovered recorded lu his diary.
Then James “ swore off” pumpkins, and was a teetotaller
all his life. It’s a small matter of detail, but history is
made up of trifles, and the world may as well be put
right.
The Late Hon. S. D. Gordon, M.L.C.
We give in this issue a portrait of the Hon.
Samuel Deane Gordon, M.L.C., who died at hi
residence, Qlengarrah, Double Bay, on Tuesday.
Mr. Gordon was born in the County Down, Ire-
land, in 1811, and in 18.10 settled in this colony.
In 18J16, be contested the electorate of Durham,
and was returned. His Parliamentary oaree
showed him to be a man of liberal and pregres
ideas—and. among the most notable reforms
advocated was the changing of the Upper Ho
from a nominee to an elective chamber. In 1
Mr. Gordon was nominated to the Upper Hons
and he retained his seat np to the time of h
death. Mr. Gordon was a representative com-
mercial man, and exeroised in this respect very
large influence
POLITICAL POINTS.
A lot of Victorian Members are “ heavi
embarrassed." .Not many of ours are. Too many con-
tracts knocking about for that. Let’s see what is
made. Oh 1— ** For £lOO I can ensure you being' su
oeasful with your tender.'* (This, after it has bee
accepted. Truly, N.S. Wales is a grand country for th
working—Member.
The fact that Arabi Pasha seized the conten'
of the Treasury at Alexandria, has been made a gooc
deal of. Us has been described as having •' looted ”th
money. • Now, as a matter of fact, ho did only wha
every military leader has invariably done in like cj
cumstanoes. What a fool Arabi would have been
leave the money for Admiral Seymour to “loot."
The Italians at Christchurch (N. 2. hay
resoh ed to purchase a bust of the late General Gar
baldl, to be placed in the Canterbury Museum. The
should try and teoure the gigantic bust by Signor San
modelled for the Ganbaldi Demonstration here auc
displayed in the Garden Palace. This is a n*ble work
The illustrations attempted of it gives no hint nor idta o
its real grandeur.
Tasmanian budget Year commenced with
Surplus of £4r,552; estimated revenue is *515 900; o
penditnre (including what formerly were Loan Bil
items ot £484.817) £776,350, of which £70,000 goes t
redeem Treasury Bills. Kevenue for 1883 estimated a
£531.000; expenditure. £457,242. Balance, with eurplu
ou band, would be £83,393, Customs and excise remis
sions promised; property tax to be modified, and stamp
and carriage duties abolished—total remisiions
£45,264. By this it will be seen that the '• Tight Little
Island " of Sleepy Hollow is progressing. The Treasurer
also proposes to borrow £350,000 for public works.
In Victoria, the constant complaint is that al
branches of the Civil Service and honorary appoint
mente are principally filled by Irish Catholics. A
Victorian cynic once went so far as to say ; •• The Irish
Catholics are our best immigrants ; from them we gel
all our most efficient policemen and our scientific hang-
men.” 'J his. of coarse, was an extreme tinge of colour-
ing, but its bitter sktire was founded on existing facts.
Here, in New South Wales, matters seem to be decidedly
reversed. The road to “ nonour ” and promotion teems
to chiefly He through the gates ef Orange and Masonic
lodges From them we get most of our C.M.G.’s and
other dignitaries. Evan the police force is leavened
with the discontent this sectarian favouritism breeds.
Of seven superintendents in the colony, not one is a
Catholic; and the seventeen sub-inspectors number
amongst them eleven Protestants. Such a proportion
may, of course, exist without undue favouritism. But
it is a well-known fact that the greatest discontent pre-
vails amongst Catholic members of the force, who
believe that such undue favouritism is exercised. Last
year alone, there were ninety-four resignations from tbe
force, principally of Catholics, and wo find the B.C.
Arohsisbop s ‘‘organ “ demanding an inquiry into
these matters.
• • •
The Egyptian rrmy is raised by conscription,
and consists nominally of IB infantry regiments, 4
cavalry regiments, and 144 guns. At vhe oio oof the
Busso-Xurkish war the total of tbe troops was 18 000.
The population number a'jout million a.,.'.. Sir ’Enery
gets it ‘‘roughly ” from London correspondent of N Z.
journals ‘I api sick," whites a ‘l l ry contemporary,
*ot this cant A>out the fvutern ration of peoples lam
*ve r> of hearing the perpetual * oom- to my arm ,
br ther, and let us share you,r property.” In the
present N Z Parliament time are >2 newspaper pro-
prietors and ouly lu lawyers Big meeting held at
Townsville in favour of the reparation of the North
from the South of Quien-.laud On the announce-
ment of the death of Garibaldi, the adjournment of
the Freu.tn Chamber of Deputies was moved. Tne
Bight raised a tumult of Objection, but the motion was
oatried bj 398 to 129
. Among those who were present at the opening
of the illoggahrj railway extension the other day was
Mr. William Paine, who is just on ICO years of age, ami
has been living in the district for a great number ot
years.


city Catering
315 GEORGE 8TJ
A NEW CATERING!
Comprised of professional workc
tical experience, nearly all from t
of Compagnoni and Co., who p«
and carry on the working of th
general manager.
It is not a public company, and 1
the expenses appertaining thereto
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th
sooceasfelly catered THE La/IG
CULT, and MOST RESPONSE 1 }]
have taken place here to the pres«
The Consular Dinner, in our new
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic
and Banquets, and all Entortair
His Worship the Mayor's Ball,
Building, at which his Worshii
tainod their E.H.’s PRINCE A1
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Ofli
Squadron.
Ma*onie Ball, English Constitnt
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Oonstiti
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.’s PRINCE A1
t« Lithgew Valley Mines and
Russe, for 00, in Government Ps
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,0
Queen's Statue Demonstration-
NOTICE, only receiving the or
ready on th« spot at 12.30 p.m.
Visit of THEIR E.H.’s PR1
GEORGE to Captain Cook's I
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon
100, under VERY SHORT NO
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Ti
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judj
Banquet Room
Dinner d la Russe at St Paul’s Co
of the Church of England Sync
Dinner d la Russe to the Intel
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshener
Sentlemen, at the turning of th
Iros.’ New Railway Roiling Si
ville.
The Luncheons end Refreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshmei
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fay re of
Mary’s Cathedral.
Bbfrethmenta at Ye Olde Eng
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of]
Dinners, I easts, Ac., Ac.
The CITY CATERING COMF
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, C
and all requisites for Balls, Picni
and will be glad to send out th
Pastry, Cakes, Jellies, Loee, Conte
Civil and attentive waiters al
services required
Wo have m our possession lette
high standing in the city, comp
manner we have performed the dt
CBAS. K SM
TLato of the flpm of the original C
MALT BI1
The great Cure for Indigestio
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE 7! ...
A. G. KEBBLE WHITE,
13 Erskine St:
AND
W. H. SOUL. Pitt
KOUMISS ! (MILE DIET
Will at once Relieve the AC
STOMACH and NAUSEA
excessive DRINK
Registered
THE NEWSLETTER.
Reported fresh outbreak of small-pox at Water*
Xno family suspected suffering from thaoom-
fiaunt have been removed to the Sanatorium.
Th* Q N.B.’s profits for the half-year, .£29.337;
10 per eent. dividend; £30,000 carried forward ; officers
ewarded a bonus of 10 per cent, on their salaries.
A Melbourne syndicate has offered Messrs.
Anthony Hordon and Sons, Haymarket, £400,000 foe
their business, with a view to forming a large company.
The offer has been declined
Telegrams from Toowoomba give the bare infor
matlen that the first jary could not agree in the case o
Mrs. Margaret Spillano, the murderess of Mioka
Irwin, lha case is now going on de neve before a fres
jury,
The celebrated Bluff claim at Ophir has bee
purchased for the purpose of being properly worked
by a company now in course of formation. There
almost a mountain of stone to operate upon from th
start. The affair is in the hands of Mr. C. J. Bueklan
and a powerful directory.
In a N Z., divorce case, Levoi v. Levoi, heard a
Wellington lately, the respondent was said to be a
present living in Sydney. The petitioner, described a
a the*.tried agent, had been born a Jew, married at
Presbyterian Church, and maintained his children at
Roman Catholic Institution. Evidence disclosed th
usual pnneut details.
James T re ran, telegraph operator at Egerton (V.)
has been arrested on a charge of forging a telegram. ]
appears that ha held 200 shares in the Shamrock Corn
?iony, and, in order to give the scrip a fillip, ha manu
ftotured a telegram purporting to eorne from the legs
manager at Ballarat, which wire represented that th
reef was widening oat and showing gold.
Edward Richard son, late hospital dispenser a
Mount Qambler, has out his throat with a Timor. H
had been suspended on a charge of indecent conduct,
and left behind him a memorandum stating that the
charge in question, likewise an imputation of dishonest
made against him, was unfounded; but, as this oonli
never be explained to the satisfaction of ths public, h
had " at last resolved to take prussic acid.'’
The Balmoral leasehold, Georgetown, Etheridg
Elver (N,Q ), has been jumped, and the Sydney share-
holders have lost all their money invested, through the
negligence of the man in charge, who failed to be on th
ground within 24 hours after the expiration of a month'
protection. Clause 21, Queensland Mining Act, 1881
appeajm to apply to claims only; consequently,
miners right is a better title than a lease. Sydney
capitalists, beware.
Much agitation concerning the sewerage business
in Adelaide at present. People complain that the vea
til&ting gratings simply distribute sewage gases through
the town; that the pipes are too email; and tba
thorough flashing is impossible. Meanwhile; Mr
Hydraulic Engineer Oswald Brown is safely out
the mess; Langley, who interregnum an tly admin
isteis the department, having, aa one of his prinoipa
qualifications for the position, the fact that he is Sir
Henry Ayers’ son-in-law.
A modern Nero, named William Jackson, o
Herberton (Q ), recently piled up inflammable materia
under his illegitimate child’s cradle and set fire to his
dwelling. When the mother rushed to the rescue, he
went for her with a waddy. The neighbours over
powered him and chained him to a log, but ho managed
to escape. He was afterwards re-arrested, and sen
tancod to six months’ imprisonment. This terrible
seatenoe is due to the faot that the woman was not his
wife, or he would have only been fined. Law is law I
Mr. Bent’s new Victorian Railway estimates
include the amount of £200,000 for duplicating the
North-eastern line to Seymour, providing for additions
at Spenoor-atroot and Prison's Bridge Stations, and
laying an additional line from South Yarra to Eioh
mono. Mr. Pickles, of Sandhurst, and Mr. vvileon
have each received a £70,000 order for rolling stock
The Phoenix Foundry Co.’s tender of £l7s,ooo—which
was £33,700 above an English company’s—for locomo-
trivet has been accepted. Twenty-five engines have
been ordered from England.
Angelo J. Smith, of Hansard, delivered
lecture on “ The French Revolution," last week, before
the Sydney School of Arte Debating Club. Though an
amateur, Mr. Smith is one of the most eloquent orators
the colony possesses, and should he ever enter public
life will be sure to make bis morn. We understand Mr
Smith' is studying tor the law. The Club has paaaec
him a special vote of thanks for his lecture. Mr
Smith is an old English pressman, and was brought onl
to Melootirne first by the discriminative and enter-
prising David Syme, of the Aoe.
Winiata, the Maori who killed Picker, was
captured by a settler named Barlow, who receives £2OO
reward from the N.Z. Government for his feat
Barlow is a man of herculean strength. He
nabbed the Maori sleeping, with a five-bar-
relied revolver across his breast. Mrs. Barlow
assisted in the capture. Barlow drugged one or two
Maori companions who were with Winiata, and carried
roe latter on his baek fop a mile and a half across a
swamp. He was compelled to abandon his settlement
at U&hopui, his horses, eattle, 200 pigs, and other
property.
*’ The Bushranger Riley” is credited with being
übiquitous. At latest, he was supposed to be oavortiug
pragisonously wound the Tenterfleld district, robbing
shepherds’ huts of ratious like a sneaking tramp, ana
sticking up Chinamen. The (act is that ail the skulking
vagabonds in a district combine to raise a bogey of
alarm whenever a pettifogging horse-thief splashes out
of his ordinary business and cooks a rusty old fowlpiece
at anybody, in order that their mangy depredations
may be covered by his evil reputation. When the Nelly
gang was biding in the Strathbogie ranges, a henroost
couldn’t be robbed without the theit being placed to
the door of “ the bushrangers.”
We are importing Fenian notions gradually.
The sorrowing female of an unfortunate convicted
prisoner hunted down by Detective Williams, has had
her heart set on fire with her woes. She does not re-
oogaise the law as her man’s Nemesis. She only views
Detective Williams as the delis e* machind of his de-
gtractlon. And she has resolved on a dark and bloody
revenge. At least, she intimates so much in the usual
Fenian way. Sue has favoured the detective with an
original valentine, illustrating a coffin, and a tombstone
with a "woman in white” weeping at its foot. The
tombstone is piotorially ornamented with a dagger, a
box of dynamite, and the inscription : ” These lor you I
Beware your fate. From a friend!” Detective Wil-
liams has ordered a suit of bomb-prosf armour.
According to Thadens O’Kane, the Townsville
Herald has been guilty of rank apoetaoy on the ter-
rible Coolie question. As tbps i—" When Meston first
emerged from the £ ise wood shades and appeared above
the Northern horizon, he shone as a beacon lighten
this Coolie Question. Who so devoted to the cause of
the white man ? But, alas! for political consistency,
no sooner does the proprietor of the Hkeald got a few
patches of marsh land on the Johnstone, and there
is a prospect of securing a managership on a sugar
plantation, than the Sacred Ibis droops its wings and
dies. No more diatribes against Coolies, no more windy
platitudes about the rights of white labour. The
Townsville Herald and its staff has become strictly
Conservative and sugary. ... In the early ages of
the world, in there prehistoric t'mes with the aroma
of which Meston is saturated, polygamy and slavery
were necessary institutions, and at the time good in
thamseiiraa. In our times they have ceased to bp good,
and neither the necessity of sugar nor the want of
white population can legitimise Coolies or Mormonism
in Queensland. Of the two evils*-the destruction of
oar civilization or the destruction of the sugar Indus.
Wy. we prefer the latter, and so will the oniony. We do
Sot donut that Meston has in his posnesf iou valuable
documents in papyius, legacies fr m his great ancestor
Zoroaster, prov ug that a man may marry his own
Grandmother aud wallop as many nigger* as he can
parojasß, but those old musty documents will command
w 1? in those giailens nays The Coolieu
shall never eater Queensland. If they do. It should be
over the dead bodies of the white men now in it. The
dueat.oo will come to that, and the Ministry and
Wee ton will do well to olean their rltiee and prepare far
tee tray." Thadeus alee goes for Mr. Ferguson, the
l™°v member for Rockhampton, wko, though he was
tetmrned en the distinct ground that he would oppose
‘“btodoofcion of Coolies, still moved the Address ia
"?9iy in the House, and was complimented by the Pre-
™*r.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive commun[?]cations from
C[?].]
Too many Cooks spoil—orthodoxy.
Professor Denton is rather " rough ” npon the
Anglo-Israelltes. At Auckland he provoked a hearty
Ungh by Baying that these credulous identifiers of the
British with the lost Ten Tribes, were more “ lost"
themselves than any of the objects of their search.
At a Napier (N.Z.) ohuroh recently, the Ber.
Towgood was officiating, and in the course of hie
remarks he was drawing different types of character.
“ Take Bill Sykes, for instance,” he said, when a deep
base voice of a man in the Church added, " and his
dog.” The remark produced a roar of laughter.
The effects of what are sometimes called
"powerful” sermons have been manifested in a some-
what unusual manner on two recent ooaaeions at
Christchurch (N.Z.) In one instance a member of the
congregation encouraged the preacher with the familiar
phrase, “Go it, old man”{ in the other instance an
enthusiastic individual insisted upon depositing his
watch and chain with the collector.
It appears that when a Colonial Bishop shirks
“ the heat and burden” of life in Australia, and hies
him back bo the flesh-pots of Old England, he does not
drop the distinction of his title. At least, we ob-erve
as announcement lathe World that ” Bishop” Tuffuell
will resign the vicarage of Croydon, having been
appointed to a residential stall in Chichester Cathedral,
with a small country living throws is. Tbe See of
Brisbane (Q) was the fold which Bishop Tuffnell de-
serted.
A Bathurst paper informs us that “ the * Ect.’
Mr. Cook” has consented to ieetnre. This is conde-
scension, indeed 1 •* Prices 3,2, and 1.” Wo are
almost inclined to admire Cookie. It la not often a
professional " pitcher ** travels several thousand miles,
and then " consents” to lecture. Perhaps, however, if
tbs (Bishop hadn’t been in the chair, and the Mayor
and nobs on the platform, he would not have •• con-
sented.” Of eoursa the ”3, 2, and 1” had nothing to
do with it.
The opening ceremony connected with the
dedication of Bt. Mary's Cathedral is to take place In
September, and is likely to be impressively grand Tbe
choral service has bean entrusted to the Rev. Placid
Quirk. O B.H. All the city and snburban choirs have
been communicated with, and Mr. M J. Fitzpatrick is
secretary to the committee. Mr. J. Delany is to be
conductor, and Mr. T. P. Banks, organist. At the first
rehearsal ItT) voices assembled, and a grand musical
festival is anticipated.
Requietcat in pace. — A Mongolian “pegged out”
in a country town not leng ago, and his co-religionists
employed a 0.8. clergyman to perform some kind of a
funeral rite, but the minister explained to the mourners
and spectators that as deceased had not during life seen
•ye to eye with Christians on soma religious points, it
would be against the rule of the Goureh to accord
Christian burial in the usual “ Man that is born of a
woman” style. He thought, however, he could »ee his
way ont of the difficulty, and (possibly being unwilling
to throw .away a good fee) read over the remains a
Collect from the Prayer Book designed to ensure favour-
able notice to Pagans and Infidels. Everybody (includ-
ing the Chinks) were quite satisfied. The " botemnizn-
tion of Matrimony” service would probably have terred
nil purposes just as well.
It has been the fashion in the Midlands in Whit-
sun week for the vicars of certain towns to invite the
Salvation Army to attend a special service in their
churches at which the latter wore to forego their little
peculiarities and listen attentively to an address from a
mem her of the Established communion. At Leamington,
on Whlt-Monday, the proceedings passed cfl in the
orthodox manner, but at Coventry eueh was net the
ease. The curate was advertised to preach, but before
ha could gain the shelter of the pulpit, one of the officers
of the “ Army " had secured possession of that vantage
point, and immediately began to harangue tbe congre-
gation. Never before has the grand old church of
Bt. Michael’s resounded with secular tunes, but when
this manoeuvre was witnessed tbe orator was met with
a waving of poeketbandkerebiefs and the singing of
"Anld lang syne” and "He’s a jolly good fallow.”
The rector of the parish has wi ely decided upon not
inviting them again.
The chief of the English Salvation Army has
got a letter from Mr. John Bright, in which Mr. B
says that the people who annoy the “Army” would
have mobbed the Apostles. Possibly ; but the Apostles
did a good m&uy things which wool ! have been highly
inconvenient In largely-popuUtod cities under modern
surroundings. Says an English writer, in reference
to this !—“Last Sunday night a regiment of tde
‘army’ remained for an hour outside the house of a
friend of mine who was lying dangerously ill. For an
hour and a half they shouted and shrieked. Fourteen
women played banjoes ; there were four trumpet', and
two men played tea boues. No », I put it to Mr. Bright
it one of his family had been at death’s door, and quiet
was of the greatest consequence to the invalid, what
would he have thought of the Salvation A>my? I
have yet to learn that the ApoatUs were accompanied
by ladies with banjoes, or tb .t tti«y, themselves, per-
formed upon the trumpet and the bones.”
Archbishop Vaughan, of Sydney, haa very
cleverly manipu’ated the Irish clergy of his diocese,
but it is evident that his brother, the Bishop of Salford,
and his Milesian subordinates are at war. It appears
that Dr. Vaughan has prohibited all the priests under
his jurisdiction from taking part in politics, and this
is (how one of the gentlemen in bUok lets one at his
lordship:—" This miserable attempt of Bishop Vaughan
to fetter and muzzle his Irish clergy is well known, and
clearly understood throughout bis diocese. ... Ho
does not like any of his priests ta enjoy a popularity he
has failed to gain for himself. As a politician he has
turned out a miserable failure. He commenced bis
episcopate with honeyed woids, but he very soon manl-
fested his anti-Irish feelings. ‘ The voice was the voiee
of Jacob, but the bauds were the hands of Esau ' He
is a Jingo and a Tory of the deepest dye, and on every
public occasion he appeared as a politician he was con-
spiouons fer his hostility to the p illtical aspirations
and interests of his * beloved Irish children.’ ”
The “ Rev.’’ Joe Cook, the “ celebrated theo-
logical lecturer,” of Boston, has added to his ottur
"shows” a “ question-box ’’ lecture. He advertised
for several days that on a given evening, written ques-
tions upon spiritual and religions matters would be
read out and answered. A logical free fight was natur-
ally anticipated, and the “ great champion of ortho-
doxy” was going to knock spots indiscriminately out
of allcomers. We cannot help pausing for a moment
hero to do reverent homage to the phenomenal modesty
of a stranger who thus coolly matched himself against
the cultured doubt of a community of whose intellec-
tual resources he was, of necessity, utterly ignorant.
He stood as the invincible armour-clad champion of a
venerable creed, defying, Ajax-like, the lightning of
the sharers of scepticisms promulgated by many of the
master-minds of the age. At the outset of the lecture,
Joe announced, in tragic tones, that he had before him
the “ secret doubts ” of bin audience. Naturally, one
would have expected that a champion of the creed of
the meek and mild Jesus would have treated those
"secret doubts," which may have been stumbling,
blocks to many decent men’s peace of mind, with
tenderness, If not kindness. Not so He was both
discourteous and unfair in replying to some questions.
Others he did not deign to answer ar, all. Mr. Cook,
flora the outset, assumed the unwarrantable position
that every question was intended a« an intellectual
poser for himself. All those t hat did not seem worthy
of his logical acumen, ho ca°t disdainfully aside with
some such sneer as “ This writer had better get
a literary education.” ‘ This is a very pueiile
q isstion ” "a week’s study of metuph, sics wonld
Ido this man good." And so r.n—imputing iln-
i-ter motives t questions which nay have been
submitted m perfect good faith, and which, though
apparently so pu-oul# to the * celebrated Boston
lecturer,” may have r-een very stiff theologies! fsaoes
for the poor benighted esqulrsrs To an ordinary man,
it would seem that the simpler the question the more
ready and easy should be the answer. To one of the
“ weret doubts,” Joe replied i—” Bit we will look be-
hind the question to the spirit that animates It.” Then
followed a scathing dennnelatlou of the unfortnuate
writer, who happened, curiously enough, to be a moat
pious, inoffensive, old Wesleyan. The poor fellow had
been taking a big doso of his Bible at one sitting, and
had got mixed 1 A gentleman, whose inability to re-
solve certain doctrinal points had caused him to reliu.
fniah a long-conceived Idea of entering the Ministry,
sent Mr. Cook a list of questions concerning " faith”
and “ omnipotence," enclosing also his card and ad-
dress. We are assured that they were earnest ques-
tions, and that the don bter waited eagerly and anxiously
for their resolution. They were dismissed in a breath
hy “ And here, my friends are a lot of questions
which I hare answered in my previous remarks.” Won-
derfnl man I Ho knew without reading the questions
what they were and that they had been answered. Such
a flippant farce as this stamps Joseph Cook as a lectur-
ing mountebank, whose inordinate vanity is only
equalled by his uuabasbable effrontery. And none so
slckeningly sensitive as he to advets* criticism. He
stated that *• a book must go through ten editions in
m many years" before be would deigu to reply to it.
Yet, he devoted one-sixth of his time daring this
lecture to invective and satire against an article pub-
lished in the second issue of an obscure Sydney journal
of whose existence, even, not one in a hundred of bis
audience could have been aware. This Boston Joe is
the loveliest of all Holy Joes the Sydney people have
ever been deluded by.
• • #
“ General Abe Buford " is the name of a gospel-
lecturer in Kentucky. His principal theory is that
there are horses in heaven Sir Arthur and Lady
Gordon were partial to Christchurch, N Z., on account
of the “ High Church " oliqneism there A Notting-
ham “Minister of the Gospel" has been sentenced to
two years’ hard labour for debauching young girls who
attended his services... The Rector of Chaetleton, Eng.,
has been suspended by his Bishop to answer a complaint
of his parishioners that he is a giddy old boy. A pupil-
teacher, Miss Elizabeth Marnes, figures in the business.
A minister at Richmond (Va >, recently swooned
while marrying his old sweetheart to another man
The rumour that the Archbishop of Canterbury will
resign unless his health improves soon is not contra-
dicted There is a marked increase in the number of
theological students in Germany. In 1870 there were
1536; last year 2381 The Rev. Mr. Chalmers was, at
last advices, seriously ill at Port Moresby, New Guinea,
and several native teai hers have died of fever.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
THE WAR AGAINST EGYPT.
Admiral Sir F. B. Seymour instructed to limit
his movements in Alexandria to police measures and
defensive operations Panic amongst Europeans at
Port Bold Considered probable that Suez Canal will
be closed shortly lor a time At Tautab, Arabs at-
tacked Europeans, murdering some hundreds Arab!
Patsha out oft Alexandrian water supply Conference
decided that question of protecticn of Suez Canal is
outside ef general Egyptian policy Ascertained that
1100 houses were destroyed during burning of Alex-
andria Dervish Pasha recalled to Constantinople
Arab! Bey levying taxes and making general requisi-
tions tor support of his army Tuikey’s reply to
identical note of the European Powers considered
evasive < ir Garnet Wolseley, G.C.B , GC.M.G., to
take supreme command of British troops in Egypt;
General Adye chief of staff Arab! Pasha declared a
rebel by Khedive j Arab! in his turn denounced
Khedive as oelng leagued with foreigners against bis
country and religion, and announced a crusade
Novu Scotia offers to raise a regiment for Egyptian
service General order issued in England for reserves
to join battalions by August 2nd Two trans-
ports, with troops, left Bombay on July 22nd Lieu-
tenant-General Frederic S. Roberts, Y.C., arrived at
Suez Spanish Government co-operating to protect
Suez Canal On July 22nd Arabi Pasha was strongly
entrenched about eight miles from Alexandria, be-
tween two lakes, bis position being assailable only by a
causeway Crusade against all resident Europeans;
butcheries prevalent, 38 persons massacred in presence
ef Arabi Pasha Gladstone obtained war credit of
£2,300,000; this now said to be insufficient Italy
mobilising troops Officer of aStamboul mai, steamer
arrested with documents in his possession proving him
to be an intermediary between Arabi Pasha and the
Pan-Xslamio committee in Turkey Ell. 11. the Duke
of Connaught, Sir Archibald Alison, K.C.8., and Sir
Evelyn Wood, K.C.8., appointed to command
brigades serving in Egypt British forces
to occupy Egypt will be 10,000 men of
all arms; strength of Indian contingent not definitely
stated British troops and marines blowup line of
railway outside Alexandria, and dispersed some few
detachments of Arabi's cavalry Other British army
divisional appointments are—First division, Lieutenant
General G. H. B. Willis; second division. Lieutenant
General Sir B. Hamley; cavalry, Major General Lowe :
Royal Artillery, Colonel W. H. Goodenough; Rojnl
engineers, Colonei 0. B. Nugent Infantry sail from
England on August 4; cavalry on August 9th 1100
troops, principally from Malto, were at Alexandria ou
July 34, under present command of Major General Sir
Archibald Alison Austria holding aloof Irom inter-
national communications On July 22, Arabi Pasha
convoked an Assemblage of the Egyptian Notables, and
compelled them to pass a decree deposing the Khe-
dive, Tewfik Pasta, on the ground that he hail
acted traitorously to his country and religion
tOlb Rifles a»d some sailors captured and held namieh.
Eari of Kimb.'iFey succeeded John Bright cs
Chancellor of Duchy of L monster Gladstone pro-
poses to increase Income-tax by 3d. in £1 to meet ex-
penses of Egyptian War European Powers decline
to intervene in Egypt, or to dispttte with any Power or
Powers attempting armed occupation France unre-
liable as British ally, except respecting protection of
Suez Canal solely Bntit-h expedition to Egypt wi.l
consist of 2400 cavalry, 13,400 infantry, 1700 artillery,
3700 engineers, commissariat, &c., and 3100 reserve
M. de Freyoinet asked French Chamber of Deputies to
vote 9.500,t'00 francs to protect northern half of B<.ez
(lanal; Great Britain protects southern half Ragheb
Pai-ha, late Egyptian Premier, convicted of conspiring
with Arabi Pasha to.depooC Khedive; Rjgheb's dir-
missal probable.
• * *
la Ireland, Judge Fitzgerald resigned rather than
administer Coercion law Chief Commissioner of
Dublin Police Foice resigned Man named Uulegate
in London confessed that ho constructed forty cloak
work internal maohinea to order of American Fenians ;
some of these machines found concealed in cement ou
board the ship Fanny Parnell, at Liverpool Brad-
laugh charged wiili blasphemy in a freelhought publi.
cation; committed for trial M'Kemzie, Regers,
Benton, Evans, and Shakespear, the Manchester next-
of-kin swindlers, sentenced to two years’ imprison-
ment Union Bank of Australia, London, declared
dividend of 8 ; er cent Dr. Luck, of Ramsgate Col-
lege. has keen appointed Roman Catholic Bishop
of Auckland, N Z Complained that the Orient’s
la. t shipment of meat wjh lein and mildewed... ..
New steamer, Moreton, built for Howard Smith and
Co., launch d at London Lieutenant Nareenee, of
Dumber,on, won Queen’s Prize at Wimb.edou Rifle
meeting, by 64 points Hon. Ivo B igh formed a
cricketing team, which leaves for Australia in October.
Australian Eleven cricket matches: Beat York-
shire by 47 runs, scores leing—Australians, 132 and 67;
Yorkshiremen, 68 and 84. Against United North,
Australians made 222 in first innings; homo team made
129 aud 140; in second innings Australians had lost one
wicket for 8 runs.
The Sydney Bicycle Club will hold an amateur
race meeting on the N.S.W. Association
Ground on Saturday, SMth August. There are six races
open to all bond fide amateurs who choose to compete,
so that the committee are evidently determined to
popularise cycling to the utmost extent in their power.
They do not, however, overlook the prior right of mem-
bers of the club, tor whose exclasive benefit three races
are reserved. The pro -.ramme of sports is an interest-
ing one, and, as the prices of admission are low, a
crowded attendance should result,
base is the slave who steals a label.
To be original who isn't able.
Our labels are being closely copied. Our
Calcutta 'J>a Association's Pure Indian Tea, in the
pictorial black wrapper, is now baooming a standard of
purity, strength, and good value, and so wo find frandn.
lent impostors, insolvent in reputation nun bankrupt of
honour, ore seeking to foist their nsnesoas rubbish on
the public In packets closely imitating the appearance
of ours. Bo not deceived. We havj only cue ware-
houe in New South Wales, and it is at 28 Charlotte
Place. Look lor the words " Calcutta Tea Association"
on the wrappers, an 1 be prevailed on to take no other.
—Anvx,


Hotel*, Jib.
G
U N S L E E’S
NO RTH TERR
ADELAIDE.
a
OBEET BUTCE
(Lute William Lot
WINE AND SPIRIT ME!
634 GEORGE BTRI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PEO
JIALLON’S PEIZE AL
J, T. FALLON in asking pnbli
WINES, and to the awards Kalne
intimate that he holds very large at
and the public may rely upon gettii
and in almost any quantity.
Centra!/ Depot
91 PITT STREET, ST
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, ’
NEW SOUTH WAI
These Wines were awarded first-
following Exhibition : —•
London International ... .
Paris „
Vienna „
Philadelphia „
Also ai the various Lutercol >«ial 1
toria. New South Wales, Queens
< LASH, and 2 SECON D-OLAS
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBIT!
Business Annotmcemc
A
M
EJ
O
o
2
33«
NGAPJiY
OP
TiflTeOT*
7
Tobacconist*
TO SMOKEKS WHO PROFESS TO
amkbican TOBAI
The foil©wins facts are comri
resources, and, therefore, sho
specialinterest.
DIXBOH AND S>ONR paid dutr in 1!
All the others paid dnty in 1880 on ,
DIXSUN AhD SONB paid dnty in 11
All the others paid dnty in 1881 on ,
Imported manufactured tobacco paaa
<m for the two years wa« 0n1y...
HIXSON AND SON’S BRA]
YANKED DOODLE. CO
SIR ROGER. GOLD
CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are
genuine "Tin Tao," each ping
Bound Sinope Tin Tao. etar
queroe” or *■ y ANKEE D
AT.Ti GOOD
5’ , * t C
READ THIS! REA]
A. SALMON
FURNISHING D
Hotels, Ho.
0 H N A . WII :
COOLALTA WINE C
119 PITT
VINEYARD-
STREET
COOLALTA, HR.
SOUTH WALK;
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No. 2 ~
Burgundy
Port
Vin
WHITE WINES
Muscat
Do. No. 2 ...
Do. Drowu ...
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta ...
No. 2 „
Vin Ordin»ire ...
M
AGNIFICENT THON-FRi
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony aud-gold, Bose
Imported bj ns direct, and umu
for this climate to the order of onr
Every instrument is WAKKi
YEARS. They sre of v-ry hsndso
are sensitive. nod powe
LOW pKiCtS f -r r.A«H.
EASY Tt'EMH of time paym
Examine end ta-t them before pu
All our PI AN S are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMPt
1, Oxford-t,treat; 613. George-s
Bui tilings, Sydne
Hunter.street, Newu-silc; Higl
Howick-street, Bathurst; A
burn; Church-street, Par rami
Brisbane.
No matter where roa live we will
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
jp LATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPERHANGIN
{a really splendid st
BOOM and PICTUKE-EKAME
KENT'S BBUBHI
GOLD LEAP. A
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK,
w
H A R
PROVISION MERCI
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 345 Kemt-stkbet, neai
SOLE AGENT for the tmdermenti
R. Wliittinjfham and Co.’s Lon<
Excelsior Mill's prize Viccori
Beucraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell's Victoria!
and Cakes .
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Con
A. M. Hunt & Co.'s Goulburn B
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, neai
316 GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & S
ißtuiness Ann~anc
USTSALIAN “Hf'A
SEWING MACHTI
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
liny* profit—are offering for salt
Machines that will not stand a yeai
&XPRESSJ
?s>t
a
3
</
CiA/
THE HOME SHUTTLE Li
Manufactured for ua, has ths abc
name on the work p:
PURCHASE NO OTHI
We solicit in'o»-mation of the att«
terfeits of the above Machine, wh
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genui
procurnb’c, we will forward them
Post Office Order
WE HAVE 2OW SOLD (
HAND MACHINE COMPLETE
TEr ADLE MACHINE, COMPLI
Do.. WITH COVER COMP
No charge for cases or pneking.
Circular post
M. MOSS ANi
WYNYARD LANE, £
5?
CAW 1
AMD
AIL
NO
•JJNION
MORTGAGE A 1
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEORGB-STREI
To Small FREEHOLD and ]
proprietor;
This Company i* v>'®P ar ®d to g
ja<« of freehold cr learetichl j r
unon t*'« depoai l -ot deeds, on coin
ou houses in course of t raction, in
repayable by the smalost weeklv
meet*. takeri hv the eociety in thii
ing will show; —
evtry £2O b.vr wee
£3O
£4O
£6O
£75
£lOO
and up to any amount at the a une r
For further information ah'flv at
WM P. S
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
1
m
S*9
0
GUINNESS’S EXTBA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BT ALL STOEEKEErE
MERCHANTS,
VIKG OK, SON, AND <
AGENTS.
MASON BROT
14 and 16
85
Hue always in
to the IRA
BALE BUTE
lEONMONGE
GENE IP
GLAS
earth
WINES, CEE
and


At the New Zealand Exhibit
Singer s Sewing Machine* have c
“or« them, taking a first order o( m
and two “ilwer me ials. The Now
silver medal.
BATES DANDELION COOOA
the mo.-t favourite of all housouoi
arnca the strengthening qualities <
the well-uncwn curative powers of
consequently is invaluaole for L.LI
plaints, indigestion, debility, Ac
packet from any of the priacipa
COULTER, bole Agent. 107 Suai-e:
It is necessary, during hot
beverages likely to heat or stii
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous
ibsolutely pure, is a most sooth i
■efreshing beverage. Be sure ti
BURYS COCOA ESSENCE whet
nutations are often pushed by a
4&ke of extra nroflt. Makers hv «
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURE.
RACING.
[We shall be glad to have this inde[?] petted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
Geelong Augusts.
Victorian Trotting Club August 12
Tattersall’s, Randwtck August 12
Hawkesbnry Spring August 24, 26
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 2,5, 7, 9
Naranders. . Septembers, 7
S A J C. Derbv Meeting September 23
Geraldine (N.Z.) Spring September 28, 29.
Melbourne Sunt Club. September 30,
V R C. Soring Got. 28, 31, Nov. 2, 4.
Canterbury J C. Spring November 7, 8,10
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Bendigo November IS, 16.
Msrrumbidgee Turf Club Nov. 22, 23 24
Canterbury (N Z.) Summer Jonury 1,1883.
V.R.C. New Year Meeting January 1,1888
Sydney Turf Club January 26,1883.
AQUATICS.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta August £6.
Newcastle E C. Regatta August 28.
Gardiner Cup, Mercantile October 28.
N B.W. Rowing Association Regatta October.
Krug Champagne Trophy November 2S.
Mr. Frank Punch's Prizes Sept ® mber,
Gardiner Cup, Amateur. December 16.
PBDEBTEIANIBM.
Bitbnrst Football Club Sports .....July
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports August Iff.
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports, Association
Ground August 22.
R. Williams v. W. Chaplin, 100 yards, £4OO,
Narandera August 26,
POOTBAIiXi.
Wallaroo v. Balmain, Association Ground July 29
Gleuhead v. Liverpool July 29.
University y. Bnrwood July 29.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Clnb's Race Meeting (Association
Ground) August 26.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Gentlemen of Scotland, at Edinburgh July 27, 28, 29.
Liverpool Club July 31, August 1, 2.
STORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The N.Z. jumper, Clarence, won eleven races
last season.
The Hon. Ivo Bligh’s English team are to visit
Brisbane and Toowoomba.
Edward Day, the English trainer, has “ filed his
shovel,” at Auckland (N.Z.).
Petronel and Perfume divided the stakes at the
Auckland (N Z.) Coursing Club meeting.
Harry Haines has been entrusted with a com-
mission to buy a jumper for a N.Z. sportsman.
The Melbourne Cup is being nibbled at in N.Z.,
several big wagers having been laid since the weights
appeared.
Auckland (N.Z.) Stud Co. contemplate sending
Bend Or's half sister Eosette to Sydney on a visit to
Maribyrnong.
The Australian grey, Lone Hand, has again
changed owners, Mr. W, Stock, of Napier, N.Z., being
the latest purchaser.
Christchurch (N.Z.) amateur ped. named Pur-
chase ran the distance nine miles under the hour fora
wager, winning easily.
Mr. Giffen, the American Consul at Auckland,
is preparing a report tor his Government on the breed-
ing of thoroughbreds in N.Z.
A seven-mile walking match for £5O and the
championship of Auckland, with taka place on the sth
August, between Hnokstep and Walsh.
The Waterloo Cup goes to the Waterloo Stores,
Sydney. “ Capri" is the property of Mr. Cooper. The
Cup has received its baptism of “ fizz.”
•Burke, of Dunedin, and O’Connor, rnn a one-
mile race at Dunedin in September. Barke is, so far,
the best mile and long-distance man in N.Z.
Mr. Pierce was, on Saturday presented.with a
beautiful shield trophy for bett all round play in the.
Sydney team against the Geelong team on Hth July.
Flying Scud won principal event at the Ex-
hibition Coursing Meeting, hold at Christchurch (N.Z.).
Mr. Q. G. Stead’s Buss ley secured the Puppy Stakes.
Betrayer is in demand for the C.J.C. (N.Z.)
Handicap, 100 to 20 being the best price offered. Na-
tator, E jair Bey, and Siesta have also been backed for
a bit.
It is reported that the Geelong Football Club
lost £l5O by the recent trip to Sydney. Truly, they
have received the beggar’s pay—more kicks than half-
pence.
It was the intention of the N.Z. “ clever party ”
ta have nominated Grip, Salvage, Vanguard, and
Cheviot—for the Caulfield Cup, but the entry was a day
too late.
Hearn, it is understood, has sent home for a
new sculling boat, and, should it arrive in time, ho in-
tends visiting Sydney to compete for the prizes offered
by Mr. Punch.
The Hon Ivo Bligh has succeeded in organizing
a team of English cricketers, gentlemen and profes-
sionals, to visit Australia. The team sails in October
by the Austral.
At the Papanni (Christchurch, N.Z.) Coursing
Meeting, Sir George and Como divided the St. Leger
Stakes, and Wizard won the Members’ Plate, Wanaka
being the rnnner-np.
Christchurch (N.Z.) coursing men have decided
to lay out 200 acres of land eighteen miles from town
after the fashion of English coursing grounds. A com-
pany has been formed.
The football match on Saturday on Moore Park
between Onr Boys and East Sydney clubs resulted In a
win for the former by three goals eight behinds to two
goals fourteen behinds.
A handicap pigeon match for £5O and a cup,
presented by Messrs. W. S. Harrison and Go., has been
arranged to take place on the Maitland Racecourse
on 28ch and 29th August.
Our Pony trotted Little Nell 2( miles, for 2650
aside, at Wanganui, N.Z,, and won comfortably, in
9 min. 2 sec. Little Nell over-reached and cut herself
badly in the second mile.
V.A.T.C. Caulfield meeting, next month. Sap-
ling Stakes, 35 entries; Handicap Hurdle Baoe, 22:
Amateur Handicap Elat Bace, 20; Challenge Cup, lb ;
Grand National Steeplechase, 25.
James E. Keene has shipped to England, from
£[ ew , York, the two-year-old thoroughbreds, Crown
■roint Potosi, Blue Glass, and Bolero. Among the last
are a brother and sister to Eoxhall.
The Cootamundra Football Club opened their
campaign by a match against Yobs, on Saturday, which
resulted in a victory for the latter by a goal to a force-
down. Plenty of broken bones and bad language.
At the Southland (N.Z.) Coursing Club’s meet-
ing, at i apanui, the Leger was won by Snowflight, with
Axahn runner up. The All-aged Stakes was won by
ms Boyal Highness, Lancashire Lad runner up.
Hay Bowing Club is in rather a feeble oor»
■*ii fellows take their girls out for a day’s
in .*he gig, the other members are relegated to the
necessity of playing ttip-oat in the boat-shed till they
nth ll a meat i u * of the mt mbers was held there, the
otner day, when a resolution to order a new gig anu
hava the caretaker’s shoes half-soled was carried unanl’
monßiy. ‘ The rest ot the evening was spent in a eon
vlvlal manner."
AT PAEEAMATTA.
The Club say—" Wo apologise.”
But Fish says—" I must have the blunt—
Apologias I do despise—
For me they alnt half sit/.flsh-nnt.”
Messrs. Mason and Yallance, who intended to
shake the dust of New Zealand from their teet, nave for
the present resigned that idea. Being naaole to sell
their homestead they bare re purchased Turquoise an<*
Btmdoora.
Triokett has neither purchased % quarr nor
started a boat-shed, as his bent friends .tho-gl". he
would. He has taken a rub. The Silver Grid, I•' irr.e-
street, is the house he has chosen, in which e .. to
sink his dollars or make a pile.
According to the published list of fixtur <•, the
Australians play against the Gentlemen sf SJootla. ' at
Edinburgh, on to-day, Friday, and Saturday, a„d
against the Liverpool Club, at Liverpool, on next Mom-
day, Tuesday, and Wednesday.
The Canterbury (N.Z ) Club have introduced
into their programme the following :—•* Prior to any
race, the stewards may order a parade in front of the
stand. Any horse absent from such a parade, without
the permission of,the jockey, to be fined 2 sots.”
Messrs. Stock and C. Batkin, ot Wellington,
N.Z., have purchased in England tue three.ion cutter
racing yacht Caima, built by Messrs. Watkins, of
filaokwall, from designs of Mr. Manning, engineer to
the West and East India Dock Co. Her model won
four matches.
The Deniliquin J.C. Midwinter meeting took
place on 10th July. Tha attendance was fair. Sarawak
won the Hurdle Race; FirstLlght pulled oil the Edwards
fiiver Handicap by a nose, after a splendid race; Pirate
won the Members’ Cup, and Peeping Tom the Mid-
winter Handicap.
The time may come when we shall thoroughly
appreciate a good game of football under ixngby
rules. That will be when two stalwart teams
enter the field, and one by one drop off fractured, until
only two are left to gather np the fragments and lead
the umpire home.
Parramatta and Bathurst played a football
match, on Saturday, at Bathurst. The local team won
by one goal three three tries to three tries. The play
was rough—that is, rougher than usual. A contract
is to be taken to remove the debits, shins, tieth, etc.,
left on the ground.
In the Wanganui (N.Z.) Handicap Trotting
Eace, for horses in single harness, one mile heats, best
two in three, Little Nell, with 3 sec. start, was declared
the winner. Time for first heat, 3 min. 5 2-5 sec. ;
second, 3 min. 8 4-5 sec. Mischief secured second
prize, and Oar Pony the third,
Christchurch (N.Z.) Jockey Club have decided
to hold a new meeting on New fear's Day. The prln-
oipal event is a sweepstake of 10 sovs. each, with 500
added. At their November meeting (three days), the
Club have twenty events on the programme, the largest
bill of fare offered in MaoriJ&nd.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Steeplechase, throe miles,
was appropriated by New Year lOat. 9ib.; Baron, 10st.
101 b, being a length behind. Seven others started, but
New Year and Baron were the only hors is who got
round the coarse without a mishap. Tne big grey,
Lone Hand, as usual, would not jump.
The Sydney and Petersham Football Clubs
played a match under Association rules on Moore Park
on Saturday, resulting in favour of the former by two
goals nine behinds. The Petersham players were four
men short, showing how much interest is wanting in
the success of the club in an important match.
Arthur Noud and J. Ellem ran a 200 yards’ race
for £3O aside, at Grafton, on Saturday. A good start
was mode, and, at eighty yards, Ellem had a slight
lead; Nond overhauled him in the next fifty yards, and,
for another fifty, thov ran together. Nond drew away
at the finish, and won by three yards after a splendid
race.
The following will represent Brisbane in the
forthcoming Sydney football campaign:—F. Baynes,
Blake, Bond, J, Burrell, Hixjn, F. Hargrave, Mark-
woll, Moore, Pritchard, Eansome, Eoberts, Smith,
Stokes, Townson, Welsby. Emergencies are to be
chosen from Boyd, Cntfield, Sheridan, St. Paul, and
Slattery.
The Maryborough (Q.) Races on July 19th were
riled by the previous rain, the course being a perfect
th. Empress and Sllverhair ran a dead heat for the
Trial Staies : the owners divided. Kioter won the
Town Plate easily. Destiny won the Sires' Produce
Stnkes, Sweetbriar the Queensland Plate, and Legerde-
main the Flying Handicap.
The Melbourne jockey Griffin was riding the
hurdle racer Huntsman along Queen-street, Melbourne
on Monday for exercise, and leading another horse,
which, taking fright, palled him off Huntsman, and
Griffin, being unable to free his foot from the stirrups,
was dragged along the road for some distance, his
clothing being torn to shreds. His injuries were not
serious.
Auckland (N.Z.) Stud Co. are importing three
mares from America, relatives of Iroquois and Foxhall
Old Sylvia, which cost the (Jo. £2oi)o, has already pro-
duced two foals sold for £2174, and £lOOO has been re-
fused for her last filly, by Musket. She is again in foal
to the English sire. Onyx, the mother of Sardonyx, is
also in teal to Musket, besides eighteen other mares be-
longing to the Company.
Professor Miller has been having a lively time
of it at Dunedin with the wrestling men, challenges
being the order of the nay. In the mateh between
Miller and Slade, for £5O, which took place at the
Princess Theatre, there was great excitement. Miller
beat Slade, as we recorded last week. Strong after-
wards challenged Miller to wrestle him Border style,
but Miller refused, knowing nothing of it.
At a meeting at Coonabarabran to raise funds
for a race meeting, nearly £6O was subscribed, ibis
excited the ire of the local parson, who rose with
righteous indignation and denounced the whole pro-
deeding from the pulpit. He hoped that the Lord
would assist him in frustrating the endeavours of the
promoters ot snoh a devilish movement, who onght
rather to put the same amount ot money on the Lord’s
table and assist to propagate the gospel.
Maryborough races. Second day. Sweetbriar
won the Visitors’ Plate, Kittlebreeks the Champagne
Stakes, and Blazeaway the Hurdle Eaoe. In the latter
race Frollo fell, but was remounted. The Club Handi-
cap was appropriated by Centurion by a neck, after a
splendid finish. Frootor was scratched owing to the
condition ot the coarse. Nitrogen won the Corinthian
Cup, Weatherbit being the only other starter. Legacy
won the Nursery Handicap, and Sllverhair the Fare-
well Handicap.
The Coursing meeting at Melbourne was a great
success. The Waterloo Gup was won by JJr G. L.
Lord’s Capri, with Mr. G. Hill s Maid of Obun as
runner-up. The Hon. W. B. Eounsevell's Khoiiantho
won the Waterloo Plate with Mr. E. A. Fa,k ner's
Fraser as ruuner-up. The Waterloo burse was won by
Mr. W. Watson’s Wanton Lass with Mr. A. L, Park s
Patience as runner-up. The Sydney owners must be
o jngratulatod upon their success; the victory of Capri
was a severe blow to the zing.
Mr. J. Duncan has been elected hon. secretary
of the Wentworth Park Cricket Association, and Mr,
G. Lucas hon. treasury. Several infiaential names have
been added to the vice-presidency. Hon. Sir G. Wigram
Allan has consented to be patron, and Alderman (Jimp,
man president. Mr. Evan Jones has offered a oup
value 20 guineas, to be competed for by the Association
dubs. It is to be hoped thtt arrangements can be
made so that the contests will not olasu with those for
tne Furness Challenge Cup, on Moore Park.
The Albnry footballers tackled the Geelong
players on the homeward route. As usual, N.tv Wan s
hau to bite the dust. Geelong, 4 goals 18 t ehinde;
Albury, 2 behinds. By the l ye, the Eugbypla yets are
anxious to let the public know that it is but a small
section of footballers who play the Melbourne ge me, and
that, consequently, the team that played hero against
Get long did not represent the real strength of tha
colony. We should be afraid of an interoolonle 1 Rugby
contest; tha party spirit fbat runs so high in the
cricket matches would flnl'veut in a football match ia
■Ome awkward mauling an,: °>Wbing.
Tha Australians a match against
eleven of the.’United Non US fiddle borough on Thurs-
day last. The attendance tpas large and the weather
fine. The Australians went in first and scored 222.
M'Donnell, who has evidently regained hi* beet form,
and may now be expected to constantly trouble the
scorers, played a fine innings for 82. Murdoch was
bowled for 44, and Massie for 31. A large number of
spectators attended the second day. The United North
made 129, Orimshaw bcinjr the highest scorer with 30.
They followed their inian a and scored 140, Qrimshaw
being again top-.fith 37. The Australians in their
second innr „s had lost I v, icket for 3 runs.
At the V.B.C. Grand National Stoepleohase
meeting, on Saturday, the bookmakers had to wear
their badges, and deep and load were the grumblings
thereat. They ware ail vsd to more the badges from
their arms, and wear t..om as breast-pin*. There are
79 bookmakers enrolled, and they pay *1975 per annum
to the V.RC ''enough added money almost for another
Melbourne Cup) Of this number, there are four
Barnards, three Colemans, and four Thompsons.
Somebody is contemplating issuing a work containing
the seventy-nine biographies. This would be interest-
ing. There is one case of a leading “ book" who turned
over his thousands without being able to read or write,
A pigeon match for the Champion Sweepstakes
took place at Brighton Park ground (Vic.) on 2ist July,
the conditions being nine birds, and 26 yards rise.
There were 31 competitors. The first prize, £B7 16s.
and gold medal, was won by Mr. Gannon, of Sydney ;
the second, £3l, by Mr. Hamilton, of Sydney; third,
£l5 10s., by L. G. Calvert, of Colao. Bach of the three
competitors named killed bight birds in the first round;
in the second round Mr. GannTO'klllod all seven birds,
Hamilton missed the seventh, and Calvert missed the
fifth. In ■ handicap sweepstakes the three fired, seven
birds each. The first prize, £57, was won by Mr.
Grosser, ot Adelaide, who killed all; the second by Mr.
A. E. Inglis, the third by Mr. Pearson,
Football, played nnder different rules, has, of
course, its partisans in each game, and various ore the
arguments brought forward to prove which is the best.
We have attended nearly all the best matches that have
been played hero under all the different rules, and
cannot yet tell which game we dislike most. The
Engby game is certainly exciting through the hair-
breadth escapes from annihilation that the players
undergo. There is a certain amount of skill about all
the games, but we fancy most is to bs displayed in
that played under Victorian rales. However, we prefer
looking at the Engby game,o.; account of the attraction
of its danger. We think that a player under Engby
rules has every opportunity to develop into a strong
and courageous man, if ho be not killed in the mean-
time.
Mr. Fred, Ironside baa been sustaining the
public interest in junior cricket clubs, and is now per-
f ooting a scheme for contests for the Furness Junior
Challenge Cap and medals, presented by Mr. Furness
of Cleveland-street. The contests commence oa 9ch
September j the best twenty clubs are to ba selected to
compete, the entries to close on 13th August. Mr.
Ironside is arranging some novel conditions by which
certain clubs will have a right to a second competition
in the next division. This will have the effect of mak-
ing clubs with the chances of victory against them
play up to the last to entitle them to another match.
It will also render the chance more probable of the
best club winning the trophy. A splendid wicket is
now being prepared on Moore Park, near Mr. Furness'
hotel.
The Wallaroo Football Club athletio sports will
take place on the Association Cricket Ground, on Satnr-
day, 19th August. Entries for the handicaps will close
on the 10th August, and for other events on the 12th
August. The following is the programme:— Place kick,
drop kick, tug-of-war—five men a side—open also to
members of clubs who have played matches against the
Wallaroo Football Club this season ; dribbling the foot-
ball, about 170 yards, on a zigzag course; zigzag race,
about 170 yards, carrying a football; apple race, 25 apples
two yards a part; tug of war, ten men a side—no entrance
fee; 150 yards handicap, open to members and ex-
members ; half-mile flat race ; one mile walking handi-
cap; 300 yards hardies; 440 yards handicap; tourna-
ment race, 80 yards, each competitor to carry another
member on his back.
There was a deal of excitement over the Univer-
sity. Wallaroo football match on Saturday—and, we are
sorry to say, a deal of betting. Consequently, the play
at times was rough, and the players were spiteful. Our
own quarter-mile Metcalfe had his collar-bone fractured,
and Winter, of the Wallaroos, sustained serious injury
to the knee-cap. H. Fliggalso hurt his knee, and was,
tor some time, a passenger, owing to his injury. Blood
was freely spilt, and it was not unnsnal to see a foot-
baller stretched horsde combat for a few minutes. One
player had the misfortune to have his trunks com-
pletely torn off him, and the players had to crowd
round him te screen him from view whilst another pair
of breeches was brought for him from the pavilion.
Although there was a piece of the breeches Jett, the
occurrence could hardly be said to be a breach of the
peace.
The Grand National Steeplechase meeting of
the V.E C. was held on Saturday. The weather was
fine and the attendance large. The Maiden Hurdle
Eaoe was won by Don Quixote, who beat Sportsman,
the favourite, by a bare half-length. Comet won the
Maiden Steeplechase; Spring, the favourite, led till
the last jump, when he baulked; Comet, who never
made a mistake, obtained a lead of forty lengths and
won easily. A splendid race took place for the Grand
National Hurdles, resulting in a win by a neck for
Ehesus, Lothair, the favourite, being second. Great
Western won cleverly the Grand National Steeplechase
by nearly a length. Chrysalis being a good second
Glenorran won the Selling Hurdle Eace after a grand
finish with Yon Trotnp. Liberator won the Fiat Bac)
by about a length, Scandal being second, and Respite,
the favourite, third.
Some of the New Zealand bookmakers have
b sen getting themselves into bad odour through making
soft wagers at the Auckland meeting, in January, with
a gentleman who was, during the time, ia a state ot total
drunkenness, and entirely incapable of managing or
undertaking any business or other transaction. Ho
“ plunged" on a horse called Clarence, who, of course,
did not win, and in one instance he is said to have laid
£5OO to one penny on that horse. He says he has ao
recollection ot the circumstance himself, but he believes
that he made the bet, and, what is more, has since paid
the whole or part of It. However, his wagers were
freely booked by several well-known bookmakers. Joe
Gallsgher,|Blakey, and some others, refused to have any
transactions with him. Ho paid his wagers in bills
These were discounted in many instances, and the
transactions in some cases were scandalous.
The Brisbane footballers hare arranged to play
a series of matches here under ths Bugay rules as
follow Saturday, August 12, intercolonial match
combined team; Tuesday, August 15, v. University
Club; Thursday, August 17. v. combined suburban
Clubs; Saturday, August 19. v. Wallaroo Club; Monday
August 21, v. Northern clubs, at Newcastle. Messrs’
Kaper, Brodie, and Shallon ate to select tin combined
team, and Messrs, fchallon, M'Lean, and Phillips for
the suburban match. All club matches are declared off
on the 14th nad 10th August. The visiting team are to
be invited to the Annual Southern Engby Union dinner
on 18th August, and arrangements are being made to-
wards an inspection of our beautiful harbour and the Zig.
Zag. The Brisbaneites were anxious to meet the Asso-
oiation footballers also, but the latter declined entering
into negotiations unless the Brisbane men forsook the
Rugby game, which rather impertinent condition was
not complied with.
The Australians defeated Yorkshire by 47 runs
The weather was variable, and the attendance ver.’
large, but the wiokets were heavy. Australians in thei •
f/iv ID oi ln S? scor ®d 132—Bannerman 42, M'Donnell 31,
Giffeu 27, Horan 13, Massie 11, Spofljrth (notout) 3
Garrett 2, Boyle 1, Murdoch, Bonnor, and Palmer 0 ■
su'idrles 2, Emmett took five wickets for 10 runs.
Yorkshire mace 68-Hall (not out) 19, Loudon 15. Grim,
suaw 12, and Ulyett 10, being the only double figure .
Boyle took 2 wickets for 4 runs, Garrett 3 for 19 and
Palmer 2 fer 12. In the second innings the Australians
were disposed of for 67—Spofforth occupying for tb.
first tune the proud position of top scorer with 16 (uoi
r." , Massie 14, Murdoch 10, Horan 7, Biiinenuau 5
Bojle 2, Garrett 2, M'Donnell, Bonnor, Qiffen, ano
Palmer 0; sundries 11. Emmett took six wickets foi
22 runs. Yorkshire in the second innings scored 84-
Hawke 27, Bat«s 12, Grimshaw 12 Boyle took six
wickets for 39 runs, bpofforth three wickets for 21.
The amount collected for Triokett reached
£5OO, the expenses were out down to £2O, and the com-
mittee were enabled on Monday evening to hand Ned
£450, there being about £3O to come in. Mr. Qarvau
presented the cheque and made en eloquent speech,
during which he took tkg opportunity of remarking
that N.B. W. was the finest country in the world, and
its inhabitants the grandest nation. Triokatt made a
neat speech, acknowledging the many kindnesses he had
received at the hands of Australians. Mr. Fitzwilliam
Wentworth proposed Trickett’s health, which was
pledged with three cheers. Triokett, in responding,
proposed the health of the committee, which the chair-
man acknowledged, and said that the committee were
the most patriotic men in existence. They had worked
Bave d expenditure, and got in more money than
nad been expected. Mr. D. u' ’onncr who of course
always must bo in it, proposed the healths of Messrs,
ruoholas Loakyor ihon. secretary) and Frank Hill (hon.
treasurer) v
The New York Spirit of the Times, May 20,
froths thusly with regard to Triokeit’s charges of unfair
treatment whilst in America:—”. N >one but an nn-
grateful dog could have made such sweeping charges
against a country whose hosoitality had been showered
npon him with most generous hand. Mr, Keed, of
Saratoga, Mr. St. John, of St. Louis, and several gentle,
men of Toronto, tpent much time and money in keeping
t his aquatic vagrant out of the workhouse, and receive
in return indiscriminate abuse. ... A man whos a
home is in Sydney, and who knows by actual experience
wnat wo all learn from Australian newspapers about the
disgraceful manner in which steamboats interfere with
and annoy boatmen on the Parramatta Elver, would do
well to keep silent about similar troubles elsewhere, tha
actual fact being that neithwr in Australia nor in Eng-
land are boat-races protected nearly as well as in
America. ... It is to be sincerely regretted that
the good impression of Australian sportsmen engendered
by the bluff manliness of E. C. Layoook, and the straight-
forwardne-s of Barney Thompson, should be marred by
the silly and slanderous mouthings of this disappointed
mountebank.” Rough on Ned, this.
v University and Wallaroo Football Clubs
hod line weather for their match on Saturday on the
Association Ground, and as, on the occasion of their
former meeting, it was thought by many that the wet
Rasa interfered with the fast play of the University,
it was anticipated that this time they would have tho
best of it. The University won the game by one goal
two tries to one goal one try, but it was evident, es-
pecially in the second half, that the Wallaroos weru
playing the better game, particularly in the scrimmages
and in passing and following the ball. The) University
seemed to be played oat after the adjournment,; the
Wallaroos kept the ball in dangerous proximity to their
opponent s goal, and many are of opinion that they
once gained a touch-down, which, however, was not
allowed bv the a apire. Raper secured first goal by a
neat drop-kick after having previously ma<>e an unsuc-
cessful attempt. Then Bennett, by an extraordinary
run, secured a tonch-down, and the hopes of the 'Var-
sity were high. Bat Brodie repeated Kaper’s feat, and
Graham scored a touch-down for the Wallaroos. Judg-
ing from the play, at this time it was a guinea to a
gooseberry that the Wallaroos would win, but the ball
being driven away from the University goal, Flynn, by
the most marvellous run ever seen, toppled over three
or four of his sturdy antagonists, and secured another
j iu™ his s lde. Time was soon afterwards called,
and the match was drawn out of the fire in favour of
the University Club.
The annual exhibition of the Olympic Club
recently, at Ban Francisco, gives an idea of the pro-
gress that athletics and gymnastics have made in that
city, and the S.F, News Letter, which speaks of the
audience as the most fashionable ever gathered at such
?? mthihltion in the Union, Is exultant at the suaoess of
the Club in *• making the pursuit of athletics popular
e ®" a blo.'' The programme consisted of general
athletic sports, pyramid ladders, gladiatorial group-
ings, parallel bars, Japanese ladder, double trapeze
boxing, clown act, antique statuary, fencing, horizontal
bar, perch bar, aerobatics, and tug of war; truly, wu
should say, a good list, though several familiar items,
suoh as the vaulting horse, Indian clubs, Soman rings,
SMj seem omitted. The most wonderful feat, new in
Frisco, is thus described Dali lay upon his baok o n
the stage, and balanced on the oles of his upturned
feet a heavy wooden ladder, about fifty feet in lenffsh
weighed not less than 150 lbs. Ward
?br^wfj addBr ,i by we ? vin * his body in and out.
threugh the rounds ; and when his companion had
reach.,d the top, Dali shifted the ladder from his tert
and supported it in his hands while wid exeouted a
-r£ nmaBtlC BVol ! ,t ' ona "hioh brought down the
immense difficulty of the act cannot be
< b * a s yo “ e try to balance a flfty.fcet
ladder on his feet, and when he has failed, then try to
imagine how much more difficult it would be were a.
man playing circus on the top end.” *
THE CHEMIST AND THE LAWYER.
A BRISBANE BALLAD.
It waa a young solicitor.
Whose name we hide, though we know;
Also a youth who retailed pills,
Aad drugs, and salt of Eno
(One's lot to cause, end one cure pain J)
And both had football on the brain.
Once at a match they had a row
About a kick or wy.ball,
When 10. young Squills, he swore as how
He’d “bust the other’s eyeball.”
Then Parchment of this was a hisser:
“ I'll land him on the bloomin’ kisser.”
They met, but merely scowled, ha! ha I
Of fury, glances darted;
Each savagely bit his cigar.
Snapped Augers— and were parted.
To meet, all in the morning stilly,
That day week at Indoorapilly.
The days passed on (we’ll eall them rungs
Of Time’s eternal ladder I),
And each man trained for leather lungs,
And each man banged a bladder.
And each longed for the coming fight—
Excepting when in bed at night.
The combat-mom broke bright and clear,
But it became apparent
That squills had sworn the peace in fear.
While Parchment had a warrant;
And, to the great joy of each man, ’
The fight was stopped ere it began !
Now, here’s the tag, boys. If you want
An enemy to kick him.
Don’t loudly round for vengeance pant,
But quietly go and kick him ;
Then, if he don’t kick back, dear son, it
Means pretty plainly that you’ve won it.


RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET, ")
600 GBORGK STREET, £ SYDNEY.
165 OXFORD STREET, )
OOULBUEN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DRAPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE ORIGINATORS OF THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
BLiCK BILKS, BLACK SILKS.
EXTRAORDINARY SPECIAL PURCHASE.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NOW IS YOUR TIME.
ALL PARCELS SENT BY POST FREE.
A Black Silk Dress is always fashionable, and is the
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers have pleasure in informing their
Country friends that their Paris bnyer has sent them
out the CHEAPEST AND BE jT LOT OF BLACK
BILKS ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers have determined to sell them Cheap
and give their customers a turn i
Lot 1 A Beautiful ®ros Grain Silk 45s "V
2 Rich Corded Qros do Sue* 60s |
3 Heavy Oorda* Gros Bay*le 80a J all 15 yt*mt
4 Bieh Drabs, Fawns and Greys I I
Suitable for Weddings orJeOsJ
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in eaoh dress, but Customers
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Special Silki will be sent, if asked
for, and we will send full directions for self-measure,
ment to Ladies requiring dresses made up.
All Parcels Paoked Carefully, and depatohpd by pest
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTHERS,
£5 BALE WAREHOUSE,
38S GEORGB-STEEET, NEAR POST OFFICE,
and 600 BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
JBS Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
X White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
S yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
.0 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
.2 yards Winoey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
S pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
L 0 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2-J yards Gambroon for
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women's,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerohiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons. Button*, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &e.
Mother’s AJS Bale.
2 Ladles’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawest)
1 Ladles' White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies' Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infante’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infante’ Halteord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
\ dozen Infants’ Diaper
Squares
Puff boa. Puff* Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christ’ing Robe
1 I n f an fs Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
ASS Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Cajico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
IS Men’s Clothing
Bare
Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
Crimean shirts, large size
best Cotton Shirts, large
size
beat Felt Hat, any sire
pair strong Cotton Socks
White Handkerchiefs
Belt or pair of Braces
pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£5 Free Selector’!
Bale.
AS 5 Ladies’ Bale.
Ladies’ Chemises
pair Drawers
Night-gowns
Ladies' Camisoles
Ladies’ Petticoats
Children’s Chemises
pairs Drawers
; Night-gowns
Petticoats
The above are made of
•ood longoleth and nicely
rimmed. If desired, other
.rtioles may be ordered in-
itead of any of the above.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
fl Brown Holland
4 large White .'o*
5 yards good Troisert
Tweed, Button
Thread, Ac.
£5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
. Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS’
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 Infants’ Chris*-
suing Parcel.
4 Infante’ Shirts 8
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants' Long Flannels
1 Hatroord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
4 do sen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Sqoate
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
1 Handsome White Mo#
Long Christening
riehly trimmed ■ . M
1 Infant’s Whits OsAMjfj*J
So none. trimmed guUw*
Square, trimmed
1 Infant's White Sath* at
Silk Hood or HfL -
Carriage free by
or Sbeamsr-
Stockman’s £2 Ladies’ Parcel.
Pared.
Pair Tweed Tro r ters
Crimean Shirt
Bast Cotton Shirt
Pairs Strong Hooks
Poekethankerchiefs
Soft Felt Hat
Ela trie Belt
Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by
oi- Steamer.
or ousaoior. w
Ve wish it to be distinctly
icie in the Bales may be changed ff>r *oa»
rat the same price.
RILEY BROTHERS,
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA
s
ydnet bicycling
AMATUEE EAOB MEETING.
C^UB.
N.S.W, CEIOKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
SAT UED AT, 28th AUGUST.
One Mile Seratoh Biayola Eae«, Championship of
New South Wales.
Two Miles Soratch Bicycle Eaee, Championship of
Australasia.
One Mila Handicap Bicycle Eaee.
Three Miles Handicap Bicycle Eaee.
4W Y ards Soratch Foot Eaee.
220 Yards Handicap Foot Eaee.
All the above Eaces are open to all bona-flde Amateurs.
One Mile Maiden Handicap Bicycle Eaee.
One Hundred Yards Slow Bicycle E&oe.
One Mile Handicap Bicycle Eaee (without using the
handles).
The last three races open bo Members of the Club onl;«
Entries close Ana-nut 13th ne»t (oa club
only), to H. H. Mtßae, Hen. Secretary,
Square ■ from whom aR information nan be
‘ Admission: Ground Is, Grand Stand l.s extra.
entry forms
d 9 Wynyurl
Cbtated.
Tickets may be purchased from E. E. Cole, Bbok>
seller, King and Gorge Streets.
SOCIAL.
The Owl ETyginx was excellently managed, and
it wi 1 certain!*- have to be periodical. The ladies, like
Parochial Dick, “ ask for more,” and, of course, that
settles it. Part one consisted of conjuring by Mopoke,
solos, glees, and recitations; the singers were well
received, Mr Hallewell especially, but encores were,
sensibly, not given. Mr. Davis showed readiness and
ability in reciting “Amateur Theatricals”—he spoke
too fast. A member designated Plying Fox, bat better
known up Waverley way by the sweet, smooth name of
Saponaceous, was eagerly looked for, and there was
disappointment at his absence, for he is good. Mr.
Solomon sang “ Dagli Immortali Vertioi;" it’s a nice
little thing, quite moral in tone, and everyone was
delighted, except one or two in the back seats who
didn’t understand Italian. An original farce, “D’ye
know me now ? ” was then played by Raven, Wren,
Crane, and R-dpole, and the author was fortunate in
having it well played. Daring these varieties the
President of the Club occupied an elevated ohaic front-
iug the audience, and when he was not announcing any-
thin?, busied himself in working up smile* of the most
protracted intensity. Very little time was taken to
clear away the chairs and start quadrilles. DeOroen’s
string band music was highly approved; so were two or
three pieces played by Humming Bee, of his own com-
position. All the company were in full evening
attire, chairs and sofas edged the four sides
of the room, refreshments were available at intervals,
and them was no digging—except what hung on the
walls—till four in the morning. There must have been
over 200 present, and, as everything was done in good
style, the entertainment was certainly a very liberal
act of the Owls. The programme, combining the con-
cert and dances (17), was a neat production in red and
gold. Moat of the dresses were gay hued satins, short
and shapely, belaccd and bedecked with such contrasts
and harmonies as fancy suggested. Light blue pre-
vailed, but many seniors favoured black. That’s
meagre, but we can’t help it. We never studied these
matters much, and are apt to get astray. No doubt
some ©f the dresses ware very nice to a critical eye;
but wa haven’t got one. On one occasion
we ventured Z 3 criticise a lady’s dress ; con-
fident in our own discriminating taste, we spoke
freely—and unfavourably. Though the friend to
whom we unbosomed was “ weak" in regard to the
ladv, he was strong in other respects. Our critical eye
had a puce ring around it for a week after. So we are
off" with dreisea how. But they are nearly immate-
rial; for, after all, what is the setting to the jewel?
what the dress to the dame, that it should be limned
and she left out ?
For there are charms above any that apparel can lend;
there are eyes that are brighter than satin ; and smiles
that are softer than silk, and stronger to hold. Con-
sequently, it was not the lovely hue of her buttercup
satin (hat made Mias Marks admired. Nor was it the
sable gif nm of her shesth-like garments that drew gazes
to another brunette : it mar have been the sunflowers,
for they were very near her face—but Miss Davies knows
best Trains are a nuisance, men say. But not always.
A long white train, with golden leaves and sprays, could
scarcely be in the way, if worn by Miss Morey. The
tal'est lady, in silver-veined white. Miss Pascoe, danced
well Miss Dind, by an extraordinary combination of
sky-blue and yellow, tried to divert attention from her
face. It was no use. And though Miss Jones had a
pure white «atin, nobody seemed to care a bit about it.
What is it? no one asked ; but all, who is she f That’s
all wo recollect, nearly. Many ladies wore sculled owls’
heads. We’d be glad to “ swap " our head for an owl’s,
and get it stuffed, too, if rj thought any of those ladies
would core to wear it.
• • •
The Auokland Citizens’ Ball to Commodore
Erskine and officers of U.M S Nelson was attended by
all the 6011 ton of that city, and passed off most success-
fully. The ladies' dreases were varied and attractive,
pink in both silks and satins being the most favoured,
while ortSiae and paie blue wore conspicuous. Cardinal
w-is aim ’st forgotten in the costuming, and black was
the principal adornment of the elderly dames. A
remarkable uniformity existed in the 'various dresses,
the majority being made on the new “ pointed bodice ’’
system the others being “ Princess robes," The lace
trimmings wore of various shades and descriptions.
• * •
Mrs. Cousins gave a nice party on the evening
of the 19th at “K>ita,” Pyrmont Bridge Road, when
there was plenty of dancing and other amusements till
half-past 3 a m The Pastoral Show Ball at Bourke
was very grand, tickets bsing £3 3s. It was held in
Kirkpatrick and Co.’s store; dresses were rich, but the
snobbish constraint of many prevented sociability
In Tasmania, ladies go round and ask for the return of
their visiting cards. It is so expensive printing new
ones From Auckland comes the nows that a certain
Maori lady, of interesting history, inasmuch as she was
educated at Lady Martin’s, and married with eclat at
Bishop’s Court to a gentle savage, has relapsed into
barbarism. It’s very annoying, after being so labor!-
ously “gathered into the fold.” A Bachelors’ party
was given at Bawdon Island, Hastings River, on the
14th, to about thirty couples On Tuesday week, a
nice “ small and early ” was given at “ Qoulburn Vilia,
Newtown, and was fashionably attended. A luxurious
supper was provided, the musical selections were
excellent. A noteworthy toilet had the low bodice
and train of pale blue satin, brocaded with silver
hyacinths; bodice pointed and trimmed with silver
fringe; skirt of a paler shade of satin, and roses in
hair At the last reception at Government House,
Hobart, the Governor gave a “hop” lasting from 4 to
7. At that town also, a certain lady drives ponies with
bells jingling on their collars A voung amateur
musician lias composed the "Joey Lancers." The
inspiration is assumed to came from far down Bourke-
street.
* * *
The Pride of Waterloo Lodge of Oddfellows
held their first anniversary ball on Thursday. The new
Town Hall of Waterloo will be opened in a week or
two, but in the meantime that suburb is not well fur-
nished with large halls, so the Oddfellows had to
migrate for their jollification. They came to Bailey’s
Assembly Booms. They are good rooms ill-placed.
Members of the Lodge, with their sisters, their
daughters, and their wives that are and are to
be, mustered well, and had a night’s dancing on
a floor that is not surpassed in Sydney. This is
simoly fact. Messrs. Tuff and Walker directed pro-
oeedings between them, and Bailey’s String Band
rattled off the 24 danoo tunes in extra good style. A
substantUl supper was rattled off with equal readiness
by the Pride of Waterloo, Ac. The locality in which
Mr. Bailey’s Booms aro situated is in a centre of trade
and industry, amid the homes of the foundation classes,
who are redolent more of toil than of foil. The salient
characteristics of the exalted society whose existence
is passed
In the rich-chambered mansions that shine,
O'erflowing with splendour, like goblets with wine,
aro not perceived in Hay-street. Nevertheless, there
are not wanting evidences that in Hay-street there are
those "who are anxious t» shine in the high aesthetic
line,” for on the walls, in addition to sundry peacock-
feather designs, aro several statuesque pictures sugges-
tive of a taste for the beautiful in the palmy days of
art. Closo inspection discloses under these pictures
their names—Calliope, Erato, Polyhymnia, Uranie,
Euterpe, and so on, ail presenting the female form in
attractive aspect. A habitus of the place explained
that though ho did not know them himself, Calliope,
Erato and the rest were, he believed, youcg ladles who
once learned dancing there. Among the many notices
inviting perusal are some which indicate that les con-
seit'iflcjs are strictly watched, and no breaches of
etiquette permitted. For example, No. 1 regulation
requests gentlemen “ not to enter the ball-room with
their hats on” ; while another absolutely forbids “any
gentleman to dance in the room without a collar."
This is occasionally felt as a hardship, but in order to
ensure propriety, it is necessary to be a little strict. It
is also notified that any “ lady or gentleman” making a
disturbance will be expelled. These little matters, of
course, bear no reference to the Oddfellows ; the regu-
lations are merely for the guidance of the yeung gentle-
men from the iron foundry or the ginger-baer works
upon their first entry into-high-toned eoeial life.
• I t
A cosy little dinner party was hold on the 19th,
at the City Catering Co.’s rooms. Twenty odd gentle-
men, the remanet of the Starr Bowkett Building
Society, assembled to commemorate the termination of
the institution. The dinner was capitally served, and.
at its conclusion, toasts were drank, and a presentation
of a gold watch and illuminated addresa was made to
the ex-secretary, Mr W. T. Clarke, who had taken the
post when the spec, was in a very “dicky" condition,
and, by his efforts and ability, made it a success. The
company separated early In the evening. -
• • •
A party was given at “ Lithgow,” the residence
of Mrs. and Mr. Pritchard (Mayor of Leiohhardtj, North
Annandale, on Wednesday last week. Guests —half a
hundred—had a good time till the morning hours
came. Perhaps the prettiest dress was that worn by a
merchant’s daughter from Bondi, black velvet and old
gold, A Goulburn blonde was charming, a*d her
sister was similarly afflicted. In shepherd’s cheek was
a little fair-hair from Balmain who havocked hearts,
while the hostess’s winsome daughters wore magnetic
in dark dresses and cardinal. Lots of musical pieces
were rendered, the ballad “Some day" being very
pretty, sung by a Leichhardt soprano. A well-known
amatenr worked the cornet. If this David had been the
one who played before Saul, there wouldn’t have been
any javelin throwing; Sani would have preserved him
at any cost. The popping of “ fizz ’’ corks reminded
of the bombardment. Special’busses conveyed visitors
town wards about 2 o’clock.
• t •
Monsieur and Madame Lefebvre gave a party
at Olivia Terrace, last week. The hostess wore black
satin and gold lace and flowers; her daughter, white
cashmere and blue silk and pearls. A lady from Victoria-
street displayed a moat handsome dress of lemon satin
and gold lace, leaves and scarlet flowers, gold beads and
a scarlet bird in the hair. A pink damasse trimmed
with silvered and gold grenadine, looked tasteful; while
two Tasmanian sisters looked “ pinkly" pretty. Bine,
cream, and pink prevailed. Guests homed at five.
• • •
There were about 15 ladies at the Boggabri
railway ball, and 50 gentleman. White muslin and
ruddy cheeks were the prevailing colours. First time
in the history of Boggabri that shiny programmes
with little pencils have been seen, and there was terri-
ble work deciphering the names—they were written
plainly too. Yet there is a school in Boggabri. The
ball was in the railway goods shed, and the quantity of
Apollo candles put on the floor was enormous; it was
rumoured, seven pounds- Clump-soles were more plen-
tiful than claw-hammers. Sir John and Sir Edward
were the lights of the ballroom. Sir John did not
dance. Sir Edward did, and all the ladies he danced
with have since put their gloves away in camphor-wood
boxes at the bottom of the drawers. No other fingers
shall over press those gloves. They’re heirlooms
now. It was when the time came to asaanlt the supper-
tables that the Boggabrians showed what they could
do. There has been nothing like it in history since the
locusts left Egypt. When the curtain went up, the re-
freshments were,
“ Like a snowflake on the river,
A moment seen, then gone for ever."
Metropolitan visitors asked the Committee to introduce
them. The Committee said they did not know the
ladies. Visitors thought this rather “ thin," so they
introduced themselves. Very few did Allen P. West’s
new glide"—owing to the construction of the goods-
shed, the easiest style was to keep the feet well off the
floor. Tamworth band played, and as bands are not
plentiful ttere, they were masters of the situation. If
the band wanted to slake its thirst in the n iddle of a
quadrille, it did it. And when the ladies got cold with
sitting, the committee would go up to the band and
with becoming deference say, “ It's about a fair thing,
isn't it ?” The band behaved well under the ciroum-
stances, and ware very tractable,bat the caterer is nearly
mined,
• • •
On the 17th instant, the marriage of Miss Chap-
man (sister-in-law of the tall Mr. W. 8. Targett) to Mr.
James Liddle, took place at the Vale of Clywdd, Lith-
gow. The bride, who were lavender silk and maltese
lace, was giver away by Mr. Targett, while Miss Targett
and Misses Liddle were charming bridesmaids. An ex-
cellent dejeuner audlspeeohes followtd the ceremony,and
tbe usual rice and slippers followed the couple on the
road to Mount Victoria.
* *
•
Members of the Dramatic Club at Singleton
entertained their president, Dr. Read, lately. First
item was a dramatic performance, which passed off well.
One young gentleman, with light early hair, wore a
black wig which just allowed the ring of auburn to be
seen beneath it all round, and the halo almost made an
angel of him. Excess of ladies at the ball which followed,
and of which Mrs. Read, in pink silk, was unanimously
voted belle. So long as married ladies go up top in this
way, the name of the township is likely to be very
suggestive of the maidens residing there. One young
man had fasted all day, in view of the supper at night:
when he viewed the taffies, his feelings got too numerous
for him, and he fainted. The healths of Dr. Bead and
the ladies were toasted, “Dominie" replying for the
latter, as he was supposed to know more about them
than anyone else.
• * *
At Blaokall (Q.) the bachelors have just given
their anunal ball. Great preparations were made, an
extra building of iron beingrnn up to increase the room.
Red hangings and evergreens made everything look
warm. There ware scarcely sufficient lamps, hut the lack
was compensated by the bright light from the eyes of
the fair dancers, who flitted among the foliage like a
new sort of bird, only prettier. That’s how one of the
bachelors put it. Tbe paper man tried his hand at an
inventory of what was worn by the new sort of birds,
but had to take refuge in a vague generality about
“ light gossamer fabrics,” for fear that faultiness in
orthography or his ignorance of millinery would lead
to some fatal blunder. The poor fellow had probably
made a mistake on a previous occasion, and met the
lady afterwards. He’d be more than ordinarily rash if
he’d risk a second blander.
* « «
Two events, which will cause some flutter
among our Gallic citizens, are on the tapis. The two
daughters of a very urbane French medico think they
cannot do better than follow the example of their
parents. A Frenchman and a Belgian, whom one might
well imagine to be Damon and Pythias resurrected, are
encouraging them in this beautiful aot of filial obedi-
euce. One couple will spend their honeymoon where
the native roses blow, and will have been two months
settled down to the duties of their menage, when the
second bridt groom, all elegance and nervousness, and
the second bride, all blushes and tulle* will enact the
Old, old drama. Vice Vamour I L*union fall la jsrcel
« # «
On Tuesday, the Victoria Hall was crammed
by a complimentary audience, to witness the pomedi-
etta, “A Winning Hazard," and Byron’s comedy,
“ Married in Haste," played by the Mercantile Dra-
matic Society. The performances, while not rising to
starry splendour, were better than many of the effort
of amateurs; the two ladies were self-possessed and
nicely dressed, and the attenuated Bainford managed
the stage. The Imperial Bind likewise entranced thu
intoxicating joy caused by tickets costing nil.
* m •
Events of more or less importance : —A scion of
one of the oldest Western fimilies mates a Randwick
belle next week Same day, a young gentleman from
the same district enters the hoiy bon-is with a email
piece of fascination in Surry Hills At Esdfarn, the
other day, quietly, the widow of a Civil servant to a
nephew of tne famous Millais of London .A teacher
on a Northern river taught a pupil Of 15, sweet words,
not in. tbe curriculum, and the honeymoon recently
ended Unity is strength, in law, as well as in tact.
That is why the daughter of a late learned gentleman
joins a young legist from the West Though nothing
has been heard of Skuthorpe lately j it is whispered
from Roma that a young man is iff possession of a
relie of that hers of the desert......At All Saints,
Parramatta, last week. Miss Alice Entwistla WiTfe grey
silk The reason —because she is Gerte at last A
gifted wife, a host of friends, and a high and lucrative
appointment, are what a banking official in Sydney got
by asking a simple question He was a very quiet
official, and they scarcely knew in the Money Order
Office about his prize till he was on the way to Europe.
• • •
The Blayney Musical Society had its first con-
cert on Tuesday last week, and we have a report of it.
It was a “ great success." The first item was “ very
mnoh appreciated,” the next “very well received,’
next 11 tremendously applauded," next “ very nicely
sang ’’ by a “ very nice ’’ contralto and “ well reeeived,
next “ rendered with great feeling," next played “very
nicely,” next met "immense applause,” next “heartiljr
encored,” next “brought the bouse fairly down.”
Then the president earns forward and was “very well
received," and announced something that met with
*’ great approval." It will thus be seen that the first
concert of the Blayney Musical Society was nearly a
pretty good affair.
** * *
The School of Arts Debating Class, at Maitland,
have grappled with the question “ Is dancing injurious
to society f" The president opens in the affirmative.
He wears “ twelves," in bluchers, extra wide, steel toe-
tips Not many miles to the south is a town, small
and unsavory. A fancy-dress ball was to be held. In
arranging a concert for tbe parsonage repair fund, a
lady of the committee pointed out what a good plan it
would be to have the concert on the same night ae the
faney ball, as the latter “ will take all the roughs away,
yon know." It was so fixed. The fancy ball took oil
moan, and the parsonage roof still leaks....... The anneal
Bullock Roast was held last Saturday at St. Mary’s, to
celebrate the opening of Victoria Square, and a day’s
sport took place At Auckland, a Mrs. Dal leu ordered
that all the young women of hey entering establishment
should wear certain shaped white o»ps. More than half
the girls left, sooner than be made dowdies. They
objected to their good looks being handicapt The
Riverina Masonic Ball was tc taka place last night
(Wednesday) at Jerildrrio The anniversary picnic
and ball of the Argoon and Eulki Selectors’ Associa-
tion to be early in Angnet.,,...ln connection with the
Singleton Show, there is to be a ball, in lien of a pionio
this year. Subscriptions are £’2sl in arrear Last
week, Dt. Ellis treated the Bb. Andrew’s choir boys to
a pionio and tea at Corroy’s Gardens, Botany. He joined
In their games, and kept them singing on the
journey home ..Alderman M'Donald received a
portrait of himself, in recognition of 20 years’ services
at Balmain; and Mr. Thomas Qlassop received eleo-
troware, for being Council Clerk On Tuesday week,
at Thatehsr’s, a number of novitiates were enrolled in
the Bulletin Northern Lodge of Bnffaloes....Next Tues-
day, the Newtown Volunteer Fire Brigade hold a plain
and fancy ball in the Newtown Town Hall, to celebrate
their seventh anniversary. Ik’s expected to be snug, and
the firemen hope to see all enjoy themselves
To night (Thursday) the usual gathering of youth and
agility will rink and dance at Glammis Hall A ball
ii projected at Narandera during the race week On
the 3rd August, the Stanmore Cricket Club mark their
third anniversary by a ball in the Petersham Town
Hall. Great care is being exercised in all the prepara-
tions, in order to make it pleasurable, and the hall is
grand lor dancing The race meeting at Narango, Q ,
was ended by a ball in the Court-house. Some of tne
gentlemen were mode prisoners for life, or ought to
harebeen. The crowd waslarge, and a bride and a yeung
lady in blue were belles—bluebells, we suppose
The Japanese naval officers belonging to the corvette
Tsnkuba, who are the Hons of the hour at Hobsrt just
now have completely blasted tbe hopes of tbe Nelsons
and Mirandas so far as the Tasmanian belles are con-
cerned.—,. A Southern constituency is shortly to have
double representation. The present member marries
in a few days A complimentary dance, also a
gold watch, was given to Mr. W. Peicival Hill by his
Glen Innes friends, on his departure for Inverell, to
which place he has been promoted as accountant at the
Commercial Bank The Postmaster-General's officials
are going it. One has gone to Europe, one to heaven,
another to prison, and a fourth goes to the altar The
Woollahra Private Assembly Ball, on Friday last, was
the most successful yet held, and there was the largest
attendance, over 150 present.,,...The ladies of the New.
town Private Rink, in recognition of the pleasant
entertainments in which they have participated, and
which have bi on provided by the —ahem I plain sex, are
now moved by an impulse of gratitude. They are
organising a Return Bali.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Liedertafel Social (Protestant Hall) July 27.
Masonic Ball, 10. (Town Hall) July 27.
Kandwick Bachelors' Ball. July 27.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....... July 28.
University Annual Commemoration July 29.
R.G. Bachelors’Ball (Town Hall), August 1.
Newtown Volunteer Fire Brigade Ball
(Newtown) August I.
Stanmore C.C. Ball (Petersham) August 3.
Victoria House Soiree (Nithsdale)., August 12.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports August 19.
Gymnastic Sociable August2B.
Sydney Bicycle Club Meeting August 26.
German Fair (Exhibition) Sept. 2
Poets Parodied.
No. I.
A GOAT’S INGRATITUDE.
(BY VICTO[?] DALEY PAR[?]ES; ALIAS“B.”)
She gave me milk for years, the jade.
My goat who milked so well,
Milk dropping in the “billy," made
Sweet mnsio as it fell—
The goat I fed so well.
When chaff and beans were scarce and dear—
My tale is sad to tell—
She dropped no milk, but dropped her ear.
The goat I once fed well;
From her no more milk fell.
This happened not so long ago.
The goat I had to sell.
Now rum and milk no longer flow—
The truth is hard to tell—
I do not feel so well.
The milk of human kindness turns
To cheese. False goat, farewell!
Within my breast as memory churns
That last conclusive sell.
Oh 1 goat, I still thee smell.
Sydney, July, 1882.
Tell ns, grim birds, wise, nocturnal,
Would a man do well—
From a nut to cast the kernel.
And to taste the shell ?
Should he take a book, and, finding
Each page gemmed with thought.
Leave the genius for the binding—
Do you think ho ought P
Should he, looking on a picture
Ail with soul aglow,
On the mere frame pass his stricture —
Would you have it so ?
No! Thou while it makes ns gush in
Little scraps cf song,
We, who Beauty’s presence blush in,
Will not do it wrong.


T
HBA T B E
Lessee
Sub-Lessees and Sole
Messrs. W illiamson, CUrne
YOUTH,
BIGNOLD.
YOUTH.
RIGNOLD.
YOUTH.
ETON OLD.
YOUTH.
SIGN OLD.
YOUTH.
RIGNOLD.
YOUTH,
RIGNOLD,
YOUTH,
Merrlt and Har
Great Dran
EVERY EVEN
Great Cm
of
Character
Immense
Saqoeea.
Seohery
hr
John libnnin
Odrtaia rise,
at 7.45.
Box Plan now open daily from
entrance, Castiereagh-streefc. Se
days in advance, and Tickets o
the house at Lloyd’s, next the T 1
Treasurer
Manager Youth Combination...
Assistant Stage Manager
OPERA
Lessee and Manager ...
THURSDAY, 27cb, 2l
nights of Mr. F. Marshall and t
BETSY. BETSY.
SATURDAY EVENING, Jul
KELLAR. KELLAE.
In his marvellous and world fa
entitled,
A NIGHT IN DEEA
Introducing, for the first i
"THE MARVELLOUS
ARNO, ECHO, PI
These beautiful specimens of
spectator at. the multiplicity ni
elenoy of th*»ir attainments—Ct
the most difficult mathematical
en two instruments choice mo
sketching, in a most artistic and
portraits of living or dead oelebr
Box office now open at A. I
street, where seats are now being
Admission—6s , Bj.. and Is.
Business Manager for Mr. Kellar
A I E I I T
Lessees Messrs. L. U, Bayle
ITHIS EVENING. TI
Greatest Production Ever Atten
WALTER REYN
New Spectacular Sooiel
VANITY PA
Amongst these engaged for it(
Mr. Prank Cates Mi
Mr. Jas. P. Cathoart Mi
Mr. H. Stoneham Mi
Mr. W. J. Foley Mi
Mr. W. Carle Mi
and
MR. WALTER EE"
GORGEOUS SCENERY
Entirely new Limelight, Gas, a
by O’Neil, Vincent, and triple stu
QUEEN’S T
. Lessees and Managers—Messrs
_ Steele.
TO-NIGHT, THURSO!
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS & (
to witness the first appear me
dis inguithed Tra
Mr. W. Jd. SHE]
Mr. W. H. LEAKE, spt
in Shakoparo’s gr«
KING LEAR LE £
EDGAR «
CORDELIA m
Uonori 1 " _ ‘’"'“'m
Supported by a Strong and P
NFXf SATURDAY,
Cassiiner de Lavigne’s beaut
LOUIS XI
Mr. W. E. SHE.
jn his great character,
supported bv the popular actor,
and Miss MARIAN WILLIS m
New scenery, Ac , by M-
Manager for Mr, W. E, Sheridan
Business Agent
Box plan at Paiing's!' | Pri
NEW TOWN HA]
8
OUTHS OPERA
STILL TO THE
The above Favorite and Talon
on their Southern Tour, a
TASS.
MUEEUMBURHj
COOTAM
EN ROUT
NEW AND CHOICE I
Address: BULLETL
H, J. WHITTINGT
TO THE OPEBATIO A 1
PHOPESSK
NEW OPERA
WELLESLEY STREET, A
Sole Proprietor, H. N
THIS Mavnideent Building ie
THE MODEL Opera Ho:
the Largest and Most Com mod
Erected oa lostoet models, it wil
•very Modern Comfort and Lax
the eartain) appertaining to
Theatres In the Old and New W«
is perfect. AH parts of the He
ana egress from broad, light, anc
procan Won has been taken to be
ease of Are, and the Auckland Cit
inspected and highly commended
to that end. Magnificently at
•t« Luxurious Private B xe«.
•heetra Stafl*, together with it
Stalls Accomodation, are faatnn
Colonial Theatres. The Opera
by the Williamson Opera Com
commencing from 88rd May next
and Ageut» r " stars," and Com!
to the Proprietor for tern
won.
SYDNEY Q
HYERPOOL S
LADIES* AND GENTLE ME
ALL BRANCHES OF ATH
G. H. d’HARCOURI
TO THEATRICALS A
THE TOOWOOMBA SCHO
been now thoronghly ron
tings, Ac., erected, can be engai
night.
rriHOMPsoN’s colossa
JL ZULU WA
Pnblie Hall, Greymonth, 2lth
Wanganui and Napier to folio?
Abbott’s New Theatre, Aucl
weeks.
Houses packed to suffoea!
M
B. AND MBS. J
(MISS MARSTON
Arrangements com ole text for «
June Ist, 1882, under the
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAM
BICYCLES AND
SOCIABLE TR
THE LIGHT RUNNIJ
The Lightest Banning and Sin
For Racing, Road, or Tourist,
THE BEST INVESTMENT OF
The Latest Novelty is the f
Cushioned Seats for two person
know what real enjoyment is, sh
TRICYCLES FOi
The Latest Design. Cannot U
arms or collar bonus. Travel wi
Sn Rm ihnnM Ko Mil
CROSS
indices
DROP
Will GUEB Indigestion, Heart!
Headache, Sour Stomach, and ev<
disordered state of the di
THESE DEOPS WILL CUE
Sold In bottles, 3i. 6d. and 4s,
and dealers in nae<
Sole Proprietor and ’
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viet
GAWLEB, SOUTH A
Sydney Agent
ELLIOTT, BBOTHEES. 1
u NDER SECTION
aet unioi
PUBCHASE of the BUNQA
PEEEHOLD ES
hy SnbseriptK
10.030 SUBsCEIBEEtj
120 PRIZES of the fall vs
T ~ , * l7 I 01 * guaranteed, cash
I**. P m « £40.-0 I hot
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO ( Lot
Lot* 5 to 9. Prizes of l
Lot 10. I Prize of £5O
Lots 1 1 to 2't 10 Prise
Lots 91 to 140, 100 Pri
The management is compelled
drawing to the first day of An
standing this announcement, tl
tiyely bo proceeded with seven
are eubsoribed for. All nnsuo(
have their money returned per r<
the grandest opportunity ever i
stantial prize, if not a large am
for £ l,
Address—«*ETH R. PEESSE.
European Chambers ; Box, Post
BEAD PEOSPiS
fJIHE BLACK CUBE
Acts like* charm ia everj
A Single Dose gives Belief at
Eefreshing SI
MADE ONLY BY
Chemist to His Ex
FUENITUEE! F
MAKE YOUE HOMES (
inTTTnn fro nwnnr n
w. p A
PIANOFORTE WAR]
852 Oeorgo-rtre
IflS®
i
rm,
i....
PIANOFORTES, PIA]
JUST RECEIVED. JUST
from tbe
BEST FACTORIES of EUROI
A splendid stock to sel«
EVERY RENOWNED
AMERICAN OR(
By the celebrated i
W, BELL ANI
Which gained first and i
TVER ALL OTI
at the
LATE STDN NTEENATIOI
H A R MO N I
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther RENO
in all the various m
A FEW GOOD SECOND.®
at low prices, now in
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’
Sonfleto's, Kirkman’s, and Ha
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.'s, Horace Water
and Warren's, and Smith and
w. H. P A. I.
852 GEORGE BTI
OPPOSITE WTNYA
SYDNEY.
Mr, T. P. DeCOURCY
(Late Depnty-Chairman of the IV
South Wales)
Author of this *• Miners’ Hand
MINING EX PE
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER,
MINERVA CHAMi
128 PITT ST
(Near King-stre<
MINING PROPERTIES - RE I
LEGAL IfiV AGlfW.fi TTT'Dfll
BLACK ET AN]
119 BATHURST STREET,
AGENTS FOE
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
S T
PAETICULAES ON APPLId
SOMETHING NEW UNDEE TI
The Uni vers al~S~ewi
Haa all the latest improvements Highly finished. Has the Ne
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Eace. Call ar


jp v£& * c N <
The IMPSBTSRB Of the TAEPI
MOGUL MIXTURE will proeaoal
eadc&vooxß to deceive tho public b;
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thei
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The pnblie are CAUTIONED to
bearing
* the taeping mixture/
MIXTURE.
Every p&Aot bears the signahn
thuy
Clifford\ Love , &
Th <m who ana flasbooa of harint
TEA, meat be certain that ever;
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which for tbe
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPINO MIXTURE Al
MIXTURE ABE QUAi
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Ageirtw-
r. BUTCH
WHOLESALE GROCER AN
YORE STREET, ST
N D
IMPORTER O
Plumbers' and Engineers* Breen
Oaaflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine 1
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe,
119 LIVERPOOL SPREE 1
James MARTI
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (opp
OUR STOCK FOR
Comprises all the
-OUR 1882 RELIABLE
STRING BINDERS.
Our 3 Speed
HORNSBY.JI artin
PARAGON
MOWERS & REAPERS W®OD’S RELIABLE STRING BINDEF
TAMES MARTIN & COMPY., 389-
THE RELIABLE
FARMERS,
GET THE
BEST.
THE BEST
IS
ALWAYS
THT
CHEAPEST
WE POST ALL PRICES. ILLUSTRATIONS, ANI
1882
PARAGON.
MOST PLEAS.
HOUSEHOLD!
TAKE NOTE OP T 1
I
WHEN PURCHASING YOUR
ask for
PANTER AND PA:
NEW EXTRACT Ol
AND SEE THAT TOD OKI
SUPERIOR TO ALL 01
BE T Washing and Disinfet
tion known, for Clothes, I
Crockery, Paint, Glass, and eve
purpose. Used and recomme
Laundry at Government Hoc
monr (Inspector of Nuisances)
(Orient Laundry), and by a
judges to be the best article ma
REMEMBER!
Washing and cleaning dont
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healthi
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAI
TO BE HAD OF ALL G 1
WORKS, 700 GBORGE-ST
IN THE WORI
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage. A
*
<s>
*
&
$
v
o
c
o
c
drinl
liquid yield
ORDINARY
«- SOLD BY ALL G
BLACK AND COLOURED
VELVETEENS, 20 DIF FERE
at
EDWARD HORDERN /
668 BRICKFIELD B
varj ing in price from Is lid to
"H/TYRA’S JOURNAL” says
JjJL NIUM ’ Velveteen (callec
name of the City of Manchester
Romans) is superb, soft, and brill
colour, fuller and deeper thanoai
which err on the side of blueness, ai
WITH NO OTHER BLACK MATERIAL.
The • M ANCUNIUM ’ IS so RICH i
CAN BE USED WITH ALL CLASSES OF
be of importance to many.”
SEE THEM. EXAMINI
"LA MODE ILLU3TRE ” says:-
CUNIUM ’ Une imitation par fail
Velours de Lyon se rencontre dans
brevets sons lo titre de MANCUNII
*'Ce Velours est brillant d’aspec
la durability de la couleur en sont re
quo par une combinaison de plusit
excellontes il est sans rival. La teini
®st garantie solid© ; jauais I’expMit
alt(srer la couleur; voila une raison s
lo choisissa pour remplacer le Veloui
*
a. muiiiivn, x uui
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES
Established 28 Tears h
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 15s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. .£4
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£4 4a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, ,£4 10a.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
; .
PEAPES & SHAW,
6EORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
