

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 12 3.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1882.
Adulterated Justice.
From his high place upon the judgement seat, Sir
George Innes commented with severe emphasis
upon the tricks of trade. It is an excellent thing
to hoar denunciations of discreditable practices
from a man to whom the administration of justice
in the community is entrusted. Sir George
deserves the thanks of the community for his
strictures, and merits especial commendation for
the aptness with which ho addressed himself to
the really shameful feature of the affair. It is not
only bad that dealers should cheat the public by
palming off inferior for first-class articles, and
adulterated for genuine goods ; it is still more
seriously mischievous, as his Honor pointed out,
that traders have fallen into the habit of justify-
ing their crime to themselves. The direct injury
to the public is, after all, the lesser evil. The
indirect damage effected by the lowering of the
whole tone of morality in a commercial commu-
nity like our own, is of infinitely more moment.
As the judge pointed out, traders have managed
to so sear their consciences by habit, that the
prick of remorse or shame is now unfelt. They
arm their bosoms with a conventional padding
which they call “ the custom of the trade,” and
imagine that, because they have become insensible
to disgrace, they are honest men. An offence
which every man commits, and which carries in
its train no present punishment or social degrada-
tion, is regarded as no fault at all. The age has
become so extremely business-like that it has
practically deposed a God who no longer launches
thunderbolts I or blasts the eight of liars ; and it
now regulates its life by the only power which
really meddles with personal comfort and self-
esteem, Social Recognition. Nine out of ten aver-
age citizens now-a-days would rather be damned
in eternity than be “cut” in public, and
the tenth would decidedly rather be damned
by his Maker than excommunicated by his priest
or eold-shouldered by his conventicle. The failing
is not new. It is eighteen hundred years since,
in a community tottering on the verge of dis-
solution, a greater censor than Sir George Innes
noticed the vaster importance attached to high-
places in the synagogues and to greetings in the
market-places, than to rectitude of life and love of
right.
« • *
Sir George Innes’s remarks were, therefore,
true, and called for by the condition of society.
They came also with appropriateness from a man
occupying the position which he fills, just as they
would have fallen with propriety, in the old time,
from the High Priest standing at the altar in the
Temple. And the truth of the declaration would
not have been affected, nor would the usefulness
of the public utterance have been materially
abated, because that High Priest himself presided,
with eerene and self-satisfied complacency, over a
caste which had become utterly corrupted from
its divine mission, and was actually remonstrating
against theft and evil from the altar of an institu-
tion which had become —admirable as had been its
original constitution —“a den of thieves.” As
already indicated, the most serious symptom of
depravity consists of the moral insensibility which
has supervened upon a habit of wrong-doing. A
sadder exhibition of that insensibility could
scarcely have been imagined than that afforded
by a Caiaphas denouncing iniquity from the
altar of the Temple, or a Judge Innes condemn-
ing tricks of trade from the bench of the Supreme
Court, each alike unconscious of the moral dung-
hill from which he was crowing abhorrence of the
condition of the barn-yard he saw before him.
» • #
There is no occupation, there is no trade so
corrupted by tricks and chicaneries, as the legal.
It would be vain to seek among grocers and bogus-
jewellery vendors for men who with less solf-con-
sciousness of doing that which is discreditable
palm off more adulterated goods upon the public
than is done by the legal community, or who take
more surreptitious and unfair advantages than do
legal practitioners. Outside their professional avo-
cations, all grades of cheats may be —and, in fact,
generally are—decent fellows enough. The man
who, without compunction, palms off upon you,
in the way of business, rubbish for genuine articles,
is often tender-hearted, charitable —even nice in
his sense ef right and wrong on all subjects not
interwoven with, or exactly parallel to, hia own
hue. So with individuals in the legal professions.
Personally, they are as other men. There are
among them the usual proportion of generous,
high-principled, and self-respecting men. In the
other affairs of life, there are plenty of them who
are all that doth become a man. But, in matters
connected with their profession, they suffer from
a diseased consciousness; they are affected by a
icoral paralysis ; their senses suspend their func-
tions, There is not a judge on the bench —there
has never been one—whose nostrils was truly
sensitive to the reeking odours from the mass of
festering corruption under his nose, although the
stench is so powerful that it poisons the entire
atmosphere of society. Courts of Justice, which
should be a solace for the injured and oppressed,
and a terror to wrongdoers, have become the exact
contrary: they are a terror to the injured and op-
pressed, and a solace to wrongdoers. We refer more
particularly to civil process. As to the criminal
courts, they are clumsy machines which complete
in a complicated blundering way the work which
the police and the lower tribunals cut out for
them. In this case, the State bears the brunt of
the expense, and the man who has his head broken
or his property stolen by open methods can
generally secure vengeance, if not restitution,
without submitting to further injury or additional
plundering. But in civil processes the whole
machinery of law has been so perverted as to
have become an instrument of fraud rather than a
recourse for the injured. The ministers of the
Temple" of Justice —barristers and attorneys—
have concocted for themselves a code of profes-
sional morality specially adapted to meet their
own convenience. There is no villainy so flagrant,
so clear, or so infamous, that a lawyer of the
highest stamp will refuse to help it out. No
scoundrel, however debased, need ever hesitate to
approach any lawyer, howewej distinguished, with
the object of hiring him "to prostitute his
talents by exerting these to cloud the truth,
defeat the ends ot real justice, and obtain the
seal of justice to an act ef infamous wrong.
Justification for such enormities ia sought to be
afforded by specious sophistry. The advocate is
not to arrogate to himself the functions of judge
and jury. It is for him to accept hia client’s
hypothesis and place it to the best advantage
before the court. He may believe his client to be
wrong—to be a plunderer, a ruffian, an oppressor.
But he cannot know that he is. That
is for the court to determine. Thus
fortified, tho hired advocate addresses all his
talents, all hia ingenuity, to convincing tho dis-
pensers of justice that representations, which he
personally believes to be, and in his heart is con-
vinced are, false and infamous, are honest and
true. Before him he sees a man whom ho in-
wardly is certain his client has shamefully
wronged or now seeks to injure. Yet he does not
blench or falter at the spectacle, or at his own
inward knowledge. He resolutely addresses him-
self to clinch the injury and aggravate the wrong.
* * •
Again, even when a lawyer has a just ease, the
custom of his trade habituates him to see the
appeal to law, even when technically successful,
defeat its own object. The successful litigant is
not infrequently quite as hard hit as the unsuc-
cessful. It has cost him two hundred pounds to
recover one hundred ; or, to defeat an attempt to
swindle him out of two hundred, he has to expend
two hundred and fifty. Justice has, under the
ministration of lawyers, become such a farce that,
in most instances, the actual allotment of the
original bone of contention becomes of secondary
importance. The real anxiety of litigants centres
in the question of costs. Legal proceedings have
been converted into the most demoralizirig sort of
gambling, with barristers and attorneys for pro-
prietors of the hells, and grave judges for
croupiers. Litigants have a chance of fleecing
one another, but subject to the certainty that
whoever loses shall pay heavily to the privileged
officials. Lord Brougham, himself one of the
craft, being asked to define a lawyer, said; “ A
lawyer is a learned gentleman, who rescues your
property from your enemies and keeps it for him-
self.”
• * •
Of course lawyers never over-charge. Certainly
they do—always. There never yet was a lawyer’s
bill which was not reduced if submitted to tax-
ation. This is one of the charms of the business.
Lawyer’s charges are carefully fixed —by lawyers.
If complaint be made of overcharge, their bills are
studiously revised and cut down—by a lawyer.
The amount so saved is generally almost enough
to pay the other lawyer who is employed to raise
objections! to the first lawyer’s bill. A barrister
sells his talent to a client. But he is not under
any obligation to deliver the goods. He may with
perfect propriety accept ten times more work
than ho can perform. When his client, who has
staked his very existence upon his ability and re-
putation, comes into the hall of judgment, the
eminent counsel is absent —“Engaged in another
Court, your Honor.” His Honor accepts the inti-
mation without surprise. is a privilege of the
—a perfectly understood thing. Per-
fectly understood by the attorney—yes. By the
client not at all. Ho would have preferred the
certainty of a less distinguished advocate’s attend-
ance and attention, to the chance of a celebrated
Counsel’s absence, and the almost certainty that
if he did attend he had scarcely glanced at hia
brief before he opened it in Court, seeing that hia
bag is distended or his office-desk heaped with
more briefs for one week than he could read, let
alone study and consider, in a month of clsoe
application. What lawyers call professional
privileges, laymen are apt to term tricks of trade,
and they are apt to look upon judges merely as
dealers who have made the best market for them-
selves. From this category we must, of course,
except Sir George Innes. It would be unjust to
accuse him of having soiled his soul with much
practice as a counsel. Everybody knows that, as
a barrister, he got comparatively little.
From Day to Day!
The topmost blossom of the tree planted in 1861
by our veteran statesman of the lands, has just
budded in the Insolvent Court. The whole story
of Robertson v. Day is a veritable epitome of
Free Selection and the various legislative con-
trivances that have grown out of it. As usual,
the scene opens with the squatter aiming at saving
water to feed more sheep, and the “poor man,”
Sir John’s protege, seeking to black-mail his
adversary, according to law. The famous Slat
clause comes in, concocted by a late Minister for
Lands, Mr. Garrett, professing to secure to any
leasee such land as he may water, according to a
certain scale, so many acres in each block. Then,
as the circle of events revolved, the Minister who
framed the clause found reason to change his
interpretation of his own composition ; in fact, he
read alljthe sense out of it, and consequently
strangled his own bantling. In justification, he
showed to the satisfaction of himself and his allies ,
but to the derision of all who knew anythin g
about the matter, or who could read Englis h
honestly, that the privilege conceded under the
31st clause applied only to runs of a certain shape
and size; they must not be an acre more or
less, or a chain longer or shorter; and a piece
of card-board of the prescribed form was used
by the clerk of the Department to gauge all
applications.
* * *
This official device was known as the
“ card-trick,” and its use was accompanied
with much jocularity. All applications under the
clause not conforming to the measurement were
cancelled. Well, it seems that while this inter-
pretation was still pending, Robertson had set to
work under the clause, and when Mr. Garrett
declared his application void, Day, the present
insolvent, a true agricultural of the 1861 type,
pounced upon the ground in question. Bug
Robertson carried his claim through the local
court, and finally to the Privy Council. As every-
one expected, when the question came on its
merits before the British Court of Appeal, Robert-
son’s right to the land was summarily confirmed,
and Mr. Garrett’s revised version of his own
clause was thrown out with well-merited contempt
—treatment, by-the-bye, which does not seem to
have abashed that astute patriot. “ The reading
' of the clause showed its intent clearly:’ ‘ 640 acres
dmt of each 16,000’ —or so much in a proportionate
'•area. Clearly, the matter had no reference to
geometrical form; the terms used made this
clear.” So said their lordships, as every one
expected who was used to plain language and plain
dealing.
» « *
The next stage of the affair was such as
we have got accustomed to. Government had
perverted the law to please its supporters, and
consequently compensation must be given for the
“serious injury” sustained through the decree.
Now, we get a glimpse of the button-holing
and lobbying that go on when a job of the Milburn
Creek stamp is afoot. Fx-Ministers and friendly
members appear hunting round in the capacity of
land-agents ; some professedly helping a steal out
of the Treasury from pure good-wili, while others
avowedly strive and strain to earn a commission
by any slant they can get. So it is no wonder the
House was “got” and the money collared—but,
on the plain condition that it was to be applied to
the payment of legal expenses incurred by Day,
these including the costs of both plaintiff and
defendant. In time it seems that Robertson
applied for his costa to Day, but could not get
them -. the money was all spent. The examination
in the Insolvent Court the other day showed what
had become of it, and what the trinity of Days,
the father, the son, and the —M.P., have to say
for themselves. The member knew nothing about
the condition on which the compensation was
paid—not he. The father got the money from his
son, and paid his debts with it: he never heard of
Robertson’s costa. The son gave the money to
his father, for he owed him that —and more—for
his paternal care. Moreover, he avowed himself
to be a true dummy. Ho never paid for his
selection; he gave the use of his name;
he knew nothing about the improvements
made; he slept there “when he was not
THE HON. BOYD D. MOREHEAD M.L.C.,
POSTMASTER GENEBAL OF QUEENSLAND.
(See next page.)


HOP BITTERSI
ABE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded, from
Hops, Bnchu, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Puritier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Aik your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Emms.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
©r languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive Ton.
If you are a Minister, and have over,
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties t
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Ton.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Ton.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or disslpa-
tion, or are voung and growing too fast,
as is often the cose.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve Ton.
If yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ttng,
Hop Bitters is What Ton Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning,
Hep Bitters Will Give Ton New Life and
Vigonr.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
sad you will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTBFIORE, METCALFE, ft CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W„
General Agents for Australia.
WILL SHORTLY RE OPEN.
THE HYDE PARK
BURNIBHIN Gr
EXHIBITION!
OXFORD STREET.
MBNDELBON
AND
DAYIB,
LATE
HARDY BROTHERS.
sgay.” He signed all he was told to sign, and he
•rood only to please his enterprising relatives.
• • •
Snch swearing is not often heard in any Court as
was heard in this examination, and we trust fer-
vently that such hardened effrontery as the in-
solvent and his friends displayed is yet rare among
oiir up-country population. But we have here
plainly realised, linked in a regular chain of cause
and effect, the abuses that come of a vicious law
administered for political interests. We have first
the strife between the two antagonistic classes,
then we have the usual ministerial action balancing
between the contending factions, and interpreting
the law, as the wind blows. We have then a
vision of political pimping—honorable members
struggling to found a fraudulent claim, and keen
to prostitute their office ; and the whole ends in
open Court in an exhibition of low trickery and
hard swearing; some of the parties concerned
being evidently well broken in by the habit
of making declarations in their Day-ly pursuit
as Sir John Robertson’s agriculturists.
We recommend the publio of New South
Wales strongly to get rid of a law that supports
such citizens as the Days. If we cannot regulate
to grow wheat, we need not make laws to breed
vermin.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Legal Difficulty!
The public require to be made acquainted with the facts
Ifi connection with the commutation ef Plombb’b sen-
fence. Since the colony has, by Sir Henry Parkbs’
.Bielinatlona, been deprived of the benefit of a Parliament
and the Influence of representative institutions, there is
mo way of extracting the truth out of the Ministry.
But, whether the public be denied their rights or no,
these rights subsist; and to receive a statement of the
Hoasons which actuated Ministers in overriding the law
•and a Judge’s sentence on one of the most infamous
ruffians who ever committed the crime for which he
was eondemned, is one of these rights. There is a
mystery somewhere. Flinching apparently at the
.criticism which challenged the commutation of
ftoxiß'i sentence, the Government have deigned to
■Bxocnre the Insertion by the Sydney Morning Herald
an obscure announcement In about three lines, to
the effect that there were " legal difficulties” in the
way of executing the man. What legal difficulties can
Mtese have been which, while forbidding the carrying
<*ut of the penalty to which the criminal had been for-
ijaollyjeenteneed, still left the Government with autho-
to substitute another? If there was no legal
ight to hang the man, whence is derived the right to
imprison him for life f The Ministry can have no title
bb complain if, owing to their ridiculous reticence*
bhe wildest and most incorrect rumours get afloat.
It is confidently stated that a flaw has been discovered
1m the indictment against Plomer, and that, therefere,
the government dare not hang him. If this ho the
reason, how dare they then imprison him for life f
That hanging is due to him, and imprisonment for life
tee mild a fate, we are quite disposed to allow. But the
irregularity opens a wide field for abuses. What can be
done In Plomeb’s case can be done in others. All that
will ho necessary hereafter, should a man who has
infinenee or friends at Court be tried for his life, is to
arrange that his indictment he faulty, and that the
flaw be not discovered till after the trial. Then his
sentence ean he commuted to imprisonment for li’e, and
that decree, after awhile, softened by Executive autho-
rity, so that, by the time public feeling had abated, and
the memory of the man’s crime had faded, he might be
walking about —a free man. This is no case for secrecy
and confidential communications to The Herald on
condition of complicity in keeping the matter as much
hidden as eau decently be done. Was Plomeb’s sen-
tence really commuted because it could not be carried
out owing to a flaw in the indictment? Is he now
legally in custody it that be so P And, if these things
be true, who drew up that indictment, what was he
paid for doing so, and will he ever again he entrusted
with so important a function ? These questions must
be answered. The sooner the better.
Tabooed.
During the time that the International Exhibition was
being held in Sydney, onr distinguished Premier, who
is at present the ornament of London drawing-rooms,
gave some indication of the graces and refinements
which were about to develop in his character—so fertile
•f changes. He figured, to the great astonishment of
everyone who had thought they knew him, as a sort of
colonial reviver of Lorenzo the Magnificent, and shone
with refulgence as a patron of Art. It is true that
his suddenly developed taste was not indulged at his
own expense, and that the fine frenzy which possessed
him rendered him oblivious to such trifles as the pro-
seeking, in advance, Parliamentary sanction
for the indulgence of his whim. But, as his purchases
were paid for in negotiable moneys, and his own
"paper ” did not appear in the transaction, the artists
were content. Moreover, the Exhibition had really
awakened in the community an appetite for things of
beauty; and although there existed a sentiment that it
weald have been preferable that the selectlen of works
of art had been made by someone of more ascertained
taste, and the purchases negotiated by someone of
stricter commercial morality, people generally were
well pleased that some of the beautiful works in the
Exhibition should remain in the colony, even
though a huckster from Paddy’s Market were
called in to make the selection. The outcome of
the purchases made at that time is a collection ranging
as accident, rather than taste, has determined from
abominable rubbish to noble gems. A costly propor-
tion is, we believe, enclosed in Sir Henry Pabkes’ own
apartment of the Colonial Secretary’s office, where
for all practical purpose it is inaccessible to the public.
Dut the bulk—supplemented by a number of splendid
works chosen by real connoisseurs, and not by trans-
Igmrod toy-dealers—is collected in the Art-gallery in
bho Domain, a gimcrack building in an excellent
position. That is to say, a position which is excellent
two days oat of seven. From Monday to Friday in-
elusive, the Art-gallery is really unattainable by
the people. It is out of the way of workmen,
eierks, and persons in employment generally. ButonSat-
mrday afternoons, and also on Sundays, the Domain is
a place resorted to by thousands. There are about four
hours of daylight on Saturdays when the working bees
are at liberty, and on Sundays there are about eight hours
wSrich they oau command. But during these last eight
Mfurs the Gallery is shut 1 The Domain is full of
promonaders. But our Government is pious. The
ppomenadere are at liberty to listen to the bawlings of
park-preaehert, or—if they prefer the muscular sort of
Christianity—to pelt them and buffet them about.
These are religious exercises, a«d find favour in the
eyes of such eminent professors as Sir John Robert-
son and Mr. Watson. But Art is sinful —on Sundays.
Trams and railways are somehow not unrighteous, and
even a Museum has mitigating circumstances. But
pictures—name them not in Gath. The people may look
at the doors of the Gallery. Those also are painted,
it is true, hut then they are painted by a
Government contractor, and everybody knows that
when a Government contractor puts on a coat, that
generally covers a multitude of sins. The pictures are
painted by artists, and have meanings and influences,
and a meaning or an influence is, of course, wicked on
Sundays unless it he 'droned from a pulpit or expressed
by the clink of silver—eighty pieces to the pound—in a
collection plate. The Trustees of the Art Gallery are
willing that the doors shall be opened, on Sundays;
they have submitted resolutions to that effect to the
Government. But onr Government are, as is well
known, keepers of the people’s conscience, as well as
custodians of their Miibum Creek and Day-Robhrtson
compensation funds, and, being moral and virtuous
themselves, are unwilling that the people should be
diverted from the elevated enjoyments of listening to
park ecclesiastics, or halting these divines, by the
meretricious allurements of objects of beauty, their
own property.
A Bridge of Fancies.
A mysterious apparition has recently flitted before the
eyes of the public for a moment, and silently disap-
peared, leaving no trace. The weird stranger took the
semblance of “a gentleman from England," whose
modesty prevented him from allowing his name to
transpire, and who represented a large firm of iron-
founders, also anonymous. This nameless representa-
tive of this nameless firm cropped up simultaneously
In two places at once; namely, in the celumns of the
Echo and of the Evbniho News of the sth instant.
He had made an offer to construct a bridge from Dawes
Feint to the North Shore, and hod “deposited a large
•am of money as a guarantee ef good faith," This
accomplished, he ceased t* exist. His place knew him
no more. Ne man ceuld iparn where he had deposited
his “large sum of money;" or whether his effer was
favourably entertained er not. What became of him,
remains a mystery to this hour. In short, no trae© of
the enterprising visitant ie discoverable save sundry
advertisements of desirable lots to he sold on the North
Shore, which happened—merely happened—to make
their appearance on the days following the announce-
ment of the nameless one’s negotiations. As there has
been some curiosity expressed respecting the identity
of the mysterious stranger, it is singular that so blank
a silence sheuld have fallen upon his sponsors of the
press, and wo may be excused if we surmise that hig
name is ’Arbis, and that his “ good lady ” has been
long and intimately associated with no less a person
than Saibet Gamp, and is at the present time in the
condition of the purchasers of allotments who rely
upon the bridge to give a value to their land, to wit—
“expecting.”
Sophia Perovsky.
Bt degrees the truth commences to leak out respecting
the character of the individuals who were concerned in
the execution of the late Czar. Till quite lately these
persons have been held up to public abhorrence in the ,
most ribald terms of vulgar execration. The men have '
been invariably referred to as blood-thirsty scoundrels
and outcasts —Ishmaelites at war with society beeause
so sunk in immorality and so steeped in vice that for
them nothing but the extremity of crime remained.
The women have been held up to scorn as unsexed
viragos, fit associates for such male companions;
females with the brazen fronts of street-walkers and
the immodesty of courtesans; women merely to men-
tion whom would justly bring the blush of shame upon
every maiden’s cheek; women who were a blot upon
their sex, and a stain upon the age in which they
existed. But already the mightiness of truth begins
to prevail, and even the St. Petersburg correspondent
of the Sydney Morning Herald, than whom a more
slavish apologist for the late infamous Czar does not
exist, is constrained to take back all his slanders upon
these illustrious martyrs. Of the men whom in pre-
vious letters he had loaded with obloquy, he now
writes :—“ It appears that the accused (Nihilists) axe
almost all men remarkable for their great talents and
capacities. Several are marine officers who have served ;
their country with distinction. They all behaved at
the trial with great dignity, and in general produced :
upon the minds of those present a most painful im-
pression, a mixture of indignation and pity, in which
the latter predominated.” Again, with respect to the
girl, Sophia Pkbovsky, the same prejudiced writer is
moved to say : “ The indefatigable energy she mani-
fested to attain her dreadful purpose, the extraordinary
adventures she met with, the privakions she under-
went, the undaunted courage she showed, all tend to
prove she was a woman of no ordinary nature. Living
as she did without care for her reputation, having
passed for the wife of one or other for months together,
it is now positively known that she preserved her
maiden purity through all.” This, then, is the sort of
woman whom every “right-thinking” blockhead has
laden with obloquy and abuse. To lay down one’s life
for the human race—to sacrifice the respect of the
generation in which one lives —to bo smitten and spat
upon—to die a degrading death, side by side with the
meanest criminals—is divine. But, although life is
dear to all mankind, to women there is something
dearer still—their honour. The honour of a woman is
so far as this world is concerned, lost when it is
doubted. For the sake of her suffering countrymen,
ground down by the direst misgevemment, Sophia
Perotsky sacrificed not only her life but her reputation.
Pure, she submitted to appear as a woman of loose life.
Was there ever so groat a sacrifice ? Can the cause
which enlists such grandeur of self-abnegation be so
detestable as it has been described ?
Vaughan’s Apologia.
Archbishop Vaughan has shown more than Jiis ordi-
narily slender share of adroitness, in his attempted
apology for holding the Fancy Fair in St. Mary’s
Cathedral. His Grace managed by giving the go-bye
altogether to the salient points of the criticisms which
he pretended he was disposing of. He made not a
reference to the charges that the ground whereon the
Gipsy told fortunes was consecrated as the resting place
of the relics of a Saint and Martyr. He was conveniently
oblivions of “Punch and Judy,” of “Mr. Bones,” and
“Professor Sambo,” of the Very Rev. the Vicar-
General twirling the Wheel of Fortune, and of the
capering* M prgfessional dancers round the Maypole.
His Grace professes himself satisfied with the whole
affair, in principal and detail. But this is not a case in
which infallibility can be claimed, even by an Arch,
bishop, seeing that there are Archbishops besides
Vauohan and Choke, and that, in this matter, even the
house of Vacshan is divided against itself. In a recent
pastoral, Dr. Vaughan, B.C. Bishop of Salford and
brother to Roger Bede, deals very definitely with this
very subject of bazaars for church purposes. The
additional enormity of holding these larks in a Cathe-
dral building does not seem to have occurred to the
Bishop. Without altogether condemning bazaars, Dr.
Vaughan distinguishes the instances in which they
are to be condemned. “As to bazaars and fancy fairs,”
quoth Dr. Vaughan, “very great caution and circum-
spection must be observed, if they are not to fall under
ecclesiastical censure, and their uses for purposes of
charity forbidden. They are often the scene of exces-
sive frivolity and vanity, sometimes of unjustifiable
extravagance. On the plea of charity, and under
the excuse of the occasion, young women press for-
ward In a way little becoming the modesty which
should be the chief adornment of their sex. Money,
even for charity, may be bought at too dear a
price.” Again, “If gain, amusement, and excitement
(without any reference to God), become the primary
intention and end of our conduct, the money we spend
may indeed profit the charity, but assuredly it will not
avail us for eternal life. * Amen, I say to you, you have
received your reward.’ These dexterous modem com-
binations, whereby a number of mixed motives are
introduced and tied up together, are not the most
excellent way of practising the sublime hut simple
virtue of alms-deeds. They seem to admit that charity
would be insipid or nauseous to our taste were it not
seasoned with an earthly flavour. They seem to say
that the pure gold of charity is not esteemed if it he
not decked in the flimsy, perishable tinsel of some
earthly gain. Our natural tendency is se strong towards
the tangible and the visible—towards present gain and
gratification—that we ought to he ever on onr guard
against it, lest it should neutralise or vitiate the noblest
actions.” Archbishop Vaughan has replied in his best
form to the criticisms of the local Press. We now
commend to his attention as a suitable additional
exercise, the framing of some sort of a reply to his
right reverend brother. For our own part, if we must
submit onr Judgment te a Vaughan, we prefer the
Salford one, on this occasion.
The Hon. B. D. Morehead, M.L.C.
The Honorable Boyd Dunlop Morehead, whose
portrait we give in onr front page, is a native of
Sydney, where his father, Mr. E. A. A. Morehead,
the well-known and respected manager of the
Scottish-Anstralian Investment Society, has been
domiciled since 1841. The subject of this notice
is mow 37 years of age, and holds the portfolio of
Postmaster-General in Mr. M’llwraith’s Cabinet,
with a seat in the Legislative Council. Mr,
Morehead was educated at Mr. Cape’s
School, where so many Australians who have
risen to eminent positions received their early
training, and at the Sydney Grammar School. He
studied for some time at the Sydney University, but
did not pursue his course, being removed in order
to pay a visit to the old country in 1858. On his
return to this colony Mr. Morehead was placed in
the head office of the Bank of N.S. Wales, in
which he remained three years, acquiring such an
acquaintance with financial business as was calou-
loted to be serviceable to him in his private career.
This gained, Mr. Morehead turned his attention
to the great industry of Australia—the pastoral,
and was for ’a time superintendent on one of the
Macarthur’s stations in this colony. About seven
years ago he removed to Queensland, where ho
managed stations in the Maranoa district, and
subsequently discharged the duties of pastoral in-
spector for the Scottish-Anstralian Investment
Company. While thus engaged, Mr. Morehead was
elected to represent the Mitchell District in the
Queensland Assembly, and became very speedily a
recognised factor in the political affairs of the
colony. Mr. Morehead’s attitude waS that of a
squatting advocate, and he long voted solidly
with his party. As he became familiar with
parliamentary forms and proceedings, however, he
i commenced to strike out a line for himself, and
!as a guerilla debater made himself equally
1 dreaded and disliked by his political opponents.
Endowed with a vivacious temperament, a
ready wit, considerable power of sarcasm,
and most undaunted pluck, he harassed the leaders
of the opposite party whenever an opportunity
occurred. In dead-lock episodes, his rhodomon-
tades, while talking against time, were remarkable
efforts, keeping a weary house chuckling and
fretting, according as the individuals were friends
or foes, during the heaviest hours of the most
trying nights, kr. Morehoad’s flights on such
occasions, and indeed at other times, sometimes
exceeded the bounds of what the objects of his
merriment were capable of enduring with phil-
osophy, and even the limits of what was due to
his own reputation as a man of sense and ability.
But he had no lack of either these qualities.
His natural talents, and the really solid parts
which he seemed to be at pains to disguise, effect-
ually prevented him from sinking to a mere Par-
liamentary rattle-brain. He became the recog-
nised leader of the young squatting party, and
the wielder of considerable influence in the House;
so that it was no surprise to the public when, on
the resignation by Mr. Bnzaoott of the Post-
master-Generalship, Mr. MTlwraith bestowed the
office upon Mr. Morehead, who, on accepting, was
accommodated with a seat in the Upper House.
The new Postmaster-General has filled his respon-
sible position with decorum, and discharged the
functions with competence. He had, shortly after
entering Parliament, commenced business as a
merchant in Brisbane, and the firm of which he is
the head ranks among the first in that metropolis.
He is best liked by those who know him most
intimately. What seemed like levity in the
Assembly is really the outcome of a natural
gaiety and cheerfulness of disposition, which
renders Mr. Morehead in private life a most
pleasant and entertaining companion. In business
he is respected as a man of uprightness and high
principle, while his unfailing good humour and
warm heart endear him to a wide circle of private
friends.
Our Cartoon.
During the small pox epidemic a poor woman’s
husband was bundled into Quarantine from an
infected house, contracted the disease, and died.
Dr. Clune, during the same scare, was quarantined,
and his practice consequently broken up. The
wife of the man who died claimed compensation
for her loss. So did Dr. Clune for his. Ihe car-
toon depicts the result.


VIBTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFP COAL.
CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, »d
18s. FEB TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner fire than any other It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle ooaL (nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumog given off by a breeze or gas Are
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMESS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
fW. THE G REA
mmi
ONE OP THE WOBLD'
OAESMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kir
a representative of one of the
the United States, Mr, Edward Tri
oarsman, who is at present open to
world, gave the following aa his oni
I
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
FEEEIEE’S BAKING
SELF RAISING FLOUR
YEAST POWDER.
This is tha most effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Cotmi
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with
This GASia much cleaner and more brilliant than cool gas, and, w
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity o
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic f«
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS,
Medalists and Special Prize holde
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINI
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
'HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitum
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
DAMP RESISTING SOL
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, nse CALLENDEE
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be s
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAT & BAYNES, Bell’s Chan
WOODWARD'S DYST
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEQ
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE F 1
H
[Established 30 Te,
ODGSON’S WHII
601, GEORGE STEEE'
near Qoulbarn-strt
B. HOD G S
Wholesale and Eel
WHIP THONG MAN UP AC
Every Description of Kangaroo and
Made to Order.
cinrmn.TT',
L_L
I- -
1
UTthtjnnmiilMiiiii
rnTJ^V*'
|67o| H. H lIP
TWt
Mit
HU
DER
Gq3 T
ERRATUM.
F*r “PHney Amateur Athletic Club” Sports,
under heading “ Referee,” read “ Sydney Grammar
bports."
SCHOOLS, &c
NOW BEADY, the School Edition of the ” ROYAL
HOAD TO GRAMMAR AND ANALYSIS.” by Henrt
■Eijelman, lie pages, bound in blue cloth. Price, Is. 6d.
All the leading booksellers. Copies of the Comic Edi-
tion may be had as usual. Price, 2j. 6d.
I. COLLING WOOD. NICHOLSON. FENWICK, v.
EDWARD IRBY.
THE Special Attention of all truly interested in our
Laws, and the administration of same, is directed
to the above action, set down for trial in the Supreme
Cenrt, Monday, May SOth.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY-STRKET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Lngiaes, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
H ? , wmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, with latest improve-
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and beat
Price given for metal.
Notice.
]V/rESSRS. FITZGERALD BROS, of Launceston*
T„-*- Tasmania, are no longer authorised to act as
•‘Wats lor the Stdnet Bulletin.
ar^ 88 ??- WA LCH BROTHERS and BIRCHALL
our Agents, and will receive subscriptions
a hd advertisements.
W. H. TRAILL & CO. ,
POLITICAL POINTS.
Who is Minister for Lands in N.S.W. ?
As the old day gives place to the new one, will
the new (k)night give place to the old one, in the
Agent-General’s Department.
Berry section of Victorian Assembly asks the
O'Loghlen Govt, not to deal with the disposition of the
last acres of Crown Lands in the hands of the state un-
til after a general election. I If the Govt, don’t accede to
this request, Berry will erect another “ stonewall.’'
The story goes that two M.L.A.’s were to visit
part of their joint constituency, to receive the homage
of the mountaineers ; that one of them “ slipped ” the
other, and went for the banquet alone; and that he was
met by a message: “No you don’t, we’ll give you no
banquet now,"
A writer in the Ballarat Cotteie b proves that
the cheap boots bought in Sydney are made in Ballarat,
and the firms make 10 per cent. An American Sewing
Machine Proprietary have a manufactory in Glasgow,
where their machines for the Australian colonies are
made and shipped at a lower price than they can be
supplied from America.
The evidence Mr. G. W. Brown gave before the
Select Committee on Education in Melbourne revealed,
inter alia, the fact that the son and daughter of Mr.
Biohardson (member of the late Berry Cabinet) were
appointed teachers against the reoommendation of the
permanent officials. Of coarse, Mr. Bichardson pro-
tests this is the first be has heard about it.
According to recent advices the Freyoinet
Cabinet in Prance is shaky, and Gambetta again looms
largo upon the political horizon of the country. For
lovers of peace this is a bad hearing. The return of
Gambetta to power would involve the revival for
France of a policy of adventure and revenge. France
and Buseia appear alike to be playing an enforced
waiting game at present, the cautions policy of the
Freycinet Cabinet having suspended the intrigues for
netted action which Gambeita is believed to have
inaugurated daring his last brief tenure of power. No
one believes that the deiigns of the Bnsaian Govern-
ment are really pacific. The bland declarations of the
Czar to that effect have an under tone of salky resent-
ment. Russia is isolated for the moment, and obliged,
for prudential reasons, to put up with the swaggering
affront* which Germany and Austria hare offered her.
Bat it Is not likely that the nose-tweakings have been
the more relished, or the less deeply resented, on that
account. Should the Freycinet Cabinet fall, and be
replaced by a Government led by Gambetta, it is pretty
certain that the Russian bear will atop its clumsy
slaverings and onoe again show its teeth.
Victorian politics present a curious study just
now. Berry’s (mine has been sprung, and nothing has
come of it except discomfiture to his own party. The
Victorian Assembly is divided into four sections. Of
these the Government is the weakest but one, that one
being the Longmore-Mirams party, who have out-
Berryed Berry in his hatred of an oligarchy. The
political machine may be likened to a see-saw. The
slightest change of weight would npset it. No one
party is strong enough to rule alone. The Conserva-
tives—self-styled Constitutionalists outnumber the
rest; but It was the fortune of Sir Bryan O’Loghlen
and a few nonentities to form the present Government
of “ peace, progress, and prosperity." That phrase
Sir Bryan vaunts as his truoap card. He has somer-
saulted clean back from his position ia the days of Sir
George Bowen’s governorship. Then he was a Berryite
of Barryitos. It was he who uttered the memorable
threat of “ cutting the painter ” —in other words, of the
colony of Victoria casting off the old country and
choosing a ruler of its own. In the heyday of Berry’s
triumph none were so violently revolutionary as Sir
Bryan; now, batter doesn’t melt in his month. The
members of the Conservative party are able to pose as
patriots. They hate Barry ism, and make a virtue of
present necessity by falling in gracefully with the
"peace, progress, and prosperity" ticket. None the
less wonld they grab at power were they numerically
stronger. Berryism, if not dead, is in a comatose state.
Berry is sitting on a rail, and his flashes of platform
fire are but infrequently intermittent. Longmore, who
with Mirams heads the least influential portion of the
Assembly, is a political deadhead; Mirams is a man
with possibilities. Both run together like honnds in a
leash; their interests are the same; they have both
worked hard for Berry, and both have lost their sense
of that gratitude which has been described as " a lively
sense of favours to come.” Longmore has filled office,
bat to Mirams polities as yet have brought nothing
save the Chairmanship of a Commission—this, too,
from Sir Bryan—and any quantity of jeering ridicule.
Perhaps we ought not to except, amongst the glories
which have crowned the head of “little Mirams," his
position in the Protection League, the foundling of
Yeomans, the hatter, who was once designated by
Service as “a mad hatter.” Another bond of union
between Longmore and Mirams is that, like Vale, they
are both shining lights of the temperance cause. These
four parties in the Victorian Assembly bate each other
“ pison ” strong, and the element of equilibrium rests
only in the fact that the Francis and Government
parties are equally bitten with Berryphobia, the former
on principle, and the latter for spite. There is a fifth
party, consisting of Sir John O’Shaghnassy alone.
There will be ructions at the next Parliamentary elec-
tions, and Berry will either come out triumphantly, or
go to the wall for ever.
• * *
Gross revenue from S.A. railways last year was
£400,000; after paying for management and Iworking
expenses, they yielded 3i per cent, on cost of construc-
tion. Govt, about to make all round redactions in rail-
way tariff The late Ministerial visit to the Northern
tarritory has convinced the S.A. Govt, of the expediency
of constructing the Trnnsoontinental railway, and the
S.A. Minister for Education, Mr. J. L. Parsons, believes
he will be able to get the support of Parlt. to his project...
w e read that "efforts were made to induce Sir Samuel
Wilson to contest Aylesbury." Ahem i;


SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, an
at the
SYDNEY AR(
SINGER’S SEWING I
ABB MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufactnri
Head Offices:
84 UNION SQUARE, HEW
Chief Office is Euri
89 FOSTER LANE, ]
DspAt; for New South
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HAI
SYDNEY,
160 FIRST PEI
EASY TEEMS—2a. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERY
Offices in Sydnej
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR t
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW'
WILLIAM STREET, BA'
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWO
VICTORIA STREET, «Ri
NARANDERA. PARRA
2*7 QUEEN STREET, BR
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S'
SEWING
TURNER 4 O
ARE TER
RECOGNISED A
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2a. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week-
And bo interest ch
10 per cent, off for o
BEWARE OP IMIT.
Aorhts for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER & i
THE ONLY “ SING]
TURNER &
Opposite 1
JOHNSTOr
SEWING MACHIIi
HATMABKE*]
Singers Sewing ,
11.a1i... /
Chemists and Drt
J S. ABRAHAM'S PILLI
THE GREAT LIVER 1
And successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all No:
Famous as a Restorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disoi
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE S
J.
Invented and Prepare
S. A B E A
At the Laboratc
434 GEORGE STREET,
COUGH WHILE TOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Ame
Linotus, you will not he able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, If.
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle tour appett
tralian Relish, made by 1
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
JjOVEBS OF GOOD
We beg to draw ;
PARTICULAR ATT]
to the
ASIATIC TEA <
PACKET TE.
Packed in pounds and haJ
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
FUSE JAVA TEA.
2s. and
2s. 6d. t
2s. 6d. i
2s. 6d. t
Special Quotations given to W 1
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA CO
279 fTTT STREET (next £
SYDNEY.
J6HN E U I
183 PITT STRE!
from
D. JONES & C
Respectfully invites an inspect!
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BBDSTEA)
be:
All of thh best quality, and sele<
RET.TARI.E manufacturers
From tore re-covered and carpeti
charges.
George
(Formerly of Geor)
IMPOEBEE OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAI
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCA
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
Public Comp&n
|IHE AUSTBALIAN JOINT
Paid-Tip Capital, £500.000, with po
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund
Directors :
Edward Lord, "Esq., Chairman; TV
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Je
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt*
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE STI
City and Suburban Branches; H;
Glebe, Burwood
London Office: 18 King WilHa
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albury, Armidale, Balllna, B;
Bourke, Btmdarra, Cassilis, Cond
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbq, Forbes, Glen Innes, Ooulbi
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, 1
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Eockle,
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urana, Wag|a Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wiloannia, Woodbum, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEEI
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter*
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac]
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
Townsville, Warwick
Agents th all the Anstralian Colon
the World general
TTHE MERCANTILE BAN]
X ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BT ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund......
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hem. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Horn. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidiev Ring, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield I
Girilambone; Goaford; ]
LONDON BANKE:
The National Provincial Ban
London Office: 133 Leaden!
Director; Edward Chapn
Agent: O. H. Alexandi
•This bank transacts all usual Boi
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mat
ether produce shipped to England fi
F. J. POL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLI3
28 GEORGE STREET,
A Urge and well-assorted stock of T
direct from the Manufacturers,;
Axo. Garments Cut in the Most F.
PERFECT FIT GUARA
Note the Address
728 GEOEGE STREET
NEAR HAYMAEK
THOMAS WEBB
Business Announcements
c^h
27STEAM BEDDIN
U FACTORY
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
and
FDENITUEE WABIHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £lOO
T. WEIGHT, 529 Qeorge-street, Brickfield Hill,
SIDNEY,
T EQAL.-Mr. T. M. SLATTEET,
SOLICITOE, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evehihs
News Office.
has A WIDE -RE P. U TAT 10 N FOR
EXCELLEN6®E#ALI TY
AND THE GHEM®#®g : OFTHE
SYDNEY
HAVE CERTIFIED THATUT IS REALLY
THE PUREST ANDr
BEST IN THE WORLD
BY AWARDING TO US the
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECT lON
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERY W HERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR SQUARE Tl NS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS ELAGE
WILLIAM SY DAv!eB 8o COY.
HEBBLEWHIT
416 QEOEGE STEEET.
F.T. WIMBLE & Co>
*
v*T7
—AND—
PRINTERS’
wa nruf
Also
STEREOTYPE
-AN D-
QfftXi
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St,
SYXTTSTXCY. C* l
i it 70 LITTLE COLLIES STREET. MILBOSEITZ.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEEE h lEONFOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and EAILWAT BOLLING STOCK
FIBS QIEDEES,
AND STOVES.
BURQLAS COLONIAL
PROOF OVENS,
SAFES DEED
AND flip
DOOBS. ho., ho. '
Works: SUSSEX STEEET, h GLEBE FOUNDET.
Office and SHOW BOOMS, 220 PITT STEEET.


w. HOWAED SMIT
STRDTH’S WHARF and
(Foot of King-sti
Offices s 7 SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and F
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARTBOEOUGI
and
EOCKHAMP'
On TUESDA
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITI
o
EIE N T
nDiuvm 6 following Steamships
°™ T V CO.. and the PACII
at . noon on the under
LONDON, via Melbourne, Adelaii
steamer’s option), the Suez Canal,
nuu. iurmignuy tner
. SALOON PASSENGERS allov
journey.
ORIENT PARCELS EXPEEBI
or 6d, per lb.
Sydney SAGJSS rEOM LOND °N
MANAGERS IN LONDON :-I
and (ANDERSON, ANDERSON i
Avenue, E.C.
PASSAGE MONET, 15 to 70
tionlars on application to
G. S. TUILL,
nnm „ . General Ma
267 George-street.
J. MASSEY
10 PARK SIR
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GR
The Latest, most Popular M
J. MASSEY AND
10 PARK STREET, SI
CASH PRICE LIST OF V
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
Claret ... .
Hermitage ,
Shiraz ... ,
Burgundy .
Eeisling... ,
Hock ... ,
Madeira... .
'Rnnffiai-'. Wi-
red.
per doz.
. 10s Od
. 11a Od
. lls Od
, 13s 6d
Sweet
J.T. F
Adelaii
WHITE.
10s Od I Brown
lls Od Adelaii
12s 6d I Tokay,
IC. (M I •"
PERSONAL ITEMS.
It waa openly said in Adelaide last week that
Dr. Horton had attempted suicide by hanging.
Writing in the Boston Index, Charles Bright
remarks, apropos to Sir Henry Parkes’ protended hatred
of shams, that 11 were he really and truly a hater of
shams, he would perish of self •contempt."
Governor Sir Charles Du Cane, who posed both
as a litterateur and an orator, carefully prepared and
transcribed his most trivial speeches, and generally
supplied the Press with his own manuscript.
Hugh Kennedy, the late Registrar of the Sydney
University, died last week. He was a descendant of the
Cassilis branch oft I - e Scotch Kennedys. He graduated
at Balliol College, Oxford, and for many years acted as
Assistant Professo j of Classics in the Sydney University.
His illness waa result of mental affliction.
The failure Tennyson to write a poem for a
special occasion recalls the fact that at the great ter-
centenary Shakspearo celebration, some years ago, a
prize poem, open for competition to all England, was
called for, and was won by a Cornish miner, named John
Harris, who lived close to the town of Camborne, where
the late anti-Irish riots took place.
Saul Samuel is knighted. It would take a cen-
tury to discover on what personal merit his claim was
founded; but perhaps when we find, in a week or two, that
Sir Saul returns to Bourke and Spring streets, and Sir
Somebodyelse remains in his stead, the milk will be
accounted for in that cocoannt the growth of whose
fibre has been contemplated with absorbing interest by
quidnuncs for some months past.
The late Dr. Machattie, of Bathurst, waa a
clever man in his profession, and a bit of a wag out of
it. When Governor Fitzroy was created a K.C.B. an
ignorant farmer asked the doctor to interpret the
mystic letters. Dr. M. told him they did duty for Kit
Chalker’s Bull. On another occasion, the old doctor
was called upon to examine a woman who had been
beaten black and blue by her husband. When asked to
report the result of his examination, he said “ purple
and fine linen."
Mr. T. K. Abbott, lately the greatest man in
Qunnedah, and now Police Magistrate at Maitland, has
issued a writ for £2OOO damages for libel against the
proprietors of the Maitland Mercury. The allsged
libel was contained in a letter written by a local doctor,
and published in the Mercury. Tucker, Gillies, and
Thompson, the publishers, decline to apologise to Mr.
Abbott, fee his lawyer with ten guineas, and give a
donation of ten guineas more to the local hospital.
They mean fight.
Mr. Hugh Mosman, the well-known and accom-
plished Queensland horseman, who some time since
had one of his arms completely blown off by dynamite,
after the accident swam across the Burdekin in the
most plucky manner to obtain medical aid, holding
aloft the bleeding stump, which was dressed, and for
a time seemed to heal all right. We are sorry to
learn, however, that dangerous symptoms lately made
their appearance, and that the arm had to be amputated
at the shoulder. He is said, however, to be progressing
favourably.
Mr. George Frrington, M.P., about whose
“ mission” to the Vatican the Conservatives at home
were recently exercised in mind, made his visit to Eome
purely in his private capacity. Mr. Errington is half
English and half Irish. He is a Boman Catholic, 33
years of age, and was a student at the Catholic Univer-
sity on St. Stephen’s Green. He is a good all-round
swallower of antagonistic doctrine*. He absorbed
Home Buie, assimilated himself to many Legitimist
and other Bcman Catholic politicians, and strove to
combine the Bights of Property with Tenant Eights,
until the Land League rendered the enterprise hope-
less. He was elected for Longford county in 1874 as a
Liberal and Home Euler. He dresses prettily.
Tha delay in creating a now Knight of the
Garter was caused by the Queen's inclination to do the
memory of Lord Beaconsfleld the honour of waiting
until he had been dead a year. The dignity has
been given to the King of the Netherlands. Orders
are expensive baubles. The insignia and robes
supplied te the Czar of Bussia, the King of Sweden, and
the King of Spain, cost £2200, and there will be about
£7OO to pay for the King of Saxony next year. The
cost of an ordinary knight of the blue riband is about
£lOO. The expense of admitting the Duke of Cam-
bridge to the Order of the Thistle waa £340; tha
insignia of St. Michael and St. George costs £lOOO.
The heralds received £7B for recording the pedigrees of
Sir F. Boberts and Sir D. Stewart on their being
created baronets. The fees on the patents of creation
of Prince Leopold as duke, earl, and baron, and cf five
peers, four baronets, and three knights, were £lOOO.
Garter King-at-Arms got £156 of the spoil, and the
English heralds £584.
Herr von Peterswald has been promoted from
the superintendence to the Commiseionership of Police
of South Australia. Ex-Commissioner Hamilton waa
granted twelve months' leave of absence on full pay,
and that period having terminated, he has now resigned.
Hamilton is a pleasant old gentleman rather weak
in the knees, but with a sufficient remnant of martial
spirit to be extra aide-de-camp to Governor Jervois. Itis
understood he was so appointed at his own request.
He has also developed aestheticism in a mild form, and
will gaze for half-an-bour at a full-blown rose in silent
ecstaoy. Peterswald is a capable officer, and, in spite
of his rigid disciplinarianism, a kind hearted gentle-
man. The Adelaide press is always tilting at the local
police authorities, but the strained relations between
the two parties are mainly due to a system remarkable
on the side of the press for its gauoherie and want of
tact. In Adelaide, it is the fashion for boys to be ap-
prenticed to the art of reporting (although reporter
nascitur non Jit), and it is chiefly the duty of cubbish
lads to endeavour to extract information from the
police, the result being generally disastrously barren.
The boys, at best, do their work perfunctorily and in-
judiciously ; while a bearded police-sergeant laughs at
the idea of confiding ticklish information to a lad
whose most natural pastime would be playing three-
hole marbles, or peg in the ring. Consequently, the
press slates the police whenever it gets the chance.
Someone on the Evening News has been
rivalling Southey, and has had a “ Vision of Judg-
ment," in respect to a gentleman recently deceased.
It’s'about time that the old canting system under which
newspapers condescendingly accommodate defunct sub-
scribers with harps, and crowns, and halos, and front
seats in Heaven, was finally wiped ont. *' The deceased
has now gone to the better land,” &c., no doubt sounds
very well in the ears of the myriads of yokels whose
Bible is the Town and Country Journal, and in whose
eyes Alfred is a kind of Pitt-street Confucius; but
that’s no sufficient reason why newspapers professing
to abhor “personal” journalism as applied to indi-
viduals in the flesh, should as soon as those persons
have departed, follow their spirits into shadowland
and impudently obtrude the presence of rum-soaked
reporters on those who have gone, so far as this world
is concerned, to rest. Let us, then, in memory of the
deceased, who was a good athlete and a good fellow,
quote these lines—
“ I’ve had my share of trouble, and I’ve done my share
of toil.
And life is short—the longest life a span—
-1 care not now to tarry for the corn or for the oil,
Or for the wine that maketh glad the heart of man;
For good undone, and gifts mis-spent, and resolutions
vain,
’Tls somewhat late to trouble. This 1 know—
I should live the same life over if I bad to live again,
And the chances are I go where most men go."
Still the dead-lock among the members of the
Marcus Clarke Memorial Volume Committee continues.
The “ rigidly pious" section will not hear of the book
being published as the author wanted it given to the
world. The t’other section is equally determined that
it shall be even as poor Marcus wished it. Beport says
that all this wild throe of discord has arisen through
the fear in certain quarters of family skeletons being
exposed to view. Anyhow the sale of the book is now
ensured, and already offers have been made by enter-
prising publishers to buy tha interesting portion of the
work. It is not improbable that it may be put up to
auction, and then there will be consternation amoag
the awfully proper pets of society. In any ease it
will all ba out before long, and mourning has been
ordered in anticipation of results. That someone will
have to sacrifice at the altar of Terewth seems to be a
foregone conclusion, and, as the committee consists of a
medico, a geologist, a Health Society man, besides
sundry wielders of the pen of the ready writer, it is
hard to say where the blow will fall. Poor old Marcus;
wouldn't he smile at all this hubbub t It’s a pity tha'i
I 5?? 19 thofl* are so energetic about his memory
didn’t save his life by helping him financially.
Another report in connection with this matter is that
public readings will be given shortly in Melbourne and
elsewhere, by a well known person,of selections from the
of the gifted litterateur—including among
items the mnoh-discussed fragmentary norei
“Felix and Felioitas"
• • •
The Marquis of Hartingfcon is nearly 50 years
of age, and is rtlll unmarried When, the ether even*
mg, Mr. Francis became suddenly ill in the Victorian
Assembly, Mr. Earn say assisted him home. Now Mr.
Eamiay, the younger and more robust of the two, is
dead. That eminent inspector of nigger police, Mr.
E. Johnson, has been appointed to the vacant C.P.S.-
ship at Cooktown The Marquis of Qneensberry has
a row with the Times because, when he wrote himself
down as a “ Thinker,” they left out the h and called
him a "Tinker." The Thunderer having refused
to apologise, the Marquis now says he wants
the name of the editor .Captain Healop, of the
barque Silver Stream, has completed the fiftieth anni-
▼ersary ef the passing of his examination as a master
mariner. He is the oldest shipmaster trading in the
Australian. He visited Neweastle in the Maid of Erin,
as far back as 1847 An Edgar Allan Poe Club is being
formed in America, by an aristocratic clique. When
Poe was alive, they wouldn't have him in high-tomed
society, which shows how much better it is for a genius
to be dead.....By the time Archibald Forbes leaves Ans-
tralia, ho will probably have eleared, after paying all
expenses, something like £6,000,0r £7,000 Mr. C. H.
Bar lee, the well-known shorthand writer who died in
Sydney the other day, had a wide reputation in Queens,
land as an accomplished master of hounds, and was a
brother of the Hon. J. P. Barlee, who has just resigned
the Governorship of British Honduras Mrs. William
Love, wife of the Qundagai Police Magistrate, is dead.
......Sir William Jervois, Governor of S.A., says that
his five years of Australian experience have been the
happiest of his life A son of Tom Sayers is in
Sydney Herrington, the new proprietor of Adelaide
Punch, has converted that journal into a temperance
pamphlet. In his teetotal fervour, he tips Alderman
Madge—the only cold-water-cure amongst the fourteen
candidates out for the Legislative Council—as likely to
be at the head of the poll Mr C. L. Badham, son of
Dr. Badham, professor of classics at the Sydney
University, has been appointed C.P.S. at Tenterfleld.
Hunter g Hill Amateur Athletic Club’s sportg,
Association Ground, on May 24. The bad weather pre-
vented a good attendance, and the events were not very
interesting. Bush, from some unaccountable reason,
did not start for the quarter-mile against Metcalfe, who
won easily from Phillips. P. R. Pedley walked over in
the half-mile flat race for the President’s Cup, and it is
noteworthy that no time for any event was recorded, so
that the meeting from an athletic point of view
was as bad as bad could be. The 150 yards
flat race handicap was won by A. Gerard (3 yards),
M. L. Zollner (8 yards) being second, A. P. Phillips
won the 100 yards’ flat race. The two-mile walking
race was a gift to F. W. Maddocks, who had a start of
70 seconds. C. D. Best (scratch) defeated W. E. Jack
(15 seconds) for second place. The 150 yards’ handicap
for boys under 14 was won by F. Russell (14 yards).
J. Parker won the quarter-mile schools’ race easily,
D. F. Mnckay second; the rest nowhere. H. B. Hughes
and H. Fllgg (4 yards) ran a good race in the 120 yards’
hurdles. Hughes winning by nearly a yard. A. H.
Maoarthnr won the 300 yards’ handicap easily. The
two-mile bicycle race was an interesting contest, Lee
boating Barker for first place in the last lap. P. B.
Pedley, with 70 yards start, won the mile handicap
easily, D. D. Middleton (30 yards) being second. The
prizes were handed over to the winners in the Grand-
stand by Mr. Robert Smith, the President of the club.
Thus a correspondentlt is generally ad-
mitted that for versatility and exuberance, Mr. de
Salis is without a rival. Ha has poured forth heart-
rending columns of exhortation, prophecy, and statistics
on every conceivable subject. He is an oracle on “ Our
Grass,” "Our Wines,” “Our Water,” "Our Sewage,”
“Our Larrikins,” “Our Meteorology," “Our Rail-
ways," “Our Roads,” "Onr Meat Supply,” “Our
Laws," “Onr Administration of Justice," “Our Heathen
Chinee,” and nobody knows on how many other burn-
ing questions. And now wo have his latest deliverance
on our Intellectual Condition ; a counterblast te Dr.
Badham. From It we gather that Mr. de Salis despises
Eton, detests the ancient languages, and wants to im-
port 20 new Professors to lecture on Things in General
at the University. So far well—As to the ancient
languages, they may be safely left to the tutelary officers
of Mr. de Salis’ schoolfellow. Dr, Badham. As to the
new Professorships, Mr. de Sails might be invited to
discuss the matter with the Chancellor of the Univer-
sity after Parliament has provided the extra endow-
ment. But as to Eton—Mr. de Salis has treated his
Intellectual matrix somewhat disdainfully. We will
not remind him ef the battalions of great men—
soldiers, statesmen, scholars, lawyers, who have been
educated at Eton; for he might reply that they
were great, not because, hut in spite of, Eton.
But, even at the risk of shocking the modesty of Mr.
de Salis, wo have still a debt of gratitude to the grand
old foundation of Ring Henry the Sixth, for no one can
deny ns the luxury of attributing to Eton our privilege
of possessing, in their own beloved Conscript Father, a
man who, in every region of thought and expression,
and in every operation of the imagination and the
reason, is simply unique. Let the next editor of Sir
Edward Creasy’s Memoirs of Eminent Etonians see to
it that alongside the two Walpoles, the Marquis of
Wellesley, the Duke of Wellington, Chatham, Fox,
Canning, Shelley, Hallam, Milman, and the Earl of
Derby, space bo allotted for our Champion Excruciator.
WOMAN ITEMS.
..The New York Hour publishes a profound
discussion as to why there are no " professional
beauties in American society, and finishes up in as
mixta a tangle as whan it started. We can supply the
reason in_ fifteen words. There are no professional
beauties m America, because there is no Prince cf
Wales there.
The Fitzroy bigamy case is a funny yarn. Mrs.
.Lane left her husband’s house one day, and married
another man the same evening in Collingwood. After
the ceremony she returned home and lived with her
real husband for three weeks, and thence once more
took up with No. 2. She says the latter made her
drunk, and that she married him while under mental
aberration.
t '^ ro British justice. Lately Mr.
justice williams sentenced a man to a long term of
,f erv *tnde for presenting a revolver at his wife
JrSt*H* nin *L* ler hfe. On the same day a brute
named William Bishop was brought before the magis-
trates for assaulting his better half. Ho broke a chair
over her body, struck her with his flats, dragged her
down by the hair, and jumped upon her. When his son
took the mother’s part. Bishop threw a lighted paraffin
lamp at him, and set fire to the furniture. Ho had
]ust emerged from three months’ retirement for a
similar offence, and he now received four months’
imprisonment.
A Sydney lady was fined last week for stealing
flowers from a cemetery. She resented the word
stealing, saying, “It’s an innate infirmity of my
nature. Such is my admiration for flowers, that it is
impossible to resist the temptation to gather them
whenever they come within my reach.” The beak
weuldnt see the point, but remarked that stealing
from a cemetery was a grave offence. A dead sort of
12 i , ■“• e wasi quite right, however, to pass over
the lady s plea, for Bill Sykes would just as reasonably
bo able to get up and say, “ Whenever I see a fogle,
such is the innate infirmity of my natur that I can’t
resist the cagg. Kleptomania would become a fashion-
able defence for anything in the filching line.
Princess Jeanne Bonaparte, daughter of the
late Prince Pierre Bonaparte, was in April married
the Marquis Christian de Villeneuve, at the church
of St. Thomas d Aqum, Paris. Princess Jeanne, who
is dark. Handsome, and slender, was dressed with ex-
trema simplicity, and did not wear a single jewel. Her
costume was a white satin dress without lace, and a
tulle veil fastened by a few sprays of real orange
flowers. The two bridesmaids wore rose-coloured satin
dresses, shot with silver, with wild roses fastened on
the left shoulder, and Clarissa Harlowe straw hats.
j Wlth ro ®° u o ° lo . nr and trimmed with wreaths of
wild roses. The bride bears an absolutely startling
likeness to the first Napoleon, Her dot was £BO.OOO.
given by her brother, Prince Roland.
A story of “ the love that loves always” cornea
from the City of Gold- Nearly 50 years ago. two
colliers in Wales loved the same girl. One was an
overseer, and him she married. They came to Australia,
and fifteen years later the husband died, leaving her a
widow with ten children. She struggled on and reared
them as well as she could, for nineteen years longer.
But her means were exhausted, and she was indigent as
she walked down Sturt-street one day, and met, face to
face, the lover she had rejected 3t years before. The
recognition was mutual; he had never oared for any
ether woman, and a generation of years had not
quenched his early love. In a few weeks they married,
and settled in another colony. She is now again a
widow at Ballarat. For death has taken the great heart
away to a home in “ the land of the leal.”
This is the free and flashing style in which a
European paper describes a lady : “ She appeared in a
translucid nimbus, bathed in the ideal gleams of
enchanting apparitions, with her tresses flaked in a
golden cloud, traversed by radiations of jewels such as
we see in the dreamy head of La Valliore. The snake-
like sinuosities of her tightly drawn skirt of ambrosia
velvet, were traversed by embroideries of melnsine
flame; a wallet of flowers, hanging poetically at her
side, infused a touch of innocence into all the splen-
dour. Under the cloudy rustling of her petticoats of
lace appeared a silken azure stocking, embroidered with
silver quivers, and a jewelled satin slipper that the
Empress of China would envy. This beauty, in her
delicate coquetry, her delicious softness, and her high-
born audacity, was Queen of the ball.” It’s sad to
think that this ineffable being has to eat three meals a
day, or die.
Edmund Tatea says the English professional
beauty is a deceptive creature. Of course, this is not
news; but when he enlightens us as to the exact way
the deception is done, he gets interesting. A visit,
says he, to a fashionable milliner’s shows how complete
is the mask worn. “ Where an ordinary woman would
fling aside her corsets altogether, the professional
beauty puts on under her tea-gown or wrapper another
kind of corset invented by considerate milliners—
nnboned, certainly, but so made as to produce the
desired outline of figure.” Again, when Amoret starts
from her afternoon nap by the drawing-room fire, to sit
down to her 5 o’clock cup of tea, you imagine it is the
siesta has given her cheeks that charming flush, and
her eyes their brightness. You imagine no woman
would make up her face to sleep by her own fireside.
You are mistaken. Amoret thought of the possibility
of some one calling, she knew her dreamy figure and
bright eyes, lit by the fire-glow, would make a pretty
picture in your memory; and so the pretty picture was
painted ready for view. Every artless action is care-
fully studied. Amoret lives to bo lovely; it is her
profession.
There’s a lady on the warpath at Newcastle
who, over the signature ** Nineteen,” has been writing
to the Herald and Advocate on the Bachelors’ Tax,
She thinks that if the time wasted on discussing Free
Trade and Protection ware devoted to re-arranging the
sexes and hurrying up young men, it would bo a great
improvement. The letter of Miss Nineteen is decidedly
" nutty,” and some of her sentences are suggestively
good. She says there’s a deal " too much freetrading ”
already, and the girls want protection. “ I don’t
believe in such rats of boys as I see going out with
girls now-a-days.” This is rather a jar for Tommy the
office boy, and William who sweeps out the store at
Newcastle. “ Bachelors ought to be taxed on a sliding
scale up to thirty, but when they get above that,” says
the fair war correspondent, “ give It to them hotyou,
Mr. Editor, as an Irish gentleman and father of a
family, please fix the scale for the old buffers I” Such
a plan “ would make the young men hurry up and get
married, and would dispense with the necessity for
immigration." It’s evident that if there were more
girls like nice Miss Nineteen, there would be more fun
in the world and—more population.
• « •
The marriage of Sara Bernhardt was a surprise
to everyone. Nobody knew she was In town; nobody
knew she was engaged j nobody was at the ceremony.
Had the secret not been so well kept, half fashion-
able London would have besieged the church
Baroness Burdett-Coutts and the guardians of St.
Olave’ workhouse are having a row. An inmate of the
poorhouse named Sydney Sands claims to be first
cousin to the Baroness, who denies kindred. The
Board of Guardians say they can prove the
relationship, but the Bareness won’t “part.”
The Duchess of Teck is constantly to be seen on a
tricycle The English barmaids have started a paper
to advocate their interests. So have the governesses.
We’d like to be on the staff of either An American
has just patented an invention “to supply a long.folt
want." With the aid of calf and thigh pads, waist
improvers and bust inflaters, a woman can make her
torso and underpinning divinely perfect ; yet .after all,
be spoiled by a pair of bony, scraggy arms attached to
a number nine hand. Hence, the patent indiarnbber,
flesh-tinted Arm Covers, with a dimple in the elbow,
fitted to defy detection. The attenuated spinster is guar-
anteed a perfect fit, and a symmetrical contour seldom
equalled by nature. Here’s a chance for every young lady
whose arms are “like the hind legs of a kitten.”
If the Baroness Burdett-Coutts survives her marriage
ten years, she will have paid, without interest, £750,000
for a husband, taking her loss consequent on marriage
at £75,000 a-year. She could have had us for half the
money Baltimore women are said to be exceptionally
beautiful, and an American editor explains it by saying
that “the city is situated on the zone of beauty. The
races reach their nearest perfection in this latitude.
In faet, ugliness can’t stand the climate; it has got to
die, or emigrate. Thera are some strongly-marked
families who hold out perversely against the beautify-
ing influences of the climate, but they are scarce.”
“Grin and Bear It."
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Grin and bear it like a man" —
So one's friend* ne’er tire of saying.
Though dead failure meets each plan.
Though hope glories in betraying.
Though at beat life is not much
That a man should wish to wear it—
This the only proffered crutch—
“ Grin and bear it."
What I when after years of toil.
When with fortunes spent and broken—
Fate’s smashed plaything—Enin’s spoil—
Shall the shallow words be spoken ?
When, if Peace a moment rest
In our hearts. Care’s talons tear it—
’T is a seullion’s brutal jest—
" Grin and bear it” 1
When the measure of our days
Brims with manifold disaster.
And Temptation lines the ways,
So we have not always passed her—
Infinite our passion seems.
Woe that others have to share it!
Gag the silly wretch who screams—
*• Grin and bear it 1 ’’
When with hapless fury wb
Loathe the bondage ef the Present j
Turn and view remorsefully
What we missed to make it pleasant;
That course taken—this one shun'd—
Gay success, how surely fair it
Had been ours!—why, rooked and stunned
“ Grin and boar it ?’’
When with calumnies and sneers
Poisoned at the founts of being,
Life's horizon-line appears
Blurred so that we dread the seeing—
Where the wisdom—where the trust
In ear higher selves to dare it
All nor falter, if we must
“ Grin and bear it ?’*
No! the slavery of a phrase
Nevermore need darkly bind us;
Banisht be conventional ways
If to action thus they blind ns I
Though joy suffer overthrow
That to win back we despair it.
True men ne’er will, cringing low,
“ Grin and bear it."


ANTHONY HORDEHN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
IN order to meet the ever-increasing requirementa of the NEW SOUTH WALES PUBLIC, we
_ have this year Imported
FEOM ENGLAND AND THE CONTINENT OP EUROPE,
2422 PACKAGES OP GOODS.
BOUGHT DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
And are now prepared to offer our Stock of WINTER GOODS at exceptionally favourable prices to
the Inhabitants of Sydney and surrounding districts. VISITORS PROM OTHER COLONIES are
specially invited to inspect the FINEST DISPLAY of Goods ever exhibited in Australia, and see one
of the VERY LARGEST DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENTS in the World.
Be sure of the Exact Name and Address. We have only one Place of Business, and no connection
with others of the same name.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS |
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (Only),
Where any of the following Goods may be purchased Under One Roof.
Latest Novelties in Brocaded Velvets.
Brocaded Silks. Broche Silks and Satins,
Lyons Velvets. Genoa'Velvets,
Louis and Mancunians Velveteens.
Plushes and Plnshettes.
For all Shades and Colours.
Cashmeres, Sublime, Brittany, &c.
Reversible French Cashmeres.
Terra Cotta and Beotive Cloths.
Ladies’ Kid Gloves, I atent Fasteners.
All Light Shades and Colours.
Laces—New Patterns. Evening Dress.
Ribbons—Flush, Moire, Satin, &c.
Choicest Delicate Shades.
Millinery—Latest Parisian Fashions.
Ladies and Childrens’ Boots and Shoes for Walking.
Boots and slippers for Evening Wear.
Workboxes, Toys, &0., &o.
Ladies’ Jackets, Dolmans, Ulsters.
U rellas and Parachuters.
GENTS, YOUTHS, AND BOYS.
Overcoats, Ulsters, Winter Suits.
Hats and Caps, Sealskin, Felt, Ac.
Boots and Shoes. Great Variety.
Curtains, Table Covers, Napkins, &o.
Table Linen, Damask, Choice Patterns.
White and Grey Sheetings. Flannels.
Blankets, Counterpanes, and Eider Down Quilts. All
sizes.
Calicoes, Prints, Cretonnes.
Bedsteads all Sizes, and Styles.
Fnrnitnre of Every Description.
Drawing and Dining Room Suites.
Carpets, Hearthrugs, Mata.
China, Glass, and Crockeryware.
Stationery, Statuary, Pictures.
The Largest stock in the Colonies, of Fancy, Berlin, and Shetland Wool Goods, every colour and
shade, Collarettes, Fichus, Shawls, Capes, Opera Cloaks. Ladies’ Wool Vests and Skirts. Childrens’
Wool Skirts. Dresses and Jackets comprising every latest novelty for warmth and comfort.
Every requirement for Dress either for Girls, Boys, Ladies or Gentlemen may be obtained on visitin
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A £
A ££
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy In Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Bein» refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
L/Pt
Trade
Hark
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Redaction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LABSETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED)*
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOB IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHStANDSHE ACTION OP HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVEE
BLISTER CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOSt DURABLE PAINT, ANt) CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR
THE TOBBAT PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 19th May, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty days
from this date, they will be declared void.
AETHUE EENWICK.
Pesl ASD Uralla Mining Cistbict.
No. 249; J. M'Kinlay and another; Portion No
gl. 3; County of Sando*. parish of Metz; 5 acres ; Ap-
plication No. Armidale 1291.
No. 250; J. F. M’Kinlay; Portion No. gl 4; County
of Sandon, parish of Metz; 3 acres; Application No.
Armidale, 1292.
No. 251; E. H. Bnrrowes and others; Portion No.
Gl. 6; County of Sandon. parish of Metz; 4 acres; Ap-
plication No. Armidale 1293.
No. 252; Wm. Miller ; Portion No. GL. 5; County of
Sandon, parish of Metz; 1 acre; Application No. Armi-
dale 1294.
No. 253; Pat Killen; Portion No. gl 8; County of
Sandon parish of Metz; 1 acre; Application No. Armi-
dale 1295.
New England and Clarence Mining District.
No. 174; D. Braham and others; Portion No. 10;
County of Gresham, pariah of Nullama; 25 acres; Ap-
plication No. Dalmorton 91.
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
No, 579; B. D. Williams and others; Portion No. gl-
-7 6; County of Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 3 acres
Application No. Copeland 573.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 137; M. O’Brien and others; Portion No. 51 L.;
County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 6 acres ; Ap-
plication No. Carcoar 62.
Musoee Mining District.
No. 169; T. G. Dengate and others; Portion No. gl-
-309; County of Wellington, parish of Windeyer; 5
acres; Application No. Windeyer 5.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 19fch May, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINEEAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from
this date, they will be declared void.
AETHUE EENWICK.
No. 1187; J. H. Alcpck and others ; Portion No. 260;
County of Westmoreland, parish of Bating; 20 acres;
Application No. Eockley 17 m.
No 1240; J. M'Laughlin and another; Portion No.
55; Ca mty of Bozbngh, parish of Hearae; 200 acres;
Application No. Eylstooe 81-4,
Ne. 1253; J. M’Kinlay and another; Portion No. 10
ml, ; County of Sandon, parish of Metz; 20 acres; Ap-
plication No. Armidale 81-3 m.
No. 1354; J, M'Kinlay and another; Portion No. 8
M L. ; County of Sandon, parish of Metz; 20 acres;
Application No. Armidale 81-4 m.
No 1255; B. Weiss and another; Portion No. 14 m l.;
County of Sandon, parish of Metz; 20 acres ; Applica-
tion No. Armidale 81-7 m.
No, 1257; F, Hurst and others; Portion No. 12 m l. ;
County of Sandon, parish of Cooney ;40 acres; Applica-
tion No. Armidale 81-10 m.
No. 1258; J. Brackin and others; Portion No. 13 ml.;
County of Sandon, parish of Cooney; 20 acres ; Appli-
cation No. Armidale 81-11 m.
Department of Mines
Sydney, 23rd May, 1882,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned gold-mining leases within thirty days
from this date they will be declared void.
AETHUE EENWICK.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 153 ; M. Sheahan and another; Portion No. gl.
50; County of Bathurst, parish of Carlton; 5 acres;
Application No. Carcoar 4.
No. 135 ; W, Findlay and others; Portion No. gl.
48; County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 8 acres ;
Application No. Carcoar 56.
Ne. 140 ; W. Tanner, jun., and others ; Portion No.
GL. 56; County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 5
acres: Application No. Carcoar 81.
No. 152 ; H. Oliver and others ; Portion No. gl. 52 ;
County of Bathurst, parish;of Dunleary ; 8 acres; Appli-
cation No. Carcoar 51.
No. 155; H. Oliver and others ; Portion No. gl. 53 ;
County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary ; 3 acres 0 rood
2 perches; Application No, Carcoar 54.
Department of Mimes,
Sydney, 26th May 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINEEAL
LEASE.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Mineral
Lease are hereby called upon to show cause,
within thirty days from this date, why their lease
should not be cancelled, for non-observance of
the conditions thereby imposed.
AETHUE EENWICK.
No. 1027 ; H. W. K, Hammond and E. C. Davidson ;
Portion No. 539 ; County of Gough, parish of Herbert;
20 acres; Application No. Tingha, 399.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 26th May, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
IyfOTICE is hereby given that unless the
i- v Lessees execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty
days from this date, they will be declared void.
AETHUE EENWICK.
Southern District.
No. 72,383; E. Marshall and others ; Portion No, gl.
30; County of Monteagle, parish of Bungalong; 6
acres; Application No. 72,383.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 142 ; A. J. C. Single and others : Portion No. t.
82; County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 2 acres;
Application No. Carcoar 87.
POSTPONED UNTIL MONDAY, sth JUNE.
TO MEECEES AND TAILOES,
THE BOOT AND SHOE TEADE.
and
THE SHAEEHOLDEEB OF THE CIVIL SEEVICE
CO-O PEE ATIVB SOCIETY.
WPEITCHAED has been favoured withinstn
• tions from the DIRECTORS of the CIV
SEEVICE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY, in con
quence of a RESOLUTION OF THE SHAAEHO
DEES TO CLOSE THE BOOT, MEECEB
i AILORLNG, and other of t
business, to sell, at the Stores, 184, Pitt-street
MONDAY, 6th JUNE, at 2 30 O’CLOCK p m
AsOUT 6t,0 LOTS,
comprising the balance of BOOTS and SHOT
MERCERY, TWEEDS, and TAILOEII
MATERIALS.
Also,
A variety of miscellaneous merchandise, compi
ing portmanteaus, dressing cases, workbox
desks, stationery, perfumery, glove and hai
kerchief boxes, fancy goods, Ac., Ac.
CATALOGUES are in course of preparation, and will
be duly advertised as obtainable at the Auctionaeer*
Rooms, 289, George-street.
POSITIVELY NO RESERVE.
TEEMS CASH.
•• ’Tis cheerful by the cheerful hearth to see
Our daughters nicely clad.”
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
PROBABLY in no establishment in the world is all
that pertains to dress and physical adornment
studied with such care and personal supervision as at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS.
One of the most recent examples of material which
modern skill has brought to such perfection, is the
“SELKIRK TWEED,”
which in texture, appearance, durability, and excellence
of value, hao never before been attained by any other
material.
TRIMMINGS TO MATCH.
Also, every colourings in the following materials
CHEVIOT SERGES
ASSYRIAN BEIGE
BLAIR ATHOL HOMESPUNS
JARDINIERE a TOUR
TORBLJOSO CLOTH.
TRIMMINGS TO MATCH.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL;
Tickets for the Mercantile Rowing Club Ball to be
had on application to Edward Hordern and Sons.
O A T U R B,A T N E X X.
YE 3rd day of JUNE.
ON YE GROUND.
YE CLEARANCE SALE of THAT FINE ESTATE
YE GROVE.
on the Road to ye RIVER OF COOK,
close to ye Tramway Line,
close to ye Proposed Marrickville Railway Station.
on ye Line to Wollongong.
CHARMING LANDS FOR COTTAGES.
LOVELY LANDS FOR MANSIONS.
Half-an-hour’s Bide from ye City of Sydney.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST,
YE AUCTIONEERS OP SYDNEY,
will Dispose to ye Highest Bidder,
ON YE GROUND,
on SATURDAY NEXT, ye 3rd day of JUNE,
ATT. TE UNSOLD LANDS OF YE GROVE ESTATE.
ALL YE CITIZENS OF SYDNEY,
ATTEND IE SALE AT YE GROVE.
ALL YE MERCHANTS TRADING BEYOND |YE
SEAS.
ATTEND YE SALE AT YE GROVE.
ATT. YE MEMBERS OP STATE,
ATTEND YE SALE AT YE GROVE,
ALL YE CLERGY
ATTEND YE BALE AT YE GROVE.
ALL YE LAITY,
ATTEND YE SALE AT YE GROVE.
ALL YE KNIGHTS OF HIGH DEGREE,
ALL YE SQUIRES OF LOW DEGREE,
ALL YE BEEFEATERS,
ALL YE VARLETS,
ATTEND YE SALE AT YE GROVE.
REMEMBER YE EASY TEEMS.
REMEMBER YE LANDS ARE GOOD.
ATTEND YE SALE AT YE GROVE.
QLD EXHIBITION BUILDING.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
TO-NIGHT,
And every night during the Fair,
In addition to the already immense variety of enter-
tainments at
BARTLEMY FAIR,
there will bo
DANCING,
to the accompaniment of fall Military and
QUADRILLE BANDS.
To this, as to the other entertainments, there is
NO ADDITIONAL CHARGE,
everything being included in the
ONE SHILLING ADMISSION.
Open from noon till 11 p.m.
Children with Parents or Friends admitted Free:
VARIETY ENTERTAINMENT TWICE DAILY.
Botany and Waterloo Trams step at the door.


DR. STANICH desires to announce that poor
persona suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Dis-
eases will receive his valuable services towards their cure
Gratis, every THURSDAY in the week, at 60 Wynyard-
squaro, Sydney. To prevent disappeintment, however,
applicants must be provided with a letter of recom.
znendation under seal from some Government or
municipal authority, otherwise they will not be treated
—Advt.
If yon want a really palatable pleasant cup of
tea, of acknowledged purity, strength, and excellence,
ask your grocer for Thb Calcutta Tea Association**
Pure Indian Tea. Our only Wholosalo Warehouse in
New South Wales, ia at 28 Charlotte Place. We;have
no retail establishment whatever, and employ ik>
hawkers. All the leading tea dealers and grocers in
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
“Calcutta Tea Association” on the labels in three
different places. The teas of the Association are ac-
knowledged superior to any packet teas over sold in the
Colonies.— Advt,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
On Saturday night we went to see the first per-
formance of “ The Colonel,” at the Royal. We were
faultlessly attired in a drees coat, which we pnr-
ehased from an inebriate member of the Young Men’*
Christian Association for two drink* the other night,
and a wai*t-coat made out of the skin of a man whom
we had slain with a moat-axe, for asking us if w* be-
longed to the Evening News. Our inexpressibles were
constructed out of a stars-and-stripes hop bitter* ad-
vertisement. This dazzling ensemble was surmounted
by a paper-collar, which ws had turned inside out for
the fourth time that evening. We took our seats in a
prominent position behind the kinky-haired chosen
race, and amused ourselves by toying with a horse-
radish till the *urtain went up. All glasses in the house
were turned upon us instantly. We rose with dignity,
and made a stately bow in acknowledvment of the
tribute to our splendour. Suddenly we felt a tap upon
the shoulder. Turning round, we found ourselves
“ under the shadow of a great rock in a weary land."
We thought so, but we weren t. It was only the Note
of one of the tribe of Naphthali that cast the sudden
gloom around us. “ Look here, sonny,” said the Owner
of the Nose, “haven’t you made a mishtake. This
isn’t the Circus.” We replied that we didn’t want to
know anything about that old trouble with Pharaoh,
hut we would give him threepence for himself if he
would lean his Nose over the parapet, and hook u* up
the programme we had dropped into the pit. He re-
fused.
• « •
“ The Colonel” ia called an “ aesthetic comedy,”
We are unwell of aestheticism. Even the burlesque of
it has become a bore. The very mention of sunflowers
and lilies is worse than a hlue-pill. But the craze of
fools and the mummeries of senseless imitators are in
their death-agony, while the aestheticism which is
eternal remains. To proceed. The comedy is clever—
whieh goes without saying when written by Burnand —•
but does not strike people out here with the same force
as it does audiences at home, when they have the
Original of the satire ri?ht amongst them. A parody
is never so well appreciated as when read directly after
reading the thing parodied. But we have no aesthetes
out here—except, perhaps, Jack M’Elhone and John
Davies (C.M.G.) Consequently, there was a very
hollow ring about the laughter of the dress-circle on
Saturday night. On# could not help thinking it was
more a tribute to fashion than a recognition of fun.
But the pit was plain-spoken. After the first act, some
unhallowed scoundrel in the back seats yelled out:
“ What are you giviu’ us ? Don’t want any more of
that dry stuff." And so on.
* • •
There are only two scenes : the first an aesthetic
drawing-room 5 the second, an uueesthetic ditto. Each
is very prettily put on. The plot of the piece is simple.
Lady Tompkins—widow of a fat alderman— is a high-
toned asthete. So is her daughter Olive, whe ia married
fb Richard Forrester. Diclf doesn't oare a jot for
drooping lilies or sunflowers‘hodding on their stalks,
hut he is under the thumb of his mother-in-law. This
is snch an improbable position for a husband to he in
that we wonder the dramatist did not disguise it some-
how In order to give a colour of reality to the play.
However, Lady Tompkins instals ia hor ■on-in-law’s
house a venerable swindle called Lambert Streyke,
** director and founder of the Esthetic High Art Com.
pany (limited),” and his nephew, Basil Giorgione.
They languish around the house all day, and in the
evening Giorgione sneaks out to gorge at a restaurant
close by. But his uncle lives upon the odour of faint
flowers and the smell of passing meat-pie carts. Their
little game is to induce Forrester, through his wife and
methor-in-law, to sign a document making Lambert
Sbroyke secretary of the High Art Company at £lOOO a
year, and to purchase the bulk of the shares; also to
bestow the hand of Nellie (Forrester’s sister and an
heiress) upon Basil. Things are coming round to this
consummation when Colonel Woodwell W. Woodd,
an American, comes upon the scene. Ho is an old
friend of Forrester, and about as Esthetic as a stnmp-
fenoe. Ho seizes the position of affairs In a moment
and Streyke and Co. know it. So they persuade For-
rester to send him out of the hense. In the meantime,
Nellie has confided to him that she doesn’t care a eent
for the moon-calf Basil, and is over head and ears in
love with a certain Edward Langten—who by the way,
Uged to be treasurer of the Southern sister colony. The
Colonel promises te fix the matter all right for her and
departs.
• * •
The n»xt scene is tVe unsesthetic drawing-room
in the house of Mrs. Willoughby Blyth, a pretty widow.
Enter Forrester. He takes a seat by Mrs. Blyth, who
Calls him “Mr. Fisher." And then the dramatist
ladles out a spooning match. Forrester swears he can-
not live when he is away from her. The wicked man is
actually making love to another woman while his awn
wife is living. This is another element of improbability
in the plot, whieh could well have been dispensed with
if a picture of every-day life was intended. Perhaps,
however, they do these things in some places. For-
rester takes his leave, and Colonel Woodwell W. Woodd
is announced. The meeting between him and Mrs.
Blyth is as rapturous as one of Cyril Haviland’s circles.
They had been lovers about three years before, and had
net understood one another. So the Colonel buried his
grief In travel, and the lady in the arms of Mr. Wil-
loughby Blyth. But, like a decent fellow, Willoughby
had died since then, and the pretty widow’s arms were
open for the Colonel. And the Colonel availed himself
of the vacancy. Then there is a complication with
Forrester, which is soon cleared up. The Colonel
advises him to get rid of the High Art blacklegs, and
depose his mother-in-law. He promises to do so.
• • •
Once again the resthetio drawing-room. Lambert
Streyke has left the lecture he intended to deliver that
evening lying on the table. The Colonel i* in the room.
So is Nellie. She picks up the hook, and a letter drops
out. It is a bill from Romelli, the restaurant-keeper, for
hash supplied to Streyke and his nephew while both
were supposed to be living on ether—-or either on both.
There Is also another letter addressed to the Colonel.
He opens it and finds it to be the note of invitation sent
him by Mrs. Forrester at the request of her husband.
Streyke had proposed to use this as a weapon against
Olive if she attempted to rebel against his authority.
The Colonel puts the bill in the envelope addressed to
him and replaces it in the book. Then a revolution en-
sues. The faint lilies are flung around the room like
shuttlecocks and Giorgione’s picture is turned upside
down. In the middle of the fracas Lady Tomkins and
Lambert Streyke stalk in. The expression on their
faces as they look at the wreck is the sublime of horror.
But the rebels, having the moral support of the Colonel,
brave it out. Then Lambert Streyke rushes to his book,
and taking the letter addressed to the Colenel, hands it
to Lady Tompkins as a proof of ker daughter’s treachery.
Lady Tempkins opens it and finds Romelli’s bill against
Streyke and nephew. She falls down in a fit. Giorgione
then undulates in with a lily in his hand. His nnele
seizes him by the haek of the neck, calls him “ass,”
runs him out of the house, and the Director of the
Esthetic High Art Company and his nephew are seen no
more. Then Olive and her husband embrace, Mrs.
Blyth and the Colonel embrace, Nellie and her lover
embrace, and everybody hugs everybody else, except
the mother-in-law, who is too hugly to kiss anyhow. So
the play ends.
• * »
Mias Blanche Stammers —our old love—takes
the character of Mrs. Willoughby Blyth. It is one
which she is specially fitted to interpret. Nevertheless
her delivery had a dash of affectation in it not natural
to the natural woman—such as Mrs. Blyth is supposed
to be. Bat this is a minor fault. We have given too
much space to the delineation of the plot to be able to
say more this week, than that Miss Stammers was
eharming. We don’t know that we could say more next
if we took a column to do it.
* • #
Miss Lena Ellis has made a success of the part
of Olive. She was too utter for utterance. Nellie
(.Miss Playfair) is a dear little girl, and we adore her.
Criticism pales before sentiments like these. Lady
Tompkins (Mrs. Stammers) is somewhat stout for her
©rial character. Miss Braybum played the soubrette s
port very nicely.
• ■ «
So, little for the ladies. Of the gentlemen, less,
just now. Mr. D. H. Harkins plays the Colonel natur-
»lly and well; Mr. Frank Cates, Richard Forrester in
gentlemanly fashion as is meet; Mr. Wybert Reeve,
Lambert Streyke in a way that we shall have more to
say of auon; M.. G. Forbes, Basil Giorgione in first-
class style; and Mr. A. J. Byrnes, Edward Langton as
well as ne can. Mullins (Mr. F. Harcourt) and Komelli
(Mr. Forrest) are to the fore when wanted.
• • •
Tho dialogue of the play is dull enough in some
parts, and the piece altogether might be compared to a
garment constructed of alternate strips *f a harlequin’s
dress, and a mute's working clothes—sparkling in One
place, sombre in another.
** * *
The Hart entertainment at the Victoria Hall is
still doing good business. We took our girl there the
other night, and she giggled so much that now we have
to kiss her mouth in sections so as not to make one end
jealous of the other. Really this is ene of the nicest
little shows that can be imagined. Mrs. Hart’s song,
“ Esmeralda Gitana,” thosgh perhaps not sung after
the fashion of the school of La Seala, is, neverthe-
less, well sung and always applauded. The bridal pas
de deux is exceedingly pretty. The whole entertain-
ment —like the Corporation with regard to some of our
feotpaths—never flags from beginning to end.
** * *
At the Opera House, “ The Guv’nor ” has given
place to “ Crutch and Toothpiek," yet another of those
“soeial satires’’ for which the follies of the present
age have furnished material. It is clever as most others
of its class. But there is more humour than wit in it,
more drollery than satire. The follies of the age are
too flimsy for slashing at; they Must be tossed about
like shuttlecocks—not as a bull tosses a red-coated
huntsman over a gate. There is little of the piquancy
of immortal sarcasm about analogous come-
dies in these days. But then the vices of these days
are not as spicy as were those in the reign ofjthe Grand
Monarque. And also there is no Moliere.
* * *
Alderman Jones has two daughters, Dolly and
Amy. Dolly is married to Guy Devereux—a crutch,
and-toothpick swell. Amy is unmarried, but loving
and beloved by Cecil Leighton—another swell. Old
man Jones has made his money in trade and doesn’t
care a straw for all the College of Heralds and all the
blue blood in England. The suitor who applies for his
second daughter must be a business man; one not
ashamed to talk of the current rates for tallow, or the
condition of the market with regard to oil. The stout
alderman therefore looks with disfavour upon Amy’s
choice, and regrets that he should have been led into
giving his consent to Dolly’s. But the shrewdest man
that ever lived is at themercy of theshallowest woman.
Alderman Jones, despite his business acumen and civic
dignity, is led like a lamb to the slaughter. Mr. Jellicoe,
a tailor, appears upon the scene. Hn talks quickly, has
a fussy way of doing things, and rubs his hands briskly
together when he can find them no other employment.
This is the kind of man after Jones’s own heart. ...So he
proposes to marry him straightway to his daughter
Amy. He has no particular code of morals—this old
man Jones—but the stock-exchange apophthegm “Trade
is the foundation of ®ur social edifice” is his sheet
anchor. He has been talking with his son-in-law,
Devereux, and advises him to take to trade. But his
son-in-law is a stubborn ass and won’t take advice.
Consequently he and the old man quarrel. Just at
this time the latter opens a letter addressed to
Devereux. It is from a widow at Margate who accuses
him of deserting her. Denials are of no use, and
Devereux is damned—by old Jones.
• • *
Now the woman’s wit comes in. Amy, finding
that her father is determined to marry her to a man of
business, tries to teach her lover the way to make
money on ’Change. A very comic scene occurs here.
Amy and Cecil are seated upon the sofa —Cecil sucking
the top of his stick. Says Amy: “You must learn to
be a business man, Cecil.” Says Cecil despairingly:
“ But I don’t know anything about business, Amy."
“Nevermind,” quoth she; “yon do just as pa does;
go out and buy things and sell them again. That’s the
way to make money." “ But I don't know what to
buy.” “ Buy oil, love; I heard pa say it was going up."
So he goes out and buys oil. When Alderman Jones
returns from the city, the first question his daughter
puts to him is “ How’s business ? ” “Brisk, my girl,
brisk,” he replies, delighted to see his daughter taking
an interest in trade. “ And oil,” she continued, “how’s
oil?” “ Going down, little one, going down/’ “But
I thought you said it was going up this morning ? "
“So I did, so I did; but then, you see (with a wink),
that was one of the tricks of trade.” Cecil comes
baek in the evening, and says he has bought oil. “ Then
you must sell it again at once—it’s going down,” gasps
out Amy. “ But I don’t how to sell it," replies the
bewildered buyer. Then Amy teaches him, and he goes
through the pantomime of a pedlar selling wares to a
farmer’s wife, or a cheap-Jack vending medicines in
Paddy’s Market. Finally he sells, and loses hundreds
of pounds by the transaction. The next is even more
disastrous.
• # *
In the meantime, Devereux has hig allowance
stopped, and is told to earn his living. He acts upon
the injunction at once, and comes home that same
evening laden like a pack-horse with samples of hair-
dya, tin tacks, floor-mops, feeding-bottles, and such-like
saleable articles. He sallies out to the city next morn-
ing to get orders. This is a very funny performance.
He doesn’t get any orders, but succeeds in annoying
old Jones, who hopes to be Lord Mayor one day, by
calling round upon his friends and soliciting an order
upon the strength of being his son-in-law.
• « •
The threads of the plot are quickly dr»wn
together, Jellicoe is proved to have been at Margate,
and given his name as Devereux to the widow. Valid
tout. Old man Jones goes upon his knees, asks pardon
of everybody, and everything tnrns out right.
* • •
The members of the company play so well
together that to criticise them individually seems like
P* BB^ opinion upon a Mosaic picture piece by piece,
Ihe best actors here are those who have the best parts,
this is the esoteric view of it, of course. Mrs. George
Gordon (Dolly Devereux) is perfect. Miss Emma
inschu (Amy Jones) is pluperfect. Lady Pennewick
(Miss Cora Gwynnefihas only to look pretty—which she
does, alas 1 too well for the peace of this devastated
buMum. Of the gentlemen, Mr G. S. Titheradgo
(Guy Devereux) makes the most impression, as he has
most opportunity. Mr. F. Marshall plays Alderman
Jones in the Marshallese manner, which is the ultimate
Si fu ?‘, J; o*B Grattan (Jellicoe) and Mr. D’Arcy
btanfleld (Cecil Leighton) act like actors Mr. H.
Savule (Fibbing) is too feeble to be funny, but Mr.
r. J) orbes (Jubbins) supplies the want with a ven-
geance. The scenery—Devereux’s drawing-room—
is painted by Mr, George Gordon in his finest style,
which is a very fine style indeed. “ The Professor” is
in preparation.
** * *
Mr. R. F. Roper, formerly business manager
Hurt’s Happy Hours Company, has leased the
Victoria Hall for twelve months. Mr. Eoper is one of
the best business men in the theatrical profession, and
will make that little hall pay if anything merely mortal
Jf 11 - . He P ro P OS€s to run a better class of shows in it
than has been there till lately. We wish him success.
* * -V *■
The repetition of the “ Martyr of Antioch,” at
the Garden Palace, on Saturday afternoon, was, in
many respects, an improvement on the previous ren-
dering at the Theatre Eoyal. The orchestra was
decidedly better, and the organ solo was an organ solo
and not a miserable makeshift. The Oboe has a promi-
nent part, and, played as it was on Saturday (not as it
was on Good Friday Night), was a treat in itself. Miss
Madeline St. Clair sang a trifle—just a trifle—better
than we have heard her, but she has much to
learn yet—for instance, management of her breath; and
then she doesn’t grasp her start notes with the pre-
cision which, we feel certain, she will use when she gets
a little older. Miss Marie was in good voice, and
obtained an encore for ‘‘loPoean.” “Come Magaritn” was
one of the gems of the concert. This solo suits Mr.
Smith’s voice to a nicety, and was sung by him with
excellent taste. The Funeral Anthem, sung without
accompaniment, was one of the best efforts of the
chorus, and reflects great credit on Mr. Eoss. During
the first part of the concert Mr. M'Quade again treated
the audience to Beethoven’s Concerto in Q, with
orchestral accompaniment. The ease with which
this gentleman plays this long and difficult composition
all from memory is almost marvellous, and is enough to
make many a professional quiver with envy.
** * *
Mrs. H. R. Woods and Mr. Frederick M‘Quade
have had the honour of being appointed honorary
pianists to the Sydney Liedertafel. The selection of
this lady and gentleman shows that the Liedertafel
committee possess excellent discrimination, Mrs. H.
E. Woods is, beyond all question, the most accom-
plished amateur pianists in New South Wales, her ren-
dition of musio placing mere thoughts of technique
out of the question, as a matter settled and done with,
the interest concentrating itself in the interpretation,
which never fails to be that of a true artist. Of Mr.
M’Quade, we write in anether part of this issue.
** * *
That ancient fossil, “ Formosa,” has been set
up at the Queen’s. The management of this theatre
are never happy unless they are burrowing among
tombs and tumuli. The play, however, is a very good
one, and, speaking fairly, was not badly performed.
From this to “Macbeth," played on Friday, is a long
jump, but Burdett Howe is not a man to be daunted by
trifles. We are exceedingly surprised that the Howe
season did not wind up with grand opera. We would
rather have seen Burdett in opera than in Shakesperian
tragedy. We would rather have seen him on a tight-
rope than in either. It is, as well, perhaps, that he has
taken his farewell. Marshall and Wybert Eeeve in
comedy, and Burdett in tragedy, are more fun than
this city can stand at one time.
** * *
“Norma” baa been running at the Gaiety
during this week. The attendances have been good.
Madame Fanny Simonsen in the title role is superb.
Her voice has lost none of its power or sweetness.
Only now and then in some unusually long-sustained
note was the shadow of harshness perceptible. The
part is a trying one, even for the strongest of voices.
Madame never faltered from beginning to end. Her
stage presence is commanding, and her facial expression
always a picture of her thoughts and an index to her
mood. Miss 'Martina Simonsen’s Adalgisa is a beauti-
ful study. The —translating—” Hear me, Norma,” song
she sang exquisitely. The silver-voiced Paladini was
in fine form. Signor Lnisetti makes a magnificent
Arch-Druid—as far as presence goes. This is not
meant to imply that he does not also sing well. Every-
thing is good. Even the two beards of the Druids
look venerable as they wave to and fro in time with the
music. And as for the Druidesses—ah ! The “ Grand
Duchess” will be produced on Saturday.
** * *
A comic opera of N.S. Wales growth is in course
of composition in this city. Mr. Thomas Moser, the
well-known journalist, writes the libretto, and Mr.
Hector Maclean, T.C.L , composes the music. The idea
of the piece is suggested by Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“Patience,” but the satire is directed against the pre-
vailing erase for Athletics, in lieu of Aesthetics. The
drift of the piece may be gathered from the Ifollowing
verses, the theme of a chorus in the first act; —
“ The craze about eesthetios
Is altered for athletics,
And muscle is more popular than brain;
So whate’er our private passion.
We'll ne’er go out of fashion
Until we find it verging on the wane.”
There is a corps of athletic-worshipping damosels who
flutter round the muscular heroes, and get mixed up
with a gang of betting men, who explain their mission
in a chorus
“ We’re the ring—we’re the ring—
And we’ll bet on anything.
The only source of troubles
Are the trebles and the doubles
To the ring. To the ring. To the ring.”
The girls are naturally interested in the “ ring,” with its
hymeneal suggestions, but remain faithful to the mus-
eular objects of their admiration till but more anon.
The title of the opera is to be “ The Modern Hercules;
or, The Hero of an Hour.” Mr. Maclean has composed
some sparkling and catching music to Mr. Moser’s
audacious libretto.
** * *
Mr. M. L. Raphael, of the English Opera Com-
pany, telegraphing from Maryborough to the agent at
Eockhampton, states: —“ Wo played ‘La Fille de
Madame Angot,’ ‘The Eose of Castile,’ and ‘H.M.S.
Pinafore,’ to the largest houses that ever assembled in
Maryborough. Every seat booked for next three
nights.” The company are now in Rockhampton.
*# ♦ *
Things dramatic have been brisk enough in
Adelaide lately. Writes onr correspondent unler date
23rd May :— *• The Pomeroy company last week placed
a freed piece every night on the stage. Frank Weston
says it looks like business, bnt it also looks like sacri-
ficing everything artistic to this idea. The company
weio greatly overworked, the prompter really becoming
the busiest man ol the crowd. The fair Lou si herself
evidently felt tha strain, playing very unevenly. The
Shakespearian revivals, ‘As You Like It,’ ‘Twelfth
Night,’ and ‘Borneo and Juliet,’ were atrociously
done One poor young fellow got set zid with stage-
fright, and, in the pas oral comedy, quite ‘ killed ’ the
star's best scene. On Friday, Miss P. meroy played
Lady Teazle for the first time in Adelaide, aud a capital
study it is, thougb, as yet, somewhat crude in place*.
* Tha School for Scandal * must rank first among the
entire performances of the company, being creditably
presented, aud enthusiastically received by a crowded
house. After the screen-scene which finishes the
fourth act. Miss Pomeroy stayed before the curtain
responding to an uproarious ' call,’ and on the spur of
the moment broke into an evidently impromptu
speech. It was disjointed and slightly incoherent, bat
Louise spoke straight from her heart saying the
prettiest possible things of the colonics, and declaring
tnat should she, as Brooke, be ahipwrcoked and
drowned, like him as the vessel sank, she would turn
Her lace towards Australia and cry 11 Farewell 1 land of
my adoption.” The season has been very successful
nsaacially, despite managerial parsimony in the matter
of swge-mounts. Miss Pomeroy leaves on Thoraday
for Melbourne, thence on to Queensland, then back
down the coask, away te India, and lastly to Eaghad,
where Weston says her engagements begin next year,...
Bent and Bachelder's Minstrel combination do well at
tne Academy. William Horace has concocted a vnlgar
but amusing lecture, •• What is Art ? " wherein, among
other libels, ho says it would be Art if ho could And
journalists who are not always drunk. Carroll must
have told him this King Rigno’d the Ist opened as
Drank Darnngton in ‘‘Youth’* on the 22nd. Royal
crowded in every part.”
• ♦ •
Kefcten gave a concert in Naples, and as he was
about to leave tbelplatform a revenue officer demanded
* per x , cent ) oa the receipts—not only on the
u" ~ V? r tickets sold, but on 945 lire represented
deadheads.” The piano gymnast dramatically rci
sisted the imposition, and loudly announced that when
tne anair|was settled the next day ne should instruct
his secretary (Mr. Nathan) to present the amount un-
justly claimed to the charities. Either the demand was
an infamous one, or another cunning device of the
advertiser—which ?.
** * *
When Billy Emerson went to London with the
Haverly Minstrels, he saw an organ-grinder and monkey
ror the first time. The instrument was neatly covered
with green baize, and Billy, thinking it was some kind
of gambling game, put up a half-crown in one corner,
upon winch the man turned the handle and the monkey
grabbed the coin, and put it into the till. Billy then
tried the opposite corner, with a similar result. After
trying all the comers, and doubling the stake on the
middle, to the delight of the man and the monkey, h©
cned to the crowd outside, •• What in thunder sore of
game is this ? Does a man never pick up a bet ? t$
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
The giddy girls of “ The World ” left for New-
castle on Saturday amid salvoes of sobs from disconso-
late admuora One evening at Christchurch, N.Z., in
" P'w? 1161 Vr* a ccmtr etemps occurred in the first
act. When Vernon was singing his song ho dropped
his large white moustache, but was quite equal to the
occasion, and with his eye-glasses he calmly surveyed
his cherished moustache lying on the stage with a look
of profound wonder, and went on with his singing
The whole house was roused to peals of laughter
bays the S.P. Call:— “Ben Clark has returned from
Australia.’......Qympie gushes over the Gem Company
—Clinton Tyrrel and Grace F. PoUande, stars
“Again crowded,*' is the daily reports of Maccabe'a
business at Newcastle Dominic Sonsee, with the
double-jeinted dwarf and the magnetic lady are at
Maryborough..^...John Wilson, an American actor, who
in 1867 (says a Yankee paper) was in Australia, died in
the Pacific Slope lately George Coppin “ finally ••
farewells the Victorian stage on 17th July. Those,
however, who go en the presumption that George won't
ever play again, “ presump.** wrong Lewis's Mas-
todons are in Dunedin Lieutenant Hose, with three
agents ahead, is doing splendidly in N.Q Grattan
Kiggs opens in Adelaide this month .Buckley and
Kelly’s Pleasure Party at Bega...Towle, of Christchurch,
has accepted a lucrative engagement in Melbourne
Predrick Dowdall was the young rufilan who caused the
panic in the Theatre Koyal, Melbourne Djerling
gets £2O a week for his nightly five minutes with the
Jiona Thus a critic:—“All that I can say is, if the
Carcoar * fair ladies,* not to mention th.# ‘ ruder sex,*
were moved to tears by the richly-deserved woes of
Lady Isabel, as interpreted by Mrs. Holloway in a rich
Limerick brogue, they must be an exceedingly tender,
hearted community.” Ned is now in the Mndgee
district Clara Stephenson has been applying to the
Grafton Bench for a warrant against Mr. Wills, who,
she alleges, assaulted her The charming Emilie
Melville is on board the incoming 'Frisco steamer.
City of Sydney On dit in NZ. theatrical circles that
a certain eminent actor now in Sydney will shortly
lead Miss Maggie Knight to the hymeneal altar .
The Simonsen opera season at the Gaiety lasts ‘tea
weeks, after which Walter Reynolds will, we hear,
produce a drama, the marrow-freezing plot of
which is to be unfolded in fourteen tableaux, each a
curdling sensation Marcus Clarke's widow has
formed a comedy company, consisting of Joyce and his
wife, Carey, Phillips, Meta Pelham, and others, and is
going to tour Victoria and the other colonies
Some kind hearted members of the profession mean to
try and divest of actual want the last days of an old
comrade, George Bowden, aged 75, who was once
prompter at Drury Lane, and who, after having for
years barely supported himself in Sydney by copying
parts, can now work no longer. It is proposed to start
a very small weekly subscription among members of the
profession actually engaged at the various theatres, the
proceeds to be regularly handed to a general treasurer
by the different gentlemen empowered to receive sub-
scriptions Dan Barry, the actor, was sticking his own
bills in Sale, lately, when, owing to his dress, he was taken
for an escaped prisoner and “ lumbered," pending the
arrival of evidence as tq his respectability The
panic in the Melbourne Theatre Royal ruined Dampier's
business for the time Alice Rees utterly 22 since
“ Patience” was produced; before she was only 18
A paper at Nelson (where they took out the hearse
instead of the fire engine, and tried to make it squirt)
implores people to buy tickets for Zulu Thompson’s show
during the day—the crush is so great at night Noth-
ing bat burnt cork and amateur atrocities in Auckland,
says a Dunedin paper Williamson says—wo quote it
some more—that there is only one time for theatrical
companies to visit N.Z., and that is never. This cannot
be true; he has found “ millions in It.”
* # •
Anna Dickenson’s London speciality is Hamlet
in trousers On arrival in 'Frisco, Pattie Laverne
was engaged at 500 dols. a week for the leading part in
“ Madame Favart" at Haver ley's California Tneatre..,.
J. K. Emmett opens at 'Frisco on June 10 Kyiv,in,
of the Theatre perpetrated a cruel joke on
Madame Rouvier recently. At one of her receptions,
at which several Bonapartiste were present, she asked
Sylvain to recite a few lines. He gave a soliloquy
entitled “ Sedan," abounding in violent abuse of Napo-
leon 111, his marshals and ministers, and full of cutting
sneers at French defeats, from the battle of Agin-
court down to the last Franco-Prnssian w»r. And
he kept up his cruelty for twenty-flve minutes ..
Edward (Terry, who is credited with being the largest
salaried stock comedian in London, charges The Era,
by implication,with permitting the advertisements
to govern the opinions expressed in the columns of that
journal." Edwin Booth recently declined to play in
Chicago until assured by the Superintendent of the
Elgin Insane Asylum, that Grey—the lunatic, who shot
at Booth in McVicker’s Tneatre throe years ago—wes
still safe in that institution. Grey still maintains that
Booth is his father ...Mr. Abbey, of London, is sus-
pected of a design to bull the prime donne market of
the world. He has contracts with Patti, Nillton,
lima de Murska, Qerster, Minnie Hiuk, Van landi
and others.
No. 1 COLONEL WOODD.
2 Mrs. WILLOUGHBY BLYTH
3 NELLIE.
4 LAMBERT STREYKE.
5 OLIVE
6 RICHARD FORRESTER.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Here is a sample of “ promotion by merit,’
according to tha Parkes Ministry. About eighteen
months ago a very estimable young gentleman occupied
a humble Government billet in Sydney, at tho modest
screw of ten shillings a day. Through the influence of a
member to whom he obtained an introduction, he
managed to get himself into another department on
somewhat better terms; then he got on good terms
with a daughter of somebody high in the service, and
was removed to the country at a salary of £3oo’
However, the fiancee, being of opinion that Warrego-
bungolong was too unfashionable a hole to live in*
sought out the Minister with her mamma, and asked
that the dear one—he’s dear to us [all, gentle taxpayers
—should be transferred to Cnrragongo. He went to
Curragongo accordingly, and now enjoys an annual
screw of £450 with pickings. Fact,
In a certain colony reside two inimical squatters.
Smash and Dash hated one another heartily, and every
one knew it. For years. Dash had held a private race-
meeting and hall, to which only the 61Jte were hidden.
Imagine then, everyone’s surprise, when the Bur-
bamurrah Sickener announced one day that the Com-
ingman Plains Amateur Turf Club Races and Ball would
this year he under the presidency of Dash, and the
vice-presidency of Smash, and subject to regulations
of the most unique kind For instance :—“ any member
using improper language at the races or hall will he
fined a guinea and any member found intoxicated will
be expelled.” Again, “ persons desiring to appear in
fancy dress may select from a large variety provided
for the occasion, by applying to the overseer.” The
thing was an audacious hoax from beginning to end,
and the way the great Dash swore when he saw the
advertisement, was enough to provo the impossibility
of enforcing tha flrat-quoted[regulation.
SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR A REVISED VERSION.
“ Nervous is the man who taketh his first marriage
vow, bat at his thousandth ho woxeth cooler.”
ECCLESIASTES.
“ Beheld I send my moat valiant men to the front,
wherefore let Beersheeba’slhnshand have a show.”
DAVID.
“And Moses knew that the land which had been
promised to Abraham’s [children .was a goodly land,
and if tho thing came pff he conld place a million
talents of Egyptian money at seventy.flve per cent.”
EXODUS.
“And when Jonah h»d satisfied [himself that the
whale contained many vessels of oil, he tarried till he
was opposite to Jaffa, and crawled straightway into
the throat of tho leviathan and choked him. Then he
lifted up his voice and cried alond ' Enough,—let thy
servant get out, and! take advantage of the market.’
Andrit was so."
JONAH.
“And she clutched his garment, but Joseph said,
* Let go. I pray thee.* And he cried mightily to Heaven
with one eye, and watched old Potiphar out of sight
with the other. And he sat him down, still winking,
and did write the account himself lest the ungodly who
come after, should mock."
EXODUS.
You apprentice a boy to a blacksmith. In seven
years he learns how to bum out the lam pas in a horse’s
month. His arm is wiry, and he can grip the tosgs an
with a vyce. His father then gives him a black suit,
and says:—My son, yon are ready. Go up to Sydney
and hang out this brass sign—
T. Mulligins, •
j DENTIST.
• • •
A provincial Bishop of the Episcopalian Church
once found himself, at the close of a broiling hot day,
jaded and tired, and a-hnngred enough to eat the show-
bread et the temple, or to think twice before refusing a
bite of an interdicted apple, even if Mother Ere held
one end of it and a serpent the other. At length be
halted at a selector’s hat, tho only habitation he had
seen during a journey of thirty miles. He asked for
something to eat, and had parforca to wait till the old
woman of the houai cooked him some cakes. The
woman was a clean and tidy specimen of her class, albeit
she appeared to grudge him food; for she mattered a
few half-smothered maledictions on the scarcity of
flour. When the set the cakes before him, bis Lord-
ship’s eye beamed with unctuons gratitude, but the scene
changed when she said “ you must excuse the delay,
si*,—l had to finish washing the baby in the camp-
oven before I could use it for cooking.” The
Bishop looked doubtingly at the ompting cakes, hut
pride prevailing, he remounted his horse and rode ten
miles more before he procured any food. It was not
until some days afterwards that the idea dawned on
him that the woman’s story was an invention to scare
him off from monopolizing too episcopal a share of the
week’s rations. Peter Campbell had evidently made
the hut in the wilderness a halting place before the
Bishop visited it. And the woman had gleaned the
wisdom of experience.
• • *
Two Americans travelling on coach from Albury
to Wodonga in company with talkative Victorian.
Bays the Vic. ns they crossed the bridge :— ** Now are
wo in the most glorious country in the world!”
“Taas," says one of the Tanks—' 1 but can you tell me
what’s up with that coon lying down there ?” “Ah !
that is sunstroke I the only drawback to this country is
the heat." “ Yaas ? But what’s those ;tanks on wheels
for ?” “ Ah—they are water-carts —the great drawback
in this glorious country being the lack of water.”
•' Oh I But, streanger, what are those shanties there
for?" "They, Sir, are the houses of those thieves
and robbers the selectors—in fact they are the only
drawback to this most glorious country." The other
Tank, who had not previously spoken, stretched his
legs, turned his quid, and remarked :—" Stranger / 1
know another place which hut for its heat, its want of
water, and its bad company would be the most
glorious in the world—the name of that place is Hell.”
* * •
It is said, remarks a contemporary, that a
photograph of the Rev. Q. F. Hand, M A., who has
been named in oonneetion with the Bishopric of Sydney,
is being handed round to certain members of the Synod
by a relative of the reverend gentleman. This proceed-
ng inaugurates the era of clerical beauties, only that
the standard of beauty in this connection is African —
the fattest is the fairest. We are coming to the time
when clerical elections will be conducted in silence.
Candidates will simply step into the scales and then
have the measuring tape passed round their calves and
paunches. No man who doesn’t turn the scale at
fifteen stone will be admitted as a competitor. Any
man under that weight can’t be considered the pos-
sessor of sound divinity. There will be a great demand
for oil-cake before an election comes off. A fat candi-
date show will be held afterwards—admission half-a-
crown the first day. Bishop’s blessing thrown in.
The Kiama Independent, in its Queen’s
Birthday leader, has the following blot of bathos :
“ The opponents of the liquor trade hare heard of her
(the Queen’s) refusal to accept the present of ' Victoria
whisky ’ from an American manufacturer; and the
friends of all that is good and true and womanly in
female character, know how these qualities have been
exhibited in her life." According to this, then, the good
and true and womanly female is always refusing oases
of whisky. This is a new standard to gauge female
beauty by. The most virtuous woman, meastring
virtue in this fashion, is the cne who refuses a case of
whisky; the most depraved, the one who will not re-
fuse a drink. After all, the fact of the matter is this.
Our Gracious Queen did not refuse the present sent her
by the American manufacturers because she disapproves
of whisky, hut simply because she didn’t care for the
blend. The leaders for the Kiama Independent, by
tha way, must be from the pen of seme metropolitan
pressman. We don’t know for certain who the writer
is, but judging by the masterpiece from which we
quoted, we strongly suspect is a D.T. writer, or a
frog in the Botany dam.
Native products are not much esteemed by abori-
ginals. On a back block, recently, a blackfellow, having
hurt bis arm, came into the station. The overseer
served him out a oup of vinegar »s a lotion, but this
Jaoke immediately drank off, remarking to the over,
seer, “Me know him well, Mis’r John: him Colonial
wine.” Fact.
• * «
The Bungletown Snorter has a column
which is headed “Scraps,” but should have been
designated “ Slush.” The scrap-man made some
drivelling allusion to a couple of girls in the neighbour-
hood. They laid in wait for him; and, while one gouged
out his eye, the other chewed off the lobe of bis right
oar. She carried the trophy home, had it tanned, and
afterwards made it into a pig-skin saddle. The other
girl gave the gouged eye to the town boys to use for
bait when they went fishing. This same scrap-man, by
the way, is the one who used to get drunk and lie down
ju a bat while tho jokers of the town used his upturned
ear as a crachoir.
This story comes from an adjacent colony. A
vary distinguished nobleman, who occupied a promi.
nent seat in the dress circle of the theatre, became
somnolent. The coroneted head nodded fitfully for a
time, and finally sank upon the vice-regal bosom in
peaceful sleep. None of his suite dared wake him ; no,
not if they had been offered the night’s takings. But the
actors heard of the gubernatorial slumbers, and were
not pleased at such want of discrimination. “ I’ll fix
him," said the star. Hurrying over the first words of
a sentence, he delivered the conclusion with a crescendo
shriek, thus, “ All right, hoys; I have fixed the
Guv’nor 1” The startled nobleman caught tho last
words that the actor thundered out, and with a hazy
conception that his health had just been proposed at a
dinner, jumped forward, and was within an ace of
rising to his feet. Then he grasped the situation.
He remained awake the rest of that evening.
* # •
The proprietor of a hotel in one of the New
Zealand towns offers [£s for the heat poem on the
opening of his new Opera House. Poetry and tripe
fetch the same price in New Zealand. The difference
between that country and this is that poetry doesn’t
fetch tripe here. Ask Lewis Scott.
In view of the proposed visit of Lord Augustus
Loftus to the Hunter district, a meeting of the citizens
of Newcastle has been held to organize a reception. A
Hunter river man, who, however, isn’t a tuft-hunter,
says that although his friends yearn to gaze on Vice-
royalty, he thinks that the Governor, in view of the
present high price of eggs, sheuld stay at home, and
watch the poultry.
• • #
To treasure up the “ last dying words” of eminent
men is a hobby with some persons ; hut there is far
more profit and zest in anticipating these final flourishes'
To speculative idlers we commend this new hobby,
merely forewarning them not to ride it to death, as
Ketten did his pony. Here are a few conjectural ones,
as the nucleus of a collection: —
The Vagabond: “I.”
Sieenert : 11 The 'eight hof my hamhition his hun-
attained, but hi die ’appy. Bid Forster not lo
hinsult my memory with complimentary
speeches.”
Forster : “ I rely on the Antochthony of the here*
after.”
Robertson i “ I leave to the Herald, as my dying
and most bitter curse, the work of unriddling the
virtues of my Land measures."
Buchanan : “ I shall he with the minority—above.”
Dat ; “ For loss of life there is no compensation.”
Dillon : “ I pray for some quiet spot where publicans
may not molest me.”
Smtthe;: “Even in death I have a conviction— of
peace beyond the grave.”
Hodgson : “ I rely on technical logic to make clear
the virtues of my life.”
Sir Arthur Palmer : “ Let no newspaper-fellow pro*
fane my memory."
M'Beath : “ My doom is coiled.”
Garrett : “ Tell Culchaw Badham to write a classical
elegy on my merits (if any) that posterity may
take the Garrett greatness with some Attic salt.
Piddingtonskt : “Ale Czarina! I’ve been a true
Muscovy duck.”
Hetd®n : “ Is.there no Protection—from death ? ”
Roger Bede : •' Lo, I wait for the bath of super
natural glory.”
Darlet : “Now for wholesome fun, or wholesome
fury.”
And so ad infinitum,
* • *
This is a fact, and occurred ih a
N.S.W, western township. A young lady after
paying a Visit of inspection to tho loo’l Infant
school, was asked to enter her name in the Vi>i*
tore’ Book, with any remarks calculated to exprese
her opinion of what she had seen. Sho complied ; and
wrote opposite her signature, “ Children very ugly-
Inning the course of tho day, the curate visited the
school, and observing the quizzical entry, he wrote
underneath, “ The above rema>k is entirely uncalled
for, and must emanate from a conceited mind.” Does
the story halt here, or was the fair damsel ever
THE NEW MARITAL LAW
(ACCORDING TO WOOLSACK ESTHETICS).
(Respectfully dedicated to Sir George Innes).
When the domestic sun’s not bright.
Don’t argue till you’re hoarse;
Administer the solemn rite
Of “ necessary force.”
And should she not peccavi cry
With most abject remorse.
To her devoted form apply
More “ necessary force.”
Perhaps high carnival you’ve held
At Bacchus’ jovial source,
And she, base ingrate, hath rebell’d —
Use “ necessary force.”
Mayhap the seventh moral law
Sways not your amorous course;
Well, you’ve a gag for tears or “ jaw”
In “ necessary force.”
Tour temper may be like an imp’s;
Tour manners low and coarse;
But, if of such she shows one glimpse,
Try “ necessary force.”
In fact, in every trouble now.
Ton have one sure resource.
Before which Bight and Wrong must bow—
Grim “ necessary foree.”
Rest happy,’ for majestic law
Will all you do endorse.
If yon but, when your mate you claw.
Use "necessary force.”
Rejoice, then husbands! farewell strife!
Mount each your hobby-horse!
Tour slave obeys—we’ve slain the wife
With “ necessary force I”
MR. FREDERICK M'QUADE.
(See Page 10.)
CAPTAIN GEORGE MORGAN,
SHIP ANNE DUTHIE.
(See page 10.)
AN ACROSTIC.
L ittle of diplomatic art he knew,
O f skill to rule he ever guiltless pleaded;
F or which good reasons, it is very true,
T he Powers considered him the man we needed.
U seless, nor beautiful, —he little kens:
S erenely sitting with his cooks and hens.
A FAIR-Y TALE.
He disappeared, he went. To Hell—
—er now aloud I vainly call;
*' O why did you do such a sell—
-0 why announce a Fancy Ball ?
“ Tour noble presence looked so swell;
1 placed my coin within your hand.
When you were only but—O Hell —
—er, leader of a German Band.
“ Then secretary for a spell.
You ran the great Cathedral Fayre,
But soon ’twaa whispered round, in Hell—
—er’s hooks things did not wholly square.”
And so he went. Old men will tell
Their children’s children how he tried
To cut the swell; how blazing Hell—
—er like a meteor flashed and died.


avenged;? Well, the subsequent history of the tourns-
ment was simply this-Within two years the enrate
and the lady became man and wife.
• • •
Saul Samuel, the knight, will move in a higher
stratum of social splendour than did the Hon. Saul
Samuel, C.M.G. To commemorate this admission into
higher-toned society, Tennyson’s genius has been in-
voked to compose an appropriate poem, to be entitled
“ Hand Saul Bound."
• • •
The decision of the Full Court— that the des-
cription "member of the Legislative Assembly," is an
explicit definition of a man’s vocation—is neither novel
nor without precedent. Many years ago the Bench at a
northern township, found in the police net overnight, a
mauvais sujet, whose heavy and | bloodshot eye*
betrayed a non-Oscarity of sentiment and an nn-
Wildeism of soul. In his pocket were a half-penny, a
nob grey, a crooked tail, a pamphlet on the land laws,
and the prospectus of a mining company. The police
charged the unsavoury wreck of humanity with
drunkenness, and with having no ostensible means of
support. The accused said he was a “ membah of Par-
liament,” and this explanation of how he got his living
being verified, he was apologised to, and the police were
admonished.
* * •
“ We Publish to-day,” says the editor of a New
Zealand paper, " on our 15th page, the words and music 1
of a touching, homely ballad, entitled • Call me home,
Mother.’" But his mother would call him never more
in this life. She was at that time lying stiff and cold
in the local lanyard, and the wicked boys of the town
were pulling hairs out of her tail to make pipe-stem
cleaners out of. But he is not the only motherless foal
editing a paper, as long as our piebald Parramatta
friend remains to ns.
This is how they used
to work up Life Assurance at a
certain S.A. town, while, owing
to railway extension, navvies
were plentiful there. A doctor
was summoned to examine can-
didates. He got to this new
field of operation in the after-
noon, examined twelve candi-
dates that same eyening
pocketed his twelve guineas, and
was home next morning. To one
of the candidates, a big, brawny
pick-and-shovel man, the doctor
said when sounding him, “ Hal-
lo! you’ve got the jerks!” The
navvy started back shaking with
fear and nervousness. "My
God I ” he cried despairingly,
” what’s that ? ” “ The jerks,”
the doctor replied “the to«
bacco jerks, of course you
smoke,don’t you ?’’ “ Yes, yes,"
said the frightened fellow.
“How much do you smoke a
week, eh P” “ Nearly a pound”
“ Heavens I you have it very
badly. That’s too much. I
wouldn’t give twelve months
for your life." “Oh, Lord!
what shall I do P ” moaned the
navvy, breaking out into a oold
perspiration and staggering back
quite overcome. “ Well, my
man, I ean’t pass you—quite
impossible.” Here the Assur-
ance agent thought it time to
interpose, after which the doc-
tor continued: “ Well, look
here, if you’ll promise mo you
won’t smoke so much I’ll pass
you." "Oh, I’ll promise. I'll
work down to half a pound.”
“Well then, I’ll pass you.” And
the man was passed. He paid
his first quarter’s premium
down, of which the agent got
halt by way of eommission, and
the doctor one guinea, the Com-
pany pocketing the balance as
clear profit, because it is a rare
thing for this stamp of man ever
to pay another premium. T .o
would not be a Life Assurance
canvasser or, failing that, a Life
Assurance Company I
* * •
The Magic Bug-Killer tro-
phy of £6OO is to be rowed for
shortly. Gentlemen amateurs
only.
The proprietors of The Abqtjs have offered a
handsome award for the best collection of Australian
wines at the Bordeaux Exhibition. 'Tis thus the
journalistic world, in its vain moments, shows its little
weaknesses. Not to be outdone in liberality by the
literature of the Cabbage Garden, the Evening News
proprietary should offer a handsome trophy for the
best collection of condensed shandy gaff, the Tele,
graph for the moat nitrogenous samples of schnapps,
the Herald for the purest port-wine and most odorous
onions, and the Holt Howl for the best collection of
rprocf 30-ovekerosene.
• • •
Of the shareholders of the Bank of New Zea-
land ninety-four are parsons. Lay up your treasures,
brethren, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt.
We who are your pastors will toil among yon
and be satisfied with a mortgage or two upon this
sinful earth. Shell out your threepences regularly,
dearly beloved, and Jehovah will provide the rest.
From a Dublin newspaper:—“l hereby warn
all persons against trusting my wife, Ellen Flanagan,
on my account, as I am not married to her,"
A man went up to a splitter who was falling a
3-feet tree and said, "I say, I've just read that Glad-
stone cut down a tree 3 feet through in five hours
twenty minutes. Hew suppose he was chopping for
your employ er at that rate, what would he get a day ?”
The sack," was the reply.
Alexander I of Russia accompanied young
Napoleon I. at a review ot the Frencn soldiers. One
r renohman had a great scar down his face, dividing it
mto two parts almost,, a scar received against the
■Russians. Said Napoleon, with pride, “What think
yon of & man who lives to shew such a mark ?" Alax-
an der was mote than equal to the occasion, and he an-
swered, " Nay, rather, what do you think of the man
who gave him that soar?” A shade passed over the
General’s face; he could not answer. The subject
oi their remarks was listening, he touched his cap and-
in deep tones, “ The fellow who did it is dead.’*
BRIEF MENTION.
Fittes’ victory was the survival of the fittest.
hisd e Jty mott ° 1 Viofcoria ei P* cta every man to pay
Why should newspapers term the Day insolvency
revelation* “ extraordinary " disclosures P
„ ‘ new version ” for the use of selectors —
Wire us this day oar Day-ly—ahem!—compensation,’’
l* T ° hed rom m 7 inner consciousness,”
J™,™ jaunty remark of a Parramatta editor, as he
handed over a rnm-eoddon leader to the cross-eyed
comp.
, It is currently reported that the long-looked-for
bridge to North 8 we mean the land of Moab—will
be commenced when our Balaam returns from his tour
.to lump.
An English inventor enables a politician to be-
come his own Hansard. Simply fixes a machine on his
nose.' J.MElhone got one, and in the dead hours of
the night he heard language unprintable.
Messrs. William John Jones, of Albury, and
Jerusalem Smith, of every where, took a buggv out the
other day. They didn’t bring it back, but the horse
brought some of it. Jerusalem! Jerusalem I
.. A Bundaberg paper gives its readers the start-
Img information that “old Sam broke his thigh above
the kneecap. This ia another way ef saying that
knee^caf| alI^erS ® wear their thighs below the
How few of ns possess those heavenly virtues,
patience and contentment 1" murmured a certain emi-
nent Sydney 1 bruiser " last week to a welshing book-
maker as he escorted him to the door of the public-
house by the nose.
~ is said, but we don’t for a moment believe it,
that when a certain high official was appealed to re-
specting the pay of the police, he elevated his eyebrows
and asked * what on earth hns a policeman’s pay to do
with his means ?”
A gentleman from England bailed up a Telegraph
boy in George-street the other day, and enquired what
those letters ET.” on his cap stood for? “Oh,
Enny-Think,’ said the boy, as ho slithered off to de-
liver a Press message.
At a Hibernian meeting in Albnry lately, one
Irishman, regretting the Phoenix Park murders, said :
• It was better for onld Ireland that she had a mill
shtone round her neck, and—and—and, be jabers, that
she war ground up into flour.”
Mr. Dillon, on the morning of the 24th May, dis-
charged a lot of drunkards with a caution—as the
Herald says, “ in honor of the Queen’s Birthday.”
Now where does the honor come in ? Who mops up all
the honor which is splashed about bv this transac-
tion?
A Northern newspaper says the mutton sold in
Gympie “ looks like old dried goat’s flesh, or the lineal
the original scapegoat turned out of
Jerusalem.” The sentence has to be chewed over for a
moment before one can digest it, but then so had the
mutton.
Said a cynical P.M. to an applicant for a pub-
lican’s license out West: —“ Ton already have a license
to bury people, have you not ?” •• Yes,” replied the appli-
cant, who was an undertaker. ‘‘And now of course you
want a license to kill people ?” And—** Yes,” again was
the candid and unabashed reply I
At a recent Good Templar shivoo in England, Sir
'Enry calmly and deliberately said his new Incensing
Act “ was working well out here, and giving universal
satisfaction. As he still lives, we don’t believe
Ananias was struck dead any more than Tom Pepper
was. 7000 at Botany last Sunday, and Manly Beach a
good second.
A society of ladies has started a Zoological
Necropolis a few miles distant from London, for the
purpose of providing decent burial for dogs, cats,
monkeys, and birds. Hsrs we bory our dead dogs, oats,
rats, *c., in the street. Bat then we sf Sydney are a
religious people, and like to be reminded of death at
every crossing.
An Evening News man, absorbed in writing
ont his shsrt-hand notes, inadvertently placed the hot
end of the oig&r in his mouth. A fellow reporter rushed
for a red ink bettie, and took down his remarks ver-
batim. Ton can get a read of them for one drink. Not
to when a similar inadvertence befals a Tremens
reporter. He smokes on all the same. These are no
SS aofe nnf 7 stamps, and the temperature
ot me mouth is not appreciably raised.
of Y P ci^ir!^ h ’nf OI p 0 ma t eurs gave a concert in aid
h f En ? la nd’s Building Fund. On the
SteWSai 4^ e seajle Daily Dish Cloth de-
in^‘of mprai.eof the shrieky ‘squeal-
reallv relative, while a young lady, whoso
0l l“ “1 * u *‘“> h *» d “»•
in s^ 0 n?* W ii u half a dozen public-houses
fhm??ln e[ \ th f! 1T b#erb y measure,'’ When a member
the eirl for fw ot 8 ni « h ‘> »ad sends out
you can’t h]nt a lL bU f ke . t u Ul ‘ T ifc ’ a o,ten *° low down
wehrht bread 2® th ° frot h‘ It> worse than *hort-
denfil- b M d ‘ A man can do without bread, but to
deprive a News man of the staff of life is too bad.
Not 100 miles from Cowra, a certain military
drovo ot 2 r wil*l*i #ottODS WBS camped one l*ight, when up
ClarinnH P a ” on - "My good man” said
v r i°«* would you like some papers?” “Tea.” re-
of l MtHn^ r TwB t Ru SrUp witbthe Patronage in the hopes
Bulletin and a daily or two; “ thanks.”
Here then, my man,” and the parson drove off.
having left-a bundle of tracts I ’
vilrTV 11 th -?, Botany tram, crowded, of course.
Young lady, with plump figure and tightest of pull-
'PF£d up ,?? d hesitated. Every young min at
tnr iraaelf to ton inches of space,and made room
“*L i ~ lderlv J spinster, with thin figure, stepped up
. ?. la T r . ed ™™ d - No one moved. “Ah!” she jerked
°'J t * i 1 ” 3 d °lled up with cotton-wool padding and
a horsehair improver, there’d be room, eh ?“
There ia at least this consolation in my misery,
that neither time nor circumstance, neither the tyranny
or ill-adminlstsred laws, nor the equally goading whip
of a corrupt social system, nor the degradation of con-
stant police surveillance, have ever canaed me to
swerve from my determination not to work,” said
Davis, when Dillon, P M,, sent him up for a mouth for
stealing one bettle of honey from Cabban’s grocery.
A Rockhampton parson has introduced an inno-
vation into pulpit oratory. He gives out the text to
his sermon in a couplet something like this
11 Many arc called, but few are chosen.
Hardly one in every dozen.”
If a clergyman can’t go round and tickle up each mem-
1 ber of his congregation physically at least, he can
tickle their fancy en bloc to keep 'em from dozing.
A correspondent writes ; “ Men in blue and
their friends disturb the sleepers in Macquarie-street,
laughing and talking loudly as they slouch aleng in the
d«ad of niafht.'* The “sleepers in Macqu^rie-street **
should send Biddy the cook and Sally the housemaid to
bed at seasonable hours, and then they would sleep
sweetly. The row, however, is not made by laughing or
talking, but by crunching the upper-crust of rabbit-
pie.
An Irishman in Maitland, some years ago, had a
daughter, w ho possessed an excellent voice. A friend
of the old man’* was chatting with him one day, and
suggested that he ought to let his daughter have a
good musical education. “ Edjeoation is id f " said
Patrick; ’* faith that’s not my way. If thegerrulhaa
music in her, let her throw id off her stomach ae God
gave id to her. Oi don't belave in interferin' wid
nature.”
Tho Rockhampton Morning Bulletin editor
B *y ß Ulr- J- Macdermott is the prond and happy owner
of the only donkey in those parts. So at last this
august editor’s brother Edward has arrived. When in
fraternal embrace they cling affectionately each to
each, mast not the words of Tom Moore have flashed
through his brain-pan (if he has any), “ Doth not a
meetingllike this make amends ?” Yes, acree, to be
sure it does.
Scene-. Warden’s office np Monnt Browne way.
Time, 11 am. Warden busy writing. Enters Mike
O Kelly the storekeeper, loq. “ 1 am very drunk."
Warden: ”So I see.” "But it’s yonr fault." "How
do yen make that out ? " " Quite easy. Bowden sells
very strong (hie) whisky, and as the Qnv’ment through
you (hie) won't sink a well, I’ve got to drink it neat.
There’s no (blank) water, and how d’ye expeot a man
to keep sober ? ”
“There is a humourist in Auckland (N.Z.), and
what be is neither, a mate nor a sextos, but
one of the City Consoil’s officials. It appears that the
Are brigades in that city are paid a shilling an hour for
every Are they are " rung” to, no matter whether the
alarm be false or not. Some joker gave an alarm over
the recent display of Aurora Australis, and the brigade
claimed ns usual. But the corporation funny man
objected to pay, on the ground that it was “ out of the
district.”
®T ININO News boy was knocked down last
fo™ JVf U “■ «« l« u.l.“'oS? 7 bal ft“
ri %
S ~»'»<■'»'<■»■»> <•*••».■■
nn‘i« I 1?^ hat .? k . ed ‘ u P collection of pictures now
hfr; b V U . ff 9 r treaWB ; , in «*»■ and otherwise*; Arch.
in can <>nicals, wearing a devout
si“Slhlehem “.r’l 7 °* , Midiani <*s following the
jasa'js asassft»- ,ffi "“‘» sl
i.S ss: Stefe
z^rin.;firr?a^K£^F h£
quence of his crimed then *ho old Plomer^^Teen
co a Xedto 4o! 'ot Syffc woKunl *“*
«'l*™;'«;!• .•» .w that •• Plomer tatra,S“
sayp^ttasssassas®’-
>«Si? ss-jss
the “ adieation of ver boy Johnnv •• Thill.? t 0
in?MtL^ ba ‘‘Th°e h H ny f WeEt to private scl »Ool/The
skulebook* » T rS^fS t *® CoMpu i Bomar y; show me yer
that thnoffo dy . dld *°* and w as astonished to find
SgraSSs » tws&rs#
The Sum of all Israel was
taken in the plains of Moab. At
the Garden Palace a large sum
was taken by the beanties of
Moab.
? r<^er render Punch
v. Judy more nearly canonical
and available for religions pur-
poses in future, it is proposed in
Ecclesiastical circles to stile
the drama “Pungent Judah,”
For discussion at the next
M b ? te i of wu the Totm * Men’s
Mutual—-Where will Guiteau
Kyo to when he’s goteau geau ?
Urwnat damned him—too much
or too little respira-
This is the most suicidal
!" n * _ we have seen in print.
The Express advocates the
decimation of its own editorial
staff, or, what is the same thing,
holds that Marie Laye should
kaJigrod. m a deterrent to
otner lunatics.
The Post (a Mudgee news-
paper) gravely informs its
readers that “ Lord Harris sug-
gests that, to refnte the slander
of having sold a cricket match
e ! C “u° *he English eleven
should make a statuary (sic.)
declaration to the contrary.
Would not this be an infraction
of the old proverb, “ Write
injuries in dust, benefits in
marble t“
The editor of the Bombala
Times says he “has no sympathy
with The Bolletih.” it we
thought yon had, sonny, we
would shut np shop at ones. Wo
are not, just about now, canvas*
smsr for the good opinion of
crayfish, or lying awake at night
wondering what blabber- brained
idiots think of us.
The Hospital Committee at
Tamworth spent time and elo-
qnence lately, over a tinker's
bill for 205., bat passed, without
ea m *S rm ?f’ a la "J er ’s hill for £S
Bs. 6d. It would be pretty safe
to change the amounts, vice
'«■ an d pay them. Then both
parties would probably receive
fair wages.
Judge Docker proposed at
Bonrke to eradicate false-swear-
ing from the land by the instant
and certain punishment of all
witnesses who shall appear to
the judgment of the honorable
court to deviate one hair’s-
breath from the straight line of
truth. If this newly-moulted
reform is initiated at Bonrke. it
m feared that the police force
will be decimated within a
month, and that within the half
year all newspaper correspon-
dente will become extinct, and
the depopulation of the town
be recognised as a mere question
of time.
ta dn o Z n t.7v p , oBtmaa * er dowp South, has under-
stituents t f)n le *socß on etiquette to his ceu-
„i t T* nt . 8 ' .°® *he notice-board outside the effloe be
writes that the board isn’t placed there to afford an
opportunity of criticising hisgrammar . 'iSdtetS
" ff Po,«o e l 6lB a J ariety - of offlcial instructions, suchas
Persona must not spit on the floor." •• This cardf n
S a B bo P ut C ’’ d • Do h u P" rpoBe of. .hose persons wEo wUI
u Do not smoke in this offl-e, as Mrs
8mo£“ And a aoom rea h ° rr ° r ° f the Smell of toba^<>
the re vi«w on 24th, an officer of the Perma-
he«trode a noble charter, evidently hired
for the day from an undertaker, and caparisoned with
the trappings of war. Very little spirit seem**! to be
e«nn£ oper K? f th * , b or. e. but, wheS the b of
canno* and the rattle of musketry began. ha show< d
great indecision, and for a short time
to destroy some of our defendt rs. The rider, however
blB sw^ d - gallantly attacked his savaga mjke’
ing BnoephaTuV” BUCOeeded in makl
the T Kfan a Z
the time when lilies blow rather. mean, when
~ are , supposed to be registered. A dazed biek
Thnrs‘day wUh er «^ t in r ? n ' fh ‘f* cro " ded lan<l office one
Agent "Isita h iA 8 my =° ,|f ’ ere Gai d
<• o . u“ , a boll-dog, my man ? ' Jttlackblcober ■
No, snr, he am t, he’s a sheep dorg •• L A • “ Then’
‘^wa m th ® r , e ” (pointing to the offloi of the CPS )
we only re-gister bull d*-rgs here 1” And tha nnanw
pioious yokel, as he obeyed, wondered where all the
broad grins about him came in. 1111 the
L“ 5“. i “, t n aS e !s^. er4 i* 4
Wrftaka arn™^ 8 7 0nld be to a frog in drought time
that* " tor n* nVi° n 40 °? 0 remark - however, which says
, 4 i* gentlemen to turn their partners bT
!&■* * nnheard of in good aeciety/’ We consider
is the greatest treat of the whole affair and fnllv
s 8 D id O ” e di ho i remark ° f the ffisthe «o yoZi lady
r M T aB .. ne r tr mnc b, but the
Next week » Granny’s little
out °° Ver that there ara tombstones
AN OFFICIAL VALUATION.
COLONIAL TREASURER: "There's £3000 to you, D oct or, for t he loss of your practice; and there's £15 to you, Madam, for
the lose of your husband." (Fact.)


ATE RING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and prac-
tical experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM,
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th April, ISfil, we hare
snocessfelly catered THU LARGEST, MOST DIFFI-
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE undertakings that
have taken place here to the present time, vis.
The Consular Dinner, in our new banquet room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnio, for 430, at Clontarf.
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, John Harris, enter-
tained their R H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
Earl Clan william, and the Officers of the Detached
Squadron.
Masonic Ball. English Constitution, for 1252, Exhibi-
tioo Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to lithg.w Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinner d la
Rwaw, for 60, in Government Palace Dining Car while
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—re
Queen's Statue Demonstration—under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 pja., to be
ready on th« spot at 12.50 p m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side oi
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refreshment, for
100, under VERT SHORT NOTICE, reeeiv ng order
at 9 80 p.m„ to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
mg day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Town H*ti,
The (Union Clnb) « Bachelor’s Ball.” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judge Windeyer, in our new
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Room
Dinner A la Basse at St Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Basse to the Intercolonial Eifl. Teams.
Town Hall. ’
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first sod of “ Hudson
Bros. New Railway Rolling Stock Works,” at Gran-
Title.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bars at Hawkesburv
Races, in Grand Stand. *
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bara at Randwiok
Races, in GrancKStand.
Refreshments aif e Fayro of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary's Cathedral.
Refreshments at Yo Olde Englyshe Fayro, Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Plcnloa. Balls.
Dinners, i easts, &c., Ac.
The OITT CATERENQ COMPANY let out on tire
Owtleiy. Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and an requisites lor Balls, Picnics. Dinners. &o.
and will be glad to send out tke smallest Older for
Yastrr, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, Ac.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have m our possession letters from gentlemen m
high standing in the city, complimenting <m the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to ns,
CHAS. R. SMITH
(Late cf the firm of Hie original Conrpagamri and 6b.),
Mauaohk
CITY i ATERIN6 COMPANY,
A NEV
t
GEORGE STREET.
GREAT SUCCESS I GREAT SUCCESS!
the unrivalled Physiognomist and
Popular Speaker, will deliver aptendiaiy-fflustfated
and amusing LECTURES at TEMPERANCE HALL,
Pttt-street, on Practical and Soicntifle Phys!og»om», as
follows t—“ Eyes, Eyelids, Eyebrows. Jusa Trt:
"Nervous System, and Mind," June 2nd; "Earth,
Its past asd present changes," June sth; "Love,
Courtship, and Marriage,” June 6th. Admission—One
Shilling and Two Bhillingss. Each Lecture will com-
minoe at 8 p.m. Entertiining Public Character-read-
ings at the close of every Lecture. Dr. Simms' vast
gallery of Portraits in Oil is Open FREE to the public
daily at the Hall.
PHYSIOGNOMICAL CHARTS,—-Dally during the
Lecture Course, Dr Simms will be in waiting at the
comfortable private ante-room of the Temperance Hall,
in order to supply the public with his full written des-
criptions, and Phisiognomieal Charts, accurately
marked to indicate the Intellectual, Social, and Moral
traits ef applicants, their state of health, the eeonpa-
tions for which nature has adapted them, and the
character of person they should choose for a life con-
panion. Thousands of men in Great Britain and
America are to-day reaping the benefits of a consults-
tion with Dr. Simms. To follow his professional ad-
vice, communicated orally, and by means of his Charts,
is to pursue the path of virtue, happiness, and werldly
anceess.
LONDON PRESS.—"Dr. Simms ig known as a most
skilled, practical physiognomi>-t."—Pictorial World.
“ Will amuse, instruct, and enlighten the mind, and
purify the affections,”-—The Rock (a religious paper).
The lectures were highly instructive.’’—The Baptist
{a religious paper). •• The author is a true physiogno-
mist, aad is known as one of the most interesting popu-
lar lecturers we have.”—Human Nature. “In describ-
ing character from the form and face Dr. Simms stands
unequalled in the world.”—The Free West.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OP AUSTBAIIA
(Limited),
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Capital, £1.000,000.
Subscribed, £650,000.
Directors s
Hon. J. J. Casey, C M.G., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq , Vice-President,
John Robb, Esq.
John Whlttingham, Esq.
William M'Lean, Esq., J.P.
Hon. James Mnnro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
Temporary Banking House, Sydney :
®7 Georgo-street. North.
Francis S. Maodermott, Esq.,
Manager,
John Docker, Esq , Accountant.
Messrs. Robertson and Fisher, Solicitors.
THE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA (Limited)
offers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Require
Banking Aacommodation.
1. Interest will be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
rates.
3. Every branch of banking business transacted.
4. Bills will be discounted daily npon the most
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS 8. MAODERMOTT, Manager.
G
LEBE ROWING CLUB BALL*
IN SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THIS EVENING,
THURSDAY,
Tickets to be had from Committee.
When people mention Sir Arthur Palmer, of
Brisbane, before Forbes now, Forbes asks if they mean
“ that bullcok-breeding fellah.”
Tumut roads are nice and soft. A lady crossing
Wynyard-street the other day got bogged in some wet
clay, and when hoisted out by a tackle rigged to an
adjacent lamp-post, left her charming number fours
behind her. The “stripes were canary and green,
writes an observant correspondent who witnessed the
spectacle.
He weighed 16 stone, and he was riding in the
train. The motor got stuck, and he lost his teaiper,
and abmed everything from the motor to the tail light,
and everybody from Mr. Qoodchap to the conductor.
The latter bore it patiently for a while, but finally
retorted, “ You’d better get out and give ns a chance of
getting on.” The stout one shut np.
Th© Marquis of Normanby gave a Stat© banquet
on the Queen’s Birthday, at Melbourne Which re-
minds ns, or, if it doesn’t, something else does, that at
State balls in Canada the citizens are invited alpha-
batically, space being limited. Lord Fowlhouse in-
tended to try this plan, but the alphabet doesn’t work.
He gets along all right till he comes to “ B ; ” that re-
minds him of Brahma, and then he goes straight off
his head, meanders about among the dear little
chickens, and forgets all about ♦he State ball.
An up-country reporter thus Hodgsonized the
proceedings at one stage of a race-dinner“ Mr. Anon
proposed the toast of ‘ The Ladies,’ and Mr. Blank re-
sponded on behalf of the daughters of Moab. The
morning subsequent to the publication, the reporter
submitted to an interview with his wife, and after
despatching the compositor’s Belial to the nearest
chemist’s to compound for a quarter’s ad. in exchange
for ointment and liniment, he admitted to his friend*
that the plea of “ technical logic " was utterly unten.
able.
Yt was atfce ye Fayre of Ye Olden Tyme holden
atte ye Abbaie of Sainte Marie. A Dame of yo olden
time besought (uvynga divers witcheries) a poore
youthe to buy a Eose wherewith to gaudilie bedeck hys
person. “ Nay, fayre mayde, I have not anny sugarre;
notte a tester nor e’en a syngle groat." "No sugarre
quotha ? Then eke thou hast ye ttekettes of ye tramme
I will barter yis lyttle rose for two tickettes of ye
tramme." “ ByT La’kia," quoth the youthe; ‘ thy
churche must eke bee in sore need of monnie,” and he
tooke ye rose. Yis ys notte a romaunce but ye truth.
They know how how to canvass in Mt. Gambier,
S A. A canvassing agent visits from house to house
with a stereotyped formula: “I’ve called for a sub-
scription to the Zion Church building fund ’’ House-
holder dissents; canvasser proceeds: “Then, perhaps,
you’ll subscribe to our annual race meeting?’ Ana
the cute ’ua walks off chinking the res pec unuv in his
trousers pocket, aud humming " Hold the tort" iu quick
time. If Archbishop Vaughan had only tried thw at
St. Mary’s Fayre, he might have netted twice the A5OOO
he now gloats over, aud the success of the Express
would have been ensured for another six months.
Even itinerant instrumentalists sometimes min-
ister to the eternal fitness of things. At the late 8. A.
J.C. meeting, when, during the Steeplechase, Fusilier
spilt his rider, the baud struck up “ He like a B#ldi#r
fell”; then, when people adjourned to lunch, the band
played from “ Tambour Major” the air “I know where
there ia a bit of ham"; and afterwards, when Sir W.
Jervois presented E. T. Moore with the Corinthian
Cup, the band gave “lam the very pattern of a modern
Major-General." This is true—whether it resulted
from simple coincidence or was craftily premeditated;
though in the former case there would be nothing to
blow about.
Memo.for David Buchanan ; Sir Wilfred Lawson,
the well-known temperance advocate, and long-suffer-
ing humorist, complains that his enemies have called
him, among other things—“ That Old Cracked Teapot,
the Watery Jester, a Demented Creature, the Washed-
out Water Party, the Drivelling Idiot, the Brainles* Fan-
atic, the Confiscatory Moddle Coddle, the Empty-
headed Noodle, tha Pengrinating Pamp Handle, the
Tea-drinking Twaddler, tne Popbottl# Pump Orator,
the Permissive Platitudinist, the Peripatetic Agitator,
the Utopian Dreamer, the Maudlin MoanteVank, the
Crooning Clown, that Fool of Fools, the Wailing
the Arrant Humbug, the Apostle of Slops."
The following notice was stuck on a pest in the
main street of a town in the west •—“Notice and
Caution to Shearers Be A Ware Of Melrose the likes
Never Was Saw Be fore it is Not Shearing that is
Wanted it is a Barber And A Good Shaver the A Ore-
ment is if discharged paid at the Kate of forteen
Shilling per hunred and if stops trew 18 shilling But
the is Not a man Born could stop tr»w the Shearers
has struck for a pound and a peund if paid of or dis-
charged I Trust no Native of Australia Will Bine
under a pound a hunred Discharged or Not Yours most
Truly fnnd L. J.C “ Hooray for the bonnie native blue
and for the compulsory clause of Greenwood’s Hact I
The village of Queanbeyan has become a cock-
pit where two old bob-tailed roosters fight from morn-
ing to sight. They edit the rival papers. In a late
issue of one of these journals a corn-- pendent starts a
litter with tha courtly jhraf-e, “The famous and
grea'ly-would ba quizzed so-called editor of a dirty rag
aud wasted paper,” and concludes with the suggestion
that the editor in question should be tied in a sack and
thrown into the river. The gentle gutterslush cn the
other side calls his rival a “ broken guunr.’d hoary old
villain.” We like to notice such little amenities of
journalism. B it these talented editors have mistaken
their vocation. They should have been—well, you
know.
A splendid line occurs in the cast of the
“Colonel." “ Parkes (a servant of Blyth), Mr.
Gladstone.” Fancy Gladstone enacting Parkes I
See him in the motley, wih his month void of aspirates,
his disjointed English, his everlasting double entendres, a
large pair of bellows in one hand and a copy of Dan.
Kinna's Education Bill in the other, his dexter eye
looking for a land speculation, and the other vainly
searching for a certificate. But the difficulty would be
to pourtray Parkes as servant of anything Blyth. He
has baen ever the political slave er tool of the melan-
choly M'Guven and the now retired Frank Warden. At
any rate, the combination of name s is very suggestive,
and not at all complimentary to the great man whose
name appears on the right hand of the sentence.
A sensational incident recently occurred on
board an intercolonial steamer. A man came in from
the west, and amassed a grog-score with a respectable
and muscular landlady. When he had sufficiently re-
covered from the d t , the authorities shipped him, but
did not liquidate his liabilities; so just before the
steamer started, the muscular lady arrived with her
umbrella, :.nd, as the money was not produced, pro-
ceeded to “ take it out ” of the absconding debtor. He
received a moat unmerciful hammering, and the pas-
seugers enjoyed it more than a free pass to a pantomime,
until the captain rescued the remnants of his passenger
from the irate dame. We have heard of only one in-
stance of a heroic attack with an umbrella equal to
the above—that was when the noble Eton boy, Cordon
Wilson, prodded M‘Lean with his ivory-hand'ed silk,
while two policemen securely held the half-starved
lunatic tailor.
Two well-known citizens whom we will disguise
under tha titles of Bmyth with a ‘ y," and Browne
with an “e," lately bad a discussion as to whether re-
peated drnnkeneis on the part of a wife would enable
t,er husband to obtain a divorce from her. Bmythe
said yes ; Browne aaid no, so the pair planked a pound
in the hands of athird party named Jenes, aad arranged
that the latter suould write a letter consulting the
Delphic Oracle that hangs out in the back yard of the
Tows and Country Journal Jones wrote the letter,
but Haring oocn=>.ou to " see a man off te Newcastle"
that nigh , he felt very tired, aud got home late, and
forgot ail about the bet. Mrs. Jones having great
oc asiou to shake Mr. Jones’s cloiUes, shoos ont tha
letter, and of courserend it. Thestake hold-mow sa>s
he accidentally rkpp.;d his head against a cluthes-prop
l»fk oat looae hr this hired girl, but he parse* Smyth*
aad Browne m if they were on the read to quarantine.
We huawuch pleasure in informing our readers
that we m- i iJ «t d.»o ivered one aiore of the myriad
brave* vrfK fought at Waterloo, although our pleasure
is ioingflK damped at the fact that i he hero’s dead
la toft* a is n peculiarity with the Ljng-Nossd
Do jWi veterans that they always die be.oie they tell us
whttt their battles fought, aud their fields were
won. Another peculiarity is that tney always die in
Borne pauper asylum, and tell a fib before they say
good-bye. this mads us to iufer that it pays us better
to snatch glory from the mouth of a corporation con-
-301 than a Waterloo cannon, and so, like Johu
oof 9 we decline to “ go by dem vara acme more."
George M'Qoillan will not go either, aa he has just died,
aged 112, after drinking the Queen’s health on her
natal day. This makes the 447th Bonyparte-baaher
who hai answered the great " roll call ” during the
past three months. What we want now is a man who
fought at Moab.
A meeting was called in Cootamnndra lately for
the formation of a society for “ intellectual studies.”
There was an overflowing attendance of five persons.
After a shake in the hat for drinks the business began.
The chairman suggested that an order be given to the
local bookseller for half a dozen of Mayor’s spellisg
books on the chance that another member might be
added to the society. In the meantime, those present
might take adv&utage of the circue posters on the
blacksmith’s gable to learn up the alphabet. The
poundkeeper—in deforencs to his knowledge of letters
aad brands—was elected president of the society. The
blacksmith’s apprentice was, for obvious reasons, made
vice-president. And now these five lunatics stalk up
the main street and dazzle the eyes of the beholders
with the grease on their hair, and the gloss on their
paper collars. When one becomes intellectual one
must be select, you know. This is a sorrowful instance
of the dangers of over-e location.
The miraculous Milner, like the astute Sir
Henry, has been at Court. In Milner Stephen’s case,
however, the citation emanated from the magistrate at
Bendigo, and through the medium ef a summons. _ A
young man sued the great miracle-monger for services
rendered in assisting him to heal. Defendant pleaded
that the services were voluntary, and that, as the plain-
tiff was one of his patients, payment had be«n made in
red flannel and saliva. The bench declined to believe
this story of the man standing by when Milner was
working wanders, and ordered the magnetic healer to
pay the debt. Mr. Stephen, believing that in the
‘‘cabbage garden ” there are more aphides than white
hearts, contemplates returning to Sydney. There are
two things whioh Miracle Milner cannot do (yea, a trio
ef impossibilities beset his soul). He cannot “lay
hands ’’ on Mahood or Molloy ; he cannot inoculate the
Herald newspaper with even an evanescent spark of
vitality, and he cannot restore the N.S.W. Legislative
Council to life.
There are two sides to all things, and eren
special correspondents’ accounts of a battle vary. For
instance, a Western journal lately described in glowing
terms how the Rev. Mr. Blank, who takes this particu-
lar journal, “ whilst engaged on his apostolic rounds,
visiting the dead and burying the sick, suddenly saw a
hone bolting madly along with a buggy which con-
tained three helpless shrieking ladies attached to him.
With admirable presence of mind, and Spartan courage
he rusUed to the horse’s head; seized the reins, and
after a desperate struggle succeeded in checking the
affrighted steed in h s wild eareer and saved the ladies
from eertain death.’’ The opposition rag (which the
reverend hero does not subscribe te) spread it round
tows next day, that the Eev. Mr. Blank was “ drunk
again as usual," and was seen making for home on all-
fours without his hat; with his pants one mass of mud,
and |his coat split up from Dan to Bersheeba. This
clearly proves that even editors sometimes differ, and
it also shows the great necessity for public men to taka
dll papers within a radius of 150 miles of them.
At one time, we would as soon have thought of
looking for humour in a morgue as in the Evening
News. But now all is changed. Whenever we want to
claw up the carpet in our agony of suppressed laughter,
we laks up that coruscating journal. Here is the latest
joke. Under the handing of “ Funerals," in a late issue,
the following advertisement appeared : —“ The friends
of Mr. E, A. Biding are Invited to take tea with him ia
Bourke-street Congregational School-room, Wednesday
evening, 6.30. Collection after tea." Now, if this means
anything, it means either that the caterer for the occa-
sion had been bribed to poisen the guests, and then Mr.
Eulmg was to go through their pockets for loose change,
and the undertaker to collect the corpses afterwards, or
that Mr. Riding is in Gehenna, and that his friends must
pass through the gates of Death to see him, wbilo an
agent of his collects the gate-money. This suggests
that the gates in question are toll-gates, and that that
is what parsons and poets allude to when they speak of
the “funeral toll." Anyhow, the thing, though mixed,
is fatally funny. A few more jokes of this kind, and
there will not be enough readers of the News left alive
to bury the dead.
A nice little story about an aboriginal and a
lawyer comes to us from Bourke. It appears that
some time ago the blackfellow—whom his friends
with fine irony call Tommy the Ambler —was had np
for trial at Bourke. He went straight to the ablest
attorney in that rising town and put the case in his
hands, offering as fee two horses. The attorney saw a
soft thing in .the transaction, one, of the horses being
a beauty. So Tommy was defended, but did not
escape conviction for all that. After the trial, as the
attorney was taking possession of his fee, a man in
riding boots, and with a whip in his hand came np and
took one of the horses by the bridle. “ What do you
maau, sir, by this conduct ?’’ snorted the attorney. “ I
only mean," replied the man, “ was stolen
from me by Tommy a month ago, aud—and I’m thank-
ful to you—and sorry you’ve had your trouble for
nothing, but i’ll not ask you to lead this particular
beast any .farther." iso the racer was lost. There
then only remained of the fee a broken-winded wall-
eyed chestnut mare, which was turnedi out to grass.
Shortly after, the Ambler escaped from gaol, and was
last seen riding at break-neck speed in the direction of
the Gulf of Carpentaria and leading !)he lawyer’s mare.
The able attorney Is now the most profane man in
Bourke.
In response to numerous invitations, Professor
Btanich visits the Maitland district on the 18th Jane,
and stays for a week to treat oases of dearness.
Tfce woman who goes in for her rights is the
one who, when taking a meal at the Goff an Falaoe, j n
consideration that she takes no sugar in hare off**
pockets as many lumps as she imagines eaough to
sweeten a sup—and a sweet imagination she has too.
In San Francisco, affairs matrimonial hava come
to a pretty pass. Many girls have of late been wed at
foarteen aad even thirteen years, which is csrtalnly a
vary disgusting state of matters. Such girls generally
marry old men, (out some exceptions to this general
rule have cropped tip lately. A boy of fifteen hat re-
cently married a girl of thirteen. They took another
bey and his father into their plans, when a clergyman
married them for the small sum of a dollar and a-half
whioh the groom had in his jacket pocket. Yet the
clergyman is himself the father of a family. Then there
is the case of a girl of fourteen who has had two has.
bands. She was married at eleven, and divorced from
the first man to marry her step-father.
Mr. Frederick M'Quade.
It ia satisfactory ;to be able to note a growing
inclination among young Australians for the study
of the higher arts ; and it is not to be doubted, we
think, that, whenever tried, the talents of the
native-born have exhibited a high and an assuring
excellence The subject of this sketch, Mr. Fre-
derick M'Quade, may be classed aa among the most
successful of young Australians in the study of the
divine art of music. With ample means at his
command, he has sought at the best sources of
instruction in the world to develop his talents and
taste. Mr. M'Quade is but nineteen years of age,
and was born at Windsor, N.S.W. He exhibited
at a very early age great natural ability in the
musical art. He received his first lessons from
Mr. Henry Marsh (to whom he has dedicated his
“Valse de Concert”), and when only thirteen
years of age proceeded to Europe to study
both languages and music. He studied with
Andreoli in Milan, and then with Sagambati
(the best performer on the pianoforte in Italy) at
Rome. These courses lasted three years, and at
their termination he proceeded to Germany, where
be studied with Kirschner, at Coblentz, and
Tauaoh, at Diiaaelderf. Mr. M'Quade underwent
a course with Henry Parker in London, from
whom he received the highest encomiums, and the
most cheering predictions of future success. He
finished his European education by studying
harmony and composition under Dr. Prior, of
Ramsgate. Mr. M'Quade returned to Sydney
about eighteen months ago, and ia now pursuing
his studies under Mr. Sydney Moss. Mr. M'Quade
has given several concerts, and has performed
with distinguished success, exhibiting rare powers
and the most artistic taste and style. His career
as a performer and composer will be watched with
no small interest by all Australians. Our portrait
ia from a photo, by Freeman, of Qeorge-street.
Captain George Morgan.
We give the portrait this week of Captain George
Morgan, of the favourite colonial trader, Anne
Duthie. Few commanders of merchant ships are
better known in this port. Captain Morgan was
born at Stonehaven, near Aberdeen, in 1843.
After going through a course of nautical educa-
tion, he was ‘‘apprenticed to the sea,” on one of
the Dnthie’s vessels. He voyaged to all parte of
the Old World, and first oame to this colony as
second officer of the Rifleman—which vessel
bronght the last consignment of Imperial troepa
to Australia, and took to Gibraltar the
detachment of artillery whom the others
replaced. The Rifleman made several trips j
and it was in the outward run, in 1873.
when Captain Morgan was chief officer, that
Captain Longmuir was foully murdered by
his steward Krauts. Captain Morgan narrowly
escaped a similar fate, as, on entering the cabin
te ascertain the cause of the disturbance, he was
murderously assailed by Kranss with the same
weapon that had slain the captain as ho lay asleep
in his bunk. Captain Morgan received three
severe wounds on the head, but he threw his
assailant on his back, right over the postrate
corpse of the captain. The boatswain then
proceeded to the cabin, and, as he entered, Kranss
drew a revolver asd shot him in the neck and he
fell, not, however,faially wounded. Captain Long-
mnir’s body was preserved in spirits for fifty-six
days. Kranss was dnly hanged at Darlinghnrst.
Captain Morgan has since traded in other vessels
to this port, and has now been fonr years in com-
mand of the Anne Duthie. He has proved him-
self a capable and skilful commander, and has
made with his vessel among the best average
voyages. He is a man of genial disposition, and
is deservedly popular.
Our portrait of Mr. John M'Elhona, published
last week, was frem a photo, by Freeman, of George*
street.
It i« necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the snperfluoos oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
BUfiY’d COCOA ESSENCE when you ask fyr It, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit, itakera by special appointment
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Bernini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this upper-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. It yon want
anything in the boot-line, frem a patten to a dancing-
pump, yon had better call at 58t, and " see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ongbt to be in great demand
now, u only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
About 500 persons were present at the Green-
well Point Regatta on the 24th May, and the following
were the winners: Maiden double sculls: Percival and
Wilsen. Champion sculls: W. Wilson. Single sculls:
J. Wilson. Handicap: W. H. Nichols. Double sculls :
A. and A. M‘L«an. Two-oared race: J, and W. Wilson.
The athletic sports consisted of one raee, for which a
number of blackfellows toed the line; but they omitted
to go off when the pistol did, and two whitefellows
cellared the 30s. prize. A dance was held at
Devlin’s in the evening, attended by Sydney and Kiaraa
visitors. A local school teacher, and a nice brunette
divided honours.
On Friday and Saturday last that most elegant
of aquatic trophies, the Champagne Cup, was rowed
for on the Parramatta. The first heat, on Friday, was
between Messrs. Fittes, Cope, Bros, Gaden, and Ives.
In rowing parlance, wind and water were plentiful.
Cope got the best of the start; then Bros took the lead;
Fittes, Ives, and Gaden improved their position, the Vic-
torian rapidly gaining on Bros, whom he passed at Put-
ney, and ever after held at a great deal more than arm’s
length. A big struggle ensued for the Dead Sea apple
of second place, whioh was ultimately plnoked by that
game little oarsman, Ivee. for the second heat, in
whioh Messrs. Arthur, Brett, Zollner, Simpson, and
Middleton started, the flrst-named went away with the
lead and won comfortably, Brett scoring a second, which
many thought he could have improved on had he
chosen. In Saturday’s final, Fittes, Arthur, Brett,
and Ives started, and finished in the order named.
The Victorian at once took the lead, and
was never headed, winning as he liked by twenty
lengths. Just after the start a foul took place be-
tween Brett and Arthur, through the former’s fault.
Arthur got away again, but both he and Brett
stsered about so wildly that another foul
became imminent. At the fliiih, Brett, who seemed
completely outpaced, was five lengths behind Arthur
Time, 23min. 15<eo. The trophy must bj won twice
before finally passing out of competition, and another
contest takes place a few iroaths hence. It is plain
that shonld the Victorian,who is a fine specimen of man
heod and a really clever oarsman, maintain his present
form, the chances of the Champagne Trophy
gracing a N.Sff. sideboard will be very slim indeed.
We seem to have absolutely no rising scullers of suffl.
cient calibre to pit against the doughty Southerner,
Mr. E- P. Simpson, who is new to wager-hosts, being
perhaps our only hope. By the way, it is to be hoped
that there will ote day arise ssms Association or some
individual capable of making decent arrangements for
the accomodation of reporters at boat-races. Saturday’*
arrangements were simply disgraceful. An unssenred
pig-pen-like enclosure, which shifted and wriggled
about with every motion of the badly-trimmed steamer.
Indignant, was all the Association had thought it
necessary to provide. There was a crowd in front of the
reporters, and, as in addition to this drawback, the
astute Waterhouse, in the Prince of Wales, steamed all
round the Indignant—though the latter is a faster boat
—the newspaper men had an execrable time of it.
Tyrants Allied.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
" Hereditary bondsmen I know ye not.
Who would be free, themselves must strike the
blow ? ”
-BYRON.
England and France allied
To strike the throbbing breast
Of freedom, and the pride
Of patriots oppressed I
Allied with whom ? The Turk,
Assassins, and a king
In name, in truth a tool—
An autocrat, a thing.
Free France, of chivalry the boasted home,
Who hast thyself destroyed a try ant's throne.
Whose patriotic sons have ever died
To swell with hearts’ blood freedom’s noble tide.
Why with assassins, tyrants, knaves, conspire
To quench the tiny spark of freedom’s fire ?
Thou know'st no ruler, save the people’s choice I
Set Egypt free! Oh, aid that nation’s voice.
Oh England, self-named;*' Freelom’a happy Isle,”
Where freeupm is not, yet where free minds live;
Where monarch, lords and wealthy tyrants smile
At prayers of freedom, which they grudge to give;
Shame, England, shame ! why prostitute thy power
To help assassins crush the budding flower
Of liberty ? Think, think of Wilberforoe
And noble Pitt, would they advise this course ?
England, be just! Pause well before you strike
A blow at straggling liberty. The day
May come when your own sons, Egyptian-like,
Will have to wrest th’ usurper’s mace away.
C* 11 back yonr squadrons, England! let not right
Be overpowered and vanquished by your might.
Else, send them on, but, let their succour be
Vouchsafed to those who ask but to be free I


Tho Eockhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring: to the widtly and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Eockhampton, says :—“ When vinitiug
Rockhami ton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz., the Picture Gallery of tho Palace Hotel,
East-straet. This Hotel has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars in town; also, the best furnished sitting l
rooms in town. _ The Billiard Boom contains a table
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Boom,
which is large and well ventilated, will be found a
brilliant-toned piano. Ton will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by tho most
charming of young ladies.” The lease, etc., of above
flourishing and rapidly improving bar business, to be
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, 91 Elizabsth-strect, Sydney,
—Advt.
“You’re a clever child man, but you would be
none the worse for hanging," said a judge of the olden
time to a culprit at ths bar, who pleaded a bad cause
t'O eloquently; and wben a sewing maohing man all* a
column of small type with blatant rhetoric, in the vain
endeavour to make the woree appear the better reason,
it would be good for those whom bumkum catches,
could the arbitrament of his fate be submitted to the
practioil sagacity of suah a one as the old judge.
Singer’s Si wing Machines constitute three-fourths ct
all the sewicg machines sold throughout tho world, and
the yearly increase on the sales in Australia, is greater
than the entire output of their puny rivals. And
machines are sold without oheatery, chicanery,
or cheek.— Advt.
THE NEWSLETTER.
990 people, who when they die will all go to
Hell, attended the Museum on Sunday afternoon/
While the city publicans are growling over the
grievances entailed on them by the new A ct who
hold licenses at Botany, Bondi. Manl£ Watson's Bar
and other watering places beyond the regulation dis-
tance, are making rapid fortunes. *
Membership of the Victorian Grand Lodge of
St^nJh m 2079 r fri*h o ed laBt b * 560 member.,
although 2079 fresh ones were admitted during that
period, so that, in point of fact, no less than 2&fq ner
sons forsook the ranks during the twriva months P
Colonial Sugar Co. is about to spend half a
million in the Herbert District. Queensland Jt
which sum goes to construct thirteen miles of a
narrow-gauge tramway. The Hamleigh SugarCo also
district. U ° tmg fI7S mU “ of tramway he same
It ia currents believed that the representations
of the draughtsman in the Civil Service will receive no
consideration until the return of the Premier who
wiii “ tear them up.” i t is a U O said that GoTerament
colonL ertlßlDg f ° r <lrau ffktsmen in the ota
cemetery, which ten or fifteen years
ago was closed except to those who had private vaults
and enclosures, now contains nearly 18 000 bodies It
1 “ cemetenes ln tbe city and suburbs
> A number of publicans were caught last Snndav
week by the police, and customers with hot connera
Undlnrda * But WM !t a miracle that many
in nI-A^r. Wl a 0 h u d .> eei ? doia * r * roar i D g trade regularly
on previous Sawbiths ket fc rolitrionalv closed
and loa that day ? Or was it-.Ulwe say^esigS?
blacks OB L tbe Upper Dawson (Q.), have
become enamoured of opium, under the civilising in-
fluence of some station manager* who make an «nnr
black boTS fi in°'li fl n f drng a* Ba Pf^ io » ifc t» their
mack-boys in hen of wages. Several aboriginals are
now m the St. Helena penal establishment for oat-
hKS •°‘ l ChiDamell while bunting for the
In N-S. Wales, promotion to a higher grade
amongst Public Teachers must bo aocompanifd by
ln Victoria, the ablest sohooh
masters they have hold only first-class certificates
which require ne Latin, Greek, or Mathematics The
bifber examinations are simply recorded to their
credit, but are altogether subordinate to practical
success in teaching. practical
A married woman in
good circumstances has
been fined 20s, at Bathurst
on a charge of stealing
two bottles of whisky and
one of brandy from Wil.
liam Bowhill, publican.
The liquor was found in
her buggy which was
Standing in front of an op-
position pub. The defence
was that the liquor was
paid for, but the Bench
held a different opinion,
and inflicted the fine
named—in default of pay-
ment, seven days’ im-
prisonment.
There is grief among
the land monopolists in
the rural districts. By a
late decision in the Su-
preme Court the pseudo
•‘sheriff sale" trick,{which
aimed at eliminating the
"residence danse" in re
conditional purchases, has
*’ gone bung," and so has
many a coveted and vain-
able block of land. The
legal harpies made a great
draw at this same game in
times past. They got their
fat fees which their
clients have had the plea-
sure of paying them for
instructions how to throw
their money to the dogs.
John Allen Torrance,
a resident of St. Leonards,
North Shore, suicided last
week under peculiarly sad
circumstances. He was
bookkeeper to an auc-
tioneer, and had recently
sent for his mother and
three sisters to come out
from London. He is sup-
posed tohavernn through
a considerable sum of
money, and latterly had
heen drinking very heavily
He cut his throat the day
before the arrival of the
Lusitania, which brought
bis relatives to the colony
—only in time to see the
hearsebear away his re-
mains.
It seems likely that
Victoria, will, ere long,
have a penny postage and
■ xpenny telegrams.
Messrs. Daffy, Longmore, Toohey. Brophy, and
Callaghan, M.P.’s, head a number of Vic tori* n Irish-
men, who havo addressed the Lord Mayor of Dublin on
the subject of Ireland’s wrongs and Home Buie. The
address refers to Ireland as being under the hoof of a
foreign despotism, calls the Imperial Parliament an
alien legislature, and applauds the determination of
Home Rulers to make Ireland a free and independent
nation, citing the separation of Victoria from N.S.
Wales as a parallel ease in point.
On Friday evening last, bile Mr. J. M. Greig,
manager of the Sussex-stro branch ef the Bank of
Australasia, was walking n a Circular Quay, some
scoundrel threw at him half >. glass bottle; which struck
him on the cheek nd inflicted a four-inch wound
which will disfigure him for life. Mr. Greig being
blinded by blood, could not detect his cowardly assail-
ant, of whom the police have so far found no trace.
The time is evidently at hand in Sydney when the man
who goes out at night will take with him a revolver and
a seven-inch knife.
The religions instruction given in our Public
Schools comes off this way. Yon mass together 120
children in a classroom into which no sunshine can
oome. Then for three-quarters of an hour the
dreariest 2ud-hand preacher that conldbe found and
supplied with short breeches and bluchers, stands
there drivelling out doctrines that the remaining part
Of onr Education System will infallibly uproot. He
bores to death children aoenstomed to the sprightly
variety a practised teacher can throw in. Lazy
children like the lesson because it gives them nothing
think about.
The Milwaukee Congressman is responsible
for the story that an American named Franz Spiegel
smuggled himself into the Siberian mines soma twenty
years ago, amongst a lot of political prisoners. His
object was to find out how the Russians manufactured
their superior sheet iron. He knows all about it now,
but can’t get out of prison to use the secret in America.
Whenever he asserts hie innocence of any crime, the
Siberian authorities flog him, and he is undergoing a
living martyrdom. The American Government has
been urged to nsa its influence with the Czar to obtain
Spiegel’s release.
The National Life Assurance Company inadver-
tently connived at an illegality, and tben attempted to
bluster out of the mess. A j'ty, however, held that a
policy effected by one Neville, of Qawler, B.A , was
valid, and gave a verdict for the Public Receiver, who
claimed under it. Neville who was a superior, cool,
desperate man, became involved, and hit upon ths
bright idea of paying his debts by effecting «uch an
samraueaas would cover the amount, and then killing
himself. He communicated several times with the
Company, and had a distinct nnderstanding with them
that suicide would not invalidate his policy. Then he
earned out his programme with all the calm resolution
which pedants are apt to brag belonged only to the
ancient Eome, and his creditors will now be
satisfied.
A man named Johnson has tried to murder the
Governor of the Geelong gaol, Mr. Dwyer. He called
upon Mr. Dwyer, junr., solicitor, paid him half-a-
sovereign for loss of time, and got him to effect an
introduction to his father at the gaol. Then Johnson
locked the door of the gaoler's apartment, drew a
rsvolysr and fired. The ball grazed the gaoler’s head,
but did not effect serious ininry. Mr, Dwyer speedily
overpowered hts assailant, who was found to be also
a formidable sheath knife. Johmoi avers
that he has an old grudge against Dwyer, but the latter
professes not to recognise the wonid-bs murderer.
w Te ”P«rance deputation recently waited at
k * L,-) upon » visitor whom it understood to be
be Mr. Speight, the groat teetotal advosate and M.P.
The deputation heaped blushing honors thick and fast
upon the interviewed, who couldn't get a word in edge-
ways, until a new arrival burst in with the remark.
He a teetotaller I Why, I saw him guzzling whisky
only half an hour ago." Then the complimented in-
dividual obtained time to explain his identity. Ho was
Mr. ispeight, the Dunedin brewer, and was on a busi-
ness visit to Napier. The deputation filed out sorrow-
» a “ an “ aa U round,” while Mr. Speight went and
fumbled around amongst his “samples.”
*t.^ ree J^. arB a Bf° there was but one sugar-mill on
(r c i il ' e , r L llow there are several, including that
of the Colonial Sugar Company, which, with land the
company has just purchased, cost £150.000, The mill
can crush 200 tons of cane per diem of 10 hours. The
company have 150 aores ©f cane on their own planta-
u n ‘i. thought that last year they manufactured
about 1000 tons sugar. Last season’s cane crop turned
out remarkably well. One farmer’s crop, twelve months
old, averaged 42 tons per acre; that of snothor farmer,
whose crop was 14 months old, went 521 tens per acre.
Several Tweed residents contemplate growing coffee,
whica thrives remarkably well in the district. Mr.
J ulius, late a restaurant proprietor in Sydney, has about
50 acres under cane. He has also a selection of SlO
ac -li s v 6 bead of the river, and intends ececting a
mill shortly, *
If reports from Paris prove true there is a great
future for copper mining in the colonies. It appears
that by unitmg copper and manganese in certain quan-
tities a metal is produced called by the inventors
white bronze.” A wealthy Parisian firm has been
making a series of experiments resulting in perfect
success. “ White bronze ” is so tough that it is less
Penetrable by shot than is the best armour-plating, and
Jot so ductile and handsome in appearance that the
slenderest ornaments can be manufactured from it.
“ White bronze " will be used extensively in the build-
ing of all ships and steamers in the fashioning of
domestic implements and utensils, and In fact become
a general substitute for ordinary metals. This is what
our advices from Paris declare. In one colony, S.A.,
long-neglected copper claims are now being taken up
again, and a rise in the market value of copper is confi-
dent!.,' «peeted to follow the invention of “white
broczw."
An inquest has been held at Narandcra on the
death of Mr*. Martin, who was killed recently by being'
struck with the branches of a tree she and a neighbour
were felling', She had rushed to save her children from
the danger which overtook herself. Dr. Boyd attended
her, and told her at once that her case was hopeless,
but put some stitches in a wound on the head to
“make her look more sightly." At the inquest. Dr.
Barber, who made a post-mortem scrutiny, started to
cross-examine Dr. Boyd professionally, when some of
the jury interposed, and an unseemly wrangle took
place between the medicos as to the respective values
of their professional reputations. The coroner held,
in opposition to tome of the jury, that Dr. Barber had
a perfect right to cross-examine Dr. Boyd, and, eventu-
ally, he adjourned the inquest sine die, in order to
.main the Attorney-General’s advice upon the case, it
being impossible for him to receive a verdict until the
medical evidence is concluded.
Harges, the wine and spirit merchant, who was
arrested the other day in Adelaide, has a long and dirty
record attached to his reputation. He left Adelaide
some two years ago, and became chief clerk to Knmmer
and Co., wine and spirit merchants, Auckland. When
Kummerfai ei, he entrusted Harges with a commission
to purchase the book debts of the firm from the
trustees, hoping by the aid of Harges to re-establish
his business. Harges "collared" the opportunity,
and then threw over his old master. Under the pre-
tence of visiting Botomahana,| Harges came to Sydney,
and took a passage for England in the Cuzco, having
lirst defalcated several thousands of pounds. Hays
and Go., of Sydney, entrusted Harges with the sale of
£lOOO worth of goods on commission, and he got rid of
these and coolly pocketed the proceeds. He was
arrested on a cablegram from New Zealand received by
the Adelaide police. Some thousand pounds or so wbs
found in his possession, and old Adelaide creditors at
once took the necessary stops to leg illy pounce upon
all they oonld get. The New Zealand people will pro-
bably have to whistle for their money.
There are very good points about Petersham.
A number of residents in a < • 'tain street have for several
years been trying 1 o get metal put on the road in frr nt of
thsir houses, for which the rates are religions.y paid.
But the Counail are busy at other little games. One of
these novel little devices is to levy rates on buildings
which don’t exist j that is to say, where a house is in-
tended to be bnilt, and materials are on the ground,
rate-papers demanding five per cent, on the imagined
rent value have actually been served. Of course, this
is illegal. In some cases where taxes were demanded
oa half-built houses, the victims appealed. One would
think they would sorely get justice on a fair repre-
sentation being made. But they did not. The Bauch
was to ait at 10 o’clock, but knowing that a large number
of cases was on the list, nearly all the appellants came
a few minutes after the hour. To their amazemant, the
sitting was ended, and the Bench adjourned. A quiet
little arrangement had been made with those concerned
in the first caies to take them, "by consent,'* before
the hands of the clock reached
the hoar, the appeal cates were called on, and as the
names were run over at lightning speed and the parties
did not appear, the appeals were dismissed. This may
nave been a legal course of action—but it was an incre-
dibly mean one.
,U 0 gOT J crime has notched the fair front
G f l ee , tc morality. A girl, named Sarah Davis,
atat, 20, fell ■ m love with a juvenile bullock-driver,
renowned throughout the'district not less for bis
poverty than his ugliness. Her parents desired to
bring about a union I etween Sarah and a Chinese store-
keeper, named Ah Lowe. As parents and child were
inaouea with eqn&l stubbornness, there was a deadlock
respecting the question of wedlock. The parents de-
nounced the affection for the bullock-driver as mare
caii-iove, and the girl declared she abhorred the musky
Mongol. For Sarah to marry both suitors would have
b®®n illegal, oTen *f regarded as a Sal-Utahry way out of
tne dilemma. At this stage, a third party intervened,
and suggested to the girl a way to rid herself of parents
over B’, . a °onsing the former of strangling two
enudren which had been incumbrances on her virginal
equity. Ihe girl complied, but finally confessed that
tne story was a concoction. Then she renounced the
bullock-driver, and married the Chinaman at the Wes-
ieyan Ohurob.Mudgee. Ah Lowe enjoyed a honeymoon
of s. fortnight’s duration, at the end of which period
the Queen Bee put a bullet through his temple. Mrs.
Ah Lowe now stands committed for trial for wilful
murder, and the evidence shows that after the murder
an attempt was made to burn the Chinaman’s corpse.
pot her favourite son-in-law; he, in his turn,
got a free pass to the other world, at the hands of his
wife; and she is more than likely to spend the last years
or her widowhood in a sojourn where there is neither
marrying nor giving in marriage. Such is civilization
in the Australian bush!
The latest dog-yarn of the day is told by a cor-
respondent of the Ballarat Courier, who says On
Saturday week a poodle, belonging to Mr. Short, of the
Oampaspe, was run over by a train at Woodend, and
nad one of its forelegs almost severed at the shoulder.
An employe at the railway station, thinking to end it*
sufferings, battered its head with a piece of quartering,
and left it for dead. Half an hour afterwards the
poodle was gyrating round the station on three legs,
carrying the fourth looped up in its mouth, with one
eye knocked out, and half its head bashed in. A porter
on the station saw the greatly injured beast, and
caressed it over the head with a club for a few minutes,
and wound up hisj attentions to the sufferer by carting
the mangled remains to a wood heap. On the Wednes-
day following, the battered but vivacious remains of the
dog made their appearance at their home, situate five
miles from Weodend, locomoting themselves The
poodle’s master concluded to convince it that it must
not go about a respectable neighbourhood in that state,
and he treated it to a dose of load, fired from a gun at a
distance of three paces. The poodle took the dose in
its head, and sank down to all appearance with its nn-
qniet spirit laid. A quarter of an hour passed, and
what was left of it slowly gathered together, and cot up
to view the surroundings. We would have liked to
wind up this veracious narrative with some astounding
announcement that the dog recovered, grew a new leg,
and displayed ever after tu inveterate dislike to rail,
ways, porters, and shot-guns, but it is not to bo. The
owner of this toughae a of poodle re-loaded his gnn,
and sticking it into the ribs of the animal, tunnelled it,
so that it declined to go round—a dog spectacle, through
which daylight could be seen Consequently, it is now
dead.” The author of the Dubbo —or Mndgre- which
is it F—d g.«tory is earnestly requested to “go one
better” than th« above for out next issue. Snake-
stories are now at a discount in this office; hut high,
toned dec-yarns, verified by statutory declaration?, and
the production of mnltilated mongrels, will be sieno-
graphleally received by the editor between thehonrs of
ten and four daily.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
The late Bishop of Newcastle was, inter alia, a
thorough n*li*v#r in priestly celebacy. In most other
points ordinary folks generally h»ld him as a split
retween a semi-Roman, and a ‘ GoC-lnm-ws what.” He
was, however, a .rated amd abls dignitary of the
church 1 now* as High.
Rev. Dr. Barry has roundly reviled, both orally
and in type, the Revs. Kemmis and Spicer, whom he
accuses of being histrionic attitudinariane, poor figures
dressed in tintei, marching up and down a church, and
trying to attract a congregate n not onlv by their
good looks, but by their ecclesiastical titivations.
Australian parents are said to be in favour
of Bible-reading in State school* by a majority of nine
to one. This is from the returns received from 200
schools by the S.A. Bible in National State Schools
Bonety. It must be remembered, however, that re-
sponse was voluntary, and that many parents were
either too indifferent, too nealigent, or too indolent to
state their views at all.
At Gininderra, near Queanbeyan, there are a
few real Christians. Fourteen neighbours, headed by
eB i eyan minister i Eev - 8. J. Gibson, turned oat the
other day, and ploughed, harrowed, and sowed a sick
farmer s paddock. The only drawback to the religious
prosperity of this district is that the people have do
tine to get up Fancy Fayres, and discussions about
.Daughters of Moab, and that ilk.
Clergymen, as a rule, bestow thdr patronage
on their supporters. This is not the case up North
Mot long since some hymn-books, &c., were wanted for
one of the local churches. These were ordered from a
Chinese storekeeper, notwithstanding the fact that
two of the local stationers were staunch supporters of
the church. A deal of jealousy exists in consequence
between the parson and his people.
sentiment, “ More churches and less need,”
will shortly become obsolete in the Illawarra district it
they increase at the present rate. The latest addition
has been erected on the apex of the Bulli Mountain
and is reached from the township by some three miles
of road running up at an angle of 35 degrees. The
pr >sent building may be designated of the high cosmo-
po'itan creed, inasmuch as it is for the use of any
Protestant denomination, but of necessity is taboo'd
to the lame and halt—the profane have named it Ex-
celsior. At the opening, a few days since, the usual
hot collation and cold collection to meet the debt dae
I was carried out in a most business-like manner
Strange! there always is a debt on churches.
The Melbourne Augli-
can Synod has adopted the
determinations of the
Sydney Synod with refer-
ence to the election of a
successor to the late
Bishop Barker. Bishop
Moirhouse delivered an
eloquent and judicious ad.
dross, showing a compre-
hensive grasp of the exi.
gencies of the situation,
and a keen analyiical
faculty in reap set sf into-,
diocesan intere ts ard
general ecclesiastical law.
But His Lordship wound
up with something that
rtads like undisguised
satire. Citizens of Syd-
ney who have fresh in
their minds the wrang-
ling and larrikinism dis-
placed during the last
short session of the Syd- •
ney Synod respecting
* Moahitish women" and
“ Balaam and his ass,"
mutt look upon the fol-
lowing sen tea C 9, wll h
concluded Bishop Mocr-
house’s address, as bald
bunkum— 11 I have trou-
bled you with these de-
tails to show you that the
determinitions submitted
to-day for your approval
were not made without
careful and anxious deli-
beration, and I humbly
prav onr Heavenly Father
to shed abroad among you,
my brethien, that same
spirit of re’f-coatrolling
brothrrlv kindness which
so signal y istinguLhed
ths body which was call d
up m to fr*» ettesoordiu-
auees." The *■ broth, rly
kindness” of the .-ydney
bvnod took the form of
threatening personal vio-
lenee to the Rev. E. C.
Hodgson.
Net profits of Sfc.
Mary’s Cathedral Pay re
amounted to 5.752 4s. lid.
Signor Giammona’s
Mass was performed at
St. Patrick’s on Monday
last, under thecompo ei's
conduotorship, and with
HerrAlpeu as organist.
Brooklyn (U.S.) boasts a black-eyed preacher in
petticoats: the Rev. Mrs. Clara Bisbee, a student of
the Harvard divinity school, has been chosen pastor of
a Boston congregation, and even t he staid and conserva-
tive discipline of the Episcopal Church has yielded ho
« .5? to ac * m ' t t<vo women as lay readers in the dioc'se
of Minnesota. As modern religion appears to consist
largely of talk and nothing else, perhaps women are best
fitted to administer it.
• • •
The Rev. J. Hargrave, once incumbent of the
church of England in Shoaihaven, is seriously ill in
Sydney. Typhoid.. The Rev W. B. Croxton, of All
»iints, Sandhurst, has consented to pardon the yonug
man who. resenting a rebuke against hobbledehoyism
and hoydemsm, rudely retorts*. “My God Ciojky,
my character is as good as yenrs any day.
I ve half a mind to pull you from that pulpit.’’... .
Me the Uishop of Sydney election question, the Protes-
™ Siawbabd says—“ There is some whisper of Canon
Luldon being selected. Cauoa Liddon would reflect
honour on the Church, in loathing and eloquence, but
ha ?* unfortunately, been too much mixed up with the
Ritualistic heresy." ...The Rev. Dr. M Gibbon is still
vary ill. His complaint is of a cirdiac nature, and is
accompanied by nervous depression and exhaustion
The "Ann Duthie.”
This fine ship, shown in the accompanying engraving,
forms one of the well-known line of clippers owned by
the Messrs. Duthie Brothers, of Aberdeen, and has been
constantly employed in the trade between this port and
London since she was built. She is constructed of teak,
aud when being classed at Lloyd’s received one
year more than ia generally allotted to woolen ships
for the strength and durability of her build. The chief
saloon is very large—airy and beautifully finished—
and affords luxurious and comfortable aocommodat’en
for 36 passengers Tte passages of th s fine ship have
not been excelled, and when taken alUge her she cm
place to her credit tho beet average of »uy »hip trailing
regularly to this port. There have beou five or six
passages, ran, i«g from 72 to 78 days, and on one occasion
a portion of her wool was lauded iu the London docks
on the seventy-fifth day from leaving tho Circular Quay
at this port. The Ann Duthie is 994 tons register, and
was built by Messrs. Dutfcie, Sons, and Go. in their own
yard at Aberdeen. The Datbie line is comprise! of
eight ships, which have all traded regularly to this po.t
for a number of years. Messrs. Danrar, Gsdyp, and
Co., of Maequane Place, are tho Sydno? agents ot this
line, and load them home regularly with wool each
s lasou.
THE “ANN DUTHIE.”


Tobacconists
fl ..L -*■’
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
“""IE fdllorrteg facta are compiled from official
teetroroes, »fid, therefore, should he rend with
r in 1880 on 288,
»cm a. m
y ft 1881 «n
aiadi
_r ft 18
>D Are ofben pnSd dut/ft HSI « a
fcn»orted Mudufte* tobacno paid duW
on for the two years was wif,,. . n •* 807,1001 b.
DI3SON AND SON* 8 BRANDS ARE—
TANKED DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUB 7, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee
r ~
or “ Yankee Doode*
ATJ. TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS, PIPES, Ac.
s**2
DIKING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
_ . 4-Vm I’AN'T B BEAT
ND the enormous success of that AN T B B E
k has not escaped the usual penalties of
ftersal popularity has excited the envy of that olaaS
speculators who trade upon the diaoreditablocapitai
Crowed name My Tobacco has hem imitated
1 counterfeited, and altnougn i "J* “'““i
le means te guard the public against imposition, and
r GT«r iepnlai and well-kNOwn CAK TBFTO
* ? T * v ia> the nablie fti the QBNfj INS
4BRIO AN Now, to further guard mg
Cuatemera ft both town and eonntry. eaweß
the Smektog PnhUe from all
•anged with the AwraicAN
ig of my Tobacco be branded with a »nver isg.
iring the device thus:
S
without which none is genuine. The qualities of the
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well known to need any
comment. Bat ft justtee to the pnbhe, as"2, l “f
myself, I urgently request my customers to assure mem,
selves that the article they purchase be
that each plug bear the above dertee, to be knewn as
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B BEAT BRAND
Heartily thanking the public for their liberal
and determined to deserve a continuance of I sue samp
by keeping a first-class article at tBie lowest possible
MICK SIMMONS,
Sole Wholesale Agent ft the Colonies for the
Can’t B Beat Tobacco,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
CORNER OF GEORGE and CAMPBELL STREETS,
HAYMAEKtT.
N.B.—NO BRANCH SHOPS.
READ THIS I READ THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET.
BRICKFIELD HILL.
a Large assortment of goods to select
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, Ac.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., Limited, b*
to inform the public that they have now con**
pleted arrangements which will enable them to keep up
a REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
and are in a position to take on fresh on atom ere. Orders
may be given to men on carta, or sent to office,
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
For VENETIAN BLINDS^
TEY
W O fi M A I D,
m OXFORD STREET.
Hotels, fro.
G
UNSLEE’S HOTEL,
NORTH TEEEACE,
ADELAIDE.
K
OBEET BUTCHEE & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
COUNTRY ORDERS RbCEITE PROMPT ATTENTION.
jpiALLON’S PEIZE ALBUEY WINE.
J. T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depots
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class
following Exhibition' :
London International
Paris ~
Vienna >,
Philadelphia ~
Prizes at the
1862
1864
1873
1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST-
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-GLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat I Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay • Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. WILKINSON’S
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, STDNETi
VINEYAED—COOLALTA, BBANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BED WINES.
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No. 2 I, a.
Burgundy ...
Port
Tin Ordinaire
•v
WHITE WINES
Muscat ...
90. No. 2
Jo. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Yin Ordinaire
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
IoHN,
B.N
aimm
mu*euJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
T
HE PAINLESS CORN RELIEVER,
Pbicb 2s 6d.
A Certain Eelief, and im numberless instances, a com-
plete erne for eorns.
9 Stonley-street, Wooloomoolee.
Mr. Olewet, —Sir, —I w«s favoured some time ago at
the offlee of th» Sydney Bwhstih, with a bottle of year
Painless Cern Eeiiev.r, whi.li I heg te s*ate I used
with the following remits : —As an applieatiea I fennd
it simple, painlem, and as far as 1 knew harmless; it
speedily removed the sore.eas and tenderness, and en-
abled me to walk with perfeet eaee, which I had not
been able te do for many years. Also, lam ef opinion
that, if I had used another bottle, it wenld have pro red
a complete enre. Sir, 1 have much pleasure, and ne
hesitation in stafing the a'•ova, which yen are at liberty
to nse aa yon think fit. Yonra truly,
. (Signed) Wrti.iiM Sattr Mortoh.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Cbemist, Oyrapie,
Queensland. SolelProprietor of " Clowes’ Concordia”
Remedies.
CLOWES’ UNFAILING ETNG-WOEM CUBE will
completely cure the most obstinate Ping-worm. Abun-
dant personal references. —Price, 2s 6d. The proprietor
will guarantee a cure.
CLOWES’ “BED GUM OINTMENT,” 2s 93, for
Healing Wounds.
CLOWES’ “COMPOUND LINIMENT of AENICA
and CAJUPUT," combined with an lodide, prepared
from the formula of the late William Clowes, M.8.C.5.,
&<?. For Soie Throats, Bruises, Sprains, Swellings,
Rheumatisn, and Pains in the Joints. —Price 2s. od.
CLOWES’ “STYPTIC COLLOID.” Most vain-
able for Stopping Bleeding and Protecting and Healing
Small Wounds —Price 2s 6d.
ELLIOT BBOS. A Co., Sydney Agents.
M
AGNIFIGENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ehony-and-gold, Eosewood-and-gold.
Imported by ns direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is W ABE ANTED for TEN
TEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TEEMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All onr PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor eheap rubbish*
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howick-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goal-
burn; Church-street, Pairnmatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane,
3 you live we will supply
E PAYMENT.
you with a
pLATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VABNISH.
PAPEEHANGING
(a really splendid stock )
BOOM and PICTUEE-PEAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BEUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, *o.
ALBXANDEE BOETHWICK, 281, GEOEGE-ST.
w.
H. ARIEL
PEOVISIGN MEECHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 Airn 345 Kbmt-steebt, hbab Kimo-stbsm.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned i
E. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late 0.
Bencraft & Co.) '
8W& Cakes ArieU ' S Vlctorlan Biscuits, Treacle,
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
sauce.
343 and 345 £ENT*STB£ET y Bear King-street.
'Business Annoauoemex
Australian “home" shuttle
SEWING MACHINES.
Unprincipled Dealers—do make A few extra shil-
ling* profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
tA
c
</
6l\i
HO^k
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We soUoiML'oMnation of the attempted sale of
forfeits of tDw above Machine, when we will take
action in protection of our rights.
In amy district where our genuine Machines are noh
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt e#
Post Ofliee Order.
WE HAVE KOWJSOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE £4 0 0
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVER COMPLETE..; 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND CO,
WYNTAED LANE, SYDNEY.
Ingham’s
BIF'W'M
&
■™sBb
Ol rtfl will be paid for any
X>l U U case that the Double
Chloride of Giold Cure
DRTOKENKESS
will not permanently cure.
It is recommended by tbe
1 leading Physicians. Hope-
less cases Invited. Send
stamp for book and testi-
monials from people you
know.
LESLIE E. KEELEY, M.D.
5. FRESHMAN,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE,
SS9 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
CH. FERGUSON,
• UNDERTAKER,
Late Manager of W. and H. Kinsela’s principal shop,
George-street, has commenced business ou his own *o-
count at
535 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Railway Gate, a few doors higher up,
and 1& DEVONSHIRE STREET, Near RILBY-ST;
And is prepared to furnish Funerals CHEAPER than
any other house in the trade, and, having purchased
everything New, hopes by civility and attention to
Business, as he has done to his late employers, to merit
a share of public patronage.
0. H. FKKOUSON,
UNDERTAKER
Sashes glazed on the shortest
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
SHOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
British plate and sheet glass
WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
J3 APERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-atreet^South.
W'HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
Ao., Ao.
O, P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 860 George-street South.
LATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE P. MURPHY.
Regent House, 860 G«orge-stre«t South.
DEAFNESS !—I have an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chief of the London Royal
Ear Infirmary fto which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100). Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAFORD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
The Celebrated
ThePurestStikiuiant
r* E WORV-2
Th* Nun* of M. MOSS ft CO.
la on every Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER'S Bugle Braiju.
r y~
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINK;
MERCHANTS,
YISGOE. SON”D CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
Ifv
t v|: |
BLENT/
M A.G.THOMSON & C 9
PROPRIETORS
This Tarecld Scotch Blend
u distinpuisli pd ty h -vi rij ct bouqusT
c.'-: ffyif; old rcLo.tucteM w ois
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
BOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
IWe shall be glad to hwie this indest potted up ty seOritaries
of racing eluht and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Manning River J.C.m „,.May 31* Jons 1.
Victorian Trotting Club (Ulster*wiok):u...June 3.
Northern J. O. Meeting..,..,,,; .....June 6, 7.
Coonamble J C .June 7, 8.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
Brewarrina J.G June 8 ( 9.
S-A.J.C. Morphetville ....June 20.
Hay.;,.;;..;... i£*. i.;;.!:;.;..,.......,.Ju1y 6, 7.
Rockhampton ....July 6, j.
Clarence *. July 12,13.
V.E.O. Grand Nati0na1......... July 22.
Geelong .August 5.
AQUATIC*.
Largan v. Pearce. £2OO aside, Thame5..,.,.,., Juno 17.
Hanian v. Boss. £2OO aside ,_™^...^.; f 20.
G.R.C.. Senior Senile in skiffs ........... June 24.
Lay cook. v. Boyd, £2OO aside, Teas ........,..„..Jqly 3.
PKDHSTEIANISM.
Spring v. Ryee (8 yards), lf» yards, £s* at
IdthgOw .......June 1.
Frank Hewitt v. Farrell, Association Ground
SO yards ....June 10.
Edwards v. Clifford, six days, at Geelong, £300...Ju1y 8.
Wallaroo Football dub’s ...... July 20;
FOOTBALL.
East Sydney v. Sydney, Agsomation Gronnd.,,...Jnne 3.
Eedforn v. Carlton, Moore Park Jane 3,
Eedfernv. University, Mroore Park June 10.
Carlton v. Hetham, Association Ground. Juno 10.14,17.
Geelong v. Sydney, Association Ground .......July 15.
BYCYCLING.
Six days’ tournament for championship of Austra-
lia at Adelaide, commences... June 4
BPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The entries for Melbourne Cup, Caulfield Cnp,
Sydney Metropolitan, and Hawkesbnry Handicap close
on Monday, Jane 5.
" Why didn’t yon let onr man hare a ehaners if
Sn oonldn’t win yourself f" said a B.E.C- man te an
.E.C. man. The 8.8.0. man fell down.
Bo perfect was Mr. Henry Hughes's handi-
capping in the race tor ths Adelaide Cnp, that n dead
heat for first place by four horses was just missed.
The French Derby was run at Chantilly on May
SBU Count Lagrange's Dannln and St. Junes ran a
dead heat sad divided the stakes. Jasmin cams in
third.
The English Oaks run for at Epsom, on May 26,
was wen by Mr. J. Watson's Geheimnies, Mr. If. S.
Crawford’s St. Marguerite being second, and Mr. L» da
Rothschild'* Nellie third.
Mndgee Turf Club Races, May 24. Maiden
Plate: Belladonna, 1. Publicans’ Purse: Sting, 1.
Welter Handleap; Spark, 1. Mndgee Handicap! Sting, L
{Tying Handicap: Jaeo walked over.
The Duke of Westminster’s Shotover won the
English Derby, nm on May 24 j Lord Bradford’s Quiek-
lime was second, and Mr. P. Lorillard’s Sachem wad
third. Only fourteen hones started.
The members of the elnhs enrolled under the
V.B.W. Football Assosiation had a scratch match in
Moore Park on Saturday. If there is anything more
nninteresting than another it is a scratch football
match.
At tke regatta at Maryborough (Q.), on May 24,
hhe Champion Gig Evse was won by two lengths by
Maryborough junior four, the Brisbane boat being
second. The senior fonr were distanced through want
Of condition.
Orange Races. May 24. Members’ Handicap ‘
Sporanea. 1. Auction Stakes; Tramp, 1. Speranza
and Joker ran a dead heat for the Birthday Handleap,
Sabina being second. Flying Handicap: Joksr, 1.
Forced Handicap: Quail, 1.
On June 1,2, and 3 the Australian Eleven play
at Manchester against Lancashire County, and on the
sth, 6tb, and 7th at Bradford against Yorkshire Connty.
They have a goed week’s work before them to wipe out
these two formidable teams.
The football season was opened at Moore Park,
on Saturday, by a natch between the University and
Glenhesd clubs, resulting in a victory for the Univer-
sity by 2 goals and 6 tries to nothing. Only two players
were injured, and they were Glonhead men.
The Geelong Football Club are to play on the
Association Ground on the Bth, 11th, 13th and 15th
July, and the Carlton and Hotham Clubs are te visit
Sydney in the early part of Jana to play three matches
against each other, the first to take place on Jane 10th.
A letter appeared in the Times of May 22, ia
which the charges against some of Shaw's team are
reiterated and the accusations are circumstantially set
ent. This would be flat libel in N.B. Wales. We glee-
folly anticipate a perusal of that letter to learn how far
the Timbs will go in the interests of honest sport.
The following programme is arranged for the
N B.W. Coursing Club Meeting, at New Flumpton,
commencing June *o:—St. Leger. for 16 pnppies, at 6
guineas each: Woodstock Plato, for Id all ages, at £l#
•ash; Nsw Flumpton Stakes, for Id all ages, at C
guineas each; Metropolitan Stakes, for Id all agss, at 8
guineas eaeh.
Murdoch has been doing snob wonderful things
In hatting, lately, both here and in England, that we
shall not he surprised if, during his present tear, he
accomplish some feat unsurpassed in ths history of
erieket. His performances up to the present time
pronounce him to be without doubt the premier bats-
man of the world.
Walgett annual races, May 24 and 25. First
Jay.— Malden Plate: Sportsman 1. Hack Selling Eace:
onathan 1. Handicap i Darkle 1. Trial Slakes t
Fanny 1. Flying Handicap : Tilimby 1. Second day.—
Town Plate: Sportsman 1. Members’ Purse: Hazard
1. Walgctt Handicap: Babbler 1. Consolation Stakes:
Bronzewing 1. Forced Handicap: Caliph 1.
Ulmarra Races. May 24. Maiden Plate - Fitz-
roy, 1. Trial Stakes : Sir Edward, 1. Ulmarra Handi-
cap s Pitzroy. 1; Booynng. 2. A protest was entered
against the winner for jostling, and the owners agreed
to run the raee again. A splendid raee took place for
the Publican’s Purse, Eosemary heating Envy by a
bare head. Members* Raoe: Warlock, 1. Pony Raoe ;
Maude, 1. Forced Handicap Booynng, 1.
Alderman Samuel See and Mayor D. Beatao*
won tke Oemmittee Raee at Graf ben Regatta, and now
the Grafton Borough Council are anxious te challenge
the Sydney Corporation to a trial of strength. Aldermen
are not generally bad hands at rows. The brothers
M'Donald have issued a general challenge to the Ann-
bralian colonies to row a three mile raoe. double somlls,
for the earn of £2OO, on ths Clarence River.
■“Melbourne Hunt Club mooting, May 24. Dum-
Smry won the Hnrdle Eaoe by two lengths, Yan Tremp
second; Napoleon and Dauphin fell. Verdure won the
Birthday Stakes, beating Sqnireen bv a length. The
Open Steeplechase was won by Skylark by a head.
Young Beoeiver being second. Mulatto won the Corin-
thian Flat Eaoe by a length. Boree won the Selling
Eaoe easily* and Haidee of the Hills won the Flying
Rowing Association have carried
a motion to the effect that any person who within two
years from date of entry for any regatta race has been
engaged in any manual employment will be considered
M ordinarily eo employed within themeaningof the
vflgatta regulations and programme. The object of the
motion was to prevent manual labour men qualifying
themselves to enter races by a merely temporary
suspension of labour- This should put the Footscray
p ipes out. And, by the way, we hear a rumour that
the N.S.W. Association do not for the future intend to
regard as an amateur a certain oarsman who has wen
many prizes on the Parramatta.
A grand pigeon-shooting match took place at
Yass on 24th May. Mr. W. Gannon, of Sydney, won
the first prize of £4l; Mr. Isaacs, of Gonlbnrn, second
prise, £2O; Mr. Evans, of Yass, third, £l2, A sweep-
stakes of 1 sov. each was won by Mr. Owen Friend, of
Sydney. At the settling, Messrs. Gannon and Friend
gave 10 guineas to the Clab as a premium for the best
•hot on next Queen’s Birthday. Mr. Friend collected
£l5O for that purpose.
Bonrko races, May 27. Forced Handicap :
Dorsey won by two lengths. Whisker won the Fare-
well Handicap. Whynot’s jockey lost his stirrup leather.
Chancellor won the Hurdle Race. Poverty, ths favourite,
being second. Daylight baulked, and did not go round.
A splendid raoe took plaee for ths Free Handicap, won
by Emily, Student being second, and Whisker third. A
match between Pilgrim and Fairy, for £2O, was won
easily bythe former.
As Hutchens, the English professional short-
distance runner, cannot get a match on with anyone in
his native country, he intends trying his speed against
any American peds. who will be willing to meet him.
He was to have taken a farewell benefit at Lillie Bridge
grounds, England, an 17th April, when it was under,
stoed he would attempt to beat Seward’s record of
91 sec. for 100 yds., and B. Buttery’s record of 48i seo.
for a quarter of a mile.
Lord Harris has addressed a letter to one of the
English newspapers in which he expresses an opinion
that, in the absence of any pnblio disavowal up to the
present of the oolluaieu imputed to Shaw’s Cricketing
Eleven in connection with their visit to the Australian
colonies, each member shsuld make a statutory de-
claration of the falsity of the scandal. That’s the
way to get at it. Of coarse the man that works a
" cross ” will make a statutory declaration, anyhow.
Adelaide Racing Club meeting. Fourth day.
Sterling won the Two-year-old Selling Eace, after a fine
finish, by a head. Footstep won the City Handicap;
Topaz was second, and Result third. The Handicap
Steeplechase was won by Reform, Lucy being second.
Tke favourite fell at the first fence, and all the others
made mistakes. A slashing race took place for the
Tramway Handicap, which First Water won by a head,
Topaz being second. The Consolation stakes was won
in a canter by Annie Firmin.
Wo have no doubt about the correctness of the
result of the contests for ths Thomson Junior Chal-
lenge Cnp. We hazarded at the commencement of
these matches an opinion that the Sorry United was the
best club engaged, and, notwithstanding ths proverbial
luck of cricket, ths Surry Uniteds have so maintained
their superiority as to corns ont victorious at the end.
We wish them luck and hold them np to other junior
•In be as a pattern of wkat ean be dene by assiduous
practice, steady play, and unanimity of purpose.
The match of the Australian Eleven against the
Surrey Eleven terminated in a victory ** lor ns’’ by six
wiekets. The Surreys, In their second innings, were
disposed et fer 46 runs, Garrett and Boyle doing great
execution, the former taking 6 wiekets for 30 runs, ths
latter 4 wiekets for 18 ruas, Ths Australians, who had
scored 106 in the first innings, obtained in the seoend
119 runs, the performers being:—Jones 18, Mur-
doch 28 and 0, Horan 20 and 23, Giffen, net ont, 11. and,
not ont, 6, Bannerman 4 and 28, M-Donald 4 and 35.
A race, under the auspices of the Sydney Homing
Pigeon Society, toek place last Saturday, from Marnlan,
114 miles, resulting in a win fer Mr. F. C. Freeman’s
Fairlight, whs homed in 121 minutes; Mr. J. Smith’s
Orphan Girl was second, in 130 minutes; and Mr. Free-
man's Fleetwing was third, in 149 minutes. This makes
the third consecutive win for Fairlight, having won the
following races: From Katoomba, Moss Vale, and
Marnlan. He is about 11 months old, and was bred by
Mr. Freeman from an imported bird that flew in a 600-
mile race in Germany.
" Hermit,” of the S. A. L. V. Gazette, haa the
following concerning the finish for the|Adelaide Cap t—
“ The race for the Cap was the grandest ever seen in
this oolony, and the handieapper is to be congratulated
on the triumph be achieved. Had Hales, instead of
hauling Commotion about until he was exhausted, al-
lowed him to go all the way, I fancy he would have
spread-eagled his field as he did in the Town Plato at
Flemington; and had the riders of the favourite and
Belladrnm not been so intent on blocking Walker at
the finish, I think Pollio would just have won, as Enelid
would never have gone through.”
A 150 yards’ foot race took place on May 22 on
the Tamworth Cricket Ground, between W. B. Free-
man and T. Mullins, for £2O. After three false starts
the pistol was fired and Freeman dashed off, leaving
Mullins at the scratch. Seeing that his opponent did
not start, Freeman came back, though, had he chosen,
he oonld have run the distance out and claimed the
money. This manly aot on the part of Freeman
elicited applause from the couple of hundred specta-
tors. Then (here were nineteen more false starts, after
1 which both men got away fairly together. Freeman at
once took the lead, which he maintained to the end,
eventnally winning by six or seven yards, in 16J secs.
Bravo 1 Freeman. Bob Watson trained Freeman, and
he says he can beat anything in N.B. Wales bar
Applitt.
Queensland Tarf Club meeting, May 24, 25.
First day. Sires* Produce Stakes : Uoldfinder, 1. St.
Leger Legerdemain, 1; Silver hair, 2. Won easily.
Hurdle Race; Pastime, I; Tambour-Major, 2. Frolic
fell, when leading, half a mile from home. Moreton
Handicap: Proctor, |1; Nabocklish, 2. A good race,
won easily at ths finish. Selling Stakes: Liberty, 1.
Corinthian Cup: Bioter, 1; Glencoe, 2. Won easily.
Railway Handicap: Adamaster, 1; Mistletoe, 2. A good
race.—Second day. Bioter won the Shorts by a neck,
after a splendid raoe. Goldfinder won the Two-and-
Three-Year-Old Handicap, by a length; and Pastime
won easily the Selling Hurdles. Proctor won the Bris-
bane Cup, again defeating Nabocklish. Liberty won the
Selling Eace eaeiiy; and Eclipse won the Forced Han-
dicap, after a good raoe.
Pedestrianism is assuming such a vast impor-
tance, and is exciting such great interest in the colony,
that it ie about time we had some recognised tribunal
in the shape of a N. S. Wales Pedestrian Association
as in the case of cricket, football, and rowing, wherein
could be decided the canons of racing qualifications by
which all athletic olnba in the oolony should be guided.
Each club should appoint a delegate, and the Associa-
tion should be a court of appeal. Further, it would be
useful in checking to a great extent the downfall of
professional pedestrianism in this colony by organizing
a great meeting annually with prizes for which it
would be worth the pro’s while to go straight, and it
oonld have the power of refusing entry to any ped.
whose career had been questionable. We can look for
best records only to professionals, and as they cannot
patronize themselves, the amateur clubs should do it.
The final contest for the Thomson Junior Cup
was concluded on Saturday, and resulted in a victory,
as wo foretold, for the Surry Waited Club by 59 runs.
The game was commenced at 11 o’clock, so as to finish
the match on Saturday. The Onr Boys did not add to
to their score of the previous Saturday; Dannie was
run out for a finely-played innings of 34. The Surry
United scored in their second inninars 100, the per-
formers being J. Searl again with 20, P. Searl 18, New-
land 12, Thomson 12, Beveridge 10. This loft the Our
Beys the uphill task of obtaining 146 runs te win, and
Collins and Dennis were the first to face the bowlers.
Collins wae unlucky, getting eat l.b.w. just as ha was
getting set. Dennis played a fine innings for 24, when
Thomson, who was bowling very well, got through his
hat; Saunders 19, and Hannah 12, were the ether
double-figure contributors, and the innings closed for
86, leaving the Sorry United Club the winner* of the
trophy.
Bonrke Annual Races were postponed from the
24th May to the next day, on account of the unprepi-
tioue weather, Waterluy won the Maiden Plate by a
head, after a grand race. The Novel Handicap was
won by Pilgrim by a neek. Thirteen started for the
Central Australian Handicap, Radical winning easily
by a length. Dollar second, and Echo a good third. The
owners of Radical won nearly £2OOO. Moonlight won
the Hurdle Raoe, Leader and Chancellor being second
and third. Chancellor, the favourite, baulked through
Jock falling. Jock’s rir’er, after being thrown, re-
mounted, and after a gallant stern chase was beaten for
third place by a head. Kildare won the Ladies’ Mile
easily. Student the favourite, being nowhere. On the
seeend day. Mail Traiu won the Plying Handicap by a
head. Diver won the Stockman’s Purse by two lengths.
A splendid race took place for the Bonrke J.C. Handi-
I cap, Mies Angler winning by half a length from Dollar.
Ciasader won the Handicap Hurdles. Moonlight fell
over the last jump. Dollar won the Town Plate; and
a match for £2O between Diver and an unknown horse
was won easily by Diver.
At the Hunter’s Hill sports Mr. Phillips
was awarded first prize in the 100 yards flat race.
The second was offered te and refused by Mr. P. C.
Fair land. Without impugning the decision of the
the important and decisive fafit remains that
Mr. Pairland carried the tape with him past the post.
Outsiders may be mistaken, but then the judges also
may err, and when, in support of the general verdict,
Mr. Fairland himself thought he had wen, it is reason-
able to suppose a mistake has been made in this case.
Now that the sports generally are over, we would
submit that the duty of committee men at athletic
sports meetings is not to congregate around the tele-
graph board for general conversation, but to see that
the first man in wins, and to give the general public
gome idea of the time he takes to do It. Athletic
sports are conducted in such a slip-shod way at present
that we are forced, in the interests of pedestrianism, to
point out these defects. We wish to see eur amateur
records equal those of England and America; there is
no reason why they should not do so. The large
attendances at our sports meetings point to the desir-
ability of attending to even minor details.
Newcastle J.C. Races, May 24 and 25. First
day:—The Shorts Handicap was, after a great race,
won by a head by Ethel, Eoberto being second. Loch-
invar won the N.J.C. Handicap by two lengths, Euchre
and Norma filling second and third places. The Stack
Eaoe was an easy win for Protest; but Dagmar and
Piracy ran a good race for the Telegraph Handicap,
which Dagaar won by a neck. Second day Twilight
won the Free Handicap by half a length, Faust being
second. A good race took place for the Handicap
Hack Eace, which Traveller won by a head. The City
Handicap was a great contest; Faust made the run-
ning, but nearing the rails. Euchre came away ; Hypatia
came up in the straight, and won by a length. Euchre
and Lochinvar running a dead heat for second place.
Piracy and Eoberto ran a dead heat for the Plying
Handicap, and divided the stakes. In the Forced
Handicap, which was the best race of the meeting.
Twilight, Faust, and Euchre finished in the order
named within halt a length of eaeh other. The settling
was satisfactory, and the prizes were paid over on the
evening of the second day, Mr. Chippendale being the
largest winner with £199, Mr. James Mayo coming next
with £l3l.
Parramatta J.C. Races, May 24, 25. First day.
For the Handicap Hardies, Blackall was favourite, bat
lost his chance by refusing the second jump. A good
race took place between Chance and Nigger, resulting
in a win for the former by a length. The Flying Han-
dicap was an easy win for Bob Sawyer, with Kaffir
second, and Jem Tyson third. A great race teok place
between Lily and Opal for the Juvenile Selling Stakes,
Lily winning by halt a length. She was bonght in for
£135. The Selling Stakes was cleverly won by Johnny
Crapaud, Victor being second, and Hippy third. The
Birthday Handicap went to Prima Donna, who defeated
Lord Orville by two lengths, with Willeroo a good third,
and the favourite, Eosinante. nowhere.—Second day.
Beb Sawyer wen the Shorts by half a length from Qarry-
owen. West Country Dick won the Belling Eace. beat-
ing Hippy by half a length. Kosinaate turned the tables
on Prima Donna in the Cumberland Handicap, beating
her by a length and a half. Willeroo won the Twe-and-
Threo-Toar-Old Handicap cleverly by half a length,
Malta, who had been making the running, being second.
Sixteen started for the Forced Handicap, which was
won by Kafir. Lily fell, and bad to be shot. Her rider,
yonng Kelso, sustained a severe shaking.
Adelaide Racing Club Queen’s Birthday meet-
ing. Second day:—Triplet won the Hurdle Eace by
three lengths, Glenervan being second, and Dutchman
third. The Maiden Plate was won by Glory by five
lengths. Fiftesn started for the Queen's Birthday
Cap, Gemmation being the favourite; bat Darebin car-
ried off the doable event by a win by a length and a
half. Crystal being second, and Topaz a good third.
The Selling Eaee was won easily by Little Dick. Stan-
dard Bearer won the Snbnrban Plate by two lengths,
with Mistaken second, and Storm Queen third. A good
raee took place for the Adelaide Nursery Stakes, Trans-
ferred beating Footstep by a head, Bassanio, half a
length behind, third. Over 13,090 persons were present,
and about £12,000 passed through the new tetalisator
machine. Third day Glenervan won the Handicap
Hurdle Eaee hard held, by a length from Don Pedro.
Eifleman a good third. Footstep won the Two and
Three-year-old Handicap easily. Glory being second.
Sir Evan won the Selling Steeplechase by 100 yards.
The Corinthian Cnp was won by Handy Andy by a
length, Brigand being second, and Bainbow, six lengths
off, third. The New Stand Handicap was a race be-
tween Baron and Crystal, the former winning cleverly
by half a length.
The rain interfered in the match at Twickenham
between the Australian Eleven and the Orleans Club,
thereby saving our representatives a "doing." The
formidable array of cricketers pitted against the
colonials must have invested the match with consider-
able interest, and we learn that the attendance was very
large. It is hardly possible that the Australians will
meet with many stronger elevens than that of the
Orleans Club, an index to whose batting strength may
be gained from the fact that Barlow, the stonewaller of
Shaw's eleven, did not ge in till the eighth wieket fell.
Steel and E. M. Grace were disposed of fer nil, but the
scoring then began:—W. G. Grace 34, Lucas (aot out)
87, Shultz 34, Thornton 25, Wcbbe 45, Barlow 12—and
the last wicket fell for 271. The Australians were un-
lucky. Murdoch retired hurt after scoring 17;
M'Donnell 25, aad Giffen 24. were the other performers,
and the innings closed for 75. Following on, the Eng-
lish public were treated to another instance of the luck
of the game, the Australians saving a one inning’s de-
feat by playing time out, losing nine wickets for 210
runs, and leaving the question of supremacy still un-
decided. Murdoch went in first, and carried out his
bat for runs 107; M'Donnell 28, Jones 28, Horan 20,
Giffen 17, Massie 14, were the other scorers. It will be
noticed that two weak men, Bannerman and Blaokham,
were the absentees in this match.
The Grafton regatta on Queen’s Birthday
passed off successfully. If oaths under 17 race was won by
E. Small by two lengths. A protest against him as
being over age was sustained, and C. Matterson was
declared the winner. The Indoor Amateur Doable
Sculls was won by G. and C. ttelman, J. and E, Donald-
sen being second. Ensh, Power, and Gordon started
for the Champion Eaoe, and finished in order named,
Gordon never being in it. Power med a boat lent him
by Ensb, and he rowed a game but unfortunate race.
Rash had a better boat, but was not in very good form.
He won by a length in 34 minutes. C. Mathiesou and
G | Ashworth won the Doable Sculls for youths under
21. The race for AU-oomers who had never won a prize
exceeding £lO was won by G. Busch, M. M'Mahon, the
favourite, being second. G. Selman won the Indoor
Amateur Soull race by four lengths. The Skiff Handi-
cap race was won by D. M'Donald (251 b ), M'Mahon
(feather), being second. Euah (with 45ib.) pulled a
plucky race, but pave up when victory was hopeless to
save himself for the double-scull race. N. Mathiescn
and G. Ashwood won the Double-scull race for all-
comers who had never won a prize. The Ship's boat race,
four oars, was won by the Australian's crew. The
Double Moull race in skiffs was won by the brothers
M’Donald, defeating Ensh and Armstrong. The Com-
mittee's race was won by Messre. 8. Hee and D. Beatson.
The Sailing race was won on the 25th by Mr. Lawson's
Zephyr.
The Sydney Amateur Athletic Club held their
ninth sports meeting, on the Association Ground, on
Saturday, before & large and fashionable assemblage.
Meat of the events were contested by students, few of
onr amateur erasks appearing. Fallowing are the re-
sults 100 yards :E. Firth, 1. "220 yards : beys under
15, H, Cox, 1. Heuse Cup : t-mile. D. F. Maokay, Pert
Tiew Heuse, 1. 80 yards: boys under 12, W. Bashby, 1.
Maiden Handleap ; 300 yard*. S. Thorne, 1. 220 yards :
All Schools Eaes.G. Hayes, Sydney k Grammar School, 1.
Bicycle Handicap : 1 mile, A. Lee, 65 yards, 1. |-mile
Handicap: D. F. Mackay, 45 yards, 1. 150 Yards ; boys
under 14, H, Cox, 1, Hurdle Eace : 120 Yards Handi-
cap : C. King, 7 yards, 1. 220 Yards Schools Cap : H.
de Y. Soreggie, 1. Champion One-mile; J. Parker, 1.
809 Yards Handicap: G. J. Pattison, 23 yards, 1. 440
Yards Handicap: boys under 15, F. P. Macoabe, 30
yards, 1. Bioycle Handicap: 4 miles:—This was the
bast event of the day. Goodwin, who was scratch, rode
an excellent race, and caught his leaders before three
miles were covered. A. Dee, who had a start of 200
yards, waited on him, wore him down, and passed him
in the last lap. Mcßae rode a gallant raoe, and gave
Goodwin such a gruelling that he was unable to respond
to Lee in the last quarter-mile. 150 yards: ex-students,
was won by P. Baylis. High Jump :J, Cruickshank, 1.
The Walking Handicap was the most amusing event of
the day, and resulted in a win for E. Watson, 65 yard®.
The 410 Yard* Handicap was won by J. Parker from
scratch, who will give Metcalfe or Rush all they know
to beat him at that distance before many months have
passed. The meeting terminated with an amusing sack
race, which was won by P. S. Clapin.
The fifth sociable at the Sydney Gymnasium was
even more successful than previous ones, and the
building was quite full, m»ny ladies being present.
Precisely at 8 o'clock. Prof. D’Harconrt and twelve of
his young men, some nice looking, and some not, in
white flannel, canvas shoes, and hose showing all the
colours of the rainbow, filed solemnly out of the dress-
ing room. A yonng lady remarked that it was a splendid
display of calves; of coarse she alluded to the stock-
ings. Operations commenced on the horizontal bar.
The great circle waz done, backwards and forwards, but
not extra well. The mest brilliant feat was Muir’s
swing vault from the ground over the bar, a height
more than 8 feet. Trapeze and diagonal ladder followed;
then illustrations of wrestling by Cansdel and Clements,
and foil fencing. Great interest was caused by thu
dumb-bell lifting. D'Harcourt put up a 70-ponnder from
the shoulder 15 times; Muir, .Gansdell, land Clements,
put np the 80-pounder several times with one hand, and
two 70tles, one in each hand. Finally, the two latter
put laoibs above the head with one hand. Exercises
on the horizontal ladder, parallel bars, and rings came
next. Bowermau’s out away on the rings was daringly
skilful, and was followed by a sterm of approval. The
evelutions of a corpulent young gentleman who also
ventured oh the rings reminded the interested specta-
tors of a worm on a fish hook practising death struggles.
It afterwards appeared that he did not intend to show
any feat (except his pair of number elevens), but had
agonised en the ropes te ascertain that they were safe
for the others. Singlestick fencing, and a tug-of-war,
when the “ company” all pulled tug-ether in different
directions, finished the proceedings before 10 o’clock.
Throughout the evening all want without a hitch. No
one showed more interest than a healthy - looking
black gentleman present, with a mouth like a tunnel,
who nearly grinned his head off at what ho no doubt
considered the whitefellows’ foolery. The German
Band tooted all the time.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The admirable manner in which Reuter’s Tele-
gram Co. are cabling reports of the cricket matches is
worth noticing The Wallaroo Football Club opened
the season by a matoh on Queen’s birthday with the
Liverpool Club, which was won by the former by 2 goals
and 4 ties to nil The Newtown Football Club on May
24, defeated the Campbelltown team by a goal The
race between Chaplin and Sonthion, at Grafton, is not
to be run : tbe stakes have been drawn, and all bets are
off. “ Where’s my tossing sixpence? ” The Hotham
and Geelong Clubs must have had an exciting football
match on the East Melbourne Ground on Queen's
Birthday. It was won by Geelong, who kicked enly one
goal Central Warrego (Q.) races. May 24, Handicap,
Ksoevery, 1. Flying Handicap, Magician, 1. Club
Handicap, Priam, 1 Following are the office bearers
of the Sydney Amateur Athletic Club: —President, Sir
John Hay, K.C.M.G., M.L.A.; vice-presidents, the
Hon. John Campbell, M.L.C.; Hen. iCadell, MI C.;
■ir George Wigram Allen, Kt.; T. Buckland,
Esq., J. J. Calvert, Esq., and Hon. John Marks,
M.L.C. Hon. Secretary (pro. tem.), Mr. F. Walsh;
Hon. Treasurer, Mr. J. Buckland ; committee : Messrs.
E. M. Bstts, E. P. Simpson, W. P. Simpson, R. A.
Arnold, L. G. Bennett, S. A. Fairland, and E. S.
Cape; auditors: 8. H, Fairland, and H. Douglas
At Armidale, on May 24, Duncan’s Peri won the prin-
cipal handicap after a good race with five others
After the settling at the Grafton regatta, over £lOO were
subscribed towards the next regatta. They do things
handsomely on tbe Clarence At the Carcoar Athletic
Sports, on May 24, the Queen’s Birthday Handicap, of
£25, 150 and 200 yards, was won by Culverson, of
Orange, W. Flanagan, of Dubbo, being second, and
W. H. Glasson, of Carcoar, third A foot-race took
place at Bourke on May 24, distance 100 yards, between
James Robertson, ef Janda Station, and Regers, a pro-
fessional, fer £lOO. Rogers led for 30 yards, Robertson
then came np, passed him, and won by over two yards.
The time was A deal of money changed hands...
A football club is being formed at Blayney It is
likely that during the visit of the Carlton and Hotham
Football Clubs, a match will be played between a team
representing the N.S.W. Football Association and one
of the visiting teams Mr. John Mayo has retired
from the turf, and ;has sold|his horse. The Gem, for
£430 The Melbourne Spoexsman says “ the game of
pitch-and-toss is a nuisance in the streets of Sydney.”
This is real news The Young and Cootamundra
Cricket Clnbs played out on May 24 at Cootamundra
the unfinished match for the Cox Challenge Cup, which
resulted in a victory for the Cootimundra team by ten
wickets A pigeon match was got up in Tumut on
Queen’s Birthday by Mr. A. Myers, of the Commercial
Hotel, but only a few sweeps were shit for, the day
being very wet. The Grand Handicap Sweepstakes,
which was contested on the following Saturday
resulted in division between Messrs. J.Keefe, J Lasslow,
and E. Jenes, who shot an equal number of birds
The Tamworth Athletic Club Grand Handicap (153
yards), on Queen’s Birthday, was won by C. Swain, of
Tamworth, ISyards, Giles, of Tamworth, being second,
and R. Jurd, of Wollombi, 13 yards, third At the
Exhibition Athletic Sports, in Canterbury (N.Z.) on
May 6, J. M. O’Connor, the well-known ped., was de-
feated after a splendid race of half a mile, by S. Scrim-
shaw, in 2min. 6sec W. Franks, the English
pedestrian, has, on four different occasions,
walked eight miles within the hour
Eedfern v. Burwood F.C., last Saturday, was won by
the latter by two tries to nil. Chapman, Campbell, and
Jones (2) distinguished themselves for Burwood, as did
Phillips, Mulcahy, and Hiddlestone for Eedfern A
football match took place at Parramatta Park on Satur-
day between the Wallaroo Club and King’s School
(students and ex-students) resulting in a victory for tbe
former by four tries to one try A football match is
pending between Cooma and Queanbeyan A 150
yards’ foot-race for £lO, between H. Maxwell and N.
Wellings, comes off at Camden on June 12 A 200
yards’ race for a wager was run on tbe Tamworth Show
Ground, lately, between Messrs. Hayes and Newman.
The former won easily It is quite probable that Lay-
oockwill bring Wallace Ross to Australia on his return.
The athletic sports at Lithgow, on May 24th, were
hampered by the rain, and some of the events were
postponed to Jnne 8. The big handicap, however, was
decided, Dunlop, of Newcastle, being the winner,
Hicks, of Parramatta, tsking second prize. A local
scribe feelingly remarks : “ Thus the first prize went to
Newcastle, the second to Parramatta, and the third
to Hill End, the handieapper having effectively pre-
vented any local man from winning a capper.’’
William Beach, the Illawarra sculler, has issued a
challenge to Thomas Clifford, junior, of Dapto, to row
a race in equal light skiffs over the champion coarse on
the Parramatta River, for £lOO aside and the champion-
ship of the South Coast Campbelltown and Camden
had a cricket match on Saturday week. Camden made
105—Walker 45; Rudd and Mansfield for Campbelltown
made 68 runs for no wickots, when rain stopped play
At the shooting practice of tho South Australian rifle
shooting range, on May 22, Mr. J, H. Robertson made
100 points out of a possible 105, at 200, 500, and 600
yards, and at 15 shots at 1000 yards be scored 69 out of
a possible 75. At 500 and 600 yards, seven shots at
each range, Mr. R. Robertson made 68 out
ot a possible 70. The rifles used on the occasion
w«re the Wobleys-Wyley, and Rigby, small-bore*
The fonr-oared crew to represent the warehouse of
Messrs. Prince, Ogg, and Co., for tho trophies pre-
sented by William Gardiner, Esq., to be competed for
shortly, will be chosen from the following: A. G. Ben-
nett, J. E. Chant, J. Copland, E. Gosnell, J. B. Norris,
W. H. Starr, F. W. Thursby, and John H. Wilkinson
A 100 yards’ foot-race for £2O aside took plaoe at
Bourke on May 29, between A. Davis and Wailes, a
jockey, the former giving three yards start. Wailes
won easily A footballer got excited in town on
Saturday night. There was a “ scrimmage ” and he
kicked five “behinds,” got one “touchdown,” and
secured one “goal” (only they put the a before the o
this time) The joke of the afternoon at last Satur-
day’s pigeon match between Bathurst and Sydney, was
when a “ squeaker ” walked straight at Frank Hill, and
he refused to bar the bird. Frank is a great sport, and
is known to the talent as the “ Bold Fisherman."
It has been decided that it is not illegal to shoot game
o* Sunday in N.Z The hnrdle racar. Stag, who won
the double at the late S.A.J.C. meeting, has been
purchased by Mr. Weekes for India for £5OO
Although Boyle has not secured a big average in
England as a batsman, it must be remembered
that he has now earned his place in tho team by bis
splendid bowling The Prince Alfred Yacht Club
held its closing cruise for the season on Saturday.


SYDNEY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
886 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, >■
165 OXFORD STREET ,}
BATHURST,
GOULBUEN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND 1
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DRAPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE ORIGINATORS OP THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
Mother's £5 Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies' Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infanta’ Night-gowns
2 Infanta’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Haircotd
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
i dozen Infants’ Diaper
Squares
Pnffibox, Puff* Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christ’ing Kobe
1 Infant’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Qnilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good welsh Flannel
0 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
JBS Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coleured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
13 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Sambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White .ow
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Button ,
Thread, Ac.
JES Mourning 1 Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men's Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
1© yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2} yards Qambroon for
strapping
8 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boot*
1 Belt or pair ef Braces
i doz. Poeket’kerehiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooka
and Eyes, Ac. Ac.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, largo
size
1 beat Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, A«.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies* Petticoats
5 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
RILEY BROTHERS’
J 2 Infant’s Parcel.
Infants’ Shirts
Infants’ Night-gowns
Infants’ Long Flannels
Hairoord Monthly Gown
Infants’ Rollers
dozen Diaper Squares
nff Box, Puff, & Powder
Flannel Head Square
Bibs
Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
Or Steamer
!2 Stockman’s
Parcel.
Pair Tweed Tro* sera
Crimean Shirt
Beat Cotton Shirt
Pairs Strong Socks
Pookethankerchiefs
Soft Felt Hat
Elatsie Belt
Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslim
Long Christening Eobe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
JB2 Ladies’ Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
Ve wish it to be distinctly understood that any
icle in the Bales may bo changed for some other of
>nt the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOE BOYS.
School Suita, 3s 6d
Hussar finite, 8s lid
Picnic Suite ,S« lid
Sunday Bulb ,7s 04
Youths’ finite. 12s 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakspearo Hits, Is lid
White Shirts, It lid
Worki-g Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousars, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, Did
Linen Collars, 4id
Elastic Braces. 3d
Cotton Socks, Sd
NooWes. 3d
FOE LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12s 9d
Safcteen Prints, S|d
Dress Materials, 4id
Blaek Alpaca, sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hate, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Pattleoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill BmVpellas, Is 04
Beat Bid Gloves, 2s 6d
Muslin Edging, 2id
Blaek Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 9d
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
POE MEN.
Working Shirts. Is 0d
White 6d
Oxford Shiimfs lid
Linen Collartflid
Beamless Hooks, 6d
Elastic Braces, 61
Tweed finite, 19s 6d
Summer Suits, 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9 3 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed Pr.gets, 13s M
Tweed Coats, 10s (id
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakspearo Unts, 2s fid
Colonial Tweed, 2e fid
Bilk Umbrellas 7s fid
FOE THE HOUSE.
American Longcloth, 2id
Nightshirt Calico, 4id
Grey Calico, 2Jd
Double width Calico, 7id
Pillow Calico, fiid
Swansdown Calico
White Flannel, 7id
Wide Flannel, Hid
Scarlet Flannel, 7id
Saxony Flannel, Hid
Cotton Tick, 3Jd
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, sid
Unbleached Sheeting, d
White Sheeting, 7id
Twilled Sheeting, Did
Mosquito Net, fiid
Summer Quilts, 2s Hd
THIS PEICE LlST.—Persons who may read this
advertisement must not think that because the prices
of seme articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
oomusn. They are by no means the commonest goods.
We have lower prises still; but the fact is, competition
now inths Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in fiydney
hut with mannfaotorers in England, that good articles
«an now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA-
SOCIAL.
His Excellency’s Levee, usually held on the
Queen's Birthday, toek place on the 25th May. The
attendance was only fair, including, cf course, mem-
bers of both Houses of Parliament, Judges, Consult,
Clergy, members of Naval, Military, and Civil bodies,
and finally the general public. The reception, which
commenced at 3, with those having the entrie, was
held in the ballroom, and ended before 4 o’clock.
« * •
The Sydney Private Assembly Ball took place at
•• Nithsdale,” last Friday, and the guests were sufficient
in number to nicely fill the dancing floor. Sailors were
posted with crimson ropes to divide the room into
sections, and reversing, for some mysterious reason, was
vetoed. This was rather hard on the good dancers, who,
in spite of the edict, now and then found themselves
unwittingly doing more than a half-turn in what old-
fashioned people innocently call the “ wrong way
ronnd." Many of the dainty dames were handsomely
dressed —light colours, of coarse, being most plentiful.
Around the walls were festoons of leaves and greenery,
but no flowers—the garden of female loveliness supply-
ing all that were necessary. Kopech’s band provided
the music for some fifteen dunces, waltzes, of which
there were eight, being most favored. Recherchi re-
freshments were spread in an apartment convenient
to the ballroom, and the assembly separated early, lest
late honrs and morning air should chill the roses.
• • •
Vanity Faib dissipates some popular mistaken
ideas about clubs, thus : “ The notion i« entertained by
many that a club is a blessed place where superior
persons mtet daily, and exchange freely all the newest
gossip and latest State secrets. Little do such people
know the tininess that reigns supreme at a club. No-
body ever yet learned anything worth knowing, much
less worth printing, there. Bores, billiard plat ers, and
loungers are not the men who possess valuable infor-
mation. In a club there are inducements of animosity
and littleness that few outsiders know of. A man is
rejected; there is nothing against him; he is clever,
and would be a desirable member, bat he is * pilled’
secretly by men who fear his superiority, and can vent
their mean personal jealousy safely. He is better than
taan tbev; so he is not wanted. He condemns their
low, by his noble, standard of life; and that’s the
deadliest offence he can commit. The great ruck of
club members and clnb committees are nobodies. The
kind of creature dear to the club elector is the lay
figure, who advertises his tailor, and hasn't enough
brains to be dangerous Nothing ean be said against
him—or for him ; he has no enemies—and no friends;
he represents nothing, has done nothing, is nothing.
He is elected by acclamation. But the man who has
played any real part in the world; who has thought,
written, or spoken—be is Anathema. He has done a
deed, and do-nothings hate him. He has denounced a
crime, and the brothers, fathers, cousins and consorts
ot the criminal are his deadly foes. Men who dare not
look on his face, lie in wait at the club and stab him
■with a * black ball.’ Clubs are the places of dulness,
dinners and twaddle; the field of the meaner feelings,
and the chosen home of mediocrity.”
• » •
Mrs. Harry Woods gave one of her most enjoy-
able musical evenings at Glebe Point last Thursday.
The talented hostess was attired in a rich black satia
dress, made to fit tight to the figure, shaded pink crush
roses at her throat, and pearls twisted in her hair. A
younger sister wore a black dress, composed principally
of Spanish lace over a ground-work of net, broad black
watered silk sash, pale bine kid gloves buttoned to the
elbow, and a wreath of maiden-hair. A stylish-looking
young lady wore a very elegant dress of heliotrope and
lavender satin, the upper part of which was covered
with cream Madras muslin, while the long train was
entirely of the rich material, relieved her© and there
by frillings of cream lace; white camellias round the
neck and in the hair. Mrs. M'Donald wore a rich old
gold satin dress with silk fringe trimmings to match,
and pink flowers at the throat. A tall lady, possessing
a good figure and rippling-golden hair, wore black drees
and white camellia*. Signor Giammona was among the
guests, and sang several of his favourite songs. Mem-
hers of the Liedertafel sang a few glees agreeably, and
Mrs. Woods, of course, charmed everybody by her
wonderful playing.
* » •
The benedicts intend holding their annual ball
about tbe first week of July, andlhe Town Hall vest!-
bule will again be the salle de danse,
m • m
A few weeks ago, a gentleman of high official posi-
tion in a South Pacific islandarrived, with threeideas in
his mind —business, health, and a wife. Incompatible
ideas, the cynic will remark. Anyhow, he saw, loved, pro-
posed, interviewed pa, and was accepted. So the happy
twain took train to a friend’s bouse, where it was
arranged the marriage should be- But at a station on
the road, an infuriated relative of the lady skipped in
with an interdict in the shape of a revolver, threatening
to shoot both parties, and finally took Mariana off and
imprisoned her in his Moated Grange. But the lover,
one day hearing that the infuriated relative was out at
a meeting, sent an express to his lady-love with this on
a scrap of paper: “If you mean to marry me accompany
the bearer." The lady had not risen, and only three
minutes were allowed her. In that brief time she made
no her mind, and her toilette, and jumped into the cab.
That afterncon the ceremony was completed, and in a
few days tbe bride will grace the head of her husband’s
table in his, at present, Pacific heme.
* • •
There was a large party of small people in the
Protestant Hall on Monday evening, when Miss Lillie
Garton celebrated one of her birthdays; of course, it
would not bo fair to say which Bnt we can say that
Lillie is sot a big girl, and she is about as much nice-
ness as can be got into a small parcel. Dancing, sing-
ing, and games were carried on energetically, and
refreshments were disposed of, also energetically.
Miss Lillie's abilities as a danseuse are extra good, and
daring the evening she displayed them in several per-
formances for the benefit ef her young friends. The
birthday party, which was mot limited t© juveniles
only, broke up at an early hour, and the guests liked
it all very much.
* * •
Mr. and Mrs. T. Williams, of Denham House,
Bedfern, have issued invitations for one of their enjoy-
able dances next week,
• • *
A terrible row took place on Queen’s Birthday,
in a picturesque little Queensland tewn. The lesding
/llseiuapins, having just returned home very fatigued,
was latent on a good sleep, but abont 3 a.m., he was
aroused in th* hotel by & trampimgof “ feet all round,"
and loyal but husky bursts of song. Getting up, he be-
held two banker* and a C.P.B. holding a corroborree at
his door in the snowy robes of night. Taking summary
measures to restore quiet, the doctor “ went for" one of
the festive financiers, whereupon the C.P.B, politely
invited the doctor to step out on the beautiful green
grass, and have a hole drilled through his macerated
frame. This human* proposal mot with universal favor,
and would have been carried out by the spirited young
gentleman, when suddenly a heroine appeared on the
scene. She was a beautiful young lady from a place
called Somnolee, also in her robe de chambre, and she at
once threw her charming eelf among the combatants,
with the touching appeal “ Don’t kill the doctor. Oh I
please den’t kill the doctor 1" They didn’t. He still
lives; bnt finance and physic are strangers now. And
the chivalric young lady f—well, it was very thoughtful
of her. It is hardly necessary to aay that Tennyson
was t* blame for the whole affair. “ To tbe great name
of England, drink, my friends." That was it; but they
did the “ round and round" business rather too often.
• • •
A garden party in the afternoon, and an im-
promptu dance the seme evening (Friday), at Kentville
were very much enjoyed 1 No ceremony, ladies in
walking costume. All over before twelve.
• • •
Before the rain set in so persistently, end drove
promenaders to the shelter of|ulst*rs and pavilion,seme
pretty dreases wore observed on the lawn at the
Hunter’* Hill sports. Three daughters of a naval man
from the other side cf the harbour, who brought a
whole battery of attractions, were attired in black vel-
vet and satin dresses, cream lace handkerchief, large
black hats, feather encircled; one sister wore moss-
rose buds and leaves, another Marshal Niel roses, and
the third a magnificent damask rose nestling at tbe
throat. Mlee Ebeworth’s brown costume and plush
hat, and her sister's navy blue dress, worm with a hand,
soma shaded grey fur cape and nary blue hat, were
suitable and becoming. From “ Prestonville," Macleay
street, came a pretty wine-coloured costume and hat,
the owner thereof chaperoned by mamma in quiet black
toilette, relieved only with a beaded cap. The Uni.
varsity sent a tasteful blue cashmere toilette, and
pluth hat, ornamented with striped satin.
• * •
The majority of the dresses worn at the Garden
Palace on Saturday afternoon were, like the »ky, heavy
and sad-looking. The few glimpses one could catch of
a bright coloured costume were quite a relief to the
eye. A quiet but tasteful dress was one of fine brown
lustre, with brown chip bonnet adorned with same
coloured feathers shaded to a deep ecru. A ruby dress
with pink bonnet and pink kid gloves looked cheerful
A sweet face was shaded by a black pone bonnet trimmed
with black lace and pansies. The dross was silver gray
Japanese silk, with black velvet sleeves and trimmings.
A black velveteen dress, with cream hat and feathers,
and cream kid gloves, looked neat. A few hideous
black fur shoulder tippets were to be seen ; their prin-
cipil effect is to make the wearer appear hump-backed
and round-shouldered,
• • •
Homer, "the blind old man of Scio’s rocky
isle,” Swift, the witty dean of St. Pat's, and, in more
modern times,the versatile M. Twain,have all delighted
the noble brotherhood of Progs. The Newtown branch
of the family, yclept the “Frisky Frogs," purpose
holding their first annual “ hop " on Friday (to-morrow)
at the Oddfellows* Hall, when we hope all the Friskers
will have a “ good time.”
• » *
The Glebe Rowing Club are the first to take
water. Their third ball will roll on te-night in the
hall of the historic plaster, the local Town Hall being
to© small since the O.E.C. Ball has become so popular.
Plain and fancy dress will bs worn, so that any gentle,
man who doesn’t want to be a cricketer, et a brigand,
or a very indifferent ceurtier of some very indefinite
epoch, can just put on his fnaeral clothes as usual
“It’s Shute-o bean a-Mayes-ing success," writes a
member.
« * «
A small commotion in Petersham last Thursday
when Mr. Griffith Bussell Jones, the well-known
solicitor, relieved Mr. Broaghton, of Canterbury, of his
remaining step-daughter, Miss Eveline Hayes. All
Saints’ Church held a number of spectators, all anxious
of course, to criticise. The bride’s dress of white
moire antique was very handsome, trimmed with real
lace and furnished with an enormoas fan-shaped train ;
orange wreath and embroidered tulle veil being also
worn. Not less charming were the three bridesmaids.
Miss Jones, Miss Blanche, and the bride’s niece of half
a dozen summers, wearing quaintly cut and picturesque
dresses of white nnna’-vailmg, white satin bodices vary
much puffed on the sleeves, pretty lace caps, white
shoes, and each carrying a basket of bridal blossom*.
Mrs. Broughton wore garnet satin, trimmed with
velvet and cream lace flounces, bonnet of garnet velvet
Mrs. W. Trickett’e costume of brown velvet broohe and
brown moire, with headdress to correspond, wat very
tasteful. Mrs. J. Brush, junior (bride’s sister), ap-
peared in an elegant dress of peacock blue silk, wine-
coloured bonnet, bronze beaded. On returning from
the altar, the quiet-looking bridegroom seemed to take
a deep interest in the floor covering, and studied the
pattern most intently. He was, no doubt, overwhelmed
at becoming suddenly possessed of so much property.
» * *
One of the most enjoyable outings of the season
took place last Saturday, when a party of ladies and
gentlemen attended a private picnic given by Mr. and
Mrs. Hart, of Bavenswood. The steam yacht, Emily
May, had been secured for the excursion, and under the
command of Captain Boblnson, assisted by Captain
Dan, O’Connor, M.P., the party reached the spot
poetically called Tennyson. It’s a spot more hopelessly
devoi-1 of any suspicion of poetry than even its name-
sake’s latest effort. However, after “ drinks all round,”
dancing was indulged in till lunch came on. Mr.
Tom Slattery, M.P., proposed the health of host and
hostess in a facetious speech. Fun was resumed till
dusk.
• • •
Events of more or less importance:—Last week,
the Newcastle representative of Messrs. D. and W.
Robertson was married to Miss Boag, daughter of the
chief of tke engineering department, G.N- Hallway.
Quite a big affair In abont tw© months, a Clarence
River rose will be plucked. It will, strangely enough,
be a case of “ Lowe tied" on the river, and yet a
“ Banker.” A gentleman in sugar has persuaded a
charming widow from East Maitland to confide her-
self, two boys, and a good income to his keeping;
wedding shortly. The lady's sister took unto herself a
husband three weeks back A pretty wedding in
St. Mary’s pro-Cathedral on the 3rd instant An
enterprising young miller deprived Yass of one of its
sixty-eight eligible angels on the 21th May. They all
want their condition a-millier-ated.
* * *
Most brilliant of any of the Sports’ meetings
held on the Association Ground, lately, was that ef the
Sydney Grammar School, on Saturday afternoon.
Every seat in the stand occupied—on the asphalt walk
crowds of spectators, and the lawn at times uncomfort-
ably thronged with promenaders, the feminine portion
of whom were in most attractive guise. In such an
assemblage, individual taste, of course, asserted itself,
and, in some instances, very peculiarly. One young
lady had apparently lost her hat, and in lien of it tied
a fawn-coloured gossamer veil over her head, knotting
the ends under a dainty chin : it must be confessed the
result was decidedly picturesque and becoming, though
a trifle outre. What at a distance looked like a minia-
ture cart-wheel fastened on a pair of shoulders, proved
on closer inspection to be a white straw hat about two
feet in diameter, lined with black velvet, and set halo-
wise round a sweet little face. The handsome young
lady whose olive-green dress and train at a recent
meeting drew particular notice, was present at this
gathering also, but the costume in question had
evidently received some attentive modification, and
looked well. Alberto Terrace, Darlinghurst, sent one
of the prettiest toilettes. A short costume of rich
prune silk was handsomely embroidered with floral bands
in ray de sol til beads, the effect, especially in the sun-
light, being superb; a large silk hat, Gainsboro’ shape,
embellished with bluey-green wings, shaded a pretty
youthful face. Amongst other eccentricities may be
reckoned a black silk costume, the bodice ©f which
represented a flower garden, all the colours of the
rainbow massed together in crewel silks, not pretty,by
any means; considering, too, the largo amount’ of
labour that must have been expended in its adornment,
the costume was one of the least admirable. Crino-
lett* has, sad to relate, made its appearance, and
numbers of fashionable damsels were observed with
their skirts swaying to and fro in the ungainly style
which the use of their innovation produces. A pretty
little betrothed’s toilette, of dove-eolonred cashmere,
with a head-dress mainly composed of a white
ostrich feather, was charmingly simple and appro-
priate. The Misses Windeyer were picturesque
little figures in black velvet and satin, large
black fur hat; seal - brown cloth extensively
embroidered in quiet brown yellow and green, ch*co-
late brown hat and pink feathers; and the third wear-
ing a combination of brown and gold pompadour, with
head-dress of brown plush. “ Rubens’ Wife," from th©
Cathedral Fayre, displayed the artistic ruby velvet hat
and white feather so well known in compaay with a
pair of pleading blue eyes. A navy-blue dress of present
date seemed slightly anachronistic, but the general
effect was geed. In perfect taste and eminently be-
coming te its wearer, a bank manager’s handsome wife,
was a princess rebe of black velvet garnished with a
cardinal satin bow of large dimensions, teque of cream
lace. A younger daughter of the Hon J. Marks was
very pretty in myrtle green costume, black straw hat
with green velvet and a feather corresponding. Strik-
ing, though not pleasantly so, was a costume of sage
green and old gold satin, set off by a deep red velvet
cap and feather. A pretty girl, wearing a peacock blue
silk dress and m©st becoming cavalier hat of velvet, as
well as a profusion of blonde curls, was much admired.
So was a charming little woman attired in sage green
velvet, shaded gold scarf artistically draped, and a
plush hat of the same hue. Hosts of handsome toilettes
must of necessity be omitted, since the difficulty lay
not in choosing subjects for praise, but in deciding
what not to choose, where the majority were so
admirable.
• • •
St. Luke’s, Liverpool, was the scene of a fash-
ionable wedding on 22nd May. The bride, Mies Mattie
Burnside, sister-in-law of the K«y. J. Spooner, of Pros-
pect, by whom she was given away, looked charming in
face-trimmed and bridal-blossom-garnished white silk;
natural orange-flower wreath, and tulle veiL The
bridegroom was the Bev. Charles A. Senhouse
of Balranald. Three bridesmaids attended, two of
whom —the bride’s sisters—were elegantly attired in
costumes of cream, brightened with ruby brocb*
ribbon; eream plush hate trimmed with ruby knots;
cream gloves, slack aheos, and ruby stockings. The
bride’s cousin, a little mite of three, wore bine easb-
mere crewel embroidered, and plush sailor hat-
Baskets of flowers were carried by the trio rand the
Sanhouae badge, a crimson rose, in honour of the bride-
groom, was fastened at the left breast of each lady.
Three clergymen officiated, so th* knot was securely
tied, and the choristers lent their aid in rendering the
service. Thirty wedding guests; church crowded;
over sixty presents.
** * *
The colonial navy had a gala day on 24th May.
A salute of twenty-one guns was fired from the
Wolverene to the great admiration of a charming com-
pany of ladies who were guests of the hospitable com-
ruander. The dear creatures were, of course, awfully
frightened, bnt, being reassured bv the gallants
plucked up courage and drank the Queen’s health.
Some may think that the courage followed the health,
but this is not true Tbe popular first lieutenant ot
our “ white elephant" will, la July, coalesce with a
daughter of a reverend classical scholar bearing a well-
known naval name Notwithstanding torrents of fain,
the Bachelors’ party at Hill End on the Queen’s Birth-
day was successfully held in the Skating Eink. There
was a good attendance. One of the best costumes was
of two shades of blue, trimmed with blue satin. A
young lady in cream silk and cardinal, with cardinal
bodice was decidedly a belle. Decorations, music, and
floor were all good, and the fun was kept up till morning.
...The Skating Bink opened at|Armidale a fortnight ago
in the Town Hall; owing to some peculiar municipal
law, there seams trouble abont the rent arrangements.
The Melbourne Dentsoher Turn Verein, held their
annual ball on the Queen’s Birthday; about 300 guekts
present There will be a plain and fancy dress ball in
the Protestant Hall, on Wednesday, the 7th Juno,
arrangements by Mr, B. Lee Nearly a hundred par-
sons gathered on Queen’s Birthday at the ball and
suaper, Queanbeyan, inoonnectien withtbeOddfellow ■
body At Tan worth also, tbe Athletic Club Ball was
densely attended. a«d there was dancing ad lib to the
music of the Musslelroek band There was a ‘ Grand
Ball" onaN.Z. goldfield lately. The company con-
sisted of thirteen men and two ladies: one was the
mother of nine children and a baby in arms; she was
the belle. There was a great run on the girl who
wasn’t the belle. About eleven duels are now pending,
consequent on a little difficulty abont taking the Radies
in to supper...... Saturday last, Angus and Son » em-
ployes picnicked at Chowder, as is their annual custom.
Kensington Cricket Club had their first annual
fun on the 24th: banquet and musical evening On
Queen’s Birthnight, some ladies who had to sing at a
concert early in the evening at Jasper’s Brush, were
invited te a party later on. A difference arose about
transit. However, a horse and cart were procured, ana
a start made with the fair maidens aboard. When they
had gone two miles, the horse jibbed, and neither
fortiter nor anaviter could induce him to behave. So
one gallant cavalier bad to lead tbe recalcitrant
moke, and the other to puah the cartload of
beanty behind through the long watches of th*
night. They reached their destination at 2 - 30 a.m......
The Masone of Young have sent out invitations for
their Annual Bali, on the 27th June .At Kiama,
there were all sorts ot fun on the Quean’s Birthday, the
amusements comprising a picnic, a funeral, and a ball,
a little out of town. Some people judiciously com-
bined the grave and the gay Amateur concert at
Forbes on 24th May, very successful. Nearly *55
taken for admission. Profits go to swell the building
fund of St. John's C.E , Forbes Rain squelched
Sundry projected picnics at Forbes, but the merry
folks, not to be baulked, had a dance in the Osborne
Hall instead, and enjoyed themselves just as we 11....
An enjoyable dance was given by Mr. and Mrs. M Shane
at their residence, “Derry Vale," Marriokville, *n
Queen’s Birthday eve, the room being tastefully
decorated for the oocasien. A large number of visitors
attended, the Civil service being well represented.
Th* amiable daughter of the house was in great requi-
sition for dances, as was also a newly-married lady in
her orange blossoms- Guests separated about 5 a.m.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Glebe Bowing Clmb Ball, Town Hall June 1.
Complimentary Ball te Mr*. Martin............... June 1.
Frisky Progs’ Ball June 3.
Botany Tram Commemoration Picnic June 3.
Flak and P.D. Ball, Protestant Hall, Castlo-
reagh-street J nne 7-
North Shore Bowing Club Ball Jnn© 7.
Return Ball t© Mayer of Petersham June 7.
Complimentary Ball to Miss Deane June 9-
Owl Clnb Ball Juno 14.
Scandinavian Ball. Jpn*
Mercantile EC. Ball ««■ Jnly *•
Wallaroo F©etball Club’s Sports. July *»•
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Crystal ”: We suppose most of the teetotallers
forget that Tennyson’s “Northern Cobbler" greatly
assisted their cause. It wasn’t a sherry-cobbler
“Berkeley P C.,” 40.: When next you're in town,
pkase call “J.J.T." (Glencoe): Tho name Fenian is
derived from “Finnian,” the Irish word for the
federal militia which supported the authority
of tho boss king of Ireland, as distinguished
from that of the petty kings of the provinces
“ J.H.P.": We raiely publish letters, and we never say
anything about “ our beautiful harbour." “ W.R.” :
No doubt the scene was an interesting and lively one,
but it can’t well be described, and isn’t worth a picture.
«• Q E.D." : Verse excellent, but subject worn out.
“Cndgegong": A very peculiar question. We don’t
know whether or net the Qneon ever had the mea»les.
We hope she had, for if not she might gat tbe -a, and be
ill. We are loyal, and don’t want to see the Queen ill
“Fayre”: W* never notice people who write saying
they “have beoashown” a paragraph in The Bulletin.
That game is about played oat—too thin “ Oula’T
Verse not good enough “E.L.8.": The fact that yeu
apparently overflow with loyalty doesn’t make your
verses on Queen Victoria geed enough to print
“Newtown”: All informers from the time of Judas
Iscariot, Eeq., C.M.G., now dead, down to the gentle-
man referreu to, have been/very badly paid ana ared.
W* non* of ns know what your estimable Milesian
friend will get, and very few of ns what Judas received;
though it was sometime since reported to us, on the
authority of a yeung suburban parson, that Judas'
figure wae £3 Bb. fid “ Cynic ,r : Thanks. Modesty
forbids, in the shape you put it, bnt we may yet say
something abont the matter “ Pickaxe "s Thanks.
Write again “ Gunnedah The alleged fact that tho
Gnnnedah girls hare the biggest feet in the colony is
quite enough to deter us from saying so
“Dog": Excellent. Tho "adjective shovel" story is
old; it was first told in The Bulletin "Lady
Critic ”; You are in a measure right, but we don't fol-
low your complaint all through “ Balaam You
“hurriedly dashed it off,” and you “assure as that you
never read a second time whst yon write." Neither do
the public “F.F.F.": Bight “E.S.”: Shall be
glad to hear from you; the items you send this time
are, however, not of general interest. Re the Sunday
discharging ot vessels, we may state that, as the per-
mission referred to was given in accordance with the
provisions of a special Act, the law was not broken
•• J.H.P.”: Used portion of your oontributien. We are
sick of saying that the police vererate the new Licen-
ting Aet so much that they hare no time to attend to
larrikins and free fights on a Sunday " J.H.8.”
(Tenant): Thanks ler year pigeon matek account; also
used anether of yonr items: rest without point of
general interest “ Dick Deadeye”: Try and dish up
your items a little more racily....” Orion”; The chapter
yon want to read is the SSth of Numbers, we think.
A»k Eev. Hodgson. Thanks for other items
“W.H.8.”: Yon shouldn’t let a Botany tram ehove yonr
shoulder without etriking for compensation, or breaking
the guard's head, and having to pay compensation your,
self. .“Subscriber" (Nemcastle): Eggs-seUent... “Curreute
Calimo”: Good verse A (large numberef correspond
ents whose communications have been crowded [out
will hare a show next week.


mHBATRE ROYAL.
Ttioflsoo. Mr, Sam. Lorn*.
-Managers Messrs. Allison and nisoooks.
Manager for Mr. Reeve Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman,
INTENSELY SUCCESSFUL,
“UTTERLY PRECIOUS"
SUPERBLY “CONSUMMATE,"
under the management of
MB. WYBERT REEVE,
Burnand’s great Esthetic Comedy,
THE COLONEL,
recent!v played by special command before
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
EVERY EVENING the celebrated THE COLONEL.
jVBRY EVENING American THE COLONEL.
JCVERY EVENING Actor THE COLONEL.
EVERY EVENING HARKINS THE COLONEL.
The favenrifee Comedian, WYBERT REEVE,
The Charming Actress, Miss BLANCHE STAMMERS,
and the
PREMIER COMEDY COMPANY.
The performance will conclude each evening with the
Beautiful Comedietta,
UNCLE’S WILL.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parte of the house at
iWjd's, next the theatre. Children in arms not ad-
{pitted.
TO THE OPERATIC AND THEATRICAL
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA HOUSE,
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z,
Bele Proprietor, H. N. ABBOTT.
JHIS MarsiAeeot Buildiay is now completed. It is
, THE MODEL Opera Hems. of Anstralaria, and
targeet ml Most CemM.4i.na in New Zealand.
Ml on latftoet Models, It will U found replete with
y Modoen Oomiert and Luxury (befior. and behind
eartate) appertaining tn She best appointed
rtres fn flip OM and New Worfis. The Teattlatfsn
il snefeet. All parts of the House are easy of Ingress
egrosa from broad, light, and airy serrtdsrs. Every
In
prsoaortlon h*w been taken to sire life and property 1_
im of ffre, and the Auckland City Orsnell have recently
ibsueoted and highly *•«mended the measures adopted
end. Magnifleontly and Brilliantly Lighted,
hi Lerurl.ua Private Bexos, Dress Circle, and Or*
tffieriga Stan*, together with its nn-.mrpareed Pit and
fltfdls featum hitherto nnknewn in
ffflooial They tree. The Opera House will be opened
by the Williamson Opera Company for one month,
tdnmenmng from 2trd May next. Theatrical Managers
mdAgenSr “dtaxs," and Combinations ars Invited to
t» the Proprietor lor terms and farther Informs-
M*
AND MRB. JAMES GARDEN.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH )
Arrangements oosenleted for ene year, oommenelng
June Ist, 18»B, under the management of
MESSRS. EARNER, WILLIAMSON, & UBGBOVB.
Theatre royal, or fton
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
£H sead seven or eight hundred people and up
Gas j lately patronised by the South Opera Trerpe.
is modenato. Apply to
Wo ATT WATER.
Proprietor
ALBERT HALL, Brisband, capable of aocommo-
daldng 1306 people, is now available for theatrical
and other perform anees. The stage la over 60 feet ft
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DA VXD LOVE, Brisbane,
ffIHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of
A ITULU WAR.
?übHe Hall, Groymenth, 24 th May.
r angtmnl and Napier to follow.
JtMmtfs New Theatre, Auckland, July 12th, four
Heuscs packed to suffocation every nighfe’
VICTORIA HALL,
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
All applications for open
MB. B. F. ROPER,
Lessee.
N.B. T UiBsplendidly.sitnated Hall has -eating accom-
modation tor ever 79) persons.
f|IHE ATR E ROYAL. BRISBANE.
I Open to RENT or SHARE for Theatre from June I.
J. B. HICKIE, I
Theatre Royal.
E
LLOYD’S HOT
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lens. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
T LAWLER, 608. George-street, Bedding Mrnifio-
s'
tnrer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
C. H. 6LARKE AND CO.
ELECTRICIANS.
CROgSLBT’S TELEPHONE DEPOT.
MANUFACTURERS and IMPORTERS
of
LIGHTNING CONDUCTORS, COPPER WIRE,
ROPE and BANDS, ELECTRIC BELLS,
BILLIARD MARKERS, THIEF
and FIRE ALARMS, MIN-
ING SIGNALS,
APPARATUS and BATTERIES, BLASTING BY
ELECTRICITY.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR FIXING SAME.
79 ARCADE, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. JANSEN,
TOBACCONIST,
B
472 GEORGE STREET,
EGS to inform his customers and the public in
general, that he has
REMOVED
FROM MARKET STREET TO GEORGE BTREE T
Opposite the Markets,
SHORE BOWING CLUB.
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS BALL,
TO BE HELD IN THE
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
ON
WEDNESDAY* 7th JUNE, 1882.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the Governor.
Sir Patrick
K-G.M G,
Hon. John I/aokey
Hon. J. B. Watt
Oarl L. flahl. Etq, Consul
for Germany
R. Q. Vallaok, Esq.
C, J. Roberts. Esq.
8. M. M. Dennis, Eeq.
J. Gardyne, Esq.
J. R Lore, Esq.
W. H. Tnlloh. Esq.
R. D. Ward, Esq., M.D.
Edward Terry, Esq.
Dr. Wanyh
Isaac E. Ives, Eeq.
G. M. Pitt, Esq
Stbwabds •
Jennings, Hoa. George Thornton
Hon. .Tames Watson
J S Parnell, Esq., M.P.
William Laidley, Esq.
T. Thompson, Esq.
W. Bpeer, Esq.
John Nobbs, Esq.
David Marks, Esq.
Thomas Dalton, Esq .
T. A. Ktricklnnd, Eiq,
P. J. Clarke, Eeq.
W. R. Benson, Esq.
John Newton, Esq.
T. H. Browne, Esq., J.P.
T E. Allt, Eeq.
W. Wilson, Etq.
P. B Walker, Esq.
J.P.
Robert Meiklejohn, Esq,
A limited nnmber of Tickets may be hod from the
Committee: Messrs. J. P. Brindley, E. B, Brice, C.
Chambers, H. A. Fitzpatrick, W. Dind, W. H. German,
H. Phillips, H. D. Bussell, W. R. flayers, R. W. Bennett,
W. J. Weatherlll, 8. A. Newsham, P. T. Taylor, H. T.
Rebey, S. Rstey, J. Paaton; and from the principal
business houses.
ROBERT LITTLE,
Hos. Secretary,
J|£ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
ANNUAL BALL.
Under the Patronage of the Mayor and Merchants of
Sydney.
The ANNUAL BALL of the above Club will again bo
held in the Eaklhitioc Building, Prinoe Alfred Park,
#th July next.
Dress—Plain and Fancy.
Tickets, double, 30s; Gsntleman’s Single 20i; Lady’s
Single 12s 6J, may now be had from the committee.
••MMITTEE :
Messrs, W. R. Benson, John Blackman, A. By mo, R.
Brindley, F. Bosward, S. C. Blrohall, F. 0. Boulton, F.
J. Bulk Charles Broe, H. (Bros, A. W, Blaokstone, A.
W. Ookmr, A. Oroall, D Fletober, W. J. Foster, A.
Green, E, QUtman, E Hanson, P. ft Hordern, Fred.
R. Isler, it. A. K addle, W Lee, W. Lockyer, L. B. Mit-
ebell, D. M’Kenzie, P. Monnteastlo, J. Playfair, junr.
W. Summer ball, N. Shelley, T. G. West, H, E. Wilkin,
son, C. H. Williams.
D. MURRAY, Hon. Sec.
G
L£ B E
ROWING
CLUB.
THIRD ANNUAL PLAIN and FANCY DRESS BALL
will be held in the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
on
THURSDAY, Ist JUNE.
Under the patronage of
Sir G. WIGRAM ALLEN, Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly, President,
W. Cary, J.P„ T. J. Chapman, J P,, John Ysnug, J.P.,
and flt. W. Tate, Bsqrs , Vise-Presidents,
and the
Mayor and Aldermen of tho Globe.
Tickets can bo obtained from tho following members
of Committee
Messrs. «. W. Tate, W, Cary, J P„ W. Ball, J.P.,
H. Vanghen, G. Paddle, M. Mitohell, 8. A. Lee, 0.
Ballhtmsen, J. Dontty, R. Daly. G. Darrell. G. L.
Maorcady, W. J. Brown, P. A. Williams. J, Walip^?' , -
son, J.auTlivan, B. N. Bull, 8. J. Ball. B. P. Mayes. G.
Robertson, F. J. Bull, 0. Smith, W. Ball, inn., and B,
Shnto.
E. P.i MAYES. Hon See,
R. SHUTE, Hen. Traas.
R
ETURN BALL TO JOHN GELDING Esq.
MAYOR OP PETERSHAM,
and
MRS. GELDING.
Tho above Ball will take place on the evening of the
7th June, at
THE PETERSHAM TOWN HALL.
Tickets can be obtained on application to the Hono-
rary Secretaries.
A. CUBITT, Sydney Arcade.
J. WHEELER, Sydney Exchange.
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS BALL I
PROTESTANT HALL, Castlereagh.Street.
On WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 7th, ISB2.
Doors open at 8 p.m.; commence 8.3 d p,m.
The Band is nnder the Conduntorship of Mr. Wissel;
Master of Ceremonies, Mr. Richard Lee.
Tickets to be bad at all principal Mmic Warehouses
in No. 1 and No. 2 Coffee Palaces ; and at the doors.
Double Ticket, 10e.; Lady’s, ss. ; Gentleman's, 6s.
Refreshment provided. Tickets for Spectators, 2s each.
MASON BROTHERS,
MW
lb 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALh
to the TRADE and WHOLE
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T HEN WARE,
WINES, BE ERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. GATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pals Ale.
i—i~n
HJMBREUsAStj)
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-oevered, and yonr
Parasols Be-lined and made
equal to Now, at
J. Sullivan’s
541 George-street,
Brickfield-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathnrst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes, Repair* neatly executed
#*•
I]
"ISIT R. BURQIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony,
FURNITURE! FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUE HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FUENIBH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business cf Fur-
nishing a New Heme or adding to the comforts of
your present Homo, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CREEBY & CO.
who will furnish houses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
W Note the Addhess—
WILLIAMSON, M'CEEBEY, & CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
£O3 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
u NDER SECTION V., ACT 532.
aetTunion.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAEBE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
10,030 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PRIZES of the fall value of £10,030.
117 let* guaranteed, cash if preferred.
Lot I.lst prise £4OOO I Lot S. 3rd prise £1350
Lot 2. 2ud prise £5OOO | Lot 4 4th prize.,„.... £4OO
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 16, 1 Prize of £5O.
Lots •! to B*, 10 Prizes of £lO each.
have their money returned per return of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, if not a large and independent fortune,
for £l.
Address—SETH R. PERBSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
BEAD PROSPECTUS.
the time of
Notwit h-
tlTsh^
Lot# II to I*o, 100 Prises ef ,
mpelled to exi
drawing
standing this announcemen
tively be proceeded with ser’en days '
are subscribed for.
All unsnneesiful
H. PALING.
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
ff*
Hi
- I
PIANOFOETES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W, BELL AND CO.,
Which g«ned first and special prize
iVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDN NTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
H A MON lUM S,
BY
ALEXANDRE and then RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Aunher’g,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman's, and Hundt and Sons Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
W. H. PALING,
852 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYAED STREET
SYDNEY.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Soar Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Sold in bottles, 2s. 6d. and 43. 6d., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee :
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Yiot.; M.H.P.5.,Qt.8.,
GAWLER, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Mr. T. P, DeCOORCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
Author of the " Minbrs’ Handy Book,” &o . &o
MINING EXPERT,
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEG&.L MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN
Also, *
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, & c .
ARBITRATOR. ADVISER, AND
VA CHAMBERS
12 8
(Near King-street.)
sjpK 4-82 ..,.484 CEORCE STREET
,o<>:
vj
~ MARKET CLOTH HALL,
OPPCSITETHE FRUITMARKKIS. O
*■ SI \PU MET IpF41 p F4
A LARGE AMP WE LL SELECTED STOCK
WOO LLENS ; nIw patterns.
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
FASH lON APLE
F I f'.ST - C J-A SS CARNi FNI S
TO ORDER.
ALL WOOL TWEE" TROUSERS, TO ORDER
, 12 k
Tv.
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, la white, b'.
and colours.)
SEWING
Trade mark brooks CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON,
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. s^-
COTTONS
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS mamalactureti
Uiem >—Gold-Medal. Paris, 1878. Only Prise »edal( London, .1851. Only First-das. Prize Modal, Paris. 18« Mc-
Lendon, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The'Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal* South \frica. IK
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for rariety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney 188 w * '
! Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
IA and NEW ZEALAND be addressed Co their Wnretovtc
V Wynyard Laue, Sydney, New South Wales.


MOST PLEASANT
HOUSEHOLDERS,
TAKE NOTE OP THIS.
WHEN PURCHASING TOUR GROCERIES
ask for
PANTER AND PARRY’S
new extract op soap
AKD SEE THiT TOU GET IT.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
BEVT Washing and Disinfectant Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Crockery, Paint. Gla*s, and every Household
nurpose. Used and recommended in the
Laundry at Government House, Mr. Sey-
mour (Inspector of Nuisances), Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and hy all competent
judges to he the best article manufactured.
REMEMBER 1
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour. _
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OF ALL GROCERS.
WORKS, 700 GEOEGE-ST., SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
THE PURE COCOA
"With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
N>
C
<b
*
*
g>
v
❖
V.
o
a
ce
Invaluahh
for invalids, oi
those who oannol
drink the thick, heaT)
liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
BOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
Rheumatism and Nervous Complaints
Can he CURED by the
MAGNETOD!
No me dioine, no acids, no inconvenience to wear.
WRITE AND STATE CASE TO
JOHN GEE,
17 CHANGE ALLEY,
ITT STREFT NORTH, SYDNEY.
DR. G. HARVEY'S
PUBLIC NOTICE.
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPINQ MIXTURE and
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours to deceive the public by SUBSTITUTING
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS Of PURE TEAS.
The JflbliO are CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
bearing
*• THE TAEPING MIXTURE.”—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Imports rs,
thus—
Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PURE
TEA, must be certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
ore offered to the public.
THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ABE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCHER,
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
P I
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers' Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &o.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMRT.ERFIELD,
235 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER, 16s. 61.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
GUARANTEES A PERFECT FIT I
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Sends Self-measurement forms free by post!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by post I
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the! BEST CITY CUTTERS!
H. L. S UMMERFIELD!
Speciality Suits to measure, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
Speciality Trousers to measure, 16s. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
335 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
N
EW PEE MIS
MB. J. CALLAGHAN,
E S.
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVED to his EWant and Splendid
SHOP,No, 607 * 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
tno corner of Gonlburn-street, where he will bo pleasect
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thanae
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room snd lavatory for ladies, a
rvquiHto meek seeded in Sydney, and superintended ey
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDBRMKN 8 DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
The Tabus of subscription for Ths Bmiirnr are—
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarter y.
35.; booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances _u y
be made by stamps of any Australian colony orN- "
©r by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and C ■«
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H. Tsart! & Co.,
T®n Bulietih office, 84 Pitt-street, Sydney, •».
Wales.
MAH TIN & FAIN,
389 GEORGE-BT,
Sydney.
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our ouStoiftars and tbe
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition t<* all the well-known ENGLISH and AMEEI
CAN Makers we sow notify that we are
AGENTS FOR
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us w\tk
their orders early, as
William Richie's 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANT OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE. .
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
INFORMATION * CHAFF-DEALER!
ll Owners of Horsesi &c.
READ WIUT PRACTICAL «EN AAY ABOUT \
our BUNCLE’S machines
Before Ordering?
send for
Our Price List
AND
All Particular#:
a
Ml i'
MARTIN:
PAIN,
389 George St,
SYDNEY. _
Intending- Purchasers should b« careful to see that Chaff
gutters offered them as Buncle’s pattern are THE
iNE BUNGLE. . w
John Buncle, of Melbourne, has been 26 years perfecting
his Chaff Cutters, and any mashines that have not hisnama;
last on fly-wheel and mouth-pieae, are not of his mann-
caotnre.
IIHE DEPOT FOR BUNCLE’S MACHINES,;
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jOA/E'-- t
SILVE R WATCHES
X. 4.10.
9.&. II HUNTER STREEI.
' CHES SYDNEY. GOLD ATCHES
0. SEND FOR FROM cL.3-IU.
CATALOGUE.
SYDNEY
nnHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None batter than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE. — — *—
TRY ONE. — ’ FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR . CUTTING,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair W ork.
See WIGZELL,
189 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
M. GrOULSTON,
(ESTABLISHED 28 TEARS)
WELL-KNOWN TAILOR,
0M
marßet Street.
"w'pM
TRY
GOULSTON’S
JE3 3s. SUITS!
£4 4s. SUITS!
£4 10s. SUITS!
<& zr rzz
ALL GOODS
Thoroughly
SHRUNK,
and
NO MISFITS!
NEW GOODS EVERT MAIL FROM FIRST CLASS HOUSES.
OVEE 50 YEAES.
ESTABLISHED
LINIMENT.
None Genuine Without the Above Trade Mark.
The GREATEST CURE ON EARTH for RHEU-
MATISM, RAW COLDS, SORE THROATS and
LIMBS, ASTHMA, <fco., Ac.
This is the same Liniment as used by the hardy tin
miners of Cornwall, who have to work amidst the damp,
ness of the bowels of the earth, and is now extensively
being used all over the world, and known as the| Cor-
nish Cure.
Price, ss. per bottle.
Those who carry out the directions which are on
•very label and wrapper, cannot but acknowledge it is
the erreatest remedy ever brought before the public.
Sold by the following chemists and druggists in
Sydney : W. H. Douglas Mitchell, 127 King-street,
Bast; J. Abrahams, 434 George-stre*t; E. B Armstrong,
466 Qeorgo-street; W. D. Barnes, 14 Oxford-street.
TRY IT AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES. If
your Chemist ond Druggist has not got it tell him that
he can have a supply by applying to the
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BEOS., SYDNEY.
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
of every Masonic Jewels and Pro-
Mutation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER 1
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
ESTABLISHED 1887.
FO w L E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPEEDOWIT, NEAR SYDNEY.
Prioe List os application,
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
.FOR
promenade
Tr-Bvellirid
QUALITY yachting
lufSfify Picnicmft
UNSURPASSED CriCkollll(|
"Standard winter Tweed Saits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“Standard” Very Superior ditto ...
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto. Extra long 1
Tweed Ulsters, Extra "Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditt
PE APES and SHAW.
PBAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
