

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.-No. il(
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1882.
Prio«—3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1882.
The Majesty of the Law.
It will be readily remembered by our readers that
about a year ago the public was informed that de-
plorable scenes took place in a certain locality on
a public holiday. The matter was brought under
the cognizance of the Supremo Tribunal of Justice
in this colony, and was thoroughly investigated.
One of the most dignified of our Judges presided,
and the merits of the case were decided by the
voices of a publican, an ex-publican, a grocer, and
a nightman. On the one hand, sworn testimony
was given that no discreditable scenes took place
on the occasion in question : the crowd at the
grounds was decorous and decent, and their de-
meanour and proceedings afforded no justification
for such warmth of protestation as appeared in this
journal. It was, indeed, admitted by some of those
.who deposed to that effect, that, in the shed for
dancing, reputable young persons were frisking in
promiscuous association with men and women of
known bad character, and that intoxicating drink
was being! sold to all-comers under the same roof
and on the same floor. It was also admitted J;hat
there was some fighting ; but trifles such as these
were held by these deponents to carry no signifi-
ance, and to call for no protest.
* • •
On the other hand, a flock of witnesses testified
to having seen a series of incidents of a nature so
revolting that we cannot here more than allude to
them, for even the daily papers had to place a
limit upon their reports of the evidence, and only
outline the moat telling portions. The facts
testified to by eye-witnesses far transcended the
generalisations of the article which had occasioned
the investigation ; and, unless those witnesses com-
mitted perjury, not only was every word of the
article true, but it was mild when compared with
what might here truthfully have been written.
The points upon which especial stress was laid
were, briefly, that innocent young persons of both
sexes were promiscuously .mixed up with the worst
possible companions; that the excitement of
dancing was supplemented by the inflammation of
strong drink; that example, opportunity, and
absence of any kind of proper supervision,
accompanied with many positive and apparently
designed seductions,were simultaneously operating
to break down prudence, reserve, modesty, and
virtue. Thera was an appeal to parents; are- I
monstrance to ministers of the Gospel; a warning
to all.
# * # •
The Supreme Tribunal of Justice, having been
seized of these facts, has duly operated. Two of
the principals in this horrible case have been
thrust into gaol, there, by an incarceration during
twelve weary months, to expiate their offence
against the welfare of society. In a case hinging
upon an intimation that there were scoundrels who
gained a livelihood by ministering to the orgies of
the vicious, and by assisting to undermine the
innocence of youth and to sap the principles of
adolescence, by presenting under a pretence of
cheerful entertainments an insidious mixture of
motion and intoxicants, with larrikins »s bear-
leaders, and prostitutes as leaders of the fashion
of the day, twelve months’ incarceration seems a
light sentence. But there has been some mis-
take. The two offenders now in gaol are not
charged with anything of that kind. Their crime
has been merely calling attention to such things,
protesting against them, and uttering a warning
to parents and guardians. The Supremo Tribunal
has decided. Not one of the throng who swore
and tore, and fought, and reeled and raved, is a
jot the worse. Justice has required of that side —
nothing. But it has seized upon the individuals
who raised the voice of remonstrance—who cried
aloud to rulers, and guardians, and parents—and
has flung them into gaol as their reward.
« * *
The publican, and the ex-publican,the grocer,and
the nightman, after hearing all that was to be said,
determined that the innocent proprietors of the
place where all these things were said to have, and
not to have, happened—proprietors also of the bar
where the liquor was sold to men and women, to
excited lads, and to flushed young girls, had been
wronged. It was clear, indeed, that if the things
alleged were not true, they had been deeply
wronged, in reputation and in pocket. Parents
and guardians no longer permitted their children—
their boys_ on the threshold of active life, their
girls, budding into womanhood—to troop down to
the place, and mingle with the festive harlot and
the sprightly larrikin, who wore reported to resort
thither and give a tone to the gaieties. People
who had a care for their character, or were nice
about their company, shunned the place. The
business,” whatever its nature was, had fallen
off. Hundreds of pounds would not recoup the
direct loss ; the injury to character was almost
incalculable.
* # *
But the publican, the ex-publican, the grocer
and the nightman, while they recognized that the
statements made had not been justified, thought
the resultant injury would be fully repaired, pro-
vidod the wronged proprietors were paid the sum
of one farthing.
* * •
At this point the dignified Judge chipped in.
It tell to him to put his hand upon the bal-
ance. To him an appreciative country had in-
trusted its highest interests. The scales of
Justice were poised. They trembled between a great
example and a great infamy. The Administrator
ot Justice paused, deliberated. Precedent, law,
custom, revolved in tangled complication before
his trained and cultivated mind. Apart and
a stood the divine figure of that Justice
which it was his splendid privilege to serve. He
made his choice. The farthing, which seemed, to
0 sx-publican, the publican, the grocer, and the
nightman, adequate fine for the crime of warning
tOO Public, he augmented, practically, by some
iloOO, and, by his judgment, further decided
that the interests of justice and of the public
weal required that those who had interfered with
the holiday business should be handed over to the
tender mercies of the injured caterers for public
enjoyments. The latter were empowered to claim
from their censors compensation for the expense
to which they had been put. They could sell the
bed from under the wife or child of the offenders ;
or , failing thus to obtain solace, they were em-
powered to seize upon the persons of the criminals
and fling them into prison.
* # *
This is justice, as administered by the Supreme
C ° urfc , °f New South Wales. How the public
regard this species of the article they have
already shown by actions-we do not mean
libe.-ac turns. The protestations of the public have
taken a substantial form, and there is no doubt
that it goodwill could have freed Messrs. Haynits
and Archibald from the consequences of a
disgraceful mal-aclministration of law, they would
not now be in Darlinghurst But the penalty im-
posed upon them appears too considerable even
tor the spontaneous generosity of a grateful pub-
lic to remove. We do not remember an instance
in which, among so small a population, so large a
sum has ever before been contributed towards a
newspaper proprietary’s expenses, incurred in do-
ing good service to the public. .£BOO is a very
great deal of money. But Injustice has outbidden
Sympathy by £7OO, and nothing now appears pos-
sible save that Messrs, Haynes and Archibald
shall serve out their term of punishment, to the
everlasting disgrace of our laws, and of those who
pretend to administer justice.
Colonel Charles Fysshe Roberts.
We present our readers this week with the por-
trait of Colonel Charles Fyashe Roberts the
newly-appointed Commandant of the -Military
Forces of New South Wales. Prom the ability ho
has displayed in his past career, and from his
valuable military experience, wo are led to expect
that the administration of Colonel Roberta will
prove as successful and beneficial aa has boon that of
his predecessor, Colonel Richardson, an outline of
whose biography we gave our readers a week or
two ago. In all that Colonel Roberta has been
called upon to undertake hitherto, he has exhi-
bited a conscientious faithfulness wedded to more
than ordinary capacity. Colonel Eoberts is the
son of the late Captain Eoberts, of the 27th and
ioo, re , e i m , ent ?; Ho waH born on August 20th,
1537, at lekwell, Bedfordshire, England, his father
dying when he was only three years of ago. Ho
was educated at the Eoyal Military Academy.
Woolwich, and obtained a second lieutenant’s
commission in the Eoyal Artillery in February,
: .being then not 18 years of age. The
British Lion was tussling with the Eussian
Bear in the Crimea, and promotions wore
rapid in those days. Two months saw young
Eoberts promoted to a first lieutenancy, and
landed at the seat of war. He bore a share in the
siege ot Sebastopol, being told off to the advanced
trenches of the Eight Siege Train. Ho passed
unharmed through months of intermittent fight-
mg, until,September 2nd, when helreoeived his firsl
wound, whilst doing his duty in the advanced
trenches. Two months later, he was most
dangerously wounded, whilst at his post on the
Eight Cun Attack, in consequence of the explosion
ot a, h renoh magazine, on November 15. Lord
Eaglan commended him personally, on Juno 18, in
the following year, for having continued to work
a mortar battery, after he had been knocked down
by a spent cannon ball. This commendation
trom his General seems to have furthe» stimulated
his valorous ambitipn, for afterwards his name is
round mentioned .in despatches, and Colonel
Eoberts wears the Crimean medal, the Turkish
medal, and the Italian Order for military valour.
Hardly was the Crimean War at an end, than
Lieutenant Roberta found it to be hia fate to servo
his country in India. His Indian experience
extended from 1858 to 1861, He commanded
the Artillery in the Sikkim expedition,
and distinguished himself so greatly as to be
again honourably mentioned in despatches,
and to receive the thanks of the Indian Govern-
ment for his services. In October, 1862, ha was
Promoted to the rank of Captain, and in January,
1863, to that of Major, for services in the field.
Major Eoberts served in Sydney with the Eoyal
Artillery from 1865 tp 1868, during part of which
period he acted as A.D.C. and Private Secretary
to Sir John Young (Lord Lisgar). In 1866, he
married a daughter of the late Mr. William
Bradley, of Goulburn. He retired from the ser-
vice at the end of 1871, and in December. 1872,
was appointed Acting-Secretary to Sir Charles
Cowper, then the Agent-General in London for
New South Wales. In the performance of these
duties, Major Eoberts gave eminent satisfaction,
and he only retired from the position when busi-
matters recalled him to Australia in March,
1874. On the.inor€ase of the New South Wales
Permanent Artillery in August, 1876, Major
Eoberts was appointed Colonel Commandant of
the Artillery Forces, regular and volunteer, a
position which he held till January 26, 1882!
when he took the office of Commandant vacated
oy Colonel Eiohardson. While Col.-Commandant
he was in command of the Middle Head camps,
and frequently had, during the absence of Col.
Kichardson, to take upon himself the duties of
that^officer, so that he is not new to the responsi-
bilities of his higher position. Colonel Eoberts is
a member of the Warlike-Stores Board, and a
permanent member of the local Defence Commis-
sion. He was also member of the late Special
Defence Commission, of which Colonel Scratchley
was the head.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
God Save the Queen!
It was quite inconceivable!that anyone but a madman
could have been concerned in the attempt to assassinate
Her Majesty Queen Victoria. That was an obvious
reflection from the first moment when the news of the
ttempt to take Her Majesty’s life was known. No
matter what form the craze of the individual might
turn out to be, it was clear that to no rational being
whatever his political views or his personal grievances,
could the murder of a conscientious sovereign and
virtuous woman have presented itself in the light of
i remedy. Such a deed, had the assailant accomplished
bis fell purpose, would have been as revolting to the
mind of Nodical, Republican, or even Communist, as to
the soul of the most ardent admirer of the Monarchical
form of Government. Were all monarchs endowed with
i fraction of the virtues—political and personal—of the
Queen of Great Britain.it is extremely improbable that
there would be in the world any republicans at all.
Theorists of all schools are prompt to admit that, at the
present stage of human institutions, a constitutional
monarchy, especially when there chances to bo on the
throne a ruler of elevated principle and sympathetic
mind, offers the best guarantee of stable government,
equal justice, and personal liberty. It is dangerous and
generally useless to attempt to anticipate the verdict
of history with respect to the personal merits of a
living potentate. While a monarch lives there are
always crowds ready to doff the cap and to raise the
ovioo of panegyric. But under the miid rule of Queen
COLONEL CHARLES FYSSHE ROBERTS.


HOP BI T 1
ABE
THE PUREST ANT
MEDICINE EVER M
Thvy are Compounded
Hops, Eucliu, Mandrake :
The Oldest, Best, most Eer
Yalnable Medicines in the
in addition, contain all tl
most effective curative prop
other Bitters, being the gr«
Regulator, Blood Pubivibi
and Health Restoring Agen
Ask your Druggist or
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, and i
use. Hop Bittees.
Remember, Hop Bittees
drugged, drunken nostrur
Purest and Best Medicine
and no person or family sho
out it.
VALUABLE TRI
If you are suffering from
Or languishing on abed of si
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Ci
It you are simply ailing
Weak and Dispirited, wit
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will R«
If you are a Minister, ai
taxed yourself with your pas
or a Mother, worn out w:
work.
Hop Bitters Will He
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the:
every-day duties, or a me
toiling over your midnight
Hop Bitters Will Stre
If you are suffering fron
or drinking, any indiscreti
tiou, or are young and gro’
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Re
It yen are in the work
farm, at the desk, anywb
that your system needs Cl
ing, or Stimulating, with
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and your 1
impure, pulse feeble, yoi
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give Y<
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an eles
and refreshing flavouring ;
drinks, impure water, &
them harmless, and swi
mouth, and cleansing the
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND EN
with
HOP BUT
and yon will have no siokm
MONTEFIORZS, STU
65 PITT STREET, SYDI
General Agents for J
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGIN]
MOST DELICIOUS
FREE FROM ALU ADI
Victoria, liberty of utterance has boon, outside New
South Wales, so free from restraint, that the ■voice of
censure has had full scope. Yet it has scarcely been
heard. Her Majesty’s virtues are on every lip, and de-
traction has been silent. The shocking attack which
has just baenlmade is, in this case, but one of the
penalties of greatness. A wretehed lunatic, finding the
worldlhard and cruel, attacked what his diseased mind
figured as the personification of easejand wealth; or,
purohance, stirred by maniacal vanity, the pinch of
hunger suggested to him that it would be a glorious
thing to be the most notorious among hungry men.
Medicos and Quasi-Medicos.
Caretle remarks iathe "Sartor” that, "in several
provinces, probably, Imposture is of a sanative,
anodyne nature, and man’s gullibility not his worst
blessing.” Then, if the gullible axe blessed, how
blessed oughtltho people of Australia to be! Tor, on
all sides, they are beleaguered by quacks, and.especially
so in medicine. The Esctjlapiah science, which, from
the great importance of its subjects and objects, should
be rigorously confined to the fit, oven if few, is over-
run in these colonies by men of no education, no posi
tion, and yet of terrible responsibilities. It does not
seem that there is any power to reach these adven-
turers, who, like the horse-leech’s daughters, crying
•'give, give,” stick to a patient unfortunate enough to
come into their nets, so long as ho has a shilling; and,
bis money being done, and himself nearly done too,
advise him to take to the hospital as a last resource.
Bad as this is, if it were all there would not be cause
for so much complaint j bnt not only do they seldom do
the patient any good, they often do him much harm.
Those ««tores, who have got woefully beyond their
crepidee, have commonly little knowledge of the human
frame and the influence exercised by different
drugs on different constitutions, or even on the
same constitution at different stages of health or
disease, and venture on prescriptions and modes
of treatment which no licensed man would, out
of regard for his reputation. They pay no
attention to the state of health of the patient. The
most violent and drastic remedies are resorted to; and
seldom, indeed, is it that anyone who trusts himself to
their doctoring or physicking, comes out of their hands
other than a confirmed invalid. The evils are patent
enough j and when one thinks of the number, both of
advertising and non-advertising quacks practising in
Sydney and the suburbs, it is easy to see that a vast
deal of mischief is being worked. But the condition of
country folk is worse. The victim of a metropolitan
quack can hardly expect sympathy; ha may be, it is true,
the victim of ignorance or prejudice. It is far other-
wise in the country, where bush-doctors abound where
sometimes a legally qualified man’s services are only to
be obtained at great cost and inconvenience. Then resort
Is had te these wretched quacks, and commonly with
the worst result*. The law should take cognizance of
these facts i the people ought to be able to assure
themselves that the man they choose to employ is, so
far as examination will show, fit to treat them with
skill and judgement. To this end it might bo recom-
mended to the Government to have a list of all duly,
qualified practising surgeons and physicians in New
South Wales published, and a copy posted up at every
Post-office in the colony. These quacks, especially in
the country, assume the title of doctor; and people
cannot bo supposed to know whether they are so or not,
unless they are put in possession of thoroughly reliable
information. _____
The Schoolmaster at Home.
A circular has boen going the rounds of the Municipal
Councils of the colony,ldrawing attention to the charges
made for “extra subjects’* in the superior Public
Schools. Certainly, it does not seem an extortionate
thing to charge 7s. per month for teaching a boy
Latin and mathematics, or a girl music and French
provided the subjects be well taught. This, it is con,
tended, they are not. However this aspect of the
question may rest between the schoolmasters and
parents. But there are many who wish the Public
School boys were better taught in arithmetic and
English—both composing’ and reading. The com-
mercial men of the city could say something on this
subject. A boy presents himself for a situation whose
etter of application is a stereotyped form, who pro-
fesses himself equally acquainted with square root and
equations, and yet who cannot work out a simple sum
in practice or commission. To get an answer to a
simple question of discount one has to provide him with
pen, ink, and paper, and five minutes. And as to read-
ing, his illustration of the art is something fearful and
wonderful. Better ground a boy in the common
subjects of a plain English education than give him a
smattering of Algebra, Euclid, and Latin, which is too
slight to be of any use in maturing his mind, and
which feeds an inordinate vanity. There is at present a
movement in England towards the improvement of the
secondary schools. If there be need for this at home,
how much greater is our need 1 As far as the University
Exam, lists give us any clue, there are but few secondary
schools in or near Sydney which ground their pupils in
the higher subjects. Unfortunately, the University
authorities do not give us satisfactory statistics o t
failure. They could, without much difficulty, give the
public a table, specifying how many pupils entered from
each school, how many passed or failed, and in what
subjects such passing or failing occurred. It would be
well if the Government took the licensing ot private
secondary schools into its own hands, issuing licenses
only to those who had gone through a settled curriculum
both of general and special studies. It is sometimes
said the University should teach lour schoolmasters.
They who say so do not know the function of a Uni-
varsity, which is !not to turn out schoolmasters, but
cultured men. Those cultured men may fapply their
culture to the teaching of others after due preparation,
thus making their culture a specialty. This specialisa.
tion of culture is the difference between men ot culture
and schoolmasters. Another aspect connected with the
higher education is the founding of Girls’ High Schools.
If all the Government means to do for the Misses is to
teach them, at the superior Public Schools, French and
music, they are to be pitied. We have, at the present
time, the absurd sight of a University opening its doors
to women, while the lower avenues are all olosed-that
ia to say, there are no general means of secondary culture
open to girls, yet the University culture cannot go for.
ward without this. Judge Windbtkr carried resolu-
tions, affirming this principle, in the last Barhament,—
but the subject, not being anywise one of money or
comfort, has boen relegated to the list of “ abstract
matters.” J
Mr. Samuel Paokham, long known as Com-
excellent manager, haa been presented by
•employes of the firm with an address and timepiece, on
liis retiring from the service of that catering Co. # to
enter on business of his own.
A Serious Allegation.
A correspondent sent us the following at too late an
hour last night te permit of much inquiry. We have,
however, seen our informant, and have satisfied our-
selves that the statements are not lightly made. Here
is Ms story s
«< Through the good offices of that popular
and able medico, Dr. [we hold over the name for
reasons of our own], I got an acquaintance into the
institution. This patient, with regard to his own
treatment, only complains of inattention and of the
tyranny of the nurses, who, ho says, neglect inmates,
and who, when tho visiting doctors are away, especially
at night, indulge in noisy play; hut he tells a tale,
which, if true, and he is prepared to testify to it, should
brand every person concerned in so gross an outrage,
with infamy. He says that one day a fine, hearty
young fellow was taken to the Infirmary suffering from
delirium tremens. Ho had a fit, but from this he
recovered, and afterwards walked about the ward
talking incoherently. He was not, dis-
playing any violence. As he refused to keep his bed, he
was taken Delow and thrust into a dark cell by himself.
When he implored that he might not be left there, he
was pushed back. This was at 6 p.m.. and there he
remained unvisited and unattended till 0 p.m., when
the door was opened and his corpse found. The only
fact really known is that lie died in that dark cell.
Whether his death occurred in a fit of ‘the horrors,
or whether he dashed his own brains out in his frenzied
fright, was a matter of pure conjecture to the other
patients.”
We may add that. In consequence of the absence of
the secretary at the time our representative visited the
Infirmary, and owing to the limited time then at our
disposal before going to press, we were not afforded an
opportunity of inspecting tho death records of tho
institution. We gather from our informants that the
date of the unfortunate man’s death was on or about
February 23rd or 21th ultimo.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The will of the late Mr. Christopher Pond wag
proved at nearly a quarter of a million. Most of his
wealth goes to his wife and daughter; aud a legacy of
£5OO to his partner, Felix W. Spiers. Spiers and Pond
brought the first All-England Eleven to the colonies,
aud have, for years, been one of the largest catering
firms in England. There is evidently a large margin cn
iam tarts The gaol at Bourke is terribly over-
crowded. There are now in it 36 persons, under com-
mittal or undergoing sentence, in addition to the usual
percentage of oonfinees for drunkenness, &o. Bourke
has decided in favour of an increase of public-houses
Tho “Hero Lady Sarah and Eureka Consols Silver
Mining Company 1 ' is being formed to work silver cleims
at the Star Itivcr (N.Q ). Capital to be £OO,OOO in
00,000 shares of £1 each The S.A. Co., at lemora,
havo made further investments. Altogether, ther* is
now over £lOO,OOO Adelaide capital in the held. Capt.
Matthews, of the Fanny Parnell, offers to wager a
heavy sum that the first 500 tons crushed will realise
500 oz. Last escort brought 1480 oz. g01d... ..At
Locksley, Bathurst, a tiger snake of 5 feet was killed,
and found to carry no less than forty-four young ones,
averaging in length from six to tea inches......At
Guudagai. Mr. Michael Walker has commenced an
action against Mr. Michael Fehan for slander. Most
of tho teein* will be to the lawyers At Pentndge
prison (V.), last week, an old man named Cunning,
ham was Uoggod for committing an unnatural
offence Ho felt the punishment very severely
Two sons of Mr. Holley, of Molonglo, recently came
upon a large iguana in tho act of making a meal of a
tolerably well-grown snake, one-half of which was
already swallowed, while the tail end was wriggling
beyond the devourer’s mouth. Of course, the boys
killed the iguana At Melbourne, James William
Thomson, money-lender, for obtaining £lOOO by falee
pretences, was sentenced to thirty months’ gaol. The
lightness of the sentence is aecountod for by the
prisoner's age While Hoffman, a Barmedman miner,
was working in a shallow shaft, a death-adder fell on
his neck from above. It dropped, and was killed by tho
man’s shovel The price of the Bendigo Advertiser
will be reduced to one penny on the Ist April. An
ominous date. The Advertiser is owned by Mr.
Angus Mackay, of the Sydney Daily Telegraph
An agitation Is being commenced in Melbourne for the
establishment of a Metropolitan Board. The first
step proposed is the taking over of the Fan Yean
Waterworks Thomas Maloney has been committed
for trial for perjury at Araluen, in a case of sly-grog
selling preferred against Nep Cue, Chinese storekeeper
Penrith has now a paper, published weekly, the
Neman Tlm»s. It is a well-got-up little journal, and
contains in its first issue a notification of the fact that
the barrel-organ man has reached Penrith Th«
Waloett Mail has appeared under new manage.
ment, aud is now a creditable paper The other day,
in Melbourne Supreme Court, a witness wouldn’t speak
up. Whereupon Mr. Inrves suggested that there
should bean electrical witness-box, to prod witnesses
in the back when their voices failed A 14
feet shark caught at Drysdale, near Geelong (V.)
The 10th annual agricultural show was held at Moruya,
on the Ist and 2nd March. Dry weather had a bad
effect, but a fair show was made. Mr. Mort gave a
dinner in the Mechanics’ Institute on Wednesday, and
the ball took place on Thursday night Mr. A. M. ;
Fisher, on leaving Gunnedah to take the position of ■
Police Magistrate at Yass, was presented with a watch 1
and chain and an address Mr. G. H. Taylor, late
Mayor, was banqueted at Dubbo last week; the present
Mayor presided, and about 100 were present Mr.
Creaghe, for ten years sub-inspector of police in the
Clarence district, was testlmonialised on his removal to
Narrabri as inspector. Seventy gentlemen assembled ,
at Grafton to bid him farewell, and gave him an address
and 60 sovs Mr. J. F. M'Mullen succeeds Mr. Mathe-
sou as chairman of tho Melboarne Associated Banks I
Another criminal assault by an aboriginal—this time |
at Geelong About sixty applications sent in for i
the Eegistrarship of the Adelaide University, rendered
vacant by Mr. Barlow’s resignation Four children, |
named Besiski, burnt to death in a house at Dunedin
(N Z ) ..People bathe in the Yan Yean reservoir,
which supplies Melbourne, and often now contains small
cattle of various descriptions Strike amongst!
Charters Towers miners; workings dangerous, and men
ask 10s. a week extra Adelaide tap water said to be (
unsafe for drinking ; some of it almost as Brown as the
hydraulic engineer Mr. J. B. Dixon, manager of the
Bank of Australasia, Brisbane, has died at Hobart while
on a holiday trip More complaints against Judge
Skinner in connection with the business of the County
Court, Melbourne; an investigation pending Heavy
wagers have been laid by the knowing ones as to the
result of the first 100 tons to be crushed this week
from the Fanny Parnell reef, Temora. One bet has
been made of £2O to £5 that the cake of gold will weigh
lOOOoz,; another that tho yield is soz, to tho ton
throughout Wellington, tho capital of N.Z.,has now
not a single pawnbroker’s shop Mr. E. C. Fraser,
of Tanranga (N.Z.), had his nose bitten off by a Maori
during a disturbance on the Ohinomutu racecourse
A drover who had been summoned to Cowra Police
Court was told by someone that he needn't attend. He
took the bad advice, was ultimately arrested under a
warrant nearly 300 miles from Forbes, bad to travel
that distance at his own cost, nearly broke his neck in
gettingt here through a fall from his horse, was mulcted
in a penalty of £l2 25., and had to meet his lawyer after-
wards At Melbourne, a woman named Sybil Fulton,
after trying in vain to persuade two doctors that she
had small-pox, packed up her clothes and boltea to the
quarantine station in hopes of catching it there I Mr.
M’Kenzie Grant, of the De Gray station, in Western
Australia, is a lucky man. He sold the great Kimber-
ley pearl —last year’s find—for £l2OO, and his boats this
year are said to nave found another vary nearly as good.
The plant and copyright of the Eockhampton
Laughing Jackass have been bought from the
proprietor for £lB5 by the “ Central Queensland
Newspaper Company,” with a capital of £2OOO, Mr.
James rfhand, an Otago (N.Z) farmer, will have
under crop, this year, 800 acres of wheat, 1200 acres of
oats, and 1000 acres of turnips Our promising little
contemporary, the Gunnedah Advertiser, has been
enlarged Mont de Pioto Co. on ttio board in
Sydney A house, in a Southern town, was, for a
long time, unoccupied, affording a billet of 10s. a
week and quarters, to an old iady who took care of it.
A resident of Gouiourn, wishingto take the house, was
informed by this estimable old party that the place was
taunted and that ghosts came at.l2 o’clock every night.
Do took tho house, and found It wan bo; tho ghosts
rang all the bells and rapped alflthe walls the first night.
The second night ho watched, and caught the old
duchess in the act of tugging vigorously at the bell
wires. She didn’t want to be put out of a billet by
anyone taking the house Water is so scarce on the
Terrioks that one person has been obliged to remove
his sheep to another district. In another instance, a
gentleman received a letter from his son, asking him to
send up some pigs to eat the carcases of the sheep
which are dying off daily A newspaper is to be
started at Goonfliwiudi. The proprietor, Mr. J. W.
Smith, late of tho Toowoomba Chronicle ; editor, Mr.
Henry Symes It is said that hop-growers at Bairns-
dalo rake in £lOO to the acre; yet there are some pious
deacons who don’t believe in “hops'* On the Palmer,
the Cbinkies have found some nice nuggets of late,
and have shown two, of 16 and 20 J;oz., respectively
The s.s. Chimborazo broxxght from London £25,000
worth of silver coinage for Melbourne, and £20,000
worth for Sydney Adelaide Mutual Life Association’s
first financial report£6B,ooo assured; income from
completed policies, £3097; not amount premiums,
received, £2356 Another tripping-on-the-pavement
case, this time a man, has cost the Melbourne Corpora,-
tion £2O .Live stock perishing on the Darling in
consequence of tho fearful drought...... Mr. Dyson, of
Melbourne, had a cheque for £lOO dishonoured. This
caused tho cancellation of certain partnership negotia-
tions. Dyson sued tho Union Bank, and got a verdict
for £5OO 200 haok-blocks niggers of Mount
Eba district. South Australia, have gathered round Port
Augusta, in order to obtain food and water supplies...
In Mornoy-street, Adelaide, women sometimes run
about in a state of nudity, and at other times “appear
with only their chemises on." This is on the authority
of the most pious paper in Adelaide, so it’s bound to
bo true. Of course we don’t moan to say that the
ladies rus about on the authority of an Adelaide paper.
Wo only mean—but, really, it doesn’t much matter
During tho last year 13,000,000 acres of now land has
been takes npin the Kimberley district,W.A......A mob
of larrikins took possession of a billiard-room, in Fitz-
roy, Victoria, one night just about closing time,Sref used
to leave, and brutally assaulted the landlord The
blacks have found a revolver, a pair of No. 7 boots, and
a water bag, at Major’s Creek, Townsville road cross-
ing. They say they have also found a skeleton of a
whits man near the coast ..Mr. Boaney, the well-known
Melbourne surgeon, gave a banquet at the local town
hall to the various bowling clubs. Men who play howls
generally have congested livers, andiare jpst the right
kind of persons for a doctor to be friendly with.........
In Victoria, 66.355 children between the ages of 3 and
6 years, and 195,165 between 6 and 15 years, now attend
State schools Melbourne City Corporation has had
to shell out £350 to a girl 12 years of age, because a
spark from the steam roller entered her eye. Many
girls derive nothing but mischief from sparks..,.
Adelaide company, with a capital of £25,000, has
bought 11,000 acres on tho Burton Downs, and, 4000
acres at Byuoe Harbour (N.T.), for smgar cultivation
and cattle breeding The Adelaide barmaid, Julia
Papat, who was charged with infanticide, has been
sentenced to twelve months’ imprisonment for conceal-
ing the birth of her illegitimate child...... Burglars,
whose particular penchant is safe-breaking, in Mel-
bourne It costs a qualified man £125 to buy into the
Victorian pilot service; his yearly salary tops £5OO
A fire panic occurred last week in tho Golden Square
Wesleyan Church, Sandhurst, aud in tho crush a num-
ber of the audience were more or less hurt Edward
Crisp, notary public, Melbourne, who is now serving
two years for defrauding a widow client, is alas to be
charged with having forged certain deeds A child
died in an Auckland (N.Z.) country district from
an overdose of chlorodyne given by the mother
A Ballarat larrikin arrested for stabbing a policeman
behind the| ear with a penknife 33.000,000 new
bricks used in Melbourne last yoer in building*
# * •
Thomas A. M‘Dorman, Marshal of Boonyillo,
Mo., was dissatisfied wtih some criticism upon his
official acta made by A. B. Thornton, editor of the
Boonville News. So, the first time M’Derman met
the editor, he shot him dead Tho salutatorian at
Yale University last year, was a German, the valedic-
torian a Hebrew, and the prize deolaimer a Chinaman.
The cost of the new London Law Courts, designed
by the late Mr. Street, is estimated at £900,000
During one day, at the big Parisian warehouse, Maga-
sin du Lanvre, no fewer than 72,000 persons passed
through tho rooms of that establishment, and tho
receipts amounted to £61,256, the largest sum ever taken
in one day at any establishment in tho world
St. James’s Church Marylebone (Eng.), was lighted by
electricity, on the Ist January Edward Richardson,
of Miseissippi, is the largest cotton plantation owner
in the world; the Khedive of Egypt ranks second
Four Italian merchants lately came ever the Pacific
railway from Japan, bound for Italy, with a quarter of
a million cards of silkworm eggs, each containing
30.000 eggs. They occupied three railway cars ..ami the
value of the eggs was £50,000 An intending suicide,
living near Meriden, Conn., U.S., swallowed morphine,
and then changed his mind. He raced to the nearest
doctor’s, ten miles off, and just reached his desired
haven when he fell senseless on the floor. He was
saved by energetio treatment Gold to the amount
of £6,000,000 sterling is stored in the fortress of Span-
dan, Germany, as cash in hand towards the primary
i expenses of the next war. It is part of the French
indemnity, and had it been put out at interest
since 1871, would nearly have doubled itself
An American named Chester claims £lO,OOO damages
from tho Chilian Government for imprisonment in a
Chilian dungeon during the late war between Chili and
Peru.... The German naval port of Kiel is to be fortified
after a design by Moltke. Eleven forts will encircle
the town. The cost of the fortifications is estimated at
£2,800,000 The now turret ship, Colossus, is to be
launched on March 21 At Lyons, when a constable
entered a prisoner's cell, the prisoner knocked him
down, stepped quickly out of tho dungeon, locked tho
door upon the constable, and vamoosed The Dutch
Government is preparing already for the International
Colonial Exhibition, to be held in Amsterdam in 1883
1 That actors often pay black mail to reporters is
notorious, but the worst black-mailing practised is by
the men engaged at pantomime season to catch the
clowns and others, who take flying leaps through win-
dows, &o. It is a fact that in some London theatres an
acrobat who won’t fee these catchers, can’t be sure of his
He for a night. They will accidentally drop him
First editions of Dickens’s earliest worts are very
scarce, and a large English bookseller asks the follow,
ing prices for second-hand volumes Five Christmas
books, £7 13s. “Sketches by Boz,” £2 12s. 6d.;
“Nicholas Nickleby," £3 10s.; “Master Humphrey’s
Clock,” £3 10s.: “Dombey and Son," £2 10s Baron
Nordenskjold, the Arctic explorer, describes the groat
io«fields of Spitzborgen as being covered with a layer el
fine dust. He calls it “cosmic dust," but ha can’t
say .where it comas from Allen Rutherford, a
Toronto stableman, succeeds to the Earldom of
Toviot, and a rent-roll of £60,000 a year... Europe
uses annually 90,000 tons of wood in the manufacture
of matches Out of 120 daily journals in existence in
New York city in 1836, only five havo survived till now,
more than £20,000,000 having been spent in publishing
city journals during those forty-flve years Annual
wool produce of America is 228 millions of lbs; imports
of wool, 128 million lbs In New York, fourteen miles
of electric light mains are laid, and 1140 consumers
have contracted for a supply An American, Mr.
Fryer, has invented an amphibious steamboat, it goes
not in, but on the water, and also on the land. The
hull is supported by three very large hollow iron globes.
At a trial she travelled over ordinary ground with ease,
but not on a steep gradient, and she is expected to go
faster on tho water than any other craft afloat A
company has been instituted in Paris to insure against
doct r j bills. A yearly subscription entitles the
insurer to have all his doctor’s expenses paid by the
company, and he can choose his own physician For
somo time it was doubted whether a person could I e
transferred from natural to artificial sleep, without
being waked, by means of chloroform. But an Ameri-
can, Dr. Quimby, has done so several times, and per-
formed operations successfully The first edition ( f
Johnson’s Dictionary comprised 58,900 words. T 1 e
most recent published contains 130,000.... Prince, a
Marie Valdrie, daughter of the Emperor . f
Austria, has adopted one of the orpha' ■
from tho Ring Theatre conflagration T 1 e
miraculous escape of the one man from the wre. k
of the Dnncan Dunbar has been paralleled at Vienu..
Three days and nights after the Ring Theatre caught
lire, one miserable survivor was dragged from the
smoking ruins. He was a private soldier, and in trying
to escape on the night of terror, ho fell into a cellar
through a trap-door, and the burning dahrimimprisoned
him there. He was without food or sleep all the time,
and tho water flooded in hy the fire engines had reached,
h s chest when he discovered


VIRTUTia GLORIA MERQi
COALCLIFF C
18s. TEH TON NET, delivered -with
„ nm a draught, and range and fears kept well free
and cleaner Are Iha a any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky
it splinter and fly oil like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic desi
*£«“» an lr .°!v° r i T hll? a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charoc
Bteak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given
a Xalbebal discount allowed to Wholes
DEPOT-WOOLLOOMOOLOO \
■
x AO*) An j l r
:-4,W-?\' :> l-P2^-484. ; CEGRCF. S
tv
brobi
V i# . . MARKFT CLOTH 1
OPPOSITETHE TRUITMAH
ESTABLISHEDIBG4
A LARGE and WELLSELE
W'OO LLENS, new pat
DIRECT FROM THt MANUF
FASHIONABL
;
FIRST-CLASS CAR
TO ORDE R;
-ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSERS. TO
f ■ '■ '.-T' s c,- . i - -v-.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
WHEN building nsfl CALLENDER and SONS' Puro Ritnn
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than g
DAMP RESISTING SOI
If yofl hate DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDEE
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be
Particulars on Application to
U V VAVtTfiei W-llf- #ll
t
TRADE! M,
ECREAj
m
FOR
:
Neuralgia, Sciatica, i
Backache, Soreness of fht
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Sv
Sprains, Burns and
Genera! Bodily P
Tooth, Ear and Headache,
and Ears, and all oth
and Aches.
No Preparation op earth equals
ft safe, sure, simple and cheap I
A trial entails but the comparativ
of 50 CentM, and every one su
can have cheap and positive prooi
Directions In Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AN
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pii
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-sh
C. PROSSER A CO., Pitt-street
MYERS and SOLOMON, Geori
X. JACOBS & Co,, Hunter-stree
-pOAAri CONSULT AT'
SYDNEY O
Subscription, 20s
Ist, £800; 2nd, £3OO ; 3rd, £l5O,
Starfcoi
Non-starters (divided)
No. I now on.
Barfly application invited, with
<£20.000.
LEVIATHAN CONSUL
on the
MELBOURNE OT
Subscription, 20b,
Ist—£Booo. 2nd—£3ooo. Si
St&rters (divided), £4OOO,
Non-starters {6
Early application invited, with i
BANKERS—CITY Bi
These Consultations are advertised :
California, Honolulu, Fiji, ai
Address—'" OCCIDENTAL.”
car# of
ED WART
Royal Exchange
P.S/—AII names and results strict!
PR O S P B
of
SHE OAKS STEAM BRICK CC
NORTH SHOI
BAPITAL £20,000, iu 20,000 SI
but it is not expected that i
will ever ho requi
Tho present Proprietor will take £
On APPLICATION, 2s. 63
On ALLOTMENT. 2s. 63.
And the balance ns required at ii
than three mom
DIRECTORS
THOMAS DALTON, Esq , ot
A FORSYTH, Esq., Australia
JNO. WOODS, Esq,, of Maulj
D. WILSON. Esq., ot Mason !
P. HAYES, Esq., of North Sh
BROKERS
MELHADO and Cl
The Company is being formed t
Works of Mr. P. Hayes, at NorO
ing terms: —£6500 cash, and £5(
An inventory of tho plant, &«., is |
Tho property is well known, and
ot the bricks admitted, as the
thousand more in the markets 1
maud for the bricks—owing to th
them—is greater than can bo sup
of the increased eapital it is expe
output'of 70,000 per week can be e
The distance to Sydney is varv o
of a STEAM PUNT tho profits
creased.
The boring with the Diamond I
has proved the very great value of
Bricks and Drain Pipes, as a seooi
of shale (a sample of which is at
proved to exist. As to the qual
refer to the large) stores lately b
Wharf for Messrs. John Fraser an
near the Circular Quay, built for B
the Model Lodging-house, and vari
The present Directors will retai:
annual meeting.
We place this property before 1
great confidence, as it is a good son
that can be largely increased, and
la-ge.
for Shares; will be
allotted as applied for, and list cl
required number are taken.
MELHADO and C
PARTICULARS OP PI
Extent of Land—l 2 acres, more or
Terms of Lease—99 years, less 3 j
acre
One 16-horse Steam Engine
Two Steam Boilers of 15 and
spectively
One 4-brick Kennedy Machine
One 4-brick Mitchell’s Machine
One 4-brick Fawcett's Rotary Mad
One Plastic Machine
One Gill’s Steam Press
(All these are patents)
Two Diseutegrators
Waggons, Winding Goar, and all pi
One pair rollers and sundries
Three Brick Kilns, holding 70,060 1
One Whitehead’s Pipe Machine
Four horses, six Drays
Stable for 10 Horses
Three 4-roomed Brick Cottages
Ono RrinV onH Waa/1 HaMuma a «•<*.
Notwithstanding tho keen competition existing
in tho sewing-machine trade, the “ Singers" are acknow-
ledged to be the sewing-machines of the day. Buyers of
sewing-machines should visit the Sydney Arcade, and
see the numerous flrst-clnss prizes (over 160 in number)
awarded them at tho loading competitions of the world.
—Adv.
“ Can Yon Swim ?” —Professor Cavill, the world-
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outingAud a
hath, and be back within the hour. Eetum bositfare,
including bath, 6d. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5.
Advt,
During the past year yon have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good eup of tea.
You have heard that the last season’s China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas ?—a blend of tho most famousland purest teas in
tho world j kept by all thelleading storekeepers in town
and oonutry. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte,
placo.— Advt.
The thrifty housewife declares that she never,
no never, remembers a season during which the neces-
saries of life were so costly as they arc just now. Sydney
boarding-houso keepers are simply in despair, and their
long-suffering boarders pull longer faces than ever at
the constant metamorphoses through which tho scraggy
Sunday hone is made to go on week days. But “the time
will come”-r-nay, it is even now at hand. The district of
Goulburn says that it hasn’t got a cathedral town, a capi-
tal climate, and a fertile soil for nothing. And when the
Monoro to Ceoma railway is completed, Goulburn is
coming to the rescue like a bird. Out of its bounty
Sydney is to be fed. The cry is, “ Advance Qonlbnrn.”
And this reminds na that Saturday, March 11th, will
witness the sale of that beautiful suburb of Goulburn
—Landsdowno. Special trains leave Eodferu on Friday
night and Saturday morning, and those desirous of
making a speculative trip hod better secureloarly
tickets.
3
March 11. 18811.
THE BUIiIiETIN.


Chemists and Dn
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER F
foe
INDIGEST
AND
STOMACH COMFI
They are also much reoonm
tive for Females, being safe, ger
their operation, leaving no dispo
and being free from any tenden
irritation in their action.
Sola Proprietor and Manufactures
F. E. SLO
DISPENSING ESTABLISHME
OXFORD STREET
_T S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GREAT LIVER
And snooessfnl substitute for i
Podophyllum, and all N<
Famous as a Restorative to Het
Famous as an Invigorator of th
Famous for the Cure of all Disc
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Toni
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE fi
Invented and Prepare
J. S. ABE J
At the Labors t<
434 GEORGE STREET
COUGH WHILE YOU Cl
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amt
Linotus, you will not oe able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 17
Punch's Hotel.
miCKLE TOUR APPETI
tralian Relish, mode by '
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
OHN R U
182 PITT STEI
from
D. JONES &
Respectfully invites an inspect
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH
BEDSTEA
BE
All of the best quality, and sele
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS
Furniture re-covorod and carpet
charges.
♦
Gr E
OR G E
(Formerly of Geer
IMPORTER 01
CHINA GLASS AND BA]
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCH
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
Business Annount
8
L Legal. J
HORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOi
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEI
and
MACQUARIE STEEET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOE, has co
practice of his profession, a 1
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
("t H ARLES
J (from Messrs. P. N. Bust
Manufacturer of Cooking Stcv
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 Ge<
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), £
N
OTICE OF R
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUF Al
and
IMPOETEES of EYEEY DESCI
and EAETHENW.
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVE
to
269 GEORGE |ST]
Next but One to the Mer
A magnificent selection of New
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer. £4 IQs
S. HEBBLEV
416 GEORGE STB
F.T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE\
-AND-
V
pRI
2 Hamilton S\
S'2"OD2Sr3
Public Compa
rpHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN'
Paid-up Capital, £600,000, with j
£1,000,000. Reserve Fur
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman;
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; i
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wal
General Manag
Vincent Wanostrochi
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE SI
City and Suburban Branches: I
Glebe, Burwoo
London Office : 18 King Will
BEANCHES IN NEW SO
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, I
Bourke, Bundnrra, Cassilis, Cor
bran, Coonamble, Copeland Nortl
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen lunes, Goull
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambtou, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgeo, Narandera,
Porkes, Raymond Terrace, Koekl
ton, South Grafton, Temora, 1
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend
Maitland, Wilcanuia, Woodburu,
BEANCHES IN QUEI
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charte
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Ma
Eaveuswood, Bockhampton, Star
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colo
the World genera
The mercantile bas
ESTABLISHED
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT OP
Paid-up Capital
Beserve Fund
DIEEGTOES
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wra. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlov King, M,l
AUDITOEB
Jas, Soroggie, Esq
H. £, Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
P. A. A. Wila
SECEETAET
Hector Alien.
BEANCHES
687 Qoorge-street, Brickfield
Girilambone; Go:
LONDON BANK]
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 158 Leade
Director —Edward Gha]
Agent—Q. H. Alexam
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the mostfavoi
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and m
other nrodnoe shipped to England
JG R A H A M
• IMPOETEE AND GENE]
17 BEIDGE STR]
Chief Agent fc
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSUE
ANDEEW USHEE'S CELEBA
WHISKY.
ANDEEW USHER’S CELI
SCOTCH wms:
AITCHISON’S PAL
READ TH
THE BAKING I
MANUFACTURED byus
AS DOCTOR
ft-
SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a
at the
SYDNEY AR
SINGER’S SEWING
ABE MADE ONI/!
The Singer Manufactur
Head Offices :
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Etr
39 FOSTER LANE,
Depo# for New South
NO. 1 DARLING STORES, HA
SYDNEY.
160 FIRST PR]
EAST TEBMS-2s. 6d.
AGENTS IN~EVERY
Offices in Sydne
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES. HARBOUR
LOCAL DEPO':
BOLTON STREET, NEY
WILLIAM STREET, B/l
AUBURN STREET N., (
PEEL STREET, TAMW(
VICTORIA STREET, GR
NARANDERA. PARR.
227 QUEEN STREET, B]
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE f
(gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED j
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANI
TIME PAYMEN
2s. Gd. per week—2s. 6d. per wool
And NO INTEREST cl
10 per oont. off for i
BEWARE OP IMIT
Aoents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY •• SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHD
HAYMARKE'
4
March 11. 1882,
THE BULLETIN.


w. HOWARD
SMITJ
STEUTH'S WHARF and 1
(Foot of King-stri
Offices : 7 SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and PJ
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH
and
EOCKHAMPI
On TUESDA"!
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
STEAM TO LONDON—<
1882.
The following Royal Moil Stean
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIGi
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SYI
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, .
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calli
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards me
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goi:
steamer within a month; but failini
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching a
can proceed to Suez and the Coi
Porta included) without fear of
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be gra
For plans and full particulars, i
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANI
Joint Managers of the lino ; or to t
General Manager in Au
G.
BIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPEE
Special Arrangements have been
veyanca of Parcels and small packag
Steamers to London at reduced rate
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a fc
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior i
sailing. All freights payable in Sj
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient
267 George-street, Sydney.
£IASH
PEICE LIST OP WDi
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
Claret
Hermitage ...
Shiraz
Burgundy ... ...
Sweet Shiraz ...
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bonffler’s Pineau..
per doz.
9s Od
10a Od
11s Od
12a 6d
13s Od
J. T. F
Adelaic
(rich
type)
Adelaic
WHITE.
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
15s Od
Brown
Musoal
Adelaic
Tokay,
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 24s to 36a Od I Good S
Champagne from... 60s Od | French
SPIRITS.
Hennessy’a • Case I Imperii
... ... 59s Od | ditto
WOMAN ITEMS.
A friend gives when he has too much ; a woman
even when she has not enough-
“ Ouida” is about to contribute a novel, called
“ Cigarette,” to the Paris Gaulois.
The Queen of Roumania is a poetess and a
novelist. Her nom de plume is “Garmon Sylva.**
Two daughters of the late Dr. Kenealy are
students at the Ladies’ Medical College, Henrietta-
sfreet, London.
TIl0 o C ,^' ust:i:ian Railway Department employs
about 3000 women, mostly widows and daughters of
defunct employes.
Mrs. Seraphina Tornosi, of Detroit, was married
at 14 years of age. She has borne her husband twenty-
five children, eighteen of whom were sons.
Patti s favourite dish is boiled maoaroni with
tomato sauce. Queen Victoria’s is boiled mutton and
caper sauce. Ours is grilled plover and champagne.
Madame Perreo, who has been admitted to the
practice of medicine, is the second woman so honoured
by the faculty of Paris. Sho is married, and the mother
of a family.
There is a promising girl of 14 years, at
Palmerston, N.Z. She forged a cheque for *>lo 10a.,
'T* 10 . 1 * the police cell tried to cut her
throat wita a penknife,
A squatter’s wife has just died in S.A., from
alcoholic poisoning. Husband had given orders to let
her have j ast as much as she wanted, and her toes are
now turned towards the roots of the daisies.
A few desks in the reading room of the British
Museum are set apart “ for ladles only," and one of the
tTZk&l* ° f tbe room ' Perfectly supported by
fact, is that they are never occupied, the ladies prefer-
ring to be with the gentlemen. p
Rrovav,’ West, who may preside at the
British Legation, Washington, is a brunette, charming
when animated, rather hollow-eyed and worn when in
repose. She is small, graceful, dresses in exquisite
taste, and is a devoted mother.
An East Indian Princess recently sent a secret
letter to the Queen, telling her of the incalculable good
female physicians were to work in the zenanas, where
no male doctor was allowed, and women suffered tor-
tures through the ignorance of attendants.
The Sheffield School Board has declined to
appoint a young woman to the office of pupil teacher,
on account of her father being a publican. The argn-
meut is that the social atmosphere of a public-house is
not such as to qualify a teacher to influence children
favourably.
Somebody who has lately seen the Baroness
Burdett-Coutts says she has the advantage of her
young husband in everything but years. She wore,
wbeu this person saw her, a twilled silk with delicate
Hewers sprinkled over its white ground, a white Canton
crape shawl folded like a fichu, and a tiny bonnet of
white lace and lilao ribbon.
The Princess of Wales is unable to see any
grace in Viscountess Barberton’s "New Bloomer Cos-
has declined to adopt it. So. notwith-
standing the exertions of the Viscountess, who daily
waits Piccadilly en Qreo, pour encouragcr les autres, the
gr?BB°ffi London? 10 mak ° bub pro-
No doubt many persons have pictured to them-
*J, v ® s Baroness Burdett-Coutts, as very different from
a rea hy is. She is tall, slim and graceful, with
a deportment easy and unassuming as a child's, and
r manners are full of gracious, quiet sympathy,
hSf doHoate ways. She has a refined
B A l Shtly far-off look, but bearing every
° f cu hure and aristocratic associations. In
i,„ years, she has the advantage over
ner husband, who is really fond of his wife for herself.
Respecting divorce in America, “ Silverpen,” the
correspondent of the Auckland Herald, writes
: *l°° ! — is readyamusing to see the people
micably divorcing each other, and each taking a new
, B. u t this in no way militates against the
;iihf, y v feell ? ga the separated parties, for the once
. . bound will meet on the street and chat in the
, b friendly manner. The divorced man will also call
upon the one-time wife of his bosom, and send her little
a “d not unfreqnently divorce wife No. 2 and
timl' °V, 1 ov er again. Oh, you don’t know what a
me they have of it. A woman may meet two or three
in divorced partners in a ball-room, and chat
in fa. • b ° tbe 1 m ai - They tell me that it is even worse
, w dere a woman has been known to meet six
cast-off husbands at a public ball.
Bumn^ St ° n *- ls , ? nly gymnasium in America
avp?f!ff e^i-en^ lrely by dadies, of whom there ia now an
nf fnf f abtend s n ? e °f about a hundred. Five hundred
during fra?ll e ones have passed through it
uurmg the three years of its existence. In the building
a ™, “PPhknces of every sort requisite, as well as baths
ra d J ressmg rooms, and suitable costumes are of
beh Tnrt n n d + for exeroise » consisting of blouse with
fC 1 !.™ 11 trousers and soft slippers, which allow
have^ 3Btfr ® edom °f movement. Belles, who, outside,
have to be strapped, and Jaced, and fettered, derive
lon p , leasure trom the glorious unrestraint, as they
l?iv ftbo v ut m unconventional attitudes; and a young
Z h ? 18 pluk of propriety in company, cut the
exbraordl uary capers, as she said to a visiting
s“®“,*. don t know how good it is to be in this
T • P u P ll s range from 5 years old to nearly 40,
tnough statistics on this point are difficult to obtain,
coming chmfly from the wealthy, leisured class, and all
. ° atten d regularly soon gam increased grace in
movement and demeanour. The lady teacher allots
such exercises as each pupil, delicate or robust, is able
to perform; some practise rowing movement by the
aid of pulley weights, some walk steady distances, or
vault; one • shins" up a pole, while another expands
her cheat on a pair of parallel bars. The graceful
flying rings, light dumb-bells, and ladders are all
brought into use, and the strength and skill gradually
'.-mu 0 ! 1 ., kouerally surprise the ladies themselves.
Wbon they first come," said the teacher, “ many of
the ladies have no muscle at all; they cannot lift their
own weight on the bar, or jump as high as their own
knees. Their lack of muscle and wind is perfectly
astonishing. And a leading physician said, "It they
do nothing else, jast to run about in those clothes will
be a great benefit." Of course, the Boston belles don’t
allow mala visitors—“no admission, even on business,”
aad ; 1t ,. 18 ° uly , ° n an extraordinary occasion that a
masculine (and then, perhaps, a medical) eye is allowed
to gaze at the class at exercise. To sea a stately
oru ament of the afternoon block, or the fair flower of
many a ball-room, in baggy clothes, playing leap frog,
rolling heels over head on a mat, or suspended head
downwards from the swinging trapeze, would be a
obj Vl ll° w u j? h tbe & ' ontl ° gymnasts unanimously
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Cholera at Mecca killed 884 pilgrims in three
The computed number of Jews now living ia
according to Dr. Dellinger, twelve millions.
. The English Wesleyan Conference has author-
ized the use of the Revised Testament in the church
catechisms.
The Subiaco nuns have bought Belvidere, Moss
vale, for £3OOO, and intend opening a branch establish-
ment there.
Bishop Thornton is leaving Ballarat for a while,
ana preached special farewell sermons before his
do ° f courso * he s goißg t 0 En S land - Al l
An anonymous letter-writer in the Manchester
~ P A ? having repeated the venerable slander that
i lB a fact that Christian boys have been carried—
sioien—from their homes for the purpose of serving as
Jewish sacrifices,” the Jewish Chronicle retorts that
ft,? wko £ fimlc a human sacrifice grate-
ui to God, The idea of offering up a " Son of Man " did
+,v.« C °i? e om t£le Hebrews. As to the report in ques-
sim P ,y terms it “a lie," and a
y, da t , a J dl , y ae - If the Chronicle were published
- ,7 ? uld probably get the Supreme Court to
P t the proprietor in gaol for twelve months.
Josh Billings says :—“ I wouldn’t give five cents
to hear Bob lagereoll on ‘ The Mistakes of Moses/ but
would give five hundred dollars to hear Moses on the
Mistakes of Bob Ingersoll."
New Wesleyan church at Singleton opened,
cost £2200. Rev. Noake, of St. Saviour’s, Bedfern, won’t
have bazaars, tea-fights, or any other schemes, to raise
funds. He just wants straight going.
One of the first clergymen that landed in Port
Phillip ia now the Roman Catholic Bishop of Birming-
ham, in England. Fifty years ago, Dr. Ullathorne,
then a young man of 28, arrived in Sydney. In 1839 he
visited the infant Melbourne, but only remained for a
short period. He is the author of about twenty works,
including “The Horrors of Transportation," “The
Australian Mission," “ The Conventual Life," and
“ Mr. Gladstone’s Expostulation Unravelled."
In Japan, great alarm is felt by’tho Buddhists
at the spread of the Christian religion, and a system
of pious boycotting is practised against all the infidel
Japs, who seeede from the faith of their forefathers.
This shows that they are, indeed, civilized. Now that
religious dissensions have commenced in Japan, wo can
no longer doubt that Christianising influences are
really at work. All the Japs, want now are a Pastor
Allen, an Orange Lodge, and a Hibernian Society, and
then they’ll be as religious as we are ourselves.
The tea and public meeting, to welcome the
Rev. J. Jefferis, on Thursday last, was so largo that
the Temperance Hall was used as well as the Congre-
gational schoolroom. Clergymen of all denominations
attended. The chairman’s prosy address nearly put
the audience asleep. Mr. G A. Lloyd made a good
speech; he has now been nearly fifty years attending
the Pitt-street Church. Mr. Jefferis was hopeful that
the affection of the lungs, which had caused his absence,
would not return. He gave a good description of his
travels round the world. The affection alluded to is
not of a pulmonary nature, but the result of being
violently squeezed in a London crowd many years ago,
and it has only lately come to be seriously troublesome.
Mr. Jefferis is one o( the most liberal-minded and
powerful preachers in Sydney.
At a great bazaar in England, in aid of Spur-
geon’s Girls’ Orphanage, four days’ sale realised £2450.
Rev. Canon Knox-Little, of Manchester, has been
threatened with prosecution for ritualistic “ pranks,"
but be puts his back np defiantly.... Clergyman Bards-
ley, of Ulverston (Eng.), has warned his people against
the “ Salvationists." He savs “ nothing is more
dangerous than too great familiarity with God.” A
course of secular lectures—the first one being “ Charles
Dickens, as a teacher of Christianity,”—was advertised
to be given in Greyfriars’ Church, Edinburgh, in
January ; but the preacher was served with an inhibi-
tion against such a procedure. It was said the lectures
were “ inexpedient, and not for edification.” Petition
for the release of the Rev. Green, ritualistic here, un-
successful. Home Secretary declines to interfere.
The Song of Solomon has been made tbe theme
for a comedy in verse, by the illustrious Italian poet
and deputy, Felice Cavallotti. At Turin, Milan, and
Rome, the piece has been performed, and welcomed by
enthusiastic audiences. Like the artist who executed the
charming picture on the same theme (hewn at the Sydney
Exhibition, the author does not believe in the mystical
meaning which has been attributed to the poem, and
sees in it love, such as it is, au naturel. The subject of
the play is as follows : A future abbo, who had trans-
lated the Song of Songs, and who loved the celestial
bride, on hearing his cousin, beautiful as a Shnlamite,
declaim the verses of his translation, becomes in-
flamed with love for his fair relative. Tearing to pieces
the black robe in which he is attired, he asks the hand
of his cousin in marriage, and understands then tbe
true sense of the song. The clericals have made a great
deal of noise about this profanation, as they call it, but
the public, nevertheless, continue to flock to the theatre
and to applaud the comedy.
The conversion of the Hebrews seems to be
attempted by very questionable means at Jerusalem.
A correspondent of tne J ewish Chronicle writes A
few days ago I met a man, a red-haired co-religionist,
who had come to the Holy City to sell his two little
boys to the English mission. It is, perhaps, not quite
honourable in these holy men to have established such
a trade, which, indeed, resembles slave-trading, as one
egg is like to the other This practice
having filled the mission-house with Jewish boys and
girls, our spiritual friends that onoe burnt our bodies,
and now buy our children, not contented with their
imports from foreign coasts, have devised another
means to entice Jewish children of the Holy City;
they have offered a pension of thirty piastres (about
five shillings) per month to every Jewish parent that
will send a child to their school. This speculation
upon the extreme misery of our population, I am sorry
to say, proved correct. About thirty parents, all of
them Sephardim, were weak enough to fall a victim to
this corruption,"
THE KOOKABURRA.
A tight fit—D. T.
A guilt frame —the prison window.
Every man has his forte if he.only knew how to
hold it.
There is often a great deal of compressed dare
in a little man.
The most warlike nation is vaccination. It’s
always in arms."
The man who discovers the North Pole will
probably be a Chilian.
A man’s nose is like a book. The more immoral
it is, the more red it is.
A man in office may be a success, but the man
who follows him will be a successor.
The leading study of a young woman, whose
husband has jast died, is natural feel loss of ho.
Never despise a man who wears a paper shirt
front; he may have no wife or mother to support him.
A young lady who was squeezed between two
freight cars says it felt just like trying on a pair of
new corsais.
Doctors say that the gout may bo inherited.
If any fellow leaves us the gout, we shall contest his
will on the ground of insanity.
When the language of fruii* comes to be
written, as the language of flowers has been, the banana
will signify : “Do you tumble to me."
“Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be
proud i" We don’t know, unless it is because he baa
just got his ulster out of the pawnbroker’s.
“ Save One Little Kiss for Papa ’ is the title
of the latest song. If this remark is aimed at a girl
with four steady beaux, the old man’s chances are
rather slim.
If you gain an advantage over your fellow- man,
call it shrewd diplomacy. If your fellow-man gains an
advantage over you, call it rascality. The terms are
synonymous.
Four million sermons are preached in England
and Wales yearly; and by implication that is the
number of times the legend is annually heard—‘‘Wo
shall now take up the collection.”
“Husband and wife,” says some sage person,
‘‘should no more struggle to get the last word than
they should struggle for the possession of a lighted
bomb.” They don’t. The wife gets it without a
struggle.
Darwin acknowledged himself matched when
his little niece asked him, seriously, what a cat has
that no other animal has. He gave it np after mature
deliberation, and then . the sly puss answered,
“ kittens.”
“ Yes,” snarled a tramp, as he crawled out from
under a rock ia the Domain one morning, and picked
up a newspaper scrap. *‘ Ves, the Liguria has taken
away a quarter of a million of specie. By Jingo ! I'Jl
leave the colony.”
“ Gentlemen of the jury,” said Australia’s
greatest forensic lawyer, on one occasion, “ it will be for
you to decide whether the defendant shall be allowed to
eome into court with unblushing footsteps, with a cloak
of hypocrisy in his mouth, and draw three ballooka
from my client’s pocket w ! th impunity."
A story in fiction is called “ Love is Blind.’
Of course love is blind, or else it would see the old man
stealing towards him, holding a bulldog with one band,
and having his number eleven boots on.
Nervous lady passengers on the train, after
passing a temporary bridge—“ Thank goodness, we are
now on terra firma." Facetious gentleman—“ Yes,
ma’am. Less terror and more firmer."
In the tramcar : Blonde —“ They say Carrie is
engaged.” Brunette—" Engaged! Why, she was
married a month ago and has just sued for a divorce.”
Blonde—“ How romantic 1 Isn’t it just splendid P"
The pnlpit’s denunciation of the theatre is not
without some foundation. A theatrical company gave
a performance one night recently in a country town,
and that very night a clergyman eloped with his servant
girl.
“ la this my train ?” hurriedly asked a man at
Redfem. “ I don’t know,” replied the party addressed,
“ It’s got • Government Railways’ painted on it, and I
suspect|it|must be one of theirs. Have y®u lost a train
anywhere about hero?"
“La Favorita” says Signor Giammona, ia the
name of a pet cat belonging to a maiden lady residing
on the heights of Darlingburst. It goes out on the
roof at night and sings “ Spirito Gentil," winding up
with “ a mio, a mio." It’s an Italian cat.
A Blaokall schoolboy, it is prophesied, will yet
become famous. He was asked at a class examination
“ What are quadrupeds ? " and he replied:—“ Animals
with four legs." “ Now, name some," proceeded the
teacher. “ A dawg, an oss, and two hens 1 ”
There is in America, a woman who is gradually
becoming petrified. Her feet and hands are already as
hard as stone. Poor woman, this is hard, and when wo
think of that poor husband and the small of his back,
a cold shiver passes down our spinal column.
An Aberdeen writer has remarked:
“ Take a company of boys chasing butterflies, put long-
tailed coats on the boys, and tnrn the butterflies into
half-crowns, and you have a fine panorama of the
world." We can’t understand the Scotchman who talks
like this.
A bishop’s wife was tolling the story of Jonah
to her child the other day. “ Such a big fish swallowed
him, my dear, such a big fish—it might even have
swallowed your dear papa.” The child was eating
grapes, and was of an inductive mind—" And would it
spit out the skin, mamma ?”
A bon vivant one evening told one of his bottle
companions that he intended to leave a sum of money
to be spent at bis funeral. His companion asked,
“ whether the said money was to be spent in going or
returning ?" and was answered. " Going, to be sure;
for when you return you know I shan’t be with you."
A Wail from the Foorce.
Two hours ago the gun boomed forth
“ The kaell of parting day,"
And “ Robert ” mouches moodily
Along in search of prey.
With heavy, Arm, and stately tread.
And fixed, determined eye,
With clenched teeth, and lowering brow,
The peeler stalketh by.
He treadath crowded thoroughfares,
He paoath narrow lanes
And cuts desac, whose odours smack
Of garbage, and of drains.
He pokelh into alleys foul.
He pryeth into slums;
His eagle eye seeks far and nigh
For cribs and whisky-drums.
And he mutters, as be maroheth at
The regulation pace,
•• Blank blank the blanked amended Hact I
Where shall I find a case ! “
He asks this question of the stars
That gleam in grandeur bright.
Like jewels scattered broadcast o’er
The murky fields of night.
He asks it of the empty air.
And of the sighing wind;
He asks the homeless waif, whose pants
Are badly patched behind.
He asks the silent chimney-pot
That sits aloft in gloom,
The dark, deserted thoroughfare
1 hat’s silent as the tomb ;
The vacant-eyed inebriate
Who grasps the area rail;
He asks the midnight cat that prowls
Aronnd with thickened tail.
They answer not, and “ Robert’s" curse
Rolls upward, wi d and hoarse —
" Blank blank the day that blanked new Hact
Was ever put in force I"
Unheeded, rolleth up through space
The trap’s despairing moan:
No shindy wakes the silent night,
And tumult there is none.
No Bacchanalian yellings on
The atmosphere arise;
Grief rends the peeler’s bosom, and
Despairingly he cries :
“ Hothello’s hoconpation’s gone.
Existence is a blank ;
I envies ’omeless barabs, and
The cabmen on the ‘ Rank.’
" I’m frozen hout—no work to do,
’Till, in my wild despair,
I ’astles ’armless ooves about
As is a actin’ square.
"I’ll get in some quandary soon
If precious fly I ain’t;
Four coves 'as got my number, for
To lodge some blanked complaint.
“ Bat, this is what I’ll tell the " Beaks,’'
If orkard things they asks.
It’s all along o’ that blanked Hact
They’ve been and gone and passed 1
“ I’m blanked, if things don’t alter for
The blanked blanked better soon.
I’ll take some blanked blanked poison in
A blanked blanked pewter spoon;
“ And ia a blanked sarcophagus
Blanked soon 1 will bo packed.
And booked for some blanked country where
There ain’t no blanked * new Hact.*!! I
IRONBARK.
It was an Ipswich statesman who said that the
excitement on the basting's gave him “ oscillation of
the heart." It was the great. Hnuua, of Melbourne, who
called Collingwood a “ purloin" of the metropolis. It
was our own Raphael who complained that the house
a state of “ chjaos." It was—but here we stop.
The Parramatta Evening Fig-Leaf records
one of the moat peculiar presentations that it has been
©ur lot to read about, even in this mad age of tips and
testimonials. Fergy records the fact of a man having
" presented a stiff back to the loaded waggon," What
the waggon said in reply to this novel testimonial is not
disced on record.
A popular agent for a eq latter, with the assist-
ance of a telegraph clerk, put his “ foot in it" last
week. The telegraph clerk altered a letter, and changed
the word " wire " into “ wife," —of course, quite by
accident. The message sent ran as follows “ Your
wife started to-day on four of B.'s best teams, and
weighs fourteen tons."
There is great joy amongst the Mackay planters
when Christmas and New Year’s days fall on a Sunday,
and so give no excuse for an unnecessary holiday to
their kanakas and white laborers. It is pleasant to see
these virtuous men, striving, in face of hard times and
bad returns, to make both ends meet, and at the same
time to impress on the unsophisticated children of the
Southern Seas the pleasures and advantages of earning
their bread by the sweat of their brows. Plantations
now only pay from 35 per cent, upwards.


rpHBATEB ROYAL.
Lessee... „ Mr. S. Lazar.
Manager Mr, James Allison.
Triumphant Reception of the favourite Shaksporian
Scholar and Actress,
LOUISE POMEROY
LOUISE POMEROY,
Supported by the strongest Dramatic Combination in
Australia.
TWELPTII f 'i TWELFTH
NIGHT | LOUISE I NIGHT
TWELFTH I POMEROY 'TWELFTH
NIGHT i as f NIGHT
TWELFTH | VIOLA TWELFTH
NIGHT L. j NIGHT
THURSDAY and FRIDAY
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
SATURDAY NEXT, March 11,
Dion Boucicault's famous Society Comedy,
LED ASTRAY.
Armando Chandoce .”7, LOUISE POMEROY.
Prices, Is , 25., 25., sb. Commence at 8. Box plan
at Elvy’s Music Warehouse.
Q P E R A II
O
U S
Lessee and Manager Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Business Manager Mr. R. S. Batcholder.
Stage Manager Mr. W. Horace Bent.
E.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING DURING THE
WEEK.
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS CROWDED HOUSES
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS NIGHTLY.
The Present Successful Programme
by
BENT and BATCHELDER’S
BENT and BATCHELDER'S
CHRISTY'S f . wr , rri ') MINSTRELS
CHRISTY’S -5 >MINSTRELS
CHRISTY’S (_ AMERICAN j MINSTRELS
Every item in the present Programme received with
rapturous applause.
Look out for the best Programme yet presented by any
c Minstrel Company, , ,
SATURDAY, MARCH 11th.
Box office at A. Huenerbein’s music warehouse, George-
street. Admission, 55., 35., 25., and Is.
Overture at 8 sharp. Terminate at 10.20.
N.B.—The Pianos used ia the entertainment are from
tho firm of A. Huonorfeein.
HALL.
A. L. BURTON Manager.
SYDNEY HALL Agent.
RE-OPENING,
AFTER CONSIDERABLE IMPROVEMENTS
to tho
STAGE and AUDITORIUM.
DRAMATIC SEASON,
commencing SATURDAY, March 18,
with a powerful Dramatic Company, including some of
the principal members of the Qneon's
Star Company, and a
SPECIAL ATTRACTION.
New Scenery, and Splendid Orchestra under the
leadership of Mr. CHAS. AUSTEN, late conductor at
the Queen’s Theatre.
Full particulars in day bills.
VICTORIA HA L !<•
C ASTLEEE AG H-STBEET,
(Near King-street; close to Tramway and Ommbns.)
TO LET NIGHTLY, ON TERM, or LONG LEASE,
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS*
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for 800
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES,
WINGS, &c., and is in all respects equal to tho Hall of
the School of Arts, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLEE,
107 Castlereagh-street.
Theatre royal, grapton
OPEN FOE ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas ; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATT WATER.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo-
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE. Brisbane.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of tho
ZULU WAR.
ACADEMY OF MUSIC. CHRISTCHURCH,
ONE MONTH.
THEATRE ROYAL. WELLINGTON, EASTER
MONDAY.
I.
LOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Oilers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers, Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comiquo and Buffo Vocalist,
PROPRIETOR.
JgIALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J T, FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to tho awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
aud the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
heso Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at tho
following Exhibition? :
London International 1862
Paris
Vienna ~
Philadelphia „
1864
1873
1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, Now South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST-
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at tho SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION. 1870-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reis) iag Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Vordoilho Brown Muac.it I Carbiuet Mulbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
FIRST SHIPMENT OF 600 PACKAGES, CONTAINING THE LATEST
EUROPEAN NOVELTIES.
w
-p I, ava rfiAfiived for tho Autumn and Winter seasons, and have now succeeded in displaying
th/m in such a manner throughout our EXTENSIVE SHOW ROOMS, that we have every
confidence in rLpectfully soliciting the inspection of the LADIES OF SYDNE Y, who will find that
the greatest care ard judgment have been exercised in selecting the choicest and most beautiful
SvA'hppTAT <3 "HESTONS and SHADES, being also anxious, at the same time, to secure everything
S the MOST FASHIONABLE and LATEST NOVELTIES.
DEESS PLUSHES, in all colours ~„T , T C„ r a
BROCnE VELVETS, LYON'S SILK VELVETS
COLOURED VELVETS, in all shades
REAL OENOA SILK VELVETS
SILKS and SATINS, newoat shades and patterns
DRESS CLOTHS in groat variety
MOST FASHIONABLE “BECTIVE”
«FOULE RAY,” “ SHETLAND,” and “ TAM
O’SHANTEE ”
COSTUME CLOTHS “SARATOGA”
Our French and English buyers have procured some
CHARMING COSTUME CLOTHS, soft in texture,
very serviceable and well adapted for tho present
style of dress
LADIES' and CHILDREN’S HOSIERY
LADIES' and CHILDREN’S SILK HOSE, in all the
new colours and light tints
LADIES and CHILDREN’S LISLE-THREAD HOSE,
in every size. Black, white, and new shades
LADIES’ SPUN SILK HOSE, in black, pink, sky, and
cream. Richly embroidered fronts
LADIES’ UNDER VESTS, in Gauze. Merino, China,
and Spun Silk, In every make.
LADIES’, CHILDREN’S, and GENT’S BOOTS and
SHOES, by all tho best makers. Newest styles,
best materials
CARPETS. RUGS, FLOOR CLOTHS, AND CHINA
MATTING of choice materials, colours, and designs.
LACES. NEW EDELUCISS in white, cream, and
black
SILK, SPANISH and CASHMERE, in black ami cream.
BLACK CHANTILLY, MIRECOURT LACES. Tho
above are the new laces for Autumn
RIBBONS. REVERSIBLE SATIN and MOIRE,
plain and shaded
Moire and PLUSH, plain and shaded. Also, PLUSH
UPREME RIBBON, Those are the latest novel-
las in ribbons
<JHP NILLE, FLOSS and CHENILLE, BRAID and
FLOBS, FICHUS, CAPES, VISITEB, SCARVES,
& all now goods for Autumn wear
The new LANGTRY EDGING,
and INSERTIONS to match
KID GLOVES. Tho “HAYMAEKET GLOVE” is
made from the most reliable Brussels kid* 2
buttons Is. 9d., 4 buttons 2s. Gd.
THE “ PALACE GLOVE ” is tho best FRENCH KID
GLOVE. Always in stock, 2to 10 buttons
THE “ SWEDE GLOVE” is tho latest introduction in
gloves, 2 to 8 buttons, black and coloured
FABRIC GLOVES. Splendid assortment in THREAD
TAFFETA, and CASHMERE GLOVES, PLAIN
and FLEECY-LINED, for children and ladies.
PARACHUTES and UMBRELLAS, for ladies, ohil-
dren, and gents, in great variety of makes and
shades
HATS and CAPS. Men’s youths’, and boys’ HARD
and SOFT FELTS, all shapes and sizes
CLOTHING for men, youths, and hoys. SUITS or
SINGLE GARMENTS, new patterns, good shapes.
Fresh direct from tho manufacturers
LINEN SHEETING and TOWELLING, and TABLE
LINEN, unequalled in variety and price,
CAREFUL AND PROMPT ATTENTION GIVEN TO ANY ORDERS RECEIVED FROM THE
COUNTRY. PLEASE TO SPECIALLY NOTE OUR ADDRESS IN FULL, AS
WE HAVE ONLY ONE PLACE OP BUSINESS—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
[(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A %
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VEEY SUPEEIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning'.
NO SMOKE OB SMELL*
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Solo Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OP A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of tho
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
Mark
Trade
© h.
F. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOR IRONWORK AND OTHER USF.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEYEB
BLISTEE, CBACK, OEFLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DUE ABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVEEYTHING CONSIDERED,
gtocka always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTEALI A N AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
LATE SPORTING.
Narandora C.C. boat Yanko for the Ferrier
Silver Cup. ,
For the Orange raooa, the gates realised Lll3,
and tho other rights £ll7 ss.
Sunday afternoon prize fiffhts are now among
the institutions of Sandhurst (Vic).
Ten Nto St
.o. tb, Stoptoh™.
T s B £’rss- C £? .«s a c‘a!s ‘Sit
& tb. enansrement, ».ro in.
entries. Victorian Amateur Turf Club
Race, 17; Hurdles, 15; Separation
Stakes. 10; South Yarra Handicap. 28; Steeplechase, 7;
Richmond Handicap, 27. _
The South Australian Minister of WorM has
promised to recommend that o?
principal meetings be conveyed at excursion lares, or
free transit back allowed to non-winners. _
If a certain bowler, whom the Victorians did
ri pick in their Intercolonial f he
w have°gone Tomo .the Australian Eleven.
What aro they giving us?
Tho Thomson Junior Cup mono-
poliso aro°now pitted against each
season, ine craca ciuu s apace. Matches
other, ana to bo played on the Cup
are arranged Sb/Peter’s Clubs.
( " Intlernen have boon oloctod office-
Tho following , . 1882-3:—President, Mr. E.
bearers for tho A. J v lucent Dowling; honorary
Terry; vice-Premden J“ • ttl ,. committee. Dr. West,
treasurer, Mr. Edwai ** - rp ar j 01i Weston, and
USHa'ife. cS-W. .pp.mto.nt ».....toy
«„ o onSmsd. mai , ien genii.., in olnb
The M.E.C. race for . .q, came off on Satnr-
Bkitfs, ;for Mr. E. W. Moon s P ■ came to the post—
ciay, but only two compotito • 00 ,i year . Both men
Messrs. H. Pickering and A., « Bhowod grand
pulled well. espeomllyPickonS Goodyear pulled
form, Winning byseveralleug soomod to be over-
very gamely from start to Umau, e
strained and out of form. , h on Saturday
The spectators of tho cnokot matt fche raia camo
hardly had the worth of their o play for the
down before four o'deß ' fhtod at thu
rose and gracefully bowo . , tt „ 0
Warm has not yet decided whether he wu
to Envbuid with the Australian team. There was so.
talk of Midwinter being included for the Englu.
t Tn nlaco of Sammy Jones. Considering that
thalleris a rlvalto Ga^rett.as being the best all-
round in the colonies, there is. apparently, some-
thbrn undir the rose which savours more of oliqmsm
than*» U desire to enrol our strongest representative
talent*.
When Percy M‘Donnell hit the ball on to Ned
Gregory”s house in the late match,_ enthusiasm reigned
? u , hfl fleld •• When will it bo back P” said
lifers short, and I am putting on weight.
2 ffcnd a special train’ after it.” cried Ulyett ’LI go
... t .> B „i(| Selby: “ I want to see if I can do the 1000
f L?r;r,inon hours ” Emmett wanted to know what
V ,1 he roffeThmeHt during the wait, and
said he’d finish his quarter’s danomg
itsson MuS said he’d take another trot up to
J?oo?emundr», and; Massio suggested another day at
Botany. , _. ,
Victoria Racing Club Autumn meeting. First
» „ n,,rdle'Raoa ■ Handy Andy 1. Port Phillip Stakes :
Progress 1 Bathurst 2. Wellington 3. Bathurst was
Wellington led lor a mile and three quar-
Ims when Progress went to the front. Bathurst came
Stable companion. Darebiu was tho favourite,
bub Commotion was backed by many who watched is
running in the Derby, Santa Claus finished a length
Eoyal Maid was never in it. Keilor
Stakes» The Drummer 1.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
ttat* Maiestv the Queen shot at by a starving
lunatic named Roderick McLean. H. M, fortunately
unhurt. She received world-wide expressions of sym-
pathy and thankfulness Bradlaugh re-elected for
Northampton; election riots there Sir Henry Parkes
the guest of the Marquis of Lome The election for
Meath of Michael Davitt, who was, some years ago,
convicted of treason-felony, declared null and void
by the Commons Forster, Chief Secretary for Ire
land, refuses to give evidence before House of Lords
Irish Land Act Committee Dynamite found con-
cealed in Limerick custom-house: lonian plot pro-
vented Good competition at Loudon wool sales,....*
Orient frozen meat averaged 54d. per lb-■••••At at.
Petersburg 10 prominent Nihilists sentenced to death;
10 others to Siberia Earl Cairns, late Lord Chan-
cellor, appointed Chairman of Irish Land Act Com-
mittea Prince Orloti, Russian Ambassador at Berlin,
has officially given Bismarck peaceful assurances.,..,.
Araby Bey appointed President of Egyptian Ministerial
Council, vice Mahmoud Pasha, resigned. Araby Bey is
making warlike preparations...... len lives lost at the
explosion of aq infernal macliine &t liorliu railway
sheds European Powers adjudicate upon Russia s
claims to the Roumelian tribute of the Turkish war
idaranity Mr. Joseph Cowen, M.P. for Newcastle,
tabled a motion for granting a free pardon to Michael
Davitt; Speaker overruled the resolution National
College of Music, partially supported by the State, to
bo established in England Haulan and Trickett row
again on the Thames, May Ist, for £5OO a-side Tho
alleged Dunecht body-snatchers have been discharged
for want of criniuating evidence Summon and Col.
Brine unsuccessfully endeavoured to cross the English
Channel in a balloon ; they got a ducking American
supporters of Irish Land League hold a Convention in
April, at Washington Floods iu Midland Counties,
England There is some talk of fortifying entrances
to Suez Canal Mississippi floods have rendered
50,000 people destitute; 20,000 cattle drowned in Arkan-
sas State Herzegovinians have defeated Austrians.
Baron de Lesseps recommends the widening of
Suez Canal Thames ferry boat capsized; 47 lives
lost Six men have been arrested at Dublin on a
charge of having murdered Bailey, an informer
Proposal mooted to pay Parnellite M.P.’s £3OO a year
from Land League funds and subscriptions Five
persons arrested at Brussels on suspicion of having
been connected with the celebrated Hatton Garden
jewellery robbery Mr. Edwin James, formerly in the
House of Commons, dead Furneaux, the female im-
personator of Lord Arthur Pelham Clinton, committed
for trial General Ignatieff's warlike policy
disapproved of by other Russian Ministers;
probable that Ignatieff will be Removed and
succeeded by M. WalonieU Skobeloff says the Poles
could assist Russia to free the Slavs,..Russia intimates
that she is not hound by any adjudication the
European powers may make respecting the Roumelian
tribute Western natives in Transvaal at loggerheads
with the Boers Lord Randolph Churchill, M.P. ftr
Woodstock, is seriously ill with lung diaea3e......Brad-
laughonce more prohibited from taking the oath
Prince Milan proclaimed King of Sorvia Forster
Chief Secretary for Ireland, making a tour through the
disturbed districts; he presents an uncompromising
attitude iu respect of the operation of tho Laud Act.
Sitrnor Giararaona’a Grand Mass will bo put iu
rehearsal on Thursday next tor tho Easter Sunday
services at St* Patrick’s. The composer will conduct.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Perhaps one of the most extraordinary produc-
tions that has ever stagjered tha play-going community
of any age was produced at the Gaiety i heatre on Sat i -
SnUe It is entitled ‘‘No Mercy” and it is in
keeping with the character of the production.. that the
name by which this demoniac drama is labelled is not
Rested by any of the many extraordinary incidents
with which the piece is so abundantly pitted. No
Mercy." announced to have been “ written expressly
for Mr, Dampior, by Juliaa Thomas, LXi.D., (whoop)
is in point of fact, an adaptation of a translation,
which Mr. Dampior brought out with him, of Paolo
Giacommetti’s well-known domestic drama La ,
Civile." Julian Thomas, LL D , however,has ea-
daavonred to improve on the work of the groat Italian
dramatist, by giving the piece an Australian flavour.
Thus ho introduces an impossible blaoktellow (who has
nothing whatever to do with the plot),an equally im-
possible magistrate (who makes up like the heavy
uncle in the farce), an "Irish traveller (who has
come to Australia —possibly to introduce some article
in the soap line)—a gushing girl (who talks horse an
paddocks, aud travels about the station m a dress
would bo delicate for a flower show), and an „"„f aUa^
convict, who. being impersonated of
course comes on in a red shirt, and talks
about his ches-ild, that before the play is half over, you
wish to thunder the uureo-girl had dropped the infant
down a water-hole in its infancy, and thus precluded the
possibility of the drama ever having been written.
« # *
“ No Moroy ” is i* four acts, the first one of
which, owing to the improvements of
LD.D., plays close upon an hour 1 This act is oeiUmly
the most wonderful piece of literary work tho worid hae
ever writhed at; and is onlv surpassed by the P rol <>fuoof
Nat Doe's mad tragedy, which, it will be remsmbered,
was hi fifteen acts, of fifty-fl v* tableaux each, theiplay
being calculated to take exactly three weeks for vvw
representation. The characters in No Morey
come on and give the opinions of Juhan T homas,
r r, D on theology, social ethics, and a variety
of other matters. Then there is the old house
keeper, played by Miss Melville, who is favoured
hv the " author” with tho catch-word " who
knows?" and whom Mr. Boothman, in the c *£ raot t e £
f !ir g caUs o "anoM of°an
dually refined and delicate nature.
perceives SS IKS. -JjbJ
1 ’-u ■ a? viafhna These perhaps. occur where Julian
TiSS tl..o»gh
his original translator.
* * *
Tho blaokfollow (played by Mr. Sam Poole) in
the first aob appears to have come m . rom *7.®
bush and in the second in seen enacting the part of
footman to tho Magistrate! Some of the speeches put
into King Charlie’s mouth— notably tho talk about tho
sins, and his prophesy that Miss Melrose will have
"plenty piccaninny hy-and-byore *
flolinaov os in cleverness. The incidents of tho piece*
fndcod, all through, are as unhealthy in ton# £8 soma
of the talk is sensual m character. Tbo OonTict is tne
always thinking his wife is more than c he e Ud is
Doctor with whom she lives, and that her cnee uci is
fruit of her giddiness during the twenty years or so he
has been incarcerated for the murder pfhsr brother.
Then the Magistrate (who is a Calvinist) to get
the unfortunate woman to come on
be converted to Calvinism. So it will be seen that there
is abundant material upon w )*?? hto tirades
which are relished by such ef the audience as hkeurades
their theatrical pldt to be very highly spmed and
exceedingly strongly seasoned.
« • •
The acting was very patchy. Mr. Dampier was,
of course, the Convict. We haven t seen
piece at the Gaiety for many a long day, wl th tho ex-
ception of " Michael Strogoff, m which he haa not
been either a convict, a beggar, or a d™kard-
these nlavs, too, he has almost invariably mislaid bis
missus*and the kid, and undergoes the most surprising
adventures in his efforts to tumble across them. At
length, they meet. Alfred |ls, of course, in rags, and
tiie “c Id woman” togged out in the piokof the local
milliners Then come —The Recognition!—The Denial).
The Accusation!—The Cheedld I— Father!—Forgiveness!
Afterwards, down with the rag. and “ Dampier Come
boutaeinl" In “No Mercy," Signor Giacommetti
has gfven Mr. Dampier some really good scenes
But in tho second act, he tells the story of his
life, whicn is such a long narration that, .before
he is half-way through it, people begin to wish he
had never been born Most of his speeches, too, are about
the length of the Botany road, and some of them—nota-
bly when he is wondering whether the chee-ild is o
medical origin or iiot-a good deal Mr ®am-
nier. in fact, was not at his best. All his business
in this piece wo have seen in the dramas that preceded
it. amd the wife and child racket is about played out.
* * •
Mias Amie Adere enacted the wife ; and from the
splendour of her attire, and the number of diamonds she
sported, one was led to the conclusion either that gov-
erness to a country surgeon must be a proatablesituation
or that she had been sneaking the tamarinds out of the
doctor’s surgery aud trading them away to tho hawker
for silks and jewels.
* • •
Mias Lily Dampier plays, of course, the Chee-ild.
She has a number of little speeches to make about Papa
aud Mamma, which sho delivers with that beautiful in-
flection of voice which is common to young ladies in
hoarding-schools when repeating a geography lesson
or coni ligating a French irregular verb. In the last act.
Miss Ijilv starts to pray while her dada takes tho cold
£n." and the expression of her face at that juncture
led us to the conclusion that she was contemplating a
cot- fight in tho “ flics.” Her costume was singularly
suggestive of bush life, consisting of a diaphanous frock
of blue slashed with pink, with high cerulean boots aud
silk stockings.
• • •
Miss Marian Melrose looked—as a gentleman in
the gallery remarked—a nummer i and she really did
all that could bo done with a part that had nothing
whatever to do witli tho action of tho plot. Mrs.
M'Pherson, tha doctor’s housekeeper, was played by
Miss M A. Melville. It could bo seen from the start
that our "Mrs. Jarlov” was uneasy. Our Mary Ann had
our sincerest sympathy all through. Wo wore miserable
together,
* * *
Mr. Carey in the small part of the Doctor,
played with groat artistic finish, and, < contrived, as he
always does, to thoroughly sink his identity while in-
terpreting the character. Mr. Sefton was fair h e ®“-
five as the magistrate, but so much of Julian Thomas,
LL.D., is put lutohis mouth, and eo little of tho author,
that the audience grew as weary of him tor p a J^ ll ? aa
Hypoilyta was of Starveling s Moon. Mr. Poole has
all the “fat "as Charley, the aboriginal but his per-
formanoe of that character is not to be com-
narad with his interpretation of Jackey, in
“ Never too Late to Mend," of which King Charley is
a "Vagabond” edition. Mr. Boothman as Fergus
O’Donnell, an Irishman, played the part m a manner
which has. at least, the merit of originality. Some-
times he spoke the brogue, and sometimes not-gene-
rally not. Ho appears to have been introduced for the
purpose of making love to Marian Melrose, and the
business that is set down for him with King Charley .is
very much akin to that of tho “ swell in the panto-
mime. In the last act he delivers what is supposed to
be a comic nautical lecture, which is nothmg more than
a string of nigger wheezes of 'the most bald-headed
description. Even a circus-clown would blush (to utter
them. There is one—how new I—about a ship being
like a lady when she’s in stay a. “ Pitiful, pitunl.
# # *
Mr. Emmett, as a young squatter, boked like
the groom of a horse-bazaar ; but ho delivered las lines
with fair effect, and evidently took no small pains witti
a part that was hardly worth the trouble. ,
* * *
Wo are aware that this is a comparatively
abort notice for au important dramatic production, ny
ho distinguished a playwright, However, perhaps y> rnori
five or six more of our stall have seen it we wiimll do
enabled to atford the play another fulaomely compii-
mentary notice. In the meantime we kiss our hands to
Liampier, ami crown Julian with a threepenny flower.
* * * * m
The Government orowd the
Theatre Koyal nicely on Monday V and
expressed a wish to see homse in
Cleopatra," and it was, r ®* ore i t P t ho last moment,
night to Oblige with an acre of shirt-
however, last as Josh hadappeareu gach tagte that
front, and Goodie (who was g■ P„ ou i d have furnished
no amount of vice-regal P at r° na E® nous equipment) was
glory enough to justify; gofge conscio p us sml lo of
standing outside awmting, wnn shandrydan, a
acknowledged beauty, the g b hi wa „ lina ble to
message arrived saying that her l V I h came
come on account of indisposition. Then a c “ a “ K Qoodie
o'.r the spirit of the dream. .Josh 9™* ’ e £ d wa9
growled, but Jim Allison said . , d to take a Semi-
te go into Eastway’s for a dnnk, ana to
circular bite clean out of a tumblor.
“ Twelfth Night ” consequently P^noed
on Tuesday, and we are glad to . diate and pro-
the success of the comedy was 1 . , t heued by the
nounoed. The company had h o en strengthens
arrival of Miss Jessie Grey; and . very
ment to that young lady ,^ With Mias
great acquisition, indeed, to the the piece was
Pomeroy as Viola, and Jessie as for
one of the merriest performa . gs pomeroy shiuse
a vary considerable time. Th or ( ormanC o of Viola
more in comedy than tragedy, P bQ vecy much
is an incontestable P r °of ’ making her rentrdt in
regretted that she did ttan to Melpomene. It
Sydney, saorifloe to Thaliarath father
will suffice, in this issue— for the piece y . ol(i is ft
noticed in our next—to say that through-
piece of acting of inicommon merit, ana t did hor
out the play, neither did her P ETOry hody should
sense of humour
see Miss Pomeroy’s delightful performance,
onco crisp, graceful, and artistic.
-Miss Jessie Grey, as
Her intonation is de ® ld .® 4 ’^ a time since Sydney
purity and richness, It bcro Uvia bo a sample of her
has seen Jessio ; hut,: if her U 1)0 a very long
general stylo, wo should thin h G r again. 1
time, indeed, before Sydney w P ; o : na pred. Mar-
Wo understand Opera House,
shall s company when they P b riirht particular star of
It was stated that she was the b 1 a Ellis was
Pred.'s very dull mntomimo. Miss uko MiBs
lively as Maria, and if there y P b BO meone
Amy Clayton, we should like to Do tom “v
where we can buy the book.
* * *
Mr. Steele’s Malvolio was intensely droll. That
ho has made the character avi ar inlmit-
rent. His gestures, make-up.Lting afforded ms
able. To see this quaint P °*XhoneMr.Steele
very much pleasure indeed. an much as wo liked
winHke this little notice a con-
ception T of Sir Toby which abOTt bor-
wo do not tWn many poopl the prompt
'bXifth now appears asafull-blown
actor of the first water„ have C ome to the conclusion
carefully studying him we have come preferring
*c.°s? ssru
S; In-ll Mr. Jerdau «u
• • •
Mr. Fleming had 1 a littleto do l an Hf^^eßtonwM
look, and hedid both satisfactorily.-vhihitedoommond-
exceedingly droll as Bir Andrew, an e come dianB in
able intelligence in not turning t£ do—refined
their anxiety to secure a la ' gl Mr i- j> y Mowry was
comedy into wild while the onlyEyan
Bober to, and very well ho played it, wn wbicb oaB t
played a speechless gentleman, in ama « qU in
hu previous brilbant performance l of theilfono^
the Pantomime completely in the * in t oat that th.
was fairly put on, but we wish 1 well together,
hands behind are very far fro Home change in I
and Mr. Allison willdo well to make am^er
this regard. Some of the flats night y, on
strongly suggestive of their having got
kerosene.
Batchelder and Bent’s Minstrels. I
drawing crowded houses “*$ b j^ iokBon 'B saloon, where
had a turn-up bedstead put m hicks n s g ullder his
after biz. be reposesnightly with th® ®°° P* k boys aro
pillow. As wo. said ast these aa«j wQek
mercurial in their liveliness. _ g da t bottle,
with sandwiches, and something 1 . wdl bo
and intend to give the show a boom J®£ and entitled-
included a little poem addressed to Amy,
LiTiui EosE-nun.
Th...w rmn.™ ,K‘i»p"who
no exaggeration to stato, p P gQ with laughing,
away to 1 groan. Their aides their backs f rom
leaning 6 andinoppmg their eyes with the shawl
of the lady in front,
The Sydney M JlnUta P““SaStS SS.
a complimentary peHori nee o Ee „ bo w many
was interesting « y ticket who
people will crowd into a requiredto
would shun it like P h T , piecea performed were
“part" at the x entitled “Betsy
an entirely new and or I£ T Craven, entitled
S?Wnf n vire " Tho latter piece was originally pro-
* Ocala ot J. irc« rnuAnfra and is reckoned I
amateurs. # *
“ Rni sv Balter ” was played with great spirit.
'■n." thatThc t uNt some ttae. be an ornament
sion that sU0 aA V n . fc sav a t what time, because we
to tho stage. We don t say at • t tbiß
have xmbtte smnt ‘‘ffie
moment; but it will dc, y 3 ag gasma u at the
by tho way, has g . £ Denmark on the stage of
Offi'nTnrv 8 Mr ffl sfcokes. the low comedian . ot
Old i>rury. -«*■fin to IVTouscr. &d(1 exliibiuecl I
subdue it. Aye. eveu if
lmvo to leave tho emporium and live for evermore on
uo have to leave 1 1 Mouser-this is an announce-
-sj&ssa*w4£r*
but If sue snoul roun d the giugcr-beer-and-rasp-
perfotmance, date being crowned by a three-
permy vanish. It was our-
selves. # *
We didn’t wait for “ Coals of Fire, P ar^y
to. overdue ut Ih.
Museum corner.
# * *
Mr Tnmoa Rainford prompted with great skill.
!ndeed behave the words, as Sloppy need to give Betsy
hS in “Our Mutual Fiiend”-the Police reports, m
I _ ~i nna The ataffincr was well done; and the
bfnd Played whh muck sphit. Had they played with
a little more spirit, they would have had tho roof oil.
* * * *
We have it on good authority that a young lady
\\o uav > Theatre Koyal company, and who
fdven that youthful tar the run. and is shortly to bo
united in holy matrimony to a pair of whiskers.
* * * *
1 „ ThB , r °!l”la SS^SfuS*.-mS
Hudson, who took it from goodness knows who. Wo
trust Mr. Pollard will, before opening, emulate the
example of Mrs. Lewis when she played a season there
with her children, and give the place a thorough clean-
ing out. The present price of insect powder may be
seen from our market report. We shall have much
pleasure in giving the youngsters a show.
** * *
Ethel Adello, who is a very favourite aoubrette
in Now Zealand, is coming to Sydney., This young
lady is reported to be exceedingly charming. Well, we
are always glad to welcome charming people, so when
Ethel arrives she can notify us of that fact by a three-
sheet poster. There is a romance adhering to this
young lady, by-th#-bye. Wo forgot what it is now, hut
someone belonging to her family is a baronet. Perhaps
it’s her aunt—Oh ! And we may as well mention, as
his fame has now spread through so many hemispheres,
that Jimmy South is at Maryborough.
* * **
Wo hear from Duncan Maocullum that ho has
“jacked up” the Brisbane Theatre. He says he
admires the Cardens, and loves Johnny Hall beyond
measure, but he would deem it selfish to participate
even in the enormous profits that must accrue from the
joint season of John, James, and his missis. Duncan
is open to manage for any show that wants him. Ana
we know that many do.
** * *
“ Tho Crow Club,” we hoar, recently played
“ Self-Accusation,” at Wagga. Prom what we can
learn, these Grows appear to bo about as brilliant •peoi-
mens of tho genus biped as our “ Owls,' It will,
therefore, bo understood that, after they had played the
drama, there wae, in a double soneo, no solf-nocusation
needed. And we feel wo should be doing those who
lovo Jemmy South a bad turn did we not just jam in this
wire, which wo have this moment received from no loss a
person than Arthur Leslie Bouoicault, of the Qvmpie
Miner South’s Opera Co. opened Mat night with
• Pinafore,’ to a densely crowded house —people turned
away in hundreds—no room. The Co. is sure of a pros-
perous campaign.” And this reminds us that The
Professor" is a great success at the Princess s, Mel-
bourne. Wo are glad of this, as it is stated that poor
little Fred has lost his awl, he is, consequently in a wax.
Now, let’s order a cobbler.
** * *
Frank Catos writes us a lovely littlo letter on
rep paper, in which he says that he plays with Wybert
Eeevein “ The Colonel ” in Sydney at the #nd of May
the company to include Kcove, Harkins, George
Forbes, Cates, (who made a bit of a boom in Adelaide)
Mrs. Garner, and the Nellie Playfair of our souls. Frank
says that he has a bad part in tho Professor, bnt con-
soles himself with the reflection tint the baby is bloom-
ing. This being satisfactory, our readers will he
equally pleased to hear that the Williamsons'
“ Patience " season at Dunedin is a huge
success, nearly all the dress-circle (6a.—think
of that I) having been secured by subscribers.
The Moutague-Turners are at the Queen s in
the same city, and doing nicely. Mr. and Miss. Lam-
bert are with them. And just let us chip in again and
say that the last Wilhelmj concert took place at the
Hobart Town Hall on the 21th ult. To the shame of
Sydney bo it. said, the place was crowded at every
concert.
** * *
I A Temperance concert was hold the other even-
ing at Darlinghurst. First came prayers, then an
address on local option, which would entitle tho local
curate to standing room at any Coffee-stall, and next
a part song by ten pretty maidens. Individually, no
doubt, they are estimable girls and good singers, but,
collectively and chorally, their efforts only gave a
moderate amount of pleasure. A baritone did not sing
became of a little coolness between himself and a
churchwarden, whose spectacles he had planted during
divine service. A young man from tho country next
sang, and, if his voice had been equal to his assurance,
the solo would have been a treat. But too much of his
■genius was absorbed in turning over the music sheets,
and as he could never find the right place, but wont
on singing all the same, the listeners would gladly have
swapped him for the baritona. A popular clergyman
sang well, and a medico, who smiled extensively and
was evidently very popular with himself, did his
best. It is fortunate he has a good medical practice,
(or it would be a national calamity if he were thrown
back on music as a means of livelihood. When the
useful plate had hosn brought under notice, the per-
formers were thanked, and tho audience went home
cheerfully.
"THE POOR PLATER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Mr Benson Lees, who has run many entertain-
ments here, returned to Sydney by the Potoai, and, on
arrival, was presented bp his follow passengers with a
silver-mounted dressing case, for keeping them lively
during the voyage Cosarino Galeotti is the name of a
musical prodigy, the nine-year-old son of an Italian
gentleman, who bids fair to rival the boy Mozart A
Zulu chief, six feet and a half tall, recently sued at
Rochester (U.S.) the manager of a travelling museum
for tailing to pay him the stipulated wage of £-* per
week. The Zulu chief spoke in good English, and said
11,.,)- jiis name was Francis Murphy, and that his oocu-
nation' had'been that of a Kondoubt hod carrier.....
Since the death of the original Holler, numerous sleight-
of-hand performers have adopted his name. Ihe feat
which one of these Hellers performed at Westfield,
Mass was to remove a fourteen-yoar-old girl from her
home, and marry her before her parents were aware of
if The usual practice has been reversed in Mel-
bourne At a concert of the Quintette Club, the male
members wore polled with flowers, but Miss Cora
Miller was neglected. Not a single pelter I unloss she
got into one herself.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-pluma
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Xebec”: Write a yarn “ Gugswuggor ”
(Blackall): You’re a man after our our own heart. We
can’t improve your items, all of which wo print. Wa
want to enter into closer relations and do business.
Please send name and address " C.J.” : Sic is Latin
for “thus,” “so,” and moans that words or passages
quoted arc given, however absurd they may seem, just
as they originally appeared. It is frequently used in
giving quotations from certain “ sic ’’ daily journals.
“ J. 8.” : Thanks. Shall bo glad to hear from you.
Your query is answered in another part “P.J.E.”:
It is utterly inpossiole for us to make anything out of
your communication. You are too verbose. Write,
telling us simply what occurred outside the theatre, and
wo will attend to it. You have got Bayless, the Vag.,
the bobby, and about 520,000 other people all mixed up
like Hungarian salad **Casino”: We think, alder.
manically speaking, that you have lighted on a Mayor’s
aost “F.W.N.”: Certainly; always glad to hear
from the Far North, in which wo take a special interest.
The letter yon send is a perfect yell, but a little too
lively for publication “Delta”: First class
“Stray Leaves": You arc “right in it.” Keep it up.
“ A.H.G.”; You need not be discouraged. Try
again “W. 8.": We don’t exactly see the drift of
your par “ Hiddemto ” : Will read and consider
“T. J.O’L." : Thanks. Letter received. Will write
you in a day or two “John Mackenzie” : The story
is better told in prose than in verse. Your rhyme is
good, but wore wo to print it, we’d have to give a prose
explanation of the occurrence. Wo can't afford space
to do that “ M.C.” iWe use one part of your wel-
come communication j the other will appear next week
L. 8." (Cooma): Thanks for item; why not a
little fuller? “Zoo”: Obliged “Cecily M’Q," «
Would insert if wo understood, but it’s not quite clear,
1 especially the phrase, “does not possess eyoa," &o. Bo
a little more explanatory “Novice": Wo will try
and bring it in “E.H.N.”: Write often “W.C.
(up North): Your pars, are capital “XY.Z.
(Dunedin): Always glad to hoar from you “ Gal.
laghor": Very acceptable matter “A.L.T.": Not
“A 1 at Lloyd’s." “Ajax": Koep it up “W.
Hoartwell ’’ (Surry Hills): We don’t care what the
Herald says about your helping a lot of handbell-
ringers, and wo certainly decline to insert your item
about yourself. “Partner”: Jones, and not Mid-
winter, should be in the Australian team. Midwinter
isn’t an Australian native ; Jones is. Besides, Midwinter
came out with the Englishmen. In the words of a con-
temporary, with him it’s acasoof “go downblackfellow,
jump up whitofellow” J. B. (Woodfordleigh, Clarence
Eiver). 1. Michael Bush, when he defeated E. C. Lay-
cock. Time, 21min. 18seo. Time trial* may have exceeded
this, but there is no authentic record. 2. Yes, ho
returned about the same time as Laycock. He is now
in Melbourne “ A Freethinker ” : Have a show next
week ....“ Ciexk” (Arcade, Melbourne): We rarely pub-
lish letters, but we will put in par. next week
“ Silver Lode,” Charters Towers : Much obliged, we’ll
work it up “ M.” Dubbo: Item good style, but wa
don’t understand it, as part of us are not residing in
Dubbo at present, but at a nice hou»e in Forbes-street.
If we published it, wo might have to stop here for ever.
So you’d better give us the straight facts and wo’il do tho
ornamentation “ Grandmother.” —Obiigedto you
»Inquirer ” : writes to ask, “ Will The Bullbwn be
published to-morrow?” Yes, dear Sir, The Bulletin
will be published to-morrow, also next Thursday. On
each Thursday of this year it will appear in time to bo
devoured along with the fresh eggs and morning coffee
of its 25,000 readers. We anticipate publishing Tim
Bulletin next year, and a good deal subsequently.
Thb Bulletin will be published on the Judgment Day,
it it’s a Thursday, and it will be issued as usual the week
after that, it our subscribers yell for it as they do now.
Yes, dear “ Inquirer,” you shall have your Bulletin,
and so shall your posterity, as long as they have 3d
“Aei": Excellent “Madge": In such cases, name
and address must be sent “D.P.” Hold over for a
week Received: One guinea’s worth of pastaga
stamps through Oxford-street P. 0., postmark dated
March 6th; no clue given to sender; will ho please
communicate his name and address ?
Gallagher named his dog **Ragbag.” Of
course this maddened Mr. Ragbag, who lives next door.
But ho got even. Ho wont and bought an ugly bull-
dog which has lost both oar* and one ey* in fights, and
sported a broken tail, and he named the dog,
“ Gallagher - and - his - wife - and - two- chlldren-and-hie-
mother-in-law. ”
At Adelaide, the Salvation Army havo been
holding high jubilee, presided over by a weak-kneed
person named C. H. Goode, who, however, is. we hope,
not too Goode to bo true. Thejiand-billa call upon “the
army” to moot for “knee-drill," to be followed by a
“Hallelujah Love Feast." A brass band and a big
drum are advertised as additional attractions. Brass,
sheepskin,||and|liallolujah in this world; halo, nimbus,
harp and hallelujah in the next 1 All this reminds one
of a nigger farce—all gag, bladder, flour and waddy.
A farmer up on the Clarence started out King
I Billy and some other aboriginals with a water-cask on a
dray They wandered on to tho run of the Duke of
Something’s nephew. The Baron straightway cried,
<i ho, caitiffs, henchmen, retainers, go seize me
that barrel and take it to the homo station. The
marauding propensities of the lower races are worse than
tho Fictish violence that was kept in check with the
sabre of my sires 1” The farmer talks of invoking the
majesty of the law, as he wants the dray—and could do
with the cask. . . ,
At a recent Scottish gathering m Tasmania, tho
health of Bobbie Burns was gravely proposed and duly
honoured—and now some of tho marl wags laugh at the
idea of toasting a dead man. Wo smiled ourselves
until we consulted Cyril Haviland, who is hero again in
tho body Cyril glanced at three Punch cartoons and
was ready “I s*o,” he twittered, as his azure orbs
rolled up “a big-headed Scotchman. It is Bnrrrns.
Ho wishes to speak. Listl” and then Cyril communed :
“ You’re a brick, I de-olay-or, excaimed the
broker who was trying to negotiate a few pound shares
of the newly-formed Oaks Steam Brick Co. We here
pause to remark that tne Sydney Town Hall foundations
were not constructed of these steam bricks, or the
whole city would not be so nn-Hayes-y about it.
Everybody who is interested in the great staple
product of the colonies—aad who is not P—might jnsti
now see at Riley Brothers ' what is manufactured abroad
for us from pure Australian wool. Under special
arrangement with the firm, the best description of
colonial fleece is now returned to us, in the shape of
flannels, blankets, &0., of a description never previously
importeddhere, and the goods are sold at figures which
show that bur mail arrangements place us, in the
matter of "Sost of production, right beside the great
manufacturing centres, of the old world.
We wonder whether an auctioneer’s apprentice
ever became a poet laureate. Wo are led to reflect
thuswise. in consequence of reading Hardio and Gor-
man’s advt. about a “ mountain" land sole which is to
taka place at a locality called (Black-" heath." Wo
know that the scenery around Blackheath is wild, but
that is no reason why Hardie and Gorman’s clerk’s
language should be wild, toe, and take the reader ‘a
Govstfa Heap over entangling ideas. What with tho
scenery, the special train, the free lunch, and tho dead
bargains to be secured, the visitors to Blackheath, t<>-
"day (Saturday), should be there—a'l there, and a trifla
toajfare.
The Match.
Once more from the dear old country,
A cricketing team we greet—
Midwinter. Selby, and Ulyett,
Shaw. Barlow, Scottou, and Peate,
Bates, Pilling, Shrewsbury, Emmett—
There is none that we can condemn;
But the veni-vidi-vioi song
Was not to bo sung by them.
It is needless to tell how Palmer bowled.
How Kvaus screwed the sphere
How the Englishmen went in one by one,
How°Blackham punished poor Ulyett’s best,
Slh" SiteSiS..& KS could Bead,
Trotted oil to the fence for four.
We need not recount how Murdoch played.
The batsman of deathless fame,
As when fast or slow was the bowling made,
. fiftESSSSSSid loom t.™» to «d.
Proclaimed that the game was won.
For the day is over, the fight is fought.
And the Britishers now ore aware ~ ,
That the youth of Australia can lick the old lanl,
With four or five wickets ta spare.
And the ringing shouts of ten thousind throata
la unison loud will tell
How England was beaten by cornstalk boy..
In the game we love so well.
And when the Britishers hear the new i
r Ph at, their cricketora lost theday, _
They'll feel that Old England’s pride of place.
l lias passed like a dream away.
They’ll think of a brighter and sunnier climo,
O f a race more stalwart yet—
While we, by and byo, will niter a sigh,
As we read-” The Old World to lo ! ..
EEREE.
AULD RAB’S SENTIMENTS.
Ye carles wha’ tent to gar a boly
Kespoad wi'oot a whusky toddy,
Appear to me sae awin’ shoddy
Wi‘ a’ your toasts.
Kon na yo that in these warm regions
I’a’ up wi' priests o’ a’ releegiona,
We’ve been doon hare like bakin’ peegoou i
Or frizzlin’ roasts ?
Those hun’ner year gone by P To think it I
In a' thae years we hae nae drinkit.
Our eon sae dry we hae nae winkit
A. century blank I
But giu ye could, for throats sae clammy.
Send doon a drap for Shauter Tammy,
A mutchkin’S a’ tae little—dammy.
Send doon a tank 1


PEPPER AND SALT.
Some people living in a Darlinghurat-road
terrace are musical. Occasionally they have a vocal and
instrumental reunion, and then the neighbours’ hearts
grow black with murderous designs, and they abase
their offspring about the back yard with choppers, and
bombard choice poultry with lumps of road-metal. We
went on a visit to a colonial countess in the neighbour-
hood the other evening, and thosa musical people
chanced to give a party. First a lady sang “ Silvered is
-the raven hair," and at once a feeling of stony-dumb-
ness came upon us. The next “number” was “ Fair
moon," by a gentleman amateur. This caused us merely
to leave the imprint of five nails on the back of our
hostess's hand. •• Poor wandering one" was the succeed-
ing instrument of torture applied; and then we rushed
from the premises. Seeing a policeman at the corner
of the terrace, wo said—“ Take us in charge; we are
dangerous.” His reply was to glance with gloomy vin-
diotiveness at the musical family’s house, to wipe his
bloody truncheon on his handkerchief, and to hoarsely
murmur—“I have killed a man to-night.” Just then
the party struck up “ Twenty love-sick maidens," when
with a ghastly countenance we cleared.
* # #
Mr. Dillon, S.M., is so satirical, that if he goes
on much longer, he will “ quite clean out the town."
At the Central, he said recently— 11 It may be a matter
of interest to the gentlemen of the Press to know that
only four drunkards were on the sheet this morning."
The next time Mr. Dillon guys the boys likes this, he
may expect his head to be broken with a saveloy.
• * *
MILNER STEPHEN.
A MODEST SUGGESTION.
Now that you say your magic skill,
At healing is matured.
We might suggest, dear boy, yon will
Now heal all those you’ve cured.
* * *
Last week, Lady Augustus Loftus called into a
leading bookseller’s in Qeorge-streot to see about some
books ordered by His Excellency, when the smart youth
who attended, paralysed her with “Oh yes, my lady-
ship. I sent the books to the Lori this morning 1" Lady
Loftns says that such ignorance is the result of the
absence of an aristocracy.
• • •
A Townsville fruiterer, who wished to do a
stroke amongst the Chinamen, recently got one of the
breed to paint him up a sign inviting the attention of
“John" to the “flute" inside. It was finished about
9 a.m., and at half.past a vendor of cabbage came
trotting along, when, the aunonncement in the window
meeting his eye, his mouth expanded into a broad grin,
and, leaving his basket on the side-walk, he flattened
his nose against the window, and leered fixedly at the
fruiterer. Five minutes later another Celestial turned
up, and on reading the advertisement became imme-
diately afflicted with uncontrollable laughter. Then
the first man went away and told his friends, and soon
the side-walk was rendered impassable by reason of the
mob of screaming Chinese that were congregated there.
Finding that none of the almond-eyed bought anything,
the shon-man sallied out and endeavoured to disperse
the mob with a millet-broom and a garden-hoe j and
having wounded two dangerously, and had the bridge of
his own nose broken by a olothos-prop, all the Chinamen
departed. The next day, after ho had appeared to
answer seventeen informations for assault, bo received,
written on the card of a Chinese merchant the trans-
lation of his barbarian ad. It was this “ The man
who keeps this shop is a fool, and ought to be in an
asylum." Then he clenched his teeth, shut up his
shop, and double-loading his shot-gun, went out to give
the sign-writer another order.
* * •
At a recent Ministerial banquet at Bundaberg,
Queensland, one of the guests proposed “ the health ”
of the dear departed friends who had attended the last
affair of the kind, but had since died. Another then
rose, and proposed a comprehensive view of the matter
by drinking to the cemetery, whereupon an intoxicated
person struck up “ For hols a sholly good f *ler."
* # *
OUE TIP.
Bear now in mind, most simple youth.
This sterling little tale ;
If ever yon dare tell the truth,
They’ll look you up in gaol.
* • •
We see by a London paper that “ Covent Gar-
den has been taken for an afternoon performance by
the Illustrated London News proprietary.” After
this we shall expect to see Alfred take the Eoyal for a
private taste of the “ Twelfth Night.” Oh, but we for-
got, though I The Evunoozb has ceased, for some
time, to be an illustrated journal.
• « •
Here’s news. Some of the drapers supply
ladies of “ evangelical" tendencies with clothing for
charitable purposes at a nominal profit over the origi-
nal cost. It has been recently ascertained that silk
dolmans, eight-button gloves, and embroidered stock-
ings have, in some cases, come under the heading of
“ clothing for the poo ” Well may wo say with the
“ Tambour-Major " Abbess —but with a different em-
phasis—“ Ladies 1"
« » •
There’s a lay Pastor Allen up North, whose
hobby is to induce the Government to fetch out here
four or five hundred parsons— gratia. By all means let
them sail along, with only this proviso : that, as soon
as they are landed, they are marched off to the “ boil-
ing down.” If they are fairly plump, they ought to
yield from seven to eight hogsheads of tallow. And, if,
as divines, they weren’t “ shining lights," they’re sure
to be as—candles.
• « •
Speaking of the peerless Patti’s American tour,
and the immense amount of side put on by her agent.
Abbey, a ’Frisco paper says “ This is a great coun-
try, and an artiste must enter it professionally and with
a flourish of trumpets, or the people consider that they
are being treated disrespectfully) and reciprocate with
indifference.” Now, will the advance agent of the next
dqg and monkey show, or electric-girl-and-fat-boy-oom-
hmatloa crowd, kindly paste this in their boots, and
remember, when next they enter Dubbo, or Cobar, that
this is a great country, one of the first powers of the
world, and we can’t stand anything less than diamond
studs, white oyster-bag pants, and a buggy and pair that
weren’t turned out about the time of the Norman Con-
qnesf. # # ,
Her police description road 5 ft. G in., stout
build, light complexion, and she wore a light-coloured
hat and dress. When found at the Government gates
she proved to be not more than 5 ft. high, slight build,
swarthy complexion, and wore a black hat, shawl, and
dress. And yet, the “fooroe" declares it wasn’t a
very dark night after all, when she was hunted out of
the Flagstaff grounds.
* * *
“If you keep galloping about the paddock in your
night-shirt, you’ll get cold," shouted a Rockhampton
father to his flve-year old heir. The answer came
quickly back, “ I like to get cold, pa, because then I
get whisky."
• * •
“ He (the policeman) nipped me round the waist
when ho came |to search the bar," complained an in-
dignant Hebe to the Licensing Lycurgus, the other day.
But the Court merely smiled, and considered there was
great provocation given. This reminds us that Alfred
has jnst reeled off a well-grounded leader on “ Muzzling
the Press." When he's right through with that, he
might let us know what he tninka about “ Pressing the
Muslin.”
* « *
A Northern sinner, who has lost all his teeth,
desires to know: (1) "Whether hell is hotter than
Rockhampton, and (2) what’s the u.u of his going to
hell if he hasn’t any ivories to gnash, as the Scriptures
must be fulfilled to the letter?" It’s no go, old boy.
There’s a supplytof “grinders” kept on the premises,
and a dentist or two to fix .them in. Ask Beg. This is
the easiest Wazir, out of the difficulty.
, * # *
At an up-country town, recently, an alderman
gave a picnic, and there was to be a dance in the evening
at the principal hotel. The picnic party being unavoid-
ably delayed, the host wired to the Press to commence
operations. When the party returned, they sat down to
the heel of a leg of pork and a water-melon. The re-
porters had dined.
• • •
The only preface needed by the subjoined is a
statement of the facts that Herberton is situated on the
far distant Wild Biver, and that it is the newest tin-
rush up North: —
“HERBEETON QUADRILLE ASSEMBLE
“ Committee: Peter Bkone, William Bussell, Henry
Thompson. Treasurer : M. MuHord. Secretary :
D. Henry. M. 0.: J. Badkin.
“ Rules :
44 1. Entrance money, 5 shillings to be paid in advance.
44 2. Weekly 2s. 63. [attendance or non-attendance.]
‘ 3. Ladies admitted free.
“4. Any person insulting a lady will bo immediately e.v.
pelted.
"5. Any lady misconducting herself will be immediately ex.
pelted
“6. No person admitted under the influence of liquour.
41 7. No sprituous liquours allowed in the room,
“8, No gentleman allowed to engage a lady before the
M.C. calls the dance.
•‘9, No gentleman allowed to dance with a lady twice in
succession.
44 10. Ladies must either accept the first offer of a partner
or sit out that dance.
•'ll. Any person using obscene language makes himself liable
to a fine of 5 shillings.
“ 12. All persons to abide by the programme as furnished
by the M.C.
11 13. Each member allowed to introduce a friend by
previously seeang the committee.
44 14. All complaints to be made to the committee, their
decision to be final.
" 15. No smoking allowed.
44 16. Any surplus money in the hands of the committee to
be devoted to the expenses of a Quarterly Ball.”
We here instinctively recognise the hand of at least
one dear old friend, who shone at Butcher’s Creek when
the Hodgkinson rush was young. They used to have the
same rules then, too. 44 No sprituous liqueurs 44 were
allowed in the room, and this law was rigidly kept,
barring the trifling exception that whenever a gentleman
entered the room the 44 sprituous liquours 44 entered with
I him, and whenever he left the “ liqueur ” wont out.
too. Then, as now, “no gentleman was supposed
engage a lady before the M.C. called the dance,” though
Long Johnny used to like dancing with tho lady who
was supposed to bolMra. Long Johnny, butreally wasn’t;
and if you asked Mrs. Long Johnny to whirl round with
you in the giddy waltz, her lord, who had covered up a
large quantity of “ spritnous liquour,’’ and " brought it
with him into the room," would invite you to step out-
side and stand on the grass with him for two minutes.
And Heaven help you, it you accepted the challenge,
for Long Johnny, who was a New South Wales native,
was as good a man with his “ mauleys,” and as reckless,
as any north of Capricorn. Tho ladies, however, never
misconducted themselves, save by getting drunk ; and
if any gentleman did use obscene language, ho always
paid the fine.
A well-known popular Queensland lawyer went np to
the Hodgkinson once, for a mining case, and was invited
to attend a grand ball given on the occasion of the open-
ing of anew “hotel." He went, looked round, and got
introduced to several ladies, with one of whom he stood
np for a dance. After a few turns, he and his partner,
who, by the way, was a really pretty girl until she
opened her month—she rarely did so, except to put
something in it—sat down. The lawyer invited her to
have soma refreshment. She laid she’d take “three-
star, please.” He followed suit, and soon the gay pair
—if his wife could have seen him I —were sipping brandy
and water, and talking soft nothings, on the ball-room
seats. George—for that was his name—remarked that
it was “ a nice ball.” He said it solemnly, but, perhaps,
he didn’t mean it. Now, Venus’ “hnsband” kept a
shanty, and she had been attentively watching the bar,
to see how much the proprietor of the new “ hotel ” was
taking for drinks. Not much trade, according to her
notion, was being done, so she cynically replied that she
didn’t think mnch of the tall—the men were making a
and dry affair of it.
• • •
The virtuous sailor is a delusion. Ralph Rack-
straws don't exist. Ask the people about them at the
Sailors’ Heme. Why, they say there, that Jack (as a
body) is the greatest “ snapper up of unoonsidered
trifles” ever known. One day there, a Lascar stole
the cover oft the copper, and the same day one of the
boarders was caught making an ornamental walking-
stick out of one of the billiard ones. Whenever a
sailor gets a book lent him, he tears out the first page
for a pipe-light, and then—there is a kind of free-
masonry in this—spits on tha cover. Not long ago, a
son of Neptune shook all the clothes pegs, and traded
them away for a porter.gaff. Everything that can be
looked up is looked up, but the cook says he would not
be surprised if he came down one morning and found
that tha kitchen range had been bartered away for a
quart of rum and a second-hand “ sou-wester."
In the next “ championship ” sculling match,
we expect to see Trickett win, and to hear of Hanlan
building another hotel.
• * *
Another Town Clerk gone wrong. Bathurst
this time, and the town solicitor has been instructed to
prosecuf e. Wo believe that the late Town Clerk is quite
willing' to answer the charges—at a distance. The new
clerk has been sworn in. How long, wo wonder, will it
be before he is sworn at ?
* • *
It was at the Australian Club, and one old gentle-
man was spelling out a daily paper aloud to four other
patriarchs. At length he came to a paragraph about
Mount Browne, and comr. eucod, “ A number of fossils’*
—then he stopped. And, reading their wishes in the
faces of his friends, ha skipped a par., and went on—
“ The annual tea-meeting of the Particular Baptists”—
amidst a sigh of relief from the “ old *uns.”
• • •
The greatest opponent of free-selection in
Western Queensland was the editor of a local rag But
when the lands wore thrown open the anti-selection
champion snavelled the primest block of grass land in
the vicinity of the town. He can milk a cow with one
hand now, while he writes a leading article with the
other.
« • •
The nurses in Sydney Hospital are ordered to
learn cooking, so (hat now when a man with cancer in
the stomach calls for his pound of cold dumpling and
a slab of lean corned beef he can rely on being able to
work them with a knife instead of tiring himself out, as
hitherto, with the hospital axe.
• • •
When the Queensland Premier was being ban-
queted, out West, old Gaucher,v happened to say, with,
in earshot of the Minister; “I don’t mind a guinea-
it’s only a sprat to catch a mackarel.” “ Hum 1”’
growled the Premier, “but it’s a sprat that won’t
catch a MTiwraith.”
• • *
i The Society ladies are going it in London,
Frith, E. A , the painter, advertised for a parlour maid,
and amongst tho applicants were two countesses. They
wanted to get upon sensational canvas. A great fad
now is for ladies of title to disguise themselves as
models, and offer their services to their favourite
artists. We only do pen and ink sketches at this office •
but if any lady ©f title cares to come and sit for her
portrait with ns, she needn't mind disguising herself.
We don t want any of the snuffy old dowagers, who are
always quarrelling with their cooks, though. They’d
have > to disguise themselves with a vengeance before
they’d be|let into that sanctum, before whose splendour
Oriental magnificence pales its puny fires.
• • •
“Now, step this way, ladies,” remarked tha
rosthetio Pitt-street shopwalker to a party of lady
customers; “ step this way, it you please." “ But we
can t step that way, sir; " timidly replied a maiden fair
" we havon’tlgot dry peas in our boots, or bunions, and
we ve never learnt that step, you know." And then
that walker” wilted.
* * *
James Pollard, barber, found guilty of doing a
shampoo on the Sawbath day, has just been sentenced
vEtmi- Te or to sit two hours in the stocks—ride
William I, cap. 2, some 15,000 years ago. James
foolishly “ planked” his flue ; but had he selected the
stocks, it would have cost the Government about £ls,
as it couldn't raise a pair just now even to save itself
from a general dissolution. This being the age of
advancing backwards, we humbly draw our rulers’ atten-
u° au Oliver Cromwell novelty in the shape of a
righteous conduct" penalty. This was called the
.Urunkard s cloak,” and consisted of a largo barrel
with one head knocked out. A hole was made through
the other, through which the offender was forced to
thrust his head, while his hands were poked through
two small holes, one on either side. It wasn't always
a very good master-tailor fit, of course—usually it was
far below Savage’s standard—but we venture to think
that just at the present data it would bo equal to 15
fines, and four of our hired Solons.
*# « ’
Just at present, it looks as if there were some*
thing rotten in the state of our Educational Denmark,
lo satisfy the curiosity of one who wants to know, you
know, wo ask—is it true that no boy, no matter what hia
qualifications are, is allowed to pass the fourth form
standard unless he "ante’s up" 7s. 6d. a month extra for
tuition in mathemathics, physical science, Euclid, a»d
the rest of the seven “ alternate subjects P ” If it is,
all right; bnt is it also true that many of the teachers
cannot pass an examination in these seven seul-full
subjects themselves ? If it is, what does a pupil get for
his throe half-crowns ? How can any young man aspire
to the arduous post of post-office clerk or letter-carrier,
or how can ho ever hope to give satisfaction as a light-
house keeper if he doesn’t know all about the mathe-
matical mysteries, or the proper way to handle bis pons
asmorum i
* • *
. 9?° ,°f 9 10 finest evidences of the march of
civilisation in Austialia is the splendid display of
vehicles which meet the North Shore Ferry. They are
unique in appearance, and the horses which draw them
are fitted by Providence for no other kind of work. We
took a pair-horsa pboeton thore the other day, and have
been dreaming of it ever since. When it moved, it
jingled like a peal of bells, and the horses nodded so as
they shambled along that it was a wonder they didn’t
nod their heads off. Sometimes the chariot smelt like an
oilskin factory and sometimes like a straw-yard. Neither
of the doors would open without violence on the part of
our bootheels, and once open the secret of shutting
them was known only to the driver. The horses always
walked up a decline, but the trap pushed them so hard
coming down hill that their eight legs seemed to be
executing a kind of goblin gavotte. It was a weird and
wondrous drive we had in that landau j so weird and
wondrous that if we have at any period of our lives to
go and storm Holterman's castle, we shall be careful to
take a mule over with us in the ferry.
• • «
Among the registered list of Australian monu-
ments ought to be included the Church of England at
Bligh. It is said to have once been a grain-barn, but
the grain man died, and then a butcher took it, and
retailed his neighbour’s sheep there, until his presence
was required at a legal conversazione. After this, it
was turned into a skittle alley, but the proprietor got
his head broken with a crease on the second day, and
sold his lease to a travelling photographer. This man
did so well there that one day ho look his own photo-
graph, and drinking a quart of collodion, passed
peacefully away. The Bishop then thought it was high
time to buy it, and now it is tha Church of England.
If something is not done to or with the building, which
resembles a charnel-house illuminated by a corpse-
light, the present incumbent announces his intention
of going into the cattle trade and letting his parish,
ioners do their own wrestling with the aid of Spurgeon’s
sermons and The Bulletin.
# # *
A wandering fiddler called Straddick was recently
attacked by a bullock at Bungendore. After being
chased for a long while, the happy thought occurred to
Mr. Straddick to scrape a chord on his fiddle. Mr. S.
has since joined a travelling company of “ star artists.”
The bullock has not been heard of.
• • t
A Cork man recently called upon an up-country
priest, and, giving him a ten-pouud note, requested that
four masses might be said for his father’s soul. The
rev. gentleman much commended this filial piety, and
gave the bereaved son £5 change. Next day the clergy,
man discovered that the note was a bad one. The rev
gentleman has no time now to pray for the father. He
is too much occupied in cursing the son.
» * «
“ Wedlock—Pugh —February 15, at the resi-
dence of Mr. Jeremiah Fugler. Belmore Kiver, by the
Bev. W. Eaboue. John, second son of William Wedlock,
of Euroka, to Jessie, youngest daughter of the late
John Pugh, cf Macleay Kiver. English papers please
copy.”
Here’s a go now, holy poker I
Willy Wedlock of Euroka,
Has wedded—here’s a how d’ye do 1—
With Jessie (whose big name was 11 Pugh”).
The wedding—sound a salvo, buglers I
Came off in style at Jerry Fugler’s.
So Jessie’s got—dear, no offence!—
That Wedlock in a double sense.
* * •
Alfred remarks in hia Evening Educator
that “there are not half-a-dozen publio school masters
in the colonyl capable of teaching Latin." And this
reminds us of a little newspaper incident. Some con-
siderable time ago a sub-editor was wanted for a o’ty
paper, and a gentleman called on the Managing Pro-
prietor about the billet. “ The man I want must," said
the M.P., going very slowly over the stones, “be a
classical scholard. Are you one?" “Oh, yes,” was
the reply, “ I am even thoroughly conversant with the
most abtruse Greek roots." “Oh, never mind about
them,” said the newspaper boss, “our agricultural
editor attends to that sort of thing."
• • •
Thera were some peculiar facts in connexion
with the inquest on the child of the poor mad creature,
Marie Laye. It was noticed that the moment Mr. Shiel
proclaimed it lawful to sleep in the parks, a gleam of
joy twinkled in each reportorial optic. In the luncheon-
hour, what the News feelingly calls "some tasty-look-
ing buns” were sent by the Coroner to the prisoner
Mr. S. having, appropriately enough, caused a Shiel-ing
to be expended ou her behalf. Marie Laye, however
declined the proffered refreshment, on which a chorus
rose from the press table of—“ What an extraordinary
woman 1 ”
# # #
Before Lefroy broke hia nock by a fall, he for-
gave all his enemies. Ho probably considered it was
no good cherishing resentment any longer.
* *
The night after the Milburn Creek case, Mr.
John Want (who, is without doubt, the future Chief
Justice, and we wish but uo matter) entered a hotel
in the vicinity of the Theatre Royal, where he met with
a posse of friends. “You were terribly cruel. Jack,"
said a wag, with an unmoved countenace. “ I was
cruel to be kind," replied Mr. Want. “ Those were my
instructions from the Crown.” They saw it in a few
moments. Then there was a loud guffaw. This wants
reading with the aid of spectacles and sobriety.
* #
Our friend the Yag. —a thousand pardons! we
mean Dr. Thomas—is progressing. He used to write
for the Herald ; now he writes in the Namot Indepen-
dent. We congratulate him.
# • #
There are two papers in Lithgow now, the
Taegett and the Southern Cross. Mr. Targett, it
seems, won’t play any nacre with the Cross, and has
THE MODEL ALDERMAN.
THE SYDNEY SOFTGOODSMAN AND THE
CHINKY.
A softgoods house required some garments made.
So sent the order off, in course of trade.
To China, by the fastest line of boats—
‘ Make us, at once, six hundred thin joan coats ;
We send a sample, and, of course, expect
The coats to be made like it, all correct.”
Now, it so happened that the garment sent
Had, in the course of wear, received a rent,
Or, maybe, as ’twas long since it was new.
By friction had the daylight been let through;
At any rate, the coat taey sought to match
Was renovated with a great big patch.
It also happens, as is known to ns.
That Yellow John’s an imitative cuss:
This, his chief feature, is so widely known,
That “Chinese copy" has a proverb grown.
What a thing’s for, John does not care or know,
fiat os he’s told to make it, makes it so.
The coats were made, and sent —arrived all right:
The softgoodsman gazed on them with delight ;
Boanned each one closely, found tho sewing neat.
Good cut and colour, everything complete.
But, Oh 1 ye gods I what mischief John had hatched I
The whole six hundred thin jean coats ware patched !
• • m


“ taken hia chaueys out of their yard.” In this digni-
fied strain does the Targett denounce its adversary i—
“Just a word in reply to the flatulent attack made
upon us by the Cross. We never attempted to hire
’their lad, nor did w"c authorise anybody else to do so.”
t is evident from this that the crime of ‘‘rattening "
must have at last extended to Australia, since an
attempt has certainly been made by someone to put the
set on the Cross’s machinery. The best thing our
contemporary can do for the future on press days will
be to supply its steam-power with plenty of bread and
dripping, and, giving him a top wherewith to entertain
himself, look him in the cellar until it is time to do
the fantasia on the double-demy. This accusation,
however, must have been very arrowing to the soul of
Targett.
# * *
Some sly dog has got to windward of the Sydney
Morning Missionary. Here is his adv.:—
“Wanted, by a young man, 26 years old,
lessons iu grammar, spelling, and writing. Les-
sons must be given at teacher’s place. Lady
teacher not objected to. Apply by letter, stat-
ing terms, to W. R. Y,, General Post Office.”
Now. wo wonder how many “ lady teachers" will apply
to “ W.R.Y.” for the billet. If any of them don’t find
“ W.R.Y." come up to their expectations, they can
troop round to this office. We have a few thousands
set aside on purpose for the purchase of “ skoolmarm "
poetry. We prefer it, we may mention, to be about
about either faded rose-buds or gentle spring. But we
prefer especially gentle spring, considering that it is a
subject that nobody has as yet written on.
• « «
He was the Mayor of a Western Queensland
municipality, and a publican of high degree. Visiting
Melbourne, he ran against some Never Never men, who
took him to a swell club and liquored him np. But it
rather astonished some of the
loungers when they saw the
stranger throw down a crown on
a table, and heard him call out
to one of the attendants:
“Here, waiter, fill up them
glasses agin. Mine’s a small
porter—what’s yours, Mr. Verge-
mont P”
ft*
Should any hard-swearing
Sydney policeman by any chance
be “sacked,” there is a good
opening for him in Far North-
ern Queensland, In the Chinese
township, on a certain famous
river, (an-tan and other forms of
gambling are in full fling. About
once a week each den is visited
iu turn by the resident con-
stable, when something like the
following occurs:— P.C.: “ Look
here, John, this is contrairy to
law; dontoher know ? I think
yon cheat.” John: “No fear.
All lito; welly good. 'You tly
’em P” Constable stalks pomp-
ously toj table, and places half a
sovereign on the mark 4. The
manipulation of the brass count-
ers follows and 4 wins. Constable
pockets his half sov., with three
more, adjourns to the next den,
and, by the time he has inspected
every gambling house, his little
gold Ipiece has transformed its-
elf into a ten pound note. This
is gospel.
• • •
“ It is,” remarks a corres-
pondent, “a somewhat strange
fact that the greater number of
those who object to vaccination,
as a ‘ remedy (?) worse than the
disease itself,* are heterodox in
their religious opinions.” Yes,it
certainly |is a remarkable fact,
but not much more remarkable
than that homoeopathy and some
sickly forms of so-called ortho-
doxy generally go hand-in-hand.
However, it is, after all, perhaps,
not very wonderful that people
whose ideal Heaven is a pink
nimbus, a golden halo, a blue
cloud, and an eighteen-penny
electro - plated Jew’s harp,
should take a mlllioneth of a
grain of weak physio once a
month to cure consumption,
cancer, or lainpas. It’s only the
man who believes in hot hell-
fire that takes Cockle’s pills.
Friar’s (balsam, calomel and po-
dophyllin boluses aren’t in favour
with slaok-kneed religionists.
* * •
We learn that the Rev. Mr.
Green is to be tried by a church
tribunal in ttt. Joseph, Mo., on a
charge of letting a young woman
sit in his lap while teaching her
a Sunday-school lesson. Here’s
persecution, if you like. Why,
out here, not long ago, a com-
plaint of a similar nature was
made to a churchwarden about
one of our clergymen. “ What’s
to be done, sir P " inquired the
father of the girl, anxiously,
though deferentially “ Done 1 ”
said the churchwarden ; “ why,
hush it up, and give him a testi-
monial.” We could give chapter
and book for this, and we will,
t io—directly we retrieve our pub-
lishing-offioe to Nova Zembla.
• * *
The Rockhampton Jack-
ass has, as we predicted, changed
hands. It is to be turned into
a limited liability company. We
don’t know wbat the shares are
to be issued at, just now, but
when we think of taking any,
we’ll inquire. Mr. M. L. Maitin,
the late proprietor, says ho has
great confidence iu the success t f
the spec.; but this is only
natural, when it is take r into
o rnsiderat ion that he is also the
artist. The drawings this week
are such as would be calculated to inspire confidence la
the breast of any Icelander. As for tne letter-press,
in which an improvement has been promised, we sup-
pose the present Patagonian will either be succeeded by
a mad Malay, or, failing him, by John Ferguson, the
Parramatta editor-man.
•• 1 •
The Vincent County Council of Clyde (N.Z.),
has been having a time. The Council met at 10 p.m.,
and next day at 2 p.m. Alderman Colclough was still in
the chair. Shortly after, Councillor M'Ginneta entered
and “ took him by the back of the neck and ejected him
from it, and took it himself.” It was then suggested
that Councillor Colclough should take the chair “at
the other end of the table, which he did I” An at-
tempt was then made to do some business, and the
tender-box was brought in. Councillor M'Qitmess,
however, refusing to give up the key, the box was broken
open. “Then," says the local paper, “Councillor
M'Ginness asked the councillors if they intended to
listen to him as Chairnlau? The reply being in the
negative, he made a protest to the clerk, and left the
table with Councillor Pitches. Shortly afterwards the
Council adjourned for fifteen minutes. When the
councillors returned. Councillor Colclough took the
chair. Thereupon Councillor M'Ginness caught hold
of the back of his chair, and drawing it from under
him, allowed him to come into forcible contact with
the floor, greatly to his inconvenience.” After this,
M’Ginness cleared, and we are told that a large quantity
of business was gone through. It is supposed, however,
that for obvious reasons, Councillor Colclough, though
er officio “in the chair,” stood during the proceedings
owing to his being “inconvenienced" by the atten-
tions of Councillor M'Ginness.
* « #
Lewis Soott once wrote an epic called “ Sunny
New South Wales," which was set to music and used
to be played at picnics with a big drum obligato amidst
the frenzied rage of the pionioers. Well, some mkn at
Illaho, signing “ Anonymous," has evidently bought
somewhere, a second-hand pair of Lewis's barnacles, or
has been using one of his white-ties for a tent-fly, since
he, too, has broken out badly in the Campbelltown
Herald with a cart-wheel squeak bearing the same
title. We have mislaid Lewis’s effusion with some
other valuables, including a few sardine-tins and some
seidlitz-powdep boxes, and are, therefore, unable to
compare the two; so far as our memory serves us, how-
ever, we cannot but consider that the Illaho man has
got the bulge to considerable extent on Mr. Scotti
Here is a stanza, now, of considerable merit:—
“ Our free-selectors turn the soil,
Or fill their flowing pails,
To add more cheese and golden grain
To the wealth of New South Wales."
Cheese is good ; and the metre as correct as a vicar’s
daughter whan her pa’s looking. Wo should very much
like this Illaho joker to send us something. How about
a poetic address to an oyster, or the song of the waning
winkle? But we don’t limit him to subject. Let him
send along anything. We intend shortly to wall-paper
our lumber-room.
« • •
Our police are getting their names up. Not only is
constable Mahood committed on a charge of suborning
witnesses, but, according to the News, another con-
stable seems likely to drop in for something unplea-
sant. His name is not given, but he arrested a man
for being drunk whom three persons swore was sober.
According to the evidence “ they got him on his back
on tbe ground, and dragged him off to the station. He
was not making more noise than any other person
would do going along with two or three friends. He
was laughing—that was all. The constable gave him a
shove when he told him to go home. Whoa the con-
stable had him on tho ground ho clutched his throat."
The only chance o( safety from police violence that a
man weuld seem to have, after thiq would be to go out
after nightfall with a throe-sheet poster san Iwichod
back and front of him, on which are inscribed the
words: “I am not drunk, and my uncle is in Parlia-
ment." We intend to try it—as soon as circumstances
permit.
* * •
Dean O’Connell said, at the opening of the new
nunnery at Queanbeyan, “If wo neglect .... we
will be found lifting up our voice in Hell (big H), and
saying ‘lf I did as I was told at the opening of this con-
vent, I should be a bright angel in heaven (small h)
instead of a Demon in Hell’ ” —and Father Birch
straightway scooped £l7B 12s. 63. from candidates who-
decliued nomination for a Demonship.
« * *
“ ’Tis a simple little flow’ret
Which I hold within my hand”—
begins Heber Q. Loten in the top corner of the Man-
ning Times. Wo doubt it; the remainder of the
poem proves to any critical eye that Heber lay down
on his back and held that flower aloft between his toos.
Try the other foot, Heber, and put up a sardine tin.
* * *
The American Naturalist gives some start-
ling instances of intelligence in snails, the voucher
for the truth of the thing being Mrs. Bishop Lay.
“ Georgie (the pet) died fourteen years ago,” says Mrs.
Lay. Your pardon. Madame, Georgie emigrated to
N.S.W., became head of the Electric Telegraph Depart-
ment, and has just ordered that no newspaper shall
receive, at press rates, more than 500 words during the
day,
* * #
Quiet-going Adelaide, the Elysium of proper,
serious, pious people, the Eden of the toilers up Mount
Zion, has startled people with an insurance fraud of the
first magnitude. In connection with this, the follow,
ing, which has filtered to us, will be read with
interest Strange to say, the yarn, too, comes from
the Adelaide district. A watery-eyed insurance
agent, of mild, insinuating address, met in a pub.
parlour a dissolute son of Mammon, noted for nothing
so much as for his readiness to spend every cent he
earned. We’ll call the insurance agent Cowden; the
son of Mammon is named Brown. Well, Cowden
at once tackled Brown, and told him that it
was everyone’s bounden duty to insure. The
dissolute one hinted that there was a delicate difficulty
in the way, an insuperable, stumbling-block, in fact.
“As how?" “Doctor’ll see I’m chronic drunk."
‘Pshaw!’’ exclaimed Cowden, “fill up the form,
man we’ll put you through ” Dissolute Brown
obeyed, and was sent to a certain medical man “ to be
examined.” The medical man merely asked him two
or three questions, and “ put him through.” Two or
three days later, Brown received an intimation from
the secretary of the society that his proposal to effect
an insurance of £5OO upon his valuable life had been
accepted, and that a bargain would be struck so soon
as ho had paid up the first instalment of the premium.
On the same date Cowden called round to round up the
assurer in respect of payment, but the latter wasn't to
be hurried. Some days later, a conversation about
life insurance occurred in another pub. parlour. Brown
was present, ridionlod life insurance, pronounced it to
be a fraud, and wound up by relating the aforesaid per-
sonal experience, and naming the office. A gentleman
present hurriedly left this particular pub. parlour. The
flowing bowl circulated, and someone present said to
Brown, “ I’ll bet you a level fiver that you don’t get a
policy issued to you. The fellow who j ust went out is
a director of the society you were speaking about/’
Next morning the postman delivered at Brown’s resi-
dance a letter curtly stating that “ from information
received I have the honour to decline,” Ac. Fact, every
word of it, except that the a tent’s name was not
Cowden.
And now, to return to Mr. Barker, the alleged insur-
ance swindler, of Adelaide. Some time ago, it will be
remembered, a rival insurance company proceeded
against him for libel, aud got a £too judgment. The
A.M.P. Society generously advanced him the whole of
the verdict and costs on the understanding that he was
to work the money out in commission. If guilty, he
must be an ungrateful scamp.
• • *
“The Vagabond” declares that he looks npj to
Mr. Francis Myers as a journalist. This quite falls in
with our impression that Mr. Franois Myers decidedly
looks down upon “ The Vagabond.”
“Sleepers, awake!” At the Melbourne Ex-
change there are now 250 telephone lines laid on, from
banks, merchants’ and lawyers’ offices, hotels, &c., as
against fifteen at the Sydney Exchange I A night
service is now being organised, and already over 200
applications for wires have been received. The insur-
ance offices are connected with the central fire brigade
office. The hospitals and asylums have lines to the
houses of their respective medical staffs, and several of
the leading doctors have lines to the houses of their
principal patients. Think of this, dear old sleepy
Sydney I And yet, when Major Clementi, agent for
India at our Exhibition, wrote to his Government to
say ‘‘ they were more civilized in Melbourne," of course
we were angry, and said “ Bah to you I” But is it true ?
And is it not true that the telephone would „ l ong eie
now, have been in extensive use here, but for the
blundering pig-headedhees of the official dolts through
whose thick-skulled incapacity the Postmaster-General
has practically prohibited the evening Press from
receiving telegraphic messages of decent length ?
BRIEF MENTION.
Small-pox gone. Milner Stephen returning. Bl
Bishop Moorhouse’s reasons for not praying
for rain won’t hold water.
Country papers don’t notice a death now-a-days.
They “ chronicle a demise."
In Victoria, the best way to learn the customs
of the country is to go to tho Custom-house.
From the Echo : “ Tin Nihilists for the gal-
lows." Not much Brummagem about them.
At Bendigo political meetings, tomatoes have
taken the place of rotten eggs by way of interjection.
“ The Victorian Parliament,” says a telegram,
“ will meet for’the despatch of business on 25th April.”
For the despatch of which ?
Our doctor indignantly repudiates the assertion
that he is a “ dead-head.” At all events, lie never goes
to see “ Patience” for nothing-.
It is understood that a city daily is seriously re-
volving a suggestion to give one column of reading
matter to thirty of advertisements.
The “ nose-bag division”'is the term applied to
squatters’ horses entered for tne seventy-guinea grass,
fed at the Barooo annual. Their owners intend them
to be restricted on their feed to tho indigenous grasses
of the country, “ only—tho confounded boys will give
tho moats on the sly."
St. David’s day was celebrated by the Welsh-
men of the city, by a concert and social gathering iu
the Temperance Hall. Large audience, addresses by
several gentlemen in Welsh. “Our John” presided.
.. —pooiuou,
He didn’t speak Welsh ; it takes
him all his time to speak Eng-
lish.
“Doctor” Bottrell’s little
book suppressed. It is said he
wants to know what about
Deuteronomy xxii ?
“ What’s the matter, —you
look tired," said an aotor to the
fire, watchman of a Sydney thea-
tre, one morning. “ Confound it I
—couldn’t sleep a wink," was the
reply.
“What time will you be
home AJick ?" said the Empress
to the Czar, as that potentate
went out for a drive. “It’s
rather uncertain, my love," wag
the grim reply.
Scene; Office of County
paper. Time, 10 a.m. Editor to
the proprietor.—" I’m dying
for a drink.” Proprietor: “ How
can you expect either of us to get
a drink before the paper is out P*»
Read this twice.
Magistrates’ new motto for
larrikins—“ Semper Hide ’em."
By the way. Semper idem is the
motto printed on the carte at
our most fashionable city restaur-
ant. And yet the fellows who
run the affair aren’t all Irish-
men.
In an up-country town a
yokel asked Ulyott to give him
lessons in cricket. On the terms
being arranged, the pupil said :
“Now, what’s the first thing
I’ve got to do ?“ “ Buy one o£
my bloomin’ hats,” was the
reply.
A Vouvry (Switzerland)
watchmaker has invented a pro-
cess by which watches keep in
good working order without
winding-up for years. He ought
to have been a Sydney Insol-
vency lawyer, and started a
patent for not winding-up estates.
The otherjjday an elderly
lady was stepping into a Surry
Hills tram, when the trucks
moved off and she fell heavily on
the track and broke her arm. It
is only fair to the tram, how-
ever, to say that it rolled on
totally indifferent as to whether
the old party had broken her
arm or her neck. Tram guards
are not jtboir brothers’ keepers,
or their sisters’ either.
In the advertisement of the
now opera season at Adelaide,
the following startling annonnce-
ment appears :—“ The elaborate
and costly costumes surpass any-
thing of tbe kind before seen in
the Australian colonies. They
have been made expressly in
London and Paris by Mons. and
Mdme. Alias." We have a dim
recollection that Mona. Alias is
not quite unknown to tbe Aus-
tralian colonies, having been in-
troduced by several distinguished
foreigners, amongst others, Count
VonAttemsand M. Jose Miranda
A company swindle has just
been discovered in Paris, and:—
“ The sentences just passed on
the directors were five years’
imrrisomnent, 30C0 francs line,
and ten years’ deprivation of civio
rights on Brugerolles, being the
maximum penalty; six months’
imprisonment and 500 franco fine
on M. Tharreau, the ex-prefect;
500 francs on baron de K< tvegueu;
and M. Boyer, another director,
1000 francs fine,” How silly
company speculators are to live
in Paris 1
The other day one of the
great unpaid was riding in Wool-
labra. Suddenly bis horse shied,
and he was precipitated with
his head on the kerbst one. He
nibbed the granite-dust off his hair with the fail of
his charger, and rode away home. He is now being
sued by the Council tor damage dona to municipal
property.
“ The gentleman named passed through Yass
for his new. sphere of InVour on Saturday,” is the way
the local Tribune notifies that a schoolmaster was
to go to another Nohool.
Complimentary picnics and balls are improved
upon at Rockhampton The latest *' fad " there is
a complimentary breakfast to a clergyman, to which
ladies are specially invited, to give the affair Sclat,
In 1881 a million pounds wore contributed in
England to the mission cause. Rather a stiff figure to
pay to prevent Jumbo having a steak out of Mu mho,
and teaching both the mysteries of Orange and Ribbon.
In Melbourne, as in all large cities in England,
an annual directory is published. In Sydney, there has
been none since 1880, so that in the present directory,
one out of every twentieth address is now wrong.
Where is Major Clementi ?
A judge in Victoria acquitted a prisoner accused
of robbing a provincial newspaper man, c n the grounds
that the robbery could not have been effected single-
handed. There must have been two; one to give him
something, and the other to take it away again.
The Kiama Mutual Befagment Society decided
that capital punishment should not be abolished. The
men who voted for its retention wore 17-iuch collars,
aud argued that the only reform necessary was to shorten
the drop to one foot. Then they could face futurity.
London Punch, of December 31, commences r
criticism of Kelly’s London Directory with, ‘‘There if
not a line in it that can give offence to the roost pn -
ticular, nor a sentence that can bring a blush to tl
cheek of the most prudijh.” Is not this word ix
THE TRIUMPH OF LARRIKINISM: “SHUTTING UP” THE PRESS.


word tho opening of a par. In Thb Bulletin, throe
months ago, reviewing some N.S.W. Blue Book r
Everybody oonneoted with a certain Northern
Grammar School, from tho washerwoman to tho terrier,
is—Sootoh.
On dit that the Victorian railways are bossed
by a triumvirate consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Bent and Mr. Jack Woods.
Prom the S.M. Herald “ Manly.— Brighton
Biths Establishment. Suites of rooms for families,
with or without every comfort; plenty of water. T,
Blank."
Friday’s News says Queen Victoria has been
« Bhot at four times "—the last but one occasion being
when a youthot 19 “ presented an unloaded pistol at
Her Majesty.”
Q. A. Lloyd says if he is spared to live another
year bo will have been a member of the Pitt-street
Congregational Church for half a century. Unspeak-
ably happy church 1
Peter Campbell, after being six months in Ade-
laide, has loft i anil he has ft faint idea that there ore
one or two peoplo in Soutli Australia who are not con-
verted yet. Impossible 1
At a Glen Innos local option meeting, only one
publican attended, for tho purpose of voting against the
increase of public houses. And he was tho first and
only publican fined for selling after hour*.
Recent telegram from tho medical superin-
tendent of a quarantine station “ I .xamined every
goal on lioard." This is highly satisfactory. You can t
lick science, especially soulac science, aoul let it be.
The Penny Jim-Jams, says of a likeness
published in last issue of Tim Bulletin, that it was
very like tho late Mr. James Punch. On the subject
of Punch in general, we prefer tho opinion of tho J im-
Jims to our own.
Ballarat larrikin to local city missionary ;
•• Have you the power to work miracles P 08, no,
replied tho missionary, seizing the larrikin by the nape
of the neck and ejecting him outside the fence, I only
have the power to cast out devils.”
Little Mirams (M.P. for Colllngwood, Vie.)
has lost his Exhibition Commissioner’s medal. Ibis
intell'gonce baa greatly nullified the enthusiasm which
would otherwise animate tho “ Cabbage Garden at the
escape of Her Majesty from assassination.
Immediately after the Hon. S. W. Griffith, Q.C.,
at tho banquet given him by the Charters Towers
liberals, had concluded a long speech, some genius sang
” Castles in the Air." This reminds one of Mark Twain 8
*' appropriate tunes” at tho sacred panorama.
MThorson, who had his arm bitten off by one
of Wilson’s lions, has commenced an action against
Mr. Wilson for £lOOO damages. This going to law
shows that he’s not satisfied with losing his hand. He
now moans to pat his head into the lion s mouth.
Tho Maitland Mercury reports that a snake
was killed near Strand, which had swallowed another
saurian longer than itself, the tail of the second snake
sticking six or eight inches out of the mouth of tbo
first. The Maitland whisky is evidently o.p. just now.
• The evidence given by Mrs. Littlewood, at
whoso house Hicks, an alleged Adelaide assurance
fraud, lodged, should open tho eyes of any other un-
thinking young man wlio tears up letters and tosses tne
fragments in tho way of his lynx-eyed and inquisitive
landlady.
At Rochester (Vio.), at a ‘‘harvest thanks-
Blvine.” a clergyman informed his congregation that
tho poor crop was due to the fact that they had not
feared God. Jerusalem! If we could all be got to
believe this, ” what awfully good young men these bad
young men would be 1"
A Melbourne policeman said the other day that
ho visited a defendant’s premises at “7 a.m. in the
morning,” and he used “ unseen (obscene) language.
In cross-examination, he added that defsadant did
not say it in an audible tone, but shouted it out.
This policeman evidently come* from—Turkey.
Bon mot par M. Deakin, during sittings of shop
employes commission i—Mr. Deakin : Would you bo
in mvour of a measure closing the houses four nights in
the week ? " Witness : “ No. If! employes were ( given
an inch, they would ask for an ell. Mr. Djakm :
jut the only ell they now get has an h before it.
A Mudgee Bench of iconoclasts has decided that
the Church is not an eleemosynary or charitable insti-
tution, and has fined a lamb of the flock one shilling
because she rallied a cruet-stand at a church bazaar.
The “Binch” is right. The average parson is, per-
sonally, greater on Faith and Hope than on Chanty.
“ For want of a sixpenny alarm signal =£2,000
worth of property was allowed to blaze for half a,n hour
before notice could be sent to the nearest Fire Brigade.
This didn’t happen in Kerguelen’s Island, a s many
would think, but in great and glorious Sydney, where
Brown, Postmaster-Goners!, kandles the telephonic
arrangements.
In Tasmania they have a queer way of doing
things. A man in x>osition, political or otherwise, gets
into a mess, necessitating the details appearing as a
public record in the Parliamentary proceedings. He
waits till his friends are strong enough m voting power;
and then gets tho record of his evil doing expunged
from the records.
At (say) Cooktown. Patrick amblos up to the
parson, and without any preface, accosts him in
this wise - “Your rivorenco, ever since I left them
Roman haythens that adore imaygss and such loike,
I’ve enjoy ed grate pace of mind. May I be so boulfl,
your rlveroucOjas ti) ax you for a loan o five bob
shillins, I mane."
According to tho Queanukyan Times abullock
driver has taken a team through the town on two
separate occasions; and each time the off-side-polur baa
been described ns “not bigger than a billy goat. This
disgraceful cruelty might easily bo got oyer by taking
him into tho ollice, and putting a pen iu his Irog. i or-
haps not room for two, though.
Australians aro nothing if not loyal. At a
recent cricketing banquet, the enthusiam of the moment
was not allowed to swamp the loyalty
Throe cheers were rnriit royally given-(h) * or the
Australian Eleven: (2.) ” For Her Majestyth.Qaeeu.
God bless her." The manly sports mama does not kill
the finer sentiments of a civilized era.
At Roma, Q., thoro are seven nominations for
the election of two aldermen, and four of the seven
are those of publicans. No less than «ght people are
applying for new licenses on the Western Railway
extension, within a distance of forty miles, and there
are already seven or eight established within tho same
forty miles. Heaven help tho navvies I
The other day, a S.A. J.P., who got drunk and
was riotous, was reported by a ” rival magnate and
struck oil tho roll. But another local J.P., who got
drunk and assaulted a lady, was permitted to resign,
amiure«tly on the ground that Government considered
the knocking down of a defenceless woman a redeeming
feature in the conduct of a drunken J.P.
Finis coron{er)at opus. It has been reserved
for a coroner to discover that the freedom ot going
barefoot when one has no boots, which is the proud
privilege of Britons, is also the right of an Australian.
One may sleep in the open air, if so disposed, the police
notwithstanding; so the poor may choose, with bir
John Robertson,tbo tween clean grass and dirty sheets.
At a Bundaberg chapel, the other evening, the
parson said * ‘ John gave his heart to the Lord and a
younf l Scotchwoman ” He should have continued
by saying, ” followed John’s example, but, as he
mVe no pause after “ Lord " the audience began to
titter, and this so confused the preacher, that he
stopped altogether at “woman.’ Whereupon there was
Ho was a classical surveyor who named the
streets of Qundftgai, “Virgil," “ Homer," “ Milton,
«• Shakspeare,” and “Byron,” and the hill at the back
“ MonutParnassus.” It’s the other way withthe man
who fixed up tbo township of Her barton (N.Q.). His
prolific brain produced the names of “ Grace, “
•• Lilian," streets, “ Jack’s Road, and Charlie s
L*nol”
Kaiapoi (N.Z.) is happy. Tho citizens never—
well hardly over-pay the rates, and only tho ootfee-
atail’mau and tho town crier—who are “ olticiais bound
to tho by-laws”— register their dogs. Out of
250 buigetsee at the lust municipal election, 110 could
not vote, in consequence of not having paid their rates!
Someone should go down, from Sydney and buy
Kaiaputi.
A hint for the trustees of the Art Gallery of
N.S.W. Genuine ancient armour possesses an un-
doubted antiquarian interest, and as historic memorials
of the “ dead past *' serves a most useful educational
purpose. But cheap Brummagem or Berlin imitations I
—well, in the suburban villa of a retired green-grocer
perhaps they may be in keeping, but hardly in a
National Gallery 1
Soma gay tourists recently started to play
hazard in a railway train with three affable strangers.
The tourists had awful luck, until one of them suddenly
picked up a die, and exclaimed, “ This dio has two sixes
upon it." One of the strangers picked up the cube,
examined it, and threw it out of tho window, with the
cool remark, 11 How unfortunate, another ‘ mis-
print 1 ” Play was not resumed.
A ten-year old Central Australian, born and
bred amongst horses, up Cooper’s Crook way, recently
saw the sea for the first time and crossed from Mel-
bourne to Hobart. On returning to his native oasis, or
watcrhole, he admitted having been very sea-sick, but
added that “the ship would have gone right enough it
it hadn’t been for that confounded thing behind (.the
propeller) that made it buck so."
There’s a Far northren man who writes an
occasional article for a local rag, and acts as an ' our
correspondent" for another in a distant colony, ho tar
all’s fair and square. But when one comes to road his
letter, and finds him quoting and pointing out the
" acumen,” the “ political insight,” and the libera llty
displayed by those foggy loaders written bv hie own
hand, it become*, to say tho least of it, a little d» trap.
Milner Stephen, tho “ layer on of hands,”
swore, in Melbourne, that lie instantaneously cared a
sufferer by tho Jolimont railway accident, by his
mysterious art. Tho statement did not carry weight
enough to dispose of evidence to the contrary, given by
medical practitioners, who said that the defendant
(Miller) wae still suffering. Milner Stephen was
actually called as a witness by tho Board of Lands and
Works.
A witness in a petty police court case, in Sydney,
last week, wa* annoyed to find that the hearing of the
charge in which he was interested was postponed. Ho
naturally sought an explanation. A civil, though
Hibernian, bobby replied to his query, thus: The
constable who took the man in char-ruge is absmt on
dooty; shure he's in purshoot of tho baby that was
massacrid on North Shore last night.” A sort of dead
I beat, that 1
At a B undab erg aldermanic election, a success-
ful candidate, in returning thanks, said: “This was
the proudest day what I never saw.” Of coarse, he
was a “ Tarman.” This reminds us of tho story about
tho three fellows who wore seen coming out of a
“ public ” wiping their mouths with the backs of their
hands. Ist man: “ She vas tho finest visky I did trink
for evermore.” 2nd man : “ So did I neither.” 3rd
man : “ Neither did I, too.”
y|The directors of the Melbourne Co-operative
read Company, which has just come to grief through
trade losses, are plain, practical men, and arc not given
to satirical joking. Yet they say that with the present
price of flour, when full weight was given to the
customers, “ tho more bread they sold the more money they
lost.“ From this, wa gather that a baker’s motto can-
not possibly be “Dough unto others what you would
they should dough unto you.”
The first man was an entire stranger to the
second, but he, nevertheless, walked over to him on the
peaceful Sawbath morn, and in a limekiln voice observed:
“Mister, I knew a pub. where your’ro safe for a ‘ wet’
at any hour, but I don’t like to go in by myself. Will
you jine ? May be useful some time to yourself, you
know.” He “ jined,” and that “ wet 11 cost the dis-
gusted publican £7 10s. 6d. The second man was a
“ cop " in plain clothes. Ta-ran-ta-ra I
The Czar has 600 aides-de-camp to guard him
from the Nihilists; yet, if he dismissed those officers,
each one would become more dangerous to him than a
confirmed nitro-glycerenist. The Queen and tho Prince
of Wales have only 16 aides between them. Nearly all
these are decorated with the Victoria Cross. Perhaps,
however, now that another desperado has shot at Her
Majesty, she will have 600 aides-de-camp. Considering
that Alexander is so happy with them, it would almost
seem worthwhile
Professor Pearson has made himself a shoep-
breediag celebrity in the past by his naive remark about
“ breeding from wethers.” His fame has made the
editor of the Waosa Waooa Advertiser jealous. This
literary and pastoral gem is determined, to cut Pearson
out in his particular lino, and to ho handed down to
posterity as having eclipsed the wether-breeder. He
reports, amongst other oddities, that “ Mr. A. Q.
Jones, of Bogo Bogolong, has sold 6000 maiden ewes in
lamb, at a satisfactory price.”
Since it has been made known that even a
colonial Governor’s daughter has deigned to smile on a
poor curate, the price of the country parson in the
matrimonial market has risen vastly. It is reported
that a Rev. Canon out westward —who some time ago
sold himself rather cheaply into tho “ Fooroe,” —is
anxious now to break off tho engagement and avail
himsolf of the improved state of the market, Dubbo
mourns, while the unappropriated heiresses of a town up
tho line have good reason to be glad.
A youth at Numba went up a neighbour’d plum-
tree to satisfy himsolf on the phylloxera question. The
matter had troubled him a long time. After evidence,
he came down, and went to his bedroom to rub himself
with oil and put on hot bandages. His watch was left
hanging on the tree, and Mr. Plum-owner knew what
scientist had been about. On being questioned by the
exasperated P. as to how hia watch came there, young
Numba pat the watch in his pocket, and said ho ’spote
it must ha’ got up there in the night to see a man.
Down South, tho other day, a couple of tramps
called at a station and applied f >r rations. A specious
excuse for refusal was giv-m, when the overseer stated
that, through some inadvertence, the store supplies
were exhausted. Tramp No. 1 turned to his mate and
with a resigned air, remarked : “ Well ’Ary,"if wo can’t
got no moat, we must let the black dog loose; ho will run
us up a ’possum or something." The overseer suddenly
bethought him that if these tramps went down to
the hut he might b« able to find them a bite of some-
thing.
Tho Wxlcannia Times horalda with pleasure
the religious progression of a local clergyman. In con-
sequence of “ the strictures of tho Times on tho neglect
by tho Wilcannia clergymen in the matter of religious
instruction in the Public Schools," says the editor of
that mighty journal, the Key. W. Webster “is now
bolding classes in the school twice a week.” That
editor is powerful for good. He only wants a clean
shave, a white choker and a barrow-load of tho “ Whole
Duty of Man " to be a Presbyterian Assembly with the
chill off.
’Twas the solemn hush during tho offertory
period in a Sydney church. The said solemn hush was
only broken by tho foghorn of tho old man in tho fourth
pew from the door, which old man was vigorously snoring.
A gentle hand touched his shoulder, the chink of coins of
the realm fell pleasantly on his slnmbrou* ear, while a
voice said, “ Awake I" With a start, he jumped to his
feet, and said aloud, “Orrigkt, gis anorrer mm, ole
man, foro yer close, and pnt some lemon in it.” The
response was drowned in tho swelling voices of the
rapturous choir,
A South Australian vignoron recently received
from the editor of the Now York Forest and Stream
a paper addressed thus'
Mr, .
Glen Osmond,
New South Wales,
Australia,
via Adelaide.”
Hurro! We’re getting known in this secluded hole. No
allusion to tho jug.
A “colonial-experience” young man from the
Murrumbidgee tried Queensland for a change. He got
a billot as overseer on a sugar plantation at 30s. a week,
had to sleep in a hut so much ventilated that no door
war: needed, he could walk in and ont between any two
ulabs in tho whole caboose ; ho slept on a shoot of bark
and washed in a kerosene tin, ate salt-horse off a dirty
tiu’platelcookod by a dirtier Kanaka, and worked fifteen
hours a day. He’s now on his way back to tho Murrum-
bidgee, as he thinks the most primitive out-station
there is luxury compared to Saccharopolia.
Tho Coowa Express has changed hands. The
C.B. is now carried on by a man part of whose name is
Gustave, and by another, a portion of whose cognomen
is Poaoook. We will print the rest of thoir appellations
when we issue our next supplement. They say that
they are “ young and courageous,” and that by insisting
in future on sixteen shillings per annum, in advance,
they “ are determined that the poorest settler in the
district shall have it within his power to ho able to
enjoy the inestimable boon” of their paper. We wish
these boys success, of course.
The other day, a man up North Rave a munifi-
cent donation to a church fund. He is the same man
who, when a clerical dignitary arrived some
employed an aboriginal to carry the great man’s box
and traps up a steep hill, halt a mile from the wharf to
the place where the holy one was staying. Whan the
nigger got up there with bis heavy load (it’s 100’ in the
shade at—say, Port Denison), our Northern friend gave
him a penny. The darkey hold the coin in his dusky
palm, and contemplated it for an instant. Then he
said: ** That no—good j me want him white fellow
money.”
An aged couple, named Osborne, have died at
Norton Woodyoats, after haviagltheir home broken up,
it is alleged, by moneydenders, who held a bill of sale
on their goods. The deceased, it is supposed, died from
the effects of grief, but a coroner’s jury returned a
verdict that they had "‘died by the visitation of God.
This horse-leech sorb of business, being well adver-
tised, is rapidity progressing in this as well as other
Australian centres of population, A word to the wise
should be sufficient. The idea of identifying the
Supremo Being with money-lenders could only have
emanated from twelve British idiots.
Mr. Milner Stephen has offered to breathe on a
few patiente, and the Melbourne Hospital Committee are
considering it. It’s to be hoped they'll lot him breathe on
a few stump* after amputation, and try to extract a few
legs. Palling that, he might crawl up the underground
pipes and try and breathe out the eryeipelaa germs.
By the way, the very latest is that wheu a credulous
lady wont to on* of our magnetic hoalors the other day,
this healer said, “ Madam, pay me £5 and bring me two
of your nightgowns. I shall woar them alternately for
a night or two, and will then return them to you. Wear
thorn, and you will soon be cured." Pact.
Dan Mayne is onco more on his editorial roost,
and is slashing away at the morality of the district with
all his accustomed vigour. It would seem, however, that
the “ recently-returned” doesn’t think much of Lioder-
tafola, as wo And the following hints given to an enquirer
who signs himself “ A Happy H in baud ”: 1 Take our
advice, and keep your missus at home; these singing
societies are nob safe places for a geod-looking young
woman like your wife to go to—besides, the teachers
are mostly awfully handsome fellows, and wives don t
always remember their marriage vows, especially if the
jiusband is old or a boozer.” Elegant and true.
A Braid wood bone-buyer advertised his desire to
purchase bones at a stated figure. A medium-sized
larrikin, carrying a dozen large ones, answered the ad.,
made a deal, got paid, and at the purchaser's request
carried the bones outside and threw them up into a loft
at the back. Half an hour afterwards, the same boy
brought another dozen, and again, in twenty minutes,
yet another. At the third ro-appoaranoe, the merchant
musingly enquired where he got so many. “ On, I can
get lota 1" was the ready reply. But when Bones
climbed up his loft to survey the goodly pile, he found
that he had bonght the same lots three times over,
must have been putting something in the
ol .port. The Mornino Prater thus gives the
result of the Borooudara election The election for
Boroondara to-day excited great interest, the polling
being as follows: —Hawthorn : Walker 471, Taylor 376.
Kew; Walker26s, Taylor 299. Camberwell: Walker
37, Taylor 122. Balwyn: Walker 12, Tavler 36.
Majority for Walker, 22 ” It seems that Walker s in
somehow for Kew; a fact, which, sineo the election is
for Boroondara, cannot otherwise be regarded than as
Kew-nous. Booking at the par. as a news item, we
think that he fact of “ Walker ” being so much to the
fore in it, B remarkably appropriate.
“ Rev. J. A. Fawns, an Anglican clergyman
possessing property in Tasmania, yielding £16,000 a
year, conducted himself so strangely and violently at
the Globe Hotel, Albnry, on Tuesday last, that he was
arrested by the police an a charge of insanity, but on
his val >t undertaking to conduct him safely to Sydney,
was afterwards released.” Particulars of the parson s
conduct have not come to hand. Wonld it be reasonable
to conjecture that it took the shape of extravagantly
throwing about some of this fifteen thou’ at the heads
of that class which “ we have always with ns," or pur-
chasing largo stocks of spermaceti ointment and
Holloway’s pills for the use of the same ?
The holy Melbourne Corporation have decided
to keep the Fourth Commandment, andnot to ” lay the
dust" in the public streets on Sundays. To lay street
dust on Sundays they would have to come “ down with
the dust ” to the extent of £6OO per annum. But the
Corporation is not swayed by any sordid spirit of £.s.d.
It takes its stand on elevated Sabbatarian principles.
It kisses the chastening rod of Sunday dust and Sabbath
ophthalmia, and murmurs with upturned eyes : " Thy
will be done." Nothing short of an earthquake can
disturb the Sunday serenity of a Melbourne aldermen—
except (say) a dog*light. Yet the southern aldermen
are as clever as Sydney alderman at * 1 laying the dust
on week days—in the Town Hall.
A fair-headed youth in the Telegraphs was so
sure of carrying off a prize at the gymnastic competi-
tion, that he warned his friends to lie sure and go, and
ho would let them look at his medal. The last seen of
him, he was sidling out unobtrusively, without any
medal, and his language was pointed and bitter, as he
mumbled : “ he di in’t believe the blooming judge knew
a blooming thing aboutblobming gymnastics." Another
hopeful has been going about ever since, with his arm
in a sling. He’s not badly hurt, and when a follow’s
rather good-looking, snow whito bandages on a black
coat set him off, ami make bis appearance interesting
on the block. A third competitor, who went for a
prize ineffectually, walks with a limp, and travelled in
cabs for a week; this saved the necessity for any ex-
planation.
When the regulations as to accommodation are
enforced, at least one-third of the metropolitan public-
houses will have their licenses withdrawn. This will be
one of the greatest blessings yet conferred on Sydney,
the city of little dram-shops, bad bauds, and big banners.
About twenty-five per cent, of the licensed houses of
Sydney are nothing more than low drinking-hells,
where the delicate grog blossom of the veteran Baccha-
nalian is nurtured by the adipose landlord with all the
loving kindness of a brother; and where the weary
traveller has as much chance of getting accommodation
for himself and beast as a town-hall contract man has
of inspecting the architecture of the New Jerusalem,
or a Maloga aboriginal mission boss of being asked to
give a converted and idealised blackfollow a leg-up to his
golden throne ovah thoah on the beautiful sboah.
The “ gods ” in Glasgow theatres are spirited
young men, mostly students. Lately, at an opera, their
ruffianly conduct was unparalleled. They shrieked
insults at ladies in the audience, and sang ribald songs.
For some time the opera of “ Lohengrin" went on in
dumb show, accompanied by a storm of cat-calls and
hisses. Much had to be omitted, and the actors and
actresses more than once walked off the stage. The
papers say that the worst disgrace is not in what is
done, but in the police authorities allowing a few dozens
of hobbledehoys to do such things; and that if the police
cannot quell them, a few strong anna and stout boots
from the audience will probably do so. We can recom-
mend a better plan. We will lend the Glasgow people
Fosbery, our own Fosbery. No thanks 1 It’s a
pleasure ; most happy. Don’t hurry him back.
Cramming the brain with the heterogeneous
mass of information necessary for a University career is
not the only kind of education needed. The Queensland
Government, recognising the importance of physical
development, is giving assistance in the formation of a
Public Gymnasium at Brisbane; and this is a matter
not unworthy the attention of thoN.S.W. Government,
The leading journal of Sydney, however, does not take
this view. Healthy gymnastics are a paltry matter,
quite below its lofty cognisance. At the anniversary of
the Sydney Gymnasium, the other day, Granny’s
representative occupied two front seats all the evening,
but the performance was not thrilling (or holy) enough
to notice in the paper. If half a dozen pale-faced,
bilious youths had held a prayer meeting, or carried
out a three-hour programme of bun-crunching, there’d
have been two columns.
If snakes don’t look a little smarter soon, the
boo yams will collar all thoir custom. Says one of the
latest references to the busy buzzer: “ Lightning baa
just struck a Live of bees. The painful story is soon
1 told. The misguided lightning came out of that hive
Qtiloker than it went ini and shot off Into space with ttB
tail between its lags at a pace that would puzzle tha
Derby winner.” This ia good, but bees don t know
everything, anymore than a lady teacher does, borne
Grammar School boys lately propped up a straw man in
front of a thriving bee mill, and then began to pelt the
hive with bricks. The champion stingers immediately
sallied forth and in 2.60 that old rag-stack was as full
of holes as the sieve of a city flour mill. When the
stingers discovered the sell, however, they sat down on
their hind lees, and let out a howl that broke every
pane of glass within fifty miles of the batt.e*field. Now
bring on the next snake yarn.
The little township of Wallerawane is the home
of chivalry and the bower of knightly gallantry. Two
ladies, one of whom was in charge of two young chil-
dren, arrived there by train about midnight a few nights
ago. The conscientious landlord of the Koval Hotel
could not break through his admiration for the new Act
sufficiently to afford them accommodation, though it
was afterwards ascertained that he had a dozen or so
empty bed-rooms at his disposal. The benighted ladies
turned their weary footsteps to the opposition hotel,
only to meet with a similar denial. As a final resource
they wont to the police station, and stated their case
to a curled darling in blue, whose gallantry to
the weaker sex is beyond cavil. But the official Admits
was also warped by the inlluoncas of the hour. The
ladies were bound to Benbullan by tho early morning
coach, and had no option but to sit it wearily out
ou -the cold, unsheltered platform of the railway
station.
“A cove as (evidently) knows his way about ”
writes this to tho Australian Dramatic News (Mel-
bourne), “ I could point to a large number of civil
servants who not only do this insolvency business,
but have been aided and abetted by Ministers of the
Crown. In other words, they have, by a species of tricky
manipnlation.boen allowed several days’ leave of absence
to allow them to prepare their schedules, have been
temporarily suspended, and then returned to their
vies in thsir department, to commence afresh their
iaonoureblo trickery of aoeep ting and endorsing bills
of exchange for each other, and giving H. orders on the
Treasury for their salaries in payment of those bills.
Then on signing thepay sheet, they request the money to
bo paid to them personally. This is tho every day life of
large numbers of the Victorian Government
Query—has the little g.amo extended to Now South
Wale's, or can they say “ we manage these things hotter
in Victoria P ”
There is one madman in Sydney, besides the
forty-five hopeless lunatics who contribute to the Six-
psnkt Sorrow. He has written to W. J. Wilson, of
the Opera House, and it appears, is dosirpns of lector-
ing. Ho says :—“ I would give Turk, Jew, or Christian,
or any other creed, alike a fair hearing, ns far as I could
divest myself of early associations, advocating justice
against oppression, seeking knowledge and truth where-
ever they nay be found—iu pulpit or prison. But i
warn you, I never faced an audience; iam illiterate,
and so diffident that oven in this communication I must
remain, A Steanoeb. . . I will endeavour not to fail
you; but be prepared for the worst, tor my sensitive ness
may obstruct mo at tho last moment. P.S.—Should i
appear to fail sharp to the hour, an invitation may
bring me forward, but the slightest hint that any agree-
ment was unfulfilled, would elfectualy repel me. Be-
wildered by this glittering proposal, Mr. Wilson has
sought all over the place for ” A Stranger, but in
vain. W. J. now otters three drinks for the production
of his head on a charger.
Two or three weeks ago, Charles Henry Watson,
late manager of a bank at Dunkeld (Vie.), gave himself
into custody, a warrant being out for his arrest, on a
charge of embezzling £2lO. Charles Henry bad no
right to take what didn't belong to him ; but liaten. Ho
was sent, some three years since, to take the managership
of the Colonial Bank of Australasia, at Dunkeld, at a
salary of £175 a year, afterwards raised to £200; and on
this income, he was obliged, in the interests of the
bank, to mix with wealthy squatters and to fraternise
in a liberal manner with the townspeople, in order to
become popular. Everyone knows that where there are
rival banks ia a country town, a manager who does not
do this will get no business for his branch, and will,
probably, bo censured for bad management. Is it any
wonder that Watson got into trouble ? Putting the
esse in plain language, wasn't he just driven to
by the miserable pittance the bank gave him, and the
position it placed him in ? A manager at such a town
as Dankeld, who has such a salary as Watson had, must
either get into debt, embezzle, or find himself ordered
back on to the head-office ledgers.
Our Coroner appears to be rather an eooentrio
Shiel. At the inquest on the murdered child of that
poor mad creature, Marie Laye, his Worship inter-
rupted the proceedings, at one stage, by telling the
jury a ’’jocular” story about a Chiuaman who had
married an Irish girl; and, later on, when the clergy-
man appeared on the scene to verbally prove the
marriage, Mr. Shiel said (according to the News) : •
“Ah I you had better taka a chair till the register
arrives. The man rendered tho ceremony null and void
by tearing the certificate and absconding.” This is
rather too bad of Mr. Shiel, to take a rise like this out
of a reverend gentleman ; though, of course, it was, at
the same time, kind of him to endeavour to entertain
the prisoner. Mr. Shiel is evidently the possessor of
many brilliant social qualities; and, above all, he has a
rich vein of humour, the like of which has not been
seen since Oliver Cromwell amused himself by putting
penny ices on the sofas and chairs for the ladies to sit
down upon. Wffien we become rich enough, we shall
make a bid for his Worship's exclusive services, and
get him to give a performance every night—in the
coal-hole.
A correspondent forwards ns a photograph of
the printing and publishing offices of the Broughton
Greek Mail, a journal of society and fashion, pub.
lished in tho thriving city which its title implies. The
building is a small loan-to against a little butcher’s
shop, and appears to have the breadth of a sontry-hox,
without its height. Tho fa<;ade is embellished with a
placard, whereon wo road, “Mail printing-office,” and
in front is a butter-keg—doubtless tho editorial chair
in which our patriarchal friend, Watson, prepares
weekly those splendid leaders upon the “princixiles
underlying the constitution of tho Aztecs” for which
ho is so justly world-famed. At the side of the build-
ing, which appears to have been built with a slab and
slip of calico alternately, we perceive is the coffin all
ready for tha now comp, when he comes mp, while
round about is a collection of rocks, left wboro they
fell when last thrown at the editor. Altogether, the
building is an exceedingly magnificent structure, and
we seriously intend forwarding the sketch to England
next mail as a specimen of the newspaper architecture of
the colony. We saw a Broughton Crelsk Mail some
time ago, and were so taken with it that all wo want to
see now is a Broughton Creek female.
In a certain N.Z. township dwells a good
man, wh o labours in the Lord’s vineyard, and has a level
head. This kind of labour, we may remark, is less
fatiguing than any other honest work, except butcher-
ing (as the Australian Mutual Provident Society’s report
has just proved), and anyone can do it who “ gives him-
self to the Lord.’’ The pay is about £3OO a year.
Well, the reV. gentleman visited a farmer’s house inst
at tea time, and required a little pressing to induce him
to Bit at table. As he sat back, after a good meal of eggs
and bacon, hia oye fell on some flue flitches suspended
from the roof. “Ah 1 Mrs. M’Quttiu,’’ said he, “ that's
the finest bacon I over tasted. Your own curing? I
thought so. How Mrs. (J had band would enjoy a rasher!
They sell such rubbish in the shops." Of course, the
A CAP FOR A LADY.
In a certain suburban church choir—
The sight can be seen e very week —
A lady, whom ma»y admire,
Displays an unlimited cheek.
She’ll stand undisturbed all the while.
With bright eyes and classical nose,
And quite self-composed she will smile
And nod to her numerous beaux.
At a theatre, party, or fair,
Such smiles might be well in their place ;
B nt, miss, in a house built for prayer,
Yox i might have a little mors grace I
No doubt, some young man is quite proud,
Aud grins back, delighted, at you ;
But then—he's concealed in the crowd.
While you are in full public view.
So allow uf?, dear girl, to remark
That your conduct is really misplaced :
If you spoon with vour spark, smile outside, in the dark,
Not in church —it’s such horrid had taste I
10
March 11, 1882.
THE BULLETIN.


10 THE PUBLIC C
aad
NEW SOUTH WAL
We hog to inform you that our 12b
ANNUAL DRAPERY SALE has oc
These REGULAR PERIODICAL
become so well and favourably kn
appear superfluous for us to say anytl
them ; but seeing that there has b(
cession of population both in tl
throughout the colony since the ti
EXCELLENT SYSTEM (now six i
published fully the details of it), wc
now to state briefly that these SEMI-,
occurring in February and July in
NOT the ordinary Drapers’ “ Cleari
Sacrifice Sales,” generally of old
accumulations, but SPECIAL EPFO
at the close of the Summer and I
reduce a surplusage of BRAN NEVS
ing principally of HOUSEHOLD DI
GOODS, &0., &c., which, from vari
left on hand in our bulk stores.
NETS, as an instance : Last year v
stoik before Christmas, but this s»as
summer posts have boon tronbloso
suburbs, the towns hare been compi
them, and very little protection hi
hence we have a surplus stock of Neti
could multiply instances bearing ui
items, showing how LARGE ]
GOODS cannot help being oyerat
artieles. The course usually adopt
over to the next summer, WE prefi
into CASH at onoo, and order FEE;
to bo made for future requirements.
Of course, wo hare to submit to
SEMI-ANNUAL SALES, but wo r
not having to pay heavy expenses on
(say) six months. As n rule, we mi
STOCK at these sales a trifle above I
FACTURERB' COST PRICE, just
charges, and have hitherto had mo <
ready buyers to clear the whole 1c
night.
RILEY BROTHERS, 386 GEOI
RILEY BROTHERS, 600 BRIO
RILEY BROTHERS, OXPOBE
RILEY BROTHERS, GOULBL
RILEY BROTHERS, NEWCAS
RILEY BROTHERS, BATHUI
also LONDON, GLASGOW, and P,
The Surplus Stock this year to
12th GREAT SEMI-ANNU
consists principally
12 rases Mosquito Nets, commencing
23,000 yards Cambric Prints, 2Jd per
480 dozen Linen Huckaback Towels,
10 cases flue brown Hollands, oommi
1215 places ladies’ Longoloth, 2}d pe:
11 bales yard-wide grey Calico, 3Jd pi
A lot of Oddments grey Calico, at 1J
Another lot of Oddments, to go at 2
14 bales double width grey Sheet lag,
123 pieces white Twill Sheeting, nei
to be sold at Bsd per yard
A lot of Horrocks' Longcloth, very
A lot of Colonial Tweeds, to bo sold
6 cases White Honeycomb Quilts, e)
ing, 3s lid each, worth 8s 6d.
About 450 Marcella Quilts, doublo-b(
of them worth a guinea
Also a few of the old handmade Ter
ever), to go at 17s 6d each, regnl
There are Laoe Curtaims at 2s lid, 3
wonderfully cheap
And some hundreds of Cmrtaius, 25
about half-price
The remainder of the Summer Bhu
pair
Nearly a hundred of the Guinea Bla
pair
A few real Witney Blankets, 40s goo
LOCAL OPTION and the NEW
will no doubt greatly lessen the
houses, so we must sell out about
140 PIECES BAR TOWELLINf
yard, usual price 6
But we have largo quantities of d
the bedrooms which will have to b
the requirements of the new Act, si
Strong Cotton Ticking, at 31d per
Good Linen Ticking, at Hid per y
China Matting, fancy patterns,:
worth Is
Toilet Table Covers, largest size, I
White Towels, for bedrooms, 2s 6(
The largest Bath Towels, Oil eacl
White Twill Sheeting, BJd per ya
The largest Honeycomb Quilts, 3l
Really good White Blankets, 3s 11
Felt Carpet, for bedside. Hid per
New Vallance Nets, 6id per yard
Also,!
Unbleached Linen Damask, 10id
White Linen Table Damask, Is 6d
Crash and Kitchen Towellings, &c
In DRESS MATERIALS we wi
ASTONISHING BARGAINS. Wi
heavy quantity to soli this time, hi
bo found worth while coming to see
THE TWELFTH SEMI-AN.
BirR.PT.TTH RTDnP
ood wlfo at once offered to Bond Mrs. G. a piece of her I
home-cured. The parson hoped ho “ would not be tres-
passing too much,” <fco., thanked her, and went to bring
round his horse. Hanging him up at the door, bo dealt
out a few tracts, smiled unctuously, and prepared to
depart. Pausing, however—” Oh, by the byo,’* said ho.
•‘it Mil bo too much, Mrs. M'Ouffin, to ask yon to send
that bacon. 1 can carry it quite easily, and it will Iva
With a surprise for Mrs. G. Don’t trouble —I can roach
'it down,” —and, with a holy smile, the labourer for the
Si old unhooked the heaviest piece from the rafter, and
nIUUg it across the withers of his horse. “ Thank you,
dear madam, Mrs. Chadband will be so pleased. Good-
bye, goad-bve. God bless you!” And the good farmer s
wife, who had intended to send some half-dozen pounds,
watched the “ man of God” ride away with a whole side
of bacon; and then wont into the back of the house,
and the children wondered why they got spanked so
much that evening.
IN THE JUG.
[WRITTEN BY ALL OF US.]
Wk are hero, dear Duke! Tears o( sorrow Quiver
in onr optics: furrows of gloom soar our alabaster brows.
In a word, wo arc undone. And now> attendant prison,
slave, while wo sadly use our pocket-handkerchief—fill
the crystal goblet. ’Tis well. Begone I We would be
wlone.
• • •
Tho heels of his iron-bound bluchers clank down
tho stone staircase of these marble halls; his depreca-
tory cough, from a faint wheeze, fades away to the mere
phantom of a ghostly echo ; oven tho wlileporing of the
pomegranate trees has ceased—for the breezes are good
to us, if tho law is not 5 and now that all is silent, not to
say solemn, wo throw oil the mask of misery, and—yell.
* « •
Gentle public, though tho contemporary proas
tortures you, and tho Young Men's Christian Association
maligns you, you have a feeling heart. Weep, therefore,
if you can, white wo describe tho entourage of our dun goon.
Imagine, thuu, a, lofty apartment, lighted by two spacious
easements, through which tho golden arrows of the sun
dart in by quivorfulla. The appointments of the saloon,
though to a certain extent primitive, ate chaste. The
four walls, of snowy whiteness, are, in themselves,
®mbloms of virgin purity; and, here and there, their
spotless brilliancy is pleasantly relieved by copies of a
very old master (probably of the Italian school), for his
signature, “ By Order," is conspicuous at tho toot of the
most remarkable work. Matted is tho floor with th°
ffbro of the ooooanUt Oanningly woven, and in the centre
of the table stands a table draped with oilskin of a chaste
and alluring pattern. Though poor in buhl and mar-
U uaterie, our salon is rich in chairs, as no less than a
Quintette of cedar ones, an “old arm-chair" in cane,
and a lounge that is invalid in a double sense, are
strewn about the apartment. Our windows, which
shyly peep over tho gaol walls, command an extensive
view of the bedroom windows in the immediate vicinity;
and it is soothing to Ua, in our solitude, to hear the
occasional flap of tho duster and the clank of tho slop-
pail, as the hired girls in tho outside world perform
their domestic duties. And now, je of our readers who
havo soft blue eyes and golden hair, put away your six-
penny novels, and listen. We have all fallen in love —
with a window. The casement that has inspired
this passion in our hearts is distant; but at elysiau
intervals, there appear at it, their arms entwined
around each other in a sweet sisterly embrace, two
divinities. Who they are we know not j what is their
rank we cannot say; all we are certain of is that they
have inspired in our hearts a passion which nothing
but liberty can quench. From afar they appear of
undulating loveliness, and of fairy form. But yet our
hearts are racked by doubt. Supposing, after making
cheese-piates of onr months by smiling at them for
long years, we were to discover that they were red*
haired and freckled; that their feet—which are mere
mice in our imagination—should be bulbous and splay;
or worse than all, it some dread visitor were to whisper
in our affrighted ears that their brother drove a baker's
cart 1 What horror would overwhelm nsl what Jug.
gernaut car of despair would crush out for ever the oil of
happiness from our lives 1
• • *
But there are other things of interest besides
our captivating casement to be seen A travors tho iron
bars of onr prison-house. To the left is a watch-tower,
upon which a swarthy turnkey, armed with a loaded
arquebuss, and with a newly-ground dagger in his belt,
sits frowning on the universe. At times, as we watch
him, his stern countenance softens somewhat. That is
when he is composing a sonnet to the oye-brow of his
ladye-lova. At times, he conjures up jealousy of tho
greenest kind in our hearts, by letting his speaking eye
travel in the direction of our window. At those times
we long to storm the watch-tower, and bore 0 hole
through him with his poniard. But, soft 1 or the
heaviest manacles and the most rat-riddon dungeon
will be our lot. Let us look out upon the garden.
Delightful arcadian homo of floriculture 1 Just
beneath us, the luscious pomegranate ripens, and the
geranium blooms. There is, on this little planet, but
one fairer spot. Here it is :
There nestles in a lovely bay.
Whose sunlit waters gleam all da,y,
Reflecting 011 their face ouch shade.
Of waving tree on spur and glade—
A chaste, arid verdant, rustic del)
■yyUero wood-nymxihs sing and angels dwell.
Oh, this is a sweat sylvan spot,
More holy than Rebecca's grot;
For, in those sacred precincts fair.
There but resounds the fairy’s prayer.
There flow’rots flourish, and the joy
Born of that doll has no alloy ;
There virtue flourishes alone.
And vice will ever bo unknown. „
Once there, you’ll scorn tho Golden Gall,
And come to love—rovero—Clontarf.
* • »
As we are aware that tho interest taken in us at
tho present time by the public of several nations is of
tho most absorbing kind, wo will, at ® nc ®*
nllav all apprehension by at 01100 broadly stating that
the rules and regulations are such as to conjure up in
our hearts feelings of the most sympathetic gratitude.
So much so, indeed, that when, at length, the [otters
are knocked off, and dermatological WigzeU has
mown our flowing beards of snowy
in hand, wait on “Alfred Stephen, Jobn i - liar-
grave." and “ Peter Faucstt," to express to them, in
that flowery language we have made so peculiarly our
own, the deep esteem we hold them in as men, and the
admiration we feel for the brilliant success which has
attteuded this tlmir maiden essay at joint authorship.
The work of which we speak is headed Debtors, and
we gather therefrom that we may have a reasonable
supply of clothing;" but chat if wo are not able to pro-
cure the necessary duds, wo may bo compelled to
wear the prison dress Uv purposes of cleanliness.
This rule, we feel, was framed by the three judges ex-
pressly for newspaper men ; and in cheerfully adopting
the alternative offered, wo take the opportunity, on
behalf of tho journalistic world, of expressing onr
acknowledgments to| the authors | tor their foresight
and acumen. Our admirers—and, with characteristic
modesty, we proclaim them to be legion will be grati- |
find to hear that we “ may receive letters unopened, un- ,
less the gaoler or chief warder suspects that an im-
proper correspondence is carried ous What wo should
fike P to know is-what is Messrs. Stephen, Hargrave, and
Faucett’s (dear old Peter, how wo love you!) definition
of au improper correspondence. It wo can t write to
tho Dubbo Duchesses and Carcoar who
lova us—why, thou lifo will ho a blank. Su Ailrecl 3
straight-laced, we know—and so are wo: at the same
time we consider it a hardship if we should be precluded
by this regulation from dropping a hue to our girl, who,
unless she received au intimation that wo wore not
coming, would wait for us outside the Museum until
that monument were a crumbling rum.
# # *
What riles us, however, is that ‘ ‘loud “oiseS’
singing, whistling, etc., ate prohibited. Phis, we teel.
is cruel. The dream of our Urea is to make loud
noises, to slug, to whistle, and, aboVa all, to n Otter a,
‘•Hair,’’ write th#Be three gonial humorists, "may be
cat compulsorily.’ 4 We are fried of this. The bartering
therefore will resemble the Education Act, which is the
ptide of Oilr souls, in so far that it is not only compul-
sory, butfree. Wo are therefore happy; and our present
pasa-word to the authorities is—bring on your lawn
mower, and clip till all’s bald.
* * *
Since ottr arrival, floral offerings have streamed
in npon ns in one uninterrupted garland. What would
Wo give to know who the fair senders are I and how
they got the ohanoe to snavol the change out of papa’s
pants Wherewith to pay for them. Some miscreant has
left, addressed to us, at the gate, two cabbages. We
don’t know who he is, either. But the Anger of
suspicion points—down the harbour. Another gift has
been lavished on us, which wo deeply, feelingly, appre-
date. This is the copy of a much-esteemed work,
which, we understand, has attained a considerable
circulation, and which, wo perceive, is dedicated no
less ft person than ‘'James," who was, so it runs, “by
the G?aoo of God, King of Great Britain ’’ and other
chantries. Accompanying this interesting publication,
was a volume of poems, written by the Rev, Mr.
William Mercer. We wore very glad to get this, in-
deed, but were somewhat disappointed, on looking
through the volume, not to And the portrait of the
author in spsctacles —an embellishment which is, as a
rule, da risucur iu works of ajpoetical nature. ‘-There is
one place in the collection eccentrically labelled
“ Wiltshire,” in which Mr. Mercer is cruelly sarcastic
at onr expense. Ho exclaims—“ How bright these
glorious spirits shine 1" when, sly dog that ho is! ho
must be perfectly awaro that no liquor is allowed to
enter those portals. No matter ;we forgive him. Our
hearts are overflowing with the milk oflhuman kindness,
at present. Give us only a bludgeon and a libel case
juryman, and we Would forgive even him—after half-an-
hour or so.
# # *
We had our first dinner “ in the jug” to-day. Our
arrangements yesterday being of rather an unsettled
nature owing to the stealthily dramatic manner in which
wo wore dragged to onr doom, our mid-day ropast con-
sisted of a jug of soup left for us by (it appears) an
elderly female of an anstera appearance. On the handle
of the vessel was tied a luggage label, npon winch were
inscribed the words —“ I will pray for you. And
underneath “ return the jug.” The whole was signed
“ Sarah Simpson.” This refreshment was the cause of
ouite a little tragedy, for, on Haynes seizing the
jug with avidity to take the Arst gulp, he not only
swallowed the soup, hut about two inches of the bark of
his tongue. He is now living entirely on oatmeal that
has been carefully boned. To-day our banquet was of a
mest “ rokerky ** description j the graceful manner in
Which Wo devoured curried chops upoa a dinner-ser-
vice composed of three pages of the Protestant
Standard cannot be adequately expressed in narrative.
There was a pie, too, but owing to tho butler having
forgotten to bring the ancestral plate, we wore fain to
cheerfully consume it iu alternate bites,
» # •
We expect our domestic arrangements will be
completed shortly; and then the splendour of our
establishment will be such as to rival in magnificence
I the residence of Garden Honey. We have ordered a
towel.hone and a gridiron; and, if our affairs look up
in a year or two, we shall, iu all probability, coma to be
possessed of a spittoon. Wo may observe that wo
number, even now, amongst our treasures, au English
concertina—which, in the days when ho was too young
and too wise to speak disrespectfully of harbour picnics,
was presented to Archibald by a youthful comrade, who
had borrowed it from a toyshop when the merchant
wasn’t looking. Haynes performs on this instrument
in a very affecting manner, and it is a sweet thing to
hoar him sing, in a baritone voice that in its chest notes
recalls to onr recollection the saw-mill we lived next to
in our youth, a melting m&drigal (composed by Lewis
Soott), of which this is tho opening stanza
“ Ok, what a lovely land is this 1—
But here’s the devil, blow it ;
Above there is a bright sky, but
What villainy’s below it."
• • •
As the public are anxious to learn our wishes
with regard to visitors, we at ouee unhesitatingly state
that we shall be happy to see any members of the Young
Women’s Christian Association who feel like coming to
pray with us. And this reminds us that there were, at
one time, severe restrictions on the debtors side of the
prison with regard to the admission of lady visitors.
It appears that a certain master-maimer got into diAl-
onlties, and was lumbered accordingly. Well, being a
popular man in Woolloomooloo. his incarceration
created much consternation in the minds of half-a-
century of Phryues and Chlo.-s, and these ladies flocked
iu battalions to see him. This coming to the knowledge
of tho Governor, he gave instructions that a warder
was to be present at all interviews in which ladies took
a part—an order which was carried out to the letter.
Well in a little time, the captain went away, and a
clergyman took his place “in the Jug, and on the
second day of his imprisonment his wife came to see
him. Just as she had sat down beside him on a form,
and was preparing to weep upon his shoulder, a hirsute
bristling with keys, entered, and calmly took
his them. ”Me or-rders is to kape mo oi
on the gals.” he cried. This is a fact. If you doubt it,
ask the beadle. , * •
Our first visitor was Mr. George R. Bibbs. He
name upon us-although it was raining hard at the time
2-Uke aburst of sunshine. He remarked that tho twelve
be staved here was the happiest time he ever
fnentinhis We ‘’lused to work hard at carpenter-
ing" ho said, “at my lathe. Why, I made a boat
rlnring my imprisonment that gained a prize at an
Exhibition, and has since drowned a man. It scorns
fimtiv tor us to ho occupying tho same sitting-room as
•< rit ” whom wo often visited when ho was hero,
and not to see the old familiar latho by the window, and
George Richard turning wonderful articles in gun-
motul as if hiB very life (not to say living- which sounds
tho same, but whioh isn’t) depended on it. Mr. ihbbs
took his incarceration—as wo hop-i to take ours—philo-
sophically. And when in prison ho was in groat request.
People thought nothing of coming down hundreds of
miles from the country just to hoar him swear at bhep-
herd There was a melodious ring m his voice at those
times, which fascinated the auditor. And lus pheno-
menal command over tho British anathema was the
“i iect of much envy in the upper circles. When he
was a-t his best, breathless crowds used to c ? ngrogato
under the Eorbcs-street wall, and while listening in an
silence to the rhythmio sounds, vaguely
wondered in what part of tho gaol tho ASolian harp was
kept.
• * •
Tboro aro many privileges allowed oven the man
who is imprisoned for striving to uphold morality, m
those enlightened times. One of them is that you aro
nil* od to ring tho bell for a warder as often and as
gSJy as pleaae, without being subjected to a
rebuke from th£ authorities. A warder, we believe, has
kton known to come is answer the summons.
This is a very pleasant thing, and we feel quite a glow
of satistactYon as we chronicle the fact. Another
privilege is that you are permitted to bring in anything
vou like except dynamite, flre-arms. whisky, or a mule.
They wouldn’t object to ft mule it ho could bo fed on
hominy but it is a matter of history that no people
thrive on hominy except those that arc obliged to eat it
And with a mule there is no compulsion. When ahy
trunks arrive for you, the warden steps up for the key,
and then searches for explosives and mules. I ' any ef
either aro discovered, they are confiscated. And the
same remark applies to whisky A prisoner may have
nothing to eat he likes—excepting Ales and a rope-
ladder If ho had no money, he would be provided
with gaol fare. But the authorities never like things to
to this nass When once a debtor has tasted the
«Uon tuoke?. he sends for the governor, and, with
tears in his eyes, asks to be allowed to stop there foi
ever. , • •
We can’t write any more thia week, because our
hearts arc heavy and our souls avo sad Wo feei ,mw
that wo have done wrong, and wo are sorry foi it. w e
hear too, that one of the Clpntarf jurymen m dead.
That item of intelligence affected us to tears. If any-
thing happened to tho foreman, wo should never get
over it How sad it is that Heath so frequently makes
a dart for Innocence and Virtue! If sobs of ours
Oh hang it ! We must break off now, j lust us we were
vetting fu the vein, too. The man has just come with
the sardines and pickles. Till next week, tUereloro,
as they say in the burlesque, aa reservoir.
SOCIAL.
Me. Charles O’Loan, the lucky owner of one of
the biggest tin-mining properties at Herberton. Wild
River, having com* to the conclusion that it is not good
for man to bo alone, got married the other day at
Townsville, to Miss Ryan. The happy pair aro now in
Sydney, and are about to visit the old country.
# * *
A “bonny” young surveyor goes to the altar
at Easter. The lady is «no of the cleverest pianists of
Glebe Point.
* * •
The daughter of an eloquent M.L.A. will be
shortly joined to the youngest son of a leading ship-
chandler.
• • •
A suburban postmaster has obtained the con-
sent of all parties. She is one of the very prettiest
girls of Surry Hills, and a noted amateur vocalist.
Paps is in the Customs.
1 * » «
Miss Marie Carandini is to bo married to-day
(Saturday) at Melbourne. The happy winner of the
stately and handsome Marie is Mr. R. W. Wilson, the
stock-agent, of Brisbane.
• • *
The ball, usually given by the bachelors of
Cooma district after the annual race meeting, took
place last mouth and was a pleasant affair. Though
the costumes were not expensive, they looked well,
some white and cream-coloured drosses being admired,
A petite lady in pale blue, and a young lady from the
Snowy River, also in light blue, tastefully trimmed,
wore noticeable.
• • •
The Artillery Band played pretty music in the
Botanic Gardens on the Ist instant, to an average
attendance; the clouds, perhaps, kept a few away.
Toilets wore not striking; two creams, elaborately
flenuced and pulled, were beautiful ns any, whilo two
fair sisters, though only clad in sober gray, were
noticed for their pretty faces. A trio of black cos-
tumes wore conspicuous, also a woll-flllod " pink of per-
fection and, surmounting a dark grasn dress, might
be seen the face of a young girl, about as lovely as faces
are to bo seen now-a-days. “ Let us gather at the
Gardens" is evidently a motto of Government clerks
on Wednesdays, and at ten minutes to four they start
to brush their hair carefully, so that the girls shall
have a treat. The Band is a boon.
# * #
A largo attendance, on the IBth February,
witnessed the marriage of Mr. J. J. Brennan of Garry-
owen, to M'ss Ensilie Rose Do Milhau, daughter of Mr.
G De Milhau, of Darlinghurst. The eorsmony took
place at St. John’s, and tho dark, stately bride, was
costumed in ivory satin ; her maids in pale heliotrope
muslin,trimmed with similar satin, and with heliotrope
wreath. Wedding breakfast at Mr. Do Milhau’s resi-
dence.
• • •
The four broken days of tho International
Cricket Match afforded little opportunity for any dis-
play of fashion. On Saturday, ladies were not numerous,
and there was no promenading ; indeed, the chilly rain
seemed to throw an air of discomfort over everyone,
and light raiment must have been very unpleasant for
those who ventured out ia it. Hundreds of people,
unable to get vehicles, and not prepared to camp on
the ground, wore thoroughly drenched going home;
while modest cabbies made enough in two hsurs to
build a suburban terrace out of their profits. At one
time, the cricket field was covered with a thin sheet of
water. On Monday, tho ground was sodden, but the
weather fine, and a fair number was present, including
the Governor, who, however, did net stay long. 'Hie
handsomest dress shown was a fine bright blue silk,
trimmed with flowered silk of quiet tints, and worn
with a pretty peacock blue hat. A brocaded silk of two
shades of brows was also noticeable, but altogether the
show was exceedingly limited. M’Donnell’s grand hit,
over tho fence and the crowd, and nearly knocking
down Ned Gregory’s house, was wildly applauded, whilo
Midwinter’s fiver was also cheered. Whsn the game
started on Tuesday, it was, of course, a foregone con-
clusion, but a good many visitors went, and mild
explosions of approval or disgust were occasionally
heard as some cricketer either did or did not get elf a
brilliant exploit. To the moment that the last run was
obtained, a few stragglers still kept finding their way to
tho ground, but there was nothing of special interest
occurring. The Artillery Band played up to the con-
clusion of tho match.
• * *
Last Saturday a large picnic took place at
Botany, tho employes of Mr. Alderman Dean gather-
ing at Correy’s Gardens for their annual party.
Dancing to the music of tho Young Australian Band
was the chief sport; a capital dinner was provided by
Corroy, amd speeches on Royalty and business were
made. Mr. Dean himself occupied the chair.
» * #
Members of the Sydney Teachers’ Institute
took an outing on Saturday afternoon in the Nellie.
The bad weather caused a much smaller gathering for
the harbour trip than usual.
« # #
The moonlight picnic given by some bachelors
to their friends, last Wednesday, was a most enjoyable
affair. The party, numi oriug about 50, loft the Circular
Quay at 5.30, and proceeded to Chowder. Out-door games
made tho time pass pleasantly till idusk, when the
pavilion became the scene of more substantial delight.
Through tho good offices of Mr. A. G. Shadier, tho
building had been prettily decorated, and lighted with I
Cliinone lanterns. After tea, Mr. Henry Gorman re-
turned thanks on behalf of the guests, and compli-
mented tho hosts upon their entertainment. Mr. J. F.
Cunningham responded on behalf of the bachelors. A
string baud, which had been playing “ whilst tho tables
were occupied, now struck up dance music, and a very
pleasant” bop of about an hour followed. The steamer
having, in tho meantime, been festooned with lantern?,
steamed up the Parramatta river, whilst those on board
engaged in as much music as could be alternated with
tho clangour of the steamer’s whistle. The party dis-
embarked at tho Quay halt an hour before midnight.
• * *
Mr. Alderman Percy C. Lucas (for four years
Mayor) was banqueted on Tuesday evening in the
Council Chambers, Campordown. Some fifty guests
sat down, amongst whom were Mr. K. Thompson,
Mayor, and all the Aldermen of Camperdown; Mr.
Foster, Minister for Justice; Mr. Brown, Postmaster-
General; and Messrs. M'tcholl and Abigail, M.P.’s.
Tho toast of tho Queen, of course, received more lire-
minenee than usual, and the chairman (Mr. Thompson)
told his audience of the intense joy which animated
his loyal breast when he heard that Roderick had
missed his aim, and been well pummelled by two Eton
boys. After the other loyal toasts, " Our Guest ’’ was
proposed by the chairman, who eulogized him as a man
and a Mayor. Mr. Lucas, though professing to be em-
barrassed by the greatness thrust upon him, responded
very gracefully, and, with a gonerovm spirit, distributed
soma of) tho kudos among his brother aldermen, who
emiled their appreciation. The bpwfUet was excellent
in every particular, and most tastefully laid out. It
was provided by Mr. J. Callaghan, of Brickfield Hill,
and served iu that excellent style which is rapidly win-
ning for Mr. Callaghan a foremost place amongst
caterers.
The Anglo-Saxon race has largely developed the
bump of acquisitiveness. In the Australian branch of
the Anglo-Saxon tree, this acquisitiveness takes the
form of earth-hunger. And just now this earth-hunger
is abnormally developed. The well-known “ case of Mr.
Lncrafb,” or that of any other trencher man, is a pitiful
circumstance compared to the present, earth-hungry
situation. Bursting with philanthropy at this spec-
tacle, great and good men like Hardie and Gorman
organise sales, engage special trains and special trams,
and ruin themselves recklessly in the purchase of cham-
pagne andjpork pies, in order to meet the public appetite
both for these eatables and for land. Their next
benevolent 'effort is to be put forth on Monday, when
Camden Park is to be carved and distributed amongst,
and swallowed by, the hungry public. Each of our
readers will find Ids or her personal description given
amongst intending purchasers iu the advertisement in
another column relating to this sale.
11
2fi!B/rfcl* l&i 1882.
TJbLxi


Hotels, So,
ROBINSON’S PITZ
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOOI
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP A
Is PER BOTT]
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKE
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (FOR
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Ame
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EV
The compagnoni cati
OF PITT-STREET have n
nounoiug to the public, that to rer
want of space to accommodate the
Luncheon hour, they have conv
Banqueting Hall into an additior
which is now open, and where e
directed to visitors patronising th
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a super
is under the management of a first
branch of Catering undertaken, a
staff of experienced and polite wai
Through continued misrepresen
beg to mention that they are not i
with any other person, or persons,
SAMUEL PA(
NOW OPEN
THE
£Jity (Catering
815 GEORGE ST]
(1 Harris’ Cofd, opposite Per
A superior CAFE and RESTAUR
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Australian “hc
SEWING MACH
Unprincipled Dealers—to mal
lings profit—are offering for st
Machines that will not stand a ye
express
OSS
</
6N
THE HOME SHUTTLE ]
Manufactured for ns, has the al
name on the work
PURCHASE NO OTH
We solicit information of the at
terfeits of the above Machine, w
act ion in protection of our rights.
In any district where onr gent
procurable, wo will forward tbex
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE HOW SOLD
HAND MACHINE, COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPL
Do., WITH COYER COM
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular po*
M. MOSS AN
WYNYAED LANE,
p R. L A
Wholesale and E
PRODUCE MER
Corner
GEORGE AND QIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STOE:
48 George-street West (late Pa
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near Y
Pure Cape Barley, Peed ax
P. E. LARE
Wholesale and Retail Wine ah
778 and 780 GEORGE STB
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replet
stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haj
Fob VENETIAN
TRY
WOR M I
112 OXFORD ST
w
H. A E
PROVISION MER(
AND GENERAL COMMIS
343 and 343 Rent-street, ne.
SOLE AGENT for the undermeir
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Loi
Excelsior Mill’s prize Viotoi
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariel!’s Victorl
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria T<
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Cc
A. M. Hunt & Oo.’s Goulburu
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, ne;
Deafness i—i hare an
for this distressing oomnlai
Tobaooonl
<y
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS
AMERICAN TO]
THE following facts are co
resources, and, therefore,
special interest:—
HIXSON AND SONS paid duty i
All the others paid duty in 1880 o:
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty i
All the others paid duty in 1881 01
Imported manufactured tobacco j
bn for the two years was only,.
DIXSON AND SON’S BE
YANKEE DOODLE, C
SIR ROGER, GOL
OUT RUBY, ORIENTA
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror a
genuine “Tin Tag,” each pin
Round Single Tin Tag, si
qoeeob" or “ Yankee
ALL TOBACCONISTS* GOO
fdflV
J.EVE . TOBACCOI
JAMBS El
No. 149 KING ST
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and amb<
149 KING STREI
JNDIA AND CHINA TI
70S GEORGE ST
Hatmarkes,
OUR “STAR OP IHD:
Have been proved t(
SUPERIOR TO ANY
FOB
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND El
Sold only at our Fstahlis
705 GEORGE S'
HAVMARKET,
OPPOSITE HORDERN'S
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BESf ALE and STOI
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEE:
MERCHANT
VIRGOE, SOnTaNE
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE I
OKlf£
ill 11 fvQv® 'U
ELAND WHIS
SI
f =
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should bo carefully compar
arc being imported into New S
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK 1
other brands, when they will fir
least 10 per cent, in favour of 1
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
F
MARTIN
AUSTRALIAN WINE 1
AND BEER EOT
105 PITT STEi
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES II
Prices from 12s to 42s
ALBUEY WIN
EED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTEE EIYEE
Claret
Lambruscat
POET MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
COOLALTA WIN*
119 PITT STREET
fHE Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
The Nun* of M.. MOSS & 00.
It on every Genuine Bottle.
m
i
GILCHRIST, WATT
SOLE AGENTS FOE NEW
1 RTTMT Q7P.PUT ft


VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT," and WOEB
Diagrams for self-measuring forward*
the COiOny.
MASON EROTI
iS
AWARDS
11 & 16 Sp:
Syd
Have always in S
to the TRADI
SALE BUYER
IRONMONGER''
GENERA
GLASS,
a;
EAE T H E
WINES. BEERS
and g
BULK MEI
Agon
JOHN WALK
Old Highla
J. SOEIN
Cog
J, T. Q
Schnapps i
A. MELVII
Edinburg!
D
AVID
M
14, Hunter-street, Sydi
SADDLER AND HARNESS
By special appointme
To his Royal Highness the Duke *
Excellency the Right Hon. the
His Excellency Sir Hercules Eo
and His Excellency Lord .
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gontleme
Agricultural Exhibition. 1868, 1870,
THE BEST BILL FILE in th(
PATENT IXL AUTOM
Price, 3s. 61.
CUTMOEE & CO., 16 BRIDGE ST
end RETAIL.
Will wait upon business men dosii
advantages of these files.
w
ASTE PA PER for SALE, i
Office, Pitt-street.
h. p a i
PIANOFORTE WAEEH
It is necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
BURY'S COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by special appointment
to the Queen,—(Advx.)
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general,]
RACING.
V.R.C..... March 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Mooting Mar. 11,12.
Orange March 10, 17.
Albury March 16,17.
Oamaru (N.Z.) Marchl6, 17.
Gundagai . March 16, 17.
Picton ....March 18, 20.
Wagga March 22, 23.
Corowa March 23.
V.A.T.C March 25.
Adelong March 28.
Cowra March 28, 29.
Great Northern R.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
bale Turf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
Victoria Trotting Club April 1.
Goulburn April 5,6.
Canterbury, J C. (N.Z ) April 10, 11.
Auckland E C,, Autumn April 10, 11.
A. J.C. Autumn April 10, 12,14,15.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 21.
Wilcannia April 20, 21.
Echuoa .......April 20, 22.
Sydney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Deniliquiu April 27, 28.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton May 2, 4.
Lachlan E.G May 4, 5.
B. May 6, 11, 13.
Adelaide E C May 20, 24, 25, 27.
Bligh A.T.G Mudgee May 22.
Queensland J.C May 24, 25.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 0.
AQUATICS.
J. C. Laycock v. S. Edwards, £2O aside,... March 11.
Wooll ooraooloo Bay Amateur Regatta March 11.
Portland Regatta ... March 10.
Hanlau v. Boyd, £5OO aside on the Tyne April 3.
Rocky Mouth Regatta Easter Monday.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race April 29.
Trickett v. Hanlan, £5OO aside on the Thames.... May 1.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlau y. Ross, £2OO aside on the Thames June 20.
CRICKET.
Melbourne v, Adelaide March 10,11,13.
All-England Eleven v. Australian Eleven, Melbourne
March 9,10, 11.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Zulu, tho Melbourne Cup winner, is advertised
for sale.
The Messenger-Carter triok is completely blown
in New Zealand.
Cootamundra and Wagga play for the Cox
Challenge Cup on March 18.
Seventy-four entries for the Adelaide Cup; 78
(or the Goodwood Handicap.
The seven-mile walking match between Assen-
heim and M'Laren, last Saturday, was a lizzie.
The yachts of tho Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron are to rendezvous at Broken Bay at Easter.
Mr. Fred. Moin accompanies the Australian
Eleven as assistant to the secretary, Mr, Charles W.
Beal.
Four splendid greyhounds, the property of Mr.
Wm. Kete, of Bathurst, arrived by the R.M.S.S.
Assam.
A race takes place in Grafton on 21st March,
125 yards, £2O aside, between Arthur Noud and J.
SohieU.
On March 1, at Wentworth Swamps, a party of
six securedi 43 brace ducks, 22 brace baldooots, and 17
red-bills.
At the Geelong regatta, on Tuesday week, Mr.
W. J Clarke’s yacht Janet beat the New Zealand yacht
Taniwha.
Wagga v. Albury. — Albury scored 62 : and
Wagga 48; but in the teoond innings 100, with but two
wickets down.
On Ist March, at Bourke, a 100 yards race for
£2O aside, was ran between M'Cusker and Earl, the
former winning easily.
Giffan made 40 runs in his last appearance in a
match at Adelaide. Jarvis made 43 in the same match
—Hindmarsh v. Norwood.
The forthcoming season of the N.S.W. Coursing
Club promises to be very successful; 49 entries for the
Oaks and 47 for the Derby.
The trout ova which was brought out to
Wellington (N.Z ) by the Loch Leven, was found to be
useless through bad packing.
National v. Lome. National Cricket Club, 96
Duncan 28, Collins 16, Carroll 13, Baxter 13. Lome
Cricket Club, 41—B. Seale 22.
Archer, the English jockey, received several
handsome wedding presents, including one of Peters’
two hundred guinea broughams,
Lily of the West, a well-known racing filly, was
accidentally stabbed in the neck last week at Mudgeo,
and died from the injuries received.
Surry United v. Our Boys Club. —Our Boys,
95. Power, 42; Stafford, 21, Surry Uniteil, 32. Tula
gives a line for the Thompson Junior Cup.
At tho annual N.Z. Rifle Association matches,
Hutchinson, of Otago, won the rifle championship;
Gordon, of the Thames, won the carbine championship.
On Saturday week, at Bathurst, a Wellington
eleven were defeated by the Bathurst team. Scores :
Bathurst 71, and 8, with no wiciets down; Wellington,
31 and 47.
The Roma, (Q.), Athletic Club have a fourth
annual gathering on April 10th, on the Roma Race-
course. A liberal programme, comprising 31 events, is
published.
The Rockhampton J.C. meeting is fixed for the
6:h and 7th July. A sub-committee has been appointed
to prepare tho programme, the added money not to
exceed £B5O.
Grandstand Handicap, Musjid. Hurry Scurry,
Forester 1. Rurrangong Turf Club Handicap, Lucifer.
Substitute Handicap, Musjid. Forced Handicap,
Minnie Warren.
MTndoe, the Victorian champion swimmer,
suffered defeat iu two events, 300 and 400 yards, at
Me.bourne, on Saturday wiek. A. T. Kenney won both
events, M’ludoe being second.
Mr. Maitland, the owner of Wandering Jow,
has bean riding for himself and winning a goodly
number of races on his own horses in India. He in-
tends revisiting Australia shortly.
The six days’ (12 hours a day) contest at Mel
bourne, between W. Swan and Mias Phillips, resulted
in a victory for the “man," who covered 321 miles 6
laps; tie “woman," doing32l miles only.
A Paterson eleven met tho Maitland Albions, on
the Albion cricket ground. West Maitland, on Satnr-
day week. Scores : Albion, first innings, 95; Patersoc,
first innings, 61; second innings, six wickets for 30.
The Forbes cricketers have amalgamated them-
selves into one club under the name of the Forbes
Cricket Club. A new ground is to be prepared. During
the holiday time a Sydney club might be tempted that
far.
Aritcles have been signed by Hanlan and
Triokett to row on the Thames, on the Ist May, for
£5OO aside. Funds for Trickett are solicited to be sent
to the credit of Mr. Charles Lett, at the Bank of N.S,
Wales, London.
Six of the men who wore fined <£3 each for
gambling in Mace’s hotel were summoned for non-pay-
ment of the fines. Only one appeared, and being unable
to pay the fine he got fourteen days. Warrants are out
for the other five. What sort of school was this ?
A match was made on 27th February, between
T. Allen, the well-known Sydney pad. and J. Samuels,
a runner who brings a good name from New Zealand.
The race, 100 yards, for £2O a side, takes place at
Botany, on March 25. Mr, F. Punch is stakeholder.
At a sale of thoroughbred horses, at Flemington,
on Friday, the imported brood mare. Penitent, was
purchased for Mr. A. Town, for 170 guineas; the im-
ported mare Bauvie, Mr. Bales, 420 guineas ; Iphigema,
Mr. J. J. Miller, 330 guineas President, Mr. J. Wilson,
220 guineas.
Another victim to the “ Blaokfellow’a game.”
At Middleton, Lancashire, playing under the Rugby
rules, a footballer was running with the ball, when an
opponent batted him in the stomach with his head,
bringing him to earth and inflicting such injuries that
death resulted.
Spofforth was in Melbourne when he ought to
have been in Sydney to play in the first match of the
Australian Eleven. The Melbourne sporting writers are
trying to account for his actions. On this side we have
given that up long ago, and remain merely thankful for
his small mercies.
A racing reformer in England is agitating for a
raising of the sst. 71b. minimum to 6st. 71b , the object
being to continue in the saddle men who now have to
retire, and to keep out the pigmies who are too small
and weak to assist their horses, and whose only notion
of a finish is whip and spurs.
At a cricket match at Kedron Park, Brisbane,
between theatricals and muffs, won by the former, one
of the “ play-actors " came to the wickets with the pad
on the wrong leg. Attention being drawn to it, he said
he thought he had to bat at the other end of the wicket.
He didn’t get to the other end: one ball was enough.
Shamrock, the well-known Western racehorse,
met with an accident lately, the shaft of a spring-cart
I piercing right through his nook. He has thoroughly
recovered, and is now doing menial duty as a hack.
The two scars, one on each side of the neck, where the
shaft poked through, can be seen by the incredulous.
Ned Blackburn, of Eaglebank, Yio., challenges
William Miller to wrestle him the best five falls, in the
Cumberland and Westmoreland style, on the following
conditions To wrestle at 13 st. weight for £lOO aside,
or will take £2OO to £lOO, or £lOO to £5O, and wrestle
at catch weights; to wrestle in Melbourne or Sand-
hurst.
I The Victorian Yacht Club regatta comes off on
Easter Monday, There will be a first-class race for
I yachts exceeding 20 tons ; coarse, 25 miles; for a first
prize, cup value £5O, and a sooesd prize of £2O; entry,
I £5. Also, a seoond-class yacht race for yachts from 10
to 20 tons; course, about 20 miles; for a cup of the
value of £3O, and a second prize of £7; entry, £2.
The banquet to Mr. C. Beal was numerously
attended, all clubs being well represented. The toast
of the evening, “ Our Guest,” was enthusiastically re-
ceived. Mr. Beal returned thanks in a very neat speech,
I in which, referring to the coming match in England be-
tween the All-England and Australian Elevens, he hoped
I it would be his proud lot to send along a wire, “ Aus-
I tralia, first, England second.”
The Marquis of Huntley, who is wanted at
the Mansion House just now, had an estate of 85,000
acres, with a rent roll of about £20,000. He married
1 the daughter of a wealthy Lancashire banker, and yet,
1 at 34 years of age, he is in evident distress. Of course,
it is the old, old story; he has go ns the same road as
the Marquis of Hastings and the Earl of Aylesford, and
I half a dozen other aristocratic patrons of the turf.
1 The handsome silver cup, presented by N.S.
Wales trainers to the Bathurst Coursing Club, is on
view at Evan Jones’ shop. It stands about 18 in. high,
I the base being chased and engraved, with a vine winding
I round the stem, the bowl, which is egg-shaped, being of
1 burnished silver, with fern leaves springing out from
I its base. The top is surmounted by a slipper with a
| couple of dogs, the whole forming a most elegant work
The Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club is
I firmly established. It is to be conducted under the
1 Sydney Amateur Athletic Club rules, and will hold two
meetings during the year. Following are the officers :
—Patron. W. J. Trickett, M.L.A. ; president, E.
Butcher (Mayor of Woollahra); vice-presidents, Hon.
J. Marks. M.L.C., Hon. J. Macintosh, M.L.C., H.
Clarke, M L.A., W. J. Fletcher, H. M. Faithfull, J.
Gardyne, R. Sands; hon. treasurer, H. H. Wahlberg;
hon. secretary, H. B. Hughes.
The Warrnambool Annual Winter Steeplechase
meeting takes place on June 7 and 9. The programme
1 is a capital one, including three steeplechases, three
hurdle races, and four flat races. The prizes are very
liberal, the principal being a handicap steeplechase of
150 sovs. with a sweep of 5 sovs. for second horse.
I Nominations for the principal events must be in the
hands of the secretary, Mr. J. A. Archibald, before Ist
I May, The general entry closes 6th June. V.R.C.
rales strictly adhered to. Mr. Barnard does the handi-
capping.
The coming encounter between Paddy Eyan,
and John L. Sullivan, far 5000 dols. and the Champion-
ship of the World, is causing some excitement in
America. Sullivan is said to be backed by several
sporting men, and not by himself alone. James Keenan
is the chief one, who puts up 1000 dola., the Crib Club
500 dels., Billy Madden 500 dols., all of Boston, and
Sullivan 5000 dols., making in all the required 2500 dols.
I Ryan is backed by a newspaper proprietor, and therefore
I ought to win. The betting is quoted as 100 to 70 in
I favour of Sullivan.
The council of the S.A. Eifle Volunteer Force
I are trying to arrange an Intercolonial simultaneous
contest. The match is to be fired on the second Satur-
I day in August, in each year, and the teams are to
I number fifteen men from the defence forces in each
I colony. The ranges are 200, 300, 500 and 600 yards,
fifteen shots at each. The prizes are a challenge trophy
and badges, Each colony is to contribute £25 towards
I the challenge trophy, which is to be won three times.
1 £5 is to be annually subscribed by each colony for the
I purchase of badges for the winning teams.
Poor Paddy Carey, who was killed at the last
Hobart meeting, was as game a horseman ns ever
crossed a saddle. Seldom getting first-class mounts,
I his courage made him ride all sorts of mutes, and
I accidents were frequent. A bad fall from
laid him up, and then came tho fearful fall with Stop,
watch, at Beechworth, through a dog running at the
horse. Only the wonderful skill of Dr. Mousse save 1
Carey's life, bis skull being terribly fractured. After a
long illness, he recovered, and was riding as gamely as
ever when his young life was brought to its terribly
sudden close. He leaves a widowed mother, for whom
I a subscription list is open at the A.J.C. office.
Mr. J. Oatley has been asked to coach the
I N.S. Wales eight-oar crew, and has consented to do so.
Mr. Oatley has piloted so many crews to victory, simply
by extracting the proper amount of work from thena in
their preparation, and by knowing how to do it, that
the rowing public who take an interest in the Inter-
colonial contest will feel indebted to him. His services
will bo a guarantee that the eight will oeme to the post
in theiv best form. The crew is light, averaging 10 st.
I 7 lb The selection appears generally to be satisfactory,
but’ we believe it is within the power of the coach to
make a substitute during the training. The ten selected
for practice are J. Thompson, J. Brodie, C. Bros, N.
Johnson, J. Gaden, Ickerson, F. Hart. E. Moppitt, J.
I P. Simpson, and Bedford.
Laycook, who was a saloon passenger by the
Potosi, was very much annoyed at the par. which
appeared in the Herald stating that a number of
gentlemen, learning that he had taken a third-class
I passage, subscribed a sum to enable him to travel more
comfortably. Pearce was the recipient of the favour,
he having taken a third-class passage on his own
account, and having no connection with Laycook a
visit to England, except that he went away by the same
vessel. Apparently, Pearce has no programme before
him but there is no doubt when ho reaches England ho
will find friends, and;Layoock, Trickett, and Kelley will
be certain to lend him a hand. He may cause havoc
amongst the sculling small-fry. but he had better he
wary of the big fish.
On Wednesday, December 28, a cock-fight be-
tween Philadelphia and Long Island took place in the
vicinity of New York, and the tattles fought earned
the sport through the entire night and past the hour of
breakfast on Thursday. The articles of agreement
required that seventeen birds a-side should be shown,
weighing from 41b, to Gib. each, and to fight «11 that fell
in or matched in weight for 80 dels, a battle, and 600
dole, the odd fight or main. When the weighing-in
lists were compared it was found that thirteen battles
would bo had. The pit’s capacity was severely tested,
as on the seats and in the doorway and hall teyand
there were about 400 persons from Philadelphia,
Trenton, New Haven, Albury, Troy and Rochester, *o.
At the end of the tenth battle Long Island had won
the main, and it being 5 30 a m. most of the spectators
left, the three remaining battles being considered of no
importance. The score stood—Long Island, 7; Phila-
delphia, 2; drawn, 1.
On January 2nd, at Kirkwall, the capita
of the Orkney Islands, the annual football match
took place, which is played in the thoroughfares,
and, although an old custom, it is still kept up with
great enthusiasm. The opponents were the people liv-
ing below the Cathedral and the people above. At one
o’clock the ball was thrown from the cross opposite the
Cathedral, and the different sides pushed together, and
a regular rnilie took place, the mob swaying from side
to side. At last the Up-the-Gates managed to get the
ball driven up opposite the prison. The Down-the
Gates made a fresh start, and the ball was carried as
far as the Castle Hotel, when their antagonists made
a fresh drive, and drove it back to the Post
Office. A young man succeeded in gaining the ball out
of tbe mob, and made through one of the lanes for the
back road A regular miUe took place, and, by brute
force the ball was earned right up to the Burgar’s Bay,
where it was put into a home, so Up-the-Gates were
the victors for the second year in succession. The
lower classes are joined in this contest by the mer-
chants, doctors, druggists, bankers, magistrates, and
councillors of the vicinity, all being either as “ skips ”
or players.
G. H. Hosmer, the American sculler, is making
a name as a pedestrian and is expected to break the
one mile record before the Winter closes. The Boston
Herald quotes from a contemporary:—“ If Kiley,
Hosmer, and Warren Smith are the best American
scullers, I feel certain that our English Champion,
Boyd, can row and defeat either, and I rather think
that Largan now could do the same. Perhaps the
writer of the paragraph claims Hanlan and Ross as
Americans. Bar those two we have men quite capable
of clearing out the Yankee fry, and the day, I hope, is
not for distant when wo shall have an opportunity of
proving to this small-minded, miserable person how
utterly untrustworthy are his statements.” It then
proceeds to make the following comments :—" Without
intention of meddling with the quarrel of the English
editors and the writer of the American criticism, (who
is claimed by the former to have once been an English
newspaper man), it may be well to state here and now
that without counting on Hanlan, or Ross, or Smith,
or Hosmer, or Riley, there are * Yankee small fry ’ who
will accommodate Mr. Boyd or Mr. Largan, or any
other scullers, of England; that the ‘fry’ will travel
to the old country to meet them, and will row for as
‘ good money' as the Tyuesiders or Thamesiders will
name. But the English scullers will not bite at the
most tempting oilers coming from this side of the
Atlantic—at least Boyd, professedly, and, perhaps,
confessedly, the best sculler in England to-day, will
not accept a standing oflor from a man who is rated
far inferior to Hanlan.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Jem Mace has been declared insolvent in Mel-
bourne, at the instance of his butcher Mr. Chuck has
resigned the secretaryship of the Victorian Cricket
Association A court martial is to be held on some of
the crew engaged in the rowing matches against the
Russian squadron, in consequence of offensive language
addressed to the Harbour Trust crew The cricket
match, Singleton v. Scone, resulted in a victory for the
Singleton club with 29 runs to spare The Adelaide
Racing Club have accepted a tender for the erection of
a new grandstand, the cost to be £4075. The neces-
sary fencing and other fresh arrangements on the
ground will cost at least another £lOO3 On Saturday
i week, pigeon matches took place on the Taree Cricket
Ground. K. Davis, Q. Schmltzer, and H. Gore were
the winners of the various events In the Maclbat
Herald, of February 26, appears a challenge from C.
Smith of jKempsey, to row Mr. Hack of the Wilson
river, a straight-away race in best ,and best boats, 2,3,
or 4 miles, lor £lO a-side Burrangong Turf Club
races. Flying Handicap, Blackbird; Selling Stakes,
Miss Clara; Town Plate, Doctor; Hurdle Race.
Wrangler; Hack Race, Banjo Cleveland v. United
Club. In a match between the Cleveland and the
United Cricket Clubs, Cleveland scored 106. —R.
Conlon, 35; Smith, not out, 14; Hucher, 12; Payne,
12; Drawbridge 10. United Club, 23.—R. Conlonjbowled
7 wickets for 9 runs On Saturday week a 150 yards’
race took place at the Orange Cricket Grounds between
D. Collins and J, Kevins. Kevins winning by three
yards On Saturday week Blayney played Molony.
Blayney scored 144. J. R. Jones, 53 ; W. Marsh, junr.,
32; Molony, 40 and 27 Two horso-thieves, who had
stolen a mob of good nnimalr, among them the racers
Pope and Gay Lad, from Byerstown, Palmer River,
were captured on the Walsh by Mr. Attaridge Jem
Mace is said to be en route to San Francisco.
* # #
Mr. Conkling, of the Chicago Bicycling Club, is
credited with a quarter of a mile in 28 sec On
January 6, David wodwin and Joseph Flynn, met on
the Thames for the second time, and rowed the
championship course for £5O aside, Godwin again sooring
a win William Gala purposes at New Orleans to walk
2500 miles in 1000 hours, walking 2miles in each hour
George Drewott, a celebrated English aquatic
trainer, died in January On December 28, at Shef-
field, Raby, who defeated Merritt in England, walked A.
Hancock for £5O aside, the best at three hours. Raby
gave up at the eighth mile (1 hour 3 min 16 see.), and
the referee declared Hancock the winner at the end of
the 9th mile (1 hour 10 min. 50 sec) On January 5, G.
Perkins and H. Audsley rowed on the Thames
championship course for £5O aside Millais, the
artist, is a famous angler. He lately killed on the Tay,
in one day, 120 salmon.
The Evunooze says that upon the person of
Marie Layo was found “a gold quarter-dollar piece.“
We should very much like to see this coin. When we
da so, we shall believe it exists. Until then, wo shall
doubt the statement—even though it appeared in the
Evunoozk.
At Tamworth, four commercial men arrived at
a hotel, late at night, and as every one had retired, and
they could not get accommodated with rooms, they
decided to sit up and play cards. Shortly after mid-
night, two policemen appeared on the scene, having
climbed up the verandah, expecting to find the bar trade
going on, and intimated their intention of arresting all
hands. Under the circumstances, the commercials
objected to the arrest, and, backed up by a local
journalist, threatened the policemen with pains and
penalties for housebreaking. The matter has not ap-
peared in the township papers, and most probably the
pressmen, the police, and the commercials, will all find
it best to let it drop.
The Auckland Free Lance states that his
enemy, Enthbone, of the local Observer, has come in for
£25,000 a year and a suit of clothes, from his uncle, the
Duke of (Something. The clothes, it would seem from
our contemporary, have arrived. The Lance also has
the following on an Auckland Star reporter
“ There was a scorbutic reporter
Who imagined himself a young Snorter 5
But his manners were bad—
They were those of a cad,
For he couldn’t behave as he oughter.
Now let’s treat Mr. Wickham a spoonful of the
same s
There was a small sorawler named Wickham
Whose enemies ne’er seemed to kick him ;
Yet, if what we hear’s true.
We can plainly tell you,
Two boys and a rabbit could lick him.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Layoock is 3G.
A slanbegoff-at-last-ia-off.
Graham Berry about to visit Sydney.
The {esthetic Mr. Spicer has joined the Shavers.
A tablet has been placed over the spot where
Garfield was shot.
Mr. F. C. Hodel, of the local Courier, has
beea elected Mayor of Cooktown.
Mr. Arthur George Plunkett has been appointed
associate to His Honor Mr. Justice Faucett.
Hon. James Hoskins, M.L.A., left by the ship
Parramatta last Saturday, on a visit to the old country.
Dr. M' Gibbon, we are sorry to hear, has not
been so well of late. His malady is of a cardiac nature.
Mr. G. W. Rusden, late clerk of the Victorian
Legislative Assembly, is writing a history of the 0010-
At latest, Herr Boss and party, the mountain
climbers, now in N.Z., had safely reached the Tasman
glacier.
Mr. W. Guesdon, the owner of Darebln. is to be
solicited to stand as a parliamentary candidate for
Hobart.
Miss Eva Carmichael is now said to bo con-
•nmnbTo When she was In Victoria, she weighed
12at. 91b.
Mrs. Wright, proprietress of tho Northern
S tandatiu.JTownavillo, is dead. Her husband died only
a few weeks ago.
Over thirteen shillings a run is what Murdoch
received from the admirers of his splendid innings «f
321 in the late Intercolonial match.
One sole survivor of the Tasmanian aborigines
■till lives, known as Fanny Cochrane, who ia in receipt
Of an annual Government pension of £2l.
There is. at Bathurst, a. religious (R.C.) paper
called The Record, which evidently likes Sir Henry.
It calls him “ The hoary-headed ex-Chartist.
Mr. William Mundy, brother of Mrs. Mnndy, the
lady who ran away with the Earl of Shrewsbury, which
nobleman ho subsequently horsewhipped, has until
lately been in Australia.
A picture of Christopher Columbus, just dis-
covered in the Spanish Colonial Office, represents him
as about forty, without a wrinkle on hia broad fore-
head, with dark thick hair, a brilliant eye, and beaked
noso.
Mr. Victor Daley, author of “Years Ago, m
tho Echo of last Saturday, is the rising poet or I this
country. For a long time wo have not had more
melodious and imaginative verses from tho pen
of any Australian writer.
Archibald Forbes, who comes to Australia
shortly,ls leoturingln Americaon “ Kings I have mat
A Yankee paper says that some day bo will moot with
throe kings 1 and a pair of sevens, a«d will then begin to
understand the great resources of the country.
Tho’horoic Mrs. Watson, who recently periahed
at Howick Island, was well known in Maryborough (Q )
before her marriage. Miss Oxenhatn. for such was her
maiden name, resided at Tinana Creek, near the town
named, for some years, and was deservedly popular.
Dean Macartney, of Melbourne, is 85 years old,
and still earning hia salary. Anyhow, ho is drawing it
In n recent discourse, he intimated hU matured con-
viction that modsrn science can m change his
views. No hurry, Dean [—another 85 years might
°The headless trunk of the man recently found
at Deop Lead. Stawoll tVlcloria). is believed to be
that of one Frank A. Bellman, son of a Church of
England clergyman at Norwich, England, 30 years of
age. 6ft in height, slender build, and usually dressed as
a labourer.
Some friends of victims in tho Johmont railway
sums”interviewed Mr. Bent- the Victorian Minister of
Railways They were grandly received by thoautocrat,
but when they began talking about compensation. Bent,
pointing to a pile of papers, simply remarked Jury,
jury, jury 1”
Messrs. Arthur Giles, B.A. (Queen s College,
Cam ). and Herbert T. Carter, B.A. (J«jns College.
Cam have joined the mathematical staff of the Sydney
Grammar School. T. H. Lendon, 8.A., anothorCautab
from Trinity College, has also been appointed to a
mastership in the same institution.
Tho New York Herald has despatched its
Tendon correspondent to Irkutsk, Siberia, to meet the
survivors of the lost Jeannette. Jame. Gordon Bennett.
the proprietor, talks of going there himself. Money is
little object to him, and he says, ‘ we found Living-
stone, and we want to find the North Polo."
Alfred Bliss, a Melbourne auctioneer, got
£2500 for damages to his leg in the Jolimoat rail way
accident. This will do more to heal Alfred s leg tban
£2500 spent with the surgeons. By the way. Judge
Higiubotham, who is trying the compensation oases,
travels by the Jolimont line. He looks sympathetic
Everv admirer of true pluok will be glad to
Wr that Hr. Curnow, the Glenrowan schoolmaster
who stopped the special train and saved it from destruc-
tion on the occasion when the Kelly gang were
••bombarded,’’ is to have hia reward of £450. sup-
plomonted by a Parliamentary grant of £550-a thou.
Attorney-General is making further en-
m the case of Michael M-M»hon, ex-mayor of
Kraham. who was the other day charged with forging
the nauueof the late Philip Andreas to a bill for £lOOO,
ind conyictai on the minor count of uttering. Mr.
Wisdom’s ojfinleo, which ia shared by a good many
S ffi tbat a third party was mixed up In
ibe matter.
Mr Bartiett-Burdctt-Coatte states that ho has
-Joivad requests from twelve separate Conservative
associations to become a candidate at tho next general
election. This statement is ridiculed in well-informed
finsrters Probably it is a cute dodee on the part of
thU ex- American clerk, whe derives alibis notoriety
from tho fact that he married a nch fool, old enough to
bo his grandmother.
Henri Rochefort, who, on his arrival in Sydney
after escaping from New Caledonia, addressed the S.M.
S‘“ AID people as brother journalists, and got in reply
Mr, insulting snub, in which he and his companions,
h" UcVin v j )r. Rastoul, were referred to as “ those con-
Slots " tw boeu elected a member of the French
.des Gens de Lettres," the most exclusive
ia the world.
TWeiifl of the Northern Miner,
has been served with another libel writ, for £lOOO, at
has neeu John Beane, of Charters Towers.
the subject matter of the libel is.’’ Isays a
Northern paper, ‘‘wo are not informed, but expect the
decent seizure of beer on Mr Jackson s premises has
reC ofi.!n»to do with it.” Yes, we suppose bear is at
tlTbottom of all tho trouble. Formerly It used to he
i?rouoaiii(? a bridegroom’s health, Sir Stafford
Seemly said. “As I stand here to-day,
Sf™ y own sensations 30 years ago. I picture to
LHSt nSWming bride, and the wedding guest* that
n-y own wedding ceremony. I see the carriage
at .the d/OOr in which my darling is about to
Z once more fllled with the over-
bought—«ow where the dickens did I leave
yiyhatf" ,
A ladv writes to saw (ffia/fc the Sara Flower who
wrote the exquisite hymn ‘‘bfe:ue* Thee," was,
Tw, married. Mrs. Adams, one of two gifted sisters;
but that she was not identical with oc oven isolated to
Sara Flower, the great contralto singer. The letter
married to Mr. Bam Howard, the comedian. l»y
the way. we believe that Mr. Flower, jeweller of
Hunter street. Sydney, is a brother of Sara Flower, the
oantatrioe.
dt he discoverer of Leichhardt a relics prosecuted
. ... Biackall (Feb. 11), for stealing a horse, the
'pr' pottyf the now eminent explorer. The P.M. would
convict tße man on tho uncorroborated testimony
W aken -or any other man—and granted a remand for
°ho productionof further evidence. It was probably
loss of the horse which prevented the groat man
fr )m getting dowa to Sydney with the telescope and
compass "props.”
Thirteen years ago, the late Elmslie Stephen
publicly accused Mr. (uow Judge) Higiubotham, of
being the source of all the distresses of Victoria. The
other day, Judge Higinbotham presided at the trial
where Stephen’s widow sued for £5OOO damages for his
death in the Jolimont accident. What a delicious
revenge his Honor enjoyed, when he so generously en-
larged to the jury upon the claims of the widow 1 Not
every man would have taken such a revanche I
Mr, Jardine Browning, a yonng English
barrister, who was admitted to the Bar of isew South
Wales the other day, l«|the son of parents no less dis-
tinguished than Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Brown-
ing, the poets. Mr. Browning was pressed to remain in
Sydney, but we understand that it ia his intention to
settle and practise his profession in Melbourne—for a
time, at ’east. A very heavy responsibility rests upon
the shoulders of a man who comes of such stock.
Father G. V. Barry, the dashing, handsome
priest, was a well-known character in Melbourne, twenty
years ago. He and the Bov. W. Fellows were the only
clergymen in Melbourne who ibet on horse races,
though many could bo found in the old country. He
was a well-known figure on the Flomiugton lawn, and
was the chief speaker at the enermoue meeting of
ladies hold in Melbourne when O'Farrell shot the Duka.
Ho mysteriously disappeared, and was thought to bo
dead, until lately mot in America, where, as already
stated ho got married.
Tho Holt-Sutherland estate venture la a big
success. The present holders think of selling t* a
company with • £250,000 capital, as they will be able to
show more than currant interest on that amount. One
young spaculator holds half the shares, which oost
him, comparatively speaking, a marc aong. Should
tho new company be formed—and there appears no
earthly rsason why it should not be —he will And him-
self worth £100,0(0, while othsrs who have bought shares
at about £2O, and have already quadrupled their in-
vestments, will get £lOOO for each £lO originally
disbursed.
In Victoria, recently, a man sued before Judge
Cope, for his newspaper subscription, pleaded that
although the boy used to leave the journal at his door
it had never been ordered. His Honor: " Did you
r->ad it?” Defendanti “Of course I did, your
Honour.” His Honor: “If a baker left a loaf of
bread at your doer, and you took it and ate it, would
you pay for that?” Defendant: “Certainly, your
Honor; but that is a different thing.” His Honor:
“ Not at all. You eat the loaf, and you devour the
newspaper. Verdict for amount with costa.” The
Judge is an active member of tke Yorick Club, and is
beloved of newspaper men. Hooray 1
General Feilding, who went to explore the route
for a transcontinental railway, always travelled in great
state, and on the stations out back bis earavna was
often mistaken for a circus. The stockmen were dis-
appointed when they found he couldn’t throw somer-
saults and leap through paper hoops. But h» wasn’t a
bushman, and on one occasion he got properly lost.
Weary and hungry, hour after hour, he went on. At
length, a heaven-sent boundary rider app ared. “My
good man,” said the explorer, 11 we. ah, have, ah, got
off tho road; can you tell us, ah, where to regain it,
ah ?” If nay money can secure tho General’s services,
he certainly ought to bo sent to look after Skuthorpo
and tho relics.
When the Duka of Edinburgh was in Auckland
he, being a great enthusiast with tho violin, borrowed
a real Straduarius from a milkman there, who had
inherited it—over the garden wall—from somebody
else’s ancestor. Being delighted with the instrument,
H.R.H. tried to buy it; but the owner didn’t care shout
selling. In tho end the Duke forgot all about the
instrument, and it was pnt away with some other
treasures in tho regal shoe-trunk. One night, however,
when tho Duke was out ineng. at a small party, a man
called with a borrowed crutch and about 41b of solid
rock twisted up in a calico duster. Next day tho fiddle
was returned to the cow-man, and his chance #t a
C.M.G.-ship was lost for ever.
Superintendents Nicholson and Hare, suspended
in re the Victorian Police Enquiry, will, it is said, get
police magistracies. That they should be thus treated
was proposed by some one who considered it a very
feasible way of solving tho difficulty regarding the
adoption of the report of tho Police Commission. In
NB. Wales, as in Victoria, whenever Government
doesn’t know what to do wiih a man for whom a billet
muet be found, it makes a Justice of him —that’s to say
if there’s no judgeship vacant.
Elijah Upjohn, the Victorian hangman, has a
salary of ss. per day, with quarters, fuel, food, light
and water—his billet is, therefore, hardly so good as
that of “ Nosey Bob,” who, at Sydney, runs the side-
show in the interests of the Government umdertaker.
Elijah is 80 years of age, stands 6ft 3in., and has, appro*
priately enough, light flaxen heir. He is, in short,
venerable enough to be mistaken for a minister of the
Gospel. This is where he gets the bulge on onr Mr.
Howard. By the way, some years ago. New South
Wales had a hangman who, oa the morning of an execu-
tion, used to get himself up in shiny black and brilliant
patent leathers. But even he didn’t get any encourage-
ment, for an Evening News reporter mistook him for
the parson, and described him accordingly.
A gentleman named Elliott, shut up as a lunatic
twenty-two years ago, in consequence of his having
sought an audience of the Queen and deolared that he
was the Duke of York, elder brother of Her Majesty’s
father, and therefore rightful King of Great Britain,
has just made his escape by the aid of a Madame
Beauharnais, a descendant of Prince Eugene, son-in-law
to the flrst Napoleon. Madame Beauharnais was a
great friend of the late Joseph Mazzini, the Italian
patriot and conspirator, and surviving members of the
old Carbonari brotherhood actively assisted in Mr.
Elliott’s concealment when once he reached the Conti-
nent. Mr. Elliott asserts his sanity, and has served
his tenantry with notice to pay rents to him, instead
of to his wife, who has been receiving them all the
time.
Mr. Fawcett, the British Postmaster-General,
is a remarkable man (so is ours—but let that pass). He
was blinded by the bursting of a gun when a young man,
but in spite of this drawback, he is one of the cleverest
and most progressive men of the day. A good mathe-
matician, he has a wonderful memory, and an immense
knowledge of literature. He is guided to the door of
the House of Commons by an attendant, and his
speeches are masterly, incisive, and very correct as to
facts (his wife, who is also clever, helps him in prepara-
tion). He Las introduced many reforms in the Post
Office, the principal being money-orders or cheques for
small sums, and tel£ph°m c communication. Strange to
say, the brilliant idea never entered his brain of restrict-
ing press telegrams to 500 words. That requires the
genius of a Brown.
Some years since, one Daniel Abraham Hughes,
n briefless barrister, started, in Melbourne, a paper
callad the Town and Country Journal, with money
belonging to his confiding brother-in-law, Donald
Cameran, squatter, of Oakbank and Hilgay station*,
Hughes’ motto wos “ran or bust.” It is hardly necee.
sary to say which part of his motto cams off.
Anyhow, poor Donald Cameron found himself £35,000
out of pocket in less than eighteen mouths. Cameron
died a year or two ago, leaving property worth from
£70,000 to £lOO,OOO to hts wife, with strict injunctions
that, her relatives, the Hughes family, were not to get a
shilling of the property. However, Mrs. Cameron,
being i« a very weak state and exceedingly nervous,
survived bar husband only a short time, and died w ti-
ont leaving a will, so that th® Hughes family, being
next of kin, beco ne entitled to the big ggtate.
We recently noticed the death of Judge Chap-
man, of N.Z. His career was a remarkable one. Born
in Snrrey, 1803, ho early embraced tho profession of
letters, was a journalist in Canada, and nublished the
first daily newspaper at Montwa’, in 1832. Be was a
powerful writer, and able politician, for, at 31 years of
age, ha was entrusted with an important diplomatic
mission to England, and fulfilled in successfully. He
jffien adopted law, entered at Temple Court, and was
Called to the Bar in 1840. While on the staff of several
ot tha'lea,dingperiodicals—Edinburgh, Westminster,
Dcuun, and B/i/tish and Foreign Reviews—he gained
both fame and profit, and his writings also appeared in
the Law Magazine and London Times. For many
years, in Melbourne, he hod a lucrative legal practice,
and was law lecturer at the University. He was sub-
sequeutly elected to Parliament, and was Attorney.
General in two Ministries. On Sir Redmond Barry’s
depaiture for England, Mr. Chapman was raised to the
Bench, and, in 1846, he was appoint id Puisne Judge in
Otago, N.Z. An accomplished musician and lover of
art, a gonial and upright men, a just judge, and brilliant
scholar, New Zealand deplores the loss of a man who
had few compears in colonial society.
A Sydney belle, whose leading characteristics
are the neatness of her figure and the corresponding
tightness of her dross, is, so goes the story, engaged to
bo married. Quito an atmosphere of romance envelopes
this affair. The prospective bridegroom is a young
police constable, who does duty by night and tha swell
by day. Although night duty is regarded by some
people as a certain fortune, our hero’s prospects point
to something more tangible than a £7 10s. Waltham
(“nothing was found on the body, yer Worchip, ) to
commence with, and a “terrace of houses” t* retire
on The policeman will, it is said, at no distant day,
succeed to a title and a big estate. The day when the
fair one will ba “ taken in charge depends upon cir-
cumstances—hi* circumstances, in fact, as the wedding
will have to he preceded by a funeral. This is from
information received.
H. J. Andrews, Secretary for Lands, Adelaide,
is to he appointed Under-Secretary, a position which
has been vacant ever since the Honorable George
Boothby, C.M.O, fell from his high estate. (1. S.
Wright, at present the acting Under Secretary, and
who is supposed by some to have had a covetous eye
upon Boothby’s billot, will become Secretary for hands.
Pesenmayor, who suffered in connection with the
Boothby episode, has opened business for himself in
Leigh-etreat, Adelaida; aed hi* stick and himself are
now constant ornaments of Uindley-stroat. By the bye,
when is the genial P. going to start a paper of his owa,
and give the Adelaide public the benefit of his official
and other knowledge of many of the flit* of South
Australian society ? Besides, he’s brimful of poetry ;
and poetry is a Jmigbty hard thing* to keep dammed up
in an aspiring breast.
There was a row at a Sydney Temperance
Alliance meeting on Monday night, which ended in Mr.
Richardson, who was guilty of the ■iu of wanting to
chip in while oleaginous genius presided, being run out
by a policeman. The chairman, no less a person than Mr.
John Davies, C.M.G., “ in addressing the meeting sub-
soquently, expressed regret that this scono should have
occurred, and remarked that there were other kinds of
intoxication than that produced by alcohol, which, un-
happily, afflictedi some people, namely, an intoxication
induced by an exalted idea of their own importance,
and that love of hearing their own voices which
prompted them, under all circumstance*, to inflict
themselves and their utterances on their fellows,
whether they ware wanted or not. John is not yet so
epigrammatic a* was that other great statesman,
Beaconsfleld. Dizzy pat it much more neatly : in-
ebriated with the exuberance of his own verbosity.
However, we quote from the Mousing Jim. Jams, price
one penny, wbicb isn’t generally regarded as an autho-
rity on temperance matters. By the way, the turned-
out cuss may or may not as alleged he druak with con-
ceit. John Daviss is evidently drunk with glory, How-
ever, it does not take much glory to intoxicate some
poojile.
Mr. Kyrlo Bellew had the ecstatic pleasure of
playing Young Marlow to Mrs. Langtry’s Mias Hard-
castle in “She Stoops to Conquer.” Who would not
be a good youthful comedian, with the possibility of
such a pleasure in store ; and how many aristocratic
young swells wonld like to play the ejtme part r
“ Kyrle’s ” real mime is Harold Dominick Ballew, and
he is a son of the celebrated clerical elocutionist.
writer of this knew him at a timo when, though ho
might have had the ambition, there seemed very little
probability of his ever becoming a star actor. Kyrle s
luck was out, and he was a reporter on the Melbourne
Herald, where withHm occasional hint from Barney
O'Hea, then city reporter for the Amous, he used to
write in rhyme, daily, police court *55 ,
the whole oity faugh. He aleo contributed to the Aim-
bourne Daily Telegraph, and for that Journal, wmen
strongly opposed the adoption of the flogging syetem
for certain classes of criminals, wrots a marrow-
freezing, blood-curdling sketch of the horrors or the
oat and triangles. Then Kyrle, who was, and still 10, a
very elegant young man, and had broken the heart of
more than one Melbourne belle, married Mdlle.
Eurdnie L.grand. A few months afterwards ho went
home on ship’s articles. Eugenie, who is still in one of
th*s* colonies, did not accompany him.
When Theodore Hook had commenced to pale,
there was an opening for a jester who had neither
respect for himtelf nor for the objects of hi* raillery.
That position Bernal Osborne tiled. H* oooupud it
for about thirty years. If he hot passed away a decade
since, his loss would hav* been fslt; as it i*, h* will not
be missed or regretted, except by a few members of his
family. Latterly he had fallen into a somewhat lonely
way of life. He dined at the Reform Club in solitude,
and it was almost painful to witness him last summer
at Chantilly, wandering about the enclosure, the em-
bodiment of isolated old age. Happily for himself, he
went to spend Christinas with his soa-in-law, the Duke
of St. Albans. Ho was evidently quite broken when he
arrived- He died from internal cancer, a malady which
his medical attendant, Mr. Nunn, had some time ago
diagnosed. His end was extremely tranquil. He was
haunted throughout his life by an extraordinary terror
of death; yet the hand of death was no sooner upon
him than the fear departed; and duriag the six hours
before he expired, he lay extremely weak indeed and
motionless, hut perfectly peaceful, perfectly conscious,
and looking the great Deliverer in the face without, as
he said, apprehension or regret. The last words which
h.O spots were to the effset that dissolution had for
him no sting.
Dr. Ellia was eloquent last Sunday on hygiene.
We don’t often hear the views of Lewis Cornaro strongly
advocated from Cathedral pulpits, yet the rev. doctor
gave it clearly to be understood that those who never
practise fasting, lack at any rate one of the cardinal
virtues. Said he. “ People hold that certain Christian
practices must be strictly carried out, but when it comes
to fasting llthey shake their heads; they don t like that,
and when they do it they’dilute’ the command, and
make it as easy as they possibly can. And yet it is one-
third of the duty of man—prayer, almsgiving, fasting;
Christ tells ns to do it, and, moreover, attaches a
specific spiritual power to it. For just as there are
invariable laws in the natural kingdom, so there are
fixed laws in the kingdom of soula, and fasting is one of
them. The man who eats too much is ten thousand
times worse than a man who drinks too much. And
some teetotallers are guilty of this; they feed them-
selves to the full, although they abstain from what
they call * the spirituous liquors of hell-fire. Fulness
of bread, goes with foulness of heart. Overfeeding is
followed by impurity, and softness of body, soul, and
spirit; while temperance and abstinence, on the other
hand, fit one tor enduring hardness, and build up a
stronger, more truly Christian character. Of course,
the application was that fasting from food should be
accompanied by, or rather elevated into the habit of
fasting or abstaining from sin.” Some of the expressions
qsed by the preacher were very strong, even extravagant,
but there's a deal of truth in his remarks. We are not
tiyare, however, that clergymen as a pule mortify the
etjh to any painful extent by fasting. An impres-
sion prevails that few men live less frugally.
Following aro the threatening letters which
John Newman is charged with having sent to Queensland
Minister* i—
*' To Sir A. H. Palmer
“ Sir, —It is my duty to let you know that you must die
before next May. So prepare yourself.
“ (Signed) Writer.
“P.B.— •You have been a villain ever since I knew ,vou.
“ (Signed) Writer.”
This letter was written in a reversed hand, and had to
be read with the aid of a looking-glass.
To Mr. M’llwraith, this
“ Brisbane, January 31.
“ The Coolie Bill.
"Sir,—As secretary of the Vengeance Society lam re-
quested to tell you in this letter that we have chosen
six members who have taken an oath that they wil} taka
your life and the life of all the members of Parliament
who vote for its introduction. It is no us* you trying
to escape for wo are watching you, and will not lot you
escape, as you have already enslaved us enough by
robbing the people of their money for your schomos.
But revenge will come, and it will be terrible revenge.
You are nothing but a lying, sneaking, coward. and yon
are not fit to live, and you shall not live if you do not
drop your scheming and oppose the Coolie Bill.
“ Yours with a vengeance.
“ W. Williamson.”
To tha Governor, Sir'Arthur Kennedy, also, a letter
threatening Ministers was sent. A postscript reads
thus:—
“P.S.—Wa have firearms sufficient to arm 2000 mon»
and will light it out if wo cannot do it any other way.
“ W. Williamson,”
THE NEWSLETTER.
957 people at the Museum on'Sunday afternoon.
Australia has a population of 2;, millions, a debt
of upwards of £90,000,000, and an annual revenue of
over £17,000,000.
At Forbes, the watch-house is so inconveniently
crowded that blackfellows. Chinamen, and whites are
compelled to herd together, even in the sleeping colls.
The paramours of some Chinamen at Orange
have killed an inoffensive young man, named Main r, in
an affray during which the deceased interfered to save
another European.
Rev. Dr. Barry savs that if water were paid for
according to' meter instead of at per room, there would
bo less waste. "Meters appeal to the pocket, which is
more effectual on the whole than appealing to public
feeling on a rate-paid article."
Canada, with a population of some 4,000,000,
can put in the field an army of 720,000 men, all b'9r 6 or
loss trained to arms, at a total expense of £150.000 per
annum; while Victoria, with a population of JJO.UOG,
can hardly maintain 2500 Volunteers.
In Victoria, 15,731,000 acres have boon selected ;
10,031,000 acres have been " transferred ” (oh Dummy-
ism!); 8,120,000 are almost ready to be " transferred ;
and only 2,580,000 acres (or not one-sixth of the whole)
have been settled upon by bond fido selectors.
Wong Gin, a Lithesmero (Q ) Chinese, who left
tbe Bnrdokin for Woodstock by the marked-
tree line, the other day, with £lOO in his possession, h is
not since been heard of. There is more than one
white man in the Far North who turns an honest
penny by shooting Chinamen.
The Coquotto aborigines, who inhabit'the country
about 170 miles from Port Augusta, still practise canm-
baliam, a recent feast being reported to have conolurtoa
with the devouring of three female “ piccaninnies. The
male children are considered sacred by the tribe, but
the female infanta are frequently cooked and oaten at
the oonclnsion of a feast.
Two Germans, Gustav Petorio and Rudolph
Hartmann, have had some thrilling bush experiences
inS.A. They became lost about 25 miles from Wood's
Wells, and their horses knocked up. They killed the
animals, whose blood saved their lives. They then
separated, Peterio soon meeting with assistance. Hart-
mann was found afterwards at a salt well, delirious.
A mad drunkard in Melbourne has started a
new frolic. He represented himself as a plain.clothes
constable, numbered himself officially as 2954, and
started arresting women. One woman was locked up
at his instance for " insulting behaviour,” and ho was
dragging a second victim along, when a constable,
shrewder than the ordinary, took him in charge. He
was only fined 40s.
Dr. Youlis right, and Melbourne Hospital is a
pile of gangrene. Two more deaths have occurred
from hospitalism—tho latest is that of a healthy
married woman named Jane Irvine, who fractured her
leg on last Christmas Evo through tripping over a
carpet. She went to th« haunt of King Erysipelas with
a simple fjaobnre, there contracted bed-sores, and
died of blood poisoning.
Crooko, a hoary scoundrel of 80 years, who, at
Western Port (Vie.), the other day, coolly butchered a
young man, with a pig-knifo, is, so far as present
arrangements go, to be hanged on 13'h instant, at Mel-
bourne. The jury recommended him to mercy on ac-
count of his age, but tho Executive declined to endorse
tbe rider. An agitation for bis reprieve is on foot, and
will possibly bo successful.
Victorian artillery corps to ho placed on a purely
military footing, tho Imperial Government to bo ai-ke I
to appoint from tho Eoyal Artillery a commandant an I
adjutant with a five years' term of office. Two gan-
boats, at ft coet of £25,000, and which will each carry
cue 25-ton gun, ara to bo purchased. Two torpedo
launches, provided with Whitehead and spar torpedoes,
will ba bought at a cost of £7OOO.
The Victorian Government are treating vei y
handsomely those who have suffered by the Jolimo. o
railway collision. In the case in which Mrs. Elmslie
Stephen claimed £5OOO damages for the loss of her hus-
band, Mr. Smythe (for the Crown) called no witnesses
for the defence; he urged the jury to deal with tho
matter liberally, but at the same time to be careful how
they dipped their hands into the public purse. The
verdict was for £3OOO.
The alleged Hicks-cum-Barker insurance frauds
are still sub judic « in Adelaide. As far as evidence
given before a Court of Justice is concerned, nothing
startling has yet cropped up, though we learn from
Adelaide that the utmost excitement prevails, and that
rumours of a peculiar nature are currently circulated.
It appears that the amount of £3OOO was actually paid
over by tho Australian Mutual Provident Association
on the death of Weatherhead.
The Musgravo Eange and Northern Territory
Pastoral Land Co., whose head-quarters are at Adelaide,
now hold 85,055 square miles of country. From Mr.
Cyrus Mason thev have taken over 9112 square miles,
Mr. Mason receiving 9112 £1 shares in the company in
exchange for his land. That portion of tbe company’s
land situated in the northern territory will probably bo
stocked at once; tho part in B.A. proper cannot be
stocked yet in tho face of the existing drought.
Tho old, old question of the abolition of capital
punishment is to he again discussed in the House cf
Commons. Of course, Mr. Pease, who brings it forward
doas not expect to get nanging abolished; however many
of the greatest measures passed have been brought up
time alter time with the certainty ot defeat, but
been passed at last, and their principles universally
adopted. Figaro says, “In twenty years people will
wrnider how it was that capital punishment was
tolerated so long.”
Victorian police changes. — Mr. Chomley, to he
Chief Commissioner; Superintendent Sadleir re-ii -
stated but censured for imputing cowardice to senioi-
oonstable Kelly; Inspector Brooke Smith retires ;
Detective Ward reduced for misleading his seniors ;
Constables Armstrong, Dowling, Alexander, and
Dnross (of Sherritt’s hut notoriety), dismissed for
cowardice, A special board is to enquire into the
charge against Sergeant Steele, of having deliberately
fired upon innocent persons at Glenrowan.
Mr. Dillon, S.M., has distinctly ruled that if a
publican's son had a piano in his private bedroom ai d
played upon it there, the publican was liable to punish-
ment for having nm'ic upon his licensed premises. New
if a dice box or packet cards be found in a publican’s
bar he is punished, as the inference is they are for use,
and so we suppose in tho ease of a piano or fiddle, the
presence of such an instrument upon the premises
would lead to the inference that it had bean or would
be played upon, and consequently the publican would bo
liable to a fine 1
There are now 1800 miners at Mount Browne.
Owing to want of water, no gold can be got but by dry
blowing. From the Ist January to the 14th February
605 minors’ rights were taken out, and 51 busimss
licenses. There is no scarcity of provisions, the store-
keepers having on hand a good stock, and there have
been constant arrivals from Terowio, S.A, Flour is 4d.
to sd. per lb. All necessaries have been fully as low
there as in Wilcannia during the last four months,
though there have been stupid sensational articles in
the Sydney and Melbourne papers, to the effect that
the diggers were in a critical state for want of pro-
visions.
W. P. G. Nettlefcon, chemist, Warrnambool
(Vic,), has been accused by his paramour, with whom
ho has lived thirty years, of murder. The woman avers
that she previously had, by a man named Wood, an
illegitimate child, which is the subject of iho grave
charge mada. Uettloton says that the child was, in
company with twenty or thirty others, burned in a
bn»h fire, whioh occurred in 1854, near Franklin, in tbe
Hnou district, Tasmania. He has appealed to the
Warrnambool police authorities to inquire into the
matter, and either clear hia character or bang him.
But a« no policeman was over known to clear a man’s
character, Nettleton has left the law a grim alterna-
tive.
Mount Perry (Q.) copper mino is developing
richly at the present depth (800 ft). About 120 feet of
drive has been extended on tho course of tho lode at
that depth, and a splendid conrso of ore opened. This
mine is now fully 200 ft. deeper than any other mine in
Queensland. Captain Bennett, the manager. Is now
inspecting some silver mines near Townsville, in the
interest of Sydney capitalists. Dr. Kobertsau haa
14
Hatch ii, i«aa.
THE BULLETIN.


G
KEEN BAjJ.
mareickvillb.
consisting of
17 CHOICE BUILDING
basing frontages to ILL AWARE A-l
and QUEEN BANK STREETS, situa
LEIGH, the Warren, and within 4 mi
TRAM TERMINUS
TITLE, TORRENS’ A
PLAN ON VIEW
FOE AUCTION SALE, ON TU
at 4.30 p.m.,
SATURDAY, 25th MA
V AFTER HARNLEIGI
BATT, EODD, and PU
lIPIE L D . A
♦ON SATURDAY NEXT wa v
GROUND, 19 Choice Allotir
depth, fronting PROSPECT
and VICTOEIA-STREE IS.
Gentlemen’s Residences, an
minutes' easy walk of the
Station. (See auction advei
BATT, RODD, and PU
ANDSDOWNE
LANDS
ON THE GROUND.
LANDSDOWNE ESI
GOULBUEN.
THIS BEAUTIFUL SI
only quarter of an hour from the Pc
oilers special advantages
GOULBUEN, As a city, i
population an
GOULBUEN Has the lan
of any other
colony.
GOULBUEN. This suhdh
is very hoc
hoing from 1
GOULBUEN, As a city,
importance,
the large inis
and America
GOULBUEN Will ho t
Monnro trail
railway is oo
GOULBUEN. Investors t
they have ]
mont, will fl
doubled in v
GOULBUEN. At Lnndsii
richest in th
GOULBUEN. The terms
of nil —onlj
deposit, bah
TEREST.
Special trains will leave Eedi
morning of the Sale— SATURD
7 ft m - Also,
Special arrangements have be.
the Friday evening’s train, .for p
inspect the property.
RETURN TICKETS, 10s. EA(
Rooms of the Auctioneers.
LITHOGRAPHS ARE NOW RE.
upon apphcati
fircnTmF, WITHERS &
mountain LAND I
NEXT SATCRDI
NEXT SATURDi
54 Blocks,
ALL MAGNIFICENT
close to the Plate
close to Hydora H(
opposite Qovott’s Lea]
opposite Post and Telogri
LOTS 1 to 15.—ALL LARGE BL
front STATION STREET
LOTS 16 to 27, 39 to LA
per plan, front KAMILAROI k
LOTS 34 to 38—ALL LARGE BL
front KUNDIBAR ROAD
LOTS 43 to 54.—ALL LARGE BL
front NINYAGO STREET.
LOTS 32, 33, 34, 47, 48 —ALL LA
per plan, front BUNDABARIL
03* All Choice Sil
the very PICK of BLACI
54 BEAUTIFUL BUILDI
overlooking
tho beautiful KUNTMBLA \
charming WATERFALL® and
Nooks,
close to
tho celebrated GOVE IT’S LE.
admiration alike of colonists ai
*„• There is hut one BL AC Kill
CHOICE SPOTS are being bough
sale of land, which was an early p
beauties of Blackhoath wore genera
Special Train will run direct
Tickets, 4s. each, can be obti
Luncheon will be provided.
HAEBIE and GOEMAN m
auction, on the Ground, clo
BLACKHEATH,
NEXT SATURDJ
11th MARCH,
54 MOUNTAIN BL(
close to tho improved properti
Evans, Hargracvs, Harrison, a
Torrens’ Title.
Lithos ready.
Terms Easy.
E X T SAT I
ANOTHER CHANCE FOR W
WARREN GROVE LAN
V 20 ALLOTMEI
fronting Illawarra-ro&d, Creok-sti
s roet, opposite the Congregs
Parsonage, just beyond the tra
on the Sydney of the War:
UPSET PRICE, 255. PER FOOT,
NEXT MONDAY. NEXT
SPECIAL TRAIN. SPBCI.
*3- CAMDEN PAI
CAMDEN PAI
OST North Cawdor Farms and Cai
The GREAT SALE AT (
TOWN LOTS
and
FARMS. FARMS, F.
6000 ACRES of WELL FENCED
fronting
MAIN ROADS and the NEP
including some of the BEST CUI
HOMESTEAD AREAS in
CAMDEN PARK ESTATE is so
known residential estates, suor
Cobblty, Mount Hunter, Brisba
Wivenhoe, and Macquarie Gro\
CAMDEN PARK and CAWDOR
disposed of in LARGE and I
at present let to tenants, all feu
wide and well-made roads.
The SURVEY of Mr. Reuse, jnn.
ploted. LITHOGRAPHS are N(
will show in detail the von
PORTIONS to be sold.
• ♦ The ATTENTION of gentlemen
homesteads, farmers, orol
vignerons, and others is diroc
affording one of the boat chanc
colony for purchasing
«5T CHOICE FARMING
HOMESTEAD AREi
ORCHARD LANDb
DAIRY PADDOCKS
63* The opening of the tramway t
Such an impetus to the trade c
so develop its latent riohes thal
Bale may rest assured that, by s
in this district, they have done
selves and their families, ns
direct and. rapid communicate
polls, must here, as elsewh
pAUK ~g
LITHOS. NOW RE.
CAWDOR FARM LJ
Lithos. now read
TERMS OP SALE—IO PER
balance in cash, or in 5 YEARS an
5 per cent, interest.
HARDIE AND GO
HAVE received instructions f
PARK SYNDICATE to sell
ON THE GROUh
at CAMDEN, near ST. JO HI
at 1.30 o clock,
MONDAY and TUJ
13th and 14th Mar
(two special sale days for th
All the FARMS and TOWN LOT
in their purchase from tho Ma
«*■ A SPECIAL TRAIN will .
9AO a.m. on MONDAY, 13 th.MAI
town, to meet tho SPECIAL TRAM
_ 1 *-n i— I ’nawr* on nr tv n i
. -wn 1 -m.T A IVT AX> G.TPT \
li
OVEES OP GOOD
We bog to draw yo
PARTICU r AR ATTEI
to the
ASIATIC TEA 0
PACKET TEA!
Packed in pounds and half-
ASIATIC MIXTURE.
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PUEB GEYLOH TEi,
PURE JAVA TEA.
Special Quotations given to Wh<
Country Orders promptly t
ASIATIC TEA CO®
279 PITT STREET (next Sc
SYDNEY.
M AONIFICENT p
■wroinnt-,. Ebonv-and-gold, Rose
new south wales.
MACQTJAKIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WOEK3,
This is tho most ofi'octnal substitnto r°* ® n ® ) J b “ lij |o ifd with
Bimple, clean, and durable, “brilliant than coal fa*. and. w
all KX is S
in P™\ PPAKA tUS is used for hghtm,
* °?ISBS- -d Manufacturers of gJgG »cf fKS
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINI
SOMETHING NSW UNDER TH
*■ v* it I
O p til ■ I
Mueht tile Mount Perry mine. and „
S.2SMSS fSSSMtfei a®
sscsss Mia sstf-asaff-wi
claims. , , ,
Another headboard of the ship Sobraon has been
picked up at Port Macdounell, Vic.
Population 'of Victoria at the end of 1881
about 882,193 ; and of New South Wales, 7j1,408.
A .£20,000 libel action will shortly come before the
N Z. law courts. Some time since the chairman of t
board of a wealthy English company received an
anonymous letter, cautioning him to keep his eye o
the Dunedin agent, for it too much confidence wore ■
nosed in him there might be reason to repent it. Th
fetter has, it is said, now been traced to its source.
Do yon like pork sausages? If so, read this
description of a Sandhurst pig-yard;—" The pond from
which the animals drank is the receptacle of a stream
of blood which flows from the slaughterhouse at an
elevation above. The fluid in this pond is hterally black,
and the stench from it and the surronndmgs was over-
noworing. A few yards from the side of the pond
referred to was the carcase of a horse, and upon this a
crowd of nigs wore feeding ravenously, wallowing in the
g Vet, when such pigs ar«
cooked, we smack our lips over dairy-fed pork. A
few years ago the people of Melbourne almost entirely
oeasKo touch pork, it having come out that pigs
belonging to certain butchers had eaten human limbs
amputated at the hospital.
A fossilised shellfish, one of the largest, if not
the very largest, yet discovered in this country, has
been found atWant Browne, 180 ft. from the surface,
and broughtto Sydney by the Warden. It is one of the
many existing evidences that the locaUty from which
it came was once covered by theocean-h.w many ages
gS Sm Sf Goldffi'b? IS
Warden are geographical specimens of gypsum,
crvstals of salt, quartz with gold, ironstone conore-
J? n , cretaceous fossil petor, common opal with
tions, cretac ailioifled wood, limonite iron ore,
deodritos, yeteiß&a skater-worn pebbles from Devonian
granite au •g&nd clays with fossil wood, and a
ammonite. These remarkable formations extend
for hundreds of miles.
At Wagga, last week, Judge Forbes censured
the police authorities for an act of unnecessary cruelty
to a*notorious prisoner. James Kelly, brother of t
Ned, is now undergoing a sentence of five
years for horse-stealing, and was brought up on another
heavily ironed, has been thus loaded
?or two months, and that the chains
wor. wearing into his flesh. Kelly had entreated the
to remove the irons while in transit, but they
Cned a deaf ear to his appeal. Grown-Prosecutor
Pitcairn said that it wa. contrary to the principles of
British justice to bring a prisoner into Court m irons,
and his Honor ordered the chains to be struck off at
once This action of tbo police is no doubt an attempt
fn na-gravate Kelly to imitate his brother. We are
this* is largely the history of crime in those
colonies, # # . T
tVia Asiatics of religion in Viotorift nnd -Now
South Wales ar* published. Taking Victoria first, we
in 1871 the Church of England adherents
numbered 257,000, and 311,000 in 1881., The Catholics
Snmberod 170,000 and 203,000 at the periods mentioned;
112,000 and 132,000; Wesleyans,
90 000 and 10»,000; Independents, 18,000 and 19,000;
and the Baptists 16,000 and 20.000. A large number of
?he mopfe declined to state their religion, or wore nn-
flpecifiod, and a very small “umber wore sot down as
m t Agnostics, &c. The Now South Wales
returns cover the same decennial period as those of
Catnoiicsp t 72.000; the Methodists, from
39*000 to* Gt.ooo ;’ the Congregationalisms, from 9000 to
U,OOO 5 and the Baptists from 4000 to 7000.
A new book of travels, “ The Head Hunters of
Borneo ” by Carl Bock, is out, and it is of surpassing
j * Mr Book, among other things, tells how
interest. Mr armed with a razor .
Tscfed kriss with which in the ordinary course of
thfnes he would kill or wound peihaps twenty or
thing , before being secured, the native pohee-
rntywC car Hes a long two-pronged fork of bamboo.
naan, , 1; liirA a clothas-prop, places the fork against
holds him at biy till ha can be secured
mb a frantic savage is seen firmly pinned by the neck
a wall or tree, vainly endeavouring to release
bis head or being ignominlonsly forced along the street
asSs shss.rgs areas ~
i r\aa(\ the slave-trade, and is madly fond of cock-
igoppsed to the , tolla all abo ut the
sumpitans of the Dyaks, who. it
po !!LnrH d ara not only head hunters but cannibals, and
be P laarned from a priestess of the tribe, who talked to
Mm nnite sSably, that the palms of the hands are con
h the best ekting. This is altogether at variance
sidered t the North Queensland niggers, who,
w f th eat a man. don’t touch either his hands or
Sibau Mobang, chief of the cannibal Dyaks,
f 6! to Earnest wonderful old villain; justprlorto
Rock’s vis“ he had slaughtered 70 men, w - on and
Mr. Boca s , b j s followers to eat tb. u hands
aedbrahis Mr, fiookia unable to throw much lighten
and brains. aueB tion as to the exui uee of a race
ofBorneo; but he says that the Dyaks
Snvn an ugly custom of poisoning fruits which they
prm BB? to travellers, and that they arc mostly tee-
totallera.
15
ftiß BULLETIN.
Maroh 11, 1882.


MOST PL
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO
that the best cl
TANT au<l Deodoriser 1
SMALL-POX and all otl
CONTAGIOUS
can bs found
PANTEE AND PARRY
OP SO.
which not only contain
dients for the greatest
ever yet introduced tc
composed in its manufa
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FR(
PLAN r
known, and admitted ii
throughout the globe. C
it is free from all inji
pie ng smell, will not
3 a.e l-ands, is the grei
la. jo or, rendering any ai
with o th purest wh
marvellous short space o
NO HOUSE SHOULD
as it cannot be surpass
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Ci
Paint, PI
and every Housel
DIRECTIONS for wh
EACH PACKET, whie
from all Qrecers and S
out the Colony, and at th
WORKS, 700 GEO
SY D N
IN THE V
Dispense Prescriptions
\ other House in Sydney.
M wliclnes at less' than Eugllt
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, f
ALL KINDS OF DRCOOI
8e id for a Price List. Coi
Ily attended to. Don’t fc
_t*u cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s N
W. KE
MANUFACTUEINf
WATCH AND CI
6C4 GEORGE STR]
Opposite St. Andre
Medals of every description,
soutatiou Trowels desigr
Premls
DIAMOND S
A new and Choice Assortrr
Mail and alway
Waltham Watches,
KING STREET
TAiim
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882 Be,ope °"
send f
We are pleased to be advising onr customers and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI.
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
of Parramatta,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us witl
their orders early, as
William Kiohie's 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE TUIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
Our Pric<
AND
All Partic
MARTII
AND P
389 Geor
SYDN
Intending Pt
Cut*ers offered
INE BUNCLI
John Bunclo
his Chaff Cutte
cast on fly-wb
focture.
THE DEPO
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE
WATCHES
■S/
FROM <£.4.10.
° r ORINC JE.WELL
9. & . II HUNTER S
c H es S ydnEY
U. SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
fJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RI
None batter than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in S
pUB 1 I c J
The IMPORTERS of the TA
MOGUL MIXTURE will prof
endeavours to deceive the publ
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTION EE
beat ing
“ THE TAEPING MIXTUI
mixtur:
thf S Very bears the sigm
Clifford, Loi/e, i
Those who are desirous of ha\
TEA, must be certain that e
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTI
to take inferior teas, which for
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE
MIXTURE ARE GU
PURE TEH
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTC]
WHOLESALE GROCER A
YORK STREET, t
John
IMPORTER
Plumbers' and Engineers' Eras
Gas fittings, Globes, Electri
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Coppi
and Lead Pipe,
110 LIVERPOOL STREI
H. L. SUHIEE
ECONOMY IN CL
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. B
YOUR GOODS FR
DIRECT IMPOI
B
R
A
T
£
D
8
THE PEOPLE’S
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO BELP-MEJ
sent to any part of the
«T The particular attention
dents is requested to tl
Any style of Garment made
SUMMERFIEL
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
16
I
%
4
w
QUALITY
,
Durability \
UNSURv^ASSEU
STAN
,D
ADV-MADP-3UITS
.us me
OM E NAIVE
TVe veiling
YAI
Pic
INt.
%
St3,nd ar d Summer Tweed Suits JBl 5 O
« fr an j , „ ditto, Extra Quality 1 12 6
Standurd ditto ditto, Superior Quality... ... 2 2 0
Standard Blue Serge Suits 112 6
Standard ’’ Superb r ditto I 15X0
m S 1 1; Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
welTmado^ otiUnff ’ suitable *° the 3eason . extra well cut, and
FEAFES and SHAW, r \
PEAPES & SHA Wf,
GEOF.C SUREET, SYDNEY.
rs
*
DRUns
Book free by post.
'enness
Cured
CALL ON OR ADDRESS
Ls. FRESHMAN,
359 George Street, Sydney, N S.W
GOLD CURE.
GOLD CUKE.


Mr. Alexander J. Ralston.
KOT the least interesting chapter of the h!story of th
Australian Mutual Provident Society—one of the most
successful institutions of the kind in the or r ls A
manner in which its wonderful development has been
guided and controlled. About twenty years hack its
business was assuming such proportions asto call
the most reliable and skilful management. Whether its
increasing wealth and influence were to be fatal to its
existence and destructive of public confidence or to ba
conducive to wider usefulness and a greater future was
actually a question for consideration at a
of the Society’s existence. Jo the directors who guided
the institution clear of the difficulties of the time, by se-
curing a complete re-organization of the management,
the members of the Australian Mutual Provident Society
must ever be indebted. It is the way in which the de-
velopment of the business of the institution has since
been conducted which forms, as already stated, not the
least interesting chapter in its history. New problems
in finance and actuarial science have had to be solved
without the customary aid sof experience—the conditions
of colonial life being quite new and without a ysral el-
and a critical investigation of the business in all its
ramifications will reveal the fact that no new principle
was adopted—no fresh lino struck out—until the wisdom
of each step had been demonstrated beyond all doubt—
oftentimes the result of months of the most careful
consideration. How all this work has been done to the
creation of the greatest financial institution in this
hemisphere—an institution which gives giant assist
anoe to the moat important of our colonial enterprises,
while encouraging the people to habits of frugality and
providence, is well known. Fortunately the members
take the pick of our commercial men, froin which to
fill up, as they occur, the vacancies in their directory.
The secretary, Mr. Alexander J. Balaton, might well
feel proud of his position in connection with
such a splendid establishment. His career is
pretty well known. Mr. Ralston is a native of
Tasmania, and was born at Launceston, in itwa.
His people were of the best stock in Ayrshire, Scotland,
the name, in fact, originating in one of the oldest historic
incidents of that shire. At an early age Mr. Balaton came
to Sydney, and began his studies at the Sydney Gram a
School under Mr. Cape, finishing them under his uncle,
Dr. Carmichael, of Porphyry, one of the most dis-
tinguished scholars wo ever had in this colony, Attne
early age of 14, he entered a merchant s office inMeh
bourne, and he has ever since been engaged mercan-
tile pursuits, except for a brief period, when angagodin
the Rooord Office of the Assembly of this
colony. In this position he gamed information
and experience that have since been of the greatest
value to him. When the Pacific Insurance Com-
pany was started, Mr. Ralston left the 1 ar-
liamentary Record Office to become the accountant
in that office. Here agaiu successful, Mr. Ralston was
ottered, and accepted, the managership of ft largo
private pastoral loan and mortgage society in this city,
which had a very extensive business. About this time
the financial management of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society was, to put it mildly, rather nnsatis-
factory. Mr. Ralston, once more sought out, was
offered the assistant secretaryship. He aooepted, and
six months later was appointed secretary. It can be
safely said—and it deserves to be said of Mr. Ralston
that that appointment was a benefit to the institution
He was put into tho office with full powers, and not-
withstanding the most vehement opposition, he became
master of the situation. The institution was relieved
of unsuitable offioers, its finances placed on a right
basis, and public confidence restored. The career
of the Australian Mutual Provident Society has ever
since been one of honourable prosperity and increasing
influence. Its position to-day is of tremendous benefit
to this country. It is the pride, not of New South
Wales, but of Victoria, Queensland, New Zealand,
South Australia, and Tasmania. Much of the credit of
its success will, wo are sure, be accorded to Mr.
Ralston. His services to the institution for over seven-
teen years prove him to be a man of unswerving integ-
rity and unusual business capacity. Our portrait is by
Freeman, of George-street.
Mr. Morrice Alexander Black, F.I.A.
the most important outcome of this reference has been
the change of the basis of valuation from the old Car-
lisle tables to the new ("Hm and Hi 5] tables, the latter
requiring the most stringent reserve of any known
mortality table. Mr. Black has conducted three
quinquennial investigations for the Mutual Provident
Society, viz.in 1869, 1873, 1878. In the last named
year, he published a pamphlet entitled “The Pro-
gressive Policy of the Australian Mutual Provident
Society reviewed.” A report on the mortality ex-
perience of the society during the first 30 years of its
existence which he has just completed, is now beiag
The Australian Mutual Provident Society has much to
congratulate itself upon at the way in which the duties
of the actuary have been discharged. The appointment
of Mr. Morriae Alexander Black was one of the two beat
ever made by the directory of the institution. This
gentleman has proved himself one of the foremost men
of the time in his profession. He has solved many new
problems in actuarial science since he joined the Aus-
tralian Mutual, not only rendering substantial service
to the institution, but winning for it a position of dis-
tinguished prominence in the financial world. The
quinquenial reports which have been Issued during Mr,
Black’s time have been clear and comprehensive reviews
of the society’s operations, and it might not be very
difficult to trace a large amount of the public confidence
now enjoyed by the society to this very fact. The
following facts relating to Mr. Black’s career have been
extracted chiefly from Walford’s Insurance Cyclooedia.
Mr. Black was born in Scotland, in 1830. He entered the
Aberdeen Mutual Assurance Society in 1846. He studied
Actuarial Science under Mr. Teates, the actuary of the
Northern Assurance. A few years later he came to
London, and altera short term of service in the Anchor,
he entered the Law Property in 1851. In 1857 he be-
came Chief Clerk and Actuary of the English Widow’s
Fund, and there learnt that honorable dealing is some-
times overlooked in public bodies. He made a valuation
of the policies in the office upon an understanding that
ho was to be remunerated for so doing. The valuation
was skilfully and properly made, except in one minor
matter, where he acted under instructions from ms
superior officer ; but Mr. Black was never paid for his
labour. He had recourse to a court of law, but only to
find, as thousands previously had found, that law and
justice are by no means one and the same. It was upon
the incidents of this case—Black v. English Widows
Fund—that the late Professor De Morsrau based his
letter—" Warning to Actuaries.” Towards the end of
1858, Mr. Black became actuary of the London and
Yorkshire. It was during his connection with this
office in the year 1861 that he published a pamphlet on
•• The Assurance of Diseased and Doubtful Lives on a
new Principle.” This pamphlet attracted much atten-
tion in the insurance world, and gave rise to much dis-
oussion. The ruling principle of the scheme proposed
by Mr. Black was that diseased and doubtful lives
should be charged the same premium as healthy ones,
but that the amount of the claims should be subject to
certain deductions in the event of the assured not surviv-
ing the average number of years enjoyed by lives of simi-
lar age. The mathematical aspeotof the question is de-
monstrated at considerab'e length. In a review of the
work, Walford in his Cyclopaedia says:—"We have
rarely seen a proposition worked out in a more careful
and painstaking manner. Logically, it hardly accom-
plishes all that is claimed for it; but as a rational
solution of a difficult question, it has much in its
favour ; and although the office with which the method
was first associated has long since passed away, Mr.
Black’s method continues to be applied by other offices,
and wo understand with satisfactory results." At the
same time Mr. Black introduced into his office the
principle, (of which be was the originator), of applying
the surrender value of a policy towards the payment of
premium should the poliey holders neglect allow them
to become overdue. This principle is now in successful
operation in almost all Australian life offices. In 1863
Mr. Black published “ a Chronological and Statistical
Chart of Life Offices established in the United Kingdom
from 1706 to 1863.” In 1861 he became Secretary to
the Homo and Colonial. In 1867 he published “An
Analysis of Marine and Insurance Accounts, showing
their profits and losses, liabilities and assets; together
with tables illustrating the combined expenses of
twelve companies. In 1868 Mr. Black was appointed
actuary of the Australian Mutual Provident Society,
and since that time ,he has been intimately connected
with, and has been largely responsible for its wonderful
prosperity. Towards the close of the year 1871, Mr.
Black, who had made various proposals for the pur-
pose of improving the status of the Mutual Provident
Society, and liberalising the condition of its policies,
was despatched to England for the purpose of conferr-
ing with some of the most eminent actuaries of the day
on the subjeet. Out of this visit arose the celebrated
•• Case for opinion, and opinions thereon of the actuaru 8
consulted.” This report is a most valuable contribution
to the assurance literature of the day, and to it may be
traced the new byo-laws and regulations of the society
which were passed in 1873, and under which the con-
ditions of assurance have been liberalised, and the
sphere of the society’s usefulness extended to such a
degree that it is now admitted to be one of, if not the fore-
most life office in the British dominions. But perhaps
issued to the members. Mr. Black possesses in a high
degree the capacity for organization and administra-
tion; he is retiring end unassuming in demeanour, but
m private life is remarkably genial. Our portrait is
from a photo by Freeman, of Qaorge-street.
Mr. Thomas Wearne’s Tram and Railway
Works, Glebe.
Here is an enterprise that has sprung into active life in
the course of five or fix years And perhaps nowhere
about is there better proof afforded of the gigantic I
strides of the industrial pursuits of this colony. It
would seem from this that all we require here
to build up in after years an exteusive business is a fair
amount of capital and good management. This very
establishment, though but a few years in operation,
actually displaces England and America in the supply
of the particular work it has taken in hand. And this
has been done, not with the assistance of protection,
but really in the face of the coldest sympathy—which
at times takes the turn here, as elsewhere, that nothing
good can be made in the colonies. Some time back,
Mr. Wearne, at his own risk, constructed a tram car,
which excelled on every point the best American tram
cur imported, and there was, moreover, a great con-
sideration in his favour in point of price. The car was
found too good, and Mr. Wearne turned out six er eight
cars suited to ordinary traffic, and especially adapted to
to our climate, at figures a long way below the import
price. Then a car of a description between the two was
required, and the one shown in the engraving was the
result. This was the first bogie tram oar built in the
colonies, and the twenty-five or thirty similar ones
that have since been turned out have been found to be a
complete success, having all the comfort and finish of
the American oar, and doable Its durability. A variety
of other cars have been made by Mr. Wearne, all which
have been accepted by the Government, and are now
tunning on the several lines. This new trade, as might
be expected, in connection with trains and enterprise
has led to several new developments. Mr. Wearne has
nvanted a tramway wheel that is not approached in any
part of the all reference to the elegance
or the design of the wheel, whioh of itself is worthy of
note, Mr. Wearne has, by a new invention, produced
something that will outlast even steel. After a series
of experiments and the expenditure of some capital, a
v heel is now produced, the running part of which is
entirely of chilled iron. This is of immense advantage.
It is of greater durability than steel, and acts on steel
rails like the ordinary iron wheel. Apart from their
being used in the cars made at the works, the Govern-
ment now give Mr. Wearne an order for a separate
supply, the first step towards their general adoption.
It will be interesting to know further that orders for
them have been received from the Fiji and Queensland
Governments ; and in these the principle ol construc-
tion will be extended to railway wheels. Mr. Wearne’a
works are situated at the Glebe, and occupy an area of
seven acres, on the highest part overlooking the reserve
of what was once unfavourably known as Blaokwattle
Swamp. The ground has three frontages, and is
admirably suited to its present purposes. A cool, in-
vigorating breeze passes through the workshops, which,
being lofty and spacious, are about the most comfortable
that men could work in. They are laid out to suit the
various branches of the business, and to admit of their
extension as required. They are fitted up with iron and
wood-working appliances, some of them being the
and costliest to be found in the colonies. They
are all immensely labour-saving. One extensive branch
is being fitted up to undertake the locomotive work,
into which the proprietor intends shortly to enter
largely. Powerful lathes, slotting, shaping, and sur-
raoing machines, &c , are being imported and
fitted up, _ For a considerable time past, the
work of railway carriage manufacture has been
actively carried on; numerous first-class saloon and
ordinary carriages have been turned out together with
numbers of railway trucks. At the present time, there
are in hand, six accident waggons—intended for the
conveyance of workmen and tools to any part of the
line where a breakdown may have occurred. If these
be taken as a test of the work turned out, then Mr.
Wearne has been particularly successful in points of
thoroughly honest and sound workmanship. They are
of immense strength, and are put together with the
greatest core by men specially selected for the work.
Power is conveyed to all parts of the premises in the
usual way, and the motive fa in the shape of a magnifi-
cent beam engine of 50 h.p , which, together with the
boiler, Ac., are situated outside the workshops, and in
such a way as to be available all over the premises. The
foundry, one of the most important branches, is well
arranged, and in the hands of men who have no
superiors in the line anywhere about Sydney. Hydraulic
power, to the extent of some hundreds of tons, is
available on the premises for forcing the wheels on the
axles for trams, 4c. Adjoining this branch is the bridge
department supplied with separate steam power and
distinct appliances requisite for the construction of
iron bridges, &o. At the present time, a double over-
way foot-bridge is being constructed for Parramatta,
certainly the handsomest thing of the kind arranged for
by the Government. It may be mentioned that in
addition to all this work, Mr. Wearne still carries on
the manufacture of his celebrated iron safes. The
success with which these safes went through severe
public trials some years ago, will be well remembered.
They have almost completely displaced the famous
English makers, and are now the only articles of the
kind supplied under contract to our Government. Men
of special training, are employed in their manufacture,
and the orders have, for a considerable time, now been
largely in excess of the capabilities of supply. Mr.
Wenrno is assisted in the practical management of the
works by his two sons, who have shown particular
fitness for their avocation. The outside business is
generally conducted by Mr. Wearne himself, and a
central office for this purpose has been opened in Pitt-
street, opposite Tattersall’s Hotel. To any person
interested in the growth of our most important in-
dustries, a visit to Mr, Wearne’s works will, at no time,
be devoid of information. In one half-hour a person
may have practical proof of the vigorous way wa
are building, upon these shores, a great and soundly
prosperous manufacturing centre.
Messrs. Hume and Pegrum’s Erated
Water Works.
The extensive rarated water and cordial works of
Messrs. Hume and Fegram are situated In Regent-
street, Sydney. They occupy a large area of
ground, and with the new extensions projected will
form the most complete to be found any where
in the colonies, A short while back Mr. Pegrum
visited Europe for the purpose of scouring the
latest inventions in use in the principal factories of the
world, and he returned not ohly with the newest and
speediest appliances, but also with the patents for
ccrated cordials and beverages that had never previously
been manufactured, or even seen, in the Australian
colonies. Some of these appliances are marvels of
mechanism in point of speed and efficiency of work.
They surpass the old appliances by tremendously
increased speed, and in no less a degree do they secure
a decided improvement in the character of the
drinks manufactured bringing them nearer to tho
natural waters than ever previously seen. It
would hardly be fair that all the ideas of
these enterprising men should ba stated in
detail, and it must suffice for the public to know that
the new arrangements ensure the perfection of manu-
facture. Our artist gives a sketch of tho collection of
new appliances just introduced. It will ba seen that
all the machines are double cylinder, and are the only
machines of the kind introduced. By this weans
the cordial undergoes two aerating processes, and the
result is on absolutely perfect blending of the gas and
water. The cordial thus manufactured, however now—
in fact, immediately after bottling—will allow of the
removal of the cork and stopper without the
loss of a particle, thus proving the entire
absence of atmospheric gas, frequently found
in inferior manufactures. The effervescing is, as
it were, internal, as in good champagne, and
though the stopper bo removed the liquor
exhibits a sparkling vitality for half an hour or more.
The liquor does not burst out from the bottle,
indicating the very highest mrated condition.
Here is a result never previously obtained. This
invention is applied to all Messrs Hume and Pegrum's
eg rated waters, such as soda, lemonade, tonic, ginger
ale, acidulous and other medicinal waters for liver com-
plaints, Ac. Its adoption, however, was an absolute ne-
cessity in the manufacture of the new cordials new
patented by the firm. A drink of the exact vitality
of the best ehampagne—a drink, satisfying, stimulating,
and net intoxicating—a drink, which, while thoroughly
refreshing, imparted great vigour to the mind and body
—was what was required. And there can be no question
whatever that Messrs. Hume and Pegrum have suc-
ceeded. They have produced what has been wanted in
this climate for the last fifty or sixty years. There
have been hundreds of inventions intended to supply
the place of ardent spirits. They have all died out.
The one unvarying reason has been the absence of body,
or vitality, or spirit in tho beverage. The four new
drinks now patented by Messrs. Hume and Pegrum
have, however, this one distinguishing feature. Their
beverages have a real vitality, and can take their places
alongside the best champagne. They sparkle in the
same way, and are both pleasing to the eye and encour-
aging to the taste. The sparkling Nervine is stated by
the lending analysts to contain the very properties of
brain and nerve tissue. To the man who thinks, and
the man who works, this Neryine, therefore, is a most
valuable invention, while to children, and women in
feeble health, it is actually a boon as a life preserver.
One of its chief properties is phosphorus—tho basis of
life; and to consume it means to add to the store of
vitality in tho human body, to invigorate the brain and
the nerves, and to keep them equal to all work—what-
ever demand there is on them. The new drinks patented
by Messrs. Hume and Pegrum are denominated Spark-
ling Nervine, Fruit Champagne, Ginger Champagne,
and Phosphated Quinine Tonic; and, as may beseem
from our engraving, are done up similarly to champagne.
The method of packing is entirely new, safe and com
venient. It is the outcome of considerable thought and
experiment, tho trade with the shipping and the far
distant interior requiring quite an innovation in this
respect. At Christmas time, tho firm were many thou-
sands of dozens behind their capabilities; but having
got all their appliances in full work, they are meeting
an immense trade in a style that was never done before
in these colonies. Work is carried on night andday,
gas being laid on all over the premises to allow of tho
extra work. Messrs. Hume and Pegrum carry
on their operations all round in tip-top fashion,
and they claim to bo classed in the first
rank of the world’s manufacturers. Mr. Pegrum
found on his visit to England that tho great
anxiety of the principal manufacturers was the absolute
purity of the water consumed. Well, at these works,
this one thing has been perfectly mastered. No water
is usedlbut that which has undergone a quintuple filter-
ing. For this purpose the five beat filters known are
used, namely. Baker’s high pressure, Galt’s high
pressure, Field and Son’s, and Maigin’s low pressure,
and asj phon cistern filter. The impurities revealed by
these appliances would stagger an alderman. Botany
water when delivered filtered here is, however, pure to
the microscope, and is entirely relieved of its alkaline
properties. This is essential to tho production of
absolutely pure aerated waters. Speaking generally of
the works, the capabilities are between 3000 and 4000
dozen per day. Motive power from a large vertical steam
engine is available all over the premises, and steam is laid
on from the boiler to the coppers in the cordial depart-
ment. Carbonic gas is generated in the largest gasometer
to be found in any such establishment in the colony.
In tho cordial works, where Mr. Pegrum and Mr. Humq
MR. ALEXANDER J. RALSTON.
MR. MORRICE ALEXANDER BLACK, F.I.A


find a sphere for their talents as well-mstructed experts,
there are laboratories and extensive packing and filling
departments. Upwards of forty different kinds of
cordials British wines and liqueurs are manufactured
here, for all which, as in the case of the aerated waters,
prizes have been won at all our principal Exhibitions.
Steady employment is given to about sixty-flvo men
and boys, and numerous vehicles and waggons, and
floats, for shipping and other uses, are kept in constant
requisition. The stables are lit up by a new patent gas-
burner, which reduces the danger of fire to a minimum,
which never requires re-lighting, and which can bo
turned on at any moment to its full power. Fire hose
is available all over tbe premises. Bottles are specially
made for the firm in London and Glasgow, and just now
there are large shipments to hand by the Loch Murriu.
Liguria, Roseburn &o. It will be seen from this rapid
sketch that the works are carried on in first-class style—
If anything, ahead of the times. Messrs. Hume and
Pegrum have made a tremendous “ hit" with their new
drinks, all of which have been secured by patent, and
as they promise further novelties in the lino, their
success against all competition is assured.
Mr. B. Short.
Tribe are few men better known all over the colonies
than Mr. Benjamin Short, now the Chief Metropolitan
Agent of the Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Mr. Short, for nearly a quarter of a century, has travelled
the colonies, and proved himself a most successful man
of business. He has boon successful, however, not to
the loss but the manfest advantage of the many thou-
sand persons with
whom he has
dealt. He was the
first canvassing
agent in this hem-
isphere, and is
the oldest officer
of the Australian
Mutual Provident
S o o i ety—t hat
grand institution,
whose char actor,
on account of its
wealth and wide-
expandi n g in-
fluence, has be-
come one of na-
tional impor-
tanca. Mr. Short
is the very style
of man to ensure
the general adop-
tion of the groat
principle of bfo
assurance. He
has all the argu-
ments and illus-
trations at all
times ready. His
illustrations com-
prise many strik-
ing examples
whore life assur-
ance arranged by
himself has saved
poor families from
perhaps, poverty
and distress. He
shows innu-
merable cases
where life as-
surance was the
actual commence-
ment of provident
habits and pros-
perity, proving to
the satisfaction of
any candid en-
quirer that a
policy effected in
the Mutual Provi-
dent Society is tho
very best invest-
ment any man can
make. Mr. Short
is a native of Mid-
dlesex, England,
and was born in
1833. He came to
this colony In
March, 1880. At
first the directors
of tho time were
averse to any can-
vassing for life
assurance, but
faota soon con-
vinced them
otherwise. For
the purposes of
securing an intro-
duction Mr. Short
undertook tho
out door financial
work of tho Eaud-
wiok Asylum, and
at tho end of
twelve months,
not only had he
given a much-
needed lift to that
institution but ha
had transacted
Daa iriiußiu;i>ovi, . . .. .
business for the Australian Mattel amounting to
filSO 000. He has ever since been uninterruptedly in
the service of the Society. He has been author, mto
speak, of between eight end ten thousand life policies,
covering assurance to the amount of between three ana.
tour millions sterling—the largesc business, wo believe,
ever done by any one insurance agent m the world- tx-
<Oi3pting Queensland, Mr. Short has been all over the
Australian colonies, and has delivered about 300 leo-
turos on social topics, such as “Happy Homes,"
“ Courtship and Marriage,” “ The House I Live
la,” “Total Abstinence,” &c. His addresses
hare been listened to, at the smallest computa-
tion, by five hundred thousand persons in all the
cities and principal towns. In these lectures, Mr.
Short introduces and illustrates the subject of life
assurance, with the unvarying result of many new life
policies. In Adelaide some years ago, Mr. Short
received quite an ovation, and the result of his exertions
was that many of the most influential men of the south-
ern capital became enrolled among the host of assured
lives. The gentleman who presided at the meeting,
and was the first to insure, was, strangely enough,
lost some time afterwards in the Gothenbnrg. His
family, no doubt, reaped the benefits of his forethought.
Mr. Short has now taken steps to ensure the yet mose
general adoption in the metropolis of the principle of
of life assurance; and since his return to Sydney, ove*
eleven months, commencing with April of last year, he
has actually completed more than £220,000 new insnr-
auces. Above half this sum has been effected by former
policy-holders taking additional assurances. An agency
has been opened at the Qeorge-stroet entrance to the
Sydney Arcade, and the style in which it is designed
and furnished is in keeping with its connection and the
business transacted. It is one of the neatest and most
convenient branch business-offices anywhere to be found,
and from its situation must be immensely successful.
Peeple accustomed to procrastinate are straightaway
suited by this branch, and many a family will reap the
benefits of its existence. It is in every way suitable
as an office for receiving Short hiw-yelf
opens his office from seven to nine on Saturday evenings,
giving an opportunity to working-mnn, married or
single, to have (as Mr. Short puts it) their lives takon
—if they should bo unable to call from nine to five
o’clock during tho earlier dajs of the week. The
interior of tho office is neatly furnished, while the
exterior is got up in a style quite eclipsing what is nsu-
ally met with. The artists, Messrs. Palmer and
Weekes, deserve great credit for their work. In the
arcade front there is appropriate letterings and in the
Qeorgo-streot window is the characteristic group of
figures that has long been the emblem of tbe Australian
Mutual Provident Society. The figures are life-size,
and are done in gold on a dark ground. Mr. Short's
work partakes largely of the practical. Ho often spends
tho dinner hour lecturing, under arrangement, to the
employes of large establishments. One of such lectures
recently delivered resulted in twenty-four policies from
the one establishment. The firm cauld, doubtless,
attest that their employes have, in consequence, be-
come steadier and more reliable, especially the younger
ones, who would feel they had a stake in the city and an
interest in being permanently employed here. Mr.
Short has recently been joined by his son, Mr. Ben-
jamin Short, who promises to become as successful as
his enterprising and respected father. In conclusion,
we recommend tho public to patronise Mr. Short.
Patronago to him moans an investment no man can over
regret, and secures a most thoughtful and helpful pro-
vision for one’s family or for one’s old age. Our wish is
that Mr. Short may live long to take many more
lives.
Cook’s Building's, Bathurst and Pitt-
streets, Sydney.
The magic change which has come over the scene at
the corner of Bathurst and Pitt-stroet is due to the
energy of the Messrs. Cook Brothers, contractors and
louilders of Ultimo, In this city. But a short time ago,
this was the most deserted looking spot in Sydney, A
splendid edifice, as is shown in our engraving, has
taken the place of the tumble-downs that long dis-
figured the locality, and quite an impetus hap, in con-
sequence, been given to the business of the neighbour-
hood. This building is a sample of new Sydney—an
indication of the extensive improvements
now going on
in this city in
whatever direc-
tion the eye is
turned. Pew
structures have
been erected as
solidly and as
speedily as this
one. Not more
than four months
have been occu-
pied in its erec-
tion. The founda-
tions are in the
solid rock, with
excavations t o
afford splendid
cellarage, and the
edifice rises to the
height of three
storeys. The
corner affords a
capital site for a
first-class family
hotel, and the
Pitt-street front
gives three roomy
shops and resid-
ences. The build,
ing having been
erected by the
owners them-
selves, has been
built throughout
on the very best
plans and in the
most complete
style, affording
convenience both
fop businesses and
residenceri, such
as are seldom to
1 e secured in any
populous city.—
Our artist faith-
fully depicts tbp
facade of the build;
ing, and it will bp
admitted n hand-
some addition has
in this instance
been made to our
street architec-
ture. The firm of
Cook Bros, is one
of the youngest
and most onter-
prisingin Sydney.
The two V-rothers
are very young
men, yet they
have undertaken
and executed
more work in the
building bre than
probably any
other firm of the
kind in Sydney.
They have virtu,
ally built a fourth
of the populous
suburb of Ultimo,
and among their
structures may
be mentioned 130
first-class resi-
dences and housoj
of business. Their
average now is
thpee houses a
week, ytry few
men have the
capability or tbe facility for sqch stupendous
undertakings. A contract for thirty booses at Balmaip
has just beeu taken in hand. The Cook Brothers have
extensive workshop*, where all tho requisitos for
building purposes are in constant preparation, and
being practical workmen themselves, they see every
portion of their work through to the finish. The Cook
Brothers are, besides, practical men of business. In
MESSRS, COOK BROTHERS’ BUILDINGS, PITT AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
METROPOLITAN BRANCH OFFICE OF THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY—
SYDNEY ARCADE.
MR. B. SHORT.


I'Viil
' PATENT NON ALCCHOLfC
PMflSPHATLD IKON
NEPM'^'bevbrage
TONIC
DN EV.
~
METHOD OF PACKING HUME AND
PEGEUM'S PATENT DERATED
WATERS.
proprietor, a first-class business is done with the
general public. It is significant in this way that
Mr. Sharp was presented by the proprietors of
Waverley Brewery, Messrs. Burrowes and Gleeson,
with their Waverley Cup, in recognition of the
splendid stylo in which he retails the beer manu-
factured by them. The cup, which is herewith
engraved, is of solid silver, weighing 17oz. 14dwt.,
and bears the following inscription
WAVERLEY CUP.
Messrs. Burrows & Gleeson
to
Mr. James Shari).
PRESENTATION—CHRISTMAS, 1681.
A testimonial of this kind is an additional
assurance for the public as to the character of the
extensive premises at Ultimo they have a first-class
hotel, and adjoining is a large furnishing warehouse.
TTere ©vorythiuj? reQtiirefl for iho furnish msr of all
descriptions of houses is obtainable—the articles being
either imported or manufactured on the premises
The workshops, where ten or fifteen hands are em-
ployed, ore at the rear of the premises, and are very
large and well ventilated. The show and store-room
are 130 feet long, with a width of 50 feet. Having no
rental to pay, the firm competes in the matter of price
with the largest houses in Sydney. The firm gives
constant employment to between 130 and 150 men.
It will be seen from the engraving that the corner
block of Messrs. Cook's Buildings has been taken by
Mr. W. S. Kelly for the Edinburgh Castle Hotel. Mr.
Kelly, who, for a number of years, conducted a first-
class family hotel under the above title at the opposite
corner of the street, has, at last, got premises that will
enable him to meet his city and country patronage.
The Edinburgh Castle Hotel has twenty-five first-class
rooms, and first-class accommodation is now offered.
Mr. James Sharp.
It will be generally conceded that when a man
mproves any particular branch of legitimate
trading, he ia not only deserving of success but
also of credit. The manner in which the hotel
business has been conducted for years in some
parts of Sydney has brought a considerable
amount ot discredit on the licensed victuallers,
and if not wholly, at least to a considerable extent
ustified the various movements that have from
time to time been started to more strictly control
the sale of liquor. Certain parts of King-street
were long notorious for this prominence. The
effect in the immediate neighbourhood was a
positive depreciation of the sale of property.
Now Mr. James Sharp, of the Colonnade Hotel,
has done a substantial good since he entered upon
its management. A thorough business-like
Scotchman, with a large and practical colonial
experience, he was the very man to effect a radical
change; and the way in which he has changed the
Colonnade Hotel into a first-class house of business
has justified what was expected from his previous
business career in Sydney. His case ia yet one
other proof that only legitimate trading will pay
in the long run. Property in the immediate
vicinity of the house has risen fully 150 per cent,
since Mr. Sharp’s occupancy, and the value in the
goodwill of the house has risen from .£3OO to
£2OOO. This result, in the space of five years,
s'a valuable proof of a man’s worth as a business
citizen. Mr. Sharp was born in Greenock, in 1842,
and engaged in ship building. Coming to Austra-
lia, he entered business in the colonial marine,
and traded between Melbourne and New Zealand.
The stirring events of the West Coast found him
there, and, in 1869, succeeding well, he married in
Hokitiki. He arrived in Sydney in 1871, and soon
after became proprietor of the Great Pacific
Hotel. He subsequently invested his capital in
tho pearl-shelling business at Torres Straits, and
superintended the work himself. Eeturning to
Sydney, he resumed his old business, and has now
for the last five years been proprietor of tho
Colonnade Hotel. The entire character of the
trade of the house has been changed, and on
account of the admitted excellence of tho liquors
and tho constant personal superintendence of the
I Colonnade trade, and is an affair of no small
credit to Mr. Sharp himself. It will be re-
membered that it was Mr. Sharp who tested the
new licensing law in the Supreme Court and was
in this respect the representative of the licensed
victuallers.
Mr. Richard Teece.
This is one of the very few Australians who are win.
ning their way in the domain of science. Like many of
the sons of this great south land. Mi. Teeoe has
devoted a good deal of his attention to our national
sports. Unlike them, however, he has also occupied
himself with useful intellectual work. Mr. Teece is one
of tho actuarial staff of the Australian Mutual Provi-
dent Society—an institution, tho success of which is
largely traceable to its capable internal management.
His success, however, has not heon merely local. Ho
has been a constant and an acceptable contributor on
actuarial science and kindred subjects to many of the
leading English and American journals, and he has
been complimented by some of the first men for the
soundness of his views and the completeness of his
researches. Mr Teece has had the advantage of study,
ing under Mr. Morriee Black. F.I.A , tho actuary of
the Australian Mutual Provident, and a universally
recognized authority on this branch of mathematical
science. Mr. Teece’s history is an interesting one. He
was born at Paihia, Bay of Islands (N.Z.), in April,
1817. and came to N.S.W. about 1854. He was educated
at the Goulburn Grammar School, of which H. 8.
Hawkins, M.A., was head master. He matriculated at
the Sydney University, at the age of 17, in February,
1865, and obtained first-class in mkthematioa at the
yearly examinations of that period. Among the men of
his year were Mr. P, A. Cooper, now Attorney-General
of Queensland; Mr. E. Barton, M.L.A., for Wellington;
Mr. H. M. Faithfull; Mr. J. Dillon, S.M.; Dr.
Clune, and the late Mr. W. A. Purves. Mr. Teece
entered the service of the A.MP. Society in July,
1866, and went in for the study of actuarial science..
He was appointed chief clerk to the Society in January,
1874, and has since held that appointment. In 1875 ho
took a trip round the world, obtained an insight into
the working of insurance offices in Great Britain and
Arnarioa, and was received with much cordiality—
j. Ir d attention being paid to him in America. Mr.
T...c held a seat on the Committee of tho School of
Arts for seven years, and has only Just resigned to
become lecturer in Actuarial Science to tho Teohnieal
College in connection with that institution. Mr,
Teeoo was one of the original members of the Univer.
pity Cricket Club, being hon. secretary of it for many
years; and he is still one of its delegates to the
N.S.W. Cricket Association. He inaugurated the
Inter-University cricket matches, and took part in all
that have been played. For some years he was hon.
secretary to the N.S.W. Cricket Association, and he ia
now a member of the grand committee of the Associa-
tion Ground. Mr. Teece was also one of the original
members of the Sydney Bowing Club, and took part in
many of its regattas, contesting as one of the Sydney
University Crew in both races against the University
of Melbourne. In 1876 Mr. Teece married a daughter
of Mr. Benjamin Palmer, formerly Mayor of this eity
There are few public debaters equal to Mr. Teece. He,
has a fluent end masterly delivery, and needs but the
experience ho is now earning to fib him for some very
high position.
Messrs. D. and W. Eobertson, of London and
Sydney, have been entrusted with the supply of the whole
material for the construction of the forty-eight loco-
motive engines constructed by the Atlas Engineering
Company of Sydney, to be supplied for the Government
of New South Wales. The material for the first eight
engines is already in Sydney, and the remainder of
these, the first of the 48, is in an advanced state of pro-
gress. The whole of the material is of the highest
class, conforming strictly to the Government specifi-
cation iulevery particular, and has passed the inspection
before shipment from England of the Government
Inspector there. The great firm of Sir John Brown
and Co. (limited), for whom Messrs D. and W, Robert-
sou act as solo agents here, have supplied important
portions of the materia), and the whole has given the
utmost satisfaction to the Atlas Foundry Co., who de-
serve great credit for the excellent work they have turned
out in finishing these engines in such a high-class style
as to call forth the favourable encomiums of the chiefs
of the Railway Department of New South Wales.
Apropos to tho alleged defalcations of Mr. 0.
Watson, local hank manager, Dunkeld (Vic.), tho
Hamilton SrEcrAioa says that Watson's predecessor
threw np tho appointment because the amount ho
received as salary did not enable him to mix in society
and increase the business as much as he was expected
to do.
The British Home Secretary will, of course, ro
lease Samuel Clowes and Henry Johnston, the Stafford,
shire farmers who were sentenced on the 29th of Janu-
ary, 1880, to ten years’ penal servitude for a crime, it
has been proved beyond all doubt, they never com.
mitted. Tho man who swore ho was “ wilfully malioi.
onsly, and feloniously wounded’’ is dead; but on his
death-bed he confessed he was a liar ; that the outrage
for which Clowes and Johnston ore suffering was a pure
invention. It is shocking that two entirely innocent
men should have been undergoing penal servitude for
nearly two years. The general lesson the case teaches,
however, is the risk of placing implicit reliance upon
circumstantial evidence. Brooks, the supposed victim,
inflicted several wounds upon himself. Had ho mortally
injured himself, ha might easily, under tho system of
capital punishment, have sworn away the lives of two
men who never laid a hand on him.
THE WAVERLEY CUP PRESENTED TO MR. JAMES SHARP.
MR. JAMES SHARP.
SKETCH OF THE INTERIOR OF MESSRS. HUME AND PEGRUM’S [?]ERATED WATER WORKS, REGENT STREET, SIDNEY.—(See page 1.)
MESSES. HUME AND PEGRUM’S NEW PATENTED SEATED WATERS.


The Australian Mutual Provident
Society.
A gotintkt’s prosperity is tested by her mercan-
tile institutions. Under such a test New South
Wales shows herself to be of almost fabulous
growth. The one institution by which we, as a
people, might stand with a certainty of the
grandest results in a comparison of this kind,
is the Australian Mutual Provident Society. In
a double sense is the position of this Society
an indication of the greatest value. It tells of
the wealth and also of the provident character
of the people. No one can look minutely into
the affairs of this splendid institution without
being struck by the fact, that there must be a
general prosperity here that is unknown in con-
nection with the people of any other part of the
world. The principle of life assurance has, virtu-
ally become, as it were, a part of the character of
Australians. This means a general ability to
spare the premiums, and a provision against un-
forseon circumstances, which is in turn a provi-
sion against what might otherwise be an
over-increasing burden on the charitable insti-
tutions of the country. To the Australian Mutual
Provident Society belongs the honour of fostering
and developing in Australia the spirit of life
Assurance. This is an institution that has done
a safe, steady, and honest business from the day
Of its foundation. The idea of mutuality has
been preserved with the greatest fidelity in all its
wide-spreading operations No gross idea has
tarnished its transactions, because its success has
meant the moral and material advancement of the
community. Those once becoming members have
been anxious that their friends should join them.
Inis ever increasing cause, with other aids, has
given rapid development to the business. Its
enormous investments, capable management and
extraordinary results have attracted wide atten-
turn. The institution has stood like a
beacon light to be seen far and near,
h rom a small concern for whose business require-
ments the upper room of a grocery shop
sufficed, it has grown in thirty-three years
to an affair with an accumulated fund of
four millions sterling, and an income of
AboO.OUO per annum. -It has attracted to its Board
the most capable business men to be fo ind in our
metropolis, and its _ meetings and elections have
been second only in importance to those of a
1 arliamontary character. Booking at our popu- I
lation and the results, it is not surprising that its
success should be denominated by the leading
London journals a “ business phenomenon,” and
as it eclipses similar institutions all over the
world, Australians, and Now South Welshmen in
particular, have every reason to be proud of its
existence. The business of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society has, in fact, assumed such pro-
portions as to take the character of national
importance. Judged by its humble origin and the
position it now occupies in the mercantile world
of the Southern hemisphere, it is almost impos-
sible to predict its future or indicate the field of
its operations. The problem will find its solution
only in the great future of this country, because the
success of the one is linked to the prosperity of
the other.
Some idea of the business of the Society may be
obtained from these figures :
The Australian Mutual Provident Society was
established in 1849.
, first year forty-five policies were issued
*lO.lOO, with an annual premium income of
Aubl.
, five years > 321 Pobcies were issued
lor .±,119,015, and the income was .£3877. The
second five, 1103 policies for .£502,980 and the
new premium income .£19,236. The third 8374
policies for .£1.579,209, and the new premium
JJ 7 ’ 81 ?:. The fourth > 6440 P° Ucioa *or
ISC’nJZr’i 0 new Premium income .£99,651.
The fifth, 11.723 policies for .£4,279,021, and the
now premium income The sixth, 23 853
pohcies for .£8,362,594, and the new premium
income 775.
i x ei l d , of * h . e thirty years—that is in
io7o—tne total policies issued were 46,314 for
| 5 G79° 65, and th ° premium in Gomo had risen to
! jEssas *tajas
■ le * ,i “ s “ ° et iMto “ B
TOn^ he business of the society, at latest returns,
During fei° W * Proportionate increase.
9KB O, j 6 A SI P° llolo s were issued for
ds4,lsX’JsB and the new premium income repre-
sented .£74 6661. During the year, thepayments P on
°J deaths amounted to .£121,413; including
.£14,4.38 bonus additions ; and eighteen endow-
-5o?o7 aS f Ura f ceB had matured for -£9277, including
, j 7, fo J bonus additions. The accumulated
!g445 71°3 0d Et ,£3>3 ' !) ’ slo > showing an increase of
The total policies issued up to December, 1880
(the returns for last year not yet being published)
G OOB 59 ’ 000, and th ° amount as 3ured for
J&*n^SoS m 8 thB ° na ° [ iBsi-
.European financiers regarded as a “ business
phenomenon ’’ the fact that the society should be
able, during the thirty-two years, to pay all its
aln™ 3 rt f deat u’ out ot interest receipts
I , BBrt w o ß f t ’ h f n tho i ut , erest receipts during
1880 were found to exceed the combined payments
for claims, commission, and expenses of manage-
nea-rly 10M0 tbo r esnlt was stated as
entirely unique in life assurance.”
thf OldWotTA En 4 and ’ or , any other part of
/-> + v * * can show such figures as these.
wflr^w^ 0 * 8 Btr^ ck the English critics. There
were but one or two Societies in England whose
vi aD on S counted to ,£1,000,000 sterling a
year, while 90 _ per cent, of the companies looked
upon such a thing as an un-hoped for event The
£2 ill tual 8 business for the year was
5 7 f amount far exceeding that of
dominions'.’’ aBsurance office in the British
And it was considered extraordinary that the
accumulated fund should be increased during the
year by -£445 713—equal to 87 per cent, of the
premiums received 0
MutuaT to g 7bf C ° mpl . 6tely ]ift th « Australian
th premier position among the
w °rld s life assurance companies.
wbinh h optics regard the terms under
un h i2elled ICIe Th r 0 “ Bn - e< ? aa , liberal to a degree
pohoies out nf b PrmC j ple of , sustaining overdue
policies out of surrender value, which has for
“??° y / earS j een a d°Pted by the Society, is con-
sidered sound and liberal, and, in support the
9 u ° ted that the society hadkept
Pohoies which were in arrelr, paying
rhZL accou ?t of their surrender value g
investment of the enormous accumulated
fund at the command of the Society has been done
with great caution and with the most satisfactory
results. Upwards of two millions of the funds are
invested in loans on mortgage of real estate, and
about half a million in loans on the Society’s
policies within the surrender value. Such objec-
tionable items as loans on personal security, find
no place in the catalogue of its investments.
With regard to the expenses of management the
Australian Mutual Provident stands first in
economy of management in connection with those
Jarman Institutions whose new business exceeded
a million sterling of assurances, while as com-
pared with other colonial institutions the result is
extraordinary.
The ratio for the year 1880 of expenses of the
Australian Mutual to the total receipts was 9.85
while in other Australian institutions it ranged
from 24 to 39 per cent. “
The amount of profit realised and divided
among the members in 1879 was .£504,382. at an
of £l6 3s. to each policy holder.
The bonus additions to the Australian Mutual
are something tangible. Here are two groups of
illustrations, and they are a few of many
hundreds of instances:— y
frr A P- aon n at twenty-eight years of ago insured
for £2OO, and was in the Society for twenty-nine
£t "Ia? 3 Tl Ur r nthB - Tho , annual Payment was ,
u!b. Ihe bonus amounted to £303. This
sum, it allowed to remain, would have extinguished
the payments giving the policy-holder .£l9B as
reversionary sum, and an annuity of £8 14s. 8d
in addittion.
t fn?s,A° n a t a £® °f forty-three insured
tor £lOOO, and was in the Society for twenty-
! 6V l?^ K earS TT D 1? x, “ onths - The bonus amounted
to £1495. Had this sum been allowed to remain
the payments for future premium would have been
extinguished, & £1125 paid as a reversionary
bonus, for an annuity of £lO6 secured altogether
outside the amount for which the life was
insured.
. Whenjthe Australian Mutual had been 29 years
in existence, a comparison was made of its busi-
ness with the average of 73 of the principal
■fcngbsh offices. The Australian Mutual had an
amount assured exceeding the average of English
P, er cent., and a premium income
ceeding theirs by 268 per cent. A comparison now
w<mld show a yet more astounding contract.
Jtoonomy of management has been one of the
distinguishing features of the Australian Mutual.
The expenditure is 13 per cent, of the premium
is about^4 J. 9 aveiage of the English offices
advantages of Assurance with
the Australian Mutual have been often referred
to. -Here are some actual instances.
A policy for £lOOO was taken out by a member,
and during 25 years, the bonus additions amounted
to, upwards of 113 per cent of the
5S*“ a l as ® uran ® e ;. The bonuses were applied to
LVii f 10n ° f th ° P remium . with the result
fbnVn io ? paJ ™ ts were extinguished and
£!3^?Jwd f -the policy secured an annuity of
*137 10a. 4d. for tho remainder of his life All
persons who entered the Society at 55 years of age
and were assured 18 years and upwards received
extinguish all payments and
give them annuities for the remainder of their
[ lives, ranging from £3 18s. 4d. to £137 10s. 4d.
Members who entered at 25 years of age and
ere -o years m the Society, received cash bonuses
amounting to £330 12s each.
~ surplus dividend among members during
tne last quinquennium, was £565,200. The on-
graying which we give of the head office of the
t Stre< * t ’ in t hiß city, will convey some
idea ot the character of that impressing structure
It is one of the finest edifices to be found in Aus-
tra, ?.• ,be total cos was about £55,000. The
fh«^i t f^ir Wa ?r M] S: a " sfield ’ and the contractor
tho late Mr. Hugh M Maater.
“ Big Ben,” the Cooktown alligator who
annually comes down with the floods, was seen off the
=^s^"ssassa^ffssa
THE HEA TD OF THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.


Messrs. D. and W. Robertson’s Import
Iron Warehouse.
PifTt-two years ago, on the slopes of the Sidlaw
Hills, on the east ooaat of Scotland, was bom
—Mr. William Robertson, of Holland Park,
London, the founder of the well-known and
old-established firm of D. and W. Robertson,
wholesale iron, steel, and machinery merchants,
of London and Sydney. Descended on the mother’s
side from the royal Stuarts of Scotland, Mr. Robert-
son has had to bo the architect of his own fortune,
The youngest of ten children, ho, at the early age
of tan years, by tho vicissitudes of hard times and
poor harvests in the bad old times of protection,
°°f n laws, and distress, was compelled to leave
school and commence the struggle for existent*,
From then till now Mr. Robertson has lived a life
of unceasing activity. At 19 years, he was in
business as an iron merchant in Dundee. At 25,
he had established a second branch at Glasgow.
At 48, by unflagging labour and determined upright-
ness, the enormous business had yielded him a well-
earned competency ; but not believing in the prac-
tice of too many who lay aside their labour and
their business only to assume the pale cerements
of the last farewell, he then retired, handing over
his splendid business and connection to his two
sons, now his successors and tho solo proprietors of
the firm.
Following in the footsteps of their father,
Messrs. W. P. and J, S. Robertson have developed
at an early age into energetic, pushing men of
business. When but comparatively a boy, Mr.
J. S. Robertson visited Australia for the benefit of
his health; and, after a residence in each of the
other colonies and New Zealand, he pitched upon
Sydney as the field for his business career—and
here, about six years ago, he laid the foundation
of what is fast becoming the largest concern of the
kind in these colonies. Indeed, Messrs. Robertson
are in truth the only professed Iron Merchants in
the colonies, with a stock in Sydney of the mag-
nitude proposed, and a buying partner in London,
devoting themselves wholly and solely to the heavy
branches of the iron trade, in contradistinction to
the practice of those other gigantic houses, which
in addition to attending to these branches, com-
bine the multifarious requirements of the general
public.
Messrs. Robertson have struck out an entirely
new idea—viz., to confine themselves to the
supplying of railway material, the requirements
of engineers, contractors, squatters, builders ; in
rails, bridge work, pig iron, roofing sheets, tele-
graph and fencing wire, pipes for water and
irrigation works; machinery of all descriptions,
such as steam engines, steam pumps, portable
engines, steam launches, steam boats, and all the
heavy requirements of the iron trade, to which
their whole attention has all along been confined
and the importance of which now in these colonies
call for tho entire skill and energies and capital
of a business firm.
With tho view of developing this idea, and in
prospect of their present store being resumed by
the Government at an early date, the Messrs.
Robertson have acquired a splendid block of land
PETTY’S HOTEL, CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.-(See page 8.)
MESSRS. D. AND W. ROBERTSON’S IMPORT IRON WAREHOUSE, CORNER OF MARKET AND YORK STREETS.


at the corner of Pitt and Bathurst-streets for the
erection of a store, 252 feet in length, sufficient
to contain a stock of their specialities, adequate
for the storing of the supply in proper style, not
only of the consumers, but of those merchants
who may see it to be for their interest to draw
their supplies from the great central depot rather
than import themselves, thereby locking up capital
in duplicate stocks, which, after all, cannot be
otherwise than comparatively imoomplete
In this way Messrs. Bobertson consider that
they can do a service, not only to the consumers,
but to the whole trade, and assist in developing
the splendid resources of this great country, for
which a supply of iron and machinery of the pro-
per description is a sine qua non. Everyone in-
terested in the welfare and prosperity of the
country at large cannot fail to bid the Messrs.
Bobertson success in their largo enterprise.
We present our readers on this occasion with a
fine engraving, from special designs, of Messrs.
Robertson's now offices, Kidman’s Central
Exchange Buildings, York and Market-streets,
which have been fitted up for them by Alderman
Doan in his usual handsome style for their occupa-
tion, till their new warehouse is completed accord-
ing to plans, now in preparation by Mr. Eowo.
Butler's Great Western Cordial Factory,
Bathurst.
Of course the first thing- a visitor to the flourishing
town of Bathurst does is to have a drink, and, as he
imbibes, what he first notices on the shelves of the bar
are the very elegant labels on the bottles of cordials
made by Mr. Butb r. He naturally reasons that a manu-
facturer who is so fastidious in the small matter of the
outside adornment ef the bottles must bo very
particular as to the quality of the article within. A
visit to the works confirms the impression. They are
situated in Lower George-street, and give employment
to a considerable number of men. Some idea of the
business done may be gained from the fact that Mr.
Butler has two four-horse coaches for supplying
Blayney, Bockley, Oberon, Sofala, O’Connell, and other
outlying towns; and a two-horse vehicle and a foui-
wheeled waggon for attending to the city of Bathurst.
In the centre of the factory stands the steam-engine
which supplies tho mntive power. There are two No. 1
bottling machines. With the one used for the patent
stopper seventy dozen per hour can be done ; tho other
serves for the ordinary corks, and a rate of fifty dozen
per hour is attainable with it. The bottle-washing
machine was in full operation during the visit of our
reporter. Each bottle is made scrupulously clean,
and this at the marvellous speed of 120 dozen
per hour I The factory also possesses an excellent
syphon filling machine. There is a never-failing supply
of good water. An enormous tank contains the water,
which, on account of its being very soft, is used for tho
boiler and for making giugerbeer; and two largo wells
furnish that which is used for mineral waters. Steam
is used to drive the pumps. The coppers containing
the syrups are in an adjeining room, in order that they
may escape the heat of the engine. In tho next room
nil the cordials are made; bv means of large filters
these are rendered beautifully clear. The next room
contains tho chemicals used in the manufacture of
beverages. Here is also stored a large quantity of the
finest colonial sugar. The huge casks of acetic acid
require a separate store-room. The labels for the
bottles are printed in Germany at no trifling expense;
they are, indeed, the handsomest of the kind yet intro-
duced. The inhabitants of Bathurst and vicinity need
never lack excellent beverages while Mr. Butler con-
ducts a factory which can boast of such modern and
complete machinery. The following is a list of the
cordials, Ac., manufactured Ginger wine, raspberry
syrup, lime juice cordial, orange bitters, orange tonic
wine, cloves, Batley’s compound extract of sarsaparilla,
peppermint, lemon syrup, stomachic bitters,
noyeau, gingerette, odezone, table vinegar, cider, and
all the ordinary aerated waters.
The New Patent Direct-acting
Steam Pump.
This week, in our great extra number, we present an
engraving of one of Alexander (shanks and Co.’s cele-
brated steam pumps, specially designed to meet the
requirements of miners, brewers, tanners, and for irri-
gation; and for raising water to any desired height,
either from wells, rivers, docks, dams, or tasks, &c.
In a country like Australia, which is, unfortunately,
subjected to periodical droughts, too much attention
cannot be directed to these pumps, which are of com-
paratively recent introduction, and are an incalculable
boon to the community. These pumps are made of an
immense variety of sizes, and, according to size, will
raise from 1800 to 51,000 gallons per hour, to any desired
height, varying according to the special pump selected
Irom 1 ft. 2 in. to 9 ft. for every pound of steam pressure.
They are distinguished by simplicity of design, sub.
stantiality of material and accuracy of working parts.
They have, moreover, only two moving being
cushioned with steam, and they have no tappets, small
valves, or springs; nor have they any “ dead points,”
bat will start at any part ef the stroke the moment
steam is admitted to the cylinder. Having a perfect
arrangement of cushioning, the piston cannot, under any
circumstances, strike the ends of the cylinder. They
are constructed with a short piston and long stroke (the
speed of which can be varied at will). They require no
attention after the steam is turned on, and are not
affected by grit or dirt. They are exceedingly compact,
and easy of access for examination or repair; and, hav-
ing only two moving parts (and these not exposed to the
atmosphere), the wear and tear is reduced to a minimum.
These steam pumps can be had either alone or combined
with a boiler complete ready for use. They con be seen
and every information regarding them obtained on
application to Messrs. D. and W. Robertson, of Sydney
and London, at their new < Dices. Central Exchange
Build]Dgs,Y°rk-s<reet, Sydney (an admirable picture of
winch we produce this week), or at their Machinery
Stores, Pyrmont Bridge, Pyrmont.
A Fitzroy (Victoria) larrikin named Moloney has
been fined 4210, or three months’ imprisonment, for
brutally assaulting a woman. The magistrates on the
Bench received threatening letters from friends of tho
prisoner. The lash badly wanted.
Two libel actions pending at Port Adelaide
against a silt contractor, named John Dasl.mdes, of
Port Adelaide. One is at the suit of “ Captain" Hay
thej (somewhat unpopular) superintendent, under the
Marine Board, of the Government dockyard; and the
other is at tho suit of a brother silt contractor, named
John Biglands. Both alleged libels were contained in
a letter written by Deslandos, and published in Herring-
ton s weekly, the Poet Adelaide News. . I
Mr. William Pritchard.
Whenever an inquiry comes to be made as to
the construction of the splendid basis on which
the trade of New South Wales was permanently
fixed, there will be a meed of praise to the un-
ostentatious services of William Pritchard. Giving
a basis to the trade, or fiscal policy, of a young
country like New South Wales, with its enor-
mously rapid development, means no more and no
less than imparting an indelible stamp to its
national character. There can be no disputing that
the stamp which the character of this colony bears
is that of steadiness and solidity. To the handful
of men who did this bountiful service at a critical
time the country must ever be indebted. The low
ebb to which affairs in this colony had reached
about five and twenty years ago encouraged a band
of malcontents to battle for an exclusive trade
policy, which, while benefiting a few, would have
isolated the whole people from the world’s great
centres of production. Inactivity on the part of
people favourable to a free and comprehensive
policy lent colour and assistance to tho movements
of the exclusionists, and when they came to be
opposed they were found to be as formidable and
compact as they were aggressive. Ihe battle
once begun was a real one. It was earnest and
enduring. It was fought not in Sydney but all
over the colony. Its grandest feature was the in-
disputable completeness and permanency of its
results. Free-trade was engrafted into tho minds
of the people, and, as in England, is as likely to
he given up as trial by jury. Very many do not
know that this contest was ever fought. But
twelve or fifteen years before Protection was
adopted in Victoria as the panacea for all fiscal
difficulties, it was discarded here as a delusion,
and once and for ever the policy of the country
received a shaping that has since brought it into
the premier position, and given it to-day a many-
sided development elsewhere is not known.
Among the men who cia this valiant service years
ago were Eev. Dr. Lang, Sir John Eobertson,
Hon. G. Thorn ton,Hon. H. Prince, Hon. S. D. Gor-
don, Hon. John Sutherland, Hon. James Byrnes,
W. Hczslott, E. I.owthor, J. Booth, A. Cain, W.
Dean, J. Powell, J. Woods, J. A. Portus, D Flet-
cher, George King, W. Spears, Samuel Bennett,
Julian E. Salomons, George Oakes, John Pope, S.
A. Joseph, Saul Samuel, Ben. James, Anthony
Hordern, William Hanson, John Harpur. A. H.
Macifee, W. Friend, John Ireland, Samuel Dickin-
son, William Court, Frederick Parsons, and
John Fylfe. One of the most persistent of
workers in that active organization was
William Pritchard. Ho was, in fact, with one
or two others who occupied positions behind
the scenes, the active spirit of the movement.
The records ot the time bear his name, and the
most notable demonstrations of the period were
the direct result of his ceaseless activity and
capable marshalling of forces. To Mr. Pritchard
entirely was due the success of the national protest
in the form of petitions against the Protectionist
policy of the Martin Government. What the ten
or fifteen thousand petitioners demanded from Bari
Belmore was an immediate dissolution of Parlia-
ment, and, though it was denied them, they had the
satisfaction of seeing, shortly after, that Govern-
mont dissolved, and their retrogressive policy com-
pletely overshadowed by one in keeping with the
enlightenment of the times and the intelligent
aspirations of the people. Samuel Bennett, of
the Empire, was one of the quiet but grand
workers of the time, and to his sagacity and Mr.
Pritchard’s activity and devotion, may be, to a
considerable extent, ascribed the success of the
whole movement. This work, occupying so much
time and energy, told on Mr. Pritchard’s private
business, but he continued with the others till the
work was done. The organization having accom-
plished its work, was wound up paying all its
accounts in full, and handing a small surplus to a
charity—a fitting termination to a movement
organised for a country’s good, and conducted,
from first to last, with unselfish patriotism. Mr
Pritchard’s private history is that of most of our
reliable and prosperous colonists. The varied
experiences of forty years’ active business pur-
suits leave him to-day with an unsullied char-
acter for integrity, reliability, and enterprise, and
he enjoys to-day the friendships he made when he
first started in life. Mr. Pritchard was born in
Gloucestershire, on tho 18th February, 1830 and
came to this colony with his people nine years later
Mr. Pritchard is a self-made man, and evidently
believes in the old adage, that “ God helps those
who help themselves,” and the whole of his efforts
in business enter prize, as well as in matters social
and political, have been of a progressive
character. During a period of great depres-
sion, he aided his father in very difficult
financial operations. In the milling and tho
produce business, Mr. Pritchard was years ahead of
his time with respect to the character of hia appli-
ances and the capabilities of his establishments
He broke down numerous rings and monopolies iii
trade. Ten or twelve years ago Mr. Pritchard
launched out into the land sale business, and we
believe he will bo credited with being the pioneer
of the movement which has resulted in the sub-
division and sale by auction on the ground of the
enormous estates round about Sydney, which has
resulted in the investment of something like ten
or eleven millions of money in a legitimate direc-
tion, which has created thousands of landlords,
where, previously, there was but one, and which
has populated our suburbs to an extent that could
never have been anticipated. Mr. Pritchard was
first gazetted a magistrate in the year 1867, with-
out solicitation, among a bunch of ten or fifteen of
the best men that were over appointed ; and he was
elected an alderman for the city in the same year,
and continued one till he accomplished some
important work, when he resigned the position,
as also that of a magistrate, to enable him to
attend to his own private affairs. He was
the originator and the life and soul of the
Wrecks Relief Commission, which gave some
THE FIRST OF THE NEW LOCOMOTIVES FROM THE ATLAS ENGINEERING WORKS.-See page 8.
BUTLER'S ERATED WATER WORKS, BATHURST.
THE NEW PUMP INTRODU[?]ED BY MESSES. D. AND W. ROBERTSON.


thousands of pounds to the widows and |
orphans and other sufferers b y. th ®
wrecks of the Cawarra period. Mr. Pritchard is
in active business still. He has built up a com-
netenoy by the business ho has conducted during
the last ten years. He has some active opponents.
They are, fortunately, the men whose opposition
is the test of value. liberality, uprightness, and
enterprise. Mr. Pritchard was, about four years
ago, when fortune favoured him, again gazetted a
magistrate, and he was also, a few days since,
unanimously elected Mayor of Leichhardt for the
current year. Our portrait ia from an excellent
photo, by Boyd.
Mr. John. Booth.
Ths gentleman, whose portrait is given herewith,
is one of the most prosperous and enterprising of
our business men, and tried by the test of many
years’ services is a first-class citizen. While
Hundreds of men have been doing the theoretical
work of colonization, Mr. John Booth has been
doing the practical. His whole life, in this quarter
of the globe, proves him to have been a man cut
out for the trying work of breaking down forests
and creating towns; his labours on the coast of
Hew South Wales have been for a period of forty
years’ giant enterprise. He was one of the
pioneers of the trade of our north coast in 1840,
and to-day, forty-two years later, he is one of the
largest employers of labour" in the timber trade
of those parts. Nothing of the difficulties which
wore experienced at first now besets enterprise
porthward ; but almost every foot of settlement
there has its tale of daring and resolute industry
And the roughest experiences of colonial life, afloat
And ashore. Mr. Booth was engaged in the active
Operations of the time, and it was, doubtless, this
inpuring to hardships that gives him now —at a
time when most men cease to labour, —his great
physical energy, apd his eagerness for the most
active callings of life. Mr. Booth was born in
London, and in 1833, while but a lad, came to the
colonies. He had chosen the sea for his profes-
sion, and arriving here he soon found call for such
active services as he could offer. He became, in
course of time, a commander, and then owner of
vessels, and was quick to discover the untouched
wealth of our northern foreata. Grasping the
idea of the certain development of our colonial
marine, ho established a shipbuilding industry,
and at Brisbane Water, built fourteen or fifteen
vessels. He came on to Sydney as a better centre
for the business, and he constructed here twenty
vessels of various dimensions. The conditions o
labour changing, the shipbuilding dropped, and
Mr. Booth turned his attention to the further
development of the timber trade he had long pre-
viously opened. He established a steam saw-miil
on the shores of the harbour. Having a large
mill in operation on the Manning, and having
added new vessels to his fleet, he pushed his trade
along at a surprising rate. A few years ago, Mr,
Booth retired, having amassed a fortune, and he
let his Mills to Messts. John Taylor and Co.
Unfortunately, a disastrous fi.ro occurred, and the
work of years was reduced to ashes in a few
hours. Here Mr. Booth showed his true character.
From out of these ruins rose the finest and most ex-
tensive mills to be found anywhere in the colonies.
Mr. Booth tackled the work himself, and re-
solved to place in his establishment such appli-
ances as would, right off, give him the premier
position in the wood trade. Twelve months did it
all. His works now are a vast hall of mechanical
invention, and perhaps, nowhere clse_ is afforded
such proof of the gigantic advance which mechani-
cal science has made during the last few years.
The works, a full description of which wo must
leave for a future occasion, form a gigantic hive
of industry, and are situate at the junction of
Wide Bay and Johnson’s Bay, Port Jackson,
covering an area of seven acres. The water
frontage measures 1200 feet, and in connection
with the business there are six wharfs. Six of
Mr. Booth’s vessels are engaged in the trade.
Employment is given altogether to about 300
hands, and the payments per year do not fall far
short of .£40,000. The works have a 500 u.r.
vertical engine, and the usual output is 200,000
feet of timber per week. Mr. Booth, who has a
large family, has three of his sons in the business,
and they exhibit an instinctive capable manage-
ment. Ten years ago, Mr. Booth, was brought
out for West Sydney, aad was returned to Parlia-
ment with flying colours. While in the Assembly,
though laying no claim to the oratorical art, Mr.
Booth did real good service. He was one of the
two or three men in Parliament, who could fairly
grasp the question of our Colonial marine. On
this and kindred subjects, ho brought to bear
sound common sense and large experience—traits
not usual with the politician of the day. Subse-
quently, after a lengthy retirement, Mr. Booth
was returned for East Macquarie, defeating in the
contest, the famous “Billy Cummings.” Mr.
Booth found himself unable to devote his atten-
tion again, and is now entirely absorbed in his
private business. lie is still halo and hearty, and
active as ever, the owner and conductor of a
business, that is unequalled south of the equator.
Few will begrudge him long enjoyment of the
fruits of his uprightness and enterprise.
Victorian Government is preparing a Larrikin
Suppressiou Bill, which ctobriices the 4 enfc
How to keep posts from decaying. Take boiled
linseed oil and biic in pulverized charcoal to the con-
eistency of paint. Put a coat of this over the timber,
and there is not a man that will live to see it rot.
The Express organ points out that the air,
“Oh, Misery,’’ in the rosthetic opert “Patience,” is
identical with the Catholic hymn, “ Dies lim.” Can the
Archbishop really have been to the Royal f
Chloral hydrate is the most unsafe hypnotic drug
to take, and should never be administered except under
medical supervision and advice. It is a direct sedative,
and exorcises an immediate effect upon the heart.
Writes a correspondent: —“ At Professor
D’Harcourt’s gymnastic competition last Thursday
evening, H. Camdell should have been awarded the
prize tor heavy dumb-h.ll lifting, as his lifts were done
liroporly, and not with a lump or jerk; also R. Brindley
hould have been awarded first prize in the junior
livision. Uis performance was one which any cf the
onior division might have envied."
An alderman in a borough suburban to Sydney,
md the foreman of works in the same borough, had a
ittle mill the other day. The alderman commenced
ictual hostilities by going for the foreman’s broad-
laskot, and received in reply a blow which skulped off
;he tip end of the aldermanic nose. The alderman
jamo up groggy, and was soon placed hors de combat by
;he knuckle-dusting foreman.
A little bird brings a billet from the Shoalhaven
iwamps. There’s great indignation at the local chief
hobby being removed to Wollongong, as ho is greatly
liked. The show has been a success; “ Woseby’
illumined it with his presence. Produce good, in spite
of drought. Girls lovely, especially one in blue, the
colour that angels and Australians love. _ Bocal option
has agitated the district, and now it’s cricket. A man
isn’t a man if he don’t talk cricket.
A Sydney telegram to the Melbourne World:
•• The Editor and one proprietor of the Evening News
interviewed the Postmaster-General with reference
to Press messages. They asked if the statement in the
Daily Telegraph was true that 500 words would be
allowed from each station. The Postmaster-General
replied that was not so, and that the Evening News
could receive only SCO words in the aggregate daily at
press rates. When asked what the public would do for
news, and the opinion expressed that the loss would be
to them, the Miuister said ‘ Let them read the morn-
ing papers;’ thus confirming public opinion that a
scandalous blow was aimed at the Evening News,
which will can-o him a deil of trouble before long.” We
wonder whether the “ which' xefers to the News, or to
the " blow.” However, we suppose it’s all the same
thiug.
If we hadn’t seen this ourselves in the New
Zealand Herald, We could have sworn that it was
clipped from a New South Wales paper:—“ It has
really come about—the lion is Ijing down with the
lamb —the advocates of temperance and the licensed
victua'lers have shaken hands. Parliament has con-
ferred upou the people the privilege of electing the
Licensing Benches. The elections are about to take
place, and those interested in public-houses and those
jpposed to them, are trying to come to terms, and with
a fair prospect ol an agreement being arrived at.'*
Why should a licensed victualler be styled a “lamb,"
though ? Is it a sly allusion to “ lambing down."
The Dunedin (N. Z.) Coffee Palace Co. has lost
£l,OOO on the year’s operations, and the Christchurch
Co. £7B for the half year.
The ship Dunedin, whioh sailed from port
Chalmers (tf. Z.) for Loudon the other week, had 5,000
refrigerated sheep on board.
Isaac Cohen has been committed for trial on a
charge of perjury, by making a false declaration, to the
effect that the license of the United Slates Jb’amily
Hotel, Sydney, had been lost.
In N. Z., all tastes can be easily suited in the
matter of climate. One day's melee role gical returns
showed that the thermometer at Westport registered
at 9 o’clock in the shade 85degs.; at Auckland, 75dcga.;
Napier, 73de*s.; and at the Blulf 56degs. A d.iiereuco
o£ 29dogs. between the warmest and celde t centres of
papulation.
“There’s one thing I envy a pig for,” said
Spenoerton to the barber. “He don’t have to bo
shaved till after death.” “ Some hogs does and soma
doesn’t," replied the artist. There’s no use arguing
with Wigzell's man while in his power.
MR. RICHARD TEECE.—(See page 3)
MR. JOHN BOOTH.
WEARNE’S SAFE.
FIEST BOGIE TRAM CAR MANUFACTURED IN THE COLONIES. FROM WEARNE'S WORKS.
(See page 1.)
MR. G. F. MURPHY’S REGENT HOUSE,
GEORGE STREET, RAILWAY BRIDGE.
(See page 8)


Mr. Charles Kidman’s Warehouses.
We give, in this issue, engravings of the extensive
warehouses erected by Mr. Charles Kidman, in George,
Market, and York streets, in this city. They are about
the most extensive structures of the kind in Sydney,
and afford splendid sites for business. The whole of
the lower portions of the buildings are occupied, and
the locality is now the oentre of a large and active
trade. The upper floors are being largely availed of for
offices. Messrs. D. and W. Robertson, the extensive
iron merchants, occupy the York-street premises, a
view of which is given on page 6 of this supplement.
On page 8 is shown the George and Market-streot
corner, which is occupied by Mr. James Kidman as the
Model Grocery Emporium of Sydney. It may hero be
mentioned that Mr. Kidman’s contracts have again
been accepted for the supply of requisites to the Gov-
ernment institutions for 1882-83. Mr. James Kid-
man does a very extensive business, and is
about one of the largest wholesale purchasers
in the colony. A cash business, at great re-
ductions, on the ruling figures—is the explanaticn of his
success. In connection with the engravings we give
the portrait of Mr. Charles Kidman. We were
favoured with an excellent likeness from Freeman,
of George-street, and our artist has, on this occasion,
been particularly successful
The New Zealand Insurance Company.
The last half-year of the operations of the New
Zealand Insurance Company proves to be no
exception to the* preceding ones in point of safe,
extensive, and profitable business. Perhaps no
where more than in New Zealand has the business
of insurance companies to be carefully conducted.
The competition among certain ofiioes in that
quarter has led to the inevitable result; but one
company in particular that has conducted its
business on legitimate and safe lines has been the
New Zealand Insurance Company. In the midst of
the heavyl osses of the period, the Company shows
a great profit on a large business—paying satis-
factory dividends, and more than all, winning
increased public confidence. The balance at the
audit of profit and loss account for the half-year
was <624,102, from which <615,000 was paid in
3s. dividends, and .£9102 carried forward to next
half-year’s account. This was done after making
ample provision for all losses outstanding and
claims to date. The extent of the business of the
Company may bo judged from the fact that the
salaries, commissions, Ac., make up a total of
<621,000 for the half-year. Fire and marine losses
to the extent of .£40,642 wore paid during the six
months, and <637,374 was appropriated for unpaid
losses. The financial position of the Company,
which has, at all times, attracted considerable at-
tention, is of increasing soundness, and the
Association must inevitably take, at no distant
date, one of the first positions among the financial
concerns ot the Australian [colonies. The mort-
gages and shares of the Company are worth
.£152,327; insurance premises and other habitable
property are worth .£98.360. The snm of <610,500
has been invested in United States bonds, and
<661,970 in Colonial Government debentures, while
<636,500 was out in loans at call. Other sums in
large amounts are distributed in a similarly sub-
stantial way. Altogether the last half-year’s
report is very interesting and well worth perusal.
The Sydney office, situated in Pitt-street, and
managed by Mr. S. Hague Smith, continues to do
a most prosperous business, the office here being
conducted on the same safe lines as the general
business in New Zealand.
Regent House, Railway Bridge, George-
street, Sydney.
Though old established, one of the newest and
most attractive places of business in the neigh-
bourhood of the Sydney
Railway Station is Mr,.
G. F. Murphy’s Regent
House. The business
has been established
thirty-eight years, hay-
ing been founded by the
late Mr. John Murphy
in 1844. It was, for
a number of years,.
managed by Mr. G. P.I
Murphy, and, on the!
death of his father, ha
established anew house
in the same line of busi-
ness. Regent House is
the result of this enter-
prising step, and, while
retaining all the fea-
tares that characterised
his father’s business
Mr. G. F. Murphy has
introduced extensions
by which almost the
entire trade of the city
is virtually centred in
one spot. Everyone is
acquainted with thp
great activity there has
been in the building
trades in Sydney during
the last ten years ; well,
it is some satisfaction
to hud that this one
house has been able to
keep pace with thisad-
vancement, suppling
the!trtffle with material
of tLe very latest design
and of the first quality.
JL,eng thy connection
with the principal Eng-
lish manufacturing
houseslhas enabled Mr.
Murphy even to antici-
pate demand, and a
visit to Regent House
at any hour during the
business period o£ the
day will demonstrate
the complete apprecia-
tion there has been ™
the part of the public
for this enterprise. In
all the varietiesbf plate
glass a more extensive
trade than ever ie done,
shop fronts, public and
private buildings, con-
servatories, and sky-
lights are now furnished
with glass of a parti-
cular character,' some
of it having only
recently been imported
for the first time. In
the matter of paper-
hangings, Mr. Murphy,
some time back, maoo
special arrangements
with two of the principal
English manufacturers,
and ho now receives, ac
Regent House, per each
mail, a fresh shipment. Designs of the new-
est and most varied pattern may now be seen
in the show room. The practical character of Mr.
Murphy’s new business is demonstrated by the
fact that he has specially catered for and secured
the groat suburban business of Sydney. Hundreds
of artisans have, during the last few years, found
new homes in the suburbs, and to these Regent
House has supplied prepared paints and all the
other material* for house decoration, enabling the
amateur painter to set off his domicile in a man-
ner that could not have previously been done.
Hand-books of instruction, with material ready
prepared, are obtainable at Regent House, and
being free, they have been extensively availed of.
A special porter is engaged by the house to attend
to railway customers, ensuring safety and prompt-
ness of despatch, and cheapness in the matter of
freight. This suburban business is made to work
in with the great country trade which the firm
has uninterruptedly enjoyed for the last twenty-
five years. All the principal inland contractors
and the general private, town, farm, or station
builders are supplied direct from Regent House
with all the requirements of the trade, the figure
and character of the goods supplied being virtu-
ally unapproaohed anywhere in the colonies. White
loads, oils, colours, etc., form an extensive stock
at Regent House. One of the new features of the
business is the celebrated wood-preserving oil,
which renders the foundations or superstruotiona
actually impervious to the white ant. But it is
not in this respect only that the oil has been
found to bo of special value. It is now largely
used by farmers for the clearing of ground. Ap-
plied to a stump, or a tree, the oil eats its way to
the very core and the very roots, and when fire is
apjJlied complete destruction is ensured, thus
saving an immensity of time and labour. Out
artist gives a sketch of the premises. These can be
seen from all arrriving and departing trains, and
being within one hundred yards of the Sydney
station, and likewise of the tramway routes and
junctions, are within easy access of the public.
T he New Locomotives.
We are enabled, in this issue, to Hire a sketch of the first
of thq new locomotives manufactured at the Atlas
Engineering Works to the order of the Government.
The Atlas Works, are situated at the head of Darting
Harbour. They were established on the Co-operative
principle a few years ago by a handful of the best prac-
tical iron-workers and engineers we ever had in this
city. Some of our most successful undertakings In the
engifleering branch have passed through their
hands. A great portion of the splendid sugar-
making machinery used in the north of this
colony and in Queensland was made by the
Atlas Company, and the [principal squatting pro-
perties have been supplied from the same source with
their pumping and twoolwashing requisites. Several
large contracts for bridges, &0., have been executed, and
in respect of marine work the Atlas Company are
credited with the most notable success known to the
people of this country. The construction of the
Government torpedo boats is what is here referred to.
The Company built from designs prepared by Mr.
N. Solfe, two boats, which'run at a speed of little less
than twenty miles per hour—being marvels, not only of
groat strength but of mechanical compaotnet* and
safety. They were provided each at a cost of about
£4BO under the English prioe. The locomotive work is
now absorbing tho attention of the Company, They
have contracted for tho supply of forty-eight passen-
ger and goods engines. The first engine manufactured
under tho new_ contract is now running on tho Sewthern
and Western line. It has undergone severe teats with
the most satisfactory results, and the Atlas Company
have been complimented bydhe Government on their
success. Our engraving is from a drawing specially
prepared for us. Two er three more engines will bo
ready in a few weeks. The locomotive manufacturing
industry may now bo said te have received hero a second
start. Its permanency can bo imperilled only by trade
difficulties—which wc loam arc, however, not likely to
occur.
Petty’s Hotel, Sydney.
Petty’s Hotel is as well-known as Port Jackson
its«lf. It is one of the very few hotels that
Sydney can speak of as being, in any way, com-
parable with its importance as the first city of
Australia. In appearance, Petty’s may not bo
like the colossal structures df the States—all walls
and waiters —but it is, in every sense, a first-class
English house of accommodation. It 1s situated
on Church Hill, the finest spot in Hie city, and
commands, -front and rear, an almost matchless
panoramic view of the harbour. It is situated
almost in the centre of Sydney, yet is one out of
five thousand houses that, from its peculiar situa-
tion and construction, enjoys a privacy that is
never disturbed. Hence it has been for years the
hotel which visitors from all parts of the
world have fixed their eyes upon as afford-
ing a much - desired
accommodation, and
there is no lack of testi-
mony that the way peo-
ple have been received
here has contributed to
the idea that, of all the
places on the shores
of Australia, Sydney
is the most solidly
prosperous and home-
like. The visitors’ list,
at Petty’s, at all times,-
shows a most influ-
ential patronage, both
en the part of strangers
and of our own people,
and it is the hotel of
the metropolis that has
been in particular favor
with the leadingfamilie*
of Queensland and of
our own interior. The
lessee of the hotel new is
Miss Parry, a lady who
for some years display-
ed consummate judg-
ment in the manage-
ment of the Oxford and
the Exchange Hotels.
Since Mias Parry took
Petty’s Hotel, its popu-
larity has been decid-
edly in the asaendant,
especially for the accom-
modation of ladies and
families. With a liberal
expenditure of capital,
the premises have been
enlarged by the erection
of a spacious three-
storey wing and ex-
tensive internal altera-
tions that have added
materially to the capa-
bilities and comforts
of the house. Spacious
corridors, with other
arrangements, ensure
splendid ventilation and
«id in affording privacy
in connection with the
various suites of rooms.
It is quite unnecessary
to speak of the stylo
in which the plaoe is
furnished, or to refer t«
the oharaeter of the ac-
commodation. The din-
ing-room is brilliantly
lighted and pleasant,
and the bar, in addi-
tion to being private,
is supplied with wines,
spirits, &c. specially im-
ported for the purpose.
The comfort and conve-
nience of visitors have
been specially studied,
and by the introduc-
tion of new appliances,
the baths on all parts
of the premises are
supplied with hot and
cold water, deliverable in copious quantities almost
instantaneously. Our artist furnishes ns with an
engraving of this well-known hotel, which will bo
promptly recognised as an artistic and faithful
reproduction of the original.
MR. CHARLES KIDMAN.
KIDMAN’S CENTRAL BUILDINGS, GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS.
