

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 105.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1882.
Price—-3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1882.
Our Second Anniversary.
With the present issue, The Bulletin enters
upon the third year of its existence. Into the
brief space of two years, however, has been crowded
a series of experiences, of adventures, and of suc-
cesses such as few journals of ten times our age
have gone through. The Bulletin was started
on a hypothesis generated in the brains of two
very young men, that journalistic progress hadmot
kept pace with the changing phases of men’s minds
and opinions. The daily journals had got into
grooves of conventionality. Their conductors were
content to start in imitation of models more than
fifty years old —models which had ever since been
adhered to with a strange conservatism, and only
altered where absolute necessity had rendered
change imperative. The London Times still
resembles the Times of the days when there were
no railways. It has been obliged to some extent
to readjust its columns by the power of the electric
telegraph. But the ideal on which it runs remains
the same. Our most promiuent colonial journals
are mere imitators of the Times of to-day—imi-
tutors, that is to say, of a journal which imitates
what it was half a century ago. If the tastes and
ideas of Britons had similarly stagnated and per-
sisted in clinging to antiquated models, there would
have been no room for new journals. But the con-
victions of the founders of The Bulletin were
that as the current conversation and opinions
of men of the world, as expressed when
under no restraint and in familiar inter-
course, bore no relation whatever to the stilted
conventionalities and dry statements which
form the staple of old-fashioned newspapers,
a journal might bo welcome which would, on one
hand, ventilate opinions in the same frank, down-
right way as one hears them every day in
familiar intercourse, and on the other hand, point
the moral and elucidate the humour of current
events in a style which would give enjoyment
while conveying information. The adventurer
who strikes out a path for himself, the inventor
who labours to introduce an improved appliance,
the reformer who introduces a higher morality,
seldom escape troubles and struggles unknown to
the plodder who is content with the old road, the
dullard who clings to the familiar method, or the
complacent pharisee who regards all mention of
reform as a personal effront. The Bulletin has
had its struggles. But it haa at least the satis-
faction of knowing that while it may have, by
quitting the beaten track, plunged mto a morass
. Hero, or been torn by a thorny thicket there, it has
made no mistake in striking off from the old route.
The appreciation and support upon which it reckon-
ed it has received in full measure. It has reached,
on its second anniversary, a point of vantage for
looking both back and forward. It has been dust-
ing its garments this good while—it is somewhat
torn and breathless from its last encounter ; but
it finds compensation in the prospect before it.
It is now able to see that its enterprise was not a
mistake—nor its courage foolhardiness. The favour
of the public has run up the circulation ot The
Bulletin to a figure never equalled by any other
journal during the same space of time. In the
Southern Hemisphere there is now only one weekly
newspaper which can pretend to rival The
Bulletin in circulation, and not one which can
justly protend to rival it in influence. Last week
wo printed-and sold-2Q.00Q copies.
The Turkish Revival.
Little more than a week ago the special tele-
graphic correspondent of tho Melbourne Aruus
and SM. Herald cabled as an item of news
that German influence was rapidly replacing
British influence at Stamboul. It is very seldom,
indeed, that the S.M. Herald comments upon
European advices until several days for pondering
have elapsed, but this item seems to have touched
the prejudices of somebody. It was disagreeable
—‘‘Britons never, never, —England s greatness
is founded on her Bible, and can never wane-and
so on. So somebody made haste to write that
“ this item of news must be received with a good
deal of reserve.” God knows why. Any man
with his head screwed on —not merely pasted on
and accustomed to take his impressions from
facts, not merely from his personal prejudices,
would have seen that the item of news bore a
strong face of probability. The Government of
Great Britain was dominated by a man who had,
in the plainest way, demonstrated his animosity
to the Turkish Empire; had, without any qualifi-
cation, advocated tumbling the unspeakable
Turk” out of Europe, ‘‘bag and baggage, and
had, since bis coming into power, thrown himself
demonstratively into the arms of Russia, Turkey s
deadly foe. Moreover, the British Government
had, according to the explicit declarations of
the French and Italian Governments —antagonis-
tic sources of information, bo it noted —
lent at least tacit countenance to the French
invasion of Tunis, a Turkish dependency. What
more probable, therefore, than that the Porte
would turn from an open enemy or false friend, as
Great Britain under Mr. Gladstone’s rule must
appear to the Sultan’s advisers, and seek more
trustworthy friendship in quarters likely to prove
reliable P There certainly could be found in all
Europe no power which could offer so many tempt-
ing pledges to Turkey as Germany. The rival of
Russia, the deadly adversary of Franco, and,
withal, a power infinitely more potent in Europe
than England, she is the very State to which
Turkey would be likely to turn. That Turkey has
thrown herself into the arms of Germany is now
obvious enough, and the Herald may abandon
its sagacious “ reserve.” The English officers of
Gend’armerie have been politely kicked out, and
their positions given to Germans. Of course,
Turkey will find that, in exchanging England for
Germany, she has got King Stork in lieu of King
Log. But at least Germany was in a position to
promise something, while England had only open
hostility of sentiment, and impotence at the hour
of need, to proffer. The significance of the alliance
struck up between Germany and Turkey begins
daily to be displayed. As the cat’s-paw of Germany
the Porte plucks up a wonderful spirit—a spirit
too, which cannot fail to be extremely embarrass-
ing to the Governments of France and of England.
Since German influence predominated, Turkey
has actually dared to administer a downright slap
in the face to France and England simultaneously
in connection with Egyptian affairs, by repudi-
ating their joint pretensions to intervene in
support of the Khedive, and by absolutely de-
manding from tbem an explanation ! This audacity
the Porte has since followed up by a threat to
dethrone that miserable Bey of Tunis, who has
permitted himself to be made a tool in the hands
of the French, and under the cover of whose
nominal sovereignty the Frankish invaders im-
pudently designate a national resistance an insur.
reotion, and treat patriots as rebels. Should the
Sultan carry out his threat, and nominate the
chief of the patriotic party to be Bey, vice the
corrupt craven now in the hands of the French,
the consequences can scarcely fail to be very
serious. The act would be equivalent to a direct
defiance of France —almost, indeed, to a declara-
tion of war. With Germany standing behind
Turkey as backer, Italy frowning on one side, and
the whole Mahommedan population of North
Africa in a fanatic fermentation, only asking
arms and leaders, to rush en masse against the
intruding Giaour, what could France and Eng-
land do ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Meat Question.
No doubt the gentlemen who compile the Press
messages for Australia find their task very arduous.
It must, indeed, be onerous to put together daily a
news telegram of a hundred words or so in a place like
London, where items of intelligence are scarcely as
plentiful as the sands on the sea-shore. And herein,
presumably, we must look for the rationale of that
constant stream of messages touching and concerning
the few stray carcases of sheep and tubs of butter
which occasionally find their way from this country to
England. Yet the elucidation is hardly complete.
There must be some oooult cause for the observed
facts. Eeuthr, and the individual who does duty as
“ our own special ” for at least a score of papers, raise
more ado over the safe arrival in the Thames of a
barrow-load of mutton than over questions of Imperial
policy big with the fate of this section of the
nation. British policy in Egypt, which may end in our
losing the free use of our main highway to the markets
of the world, is passed over by the correspondents
with a mere allusion; social events, of unfailing
interest, are seldom or never mentioned; accidents,
involving the destruction cf many hundred human
lives, are reported (or misreported) in the baldest
manner possible; and so meagre are most of the tele-
grams that we are left to guess at their real purport.
Bui, the moment a frozen sheep is on the tapis, the
correspondents are wordy and diffuse. The circum-
stances that it was in good order and condition, and
wore a toothsome aspect, and realized five-pence a
pound, and ought to have fetched more, and so forth
and so on, are dilated upon as though that wretched
piece of meat were the pivot of some vast question
affecting the well-being of mankind in general, and of
Australians in particular. But the evil does not end
here. As soon as our “ able editors 11 have digested
these meaty messages, they forthwith betake themselves
to long-primer, and nauseate the public with cock-and-
bull contentions to the effect that, the envy of
the world notwithstanding, Australia is on the
eve of assuming her true place in the world's economy
—as the purveyor-general to humanity at large. And
these telegrams and leaders are launched at housekeepers
who cannot get a decent chop under seven-pence a
pound, nor a Joint worth eating under six-pence! The
truth is, all this commotion over the exportation of
meat is originated by interested persons, who have
succeeded in duping the Press, and have well-nigh sue-
needed in duping the public. There is no great surplus
of meat in Australia. The pastoralists know this well
enough, and hence steadfastly refrain from investing a
copper piece on the export business. The tendency is
for the production of meat in Australia to increase at a
much slower rate than the population to be fed. Sta.
tistios prove this, and the experience of every house-
wife, who has seen the butcher's bills growing larger
and longer year by year, supports the teaching of statis-
tics. A pastoralist who owns perhaps half a million of
bullocks, and over a million of sheep, remarked to us,
not long ago, “ I think these meat exporters ought to
be encouraged, but"—and here he partly closed his left
optic, and placed the index-flnger of his right-hand in
juxtaposition to his nasal organ—" I don’t feel justified
in investing money in the enterprise myself ; the com-
mercial enthusiasts who have undertaken the business
are evidently well fitted to carry it out to a successful
issue.” No, this leviathan stookmastor did not sec the
force of sending his beef and mutton home at a cost of
about four-pence half-penny a pound, and selling it in
London at five-pence, whilst local butchers were
running after him for " fats,” and offering highly re-
munerative prices. But he had no objection to “com.
mercial enthusiasts” doing the thing—“ because,’* as
he very justly put the case, “don’t yon see.it does
good; it tends to enhance the price in this market.’*
Robbing our Mother.
The Imperial Government are to be asked to give up
Garden Island, the old Commissariat Stores at Circular
Quay, the Military Barracks at Paddington, the fortifl-
cation lands at Newcastle, and the Ordnance lands at
Bathurst and elsewhere, and to receive in exchange so
much of Dawes’ Point Battery Eeserve as doesn’t
already belong to them; a mansion for the Admiral
to be erected thereon at the expense of the colony, and,
in addition, buildings for a Navy yard. We don’t know
who conceived this precious job, but for dishonesty and
stupidity it certainly bears the palm over everything
lately heard of. In the first place, the Imperial Govern,
ment are to be shamefully'swindled, since at any valua-
tion the lands they are invited to surrender are worth
at present values about ten times those they are offered
—with contemplated buildings to boot, unless it be in.
tended to build a second Versailles for the Admiral.
In the second place, the piece of land which it is
proposed to give up for Navy purposes is just the one
spot which can least conveniently be spared. In any
plan of making the water frontages of Port Jackson
available for the increasing shipping trade, the Dawes'
Point Eeserve will inevitably become a sort of key. If
a tram or railway be carried round the wharves, this
place, with its Admiral's residence and Navy yard, will
obstruct if alienated. In the third place, the situation
is an absurd one for a Navy yard. It can be shelled
from Botany or from outside the Heads. No stores
could be safely accumulated there. The proper situa.
tion for a Navy establishment is up the harbour.
Cockatoo Island would be the very place. But it would
not he quite so convenient for the Admiral’s family
to get to the theatre, or to go to the balls at Qoyorn-
ment House. Give us peace in our time, O Lord t
Our gallant tars are in no wise changed. Nothing will
induce them to put themselves out of the reach ot
balls. “ ’ ;i " f A ■■’•■lo.
The Publicans’ Grievance.
Tint i-eal grievance of the Publicans consists in the
fact tl.at they have been dragged before magistrates
who are the mere creatures of the authors, alike of the
Licensing Act and of the prosecutions under that
statnt u The half-dozen brand-new judges who have
been sat npby the Ministry, live and move and ha*
MR. ANGUS CAMERON, M.L.A.


HOP BITTERSI
ABE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bittees is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over,
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Yon.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bittors Will Relieve You.
If yeu are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What Yon Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering,
MONTEFZORB, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR,
FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOB AUSTRALIA—
MONTBFIOEE, STUART & CO
ENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Stoel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Faint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great'saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIOEE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,)
their being inasmuch as they mirror the aims, notions,
and invincible prejudices of the actual prosecutors.
Mr. Dillon and his colleagues are simply the hirelings
of Sir Henry Parkes and his colleagues; and we all
know well enoughlit is because the latter cdterie hold
certain extreme opinions that the police have charged *
the publicans with infringing the law. It would be the
quintessence of absurdity to suppose that the magis-
trates—holding office as they do, during the pleasure of
the Ministry—are uninfluenced by the knowledge of
what the Ministerial pleasure happens to be. Nor doe 6
the view here expressed presume anything in the nature
of corruption. A hundred adages, and the policy of
all civilised peoples ia the appointment of judges,
recognise the fact that the fount of justice springs
from Indifference. Your magistrate who is not in-
different to the consequences to himself of the deci-
sion he yields, cannot fail to be biased, though the
mental process involved may be quite uncon-
sciously performed. It requires indeed a severe
intellectual effort to discard the chance of
currying favour with those whose favour is of im-
portance to us. This ia no mere theory, but the
teaching of all experienee. It we are to have honest law,
we must have j udgea and magistrates free from care as to
what the political rulers of the country may think or
desire. The existing Ministers may be very good
men to propose legislation, and to put the law in
motion when it is made. But that they are not the
men to entrust with the authoritative interpretation of
the, law must be patent to the meanest understanding.
Yet, by virtue of the Metropolitan Magistrates’ Act,
this function is in effect vested in them, up to the point
at which the Supreme Court can be procured to inter-
vene. The Minister, the police, and the hired magis-
tracy are three things, yet one thing—a trinity whose
main attribute is decidedly not beneficence, whenso-
ever, that is, an unpopular (or supposedly unpopular)
class can be assailed. As a matter of abstract justice, there
can be no doubt that the victuallers who hold licenses
under the repealed law ought to bo permitted to enjoy
whatever privileges that law allows them, pending the
expiration ef their licenses. The salvation of the
country is not so intimately interwoven with the new
law that wo cannot wait a few months before putting
stringent provisions in force. But, even if it
could be shown that all this hot haste was necessary in
the interests of society, there would still be a hiatus in
the argument on the strength of which the current
licenses are sought to be repudiated. The most pregnant
interests of society depend on an insistence on the due
performance of obligations. The spectacle of the State
striving to back out of a quasi-agreement is more calcu-
lated to produce moral damage than the opening of a
thousand vile grog-shops. What construction the re"
pealing clause of the new Act may bo made to bear is
hard to say ; and the very fact of the meaning being
doubtful points to the necessity of going back to
natural justice for instruction. Mr. Dillon has
afforded us the strikingly original judgment that Parlia-
ment has power to enact laws of retrospective applica-
tion. The Chief Magistrate must have gotten this idea
from the black-letter books. But can ho exhibit to us
a precedent of any respectability for retrospective legis-
lation which did not show on the face of it a good and
sufficient warrant resting on some vast necessity P
Here we have an Act which has been hanging fire for
years, simply through Ministerial indolence. Yet the
moment it is passed, the discovery is made that unless
it operates retrospectively to the extent of a few months
there will be a social cataclysm I
The Bosnian Insurgents.
The fighting in Bosnia is deplorable. Modern diplo-
macy is an offence which stinks in tho nostrils of
thoughtful men who love their kind. Half a dozen
men, diplomatists they call themselves, assembled in a
room at Berlin, aud adjusted the map of Europe. In
that adjustment a good deal of deference was paid to
the predilections or preferences of this or that
crowned ruffian or blockhead, greedy for more people
to tax and plunder by process of law, or ambitions of
more wretched subjects to take from the plough, clap
into uniform, and send forth to kill any other people
who objected to he similarly plundered and brutalized.
Provinces and populations were chucked from hand to
band by these presuming diplomats in council assem-
bled, but the consent of the people was never asked,
and only the faintest pretence made of studying their
inclinations. Thus Bosnia was handed over to the
Emperor of Austria, and his first move, of course, was
to let loose a swarm of tax-gatherers. His second has
been to order his new slaves to roll up and get into
training to fight whenever he may pick a quarrel or
covet another territory. The unfortunate people,
having no particular desire to out their fellow-men’s
throats, and desiring nothing better than to be per-
mitted to till their fields and attend to their business
in peace and quietness—even though (their new owner
takes half their produce, calls it taxes, and spends it
on diamonds—object to be enrolled and carried off
from the homes they cherish, and the relatives they
love. If they fight at all, it will be for their own
liberty and right, not to support a monarch’s ambition
or to nourish a despot’s pride. And the savagery of
tho Imperial system is such that the Emperor—who
prays to God in great state and pomp every week—forth-
with gives the mandate that if they won’t fight for him,
they shall fight against him. If they won’t murder at
his order, they shall be murdered by his order. So he
lets loose on the Bosnians, those Hungarians whom his
ancestors conquered with Croats and Pandours, and
those Croats whom he keeps in bondage with Huns and
Pandours, and those Pandours whom he holds in thrall
by Croats and Huns. Surely tho poor serf, the labour-
ing hind of to-day, has little more sense than the brute
beast—the horse which carries the rider in pursuit of
horses, the tamed elephant, which helps man to conquer
the free elephant. The day, however, will surely come
when enlightenment will have spread itself too widely
tor the efforts of kings and priests to obscure it. Then
men will refuse to march against their fellows at tho
bidding of a crowned impostor, and one body of suffer-
ing serfs will no longer be procurable to impose slavery
upon another, and thereby to fasten more strongly their
own bonds.
Omnipotent O’Connor.
Mr. Alderman Daniel O’Connor, M.P., is a singu-
larly fortunate man. In the city of Sydney, he enjoys,
for soma reason which is at present unexplained, the
privileges of a monarch. “ The king can do no wrong,’,
neither can Mr. Alderman O’Connor. Theri’s a sweet
little cherub which sits up aloft—in the Mayoral chair—
and benignantly watches over the fate of poor “ Dan.”
The sweet little cherub appears under the a nything but
cherubic aspect of Mr. John Harris, twich Mayor of
Sydney. We really don’t comprehend what hold Mr.
O’Connor can have on Mr. Harris. It may be pure
love and affection which binds the Mayor to the ver-
bose Daniel, and renders the civic dignitary to the
Alderman and M.P.’s faults njlittle, that is to say stone,
blind. It may be just as well, in any case, that we and
others should clearly understand the position, and take
care not to come into collision with omnipotent O’Con-
nor. Let it be clearly understood that Mr. O’Connor
may gallop his horse and buggy through every civic by-
law, and revel in the creation of stinks. Any man may
set the law in motion against him, but the beneficent
father of the city, Mr. Harris, will promptly shut
off the steam. He cannot find it in his great heart to
let his Dan be treated like a mere common person. Mr.
Batcher O’Connor’s neighbours are hereby advised to
stop their nostrils and die in peace. Let traffic in.
specters bow down and bury their heads in the dust as
Omnipotent Dan trots gaily over the street crossings.
Citizens and city officers will do well to bow to the in-
evitable, and bear in mind that a municipal officer, who
has tried to make Dan amenable to the laws, has been
dismissed, and that Mayor Harris threatens to have
turned out of “his” room a citizen who dared to re-
monstrate, when he has decided that Dan shall poison
his neighbours, and shal not be prosecuted.
Only a Catspaw.
Mn. Daeley’s present lot is like that of an Operatic
policeman, “ not a happy one.” The Vice-President of
tho Executive Council has been miserably trepanned.
There ia no incident in an honourable career to which
Mr. Darley can look back with more satisfaction, or
which reflects greater credit upon his character, than
his coming forward to support Sir Henry Parkes at a
crisis when the Premier appeared, for once, to have
endangered his position by action taken in the interests
of political morality. To save his friend, Mr. Garrett,
Sir Jghn Robertson shook the Ministry to its centre.
Tho entire fabric of onr politioal institutions appeared
in jeopardy through the preference shown by the veteran
politician tor personal relations over the public
interest. Sir Henry Parkes, on the other hand, seemed
to stand forth, firm and nnhlenching, ns the champion
of Parliamentary purity. It is not for us to ridicule
Mr. Daelby for having believed Sir Henry Parkes to
be ia earnest for onoe—or, at anj rate, to be occupying
the position it was his duty to assume. We ourselves
gave Sir Henry Parkes credit for all he appeared to
deserve at tho time. But what a fiash-ln-the-pau all
that fair seeming has proved 1 After appropriating all
the applause which was showered upon him for his care
for the public interest, Sir Henry coolly deserts his
post, and instead of leaving the defence of the colony
against the assaults of those who would convert Par-
liamontary representation into an organised schema of
plundering, to the trusty volunteer who had brought all
his forces to tho rescue at the critical moment, he deli,
borately recalls to his side the leader who had deserted
when the enemy had to he resisted, and places tho keys of
the citadel in his hands. How Mr. Darley could havo
permitted himself to bo hoodwinked into agreeing to be
betrayed into so degradingly false a position is incom-
prehensible. Between them, tho two knights have
reduced him to the extremity of appearing in the eyes
of the public as their puppet. He has been cajoled into
looking on supinely while the rival leaders played shut-
tie-cock with principles and bandied the control of the
colony from hand to hand. This is a humiliating position
for any man to occupy. To Mr. Darley —a gentleman
who has always had the reputation of a lively self-respect
and sense of honour the dilemma in which ha
finds himself to-day can scarcely fail to be painful.
His fate may servo to warn others that a man’s noblest
inspirations aro liable to be turned to disadvantage and
disgrace when exposed to tho insidious perversions of
associates possessing neither a superabundance of con-
science nor an excess of scruple.
The Wolverene.
Our Government have been gulled into tho acceptance
of a 11 white elephant ” of the most outrageous descrip,
tion. They have, in the Wolverene, an old and almost
unserviceable craft, which will cost endless money to
keep in repair, and which can never by any chance be
employed against an enemy, unless she be filled with
combustibles and used as a fire-ship. But this is not
all. The Wolverene will become a sort of fetish,
requiring the maintenance of a body of high priests in
the persons of a lot of ex-Imperial officers, such as are
everlastingly hanging around in hopes of light
employment and bullock-drivers’ heiresses. At
the altar of this miserable fetish our Naval
Brigade will be sacrificed. As a harbour defence
force it has been respectable, and would, pro-
bably, in case of necessity, have proved serviceable.
An attempt will now inevitably be made to convert it
into a sea-going force—a force, the members of which
must as a matter of course, be prostrated with sea-
sickness every time they are carried outside the Heads.
A man-of-war cannot be managed by land-marines any
better than by horse-marines. To be available for ser-
vice, she requires her due complement of regular seamen.
The French and Spaniards proved, during the Napo-
leonic period, the absurdity of sending out to meet
active squadrons, vessels manned by crews which had
been shipped in a hurry, or lying in port all their time.
Our Naval Brigade, as they are at present constituted,
would he useful for harbour defence, capable of manning
boats or floating batteries, and acting as auxiliaries in
a general scheme of harbour defence; clapped on board
a wooden corvette, of a model altogether out of data
except for cruising purposes, they would either have
to confine their operations to ludicrous and dishearten-
ingly futile demonstrations, or allow themselves to be
uselessly sacrificed in trying conclusions with enemies
batter shipped and better trained. It is truly sur-
prising that no protest has been made by the hitherto
astute commander of the Naval Brigade against the
well-meant but absurd and dangerous gift which the
Government have accepted from the Imperial autho-
rities.
Mr. Angus Cameron, M.P., Chairman of
Committees.
The portrait given in this issue is that of Mr.
Angus Cameron, one of the representatives of
West Sydney, and Chairman of Committees in
the Legislative Assembly. Mr. Cameron first
came prominently before the public a few years
back, when the working classes of Sydney made a
united effort to secure direct representation in
Parliament. He stood for East Sydney, but met
with defeat. The sturdy manner, however, in
which he faced his first contest, and the ability he
displayed in dealing with tho vexed public ques-
tions of tho time, won him a position in public
estimation from which the reverse in East Sydney
could not move him; and being nominated shortly
afterwards for West Sydney, he was returned
by a substantial majority. He entered Parlia-
ment as a consistent representative of the work-
ing or artizan classes. He worked at his bench
as a carpenter for a considerable time, and then
received a salary from his constituents in the
form of a contribution from the various trade
unions and other kindred societies. Mr. Cameron,
however, soon found his position in this latter
respect inconsistent with his views of an indepen-
dent representative. He declined to receive any
further pecuniary support. But while doing this,
he remained unchanged in his attitude towards
the people by whom he was chosen, though it must
bo admitted that the ruggedness of his opinions
in regard to the relations between capital and
labour has been somewhat modified. This is,
doubtless, the result of his uninterrupted associ-
ation with the Premier, Sir Henry Parkes, who
in recognition of the ability of Mr. Cameron,
was instrumental in his being elected to
the lucrative position of Chairman of Com-
mittees, which position he has held in two succes-
sive Parliaments. Mr. Cameron has been thrice
returned for West Sydney, and there can be no
doubt that his popularity as an honest and fear-
less representative is as great as ever. _ He
is a native of Edinburgh, and is now thirty-
two years of age. He came to the colony
with his people at a very early asre. While
following his ordinary avocation as a carpenter, he
occupied his spare time with various studies, and
developed in debating societies the oratorical
powers he has since manifested in political life.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Hon. Sam Griffith, at Gooktown, declined
to encourage the cry for separation.
East Macquarie election. —Pechey (elected),
423; Smith, 375; Roberts, 357; Dalveen, 50.
There is talk in Melbourne of a Berry-cum-
Franois combination to oust the O’Loghlen Ministry.
The meeting at the Sydney Theatre Eoyal, to
protest against the Licensing Act of 1882, proved a
fiasco. No leading men attended, and the speaking was
ur der-proof.
Mr. Francis Ormond, founder of Ormond Col-
lege, is a candidate for the Victorian Council vice the
late Mr. Henty. Opposition unlikely.
Mount Browne not having been proclaimed a
polling-place, the local miners, who are 200 miles from
the nearest polling-booth, are practically disfranchised.
M. Paul Bert the Minister for Public Instruc-
tion in Gambetta’s Cabinet, terms incense “ the
tobacco of saints,” and styles religious orders and
phylloxera the two modern pests of Europe.
Northumberland election: Hungerford, 1339;
Grisdale, 1155. So that even a pawnbroker can get 1155
votes 1 and this in the constituency lately represented
by a man like William Turner! But blood is thicker
than water. Mr. Grisdale, perhaps, had many nephews
in the electorate.
Mr. 6. M. Simpson has resigned his seat for
Dalby (Q.). Jessop, a local butcher and stock and
station agent—a popular man—and Landy, a Roman
Catholic storekeeper, who has contested the electorate
on previous occasions, ore mentioned os candidates.
Jessop for choice.
The row between the Postmaster-General and
the Treasurer has been settled, the latter having
given way. The trouble arose out of the fact that
Mr. Watson refused to pass certain accounts for over-
time sent to the Treasury by officers of the Postmaster-
, General's department.
) We commend to the admiration of Piddington-
sky the news just received by cable that the Journal
pe St. Petersburg, the official organ of the present
sainted successor to the late martyred Czar, denounces
the movement in England to afford relief to
the persecuted Jews in Holy Russia as an emanation of
hatred to that happy land. To pity a persecuted sub-
jeot of Saint Alexander 111. is, according to the saint’s
own views, equivalent to detesting him. We don't
know that it isn’t, either, except, of course, with Pid-
dingtonskys and sich,
} Mr. Grisdale, the pawnbroker, who was beaten
I* for Northumberland, at first said ho was against paying
members of Parliament. But, at a subsequent meet-
ing he, in a low, prayerful manner, began thus: —
“ Gentlemen, as regards payment of members, I have
calmly considered that question. I am in favour of it,
and if such a Bill should come before the House I will
support the same.” From this it would appear that
when Mr. Grisdale comes to “ calmly consider" any
question, the teachings of the Mont de Field over-
balance things somewhat.
: Mr. Garrard, M.P., made a good, manly speech
to his constituents at Balmain on Friday night last.
We disagree with a lot of Mr. Garrard’s views ; but we
admire the spirit of his speech. It appears that he was
offered a billet, of course. Parkes never could com-
prehend that a working-man member wasn’t hungry to
be bought. Mr. Garrard said that, during the session,
his daily work and his legislative labours had been so
very wearying that he had thought of sending in his
resignation. Most working men, when they get hoisted
into Parliament, drop their daily work. [By the way,
there is at least one 11 working ” man member, who
hasn’t done a single stroke of work since he entered the
House. What’s he living on now, we wonder PJ The
moment they do so, they have forfeited their independ-
ence. Nothing remains for them save to “sit up and
beg” for the Ministerial broken meats. It takes a
resolute, stout-hearted man to do a decent day’s work
at his trade, to support his family, and preserve bis
independence, and after his work is done go and labour
in Parliament. Mr. Garrard may not be a very clever
man ; we may consider him mistaken and sometimes
ignorant; but so long as he keeps honest and bis hands
clean, he will be respected, not only by The Bulletin,
but by the people of the colony.
Mr. Greenwood, on Friday night last, gave Sir
John Robertson a tremendous rubbisg down. Here is
a brick out of the edifice, which will enable folks to
understand what the whole speech was like:—“The
matter of innocence or guilt in the Milburn Creek
business is now before the Supreme Court, and there-
fore I will not say what my thoughts are on that ques-
tion. But the political aspects of the question con-
cern all of us, and are fair matter for dissuasion.
(Applause.) In moving the resolution of censure, on
the 10th of last November, Sir Henry Parkes said,
‘This niotien involves a truth which cannot be con-
troverted. It shows that Mr. Garrett opened these
negotiations; it shows that the transaction which was
concluded by him was to benefit him in an improper
manner The House cannot expunge this
passage from the report of its own commissioner; it
must remain as a stain upon the character of the House,
a blot upon its usefulness.’ Who was it who caused
the House to bring this stain upon its character, this
blot upon its usefulness ? Sir John Robertson—(hear,
hear)—for if that letter of resignation, dated ‘ Clovelly,
6 30 a.m., Bth November, 1881,’ had not been written,
the Assembly would, unquestionably, have carried Sir
Henry Parkes’s resolution. And now the man who
caused Parliament to cover its character with that
stain, and so imperil its usefulness, is brought back
into the Cabinet by Sir Henry Parkes as Minister for
Lands and Acting-Premier. (kpplause.) Is that the
estimate the foremost statesman of Australia places
upon the honour and usefulness of Parliament ? Search
your annals back from the day Captain Cook landed on
these shores to the present time, and you will not find a
parallel to it. (Applause.) What worse can Parlia-
ment do than bring a stain upon its character and a
blot upon its usefulness; and what worse can a
Premier do than condone so grave an offence by re-
warding a man who causes it to be done with a seat in
the Cabinet and a salary of £2OOO a year ? (Applause).
What is the meaning of this return of Sir John
Robertson to the Cabinet he so recently left ? Unless
it means that Sir Henry Parkes has been kicked up-
stairs it is difficult to see what meaning it can have.
(Dissent.) You do not expect to see the two knights
sitting side by side in the Assembly when Parliament
opens six or seven months hence ? Sir Henry Parkes
has been kicked upstairs.”


w
HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
STEUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
And the service will be maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a month; hut failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be granted in Sydney.
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the line; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. 8. YUILL,
267 George-street.
o
RIENT LINE OP STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con,
veyauce of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line of
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will be received at this office, and receipts
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date of
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For further
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient Line in Australia.
267 George-street, Sydney.
c
ASH PRICE LIST OP WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
Claret ... ..
Hermitage
Shiraz
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
per doz.
... 9s Od
... 10b Od
... lls Od
... 12s 6d
... 13s Od
per doz.
J.T. Fallon’s Port 25s 0d
Adelaide Grenaohe
(rich Burgundy
type) 30s Od
Adelaide Port 30s Od
WHITE.
Reisling... ... ..
Hook
Madeira
Bouffier’s Pineau.,
9s 04
10s Od
lls Od
15a Od
Brown Muscat ...
Muscat, vintage ’75
Adelaide Tokay ...
Tokay, vintage ’73
15s Od
21s Od
30s Od
30s Od
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 36s Od I Good Sherry 24s to 36s Od
Champagne from.., 60s Od | French Claret from 25a Od
SPIRITS.
Henneasy's • Case
Brandy ... ... 59s Od
Henneasy’s
Case Brandy ... 71s Od
Good Pale French
Brandy 45s Od
Good Dark French
Brandy 45s Od
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky 42s Od
Vaughan Jones’
U squehaug h
Scotch Whisky 38s 6d
Imperial * Scotch
Whisky ... ... 40s Od
Imperial •* Scotch
ditto 42s Od
Imperial *** Scotch
Whisky 44s Od
Burke’s Irish
Whisky 40a 0d
D’Aroy’s Irish
Whisky 38s 6d
Rum, Red Heart... 48s Od
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz... 52a Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size) 46s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (mod.
size) ' ... 43s Od
Wolfe’s Schnapps 4is Od
ALES AND STOUTS.
Bull Dog Ale, qts. lls Od
Bull Dog Ale, pints 8s Od
Foster’s Ale, qts... lls Od
~ „ pints 8s 0d
~ Stout, qts. 10s Od
„ „ pints 7s Od
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts 10s Od
Boar's Head Stout,
pints 7s Od
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts 10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints 7s 6d
Pig Brand Stont,
quarts 10s 6d
Pig Brand Stout,
pints 7s 6d
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts 10a Od
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints 7s Od
Hellea Hannover
Lager Bier, qts. lls 6d
Kaiser do. qts, 12s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts,
4 dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, quarts,
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Stont,
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case ; pints, 7 dozen. Foster’s
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts
in cose; 7 doz. pints.
w Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extr a
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Redfem Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-stroet, Sydney.
J) A V I D M ‘ C A L L.
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftns,
Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen's Saddles’at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875,
m
.i'J
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
T
:niS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household aud Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City boundfl.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lastin ?,
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor do 38
it splinter and fly oil like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
beating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
462 ..x.484 GEORGE STREET
ni nruMAi a
ipi
m\c
f ' MARKET CLOTH HALL,
OPPOSITE.THE. FRUITMARKETS,
ESTABLISMEDIBS4 -
A LARGE and WE LL SELECTED STOCK
WOOLLENS ; new patterns, '
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
FASHIONABLE
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER. o
ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO ORDER,
, 12 js
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
B. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Solo Agent for N. S. Wales.
EW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWAEDED the ONLY FIEST and SPECIAL PEIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880,
ONLY FIEST and SPECIAL PEIZE and GOLD
.MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIEST and SPECIAL PEIZES Sydney Agricultural
Show, 1877,1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mndgee,
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Speoial, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Spceial Prize at Melbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTEEMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
V
%%*
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
Tl
or J
OJOQO^
r
'O' 1
«pg
R
638 GAOZUtE STREET.
T
XRADE * MARK
THECREAT --lrt tl
UIEMEII
FOB
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Backache, Soreness of the Chest, Gout f
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swellings and
Sprains, Burns and Scalds,
Genera! Bodily Pains,
Tooth, Ear and Headache, Frosted Feet
and Ears, and all other Pains
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals St. Jacobs Oil as;
a safe, sure, simple and cheap External Remedy.]
A trial entails but the comparatively trilling outlay
of 50 Cents, and every one suffering with pain l
can have cheap and positive proof of its claims.
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IN
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, 112 Pitt-stroet.
S. HOFF NUN G & Co., Pitt-street.
C. PROSSER & Co , Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George-street.
I. JACOBS & Co,, Hunter-street.
i
3
WTISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
» ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS. FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
liagram* for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
JJ A V E
YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET S,
388 Pitt Street?
i LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS.
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,’*
484 GEORGE STREET,
DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pro.
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled
style, out, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
o>7 KING STREET, SYDNEY
O f (two doors from George-street),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 600 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d,; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
L E C T R I C BELLS.
The Largest Assortment of—
Electric Bells, Indicators, Cells, handsome Pushes,
Gutta-percha and India-rubber covered Wire,
Magnetic Needles, Galvanometers,
Portable Showcases, Burglar Alarms, Thief
Detectors, Telephones, Electric Light Apparatus,
&c. &0., ever landed in Sydney,
now to hand, ex Altcar.
JOHN DANES.
119 Liverpool-street.


SINGER'S SEWING
ABE MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacture
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE. NEW '
Chief Office in Eure
39 FOSTER LANE, I
Depot for New South 1
No. 1 DAE LING STOEES, HAE
s
I
N
G
E
R
SYDNEY,
SINGER’S SEWING M
HAVE
All the Latest Improve
SINGER’S SEWING M
ro*
Largest Variety of V
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Strength and Beanty of
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, an<
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOE
Plaiting, Binding, and ]
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Kilting, Cording, and I
160 FIRST PRL
EAST TERMS—2s. Cd.
AGENTS IN EVERY
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW(
WILLIAM STREET, BA'
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWO
VICTORIA STREET, GEi
No. 1 DARLING STORES
HARBOUR STI
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & O'
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per week-
And NO interest oh
10 per cent, off for c
BEWARE OF IMIT.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “SING!
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOJ
SEWING MAORIS
HATMARKE’:
Singers Sewing
Public Compar
T
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Fm
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Ji
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Birr wood
London Office : 18 King Willif
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Armidale, Ballinft, B
Bcmrkd, Cassili*,
bran, Coeuamblo, Copeland North,
Dabbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Gonlb
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lamhton, Maoleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, J
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton, South Grafton, Teuiora, Te
Hrana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE!
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
IHE MERCANTILE BAN!
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Sir John Hay. K.G.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wbj. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggio, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY s
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director—Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexandi
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
piPa negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
Scottish impeeiai
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ... •••
FIRE RISKS AT LOWES
NIXON & CO
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
READ THI
THE BAKING P
t MA.IJUFACTUP.ED BV 0?
AS OOC-TOH
Business Annonnc
[LKGiI.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CABTLEEEAGH STBEE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary ]
Legal.— Mr. t. m. £
SOLICITOR, has 001
practice of his profession, at
PITT-BTREET, opposite 1
Niws OrriCß.
CH ARLES
(from Messrs. P. N. Russ.
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoy
MoHskings, lea. Off No. 517 Geo
Bathurst and Liverpool streets). S
jq-OTICE OF e;
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERT DESCB
and EARTHENWi
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVE
to
269 GEORGE [STR
Next but One to the Merci
A magnificent selection of New G
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
ILLCOX
W
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STRI
F.T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE,
-AN D-
-0
P
Rir
w
2 Hamilton St
js»-vmsri
Chemists and Dn
CAUTION. —In our style o
sudden changes of tempo:
and sunshine often intermingle'
it is no wonder that our chil
relatives are so frequently tak
looted colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of B»
Syrup kept about your hom<
will prevent serious sickness, a
and perhaps death, by the us
doses For curing Consumpt
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cr
of the Throat or Lungs, its sue
derful, as your druggist wi
Syrup is now sold in every 1
this continent. Sample bottl
regular size, 3s. Wholesale i
BROTHERS.
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOB
INDIGEST
AND
STOMACH COMPL
%• They are also much recomm
tive for Females, being safe, gen'
their operation, leaving no dispoa
and being free from any tendem
irritation in their action.
Sola Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOI
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEI)
OXFORD STREET
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILL!
* THE GREAT LIVER I
And successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all No:
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disor
Stomach. , _ .
Most famous as the only Tome
rives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Be careful not to get 1
BOXES, ONE S
1
Invented and Prepared
S. A B R A
At the Laborato:
434 'GEORGE STREET,
COUGH WHILE YOU CAI
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amor
Linctus, you will net he able toj
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle tour appetit
tralian Relish, made by W
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
♦
George
(Formerly of Georg
importer op
CHINA GLASS AND EAR
Begs to announce that he has
BVSIKESStofto YiE( ,^
where every article in the above lin
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
-m-*. TT a T XT PCQVfi! h


TO PERSONS IN DIFF]
the Mutual Trade Proteetio
cover your debts or obtain the best
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pi
WANTED, SUBSCRIBE
net Bulletin. W. Ec
News A<eut, and Stationer, Queens
OVERS OF GOOD
We beg to draw y
PAKTICULAE ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TE.
Packed|in pounds and hall
ASIATIC MIXTUEE,
PUEE INDIAN TEA, 2
PUEE CEYLON TEA, 23 ‘ a!
PUEE JAVA TEA, M ‘ ai
2s. 6d. ai
Special Quotations given to Wh
Country Orders promptly i
ASIATIC TEA COU
279 PITT STEEET (next S(
SYDNEY.
mason brot
14 & 16 S
s 5
Have always in
to the TEA;
SALE BUYI
ieonmonoe;
GENEE
GLASI
EARTH
WINES, BEE!
and
BULK MI
Ag<
JOHN WAL
Old High
J. SOEI
C<
J. T.'
Schnapps
A. MELvI
Edinburj
NEW BUILDINGS. New
Buildings, 29, 31, 33 Park-E
FUBNISHING AEOADE. H. L]
draw the attention of the Public gei
stock of English Furniture just opei
for sale at their large and beaut if
Booms, comprising Drawing and Di
Plate glass door and other Wardrobe
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of a
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and I
Glassware, Holloware, and every n
about to furnish. CENTSAL FI
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
A GREAT Variety of Plant
makers just opened at the
NISHINQ ABCADE, and are to be
ments. H. LEVY & CO., 29, 31, 31 1
NOW is your time for Bargai
very large shipment of Aust
open, and must clear some of our It
room for now goods. H. LEVY
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Tin
£l5 up to £lOOO at the CE]
ING ABCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-strt
h. pa:
SKETCHES BY DEAD HANDS.
“This Fantastic Land of Monstrocities.”
What is the dominant note of Australian scenery?
That which is the dominant note of Edgar Allan Poe’s
poetry—Weird Melancholy. A poem like “ L’Allegro ”
could never be written by an Australian. It is too airy,
too sweet, too freshly happy. The Australian mountain
forests are funereal, secret, stern. Their solitude is
desolation. They seem to stifle, in their black gorges,
a story of snllen despair. No tender sentiment is
nourished in their shade. In other lands the dying
year is mourned, the falling leaves drop lightly on his
bier. In the Australian forests no leaves fall. The
savage winds shout among the rock clefts. From the
melancholy gums strips of white hark hang and rustle.
The very animal life of these frowning hills is either
grotesque or ghostly. Great grey kangaroos hop noise-
lessly over the coarse grass. Flights of white cocka-
toos stream out, shrieking like evil souls. The sun
suddenly sinks, and the mopokes burst out into horrible
peals of semi-human laughter. The natives aver that,
when night comes, from out the bottomless depth of
some lagoon the Bnnyip rises, and, in form like mon-
strous sea-calf, drags his loathsome length from out the
ooze. From a comer of the silent forest rises a dismal
chant, and around a fire dance natives painted like
skeletons. All is fear-inspiring and gloomy. No bright
fancies are linked with the memories of the mountains.
Hopeless explorers have named them out of their
sufferings—Mount Misery, Mount Dreadful, Mount
Despair. As when among sylvan scenes in places
Made green with the running of rivers.
And gracious with temperate air,
the soul is soothed and satisfied, so, placed before the
frightful grandeur of these barren hills, it drinks in
their sentiment of defiant ferocity, and is steeped in
bitterness.
Aastralia has rightly been named the Land of the
Dawning. Wrapped in the midst of early morning, her
history looms vague and gigantic. The lonely horse-
man riding between the moonlight and the day sees
vast shadows creeping across the shelterless and silent
plains, hears strange noises In the primeval forest
where flourishes a vegetation long dead in other lands,
and feels, despite his fortune, that the trim utilitarian
civilisation which bred him shrinks into insignificance
beside the contemptuous grandeur of forest and ranges
coeval with an age in which European scientists have
cradled his own race.
There is a poem in every form of tree or flower, hut
the poetry which lives in the trees and flowers of Aus-
tralia differs from that of other countries. Europe is
the home of knightly song, of bright deeds and clear
morning thought. Asia sinks beneath the weighty
recollections of her past magnificence, as the Snttee
sinks, jewel-burdened, upon the corpse of dead gran-
deur, destructive even in its death. America swiftly
hurries on her way, rapid, glittering, insatiable even
as one of her own giant waterfalls. From the jungles
of Africa, and the creepar-tangled groves of the Islands
of the South, arise, from the glowing hearts of a
thousand flowers, heavy and intoxicating odours—the
Upas-poison which dwells in barbaric sensuality. In
Australia alone is to be found the Grotesque, the
Weird, the strange scribblings of Nature learning how
to write. Some see no beauty in our trees without
shade, our flowers without perfume, our birds who
cannot fly, and our beasts who have not yet learned to
walk on all fours. But the dweller in the wilderness
acknowledges the subtle charm of this fantastic laud of
monstrosities. He becomes familiar with the beauty
of loneliness. Whispered to by the myriad tongues of
the wilderness, he learns the language of the barren
and the uncouth, and can road the hieroglyphs of
haggard gum-trees, blown into odd shapes, distorted
with fierce hot winds, or cramped with cold nights,
when the Southern Cross freezes in a cloudless sky of
icy blue. The phantasmagoria of that wild dreamland
termed the Bush inetrprets itself, and the Poet of our
desolation begins to comprehend why free Esau loved
his heritage_of desert sand better than all the bountiful
richness o( Egypt.'
Marcus Clarice.
Archbishop Polding.
L*t me sketch the Archbishop in a stained glass light.
No monk ever looked more like a monk than he. There
is scarcely a secular sign in his face. It is a benign,
loveable countenance, shaded, but not sombred, with the
dim religions light of the monastic atmosphere of other
days. It is a face dating long before shilling pieces and
" Fid. Def.” Look at the long trailing grey hair, tumb-
ling down his back, like the snow about the head of a
brother of St. Bernard. Look at the large deep eyes,
blue yet burning as the “ twin orbs of Leda.” The
month, too, is a study. Power and patience, an almost
terrible rectitude with an almost feminine sympathy—
a mighty tenderness and a tender might—meet us at a
glanee in the fine Fra Angelico visage before us. The
double chin is a great point: it throws a touch of home
and every-day passion into the face like —to borrow a
figure—the wine cellars under an old Rhenish cathedral.
Wcat a world of good feeling and geniality there is
about that chin. Drop the Cowl over all the rest of the
face, and one might swear upon that feature he was
Falstafl or Brother John at once. A glorious thing this
index of “ like passions with ourselves ” in the counte-
nance of an ecclesiastic whose religion has smothered
all weakness, as the plumes of the albatross smother
the down upon its breast. So far as that chin goes—
and being double it goes a good way—this is the kind of
man to have blessed the soup dispensed at the monastery
wicket, and to have first written the recipe on which the
broth was compounded.
The bearing of His Grace is particularly courtly.
Here is a man, you say at once, who has moved in
palaces, sipped from the Tabbia vessels of the magnifi-
cent Lorenzo, and hob-a-nobbed with cardinals and
popes. One almost looks for the embroidered slipper
of a Mazarin beneath the robe; and certainly in the
fine fnl! outline of the form we get a hint of his mighty
and massive Eminence, who terrifies all Protestant
Christendom from his gloomy little house out there in
Golden Square.
They say his learning is fine—the light of the scholarly
lamp without its smoke. It smacks, perhaps, rather of
Suarez than Sallust; but still it is not with him, as with
too many of his class, that the robe of the scholar means
merely a robe of beads.
His preaching is of a high order. Tha merits and
specialities of tke style are described in a phrase, when
we call it elegantly fervid. It is as delicately manipu-
lated as the crux-hilt of a Venetian poignard; the true
light, however. —“ the light that never was on land or
sea,” —plays lambently upon the blade. In light and
shade it is like an old crucifix, where tha figures of
ivory are laid upon a back-ground of ebon. His elabo-
rations are particularly chaate. They are never heaped
on, but grow out and form part of the subject itself, as
the glowing arabesques in an old missal.
The same lofty qualities meet us in his literary ad-
dresses. splendid sobriety and a sober splendour
mingle and charm us. The cloister is carved in marble,
while a cierge of purest flame swings from every groin
and pillar. I first heard him at the Catholic Institute
in Sydney, listened and dreamed until the little room,
garnished with green flags, became a Mediteval oratory,
and troops of monks with pale high faces and long dark
robes, set with iron crucifixes and clattering rosaries,
moved to the sound of solemn chauntry before me.
I thought his address oq that occasion the best thing
I had heard since Talfonrd. Three was that precision
Qf touch about it which never arises from mere scholar-
ship; hut only from the severest literary discipline. At
the same time the power of the scholar was apparent;
it stole through the chinks and crannies of the discourse
as the light streams into the great hall of the Vatican
from its seven thousand surrounding chambers.-
Frank
Fowler.
Bondi.
All night long roars the sea oat there at Bondi.
Licking the sharp angle of the Northernmost Rock that
—like some fossil Tantalus—stretches and stretches for
ever to the wave, the white tongues of foam dart at
the dipping wings of the screeching gulls, or break in
showers of feathery spray upon the giant crags laid
Prone aloav the shore.
And when the stars and moon are out! When the
little scant vegetation on the rocks casts its shadow in
the wave, and the long dark hills towards the Beacon
show out in a sold, defined blackness; when the broken
crags look dimly grey, and the phosphorescent water
gleams and glows like one vast burning lake; when the
w aves shoot up like flame, and seethe and smoke in the
wild vortex of the Inferno; when the pebbles, turned
over and over with the retreating wave, shriek demonia-
cally, or seem to be borne down with a low despairing
wail; when, at particular points, you look into the boil-
??£ maelstrom as into the crater of a volcano, or watch
the reflection of the moon broken ty the whispery wave.
0.3 though it were some fabled ‘Nicean bark* of pearl
dashed in pieces on a rock, or a casque of steel shat-
tered by a strong blade and arm into a thousand dazzling
splinters!
From Bondi to the 'Heads—tramping through the
entar gled scrub; leaping over gaps in the rocks, down
which the eyes sees the old sea creeping hundreds of
feet below : climbing over crags with faces eaten by the
waves into monster honeycombs, or carven into un-
couth arabesques; stumbling through narrow rocky
passes, with rough, overhanging cromlechs, meeting so
close nearly half a furlong over head, that only narrow
nfts of sky show through to bring out, as it were, the
ugliness of the broken stones covered with green
lymphie ,ungns, over which the timid foot goes sliding
towards tho ocean, thundering and roaring beneath, and
angrily dashing its sharp stress of foam far up the nar-
row gap in the face of the adventurer, —from Bondi to
the Heads, I say, is a walk so fraught with fears and
dangers, that no one but a Borrow or a Livingstone
would care to take it more than once in a lifetime.—
Frank Fowler.
“The Rocks.”
Betokb the chnrchyard was another haunt of mine,
‘the Kochs.” The quarries make a red gap in the green
wood on that side of the bay. The “ GianfslFootstep ”
we called the chasm, from its resemblance to a monstrous
foot-print on the sloping hill. Beneath tne wood and
the quarries are the Hocks, a platform bordering, and
often covered by, the sea. On the land-side, they form
a pavement that might have been laid down by Cyclo-
pean hands; cracks, running almost regularly at right
angles to each other, give the huge mass precisely the
appearance of an old-world work of art—a quay fit for
a fleet of arks to moor at, for Titanic stevedores to
tramp along. Farther out, the mass is more compact,
with the fretted, rusty look of iron long exposed to
wind and weather. Boulders, quaintly carren by the
ocean, in Mohammedan mood, into all kinds of nonde-
script formations—black with “ honeycombs ”in which
you might expect to find soot or blasting powder stored
by negre-bees ; white with oyster-shells, as if they had
been pilloried and pelted by the waves with molluscs;
or plumpiy round, neutral-tin ted, and lazily unwieldy
as hippopotami taking their siesta in the mud and sun,
—are heaped upon the platform, and grouped in minia-
tr.?i.arc^^e^a^eß sea beyond. The old women
of the village frequent this wild spot at times in order
to gather “ lava bread,” an alga of a spinachy hue and
taste, which they make into oval cakes and fry with
oatmeal, I went to tho|Rocks, when they were deserted,
their feast of beauty, the unflagging amusement, the
thrill of _ mysterious terror, fascinating awe, their
marine sights and sounds afforded me. The moist
mottled crabs sporting their gay waistcoats—light buff
with fancy sprigs of many colours—were playfellows
forme; sprawling everywhere in a countless swarm,
scattering away awkwardly, when approached, to fall
with a flop into some sheltering crevice from which they
instantly protruded hostile claws, —peering out over
them like little apoplectic old men with their heads
upon their arms. And then how lovely were the rock-
pools i The tiny ones, with their subaqueous encamp-
ments of tent-like limpet-shells, blue periwinkles with
such a plum-like bloom upon them in the water, so
dull when taken out, and those strange, soft, tenacious
knobs like buttons ©f black, and green, and claret-
coloured velvet: the broad, shallow pools, with their
”t golden sand, and stones as glittering, on which
fell the dark shadows of scores of gliding flshkins—far
more snbstantial-looking than their owners; the sur-
face of the_ water—clear, and yet potentially.solid-
seeming (prisoned saltwater always has that look) as
molten crystal—chequered with long ribs of brilliance,
blending m Jfontastic, Moresque lattices of light when
the freshening breeze changed the steady ripple into a
chopping, circling canter: and the deep, emerald pool,
with its bigger fish, black, rakish, and solitary as pirate-
schooners, lying motionless in midwater, or sullenly
cruising round and round, putting In at many a fairy
harbour embosomed in tangle, and straightway, with a
noiseless swing of their notched rudder-tails, ’bout
ship, and out once more into their main of liquid gem.
1 think that lam morbidly inclined to suicide. I
know that I could never look into that Liliputian lake
without fearfully longing to disturb its calm; to go
plunging down—rustling its seaweed tapestry, green,
golden, dusky-brown.l and blood-red—and rest on the
smooth pebbles, dappling the silvery sand in streaked
and purple patches, that glimmered up at me from the
bottom, mocking my hesitation, daring me to leap. I
can quite understand the feeling that peopled the se*
with seductive Nereids and Sirens in olden times, and
Mermaids in more modern; rivers with luring liurleys,
springs with Undines. There was something eerie , too,
m the muffled murmer of the water gurgling up hidden
Cr ?f l^l^ S * ar beneath my feet, as the surging waves
rolled in, and in the tumultuous haste with which it
ebbed from the darkness to the light—to be again forced
back into its gloomy cells. And, on stormy days, it
was grand to see the green, glassy billows, foam-crested
long before they reached the land, galloping on, with
their white manes flying behind them in the wind, to
break in thunder and in boiling snow—doubly white
u?\^ 8 - c ontrast with the background of leaden sky on
which it was embossed—upon the outlying crags.
Baried for a moment, with what a sturdy pride they
raise their black heads again—grey-tressed with count-
xf* above the dazzling, dizzying chaos I
. -Firm as a rock 1 * is, I imagine, the most hackneyed of
similes, and yet it always presents itself with a fresh
about !t to one who watches the trnceless war of
cliff and sea.—.
Richard Rowe.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Six more Mormon elders have arrived at Auck-
land.
natives are commencing an agitation for
the disestablishment of the English Church in India.
The Rev. R. S. Casely was elected president and
the Eev, E. M. Hunter secretary of the Wesleyan Con-
ference at Adelaide.
The Rev. J. G. Millard, of Tasmania, has been
elected President of the Victoria and Tasmania Method-
ist Conference sitting at Melbourne.
At the “Fanoye Fayre,” to be held in St.
Mary's Cathedral at Eastertide, there is to be a per-
formance of Mass music by the united E.C. choirs.
The chief of the Dervishes, the greatest Sheik
of the Mussulman world, is dead. His family possess
the hereditary right to gird the sword of Osman on the
new Sultan.
The English literary journals are discussing
Mr. Tennyson’s latest poem, Despair,” as an agnostic
argument. A correspondent of the asks if
the Poet Laureate has not fallen away from hjs high
faith in the truths of Christianity.
Moody and Sanfcey get -£?00 per month aa a con.
dition of preaching in England. But small attention
would have been vouchsafed to them, in olden days,
says an English paper, had it come out that they re-
ceived from an association in Jerusalem 1931 denarii and
one sestertius per month for their ministrations.
Great efforts are being made |to raise an endow-
ment fund for the Anglican Bishopric of North Queens-
land. The following sums have been promised, by
Townsville men chiefly : Walter Hays £lOO, W. Villiers
Brown £lOO, L. F. Sachs £lOO, E. Christison £lOO, E
Stewart £lOO, William Aplin £lOO, Eobert Philp £lOO
William Hann £lOO, Anonymous £lOO, C. Campbell
£5O. W. Kilgour £5O. P
The Rev. J. Howell Price, late of Wilcannia,
writes relative to “ Drops ” which appeared last month,
and says that bis parishioners there did not leave him
to collect his own stipend, and that they did pay him,
before he l&ft, all that was due to him as incumbent
We make the correction with pleasure. It shows that
there’s some good in the Wilcannia people, after all.
Oh! we’d almost forgotten to mention that Mr. Price
likes our journal very much.
“The rupture between the teachers of the
Mission School, Sussex-street, and the diaconate of
Pitt-street Church, is in a fair way of being settled. Two
gentlemen have been appointed to enquire (as Sergeant
Buzfuz jwonld say) into the facts and circumstances of
the case, and they no doubt will thoroughly sift the
matter to the satisfaction of every one concerned. Mr.
Jeffris will arrive in Sydney early next month, and the
office-bearers, not wishing to upset hia equilibrium,
have determined to square the trouble.
In a recent sermon on “Death,” Henry Ward
Beecher alluded to the curiosity people felt as regards
the sensations when dying, and, said he, " I’ll tell you
how. you will feel, most of you; yon will feel stupid,
that s all. You will want to go to sleep. Dying is as
easy as going to sleep in most instances. Once in a
while there is a radiant death, or a remorseful death ;
but, as a rule, the deaths described in books are all
t ™ mer y-” Mr. Beecher considered that the manner
■ of death was chiefly the result of the physical condition
at the time, and afforded no test of the moral state.
Dr. Ellis is nothing if not startling. On Sunday
week his utterances were remarkable. He prescribed
hunts of age for preachers; a young, inexperienced
preacher discoursing to old hearers possessing more
wisdom than himself was as much out of place as an
aged preacher who retained his pulpit when his feeble,
inaudible voice only wearied his hearers. A bishop
should resign at 73. It was very well to talk of dying
m harness, but what use was that when the horse was
past drawing ? The Dean, according to the Doctor, is
not paid, proportionately, so well as a bank clerk. The
sermon was not remarkable for closeness of reasoning,
but it certainly was for originality of some of the ideas
expounded.
Father Henry Coleridge, brother of the Lord
r£! 8 i U -S 6 ’ has l ust been named Rector of the Jesuit
£» h nnto wW ar T Btreet| Ber . kele y-sq«are. It is curious
”’ wha * a lar S« Proportion of Catholic priests, who
were once clergymen in the Church of England, make
rv.l o°vi * ronb their new communion,
father Coleridge was many years aeo a follow of
Balhol, but went over to Rome soon after he had taken
Deacon a Orders. Father Edward Purbrick, the Pro-
vincial, or head of the English Jesuits was also a
clergyman of the English Church. Of the three English
Cardinals, two, Manning and Newman, are ’verts At
the Brompton Oratory, out of eighteen priests, twelve
were at one time of their lives either clergymen nr
laymen of the Establishment; and of the twenty™
wWh'r 8 * 1 ; Charles, in Bayswater, the Order to
which Cardinal Manning belonged, more than half were
at one time Protestants. There are in England and
thfrd"!iro b ? Uti f l3OO Cat^2 li ° priests, of whom about a
,h “ h " i -‘
Askin. superintendent ef the Hauler
Crrcmtof the Primitive Methodist Connexion, has been
charged with stealing a snuff.box of the value of £2
belonging to the landlord of the Waggon and Horses
s??* I>B * 8 j dan j had Kone into the smeking-
room of the mn and ordered a glass of beer, and after
his departure the snuff.box was missing, A search war
wnnfT !? Bued agamat Mr, Askin, and when the poh ? ce
went to the prisoner s house he surrendered the box
claiming that he had taken it home with him for the
purpose of having a pattern made from it. He was verv
reluctant about appearing in court, offering to ennu
promme the matter, which, however, was refused Oii
the trial he made the same plea offered upon his appro
hension, but the judge inflicted a flue of £5 and costs
Khfia? nS( d ier Beem , ed to feel bis position very keenly
whilst undergoing his examination. Mr. Askin itmust
be allowed, got off very much more easily than did the
Anglican clergyman who was recently sentenced to ono
month s imprisonment with hard labour for stwJW
books, valued at 55., from a London bookstall,
There was an unusual item in Sunday’s services
at the Surry Hills Congregational Church. Captain
Turpie, of the John Williams, introduced about twentv
Jo®* natives of the Society and Hervey Islands wifn
filled the front pews. Of these, eight mrS’
twelve*?! New ® uinea * t 0 supply the places of the
twelve teachers who were massacred in March w
Captain Turpie stated that no pressure had been exer’
oised on them, but that the natives volunteered to go
freely, notwithstanding the danger, and although some
were even relatives of those who had been killed TW
are awaiting the arrival of the Ellangowan to cm,™!
them to New Guinea The native SStteS
up, and facing round to the congregation, sang a popular
hymn. "Come to the Saviour." in their own See
Contrary to the expectations of many, the
not discordant, but singularly melodious, and the
refrain at the end of each verse was sweetly tuneful
The men were all neatly dressed in dark clothes nn/i
the women in whits, but their hats were gailv
with those attractive ribbons which even the ol
the good Christian woman despiseth not. eart ° f
Heterodoxy no longer means ruin, even in
Scotland, In fact, the Scotch, although obstiwi 1 ln
shrewd thinkers once they can be Tnduoed to
that they have a right to think at all The u
remained Roman Catholics years after the English h«d
joined the Reformation movement; but whentho„S
once listen to the Protestant preaohers. thoVtook n
the sense of the matter more quickly than ?! •
Southern neighbours had done, and didn’t
t ad a a ot °i n ? b . les and courtiers, hungry afto?
churchil» nis and estates, to set them in motion If UiVl
same thing with the modera-thought movement n
a Scotchman is separated from old anlb„°?® e
natural thinking tendencies set free from the trammel!!
of erstom and sentiment, he thinks very fearleToi 6 f
straight. Of Australian ’rationalists? 7 very co n 'L a “ d
able proportion are Scotchmen. In Brisbane, the mnJt
prominent leaders of the Freethought party
Presbyterian Scots; and Dunedin, the Scotch « e ttu'
ment, por excellence, in New Zealand, is the HtrLl ...
ef Freethought in the Southern Hemisphera. E? fln ° d
Scotland itself to-day, “modern thought" whir.! 1 -* 1
merely rationalism under a prudential garb has ™ Jl®
pletely undermined the old ideas. The Scotsjt/w
leading Edinburgh journal, is .’■« 8
vanced ;’ and, as we commenced by saying, a
tion of heterodoxy no longer involves ruin pr fi „ ar f*
Scotland. On the contrary? men like tKobTt **
Smiths, in Scotland, the Strongs in Victoria nmltu
Voyseys in England, generally do better) iu% 8
sense, after their breach with their old svBtamTfi?! y
they did before. At a public meeting held in wn n
burgh, the Rev. Professor Robertaon-Smith has
been presented with books and manuscripts vainJl
£lOOO, and a fund has been raided which affords hhri
a larger salary than ha enjoyed at Aberdeen. m a
The S.F. Newsletter wrote a par. some time
since about a “ grass-widow on Larkin-street,” and
broadly stated that she was not only a black-mailer, but
a disreputable character to boot. Shortly after the
appearance of the article, the editor gets the following
letter; —“San Francisco, November 25, 1881. Editor
Newsletter —Sir: My attention has been called to u
article in the Newsletter of last week, speaking ol a
frass-widow on Larkin-street. Any further articles of
like character, or in reference to said lady, will subject
yon to legal proceedings. A. C. Searl*. Attorney-at-
Law, 502 Montgomery street.’* To this the editor
contemptuously replies—” Como along with your legal
proceedings; wa are ready.”
The Shepherd’s Dog.
Shepherd found dead on Buckinbah station.
The police had to shoot the dead man’s dog before they
could approach the body. Faithful dog, and heroic
police— Echo.
With clammy brow, and close-clenched hand,
And glazed and sunken eyes.
The dying shepherd lay beneath
The hot Australian skies.
The sun sinks low, the night lets Ml
Her veil of mist and fog;
Alone h® waits for death; no friend
Is near, aavq one—his dog.
No more beneath the river-gums.
In shadowy retreat
The man will shield his cowering form
From blaze of noon-tide heat.
The grim Destroyer aims his shaft.
His life ebbs fast away,
Ungrieved for, save by one true friend.
Who howls beside his clay.
Poor friend ( thou shalt not long endure
A grief thou canst not tell:
Thou art not destined long to grieve
Fer him thou lov'st so well.
A weary watch beside his form.
Of three hot nights and more;
A few brief days of torturing thirst.
And then thy watch is o’er.
Poor, faithful slave I thy work is done—
Thy life-bloou stains the sward;
A trooper’s curse thy requiem—
A bullet thy reward I
IRONBARK.


f‘ Tfaero is a tide in the affairs of men, which
taken at the flood leads on to fortune.”
THE GREATEST WEALTH IS ATTAINED
BY SMALL BEGINNINGS.
ONE THOUSAND ALLOTMENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED
WENTWORTHVILLE ESTATE,
PARRAMATTA,
Will be sold upon the
FOLLOWING MARVELLOUSLY EASY TERMS:
ONLY TWO POUNDS
DEPOSIT upon each lot, and the balance of
purchase money at the rate of ONE SHILLING
PER WEEK.
W. PRITCHARD
WILL sell by auction, at his Rooms, 289
George-atreet, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, FEBRUARY 4,
at 2 o’clock,
1000 Allotments of the Magnificent Suburban
Estate,
WENTWORTHVILLE,
PARRAMATTA,
Heing that portion of the estate known as FUL-
LAGER’S SALE YARDS, Western-road.
The Allotments command frontages to the
WESTERN ROAD,
FULLAGER STREET,
SMITH STREET,
Wentworth street,
AnL
Third avenue.
WENTWORTHVILLE is now an established
suburb, and is admitted by every one to be, with-
out exception, the suburb PAR EXCELLENCE
of the metropolis ; and the auctioneer, has every
confidence in recommending the
WORKING CLASSES
to secure an allotment, more especially as the
terms are the most favourable ever offered in
NEW SOUTH WALES,
thus placing it within the reach of any industrious
man or Woman ih the colony to secure a freehold
which must of necessity, long before it is paid for,
Increase enormously in VALUE.
WENTWORTHVILLE is within 40 minutes’
journey by train from the city.
•** The CONTRACT for the Railway
Station on this Estate is already entered into ;
and the distance by road to Parramatta is only
one mile by a most beautiful drive.
Note the exceedingly liberal terms ;
£2 DEPOSIT UPON EACH LOT-BALANCE, Is.
PER WEEK.
Don’t forget that the sale will take place in the
llooma, 289 George-street, at Sydney, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, FEBRUARY 4.
Lithographs can bo obtained from the auctioneer,
W. PRICHARD.
THIS SATURDAY.
ftORTH ANNANDALE.
NORTH ANNANDALE.
THIRD MONTHLY SALE
of this celebrated Estate,
Villa and business sites,
obtumandihg frontages to
AnnAnDale street,
YOUNG STREET,
COLLENS STREET,
ALBION STREET, and
PARRAMATTA ROAD.
TERMS OP SALE.
jEIO deposit on each lot
Balance. .£1 per month
Bearing interest 6 per cent.
W. PRUCHARD
HAS received instructions to sell by auction,
ON THE GROUND,
NORTH ANNANDALE,
THIS SATURDAY, JANUARY 28,
at 3 o’clock,
TWO HUNDRED GRAND ALLOTMENTS,
being sections 30, 31, 34 and 37 of the North
Annandale Estate, with frontages varying
from 25 to 40 feet, to the following streets
ANNANDALE, YOUNG, ALBION, COLLENS,
AND
PARRAMATTA ROAD.
*#* Special attention is directed to the great
facilities of access to the property, consisting of
steamboat communication every half hour from
Erskiue-street; omnibuses every quarter of an
hour; and by the tramway now being constructed,
and which will shortly be completed.
# # * Amongst the lots to be sold THIS SATUR-
DAY, are seme magnificent corner and business
sites, as also sites for villa residences.
* # # This part of the Estate, is only 3 minutes’
walk from the Stanmore Railway Station.
THE CITY GAS and WATER are laid on to the
Estate.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS are prepared, and
can bo obtained.
FREE OMNIBUSES will leave the Auction
Rooms, 289 George-street, at 2.30 p.m. THIS
SATURDAY. ,
TITLE UNDER TORRENS’ ACT.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMARKET (ONLY).
O ue GREAT CLEARING SALE of GOODS comprised in our late Shipments, will be continued
during the week; and our Customers are reminded that they now have an Opportunity of Pur-
chasing SEASONABLE GOODS and the CHOICEST NOVELTIES at lower prices than have ever
been heard of in this city before.
BARGAIN.
40 CASES OP NEW DRESS GOODS. WORTH
8id., WILL BE SOLD FOR 3Jd.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH CHALLIS, WORTH Is 2d, WILL BE
SOLD FOR 6d.
BARGAIN.
FRENCH BEIGES, 4Jd., 6id., 7id., 9d. ; WORTH
FROM 9d to Is 2d per YARD.
BARGAIN.
HALF A MILLION YARDS OP DRESS GOODS,
MUST BE SOLD TO MAKE ROOM FOE
FRESH IMPORTATION.
BARGAINS.
60 pieces of coloured Silk at ISid., manufacturer’s
price 2s. 4d. per yard.
BARGAIN.
120 pieces of coloured Qros Grain Silk at 23Jd,
worth 3s,
BARGAIN.
40 pieces of Pompadour Velveteen, 12d. and 15d.
yard, worth 3s. 6d. and 4s.
BARGAIN.
Tinselled Tarlatans, every colour, 9d., worth 2s.
BARGAIN.
200 pieces black Qros Grain, 30 per cent, under
manufacturers’ prices.
BARGAIN.
200 washing Costumes, prices from 18a. 6d. to 30a ,
clearing price 10s. each.
BARGAIN.
200 satara-cloth Dolmans, 14a. 6d,, worth 21s.
BARGAIN.
Cashmere and Lace Capes, 2s 6d., worth 7a. 6d,
BARGAIN. , ,
10 Cases Pith Helmets, 2s., lid, worth 4s. Gd.
BARGAIN.
1000 Gent's Straw Hats, Is., worth 2s.
BARGAIN. , ,
3000 yards strong 1 Tweeds, for Boys’ wear, Is, worth
Is. 9d. per yard.
BARGAIN.
10 Cases Men’s White Shirts, all sizes, Is. lid,,
worth from 2s. lid. to 3s. Gd.
BARGAIN,
1000 pairs Stout Tweed Trousers and Vests, all new
goods, 7s. lid.
BARGAIN.
200 Men’s Tweed Suits, well-finished, 14s. lid.
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ Laventino Parachutes, Is. 9d,, worth Ss. 6d.
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ Silk Parachutes 3s., worth 4s. 6d,
BARGAIN.
LADIES’ FANCY SUNSHADES, 2s. 6d , worth
4s. Gd.
BARGAIN.
LADIES’ BLACK SATIN SUNSHADES, TRIM-
MED LACE, 3s. 9d, ,
BARGAIN.
FRENCH FLOWERS, 3d. PER SPRAY.
BARGAIN.
LONG, COLOURED OSTRICH FEATHERS, 2a.
Gd.
BARGAIN.
Two-hutton French Kid Gloves, Is per pair.
Swiss Embroidery, 2d. per yard, wide width.
Plain and Painted Fans, 3d., Gd., 9d., and Is.
Lawn Tenuis Ribbon, Id yard.
rjIHEATEE ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr, Q. L. Goodman,
Stage Manager Mr. Richard Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
SINBAD, THE SAILOR.
Doors open at 7.15 p.m. j commence at a quarter to 8.
ASONIC HALL.
PRELIMINARY" ANNOUNCEMENT.
FIVE FAREWELL CONCERTS, by the celebrated
n tt
| MENDELSSOHN QUINTETTE CLUB I
+1 . +*■
+ + ++
Assisted b v the young and beautiful Prima Donna.
++
| MISk CORA R. MILLER,T
tt K
Prior to their departure from the Colony.
GRAND FASHIONABLE FAREWELL CONCERTS I
Commencing MONDAY, 30th January, and
Finishing FRIDAY, 3rd February.
.5 Farewell f MASONIC HALL, -) Concerts 5
5 Farewell Monday, 30 January. Concerts 5
5 Farewell I Tuesday, 31 January. 1 Concerts 5
5 Farewell "| Wednesday, 1 February, f Concerts 5
5 Farewell 'Hiursday, 2 February. | Concerts 5
5 Farewell L Friday, 3 February. J Concerts 5
Box Plan now open at Paling’s Music "Warehouse.
Reserved Chairs, ss.j Balcony, 3s ; Back Seats, 2s.
I: Doors open 7.15; Concert 8 o’clock. Carriages, 16.13,
T. St. CLAIR JONES, Agent.
VICTORIA HALL.
CASTLERBAQfI-STREET,
(Near King-street; close to Tramway and Omnibns,)
TO LET NIGHTLV, ON TEEM, or LONG LEASE,
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS.
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for 800
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28£t. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES.
WINGS, &c., and is in all respects equal to the Hall of
the School of Arts, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLEE,
107 Castlereagh-street.
— i
Theatre royal, geafton
OPEN FOE ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas ; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATER.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
MR. EDWIN PALMER, LEADING and
CHARACTER OLD MAN, GAIETY THEA.
TEE, NIGHTLY.
MRS. EDWIN PALMER, HEAVY LEAD, and
LEADING OLD WOMAN, AT LIBERTY. Address!
245 Crown-street, Surry Hills.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIEEOB
of the
ZULU "WAR,
Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, December 26, one month)
Christchurch to follow.
SIGNOR BONACCOETI
MUSICAL DIRECTOR.
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of the Zulu War, Queen's
Theatre, Dunedin.
CON BUCKINGHAM,
CORNET.
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of the Zulu "War, Queen's
Theatre, Dunedin.
LLOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
PeopklStob.
JJ E. T. M U E I D GE,
DENTfST,
Graduate of Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery,
late seven years of 80 Brook-street, Qrosvenor Square,
London "West.
Consulting Hours— lo to 1.30.
169 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK TERRACE*
DEAFNESS !—I have an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded fro®
the recipe of the Aurist-iu-Chief of the London E<V a *
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100), Send six stamps, for particulars and copies oi
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAFORD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
CAUTION.—MAKE NO MISTAKE; WE HAVE ONLY THE ONE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMARKET,
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
m
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
a 2
a A a aa
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS V E E Y SUPEEIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
Por Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning',
NO SMOKE OE SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Solo Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OP A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Redaction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
E. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Trade
Mark
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies*
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, Jan. 24,1882.
On the wharves to-day prime green lucerne is
selling at £3 15s. to £4 per ton; medium quality,
£3 to £3 10s.; inferior samples, from £2 to £2 6s.
per ton. Maize, ss. per bushel. Hunter River
onions, 3s. 6d. to 4s. per owt. Victorian onions,
3s. 6d. to 45.; ditto potatoes, 3s. 9d. to 4s per cwt. ;
ditto chaff, £5 10s. per ton (bags inclusive )
Warrnamhool potatoes, 4s. to 4s. 6d. per cwt. ;
bntter (in keg) lOd. to Is. per lb. ) eggs, Is. 3d.
per dozen ; bacon, 6d. to Bd. ; cheese, 4d. to Bd. ;
ham, lid, to Is. ; honey, 4d. to. sd. ; lard, 4d. to
sd. ; beeswax, Bd. to 9d. per lb. ; millet brooms,
4s. Gd. to Ba. 6d. per dozen.
Poultry. —At the various auction marts,
poultry was in good supply, and sold fairly. Fowls
brought from 2s. 7d. to ss. ; ducks, 4a. 9d. to 55.;
geese, ss. to 65.; cock turkeys, 225.; hen ditto,
6s. to Bs.: pigeons, Is. 6d. to Is. 9d.; rabbits, 2s.
to 2a. 3d. per pair; parrots, la. 9d. to la. lid.
each.
Flour. —Flour is offering at all prices, whilst
for standard brands of good quality holders are
firm. Sydney mill flour is selling, superfine at
.£l3 ; household, £l2; seconds, £ll per ton ; New
South Wales country brands, £llloa. to £12105.;
Victorian flour, £ll 10s. to £l2 10s. ; Adelaide,
£ll 10s. to £l3 per ton; bran and pollard, Is. 2d.
per bushel.
Wheat is in demand, with little or none to
hand; any parcels coming forward are readily
placed, especially those of good quality. Adelaide
wheat, ss. to sa. 3d^: N.S.W. wheat, 4a 6d to 55.;
Victorian, 4s. 6d. ; Launceston, 4a. 3d.; and New
Zealand, 4s. per bushel.


Cyril Haviland lecturing on “
Melbourne Athenaeum,
Silver collection plates stolen
terian Church, Emerald Hill. “Th
you always.”
Pastoral staff presented to the
by A. Gordon, the Equity lawyer, I
of the Diocese.
Guiteau -wants a royalty on
photographs. The poor fellow wa
below, so that they’ll probably le
swing.
When a Northern married con
demonstrative in their “jars” the
remark, “ Oh 1 they're only moving
things, that’s all."
- According to Tom Garrett’s fr
“got at.” That’s just where he
Annandale, where villa sites and alb
on Saturday, 28th, by Mr. Pritchard
is that the place is particularly easy
The intelligence by cable, to tl
delegates representing the Ulster i
reduction in rent made by the Lan
Irish Land Act, inadequate, musi
those conservative colonial jouma
petually trying to make out that
loyal and unreasonable. Ulster if
Orangeism, and it was North of I
marched South to garner Captain B
“Getting out of a railway tra:
is a rash and foolish proceeding,
temptation for purchasers of alio
paddock to do that, because it lies r
Station. An active nun without
be able to jump from his front s
Ask Hardie and Gorman on Saturda
At Manly, last week, the mar;
match against the infants of the 1c
before the affair, at Manly pier, a ve
asked one of the ftrst-namei team
spirit merchant) : “ Are you going
“Yes,” was the reply—“ Are you
answered in the affirmative, the
asked “How many of you?” “1
“ Why, darn it, we’ll play 22—w
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“ Positively the last night of Patience —and
- 0 record this with a sigh—ia announced. After eleven
to morrow night, Bunthorne will have vanished into
the air; the Milkmaid will but have melted into a
■nleasant reminiscence; the Colonel will have put his
uniform off; the Duke will be adulated no longer; and
Lady Jane to the world will be but one vast substantial
dream Grosvenor, too, will be only a transformation
scene with the gas turned oil; the Major will require a
remedy for cramp no longer; and the Ladies Angelo,
Saphir, and Ella will resolve into but every-day young
girls indeed. Well, nothing can last for ever.
•i Patience," the best thing that has ever been done in
Australia, has had a run equal to its merits, and on
Saturday will give way to “ Pinafore,” a week of which
will complete the term of Messrs. Williamson, Garner,
and Musgrove’s lease of the theatre. The company
will then have a fortnight’s holiday, at the expiration
of which, it will, in its entirety, proceed to New
Zealand There is some talk of Signor Verdi seceding,
but, doubtless, he and the management will come to a
satisfactory arrangement at the eleventh hour.
• • •
The Opera House presented a gorgeous appear-
ance on the night of Wednesday, the 11th. The place
was gay with flags and resplendent with evergreens.
The dress-circle check-taker performed the duties of
hi» office in a verdant bower. The theatre swarmed
that evening with officers from the Nelson, and, after
the first act, Mr. Garner invited them into the saloon
aud regaled the warriors with Eoederer. It was an
affecting sight to see these gallant fellows unbend. As
they sipped their fizz they conversed condescendingly
with civilians—adapting, of course, their conversation
to the humble intellectual acquirements of those
prosaic persons. When the sublime Arthur grasped
the hand of the commander of Marines, quite a thrill
of fervour ran through ns, and as we, on our side,
wrung the fist of a very small midshipman, we felt that
after all the meeting between Wellington and Blucher
had been lacking in dramatic elements. It was delight-
ful ; it was even pastoral. Dirks were turned for the
nonce into tooth-picks. Once again the lamb drank
from the cannon’s mouth 1
# * •
“ Pinafore,” on Saturday night, will be inter-
esting for many reasons; but chiefly on account of the
rolos of Josephine and .Buttercup being Ailed by ladies
who are now to Sydney in those parts. Miss Alice
Rees has played Josephine before, but Madame Navaro
impersonates Buttercup tor the first time. The music
is easier than that of “ Patience,” but it remains to be
seen whether or not I'accent Parisien will speil to any
great extent the bumboat-woman illusion. Sir Riccardi
appears as Sir Joseph, in which, as a true artist, he
is sure to make a hit. Altogether it was a happy
thought on part of the management to close up with the
pretty little nautical satire.
* * * *
The pantomime at the "Royal still runs, and will
stand another fortnight. New locals have been sup-
plied by the illustrious Scott, and therefore nothing is
wanting now to ensure crowded houses. Always brii-
liant in his delicate poetic fancies, this time Mr. Scott
has outdone himself. We are, we admit, occasionally
severe in criticising poetic work of an inferior descrip-
tion, but once we come across the genuine thing, we
are always willing to award the praise which is its just
meed. Therefore, when we heard Wangdoodle speak
the following, we felt we were indeed conquered:—
•• Dey tell mo in Sydney Bnmdt was burnt out.
And a policeman knocked poor Struck about;
Dat Lngg pulls out your teeth so awful quick*
And Wigzell’s do best man to sell a wig."
But there is more of this merry Miltonic metre: —
•< Now dat the magistrates have got de sack.
And Parkea says he will never come back,
I feel in regular awful jolly sorts—
i’ll gib you a treat—begins de sports I”
• I , > • i •
“ Keep dat stale ole joke for * Pinafore,'
Or give it to Greenwood, who didn’t go
To Mudgee, cos dere he’d have no show.”
After this, there can be no question whatever as to
Lewis's peculiar talents for writing burlesque heroics.
And to his credit, be it said that he is no Parnassian
groveller—no follower of stereotyped schools. Like a
man who makes his own gas, he is independent of the
Company, and has a metre of his own.
And yet to think't has been our lot.
To ** guy ” thy couplets, mighty Scott 1
Oh, had we known that thou couldat squeeze
From ont thy soul Bach lines as these;
Had we e’er dreamed thy magic lyre.
Could sound such notes of fun and Are,
We would have crowned thee, splendid Scott,
With—well, it don’t much matter what.
* * *
Friday (to-morrow) will bo the children’s night
at the Royal. It will repay anyone to drop in aud > m
the myriads of little ones rising at the elephant and
crowing at the clown. The sight will be particularly
interesting, in tne words of the time-payment furniture
sharks, " to those about to marry.”
* » » *
Mr. James Allison has decided upon opening his
campaign with “Cymbelino” instead of “Antony and
Cleopatra.” Whan we learned what play it was going
to be, we thought wo would be doing James a good
turn by suggesting to him a cast. We, therefore, with
no small pride in our natural acumen drew up the
following cast of principals i
Cymbaling Miss Nellie Playfair
Posthumous Miss Louise Pomeroy
Cloten Miss Teresa Horan
laohimo Mr. Daley
Imogen Mr. Dick Stewart
Queen Mr. Teddy M’Lean
Women to Imogen ... Mr. J. L. Hall
To our surprise, however, and somewhat, it must be
admitted, to our disappointment, Mr. Allison received
our list with derision, not to say contumely, and stated
that Miss Pomeroy was to play Imogen, Mr. Theodore
Hamilton, Posthumous, and Mr. H. Leston, Cloten;
also that he had engaged Messrs. H. N. Douglas, H.
Jordan, J. Tolano—how delicate Joe will be in Shake-
speare ! —and others. The pieces to be produced are
*'Cymbeline” (as aforesaid), “Antony and Cleopatra,”
•* Winter's Talc," and “ Led Astray.”
* * * *
“ The Green Lanes ” retire into the scene-dock
for good on Friday night, and on Saturday night we
are, it par ait, to have “ Michael Strogoff," a sensational
and spectacular drama, which has been adapted by that
dramatist of world-wide fame, Mr. Alphabetical Hop-
kins. We understand that a very large sum of money has
been expended by Mr. Bayless in getting up this piece,
and so gigantic are its proportions that it was feared
the necessary arrangements for its production would
not be completed by Saturday. It was therefore con-
templated to put up “The New Magdelen" for a few
nights, but the management were in a bit of a quandary
about finding a fit representative for Meroy Merrick —
Miss Adore being scarcely emotional enough, and Miss
Morion Melrose, quoique charmante, hardly having
sufficient ballast. Mr. Dampier is said to be great as
Julian Gray, so we should like to see the piece—with a
proper exponent of the role of the giddy hospital
nurse—well enough.
« • «
Mr. Dampier has evidently faith in Mr. Hop-
kins, or he would have secured Mr H. J. Byron’s adapta-
tion of “ Strogoff," which was played with much bus-
cass at the London Adelphi. We have faith in Mr.
Hopkins, too ; but we have more faith in Mr. H. J,
Byron.
** * *
Two of the “Patience” chorus missed three
performances last week, and Mr. Garner, in conse-
quence, resigned. When, however, fhe ladies explained
that they each had an aunt in Moscow, they were
taken on again.
** * *
“ The Vagabond ” says, in a Newcastle paper :
"The 'Green Lanes of England’ is still running to
very big business at the Queen’s.” Well, if Christmas
is over, it’s getting on near Easter !
** * *
Gilbert and Clay’s drawing-room entertainment,
" Ages Ago,” will shortly bo presented a* the Victoria
Hall, under the direction of Mr. M&ddiok. Mr,
Martyn Hagan, Mr. Osborne, Miss Merle
and Miss Jennie Horan have, we believe, been engaged.
This is all we know about the arr. ngements at present,
and all we are likely to know unless the .management
sends ns word as to their intentions.
* * *. *
After being “had” for all his jewellery, the little
Dwarf hasjgone to Grafton, There misfortunes seem
also to have befallen the company, for two days after
arrival Ikey fell into a drain, and was only rescued after
several hours. When asked how he is, Ikey rubs hia
limbs and remarks ruefully that he feels very. Sower.
Biz., however, is Al.
** * *
Misa Christian gives a farewell concert at the
Garden Palace on Saturday afternoon. It will be a
Christian act to support this act of a Christian. Let’s
hope there will be no difficulty about the starring this
time I
** * *
A gentleman writes us from Balmain as follows:
“ Would you be kind enough to let me know, through
the medium of your columns, who took the character of
the Princess in ‘ Sinbad the Sailor ’ on Saturday, 14th
inst.—Miss M. Stewart or Miss T. Horan ? ” Of course
we will. The exponent, dear sir, on that evening, of the
royal young lady who
“ Loves a sweet sai-lah,”
was none other than Miss Teresa Horan, who has played
the part all along. That young lady and Miss Maggie
Stewart never exchange anything except confidences
and kisses.
** * *
On Wednesday evening the Glebe amateurs gave
a performance of “ Pinafore ” at the Sydney Town Hall.
Our critique will appear next week.
** * *
The Mendelssohn Quintette Club commence a
farewell engagement at the Masonic Hall on Monday
evening. Mr. Thynne, we believe, is the entrepreneur,
and we know that Mr. St. Clair Jones is the agent.
The Club ought to do well, being the best combination
of the kind we have seen in Australia.
** * *
D’Orsay Ogden is now the lessee and manager of
the Theatre Koyal, Calcutta. He sends us an elaborate
programme of an entertainment which he and Miss
Beatrice gave in Burdewa at the Palace of the Rajah.
They played “A Flirting Husband” and “Stella and
Pestus’’—D’Orsay and Beatrice comprising the cast of
each, and a Mr. J. H. Bell sang “ La-di-dnh ” between
the pieces. What more .could even a Rajah want than
thisP
** * *
The Newcastle Herald states that the
amatuers (sic) are going to produce the “ Pirates of
Penzence” (sic). A meeting was held at the Christ-
church schoolroom, the other night, and “ the chair
was taken by Mr. Chas. F. Stokes, Esq., J.P.” (sic.)
This gentleman said “ he felt sure that if the lady and
gentlemen amatuers (sic) of Newcastle pulled together
they could produce such an entertainment as could not
be excelled even by professionals.” If anything funnier
than this be wanted, why, hero it is: “ Mr. Edwards
then classified his voices, and with his usual character,
istic spirit, dashed into the practice of the choruses
with vsrue and elan,” (sic.) And, as a final hoimc-hoiLchc,
we read that “the class will be farther augmented at
next meeting when absentees will be present” (sic).
We shall look forward to this production with a large
amount of interest, and will, in all probability, take a
run up to see it. We think the Williamson Opera Com-
pany a fair crowd, but are always delighted to welcome
a better. We suppose that “ Mr. Chas. F. Stokes, Esq.,
J.P.,” will be the Sir Joseph of this " Pinafore ” ex-
hibition. Our anticipations of coming pleasure are
increased by reading that “Mr. Ashcroft Edwards’s
imitatory (sic) effort was crowned with success,” and
that he has now under his command “ a splendid vocal
force, and this, when combined with a grand orchestra,
and splendid senio (sic) effects, will, without doubt, cot-
summatein a magnificent performance.” We wonder,
now, could our old friend “Cave” have written this.
It’s a sweet thing in literature, anyway! And this is
the paper, the only daily paper in the colonies, which
said the decision of the Supreme Court in the Clontarf
case was not only legal but just. We hope, however,
that the Cave or Adullum is a better authority on law
than it is on opera.
** * *
Things generally, are about as dry as possible
in Melbourne. Bush fires enliven the proceedings in
the country districts, but theatricals are as dull as
ditchwater. Pantomimes still at the same old game,
though the Princess’ and Bijou announce their last
week. “The Major” is to be Marshall’s next venture,
and onr clever little friend J. B. Howe is to put money
into the Bijou treasury. “ Olivette” is going on like a
house on fire, and the Royal is doing fairly well. Prof.
Simon, a phrenologist, gives an amusing entertainment
at St. George’s Hall, and the Pollard Juveniles have
finished worrying “ Les Cloches de Corneville.”
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The Simonsons, at latest, -were at Madras, and
were about to visit Calcutta Eugenie Legrande
did the sleep-walking scene from “ Macbeth ”
for a benefit at Brooklyn Academy on 9fch
December George Kignold has secured the
right of producing in Australia Mr. E. W. Palgrave’s
successful drama, “The Faithful Heart Colonel
Brooks passed through Ballarat lately; he is 33
inches high, 35 years old, and the smallest man in
the world—just like our Dominec, and all the] other
dwarfs Victorian theatre-managers are now pro-
hibited from blocking the gangways with chairs
M'Fadyen (the husband of Miss Carrie George), who, at
Melbourne, the other day, assaulted Mr. Lynch, the
well-known solicitor and art connoisseur, on whom
his wife had called with a view to certain legal proceed-
ings against her husband, has been fined £lO. The de-
fence was that M'Fadyen went to prosecutor’s office
with reference to alleged infringement by the William-
sons of his protected right of playing “ Hazel Kirke,”
and observing his wife there, asked her to come away.
Mr. Lynch stood in the doorway and refused to allow
her to go, and a scuffle ensued. The defendant said he
had lost £15,000 when the City of Glasgow bank failed,
and that up till lately he had lived on amicable terms
with his wife, but made no statement in connection with
the assault. # # #
When the Prince of Wales opened the Swansea
Docks, there were such a number of people who could
not possibly find shelter that the Mayor, after the
usual performance at the theatre, ordered another one
to go on the whole night, so as to shelter the loj al but
houseless visitors The very latest is that Oscar
Wilde’s new blank-verse drama, a story of Kussian
conspiracy life, its title Vera, was to be first played at a
morning performance at the Adelphi, on Saturday,
December 17th, with Mrs. Bernard-Beere as the heroine.
The Alice Oates Co. are playing Audran’s “La
Mascotto” at the California Theatre, 'Frisco Au-
dran, composer of “ Olivette,” has specially written a
new work, entitled “ The Snake Charmers,” for the New
York Biiou. The piece, with Mdme. Selina Dolaro as
the heroine, was au immense success.,....Fred. Thome
who has returned to England from Australia, has been
engaged to take the lead in low comedy at the London
Adolphi Mrs. Langtry was to make her next ap-
pearance at the London Haymarket. ai the matinee in
aid of the Dramatic Fund, as Miss Hardcastle, In “ She
Stoops to Conquer.” Patti, having failed as her own
manageress in Ar , .' > n'ca, has now agreed with Colonel
Haverly, of the Negro Minstrel Troupe, to be piloted
by him. The Colonel is to pay her a e«!ary, and to take
all risks on himself. He is a clever Baruum, and will,
no doubt, blacken her face and insist on her singing
negro melodies, if he cannot make money out of her as
a white prima-donna Mr, De Belleville, who was
here with the Liagardg, plays the heavy villain in the
“ Lights ofi London ”at New York. “Mimi,” Bouci-
cault’s latest play, has been a failure both in New
York and London This is what a French actress
writes about Clara Morris, the rival of Sara Bern-
hardt in America“ No, it is impossible f»r Parisians
to figure to themselves the American star. Imagine a
woman who could give points to Sara 'or leanness,
angular, having no longer any age, and who can never
have had any beauty—youth, perhaps, but a long time
ago. Her mouth is a black hole. Her teeth like cloves
stuck in sealing-wax. And people pi ocend that Ame-
rica is the country of dentists ! Shrivelled up, mum-
milled, she wears a cherubim wig. At the dramatic
moments she sobs with her head in her hands, and you
can see her long fingers adjusting the locks of her
hempen-blonde hair.” Speaking of Alice Oates,
who was doing “LaMascotte” at San Francisco, in
Dec., a correspondent of tho New York Clipper writes
that she is fair and fat, and her voice has lost much of
its freshness and melody—a fault she endeavours to
conceal by her playful manners and suggestive notions.
Sara Bernhardt used to visit the hospitals and
study the agony of death. One day, having been
apprised of an approaching death, she wont to tho bed
indicated and sat down by the side. Tho young woman
who was dying saw her, and gazing with horror in her
eyes at the thin cadaverous figure with the fire of soul
in her expression, she cried in an indescribable voice of
pain, “Ah I I know you, you are tho Angel of Death ;
you came tho other day and took my neighbour, and
now you come for me. I will not die. Go, terrible
spectre.” And as the dying girl sank exhausted, the
great actress fell fainting on tho floor W. H.
Lingard and company doing poor business at the Gris-
wold Opera House, Troy, N.Y., during the first half of
Thanksgiving Week. They disbanded afterwards, and
Horace returned to San Francisco and to Alice
J. K. Emmett closed a very successful week at Buffalo
on Nov. 26 Miss Annie Pixley played MTiss to a
packed house on Nov. 22, at Grand Opera House, Bead-
ing, Pa Janauschek and company were doing New
York State in December The Clipper wants the
address of Kate Vinson, daughter of the late Mr. J. H.
Vinson, the well-known actor. Something to her ad-
vantage. She used to be in Australia Willie Edouin's
Sparks Company were doing fair business at Washing-
ton late in November Emilie Melville played
*• Patience” for 100 nights at Boston. Fancy Emilie
telling Grosvenor to “stop there.” Rosa Stella was
with a rival “Patience” company at the same city
Emilio Melville and Company were performing the
“ Royal Middy” and “ Madame Favart" at Boston in
November Salsbury’s Troubadours were playing
“ The Fawn of the Glen,” at Baltimore, in November,
to fair business. Baker and Farron were to appear
there later on in “Chris and Lena ” At the Adelphi
in Buffalo (N. Y.), an old Sydney favourite, C. W.
Barry, was starring in “ Escaped from Sing Sing.”
Lecooq’s new work “ Le Jour et la Nuit ” is said to be
the composer’s best work since “ La Fillo de Madame
Angot.” Mrs. Sothern, wife of the late ‘ Lord
Dundreary,” is dying A young tenor, named
Prcvoat, has been electrifying New York audiences
with his high C. His voice failed him at the close of
the season, and bad business ensued Jefferson says
he has played Rip Van Winkle about 2500 times, and
adds: “For which may I be forgiven in another and
better world, where there will be no matindes and no
managers.” Catherine Lewis—dear coy, mischievous
Catherine— is losing her voice. Her Madame Favart,
at New Orleans, in December, was a failure. We are
sorry to hear it Barry Sullivan says that in spite of
the fad about Irving, tho people of Great Britain and
Ireland remain true to him, and that his engagements
are such that he has absolutely no time to visit
America, in spite of royal offers George Leyhonrne,
the “ lion comique,” was, when the mail left, danger-
ously ill at Leicester An American paper records
how an actor was paid by an advertising firm to alter
the text in the “Two Orphans.” Instead of saying
“ She will recover her sight, thank heaven,” he said
“ . . . . thanks to M‘Nevin’s ointment, 50 cents
a pot.” We will wind up our lines this week by giving
a sample of what criticism has come to in Cincinnati:—
“ Mary Anderson, you are handsomer
Than a lot of Chinese kites ;
But, oh, do please oblige ns.
And play a part in tights.”
And so, until seven more “revolving moons have
closed their course ” —adieu 1
THE KOOKABURRA.
Malaria—a badly-sung solo.
Ee flirtuous, and you will be happy.
An utterly toe-toe complaint—the gout.
A Russian lady who is dazzling Paris, is named
Mdlle. Shirtoff.
The young lady who married her father’s coach-
man says she was driven to it.
During the deluge Mr. Noah was in the habit
of calling his wife an ark angel.
“ The vacuum cure ” is the latest. Apply at
any twenty-bob boarding-house.
Steamers sometimes collide because officers pre-
fer good old “ port ” to starboard.
An heiress engaged to a worthless scapegrace
has been described as his Unancde.
"When an old actress is painting her face to look
young, she is making up for lost time.
The Fenians’ cry—Kill, maim ’em. The
Government’s answer—Kill main 'em.
Comparison is everything. A very ordinary
looking girl, in a tramcar filled with men, looks 1. vely.
Darwin says: “Man, only, can whistle.”
Darwin certainly never lived anywhere near a tram-line.
Barney approves of the proposed introduction
of women-barbers. But adds that they should have
pretty mugs.
Hinchy says that no matter how seraphic may
be her voice, a soprano who eats onions will burst up
the strongest choir.
The difference between a defaulter and a thief
is very simple. One steals enough to hire good lawyers,
and the other doesn’t.
“How came your eyes so crooked?” “Why,
by sitting between two girls, and trying to make love to
both at the same time. "
Teacher: “Where’s God.” Boy: “ The Lord
knows, I doesn't.” There’ll be a “ shindy” over that
boy s grave when he dies.
King Billy, of Bugaboo Aboriginal Station,
says that the white man has conferred on him and his
race the blessings of syphilisation.
Some men, when they go to church, never think
of studying the fresco on the ceiling of the edifies until
the collection-plate is passed around.
When a Yankee in Rome was shown the petrified
form of one of the early Christian martyrs, he remarked
that it was evidently a Saint Gothard.
When a fellow wants to marry a girl, ho presses
his suit; but when, after promising to marry her, ho
finds he doesn’t like her, she presses her suit.
Sara Bernhardt was lately stoned while driving
home from the theatre in Fodmoloczyika. The Pod-
moioezyikans must have great confidence in their aim.
Dreamy young lady in railway carriage to cheer-
ful and exceedingly healthy-looking young man: “ Oh,
sir, are you (Esthetic ?" " No, ma’am; I’m a butcher.”
The newspapers often print the “last words”
of men, hut never those of women, as the latter would
take up so much room as to crowd out all the advertise-
ments.
Husband : “ Laura, what do you say to a dozen
of oysters?" Wife: “ Oh! no, John. I could not after
Olivette.” [She pronounced it All-I’vc eat, without a
blush.]
Physicians who say that it is not good to sleep
in the daytime, are rebuked by a religious journalist,
who says that people who attend church have splendid
health.
There are three prominent phases of a woman’s
life all visibly connected : As a baby, she’s lugged ; as
a young woman, she’s hugged; as a wife, she’s hum-
bugged.
“Is you father a Christian?” asked a gentle-
man of a little boy on one occasion. “Yes, sir,” said
the little boy; 11 but I believe he has not worked much
at it lately 1"
“ Cheer up,” he said to the wife of his bosom.
"I shall only be away for a week.” "That’s what
I’m cry-y-ing for,” she sobbed, “ I thought it was for
a mo-o-onth,"
Germany has solved a problem for us. In that
country more girls marry at 35 than at 19. Now we all
know why girls at 35 remain 19 for so many years: they
don’t want husbands.
There seems to be some discussion as to whether
a man should squeeze his girl hard or soft. About the
right thing is a happy medium; that is, squeezing her
both as hard and as oft as you can.
Would you believe it, a friend has just invented
a pair of braces that contract on your approach to
water; and the moment you come to a pnddio, lift you
over, and drop you ou the opposite side.
“ Do you think I shall get an honest verdict? ”
said a prisoner to his counsel. “No,” replied the
lawyer’, " for unless I am very much mistaken, I see two
men on the jury who object to hanging. ”
And now they say that a “ leading Irish patriot ”
has been taking up a collection in Dublin, for the
purpose of importing a South American earthquake, on
the ground that it is a great land agitator.
The Melbourne Herald states that Yarra
boating parties are “ assaulted " with foul language.
We once know a man who was murdered by foul conver-
sation. He lived next door to a poultry fancier.
The very latest Tasmanian mining yarn is that
the miners are very much discouraged at a new rush on
the west coast. They have to dig through a solid vein
of silver four feet thick before they roach the gold.
Mr. Fosberyis politely informed that a number
of blackguards nightly assemble at the Milson’s Point
wharf, use the most disgusting language, and insult
every female who passes them. The occasional presence
of a plain-clothes constable is much required.
The fighting in Herzegovina between the
patriots and the Austrians is cabled as having been
desultory. As news from the scene of combat must
come from Austrian sources, it is safe to read desultory
as meaning that the Austrian troops have not been get-
ting the beat of the fighting.
In all probability, the opening voluntary on
Good Friday next, at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, will be
“ Hark the herald angels sing,” and the concluding
one—the “Hallelujah chorus;” and, doubtless, the
Dean will express his appreciation of the "foresight”
shown in such appropriate selections! It would be well,
perhaps, for newly arrived churchmen to bear in mind,
that St. Andrew’s is an anti.podean cathedral. It should,
however, bo known, as has since been ascertained, that
the Eov. the Precentor exercises no control over the
instrumental portion of the service. Query—ls it not
desirable that he should. Had such been the case.
Churchmen would have been spared the recent Christ-
mas fiasco.
“ Elector ” (Forbes) ; We consider that in vot-
ing for Messrs. Roberts and Dalveen, a large number of
the electors of East Macquarie simply threw away
their votes. We consider the public-house interest to
be already more than sufficiently represented in Par-
liament, seeing that every man who runs a whisky-mill,
or merely holds one, or sells grog wholesale, or drinks
like a pig and associates with swipers, or bosses a har-
bour hell or any other den of infamy, raises the now
impotent howl that the poor man is being deprived of
cocculus indicus, or his white spirit and flavouring
matter—labelled “ whisky " or " gin," or “ fine old
Jamaica rum,” and sold at threepence a nobbier.
Men who live by or on bad grog would, taken on tho
average vote for any creature put up by the publicans
Wo want the intelligent, well-educated young men
of New South Wales to come forward for Parliament,
and wo want the electors to vote for them even if they,
the candidates haven't a good pair of boots to wear.
It’s of no use to write platitudes of a general character
when dealing with political duffers. That’s what the
dailies do. The dailies even go out of their way to
write enthusiastic leaders in favour of the rankest
duffers. We believe in withering up such people with
satire. It often succeeds when ordinary argument
fails.
In the silver grey of mom,
Wlion the city’s silent, solemn.
With blood-shot eye?-, and worn,
We begin to write this column.
With a brain that longs—how much !
To make Morpheus concession,
Our Mackinnon we must clutch.
While we— hies* the whole profession!
•The quiet little stars, you know.
In t,hs filmv crowds are creeping j
While the big, big “ stars ” below,
If not snoring, all are sleeping.
Yet the “copy ” must be writ.
Thirty slips in quick succession ;
So we polish up our wit.
While we—Mess the whole profession!


PEPPER AND SALT.
“ The old order changeth, yielding place to the
new.” On the 12th instant, according to the Incubus
(at twopence) of the 13th, Henry Heapes, for knocking
his wife down and trying to kick her up again, had to
pay 20s. or retire from the busy scene for seven days.
Alfred Bishop, for a sacrilegious assault upon one of
the foorce, was ordered to *• part" 40s. or take a month.
But Peter Johnson, for the blood-curdling, marrow,
freezing atrocity of refusing to pay for three-penn’orth
of soul destroyer, was sentenced to three months
(‘‘coupled” with hard labour) without the option.
Wherefore, presuming the delinquent to be destitute of
“sugar," as one is to four so is brutally ill-using a
wife to moderately assaulting a policeman, and as one
is to thirteen so is ditto ditto to defrauding a publican
of threepence. Those stipendiaries only cost us £4BOO
a year, and what can you expect for fourpence P
« • «
*‘ Familiar, but by no means vulgar,” is evidently
the motto of certain students belonging to that high-
toned, exclusive, and, all things considered, immode-
ntely expensive institution, the Sydney University.
The other day the mathematical lecturer resigned. He
was a gentlemanly young fellow, an English gra-
duate, and had, it seems, incurred the hostility of
some first and second year students, by resenting certain
insults received from them —by hav;ng told them, for
example, in the heat of passion, that they had treated
him and his office with such little respect that he would
recommend the Sydney University rather as a fit
asylum for scavengers than as a field for gentlemen to
work in. The polished young persons attached to the
establishment heard that the lecturer was about to
leave, and several of them bethought themselves how
they could most conveniently and inexpensively offer
him a final insult. So they awaited their opportunity,
and presented him, in the presence of a crowd, with a
testimonial consisting of a dilapidated bible and
a tooth-brush. Under the circumstances, it will
surprise no one to hear that tsars actually glistened in
the eyes of the departing mathematical lecturer. Per-
haps this will be news to Dr. Badham,
• • • • •
A nice sample, indeed, of the refinement which the sons
of Colonial Middlewicks carry to their Alma Mater,
The gay young creatures, if unchecked, will, probably,
persevere—they may, in course of time, even descend to
writing for the brilliant organ of their University, the
Half-Crown Wilkins.
* • •
" There is a sheet published in West Maitland
Called the Weekly Post, and we learn from the imprint
that it is printed by a gentleman rejoicing in the
romantic appellation of Tipper. We can’t ask Tipper
of his flipper to be atipper, because we don’t know him;
but feeling in a way fascinated by his beautiful cogno-
men, wo can at least notice his paper. This journal
(which, in size, is about the same ns that other splendid
ornament to modern journalism, the Evening Peroy) is
a production which would reflect a largo amount of
credit upon the typographical efforts of the Ancient
Britons, and we cannot but consider that the three mad
kanakas and the hypochondriacal Chinaman who seem to
write it deserve considerable kudos for the large amount
of industry they display. Poetry is a great feature in the
Weekly Tipper, and the following stanza is a fair
sample of the melting odes that appear in the paper .
“ She wears a little Jersey
And serves behind a bar;
Her name it is not Mary,
Yet she plays the piano.”
There is a touching sweetness about this stanza which
makes it calculated to adoml in an equal degree the
Weekly Post and the Daily Dusthole.
* * •
One of the Supreme Court judges uses only two
“I’s” in spelling "libellous.” In other words,
he writes it “libelous,” having, it is said, recently
been got at by a “ traveling” vendor of Yankee dic-
tionaries—of which, dear public, beware. The judge
may be right, but we are clearly of opinion that there
ore at least three ** hells” in “ libellous.”
In his speech from the hotel verandah was this
passage“ Though possessed of considerable means,
and a princely residence, there is no pride about me.
Born of the soil, I am a son of the soil, and I extend my
brotherhood to every elector.” Yet who was the man
who, when he reached his private apartments, cried out—
•• Bring water, a rake, soft soap and sand —lavender-
water, a nail brush. Anything to rid my hands of the
smell of those greasy ruffians 1"
• • •
The Brisbane Licensed Victuallers are un-
decided whether to start a paper or establish an ice
company. Our advice is, a paper by all means. And so
os to give them a bit of a start, here is the commence-
ment of the first leader “ The growth and prosperity
of Queensland having increased in such a remarkable
degree during the past few years, and the licensed
victuallers having become a power in the land, it has been
felt that an organ to publicly advocate their views and
watch over their interests has become a necessity:
therefore ” etc. Then there could be the usual
thing about making the bow to the public, and the
flattering assurances of support. There is nothing
easier than starting a newspaper, if you only knowhow
to do it, except perhaps getting it burst up by the
Supreme Court. # # #
The other day Signor Giorza, who has not
cultivated the English tongue to any great extent,
entered the office of the Theatre Eoyal to arrange some
business with Mr. Garner, who, on his side, knows
rather leas about French than a Hindoo does about
skates. Well, they fenced about for a bit, until, at
length, with the aid of Goodman, a vocabulary, Dffiile’s
Grammar, and such scraps of Parisian conversation as
Miss Maggie Oliver bad managed, years ago, to pick up
at that well-known watering-place, Barrinagullah, the
biz. was fixed up somehow, and all emerged from the
office bathed in perspiration from their terrible
linguistic efforts. * Confound it 1 " cried Garner,
mopping his bedewed forehead —” If Giorza could only
speak English like those other two foreigners, Verdi and
Biccardi, how business would be facilitated 1 ”
• * *
“ Count Walderaee has been appointed to
succeed Count Von Moltke, who lately resigned his
office as Minister for War for Germany.” Here now is
a man who has succeeded to perhaps one of the most
Important posts which it is in the power of monarch to
bestow or mortal to receive, yet how many people
have over heard of him before? And yet to think that
familiar in our mouths as household words are the
classic patronymics of Harris, Roberts, M'Elhoue, and
O’Connor I We hope the Count’s photo, will bo out
soon, for now, of course, wo want all to see Walder see.
• • •
It was last Sunday, at the laying of the founda-
tion-stone by Dr. Vaughan, in Lower Fort-street.
« Hullo 1" cried a spectator, pointing to a tall, dark,
gentlemanly-looking man, who was in deep conversation
with a magnate of the Church, " there’s the new mem-
ber for Yass Plains. He’s not lost any time in toiling
for his bleeding country.” “ What do you mean ?”
Inquired his friend. “ Why,” ejaculated the other,
pointing to the hon. member’s watch-chain, "he has
made the first step in the direction of legislative fame.
He’s got his railway pass already."
* # #
From Monday’s D.T. we glean the following:—
“ Avery distressing case came before the Central Police
Magistrates on Saturday. A young girl of prepossess-
ing appearance and decidedly respectable bringing up,
was charged with deserting her illegitimate child. She
is only seventeen years of ago, and the father of the
child has been served with about as many summers.”
In this departure from the ordinary rules of journalism
wo behold, with much pleasure, the inauguration of a
new school of paragraphing. Any change from the
monotony of the old style is, of course, welcome; at
the same time, it is to be regretted that the hyperbole
“ served with about as many summers," should be so
suggestive of "served with about as many shandy-
gaffs." Perhaps, indeed, the latter phrase suggested
to the teeming brain of the writer the former. Little
things often suggest great. Remember, for instance,
Bruce and the Spider. A-hem I
« « •
** Mr- Roberta having thanked the meeting for
Its patient and attentive hearing of his views, and its
unanimous approval thereof, and having called for
three cheers for the Queen, which were heartily given
by some if not all, tho washed and unwashed, upper
and lower crusts, aristocrats and plebeians, squattahs,
and forty-acre things [assembled at the bar and liquored.”
And yet to think that in this short par. (clipped from a
country paper) is embodied the whole science of
electioneering.
* • •
Here’s the latest fad for ladies whose ambition
is to dress very well on means that are very limited.
The idea is at present popular in the Northern towns.
The recipe, young ladies, is this: Go round, half-a-
dozan of yon, at separate times, to all the drapers’
shops, and pretend you want silk patterns. When you
have collected a sufficient quantity—say a ton —settle
down for a few days and cobble up two or three patch-
work quilts. Go round, then, among your gentlemen
friends, and announce a raffle —one hundred members at
ss. a member —implying that the thing is for a charit-
able object—which, indeed, it is. When you have col-
lected all the cash, trouble yourselves no more abont
the business, and if yon chance to drop across one of
the ill-fated youths who have parted, and he enquires
abont the drawing, exclaim, “Oh, didn’t yon know!
We drew the other night, and sister Dolly won it. Pa
threw for you, but without success. Better lusk next
time.” A good line then is to ask him if ho likes water-
melon, or where his sister gets her boots heeled. That
will divert his thoughts for the moment from the
quilt, and while he gasps yon can scoot away into the
ice-cream shop,
* • •
There ia a sweetly amicable spirit between the
Auckland Observer and the Auckland Free Lance.
Wickham of the latter, calls Bathbone of the former
“Eattlebones of the Snobseeveu. Mr. E. awaits a
favourable opportunity—possibly Wickham’s birthday—
and addresses to him an ode, of which the following is
the beginning stanza:—
" Inside a wretched reeking den
The vulgar blacksmith scrawls j
The smith, a low-bred brute is he.
Who in the gutter crawls;
And the drivelling of his addled brain
The reader’s soul appals.”
Wickham appears to have replied with a slate-pencil
sketch of a boot, labelled “ Society,” kicking Bathbone
down a flight of steps, this being accompanied by letter,
press of a decidedly uncomplimentary nature. Now,
this sort of thing has been going on to our certain
knowledge for the last two years, and yet the Auckland
people have, up to this time, wrecked neither of the
offices, nor lynched the editors. It is to be inferred,
therefore, that the Aucklanders have got just the kind
of journalism they require. If so, what a field there
would be in that town fer the Protestant Standard
and the Witness! Messrs. Barry and Sutherland
would do well to consider this. The Eldorado of the
former journal has vanished. An attempt to murder a
Prince of the Blood Royal is only madelonce in a way,
you know, even at Clontarf.
* * *
One Sunday morning we read the religious
papers, and in the afternoon and evening gave the inde-
pendent howlers a turn. In the evening we uttered,
with bated breath, the following impromptu to the
young person who attends ns in our starlight rambles
If Barry, M’Gibbon, and Sutherland, too,
Allen and Walker (of course, we,mean Dave),
Prank Warden, and Cooks, to heaven must go.
To trump with the “ good ” and sing with the “ brave,"
Why we take this occasion to simply declare.
No mortal persuasion would make us go there.
* « •
Par. to appear in the papers two days before
Baker’s trial:—“lt has been, we understand, re-
solved by the Government that, in the Milbum Creek
case, the Attorney-General shall prosecute in person.”
Par. to appear on the morning fixed for the trial: “ At a
meeting of the Cabinet, yesterday, representations
having been made; that a mass of legal and technical
difficulties had sprung up in regard to the indictments
drawn up by the hon. the Attorney-General, it was
decided that, on account of the probabilities of convic-
tion having been reduced to a minimum, no evidence
should be offered against the defendants by the Crown.”
These won’t be the exact words, of course, but it will
be a rum thing if we are out in the spirit. "Watch, for
ye know not at what hour the crusher cometh.”
This is a literal fact. The Mudgee people,
intent on arranging a programme of sports for Anniver-
sary Day, and in aid of the local hospital, write to their
members for a donation to the end in view. Sir John
sent a cheque for £5 5a., and Mr. Buchanan a copy of
the Financial Eeports of New South Wales since 1845.
What enhances the liberality of the latter gift is the
fact that free copies of the work in question were
obtained by each member of Parliament from the
Government Printer.
* • *
DALVEEN.
He sits, at home, upon a stool,
And loud his cries resound—
“Oh, write me down at last a fool.
I've lost my forty pound."
SMITH (loq.).
John Suth’land told me, with much glee.
That seat would be knocked down to me ;
We went and saw and pitched in vain.
So John and I are back again.
Come I_ what’ll we say—now give a bid
For this old sancepan without a lidl
PECHEY.
(TO A KINDRED COCKY.)
** 1*11 tell you straight what put me in
In a brace of shakes, old sonny
Then quoth he, as he gave a grin,
“ 'Twas —someone else’a money."
• • •
He was a young curate, and fond of quoting
the Scriptures. She was a volatile young thing, all gush
and pullback ; and the pair, being about to be married,
were looking at a house. They walked through a nice
villa at Petersham, when suddenly the bridegroom ex-
claimed, casting his eyes up to the ceiling—'* Within
my Father’s house are many mansions.” “What a
funny house that must be!” she exclaimed. “ It is a
quotation,” said he severely. “ Is it ?" said she inno-
oently. ‘'Well, I haven't read the book,” Not more
parted are Scylla and Charybdis now than these two
young people 1
# * *
Anew paper has been started at Bonrke—in
opposition to the Central Australian— the Bourke
Watchman. The machinery of the new rag went queer
at the start, so the other paper machined the first issue
for them. This is a very good beginning, Indeed. Too
good, in fact. We wonder how long it will be before
the Watchman sends a brick through the Central’s
machine-room window,_ and the Central comes out
with a leader in pica italic, commencing, “It hag at
length become our painful duty to draw attention to
the blatant scurrility of the puny driveller who brings
out, weekly, that portion of foetid journalistic slime
ludicrously miscalled the Watchman?" A two-inch
local cash ad„ either way, might;do it.
♦ * #
SThe Suburban Times is a plucky little paper,
has come out with a leader which gives ns kudos gener-
ally. In another part of the paper there is a notice which
says; “There is no chance of the Times going ‘ bung,’ it
is founded on a rock.” Well, we hope it is; but, as we
feel kindly disposed towards our little friend, we
hasten to give it some advice. Let our contemporary
pause—and at once, in its wild career. If it would pros-
per, let it wink at debauchery, and shield that which is
evil. Let it eulogize the judges of Spitsbergen and
glorify the picnic policemen of K'anmchnt.Vn, Let it
crack up bad actors, and enthuse over walking “sticks”
of the female kind because they happen to be symme-
trically formed and of agreeaole manners—at supper.
Call 25 shillings in the pit and two rows of dead-heads
in the circle of the Eoyal Dusthole Theatre “ a crowded
house." Do all these things, little Suburban Times,
and the world will prosper with you. You will not be
feared, you will not be even respected, but you will be
wealthy. Allow yourself to be counselled by Stiggins
and button-holed by Chadband, and you will be adver-
tised from the pulpit and proclaimed from the house-
top. Be, however, outspoken, fearless, and “indiffer-
ent honest,” and—well, only try it. But, before you
do so, purchase the goodwill of an apple-stall. It will
come in very handy.
• • ♦
“ My daughter is a finishing her eddication at
Melbourne,” said a magistrate, of Sydney, to, a ditto
of the same, in the tram, the other day. “Is she, in-
deed?" said the other. "Yes,” said the first speaker,
“ and I'll tell you what she’s a leamin’ on. Dancin’
and coliseums." He meant calisthenics.
“The marriage of Monsieur David Wilson,Under-
secretary of State for Finance, to Mdlle. Qnivy, took
place at the Elysee on Saturday, October 22, the arrange-
ments being as previously announced." We get this
from a paper that sheuld be an undoubted authority
upon matters connected with Parisian society and
fashion. We allude to the Bundabero Star. Our
reaspn for quoting the item, however, is to call attention
to the peculiar circumstance that so many foreign
notables have English cognomens. There is M. Wad-
dington, who was or is the French Minister for Foreign
Affairs; then we have Prince Pyrmont, the future
father-in-law of Prince Leopold ; M. Wilson, as above,
and many more. During the French revolution, .Gallic
people used to be content with copying our clothes and
our customs ; now they appropriate our names. If
things go on like this, at the next change of the Paris
Ministry wo shall expect to see enrolled aq portfolio
holders the following names M. le Chevalier Joseph
Eckford, M. le Baron Sijd Eoberts, and M. Bakerre.
Talking of the wedding, by the way, the Star describes
it as being quiet but very rokerky. In contradistinc-
tion to the usual plan, the breakfast, on this occasion,
was served at the house of the bridegroom. So it will
therefore be seen that while M. Wilson had to furnish
the joints and entries, the President was only called
upon to supply the Qrdvy.
• • •
Hardly were the returns in, than, clutching
Andrew excitedly by the coat-coliar, he cried in a voice
husky with eagerness, “ How about Wentworth p ’
• * »
A copy has reached us of the Freemasons’
Chronicle, a journal which we do not remember to
have seen before. It is a sedate little paper, and there
is a about its contents which is in keeping
with the mysticism of the dread craft it represents.
Even its poetry is peculiar in this respect, as the foil
lowing will show:
'“Will you walk into my parlour!’ said a spider to a
fly,
But the fly responded gravely: ‘No, Sir Spider, no.
not I.’ ”
Mark this, now, “the fly responded gravely.” There
was evidently something behind that quiet reply. The
supposition, of course, is that the fly had offered the
Masons sign, and the spider had only come out with
the Good Templars’ elbow-jerk. To our minds that fly
is quite a character. He has none of the flippancy of
the English, nor the audacity of the Australian, insect.
Let’s see. The grandees of Spain are celebrated for
their gravity. We’ve got it, of course. This was evi-
dently a Spanish fly.
• « •
WHO KILLED COCK EOBEETS ?
Who killed Cock Eoberts ?
They did, dear reader.
With their D.T. leader.
They killed Cock Eoberts.
• • •
A peraonator was arrested at Kelso. His name,
the Bathurst Times says, is George Wheeler. “ Who,’*
inquires that journal, indignantly, “ brought him up ?”
Why, his father and mother, we suppose; and if what
we hear about George is true, it would seem that they
brought him up very badly. He is the kind of young
man
“ Who is lost to-tally.
And will marry a girl in the corps de bally.”
♦ * *
The Ladies’ Evangelical Association has had a
bit of a jar. It appears from their report that “Some
of the ladies who for years had devoted themselves to
the visitation of the old women at Hyde Park, and who
came with their flowers, in some instances, six or seven
miles, were, as usual, dismissed at the gates of the old
women’s asylum, thinking it hard that these poor
friendless old creatures should be the only ones de-
barred the privilege of their visit." There is also a
paragraph in the Herald asking Mrs. Hicks for an ex.
planation. Without waiting for Mrs. H.’a letter, we
can give our contemporary a bit of an insight into the
reason why some of these halo-headed ladies are re-
fused admission. The fact is that when they are let in,
they play old gooseberry with the whele place. To one
flower they bring there is always a bale of texts, so
while some of the contingent shriek the bible at old
dames who are as deaf as door-nails, others of the ladies
go about singing shrill hymns and grunting hallelujah,
nailing up the while a few miles of scriptural placards.
Then, after a prayer, which is as long as •' The Pil-
Rare Plant (genus Larrikinus). visible to
advantage only at street fights and
down-the-harbour picnics.
CAPTAIN A.: “He was the ugliest man in our district. We used to call him Ugly Tom.”
MRS. B. (musingly): “He must have been very ugly.”
At Potts’s Point, o’er Chatsworth fair,
Are gloom and thunder in the air;
And, as on his uneasy bed
Poor Charley turns his aching head.
He murmurs, in a voice of pain,
“ Oh, horror 1—I’ve got licked again I"
He shuts his eyes, and it does seem
To him a wild distempered dream.
What I he, ex-Mayor, and J.P., too.
To be licked by a cockatoo!
What! he—the King of Potts's Point! —
The times, then, must be out of joint!
The gold sun sets ’midst crimson bars.
And in the heavens gleam three stars ;
A tear then drops upon his hand —
He knows that old familiar brand I
“ I thank," he cried, “ ye mystic three,
That come, ’midst grief, to comfort me.”
The gloom of night’s on the demesne.
And Charley tries to sleep—in vain 1
At length, at midnight—not before —
The Knight of Chatsworth ’gins to snore.
Ere night has run one half her race
There rises up a £3 case ;
Than, on his lips a smile define.
For then appears that “ sherry wine”—
That wine that comes from Spain direct,
From Spain where grow nor gums nor wattles,
A vintage choice you may expect,
“ Four bob a quart—and keep the bottles.”
Next comes a motly crowd that crunch.
With furious fangs, a big free lunch ;
The silver stream comes rolling in.
As down they gurgle beer and gin—
Pence, sixpences, aye, even, zounds !
Bright shillings and half-crowns and pounds.
He wakes; looks on the prospect fair.
And wipes his brow so hot and wet;
Then cries in tones of rapture—” T here
Is something left to live for yet!
A BUNTHORNICAL BALLAD.
A la "Patience.”
It you’re anxious for to shine
In the Legislative line.
As a model M.L.A.,
You must get up sundry facts.
With respect to certain acts.
In a desultory kind of way.
You need not have been to college,
Or possess a lot of knowledge.
Or be cultured or refined—
You can represent the nation
Without any education.
Or a particle of what’s called mind.
And everyone will say.
When you ope your mouth to bray.
If he knows so little, and can say so much.
On a matter that’s obscure to me.
Why, what a preternaturally wise old ass
This M.L.A. must be I
You must say you’ve got a mission.
You must join the Opposition,
And oppose the Premier's sway 5
You must combat every measure
For expending public treasure
In a most determined way.
Yon must sit up late o’ nights
Just to vindicate the rights
Of the persecuted werking-man 5
With a clique you must be banded
To protect the 'orny 'anded
And the 'ard-worked artisan.
And every one will say
Of this model M.L.A.,
If he’s so energetic for a lot of working men.
Who are nobody to you or me.
Why, what a disinterested grand old cuss
This M.L.A. must be 1
Don’t imagine for a second
That much eloquence is reckoned
Very prevalent amongst M.P.’s,
If you catch the Speaker’s optic.
You may jabber Dutch or Coptic,
Or any kind of rot you please.
A speech, to bo effective.
Ought to bristle with invective ;
And, it’s just as well, perhaps, to state 1
That you really needn’t worry
To invest in Lindley Murray,
For he’s pretty nearly out of date.
And every one will say
When they read your speech next day.
With the grammar all corrected, and the slang
cut out.
And not a single great big D,
Why, what a most deliciously refined old bird
This M.L.A. must be I


grim’s Progress,” and as loud as a naval salute, they
swoop out, leaving the old ladies lashed into a state of
fury, which is only to be relieved by a fierce attack upon
the placards before mentioned. So it always turns out
that for the next few hours after the visit of the hallelu-
jah purveyors the asylum looks as though it had been
snowing bits of “ Knock and it shall be opened unto
you,” “Love your enemies,’’ “Seek and ye shall find,”
and other quotations of a similar alluring and luminous
description. The old ladies think that there is too much
holiness about the Evangelical Association, and not
enough tea and sugar.
* * #
This is a fact. At a recent election, a candidate
being thoroughly in earnest, and having his country’s
welfare nervously at stake, had a private interview with
six prominent electors at Wattle Bloom Gully. After
a convivial time, the candidate left, and a little packet
containing £IOO in notes was found addressed to the
company, and marked in a strange hand —divide. They
divided; and then, in order to express their disgust at
an attempt to bribe such high-spirited, honourable, and
virtuous men, they went in a body and voted for an-
other candidate. This took place in the island of
Flim-Flam.
• • •
WA prisoner was arrested on a charge of stealing
the other day, and on his lodgings being searched 40
bogns sovereigns were found. A certain legal practi-
tioner, hearing that the man was " sugared up’’—as the
phrase goes—took up his case for him, and whan his
client had been dnly committed, applied for some of the
mosey found in his possession to be set apart for his
defence. When taken over and shown tho money, the
legal gentleman made a remark consisting of a single
syllable, and shaking the dnst off his galoshes, pro-
ceeded to revenge himself npon human nature by
“ hanging up a pint.”
BRIEF MENTION.
A suburban paper wants to know where Sknnk-
thorpe is.
The standard joke at Clovelly.—That indict-
ment.
Some of the up-oonntry papers, we see, are still
publishing the “ Rodanow” watch advertisement 1
Drink and disease are the great destroying
agents of the hour. A drain too much and a drain too
little. Men and women die, not of old age, but of drain-
age.
A correspondent tells us
that children have to carry
bottles of water two miles to
Bungwah school, where there
are no tanks or sunshades.
A Melbourne attorney
has been sent to gaol for
three months for begging. His
defence should have been that
he was simply practising the
profession of a solicitor.
Mr. Joseph E. Marks,
alias Lambert, remanded to
Sydney for forgery, objected
to vermin in the Melbourne
city watohhonse. _ Joseph
seems particular in some
things, at any rate.
It’s the Herald that’s
*' got ’em ” now. On Tuesday
it published a delirious state-
ment that a locomotive engine
in Canada in May last drew
two cars a distance of 111
miles In nine minutes! Only
740 miles an hour, that*a all.
We see that at Gun-
dagai, the other day, Mr.
Frank Norton was married to
Miss Clara Madeleine Smith.
This makes anew firm of
Norton and Smith, though
the only solicitor in the con-
cern appears to have been
Frank.
Says a recent number of
the Nooze : “ Several utterera
of obscurities were severely
dealt with at the Central
Police Court.” “ Obsceni-
ties ” was probably the word
intended, for, if the uttering
or publishing of an obscurity
comes to be an indictable
offence, heaven help poor
Alfred 1
The supplementary sheet
of the S.M. Herald, on Tues-
day last, was truly parsonic.
One-fourth religion, and
three-fourths money-making.
In other words, there were
three pages of advertise-
ments, and one page of read-
ing matter of vivid interest —
to wit, reports of the pro-
ceedings at the Wesleyan
Missionary Society, the Wes-
leyan Conference, the Pres-
byterian Sustentation Fund,
and the St. Paul’s Auxiliary
Church Society. The Morn-
ing Missionary is going it.
The time seems to be at hand
when the Herald will appear
matutinally in the form of a
tract, headed, " Miserable
sinner, whither art thou
going ? ”
It is a significant fact that the London Times
has at last come |to the conclusion that hanging is a
relic of barbarism, quite unworthy of the present age of
civilization and refinement.
The Dubbo paper says that the new local gaoler,
Mr. Smith, is " the right man in the right place. Mr.
Smith is understood not to appreciate the rather left-
handed compliment of the simple-minded country
editor.
The despairing-looking person who rnahed
out of the building just as the Weleyan Confer-
ference had opened proceedings with “singing” and
prayer was not a conscience-stricken sinner. Ho was a
musician.
After the merciless manner in which the Press
has twitted the gruesome Qrisdale anent his confused
ideas of the two “ greenery yalleries” (cereals and Celes-
tials), the latter has abated somewhat in his desire to
protect colonial “ serials.”
The other day, a Northern slavey, with that
sly humour so peculiar to her class, left a dish of hot
cabbage on the sofa. The master came along and sat
down. And then he jumped up with a freshly verdant
landscape decorating the nameless moroeau of his manly
anatomy.
In reply to a Sandridge deputation, who wanted
£20,000 for an extension of the railway pier, Mr. Bent,
the courteous Victorian Minister for Railways, told his
interviewers that they had “the cheek of highway-
men.” The ex-market gardener who is now one of the
rulers of the cabbage garden has a very low way of
speaking.
Her Majesty nowhere mentions in her absorb-
ingly interesting “ Journal ” that the Prince Consort
was fond of assuming the role of a Christy Minstrel in
order to amuse his family. And yet we have it on no
less authority than that of the T. and C. that “ a guard
has been placed over His Royal Bones to prevent their
abstraction.”
The Auckland Observer invites ladies to send
in a description of the dresses they wore at the races,
for insertion in the paper. Here are some who com-
plied:—“Mrs. Isaacs; Dress of peacock blue satin;
jacket of blue and gold brocade—very handsome; white
bonnet.—The Misses Isaacs looked charming—one in
cream colour with hat to match, the other in pink and
white, with cream hat.—Mrs. Oppenheimer: Ombre
satin skirt, with a cream-coloured polonaise; cream
hat.” Unless we are mistaken, next week’s issue will
contain the costumes of Mrs. Aronsh, Miss Sholomunch,
Miss Abrahamsh, Mrs. Moshish, and Miss Rebecca
Jehosophat. An ad. for nothing I—oh, shelp me good-
nish 1
A certain Queensland college had got a new
professor. The students disliked him. This day they
were analysing " Paradise Lost," and had come to the
line where poor old Nicholas asks “ hell to receive the
flew possessor,” which the reader changed, as if it were
only a lapsus Ungues on his part, into “ Oh, hell, re-
ceive the new professor.”
An armless child was born in Sydney lately.
The defect is a serious one, for it is harder to fight the
great battle of life without arms than without brains.
The latter defect is often hereditary, but the brainless
one’s progenitor wipes away his tears and contemplates
with satisfaction his scion’s fitness for either the Lands
Department or the staff of Sydney Punch.
In a recent marine disaster, down South, a
certain influential politician was amongst the passen-
gers. He rushed towards the big boat in advance of
the ladies, declaring that his life was more valuable
than theirs, and, with the aid of a fireman, ho got up
his portmanteau, which, it is said, contained documents
relating to dummied lands sufficient to hang half his
colony.
“The Vagabond” says, in “Circular Notes”
that “ Prince,” the lion which tore off a man’s arm at
Dnhbo, is an animal which he has often patted.
“This is a really good ‘lion’ story.” If the Vag. had
lived in the time of Jonah, he would no doubt have
promptly remembered hiving taken a first-class pas-
sage in that whale. We wonder why “Prince”’ let the
Yag. pat him with impunity. Perhaps, because he
wasn’t nice enough to eat.
Latterly, the T. and C. has displayed quite an
anti-Irish tone in its comments on the affairs of that
unhappy nation. That’s a trifle. Bat then, it is an-
other thing to make inroads on Irish literature, and to
palm it off on a guileless public as American. The
" yam” in the Christmas number headed “ Melting
Moments" was told of the great Bryen Boiroimhe’s
(that’s the right way to spell it, we believe) grand-
father, when he kept a provision store in the town of
Naas.
Two men and a woman have been committed
for trial for the recent robbery of gold and gems from
the Melbourne Technological Museum. Specimens of
this kind exhibited at this institution have always been
so interesting to visitors that they have invariably
taken them home with them. A little while back,
Cosmo Newbery gilded a fine example of plaster of
Paris, and labelled it “Long Tunnel.” It was gone
within sixtylminutes ; and tho household into which it
was introduced revere his name as do the Dixon’s Gas
shareholders.
A Northern paper says that ' the versatile genius
of Mr. J. C. Jacobs appears to be equal to any emergency.
Having followed devions paths for some time, this gen-
tleman has again taken up his old r61e of photographer,"
4c. &o. Well, the last time we heard of Mr. Jacobs,ihe
was editing a paper on the Condamine; the time before
that he was running a 11 shaving saloon” at Tarrabud-
gereeoobbornpundyil, which city, as every reader knows,
is the capital of Booganjabbery. Mr. Jacobs will, it is
probable, ultimately be either Premier of N.S.W., or
nigger-driver-in-ordinary to a cockatoo sugar-planter.
The Inspector of Nuisances and his myrmidons
at Tamworth are at present engaged in slaughtering
?:oats found straying. Upon hearing of the death of her
avourite miloher, a “ dorther of the soil ” went to a
local solicitor, and sought advice as to whether she
could obtain redress. On being advised that she could
not, she became grief-stricken, and gave vent to her
indignation. “ Ah, my poor ghooat I I’d as much lose
a chud as my ghooat 1 Oh, wait until I git hould av the
inspector. I'm tould he kicked me ghooat, and thin
dhragged it, and thin kilt it orful. I’ll make him proove
that my ghooat was on the shtreet; faith, I will."
A London writer, speaking of a celebrated libel
case, where an appeal for a new trial has been lodged,
uses the following significant words : “A specific libel
cannot bo met by proving that, it not itself true, some-
thing else is true. A public writer cannot say, ‘ Yester-
day Mr. X. stole a spoon in Loudon,’ and then seek to
prove it by attempting to show that a year ago he stole
a fish in Brighton. All that a person whose character
is impugned specifically can be called upon to show is,
that the specific charge is not true.” Now, just alter
this a little, and it applies moat fittingly to a libel case
that occurred not long ago in a savage island, called
New Holland.
A man, whose political sentiment must be per-
spiring too freely this Calcutta weather, sends a poem
on “ How the Recess is spent." The poetical phantas-
magoria begins;—
Hero we close our transcription, and consign 2i yards
of a thrillin? composition to the W.P. basket. We
don’t know exactly where our contributor is spending
his recess,—but we will take odds it is at the Reception
House, or in the vice-chair of a Good Templar lodge.
The grain vendor now has his little joke. He
knows that there are in the world some people who
can never pass a bag of corn without taking a few
grains—if not a handful. He has set himself to alter
this. He now places at the mouth of each exposed
bagful of grain a stout card through which pins are
stuck, point upwards. The points he covers carefully
with corn, and when a meditative Civil servant, on his
way to the office, tries to fill his fist with horsefeed, he
gets a sore hand. And now, if you want to make a
certain grain merchant in William-street mad, just
handle his grain as Izaak Walton handled his worms—
“ as though yon loved it."
In New Babylon, recently, one of the profes-
sional cricketers belonging to an intercolonial team
discovered that a certain free pass handed to him bore
on it a notification that it had been issued to “Mr,
Alfred Batsman.” So he asked the secretary of his
team to show him the ticket held by him (the
secretary). And when he perceived that the secretary
aforesaid was on the pasteboard dubbed “Esquire," he
delivered himself thus: “ I notice that you are an
esquire. Well, now, if you are an esquire, so am I an
esquire. I shan’t take this ticket.” And he actually
refused to play until a ticket in the name of “Alfred
Batsman, esquire " had been placed in his horny hand.
Some time ago, in North Queensland, a young
fellow who had been brought up in the Roman Catholic
persuasion fell in love with, and married, at her father’s
place of business, tho daughter of a minister of the
Church of England. Ho was thereupon taken to task
by a Roman Catholic priest, who, when too late, remon-
strated with him on the folly and iniquity of joining
hands with a pretty girl who bowed the knee to a
Mnmbo-Jnmbo different from his own. “ That’s very
well,” replied the bridegroom, “ but I always was partial
to girls brought up under the shadow of a church, and
as you never seemed to have a pretty little daughter
to fling at me, I went and married the daughter of old
Folinsbee."
A good lady of Ballarat went out shopping
the other evening. She returned home suddenly, and
discovered her spouse chucking the buxom servant
maid under the chin. He explained that the domestic
had been taken suddenly ill, and he had been attempting
to revive her. Thoughts of small-pox and other
diseases floated through the brain of the agitated wife,
and she promptly proceeded to vaccinate herself with a
carving-knife. The lady frightened her lord and his
patient more than herself, and glories in her scars.
But there is now a man on Ballarat who takes but little
interest in life, and a gushing young creature who
attends the registry office every day in search of
employment.
The Licensing Act has affected the passengers
by what was formerly known as the “drunks” train,
sterling just after midnight every Saturday and calling
at all suburbs to Parramatta. As no refreshment for
th« thirsty soul may now be obtained on that particu-
larly dry day, Sunday, it is obvious that people must do
as the Israelites of old did with the manna—gather up
enough on the sixth day to provide for the wants of the
seventh. Accordingly, at the solemn hour when church-
yards and tired humanity alike yawn, unsteady armies
of suburban residents may be seen marching up to the
Redfern Station every Saturday night, loaded with a
supply of liquor for the hallowed day of rest. Good,
careful, bodies 1 But—alas, for the frailty of human
nature —their love of temporary gratification invariably
overcomes their prudent providence, and corks come
out, elbows bend, throttles gurgle, and, before the train
reaches Parramatta, it is more a “drunks” train than
it ever was before the passing of the Act.
The Parramatta Evening Times did not like
our exposure of its little—a—a—error over “ Words o’
Cheer.” We are not surprised at this any more than
we are disturbed at Fergy’s personal reference to our-
selves ; but we are surprised at his sublime audacity in
still defending his untenable position, instead of man-
fully admitting he has been fooled. The verses which
he published (a poem, in broad Scotch, on the death of
an Irishman!) as original, are about twenty years old.
We have them word for word in a volume which was
published in Boston in 1869, and as this volume is a
seventh edition, we are probably within the mark in
saying twenty years. And because we chose to reprint,
for its intrinsic excellence, a poem from an American
book, the Times calls us plagiarists for not saying that
it was an original contribution to the columns of his
nightly hash. Anyone who reads his last few issues
cannot fail to be struck with the extraordinary surprise
and delight manifested by the editor that we noticed
him at all. Bah to you 1
At the Adelong police court there was a great
lark last week. One George Mildrum, otherwise Dr.
Mildrum, had a row with his landlady about the board-
money. It appears that he had prescribed for her when
suffering from discoloration of the eye, and had given
her “ Calomel and Dover’s powders.” Not feeling well
after this gentle dose, Mrs, Doyle (for such is her cogno-
men) gave the doctor her opinion of his medical abilities.
The doctor then said “ things” about Mrs. D.,on which
she entered that gentleman’s room and beat him, until
she was exhausted, with a, feather duster. A summons
ensued, and the case was dismissed, the P.M. saying
that “he regretted that complainant had not more
manliness than to bring such a miserable case into
court,” There was an underplot to all this which would
make a splendid libretto for a rustic operetta, and there-
fore, although Bunthorne in “Patience” is uncertain
on the point, we are enclined to think that, whether
"something poetic lurks in Colocynth” or not, there is
most decidedly a dramatic element in Calomel.
On a Northern river, 20 years ago, two squatters
of the real old pioneer type, long since dead, resolved
on getting partners for life. At that time there were
no white gins further out than the Namoi, and not
many there. The two amorous souls agreed to pay a
pleasant old lady who used to hawk drapery and grog
with a waggon, called at that time a “ bumboat," £100
and a ton weight of tallow per head for two young
wives, to be procured and delivered on her next trip up.
The goods or bads were duly delivered and paid for.
One of them was tried afterwards, in company with a
stockman, for poisoning the man who had bought and
married her. But the charge was not proved, and she
was acquitted. She is now a leader of fashion, and
lives at “the pint."
THE LAY OP A POOR AESTHETE.
(“I’m sitting on the style, Mart.”)
Lot us mourn for poor Septimus Octopus Blobs
A pre-Baphaelite youth who made a few bobs.
By painting hysterical tea-tray-like daubs
For the critical super-cesthetical Nobs.
But so sadly un-re-munerative his Jobs,
While dealers’ impeouniosity robs.
He had rarely the wherewith to purchase the cobs—
The|modw* uirenclilwhen our nutriment pobs.
And who could but pity his stomachic throbs
When his pictures were heedlessly gazed at by snobs,
And freezingly passed by unpurehasing mobs.
Like cheese plates inverted their expressive gobs.
And his hair became fretful and hung down in knobs,
While the neighbours adjacent woke up at his sobs
For lack of his favourite food on his hobs
And eighteen eight one saw the end of poor Blobs.
A rich Sydney gentleman of uncertain ancestry,
but a certain competence derived from the public love
of long beers and short sandwiches, was taken up by
aristocratic (but very poor) English people. When
about to leave for the country, the aristocratic lady
called on the rich plebeian and left her cards, with
P.P.C. marked in the corner. Being puzzled by this,
he enquired that day of a friend what it meant, and
understood the reply to be, “ Pour prendre Congou."
Next day, therefore, he presented himself in Macquario-
street at five o’clock tea-time, only to be received by a
couple of white-washers, and a snuffy old woman, who
was “looking arter the premises.” We believe this
story to be true for two reasons. First, because we
have heard it before; and second, on account of its
having been sent in by a plate-carrier by appointment
to a pulpit thumper.
In Tasmania, an accused
man, without money, has to
tramp 120 miles to trial, al-
chough there is a railway lino
to use.
Recent appointments and
promotions in the Civil ser-
vice have not given universal
satisfaction. It was only
natural, however, that on Sir
John’s return to the Cabinet,
he should allow his colleagues
to exercise “free selection”
to the full. The country
would be better served by the
“ abolition of interest,” which
is a had political principle to
gauge promotion by.
Wiloannia is a town that
finds it hard work to support
a clergyman, and two have
been compelled to leave. Yet
the big race of the year is a
£2OO handicap. A jockey can
rake in more money for his
employer in three minutes
than a hard-workinsr parson
can get in a year in Wilcannia.
The devil evidently holds the
saw-handled hair-triertrer mi
Wiloannia way. *
The Herald becomes
quite lively of late. Satur-
day’s issue created quite a
sensation among all the men
who have wives and sweet-
hearts proceeding to England
per Lusitania. They wish
now they had shipped their
beloved ones oven to Clontarf
in preference. The Herald
thus relates what it saw:—
“ Additional interest sur-
rounded the departure of the
Lus tania yesterday, on ac-
count of the fact that the
largest proportion of her pas-
sengers embraced the officers
and crew of H.M.S. Wol-
verene.”
A lady known to a large
circle of friends as “ The
Amazon of the Swamp,” has
been fined 20s. at Melbourne,
for obstructing the police!
Her costume at the time of
the occurrence was a night-
gown ; but, although the ar-
resting constable persisted in
the statement that it was a
chemise, until the defendant
corrected the error, the Beach
did not consider his evidence
shifty in other respects, and
mulcted her in the penalty
above mentioned. But is not
this example of innocence by
a member of the foorce. In the
nineteenth century, serene
and beautiful f
A Mr. H. Winter, who calls himself “The
Great American Com Doctor,” has arrived, and ex-
hibits himself about Melbourne in a carriage drawn by
six horses. He shows in the Eastern Market, and
advertises “a free lecture on the late Indian war in
America; also on warts, corns, and bunions."
The emigrant ship was within four days of
Sydney, and four ill-looking fellows knelt before the
same number of open chests examining their clothing
and conversing the while. At length one man, who had
a hare lip, and a wen (as though to compensate for tho
loss of his front teeth), drew out a long rusty black
coat, a bulgy bell-topper, and a long wisp of white neck-
tie. He laid these carefully in his bunk, while his com-
g anions looked on in angry amazement. “What
ootty,” cried one—“you aint a goin* back on us!
Didn't you promise to make one of the gang?” “So I
did ; but I’ve changed my mind. I intend to be a dis-
tinguished missionary, renowned for his life-long work
amongst the Chockiboos, as long as that pays. When
it don’t. I’ll talk to you about the dark lantern and the
jemmy.”
We received quite a shock on Saturday. Hap-
pening to pass a Chinese cookshop, we saw a piece of
turkey’s entrails displayed on a scrap of Cave Adullam,
With a cry of joy, we flattened our nose against tho
window and hyterically read as follows “ Speaking
about ’Enry, however, we just received your telegram
in time, old man, to prevent the A.L. from sending her
contribution to ’Enry’s testimonial.” If this goes on
much longer, we shall soon have a par. in headed,
“Extraordinary tenacity of life in a copy-grinder,”
and ending “In order to establish in the minds of our
readers the truth ®f the foregoing, wo may mention
that this wonderful fossilised specimen of the genus
scribe is on view daily at the office of the Newcastle
Fletcher, and, strange as it may appear, there is no
charge for admission."
In Saturday’s Telegraph we were molted by
reading a harrowing item commencing in these
terms:—“An achingly pathetic story comes from Nil-
lumbik. Diamond Creek, near Melbourne." Hardly
had we wiped our eyes, and stowed away the family
duster, than we were once again unnerved by dropping
lower down in the same column, with a touching para-
graph beginning like this: “An achingly pathetic
story comes from Eyemouth, the Scottish hamlet that
has most suffered by the terrible disaster to the recent
Berwickshire fishing fleet.” It is rather a strain, mind
you, two different beginnings to two different pathetic
pars. The thing to be considered, however, is this—
Is “an achingly pathetic story” so good that it will
bear repeating under the circumstances? We think
not. We only once heard a tale that could beaocur*
FASTENING THE STABLE DOOR: OR, THE LICENSED VICTUALLERS’ HORSE.
*• Parkes has gone to foreign climes,
And Eoseby’s on the spree;
Will. Forster writeth doggrel rhymes.
And calls them poetry.
Beau Bnrdett wooeth city maids.
And Lloyd is on his knees,
And Camden Tom most nobly aids
Ezekiel with his pleas.


RILEY BROTHERS,
336 GEORGE STREET,)
600 GEORGE STREET, [■ SYDNEY.
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND,
AND
' 10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST HEAPEES
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE OEIGINATOES OF THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Eed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
34 yards Qatnbroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pooket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. &c.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, largo size
2 best Cotton Shirts, largo
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£B Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
0 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good loagcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
Mother’s £S Balt
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pairs Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Flaal. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Haircotd
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
4 dozen Infants’ Diaper
Sonar es
Puff Box, Pufl * Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infants’ Christ’ing Kobe
1 Infant’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infants’ Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 largo Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair largo Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4. large White Towels
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons
Thread, &c.
£5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnot
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
RILEY BROTHERS’
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 Infants’ Christ-
-4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
4 dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Pulf, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
I Elastic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
eniug Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Bo be,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmcra
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer,
£2 Ladies’ Parcel*
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer.
We wish it to he distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price,
THE GIMP LIST.
POE BOYS.
School Suits, 2s 6d
Hussar Saits, 3s lid
Picnic Suita, 3s lid
Sunday Suits, 7s 6d
Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
School Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakespeare Hats, la lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 9Jd
Linen Collars, 4|d
Elastic Braces, 34
Cotton Socks, 3d
Neckties, 3d
FOE LADIES.
Dolman Mantles, 12s 9d
Satteon Prints, 3Jd
Dress Materials, 4|d
Black Alpaca, 544
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Plop Hats, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 61
Trimmed Chemises, la Od
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s Gd
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2s 6d)
Muslin Edging, 2£d
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 94
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOE MEN.
Working Shires, Is 6
White Shirts, 2s 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 44d
Seamless Socks, 6d
Elastic Braces, 6d
Tweed Suits, 19s 6d
Summer Suita, 19s 6c
Trousers and Vest, 9i
Tweed Trousers, 3s 1
Best quality, 7« 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s 11.
Tweed Pagets, 13e 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s 6d
Linen Sacs, 4a lid
Shakespeare Hats, 2t
Colonial Tweed, 2s 6<
Silk Umbrellas, 7s 6c
POE THE HOU
American Longcloth
Nightshirt Calico, 44
Gray Calico, 2fd
Double width Calico.
Pillow Calico, 64d
Swansdown Calico,
White Flannel, 74d
Wide Flannel, Hid
Scarlet Flannel, 7id
Saxony Flannel, 114 c
Cotton Tick, 3Jd
Linen Tick, 7|d
Stripe Bed Tick, 54d
Unbleached Sheetinf
White Sheeting, 7ld
Twilled Sheeting, 94
Mosquito Net, G4d
Summer Quilts, 2s 11
THIS PRICE LlST.—Persons who may read tl
advertisement must not thick that because the pric
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are v«
common. They are by no means the commonest goo.
We have lower prices still; but the tact is, compeliti
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydn
but with manufacturers in England, that good articl
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
atoly described in those terms. It was told by a boy
who had eaten a quart of gooseberries, four decayed
oranges, three pennyworth of sherbet, and washed the
whole down with five bottles of ginger-beer, and a sly
lap from a milkman’s can. He told, if you like, an
achingly pathetic story.
Who will say now that Gladstone gives Parnell
no quarter ? Parnell gets another three months.
Eear-Admiral Wilson said the Wolverene would
have been broken np had she gene home. She is no
doubt, a valuable vessel. Won't it be nice playing
a t sea-fights?
Her father met her entering hastily by the back
gat ©at one a.m. ** You needt/t trouble. my child, to
say where you have been/* he said, gravely; M I know.
You have been teaching in the Bible class until half-
past eight, after which yon were choir-praothing until
ten. Then the good minister said to you all, ‘ Coma
in, my children, to the rectory, and sup with my wife
and myself.’ After supper you played forfeits, and
•go out of the room and think of something, until half-
past twelve, and then yon put on your things, and
have brought a nice little message from the parson s
wife apologising for keeping yon so late and sending
her kind regards to papa and mamma. Is that it?
•‘Yes,’’ she faltered. “ I thought so. Quito satisfac-
tory. And now, good night, my child, and God bless
you. You will find your mother upstairs, my love—and
the broom.”
There was a grand dinner given, the other day,
to a very distinguished personage. It was a hearty
affair, and the guests sampled the Eoederer, and
cracked the Krug to a very considerable extent.
When, by and bye, came on, the majority of
the people present were feeling as though they had
been playmates from boyhood, and even mean men s
(there were plenty of those there!) heart, grew so big
that they quite poked out their shirt fronts. Well, in
due course, the guest of the evening rose up to return
thanks. “ I am,” ho said, “ grieved (Wc) yond m sure
t’leave th’s be-u-(hio)-ti-(tear).ful (great cheering)
country, I’ve met tlot-o’-men here like much; metlot
women, too (hear, hear), which I’ve loved, not wisely,
buttoowell." Then the chairman sent round a hue to
the reporters asking them not to report verbatim. This
occurred in the island of Flim-flam. Date missing
from the archives.
At an English country town, a large party were
gathered at the inn one night, amongst whom were an
old man, and a golden-haired child, who slept with his
tired head on the table. The two got np to go to bed,
hut no sooner had thev reached tho staircase than a
dispute was heard: ‘‘ Father, I can tgo up the stairs
with my broken leg!” ‘‘Nonsense, you can if yon
choose." said the man ; “np yon go. or I 11 break the
other one.” The guests rushed out and remonstrated.
The father had the poor child by the hair and was
belabouring it unmercifully, amid groans and supplica-
tions They threatened to fetch the police, and one
caught his arm. when tho child shrieked “ fake care,
he’ll rip us nil up, as be did ray poor mother Little
wretch !’’ hurst out the father, a. ho plunged the knife
into him ; and tho boy sank down with a gurgling moan.
Tho spectators rushed en masse at tho inhuman mon-
ster, who took off his hat politely, and calmly said:
•« Gentlemen, I am a ventriloquist, and my son is made
of wood!”
‘ Tho Vagabond ”1b writing still his circular
notes’’ to the Newcastle Herald, and the Inst batch
of his effusions is certainly entitled to a passing
not ; co. Mr. Thomas considers that tho visit of tho
Russian meu-of-war hero had a bellicose significance;
out ho is not personally uncomfortable—for, says he: it
doesn’t much matter to me, as I can always take refuge
under the American Hag. hut I think Sydney is all the
safer for tho arrival of the Nelson. After being
rendered easy by this rc-asanring piece of intelli-
genoe, wo are told it is a scandalous shame that
editors and newspaper proprietors should print the
tissue of garbage, bad grammar, and malice, which ap-
pears in some journals in New South Wales, simply
because they are written for not lung. He considers
that all these writers eat onions for inspiration, and so
ho says: ” I would like to be a tyrant tor a short tune.
Any woman who ate uu onion should be beheaded, and
no woman should write for publication without passing
a competitive examination." After reading this, ho
gives us. with characteristic modesty, the following in-
formation: “It has taken me long years of study, of
travel, of hard work, and varied experience of men, to
manage to tit myself for my present position as a cntio
of the passing affairs of the day. What naturally
occurs to us is, that if it has taken “ long years to
enable him to write as brilliantly as this, how many
centuries would suffice him to acquire the art of scien-
tiflcally drawing up a circns three-sheeter ?
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Sir Stafford Northcote. leader of tho Conser-
vatives, will, on Parliament opening, more that Mr.
Bradlaugh bo not allowed to take tbe usual oath. The
Government will move tho previous question,.....me
United States, in order to prevent the absorption of
Chili bv Peru, will advance to Peru the amount of the
war indemnity imposed by the Chilians, the United
States to hold a province as security ....The Govern-
ment have refused a request for the liberation of the
incarcerated Irish suspects. It is understood that, in
consequence, the Irish members will obstruct business
by moving a vote of censure on tbe Government in tho
case of each prisoner. These number 400
Professor Neumeyer. of Hamburg, after read-
ing Skuthorpe’s statements with regard to the
Leichhardt relics, thinks Sknthorpe has really
found them The popular revolt against Aus-
trian conscription, in Dalmatia, has spread to Herze-
govina, where the people are in armed revolt. Austria
is pouring in troops Railway projected to penetrate
the mineral districts from the African “ GoldCoa.t.”
.Conspiracy in Nepaul discovered. Eight notables
arrested, twenty-one native officers executed At.
tempts to enforce Austrian conscription in Bosnia have
occasioned a revolt. Austria making immense military
preparations to suppress the resistance Chamber of
Deputies has referred to a committee Gambetta’s pro-
posals for the reform of tho Constitution. Committee
is hostile, and it is expected that the measure will be
rejected Fighting between Austrian troops and
Herzegovinians. Austria dissatisfied with the attitude
of Turkey relative to the troubles in Herzegovina
Panic on the French Bourse, owing to over-speculation
Sultan of Turkey threatens to dethrone the Bey of
Tunis and to appoint the leader of the late revolt, as
successor ....Trial of twenty-two Nihilists for com-
plicity in plots against the life of the Czar, commenced
at St Petersburg... .The French have arrested a brother
of tho Bor of Tunis. Reasons obscure Batter pros-
pects of a renewal of tbe Anelo French Treaty.... Treaty
of Peace between Chili and Peru conveys to the former
tbe coast territory of Brittynge Scoville, defending
his brother-in-law Guiteau, urgues that General Grant,
President Arthur, and Conkling are morally respon-
Bible for Guitean’s act Irish Land Commission con-
firms most of tho reductions of rent heard on appeal
from sub-commissioners. A Mr. Vernor dissents, ns a
rule from his brother commifsioners....„Bmquet to
Hanlan at the Westminster Aquarium. General Good-
lake chairman Egyptian Assembly of Notables and
army officials claim to control the affairs of Egypt.
The Ministers resist. Foreign Consuls daily meet
to consider the situation The Aberdeen, first
of George Thompson and Co’s new line of steamers,
will load L° r Australia in March The excitement on
Change, consequent on the panic on the Paris Bourse,
i? abating... ..The imprisoned Irish members are re-
manded for another three months The Bosnian
patriots are numeroua and well-armed. The Austrian
constabulary are falling back for support 6 cwt. of
dy ns mite has been carried off from a factory at Limo-
riok Severe sentences passed on the captured Irish
Marauders. Evidence important, disclosing wide
Diread Fenian organization Compromise between
Egyptian notables and army and tho Khedive’s
Ministry Gaipbetta declares his intention of refer-
ring his proposals for a reform of the French Constitu-
t;on to a revolntionary committee This would be a
qoap d’tffuf 2000 Ulster delegates declared
the redactions in rents made by the Land Commission
inadequate Two Nihilists, who attempted to shoot
General Tcherverin, Russian Minister of the Interior,
have had their death sentence commuted to twenty
years’ imprisonment The Journal de St, Peters-
buko der ounces the movement in England to succour
the persecuted Russian Jews as emanating from hatred
ti Russia Insurrection in Yamen, Arabia. 200
insurgents killed in battle.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The pawnbrokers of Melbourne are taking steps
to form a Trade Protection Society! The new Mont de
Field company will probably damage their business
considerably. Set "mine nncle” has in every clime
been able to take care of himself so far. An Irishman
and a Polish Jew (queerest of combinations!) are
the head and front of the new pawnbrokers society.
Some burglars broke into the Mutual store,
stole a lot of money and goods, and looted a safe
in which Professor M'Coy kept his jewels and his
portrait. However, they left the portrait behind ..
Goldsbrough and Co.. Limited.made £28.339
4s. lOd. clear profit last half-year, and
have declared a dividend of 10 per cent...... A
writer in the Melbourne Argus says that he lately
inspected a parcel of three dozen tweed vests made up
in excellent style, by a respectable woman who has seen
better days, but who has now to work hard for 13 hours
a day to get a living. The price she is to receive is
18s , or just 01 per vest The brother whom James
Graham accused himself of having murdered, is alive
and well at Jamberoo. Now supposed that Junes hid
been drinking when he gave himself up to the police.
1800 tons of stone were dislodged by two simul-
taneous shots, containing 3751b. of Pigou * and 384.b. of
Hall’s blasting powder respectively, at Saunders’ quarry,
Pyrmont A naked headless body, from the breasts,
abdomen, and calves of which the flesh had been
stripped, has been found in the bush near Stawell,
Vie. The head had been cat clean oil .The relatives
of the late Mr. Charles Cutler, who lost his life in the
recent collision between the Julia Percy and the Nelson
steamers, intend bringing an action for damages against
the steamship company Mr. W. II. Archer, late of
Sydney, is chairman of the committee of magistrates,
formed at Melbourne, appointedto consider thelarrikm-
ism question, ’they strongly recommend flogging—
with the birch for larrikins under lo; with
the cat for more mature olfenders Pygmalion
is to be the title of Mr. Woolner’s new poem. It is to be
hoped that the forthcoming work from Mr. Woolner s
pen may be better than the latent achievement of his
chisel, for the statue of George Dawson, which has
recently been unveiled, is a melancholy failure, accord-
ing to all accounts-perhaps as big a bungle as Wool-
ner’s statue of Captain Cook, in Hyde Park, Sydney.
The Auckland Chamber of Commerce pledges it-
self to support the P. and O. Co. if that company will
enter upon an Anstralian-New Zealand service At
Sebastopol, Yic., there is a man /9 years old who
weighs 27 stone There are 200 barristers and 500
solicitors practising in Victoria Mr. Charles Glass,
one of the oldest and best-kuown printers in the colonies,
died at Melbourne last week, in his 80U year .....Ihe
Hon J. S. Patterson, of Melbourne, has challenged
anyone to produce a case wherein, either as Postmaster-
General or Minister of Railways, he has issued a pa s
to a friend Gunnedah now has a neat paper—the
Auveutiskr The Maori King. Tawhaio. vu.tod
Auckland Splendid reception. Cheered by thousands.
Five New Caledonian escapees captured near
Bowen. Q. The boat they arrived in was only about -0
feot long Macpherson, who was maaigled by the hon
at Albury is recovering, and it is believed ho will get
all right 111 persons joined the insolvent brigade in
New Zealand last year Evers and Kennedy, of
Sydney Town Hall foundation fame, have gracefully
forked out the £1000 and costs awarded to the Cor-
notation David M’BeatU, the architect, who was
mulcted in £5900. has lodged deeds
amount with the Corporation solicitors......Lars Mar-
tina said to be a silenced Catholic priest, has been
commit; trial at Sydney on a charge o indecent
assault ....Snb-inspeotor Moldrum, on leaving Rock-
hampton was presented with a testimon.a aud sixty
sovereigns ....The Australian M mte doPietC Co., Mel-
bourne has inaugurated a new system of not charg-
ing more than 15 per cent, interest on loans
la view of a threatened water-famine ao Kanada (b.A.;,
the Government have ordered a distilling apparatus te
be got ready A Maori at Matuknepa has poisoned
himself on the grave of his wife At Wagga, a furni-
ture-dealer named Hall, who is not a licensed pawn-
broker! has been lined £5 for receiving a watch in pawn.
The amount lent was £1 2s. 6d.. and interest was fixed
.11. id wr week At Melbourne, one Francis Reilly
has been charged with stealing a pair of gold earrings
from his sister Mary Ann Pastourello, one of the
three sisters drowned at Albury. was recently a barmaid
at the Theatre Royal Cafe, Melbourne... Lou,ai Werth
for concealing a quantity of ilhoft.spirits at Harwood
Island, Grafton, has been fiued £100, in default three
months’gaol.... .A New Zealand criminal broke out of
gaol, and burgled the local Supreme Court, appropriat-
fng the barristers’ wigs and the tip-staff .... Mr. Sy dney
Evelyn Wright of Wellington (N.Z ), is the claimant to
the estates of Wollar Park. Surrey, and Sayes Court,
Deptford, alleging that he is the lineal descendant and
heir of John Evelyn A woman in Rivenna was
burned to death, through the head of a match she was
striking in the open air living oil and lodging in her
dress. She was instantly aflame, and died a few hours
afterwards in hospital Two girls on Friday travelled
with a baby from Parramatta to Croydon, and after
they loft the station, the baby, about two days old, was
found in the waiting-room. Detectives are on the alert
. .Robert Graham has been charged at Melbourne wPh
the cue-rious offence of stealing eighteen billiard-balls.
He was spotted pockettiug them, and is now doing
prison stroke Melbourne larrikins have a regular
fund for the purchase of tobacco, &c . to be conveyed
surreptitiously to prisoners iu Pentndge A warder
found a big swag, containing tobacco tea and letters,
“ planted " within the stockade...A Chinaman at Gym-
pie was struck by lightning, which frizzled his hair and
paralysed his side, severely scotching him. After
many fits of convu.s'ons, John at hast pallei tluoiigh.
The lightning passed through a tin gutter and two
kerosene tins, leaving through each a rouud h >le as
large as a shilling A knight of the tugger aimed at
an escaped bul ock at the abattoirs the other day. He
succeeded in bringing down a milch cow, winch hei did
not aim at. Damage cost him £8.......The youth of
Gou burn are projecting a bachelors ball, on the
strict teetotal," to come oil soon......Big fire at Sand-
rid»e, Melbourne. Eight houses destroyed. No water
to be had. and yet only a stone's throw from the hay...
...A thirteou-foot shark was harpooned ,m Berry s Bay
Friday last ...A meeting at Brisbane carried resolutions
approving of local option ...Sam McLellau, committed
for trial at Melbourne for wife-assault, was trying to
gouge out her eyes when the police entered.......The
defalcations by Agg, of the Victorian Civil Service,
amount to £2100 Two jokers at Eaglehawk, V e„
slung a drunken mate up to thereof; the rope broke,
aud so did the victim’s spine. Jokers arrested .. .A
man named Mossman was frightfully shattered at the
Burdekiu River (Q ). while fishing with dynamite
Premature explosion The N.b,W. Marine Board
have suspended for three months the certificate of Cap-
tain M‘Lean, of the Wotoaga. Captain Knight, the
A S N. Co.’s Marine Superintendent, testified that
Captain M'Lean steered a perfectly correct course.
* * *
The coldest place on the earth is Yerko Yansk,
Siberia, 67| N. lat. Its lowest mean winter tempera-
ture is 48 G deg. below zero centigiade. About the
hottest place iu the world is Herborton, Wild River, on
the occasion of a wedding The Duke of Norfolk has
proceeded with his infant son lo Lourdes, in the hope
that a miracle may bo wrought and the child thus
recover his sDht! Thackeray’s house at Kensington
has ji-st been sold. The father of the late Mr. Bravo,
who died of poison at Balham, inhabited it for some
time .Herr Krupp, of Essen, has boon rightly called
the Cannon-Kjug. Ho rales literally over an army of
workmen his employs at present reaching the almost
incredible total of 30 000. As ho has no partners, he is
probably the largest single employer of labour m the
world Thus Truth
"Pqurquoj?
•» A. murder in a Brighton train
Becomes a standing djsl}.
We read of it each day again
h’ar more than we could wish;
When Irish beasts ape maimed and hacked,
Aud Irish ears are cropped.
Two lines, perhaps, record the fact,
4nd then—the subject’s dropped.”
Late accounts state that it was probable that Rear-
Admiral Hoskins (predecessor of Rear-Admiral Wilson
on the Australian station) would be appointed Admiral-
Superintendent at Malta The ironclad Inflexible,
which cost about £800,000 aud took nearly eight years
to get afloat, will, it is feared, prove a failure. She is
terribly unwieldy, by no means swift, and draws two
feet more water than had been calculated. The electric
light, which it covt nearly £5X0 to fit all through the
ship, is not a success. And it is now doleful to learn
that the officials at Malta dockyard have been busied iu
preparing a dock for the reception of the monster—
which, so far, has only done a ten days’ voyage
The will of a lady who, with her sisters, had occupied
one of the best suites at Hampton Court for several
years, has been proved under £70,000. _ Yet these apart-
ments were supposed to be given by tbe Queen only to
ladies in reduced circumstances Tha Yew York
cemeteries contain £300,000 worth of gold uariedw'th
persons who wors false teeth with gold plates. We
manage things better in Sydney, where some under-
takers invariably filch gold plates from, the mouths of
tho dead Tne mortality among the French
troops in Tunis is terriKe. On November 15
there were 1300 men in h r ,pit:.l In two months,
recently, at Barbadoes, the Ist Battalion of the
4th King’s Own Royal lost the Lieutenant-Colonel,
the second Lieutenant-Colonel, one of the lieutenants,
and 140 non-commissioned officers and privates, through
“Yellow Jack.” A result of garzisoning, in time of
peace, the pestiferous West Indies with valuable
British soldiers The World significantly alludes to
“ the re-nnion at Eaton ” of the Marquis of Lome and
tho Princess Louise The Charles Dickens edition de
late keeps up to the promise originally made by Chap-
man and Hall, and in type, piper, and illustration,
leaves nothing to he desired. It is understood that
1000 copies of each volume have been printed, and most
of these had been subscribed for when the book came
out A duel with swords has been fought near Rome
between Captain Butler, an American who lost his
light arm in the civil war, and now paints pictures (and
fights) with the left one, and an Italian who stared at
him in the theatre and afterwards struck him for
staring back again. Tho American got all the best of
the encounter, and inflicted on his adversary a nasty
wound between the eyes A firm of Greeks who, some
time since, established themselves at Monte Carlo,
determined to break the bank, had at latest, it is
said, put together the tidy sum of £200,000
Apropos to the question of how much the Duke of Albany
is to get from Parliament at his marriage, Truth pre-
sumes that the same allowance as that granted to the
Duke of Connaught will be granted him. “ But,” pro-
ceids that journal, “it may well be asked, why an
English Prince should not be able to live on the allow-
ance of a German Prince? One or two Royal Prince*
living in decent comfort upon an income of £SOO per
annum would do more than anything else that can bo
conceived to shake the reign of ostentatious snobbism.”
Accounts from Berlin state that the health of the
Emperor has failed rapidly of late, and his condition
justifies the gravest anxiety The insignia and ribbon
of the late Czar were brought back from Russia by the
Prince of Wales, and have been deposited in the jewel
armoury of Windsor Castle, in the same case that
contains the ribbons of Victor Emmanuel, Leopold
of Belgium, and the Duke of Wellington, as well as the
bullet which killed Nelson, which is enclosed in a piece
of glass. Close by is tho renowned Tippoo’s footstool —
an enormous tiger’s head of pure gold, with crystal
teeth and emerald eyes. This was brought from
Seringapatam, and presented to King George 111
The Baronness Burdett-Coutts, having been advised by
counsel that she had married a “ foreigner,” has avoided
litigation by resigning her half share in Coutts’ bank.
However, though out of the business, she will continue
to receive a small annual “compensation allowance”
from the firm Tho Marquis of Londonderry, who
has coal mines in Durham, has started business as a
retail coal merchant, and sends out drays with his name
on them With fitting reverence and im-
pressive ceremonial the colours which sprang,
ns it were, out of the earth to confront Napoleons
Old Guard, have been laid to rest in the Royal
Military Chapel in Wellington Barracks
“ Yen appear to he unwell, Mr, , and had bettor
mention the matter oh a future occasion,” was how a
Judge put it tho other day to a barrister who had been
“ exceeding his physiological minimum.” In a lead-
ing article, tho other day, the Times said: “Sudden
death is awful to the living, but it is often merciful to
the diadl” The World says that the majority of
practical engineers are of opinion that tho verdict ol
the court-mart'al which inquired Into the Doterel dis-
aster was utterly opposed to the technical evidence
adduced; and in tho best-informed circles there is a
general impression that the explosion must have been
caused by the ignition of an infernal machine secreted
in tho coal-store, whether by Fenian influence, or no,
non liquet The gilded youth of Gaul is not improving
in respect of wit or wisdom. A derisive crowd
assembled recently on the banks of the Seine, to seethe
Vicomte de Clary swim his mare Ophclie—a descendant
of the illustrious Gladiatenr—across the river.
The horseman was dressed like a circus ring-
master, and the horse was half dead when
it reached the hank at Suresnes A man at
Arkansas hot springs wagered that he would
drink beer against a tame hear. After getting through
19 bottles the man was carried out, while hrniu was
just commencing to feel comfortable At ’Frisco,
James Sullivan, a drunken thief, murdered in cold blood
an inoffensive Chinaman, who was watching him.
(Sullivan) practising in a public shooting gallery.
Sullivan's excuse when arrested was that “it was only
a d——d Chinaman, and there are plenty more of them.”
The splendid 150-carat diamond, recently found in
South Africa, is still uncut, but from its peculiar shape
it is not expected to lose more than 10 carats in the
process. It is as big as a very large walnut, and is
described ns “ like a hailstone in sunlight, of a bewitch-
ing transparency, and brilliant whiteness no other
precious metal can vie with.” It was recently shown
to the Prince of Wales, whose best diamonds, when
placed beside tbe Porter-Rhodes stone, were seen to be
“off-colour.” The first offer made for tbe jewel was
£50,000; the last is £IOO,OOO, but it will probably not
change hands at less than twice that figure. The
owner’s bankers are willing to advance £60,000 against
the security. The famous Koh-i-noor is valued at
£150,000 According to the Chief Justice, Prince,
New Mcxica has more gold than California, and more
silver than Colorado. Humboldt predicted that the
mineral wealth of the world would be found to lie in
Arizona and New Mexico French life assurance
companies are beginning to insert a clause in their
contracts to the effect that no policy will be paid when
death results from a duel. However, it seems that in
France no one ever gets hurt in a duel It is
rumoured at home that the London Times proprietary
is about to ba converted into a limited liability com-
pany. Singularly enough, a similar rumour was
recently current about the S.M. Hesald Last year
the business of the Manchester clearing-house amounted
to £IOO 397,623, and of the Melbourne clearing-house to
£105,000,000 Some railway travellers in England are
agitating for separate carriage accommodation for
col cries of men who travel regularly together, so that
they can meet iu their own set of six or eight every
morning, secure from the intrusion of outsiders
At an Austrian execution, tho condemned was so badly
hanged, that he struggled for nearly a quarter of an
hour, and when at last he shuffled eff the hempen coil,
the bungling executioner said, “Well, now it’s done, a
drink won’t be amiss.” Two soldiers fainted Some
rascal, without authority, the other day, inserted an
advertisement that a firm of London herbalists required
several w men to pick herbs in their warehouse, “ no
previous knowledge being necessary,” and the wages
to be 15s. pier week. There were 500 applications in cue
morning Guiteau compares himself to St. Paul—
all men against him. But Guiteau isn’t well up in
Scripture; it's Judas he meant In Java, it is said,
criminals condemned to death are offered free pardon if
they consent to obtain a box of the upas poison from
the tree. Of 700 who attempted to do this, only 22
lived to return. This is a good yarn,
A correspondent asks“ Do the bakers of
Sydney ever check the weight of the flour they pnr-
chase that is imported from a neighbouring colony ?
If not, why not ? Tne difference moans freight and
commission, and perhaps a trifia over. When their
eyes are thoroughly opened to this fact, they can make
better loaves or live in better houses.”
“La Bello Tsenlte,” (picture in the Melbourne
Qallery).—
L ady of romantic eld ! the maiden, white
A nd pink of her fair face, and in her hair
B lue-ayed forget-me-nots, entwined with rare
E nshadowment of tresses—where the light
L ingering like a radiance downward cast
L ightens her picture from tho dream-lit past,—
E nchant the raptured glance, Medioaval maid 1
Y -clad in tender azure—gold brocade-
-18 brined in romaunt and lay of troubadour —
E mblem of dreamiest pleasaunco—soft amonr I
U nder a leafy shade, while some sweet eve
L anguishes in beauty, methinks I see
T by lover by thy side, while thrillingly
E ach cheek meets cheek, and rests as loth to leave.
FRAS. J. D.
Melbourne, January, 1882.
January 28, 1882.
THE BULLETIN.


Mr. Bown has been re-elected superintendent of
the Sydney Associated Fire Brigades.
The medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence in thousands of cases as Ihe most wholesome
beverage. Be sure and get it when asked for, as imita.
tions are often pushed for the sake of extra profit,— Adv.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Miss Anna Parnell is 26.
J. J. Shilliuglaw ill. Gout.
An Abbott was married to a Nun lately, up the
coast.
Oambetta boasts that he never goes into a place
of worship.
Eev. W. E. Spurgeon, now in N.Z., son of the
original Spurgeon, is one of twins.
Oscar Wilde is going to New York to lecture,
and to send along his book of poems.
There is, in Sydney, a gentleman who claims to
bo a great-grandson of Eobert Burns.
Mr. W. H. L. Bailey, of the Temoba Herald,
has been seriously ill of congestion of the brains.
Mr. Neil Walker, one of the pioneers of old
Bendigo, has passed into the unseen, after but a few
hours* illness.
M. B. Carroll, ex-M.L.A. for Ararat, Vic.,
will be liberated in July next, having served seven
years for frauds.
The Eev. W. H. Fitchett has been appointed
president of the new Methodist Ladies' College, Haw-
thorn, Melbourne.
The oldest Victorian colonist alive is no other
than the Beau Brummell of Ballarat, Charles Forster,
who arrived in 1835.
Gutter, of Parramatta, reached his 84th
birthday on 18th inst. He has for 62 years been a
medical practitioner.
® income of the Bishop of Sydney is .£2ooo—
whole of which he draws during his lengthened
absence from the colony 1
The septuagenarian M. de Lesseps is about to
bo presented with his ninth child. We wonder what is
the address of his private secretary.
Mr Archibald Meston is going to run a sngar
plantation at Cairns (N.Q.). We hope he’ll succeed,
tor journalists rarely make “sugar."
Mr. Woigall, of the Sydney Grammar School,
says in effect that the University public examinations
are simply the apotheosis of cram."
Tenders for foundations for Marshall Wood’s
statue of the Queen, to be located in the reserve at the
top of King-street, have been accepted,
Skuthorpe has been honouring Black-
Si 1 'T? t “. h , is Presence, patronising the races, and doing
the light fantastic at the Town Hall hops.
Town Talk, published at Melbourne, and con-
ducted by Messrs. Garnet Walch, John Conway, and
Whitworth, did not make its appearance last week.
i . f P o ” mo l oro Wilson, most of the officers, and
IJ-. potty officers and crew of the Wolverene sailed for
last an< L Per Orient steamer Lusitania, on Friday
.. T* 1 . 0 . Evening Mail, of Melbourne, alleges
j 1? position of first Governor of Victoria was
M.L C * aDd declmed by the late Hon. James Henty,
Lieutenant W. J. Symons, late of
half kf t^ 1 A erOUe ’ 18 1° oom mand that vessel on be-
present. a ° vernment of New South Wales for the
F° r efc e r, it is said, was jocularly asked the
wit Whv be refrained from arresting Miss Parnell.
would?o y mTo B ven" ‘ f ° rCibl9 ! “ 1 did ’ hermother
onrUnH ?° n ‘^ dw . a,rd Nunan, who recently repre-
mlhtl?a Pr “p 1800 ia the StaCo Senate, and was a
nesTvfsit to lydney.* 00 COUnCil * is DOW 0n a busi ’
fro / assorted that it was ho who had
Lieut. Eoper, he mendaciously stated as his
SlTesTcSaftresT 11110 that E ° per hftd Calum *
u.t a ” betta ; 8 Miniatr y is simply the staff of the
ia^ B^ IQUE This reminds us that a Min-
Bnuptih P ° Bed i.i°t t l 0 Btafi of the Herald-of The
xjulletin—would be good,
J r .', H \. J ; Emmett, a very old Tasmanian
Ha?f « d recan t‘y at Circular Head, Tasmania.
01 “»
Samuel Plimsoll, M.P., the terror of ship-
oMr°^ rS l 1S en :° uU tor Aus tralia. He'll be able to see
too wb«nLfs* toam * r 8 Starfc ,' He will probably start,
too, when he does sea soma departures.
Sheridan, sen., relict of the late Dr.
’^T erly w , ell 'bnown in London political and
\ , and as editor of the Morning
Advertiser, died lust week at Adelaide.
The S.M. Herald has cabled to England for a
S e ?i a R«n r i' Mpo ” dent who will oross the Atlantic and
,® an Francisco a week before Sir Henry Parkes
there. The name of Mr. W. Senior is mentioned.
It is a strange coincidence that poor Fitzpatrick
In hu last speech, made use of the words—“ It I never
entered the door (of the Assembly) again” .He
day 6f dld on t® r tt again, for his fatal illness began next
Sip Charles Gavan Duffy’s second volume of
young Ireland was to hare bean published last Novem-
her, but it has not made its appearance yet. It is to
be feared that courtship sadly interferes with author-
ship.
Mr, Folingsby has completed full-length
pictures m oils of Mr. and Mrs. Moubray, of Mel-
bourne. These, the latest elforts of the accomplished
painter of “ John Buuyaa in Prison," are described as
being masterpieces of portraiture.
It has already been stated that Lefroy, when
under sentence of death, addressed to that charming
and popular actress, Miss Violet Cameron, a long letter.
I? V“ be told her that ho had loved her for years, and
that he could not die without revealing it.
It_ is not generally known that a month or two
the catastrophe in the Brighton train an
article, written by Lefroy, and containing some of his
Australian experiences, appeared in one of the most
popular monthly English magazines, the Auqost.
Mr. Bradlaugh has a brother in New Zealand,
who bos been mission-preaching there. Mr. W. E.
Bradlaugh has publicly prayed for his brother’s future
spiritual welfare amidst sounds from his audience of
Hear, hear!" applause, and cries of “ Hush 1 "
A young man named Herbert Alexander Wil-
liams, said to be a son of General Sir John Williams,
K. 0.8., of Cheltenham (General Williams, the hero of
Kars), was drowned while swimming at Wagga, last
Jfeek. Ho held the position of clerk to a local dealer.
Pardwell is spoken of for the mistress-ship
withe Training School, and the cognoscenti
Wy that she 14 pretty sure to get it, in consideration of
the sweetness of Lpr temper and the nice way in which
hair rt aiU o - lOa P i P o V* l«i>jtical patron of hers parts his
"The Vagabond’' waeytg tfrat Baron Maclay
»u a Eussian spy, and that he 10,9 k away with him
Plans of all our forti#oatioijs, harbours, £O, This is
simply bosh, If ft c) ay, had he been a spy, wouldn’t
so many years iw prowling sTew
January 20th was the nineteenth anniversary of
the funeral of Burke and Wills, the celebrated ex,
ploters, which took place on the 20th of January, 1868.
There are now no survivors of this celebrated party,
the last being King, who died in Melbourne a few
years ago.
Among those in quarantine on board the
nro -^ r - and Mrs. E. H. D. White, of Mudgae.
Mr. White’s name will be remembered as that of the
whky litigant in the great White-Hoddle equity case,
which involved a large sum in accumulated rents and
if- prinoepy aftnugl revenue.
, The ttjal Gnitflai; seems to be a lively affair
Apout every half-hpur tha jmlgo has to get down auV
** ° c “ha Prisoner’s head, while the counsel for tha
* esacution and the counsel (qi the dofpijoe hold a leg
to ii-k T i lttt J 8 the only way in which ho 9m fcp induced
w nsten to the proceedings.
C. E. Jones, the notorious ex-Victorian politician,
is one o( the passengers from San Francisco in quaran-
tine atfSydney. It was Jones, who, standing before an
excited crowd at a Ballarat election meeting, addressed
them as “ Men of Ballarat, and savages of Bnngaree 1 ”
Mr. Jones is “ a tailor by trade.”
Mr. Webb, of Campbelltown, has started a
paper at Penrith. Mr. Webb has now four capers run-
ning—the Campbelltown Herald, Camden Times,
Penrith Argus, and the Oddfellow. A newspaper
man, who talks straight and hits out, generally finds
some trouble in running one journal.
Mr. J. Ashoroft-Edwarda has been appointed
choir-master and organist of that most aristocratic
church of Sydney churches, viz., St. Mark’s Church,
Darling Point. We are also able to state that Mr.
Edwards has consented to accept the part of conductor
to the Sydney Liedertafel, just formed.
The Evening News asserts that Mr. Dillon,
P.M.,isa bachelor. It further states (and apparently
it wishes the statement to be taken as bearing on the
forgoing alleged fact) that Mr. Dillon the other dav
inflicted severe sentences on certain wffe-beaters. Now
the fact is, that Mr. Dillon is a married man.
There has been a bit of a row up Cobar way.
The popular hostess of a leading hotel did some horse-
whipping on Friday last. The unfortunate subject was
an editor. The last lady, bar Lottie Wilmott, we
remember wielding the whalebone was Miss Kyle, of
Forbes, who horsewhipped Sir Frederick Pottinger.
That great surgeon, Sir James Paget, was not
taken suddenly with his fatal illness. His severe
indisposition is mentioned in the Lancet, by last mail.
It appears that he has suffered before from blood poison-
ing, the result of vaccination, whi*h injured his sys
tem. Sir William Jennar was in attendance oh him
when the mail left.
The head of Oliver Cromwell, stuck on a spike
over Westminister Hall, after the Protector’s body was
dragged oat of the lobby by the returned Royalists, is
the subject of an article in a recent number of the
Phrenological Journal. The embalmed head, with
the iron spikes still in it, is the property of Mr. Horace
Wilkinson, of Sevenoaks, Kent.
The Earl of Shrewsbury is making prepara-
tions for his approaching marriage with Mrs. Miller-
Mundy, with whom he recently eloped, and who was,
in consequence, divorced from her husband The
events of the past few months have made no difference
between the Earl and his tenants, who, the other day,
gave to him and Mrs. Mnndy a right royal reception.
Manson, the live agent of the great Waltham
Watch Company, with five guides, has climbed the
sacred mountain of Tongoriro (N.Z), explored the
Otiwa Grata, and placed one of the company’s most
fetching advertisements on the extreme summit. The
party were caught iu a snowstorm, had to remain in
the crater all night, and were nearly killed by the
cold.
Mr. Justice Williams, at the banquet to Mr.
George Stevenson, of L. Stevenson and Sons, waxed
eloquent in praise of the guest of the evening. He said
Mr. Stevenson was perfectly innocent of the big
Cnatoms’ frauds imputed to him. There is no gainsay-
ing testimony like this. The only pity is that Mr.
Williams wasn’t a witness instead of counsel at the
trials.
When Hoskins resigns his seat, our friend, the
talented Frank Hutchinson, is to contest it. This is
good. By the way, old Jem was to have gone with
Parkes—but the supply of H.’s was short enough for
one, and Jem couldn’t ready up any for the trip. We
understand, by the way, that James ihas qaite re-
covered. He is said to be as tough as horse-skins.
Whoop I
A little white-haired boy, three years of age,
was found wandering about in Geelong West, the other
night, and was taken up by the police as a deserted
child. In court it wag stated by the sergeant that the
child was the illegitimate son of a girl named Maria
Tomlinson, and that the father was, according to
commen report, a son of Mr. Graham Berry—which
latter statement, as may be imagined, caused some little
sensation.
Tho Detached Squadron is expected to reach
England in June, and the Princes will bo ordinary
mortals again. No morel “ toffee ” in England. Per-
haps they will forget some of their colonial acquaintances
but they will never, never forget the cab that stopped
the procession, or " those oranges.” Conceive the
Royal joy on again meeting 'Enery 1 Prince Edward is
to go to a Military school and Prince George to remain
ia the Navy.
The flags of several vessels on the Yarra were
hoisted half-mast on the 17th January as a mark of
respect to the memory of Miss Clara Agnes Howard-
Smith, eldest daughter of the well-known ship-owner,
and sister of Mr. W, Howard-Smith, jnn., and Mr. A.
Bruce Smith, borrister-at-law, of Sydney. Miss
Howard-Smith had been in delicate health for some
time, and lately she visited Ballarat, whore she expired
at the early age of 25 years.
It may not be generally known that it is correct
to affix the title Esq. when addressing a colonial
Honorable. The original Imperial warrant distinctly
says that the prefix of “ Hon.” shall only be allowed so
long as “ Esq.” follows the name. This regulation,
according to the warrant in question, was made in order
that the “true nobility of England” might bo dis-
tinguished from the bogus colonial article. It is high
time that the Honorable John Lucas, Esquire, M.L.C.,
looked into this matter.
The young Duke of Portland, who has been
entertaining H.R.H. the Prince of Wales at his seat,
Wei beck, rejoices in an income of about £190,000 a
year; and his predecessor left him a million and a
quarter in cash I His Qraco allows his mother (the
Baroness Bolsover) £50,000 a year. The late Duke spent
between six and eight millions upon Welbeck. His
great craze was tunnelling. The honse is surrounded
by twelve or fourteen miles of tunnels; and tho under-
ground portion of the honse is more suggestive of a
rabbit’warren than anything else.
There are few more successful men to-day than
Victor Sardou, the author of “ Friends.” Even if his
works should not live, what matter ? He is the pet of
the public, his name is on every lip in Paris, and the
most beautiful and clever women compete in rivalry
for his society. Theatrical managers entreat for trifles
or dramas from his pen, and he grows wealthier every
day. Ho has hit popular t iste, and he humours it. He
is blamed for not using his talents and pen to a higher
purpose, but what would you ? He uses them to make
money, and we all do the same—with this difference,
that most of us do not possess the talent.
The body of the late Mr. Trelawney (the last
survivor of the famous quintette composed of Byron,
Shelley, Keats, Hobhouse, and himself) has now, by
his last orders, been exhumed, cremated at Gotha, and
the ashes forwarded to Rome, there to be placed in an
urn by the side of those containing the remains of
Keats and Shelley. Byron also wished to be cremated
after death, but his family would not hear of such a
thing, and consequently whilst he lies in Hueknall
Church, the three men whom he loved, or rather their
ashes, are in their favourite city, and “in death they
are divided.”
The present Lord Waterford, nephew of the
celebrated Marquis, is much liked, and although the
son of a clergyman, is of a jovial disposition. Some
years ago he eloped with a married lady older than him-
self, whom he subsequently married. After her deith,
he married the only daughter of the Duke of Beaufort.
Curraghmore, which has been his residence, is a splen-
did property in Waterford, and Mr. Power, M.P., of
the Land League, and Mr. Parnell, have often hunted
there. In a recent speech, his lordship said it was a
cruel return on the part of the Land League to stab
ana maim P oor hounds that its members had followed.
Miss Parnell, the pew Pythoness, can “sling
ink: ”
“ Tear np che parchment lie 1
You. Gladstone, sunk supine to quivering slush j
Ton, Forster, with the seal of Cain in breast and eye;
You, Bright, whose slopping tongue can gloss and
gush;
You, puppet-brood, the lessor legislative fry ;
A people’s might your bungled work shall crush,
A people’s right your grinning cozenage defy.
We will not yield, we will not fly ;
Tear up your parchment lie!
This time we’ll neither crouch nor die I”
According to a Newcastle paper, at the recent
election for Northumberland, a voter, aged 103 years,
named James Grant, exercised his privilege. Mr, Grant
is said to have taken part in the Peninsular campaign,
and to have been present at the battle of Waterloo.
But this is nothing. We know of far more extraordi.
nary facts in connection with Sydney elections. For
example, there is the case of the lady who, prior to last
general shake-up, got placed on the roll six mythical
persons who. she said, were all boarders of hers. Of
course, they all voted—that is to say, the enterprising
lady got paid_ their votes. And a certain very
virtuous man is said to have negotiated the transaction.
Prince Krapotkine, the Nihilist, who has re-
cently arrived in London from Switzerland, took to
conspiracy during the reign of the late Czar, and was
imprisoned in the dungeons of the Portress of Peter
and Paul beneath the Neva. Confinement in these
dungeons for any length of time means death, and aftir
three years Krapotkine was, after he had endured
terrible sufferings, removed to the infirmary above
ground. As he began to recover he was allowed to take
walking exercise in the courtyard between two soldiers.
While walking there one day the gates opened to let in
a cart. He observed that this courtyard cemmunioated
with the street, and this was the means of enabling him
to make his escape.
A little while since we stated that President
Garfield died a Freethinker. In order to get level with
this, the S.M. Herald prints some galimatias, taken
from the Youth’s Companion, about President Lincoln,
whom somebody or other “often saw at short intervals
of respite in his crowded days, lying on his lounge,
reading the Bible that belonged to his mother: and
once, when asked what part of the Bible he loved
the best, replied that it was the Psalms. “They
are the best," he said. " I find something in them for
•very day in the week,” Bv-and-byo, the Herald will
no doubt got something of the kind ont of the Y corn's
Companion about Garfield, who, by the way, was a
fosom friend of Colonel Bob Ingersoll. These nice
little Sunday-school yams are easily made up.
Mr. M. Maloney, late head of the night staff of
the Telegraph Department, Sydney, having been ap-
pointed inspector of Northern lines, was “ seen off 11
by a number of friends the other night. A man with a
cornet was there, and if he was a little out of tune, his
intentions were good. The half hundred who accom-
panied Michael to the steamer sang till he was ont of
sight, and they were hoarse. He was visibly affected
by the music, and several times put his hands over his
ears to conceal his emotion. There is no better fellow
in N.S.W, than Mr. Maloney, on whose promotion we
cordially congratulate the Postmaster-General. Michael
comes of a clever family, one of his brothers being the
eminent Dr. Patrick Maloney, of medical and literary
celebrity, and another, Mr. James Maloney, of legal and
histrionic promise. •
While a gentleman was taking hia usual sniff at
the briny from his particular seat in the Botanic
Gardens, the other day, his mnsings were interrupted
by a stranger, who “pitched “ him the following yarn.
He said he bad been sent to Bermagui shortly after the
disappearance of the surveying party, to endeavour to
ascertain their fate, and soon found out that two of
them had murdered the remainder after they had
landed, had then placed the bodies in the boat's sail,
and, towing it out, snnk it and its contents. He also
muttered something about getting part of this infor-
mation from a woman there. He added that ho was
shortly after recalled, and the matter was placed in
the bands of the police, but that if he had been allowed
to follow up his clue, he would ere this have beeu able
to place his hand on the principal criminal, who
had fled Gippsland way. This principal offender of
whom he spoke, had, he remarked, borrowed a theodo-
lite from poor Young before they loft Sydney, and
pawned it immediately afterwards.
Two ladies, living in a fashionable suburb of
Timbuctoo, lately lost their father. One was said to
pass from one fit to another. She law in a darkened
chamber, lost in uncontrollable grief. The other passed
(so it was also said; from one faint into another. The
most expensive deep mourning was ordered. After the
will was read, it was found their names were not men-
tioned in it, whereupon a re-action took place. The
husbands now appear without any sign of mourning,
where before was the deepest, and the daughters declare
that their father was an idiot for many mouths before
his will was made, and that therefore it is illegal. They
have lodged a caveat in court, aod very soon the great
will case will be the talk of the Southern city. Verily,
King Lear’s daughters were not the only ones lacking
filial affection.
In respect to injuries received by him in the
Jolimont Bailway smash, Mr. Henry Dale Edwards
claims from the Victorian Government £15,000. One
of the next largest claims is that of Mrs. Garrett, ad-
ministratrix of the late Rev. Mr. Garrett, who assesses
her loss at £6OOO. Mr. A. E. Moore claims £6500,
Mr. Bruce Gaunson £5OOO, the executors of the late
Mr. G. M. E. Stephen £5OOO, Mrs. Sophie Bailliere
(widow of Mr. T. T, Bailliere) £7OOO. Altogether, it
may be stated that the actions which will yet be
brought, and the settlements in private by Minister of
Railways, together with the claims already preferred,
will amount to more than £lOO,OOO.
The leading object of Sir Henry Parkes in visit-
ing Europe is said by “ those who know, yon know,” to
bo the sale for something like £BOO,OOO of the rights of
the lessees of the Holt-Sutherland estate, in which
nice little pie the Premier has at least one finger. The
Illawarra railway is to ran through the estate j but in
view of the fact that it was Sir Henry who impeached
both Mr. Garrett and Mr. Baker, it need hardly bo said
that the direction of the line had been determined long
before Sir Henry and his friends decided to go in
for Mr, Holt’s land.
It will interest Australians to learn that Captain
Cecil D’Arcy, who won the first Victoria Cross ever
awarded to an officer of the colonial forces at the Cape
of Good Hope, and whose lifeless body was lately found
near the Keiakana River, in British Kaffraria, was born
under the Southern Cross in New Zealand. His father
was Major D’Arcy, of the XBth Royal Irish, who ex-
changed with the late Major (Brevet Lieutenant.
Colonel) Carey, of the Cape Mounted Riflemen. A more
loveable young fellow never wore the Queen’s uniform.
When about 17 years old he was a member of tne
Garrison Dramatic Troupe at King William’s Town,
British Kaffraria, and was the “ stock ” soubrette. The
“ chambermaid ** has lived to wear the Victoria Cross,
and, alas! has died before his time.
When the Caledonian Buchanan visited the
Quarter Sessions at Tamworth, the other day, he let off
some yarns which would compare well with Sir
’Enery’s now famous sixpenny narrative. David was
talking to a well-known local Boniface, when the latter
naked him whether he did not see a great change in
Tamworth. “Yes,"’ said the junior member for
Mudgee ; “ it’s a bit different now from what it was
some years ago whan I drove a team of bullocks
through it. It was a verra hot day, and I rememoer
halting at the only hotel ovar the river to wet ma
whnstla wi’ a long slaever.’* One man, on hearing of
David’s arrival in town, walked ten miles through dust
and heat to get a glimpse of the great man of whom he
had read but never had seen. However, just as the tramp
arrived, the bullock-driver had left for Sydney.
When the parties concerned in the Milburn
Creek grab come up for trial, some queer points of law
will present themselves. From a moral point of view,
a conviction seems to be almost un/ait accompli; but,
nevertheless, the case is fraught with legal techni-
calities, which (if overcome at all) will canso some
trouble. The case to go to the jury will be vefy
different from that presented to the public by the Com-
missioner’s report, inasmuch as a great deal of its
weighty substance will not be admitted in evidence
against the defendants. It must have been a matter of
some surprise to a great many in the legal fraternity
to hear of the trustees being indicted for conspiracy
instead of embezzlement—the latter apparently being
easier of proof. However, there may be good reasons
for the course adopted by the Attorney-General.
Dr. William Thomson, F.R.C.S., of Melbourne,
the eminent physiologist, medical statistician, and
Sbaksperian scholar, is evidently at variance with the
Melbourne hospital authorities He writes to the
Evening Herald saying that the hospital “is evi-
dently a dark house, whether it be or na also a slaughter-
house. Not long ago,” he continues, “ I was refined by
the pathologist a bit of tubercle from the diseased lung
of a defunct patient for analysis; and only the other
day I was denied a look at the morbid lungs of a dead
mgger. They keep their own gulls’ guts for their own
seamaws in more ways than one at the Hospitalism in-
stitution. It is a Tory place, conservative even in septic
bricks. It is a rotten borough none can enter without
servile seeking and faggot voting; n medical Old Sarum
simmering in corruption. Outsiders are ostentatiously
asked to look on slishiug operations, but dare not
meddle with results. If they dare inquire, they are
liars ami slanderers. Hence my ignorance of facts tot
forming- an opinion about pyaemia! ... A great
and much ado is made over callous vivisecting ; but in
what is anatomia vivorum, even in human beings,
worse than these casual practices of surgery, where
. w ,? are taken into an air laden with septic
* .When the people who have been running a
certain other hospital, not in Melbourne, read this,
they ought to squirm. ’
. A sensational story appears in the Armidale
' twenty years ago, a oouplelived happily together,
when suddenly one day, the husband disappeared Years
™i£ e ‘™ Cb un ; lvail ‘“£. and e ventually the deserted
wife married again. But the missing man turned un
rAmo C t i D i K a ! the S LEN Innes Guardian office, told P a’
r ?,“t rk f ble l tor y* Me said he had never left the colonv
*he time, but desiring to see his daughter again ho
came to Armidale; and while making inquiries there of
a lady, happened to mention hii wife’s name, when a
man who overheard him exclaimed, “Why, that’s mv
, , And ?o she was. No. 1, however, gracefully re-
framed from interference, and politely expressed a ho D o
that the j>air were happy together. It's a second VrwJvh
Arden story, without the sentiment, d Enocb
Tsohernischewsky, the imprisoned Russian no-
▼©list* a petition for whose release was Dronn«p<i hw
delegate in the International LBeTary P Congross 0 ss 7 is
said to have given in a novel, printed about *2
first impulse to what has silce bcon knowu aa' the
18 c m0Te ” en w M« 18 . ln ff re at mining district
of the Crown in Eastern Siberia, and for twelve years
was literally chained to his wheelbarrow by da/ and
fettered to the wall of his cell at night. This treatm«nr
has lately been somewhat lightened, but its effects are
revealed in his appearance. He looks, although only
fifty years old, like a man of great age. And thia in «
bit of the work of that anointed lecherous old scoundrel
who was dynamited in Eussia, and, the other dav
eulogised in the Legislative Council of Now Snnfh
b 0” ““
Regarding the allusion to Lady Ferguson in last
issue. She was not the third but the second wife of
&ir James. The story is this: She was the niece of old
Hughes, of Adelaide, formerly “captain’’ of a coal
m , mo - Captain Hughes adopted her, and had her
educated m England, where, before her return to
Adeb “ de - Bhe got engaged to a first cousin, who was to
follow immediately. Upon her arrival, Sir James a
widower of a year, was attracted by her beauty and bor
uncle s wealth, the old man being worth million
now; matters were arranged-a settlement of £3O 000
made on the niece and £lO,OOO cash to Sir James A
telegram was sent to London to stop the ooushi bf,V bt
had then already sailed, and arrived to S his lndy.
love another’s bride. “ Captain’’ Hughes „ ™. y
solation, but this, we believe, was indignantly declined"
Hughes subsequently gave £20,000 to found the Adelaide
University, retired to England, and through
of Sir James became a knight I Immediately after his
marriage. Sir James left Adelaide, having previously
been appointed to New Zealand. The South Austral
bn’rf v,*’ bufc i l was all done in such a hurry
they bad not the chance of saying much.
Prince of Wales,” we read ' roonntlv
“enjoyed wonderful sport with the partrhlgos tt?Ben
dlesham. The party of ten guns killed it the rate of
450 birds per day. Local reports state that the biro s
have been practised to fly in the proper diM « ,”5
were driven over the fences systematically far weeks vremZs
to this grand shoot. [The italics ours, j This comes from
the World, and reads very much like an Rnnmvnf
sponsmar a i n t ly H K’l? hter ’ porpot A ratod a cockney
sportsman. It H.K.H. came to Australia, he might
have almost equally good sport in Gussy’s at
Government House. Lot us quote A. L. Gordon*-
1 v a ?^ 6iCber tb ® wil [ “O' the right to blame
Yet to many (though not to all)
The sweets of destruction are somewhat tamo.
When no personal risks befall •
Our victims suffer but little we trust
(Mere guess work and blank enigma).
If they suffer at all, our field sports must
Of cruelty bear the stigma.
;
Though short is the dying pheasant’s pain.
Scant pity you may well spare.
And the partridge slain is a triumph vain
And a risk that a child might dam •
You feel, when you lower the smoking gun.
Some ruth for yon slaughtered hare. *
And hit or miss, in your selfish fun
The widgeon has little share.
B wdo U ’ VO n ° ron ?° r sefal qualms or pangs
When you kneel by the grizzly’s b.ir.
On that conical bullet your sole chance hangs.
. J 1 18 tho weak om’s advantage fair, g ’
And the shaggy giant’s terrific fangs
Are ready to crush and tear;
Should you miss, one vision of home and friend
Five words of unfinished prayer. 6nd *
Three savage knife stabs, so your sport ends
In the worrying grapple that chokes and ronds J
Eare sport, at least, for the boar. 1
We have received a communication from "Lew "
woSd “thale justified rh n h aad i hl *
n l ßeohet^a*'case^™^^^
adl^°r °t the Sydney Daily Telpceapit * if
is but due to Mr. Lynch that we sheJld layXfom' our
readers a short statement of services rendered by
him to justice and humanity in cases not
Bechet** Many “ye" 8 All>honßo
named John Edgar was sentenced to death on’a charge
of rape. Mr. Lynch and a few ethers, who hJS
siou to watch the legal proceedings, felt sure that the
man was innocent, but it was only by efforts slnW.
superhuman that they succeeded in obtaining f«“iin
a reprieve, a dayor two prior to the date flxfd tor C
execution. Edgar s sentence was changed to one of im-
prisonment for life, the first throe years in irons But
Mr. Lynch and his friends, far from beC satisfied
with this, pertinaciously, though unsuccessfully, fought
bamf l figbfc ’ u \ ltU da y. years after Edgar had
been first consigned to his living grave, it was ah-
her n dM d rb h hoS h n m D U i S aoo " ser had died, and that oo
c,mfld^hc‘ b Ai d Sb 1 e f ba , a to having in court
called the Almighty to witness a lie. Then Edgar was
r fiw 1 fi nd Tvr man walked into the
Gm Melbourne journal of which Mr. Lynch
was Adttor, to thank his deliverer, with tears in hia
bV a #J, d t «. sb °'T th e marks of leg-irons, worn day and
night for three long years. Public opinion, apathetic
the , p ! rjared woman still lived and
W™** 4 ln , gaol, at once demanded that reparation
0 tit l ’ 0 T made > and Edgar was appointed station-
master at Lai Lai, near Ballarat, at a salary of £250
per annum—a position which he has ever since occu.
P l ®!. w,tl l credit. It is also within the personal recol.
lection of the writer of this paragraph that a mau
named 1 rank Spearm was convicted at Melbourne of
an offence similar to that imputed to Edgar, and that
Mr. Lynch, impressed with the belief that the prisoner’s
accusers had committed perjury, for years spared
neither time nor money to obtain a remission of hia
sentence. Spearm was sent to gaol for ten vears, with
three floggings of fifty lashes each. He got ihe floggings
at the hands of the common hangman, aud served
sir years, at the end of which, his innocence
haying been established to the satisfaction of the Vic-
torian Crown Law [authorities, he was released. In
this and other colonies the fate of a man too often
hangs on the fiat of a jury-box full of human weeds—
men, the majority of whom, judged physiognomically,
are utterly dull and brutal, and whose position in life is
far below that of the prisoner at the bar. Trial by jury
has, in Australia, too often degenerated into a farce, and
until a reform has been effected in a state of things
which mocks justice aud calls to Heaven for vengeance
on the authorities responsible, it is well that there
should be in the community men who work as gamely
and as disinterestedly for the truth and the right as
does J. M. Lynch,


Hotels,
Hotels, Sec
OBINSON’S FITZ
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOO
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP J
Is PER BOTT
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKS
all round.
N.B. —Cockbum’s Grape (POE
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Ami
Thurston’s Best Billiard Tabl«
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EM
The compagnoni cati
OF PITT-STREET have r
nouncing to the public, that to re;
want of space to accommodate th<
Luncheon hour, they have com
Banqueting Hall into an additioi
which is now open, and where e
directed to visitors patronising th
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a supei
is under the management of a first
branch of Catering undertaken, a
staff of experienced and polite wai
Through continued misropresor
beg to mention that they are not i
with any other person, or persons,
SAMUEL PA
NOW OPEN
THE
£Jitt £Jateeinq
815 GEOEGE ST!
(late Harris’ Cafd, opposite Pei
A superior CAFE and RESTAUR
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
and for
Gentlemen accompanied
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cl
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest
GUARANTEED that no danger
or ingredient of any kind injurious
Hotels, fcc
K
I A M A HOTE
G. TORY, Pro
Commercial Travellers, Exci
seekers, and persons travelling g(
hotel the best and cheapest on tli
splendid table kept, and every coi
travelling shows, &c. Sample r
Travellers.
The “ Laycock” Coach meets tl
passengers, luggage, &c.. to and fri
part of the country. Baggies a
hire. Billiards.
ICE
I
ICE
E
ITHHE CITY ICE COMPANY
ADDITION to their WORK
Manufacture upwards of TEN TC
are prepared to Supply the LUX
PEO ACHING SUMMER, at a 1
For prices, &c.,
Apply to
3 WTNTAED ST
OK TO VAJ
R
OBEET BUTC
(Late William I
WINE AND SPIRIT M
534 GEOEGE ST1
OPPOSITE TOWN HAT.
Country Orders Receive Pi
Australian “ho
SEWING MACH
Unprincipled Dealers—to mat
lings profit—are offering for sa
Machines that will not stand a yei
EXPRESS
OSS
wi
A
</
n A/
THE HOME SHUTTLE ;
Manufactured for us, has the al
name on the work
PURCHASE NO OTU
We solicit information of the at
terfeita of the above Machine, w
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our gem
procurable, we will forward thei
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE KOW SOLD
HAND MACHINE. COMPLET]
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPI
Do., WITH COVER COR
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular po
M. M0SS~AN
WYKTAED LANE,
w.
H. A E
PROVISION MEE(
AND GENERAL COMMIS
343 and 345 Kent-street, ne
SOLE AGENT for the undermen
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lo
IWTiIVh mn re* Vin*/v
Tobaeconi
TO SMOKEES WHO PEOFESS
AMERICAN TO
THE following facta are cc
resources, and, therefore,
special interest: —
DTXSON AND SONS paid dnty
All the others paid dnty in I860 c
DIXSON AND SONf- paid duty
All the others paid duty in 1881 o
Imported manufactured tobacco;
on for the two years was only.
DIXSON AND SON’S BI
YANKEE DOODLE, (
SIB BOGEB, GOI
CUT BUST, OBIENTi
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror i
genuine "Tin Tag,” eech pi
Bound Sikglb Tin Tag, ■
QBBME ” or “ Tabebb
ALL TOBACCONISTS’ QO(
jjj : •< ■ ; ;?■. :
:
J.EVB . TOBACCO
JAMES E
No. 149 KING S
(Opposite Theatre Esyal St
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars o
Pipes mounted and ami
149 KINO STEE
Loans geanted wit
moderate rates, on all kinds
ments to suit convenience of bon
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh
King-street. Established 1859.
J) LATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPEKHANGIN
(a really splendid s
EOOM and PICTUEE-FEAMI
KENT’S BEUSH
GOLD LEAF, A
1
ips
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOl
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEI
MERCHANT
YIRGOE, SON^AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE I
m'
ohn £
OR
II
yrftr.OeJ
It is of tho utmost importance
bottle should bo carefully oompai
ore being imported into New S
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISK"!
other brands, when they will fir
least 10 per cent, in favour of 1
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
MARTIN
AUSTRALIAN WINE B
AND BEER BO'I
105 PITT STBS
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES Ih
Prices from 12s to 42s
ALBUEY WIN
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTER RIVER 1
Claret
Lambrnscat
PORT MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
rIOOLALTA WINE
/ VIA T»Tmm amriTinm
The Celebrated
irA v a
Ihev4q?x2
The Name of M. MOSS & 00.
every Genuine Bottle.
Wholesale and E<
PRODUCE MER
Corner
GEOEGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOE1
48 George-street West (late Pa
And
Darlinghnrst Eoad, near "W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Eetaii, Wine anj
778 and 780 GEOEGE STE
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
Stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B.—Orders by post pnnctnally
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Haj
g M I T H AND
PROPERTY SALESMEN, U
January 28, 1882.


The Referee
SPOSTING FIXTURES.
[TF« shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing club s and managers of sporting events in general.]
PACING.
Gunning January 26.
Broulee January 26 and 27'
New England J.C January 26, 27.
Newcastle January 26, 27.
Geelong January 26, 28.
Parramatta January 26, 28.
One Tree Hill February 2.
Wellington (N.Z.) E.C. Summer Meeting... Feb. 2 and 3.
Northern J.C February 7, 8.
Vegetable Creek February 9, 10.
Ararat (Vic.) February 9,10.
Victoria A.T.C ..February 11.
Tasmanian Joekey C1ub...... February 14, 15, and 18.
1nv0reU...... February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 28, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting .Feb. ‘St, 24, 25.
Wentworth .....Macoh 8, 4.
V.K.C - —.March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N. 2,) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11. 12.
Orange March 16, 17.
Albory ..... March 16, 17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club Mareh 16,17.
Gnndagai March 16, 17.
Wogga March 22.
Oorowa .March 23.
V. A.T.C March 25.
Great Northern E.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
bale Turf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
Canterbury, J.C. (N.Z ) April 10,11.
A.J.C. Autumn April 10, 12, 14,15.
Lachlan E.C May 4, 5.
S.A. J.C May 24.
AQUATICS.
Stockton Eegatta.. January 26.
National Eegatta January 26.
Port Jackson Swimming Club Matches January 28.
Auckland (N.Z.) Annual Eegatta January 30.
Hanlan ▼. Boyd, on the Tyne April
Intercolonial Bight-oar Eace Easter.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs ••■•May.
Grafton Eegatta - May 24.
Hanlan y. Boss, on the Thames June 20.
CEICKBT.
Intercolonial, at Sydney February 10,11,12.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven: —January 26, 27, 28, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2, 3. 4. against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February 14,15,16, against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park ; February 17, 18, 20, against
New South Wales Team at Sydney; Victorian Eleven,
February 24, 25, 27; Australian Eleven, Sydney, March
3,4, 6; Australian Eleven, Melbourne, March 9,10, 11.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Muswellbrook Handicap (150 yards) January 26.
Assenheim v, G. Lindsay..... January 28.
Franks v. Murphy, £lOO, 3 days’ walk February 4.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The gates for the Newcastle meeting brought
£lBO.
.£689 was paid away at the settling for Bega
Races.
Edward Hanlan arrived at Liverpool from New
York on the 18th instant.
Daniel O’Leary, the long-distance pedestrian,
intends shortly visiting Australia.
Mullagh, the aboriginal cricketer, scored 61 out
of a total of 303 on Saturday week.
On the 2nd Feb., at Geelong, Swan and Clifford
go-as-you-please for 48 hours for £5O a side.
The Hunter River J.C. has issued an attractive
programme for its meeting on February 11.
At the Wyndham races, the Messrs Chirnside
supplied free drinks to tho occupants of tho stand and
paddock.
The A. J.C. accepted Hesperian’s nomination,
Mr. T. Brown having satisfied the committee as te his
purchase.
The English Eleven are to play against twenty-
two of Hawkesbury about the latter end of February.
The latter are sanguine of success.
Tho 22-feot sailing race, under the auspices
of the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club, was won by half
a minute by Mr. H. Scarr’s Syren.
Hearn the sculler, competes at the Auckland
regatta on 30th January. The White Brothers, Carter,
and Floyd will also probably take part.
Batty, the jockey, got a nasty fall off Actress
in the Steeplechase, at Wyndham, bruising the cap of
his knee and putting his nose a little out of order.
It is highly improbable that Seoundus, owing to
the injury sustained by him in the race fer the Wagga
Cup, will race again within the next twelve months.
.£10,650 was realised at Towns’ sale of thorough-
breds. There were some new names amongst the pur-
chasers, so that the turf is evidently not on the decline.
A trotting match, miles, took place at Rand-
wick on Saturday between Garryowen and New Chum;
the latter won easily, covering the distance in 8 min. 42
sec.
The Deniliquin J.C. meeting is to come off at
the very end of April or early in May. £l2O is to be
given for the Deniliquin Cup, and £lOO for the D. J.C.
Handicap.
King Quail was backed by his owner, Mr. Hors-
fall to win the three New Zealand Cups—Auckland,
WoUisgton, and Dunedin—at 2000 to 2, He won tho
rst easily.
Welshing is on the increase in Victoria. Mr.
J H White advertises that he is not represented by
the “ gentleman,” whose book has his name displayed
on the cover.
The Grafton people are big on regattas. At tho
preliminary meeting to arrange far the Queen’s Birth-
day event, the balance from last year of £53 was in-
creased by subscriptions to £3lO.
On the 18th the English Eleven played a one
day’s match with a Timaru team. The latter scored
111; the Englishmen made the runs with the loss of
four wickets. Barlow made 21; Selby 67; Shrewsbury
32.
A crooked thing occurred at the Auckland races,
a horse heavily backed, named Hilda, being scratched
just as the horses were leaving the paddock for tha
starting post. An investigation was held, but no action
taken.
The Tasmanians wished to arrange a three-
days’ match with the English Eleven, but more impor-
tant fixtures preclude the event. It is reported that
£3OOO is the amount netted in New South Wales and
Victoria.
I'he following have been selected to practise for
the Intercolonial Cricket Match Allen, A. and C.
Bannerman, Davies, Downes, Evans, Garrett, D.
Gregory, Hiddlestone, Jones, Massie, Murdoch, Spof-
forth, and Turner.
The New York Spirit op the Times says that
"Trump Yoss, with Halls up, won the Hawkesbury,
and at the ensuing A. J.C. meeting Allyn won the Hur-
dle Eaoe, Wheaton the Derby, and Millersdale was third
for the Epsom!” Hooray I
The Orange J.C. cleared .£54 by the New Year’s
Day meeting. £5OO, besides added money, is given by
the club for the meeting on the 16th and 17th March,
the principal events being the O.J.C. Handicap of
£125, and Town Plate of £BO.
The two-year-old filly, Lady, by the Auk, pur-
chased in Sydney several mouths ago by Mr. John
Smith, had her back broken at the Auckland races.
She bolted while running in the Maiden—her first
appearance on a racecourse in public.
A mile race for <£lo, between G. Adams and P.
Donohue, is arranged for Saturday, Feb. IS, and a 150
yards’ race for £lO, between G. Adams and T. Giles
(with 5 yards’ start), on Friday, Feb. 17. Both events
come off on the Tamworth Cricket Ground.
Speaking of Prank Punch’s liberal offer, the
New Yoek Clipper says: “As richer prizes are to be
had by first-class scullers in the States and Canada,
Mr. Punch will have to increase the amount consider-
ably to induce American sou lers to travel so far.”
The flat-racing season finished in England on the
26th November, and F. Archer once more headed the list
of jockeys, with 220 wins out of 532 mounts. In 1876 he
had2o7 wins ;1877,218; 1878, 229; 1879, 197; andlBBo,l2o
—so that in six years he won no lass than 1191 races.
In a match played at Springmount (Vic.) on
Saturday week, between the Spring jnount and Creswiok
clubs, the former eleven in the first innings were all
dismissed for one run—a bye. Bobins bowled eight
halls for four wickets, and Eoborts twelve balls for six
wickets.
Colonel B. F. Burdette, on behalf of young
Otto, the boy chief of the Nez Perces Indians, chai-
longed Dr. Carver to a match of fancy shots for 5000
dollars aside. Dr. Carver had not accepted, and it is
affirmed that Otto can beat him in eleven out of the
twelve tricks proposed.
The monthly rendezvous of the Glebe Rowing
Club was held at Birkenhead on the 13th instant. An
impromptu cricket match was played, in which our own
evergreen Bob distinguished himself. A match is on
the tapis between the Glebe and Mercantile Clubs. This
will settle the supremacy on land.
Thirteen thousand people attended the Caledo-
nian gathering at Dunedin (N.Z.) on New Year’s Day.
Lindsay, the Victorian ped., carried off the principal
foot-race as he pleased Timaru (N.Z) Caledonian
sports an immense'auccess. I. J. Bradley won the two-
mile walking match in 11 min. 31 sec. from scratch.
Frank Hewitt ran a 3-mile match with a horse,
Goldfish, at Adelaide, recently, for £25 aside. The
horse won. Either it must have been a trotting match, or
the horse must have been a bad performer. His owner
rode him ; possibly, he may be of the “ twenty-stun ”
species—hence the match. Frank is wide-awake
generally.
The biggest purchase at Mr. Towns’ sale was
the Maribvrnong-Fawn colt, which was knocked down
to Mr. W. Gannon for 2000 guineas. The colt was
foaled on August 23, and is own brother to Segenhoe,
Palmyra, Boaworth, and Kichmond. He is entered for
all the principal events, and should be greatly fancied in
coming doubles.
The cricket season of 1881, in England, was
eventful by reason of the long scores made, 100 runs and
more in an innings having been scored by individual
batsmen upwards of five hundred times. For thirteen
years, the 401 (not out of E. J. S. Tylecote has been
unsurpassed; but it has been left for W. N. Eoe to beat
the record, and make his score of 415 (not out) which
now stands alone Then we find two scores of 216 and 190
respectively, made for the Derbyshire Friars, the entire
innings amounting to 712, the largest total ever made in
England, and tieing with that|put together by the Mel-
bourne Club in 1879.
A. S. Ratbbone, of the Auckland Observer,
had his nose palled at the local Tatteraall’s Club, by
Billy Weston, one of the principal N.Z. bookmakers.
The cause was a par. indirectly reflecting on Weston’s
honesty. A large amount of dirty linen was publicly
washed over the fracas, Weston eventually being fined
£5 and costs at the police court.
The Auckland Racing Club meeting was an
immense success on Boxing and New Year’s Day, but
the weather on the third was miserably wet. On the
first day, with the exception of the Hurdles, the events
fell to horses bred in New South Wales. Othello
romped homo in the Maiden, beating a field of seven.
The winner was bred in 1877 by Mr. John Lee, and was
got by Maribyvnong.
The walking match between I. J. Bradley and
H. Lambert, for £5O a side and the Championship of
South Canterbury (N.Z ), was won easily by Bradley.
When half through their work Bradley had gained a
full lap—a quarter of a mile—upon Lambert, and then
took it easy, being content to fellow Lambert round.
Bradley finished the seven miles in 62min. 45soc. He
could have done it much more quickly.
The cricket match between two N.Z. provinces,
Timaru and Oamaru, was won by Timaru. The scoring
was somewhat peculiar. Oamaru went in first and
scored 88. Timaru, in their first innings, scored 86, but
more than halt was got by one man—Mr. E. Fowler—
and a quarter more wore “extras." Then Oamaru
went in again and scored only 9, seven men getting
“ ducks.” Timaru had 10 runs to get to win, and to
achieve this cost them three wickets. The bowling of
both sides wns very good.
The Petersham Cricket Club has, it is said, a
special fund called the “ window-breaking fund.’’ Tho
cricket-ground is closely surrounded by houses, and tho
aim of the players is to knock the ball through tho
windows. When this is done, the batsmen manage to
run a fair score in itself for a single hit before the owner
will answer the door and return the ball to the frenzied
fieldsman. The householders are effecting revenge for
their shattered window-panes: the cricket-ground is to
be shortly sub-divided into building lots.
The match between the Carlton and Albert
Clubs for tho Holds worth-Gardyue Cup was continued
on Saturday. Massie broke the spell again, and ob-
tained 95 by some splendid hits and streaky play.
Moses played a grand innings for 69. D. Gregory
played better than ever for his 27; he lost his wicket
trying to pull one of Tooher’s slows. Fletcher was the
only remaining double figure scorer. Two wickets were
down for 215, but the tail was got rid of for only ll
more runs, Tooher’s admirably pitched underhand
slows and Nnnn’s enticers doing the work. The latter
made a splendid one-hand catch. The two Bannermana
opened the second innings for the Carlton, and when
time was called, 44 runs were on tho board with no
wickets down, the batsmen being 20 each. Charley
played unusually well. The Carltons are in it with 85
runs to the good.
The sculling match at Mercury Bay (province
of Auckland, N.Z.,), in which John Carter, Henry
Floyd, and Albert White competed, was won by the
former. The betting was in favour of White, and it is
said Carter spoke deprecatingly of himself, and thus
laid wagers on more favourable terms. At first White
led, but coming home Carter took first place,
and won as he pleased. Who is John Carter,
of Sydney, who is about to row Albert White
again for £5O a side, the boats used in tne former
race to be changed ? As we have never heard of Carter
before, or of Floyd, his mate, also of Sydney, we should
like to send over a messenger to find out all about them.
The Auckland R.C. Handicap, run on New
Tear’s Day, is described as one of the best and closest
races ever seen on a course. Twelve started, and a
sheet would have covered the lot during the whole of
ihelj miles. In the straight, Tim Whifflar, the favour-
ite, with Poet and Kandwick, succeeded in shaking off
the others, and raced home under the whip so closely
that few on the course could pick the winner until the
numbers were' up. It was won by Poet by a nose,
Kandwick and Tim Whifiler running a dead heat for
second; and Lara, the head of the second division, was
fourth by about a length. Time, 3min. sec. The
enthusiasm, as the leaders came up the straight, was
almost painful.
The adjourned monthly meeting of the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club again fell through, on account of an
insufficient attendance of members. The S.M. Herald
says:—“ This must not be regarded as any indication of
a decline in yachting or the interest entertained for so
healthy and enjoyable a pastime. Whenever there is
really business of importance to transact we invariably
find a good attendance of members." Meanwhile, what
do the three gentlemen who attended the meeting think
about it ? However, there was a quorum on Friday
night, and the business transacted related to an objec-
tionable by-law in the race at the Anniversary Eegatta,
and to the arrangements for the race for Mr. H. T.
Clark’s prize, which took place on Saturday. Of course,
this was not business of real importance.
The New York Spirit op the Times, of
November 19, says that ‘•Triekett has, apparently,
accepted a position as assistant passenger agent of the
St. Louis and Crdve-Gceur Lake Railroad, and is strug-
gling desperately to arrange such boat races as would
bring grist to his new mill. Having no money, nor any
backers, except for exhibitions in the St. Louis district,
he is now, and seems likely to be hereafter, unable to
make any genuine match. Hanlan does not allow him-
self to be dragooned into rowing, except when and
where he pdeases, and announces himself as through
with the water for this season, but plainly proclaims
his readiness to make now, and row next summer, all
the matches fsr which his adversaries can produce
men and money.” Captain Mullett (suggestive) was the
party who engaged Hanlan and Plaisted to visit Cali-
fornia to give six exhibitions. Just as the expedition
was about to start, the valiant Captain disappeared
from Toronto leaving behind him sundry broken pro-
mise?, unpaid board bills, and an uncolleotable cheque
for 31000 with the champion. They didn’t go to Cali-
fornia, but the Captain returned and squared matters.
The legal points raised by the defence in the
“Sweep” cases, beard at Wellington, N.Z, were—
First: i hat the defendauds were not partners in any
known leral interpretation of the words, as used in the
18th and 19th clauses of the Act; that the partnership
there referred to was evidently that of persons who
promoted a sweep for consideration, or profit, sharing
the profit or loss as matter of business. Second: That
the sections of the Act referred to evidently contend"
plated others than the partners in the sweep, as they
expressly referred to those who held tickets or were
assured prizes. On the analogy of the Lottery Act
cases in England the holders of tickets were not to be
deemed partners. Third: That the whole policy of the
Act was to put down organised and professional
gambling, not to interfere with private amusement, and
that the legal definition of gambling was playing to
excess, not the mere act of playing a game, even for
money. During the hearing of the case it transpired
that the informant. Detective Crystal, had actually
held the hat while tickets were being drawn. An
information was therefore immediately laid against
Crystal for assisting in the affair.
The N.Y. Spirit op the Times of December 10,
says: —As is usual, when snow flies, dry-land rowing
flourishes with astounding vigour, its present champion
being Eobert Watson Boyd, of Middleborough,
England. This alleged oarsman came to America in
1880, rowed at Providence June 17, was beaten by every
third-class sculler of the United States and Canada, and.
stole away home. During November. 1880, when the
fastest oarsmen of America, Australia, and England
assembled ou the Thames, and completed in a series of
grand matches and regattas, Boyd crawled so deeply in-
to his hole that a ferret could not find him. His last
appearance on the water was a few weeks ago, when,
finding himself the only entry for an anounced race, he
paddled over the course alone, and threatens to sue the
donor for a cup offered for a race, not a walk-over. He
keeps a little public-house, and periodically advertises
himself and his bar-room by challenging some sculler
who is 3900 or 12.000 miles away. The latest target
for this harmless long-range shooting is Hanlan, and
during the past twenty days the people of America
have learned, at the expense of several thousand dollars,
paid to the Associated Press and the Trans-Atlantic
Cable, the five following factsl. That Boydaceepted
a challenge which Hanlan never issued, and was willing
to row him next May, ou the Tyne for £2oo—almost
enough to pay Hanlan’s travelling expenses. 2. That
Hanlan would row Boyd on the Thames in March for
£lOOO. 3. That Boyd crawled into his cellar and barred
the door, as uaual, by refusing to row elsewhere than
on his own creek. 1. That Hanlan smoked him out of
his den by waiving his right, and accepting the Tyne.
5. That Boyd is now hastily climbing anothi r tree,
from whose topmost branches drops a tearful whine
about his inability to raise the necessary funds. It is
doubtful if this information was worth the money which
it has cost us.
The saddest sight in nature is an old and under-
paid man working for his living.
The British North Borneo Company is actively
pushing on its operations. It has chosen its flag,
ordered a ship, and is now organising an armed force
l under the command of English officers.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Very unpleasant rumours are afloat in reference
to the recent women’s go-as-you-please at Sandhurst,
Yic. They are to the effect that the prize-money has
not been paid, and that the successful contestants
have been wandering about town looting in vain for the
promoters Aspen has won the Newmarket Handicap
at Melbourne two years in succession, and is now doing
good work at Flemiugton. Perhaps she may do some-
thing good in 1882 The Victorian Betting Club have
a new rule as to the necessity of notifying to the
secretary any partnership between two or more book-
makers. Failing such notice, adjudication will not be
made. A week after settling day, a certain backer
claimed £lOO from one of the smaller Melbourne book-
makers, on Zulu for the Cup. The metallician had
entered 100 to 3 v. Zulu in his book, but his customer de-
clined to have it, and the bet was at once scratched.
After Zulu had won came the “ try-on,” and matters
looked blue for the metallician, as there were three
witnesses against him. There was more than one ad-
journment of the case, and then, by the shrewdness of
one or two of the committee, who discovered that a
page of bets entered in the plaintiff’s book were un-
doubtedly written up after the Gup race a unanimous
verdict was given in favour of the defendant At the
Lyttelton (N.Z.) Regatta, four crews competed in a
four-oar outrigger race. It resulted—Kaiapoi crew 1,
Christchurch crew 2, Lyttelton crew 3, Dunedin crew
last. The four-oared inrigger race, for which three
crews from Dunedin, Christchurch and Lyttelton
entered, resulted in a fine race, Lyttelton being first,
and the other two a dead heat. A foul occurred between
the Lyttelton and Dunedin boats, and ended in a pro-
test being entered The racing careers of Le Loup
and Mata appear to bo over; the former’s inevitably so,
while Mata's only chance of getting round is to have a
very long spell The New Zealand horse, Idalium, is
a bit off, and will probably not race this season Sir
Modred, Somalia, and Hilarious are now the property
of Messrs. Craig and Goodman. So a New Zealand
authority says Derritt, the N.Z. Archer, has now
been riding fourteen years Fleur-de-Lys (by Tra-
dncer-Fleurange) won the principal events at the North
Canterbury (N.Z.) meeting on New Year’s Day W.
Carter, a well-known hurdle-race rider in Queensland,
had his thigh broken through a fall from a horse at
Ipswich The Newcastle and Ironclad match was
finished last Saturday, Newcastle winning by 21 runs
... .Windsor v. Eichmond, at Richmond ; W. 0., 106 and
131 for eight wickets. E.C., 41 Mr. Henry Kctt, a
well-known sport, and an old resident of Wargaratta,
has died suddenly of heart disease Abe Hicken has
taken Cavanagh’s Hotel, Swanston-street, Melbourne
An intercolonial cricket match was lately played
bv some enthusiasts on tne borders of Queensland and
New South Wales, resulting, of course, in a victory
for the Welshmen. Mr. L. Wilkinson, lately of
the Survey Office, made the highest score in each
innings, and secured the best bowling average
Private Hedges won first prize, with 65 points, at the
monthly shooting of the Torpedo Rifle Club 35
nominations for the Napier (N.Z.) Handicap, 34 for the
Railway Stakes, and 17 for the Hurdles. The names of
Sir Modred and Somnus figure in the flrst-namrd
events The annual cricket watch between the N.Z.
provinces, Wellington and Nelson, took place on
Boxing Day. Wellington’s first innings closed for 62,
and Nelson for 105. Wellington’s second innings ended
for 54. Nelson won the match by one run and nine
wickets Richard Hestler, aged 70, formerly handi-
capper to the Canterbury (N.Z.) Jockey Club, was found
dead. Deceased took two cups of coffee at half-past
eight in the morning, and was not seen again till found
dead. The cause is not known Mr. Irwin Beatty, of
the Bank Hotel, Belfast, Yic., was the holder of one of
“ Boz’s ” Cotiolanus tickets in the Champion, and drew
a' clear £9OO, He is now in a state of beattyflcation
The Auckland Racing Club have lately expended close
on £l2OO on their course. It is now one of the finest
in N.Z The Thames (N.Z ) Goldfields Handicap,
run on Boxing Day, was appropriated by Rocket, Dew.
drop second, Derby third The champion ped. of
Gympie has left that town for the south, where, if he
runs on his merits, he is fit to cope with anybody except
i Aplitt or Watson. They could not find anyone about
there able to keep him company on the track
The following is the full pedigree of Coriolanus:—
Coriolanus, by Tubal Cain, from Pauline, by Panic
(imp.) from Kathleen, by Warhawk (imp.) from Grana-
wheile (imp.), by Stockwell from Kathleen, by Laner.
cost trom Croppy; Tubal Cain by Tregeagle (imp.) from
Zilloh, by Stockowner (imp.) from Omen (imp.); by
Melbourne from Stormy Petrel, by Sheet Anchor,
Stockowner by Stockwell, by The Baron; Tregeagle
(imp.), by Wild Dayrell, by lon, by Cain: Panic, by
Alarm, by Venison, by Partisan, &o “ Sir Launce-
lot" of the Canterbury (N.Z ) Times lately paid a
visit to Middle Park stud farm, with the object of look-
ing at the King of Clubs’ foals, twelve in number.
He says Ihe youngest of the lot is Hammock’s
bay colt, who was foaled on the (morning of The Dan-
phiin’sDerby victory, and who, it is hoped, may turnout
as good as his half-brother, Somnus” Porter, of the
City Club Hotel, Sandhurst, has been fined 205., for
promoting a sweep on last Melbourne Cup. There is
plenty of room for sweeping reforms in other directions
than gambling Mr. Horsfall, the owner of the winner
of the Auckland Cup, is said to have retired from the
businessof storekeeping four years ago with £l2 000, a
fair portion of which he has devoted to racing and
oiher sports Great satisfaction was expressed in
Christchurch (N.Z.), when it was known that Messrs.
Hobbs and Goodwin had been victorious in the late
totalisator case. It is said that Mr. Frank will apply to
the judge of the Christchurch Court for leave to appeal
to the Privy Council. This, with costs up to the
present, means a mint of money for whoever loses
The Auckland Racing Club have removed the dis-
qualification of the jockey Byers, who was disqualified
in the Golden Crown affair National v. Lismore:
N.C. 106—Dobson 43, Baxter 36. L.C., 7 wickets for 46
—Tuker 10 National v. Oxford: N.C. 136—Duncan
33, Williamson 28, Dutton 22, Collins ID. 0.C., 6
wickets for 26 Trainers complain that the track at
Flemington is not watered as it should be, and also
that during the hot weather, the tan is so slippery as to
make it daugerous to gallop At Hay races, lady
jookeys rode. Miss Melrose winning the ladies’ race,
on Guy Fawkes The gates, booths, &c , for the
Armidale meeting realized £260 Marmora C. defeated
Eedfem Albion C. by 28 runs Corio v. Ashfield.
C O.: 72—Hoare 24, J. Melly 16. A.C.: 25 and 69
Gibbs 13, Dickens 10. Hoare, for the winners, was
credited (for the two innings) with 12 wickets for 47
runs The judge refused to give a decision in the race
for £2O, at Lithgow, between Evangeline and Fanny
Mr. F. Weston won the pigeon-shooting match at
Eandwick, on Saturday, killing 30 out of 49.
* * *
The latest record-breaking feat is that of Mr.
C. D. Vesey, of the Surrey (England) bicycle club, who
rode 100 miles in 6h. 45 m. 54 3-5 a. His intermediate
times were; One mile, 3:47: 5 miles, 17.8; 10 miles,
36 26; 20 miles, Ih. 12 m.; 50 miles, 3h. 3m. 45 s.; 75
miles, 4 h. 51 m. 42 s A mile raee between Howell and
Cooper, at Leicester, on Nov. 1, was won by Howell in
2.55, on a track 440 yards in circumstance
The great wrestling match at Manchester, between
Joe Acton and Ike Smith, eventuated in a draw, neither
being able to throw the other, after wrestling 1 h. 4S m.
...The Referee ridicules the proposed Hanlan-Trickett
match, and says it fears that unless the champion
accedes to Trickett’s request for a race, the latter will
become so inflated thar. he will “go off with a bang
suddenly." Mr. Ivo Bligh, who captains the English
cricket team which comes to Australia next season, is
a very great swell, indeed At latest, he, in company
with Lord and Lady Brooke, the Duke and Duchess of
Eoxburghe, Prince Dolgorouki, and a host of other
notabilities, were at Canford Manor, Dorset, on a visit
to Lord and Lady Wimborne Cremorne, the Derby
winner of 1872, has brought at auction 5000 gs It is
only the amateurism of Myers, the American spurter,
which makes him considered a wonderful runner. When
Myers was in England, there was no secret about
Hutchens, of Putney, being able to “ sail away” from
him at any distance between fifty yards and a
quarter of a mils, and there are in England
other men who must be pretty nearly as good
as Hutchens. If it be shown that the Yankee
flyer is neither more nor less than a pro., he
ceases at once to be the best of his kind; is not even
I second best at his own best distances. By the way,
Smith, of Pittsburgh, Pa., who won the Sheffield
handicap last year, is anxious to try conclusions with
Myers “ Pugilistica." issued by Mr. H. Downes
Miles, is mostly paste-and-scissors. To anyone who
has never read " Boxiana ” and “ Fights for the
Championship,” or toiled through the musty files ot
Bell and the other publications, which during the first
half of the century, did not think a number complete
without one or more articles devoted to the prize-ring
“Pugilistica” can be cordially recommended; but tc
MR. GIFFAN-THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN CRICKETER.


MOTTO FOR A CRA.CKEE.
This cracker resembles, it must be confessed—
As the sweetie forms such a sm*ll part—
A beautiful woman, who’s splendidly dressed,
But has only an atom of heart.
“Can You Swim?”- —Professor Cavill, the world
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and be back within the hour. Return boat fare,
including bath, 6d. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5,—
Advt,
the experienced in these matters, it is bound to he dis-
appointing' “ Hanlan had at latest succeeded in
his weight to list. 41b.” This doesn't look as
though hotel life had agreed with his former athletic
'condition Macdonald, the jockey who was afterwards
hilled while riding at the Liverpool Antumn meeting,
got £3OOO for winning with Foxhall in the Cesare-
witoh At Manchester, on the 18th November, a
man named Watson was committed to the assizes
charged with inducing a telegraph clerk to reveal to
him the contents of sporting telegrams on the 10th
November. Joseph Bennett has resigned the billiard
championship of England. He may never again play a
match When he won the Grand Prix, Foxhall was
put down on the cards with the number thirteen. Last
year Robert the Devil bore the same (“the devil’s”)
number A bet of 1400 dollars to 200 dollars was
taken, in London, in November, about Mr. Lorillard’s
colt Gerald, for the English Derby of 1882
Mr. Walton, the American plunger, won £60,000 in I
England Cook and Roberts, on their return from
India, played a match of 1000 np, in London, which
Roberts won, making nn unfinished break of 366, with
120 spot strokes William Cummings and William
Duddle ran a mile match on 26th November, Cummings
winning by two yards, in 4 minutes 30 secs The Modoc
Club of St. Louie, bought Trickett’s paper shell and
Plaisted’s cedar boat. Harry Kelley presented Mr. St.
John, of that city, with an elegant pair of sculls, of
English make, as a memento of his visit A party of
English, bicyclists recently arrived in America, where
they intend to remain several months A great
cushion carom tournament, took place recently in New
Tork. Joe Dion was the winner Muybridge, the
Californian photographer, visited France, and created
quite a sensation with his instantaneous photographs
of horses in motion Harvard and Yale eight-oared
race comes off on June 22,1882, over the usual course,
on the Thames River, at New London, Connecticut,
U.S A rival to Myers has sprang up in America, in
the person of Mr. J, E. Scoville. who offers to run Myers
or any amateur sprinter, 4-10, 220, or 100 yards. There
have been several offers to back time against him, hut
lie has not replied George, the English runner.
abandoned his trip to America, and Myers has decided
not to run again Hanlan has a new shell at the shop
of Ruddick, of Boston, Mass., the dimensions of which
are; 31 feet long, 11 inches beam, and 5} inches deep,
and which, fully rigged, weighs but 251 b Daniel
O’Leary, C. A. Harriman, and Henry Schmehl engaged
in a twenty-six hours’ walk at Cleveland, 0., on Novem-
her 22 and 23. Score at finish: Harriman 112 miles,
O’Leary 110, Schmehl 100. The receipts were not large,
and the track was limitel iu circumference, which
together may account for the indifferent performance
represented by these figures In November, Edward
Trickett was presented by some Toronto admirers with
a purse of 125 dollars A high-kicker from Wood-
stock recently took in a couple of green *uns in London,
Ont., by representing himself to be Trickett, the
Australian scnller. The best to be had in the town was
not good enough for the distinguished stranger until
his identity was discovered, and then he incontinently
started for h0me..,...An Indiana Judge has decided that
it is gambling when the loser of a game of billiards pays
for the use of the table. This makes every billiard,
room a gamhling-house under tho Indiana law against
gambling. It is proposed that players shall each pay
one-half of the costs of the game. This may be well
enough for circumventing tho Judge, but tho players
will soon cease to patronise a game that will lose much
of its interest to them when victory brings not even a
negative reward Wallace Boss will pall double here-
after, ho having, on Tuesday evening, November 22,
married Miss Nettie Flaglor, of St. John, N. B. May
they know no end of happiness.
LATE SPORTING.
A banquet was given to welcome Edvard
Haulau on kis arrival in London.
It is reported from Melbourne that Allan will
not play in the Intercolonial match.
The match East v. South Melbourne was con-
cluded on Tuesday. South won by one innings and 38
runs.
Oscar won the Turf Club Handicap, at Shoal -
haveu. Kelso the Ladies’Purso; and Nudemaid the
Maiden Plate.
Candidates for a seat in the N.S. Wales boat in
the eight-oared race arc asked to send in their names
during the present month. The Victorian Bowing
Association have the privilege of fixing the date.
Mr. Boyle has selected the following players in
Victoria to practise for the intercolonial match : Allan,
Baker, Blackham, Bonnor, Boyle, Cooper, Coulthard,
Edwards, Groube, Horan, M‘3hane, M’Donnell,
Palmer, Stokes, and Tamer.
English Eleven v. Canterbury, at Christchurch
(N.Z.), on Monday and Tuesday, resulted in a draw.
The Englishmen scored 230. Barlow batted for five
hours for 77; Ulyett, 53. Canterbury, first innings, 100.
Watson, 24, Second innings—6 wickets for 15.
Twenty- two matches have been arranged for
the Australian Eleven in England. Four matches are
fixed in Yorkshire, two each in Gloucester, Not-
tingham, Sussex, and Derbyshire; one each Lanca-
shire, Kent, Leicestershire, Middlesex, Surrey, Cam-
bridge University, Oxford University, Gentlemen
of England, and Players of England. They will play
five times in London, namely, once at Lord's, four
times on the Oval. They are to get half the gate
money. The team will probably play at Dublin, Glas-
gow, and Edinburgh. The Marylebono Club will not
give half the gate-money, but offer £2lO, and arrange-
ments with that club are not yet completed.
SOCIAL.
[Notices of all interesting Social events ('properly authenti-
cated, hy the names and addresses of the miters) mill be
inserted .]
Last week, at Maitland, a fashionable wedding
caused some flatter among the fair. Miss Maud Yin-
din, daughter of a Into Maitland merchant, was united
to Mr. George Dines, a squatter from the Macintyre
Eiver, son of the late E. Dines, Esq , pastoralist and
owner of some first-class racehorse, tit. Mary’s Church
of England was nicely ornamented, and the Eev. W. H.
Yarrington officiated. There was a very large attend,
ance at the ceremony, and Signor Lardelli played
suitable music on the new organ The bride was in a
splendid white silk that was much admired, and the
bridesmaids were sweet. Best man was from Queens-
land, and the wedding presents were handsome and
many.
• • •
A Wagga belle has managed to get the inside
running on the Parramatta girls, and has secured one
of their eligible bachelors. Wedding at Albury.
• • •
At Grafton, a bank manager and a charming lady,
both well known in musical circles, are to bo joined
soon. Many bachelors lamenting.
• • •
No less than five marriages in the Wollongong
district last week, and three the week before. Still
more to follow.
* « *
At Ashfield, last week, a well-known young
organist of spare proportions, but a thorough good
fellow, was annexed to the daughter (of more than
ordinary charms) of a leading builder. A soulful pair
where music is concerned.
• • *
Melbourne was the scene of a fashionable
wedding recently, where the son of a retired Sydney
merchant was united to the daughter of an ex-mayor of
Melbourne. Honeymoon at Summer Hill.
# # #
A Rockhampton bride created a most unfavour-
able impression by lifting up her long train and carry-
ing it under her arm as she sailed down the church
after-the marriage ceremony. Her fair critics pro-
nounced it as a most undignified action for such a
solemn occasion. Brides, like Bo-peep's sheep, should
carry their tails behind them.
• « •
A London paper, in an article entitled “ The
New Plague,” draws attention to the blight which is
falling on the feminine modesty of some classes of
society in that great city. There are women who load
shameless lives, who are known to all; these are neither
better nor worse than they have been in the past. And
there are the proud slim maidens who come from noble
houses, whoso sphere of society prevents them ever
hearing of this evil. It is of neither of these the writer
speaks—the one is too low, the other too high to suffer
such blight: it is the middle class girlhood who are
seized in hundreds by *' the now plague.” On Satur-
day afternoons, in some parts of North London, the
main streets are occupied by crowds of young people,
who, not by rowdiness, but by sheer immorality, render
the road impassable for a modest woman. Every even-
ing, Sundays especially, the pavement is infested with
bands of young men and women, from 32 to 14 years
old upwards, whose dress, manners, immodest chaff,
and profanity, show that they are coquetting on the
very edge of the filthy whirlpool of degradation ; and
once in its vortex, they will never escape. Every one
knows how dangerous such company is to the youth-
hood of a city : it is a school where scholars only too
willingly go, and its glittering fascinations for ill-
balanced minds hide with an impenetrable veil the
hideous pit beyond. And this is the school at which,
in the king city of the globe, middle-class maidenhood
learns the road to ruin. Fashion journals have much
to do with this state of things, and help woman to
accomplish her own social downfall. Those journals
exist by recording the follies of women who set Fashion
in the place of God, and spend thousands on decking
their own poor bodies that might very well ba devoted
to a more deserving purpose. Women who get their
silly heads turned by the contemplation even in print
of such frenzied luxury, immediately set about devising
means whereby to compass a feeble copy. Scores of
bills go unpaid simply because Madame’s head is so full
of fashion plates that probity, honour, veracity seem as
dust, compared with this recherchi costume or that
exquisite bonnet. So the plagno spot spreads, and
young girls with such examples before them are easily
prone to follow. And some day the question, which
society would gladly ignore, will be forced upon it for
decision i is the plague to be spread or stayed ?
• • •
Flower weddings are fashionable in London,
the flowers varying according to season, but bridal
party being all is harmony. At the beginning of last
month, a chrysanthemum wedding was quite a sensa-
tion. Bride in white, with large bunch of pure white
Jersey chrysanthemums: bridesmaids all in cream, but
each of the eight carried a bunch of these winter flowers
of a different hue, yellow, purple, red, pink, and so on :
the eight muffs were all made of the same flowers. The
idea can be carried out to any extent; rose weddings
have boon previously seen; buttercup and daisy bridals
would ba sweetly simple. might have lily
and sunflower matches, and if the flowers grew a little
limp during the ceremony it wouldn’t matter much.
Probably, the extremely strong fragrance of both jon-
quils and oleanders when bunched in quantities would
be more than ladies would be able to stand. Most
Australian bush flowers would scarcely be suitable; but
a Waratah wedding would be unique: the lady
who first tries it will certainly attract attention. At a
military wedding, whore the bride’s name was Violet,
the bridesmaids all wore violet dresses in two shades,
while they and the guests all carried bunches of violets
out of compliment to the bride.
• * *
At Chatsworth Island (Clarence R.) there was a
"Scotchmen’s Ball” on the 2nd January. It was no
good any one going who wasn’t Scotch; the password
was " Hoot I” and the countersign “ Whusky,” and
any mispronunciation of these mystic words was
detected immediately and admission sternly refused.
When the time for dancing arrived, and the bagpipes,
concertinas, and fiddle, were all tuned, there were forty-
five kilted Highlanders and nine girls present. So a
skirmishing party was sent out to capture seme more
lassies, returning after a while with a reinforcement of
eight. So long as reels and flings were on the pro-
gramme, the hare-kneed warriors shone, but when a
waltz came only two couples rose to the occasion.
There was plenty of singing and “ soopin,” and fun was
kept up till daylight. Then the sons of Scotia went home
full of joy and Qlenlivet. The lasses were all beautiful,
and the lads were all Hielanders; and what more
could be desired under heaven than that ?
• * •
Mr. George Coffey was married to Miss Eng-
land at the Wesleyan Church, Bourke-street, last
Thursday afternoon at four o’clock. The bride was
attired in fawn-coloured silk, trimmed with same shade
satin. Five bridesmaids, dressed in cream-coloured
cashmere, trimmed with cream satin. After the
“ Coffey Service ” was completed, the party adjourned
to No. 1 Coffey Palace for breakfast. Honeymoon to
Melbourne.
* * *
There will be enough of the Old English Fair at
Easter, now that two are to be started, and the com-
petition between the Garden Palace Fair (for the
churches of St. Thomas and St. Luke, North Shore),
and the Pro-Cathedral Fair (for the Cathedral Building
Fund), will be lively. The Episcopalians wore first in
the field, but Archbishop Vaughan is no mean en-
gineer. When he starts to run anything, it’s bound to
go; and when he wants money, he’s bound to get it.
Gorgeous tickets have been already designed, and any
persons who don’t want to be shown up had better
start reading mediceval history at once.
* # *
Mrs. Langtry played the part of Lady Clara St.
John, in "A Fair Encounter," at the Twickenham
Town Hall, on November 19. She looked fascinating in
a dainty and elegant costume of pale pink, was perfectly
self-possessed, and the espieglerie and grace of her act-
ing quite charmed the audience. Her memory was
good and her enunciation excellent. She played Mias
Hard castle last month, in “ She Stoops to Conquer,"
in aid of the Eoyal Dramatic Fund, and again achieved
a popular success.
• • •
H.M.S. Nelson will leave shortly to join the
Emerald and Miranda at Hobart. Commodore Erskine
and Governor Strachan are great friends, having known
each other at the West Coast, Africa. They are both
bachelors.
• • •
A vocal and instrumental concert was given in
the Temperance Hall, Wollongong, last Saturday, by
Sydney amateurs. The attendance was small, but those
who were there would not have missed it for anything.
They will never forget the Sydney amateurs. The pro-
gramme was long, and carried out to the bitter end.
Messrs. Lloyd and Forde sang, and Mr. Fairfax accom-
panied well. Two officials from the G.P.O. were very
successful in their parts, which consisted of taking
tickets at the door, and keeping back the dirty little
boys who hadn’t any money. The “ business manager"
lost his way coming home, but eventually got back,
weary with business and stained with 1 ravel, to the
bosom of his family. The profits would have gone to
local hospital—if there had been any. It is thought
that the next concert should be given in aid of the
Lunatic Asylum, because the Asylum is certain to be
benefited to some extent; most likely to the extent of
about half the audience,
• • •
The Hercules Amateur Dramatic Club held a
social reunion on Tuesday at the Cambridge Club. The
President, Mr. John Davies, C.M.Q., was unable to
attend, but about a score of acting members were pre-
sent, and some visitors. Mr. I. K. Cohen (sac ) was
chairman, supported by Messrs. Ackman and Emanuel;
and Mr. E. Solomons in the vice-chair. The fire of
genius flashed from every eye, and it only required the
most momentary glance to convince us that each
youthful dramatic brow concealed a massive intellect.
Every member showed himself capable of taking his
part creditably—at the table. After dinner came the
toasts of "The Queen,” “The Club,” “Kindred So-
cieties," “ The President," “ The Secretary,” “ Visit-
ors," “ The Ladies," “ The Press,” “ The Chairman,"
and then wo lost count; but we conscientiously drank
everything that was proposed. The speeches, in cold
type, would no doubt be read with breathless interest
throughout the colony, but unhappily the eloquence
was not preserved on paper. Mr. Hart responded for
“The Visitors,” and Mr. Palmer, a “Lytton,” for
“ Kindred Societies." He thought professional actors,
as a rule, discouraged amateurs. The genial secretary
was a little “ off his base ” through an attack of gout,
which all deplored, but he explained that the club was
going to make a grand dash for fame shortly by produc-
ing “ Friends,” and, he hoped, making them, too. The
Hercules, it will be remembered, gave the first perform-
ance in aid of sufferers by small-pox, and handed over
some £6O to tbe Eout Family. Music, singing, and
recitations filled up the social evening. To-day (Thurs-
day) the club plays the Theatre Eoyal at cricket on
the Association Ground.
» « *
Successful banquet to Mr. Slattery, M.L.A., at
Burrowa.
VANITY FAIR.
It is worth noticing that though many fancy
balls have been held in Sydney since “ Patience ” came,
there is not an instance on record of a young lady
representing in character one of the twenty love-sick
maidens. When yon come to think of it, it is hardly
surprising. No girl with a decent figure could bring
herself to adopt such a garb What is a kiss ? One
savs, “ a sma'l piece of confectionery, with an indes-
cribable taste.*’ A young lady, to whom the delicacy has
evidently grown monotonous, says it is “ the umesthe-
tic result of the close contact of two faces, sometimes
exquisite, often dangerous, and always unsatisfactory.”
It is a lolly, the sweetness of which depends on the age
of those who taste it. Sometimes a sugar-plum, gene-
rally a humbug. Scientifically considered, a hearty
kiss resembles in principle nothing so much as the
action by which the lump-sucker fish attaches itself to
a stone, or that of the leather “ suckers," with which
urchins delight to lift pebbles. The lips of the kisser
are pressed against those of the kiss-he, a slight ex-
haustion of air Is caused by a •' drawing " action on the
part of the agent active, and the two actors in the
farce are temporarily attached to each other by the
pressure of the external air. The kisser ceases to
exhaust the air within his mouth; the attachment is
broken, the farce ended......Mr, Crawfurd, the well-
known English sportsman, is suffering from an affection
of the throat, and has had to givs up smoking—no
small deprivation, as he has rarely been seen without a
cigar in his mouth. Mr. Crawfurd possessed one of
the largest and finest collections of rare and
old cigars in the world. These were all sold in
one lot to a well-known tobacconist, who got rid of them
within a week to a German Prince at £2O a hundred
At a recent very swell London wedding, every gentleman
among the guests wore a buttonhole of Parma violets,
and every lady a shoulder-knot of the same blossoms,
while the bridesmaids’ bouquets consisted entirely of
Neapolitan and Russian violets with plenty of maiden-
hair The costumes worn by the young ladies com-
bined the exact shades of violet in their bouquets, and
were of velvet and voille de nonne, but though pretty in
themselves they were just a little too heavy, and not
quite sufficiently juvenile-looking for the wearers
There was recently a railway accident at Borne. Two
very pretty widows were mashed up, one losing two
front teeth and the other having her face cut. They
lay their damages at 40,000 francs each (£1600), as they
say that their chances of re-marrying are now small.
This reminds us that the only damage suffered by a
young Melbourne lady, who claims £2OOO from the rail-
way department in re the Jolimont smash, was the
bursting of a staylace and the scratching of a favourite
mole Toilcttes-uniformes are now the fashion in the
highest Continental circles. At a concert recently
given in honour of the King and Queen of Italy, at
Vienna, everyone wore white. When tbe Royal pair
returned to Borne, and issued invitations for a concert,
all the ladies came in white toilettes, everyone also
wearing a bouquet of daisies, either natural or
in pearls or diamonds. The effect was lovely
The most striking figure at a recent English fancy dress
ball was that of a gentleman who was arrayed as an
rosthetic lawn-tennis player. Coat, knickerbockers,
and umbrageous hat of subdued green and brown
tints, were beautifully worked with large sun-
flowers and lilies. Brown stockings, with lilies worked
upon them as clocks, completed the costume
Tho World having stated that the divided skirt had
been worn on the stage. Viscountess Harberton, an
President of the National Dress Society, wrote to that
paper explaining the real nature of the present move in
the trouser direction. She says that many ladies are
now wearing it every day, but it differs so little from
the ordinary skirt that few people are aware they have
seen it until told. So the innovation is a long way
from trousers yet Mull is now, appropriately enough,
largely used for wedding dresses Boiler skates are
not going out of fashion in America ; a splendid new
rink was opened in the Nilsson Hall at the end of
October Prince Herbert Bismarck, who rendered
himself notorious in connection with a recent elope-
ment, has been staying at Brighton, England A lady
advertising in the Quern wishes to exchange her
engagement ring for a black fur capo. It is to be hoped
that the rising generation will take tho hint In view
of the present state of political feeling England, Oscar
Wilde has decided on postponing for a time, his pro-
duction of his drama “ Vera.” A " Ladies’ Pour ”
has recently been seen on the river at Oxford, manned
(or rather wemenned) by students of the High School—
among them the fair daughter of one of the Professors.
A writer says that it is quite possible that ore long we
may see bevies of fair damsels racing along the banks of
Isis with cries of “ Well rowed, Someville,” " You’re
gaining, Margaret.” “ Beach out there,” and all the
rest of it. Figaro tells how one of its able contribu-
tors recently lost his intended bride by going to pay a
visit in a pair of trousers of tho brightest scarlet. He
had been colour-blind from childhood. The tailor had
sent his book of patterns, among them those of the
cloth destined for liveries, and the unfortunate suitor
had mistaken the scarlet for pearl grey. The tailor
imagining that the order had been for a masquerade)
had executed it to the letter without observation. Th *
bride’s relatives looked upon the Figaro man as a
lunatic, and refused to allow the courtship to pursue.
The Princess of Wales now wears six-button gloves.
Here is aft idea for colonial billiard-table makers t
An eminent London maker is to supply to suburban
residences, on the' time-payment plan, as is done
in the case of piandS, a Combination dining and
billiard table The London Woe tti says 1 ** Tbs
divided skirt has been exhibitad on the stage. It will
not do. It is neither so picturesque nor so decorous as
the old Bloomer costume. It can nevflr be popular i
and the sooner it retires into the limbo of the costume
failures, along with the Greek dress and othflf affecta-
tions j and tomfooleries the better." Sir Charles
Qavan Duffy was married in the most private and
unostentatious style at the Madeleine. The lady, who
is young, good-looking, and highly-educated, did not
appear in any elaborate bridal costume The pair will
spend only a brief period abroad, and will return to
reside in London At Spiers and Pond's Gaiety
Restaurant, Ludgate Hill, London, it is the custom to
wheel joints before the customers and have them
carved in their presence Some of the most conspicu-
ous girls in Paris now are Americans, and a moat original
ball dress has just been made for a yonvff belle. It was
of pale grey crape, the front of the skirt crossed with
a scarf of silver network, in which were small birds os
brilliant plumage, and others on the edge of the neb
outside. The drapery of the skirt and train was orna-
mented with doves and parroquets. Corsage trimmed
with silver network and humming birds...;..At a recent
State concert in Vienna, Queen Margherita wore a long-
trained dress of pale gold satin, trimmed with cm-
broidered corals and pearls, while her fan and necklace
were a glittering mass of jewels. Her hair was dla
princesae, with a beautiful tiara of diamonds. The
Empress wore pearl grey silk, with the corsage
smothered with diamonds, emeralds, rubies, topaz and
black pearls, and a girdle as wide as the hand, contain-
ing hundreds of precious stones of every hue. This
girdle is celebrated all over Europe It is not generally
known that Penet, the great french bootmaker, a few
of whose goods are sent out to the colony, makes twelve
grades in every size of boot: there are five gradationa
of width in each length Dancing shoes are now
padded inside to save the soles of the feet, and
finished so carefully as to obviate the least
inconvenience to the most tender toes
At a dinner given by the Emperor of Austria to tha
King of Italy, the first course was served on silver and
the last on gold. As the object of this could only have
been to show off, perhaps Francis Joseph sat down to
dinner in his crown, and passed round his bank-book
before grace The man or woman, who after leaving
a hot ballroom on a cold night, will not breathe through
the nose, will have to pay through the nose. Keeping
one’s mouth shut is a valaable habit in life, but doubly
so under the above circumstances There; were 5286
weddings in Victoria in 1880 Princess Beatrice is
issuing a Birthday Book. Here is one of two or three
little bits of verse, scattered over the publication. It
is inscribed “To my dear Mamma "; —
“ Again, dear mamma, has your birthday come round,
And still for your Trixy no spouse have you found*
I know what I wish that one birthday you’d do—
Accept from your daughter a son-in-law new;
An English one, ma, dear, 0 say, would yon spurn ?
For I long to give homo manufactures a turn.
I’ll choose you a nice one, mamma, never fear.
If this present you’ll have on your birthday next year.’*
There are French workers of linen who can mend a hole
in a tablecloth so that not only is the rent untraceable,
but the pattern of the damask is also followed by their
needle In the Tyrol, when a young man is engaged,
he has to wear a rose as an indication of betrothal. It
saves other girls a lot of trouble “ Diamante
brilliants ” are the most effective false jewellery yet
introduced. They cut almost equal to first-olass dia-
moods, and glitter as brilliantly. In fact, a large
"diamond” (the centre of a looket) which attracts
much attention in Sydney theatres, cost the dark
wearer somewhere about 45s The new Pullman train
ran on Ist December for the first time, between London
and Brighton. It is like a flying palace, a marvel of
luxury, and the soft electric light illumines the splendid
suite of cars like a scene from a fairy story A wed-
ding exhibition is on view at the Westminster Aqua-
rium, consisting of wax dolls of high finish, dressed as
brides, with the bridesmaids ranged behind, fully
equipped to the minutest detail of attire in all the
different styles. It enables rich persons to decide what
style of wedding costume to adopt, as the tout eniemblo
of various combinations of colour can be seen at a
glance Miss Annie Mayor, the actress, who is of at
least average height, wears ones in boots and fives in
gloves A fashion writer says that threes are the
average size of ladies’ feet in France, and five in
Melbourne. Presumably, Sydney ladies’ feet will
be about the same as those of Melbourne—eh ?
# * *
Bed dresses in all varieties of the colour ara
popular at home. Terra cotta is seen at all public
gatherings. Red velvet jackets, and red bonnets with
shaded red trimmings are considered chic, and most
girls would give ten years of their life (taken off the
butt end, of ; course) to be that Figured sateens are
coming into great favour in Sydney, especially those
with broad stripes— “ [esthetic, ” they are called.
The newest idea for hall and dinner dresses is to
have the front honeycombed, showing a different colour
underneath. Pearls or beads cover the join. In
London, mantles are now more costly than they ever
were before; they are made of the richest brocaded
silks and velvets, trimmed with fur, chenille, or
feathers, lined with bright satin or gay striped plush.
One of the mantle novelties is velour dn Nord, a brocade
having blaok satin ground shot with colours, and broohb
over large velvet flowers. A rich mantle material is
brown moird antique, with large floral designs; also
black satin with floral pattern in moird Pekin reps,
Pekin Hutianne, in two shades of watered stripes, and
Pekin moird, are also amongst the newest dress
materials. A costume called the " Suffield ” is com.
posed of rich mahogany-brown satin with long tails to
the bodice, faced with coral satin. “ L’Oiseau" is
another simple but very original and pretty design;
the short skirt has three plaitings of black satin
with broad velvet bands, the same up the back, represent-
ing the bird’s tail. Wings of black satin fall to each
side, and the front is of alternate velvet and satin
Plush gloves have been introduced, but they make hands
appear much larger The new French velvet, velours
Merveilleux, is very useful. It is soft, with close pile,
and can be gathered, plaited or draped without forming
those unsightly creases that show in most other velvets.
Striped materials are coming into vogue rapidly.
Several broad-striped figured sateens have ornamented
the block lately, and with good effect; for instead of
being cut on the bias, the stripes are allowed to run
with the outline of the figure Linen collars and onffs
are seldom seen at home now, being superseded by
black lace and rnfilings for tuckers and cuffs Plush
collarettes brighten up a winter dress; little bows, or
French nceuds, are also very enlivening, and are made
in colours, to be pinned on. An English modiste has
introduce d leather trimming for the hem of winter
petticoats, so that when mud is plentiful no brushing
is required—a damp sponge serves the purpose In a
millinery honso in Pitt-street, are two dolls, about two
feet high, one dressed as a bride in white satin, and the
other in deep mourning, The dresses in each case ara
perfect, and will bear the minutest inspection Two
exceptionally beautiful ball-dresses have just been sent
to the Queen of Portugal from Paris. The first is
white satin, trimmed with lace, with a yellow satin
train, brocaded with buds and flowers, after a Japanese
design. The second is white tulle, profusely studded with
silver flowers, and trimmed with honeysuckle in trails
White or cream-coloured velvet is being used at home
for winter wedding dresses, trimmed with pearls,
mother-o -pearl, or white jet For dinner and evening
wear heliotrope is a favourite for blondes; and the many
shades of red, such as new copper, sultane, mahogany,
garnet, brick-colour, are adopted by the brunettes
New colours are, Bose Begence, a very delicate pink ;
Stephanie, soft silver grey; crevette, or what is really
shrimp colour; and a dull olive called) Tunis green
Small sashes of black are used on dresses of red, pink,
and white A very effective mode of draping a walk-
ing dress has been introduced The skirt of the polo-
naise, when of light, soft material, is gathered in folds
on the loft hip, which fall in a graceful sweep to the
bottom of the skirt on the right side : it looks stylish
......Although yet in midsummer, the autumn goods are
being nnpaeked. The new Cheviot tweeds, so fashion-
able in England, bid fair to be popular; they are in
three colours, terracotta, bronze green, and myrtle
green, and are to be trimmed with wide striped material
of all shades One of the nicest fabrics just out is a
new make of cashmere, called Satara. It is in different
colours, one of the best being “ Saphir ” blue
Biarritz cord is a new reversible cloth, cashmere on one
side and cord on the other For warm evenings at a
ball, an all-silk material of gossamer
fineness, with flowered pattern of arabesque design
running over it, is pretty, and very ceol. Pale apple
green, rich pink, and creamy white are the fashionable
INTAGLIO.
My Stone Ship.
When your stone ship comes in, dear,’*
Somebody said to me,
“ Laden with gold and jewels
Brought from over the sea;
Laces and silks and velvets.
Everything rich or rare.
Nothing you ever longed for
But you will find it there."
I was only a child then.
Trusting in all I heard ;
Fairy legends I read then.
Doubting never a word.
Oft I stood by the ocean.
Looking out on the sea;
Never saw I my stone ship
Coming homeward to mo.
Not to-day, but to-morrow —
Hopeful, I turned away.
Patiently saying ever,
“ My ship will come some day."
Never a wish nor a longing
Poverty glim denied.
But thought I, “ She is coming.
Some time, over the tide."
One day, watching the water.
Came a dread thought to me—
“ How can a stone ship ever
Float on the rippling sea ? "
Doubt had entered my bosom.
Childhood had passed away.
Yet were my phantom treasures
Mourned for many a day.


TIio Land Sale to attend Ni
WOODS’ PADDO
ASHFIELD RAILWAY
•ST The Pick of Asl
and right at the Railwa;
LAND SALE ON THE GR
SATURDAY.
18 BUILDING SITES at
BUSINESS SITES, SHOP f
SITES, TERRACE SITES, CC
with frontages
CHARLOTTE STB
ELIZABETH STR
WOODS STREET.
Each lot has about 30 feet fi
entrance.
These building sites are unrivall
way suburbs.
No other position in Ashfiold :
business purposes, or so convenien
Business premises are required in
openings, owing to increase of popi
LITHOGEAPHS AEI
TEEMS—Oue-forth cash, bal
36 months.
HARDIE AND Gl
HAVE received instruct!*
WOODS. Esq, J.P., to sel
DID SITES by public auction,
ON THE GEOU1
SATUEDAY, 28th Jj
To buy land in such a position is
handsome return.
BUILDERS, CAPITALISTS,
others will find that these sites ar
up.
SALE DAY,
SATUEDAY, 28th Jj
AUCTION NOT]
EOCKHAMPTON, QUI
IMPOETANT SALE OP TOV
GS. CUETIS has received
• M. P. M’Eacbarn, Esq. (i
projected departure for England)
on an early day, at Rockhampton,
The whole of his trnly val
PROPERTIES, fall parties
seen in the Rockhampton (
further particulars on app
This will be the most extensive st
place in Rockhampton, one of tl
vancing towns in Queensland.
NTI-SHOUTIN G
A PUBLIC MEETING for form!
be held at St. James’ Schoolroom
at 8 p.m., on FRIDAY, 27th Janu
Gentlemen who have signed the:
above are requested to attend with
WINE versus SPIEITt
Man requires a stimulant
season. The most natural tonic is
Grapes, pure and well-ferment<
recommend our high-class Wines,
of the best vintages througho
colonies, and are found to strength
digestion, and invigorate the sye
HOOKINGS & CO., opposite Cit
Sydney.
JJUEKE, COULSON,
AUCTIONEERS, WOOL
STOCK. STATIC
883 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
In a Sydney restaurant is placarded the follow-
ing: —“Meal Is., square meal 2a., gorge 35.”
It was remarkably appropriate to banquet the
champion sculler at the Aquarium, Westminster, and
to have a General Goodlake to preside.
We are sorry to notice that the Daily South-
ern Argus (Goulhurn) proprietary have found it neces-
sary to issue their paper tri-woekly only.
Mr. Walter Kitto, killed near Adelong,recently,
by the falling of a tree, had, a few weeks before, insured
his life with the A.M.P. Society for £5OO. Lucky dog /
During the past year you have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good cup of tea.
You have heard that the last season’s China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcu .ta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas ?—a blend of the most famousland purest teas in
the world ; kept by all tbelleadiug storekeepers in town
and Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place.—Advt.
BROOK’S SEWING COTTON.
MELTHA M
NEAE HUDDERSFIELD,
MARI
MILLS,
ENGLAND.
then?-— CBITI0N PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
rrxTn PEIZE MEDAL. LONDON EXHIBITION, 1851.
PRT7P ?££L I^ S Jr9 LASS PRIZE MEDAL. PARIS EXIBITION, 1855.
PEIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1867,
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OF HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873.
Mxln . _ AND AWARD, PHILADELPHIA, 1876.
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA, 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYDNEY, 1880.
ASK FOR BROOK’S SEWINQ COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South. Wales.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
' PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
ft—•-
9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o. • is
Simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any lutelbgont lad with perfect safety.
n ™ u ,1 3 much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
au smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace •
m a^mo8 * ; n, l Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TaLL0W GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in perferenca
to Coal Qas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &o. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
tints A barmaid at the London Gaiety has been
tfwarded £l5O de mages, for breach of promise, and
has been saved from marrying a scapegrace. She pnt
In a preposterons claim for £3OOO, but she is very lucky
to get £l5O, as she had not lost her situation and got
£lOO for her trousseau,.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plums
cannot expect to have their communicatione noticed.]
N.G.D. : There does not at present appear
to be any means of remedying the disgraceful condition
of some of the horses in the Pitt-street 'buses
“Msnippus”: We can dress up an odd item or so.
Bat> on the whole, quality and quantity alike deficient
J O.” : Yea, wo do greatly doubt the authority of
the Domaiu preachers, and a lot of other ecclesiastics,
to represent the Almighty “Gone-Coon”: If the
baker does ana for libel, ha won’t get as mnoh
as he kneads......" Vox” : Yes, the dangerous classes
sometimes had it more profitable to briug actions
tor libel than to illegally swindle, or to garotte, or
' ,I u S ar A se '” “Sandy”: We’d not advise you to
Call the Chronicle, a “ Chronicliar.” The editor man
might go for you in Court “Nana Creek”: Your
verso is of the crudest. However, as you have ideas,
try again...../* Paroo” : We have attentively read your
galimatias* The long one reminds us of a remark once
made by Mark Twain, in a moral tale: “Be
virtuous, and ” (here the reader turned over
a leaf) you 11 miss a lot of fun” "A Subscriber"
(Inverell): No : it would hardly do to print it
* Johnxbelo : First rate “A.C.A.” i Dealt with in
last issue......“ C.W.S.” • Yon are -wrong. The writer
of the sketch in question must be held to possess in an
eminent degree the happy knack of “ slinging” a column
or two of airy matter about nothing; the evening paper
man referred to could, in our opinion, hardly make an
interesting article out of no more substantial material
tnan a. “Jive to Botany and an unimportant walking
.T een a oou Pl 0 of second-class peds
Uoanthns : You had better communicate with Mr.
t. J. Clark, of the S.E.C. He is, however, on a holiday
to N.Z. at present “Bushey": (1) How should we
P 0 ? 1 **®® 01t the horse ridden by Tom Butler?
lha words, as nearly as we can recollect, are these •
” Slm waa iron-sinewed and eaUa-skinned,
Bibbed like a drum and limbed like a deer—*
* as th® fire aad fleet as the wind,
There was nothing she couldn’t climb or clear.”
I* Jasttc®”: We suppose you are right in saying that,
4 Dillon * ratted from the R.C. party when he
m the Assembly indicted Judge Meymott, he would
have had a show for the Judge’s billet Outrigger’*:
We certainly cannot help thinking that Trickett would
now nave a show with Hanlan, who confesses that the
drat mile Of his race with our Ned was the stiff eat
Spurt ho ever had. Even if the champion had made no
Such confession, the pace for the first mile of the event
named, which was a cracker, tells its own story. The
superiority of Hanlan’s boat-fixings no doubt exercised
some influence on the result; anyhow, Trickett seems
to think they did. Wo don’t see what valid excuse the
r™® cftn have for now declining to row Trickett.
(•) Wallace Boss doesn’t appear to have had a show
Laycook “ The Owl” : Thanks “ Tui Tui”
wu , Stephens): Good. Send more “Jenny”:
„ by haven’t you ?...“Hick Deadeye”: Letter received.
bend on when ready “ Jack": It isn’t brain fever
you ve got, old man. It’s stomachic and cerebral de-
rangement consequent on wearing your sleeves too long
»nd consuming overmuch “ tanglefoot.” “Temora”:
\Ve perfectly agree with you when you say it is
notorious that in the matter of bazaars, &o., the
Protestant public extend to their B.C. fellow-citizens an
amount of liberality which is by no means perfectly
J® 0, P r ®® at *d. But while doing so, we are of opinion
that the man who refuses an invitation to enter his
neighbour’s house on no other ground than that that
neighbour worships at a different fane is and must be
ft Creature who should have four legs and eat out
P* A trough "Balaam”: Balaam’s ass spoke
*. w t? 11 , 0 ,® - Perhaps you’ll take the hint
, . *• Bowen,”: Don’t see how we could decently in-
terfere. Yon oenld recover your money, but probably
non t reckon it worth while. Very aggravating
'S.T.’’i “Esquire,” doesn’t now moan much. The
man who applies the term indiscriminately may be very
polite, but unless ho bo an old-olo’ man, whose educa-
tion has been neglected, or the son of some such person,
he must bo held to be somewhat insincere. In fact, the
been even more degraded than that of
0,M.Q. Far better, now-a-days, to address a white
Uian as plain Thomas Snooks than as “ Mr.” Thomas
Snooks or “ Thomas Snooks, Esquire.” Write again
Wagga ”: Mr. George, the English amateur, ran
three miles in 14 min. 422-5 sec , thus beating the pre-
vi°ns test amateur record, that of Gibb, 14 min. 46 sec
* B.Q.P.’ i Your lines entitled “Farewell" havenoth-
Ing especially poetic about them, and the rhyme is
faulty. Besides, you’ve addressed the girl as “ you " in
one line, and "thee” in another; and if you’ve been
to the habit of sending her poetry regularly, very likely
it s something lito that has made her throw you over.
You are very bad just now, showing all the symptoms
strong. Young men always use up a lot of foolscap
trying to find rhymes for "love,” and “burn,” and
“ spurn,” the first time a girl throws them over. We
Cannot put your verses in, Biohard, but if the girl
eejue® round we’ll tell her your love was pure
“T.8.D.” (Walgett); The story is not told of Palmer,
the Eugby poisoner, but of Thomas Griffiths Wain-
wnght (“ Janus Weathercock”), the villain of Charles
Dickens brilliant story “ Hunted Down.” When
asked why he had poisoned his amiable and beautiful
niece, he replied, “Because her ankles were so thick”
—an answer which serves to indicate that the general
public, as apart from men who have made mental
disease a lifelong study, are unable to appreciate the
extraordinary motives which so often prompt the born
murderer to crime “In Vino Veritas”: You lose
your wager. The new Licensing Act does not enable
publicans to recover at law for all liquor, whether sup-
plied “over the bar” or otherwise ‘‘Quiz’’ (Ber-
ritna): There are lots of places where telegraph opera-
tors have little to do but shoot flies with elastic. The
question is whether the residents of such a town as
that indicated weuld rather have an operator of fly.
slanghtering proclivities or no operator at nil. We
can’t notice your other item. Write again Will the
gentlemen who so regularly forwards us the Jewish
Chronicle kindly mark any passages therein which
seem of special interest “J.D.P." (Maitland):
Thanks for item, but as space is very scarce, we had to
,.£® rn ®l” it “ G. B. King”: Glad to have your good
little pars “ H. M'L."; Write whenever you have
time, but be brief “ Scotchmen’s Ball ”: Welcome.
“J.K.S." (Grafton): Send bits of news anytime.
“Dictator": We’ve noticed your item, hut
we cannot insert the personalities “Eev. J. H.
«5 06 We most wilIin 8iy make the correction
E.A.T.”: Much obliged. Write again “Clare.":
Sir Charted Gavon Duffy’s third wife is the niece of one
of his former wives—we don’t know which. She is only
45 years younger than the festive old buffer to whom
she has just been married. A convenient Papal dispen-
sation overcame the little difficulty of relationship.
We really don’t know whether a man could get a
Papal dispensation without money. Ask Archbishop
Vaughan “L. J. P.": Will endeavour to give effect
to your excellent suggestion “De Mortals.”: The
proverb was framed in consonance with the good old
rtue which forbidsl an Englishman from striking a man
when he’s down. But if those dignitaries will not allow
U8 >i?iT 1 “ m when they’re up, be assured that
wo U have something to say, when writing their obituary
notices, which will startle a community unaccustomed
to see papers hit out straight from the shoulder,
lha truth must be spoken sooner or later There is
a justice which never dies “G. J.M.”: Send us
..“ Boss”: All right. Send some
Bombala bits. Only no scandal about the Small
Debts Court bailiff “Scottie" : What’s all this guiver
about a ‘mickle and a mnckle?” We’re not the Pres-
btterian. What we thirst for is to mix up with your
nuckle and a muckle a “strap and a buckle.” We
yearni for the latest grammatical error of the P.M , or
something of equally absoroing interest. Besides, it’s
no good sending any Sootch copy to this office. We
are ail Hermans, except our foreman, and he is a Cir-
V Your ®t° r y won’t Walsh....
A *? ha * A Subscriber" (Port Macquarie),
. r* 01 .. 182 ' , Goulburn, ’ “Vegetable Creek,” “Clon-
jawy : Will read and consider for next issue
e r s °. lme " (Orange): Your reproachful letter has
touched us deeply. Still, the fact remains that your
two yams are as old os the hills. You accuse us of
tuaregardmg your uom de plume, and publishing your
nr P? 8 ®ly- Our reply is this: We looked up. at
considerable, trouble, your MSS, and there is no nom ,
S l ™ «ther on the Items or in the accompany-
.We “ever publish, or even disclose, names
Hamv?JS m g OU we imai ?ine the owner would
not like it. See the heading to this column “FJ F"■
Yonr communication is of such extreme length that we
must for a week postpone our attention to It. Thanks
k°7 e ,™ r A.A." (Forbes-street): Eight, but you
shouid send names. ...“A A.M." (Petersham): Will
A liue or two might be
Skeetnr”: Send ns some more
conundrums. Make haste, before yon die. .“In-
connu : We have seen it stated that Mr. Labouchero
wrote an abject apology to the Prince of Wales, but are
hsh fik s° au^en i' lc ate the rumour from our Eng-
THE NEWSLETTER.
.The new gubernatorial summer residence at
Moss Vale is to cost £14.000.
This day (Thursday), is the 94th anniversary
of the foundation of tho colony.
During last year, Messrs. Hardio and Gorman
sold property to the amount of £1,764.5801
Cattle being trucked between Dubbo and Bath-
urst often havo to go without water for 48 hours !
Garnet, traveller for W. H. Eocke and Co., has
been fined £5 for haying formed the erroneous con-
clusion that S.A. railway passes were available for
Victoria.
Dr. Eobertson, on retiring from the President-
ship of the Medical Society of Victoria, gave the cheer-
ing assurance that if smallpox survived the summer
heat in Sydney, it would assuredly make its appearance
at Melbourne.
In its report of the meeting at Manly to consider
the recent disturbances by larrikin visitors, the S.M.
Herald carefully suppresses all mention of the strong
testimony borne by the chairman to the services ren-
dered the community by The Bulletin.
Stormy meeting of Benevolent Asylum sub-
scribers in Melbourne Town Hall, his Excellency the
Governor presiding. J. M. Smith, tho well-known
solicitor, spoke of one of the committee “ as an old
woman," and was called to order by tho noble chair-
man.
Iced milk, according to a great French physi-
cian, is one of the most dangerous of drinks. The
other day, Mr. Alfred Tanner, a member of one of the
Sydney Bicycle Clubs, partook of a quantity whilst in
abated state, and died of enteritis, at the early age
The other day a man entered a Stawell hotel
and called for a drink of water, into which ho put the
greater part of a bottle of chlorodyno. He afterwards
explained to the landlord thah he had married a young
wif 8, and had had domestic troubles. Stomach-pumped
successfully,
• raid on the gamblers at Mace’s hotel,
in Melbourne, thirty-one persons were brought t® the
watchhouse. A number of them got near the iron bars
of tho windows, and passed in all the money they had
to their friends. After liberation, some of them asked
the latter to return the money, but their application
was met with an indignant and vehement denial.
Writes our Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Weather since Wednesday, if 1 not what we expected,’
conveys an idea of what some of us may expect in tho
sweet by and bye, sufficiently clear to satisfy any
reasonable hankerer after an enduring and lofty thirst.
In fact, if such things continue, we shall have
the Toperian Utopia—fined five shillings for being
sober. °
M Mary Ann Wilkie, a respectable married
woman, lately suffering from kleptomania, lias been
sentenced at Melbourne to three months' imprisonment
for stealing 35 yards of silk and a parasol." This para-
graph recalls Judge Forbes’ summing-up in a larceny
ease : " Gentlemen of the jury, it appears from the evi-
dence that this woman is respectable, and that she has
stolen a pair of boots."
The Crown has refused to release Alphonse
Bechet, recently convicted, at Sydney, of arson, on
evidence which the general public, tho legal profession,
and even (we are told) the Crown Prosecutor regarded
as utterly insufficient to justify a conviction. To the
petition for Bechet’s “pardon” were attached 246 S
signatures—including those of many of the leading
members of the professions and other prominent
citizens.
Garonne passengers, quarantined at Melbourne,
have forwarded a letter for publication in the London
Times complaining of •• grossest neglect and mis-
management." Altogether, what with no bedding, and
sumptuous meals of biscuits and water served about
once a day, the Garonners seem to havo had a curious
time of it. A local clergyman of the C. of E. refused
to attend the burial of Morgan. Kev. Father O’Calla-
ghan has arrived at quarantine station to attend Mary
Clear/.
The Victorian Magistrates’ Committee, re sup-
suppression of larrikinism, hate recommended whip-
pings—offenders from 10 to 15 years, to the extent of
20 strokes with a birch; over that age, to the extent of
25 lashes with the cat-o’-nine tails; second offenders,
under 15 years of age, to receive punishment till the
rising of the court; aver that age, within 21 hours if
practicable, but in no case beyond a week. A third
recommendation suggested the alteration of the law to
enable the bench to impose hard labour for the use of
obscene, threatening, or abusive language.
The gentle Mace has been fined for allowing
gambling to be carried on at his aristocratic establish-
ment, the V.E.C. Hotel. Jimmy was in bed at the
time, so that there cannot bo the slightest doubt of his
innocence. It has escaped the notice of the Melbourne
press that Dr. Moloney was sent for to attend the sick
James simultaneously with the appearance of the
“d’s." If any further proof were wanting, surely this
hitherto undivulged information should convince the
most sceptic. . Even the maco, however, doesn’t
always command respect. Amazingfact! Onlytwoof
the thirty-two gentlemen for whose presence this par.
is indebted possessed any money worth speaking of;
bnb false dice, and coins which had two tails or nothing
but heads, were found cast aside with a reckless indif-
ference as to ownership.
A heartless case of desertion occurred lately at
Auckland. A chemist, aged 20, was married to a
young lady of about 18, who, ere a month had
gone, observed her husband still continuing an intimacy
with one of his old flames. An interview took place,
when the girl produced a letter from the husband,
assorting that the marriage was a sham. Ho was taxed
by the outraged wife with his duplicity, and a quarrel
ensued. A few days later he disappeared, and on tho
wife inquiring, his mother stated he had gone to the
country for a few days ; hnt he had really started for
Sydney in the Here. He took with him most of the
portable valuables and wedding presents, and his ami-
able mother claimed the rest of the property, leaving
the deserted young wife penniless. Certain Sydney
detectives are anxious to meet this young gentleman.
The following advertisement appears in the
columns of the Warrnambool Standard •
“We have commenced Melting Prime Sheep,
and our carts will deliver Legs of Mutton,
&c, at the following rates :
For a single large leg ... Is. each.
~ two or more do. ... 9d. each.
~ Sheep tongues ... Is. perdoz.
■I „ kidneys ... 6d. ~
An allowance made for any quantity taken
Ktjtledoe Bros.
Werronggurt, Farnham Survey,
15th Jan., 1882."
Only think of it! Legs of mutton from tho finest sheep
in tho colonies ninepence each 1
Henry Brown, charged with stealing sheep near
Melbourne, has been committed for trial. Since 1871
he has been sentenced to various terms of imprisonment,
for various offences, amounting in tho aggregate to lOi
years. Henry's written confession is delightfull,
Henry Brown, hereby confess to having stolen 557
sheep, the property of some gentleman whoso name I
don’t know. I have been very unfortunate for these
many years past. I done this to make some money to
give me a start in life, There is another reason which,
more than any other, urged me to do this. I courted a
yonng woman whom I love very much, and, to enable
mo to marry and to start in life I havo done this. I
have failed; lam ruined; my hopes are blighted. God
help me, a miserable man. Sergeant Corbett has in-
formed mo that this document will bo produced against
me at any time. Signed, H. Brown."


INFORM
HEAD
OUR R
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our easterners and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AM EEL
CA.N Makers we now notify that we are
AGEUTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRA.MA.TTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie's 1382 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANY OTHEE SYDNEY
HOUSE.
PAEMEES NOTE THIS VEEY CAEEFULLY. —
Boforo Ordc
send fo
Our Price
AND
All Particu
MARTIN
-»■ Pi
389 Georg
SYDNE
Intending Pun
Cutters offered t'
INE BUNGLE.
John Bnncle, c
his Chaff Cutters
cast on fly-whee
facture.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE S
;
■JIB*
9 gc I i HUNTER -S.T
SIL V E: FW. -WAT CUES
from 'i*. •
SYDNEY.
SEND FOK
C ATALOGUE .
IHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syc
QLIFPOED, LOVE
TEA IMPOETEI
EASTERN and COMMISSION
Receive regular Consignments, am!
TEAS—INDIAN, all Qualities;
from EATION to the 1
CONGOUS.
It has always been their aim to in
FIE3T CEOP PUBE
and their thorough knowledge of tl
them to guard their constituents
being purveyors of what is in Cl
" LIE TEA.”
The wisdom of their policy of im
PIEST CEOP PUEE
although at the disadvantage of sn
selves, has been most gratifying!]
large trade in New South Wales,
Australia. Tasmania, ko., where
aware of the many advantages whiol
combined with the highest skill, is
CLIFFOED, LOVE, J
are the importers oi
CELEBRATED TAEPIN(
and
MOGUL MIXTU
CLIFFORD, LOVE
79 YORK STEEET, S'
to to B IP
111 *
V vi-wa .0
JOHN D
IMPOETEE O
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Eraser
Gasflttings, Globes, Eleotrio
Butchers* Brine I
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe, «
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEE r .
B
B
A
T
E
D
1G
H. L SUMMER
ECONOMY IN CLO
—o—
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUE GOODS FE0
DIEECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE’S 1
PATTEENS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEi
sent to any part of the
sg- The particular attention
dents is requested to tl
Any style of Garment made
summerfiel:
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAE
AQC HITT on
MOST PLEA
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO B
that the best cleans
TANT and Deodoriser fort
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DIE
can be found by i
PANTEE AND PAEKT'S 1
OP SOAP,
which not only contains tl
dients for the greatest clea
ever yet introduced to th
composed in its manufactui
best disinfectants.
(MADE PUEELY PEOM
1 PLANTS)
known, and admitted in al
throughout the globe, Coml
it is free from all injurio
pie ng smell, will not inju
3a.,e hands, is the greates
laoour, rendering any articl
with o th purest whiter
marvellous short space of tii
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed 1
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crock
Paint, Floor
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which r
from all Grecers and Store,
out the Colony, and at the
WOEKS, 700 GBOEG1
SYDNEY
IN THE WOI
Dispense Prescriptions chef
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English p
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spor
AXL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS’
Send for a Price List. Conntr
ally attended to. Don’t forgei
V on cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New 1
W. KER
MANIJFACTUEING
WATCH AND CLOG
664 GEOEQE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description, Mat
sontation Trowels designed
Premises.
DIAMOND SET 1
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, froi
nis
KING STREET S
“ Standard ” Summer Tweed Suits ...£15 O
“Standard” ditto ditto, Extra Quality ’ , 1 12 6
“Stindard” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
“Standard” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
“ Standard ” Superior ditto I 15 0
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
9
PE APE 3 and SHAW, PE APES an
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH
The Universal Sewii
TTaa all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New
