

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. H 4
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1882.
Under which King?
In a letter headed by the words “ Under which
King, Benzonian,” a Publican takes exception in
the Evening News to the tone of the reply made
by Messrs. Haynes and Archibald to a letter
of sympathy addressed to these gentlemen by a
teetotal body. “ A Publican” furthermore charges
The Bulletin with being an anti-publican
paper. The quotation with which the letter is
headed, is imperfect. Complete, it reads thus
‘‘Under what King, Benzonian, speak, or die!”
We are perfectly willing to speak, and not appre-
hensive lest our declaration should be the prelimin-
ary to extinction. The Licensing Act Amendment
Bill passed last session, we believe to be, in the
main, a good law. In many important respects its
operations have already contributed to public
tranquility and decency. By its provisions an end
has been put to the deplorable and scandalous
scenes which made the bench at Licensing Courts
scarcely diatinquiahable from what one might have
expected the dock to be, and which brought con-
tempt and discredit upon the magistracy of the
colony. That is one advantage gained by the public,
and its importance both direct and indirect can
hardly be over-estimated. The early-closing clausa
has likewise operated beneficially. At a reasonable
hour quietness falls upon the city, where pre-
viously uproar commenced towards midnight, and
only died away when the last drunkard had been
shut, bawling and hiccupping, in the cells of the
police station.
# # •
Let anyone recall to mind what was the spectacle
presented by King. Pitt, and Castlereagh streets a
couple of year’s back, before any dicipline had
been applied to the low publicans who converted
their houses into what they were pleased to term
Cafes—places where no coffee ever simmered, but
where the coarsest vice perpetually boiled over.
Next let the memory pause upon what the same
localities were after the most infamous houses
were closed, and a lodgement was refused to town-
women, pimps, and bullies at the other public-
houses, where nevertheless after legitmate amuse-
ments were over, a shifting crowd went in and out,
capping the nights pleasure with tipsiness, and-
priming themselves for the wickedness whose
ministers still hovered around. And then com-
pare with these the condition of those parts of
the city as they now are towards mid-night. A
few bad characters still linger about in a half-
hearted, ghostly way, and flit about in |the ob-
scurity or hang around the tram office, whence
they should be routed forthwith. But the plac e
is decent. It is no longer an antipodean copy of
the London Haymarkot. What hotel-keepers in
the neighbourhood lose in “trade” they gain in
reputation. They have survived.the ordeal which
rooted out the lower class of publican with whom
they were liable to be confounded, and they have no
longer the unpleasant reputation of keeping
houses in a rowdy neighbourhood.
• * o
If the new Licensing Act had done no more than
these things, it would have been deserving of a
place on the Statute-book The decision of the
Executive to put the Act into force prior to the
expiration of licenses current under the preceding
law is on a different footing. We have never ex-
pressed approval of this ; and, on the principle of
doing justice though the heavens fall, it would
have been better to have waited. It must be
borne in mind that it is not always, indeed not
often, the publican who benefits most largely
from the greatness of the trade done at the best
situated and best conducted houses. Ihe owner
of the premises takes the cream in the form of
rant. The sudden application of the new law
imposes an unforeseen reduction in the takings ot
the tenant, while he remains subject to the same
obligations as to rent as he had to discharge
previous to the operation of the lt is true,
indeed, that a publican’s license and his lease may
not have equal currency, and it could not have
been expected that the law should be so framed as
to take cognizance of private contracts. But had
the application of the law been deferred until the
expiration of existing licenses, an opportunity
would have been afforded for some at least to
readjust their arrangements, as it is sometimes a
condition in a public-house lease that the lessee
shall keep aiive the license, and, by refraining to
do so, certain men now being actually ruined
might have saved themselves. The men who feel
the pinch most severely are not the low publicans
who lease inferior premises, where the “ stand ’
for regular business is not such as to make the
rent heavy, and who eke out a living by harbour-
ing decoys, selling bad liquors, and doing a stroke
at “ lambing down” as occasions offer. It has
been the better class of publican, who do a
straightforward bar-trade, and pay a rental which
has been calculated upon the average takings over
the counter, who have been nipped by the sudden
application of the law.
• • •
There have sprung up, under the shelter of the
new Act, sundry abuses which require to bo
remedied. The whole body of publicans without
distinction has been placed at the mercy of
informers. There is reason to believe that there
are persons who have undertaken a regular
business in the industry of informing, tempted by
the fact that half of all fines goes to the informer.
The police, too, have been stimulated by this
inducement to an unprecedented activity; and
after the recent exposures of the value of some
policemen’s oaths, it certainly seems hard that
any decent man should lie at the mercy of profes-
sional informers, or of policemen in hot pursuit of
a reward. It would be more satisfactory to most
reasonable men were this provision, which operates
to offer a bribe to concoct cases against publicans,
so altered that the inducement left would be
merely that of discharging a duty. Convictions
which are due to the evidence of a low class of
informers, living by the fruits of spydom, are very
unsatisfactory convictions. Independent testi-
mony against an offender is least likely to be forth-
coming when a taint of possible hankering after
plunder attaches to the witness-box.
• • •
But when all allowances have been made, the
broad principle remains that saluspopuli suprema
lex, the public weal is the supreme law. The vital
question to be determined is whether the com-
munity, as a whole, would be best off with or
without the existing law. Perfection has not yet
been approached in human affairs. Somebody
suffers under almost any imaginable condition.
If becomes requisite to balance the sum of the
different sufferings. Shall temptations to indulge
in intoxicants be perpetually thrust under men’s
noses at every street corner, and at all hours, lest
by regulating the traffic sundry individuals shall
be subjected to pecuniary loss ? There is assuredly
nothing so sacred in the liquor traffic that it should
be exceptionally favoured. When an alteration
is made in the Customs tariff of a country, it
regularly happens that much money is lost, current
contracts are—unless specially drawn with a view
to such a contingency—converted from profitable
bargains into heavy losses. Yet there is no talk,
on such occasions, of martyrdom or reparation.
The law is instant in its operation, and just enough
in its general application, although in particular
instances its consequences may be cruel.
• * •
There are publicans and publicans. Wo can
recognize no right, either divine or vested, in the
occupation of selling intoxicants over a counter.
That department of the trade has put forth no
claims upon public consideration. The bar is an
excrescence, and an unwholesome one, upon a
useful occupation. Hostelries are necessaries, as
society is constituted. They serve a useful pur-
pose, and their conductors and managers occupy
a legitimate place among useful and honorable
workers. The man who provides “ good enter-
tainment for man and beast ” does good service.
There are some such now, and when the full ope-
ration of the new law shall have closed scores of
the moan drinking dens of the city the proportion
will be increased.
* # *
There need be no doubt about The Bulletin’s
views. Under which King ? Under King Order,
Prince Merriment, Prime Minister Public-Weal.
Whatever we can do to strengthen the hands of
those who strive to rout out vile parasites upon
the people, we shall do. The low publican, the
who gains a livelihood by fostering vice
and ministering to degradation, has in us an
implacable adversary. What we can do towards
sweeping away the pqt-hOuses where scoundrels
lie in wait behind a counter, regarding every man
who enters as a prey to be induced by all and
every means to buy drink, to yield up his money,
surrender his self-respect, sacrifice the happiness
of wife and children, and sink ultimately below
the level of a brute, all in order that his tempter
may become rich, we shall do. We value not their
goodwill. We seek none of their crime-stained
gains. But the decent hotel-keeper has no enemy
in ns. We perceive and appreciate the fact
that the old customs of our race cannot
bo extinguished in a day, or even in a
generation. A severely permissive law would,
we believe, do more harm than good. It
would not commend itself to such a majority as
could command obedience to it. The interference
with individual liberty which it would embody
would be revolting to many minds, and could not
fail to provoke reaction. The decent publican is,
as affairs actually exist, and considering the pre-
sent development of public opinion, the temper-
ance advocate’s best assistant. The man who has
a regard for his character and a feeling for his
kind, will refuse to serve drunkards, either habi-
tual or casual, with liquor. He will refuse to
harbour loafers and bad characters. Such a man
is a useful citizen, and deserves protection from
the humiliations of a law which was not levelled
at him. The Licensing Law does indeed require
to be made more restrictive in one particular,
equally in the interest of the respectable publican
and of the people at largo. There should be more
close scrutiny into the character of the persons to
whom licenses to sell intoxicants are granted.
The laws are very stiff respecting the sale of
poisonous drugs. But there is not in all the
chemists’ shops in Sydney any drug so destructive
in its effects as strong drink is, when recklessly
dispensed. Strychnine, laudanum, prussic acid,
are deadly substances. Yet, which of these has
wrought among the people the ruin, the misery,
and the deaths which are daily being caused by
alcohol in its various forms. There is not in the
whole colony a house in which misery is a constant
visitor, where the wretchedness is attributable to
the over-facility with which any poison is dealt
out —except alcohol. And in hundreds of homes
there is misery, violence, and destitution, due
solely and distinctly to the temptations to drink,
which assail men at every street corner and are
made doubly and trebly formidable by the villainy
of the lower class of persons who are licensed by
the State to sell the poison. To dispense so dan-
gerous a commodity a very superior and respon-
sible order of men is required. Some such there al-
ready are. And we would welcome any amendment
of the existing law, which would have the effect
of making it difficult for any inferior person to
procure a license to sell the deadliest poison
known to civilized mankind.
Lieutenant-Colonel Peel Raymond.
The portrait which we give this week is that of -
Lieutenant-Colonel Raymond, of the New South
Wales Forces. He is next in seniority in rank to
the present Acting-Commandant, having been,
gazetted in 1854 to his first commission in the
New South Wales Rifles, and he has seen twenty-
eight years’ continuous service in the colony.
One of the greatest difficulties we have had to'
contend against here has been the organization of i
a force suitable to the requirements and capabili-
ties of a young community. And, although we
have, under the new order of things, taken a step
in the right direction, we arc far from having
made the best Use of the material at our com-
mand, or of having even formed the nucleus of
a comprehensive system of national defence. The
law which creates our new defence corps allows
everything to perish outside its organization.
There is no continuous drafting for the purpose
of creating a landwehr. It is, however, but just
to Lieutenant-Colonel Raymond, and a few other
of our military men, to credit them with recogniz-
ing and endeavouring to make the best of the
difficulty. And it does not require much perspica-
city to see that the present organization—
which is admittedly a great improvement on the
old state of things—is to some extent a sop thrown
to Cerberus in the matter. Lieut-Colonel Ray-
mond is a son of the late Inspector Raymond, the
first Postmaster-General we had in New South
Wales, andlgrandson of Colonel Raymond, a fear-
less Irish Magistrate. Lieut-Colonel Raymond
had active work in Ireland under very unpleas-
ant circumstances. He soon left the country,
however, and coming to Australia under the aus-
pices of Sir Robert Peel, entered the Civil Service
of this colony. At the outbreak of the Crimean
war .he was amongst the first to volunteer
for the defence of the colony, and his name stands
third on the list of the men who thus manifested
their valour and loyalty. Colonel Raymond
married the only daughter of the Rev. Rochfort
Burrow Grange, of Bromley, Kent, and Lingfield,
Surrey, England, and has a family of three sons
and four daughters. Colonel Raymond is Brazilian
Vice-Consul for New South Wales,
The Manager of the Fresh Pood and Ice Co.
is, we are informed, Mr. W. G. Lock, not Mr. P, Tul
Jodge, as stated in our last issue.
Mr. W. Smith, bookbinder, steam machine
printer and manufacturing stationer, of Bridge-stm t,
Sydney, has turned out an elegant and useful card
calendar, &o. Besides a neat almanac, this handy card
of reference gives information respecting the arrival
and departure of the English and Californian mails
tot 1882, and ocean postal rates, &c.
LIEUTENANT-COLONEL PEEL RAYMOND.


HOP BITTERSI
ABE
THE PUREST AT? I) BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buekn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Eestoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use, Hop Bitteus.
Eemember, Hop Bitteus is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever mode,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
©r languishing on abed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Youl
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Yon.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve Yoti.
If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What Yon Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PUEIFT, AND ENEICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yon will have no sickness or suffering,
MONTEFIOReT STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR,
FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOR
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOE AUSTRALIA—
MONTBFIORE, STUART & CO.
JJENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
(or general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the nse of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great.saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways,
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEP.ORE, STUART, A CO.,
65 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Journalistic Pumpkin.
Most of the country papers have commented upon the
imprisonment of Messrs. Haynes and Archibald, and,
generally, the subject has been intelligently treated.
The Maitland Mercury has, among the rest, at-
tempted to deal with the theme, and in the attempt
lias only succeeded in setting its unlucky readers a
peculiarly hard conundruiji. The Mercury pro-
nounces with some decision that, the law being what it
is, “ accurate appreciation of it is necessary —a pro-
position which may be admitted, with respect, to be
highly probable. But the Mercury is pecxxliarly happy
in the effort it makes to place its vast talents at the
service of the jury in the Clontarf case. “It did seem,
even to the Mercury, “that good service had been
done to society by the publication of tho article. Yet
the sagacious writer suggests that the jurors may have
bean justified in giving a verdict for the plaintiffs on
the ground that there had been “no sign visible of it
(the article) having had a warning or purifying effect ”
until the libel action brought it into prominence! This
is splendid. The article was a true warning. Not
much heed was given to it. Therefore, those who
uttered it deserved to be punished! “ This Bulletin
case," writes the Mercury, “has brought an awaken-
ing to ns all.” Certainly not, in the case of the Mer-
cury, before it was needed. This fossilised specimen
of a by-gone style of journalism seems to have been
asleep for a hundred years. Opening its pages of coarse
paper, and viewing its antiquated type aud jumbled
arrangement, one instinctively glances down the
colums for news about our Gracious Sovereign George
111, but is agreeably surprised to discover instead a
genuine “ snake story ” and an advertisement of melons
for sale.
The Age’s Yarn.
The remarkable narrative communicated to the
Melbourne Age by the mysterious [Mr. Bryant, and
published by our Melbourne contemporary; bears
Internal evidence of having been a concoction. Sonic
of the arguments levelled against the authenticity of
Bryant’s story arc, however, not by any means so con-
clusive as those who employ them scorn to imagine. It
is asked, for example, whether it is credible that the
Bussian Admiral would have employed in the compila-
tion of so momentous a dispatch, an outsider like
Bryant, whose sole credentials were that hefhad offered
to sell a design for a torpedo. There are one or two
flaws in the completeness of the inferences suggested
by this question. In the first place, who is in a position
to affirm that Bryant had no other credentials ? He
seems to be a very mysterious sort of person, a polyglot
linguist, an adventurer, and according to his own
account, “ formerly a Major in the Bussian
service.” Mr. Bryant may, for aught that is known,
Jxave been better accredited to the Admiral than appears
on the surface. The restricted character of the explana-
tions he has offered since his communication was
ohallenged wotild be explicable ou the hypothesis that
ZMr. Bryant had been a Bussian spy, and had betrayed
Qxis employers as a spiteful revenge for their refusal to
.pay for his torpedo notion. No man would care to
» c i ear pi 8 character” by confessing that he had followed
the most contemptible of occupations. Again, there is
mo special reason why a Bussian Admiral should he less
of a blunderer than a British Under-Secretary, and it
cannot be forgotten that our own Foreign office en-
trusted to a casual writer at lOd. per hour the transcrip-
tion of one of the most important dispatches which
ever passed at a critical moment through the bureau.
Everyone will remember how Lord Salisbury's
confidential despatch found its way into the Lon-
don Globe. And in view of that example of the ineffi-
ciency of oxxr Foreign office, it is scarcely likely that
anyone will attach absolute importance to the Secre-
t ry of State’s cabled refusal to credit the story told by
ant, because “ the best relations subsist between
Eussia and Great Britain. People will remember that
tut three weeks ago the Queen’s Speech delared that
the best relations” subsisted among all the European
f owers, and a few days later angry notes were passing
tetween Germany and Bussia, and war was everywhere
expected. But the essence of the whole affair is inde-
pendent of the truth or falsity of Bryant’s story.
These colonies have no voice in ruling for peace or war.
Tn la grande politique it does not take two parties to
jnake a quarrel. Bussia could declare war to-morrow
■without asking England’s kind concurrence. And if
She did, what then ? Is it impossible that in the Bussian
eervice there may be officials quite as smart at devising
« scheme of descent as Mr. Bryant ? It must bo allowed
that Mr. Bryant’s is a very good plan, and if put
Into practice would probably be entirely successful
BO long ns Australian defence arrangements con-
tinue as they are. There is no record in history of
colonies so unprepared, and peopled by so unwarlike and
•unpractised a population as our own, successfully re-
sisting attack. We have neither powder mills nor gun
foundries. We have next to nothing that would enable
■us to mate a prolonged and resolute resistance. Our
ports have practically but oue line of defences, and
absolutely no reserve either of trained men or of
weapons. But we presume we must be content with
cur helpless condition so long as there remains a
politioal schemer unprovided with “ a bridge agin his
cwn door.”
Ji. writer in Vanity Fair is iu sore perplexity over
/two prospectuses he has got hold of, relating to gold-
anining enterprise in Australia. One is that of the
■‘British Australian Gold Mining C 0.," of Juno last,
»* formed for the purpose of purchasing and developing
•that extensive range of gold mines, known as tho Star
cf Peace, situated at Hawkins’ Hill, Hill End, New
South Wales." . . “The purchase money for this
property, with all machinery and plant, is £130,000.”
On the board of directors, numbering 8, is tho name of
Mr. Alfred Fairfax, of Sydney. The writer goes ou to
Bay (we quote) that a “ notable feature in the prospectus
is a series of extracts from Sydney papers. We are con-
wersant with that sort of thing here, aud wo know
something of the methods by which favourable notices in
leading papers arc obtained.” Now, there’s nothing
Strange in all this, but the strangeness is that six
mouths afterwards, in January last, a prospectus
appeared of the “ Hawkins’ Hill Consolidated Gold
Mining Co.,’’ “ formed for the purpose of acquiring and
■working the extensive mining properties of the Star of
Eeace Co., situated at Hawkins’ Hill, Hill End, New
South Wales,” and the amount of purchase money is
fixed at £20,000! A person of average intelligence
leathers from this that, unless there are, at Hawkins’
PW, Hill End, N.8.W., two Star Jet Peace gold mines,
the same property offered at £130,000 in June was
offered iu the following January for £20,000, or £llO,OOO
less! Attached to the second prospectus are also press
notices, the Sydney Daily Telegraph saying that
Hawkins’ Hill is entitled “to be regarded as one of the
most wonderful gold mines in the world,” and the
Sydney MOrning Herald saying “it sounds like a
fairy tale to hear of all this wealth.” Perhaps it was
owing to what the prospectus calls the “ enormous
amount of gold obtained” that the price of the “ex-
tensive x’ange of gold mines” was reduced £110,000?
Perhaps it was only the “enormous amount of gold
obtained” which caused the favourable notice in one of
tbe papers P And no doubt it was the ‘ ‘enormous amount
of gold obtained” which caused the board of 8 directors
and the first company to retire,and 6 new names to appear
on the board of directors of the second. There is
altogether a tone of irreverence about the article in
Vanity Fair. It jests about our most sacred institu-
tions. The Sydney Daily Telegraph it scoffs at as
“piling on the agony fairly well. But,” the writer
proceeds, “ the Sydney Morning Herald beats it in
the expression of the editorial amazement at the riches
disclosed to view.” This is terrible, and must occasion
pain to those whom the Herald is in the habit of
describing as “all right-thinking people’’ meaning all
people who agree with its own venerable ideas. But
worse remains behind. V anity Fair becomes positively
blasphemous. It remarks, in reference to the Sainted
Morning Herald’s statements, “We attach no im-
portance whatever to these utterances I” This is really
surprising. How can the writer in London have been
inspired to become the mouthpiece of public opinion
in Sydney ?
♦
The explanation tendered by Mr. Matthew Charlton,
foreman of the jury in the Cloutnrf-BuLLETiN case, as
communicated by Mr. G. E. Dibbs to the public at tbe
meeting in tbe Temperance Hall, may be accepted for
what it is worth. Mr. Charlton’s long silence would
have been less surprising had silence appeared his forte
at earlier stages of this affair. His explanation cannot
got rid of the fact that he brought up a verdict alto-
gether contrary to the evidence he had heard. Nor
will it induce us, or anyone else, to forget that while in
the jury box his demeanour from first to last was such
as to concentrate public attention upon himself, on
account of the extraordinary animus against the de-
fendants which seemed to actuate him. Persons who
were not present at the trial Were early informed that,
so far as could be judged, the defendants would not got
a verdict if Mr. Charlton could prevent it. The de-
fendant’s Counsel had more than once to protest against
Mr. Charlton’s apparent bias, and even characterized
him as “one of the Counsel for the plaintiffs.” Mr.
Charlton is now apparently ashamed of his acts, and
makes a pitiful attempt to shift on to the shoulders of
the judge, who has quite enough to answer for, the re-
sponsibility of the monstrous verdict which he was
prominently instrumental in securing.
♦
If Mr. Hicks, alleged insurance fraud, be guilty of all
that is imputed to him, he must indeed he a cold-
blooded scoundrel. Weatherhead, the heavily-in-
sured moribund consumptive, hod “ all he wanted ”
when lodging at Mrs. Littlewood’s, and we are in-
formed that the “ all ” in question meant, on the
average, the liberal allowance of “ a bottle of brandy, a
bottle of whisky, four half-pints of champague, aud a
bottle of rum, in two days.” But when Weatherhead
lived at the hotel, Hicks, according to the landlord,
did not treat his “ old friend " so well. He stayed in
his own room and guzzled the champagne which should
have been the dying man’s, while the latter cried out
for a drink. However, all this may not be true, for
Hicks, when arrested, said “they might as well have
takeu kwestal virgin as him.”
+
The Lamson cass recalls a hundred hideous occurrences
—brings to our minds the names of a long string of male
and female poisoners and their victims, from De Brin-
yilliees to Bravo. A droid of domestic poisoning
once more reigns. There is arsenic in the teapot and
prussic acid in the bear-barrel. Aconite lurks in our
evening grog, and the sherry decanter that graces the
mil-day board and gleams in the sunshine hides the
deadly drug. One or two of the leading London doctors
have electrified society by stating that they have each
of them in their practice met with more than one
deliberate attempt at murder by poisoning, and that
they have no doubt their experience is shared by thou-
sands of other practitioners. Judging from reports in
the medical j ournals, the science of poisoning progresses
much more rapidly than the means for detecting those
who carry it into practice. It is well that most mur-
derers are clumsy. Lamson used aconite, enough of
which to kill ten men was found in his poor victim’s
body. Considering the strides made in this department
of crime too much control cannot bo exercised by the
State over the sale of poisons. Fashion leads people to
queer extremes, and it may be yet the mode tor husbands
and wives to resort to the poison-bottle in lieu of the
divorce court—if for no other reason than that toxi-
oology is cheaper and far more certain than law. It has
been facetiously suggested in England that as domestic
poisoning is possibly fax more general than it is believed
to he, every wife should adopt the Hindoo praitice, and
burn herself at the death of her husband. Bat the
subject is hardly one to jest over. A mere mention o;
it brings to mind Charles Dickens’s story of “ Hunted
Down," in which Thomas Griffiths Wainwuight
(otherwise “Janus Weathercock”), the elegant literary
friend of Charles Lamb and Hazlitt, is introduced to
an admiring public. Thin scoundrel did n>t alopt (he
colonial plan of assuring the lives of moribunds; ho
took out policies for women, and then slowly poisoned
them. He even killed his beautiful niece. The poisonar
is the most dangerous, because the most stealthy,
deliberate,and remorseless of murderers. When Wain-
wrioht (who was transported) was in the gaol boa] i al
at Hobart, he went to the bedside of a fellow-prisoner
with whom he had quarrelled. "You are dying!” he
hissed. "In six hours you will be a corpse, an-
tpointing to his elbow) “I shall bonpto this, dissecting
you!’’ With memories of such things ns these ard th
case of Palmer, the Engby murderer, there is little
doubt that the law will exact from convicted poisoners
a terrible retribution.
ERRATA.
Our only apology for explaining a joke which “ doesn’t
appear " under the heading “ Brief Mention,” in part of
to-day's issue, is that it concerns a Judge. Thetbi.--
teenth and fourth “ Brief Mention ” paragraphs should
be read together. In the eighth paragraph of “ Pepper
and Salt,” the initial words should read “Tempora
Mutantur.’’ Again, many people will wonder what
“ Verginiand" is. It’s a kind of whisky that's exten-
sively drunk by printers.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Victorian selectors paying np grandly ; .£11,860
above estimate already received. And this is in spite
of the recent drought St. Arnaud and Bacchus
Marsh shirus have applied to Victorian Government for
£20,000 and £lO,OOO loans respectively under the Water
Conservancy Act Thirty-one N.S. Wales exhibitors
have sent to the Bordeaux Exhibition 2544 bottles and
51 casks of locally-manufactured wines; districts
represented are Hunter Biver, Albury, Inverell, Mur-
rumbidgee, Port Maequaii*, and Wyndham Civil
Service Co-operative society, Sydney, show a loss of
£Bl9 on the last half-year’s transactions; loss was sus-
tained on mercery, boots and shoes and tailoring, which
branches are to be abolished. It would seem from this
that the gay Civil servant prefers to adorn his outer man
on tick than to cash up on the first of the month
Newcastle Customs receipts f>r last week were
£1 358 12s. 3d Magnus George, seaman, of ship
Hawkesbury, found drowned in Sydney hxroour. She-
oak South Austra ian farmers are B o hard up just
now, that a “ seed-wheat subscription” his been started
both by the Farmers' Association and me general pub-
lic. Over 100 applicat ons requiring over 24,0ut) bushels
have already been received. Subscriptions top £5OO
S.A. harvest—l,B2s,ooo acres produced 815 OuO bushels,
or an average per acre of 4 bus. 36 lb The agent of
the Sydney Fresh Food and Ice Co. offers Kiama
dairymen Bd. per gallon for their milk Two litigants
in the Melbourne country Court, failing to obtain satis-
faction from the judge, fought out their difference in
the lebby At Sandhurst, a man named NeiUon,
while looking up at the Post-office clock, was struck
and badly wounded in the utek by a swan-shot, which
is bele.ved to have|been discharged from an air-gun
At flarandera, hid ward Hoaten, for refusing to pay tor
seven drinks, got 24 hours’ gaol Communication
between the Wild Enver tin field and the coast has been
interrupted by Hoods. Scores of men have been ren-
dered idle by the flooding of sh. fts. Xtarns ace very
scarce Mr. T. Hungerford, M L.A., lass week
sold Gromcry Station, North Warrego, with 6JOO
cittle, for £60,000 A piece of printed paper has been
found in a hen's egg. The egg was bad, and the paper
wa.s f of course, a bit of the Parramatta Pergt 'lhe
Oraokenback goldfield has again been found, by half a
dozen miners, who journeyed thither from Bega. to be
a duffer A petrniod snake, 30.eet long, has beau
found on the Paterson Biver, in making an excavation...
AlO ft. snake kilted at Cooradigbee A new brewing
company, limited, the Bod Lion, at Hay and Bourke;
cai i-at, £75 006 Mr. Davies, the wed known mining
cßg.ueer, says: “I Barmcdmau Beefs th>
litaT i HAVE SEEN IN NIOW SOUTH WALES.” A hid
of 19 attempted to criminally assault a married woman
near Smythosdalo (V ), but was seized by the husband
and handed over to tne police Out of 45 Bathurst
“ publics,” only 24 meet the accommodation clauses of
the new Act Tne other day, at Townsville (Q.), a
man charged a policeman with having caused him gnev-
ous bodily harm. The man has since died, and the cot-
stable stands accused of manslaughter Patk. Moore,
missed from the Tate tin mines, has not been found. Hu
was tracced to Gm uiu Creek. It is behoved fell in,
and that his body has been carried into the Tate
£2 in us, and black swans from South Au.otra-
lia are being successfully acclimatised in Canada
Kxneton Observer (Vic.) being sued for libel by
Uaroiin, an election canvasser 8000 acres of land
have been selected on the M’lvor Biver, Queensland,
by several Mackay sugar planters Alexander Boss,
of Grenfell, farmer, committed for the manslaughter tf
Hugh Davey, a caiTier. The parties met at Chatsbury,
and had a quarrel, miring which Boss struck Davey on
the herd with a whip Mr. William Davie, an old
Charters Towers resident, is dead. Bum Near Tam-
bourino, a lad named Michael Callaghan was bitten by a
big black snake, which left the mark of four fangs on
his imtep ana drew blood freely. Ligatures were pro-
cured ammonia applied externally and internally. The
patient drank throe bottles of biaudy, which appeared
to take no effect on him. Except being a little drowsy
he showed no symptoms of getting woise. About the
same hour ua ween bitten, on the following day,
bo took a change, and the glanc*? of his throat
stiffened for a time, but he eventually recovered
Alfred A’Violet, of Mudgee, wont insane, but is now
recovering. Last entry in his diary, before going in,
was ‘Poor Jenkins sent to Asylum to-day. Always
thought he was a bit touched.” Can this Jenkins be
tho . But no Some of the jam factories have
been greatly embarrassed this year inrough the failure
of the turnip crop Soma of the Hamilton fVic.)
squatters aver that the much-abused thistle is a ‘ grand
institution,” the sheep thriving on the heads, which
they prefer to the burnt-up grass James O’Sullivm
got a month in Bathurst gaol for stealing two bottles. f
rum from a Lyndhurst publican. He protested hit.
innocence, and offered to swear on all the Bibles in the
colony that some evil-disposed person must have
planted the bottles of gin on his saddle Since
January, 62in. rain has fallen on the Lower Herbert
(N Q.) . ..An unfortunate stonemason who, failing to
get work at his trade, eked oat a living by fossicking
at Ballarat, has been paralysed by mullock falling
in an old drive. He has six children
Australasian Pastoral Co., projected in Meloourne;
capital, one million in £lO shares John Blyth and
Co., Melbourne, are successful tenderers for 7000 tons
of pipe for Van Yean extension at £8 Us. did. per ton,
duty paid Messrs. Bryant and Bowe’s tender, at
£24,695 7s. 6d., accepted by Victorian Government for
tue construction of the railwav from the Wodouga to
t e Murray river; that of Mr. Eobart Thompson, at
£52,683 15s , for a railway from North Melbourne to
C ,bnrg Silt raised at Port Adelaide in 1831
a ucunted to 278,090 cubic yards, aud cost £21,900 to
ra j ;e Total receipts of S. Australian Marine Board
Department for 1881 were £l2 888 ; expenditure
846 ; shipping inwaid*, 1072 vessels having a
ton age of 640,885 tons; outwards, 1081 vessels with a
tmnage of 628,606 tons Messrs. A. aud C. Wilson
have sold their Lila and Piriilie stations on the W arego
river for £l2O 000 Mr. A Tobin, of Wingadee, is the
buyer of a portion of the property Queensland is
preparing for war. £9OOO is voted for tne volunteers
this year, and there is some talk of sending to England
for another dozen of carbines. Borneo, beware 1
The Daylesford Band of Hope is going to form a
drum and fife band. A good many of the
old residents of Daylesford are leaving jast now
» ♦ ♦
Englishmen boast of the fame of the British
Navy being higher than any other. They certainly sexd
tntir ships higher; Thunderer, Doterel, Triumph, hr
instance! Old England's enemies won’t need any gm .
powder or torpedoes soon. Cur own xerotina siccati
will do all that's wanted Pensions are to be given in
England to widows of private soldiers. Hitherto only
officers’ widows have had any A bronze statute of
Carlyle is to be erected on the Chelsea embankment, at
a cost of £1,500. There is no stone over tUe sa.-e’s rest,
ing place at present.... flimsoli raised an outcry against
merchant vessels being “11 rating coffins.” Meiciiant-
men are better now, and the title can be passed
along to her Her Majesty's men o’ war.. It is a
co moon thing for IrLh tenants to put bullet h les
through their own premises, and then say the Laud
Leaguers did it because they paid their reut. There are
many '‘oatriges” of ihis kind Bradlaugh’s favorite
Sunday’s occupation is fi-hmg with lod aud line
The Convent on between Great Britain and the Boers
oo at £5,00’) to cable to London The rtpo.-t of
Mr. H iward Vincent, the Director of Criminal iavesti-
git ion, shows that ‘‘pros ituiion in Enylmd is
oin tidorably in excess in jropoition to the population
of ©“her countries. His explanation is that *• abroad,
families are sm»Her and girls are much more looked
aftflf *.... Bic nty the SLe.iili of the oty of London
were invited o a publi i 'Unner. Tuey comentel
to attend conditi ne.lly upon their being placed
in seats “ suitablj to their exalted positions ”
The las) Indian census shows that at Allahabad 971
parsons d.-acrihed their rel gion as being that of “ low
blackguards ” At Malta, recently, two eldeily
English ladier, named Smith, were recently garottei
iu their beds ul tabbed of everything movable they
possessed. Th> island has become almost uninhabit-
able on account of such occurrences The stories of
wholesale dismissal from the Times piinting staff, in
re the indscent interpolation of a line in Sir William
Harconrt’s speech, are exaggerations. Only one com-
positor has been dismissed; he was the last to handle
the naota 1 , and had been heard to vow vengeance a few
days previ >usly for having te:n fined. Sir William
made tin. Times allude to the occurrence, as he had
bean writ en to by some cross people who actually
bslievod he had uttered the obscenity attributed to
him Professor Blackie, of Edinburgh, is seriously
ill... The dime of the Palais de Just ce, Isnasda, is to
be built of pa ier machb. and will weigh only 16 ton :
... ..The Sx. Jambs’ Gazette (which is an evenii g
papir) is now published at a penny, thus placing thj
be* -written daily in London within the teach of all.


VIRTUTI3 GLORIA MERGE
COALCLIFF C(
■ ■•UTS niiiuri'om ><.4 trcivvan nniT mtwp HTnwwr u
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Backache, Soreness of the Chest, Gout,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swellings and
Sprains, Burns and Scalds,
General Bodily Pains,
Tooth, Ear and Headache, Frosted Feci
and Ears, and all other Pains
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals St. Jacobs Oil as;
a safe, sure, simple and cheap External Remedy.
A trial entails but the comparatively trifling outlay!
of 50 Cents, and every one suffering with pain l
can have cheap and positive proof of its claims.
Directions in Eleven Languages.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AND DEALERS IN
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Georgo-street.
I. JACOBS St Co., Hunter-street.
PEREIER’S BAKING POWDER,
s?tl
rU
MARK
TRADE
"T* *
&
H
SELF-RAISING FLOUR,
Geobgb-stbeet West, Sydney.
fESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.]
ODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Goulbura-street.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, &o.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
I I .
c
I I
C_j
I
116701 H.HILDE R,
6 70
70
LOE
[S7O
NHilc
J4U-OER
HILQER
Soq t
H. HILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDET.
E W PREMISE
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and Splendid
SHOP. No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
the corner of Gonlbum-street, where he will be pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladles, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit isirequestod.
ItfflV
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
ON-ACCORD
WORKS,
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Conn
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with
This QASia much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, w
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity o
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic fi
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lightin*
IXS C °importerß and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS,
Medalists and Special Prize holde
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINI
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
W H
EN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitum
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
DAMP RESISTING SOL
If you have DAMP WALLS in your *house, use CALLENDER
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be e
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chan
WOODWARD’S OYST
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT 1
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEG
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE Fi
DEPOT
VANITY FAIR.
A man up North advertises that he’ll punch any
fellow’s head who harbours his eloped wife. He says,
however, storekeepers can give any credit they like,
for as he never pays any of his own debts, it will be
useless to expect him to pay her’s At a recent
English fancy ball a young lady had the incredibly bad
taste to appear as a clergyman, in surplice, hood, stole,
and bands A club of “ Unfortunate Lovers” has, we
read, been formed in London. It should include many
husbands and wives At a fashionable English ball,
recently, the rooms were illuminated with the electric
light, which proved excessively trying to some faces
and some dresses. Blondes, especially, suffered from
the brilliant whiteness of the light, which threw a
certain ghastliness over their countenances. The
electric light is especially cruel, not only to wrinkles
themselves, but to the artifices adopted to hide them
Girls dressed for an evening party, ’tis said.
Scarce an atom of dress on them leave.
For what is an evening dress, my dear girls.
But a dress that is suited for Eve.
That queer sect, the Peculiar People, are preparing
statistics to show that they have less illness and live
longer than people who are not peculiar, and consult
doctors and take physic The other day, in the same
column of the Times, was announced the birth of a son
to William Shakespeare; and the death, somewhere in
India, of Izaak Walton. And now, in the current
number of Frazer’s Magazine, whoso likes may read
an article in praise of John Dryden, written by John
Dennis The accouchement of the Russian Empress
is expected in June, and it is hoped that she will have
sufficiently recovered to undergo the fatigues of the
coronation ceremonial in August Re bazaar raffle
prosecutions. Says the Echo “Itis so easy to
prosecute a young lady, and so hard to net a book-
maker." In general, the stature of the women of any
race may be taken as about one-sixteenth less than that
of the men. Thus, a man of sft. Sin. and a woman of
6ft. 4in. look an ordinary well-matched couple We
have drawn attention to marriage associations in both
Auckland and Melbourne. Attempts have been made to
establish such associations in various American States,
but a recent application for a charter was flatly refused
by the court, on the ground that“ Anything which
induces parties to enter into the marriage relation
through mercenary considerations strikes at the very
foundations of human society, and is necessarily injuri-
ous to the community A N.Z. man says ho found a
bunch of mint over his pillow a complete protection
against mosquitos There is to be an Olden Payre in
Castlemaine (Vic.) shortly, similar to those at Mel-
bourne and Geelong Russia is indebted to the Roths-
childs in the sum of £90,400,000 At a London
railway station, a teacher of shorthand, while drunk,
put his arm round the neck of a lady he didn’t know.
He was sent to gaol for seven days It recently tran-
spired that a ball had been given in an English work-
house. The press considered that a workhouse wasn’t
exactly the place for balls and flirtatious and kissing
A Spanish obituary notice “ This morning, Siebald,
the jeweller, was summoned from his shop to a better
world. The funeral takes place to-morrow, when his
widow will weep upon his tomb, also his two daughters,
Hilda and Emma. The former is married, and the
latter open to an offer.” It can't be Spanish, can it P
Swedish or German The French Cremation Society
has £BO balance in hand after one year’s existence. The
president thinks Government will sanction cremation;
the society will then charge three francs (2s. 6d.) for
each operation. Paris undertakers will find their occu-
pation gone A lady was very severe on a rival when
she said the only thing about her not put on for effect
was the hole in her stocking It’s curious that while
Vanderbilt thought the young man who sought his
daughter’s hand was not good enough for her, because
he was not rich, his own son, William H., junior, was
caught by a girl who hadn’t 50 dollars in the world.
Miss Alva Smith had been rich, but her father failed,
while she was at school. She was a spirited girl, and
she captured William H. very skillfully with a yellow
silk and a black Spanish lace mantilla, at a ball. When
her “ dear friends ” heard that Miss Alva, who is a
a blonde, was coming in yellow silk, they prephesied
her failure, but the smart girf cunningly dyed herself a
brunette to suit her only dress—the yellow silk—
and came out as the belle. Crushed again!
Count de Chambord is said to have lost £1,250,000 by
the failure of the Union Generale at Paris, but the
statement is not credited The Royal Family draws
£556,000 from the English Exchequer—about half the
amount drawn by George 1., when the population was
half what it is now At the Royal Academy, a picture
by Rominy has caused a sensation. It is of Lady Hamil-
ton, and the exquisite beauty of the face and delicacy of
drapery throws all similar pictures into the shade
The reign of French fashions seems to be over at St.
Petersburg. All the Court speak only Russian, and
French food, language, customs, are all frowned upon.
Only persons of Russian nationality are elevated to
offices of State Mr. Robert Buchanan’s new work,
God and the Man,” is said to be magnificent, full of
grand poetry A novel has been published called
“ Gehenna," dealing with the evils of the private mad-
house system It is stated that the St. Petersburg
house which has the permission of the Russian Govern,
ment to manufacture playing-cards turns out twenty
four thousand packs a day A ball was held at Ken
sington lately, in aid of the Women’s Suffrage Society
and was successful, financially; but such a giddy pro-
ceeding excited great disfavour among steady, middle-
aged supporters. It’s a peculiar fact that you never
hear a really pretty girl crying out for the suffrage
Young men have appeared in London with their faces
unmistakably rouged, and it is no secret that many
gilded youths make up their complexions artificially
A young lady of Illinois was forsaken by her intended
because small-pox had ravaged her beauty. His love
was of the earth, earthly, and he couldn’t sea anything
beneath the scars. Her love was of the earth also, for
she brought a suit. Such is love. Some think the
actual bonds brittle enough for a lawyer to snap;
while others build on the idea of eternal fidelity, be-
cause they have once kissed and looked shyly at each
other Several years since, a lady visited many
London shops, and no satin seemed good enough to
please her, but she would not say for what she wanted
it. It was to embroider on its white surface sentences
of her husband’s in letters of gold, and to be made into
doyleys for a dinner he was giving. The fond wife was
Mrs. Disraeli Oscar Wilde was snuffed out at Boston
(U.S.) by sixty students of the Harvard University,
who marched into the aesthetic leader’s lecture-room
arrayed in dress coats, smalls, and silk stockings, with
lilies in their button-holes and sunflowers in their
hands. The effect was irresistible A. clever woman
may faint, but she’ll never lose self-possession. Em-
press Josephine cried bitterly when Napoleon told her
of his intention to have a divorce, and finally fainted in
the drawing-room. Napoleon summoned the Prefect
of the Palace to help to carry her to her own apart-
ment. Napoleon took the lady’s limbs, while the
Prefect, who was terribly alarmed, supported the chief
weight of her body. As she slipped, he took a firmer
hold of what he thought the inanimate person of Her
Majesty, when Josephine, to his amazement, whispered
“Don’t squeeze me so tight!” Americans are now
amongst the most wealthy of fashionable leaders of
society in Paris. For beauty and dress, some of the
women are surpassed by no Parisienne, and every now
and then matches are mode, some needy scion of French
nobility with some beauteous daughter of an untitled
American millionaire. Countess de Trobjaud is now
the brightest American star In Mrs. Bonanza
Mackay’s famous portrait, she wears a black satin
dress, dark mantle, big GainsjLvctrough hat, and is but-
toning her glove, an undressed tan-coloured kid
An Earl, a Knight, a G. 0.8., a General, an Honorable,
a Lieutenant-Colonel, a Captain, a Herald, and a Pur-
anivant left London Feb. 2, in charge of the King of
Saxony’s “ Garter." One of the Radical papers wants
to know why the bauble wasn’t sent in a registered
letter instead of by an assorted cohort, at a cost to the
nation of thousands of pounds. This kind of thing
can’t last Figaro, speaking of the Royal guests from
Waldeck, expresses regret that the Queen’s invitation
te the approaching marriage was not more general. It
would like to have not only the Grand Duke, but also
the people of Waldeck, asked over to see the Princess
Helene married. It would have been a great treat for
the population; and, judging from the latest census
returns, the Great Eastern could have brought over
the whole nation with ease......An Irishman recently
proposed to start in London an afternoon paper devoted
to Court and High Life news. He was going to call
it the “ Evening Morning Post." At home it is no
longer fashionable for gilded youths to carry um-
brellas. And as nobbing spoils so quickly from rain as
a black silk hat, the head-oovering has to be renewed
very often, to say nothing of intermediate trimmings
and “ doings-up ” of various kinds. In England, to go
about without an umbrella means a black silk, chimney
pot bat spoilt in two minutes.


SINGER'S SEWING
See the Medals, Cnps, ax
at the
SYDNEY ARC
SINGER’S SEWING I
ARE MADE ONLY
The Singer Mannfactnri:
Head Officer,:
34 UNION SQUAEE, HEW
Chief Office in Eur(
39 FOSTER LANE, ]
Depot for New South
NO. 1 DARLING STORES, HAI
SYDNEY.
Public Compar
|IHE AUSTRALIAN JOIN!
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p<
£1,000,000. Reserve Finn
Directors ;
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; "V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Ji
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwooc
London Office: 18 King Willii
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bourke, Bundarro, Cassilis, Com
bran, Coonamble, Copland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inues, Goulb
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Naraudera, '
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rookie
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Tt
Uraua, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Chartei
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Rayenswood, Rockhampton, Stanl
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Celoi
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP 1
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H, E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Qoorgo-«treer, Brickfield
Gitilambone; Gosi
LONDON BANKI
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 158 Leadei:
Director —Edward Chap
Agent—O. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bs
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ms
Other nrodnee shipped to England f
JG R A H A M
• IMPORTER AND GENEB
17 BRIDGE STRE
Chief Agent fo:
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURj
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBAI
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEI
SCOTCH WHISB
AITCHISON’S PALI
READ THI
THE BAKING P
MANUFACTURED bv us /
AS DOCTOR
kV/AUr
Chemists and Dm
J S. ABRAHAM’S FILLS
THE GREAT LIVER I
And successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all Noi
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disor
Stomaeh. .
Most famous as the only Tome
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Be careful not to get ]
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare*
J. s. A B R A
At the Laborato
434 GEORGE STREET,
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amei
liinotus, you will not be able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177
Punch's Hotel.
Tickle your appetii
tralian Relish, made by Y
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
OF GOOD
We beg to draw 3
PARTICULAR ATTE
to the
ASIATIC TEA C
PACKET TEi
Packed in pounds and hali
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s. and 5
PURE INDIAN TEA,
2s. 6d. a:
PURE CETLON TEA,
2s. 6d. a
PURE JAVA TEA,
2a. 6d. a
Special Quotations given to Wb
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA COl
279 PITT STREET (next S
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U S
182 PITT STREI
from
D. JONES & C
Respectfully invites an inspects
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEAI
BEI
All of the best quality, and selec
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS,
Furniture re-covercd and carpets
charges.
♦
George
(Formerly of Georg
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EAR
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCAI
where every article in the above lin
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
Business Announc
S
I_LxOAIi.J
HOETEE, FITZGEEALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m, £
SOLICITOE, has cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite 1
News Office.
H
A V E YOU
TO
R. MORPH
288 Pitt Str]
OTICE OF E]
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERT DESCR:
and EARTHBwIWA
Beg to announce that ney have
REMOVE]
to
269 GEORGE ;STE
Next but One to the Merw
A magnificent selection of New Q
ILLCOX
w
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STRI
F.T. WIMBLE Fi
STEREOTYPE'/$
8
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING M
HAVE
All the Latest Improv
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Largest Variety of \
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Strength and Beauty ol
SINGER’S SEWING N
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, an
SINGER’S SEWING fi!
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and !
SINGER’S SEWING N
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and ]
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TEEMS— 2s. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERY
Offices in Sydne
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR I
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET. BA
AUBURN STREET N„ €
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR
NARANDEEA. PAREj
227 QUEEN STREET. BI
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE £
8
INGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED J
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANI
TIME PAYMEN
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per weei
And NO INTEREST d
10 per cent, off for <
BEWARE OP IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MAOHII
HAYMARKE 1


w.
HOWARD SMIT:
SIEUTH’S WHARF and 1
(Foot of King-str
Offices : 7 SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and F.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGB
and
EOCKHAMPI
On TUESDA
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITE
STEAM TO LONDON—(
1882.
The following Royal Mail Stoar
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIGI
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY", will leave SY
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, .
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, call]
And the service will be mainti
steamers at intervals of a fortnight
Saloon passengers homewards m:
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goi
steamer within a mouth ; but failinj
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching a
can proceed to Suez and the Coj
Ports included) without fear of
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be gra
For plans and full particulars, i
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANI
Joint Managers of the line ; or to t
General Manager in Au
G.
o
RIENT LINE OF
PARCEL EXPRE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small packa;
Steamers to London at reduced rati
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a f<
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior I
sailing. All freights payable in Sj
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient
267 Qeorge-street, Sydney.
CASH PRICE LIST OF V
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
BED.
Claret
Hermitage
Shiraz
Burgundy
Reisling
Hock ...
Madeira
Bonffior’s Pineau..
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 2is to 48s Od I Good S
Champagne from... 60s Od ) French
RPTP.TTS
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Longfellow died of facial cancer.
Mr. Lackey visits Cobar about the end of April-
Banquet.
Inspector Brooke Smith, of the Victorian police,
is dead.
“Measureless liar,” is what one Charters
Towers editor calls the other.
According to the London Tablet, Archbishop
Vaughan visits England in May.
Within the last year or two four illegitimates
have been elevated to the Peerage.
A once-notorious bushranger is now in a really
good mercantile position in this city.
Mr. Oscar De Satge, M.P. for the Mitchell (Q.),
has resigned, and is leaving for England.
In the last number of the Australasian, Mr.
Henry Britton commenced “ Tom Whimpey’s Sable
Bride, a story of old Fiji.”
The handsome Captain Le Patourel accompanies
the Victorian Governor to Queensland. Doubtless this
will be appreciated.
Judge Hackett, of Victoria, still ill; his leave
of absence extended three months. Probably he will
than retire on £750 pension.
Miss Susan Penimoro Cooper, daughter of the
celebrated American novelist, is now 70 years of age.
She lives at Cooperstown, N.Y.
Thadeus O’Kane, the eminent editor of the
Northern Miner, has one first-class criminal and two
civil libel suits pending against him.
“ Black ” Douglas, the well-known sub-inspec-
tor of native police, is back again inithe Par North. He
takes charge of the white police at the Wild River.
Mr. Dailey once said; “ Life will become very
lonely if one is compelled to cut every person of one’s ac-
quaintance whose conduct as a public man is exception-
able.”
Some verses printed in the Evening News of
Saturday, make it appear that Mr. W, J. O’Hea is still
a member of the staff of the Age. Mr. O’Hea died
1 mg ago.
Sir James Paget,{the eminent English surgeon,
is net dead. On the contrary, he has quite recovered,
and is able to ponder over a few thousands of his
obituary notices.
Chas. H. Barber, an old Beechworth resident,
and nephew to Hume, the explorer, has died, aged 65
vears. He was a settler on the Kiewa river district,
N.S.W.,in 1836.
The Mayor of Sandhurst declined to receive the
Russians. He also declined to telegraph sympathy
with the Queen’s escape. This is hard on the Russians
and her Majesty too.
Eev. Mr Watt, of Tanna, New Hebrides, has
translated the Acta of the Apostles into the Tanese
tongue, set up the translation in type, and printed and
bound the edition himself.
Mr. William Chambers, of Chambers’ Journal,
declined a Knighthood last yo»r. In 1872, however, he
accepted from Edinburgh University the honorary
degree of Doctor of Laws.
Mr. E. Middleton, a Mount M‘Donald squatter,
was, on Monday, bitten by a death-adder, while nutting
his hand into a hen’s nest. The usual remedies, brandy
and ammonia, were successfully applied.
Sir Samuel Wilson, of Hughenden, ahem ! has
already associated himself with sport. The hounds
met at the Manor, the other day. The huntsmen couldn’t
find a fox, but Samuel gave them a big dinner.
The concise and masterly statement of the
question of the Disestablishment as affecting the
Scottish Presbvterians, which appears in the Evening
News of the 21st, is said to be from the pen of the
Eev. George Grimm.
Captain Green, up till lately the last surviving
military officer who was ou duty at the funeral of Lord
Nelson, has died at Buckden, England. He passed
quietly away in the same room and bed in which he
was born 94 years ago.
The first man born in Australia was Robert
Hope. Not a bad name this for, the first of a new
nation. However, poor Hope was unfortunate. He
was drowned. He was “ also ” uncle to Mr. Toby Ryan,
once member for the Nepean.
William Black, the famous novelist, is one of
the fastest writers of the day, says an English paper,
A relative of his'now in Riverina, is the fastest cook in
those parts. He is cook on a station and the hands are
fasting half the time. Hold fast to this joke.
A divorce case is talked of in Dubbo. The
husband of a woman, notorious in connection with a
lamentable shooting case, has commenced proceedings.
He is hunting up a list of co-respondents, and there is
consternation among the curled darlings of Dubbo.
It is said that Prince Leopold was made a Colonel
in order that he might have a becoming uniform to be
married in. Officers who are made of ordinary mud
become grey in the service before they can command a
regiment; but royal mud—ah, that is another affair I
The board sitting on Mr. Wallis, the Victorian
Secretary for Agriculture, have reported against that
officer on one of the counts respecting the advice ten-
dered by him re phylloxera damage valuations. Mr.
Wallis retires, receiving a month’s pay for every year
of past service.
It’s not generally known that the Marquis of
Huntly, who has just given himself up to the police in
London, where he stands charged with having defrauded
a money-lender, was, a little while since, in Sydney.
When he.-o, he lodged in Macquarie-street, and was
known as ‘’Mr.” Huntly.
Mr. Powell, M.P., the unfortunate English bal-
loonist, was a nephew of Mr. Walter Lacy, the popular
actor. Mr. Agg- Gardner, who j umped out of the balloon
which carried poor Powell to his ghastly death, is suffer-
ing severely from the effects of his leap. It is feared
that the injured leg may mortify.
The Dixon Gas Co. not yet dead. According to
a report submitted to the shareholders, the company
had leased some land in Liverpool, and had proceeded
with the erection of works there for the purpose of
testing their gas crucially ou a large scale. Mr. Dixon
is at present in Liverpool. Ahem!
It was thought by the police that the headless
corpse found at Stawell (Vic.), was that of Mr. Prank
A. Bellman. However, Bellman has now turned up.
He has been down with measles, and did not hear until
a day or two ago of the uncomfortable associations
with which his name has been connected.
The ex-Empress Eugenie is looking very old.
Her hair, which used to be jet black, is now snow white.
Her figure and general appearance are as distinguee as
ever; but her features have a fixed expression of
sorrow which nothing is likely to remove. She at-
tends early service at Brompton Oratory every
morning.
Joaquin Miller says that nations die when their
forests die. Speaking of Italy, he says: “It was not
the blue-eyed barbarian who slid down the snowy Alps
on his shield into the vineyards that conquered Italy.
It was the more terrible barbarian, with his axe , who
cut down tho trees upon the hills lor commercial
purposes.
The article on “The Donation of Constantine,”
which appeared in the Freeman’s Journal and effec-
tually floored the Express, was from the pen of Mr. W.
A. Duncan, C.M.G. Mr. Duncan is an old and aooom-
plished pressman, and 40 years ago, edited the now
long-defunot Australian Chronicle, which was a
powerful paper in its day.
Inspector Anderson, of the Central Police
Division, has, after 30 years’ hard service, obtained six
months' leave of absence to visit his native country,
Scotland. Mr. Anderson, who is equally active as a
philanthropist and as Robert leaves per John
Elder, taking with him the good wishes of the thousands
to whom he is known—unofficially.
The Mr. Foster, whose lifeless body was found
at the bottom of a 70-foet shaft at llilparinka, recently,
was eldest son of Mr. Poster, P.M., of Beechworth, one 1
of the most popular of Victorian stnoadiarieu. Xiioun- I
fortunate young fellow, who was engaged in mining,
had been suffering from intermittent fever, and had
apparently strayed from his tent while in delirium. He
was only 23,
Dr. Lamson, who has been sentenced to death
*°r scientifically murdering Percy Malcolm John, his
brother-in-law, is a man of some standing in the medical
world. He has served in several ambulance corps, and
won considerable prominence by his skill in the treat-
ment ef wounded soldiers. Of the hundreds who
crowded the Courts to hear the trial, Lamson seemed
the least concerned.
An English peer married, after the Scotch
fashion, a kitchen-maid, by whom he had three children.
Both died, and now one of the children who came to
Australia with £5 turns up to claim the rent roll,
£25,000 a year. The relatives consider “ this person "
should, in the order of Providence, have found his way
into the stomach of a Queensland aborigine. And
they act accordingly,
Mr. William Fryar—brother of Messrs, Mark
and Thomas Fryar, of Newcastle and Wallsend—has
been appointed Inspector of Mines by the Queensland
Government. He is the right man in the right place,
and will be stationed at Charters Towers, where
recently there have been lamentable accidents owing to
careless working. Mr. Fryar was for a short time
Minister for Lands in Queensland
Mr. Donald M'Donald, prospector of the Mount
M’Donald diggings, is urging on Government his claim
to a reward for the discovery of that gold-field. His
application is supplemented with a certificate signed
by E. Bennett, giving the total amount of crushings at
the Belmore Battery, which he was then the proprietor
of, amounting during the year 1881 to 1627£ tons of
quartz, producing 2702 oz. Idwt. A Mr. John M’Kellar
also claims to participate in the reward.
J. Y. Mulligan, the great Northern explorer,
has, lit is said, discovered a creek of whisky. Lemon-
trees grow near it, there are plenty of sugar-bags in the
adjacent trees, and a hot water spring is quite close, as
is also a most suitable site for a graveyard. Bob
Watson and several old acquaintances are claiming
mateship with him. A prospecting claim is being
marked off by one of the oldest gold-wardens in the
north, and Surveyor Kayser.
“ Jack” Gardiner—which some people call him
“ Sugar”—member for Carlton (footballers) in the
Victorian Parliament, is in Sydney, fin garqon, sight-
seeing. Ha has introduced a Bill to prevent anybody
working after 7 p.m. A commission is now sitting (at
so much per day), and taking voluminous evidence with
regard to it. Jack hopes to get it through. By the
time he leaves this place, he’ll have come to the con-
clusion that Victorians, if they want to “catch up” to
the country of the cornstalks, will have to work all day
and night, too.
A curious document connected with the late
Emperor of the French has come to light in London,
It is in the possession of an ex-cavalryl officer, who
was very intimate with Prince Louis Napoleon when
the latter was a gay London bachelor, often in want of
ready cash, and often under obligations to the money-
lenders. It reads thus :—“ My Dear Blank, —Here is
the bill for £l2OO. Old 80-and-So (a celebrated money-
lender of that day) says he will do it at once if you will
back it. Please get up behind.—Yours ever, L.N." The
Prince’s friend did “get np behind," and wasn’t “let
in.”
Mr. T. Boyd has, we learn, on the recommen-
dation of the American consul, Mr. Kahle, been
appointed vice-consul for the United States in Sydney.
This is an appointment, we are snre, which will give
very general satisfaction, Mr. Boyd’s commercial
integrity only being on a par with his great personal
popularity. Mr. Boyd has done a great deal of good in
Sydney besides creating a revolution in photography
and there are many of his countrymen who can testify
to his kindness of heart and practical sympathy with
all who are in distress. We heartily congratulate
Mr. Boyd on his appointment.
When the late Sir Robert Christison, the eminent
physician, went into the witness-box to give evidence on
the poisons used by Palmer, the murderer of Mr. Cook,
he electrified the court by stating that he knew of a
poison which was deadly in its power, though it left no
trace of its presence after death. The Judge instantly
besought Sir Robert to, on no account, mention what it
was, and, although he was afterwards besieged by hun-
dreds of letters from doctors in all parts of the world,
he never did so. The name of this poison is now known
to most people, but those who are still ignorant of it
had best remain so.
Many months ago tho little schooner Southern
Cross, having on board twelve people, including Mr.
Fairfax, special reporter of the Daily Telegraph, left
Sydney for the South Seas. She has not since been
heard of, and is believed to have foundered in a heavy
gale a day or two after her departure. Mr. Fairfax,
about whose melancholy death there can now be little
doubt, was a eon of Mr. Alfred Fairfax, of Wynyard
Square, and brother of Mr. Fairfax, of the firm of Lamb
and Fairfax. He had many friends in Sydney, was a
born Bohemian, and had the artistic faculty strongly
marked in his nature.
It may not be generally known, but still it’s a
fact, that Jack Thompson (brother of “the Leviathan”)
fought all through the American Civil War. At “ Bull’s
Run," Jack was one of the last in the field, and one of
the first out of it; and being asked, the ot her day, why
he ran with the rest, replied, “ By thunder, the fellows
who didn’t run that day, are there yet I" Barney was
also in the ranks; but one of his comrades having acci-
dentally let off his gun one night while sleeping in the
tent with Barney, the latter at once resigned, observing
as he did so that he never had cared much for the pro-
fession, but his parents had forced him into it.
Everywhere they’re imitating The Bulletin.
First Melbourne tried to copy it; then N.Z ,in two or
three places, started papers ostensibly on its lines.
Adelaide followed suit. Nearly every paper in N.S.W.
essayed to swim in its wake to a greater or less extent.
And now Queensland has produced an imitation of this
journal. The new paper calls itself the Queensland
Bulletin. It is run by Spencer Browne, late of the
Cooktown Herald, and “Dr.” Hamilton, late of the
Hodgkinsou, and a great many other places. Hamilton
is an M.L.A., and the Government whip, as he can fight
well, at least as well as his mate can sling ink, the
success of the paper appears to be placed beyond any
question.
Rev. Father M‘Nab, a somewhat eccentric R.C.
priest, who for many years has triod hard to do a little
in the interests of the Australian blacks, has, we see,
settled in tho Far North, where he has brought farming
implements with a view to instructing the noble savage
in the art of agriculture. Father M’Nab is a Scotch-
man, and used to live in Western Victoria. By the
way, some years ago, a clergyman took up his res dance
on Hinohbrook, intending |to convert the heathen, but
the heathen very naturally took him for a lunatic, and
carefully avoided him. This, however, was, after all,
rather a compliment, in that the Hinohbrook nigger
has an awkward habit of using spiars on white men
whenever he gets a chance.
The Government have demurred to Dr. dune’s
declaration in the matter of the suit in which the
doctor is plaintiff and the Treasurer the nominal de-
fendant. Dr. Clone claims some thousands for illegal
arrest and forcible detention in quarantine. The
Government, instead of defending the case on its
merits, have set up a technical objection to the effect
that as the act by which Dr. Clune sustained damage
was dona by the Executive, they are not liable as a
private individual would have been had ho done the
same thing. With a view to barring the plaintiff from
laying the facts before a jury, the Government applied,
the other day, for an order in Chambers to have the
point of law decided first. Judge Windeyer, however,
dismissed the application, so that next sittings the
cate will come to trial.
We read that Oscar Wilde, at his first lecture
in New York, appeared as a young Dishman, six feet
one inch tall, light, long hair, parted in the centra,
smooth-shaven face, black dress coat, white duck vest,
black knee breeches, black silk stockings. No. 11
brogans, tied with black bows, a mild, pleasant voice
and the Oxford and Dublin brogues mixed, which
rendered what he said almost unintelligible. He
looked and talked like a caricature of Grosvenor, in
“ Patience,” whereas it has been understood that
Bunthorne was a caricature of him. His favourite
peats are Keats and William Morris; ho believes that
Art is the chief end of man, and that critics ought to
be silent—with which wo heartily agree as to most
critics. As an exhibition, he was a success; as a
lecturer, he was too long, and bored his audience. In
his costume he missed an opportunity. The English
court-suit, of black velvet, with steel buttons, lace
collar and cuffs, is far more becoming than the dress he
adopted, and still more {esthetic.
Mr. Butler, for 20 years storekeeper at Mel-
bourne gaol, and one of the oldest officers of the Vic-
torian penal department, is dead. He entered the
service as a warder in 1855, and passed through some of
the most stirring incidents during that period. He was
present at the great rush of prisoners in October 1856,
at the Pentridge .Stockade, when one of the men named
Gisburn was shot through the body, the bullet, it was
supposed, coming from the rifle of Butler. At the time
the notorious Melville and a number of his confederates
seized a boat and attempted to escape from the hulks,
Butler was on the top deck of the hulk Success, and
fired several shots at the boat. One of the prisoners,
who had heavy irons on, jumped overboard, mortally
wounded, as is believed, but his body was never re-
covered.
A very big divorce case comes before the London
courts shortly. The injured husband is a well-known
and popular Irish landlord, formerly in the Guards,
The lady is the only child of an English peer. And the
co-respondent is a well-known man about town, who is
a great favorite with those who know him. The husband
pursued thi runaway couple to Brussels, and there in-
flicted severe punishment upon the co-respondent.
Another divorce suit, which will arouse all the more
social sensation, seeing the fair respondent has already
passed through, successfully, the terrible ordeal of an
appearance before Sir James Barmen, will also be heard
ere long. The vonuc of the imputed scandal this time is
London-super-Mare ; and should the case come into
court, it is likely to be literally one of the 11 tallest”
trials, as the Americans would say, of the period.
Whatever may be the cause of it, there can be no doubt
that divorces are becoming every year more com-
mon ; and ladies who go through the ordeal of
the Divorce Court are every day less tabooed by society
in general.
Robert Ingersoll, the great Freethought lec-
turer, is thus described in an English print“ As an
orator, Ingersoll stands without a peer on the conti-
nent of America. He has the power of holding his
audiences spell-bound, one moment melting them to
tears in sympathy with his expressions, and in another
moment eliciting from them ringing cheers or shouts of
laughter. His personal appearance is greatly in his
favour. A giant, physically and mentally, tall and
robust, with a massive head above his square broad
shoulders, and in his clean shaven face the physiogno-
mist can see depicted the prominent traits of his
character. Good-natured, fearless, frank, open-hearted,
and open-handed, he is the jolliest, sunniest specimen
of humanity that is anywhere to be found. His pri-
vate character and life are unimpeachable. A faithful
husband, an intelligent and loving father, a kind friend,
a generous opponent, and a good citizen of the Great
Republic. He practises at homo what he preaches
abroad, and commands the respect of those who differ
from him. His charity is a household word in Wash-
ington.”
Prince Krapotkine, the eminent Nihilist, who so
daringly escaped from Russia, now lives in London.
He has taken shelter “ behind the white cliffs ” after
being driven from France and Switzerland. Expulsion
from the latter country was a serious blow, for he had
entered into arrangements for literary work there, and
his wife had begun medical studies and had brilliantly
passed her scientific examination. The little Russian
colony in Switzerland he describes with feeling, for he
himself has shared their hard work and plain life.
There is a touch of sadness in it all; for of each of them
he can say, with a characteristic but indescribable ges-
ture, and in half-English, “He has much suffered.”
The name of Vera Sassulitch is perhaps the best known,
and we hear of her fearless daring and marvellous escape
and her devotion to “ the cause.” The pale worn face
becomes brighter as it speaks of tried friends and future
hopes, but darkens again, with contempt rather than
aager, as he speaks of the new Czar cowering in the
desolate Gatschina, afraid to face his own subjects—
His father was at least brave! ”
The oldest man in the colony of South Australia
is Mr. Charles Simeon Hare, J.P., and ex-M.P. Tradi-
tion credits him with various ages, and his own
accounts of the stirring events ha has mingled in
during his varied career tend rather to mystify than
to enlighten the mind. By latest data to hand we are
able to fix the date of his birth about the time when
Warwick, the “ king-maker,” came to grief in the wars
of the Roses; though another account tells of Simeon’s
nurse having carried the then baby into Druidioal re-
tirement during the Roman invasion, when Queen
Boadicea faced the foe. Simeon Hare is now a
white-headed, remarkable old gentleman, who may
always be seen trundling a gold-headed cane, and chow-
ing the stump of a cigar. No one ever saw Simeon
with a whole cigar, no one ever saw him without a
stump, and no one ever saw that stump alight. Simeon
recently bade farewell to South Australia, in order to
“lay hiss bones” in his fatherland, or in the New
River, Loudon, we forget which. But he came back in
twelve months with a new lease of life, and the same
old cigar stump, which, by the way, didn’t seem to be
any the worse for wear and tear. Simeon was one of
the presiding magistrates at the trial of Barker, Hicks,
Forsyth, and Dr. Horton, for the alleged insurance
fraud conspiracy. In the fulfilment of his honourable
duties in this capacity, Simeon made one speech. It
was short and characteristic. Mr. Pater, one of the
defending counsel, asked for bail, and added: —“ This
is only a misdemeanour, and there is nothing to make
a fuss about.” Simeon, in those inimitable, hoarse
tones which have endeared him to the hearts of the
people, merely replied, “ Ho, ho." And Beddome, the
presiding beak, made the bail heavy. We forgot to
mention that Simeon belongs to the Moorhouse sect of
religionists, his motto being, “ The holy Word of God
and water supply for ever." Yet few people can tell a
racier anecdote than this gay old March Hare.
Mr. Grenville Murray, who recently died, was
regarded as one of the most brilliant and original of
English journalists. When a very young attachS on a
diplomatic staff, he commenced to write in House-
hold Words ; he was one of the promoters of the
World newspaper, and contributor to the leading
journals and magazines. But he was not a favourite of
fortune. He experienced in their extreme bitterness
all the struggles and misfortunes that everwhelm some
of the brightest literary geniuses. Most of his life
(like Tom Hood) he had to scramble for money for his
existence, when his soul was chafing to do some great
work. His writings were pungent and bright, wonder-
fully charming to read, but they have not endured. He
was fit for more than he became: no young man was
ever more promising ; none over did less; he was the
best journalist of his time, but his loss will never bo
felt. The fates were against him, and he was too weak
to fight. His death recalls the sensational seiies of
events, which led, thirteen or fourteen years ago, to
bis outlawry and virtual banishment, for be quitted
England in 1868, to escape the consequences of nis im-
prudence, and never returned. About that time, Lon-
don was startled, and, to some extent, shocked, by the
appearance of a weekly journal called the Queen’s
Messenger, the ostensible object of which daring
print was to put an end to the Foreign Office ageue'ea.
These agencies were enjoyed by certain Foreign Office
clerks, who, in virtue of them, acted as attorneys for
most British Ambassadors and attaches abroad,
and it was Mr. Murray’s purpose to prove that those
who did not so select an official agent, rarely received
promotion in the tervice. The Queen’s Messenger
was the means of having these agencies abolished;
hut the editor was not satisfied, and each number ot
the paper contained a scathingly-written sketch of
some noble lord and his ancestors. At length, Lord
Carlington, aggrieved at an article reflecting, he
thought, on his family, sought out Mr. Murray and as-
saulted him on the steps of a Pall Mall club-house. A
police court summons was the result, and Mr. Murray
denied on oath the authorship of certain articles in the
Queen’s Messenger. It so happened, though, that the
defending counsel had in his possession the M.S. of the
articles alluded to, and the M.S. having been proved to
be in the handwriting of Mr. Grenville Murray, an in-
dictment for perjury was duly issued. Instead of meet-
ing this, Mr. Murray elected to leave England, and was
in due course declared an outlaw, and so remained, in a
legal sense, until his death. However, it must bo re-
, membered that the fact of the handwriting can in no
way conclusively settle the authorship of an article.
The letters of Junius were probably all copied out for
tho press; and it is quite possible that Mr. Murray,
wishing to preserve as a secret the authorship of cer-
tain articles iu his paper, may have copied them out
and destroyed the original M.S. However, from Paris
he showered his articles and essays, stories and sket-
ches, upon London papers, and he was deriving from
his pen an income of £3OOO per annum, when he was out
down in tho very midst of work.


ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE E M PORI
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
WE have now opened our Principal Shipments of this WIJ
so placed them that Persona visiting the PALACE EM
inspecting the NUMEROUS NOVELTIES we have sucoeedi
NENT MANUFACTURERS IN ENGLAND and the Conti
GOODS and LATEST STYLES of London, Paris, Berlin, &c.
As a prophylactic against sc
bromide of sodium, a drachm tl
days previous to sailing; half adi
day when at sea.
American Waltham Watches,
prizes, Melbourne International
Higher awards than any exhibitors
—Advt.
Xt is necessary, during hot
beverages likely to heat or stir
Qpooa, deprived of the superfluous
absolutely pure, is a most sooth:
refreshing beverage. Be sure ti
BUEY’B COCOA ESSENCE whe:
imitations are often pushed by t
sake of extra profit. Makers by i
to the Queen.—(Advt.)
Trade mark, Waltham, Mas
Watch Company, of Waltham. Ma
hereby give notice that their trt
Mass., is now registered in the A
Victoria, New South Wales, and
oeedings will be taken against or
imitating same, or any vendors Si
sale Watches bearing colourable
way infringing our rights.—AW
COMPANY, Waltham, Mass.—An
Always at home, and no ii
the Bulletin Hotel, Castlereagh-E
heim’s). Good grog, beard, a
Thatches, of Brighton, Sussex
Louden, Musclebrook, New York,
Bathurst, and Paris; brother <
Robert Thatcher (the inimitable).
New Zealand, etc. Home and cc
copy.— Advt.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at
and though he has not been estal
Domini 49, he knows about as mud
We trust our readers will not negl
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe,
anything in the boot-line, from a
pump, you had better call at 581, t
matter with Hannah." The foreg
true upon our sole. Boots ought t
now, if only for the kicking of
Advt.
During the past year you ha
?lained that it was difficult to ge
ou have heard that the last seas
poor in quality, and that enormou
and low grades are accumulated
please ask your grocer or storek
packet of the Calcutta Tea Assoc
Teas ?—a blend of the most famou
the world; kept by all thejleading
and country. Wholesale Ware!
place.— Advt.
CHEAP BOOTS I CHEAP
tant notice to the public 1 The old
succeeds like success," is about
ever uttered. What has been
M‘Evoy*s success f It is easily t<
of Boots ond Shoes at his cornu
cash in the cheapest markets, an<
on under his own supervision, and
small profits and quiek returus-
oanse of his success. The public
him a visit, as he is selling his go
Seduction on former price. T
I‘Evoy, 574 Qeorge-steet, Brick
from BathursVstreef.— Advt.
pHOTOS. IN
BOYD’S LIFE-LIKE P
of
HAYNES AND ARC]
THE IMPRISONED JOl
LIFE-LIKE SKET
BOYF, PHOTOGI
GEORGE STREET, S
L E c ""t i
Administered in a warm bat
by which every muscle, nerve, and
at the same time. It removes chr
congestion, tumours, rhenmatisi
system of all impurities; even me
the body.
Process and testimonials sent on t
W. MOOR
Homoeopathisi
151 Elizabeth- street.
The immediate effect of Moor
more wonderful than Moore’s Hon
ment, which removes all pain fr<
three to 15 minutes. It is the en
certificates of merit from the
foundries in Sydney. It acts n
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns,
curative effect on lung complaint
the chest. Every Householder sh
There should be a pot kept in
the house is empty, it will do for t
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
each.
Ladies, Maids, and Children’s JACKETS, PALE-
TOTS, and DOLMANS, in Black Mixtures, and all
colours of FLENCH and ROYAL CASHMERE, DIA-
GONALS, JERSEY CLOTH, GERMAN BEAVER,
ENGLISH, CHUDDAH, INDIANA, QUEENSLAND
CAMEL’S-HAIR, and BECTIVE CLOTHS. Also, in
SILK, SATIN and SEALSKIN; also, FUR-LINED
CIRCULAR SILK CLOAKS, Ac.
Choice Dress Materials in PLUSHES, VELVETS*
VELVETEENS, BROCADED SATINS, SILKS, and
VELVETS.
Charming Costume Cloths, Soft in Texture, very Ser
viceable, and well adapted for the present Style of
Dress.
BEAUTIFUL RIBBONS, plain and shaded. All the
newest Colours and Shades in PLUSH, MOIRE, VEL“
VET, and SATIN. SASHES in greatest variety to
match.
LACES: A very Largo and Beautiful Stock, com-
prising every known make and Latest Novelty.
KID GLOVES, by the best makers, in all colours
and styles
lined.
FABRIC GLOVES, Plain and Fleecy-
For Balls,
and Varied i
TED and BI
BULLION
LACES, GRi
VER BUTT€
and SMOKIb
ORNAMENT
MALTESE (
CHORS, &c..
CRETONN
manufactured
TABLE CC
Clothing ol
Boys. Best 1
HARD and
newest styles
An Lumens
BOOTS and 8
the very l-es
House in Syd:
ANTHONY HORDERN I
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
(QUIT.)
THE “PLUME” I
MOLESKIN TR
WHITE AND PRINT
IN STOCKMAN’S OR QROINAF
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FI
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPER
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH I
THESE GOODS Will
CHEAPEST AND BESI
THE BRAND IS RECISTEI
IMITATING IT WILL BE PRi
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, March 28,1882.
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at £5 15s. to £6 per ton, other samples £4 15a. to £slos.
per ton. A fair supply of hay arriving, and good
demand. Maize, prime old, 75.; do. new, 6s. 3d. to
6s. 6d. per bushel. Oats, seed and feed, 3s. 6d. per
bushel. Victorian onions, £4 to £4 10s.; do. chaff, £7
per ton. bags inclusive. Warrnambool potatoes, £3los.
to £3 15s. per ton. Butter, in keg, Is. 6d. to Is. 9d. per
lb. Eggs, 2s. per dozen. Bacon, 7d. to 9d.; cheese, sd.
to 8d ; ham, 12d. to 13d.; honey, 4d. to 5d.; lard, Bd.;
beeswax, 9d to lOd.—per lb. Millet brooms, 7s. 6d,
to 10s. per dozen.
Poultry.— Fowls, 3s. 6d. to 3s. 9d.; ducks, 3s. 9d. to
45.; geese, 7s. to Ba.; turkeys, cooks, 125.; do. hens,
ss. per pair.
Fat Cattle.— At the Homebnsh sales, yesterday,
there was a short supply of fat cattle yarded, and
market a shade better for prime quality. Best beef,
23a. per 1001 b.
Fat Sheep.—A moderate supply of fat sheep for-
ward, and market firm. 641 b. wethers worth 12s.
Fresh Meat. —At the Eiverstone Meat Co.’s sheds,
Darling Barbour, the usual sales of fresh country killed
beef take place daily, a fair supply arriving and selling
freely. Prices are—For prime bodies beef, 3d, per lb.
all round; medium quality, to 2|d. all round.
Prime mutton also sells readily at 2d. per lb.; medium
quality, IJd. all round.
Wheat. —The wheat market has advanced during the
week, and extreme prices are asked for some qualities,
owing to an advance in the Adelaida prices. We do not
hear that buyers are responding to the higher rates, and
business is limited. A large quantity was withdrawn
at last week’s auction sales. The highest price then
obtained was 6s. Adelaide wheat. 6s. to 6s. 6d.; New
South Wales, 6s. to 6s. 6d.; Victorian, ss. to 65.; Laun-
ceston, ss. 6d.; New Zealand, ss. 3d.; per bushel.
Flour.— There is an evident desire amongst specu-
lators in flour to advance prices, which, however, is »ot
appreciated by the trade. Arrivals were rather more
than usual during the week. Prices are—For Sydney
mill flour, superfine, £l4; household £l3; seconds,
£12 —per ton; country brands of New South Wales,
£l3 10s. to £l4; Victorian, £l2 15s. to £l4; Adelaide,
£l3 ss. to £l4—per ton. Bran and pollard Is. 6d. to
Is. Bd. per bushel.
We often hear of a woman marrying a man to re-
form him, but no on© tells abont a man marrying a
woman to reform her. We men are modest, and don’t
talk about our good deeds much.
It is said that Queen Caroline of Saxony is
Buffering from fatigue caused by over-exertion in her
kitchen. Few women in this country are likely to be
similarly afflicted.
She was chased by ahull, and narrowly escaped.
Just after safely rolling under a two-rail fence she did
up her back-hair and exclaimed: “You great hate-
ful thing, after this I’ll eat beef three times a day 1”
The Empress Josephine used to make Napoleon
wild by her extravagance. He allowed her nearly half
as much pin-money as Vic. gets, *30,000 a year, yet she
was always in debt. She was never tired of changing
her raiment, and would wear nothing that had not the
gloss of newness on it. • Whatever she fancied, she pur-
chased, at any price, and the most trifling ceremony cr
public occasion was an excuse for a new costume. It
irritated Bony awfully, and he used to say "sacr6"'
and “diable” and other words to her, which made her
cry and promise economy. But when the next pretty
dress caught her eye—well, we all know what lovely
woman is. She means well, but keeping resolutir ns
isn't her strong point. When she died, Josephine was
arrayed in ribbons and roie-ooloured satin.
Criticising Mrs. Langtry in “ Ours,” the London
Sportsman says:—“ Giving Mrs. Langtry every credit
tor good intentions and sedulous care in making herself
perfectly acquainted with her author's text, we must
frankly say that we very much doubt whether she will
ever rise beyond respectable mediocrity. There are
innumerable parts in English drama which she can fill,
which any well-dressed, good-looking, presentable
woman can fill, both with credit to herself and credit
to the management under which she is engaged. Be-
tween that, however, and the position of a great actress
there is a wide gulf, and this in our humble opinion
Mrs. Langtry will not bridge. Her admirers may say
she has much to learn. This is true; but what she
lacks is never learnt; is as unteaohable as the sunshine
or the blossoming of flowers. She will in time bo a
little more graceful than she was last night ; It takes
longer to effectively sit down upon a stage chair than
on a drawing-room ottoman. She will, too, much
more quickly ‘play to' her vif-a-vis than can be seen
now. Unless we are very much mistaken, however,
Mrs. Langtry will not rise beyond the level we have
sketched, though with the aids of a tasteful wardrobe
and a piquant profile she may with safety essay parts
which require, to use a homely expression, only to be
• sat out.’ ”
Db. Stanich, Eminent Specialist.—To the
Editor.—Sir, My eyes have been very painful and
much inflamed. The constant watery mucus which was
coming from them was horrid. I suffered with them
for abont six years, and during that time consulted
every doctor that I was recommended to, some ten in
number. One of those gentlemen is considered to be
the leading eye doctor in Sydney, but I could not obtain
any relief, even from him. The sympathy was so groat
between the eyes and the ears that my hearing became
impaired, and I could scarcely see or hear; in fact I was
in a dreadful state. But now. lam pleased to say, after
three weeks of Doctor Stanioh’s treatment, that my
hearing and sight are both perfectly restored.—l am,
Mr. Editor, very happy yours, John Larson, 63 George-
street, Sydney. Dr. Stanich may be consulted at 50
Wynyard-sqnare, Sydney.
Skilful and Successful Operation on
the Eye.— To the Editor.—Sir, In the interest of the
public at large, I trust yon will give insertion to the
following:—Some time ago a cork from a ginger-beer
bottle flew out, and struck me violently in the eye.
Great infiamation set in ; the eye swelled to twice its
natural size, and was so bloodshot as to be quite
horrible to look at. I was nearly totally blind, and eo
groat was the pain that I could not sloop at night.
While in this miserable state I placed myself under the
care of Dr. Stanich, and thanks to his caro and skill,
my sight is perfectly restored.—Yonrs, &c., Edward
Hardy. Cafe Georgo-street, Sydney,
March 7.
A Gbatbful Mother. —To the Editor.—Sir,
I have much pleasure in testifying to the skill and
attention of Dr. Stanich, during his attendance on my
daughter. She suffered acute pain in her ear for three
years, and Dr. Stanich’a treatment relieved her from
all pain in lour days’ time, and the deafness she felt has
been quite removed.—Yours, &0., P. Griffin, Tam-
worth ; at present at Clarendon Hotel, Manly Bay.
Eemabkable cube of Deafness.—To the
Editor. —Sir, Having been advised by a gentleman to
visit Dr. Stanich, and take his opinion regarding the
deafness with which I was afflicted, I did so, and have
much pleasure in testifying to the great success of his
treatment, in restoring the great blessing of the sense
of hearing, of which I was deprived. A space in your
valuable columns for this letter will greatly benefit
those similarly afflicted. I am, sir, very gratefully, John
Wilson, Merri Merri. My present address is
Thompson’s Family Hotel, corner Qoulbum and
George-streets, Sydney. March 4,1882.
Another Cube of Deafness.—To the
Editor.—Sir, I have been a sufferer from great pain in
my ears, and also from deafness, ever since I had the
measles, which is now over fourteen years ago. The
misery I suffered was almost without intermission.
The pains were terrible; they were something like a
sharp knife passing through my head. Some three
months ago I consulted Dr. Stanich, whose skilful treat-
ment relieved me from pains and cured my deafness. I
now feel strong and healthy—bettor, in fact, than I ever
remember to have been before. A space in your
valuable columns will benefit the public.—Yours, &0.,
William Emery. Underwood-street, Paddington,
March 10.
Another Cure op Deafness by Dr.
Stanich.— Per favour.—Doctor Stanich.—Sir, I sin-
cerely thank you for curing me of deafness of
standing. Yon accomplished In one operation what the
doctors of Sydney Hospital failed to do in 12 months.
I hope Heaven may bless yon. as yon did it for charity,
I being a crippled old man. Sir, pleas# publish this for
the public information. Charles Burns, 344 Kent-
street. Sydney, t»th March. 1882. Dr. Stanich’s Consult-
ing Rooms are 50 Wynyard-sqnare, Sydney.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
At the Gaiety Theatre, “ The Black Flag” was
resuscitated on Monday, probably because the chief
character is “ The Vagabond," and possibly because of
Alfred’s great admiration for M. Pettitt, the author.
At the time of its first production here, some three
weeks before Christmas, we analysed the piece, which
is somewhat like the little boy s head that the phreno-
logist declared had “nothing much in it." At the
revival of Monday we noticed that Mr. W. Q. Carey
supplanted Mr. Palmer as the rich old Dorsetshire far-
mer, and imparted to the character a leaf of intensity,
while Mr. Palmer impersonated the highly objection-
able ruffian. Captain Haudyside, vice Mr. Norman Vane.
So far as we eau recollect, tbe cast in all other respects
is the same as before. The Vagabond is a part in which
Mr. Dampier lives to show his resignation under unde-
served misfortune, and how thoroughly he can bow to
what is generally known as the “will of Providence.”
Of course his turn comes, and then he puts on side
enough for a newly-elected Mayor or victor in a foot-
race. Though scarcely at his best, he is not at his
worst under “ The Black Flag.” Miss Adere has a
chance to display a good deal of magnificence and figure
as Naomi Blandford, and avails herself of it; and Lily,
as Nad, has a part that suits her down to the ground,
as “ sports" say. For the rest, there are Mr. A. W.
Boothmau, Mr. Emmett, and Mr. Poole, who is a
humorous but villainous Jew, and the charming
Misses Melrose and Melville, and a Miss Anderson,
beside several other characters—good, bad and indiffer-
ent. By the bye, on dit by a little bird that Alfred and
L.M. ain’t playing together—that the tragedian surveys
buildings opposite, and that the manajah has par-
ticular business in the office when they meet. The
season comes to a premature termination on Friday,
31st March, when the Pollards will sweep the river
stream of the Gaiety's fortunes, to be succeeded, how-
ever, by Mr. Leak on the 10th April (Easter Monday(
on which day they transfer themselves to the Opera
House.
** * *
The Royal was not densely crowded on Satur-
day, when “A Winter’s Tale” was produced, hut it
was comfortably full. The people did not go away wild
with delight, hut still were satisfied. Miss Pomeroy’s
Hermione is not better that her Imogen or Cleopatra,
perhaps not so good; but it is a lesser creation of the
dramatist’s, with scarcely such intensity of feeling sus-
tained all through. Nevertheless, there is a sweet
womanly tenderness in Hermione, which is one of the
pluses of feeling that Miss Pomeroy is best at pourtray-
mg. Her wifely loyalty, that no injustice could break
down, was the dominant feature throughout, and the
mild reproach ot the unhappy Queen, when telling
Leontes he will be grieved at misjudging her,
was pathetically given. But if Miss Pomeroy
is ever specially charming, it is when she is
arch and artless, and as the shepherd’s daughter,
Perdita, she was both. The character showed her in
quite a new role ; she hadn’t appeared as a dauseuse
before, but now people will want a dance in every play.
As it was, they insisted on having the same one twice
every night, so as to get as much as possible. Louise
capers too well, better than a real shepherd’s daughter.
She has too much grace,pmt she cannot help this
unfortunate fact. The old squatter who gave the feast
seemed to have an annual ball for his shearers and
shepherds, who indulged in a regular orgie every
season, just like they do up Bourke way. This shearers’
ball gave Miss Jessie Gray a chance to edge in, as
Mopsa, who is a milkmaid or nursery governess, or
something on the station, and Jessie made the most of
the chance. Her charming song was encored every
time, and her pretty pertuess made Mopsa popular with
all classes of society.
♦ * *
Mr. J. B. Steele was not at his beat as Leontes.
If he knew the lines, he took a long time getting them
out. In the last scene, considering that he had not
seen his wife for sixteen years, hie emotion was of the
mildest kind. He was very emphatic about his inten-
tion to kiss her, but as he stood about twenty yards
away, and didn’t try to get any closer, the chances are
that if the re-animated Hermione had not stepped down
to him, Louise would have been unkissed yet. Under
the circumstances, Paulina’s threat to draw the curtain,
lest, in kissing the ruddiness off her lips, he should
smudge the paint, seemed quite unnecessary, and made
Paulina appear to be a little eccentric.
» • ♦
Mr. Jerdan was but fair aa Polixenes, and Mr.
Douglas had not a heavy part as Camillo, hut did it
well. Little Annie Read was enchanting as Prince
Mamillius. Mr. Fleming had a less important part
than usual, and no chance to score. Mr. Joe-Stark as
Autolycus, a sort of Paul Pry character, was very good
indeed. Perhaps “swell” courtiers in ancient days
did not talk like Dundreary ; but they could push
business on at court or keep it back, according to how
they were paid, just as an M.P., or a land agent can in
Sydney, so there is some likeness. At any rate, as the
scheming rogue, Joe made a hit. Dorcas was taken by
Miss Ellis passably. Mr. E. D. Mowry, as the country
lout, was one of the best rendered characters in the
play. He made a most amusing yokel. Miss Julia
Merton was careful in some scenes as Paulina, and
capital in others.
* * «
The amphitheatre scene was good: the vast
building with its rows of spectators was splendidly
painted, and the scene well deserved the rounds of ap-
plause which it gained. It would ba an improvement
if some the poor supers could be thickened a bit. These
useful parsons seem to have bean specially picked for
their lankiness, and their legs—like lead pencils—and
feet, like garden spades, and other eccentricities and
deficiencies, which provoked very personal remarks
from dirty bays up in the spheres.
** * *
Bent and Batchelder’a Minstrela remain at the
Opera House till Monday week. They have made an
entire change of programme. “ Just of Age to-day ”
is a screaming caricature upon the music of the future
—drum, trumpet, blunderbuss, thunder. Tho centre-
man comas of ago and gives a party. He sends to
Rainford’s for a high-toned conductor, and to Kaiu-
schatka for an orchestra. Then the tom-toms begin—
and the audience cry out to the mountains to fall upon
them. This sketch is a screech from beginning to end.
Horace Bent’s “ Babbling Ballads ” are funny enough
to make a circus elowu yell. The “ Essence of Old
Varginny ”is too much for us—but not enough for the
audience, who encore it till the roof shakes. Mr. Sam.
Keeuau in this performance looks too much like a gal-
vanised corpse to suit our cultured taste. Besides he
seems to he able to throw his legs anywhere and every-
where, which no man should do. On Tuesday night
last, Messrs. Read, Fredericks, Ball ami Williamson
saug the “ Ship of State ” which was an unconscious
tribute to the memory of the poet, the news of whose
death came here that day. And Amy Rowe—hut stay 1 —
O Amy Rowe, O Amy Rowe,
You do not, and can never know
How hard a Rowe you make us hoe.
Or how we-love from top to toe
Your lovely self. We fear no foe
Except your eyes, O Amy Rowe.
• • *
Having thus poetically disposed of the chief
trouble, we proceed to state that the burlesque on the
Indian drama, “ Yellow Novel Heroes” is as deliciously
absurd as Fenimore Cooper’s stories of the noble red
man. Big Foot Wallace might, however, have bor-
rowed the mud-scows worn by the Hugo Brothers in
their song and dance. No prairie scout of much stand-
ing should have less than an 18in. boot. The style of
ludian-killiug here is unique. One of the scouts goes
in ambush behind a tiu plate about the size—O memory
of the past I—of1 —of a five-shilling piece. The Ingius smell
him out. Just as they are about to scalp him, his mate
—who has borrowed a trumpet from the ice-cream man
(whom Satan curse-, for he’s now playing under our
window)—blows into their ears a blast that flattens
them prone upon the sod. There is more fun in this
show than any negro minstrels have given us for many
a day. Most of the jokes are new, and when people
consider the mental cruciilcxion and the sleepless
nights a man has to go through before he can make a
joke that nobody has heard before, they will admit that
the life of a minstrel is not all Sand Jigs and James
Heunessy.
** * *
The entertainment given by Hudson’s Surprise
Party at tho Queen’s is novel in some ways. A dozen
sombre minstrels, remarkable for their “ solum,”
appearance, and their hilarious manners, represent the
conventional minstrelsy. But seven sweet syrens in.a
semi-circle, in the daintest delicate drapery, only sup-
ported by two of the funereal funny men, one at each
wing, for protection, as it were, is a new scene for the
curtain to rise on. The effect is—like the seven Misses,
decidedly pretty. There are three pairs of them,
while the odd girl, Miss Ada Maven, sits in the centre,
at a little table with flowers, and takes the part of
interlocutor to the gentlemen of colour. And very
well she does it. It seems novel to see a lady running
the show, but Miss Maven is quite able to do it. With
perfect ease and clear utterance she puts her questions,
and the answers keep the house roaring and writhing.
It's not because the replies are clever that people
laugh, hut because they are so ridiculously simple; it
seems the easiest thing in the world to give witty
answers when you’re listening to Messrs. Cottier and
Hudson doing it. To say that the jokes are all posi-
tively new might not be true, and we would not
slip over the edge of veracity for any Surprise Party—
but most of them are; and even when we have a faint
recollection of an old friend, he always comes in a
fresh dress, and we laugh at him before we find him
out. The accompanists are Misses F. and V. de Gxy,
and though they don’t manufacture as much music as
a brass band, they make a little of it vary sweet. The
front half of the stalls go early every night, just to gaze
on these two musicians. We’d almost start public
singing ourselves with such an orchestra. Hudson and
Warner’s “ Balloon Ascent” is cruel, it distorts people;
the unspeakable sang froid with which the bold traveller
asserts that anyone who kicked him out of a balloon
“would have to prove it,” makes respectable people
laugh till they gasp. It’s intensely funny. There
was only one man in the house who did not
laugh ; we thought he might be deaf—or dead; but we
found out afterwards why he didn’t laugh. He left on
his seat a Sydney Punch— he had been reading it. We
don’t recollect all we heard and saw, and don’t
want to; we prefer not to think of “Casey the Piper,”
for fear our waistcoat buttons should go again. Miss
Alvina is a good ventriloquist, though gallantry even
would not justify our saying we never saw better. We
never saw prettier—how will that do f Miss Maven, in
her “ songs of the period,” has a pleasing voice, though
the range is a little less than, say, the Alps. It does
not go so high. But her characteristic, as indeed may
he said of the whole entertainment, is—style. The
ladies, in all cases, walk on and off the stage entirely
independent of the inevitable gentleman with the
inevitable claw-hammer coat, and yet they do it so
naturally and gracefully that one wonders why it isn’t
always done. Yes, the trait of the whole affair is—style.
Oh 1 and we had almost forgotten to say that, though
some troupes find it needful to spice their wit with
indelicacy to make it successful, the Surprise Party
don’t. There is not a suggestion of vulgarity between
the two ends of the programme. Any Pa can take his
family; and to Sunday-school superintendents wo
couldn’t recommend a better place to take the boys
who learn most verses.
* * * *
The Sydney Liedertafel stepped right into the
front rank among our musical societies on their first
performance at the Exchange on Monday last. We
should more accurately say, that the performers did,
as with the exception of the critics, the audience was
Liedortafel too. The social evening was, for a first at-
tempt, a success. The hall was too small for the ease
which assists sociality, and a good many of those
present seemed unable to shake off their gene, and
to realise that they were enjoying a little music just
among friends. The success of the Liedertafel was
mainly duo to the part-singing. From first to last the
selections were well done —some of them remarkably
well. The ability of the conductor could be discovered
between the lines. Mr. Ashcroft-Edwards had his
chorus well in hand. Even in the short time which
has bean available since tho formation of the Lieder-
tafel he has managed to invest his baton with that
magnetic influence, without which true rapport between
a conductor and performers can be obtained.
*
At the same time it was apparent that in some
respects Mr. Edwards’Jfcask had been a light one. The
chorus of the Liedertafel is a musical corps d’Mte.
There serve in the ranks quite a large number of gentle-
men who are known as amateur soloists. An amateur
vocal soloist is, as such, generally more or less of an
infliction. But a chorus of amateur soloists furnishes
splendid material for a conductor to work upon. The
gentlemen of the Liedertafel have submitted fairlv to
discipline. They rose together promptly at the couduc*
tor’s signal—a point ot more importance than soma
may believe. There is a harmony of motion as well as
ot sound, and a discord in the first respect is a very
jarring preparation for enjoyment of the second. Tne
nuances of forte and piano were well observed. The
singers started promptly together, and ceased with
decisive simultaneousneas. In ail these respects their
performances were a long way above the average usual
in Sydney.
* * *
Signor Giammona sang an Italian romanza “ lo
I’amai," and his powerful voice and cultivated style
won an encore. He responded by singing “ Mamma,
No,” a merry chanionette, to hie own accompaniment,
and succeeded in an eminent degree in making people
understand Italian who had no previous acquaintance
with the language. A ballad from Satan ella, by a
member of the Liedertafel, was also capitally sung.
We have never heard the singer’s excellent light tenor
to better advantage. The duet was a failure, the tenor
singer appearing unable to maintain bis organ—atonore
robosto —up to pitch towards the end. The instru-
mental quartettes also failed to, hold the attention of
the audience; but the first violin played a couple of
movements from one of De Beriot’s solos in a style
which few constant publie performers could better.
• * »
The performing members were extremely
affable, and mixed with their dumb brethren in the
hall, during the intervals between the part-songs,
without; any false pride. In fact, several of them
conversed with their acquaintance, with unaffected
ease, all the time the instrumental numbers on the
programme were being played, and their condescension
in this respect was much appreciated. The Liedertafel
will very shortly arrange another social evening, when
ladies will be admitted and cigars won’t.
* * **
The Lytton Dramatic Club has secured the
Opera House for Tuesday next, and will present the
public with Byron’s “ Dean r Than Life.” The mem-
hers of this club have frequently been before tho
public, and acquitted themselves creditably. Miss
Marian Willis will appear as Mrs. Garner. The pro-
ceeds are to be devoted to The Bulletin Libel Fund.
The Bent and Batchelder minstrels devote their enter-
tainment on Friday night, March 31, to the same
object.
* * * *
The St. Leonard’s Musical Society give their
concert of the second season to-morrow night. The
programme is a very full oue, and, if carried out in a
proper manner, the people of St. Leonards will have a
musical treat.
* * * *
We are requested by the management of the
Theatre Royal to publish the following letter, as
a sample of the many interesting communications
received by theatrical managers
“Dear Sir, —I take the liberty of addressing you
these few lines, hoping that you will favour me with an
order of admission to go behind the stage at the
Theatre Royal any night except Saturday, that you
like to appoint. By acceding to my request you will
oblige,
“ Yours truly.
The writer enclosed a stamped envelope for reply : but
Mr. Allison has not sent any yet. He has been engaged
ever since the receipt of Mr. ’s communication
in loading his gun.
* * * *
On Tuesday there was a perfect invasion of stars
from New Zealand, who twinkle-twinkled and shone with
dazzling brilliancy lathe theatrical firmament of Sydney.
Mr. Harkins rusned like a meteor, landing from the
Rotorua and catching the night mail for Melbourne,
where he is to appear in “ The Colonel ’’ with Mr. W.
Reeve. Then there was tha majestic Tanner —Jenny
Watt—who comes to shine in “The World" at tha
Theatre Royal here, and the Siatnesian young charmers.
Misses Maggie Knight and Ethel Adele. These two
latter “ come seeking,” as master- m Miners say, and no
doubt managers will snap tbem up as matutinal loafers
absorb a “ long-sleever,"—for Maggie can give most
soubrettes a long start, and Ethel (Maocilaud papers
say) is rahont lakoomb —which, translated, means a lump
of delight. Mr. Coleman, too, another “ World"ling,
was a passenger.
« * #
And, apropos of “ The World,” which all the
other world knows is to be produced at the Theatre
Royal on the Bth April, it introduces ns to M. L, or
Monte Browne, Mr. Bland Holt’s agent, a journalist of
standing, who has sub-edited (infer alia) theOxAao(N Z.)
Daily Times and Melbourne ®T. newspapers. Mr.
Browne is also a genial gentleman, much liked by the
“ perfesh."
And again, to be of the “ World ” worldly! we
are informed that there is to ba a coruscation of talent
engaged in that succession of scenic effects and stage
devices. Misses Jenny Watt Tanner, Leuas Edwin and
Ellis, Mesdames Jerdan and Holt, and Messrs Vincent
and Holloway (Chawles), Douglas (Harry), Fleming,
Tolano, and a host of other capables. And the scenery
hns'bcen painted by Henning and Little, and lots more
could be said that will be said in good tittle.
* • •
Mr. Theo. Hamilton left for England by the
Gladstone on Wednesday. He had this step in con-
templation for some time, but the exact date of de-
parture was fixed at short notice. Theo. was in a
quandary whether to marry a rich widow in New Zea-
land, take a benefit, or go “ home,” that is to the home
of Australians and Englishmen in common—he chose
the latter, and let us hope, better part. We shall
remember him as a capable actor and a convivialist
whose like take him for all and all, or half and half, we
are not likely to see soon. Daring the time Mr. Hamil-
ton was in Melbourne, as lessee of the Princess’
Theatre, he secured the esteem of very many gentle-
men of standing in the learned professions. Vale, Theo.
* * *
And speaking of departing and arriving actors,
Mr. George Collier has given proof at the Victoria Hall
that his old fire has not dimmed nor his right hand lost
its cunning, for ho has made a hit once more on the
Sydney boards.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Haselmayer troupe doing a splendid business at
Charters Towers The stage is getting worse than
the pulpit. The best scenes are disfigured with the
sordid introduction of advertised quackeries. Back-
ground—harbour of Venice—foreground, large flag,
with “ Buy Mother Swab’s patent soap powders” on it,
Now that Giammona is in onr midst, his various
compositions will be of double interest to Sydcev
musicians. Amongst his songs, is one, the merits of
which should entitle it to become as great a favourite
here as it is in Melbourne. “ Still think of me ” is the
title, and not only is the melody exceedingly pretty,
bat the accompaniment is quite out of the common.
Another which claims to be remembered, is “ Unfor-
gotten,” a pretty song, too. Both can be bought at
Paling’s If the proprietor of a dramatic or operatic
company engages a theatre on his own account, the
lessor claims credit for having introduced another
startling attraction. Cheek! Walter Cottier
shouldn't joke abont a poor fellow recently dead... Swiss
muaio at St. Patrick’s. All got out of the Alpen stock !...
Harkins played a round of Shaksperiau characters at
Auckland (N.Z.) to rather shy business. The season
closed with a benefit to De Lias. Poor house. Harkins
produces “ The Colonel ” at Melbourne, Wybert Reeve
playing Strekye, and Mrs. Stammers Lady Tompkins.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Press states that Maggie
Knight and Edith Adelle return to Australia shortly ;
Gerald Dillon intends retiring from the stage to
study for the law Eiccardi ia ill of scarlet fever at
Dunedin (N.Z ) Robson, who has been showing in
Auckland lately, arrived in Sydney by the Rotorua.
He was patronised by the Bishop of Auckland when in
that town E. W. Cary, late of the Juvenile Pirates
Opera Company, has filed a declaration of insolvency in
Wellington, N.Z. It is said that among his creditors
are the parents of the members ef his late juvenile
troupe of “ Pirates,” for salaries due to them
An N.Z. journal states: “It cost Williamson £BOO in
fares for his Opera Company, and his expenses cannot
be less than £lOO a night. The total company now play-
ing in Dunedia orchestra included, numbers 52 people, of
whom not ten, if so many, were added in New Zealand.”
After the Wellington, (N Z.), season, Williamson’s
“ Struck Oil” Co. disbanded. Aucklanders were de-
prived of seeing the show, much to the disgust of
theatre-goers Harry Lyons’ “ Tourists" have lately
been performing at Canterbury, (N.Z ) province Al.
Harman isl’now connected with the executive staff of
the Fifth Avenue Theatre, New York, being business
manager. A brother of his has long been associated
with J. H. Haverly’s amusement enterprises There
was an unrehearsed performance which was not in the
bills at a N Z. theatre recently. In the scene in
the “Taming of the Shrew” where the tailor brings in
a handsome dress for Katharine, the property-man sent
in a lady’s ulster, a nightgown or something of the kind,
which Harkins contemptously tossed into the wings.
When the curtain went down he gave the property-man
and stage manager a piece of his mind in emphatic
“American,” and the noise was heard all over the
house. Some one in the dress circle called ont, “Why
don’t yon pull up the curtain ?” which had the effect of
restoring quiet J. C. Williamson and Harry Lyons
of “ The Tourist” met accidentally the other day in
Christchurch, (N.Z ), when some sharp words passed
respecting the right of Lyons’ Tourists to play “Struck
Oil," and Mr. Williamson threatened legal proceed.
ings Burton’s Circus opened at Dunedin, (N.Z ),
on March 18, to an enormous audience. Owing
to the crush, numbers of seats broke down, caus-
ing some little excitement. One man had his leg
broken Harry Power, with his “ .Esthetic
Show,” did good biz. at Invercargill. N.Z
Mr. H. N. Abbott has imported from Melbourne for his
new Opera House at Auckland (N.Z.), a number of
chairs precisely similar to those used in the Bijou
Theatre, Melbourne. The Opera House will bo opened
about 20bh May Yal Vose, lately in New York,
challenged E. D. Davies, who advertises himself as the
“premier ventriloquist of the world,” to a performance
for a certain sum, hut the challenge had not, at latest
accounts, been accepted li. B. Lewis’s crowd of
minstrels did good biz. at Napier (N.Z.) After visit-
ing Oamam (N.Z.), the Austrian Band went to Christ-
church, where they made their debut on March 10
Thompson, with his Zulu War Panorama and gifts, took
a heap o£ coin at Christchurch (N.Z.)......At Christ-
church (N.Z ), recently, those who attended the opera
ctuno nearer witnessing a real tragedy than they had
anticipated, or than the management intended. In the
last act of “ Lucia,” whore Edgardo severs the thread
of his existence with a poignard. Turner, who had been
singing and acting with more than usual animation and
vigour, neglected to turn the hilt of his weapon towards
his breast, the keen point passing through his clothing
and inflicting a nasty little scratch on his skin. Very
few people noticed that anything out of the common
had oceuirod The Turners did fairly well at Christ-
church (N.Z.) on their second visit, and are now in Mel-
bourne plajiug to big business...“ Patience” drew large
crowds tor a fortnight at Dunedin (N.Z.) Melbourne
Board of Health advise Government not to issue farther
licenses to St. George’s Hall, Opera House, and Prin-
cess’ Theatre, Vienna fire panic.
* * *
From a leading London paper:—“ Mr. H. Bracy,
whose acting and singing of tlie pretty song, ‘Love is
blind,’ has contributed so much to the enjoyment of
visitors to the ‘Mascotte’ at the Comedy theatre, is
engaged for a lengthened term by M. Marins, of the
Avenue Theatre. Mr. Bracy will resume his part of
Henri de Boispreau in the opera of ‘ Madame Favart.’"
Miss Anna Dickinson has appeared as Hamlet.
Irving should now come out as Pauline Deschappelles 1
... Ky rle Bellew will shortly appear in London as Hamlet.
Mr. and Mrs. Bancroft are to bring out a now piece
in which Mrs. Langtry will be a prominent figure
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Florence, two of the best American
actors, who are equally popular in England, may shortly
leave the stage. Mr. Florence aims at, and is lixely to
get a Consul Generalship in Switzerland, Denmark, or
Sweden Nothing was more surprising than the
aplomb and ease ot Mrs. Langtry at her dibut, but no-
thing oould have done her more harm than the absurd
over-prai*e bestowed in some cases upon her perform,
auce. The criticism in Tub Times was simply ludi-
crous ..Ristori appears at Drury Lane in July. She will
play Lady Macbeth in English Mrs. Henry Wood
estimates that the fees on the performances of tbe
dramatic versions of her novel, “ East Lynne,” which
have not been paid her, amount to no law than £70,001
Sir Michael Coota is suffering from partial paralysis...
An absurd drama, supposed to bs based oa sertain epi-
sodes in the character of Sara Bernhardt, has been
produced at Buda-Pesth Patti demanded from man-
ager Haverly 5000 dols. for each concert. Haverly
remarked that it would be equivalent to 51,000 dols, a
mouth, and added, sotto voce : “ The President of the
United Stages works a year for that amount.” “ Well,”
responded the diva, promptly, " get the President tot
sing for you." Mr. Irving Bishop, a mind-reader,
having professed to read hidden writing and tell the
number on bank notes in the pocket, Mr. Labonohere
offered to put a £l6OO note in an envelope, which Bishop
might take if he could guess its number, on conditiec
Mr. Bishop would deposit a £lOO note in another enve-
lope, to bo f rfeited if he failed. Mr. Labon-
chere was also bold enongh to offer Mr. Bishop*
two guesses at each separate figure Vars
Hell, the manager of the National Theatre, Berlin,
was charged with using intemperate language to ladies,
Nice state of things when a man can’t shout his owx»
name when he knocks the funny bone of his elbow
against a nail I..."■Willie Edouin, of the Sparkes Com-
pany, New York, was robbed of $2500 while he was
absent at the theatre on the evening of Tuesday, Janu-
ary 24. The money was taken from his room at the
hotel where he was stopping at the time Tommy
Zerello died in San Francisco, on January 20, from the
effects of a fall received during the rehearsal of hist
“Leap for Life" speciality at Woodward’s Gardens,
Although he fell into a protecting net, his injuries were
sufficiently severe to cause bis death the next day. His
real name was Thomas Fox. He was a native of Aus-
tralia. and was 19 years of age Billy Emerson is
studying for the operatic stage. Light and comic
operas, probably. He should be successful as an opera
buffer Harkins’ wardrobe oost him £lBOO in London.
In Richard 111 he sends on a complete army of mail-
clad soldiers It is rather curious that while Harkins
plays the character of a cavalry colonel in the U.S.
army in Bnrnand’s comedy, he really did hold the com-
mission of major in the Northern Horse during the
war. He was no carpet anight either, for Major
Harkins was in 85 battles and skirmishes, and what ia
most wonderful, came out of them alive Henry
Irving’s limbs are thus concisely criticise! by a London
female mathote: Mr. Irving’s legs are limp and utter.
Both are delicately intellectual, but bis left leg is a
poem.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Chamber music—nursery airs.
A pleasant tram trip—falling into a girl’s lap.
New and popular preserve—a tram-car jam.
There’s many a slip ’twixt “ spoon” and lip.
Balaam’s ass was the first aesthete “ because the
Lord made him to(o) utter.”
“ Two by crib,” said the man who stole a couple
of fowls from a poultry yard.
Her name was Louisa, and she was very fat—
so ho called her “ Unlimited Loo.”
I find that with light meals my health improves,
said the Esquimaux, and down went another candle.
“ Let me see,” said Guiteau, running his finger
down the calendar." Yes, I have an engagement for the
30th J une.”
“ Shall I sip one little sip of honey from thy lips ?”
pleaded a timid lover. " Slobber up two big ’uns, if yon
like," *he murmured.
“Cynthia” says, Can you tell me the origin,
crest and motto of the greens ? Of course we can:
They originally came from a seed-shop—crest, a
mongolian rampant—motto, “ welly good oabbagee.”
It would seem that the police at Cooma boss the
Bench. At least the Cooma Whisper says so. A paper
once said that in Sydney too. But that was because
one of the constables, for a lark, sneaked that paper’s
sausage—roll.
Host: “ What part of the turkey shall I carve
you ? " Quest: “It is quite inconsequential to one of
my recognised abstemiousness and supersensitive stom-
achic nervation whether I be tendered an infinitesimal
portion of the opaque nutriment of the uether extremi.
ties, the superior fraction of a pinion, or a snowy
oleavage from the cardiac region.”
The other morning as the ferry boat was pass-
ing his girl’s house, near Darling-street, a near-sighted
Balmain youth waved his handkerchief frantically to a
female figure whom he saw waving a snowy scarf on the
lawn. When told a few minutes later by 45 friends,
that it was the cook shaking a pudding-cloth out, he
was silent, not to say depressed.
In Ireland. Landlord: “And how did you
find the harvest this time, Mrs. Flannagau?”
“ The harvest, sure it was splendid—a fine harvest
entirely, glory be to God.” “Well, then, I suppose
you’H be coming to pay your rent?” Then her face
changed. “Is it rent ye mane?” She smiled,
and looking at him out of the earner of her eye, said :
“Ah, Mr. James, sure ye always would have your
little joke I ”
Two footsteps sot nd
In a dim-lit hall,
A smacking kiss,
An unearthly squall;
And a man came out
From behind the d"or.
And kicked himself
And softly swore.
“ Good Lord, ” said he,
“ What an awful plant.
To kiss in the dark
Your maiden aunt 1”
“ Remember,” said a Woolloomooloo school
teacher, the other day, “ you can’t add different things
together.” “ You crni't, for instance, add a Double Bny
'bus, and a penny bnn together, because, if you did, you
have neither two ’busses, nor two buiis." “ That may
bo all very well with buns and ’busses,” said an adja-
cent milkman’s son, “ but if you add one buokit ov
milk to two of water, it meks throe buckits ov milk.
I’vs soe'd my father do it orfen.”
Mr. F. L. Smythe has been appointed to pro-
secute for the Crown at Mudgee.
Mr. E. A. Baker is about to leave Sydney.
John Davies has another bauble.
Sir Henry Parkes is expected back in July,
The erstwhile Lord of Hughenden Manor created
an Empress. The present one has seat a boy to protect
her!
The Phoenix of Forbes is the firm of Jacobs
and Sons. It was hut recently that their premises
were consumed by fire, and as their competitors in
trade stood by and saw the Little Wonder converted
into dust and ashes, they rubbed their hands, and re-
marked to one another that there was nothing so
comfortable, after nil, as a cheerful blaze. Now that
Jacobs and Sou are putting up new premises, which
promise to be among the handsomest in Forbes, their
rivals’ cheerfulness has wonderfully abated, and they
talk of getting up a subscription on behalf of the poor
peasants of Southern Russia, who are just now suttering
for want of sufficient Jews to harrass.
THE SONG OF THE NIGHT-SHIRT.
When Mr. Herbert Gladstone was travelling in
Ireland no one knew who ho was until a housemaid saw
his name on his night shirt.
" Et vera incessn patuit Dea.”—ASnedi.
A goddess, by her walk confest!
A hero, though in rags he’s dress’d!
These wear a stamp for all to see
Their patent of nobility !
But Herbert Gladstone’s claim to ba
A Lordling of the Treasury
And Leeds’ Liberal M.P.
Was mark’d upon his night-shirt’s tail.
In letters feminine and pale ;
Which never mortal could descry
Save Biddy of the carious eye.
No more incog, can Herbert travel.
The Irish question to unravel,
For young Alrasehid’s secret’s known
To every gossoon in the town.


PEPPER AND SALT.
What’s this Parramatta Golledge is giving
us: “Excursion to Manly Beach; children under
twelve can be purchased for Is. 3d. each at every shop.”
That’s too high. Down here, they are hung on clergy-
men’s door knobs, and given away for nothing.
* * •
“ Punch is the only paper that contains original
matter ” — like its own.
* * *
Missionary news ! We read in a first-class
London paper that a movement is afoot to send out to
the colonies the Rev. J. M. Murphy and his family.
No particular colony has so far been fixed on, so
there need yet be no jealousy. The rev. gentleman will
leave England at an early date, we believe; in fact, im-
mediately after his release from gaol, where he is at pre-
sent confined for stealing a book —not his first larceny,
by the way. And it wasn’t a bible, either. We trust that
he will not select Victoria as the sphere of his future
exertions in tho interests of the book trade. The
southern heretics have an Influx of Criminals Preven-
tion Act. Here, in New South Wales, however, we
could give him a cordial welcome. He could land on
our soil and cry aloud: “ Now, who’ll pelt the first
stone ?” In one week he’d be appointed chaplain to the
Corporation at ever so much a year, unless collared for
some aboriginal station, there to be the architect of a
bishopric. Twelve months’ earnest work converting
the heathen would ensure him a fat purse on his depar-
ture to the dear old country—that dear old country
where he stole bis first book, and bossed his first
swindle. You see that in spite of our “ Jnbbert,” our
cricketers, our frozen beef, and our Henniker Heaton,
they’ve still got in England the antiquated notion
that anything’s good enough foe Australia.
• • *
That ’cute old gentleman, the Dean of Mel-
bourne, and his very pious son, the Rev. H. B.
Macartney, are, according to the papers, beating the
ecclesiastical tom-tom to bring down rain. Dean
Macartney is very like our dear Dean —just as near
Heaven and as far from Gehenna as that well-meaning
and estimable old gentleman. The Rev. Mr. Macart-
ney, junior, who recently visited N.8.W., and held at
Blayney, a rain corrobboree, which eventuated in a dust-
storm the day after, is somewhat inconsistent in his
conduct. A few years ago he married a very rich
widow lady of Tasmania ; and shortly afterwards pre-
dicted the end of the world. Whether he would have
anticipated such a catastrophe had he not got married
was a subject of much speculation in ecclesiastical
circles; and a clerical wag went so far as to couple the
facts as cause and effect. H. B. is very earnest and
soulful, and is much admired by those harmless ladies
of forty and upwards who have blue noses, corkscrew
curls, and a passion for muffin-struggles. He seems
utterly out of place in an Anglican pulpit, and should
have been a Wesleyan. It is a wise dispensation of
Providence that parsons’ sons are generally wild—that
the devil, who can’t get hold of an old gander, usually
manages to seize his goslings. When a clergyman’s
son follows in the steps of his father he is invariably
degenerate, and therein, perhaps, lies one of the reasons
why that astute institution, the R.C. Church, maintains
the celibacy of the priesthood. Intellectually, Young
Mao. is hardly on a par. with bis pa., and the latest
freak of the sifted pair must cause a yell of laughter
among the many scoffers in tho Southern Babylon.
The Volunteer Encampment is invariably held at
Easter, and on this occasion it invariably rains. There
are few instances in N.S.W. of a flne-w«ather encamp-
ment ; and still fewer down South. The Dean and
his son, in praying for rain at the present juncture, are
asking for something which would come down even if
they prayed against it till they had furrows on their
orthodox and shapely marrow-bones. By the way, our
Dean could measure calves with Dean Macartney, and
give him an inch without allowing for sawdust. Pass
the plate, please.
In the 2.19 Surrey Hills tram, on Monday last,
there were 23 babies in one carriage, and 15 of these
were travelling to see the medicine man. Next to bo*
ing a corporation contractor, you can’t beat a baby
doctor for scooping in the “ filthy lucre.”
• * *
Joseph Pollard, tonsorial artist, Sydney, was
lately sentenced to 24 hours in the stocks, for mowing
a beard on the Looard’a Day. The only reason he
didn’t “take it out” was that the thoughtless authorities
didn’t own a pair of stocks to put him in. Which of
ye, whose ass falleth into the pit, will not haul him out
on the Sabbath Day ?
By the way, the assassins who ring our church bells
and drive helpless invalids mad for a couple of hours
every Sawbath morn, are paid, and earn their money, by
performing an uncalled-for job, while a poor devil is
fined for selling a lemon squash. And all this in a good,
Ker-ristyin land. Why doesn’t someone bring in a
bill to prevent hens from laying on the same ’oly day ?
Surely a ben has no more rights than a master barber
who pays his taxes and votes for John Davies.
“ Sir Samuel Wilson has been elected a member
of the Carlton Club. Which, being translated, means:
“ Has at last been allowed into decent society.”
• * •
When a young man gets “ spliced ” with no cash in his
fob.
What shall we such foolishness call ?
When the bride is made happy by getting her Boh,
Shall the parson get nothing at all ?
When patrician young men to such meanness can sink,
We see something’s wrong in a minute.
Dear reader, we hope, though this verse you may think
Very stupid, you’ll see wisdom in it.
• * •
He’s now a Supreme Court Judge. Yet there
was a time, not so many years ago, either, when he used
to ride, at diggers’ race meetings, for maiden plates
consisting of the time-honored pigskin saddle or pair
of German-silver spurs; and when, with great success,
he played Romeo on a country stage, and clasped a
bush Juliet to his manly ber-reast. “ Who’d a thought
it?” —now that the colossal intellect quotes Coke,
Blackstone, and Bill the Conqueror ?
* • *
At the wedding of a squatter, in Melbourne,
some months since, the bride’s train was looked after
by pages; and now we hear that the innovation is to be
repeated at a very smart marriage which will shortly
eventuate. In modern fashionable circles, it would
appear, little boys and girls are considered a necessary
part of the bridal procession. Isn’t this just a little
too previous ?
t * •
A certain Inspector of Improvement Purchases,
noted for taking tips, called at a station where he was
unknown to inspect several blocks of land which the
squatter wished to purchase. The squatter rode out
with him to show improvements, &c., and was mounted
on a fine horse, to which the I.I.P. took a particular
fancy. Said he: “ That’s a nice horse you are riding,
Mr. ——; would yen sell him?” Squatter: “No:
I wouldn’t sell him on any account.” I.I.P.: “Tell
you what—I’ll give yon £30 for him.” Squatter:
“Well, that’s a good offer, but the fact is, he’s my
wife’s favourite hack, and I won’t part with him.”
They arrive at block No. 2, which the Inspector
declares to be very good, and worth fully 25s. per acre,
but he didn't think the improvements nearly up to
requirements —which rather astonished the squatter,
as he considered they were over the mark, and that the
land was not worth £1. Going to the next block, the
1.1 P. casually remarked: “ You had better take my
ofier for the horse.” Squatter: “ Can’t; my wife
wouldn’t hear of it.” This block the Inspector found
to be worth 27s., and put the improvements at about
half what the squatter made them. Squatter was still
more surprised, and began to think there was some-
thing in it. Another block —same result. Inspector :
“You won’t sell me that horse?” Squatter: “D
the horse—take him ; I’ll make you a present of him.”
Tableau. Squatter gets laud at par., and knows how to
work the oracle next time. [Cut this coupon eut, and
send along with three thousand guineas and a bank
guarantee for costs —and the name shall be forwarded.]
* • •
They established a creche at Eockhampton (Q.),
the other day. This is a day nursery, in which to leave
the children of the worrikin man, whilst the old man is
on a job, and the old woman “ on a scoop.” The first
day three children were left, and the number went on
increasing until, at the end of the week, it reached
15. All the ladies were delighted when they counted
over their charges that morning. And of course they
were more charmed still, when they found that at night
only three were fetched away. The furniture of the
creche is to be had cheap now, and if you like you can
not only buy the cots, but the children also.
# * *
Twenty-five Gondagai ladies have each been
fined Is. for raffling at a bazaar —
Oh, weep, ye maids of Gundagai!
The law has curb as well as snaffle
No goody-good bazaar should try.
To work off vertu at a raffle!
ft ft ft
Tempera Mutauter! Another libel verdiht given
for a newspaper 1 A duchess of the cooking persuasion
named Grey, sued Mr. Elworthy of the Gundagai
Times for saying that she was “ no cook.” Although
she had been engaged by a Mr. Fry, it was hinted that
she couldn’t fry to suit, and that therefore she didn’t
suit Fry. Elworthy was evidently frytened of a libel
suet, so he apologised in his paper, and at last brought
£20 into court to soothe the haricot feelings of the
outraged duchess.
• * ft
The business of the Insolvency Court, during
alterations, is to be carried on at Dr. Van. Heckeren’s
in Phillip-street. It is to be hoped that we shall bear,
there, of no mis-carriage of justice. By the way, the
Doctor’s defence cost him £350. He is not the only
man who has been made uncomfortable in this world
through having anything to do with an Ant-ill.
* * «
At the annual picnic of the Melbourne Boot-
makers and Hatters’ Association, held last week, on dit
that the bootmakers were as mad as the hatters : in
fact, a clergyman complains that the members of these
associations outraged all decency. “ Extremes meet,”
and it is no wonder that the shelterers of the human top
should coalesce with the coverers of the human hoot.
Thus, all is soleful harmony.
« ft ft
A man the other day advertised for a lark that
he had found “a purse containing money,” and invited
applicants to call. The first day he had two clergymen,
a widow, an Irish washerwoman, and a hoy of ten. All
readily identified the purse, but the clergymen were the
most positive. What staggered the advertiser was that
no policeman called.
# • •
The poetic and Eev. A. C. Gillies has got a
“ call” to Dunedin. The papers there will have a lively
time of it—
For he will write, that dear old Gillies,
Of roses red, and eke of lilies ;
Aye, of every kind of posies.
And of Aaron and of Moses.
Of the new year and the old one.
You can bet will sing that bold one;
So your only way to stop him,
Brother editors, is “ drop him”—
(Though he is a good old soul)—
Like the legendary coal,
* ft *
“A few” about his Dibbship. George E.,
surrounded by the curled darlings of the various
“ Points ” and “ Roads,” was prancing on the Associa-
tion Ground greensward on a very fashionable day.
“ Ha! ba !’’ exclaimed a rough-looking customer who
suddenly approached, with much empressement, “ How
are you ?” The great man seemed at fault. “Come !
come!” said the stranger, “a word in your ear.” Then
(sotto voce) : “ Don’t you know me ? We were in gaol
together, and you promised me your boots. Now,
when are you going to let me have them ?” At this
point G B. suddenly remembered that he had an impor-
tant appointment with a friend. No. 2. A lady, who
had been reading The Bulletin, indignantly remarked
toQ.B. that it was very strange he should have said
that the year passed by him in Darlinghurst was the
happiest in his life. “ I never said so,” calmly replied
the great man, drawing himself up to his full height;
" take no notice of what they say. They’re in gaol now
for telling lies.” No. 3. G.R.D. was foremost iu the
fight, as a Secularist, over the Education Bill. At the
same time he was a lay deputy to the Anglican Synod.
[We’re not sure about the term “deputy:” what we
understand by it is a man who lets out any amount of
orthodox “ guiver,” while holding “ on the strict Q.T.”
some very queer notions about things in general.]
After attending many meetings of the League, Mr.
Dibbs found himself, as a Synodical champion, called
upon to support the opposite political party at a large
public meeting specially called for the purpose. When
he rose there was a flutter among the reverend occu-
pants of the platform. “ Be moderate,” whispered the
Bishop. “ Den't pile it on too ’ot,” prayed the Dean.
Well, G.R. at once launched out, in his high and
mighty style, when an influential canon, who had been
deputed to sit nigh unto his elbow and keep him in
hand, thought the speaker was going too far, and pulled
with much energy at the tall deputy’s coat-tails. It
was then that George turned round and said pretty
loudly; “Now pull my coat-tails again, and I’ll knock
your —— .’* The collection will now proceed.
The Argus says that the Melbourne detective
force is not what it used to be. We are glad to hear
that the force is sober.
* * *
THE EPIGRAMMATIST.
Shade of Martial, in the shades
Blacker than the ace of spades,
Thon that wert the friend of kings,
Thon that saidst some few good things—
Hitting off some ancient craze.
Very thin, though, now-a-days—
O, we pray, thee do not fail ns.
Sweet Valerius Martialis.
After singing this incantation, we drew a circle round
us with a piece of condensed milk, sat down in the
middle of it, and commenced
To Cieil Haviland.
We love you, Cyril, and always held—
In spite of our own entrancers—
Bob Howard and you are the only two
Unrivalled nec-romancers.
The Russian Scare.
“You’ve heard the Russian scare," said he,
“ The Herald calls a sham ?”
“ We have,” said we, “ and don’t believe
The Russian scare a damn."
From the City.
We fear not any foes while we
Have got John M'Elhone,
To stand upon the Heads and grin
And turn them into stone.
And if this plan should fail to pot ’em.
Why he can curse them to the bottom.
From the D.T. Office,
“The Russians come !” the D.T. cried.
Then rose up man and boy
As Hector brave, their land to save, —
We mean their save-loy.
* * •
Here is a French epigram which we put into
English verse in our usual polished mauner
“ You are a fool," said Miss Coquette
Unto her lover, who
Replied, “ Not so, because, as yet,
I have not married you.”
* * *
An American journal yearns for something
stronger than ordinary stage love and murder, and
proposes what it designates as “slaughter-house tra-
gedy.” What people want is a compromise between
old tragedy and new comedy. Now, if some manager
could have a love play wnere the heroine goes into the
slaughter-house to talk love to the butcher, instead of
a blacksmith shop or a brewery, it would take. A scene
could be set for a slaughter-house, with all the para-
phernalia for killing cattle, and supe butchers to stand
round the star butcher, with cleavers and knives. The
star butcher could sit on a barrel of pigs’ feet, or a pile
of heads and horns, and soliloquise over his unrequited
love, as be sharpened a butcher knife on his boot. The
hour for slaughtering having arrived, cattle could be
driven down the stage, the star could knock down an ox
and cut its throat, and hang it up by the hind legs and
skin it, with the audience looking on breathlessly. As
he was about to cut open the body of the dead animal,
the orchestra |could suddenly break |the stillness, and
the heroine could waltz out from behind a lot of dried
meat hanging up on one side, dressed in a lavender satin
princess dress and a white reception hat with ostrich
feathers, and shout. “ Stay your hand, Reginald 1 ’’
The star butcher could stop, wipe his knife on
his apron, and motion the supe butchers to leave.
Then he would take three strides to the side
of the heroine, clasp her by the wrists, and shout,
“What wiltest thou, Mary Anderson de Montmo-
renoi ? ” Then they could sit down on a box of liver
and things and talk it over, and the curtain could go
down with the heroine swooning iu the arms of the
butcher. Seven years could elapse between that act
and the next, and a scone could be laid in a boarding-
house, and some of the same beef could be on the
table, and all that. Of course we do not desire to go
into details. We are no play writer, but wo know what
tikes. People have got tired of imitation blood on the
stage. They kick on seeing a man hilled in one act,
and come out as good as new in the next. Any good
play writer can take the cue from this article and give
the country a play that will take the biscuit. Imagine
a tragedian instead of killing Roman supcs with night-
gowns on, and bare legs, killing a wild bullock I Taere’a
whore you would get the worth of your money. It
would make them show the metal within them, and
they would have to dance around to keep from getting
horns in their trousers. It does not require any pluck
to go out behind the scenes with a sword and kill
enough suf os for a mess. Give us some slaughter-
house tragedy without delay.
ft ft •
We learn from the Presbyterian that “the
Victorian Banner sums up the persons killed by the
Roman Catholic Church, as 16,390,2‘7.” Well, we
simply don’t believe these figures. The number is
evidently understood. Of course, it would be to the
interest of the Banner, a Christian organ, to tone
down the number of murders committed by another
Christian sect; but we cannot allow an v such brotherly
cloaking of facts, W e have the correct figures ourselves,
and shall proceed to give them " Roman Catholic mur-
ders (including 2,000,000 attempts at assisdnation)
36.000. Anglican murders (including 12.000,000
faggot events) 27,000,000; Presbyterian murders
(exclusive of 9.000,003 suspected cases of Christian
kindness) 23,670,000 ; Wesleyan murders, about
15.000. ; Baptist murders (including 17,030,000
friendly crucifixions) 224,000,000 ; Congr.gationM
murders (returns net yet complete) about 30 000,000 ;1
Latter Day Saint murders (exclusive of 14,00 • 090
unauthorised a postolio knocks oaths head) 29 000,458.
Rough total of Christian murders, 369,000,000. Jn
iustice to the Baptists, wa must say that their iot«l is
probably overstated, and must bo accepted with si>mo
reserve ; it was probably furnished by a roan of another
denomination. N.B.—In the above calculation we
have omitted the 16,000 000 murdered by the Yhtorian
Banner ; and, as to the Jews, wo have referred to Pastor
Allen for his estimate. We believe that gentleman is
not given to understating.
ft ft ft
Sir William Manning accepted an invitation to
the St. Patrick’s banquet, bat didn’t go, or be would
have been, we believe, rauca amused, when some ridi-
culous person got up to propose the toast of “ The
Press.” We can quite understand how much his Honor
would have been entertained by the resuscitation at a
convivial meeting of an ink-splashed old doll, which he
doubtless considered to have been long dead and buiied.
Sir William says there is too much work in
Equity at the Supreme Court. Just so. What’s wanted
is more equity in work.
• • •
The base and bloody Saxon again! Sir Bryan
O'Loghlen baa been down with English cholera 1
* • •
A well-known professional man in a fashionable
suburb recently succeeded in getting one of his
numerous and angelic daughters married, and an elabo-
rate notice appeared in leading newspaper, tracing
the lineage of the aristocratic couple almost up to
Noah’s Ark. Grand party, breakfast, and supper, fizz
unlimited, money no object. Next day that horrid
Trade Protection circular announced that the new
member of the family held a bill of sale over his aris-
tocratic father-in-law’s furniture. Yet that loving
father had widely published that he was giving his
lovely daughter a trifling douceur of £500, as a small
wedding gift.
* ft #
Glorious palladium, safeguard of liberty, and
hoary-headed climax of wisdom, art thou. Jury, lordly
detritus, washed up from the depths of antique
Bumbledom. Twelve can’t say whether Baker was
criminally hanky-panky, but forty can say it elsewhere !
* * *
A man was blackballed at the Owl Club because
he couldn't think of a bird’s name to assume, and
stammered out “gaol bird.” By the way, the Owl
Club consists of all the literary, artistic, and scientific
men in Sydney, who each take not less than one hour a
day in parting their hair in the middle.
“It’s fashionable in London to be hard up,”
says Figaro. So we are abreast of the times, os usual.
* * *
How sweet to retire from the fever-heated con-
tests of life, and stretch beside the sounding sea at
Coogee, to list its ever-rolling monody, and hear in its
ancient burthen of song the moans and cheery laughter
of old Romance, —and then to sec three howling naked
larrikins rush along the sands!
* * *
To Civil servants. Recipe for promotion—
Marry a Minister’s or Under-Secretary’s daughter.
* * *
This is the Age of invention. The Age hoaxer
should have waited two months for success. It
requires a combination of Bryant and May to strike a
light.
* * *
Two old Melbourne constables spent two hours
and ran ten miles, endeavoring to capture two j avenile
“ numbers av the foorce,” who had been doing their
“ dhrop ” in a pewter when they fancied the “ sarjint ”
wasn’t looking. How differently the “ constabulary ”
act over here! How much more considerately ! How
much more charitably 1 And, above all, how much
more “ convainyently.’’ One keeps the watch whilst
the other surrounds the “ shandy.”
* * *
“ John Jamieson, the celebrated distiller of Irish
whisky, has died, aged, 78.’’—
He’s dead. What then P Fill up—we have
James Hennessy instead,
For evil spirits never die
Until the devil’s dead.
* * *
A man died in a lonely shanty on the Wilcannia
road. His son came along to bury the corpse. There
was no clergyman handy, so Mr. Chain-Lightning, the
boss of the ranche, put on his dirtiest clothes, and
offered to parsonaliy superintend the burial. The
difficulty of his responsibilities only occurred to him
when the dutiful son of the deceased asked him to read
prayers over the body. “ There ain’t no prayer-book in
the shanty,” protested Chain-Lightning, “ and I don’t
know any hymns except * Mary had a little lamb.’ ’*
“Got any other books?” asked the son, “There’s
Gulliver’s travels,” replied C.-L. “That’ll do,” re-
joined the sou; “ pitch the old man some o’ that; he’s
gone where Gulliver never travelled.” And it was so.
Fact.
* * *
A number of “ influential churchmen,” in
Hobart, have petitioned the Board of Elector# ap-
pointed by Synod, to give the Very Rev. Dean
Bromby, on account of his known “ personal sanctity
of character," the vacant bishopric recently occu-
pied by the Dean’s father. We trace here the delicate
finger of lovely women. For years past. Dean Bromby’a
personal beauty, baritone voice, fervid eloquence, and
persistent celibacy, have wrenchedfrom the female world
of Hobart the admission that Mr. Bromby is a “ pulpit
angel.” The male element, too, see an immense
“ sanctity of character" in his giving them all a fair
chance of feminine conquest by abstaining from enter-
ing into the matrimonial market.
» * *
Sir Henry speaks much more cleverly than ha
writes. We have read his letter. We commenced it
awe-stricken, we left off disgusted. He’s as big a
literary frost as the the Nooze commissioner himself.
So far, the knight’s journey has merely illustrated the
linos which point out how much greater is the fool who
is sent to roam, than the fool who more wisely stays at
home. Sir Henry’s letter is all trams and fire-escapes.
We knew all about these things years ago, and have
men in this city who would have erected and worked
them for us, had they not been forced to take back seats
until fossilised political friends and psalm-singing
“jerried”-walls contractors were provided for. Talk
about progress in Sydney! why, the very Kanakas of
Hawaii have for years had whao Sydney will, appar-
ently, never have —a telephone network through their
towns. If we paid the same attention to our personal
requirements as we do to our civic needs, we’d not have
a clean shirt ready for the Day of Judgment.
» # *
The secret is out. The almighty dollar is being
used to bribe Mumbo Jumbo. Prayers for rain had
been arranged in a certain suburb a little while ago, and
the local clergymen, all hard up, were running round to
ensure as loud a tom-tom as possible. But an influen-
tial local vigneron, superstitious and wealthy, had still
£SOO worth of grapes at the mercy of the expected de-
luge. So he went round, and not with an empty hand.
The almighty dollar once more did its infernal work,
and—but we must dissemble. The prayers were post-
poned.
# # *
Did you ever see a woman with a baby get out
of a tram that was a minute behind time P First of all
she sits as calmly and patiently as a frog on a log, for
300 seconds after the car has stopped; then she rises
slowly up, like Venus from the sea, or a fat man who
has just abruptly sat down on a banana skin; next, she
chases her back skirts all round until she musters the
lot, after which, she pulls down baby’s vest and makes
for the doorway. As she is about to go out, she sud-
denly remembers her bag and gingham, and then grace-
fully retraces her steps, and pokes under the seats and
behind people’s backs until she finds them. Five min-
utes after she steps down, just as the trams are mov-
ing off; screams at the guard, like a cockatoo before a
storm ; makes one desperate jump, and carefully alights,
either on the back of her head, or on the top ef her baby.
Yet it only takes ten minutes to hoist a circus elephant
out of a steamboat.
* * *
On a harbour steamer, last week, some larrikins
threw a policeman overboard.
P Thrown out? We cannot understand
How such a thing coaid be —
The law that over-bored our land
Was over-board at sea.
This man in future can deny
'me study of the law is dry.
* # •
Doctor Johnson, having disposed of the last
cjp> ot his uiciionary, has, according to the Nooze
i,ilvei tisement, opened an establishment for the cure
cf ail diseases. His speciality is new-born infants;
but n is rumoured that he’s no slouch in cases of still-
born ditto. [Since writing the above, we have been un-
deceived. Our own medium tells us we mistake this
Goctor for the old Bam. Dr. Sam mediums down :
“ Posterity which exadumbrates the encomiums of
aut quity, often surreptitiates the squirmatudea ef
modern quackery. But quackery expatiates;
lands shall reverberate to the Alpine resoundings °f
well-paid advertisement.’’]
* * *
Things seem to be lively up Dubbo way. “ Will-
Honeycomb,” of the Dispatch, has a friend who has
found a locality where the Licensing Act does not run,
and where a policeman is about as scarce an item as
beads in a dissenting chapel. He visited this spot the
other day, and was at once cheered by the sight of a
quoit match, 21 up, 21 yards. Then came a dog fight,
the owners of both canines urging on the animals with
all the force of a powerful profanity. After this had
been decided, there was a man fight. Two fellows, full
of swankey, pommelled each other, until one was fright-
ened and the other wasn’t game. A footrace nearly
ended in a general scrimmage; and at intervals, through-
out all this sport, a dilapidated looking youth was play-
ing a very ancient concertina, and a dozen ards from
him were two more musicians performing on a fiddle
and a cornopean, while all the dogs about the place
barked hideously and howled terribly.
* * *
Poor old Milner Stephen is not doing much of a
stroke just now. He says if you haven’t got faith in
him, you can’t be cured, and as in Melbourne he gets
said “ 800 to you !” by about two out of every three be
meets, he is thinking of giving up the business. Un-
fortunately for him, he can’t sell out for much, hifl
stock-in-trade consisting of two or three bits of com-
non red flannel, and a battered tin can. Why, it was
only the other day that Harold W. H. (the illustrious
author) was in Sydney, talking about commencing to
heal on his own account. Directly we heard this, we
called his attention to a very bad case—his own
“ churchyarder.”
A LITTLE HYMN.
A LONG WAY AFTER RISHOP HEBER.
From Brickfield Hill’s vast mountain,
Where many a cab-horse slips.
To where Hyde-Park’s clear fountain
Cools drunkards’ fevered lips;
From Cook’s arcadian river
To Alfred’s park-like plain.
Men call us to deliver
Them from the Hoodlum’s chain.
Though sewage-scented breezes.
Blow soft from Garden Isle,
Though “ every prospect pleases "
And air alone is vile—
Insensible to kindness.
To ruffianism prone.
The Hoodlum in his blindness
Hurls brick-bat, rock, and stone.
What though the haughty peeler
Stalks by with stately stride,
Or hauls a helpless reelet
Up to the Jug with pride—
What though the Press appealeth.
In anguish and in pain,
And unto Justice kneeleth—
She kneeleth all in vain I
The Hoodlum, all unheeding,
Consnmeth 'arf and ’arf;
His form is oft seen speeding
To orgies at ■
The incense thence ascending
In clouds toward the skies,
Must fill with joy unending
The father of all lies.
Flash 'Arry claspeth Mary,
The “ muslin ” of his heart.
And Eorty Tom hugs Sairey,
His own peculiar “ hart.”
Around in bliss ecstatic
Each twists his “ blooming girl”
In mazy coils erratic,
In dreamy waltz they whirl.
His shriek is oft heard rending
The pitchy gloom of night;
Street lamps requiring mending
Attest the Hoodlum’s might, .
Though oft, red-handed, he might
Bo taken up and tried.
The peeler, like the Levite,
Walks " on the other side ! '*
Waft, waft, ye winds, this story,
Wherever ocean rolls.
And you, ye Judges hoary,—
Ay, scratch your grizzly polls !
My Lords, pray solve for us this
Dark problem strange, and say
If, spite of Law and Justice,
The Hoodlum shall have sway ?


BRIEF MENTION.
Who is the hen. member for Haslem’s Creek ?
Hospital patients get no sugar in their sago.
What the Irish would like to boil, with or with-
out spuds: “ The People’s Billy.”
Elopement —“ Squatter of high degree” and
wife of Sydney publican. She did it once before.
The Half-Ceown Wilkins is coming out
again. The published list of contributors is promising.
About ten perjury cases now in Sydney. At thi
rate, it will soen be difficult to get a free jury to try the
prisoners.
Was it really a German man-o’-warsman who
stabbed Miss Christie the other night P If not, who
was it?
It is thought that the Americans will not hang
Guitcau after all, bat treat him as a criminal lunatic.
Guiteaut 1
Bob M‘ Gregor, 18, of Sydney, was insulted in
some way by Ms mother. Bob is nearly a man, so he
peeled, and went for her. Damn it, a man can’t stand
insult from an old woman.
When the Russian hoax was over, a new sensa-
tion was to hand. Sydney bakers decided to raise
the weight of the 41b. loaf to 31bs. 3oz.
“I’ve had the worth of it out of him.’ ’ said the
selector, as he passed out from gaol, and looked in on
the bashed nose of the Corowa banker.
“Wrecker’s” prize anagram on “Sir William
Manning. Knight, Justice," is
“ Law culminates in sinking Right, Jim I ”
To account for the “ Jim,” we must suppose the propo-
sition addressed to the CMef Justice.
“ And your petitioners will ever pray.” —lsn’t it
tiihe that these old meaningless platitudes were abol-
ished, and the cost of the ink used up over them given
to the poor ?
George Easton, tried for
stealing a mirror, is a wit. He
said he had “ taken a glass too
much." Two months.
At Burrowa, a man has
been fined £2, in default two
months’ gaol, for shooting on
Sunday 1 Whom could he have
shot ?
James Hannah, of Graf-
ton, N.S.W., camedla little joke
too far. He was drunk, and was
meandering along the Co-opera-
tive .Wharf. He picked up a
child, and said “ I'll throw you
in, 'you (little beggar.” Just
then the wharf bucked, and
the river came along land en-
folded the pair in a loving em-
brace. The child was pluokily
rescued by a son of Mr. Sellers,
of the Crown Hotel. James
Hannah, however, had heard
that cold water was anti-alco-
holic, and concluded to take a
long dive. Ho is diving still.
When he comes back, he will
probably address the Grafton
folk on “ the evils of practical
joking.”
Sydney Infirmary is now
being built. Here is an ineident
in the history of the old build-
ing. One night, many years ago,
a convict wardsmen returned to
the institntion “ under the con-
throlling influence of drink.”
Whey they found he wasn’t fit
for duty, they took him to the
deadhouse, and handcuffed him
to a corpse. Presently ho got
tired of waiting for the dead
gentleman to let go, so he took
out his knife and performed
excision of the elbow-joint in
a very creditable manner; all
things [considered. Then, with
the dead hand still chained to
him, he marched down King-
street to find a magistrate, was
arrested, and “ got thirty next
morning.”
In a certain superfine
suburb, an organization exists
for the reclamation of common
drunkards, and a part of the
scheme consists of concerts by
superfine amateurs. The absurd
feature in the history of this
burlesque philanthropy is that
not a single one of the class
aimed for can ever be seen at the
concerts. Superfine people play
and sing, and critically super-
fine people (superfinelyiarrayed)
applaud or sneer. If an honest
working man did happen to poke
his nose in among these high-
bred people, he’d be about as
cordially welcomed as a carpen-
ter or a bricklayer would be by
the prepossessing but languid
“ lady waitress” at that horn
of “ stout - hearted philan-
thropy, ” the Coffee Palace.
A well - known barrister
takes a retainer and sends a
lardy-dah substitute to defend .
the prisoner. Then we get a
flood of eloquence. Say it is a
case of assault. “We remember,
gentlemen, when we-ah wah to-
gethah at Oxford fa Sydney
jury!!) when we-ah used being
to indulge in a bit of fisticuffs,
&cat which the intelligent
dozen either smile or sneer as
t may be, andthe case is won or
lost
Music teachers are complaining. Publicans
won’t let their daughters learn music. Mr. Dillon,
S.M., says they cannot legally practise at home.
In Genoa, the dead are burnt on legal consent
being obtained. We know hundreds in this city that'll
not want the certificate. This is a Gehenna of a joke !
Apropos to our paragraph re a “ furnished
gentleman’s lodgings,” a correspondent enquires,
“Why we should not hear of “the Young Men’s
Christian Association.” Do the members object to
being called Christian young men ?
The Nepean Times tells of a sleep-walking
hod-man who will come out at night in his shirt, and
go up to a second storey, drop his load, descend, and
go up again with more mortar. Could easily cure Aim.
Pasta a Nepean Times leader in the hod.
This is how a Forbes paper puts it: —“ Irate
mother-in-law and affectionate son-in-law came foul of
each other last week. Eesult to mother-in-law—bridge
of nose broken, both optics in mourning. Eelationship
only contracted a couple of months ago.” Soda.
Snake bites are on the increase in the country
districts just now. Very often they are fatal. When a
man is bitten by a snake, the best plan is to bite back.
We think a law should be made to have all snakes
muzzled. Prevention is better than cure.
Says the Heeald: “It maybe assumed that
the law of libel in Victoria is muon the same as it is in
New South Wales.” Languishing in a dungeon because
ofjthe latter law, we confess we can’t see it, especially
with the recent Argus libel suit fresh in our minds.
Scene: City restaurant. Time, 1 p.m. Swell
in gaiters to pretty waitress: “ Oh! come here, my
dear. Have you any lamb?” Then, before theP.W.
has time to answer—“ But never mind, you needn’t tell
a lie—l’ll have a slice of lamb off that sheep of yours,”
A woman named Willis was married recently to
a convict undergoing 10 years for wife-murder in the
country gaol, 'Frisco. His name was Gottnng. How
strange under any circumstance for her to marry a man
whose Gottung! He won’t see bis bride fox 6 years or
What should be done with a man who seduces a
girl, and then leaves her to starve ? Vale, M.P., of
Victoria, suggested one thing, anyhow, as a caution to
others.
The Inspector of Nuisances for Alexandria
passes, according to his report, most of his time chas-
ing billy-goats. When not chasing billy-goats, it appears
that cows are chasing Mm.
London milkmen have been prosecuted for hav-
ing 17 per cent, of water in their milk. In Sydney,
you could have at least a dozen prosecutions for " i?
per cent, of milk in the water.”
A country journal, on learning that peritonitis
was the cause recently of twenty-five deaths iu Sydney,
remarked that there now appeared to be valid reasons
for the discontinuance of tramways.
Andy Lynch, we see, headed a deputation, the
other day, to the Minister for Works, asking for a rail-
way “agin’ his own door.” Formerly he would have
been satisfied with a bridge. But, certainly a railway
is very—Andy.
The coroner’s snub to Mr. Fosbery over the
“sleeping in the Parks ” crime ought to be published.
In due time it will be called for. Mr. Shiell must be
earefnl; they’ve reduced the Melbourne coroner’s
salary for over-zeal.
“ I know your wife must die in this hospital,
but if you dare to take her away to die in peace at
home, away from the groans of patients here, and the
sight of death. I’ll have you prosecuted for man-
slaughter!” A fact.
This is truly the age of science. Onr gliding
tram-car doors are to be moved by hydraulic power
(nothing else will ever shift them), and when the
“foorce" knock, publicans are supposed to open their
doors by electricity.
At a Literary and Debating Society conversa-
zione held at Singleton the other evening, one of the
memhersllsaid, “Honesty was a very good thing, and
did a great deal of good in the world, us long as it was
not used to an excess.”
The other night, a scientific man from the country
said he gave Larry Foley half-a-crowii, but Larry swore
it was only two shillings. Then the innocent “ bushy' ’
called Larry “another,” —and when the by-standers had
picked him up, and scraped his clothes, and put cold
steak on his eyes and mutton-fat on his nose, he said he
" wasn’t goin’ to argy agin’ a success.”
Mr. Moon, of Wattle Flat, is corroborated by
Mr. Story in an account of an iguana’s swallowing a
snake. The iguana was shot and opened, the
found alive, and swallowed the iguana. We don’t call
that much of a gulp—we swallow the story—
" The Meon takes up the wondrous tale.
And tells the Story of her birth ” —Addison.
Dick and Jack go for a day’s duck shooting on
the Mumunbidgee swamps, in a rough boat. To pre-
vent the inconvenience of wading in the shallows and
pulling the boat after them, they charter a nymph of
the forest, to tow the boat into deep water; and she,
not wishing to take the starch out of her immaculate
linen, furls it up to a convenient height, Eesult —Too
much gin and not enough water.
It took three of the bravest experts in the
Sydney Constabulary two hours to remove a girl, 18
years of age, from the comer of College and Oxford-
streets to the Darlinghurst Academy, and even then
they had to truck her. A select body guard of about
200 hoodlums followed, and the procession was most
demonstrative and edifying. No officer drew a baton,
but the young lady’s milliner had quite a lot of work
for a week after. Ta-ran-ta-ra!
The codlin moth ! the codlin moth!
More dire than Hun or Visi-Goth;
From Tasman’s land would emigrate
And Parramatta’s apples slate:
But Parramatta fruitist’s cry,
“ Preserve the apple of my eye:
Let Vandemonian apples stop
To grace alone a Hobart shop;
Our native eodlins let us sell.
And for the right we’ll charge you well! *
The codlin moth I the codlin nsotlp!
More dire than Hun or Visi-Goth.
Talk of “singing for one’s supper”—why, at a
young ladies’ boarding school, not a hundred miles
from Ashfield, the poor girls assemble at the breakfast
table and sing two hours before a dish is uncovered.
This happens not only on Sundays, but every morning,
week in week out.
Newspapers sent to employes at the Govern-
ment Printing Office are now not delivered to the
owners when they arrive in the morning, but when they
leave the office. It was found their desire for know-
ledge used to be a little too previous to their anxiety to
print the Government Gazette.
Meston, of the Townsville Heeald, is wiring
into Mr. Knapp of the Standard, and Thadeus O’Kano
warns the former that he’ll never floor Knapp without
learning some Latin. Now why should Thadeus suggest
this sort of dynamite ? What deader language do you
want than their present English ?
The Hodgkinson blacks are about to petition
J. V. Mulligan to reserve a piece of country for them
at the back of Mount Mulligan. Should ho not consent,
they will, with his permission, be glad to resume Thorn-
borough. J. V. says he must consult Billy Little, who
for a long time has been king of the place.
In a Southern township, the other day, the
doctor had four persons, who nad threatened to tar and
feather him, bound over to keep the peace. The trouble
was “all along of a hugly valentine.” Sawbones is a
highly moral bachelor, and well respected, yet they had
sent him a communication alleging that ho had a yellow
wife and sixteen children.
A clergyman up North objected to the Bulle-
tin, which is the scourge of hypocrites, being placed on
the table of the School of Arts. Well, of course we
can’t expect honest writing to please everybody. No
such clergymen, certainly. The only thing that pleases
them is the inevitable bogging testimonial, and—under
certain circumstances —choir-practice.
Mr. M'Cnlloch, an Invercargill(N.Z.)magistrate,
has ruled that card.playing in an hotel is not an unlaw-
ful game, and Mr. M’Culloch had to travel hack to
George IV. and Henry VIII. statutes, which enumer-
ated, as being included in the term “au unlawful game,”
certain antiquated games of cards only. Will some
local lawyer look up the N.B. Wales Acts on this point ?
There is at Richmond, N.S. W., an infant prodigy
of the ripe age of two and a half years. He can swear
like a trooper, drink like a fish, and smoke the strongest
pipe on the country side. He has only been heard to
weep once, and that was when an extremely moral
young man deprived him of his pipe. He can play a
good game at euchre, and pugilise with anything his
weight.
The annual six days’ training of the Permanent
and Volunteer Forces is fixed to commence on Good
Friday, and a liberal Government, in spite of the high
prices ruling, has fixed the meat allowance of each
gallant defender Iflb. per diem instead of l|lb. The
regulation motto now is:—“ Meet at Middle Head,
beef good cheer; beef firm, your hearths and homes
are at steak.” Pork creatures.
At a large public meeting, held at the corner of
Bent-street, an attempt was made to get a petition
signed for a supply of soap to the Public Library, but
it was found that, after a few of the petitioners had
handled the paper, ink marks could not be distinguished
on it. So there’s to be a deputation instead. The
members will show the Minister their hands, and then
retire.
If you see one man reading a pile of manu-
scripts to another just now, the listener is a com-
mitteeman of the School of Arts, the reader is a
candidate for the secretaryship, and the MS. his
testimonials; 1469 applicants and tons of testimonials.
Every cripple in the country going for the billet. Yet
they say the appointment is all cut and dried, and that
the race runs between two Sydney men.
Wholesale label-forgersi detected at Melbourne.
Verginiand claret and Krug champagne are the chief
sufferers. By the way, we know a firm in this city
which makes, perhays, £SOOO a year out of the same
little game. Their business promises comprise no more
than two rooms and a cellar. We’ll point straight when
—when, ah, the ah. Judges . Yes, gentle public,
when the Supremo Court . Isn’t it a fine day ?
In a Northern county court they were nnabla
to have a witness sworn, as the Bible could nowhere bo
found. The magistrate overcame the difficulty by pro-
ducing a book from his pocket and telling the sergeant
to swear the witness on that. Afterwards, the neatly-
bound volume proved to be the ever delightful—” Den
Juan.”
Thero is only one reverend humourist now tra-
velling around. And he is no less a person than the
Eev. G. B. Moysey, who wrestles with Satan usually in
the Christians’ Meeting House. This gentleman’s ad-
vertised subject for last Sunday’s lecture was “ The
Blessedness of Early Piety." Now, what’s he giving
us?
Paddy M'Grath is the name of a Botany man
who paid for a bottle of rum on Saturday night and
went on Sunday to take it home, —but called by mis-
take during prohibited hours. Fined accordingly.
We’re ashamed of Patsy. He’s the only broth of a
boy in the world who’d trouble a bottle to hold his
rum over night.
Says the Daily Feegt “ The’art of lying is
quite as assiduously cultivated now, as it was in the
early apostolic age in which Ananias lived, but its pro-
lessors, far from being struck down dead, frequently
wax fat and prosper exceedingly." Wo are glad to have
this explanation of the bloated condition of our little
contemporary.
The latest scientific news is that the moon is
slowly receding from the earth. This is in consequence
of a fright she received one night when she saw J. W.
Meaden, the Victorian prize-poet, by the window, wet
cloths round his bead, and a sheet of paper before him
covered with writing, labelled “Ode,” and beginning
“ O Moon 1” 8
The Carcoar Council didn’t manage a telegram
home to Queen Victoria, congratulating her upon her
escape from assassination. It was proposed to send a
telegram to the Queen marked “ collect," but as there
was some doubt whether the local telegraph master
would trust our gracious sovereign to that extent, the
“ wire” was not sent.
Mr. Dillon, S.M. .draws the
Sunday trading line at “ cakes ”
—but not “ cakes and ale."
Sunday night, near Ash-
field ; time, 7.30 p.m. Young
swell enters Blank-street. Fixed
his gaze on verandah opposite,
and whistles softly, “Come
where my love lies dreaming.”
A female emerges from dark-
ness, and stands in said ver-
andah. His heart beats high.
More whistling. She beckons.
He moves forward, and she
leans over front gate. Encour.
aged, he sails along all uncon-
scious, and embraces her
mamma. He struggles, but the
materitightens her grip, calling
lustily for “George." George
comes to her rescue, and ar.
gues very forcibly with the
young 'nn with the end of a hay
fork. He doesn’t use the high
stool at the desk now—“it's
healthier to stand.”
What becomes of all the
police trousers ? The clothing
of a policeman ( vide law reports)
is “the property of the New
South Wales Government."
The question arises: When a
bobby dies, can he or can he not
devise and bequeath to his
heirs, successors, and assigns,
etc., his breeches; or, for that
matter, any other part of this
“property of the New South
Wales Government ?’’ That is
a question we should like to
hear thoroughly ventilated by
some philosophical or debating
society. Again, when a police,
man resigns, or is dismissed,
does the man who steps into bis
shoes also literally step into his
brogues ? If so, onr comic
photographer will be around
when the next police, court
martial is held.
A gentleman named Pate-
son hailed a 'bus last week at
Eedfern, got it, paid his fare,
and was then told by a fellow,
passenger that he’d have to
clear out, as the 'bus had al.
ready its legal complement.
Mr. Pateson demurred, but on
being informed that the fellow,
passenger was a Transit Com.
missioner he offered to leave if
the fare were returned. The
driver declined to make a re-
fund, and Mr. Pateson natnr-
ally enough refused to quit the
vehicle. He has since been fined
20a. with costs, and been subjec- *
ted to the indignity of a lecture
by the magistrate. Now, how
can a stranger know the num-
ber a’bus is licensed to carry?
One may be quite comfortable
in a 'bus with twelve ordinary
people, and yet be very un.
happy while travelling with
eight fat ladies, and as many
bundles of washing. Isn’t the
driver to blame—first for ille-
gally receiving the fare, and
thou for declining to return it P
Shouldn’t a transit commis-
sioner who institutes a proeec.
ution under such circumstan-
ces lose his appointment—end
shouldn’t a magistrate »ho
meets such a case with a 20s,
fine hear from the Attorney-
General ?
A well-known Queensland politician, who, when
elected for a certain town, wa-t “soing to make it, y«=g
sir, the leading city in the woill 1" has just visite his
electorate. His reception was one he wal never forget.
At the wharf he was met by an enthusiastic crowd of
eight, two of whom took his arms, the gentleman on
his right being an ex-polioeman, the one on his left a
disappointed alderman; while the remaining six all
males under twelve years of age—each flourished the
local newspaper, for sale!
Some time ago a certain Victorian legislator
publicly stated that the system carried out in a certain
gaol was simply perfect. Six months after this ha was
sentenced to ten years' imprisonment in the said gaol
for forgery. He is now loose once more, and says
Dante s Inferno was merely a big Yankee circus, with
all the side shows thrown in, compared with the dia-
bolical torments the doomed suffer in that bastille. As
Mrs. Micawber’s Pa would say, Experientia docs it.
Sir Henry’s friend. Professor Proctor, has
settled the fate of the world in his own mind. The
comet of 1880 is to come round again in 1897, and
amalgamate with the sun, which will then be so big and
so hot that all life on this planet will be destroyed
Asks the Nonconformist: “What if these speculal
tions are really well founded ?" Eeligious papers
should answer their own conundrums. For onr own
£art,_ we don’t like to contemplate the possibility of a
ell in this world and in the next too,
A Wagga agent recently sold a lot of sheep for
a neighbour. The commission amounted to £25,
whisky followed, and the pair commenced to
talk about the merits of their respective horses. Tha
agent, who drives a grand pair, offered to back his nags
against the squatter’s and staked his commission against
half a (dozen champagne. The squatter, who is noted
for reckless driving, accepted the wager. The distance
to Wagga was abont 35 miles ; and a passenger by the
squatter's trap says he had to hold ,on with his eye-
brows the whole way. The agent was beaten hands
down. The same squatter, it is said, once drove three
horses up a tree, and left the buggy on the fork. Ho
merely broke an arm, and fractured a leg; a friend who
was with him smashed his skull only.
“READY, AYE READY ."
BEAK "Now, Sargeant, you see the prisoner in the dock, are you prepared to swear that he” SARGEANT: (promptly), “I am.”


“Wrecker” thus: “The Goodchap motto, re
arrival and departure of trains, is better lot* than never.
—Fosbery’s corps wants purging of its perjurers, ihe
purger will deserve well of the State."
The D.T. haa now with Sir Henry a special
commissioner. Here is a slab from his letterAt
Omaha, as the carriage in which Sir Henry Parke*
travelled was standing alone to be shifted to another
train, one woman said to another, ‘Do you know who
is in that car ? The Great Mogul of Australia 1
The Carlton Advertiser says : “ Mr. Bent
now says he never meant that press parcels of copy
should be charged for.*' What wa are anxious to know
Not what Bent has never meant.
But what God meant in making Bent.
• When proposals were made to the Colonial
Mutual to insure Weatherhead’s life for an additional
£IOOO a smiling assent was given, only they wantedto
sec the gentleman who placed so high a value as £9OOO
upon his life. This was true Scotch caution. Needless
to relate, the desired interview did not take place, ihe
proposal lapsed, and the society saved their money.
Writes Sir Henry to Sir John “ On Saturday
night the officers of the State Militia paid me a visit.
. Afterwards the General commanding proposed
my health, to which I replied, in a few words. 1 hey
then proposed the Queen of England." So the King of
New South Wales is placed before the Queen of England,
his sovereign, by the enlightened Militia of California
State. Jehoshophat I Hand down the gun.
Note this climax! A heavy law suit is heard in
the Supreme Court before a judge, argued by the lead-
ing legal mind* in the country, thousands of pounds are
involved in the issue, it is taken before the fall court,
thence to the Privy Council, then to th« sheriff, whose
officer performs the crowning act in the tap room of a
public-house I As Sir William Manning said in the great
“ try-on,” Smith v. Cooper, it is an iniquitous state of
things.
The masculine portion of a Northern choir,
during practice, are like so many Nobuchadnrzzars or
old cows. They chew a plant called huphorbxa Piluhjv a,
and aver that it imparts brilliancy and melody to their
“ scraiching” voices. Twouldn t at all matter if they
“chawed" themaelvas into green table-covert, pro-
vided they refrained from spotting the floor with
Emerald sputa, to the disgust of every person in their
vicinity.
If a man has a civil or criminal case in our
courts, his solicitor, on payment of a fee of five shill-
ings, can get a list of the jurymen to be summoned for
that sitting, their residences, and occupations. Can
these lists ever be wanted for an honest end ? Dm t it
a fact that jurymen are often “ sounded by solicitors
as to their views in a case, and “the screw put on
through creditors, ■'See., to enable them to come—ahem 1
—a right decision F
He and his family live over a quarry where
blasting is carried on continually. He sat down to
dinner, and had just opened his mouth when in came
crashing a huge boulder, lodging itself securely between
his jaws. Afterwards it took six strong labourers with
their ironTevurs to dislodge the rock, which they
happily did by removing all his back teeth and sixteen
of the upper and lower front. Existence in Rock-
hampton is very precarious, even for the wealthy.
Amen.
A recent meeting of the Rockhampton Bonevo-
lent Society was a very amusing affair. One poor
woman is reported to have asked for ale and porter.
When politely told that she could only get tea, sugar,
and bread, she replied tartly: “Anybody kin get them
common things.” Another, a widow, with the usual
widow’s mite-a big family-wanted to be supplied
with marmalade and jam for the “ ohilder. The oom-
mittee felt inclined to jam the lot of them.
Selectors in the interior fondly imagine that the
Minister for Lands personally reads, peruses, and
answers their communications. One came to hand
lately containing this: “ There is some -underhand
work going on in my case, as you, sir, can see. The
letter sent me is iu one handwriting and the signature
in another.” The Minister did not see the fun a,t first,
but after suspending one branch and threatening an-
other, the matter was satisfactorily explained to the
“.ingenious peasant ’’ selector.
Henry Bryant, soi disaut ex-Major of the
Rooshiau army, and Age sensation monger, says he
could (if he liked, but he don’t like) translate the new
version” into seventy-four different languages. But
he finds the English the most difficult of the lot. Ho
instances the word “ drive.” You can take a drive,
drive a bargain, drive a nail or a pile, drive tandem,
which is tandormouht to reckless driving, drive cows,
and derive satisfaction from the consciousness of hav-
ing exposed the little game of the wily Aslanbegoff, aud
the “ Emperor our Father.”
The long-continued drought is put down by
squatters to the efficacy of a prayer made once by John
M’Elhoue. Mac. doesn’t pray often, hut when he does
supplicate, he wades iu. When Mac. was assisting
Pigott iu his electoral campaign against Rouse, he once
orated at a Primitive Methodist tea-fight at Cooyal.
After expending his usual choice rhetoric upon the
rapacity of pastoralists, he burst into prayer by saying
fervently “ I hope to God the drought will last seven
years." The country knows the result. Venly, the
prayer of the righteous man availeth much.
If a constable arrests a drunken woman and
takes her to the loekup. he has to drag her yelling and
howling through the streets. But if he takes her to
the hospital, a cab is paid for. The filthy beldame has
to be washed by the neat nurses, who are often brutally
assaulted by the viragos; her clothes are burnt by tuase
ladies, who put her to bed amid the sick and dying.
Her yells and vile language keep the whole ward awake,
distress the patients, and then, in clean attire, she is
taken and charged with drunkenness! Surely a separ-
ate ward is called for by humanity.
The Rev. A. Brown, of Kapunda, has written
anew hymn. It runs: —
“ Awake my soul, shake off thy chains
No more fear thou the hellish pains
For uiiforgiven sin ” &c.
It is about time the rev. gentleman encouraged his
soul this way. (Jbiuk up tuo chains. Brown ; a man
with a soul like yours should have no sleep whilst
publishers print its aspirations. But don t take tho
hymns dowu with you when you die. He’s got more
of thorn down tderu now than does lor tho kindling-
A Townsville item. Ho went into an hotel-
before breakfast —and was handed a decanter by anew
chum maiden who was evidently not up to her business.
There was low tide in the decanter, and, as he wanted
a good “nip,” he gave it a good tilt, but, to his sur-
prise there was only a small quantity of liquid in the
bottle, the bottom of it being covered with some thick
staff On closer examination, the grounds were found
to consist of a fig of tobacco, which, by this time, had
been thoroughly saturated with rum, aud which had,
no doubt, been put iuto the decanter for the purpose
of giving it a certain flavour, aud to render its effects
on tbe consumer more definite.
Among the most amusing consequences of the
Licensing Act are the visits of the police who try to find
out whether the rooms are the required dimensions.
Armed with a tape aud a stump of pencil. “ Robert’s "
efforts to get at the number of cubic feet contained ia
a room are almost, as funny as one of Hanley Bennett’s
letters, commencing “dere cir.” “Robert” isn’t
alway# correct iu getting tho surface of the wall, but
when it comes to the cubing he is bogged entirely. A
poor’-pestered publican said the other day, ‘.‘Why, I
don’t believe Fosberr himself could cube a blooming
room, if it wasn't square." It grieved us to hear Mr.
Fosbery spoken of s*> disrespectfully.
Since “ 5.C.8.” became king of the Post Office,
it would seem that his subordinates are apeing his
example, and have become high-toned also. A gentle-
man who is telegraph-master somewhere, writes
complaining that he has not received his salary for last
month, and though he has continually written and
wired to the authorities iu the cashier’s department, he
cannot even obtain a reply. Perhaps these gentlemen
ia the cashier’s department are overworked, and have no
time to attend to these little matters, or perhaps again
they are studying the principle of “ how not to do it ?”
Wo looked iu one day, and found only an old woman
the r e eating au apple. She told us that all the other
clerks had gone to the cricket-match.
It must bo known that North Shore has a muni-
ch aL' y, of which W. Tnnks, Esq., is Mayor. We don’t
know “ W. Tunks, Esq.,” but to us there is a kind of »,
charm about the name. Now, St. Leonards is a very
charming place, and so is Neutral Bay. The former
would be infinitely charminger if the lane from Alfred,
street to William-street were a little less like an Alpine
ravine, and the latter would be rendered far more agree-
able to ladies if men were not permitted to bathe there
fronting the houses at all hours of the morning. W e
are very timid people on this paper; and, if it were not
that the fairy-like cognomen of the Mayor (“ W. Tnnks,
Esq.”) inspired us with confidence, we should never
have the courage to make these humble suggestions.
Late cable: Sir Henry invited to Tennyson’s
house. Isle of Wight—
Two poets in two places saw the mom.
One’s songs will never die—the other’s died still-bom.
The captain of a trading vessel which called at
Pitcairn Island some time ago, states that since H.M.S.
Opal landed the organ presented by the Q'u en to the
Islanders, the island itself and the ocean around for a
radius of ten miles have become unbearable. Her
Majesty selected a very nice present for the inhabitants.
Their lives, since they received it, have been one con-
tinual song. It is said they begin at Genesis and sing
right through the Bible, accompanying themselves to a
savage dance-tune brought by their grandfathers from
Tahiti. There is a good opening in Pitcairn Island for
a dancing pavilion just now. Bring your own Uquor.
Hot water all day on the ground. Tickets 2s. 6d. each.
No police allowed, except picnic policemen.
The Herald tells the story of Sir John
Robertson’s ducking with the pathos duo to a proper
reverence for political dignity. Sit John “ accidentally
stepped overboard. . . . His only anxiety was
lost someone. . . . might jump down upon him."
Poor Sir John evidently fancies he has enemies!
After describing Sir John’s heroic swim "of about 25
feet,” with one hand holding Sir Henry’s last letter
from Washington above water, the Herald repre-
sentative, with that attention to details which genius
alone can command, goes on graphically to describe
how the drenched knight “ walked back to the club,
where he changed his clothes (wonderful I), and had
more than one hot drink, but not of tea. He went
home early in the morning as well as ever."
In front of a certain palatial Government office,
down on the Snowy, a “ shingle ” is hung out with the
following legend chalked thereon : —
: POE SALE. |
• A campoven fowls or produse taken in exchange j
; Apply within. j
This clearly proves that Civil servants are not spend-
thrifts, and that there are men in the service yet who
can “ best" even a Yankee pedlar or a Hebrew pawn-
man.
Hearken to a distinguished Rockhampton sur-
veyor on the tented field giving instructions to the
cook : 11 Michael (he wouldn’t call him * Mick ’ —too
vulgar), when making the damper, let it net be too
small nor yet too large. And when you have sub-
mitted it to the process of baking, have a care it be not
too much imbrowned on the one hand nor yet too little
on the other. If you follow out these simple directions
in their Integrity you’ll succeed iu having an excellent
damper. I will now adjourn to my tent and read a
chapter in the Bible —a custom derived from my dear
dear mother." “ Faix," U Mick's comment, “ either
takin* in all that blatherskite sor, I think I’ll ’journ too
and wash it down with a tint av tint wine, as The
Bulletin says. It’s a custom derived from mv dear
old father."
A shepherd having once “boxed” his flock of
ewes and lambs with that of a neighbouring squatter,
took both flocks to the station to be drafted. When
the neighbour’s flock was sent back, he saw at once that
he had been robbed of half of his lambs. To identify
his lambs amongst those of the robbers would seem an
impossibility, but he was equal to it. Most likely he
was a descendant of cute Jacob, who swindled his old
father-in-law, Laban, by making the ewes throw black
lambs to order. What the modern Jacob did, was to
“ raddle ” the udders of all the ewes in milk, and then
“box” the flocks again. The detained lambs of course
rushed to their mothers for milk, and the ingenious
squatter then claimed every lamb that had a red
smudge on its nose.
Several years ago, a publican named Myles
Eavanagh, of Woodside, S.A. —which town has since
come into celebrity in connection with the new gold
discoveries at the Bird-in-Slaad and the Woodside
Companies’ mines—suddenly and mysteriously disap-
peared. The cry immediately was “ foul murder,” and
the widdy became disconsolate. No body could be
found, however, and, at last, the S.A. police have dis-
covered that Myles Kavanagh is still in the flesh. It
appears that ho went to Adelaide to purchase a
new patent toothpick, and took a married woman
with him to select the pattern. He hasn’t returned to
Woodside yet, neither has the toothpick been forwarded
there. He was seen working his passage by way of
Mount Qambier, and will probably touch at Petropanl-
ovski on his way home.
“ Wagga” : In our opinion, St. Patrick’s Day
should be a national, not a religious, festival. There
are many liberal Irish Protestants in this country who
would like an opportunity of sitting down on each St.
Patrick’s Day with their fellow-countrymen of another
creed. But you cannot expeet a Protestant to sit at a
table where the health of the Pope takes precedence of
ihat of the Queen. You might as well »sk a good Jew
to eat pork, or a good Catholic to attend a banquet on
Good Friday. There’s no earthly necessity for bringing
the Pope into the matter at all. We quite agree with
Mr, Minchin, and must ask you to contrast the manly
sentiment which pervaded the celebration presided over
by Mr. Dailey, in Sydney, with the narrow-mindedness
betrayed by such an action as that to which you refer.
Every Irishman has the same country; all Irishmen
have not the same creed.
At the St. Patrick’s Day banquet a string band
under the direction of Herr Francik played selections
daring the “ wolfing,” and in the intervals between the
toasting and " pitching.” The Herr’s musical fancy
was not allowed to stray, and for the nonce he had to
eschew Haydn’s symphonies and give the assembled
patriots a plethora of Irish airs, such as “ Garryowen,"
and as much of the “ Boyne Water” as they could
stand. Irish music not having been included iu the
Herr’s training, the stock was soon exhausted, and the
O’Douovan Boiroihmo mildly expostulated: “ Arrah,”
said he, “fwhy don’t yer give us thifti Moore’s melo-
dies agin ?” ” Mein Oott," said Francik “ I blao dern
all by de night till Mr. Moore himself come ub und ask
for a shig.” We may remark that Mr. Christy Moore
was one of the most energetic members of the banquet
committee.
With that keen perception peculiar to Huuter-
scribes and tinned sardines, a writer in Satur-
day's Hbkker goes into raptures over a new work
entitled “ Bret Harte’s Fablesor rather this scissors-
aud-paste artist clips from another “ fog,” called the
London Echo. The real truth is, Bret had as much to
do with writing these fables as Pastor Allen had. They
were written by Geo. T. Lanigan, but that name has an
Oirish ring, and so Harte's was dabbed on to give the
volume prestige. Mr. Lanigan might, however, have
sailed in his own boat, as one sample from his work
will show. Here she goes : —
“ THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
“ A certain man went from Jerusalem to Jericho
and fell among thieves, who beat him and stripped
him and left him for dead. A Good Samaritan,
seeing this, clapped spurs to his ass and galloped
away, lost he should bo sent to the House of Deten-
tion as a witness, while the robbers were released
on bail.”
“ Moral: The Percoiver is worse than the Thief.”
The South Australian expedition to the Northern
Territory has been having a high time. What with
dangers by flood and field, and addresses and crackers
from Chinamen, the party’s cup of joy has been brimful.
The last caper was an “ imposing Chinese banquet," at
which the health of the Emperor of China was drunk.
The bland Chinaman showed to advantage alongside
nis whiter-skinned neighbour. Some‘‘civilised Euro-
peans” had the bad taste to get np on the anti-Chinese
rant, aud the peaceful hilarity of the banquet was
nearly being changed for a regular Donnybrook fair.
They say feat Northern Territory ram is “pison
strong,” and yet the fight didn’t come off. One pug-
nacious pigtailor threatened to “punchee” Mr. Bright,
M.P., who is noted for his obesity, “ in the bleddco
basketee,” and Bright’s reply was: —“The lily don’t
want no paint.” Mr. Parsons, the Minister of Educa-
tion, proposed an adjournment to the backyard, whore
he iuvited anyone to “ put up his thieving irons,” but
he recollected his valvular complaint just iu time to
refrain from shedding gore.
The Imprisonment of Messrs. Haynes and
Archibald.
The movement for the release of Messrs. Haynes and
Archibald from Darlinghurst Gaol and the amending
of the Libel Law has been warmly taken up and sup-
ported during the week. At Newcastle and Maitland,
meetings called by tbe Mayor have been addressed by
the leading men of each place, and been otherwise
very successful. Meetings have likewise been held at
Newtown, Paddington, Grenfell, Wagga Wagga, Car-
coar, Bathurst, and other places. The speeches right
through appear to have a ring in them which is not usu-
ally noticed in connection-with other public movements,
and while there has been an indignant protest against
the iniquity of the imprisonment of the defendants,
there has heen a no less severe condemnation
of the iniquitous Libel law now existing in this colony.
The Sydney Committee have been most active, and are
slowly but surely obtaining from the whole colony a,
substantial expression of sympathy and support.
Several benefits have been tendered to the fund.
The Bent and Bachelder Minstrels give a special per-
formance at the Opera House on Friday evening, and
the Lytton Dramatic Club at the Opera House on the
4th April.
THE NEWSLETTER.
At Bathurst, where there are already seven
papers, two more are on the tapis.
Mr. Tyson, accountant in Bank of Tasmania*
has disappeared, and so has £5OO. Sau Francisco.
The American state prisons are now self-
supporting, and there is a decrease in crime in the
higher grades.
The lead in which the 153-ounce nugget was
found at Temora has been proved a distinct run of gold
from the eld load.
Mount Browne diggers, ill and destitute, swarm
ing iuto Bourke. Numbers unsuccessfully applied for-
admission into local hospital.
Buie nisi for new trial granted in the libel
action Williams v. Argus, on the ground that the
verdict was contrary to evidence.
The English cricketing team made =£13,000 by
their tour. The expenses were about £5OOO. £2OO each
was given to nine of the players, and Shaw Shrews-
bury, and Lillywhite pocketed £2OOO apiece.
475 deaths were reported to the Sydney city
coroner during 1881; 286 inquests were held; some ver-
diets —murder 1, manslaughter 8, infanticide 5, suicides
25, drowning 42, injuries (accidental and open verdict)
118, natural causes 29, apoplexy 21, heart disease 14,
alcoholism 10.
Constable M'Namara, of Newtown, found a man
dying of poisoning by strychnine. He “applied to
three doctors, at Newtown, but could get none to attend
to the man.” We believe the local Debating Society is
going to discuss the question : “ Which of these three,
think you, was this man s neighbour 'i“ We give it up.
It seems that we have not yet hoard the last of
Bandsman Yates. Truth states that his case will
probably, owing to the exertions of somo influential
persons in Sydney, be brought before the Imperial
Parliament in conjunction with some other cases
indicative of the •* loose procedure ot naval courts
martial and their monstrously harsh sentences.”
Charles Floyd, articled clerk aud pious fraud,
believed to bo iu Sydney, is “ wanted." iu Melbourne,
ho uttered a valueless cheque for £39, bought a yacht,
hired buggies, put his uamo down for £lO in a church
subscription, “ did the holy," aud was altogether a very
good young man. Ho got furniture on credit, aud is
now charged with having obtained £lOOO good money on
bogus title-deeds, Ac.
James Davis, seaman, aged 18, a native of Car-
diff, fell from the foretopgallant yard of H.M.S. Nelson
at Hobart, on 14th March. The poor fellow was
literally shattered when picked up, and only breathed
for five minutes. In striking the sneer-pole, which was
greatly bent by the weight, his teeth were knocked out,
both ears and the buck of his head were split, and his
body was ripped up by his knife.
The cracked tire of a railway carriage has cost
Victoria £50,0001 A cinder from a tram-motor the
other day put out an eye of the manager of a Sydney In-
surance office, who, we sincerely trust, will get sub-
stantial compensation for the irreparable injury he has
sustained. The motors should bo atted with spark-
arresters. The floating particles from the motors are a
constant source of annoyance to passengers.
F. Stanley pleaded a blow in the head in excuse
for issuing valueless cheques iu Bourke. He says he
got the crack from a blackfellow at Cooper’s Creek. J.
Thomas, of Carlton, who has also issued a few cheques
on another man’s bank, doesn’t say where he got his
crack on the head. Both are committed for trial. We
don’t know how their cases will go, but having son e
experience of juries, should judge tney would come
to a clearer verdict if the two blackfellows conld bo
produced.
The Mourilyan Sugar Co. (including Messrs.
E. E. Smellie, W. Gullaud, Francis Nash, the original
owner of Cambridge Downs, and H. M. Stapleton) have
selected 5120 acres on the Johnstone Eiver, with the
intention of erecting a large mill and starting nugar-
growing extensively. The company represents a great
deal of capital, and its success is a mere matter of
administration. Mr. F. J. Martin, the well-known
Melbourne brewer, has selected five allotments on the
Johnstone.
The recalcitrant members of the Melbourne
hospital committee at last show signs of coming to
their senses. The hideous revelations made at recent
inquests, as to the prevalence of gangrene at the
institution, have knocked them off their very high
perch.
A Victorian postman has been fined i>4 3s. for
kissing a girl. In addition, he got kicked by her
father. The girl is now open to supply kisses by the
gross at this figure. Extra dozens thrown in for cash ;
country customers supplied promptly. And this re-
minds us that it would have saved biennis B. Kelly a
£lO fine and the annoyance and troub'e of smashing
Bishop Goold’s windows, if that prelate had met him
half way, and lent him £5 when he demanded it.
Mr. Kiss, a contractor, and late poundkeeper,
of Bega, got a verdict of one farthing damages—shades
of night, what horrors does the incident not recall 1 —
against Mr. Gleeson, a grazier, for slander. Qleeaon
only accused Kiss of swindling him out of £l5O, or so.
Sir George lanes, the presiding Judge, actually refused
to certify for costs, so that we are not likely to have
Gleeson’s companionship in Darhnghurst gaol. We
suppose litigious plaintiffs would like to hand Judge
Innes’ name down to public execration. We, however,
applaud him Innes action.
Civilisation at Cobar. The other day a local
publican stated in evidence that a prisoner charged
with rebbery and the prosecutor were both very drunk
in his house; whereupon Mr. Tompson, P.M., cited
the section of the new Licensing Act with respect to
publicans supplying drunken men with liquor, and the
penalties attached, administering a mild lecture on the
subject to the landlord, who promised that he would
study the Aot in future. We re glad to see that Mr.
Tompson is getting on well. It delights ns to hear
that he has at length ventured to “ mildly " repri-
mand a defendant. It’s so much better than not re*
primanding him at all.
From the evidence given at tbe inquest on John
Els bury, who was killed by a fall of ground at tbe Day
Dawn mine, Charters Towers, it is quite evident that
the newly appointed Inspector of Mines has not arrived
a day too soon. The Day Dawn men, as already stated,
have struck for higher wages on the score that the
mine is a dangerous one. The Northern Miner
advises the company to give way and pay £3 10s. per
week so as to command the labour market. It may to
remembered that the mine is now worked by under-
hand not overhand slopes. The relatives of one of the
men killed intend sueiug for compensation. At later ,
the meu wi re about to return to work-
A grand intercolonial Juvenile Industrial
Exhibition will be held in the Garden Palace, Sydney,
at the c ose of the present year. All minors in the
colonies will be at liberty to compete. The youth of
each colony will be pitted against the youth of all the
others. Local amor pat rice will be added to the ordinary
zest of individual ambition. In additien to innumer-
able other recommendations, this Juvenile Exhibition
appeals to the benevolent sympathies of all. The pro-
ceeds are to be distributed amongst charitable institu-
tions. Benevolence is to crown tne edifice of youthful
genius. Mr. R. D. Bannister is secietary, and appeals
on behalf of the committee and officers, lor funds to
carry out the project.
As the result of a statement published in Thb
Bulletin, an enquiry is now being ueid at tbe Sydney
Infirmary respecting the death oi aD. T. patient. Cf
course, any expose made by us was superciliously
ignored by our humdrum daily contemporaries.
The Evening News, however, takes :he matter up.
Evidence has been given bearing out tbe statements
that a patient named David Fielding, was left to eie
alone in a cell, and other general chaiges igainst tie
management are being investigated. Dr. Cox is Cha •
man of the Board ot Enquiry, wnich, by the way, ho ds
its sittings with closed doors. Even the generil
reports, however, that filter from these secret sA nc s
show that The Bulletin did not publish the statements
without reasonable cause.
Jones, the cranky clerk, who was accidentally
shat in the leg by publican Clark, of Richmond. has
died in Melbourne hospital of erysipelas. Bo has Peter
Nugent, who had a fractured leg. 3fet, the hospital
committee had the sublime audacity a week or two
since to ask the Attorney-General to come down like a
thousand of bricks on Coroner Youl, for daring to say
that the building was a pile of gangrene. The very
best thing that could be done witn the Melbourne
Hospital would be to remove it out of the metropolis
itseif to a more open neighbourhood. It the present
central site were sold, it would bring in enough
money to purchase six times as much ground
elsewhere, and to put up a far more suitable and
commodious building.
Mr. Franklin fell off a tramcar, fractured the
base of his saull, and sustained a laceration of the
frontal lobe of the brain. He was taken to the Infirmary,
where the lerideut medicos said he was only drunk.
Then he was shunted to the watch house, and put into a
cell. He was found to be dying, and taken back to the
Infirmary, where Mr. Harman Tarrant, one of the hono-
rary surgeons, discovered the nature of his injuries.
He died—yes, gentle public, he ditd. It’s rarely a
policeman displays much surgical instinct. All the men
who lie down, and a great many who stand ap, in the
t troet, are drunk, according to Constable 92X. But, iu
this case, tbe “Peeler” who took Fraukliu toj the
Infirmary, seems to have been a much cleverer man
than well, say, other people.
“ Sir Henry Parkea’ letter on San Francisco ”
digested Miss Parkes and I have have been lionised
everywhere. Smallest ’Frisco coin is the silver 5-cent.
piece; if a boy touches his hat to me, it costs me2ld.
Lowest charge of errand boys is 35 cents. Wooden
houses prevail. Streets quiet and orderly. Free and
independent citizens who use tramcars decline to walk
the length of the car to deposit the fare in the fare-box,
but make tbe conductor bustle around. Wire trams
suitable for Sydney. Fire brigade machinery perfect.
Firemen luxuriously‘accommodated, but able to run
out in a minute or two. Telescopic ladders and fir®
escapes wonderfully effective. Those newspaper men
have been “interviewing” me and have made mo say
“things which I never thought of.” ,
Some old colonists will remember the mysterious
disappearance of the ship Madagascar, in 1853 Bho
had on board much treasure, and the story went, that a
mutiny was raised, fho money taken, aud the ship
burnt at sea. Recently 15 skeletons were found on
Bountiful Island, Torres Straits, and a Loudon Corres-
pondent of the Argus, whose uncle was a passenger, is
anxious to know if the remains in question were those
of the crew. It is, however, thought that the skeletons
are those of aboriginals from Mornington Island, or of
the crew of one of the Malay proas, engaged in the
beche-de-mer fishery. The Argus correspondent
fun her says: “I noticed that H MS. Bacchante
touched at Pleasant Island on her voyage from Austra-
lia to Japan, and found thereon a native of Yorkshire,
named Harris, who stated that he had been there 20 or
30 years. I suppose this could not have been Captain
Harris, of the Madagascar.”
Temora is stirred to its lowest depths. The
consequence is—mud. The Star appears to have cas-
tigated Warden De Boos, au estimable gentleman who
has striven to do his duty fairly. The rival paper,
watchful of its own interests, took up the cudgels for
the Warden, and the affair soon resolved itself into a
combat between tbe two editors. We get the Temoka
Herald regularly, but need not read the other journal
to become aware that a fierce duel has been going on
between them for some time. The dispute with Warden
Do Boos has consequently been accepted with mutual
satisfaction by the two papers as au opportune casus
belli. The populace has been ranged by Bailey, of the
Herald in two camps—the “lambs” and “goats;”
and, in the absence of the circus, or the customary dog-
fight, the diversion has proved most convenient. It
appears, however, that the rival editors of the aurifer-
ous Eatanswill cannot be got to fight in the orthodox
style. Could this be managed, and the affair fixed for a
public holiday, with stiff prices for admission to the
ring, the local Hospital might at once be freed from
debt. We know both Bailey aud Wehr, and sufficient
inducement offering, would probably travel to witness
the re-enactment of the historic incident of Kilkenny.
We should probably support Bailey—with a chair.
The wehrd 100k —but no more of this. Mr. De Boos,
like a sensible old pressman, will, of course, not pro-
ceed with hia suit. If the Stab has flayed him, the
Herald has praised him. What more can he want r
We would suggest that the £2OO subscribed be sunk in
a general “wet” for the whole mining community.
In that case, neither Bailey nor Wehr should be al-
lowed to take au active part. They should be CO™"
pelled to sit aside aud report together at a table
bearing only a cracked water-monkey, two cast-glass
tumblers, and a plate of sea-biscuits.
In Memoriam.
HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW.
DIED, 25TH MARCH, 1882.
[For The Bulletin.]
Deep silence reigned within the Blessed Bowers,
Still were the harpers’ hands ;
No sound of singing stirred the dreaming flowers
Throughout the lilied lands.
The bards were weary of their own great chanting—
Apollo’s throbbing throat
Could charm no more, its voice of music wanting
The one sweet human note—
All songs were old, so old the phrases sounded
Like unfamiliar words;
They would have given all for one joy-rounded
Wild song of woodland birds.
For their past lives were dim as are the gleams of
The moon cloud-overcast.
Or the mysterious half-forgotten dreams of
The dead and buried past.
At last came One, whose songs were like the Summer
Sunshine without, within.
The sad shades gathered round the glad new-comer.
And drank his music in.
And, as of old, the cup of blood gave speech to
The heroes pale and wan;
So unto these his songs, whose roots did reach to
The inmost heart of man.
Then once more joy dwelt in the Blessed Bowers
And a great gladness fell
Upon the land, and stirred the Breaming flowers,
Lily and asphodel.
And we, to whom he sang so long and sweetly.
What shall we of our parts F
He needs no shrine who is enshrined completely
Within our heart of hearts.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Sydney, 29th March 1882.


IN THE JUG.
[WRITTEN BY ALL OF US.]
No. 4.
Jute* fingering for three weeks in our lonely dungeon,
*ve have at last got company. He (for the company is
fe he) joined us on Tuesday. He is an elderly gentle-
man of distinguished appearance, who, viewed from the
rear, was at first mistaken by Haynes for Piddington-
sky. H., concluding that the illustrious statesman had
been seized upon by an infuriated populace as a victim
to the Eussian score, hastened to sympathise and to
accord him an enthusiastic accueil. “ What are you in
for ?" asked the gifted John of the new-comer. “I am
in for paper, too,” mournfully replied the adipose
wrrivkl, tenderly nursing his carbuncular “ conk.” We
immediately perceived in him a brother pressman of
th.e pliocene formation —we thought he came from
Maitland—and acted accordingly, until he had ex.
plained that the “paper” in question was a ca. so.
issued against him by a Sligo Norwegian named Ca-sey,
in respect to the price of some very fine cabbages.
“ However,” continued our new friend, “ I’m goin’ in-
solvent, and will be out a Snnday." Now, though we
infer from his resonant “ churchyarder” and from the
fact of his being constantly attended by the gaol
doctor, that he may possibly get a burial certificate
long before he receives his discharge in bankruptcy, so
brilliant an example of the privileges accorded to erring
turnip-vendors will not be lost on us. As soon as we’re
out our new card will issue, and it will read:—
“HAYNES & AECHIBALD,
GREENGROCERS,
Sussex-street.
Patronised bv the lawyers and Sir William
Manning.”
The foregoing, it will be observed, is an admirable
illustration of the skill with which high-toned green-
grocery and satirical journalism maybe run together in
* free country. # # #
Well, the greengrocer, the amount of whose
indebtedness is, we ore given to understand, forty-seven
shillings and sixpence, had jast commenced to lay
down the law, and to state that his insolvency applica-
tion would be made in forma pauperis, when a warder
appeared. He was the same warder who, when first we
entered the gates, cast on us his rolling eyeballs, and,
wagging his jaws after the manner of a carding.devil,
hoarsely enquired: “ Have yer anything on ye that ye’d
like to give up ?’’ Whereupon we observed that we
had given up all bad habits, and had now nothing to
give up but the ghost. To the new comer the warder
was, we consider, absolutely insulting. At first he
enquired, with some show of delicacy, whether the
dungeoned greengrocer would like a wash. The stout
gentleman replied that he didn’t want a wash—he
wanted a lawyer. The prison minion then remarked
that there were sometimes lawyers “ on the other side"
(meaning, we suppose the criminal department), but
as tho last batch had just gone to Berrima, there would
possibly be no legal talent available for some few days.
The warder then wandered back te his subject, and
wanted to know: “Is that the only shirt you’ve got ?
If so,|l can give yer a prison shirt. Besides, ye want a
wash badly, and ye’ll have to come along wid me.”
The fettered cabbage-vendor protested. He wasn’t
going to wash himself —he hadn’t been sentenced to hard
labnur. But the official gently touched him
on the arm, and, amid smothered threats that
he would get John Davies to ask a question
in the Assembly, off he was dragged to the wash-house.
A little later, screams, as if of a drowning man, issued
from the beignoir—" “John Davies will bring you all
before the bar of Justice! ” “Me dear man,” retorted
tne heartless Milesian carrier of keys, “ The only bar
of Justice ye’ll get here is a bar qf soap.” In three
hours our companion returned to his cell, and the two
prisoners who had undertaken the job got a respite and
were put on full rations.
* * *
Bat more anon. Here is a story, chiefly lies, as
told by Haynes, at the gas-stove
In tins tale figure a good many distingmished
people. To make the tale complete we had better put
down at once John Alexander Dowie, The Hangman,
Myself, Alfred the nigger, sinoe hanged, Alfred, the
Lieutenant-Governor (not hanged yet). Alfred, the
journalist, two bush-boys, now fellow-prisoners of oars,
serving a sentence for horse-stealisg, Archibald, and
the Sheba Club. The association was formed at the
time, when I, on the Evening News, wae agitating for
a reprieve of the two boys, and the nigger, Alfred,
who were then lying, the former in Darlinghurst, and
the latter in Mudgee, awaiting suspension from their
prison duties. The club was a newly-organised one, and
consisted of all the blaok ships’ cooks, coloured slush-
boys, and buck-nigger barbers, that could be got to-
gether to agitate for the respite of a brother-negro in
trouble. Although the statement lam about to make
is not in accordance with the strict principles of
modesty to which I invariably adhere, for the sake of the
narrative it must be made Of the Sheba Club, I was
unanimously elected President. Here the narrator
paused to leave his mark on a pine-apple, and having
carefully left the spiky end for the refreshment of his
fellow-prisoner, resumed :
mm*
The Executive having finally decided to string
up the two, and copy being a bit scarce on the paper, I
resolved to agitate for the convicts in a manner that
shonld attract universal attention. I therefore drew
up a petition to Sir Alfred Stephen (then Acting-
Governor), and, calling a meeting of the Sheba Club,
arranged that they should present it. I forget the
exact terms in the petition now, but distinctly re-
member that its contents were a cross between the
opening section of one of Dowie’s sermons, and the
last chapter of a dime novel. It was very funny,
anyhow. The Sheba Club admired the document
vastly, and as a flattering sign of their confidence in
my judgment, and admiration for my talents, invited
me to lead the procession on the day they wore to pre-
sent the petition. Well, meanwhile tho agitation had
gone on splendidly. I get Dowie to yowl, in the Hay-
market; persuaded poor Waters |to harangue the mob
from a stack of firewood in Belmore Park, while I aired
my eloquence in various places from a tilt-cart, round-
ing up the Sheba Club to listen, and thus attracting
about 15,000 people at every oration, and nearly
creating a riot. My progress was a triumphant on# ;
the unanimity of the storekeepers in putting np their
shutters at the approach of my band of patriots was
most surprising. The day of execution drawing nigh,
Archibald was despatched to Mudgee to report the
execution of the blaokfellow, and about the same time
the hangman went up too, but somehow on his way he
lost his rope, and being refused the loan of the cord
round Arch’s shoe-trunk, arrived on the scene of tho
hanging-match, in a devil of a fluster.
* * *
Well, at last the morning arrived on which the
Sheba Clnb and their president were to distinguish
themselves; and so, placing myself at the head of a
shrieking mob, I led the way to Government House.
Tho petition was borne aloft by a huge “ buck nigger,”
and the document was nearly as black as its bearer,
besides being coated with enough slush to grease the
top-gallant-mast of a Blackwall liner. Some other en-
thusiasts bore aloft a canvas box, shaped like a coffin,
which, in huge black letters, was labelled—
“MEECY ! ”
• • •
As soon as the approach of the niggers was seen
at Government House, the sentries shut tho gates, and
the mob behind, not knowing of this, and thinking to
enter with a rush, jammed the ebon deputation with
such force against the iron portals that you could hear
their heads ringing against the bars as far down the
street as Ikey Josephson’s. “Clear out!” cried the
sentry; “go round the back—you can’t come in here.”
«But how about de pefcish ? ” said the spokesman.
“ Who is it for ? ” enquired the sentry. “ Alfred," was
the reply. “ You mean Sir Alfred,” said the soldier.
“ No, I don’t,” replied the petitioner; “ I mean Alfred."
“What, the Evening Alfreil?” “No; Alfred, the
blackfellow who is under the sentence.” Just then
the mob began to weary of his parley, and some of the
white petitioners began to shove the black ones, and
these replied by belabouring the white men with banner
staves. And so the multitude swayed and rocked, and
roared and yelled, until an aide-de-camp came canter-
ing up the carnage drive. His orders were to let the
deputation in, but to allow no followers. So the blacks
and I were squeezed in through the gate, greatly to the
disgust of the army outside, who vented their feeling
chaffing the guard and cursing the Acting-Governor.
• • •
“Who are you, sir?” said the officer to me,
suspiciously, eyeing the black deputation (who were
then seated on a flower-plot border, eating biscuits and
dripping) with great disfavour—“ Who are von, sir ? ”
I’m a member of the Evening News staff," was my
proud reply. On hearing this, tb e aide-de- camp clapped
spurs to his horse, and darted like a madman down the
avenue towards the house. A few moments later, when
the deputation passed through the hall, I saw that Sir
Alfred’s servants had carried away and hidden all the
coats and umbrellas, while a heavy guard, armed to the
teeth, was placed over the card-salver in tho hall.
* * *
When Sir Alfred came in, the nigger-spokesman
with the petition went on one knee amidst & chorus of
chuckles from his backers, and pressnted it to Sir
Alfred for psrusal. “ Get up I" said the Acting-
Governor; “ don’t kneel to me." Then he said to me,
impatiently; “Take away this cookshop crowd, for
heaven’s sake.” But it was no good. The spokesman,
clearing his throat, read as much of the petition as he
oonld decipher on such short notice, and filled up the
gaps with “ ynck-yuoks,” other ventriloquial sounds
peculiar to Ethiopians, and finished by gracefully hand-
ing the document to Sir Alfred. Taking hold of it by
the cleanest corners, the old gentleman turned to
Nathan and requested him to see that it was consigned
to a safe quarter—the dust hole. He then promised to
give the case of his namesake careful consideration,
and, dismissing the petitioners, gave immediate orders
for the housemaid to perform on the apartment with
bar soap and flannel.
• • •
The upshot of tho whole thing was that the
black man was hanged and the two boys’ sentences
were commuted to imprisonment. And, to much
against Sir Alfred’s will, that it is said ha recommended
the disappointed hangman to bring an action for dam-
ages against the Evening News— that journal having
alone been instrumental in procuring respites for the
two youthful convicts. And now, said John, comes the
curious part of this veracious narrative :—Poor Waters,
who was one of the principal agitators, is dead ; Dowie,
another, is hunting up the man who prom sed him a
tabernacle; Ogilvie, a frantie demagogue who helped in
the processions, is in gaol for fraud; Haynes and Arohi-
bald are in the same place for libel; and the twe boys
whose lives were saved are the most ill-conditioned and
worse-conducted young demons that Mr. Bead has ever
hod umder his oare.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Milburn Creek trustees are not to be
further prosecuted.
The members of the Government carefully
avoided the Corowa banquet; the spectre of abolition
of interest frightened them.
The new London publication, the Republican,
is getting an enormons circulation in Great Britain,
but particularly in Scotland.
The Age’s canard was telegraphed to London,
as authentic news of a declaration of war on the part of
Bussia. Earl Kimberley’s reply was simply “In-
credible I ”
The Parisian salon, where women can talk with
men of other things than trivialities, has been intro-
duced into England by Mrs. Gladstone and several
other ladies.
Mr. Graham Berry says that a political lull is
from time to time necessary for the prosperity of a
nation. No doubt. In this colony we have been pros-
perous for thirty years.
Graham Berry, in his speech at Geelong, admits
in effect that at present he can find no higher political
work to do than “ sitting on a rail." Mr. Kernot,
M.L.A. for Geelong, has died, aged 62, after a long
illness.
It is only by a side-wind that we hear the real
significance of Sir Samuel Wilson’s defeat for Belfast
Mr. Porter, the successful candidate, was a pronounced
Freethinker, and his opponent being more in the
Presbyterian interest, the issues, with Home Buie, &c.
added, became somewhat mixed. The Freethinkers,
who are strong in Belfast, struck the balance, and
carried their man to the front.
Bribery and corruption at home. Tho election
of Mr. Crampton Eoberts, a Tory candidate, cost £6500.
and this is how some of the money went. The 11 agent ’
hired 42 canvassers at £6 apiece; flags, rosettes, &o ,
cost £796. Exactly 850 persons received £3 a bead for
their votes. Sir Julian Goldsmid, a Liberal candidate,
was victimised through his “ agent" for £lB2O, of
which .sum £lO5O was spent in direct bribery at so
mueh per head. It was proved that 127 persons took
bribes from both sides. The “ agents" are, of course,
in gaol, and the prayer of petitions for their release
hag, we are glad to say, been curtly refused. At latest,
Mr, Frederick John May, an eminent solicitor and one
of tho bribers, was making himself very useful at
Knutsford prison. He has had his hair cropped and
wears the prison garb. He told a friend who called to
see him, and was allowed to talk for a few minutes
through the grating, that he could now make a pie
with anyone. There are some people in Sydney who
should be sent to make pies. For instance, the old
lady who rarely has anybody in her house, but always
keeps seven “lodgers" on the electoral roll. She
sells their votes every year to the same man, and
makes quite a good thing out of it. Then again, people
eternally ask: “ Who is the honourable member for
Haslem’s Creek ?” and “ Who’s the man that the dead
in the Necropolis all go for P"
It takes more lovers to make a husband than it
doss hnsbands to make a lover.
A cheerful little reference in our last to a young
and rising member of the bar, has, we hear, been made
a handle for chaff, not altogether without spite. Now,
the spiteful folks who use a joke, which they themselves
are not capable of framing, to annoy a good fellow, us
the barrister in question really is, do a shabby thing.
We only meant a good-natured bit of raillery. THci/
try whether the same words, with their expression
added, can be made to hnrt.
As Broughton Creek became civilised, it was
arranged to have the half-holiday which humanity
needs every week, on Thursdays. But a large-minded
storekeeper, whose average takings on the now
abolished holiday are sevenpenoe, backed at it, so the
boon has been abolished. . . . The number of dress-
makers at Broughton Creek, is twelve, three married
and nine single; and yet not one of the nine has had
sense enough to make waistcoats a speciality. And
this is the more incredible, as there are four unmarried
schoolmasters in the district, not one of whom can as
yet he said to be fairly captured.
Darwin says that an acre of garden ordinarily
contains 53,767 worms. We haven’t a garden of our
own, and we haven't time even in this secluded rafrsat
to count the worms in the gaol garden, so we’ll take
Mr. Darwin’s word for it. We can’t accept on faith,
however, his further statement that worms eat cobble
stones. We tried one the other day with a piece of
petrified hominy, and if Darwin had only seen the look
of disgust on that worm’s speaking countenance as he
wriggled out of the cell, on his way to procure an
emetic, the great scientist might have been led to modify
his views on this important subject. The mail-clad
warder, who was mounting guard over these proceed,
ings, was so deeply affected by the touching spectacle,
that he offered to “ embalm it in imperishable verse,”
and after an hour’s inward convulsions, he sent us an
original poem for insertion in The Bulletin. It
commenced: —
“ It made me giggle
To geo that worm.
With frenzied wriggle
Go out to squirm."
We have sent the rest to the Poet’s Corner of the
Parramatta Yespbknal Stupor,
WOMAN ITEMS.
A noble French woman says she has beautiful
hands because ten generations have passed since any
of her ancestors soiled their fingers.
“Dear me!” she exclaimed, “you never can
get a constable when you want one. Though I have
three servants, there’s not one policeman about the
place.”
The Mormon agents have been following the
Belgian game of decoying away English girls. The
law suppressing Mormomsm will put an end to this
villany.
A woman who lives in the Chinese quarter at
Ballarat weighs 27 atone. She is only of middle height
and has to enter an ordinary door sideways. We hope
to see this lady in a crinoline shortly.
When fashionable London decided that a pillion
for two was the best saddle. Lord Augustus was horri-
fied. “ Your thweetheart theth behind, yon know, and
the barberth have given up parting a manth hair
behind."
It is not at all surprising that Mrs. Langtry
should possess elocutionary gifts of a high order, as
her father, the Bean of Jersey, is almost as noted a
reader in his own circle as the late Mr. Bellew was in a
much wider ohe.
Chapter i. “ Oh, do let me have your photo,”
she exclaimed to the fellow who was sweet on her.
ii. She got it next day. in. She gave it to her servant
with the question: “Would you know the original if
he should call P " “Yes.” “Well, when he comes,
tell him I am engaged."
Mr. Patrick O’Rourke and his wife do not hit it
well together. Pat prefers kicking. The other night
when he came home drunk, she said, as she took a
sixpence out of her boot to get supper, “ What’ll you
have, you gory Hibernian scaiiwag t“ “ I’ll have peace
in this house," he replied, as he stove her head in with
his seven-pounders.
Two old bachelor brothers hanged themselves
recently in their lodgings at Potsdam. They left behind
them a paner saying they had found single-
blessedness so miserable that to escape from it they
had resolved to take away their lives. Let all bachelors
take warning by this awful example, and marry before
it is too late.
At the coming marriage of Prince Leopold and
Princess Hdleue of Waldock-Pyrmont, there are to be
eight bridesmaids. Two Dukes’ daughters; Lady C.
Bussell, Lady C. Campbell. Two Marquises’ daughters:
Lady Aline Vane, Lady J. Conyngham. Pour Earls'
daughters ; Lady Alice Lathom, Lady £. Brooke, Lady
A. Anson; and one other.
Whenever a certain Northern woman’s husband
stands np, she invariably addresses to him this re-
quest.” “ George, darling, as you are on ‘ your leg ’
kindly hand me my guitar." Observe, she doesn’t say
on “ your legs," for that wouldn’t be la accordance
with the strict truth, as he only possesses one, having
lost the other in the Crimea. The lady in question is
the great grand daughter of the very late George Wash-
ington, which fully accounts for her beautiful veracity.
The N.Y. papers comment unkindly upon the
dimensions of Oscar Wilde’s legs. This, says a con-
temporary, is due to the fact that, of late years, the
symmetrical leg has been a greater success upon the
stage than the level head. O, sons of Adam, wor-
shippers who congregate on wet days by muddy cross-
ings to worship the thing of beauty and the joy forever
incased in red stocking, how shall we elevate your
minds and teaoh you that Miss Mature has taken Miss
Padding into the family, and that there is as much guile
in cotton now as before the “ wah ?" Even the
daughters of Gotham have begun already to sour on
Oscar because of his legs. By the Beard of the Pro-
phet, next to the golden calf the human calf doth
reign, and the flabby shank in man or woman is the
brand of failure, contempt and poetry.
There’s a good deal of sentiment sometimes
where one would net expect it, and, considering that
the following lines oame from the Barcoc, they are by
no means bad. It not the highest poetry, they are at
any rate pointed, and pat the matter in a way that
—if the girl thinks over it at all—must strike her as
decidedly practical:—
“ Tell me, gentle Lilian, when years have passed away.
And locks, so blaok and glossy now, are soanty then
and grey—
When that lithe form, so upright now, has lost its
beauty strong—
May you not whisper sadly then, “ I’ve waited quite
too long ? "
“ I tell you, gentle Lilian, and well the world I know.
Youth is alone the time for love —why wait for Winter’s
snow ?
Tell him to como, he’s weary now; but love is ever
strong,
Or you may sigh, in after years, “ I’ve waited quite
too long.”
A marriage was annulled in London recently for
an extraordinary reason. The plaintiff, Bobert Hunter,
an organ builder, asserted that he had married a mad
woman, without finding out her insanity till afterwards.
He saw her and liked her looks, visited her parents’
house several times, and asked her to marry him. He
noticed nothing peculiar until the day fixed for the
marriage, when she wrote asking a postponement as she
felt worried. The Snnday before the ceremony ho
walked out with her, but she seemed to have no interest
in anything, and kept robbing her hands listlessly. At
the altar she was the same, and her hand was too
swollen with the rubbing habit to allow of the ring
being properly put on. In the carriage, at the break-
fast, and subsequently, she took no interest in anything
except the absorbing operation of rubbing her hands;
and in the morning she requested him to out her throat.
He declined, as he was not accustomed to that kind of
work. Medical men deposed that she suffered from
melancholia, that she was not likely to recover, and that
the children (it any) might inherit her mental failing.
In answer to the Judge, the listless bride mustered up
sufficient energy to say that Mr. Hunter could have
his own way. Mr. Huuter had it, and is now a single
man again.
Matrimonially, England has improved since
1857. In 1860 there was one petition for divorce or legal
separation for every 628 marriages ; last session one in
every 300 persons married was in the divorce court.
Jt’s the same all over the world. Belgium, 40 years
ago, had one divorce for every 574 marriages; now-a-
days, it has one in every 200. In France, where divorce
is not permitted, there is one legal separation for every
150 marriages, most of these separations proceeding
from causes which might have warranted a more heroic
treatment. In Germany, there are comparatively few
divorces. Courtships are long and “ moony," and the
Teuton is an nnexcitable, easy-going person, not prone
to stray after delights more carnal than fresh sausages,
and old beer. The Americans carry off the palm for
divorces, for in some of the States anything con-
stitutes a ground—habitual drunkenness, conviction
of a penal crime, desertion for two years, if
the husband is “extremely cruel," or, in brief,
does anything inimical to the wife’s good pleasure.
One in six is the average in the New England States,
where the Puritan element is so strong. Finally, in
Connecticut, “ any such misconduct of the other party
as permanently destroys the happiness of the petitioner
and defeats the purpose of the marriage relation," was,
until lately, quite sufficient to obtain a dissolution of
what is styled, “ the holy sacrament of marriage." The
result is that society gets almost as mixed as in Buch-
arest, where it is not uncommon for an innocent young
thing of one-and-twenty to lead up her third husband
to the altar, the two looking on from the gallery; or
for a lady to stand up in a quadrille set with throe
gentlemen, all of whom have been at one time her
sponse. Indeed, did not the Greek Church limit the
number of divorces to the number of the members of
the Trinity, there are Boumanian matrons who could
dispose of a much greater number of husbands. Number
three is, however, apt to be in the awkward position
of being the lady’s last chance, and of playing tie
somewhat inglorious part of a cloak for many unlawful
flirtations. In America it is hardly as yet come to than
pass ; though when the mother told her little girl that
the gentleman who had bowed to her from the other
side of the street, * was your pa last year’; she was pro-
bably fast approaching the happy Moldavian mean. In
Tolland county. Conn., where a man was once not per-
mitted to kiss his wife on Sunday, the average is one in
eight.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Sir Henry Parkea the guest of Sheriff Ogg,
London Boyal guano licenses granted to Anglo-
Anstralian Co. (Bird Island) and to Mr. Arundel, of
Messrs. Holder Bros. (Sydney Island) Attempt
made to blow up the Dublin detective office; three
houses damaged aud several persons injured A now
electoral scheme before the Commons Duke of
Edinburgh will preside at a banquet to be given to Sir
Henry Parkes by Anglo Australians IgnatieS wants
to expel Jews from South Russia; Czar averse
Chinese Minister at Washington, U.S , threatens to
withdraw, and hints at commercial reprisals by China.
Nihilist dynamite and gunpowder seized at Kertsch,
in the Crimea German Emperor’s 85th birthday
enthusiastically celebrated Czsr’s coronation fixed
for August An avalanche in Nevada destroyed a
score of lives Col. Burnaby, of the Guards, crossed
the channel in a balloon Canadian Parliament has
legalised marriage with a deceased wife’s sister
House of Commons voted Prince Leopold £10,0(0 a
year, to set up house after his marriage Jewish
chemists expelled from St. Petersburg Commander
Romilly appointed Deputy-Commissioner in the South
Pacific; stationed at New Britain Royal College of
Music, England, to be established; open to colonists;
Prince of Wales patron; movement supported by Sir
Henry Parkes and agents general of the colonies
Lord Bedesdale’s motion re oath of allegiance and
infidels, negatived Liverpool Grand National Stee.
piechase: Seaman 1, Cyrus 2, Zoedone 3 Mr.
Ritchie’s motion about oppressive foreign tariffs
rejected by Commons Eight hstween two regiments
of soldiers at Galway Small-pox at Hayti: 4100 per-
sons died American wheat yield good...... Thirty
“ moonlighters ” attacked the tenants of Eyan’s House,
Drumblane, because they had paid their rents. The
police fired on the aggressors Father Feehan, of
Eathdowney, sentenced to six months’ for inciting
sedition Lifeboat at Havre, France, swamped; 19
persons drowned Pelton, steamer, 816 tons, foun-
dered off the Cornish coast; 18 lives lost A number
of soldiers at St. Petersburg' arrested as Nihilists
A train ou the Northern Pacific line,*U.S., completely
wrecked; several lives lost At Higham Ferrers,
Northamptonshire, a fire burned down twenty-six
houses 78,000 persons emigrated from Ireland during
1881 Irish emigration fund started in London
Egypt will fortify Port Said, sitaated at the entrance
of the Suez Canal Hon, Saul Samnel, Agent-General
of N.S. Wales, and the Lord Mayor of London have
each entertained Sir Henry Parkes, who is also to dine
separately with Earl Granville, Sir Stafford Northcote,
Lord Sherbrooke, and Marquis of Salisbury. Sir Henry
proposes to visit the poet Tennyson; his birthp’aco,
Stoneleigh, Warwickshire ; and Birmingham Two
seamen of H M.S. Northumberland tried to drown a
mi s lipman; five and seven jeirs respectively Ex.
isteuoe of dynamite mine on Bt. Petersburg to Moscow
railway suspected A fire at Richmond, Virginia, has
eaused losses to the extent of 500,000 dollars
London failures:—Joshua Meyer, china merchant, for
£100,000; Thomas and Oxley (also of Liverpool),
£75,000 Cape Colony Parliament has appointed a
Basuto Royal Commission Attempt made to blow
House of Lords up with dynamite Two prize-fighters
were milling in a Dunbar chapel; eight persons
arrested The barque Fameuoth wrecked House
of Mr. M‘Mahon, Magistrate, county Roscommon,
blown up with dynamite Captain Bosauquet, of
H.M.S. Northumberland, stationed at Cagliari, Sar-
dinia, assaulted and robbed Arohbishop MeCabe, of
Dublin, created a Cardinal Queensland iiuer Durham
gone ashore on the Cornwall coast...... Farmhouse at
Donegall damaged by bomshell Dynamite shell
thrown into ths bouse of Lord Cronbrock’s agent did
mneh damage The new press-telegrams regulations
are to be modified so to exclude intercolonial wires from
tb 500 word limit, and to name an earlier hour 10 p.m.
for the resumption of ordinary press rates David
Wilson, shepherd at Limestone Creek, near Yass,
N. S. W. fell in a fit while cooking his breakfast, and
so severely burned that he died “Jimmy the
Whisper” the last of the “Thunderbolt" bushrangers
eaptured at the Springs, near Goodoga,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
J. O’Dowd ” : Yes, under the present condition
of things, it would, so far as we are concerned, require
tho evidence of 15 constables to disprove that of either
a Chinaman or a Kanaka “ J.D.Y." (Murrurundi) :
Very much obliged to you “ A.E.1." : Those are very
closely our sentiments. But although the voice is the
voice of Jacob, the hands are the bands of Esau
11 Little Billabong” : Bight you are “ O.O.” : Glad to
hear from you “ F.B. W." (North Shore) :We won’t
insert anything of the sort. Your par. seems merely
spiteful. Too thin “James Moon”: Your snake
story will appear next week. We thoroughly be-
lieve it “ A Howling Public” : We don't know
what titles are to be conferred on Sir Henry.
Probably he’ll be Duke of Brummagem, Marquis of
Pinchgut, Earl of Kiama, and Baron Woolloomooloo
“ Sphinx" (Bega): Many thanks; already had a notice.
“George,” and “M.L.” (Balmain); Verses were
not brilliant, but fair. Specimen enclosed inferior. If
George, by working a bit harder can do better, we shall
be glad to hear from him “ C.H B.” : Obliged for
sympathy, also for item, which is the more use-
ful of the two “Alpha”: You’re deteriorating
“Ut Presitn ’’: We don’t know when the banquet is to
be given to the Mayor and Aldermen of North Shore, for
making such splendid roads in that suburb “ Wil-
liam Brown": Of no interest “One of the Crowd";
, Tho fact that we have noticed one Farye more than the
other is easily explained. The Secretary of the E.C.
Fayre has kindly furnished us with all information. In
the case of the C.E. Fayre no information has been
given. We can assure you, however, that this will
make no difference in our reports, which will be absc.
lately impartial. Who is the secretary of the Garden
Palace Fair? He does not append his name to the
advertisement “E.8.F.” £ thanks; we will see what
we can do with it “ Cuaßdos" : Held over
“Onyx”: Just a little late; will appear next week.
Glad to hear from you “ Staumore": Thanks for
your averages ; but, though valuable information,
space can bo afforded for only the most important return.
However, we may yet make use of the others. The
New Zealand averages differ slightly from those pub-
lished in the Canterbury Times “F. 8.”: Puzzle is
very stale. His own son “C.": No, you can’t
recover unless you produce the pro. note. By accept-
ing it you settled the account. It is the same as if you
had lost a bank note. You couldn’t come down upon
the person who paid it to you “ B.": Yes,
you can get an order by suing
“Subiaoo": In Australia, aoeording to the A.M.P.
Society, butchers live longer thou any other class.
Clergymen come next. The former provide the “ fat"
of the land; the latter enjoy it. The A.M.P., how-
ever, don't put it in this way “ One who knows;
You don’t seem to be a friend of the gentleman re-
ferred to. While obliged for your letter, we do not, as
you will readily understand, feel called upon to print
auy portion of it “Tasma”: There are about forty
daily papers in those colonies... Potts’ Point":
Judges’ Associates should be gentlemen, at least out
of their teens, and not bits of schoolboys. Genesis ”•
Wo suppose it is. The Catholic Archbishop only uses
St. John to refute John Stuart Mill. He apparently
overlooks the fact that Mill at tho ontset denies the
authenticity of that gospel, and sails clear of it
“ Herberton": Bight you are “ Eockhampton’’:
We should say that certain clergyman are the panta-
loons in this world’s pantomime “H.J.H.” asks :
i ‘ Six card hand of cribbage. A plays a 4, Ba 3. A
plays a 5, and takes a run of 3; B plays a 2, run of 4.
A plays a 6, run of 5; B. al, run of 6. Can A play a 4
and claim a run of 3 ? I say he cannot. Please inform
me through your paper which is correct.” In the play
you mention, A could uot claim a run of three; but he
scores a run of six on all the numbers played except the
first “G.F.G.”: Next issue “Piety": Next
week, perhaps “A reader”: Thanks. Will duly
appear “ Frank Faithfull " : Not original
” Memo ": We sometimes publish poety that is a little
behind Tennyson; but never anything so far behind as
what you send “EG.": Bight “Boss"; Bala-
la): Considering “M.SB.": We cannot taka the
case up, not rich enough “AM.” (Darlinghurst):
Furnish names privately, and we will insert item
“Typo” (Qucanbeyan): Send names in confidence to
editor “S.E.": Glad of brief “socials.” “Quiz”
(Tumut): Just our style -‘Aster": Look at it next
weak.


Business Annoum
A
USTEAIIAN “HOI
SEWING MACHI
Unprincipled Dealers—to mail
lings profit—are offering for sal
Machines that will not stand a yea
s
o
s
&
'P.
&
<3a/
THE HOME SHUTTLE I
Manufactured for us, has the ah
name on the work ]
PURCHASE NO OTH
We solicit information of the ati
terfeits of the above Machine, wl
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genu
procurable, we will forward then
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE HOW SOLD
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPL]
Do.. WITH COVER COMJ
No charge for cases or paehing.
Circular pos
M. MO SIT AN I
WYNYAED LANE,
B. L A
Wholesale and Ei
PRODUCE MER
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORI
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pa
And
Darlinghurst Road, near V!
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine an
778 and 780 GEORGE STR
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is repleti
stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haj
For VENETIAN
TRY
WOR M A
112 OXFORD ST]
w
H. A R
PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISi
343 and 345 Kent-stkeet, NEi
SOLE AGENT for the usdcrment
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lon
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victor
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victeria To
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria Co:
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn ]
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, nea
Tobacccnii
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS
AMERICAN TO]
THE following facts are co
resources, and, therefore,
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty i
I All the others paid duty in 1880 o:
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty i
All the others paid duty in 1881 01
Imported manufactured tobacco j
on for the two years was only.,
DIXSON AND SON’S BE
YANKEE DOODLE, (
SIR ROGER, GOL
CUT RUBY, ORIENTA
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror n
genuine "Tin Tag,” each ph
Bound Single Tin Tag, si
queror " or “ Yankee
ALL TOBACCONISTS’ GOC
Magnificent iron-pr
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Bos
Imported by us direct, and mai
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WARE
YEARS. They are of very hands(
are most sensitive, sweet, and powi
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYK
Examine and test them before pi
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheaj
BEALE and COMP
1, Oxford-street; 612, George-i
Buildings, Sydn«
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Hig
Howick-street, Bathurst j A
burn ; Church-street, Pairam
Brisbane.
No matter where you live wo wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
jndia and china t
705 GEORGE S'!
Hatmarket.
OUR “STAR OF INI
Have been proved i
SUPERIOR TO ANY
FOR
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND E
Sold only at our Establii
705 GEORGE S
HAYMARKET
OPPOSITE HORDERN’S
EMPORIUM.
Tb LATE AND SHE
Hotels, See.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ATT. THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed,
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
rjpo PUBLICANS AND STOREKEEPERS.
To Let,
A HOUSE containing 9 Room?, with Elegant Bar and
Bar Fittings, Kitchen and Stable, built for a Public-
house, but at present occupied as a store. Also, a Store.
Apply to the proprietor,
-FREDERICK TEELOW,
Copper Mines,
Nymdgee.
Q. U N S 1 E E’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(1 Harris’ opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen,
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
V e GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(J HA S. R. §MITH,
MANAGER.
B
OBERT BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
5W GEORGE STREET.
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
COCHTET ORDERS RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Hotels, Sec.
Ii
LOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
n
m
ii..-
V!T
ra*
~A
-^ r
«S
19
se«
0 =
KW
SS
GUINNESS’S EXTFA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANTS
YIRGOE, SOnTaND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
UD
It is of the utmost importance t
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New So
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite hevei
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands. when they will fln(
least 10 per cent, in favour of L
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
F
MARTIN .
AUSTRALIAN WINE M
AND BEEE BOTT
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s i
ALBUEY WINI
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Mai bee
HUNTEE EIVEE \N
Claret
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The Purest Stimulant
Th* Fan.* ol M. MOSS k 00,
Ii on ererj Genuine Bottle.
(HIR/t-
- A
•oyalßlend
QM
A.C.THOMSON & C? !|
PROPRIETORS
GLASGOW j!
This rate old dcotch Blend ,j
is distinguished ly 'tviny a oouquet * :
Urs in fine old m'atu r
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOB NEW SOUTH WALES,
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USINESSES FOR SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS.
Offer for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO. Intending Purchasers, who favour ua with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in.
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79 Pitt-street.


RILEY BROTHE
386 GEORGE STEEET,")
600 GEORGE STREET, V
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCAST
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET,
THE CHEAPEST DI
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLO
THE ORIGINATORS
NOTED £5 BAI
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2i yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child's Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &c.
Motl:
2 Ladie
2 Ladie
2 pair I
1 Ladie
1 pair I
1 Ladie
2 pairs
1 Ladie
4 Infan'
2 Infan
2 Infan
1 lufan
Moi
2 Infan
1 Infan
i dozer
Sqn
Pull bo:
1 Flam
2 Bibs
1 pair 1
1 Infan
1 Inf
Sqr
Qui
1 Inf
Ho'
£5
1 pair
1 larg<
10 yard
20 yard
12 Stro
20 Win
10 good
6 yard
All
wearing
£5 Men’s Clothing 1
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Goat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
G White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &c.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies* Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good lougcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5l
1 pair
1 whil
5 yard
10 whi
Cal
G whii
12 yarc
12 yard
4 pair
1 pair
1 Dar
6 stro
s Bro
4 lari
3 yati
T v
Tk
£5 B
25 yds,
3 yard
1 dozi
1 Bla<
1 Lad
1 Trit
1 pair
Cai
RILEY BROT
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 I
4 Infants' Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hand
2 Infants' Long Flannels Long
1 Haircord Monthly Gown richl
2 Infants’ Rollers 1 Infan
4 dozen Diaper Squares Squa
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infas
2 Bibs Silk
1 Pair of Wool Boots Car
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s £2
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nigl
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chen
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
fWe shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
0/ racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general .]
EACINQ.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z ) March 30, 31.
Hawkesbury March 30, April 1.
Victoria Trotting Clab April 1.
Qoulburn A- ? tll i 5
Williamstown (Y.) April 10.
ranterbury. J C. (N.Z ) April 10, 11.
Auckland E C., Autumn April 10,11.
A T C. Autumn April 10, 12,14.15.
<?vd’ney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C April 20, 21.
Wilcannia April 20, 21.
Kchuca April 20, 22.
Svdney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Deniliquin April 27, 28.
Lachlan E.C May 4, 5.
O \ J.C May 6, 11,13.
Eunedin (N.Z) Winter May 24.
«• Z Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Adelaide E.C ...May 20, 24. 25. 27.
Bligh A.T.C- Mudgee May 22.
Murrurandi J.C May 24.
Queensland J.C May 24, 25.
Parramatta J.C May 24, 25,
Manning Eiver J.C May 31, June 1.
Warm am bool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
Bookhamptsn July 6, 7.
AQUATICS.
Hanlan v. Boyd, £5OO aside on the Tyne April 3.
Bocky Mouth Eegatta Easter Monday.
Kempsey Eegatta Easter Monday.
Victorian Yacht Club Eegatta Easter Monday.
Watson’s Bay Eegatta April 22.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Eace April 29.
Globe E. C. Trial Fours, in Outriggers April 29.
Triokett v. Hanlan, £5OO aside on the Thames.... May 1.
M.E.C. Junior Single Sculls (President’s
Trophy) May 6.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Eegatta May 24
Hanlan v. Eoss, £2OO aside Jane 20.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Carooar Athletic Sports May 24.
Eoma(Q ) Athletic Club April 10,
Tamworth Sports April 10.
SWIMMING
Lavender Bay matches April 1.
W. M’lndoe v E. Cavill, £4OO and championship
of Australia, 1760 yards April 8.
Port Jackson Swimming Club matches April 29.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Sir Oliver has been sold for GOO guineas.
The Watson’s Bay Regatta is fixed for April 22.
Hanlan and Boyd meet on Monday on the
Tyne.
Murrurundi Racing Club have fixed a meeting
for May 24,
J. C. Laycock forfeited to Solomon for his
match on Saturday.
Sports at Carcoar on May 24. A prize handicap
of £26 is to be run for.
=£l24 was raised by the Melbourne bookmakers
for the jocfcey Carey’s relatives.
J. M‘ Donald won the sculling race for all comers
at the Tarce regatta on St. Patrick’s Bay.
At Grafton, on Tuesday, Schell and Noud ran
125 yards for £2O aside, the latter winning easily by
four yards.
The English Grand National Steeplechase, run
for on March 24, resulted as follows Seaman, 1;
Cyrus, 2; Zoedone, 3.
The chief prize—the late Mr. Bagot’s pretty
villa—in the Bagotville Art Union, was won by Mr.
Cohen, Mayor of Tamworth.
The Annandale and Balmain Bowling Clubs
played a match at Balmain on Saturday, the scores
being—Balmain ISO, Annandale 86.
Lillywhite made an offer to the S.A. Cricketing
Association to play another match before leaving, but
arrangements could not be cempleted in time.
The want of rain has rendered the training
tracks at Rand wick and the Hawkesbury very hard, and
horses with tender feet are beginning to suffer.
Barlow, the English cricketer, states that never
in his life has he used bad language. And, as Barlow is
a teetotaller too, he must be quite a good young man.
The long talked of match between the imported
trotting stallions Boccaccio and Von Moltke is to take
place on 15th April over the Elstemwick (Vic.) track.
The Victorian representative crew will be a
much heavier and more powerful set of men than our
eight, and must win, should they be decently trained.
At the V. A T.C. Meeting on Saturday, Mr. E.
Weeks, the well-known Indian horse trader and turfite,
was fined £lO, for using insulting language on the
lawn.
Wahgunyah Races, ISaturday. Maiden Plate ;
Belle Brandon, 1. Selling Hack Race: Tommy Dodd,
1. Handicap : Jack Spratt, 1. Hurdle Race : Sham-
rock, 1.
A sculling match for a trophy, and some heavy
bets, has been arranged between T. O’Sullivan, the
Brisbane champion amateur, and Henry Lynch, a Towns-
ville mar.
A very fine two-year-old draught colt by Prince
Imperial, imported, was purchased at Grafton from
Mr. Morehead for £l5O by Mr. T. Armstrong, of Rich-
mond River.
A series of pigeon-shooting matches is to be
held at Yass on May 24. The first will be a grand
handicap sweepstake of two sovs. each, with ten sovs.
added for all comers.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club accepted Mr.
Lamb’s terms for the sale of 100 acres adjoining New
Plumpton. Debentures of £5O each at 6 per cent, are
to be issued amongst the numbers.
For the Glebe Rowing Club trial fours which
comes oil next month, twenty-fenr entries were
received. This is the sort of thing that makes rowing
hum, but it never happens in the big clubs.
On the 22nd, Mr. J, K. Doyle, of Tamworth,
essayed to kill 30 pigeons out of 50 on the usual terms,
1 oz. shot, 30 yards boundary, and 30 yards rise. He
shot 29, and the 30th fell 17 inches out of bounds.
Hunter River Turf Club Races. Saturday—
Shorts : Volunteer 1. Hack Race: Traveller 1. Ladies’
Mile: Rocket 1. Pony Race; Countess 1. Trot in
harness: Flower Girl 1. Turf Club Handicap : Volun-
teer 1.
Messenger and Hearn rowed on Saturday, at
Wellington, for £2OO and the championship of New
Zealand, course three miles and a half. Hearn led from
the start, and won easily by 20 lengths, the time being
24 min. 29 secs.
The match between Melbourne and South Mel-
bourne for the Cleeland Challenge Cup was continued
on Saturday. South Melbourne (first innings) 154;
Melbourne, 248—Moule 51, South Melbourne, two
wickets for 33.
Billy Emmett, of Chicago, proposes to take
Sullivan, the winner of the late tight for the American
championship, to England, and match him against any
one for $20,000. If he does, Mr. Sullivan will be thrashed
by a man half his size.
The first heat of the Newcastle Rowing Club
contests for Mr. J. Woods’ handsome trophy was rowed
on March 24, Messrs. Graham, Hyde, M'Dermott, and
A. Millard beating Burke, Trenchard, King, and Q.
Millard, by half a length.
Corowa Annual Races. March 23. Maiden
Plate: Belle Brandon, 1, Selling Eace : Tommy Dodd,
1. Corowa Handicap: Thurgoona, 1. Town Plate:
Thurgoona, 1, Handicap Hurdle Eace: Prasdour, 1.
Forced Handicap: Belle Brandon, 1.
The principal event of the Carcoar Athletic
Sports on Queen's Birthday is to be a handicap race for
£25, the winner to receive £2O, the second man £3, and
the third £2. The race will be run in heats of 190,150,
and 200 yards. The entrance will be 20s.
A 200 yards’ race for .£25 aside between Rowey
and Clara took place on March 18, at Wagga Wagga.
A good start was effected, and Clark held a slight lead
until a short distance from home, when Kowey rushed
to the front, and won easily by about a yard.
For the Hawkesbury Handicap Bathurst is first
favourite. Gudary, Larpent, and tne Barber are fairly
supported. For the Sydney Cup, Sweet William holds
the favourite position in the betting. Boyal Maid,
Wellington, and First Water are also backed.
A trotting match has been made between Mr’
Gannon’s Paddy, and Mr. Nelson’s New Chum, for £5OO
a side, the former to concede the latter 200 yards
start in three miles ; the match to take place in about
six weeks’ time. £250 a side has been deposited.
The Wallaroo Football Club hold their annual
meeting early in April. Chapman, captain of the Cam-
bridge University team, is amongst the new members.
Bichmond, and probably Oatley, will be playing again
this season, so the Wallaroo-University matches will
be very keenly contested.
Mr. J. Robertson, of Hamilton, lately offered to
back his horse. Poor Me, against any horse in Victoria
for half a mile, and sweepstakes of £5O. Messrs. Craig,
D. Conley, and Skene Brothers have ac-
cepted, but arrangements have not been so far com-
pleted as to make the event a certain fixture.
The Alberts and Warwicks commenced on
Saturday their second match for the Holdaworth-
Gardyne trophy. The Alberts made 225 —Moses head-
ing the list with 101; Gilfillan 29, J. Tooher (not out)
25, Smith 19, A. Gregory 16. The Warwicks lost one
wicket (Hiddlestone) for 8 runs.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Races. Saturday
—Selling Eace : Harp of Erin 1, Purchased by Mr. J.
Wilson for £l3O. Hurdle Eace : Glenrowan 1. Separa-
tion Stakes: Syndicate 1. Purchased by Mr. Wilson
for £145. South Yarra Handicap: Sir Joseph 1.
Steeplechase: Actress 1. Richmond Handicap : John
Peel 1.
Sale (Vic.) Turf Club Annual Meeting. First
day, Hurdle Eace : Little Duchess, 1. Sale Handicap :
Hyacinth, 1. Junior Stakes: Fryingpan, 1. Second
day. Maiden Plate: Princess, 1. Ladies' Purse: Aurora,
I. Selling Hurdles : Black Prince, 1. Visitors’ Plate:
Fortuna, 1. Steeplechase : Lucy, 1. Telegraph Stakes :
Tangle, 1.
The N.S. Wales handball players were invited
to the St. Patrick’s Day Banquet in Melbourne. Mr.
Farrell, the captain, in responding to the toast of ** Our
Visitors,’’ remarked that his team this time was com-
prised solely of New South Wales natives. He was
surprised Ireland’s national game received so little
attention from Irish-Australians.
A three-mile trotting match for .£lOO took place
on Saturday on Kandwick Racecourse between Mr.
Kelso’s New Chum and Mr. E. Stevens’ Master George,
a well-known Victorian trotting pony. New Chum was
ridden by his owner, while the pony was driven in a
light sulky. New Chum took the lead, and was never
headed, winning easily by six lengths in 9min, staec.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club races. First day,
Mares’ Produce Stakes: (Cambric, 1. Selling Eace:
Moses, 1. Autumn Handicap: Marchioness, 1. Two-
year Old Plate: Eugene, 1. Second day. Flying Handi-
cap : Nightmare, 1. Maiden Plate : Britisher, 1: Prince
of Wales Stakes: Young Woodlands, 1. Publicans’
Purse: Nightmare, 1. Open Handicap : Corissima, 1.
The dashing young yachtsmen who sail to
Manly on Sunday mornings, and meet the disembark-
ing passengers by the 10 a.m, boat from Sydney, think
more of ease than style. The costumes they roam
about in are anything but chaste, and lack as much in
quantity as they do in quality. If they wore much less,
some of these jolly young sailors would be about as
fully clothed as Turkish-bath attendants.
Inverell Picnic Races, March 24 and 25. First
day—Hurdles: Count 1; Maiden Plate: Eosalie 1;
Voluntary Handicap: Brentilda 1; Vice-President’s
Cup : Mameluke 1; Guineas: dead heat between Dowa-
ger and Banker. Second day—Hurdle Eace : Count 1;
President’s Cup: Eosalie 1; Ladies’ Purse: Lemonade
1; Byron Handicap: Mameluke 1; Goodwood Handi-
cap : Mariner 1; Final Handicap : Brentilda 1.
Our Boys defeated the Osbornes by 102 runs on
Saturday. The fielding and bowling of the victors in
the second innings were admirable. Next Saturday the
Out Boys and Orientals meet on the Cup ground. The
Surrey Uniteds play the Orients also, and then there
will bo only three clubs left in the contest, the Austra-
lians this time running a bye. The contests are
beginning to be exciting, and the cricketing public
evince great interest as to the result.
Tumut Annual races, March 22 and 23. First
day. Maiden Plate : Old Joe, 1. Prince of Wales Stakes:
Valentine, 1 Turf Handicap: Old Joe, 1. Ladies’
Purse, Blackbird, 1. Hack Eace: Miss Green, 1.
Trial Stakes : Gambetta, 1. Second day. Selling Stakes:
Johnny ICrapaud, 1. Town Plate: Favour, 1. All-
aged Stakes: Dead-heat between Favour and Musjid.
Hurdle Eace: Montana, 1. Grand Stand Handicap :
Musjid, 1. Forced Handicap : Victor, 1.
Mr. S. Fairbairn, son of Mr. Fairbairn, of Lara,
Geelong, is one of the Cambridge University crew, and
is described as “ so powerful, and on the whole so pro-
mising, that it is well worth the president’s while to
devote any amount of trouble to him ” The gentleman
referred to is not the only one of the family who has
occupied a seat in the representative crew of an
English University. Mr. Fairbaim’s brother, who
stroked the victorious Melbourne crew in the first
Intercolonial eight-oar race, held an oar in at least one
Inter-University contest.
Mr. Biddulph, of Carcoar, has presented a
handsome solid silver cup (valued at 18 guineas) to be
played for by the Bathurst, Orange, Walli, Blayney,
Carcoar, Cowra, Molong, and Cudal clubs, each to play
the best two out of three matches, winners to pair off
and play best two out of three matches. The Biddulph
Challenge Cup is eventually to become the property of
that member of the winning club who secures the high-
est batiing average during the Cup matches.
The Intercolonial Hand-ball Matches were com-
menced on Saturday, in Melbourne. Hannon, who was
to meet Keenan, of Sydney, in a single-handed match,
was unwell, and Egan took the Victorian’s place. The
match was for four ont of seven games, 20 aces each.
Keenan won by 60 aces. On Thursday, the three-han-
ded match will be played, Hannon, M’Namara, Egan
(Victoria) v. Keenan, Heagney, and Walsh. The two-
handed match will be played on Saturday, M’Namara,
Egan, (Victoria) v. Keenan, Heagney.
A writer proposes that totalisators should be
licensed by Government on payment of an annual fee;
that all tickets in sweeps should be Government stamped,
and that cheques for prizes won should be similarly
treated. In other words, that the public should be
legally protected when it speculates. He says the pub-
lic should decide what is morality, not the Govern-
ment, and if the mass of the public want totalisators
and sweeps, the Government has no right to constitute
itself the arbiter of morality, and to deny these things.
A day’a racing took place at Wollongong on
St. Patrick’s Day; weather fine, attendance good, and
fair fields of horses. The results were as follow
Maiden Plate; Skylark 1. Municipal Handicap : Flor-
riel. Hack Handicap: First Try 1, Flying Handicap:
Florrie 1. Substitute Stakes: Firetail 1. The great
sensation on the course was a double-bodied pig, which
the lessee of the grandstand had on view as a “draw.”
This animal had two bodies, eight legs, two tails, but
only one head, and was in every respect fully developed.
Sixteen events are on the programme for Pro-
fessor Cavill’s aquatic sports, at Lavender Bay, on
Saturday. Captain Connolly is to receive the Royal
Humane Society’s medal lor saving life from drowning.
There are separate races for boys and girls, a race for
all comers, a 1000 yards’ race for the championship of
N.S. Wales, a race for aboriginals, and a four lengths’
contest for representatives of the press. It will be
difficult to fill up the latter, so few pressmen being
inclined to take to water. They prefer rum
and milk. A contest between representatives
of the Distress, the Mickey, and the Marrow-
bones would cause some excitement. Tor obvious
reasons we shall not enter, but we are ready to
make a match with the winner to float —a loan.
In the Equity Court last week the question of
the disqualification of Mr. Mayo and his horses by the
A.J.C. came before His Honor the Primary Judge in
the form of an injunctive motion. It was impossible to
obtain a full bench as was intended, and His Honor dis-
cussed the suit, stating that, even if Mr. Mayo had a
strong right, he (the judge) would be very indisposed to
create a new jurisdiction for the court. If he did, all
the jockey clubs in the country would be appealing to
the court. Ho thought an action at law would have
tood.
Arrangements are being made for a match
between eleven of the University club (the prospective
winners this season of the Holdsworth-Qardyne Cnp)
and fifteen players selected from the clubs engaged in
the Thomson Cup contests. The match will take place
on the Association Ground, and the proceeds will be
given to a charitable institution. The contest should
be interesting, inasmuch as it will bring the junior
players under the notice of the Association. But, in
the interests of a close game, we would suggest twenty-
two juniors.
Batting averages of Shaw’s Eleven in all
matches played in America. Australia, and New Zea-
land G. Ulyett, 32.19 ;R. G Barlow, 27.17; W. Bates,
26 39; A. Shrewsbury, 26 2D; W. Midwinter, 17 31; J.
Selby. 16 21; A. Sootton, 13 24; A. Shaw. 112; R.
Pilling, 10 4; T. Emmett, 95; E. Peate. 77. Innings
above fifty made. G. Ulyett: 164,149, 87, 86, 77, 71, 67,
66, 59, 58. 55; E. Barlow : 77, 75, 62. 62, 61, 60, 59, 56,
50; A. Shrewsbury: 82, 80, 77, 75. 72, 70; W. Bates : 84,
71, 66, 63, 58, 52; J. Selby: 70, 57, 56, 55, 51; W. Mid-
winter : 77, 73; W. Scotton : 50. On the occasion of
the visit of Lilly white’s team in 1876, Ulyett, in eleven
aside matches, made 243 runs in five innings. With
Lord Harris’s team, in the same class of matches, he
obtained 306 runs in nine innings. Thus he has alto-
gether in eleven aside matches, in Australia, made
exactly 1100 runs in 28 innings—an average of 39‘8.
Says the Dunedin Stab referring to the athletic
meeting held there by the Australian peds.:—“ O’Brien
is a beautiful runner, combining great speed with such
light, easy action as to lead one to imagine that he is
not travelling at all fast; the watch, however, tells the
tale. His time in the mile race was nothing out of the
way, for there was no competitor able to extend him,
but the performance was good enough to show that
when pressed he could do a mile in something under 4
min. 30 secs. It has been given out here that he has
covered the distance in 4 min. 16 3-sths secs., or within
\ sec. of the fastest time in the world; but that is all
bunknm. What he may yet do it is impossible to say,
but at present his best time is 4 min. 25 secs, (with 25
yds. start), which he made in Melbourne when com-
peting against the English amateur Slade. Freeman is
also a really good man at short distances, his time being
very good; but it must be noted that a very strong
breeze was helping him along. O'Connor, who is a New
Zealander, gave a capital exhibition of walking, and also
ran very well in the five-mile running contest.” Now it
is a fact that O’Brien has done a mile in 4 - 20. He the
other day at Timaru undertook to run 5 miles in 28
min., and accomplished the task easily in 27 min. 5
secs.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A blood entire, purchased in England for the
Hon. J. White, arrived at Melbourne last week in the
steamer Sikh A footrace for £2O took place at Graf-
ton on March 21, between Knowols and Scheld, the
latter winning by three yards A man was lately
pulled into the Murrumbidgee Stiver by a large codfish
which ho had hooked. To save himself he had to lose
both fish and line In response to an invitation from
the N.S.W. Bowling Association, 16 Ballarat players
(four rinks) will visit Sydney during next month
Lancefleld (Vic.) Eaces, March 28. Town Plate, Blink
Bonny 1. Lancefleld Handicap, Beadsman 1 Hawkes-
bury racecourse is much improved. The new platform
is 400 feet long by 12 wide, and is 180 yards nearer the
grand stand North Adelaide v. Norwood commenced
at Adelaide on Saturday. North Adelaide, 143; Nor-
I wood, 2 wickets for 33 Australian Surry r. Nelson.
A.S.C.C., 83—Miller, 21; Kelly, 12; Parsons, not out,
11; Hinchy, 10. N.C.C. 33—Keogh, 13. Blackburn,
tor the winners, took 7 wickets for 11 runs Some
splendid bream-fishing has been enjoyed on the Q’.enelg
river during the past fortnight. Some gentlemen from
Warrnambool went up for some sport, and had every
reason to be pleased with their success, as the follow,
ing record of their catches will show:—lst March,
941b5.; 2nd, 601b5.; 3rd, 811bs.: 4th, 221b5.; sth, 281b5.;
7th, 791b5.; Bbh, lOllbs.; 9th, 491b5.; 10th, only two
hours’ fishing, 271bs. Total, 5391b5. in 9 days to two
rods. The heaviest fish weighed within 2»z. of 41bs.
The average weight per fish was a trifle under 2(lbs
The coursing at Hindmarsh Island (3. A.) was concluded
Maxell 24. Locket won the Derby, and Paycash the
Oaks Says the Mount M’Donald Miner : “ A des-
perate battle took place a few days ago on the peaceful,
silent banks of the Eiver Lachlan, near the Eocky
Mountains, between two young men named Ginger and
Jarrow. The fight lasted about an hour, and 144 rounds
were fought without claret having been drawn. No
doubt the combat would have lasted until now had it
not been for the closing up of one of the peepers of
Ginger, and as the daylight was fast disappearing he
reluctantly acknowledged that his opponent was the
best man, so they shook hands and parted better friends
than ever.” Jem Mace, on arrival at Wellington on
20th Feb., was quarantined by the Health Officer, who
examined his biceps to see if there were any vaccination
marks. Courageous man, that Health Officer! Bed
deer are said to be a great nuisance at Penrith.
Bell’s Life in London has been sold for
£7OCO. It has of late years been a cranky property,
owing to the inroads made on its circulation by the
cheaper and brighter modern sporting papers The
Comte St. Quentin, who has just won the big pigeon-
shooting prize, the Grand Prix du Casino, is the first
Frenchman who has yet secured that trophy. He
grassed all his birds in splendid style. Neither the
second, third, nor fourth prizes fell to any of the well-
known English shots. The Grand Prix was this year
worth £750, and was accompanied by an objet d’ art of
£l4O According to a Nevada paper, a druggist in
Carson, George C. Thaxter by name, made a record of
59 out of a possible 50 recently, while shooting at a 500
yards’ range, aad afterwards, on a wager, hit the bull’s
for the eleventh time.
The foundation atone of the Seamen’s Home,
Newcastle, was laid recently by the Eev. James
Coutts, who then completed his promised donation o(
GUESS WHO ?
There was a young man with a yacht,
Who much into debt himself gacht.
And owed such a lacht
That to pay up the shacht
He found that he must sell his yacht.
Mr. A. Lewis (chairman of the booksellers’
picnic) made a few special remarks about thi obscene
literature sold in Sydney. He said some paper—he
believed the Echo— had reflected on the trade for sel-
ing it; and in the strongest language he repudiated the
imputation conveyed. The body of the trade set their
faces against the sale of such garbage, which was al-
lowed, In a polluting stream, to trickle through our
Custom House, though it had been firmly stopped in
other countries. The godly Treasurer of New South
Wales carries his head too high to see what can be seen
injmany tobacconists’ windows in our principal streets.
Perhaps, however, he may be so innocent as not to know
a bad book when he sees it. In that case, what a par-
ticularly pure tradesman this pure tradesman must
do 1
Down in Fiji, under the Cakobau regime, a
gallows had been erected to hang a Fijian, but some
ladies of Levuka presented a petition to the king,
begging him off. The sable monarch somewhat angrily
consented, pointing out the expense his Ministers had
been to in putting up the gallows, the exact cost of
which he accurately stated in dollars, and then asked
the pertinent question: “ Who will pay the
carpenters ? Shall all that money go for nought ? "
During Cakobau’s reign, too, a Cuban murderer was
hung by the neck, but not until he was dead, for they
' had to cut him down alive, and let him go, and ho is
now in the land of the living somewhere in this wide ,
world.


SOCIAL.
A very pleasant Cinderella party, the first of
its kind at Cooma, was given the other day by the
Mayor and Mayoress, who are popular. Dancing
finished, according to rule, at 13. Honours divided
between a tall, dark lady and the daughter of a worthy
ecclesiastic.
• • •
There was a ball in connection with the Bega
show on 17th March; toilets not extravagant, hut
tasteful; two sisters in cream and cerise were charm-
ing. The daughter of a popular Bombala squatter was
pretty in white lavender, and three sisters from
Colombo were much admired, the eldest being belle of
the ball Supper was wall served, and dancing pro-
tracted till 4 a.m. As the local band played at the
show, the banquet, and the ball, they were busy.
• • •
It’s nice to be a middio on a man-o’-war in
Tasmania. The competition among the Hobart belles
for the naval juniors was very severe ; there was not one
of them less popular than Bunthorne, and the lovesick
maidens sighed for them, smiled on them, and went for
them like the elderly Mormon for Artemus Ward: only
they were nicer. One idolised “mid." had to announce
that he would only “ go in for married beanty j” while
another would never have got away if he had not
divided every waltz among three partners.
• • •
At a Church of England bazaar, Cowra, lately,
policemen watched closely for raffling operations—
anxious for more shilling fines, but the ladles didn’t see
it, and disposed of the goods otherwise Musical ladies
must be scarce in Cowra, for at the concert not one
nerformed; all the glory monopolised by gentlemen
from Milbum Creek!
• • •
There will be no raffles at the approaching
fancy fairs. The girls will come np and ask ; “ Won’t
you take a share in this ?’’ Of course you will—that’s
to say, of course you must—and, taking a share, yon
will constitute yourself not a ticket-holder in a lottery,
hut the owner of a share in an article. And, when all
the shares in a given article have been bought, it will
be for the shareholders, in other words, the owners, of
the article, to say how the decimated pincushion or the
disintegrated clock is to be disposed of. A lawyer
wrote this paragraph, which is not calculated to bring
a single blush of shame to the cheek of modesty.
* # •
The pretty and picturesque town of Tumnt, has
been lively of late. The bachelors gave an enjoyable
ball a fortnight since, and provided champagne and a
sapper of the Compagnoni stamp. Three pretty sisters
appeared in cream and cardinal—cream and pale blue—
and white and geld, respectively. A tall and graceful
young lady from Boudi was admired in a tasteful cream
cashemora and cardinal plush. A young married lady
in white satin, long tram, and wreath of forget-me-nots,
made half the Tumnt baahelors want to marry right
away. A cardinal satin with black lace, and a green
Bilk with black velvet bows, worn by two married ladies,
were appreciated. A tall, graceful figure was set off
by pale blue silk; and a brunette was admirable in pink
and blue sateen.
• ■ •
r In two or three weeks, a happy Newtown man is
to share his joys and woes with a belle from Macquarie
Fields, Liverpool. Ceremony at the bride’s residence.
• •
The'Bsth birthday of Kaiser Wilhelm, Emperor
of Germany, was marked by salutes and festivities on
board H.LM. man-of-war, Carola, on the 22nd ultimo.
The British vessels reciprocated the salutes The
mail sorters in the Melbonrne Post Office gave a supper
a fortnight ago. Over 70 guests present, including the
Postmaster-General and several members of Parlia-
ment. Nothing of the sorter in the Sydney Post Office.
Indeed, the annual Departmental picnic is now five
months overdue, and no sign of it yet Concert on
St. Patrick's Day at Forbes; good attendance and
profits. Also, concert and ball at Mechanics' Institate,
Singleton; dancing; crowded. Also, at Wagga, sports,
concert, and banquet, which latter many ladies at-
tended. Chairman—Eev. Dr. Bermingham, proposed
“ Pope Leo 13th ’’ as the first toast, and the “ Queen ’’
second. In doing so, he displayed execrable taste.
Mrs. Pieroy (known to Sydney people as Miss Dargon)
recited “ Fontenoy *' in splendid style Formal open-
ing of Berrima Coal Co.'s colliery and railway on 18th
March was the occasion of a large pionio and banquet.
Messrs. Lackey and Watson spoke Mr. Flanagan,
school teacher. Orange, presented with jewellery and
address last Friday by parents of boys he had managed
to run through the C.B. Exam. It is evidently no
small task to get an Orange boy up to a high state of
education Late-Mayor Sinclair, of Brisbane, to have
a presentation soon Citizens’ bill to Marquis of
Normauby at Brisbane, sth April Capt. M Lean
(late of the s.s. Wotouga) received an illuminated
add)ess and a pane of sots, from a number of mercan-
tile men at Brisbane on 20:h nit.
« • •
Ballrooms and parties are so crowded to-day
that, there can be uu one *h • visits auch thing., and
who is poked ami basiled, am tripped and trodden on,
but mail admit mere is >o >m f ir improvement, though
there isn’t room for am thing else It.is eslimatedthat
at some fashionutle bulls the number of killed and
wounded during the round dances i. almost eq lai to the
results of an average b trie, and philosophers have pro-
foundly studied the q motion i f how to render the
nudern waltz has dangerous and destructive than it is
now A clever man has invented a device which he
claims will ameliorate the horrors of bvllroom waltzing,
while it will not interfere with the enjoyment of either
bx. It consists of * Patent Waltzing Pena.” The
plan is to hive the room fitted with boarded fences,
dividing the whole space into squares of about six leet
each way, all joined together, so that the structure can
bo hoisted to the ceiling by pulleys during square dances
and lowered for round ones, ihe floor is marked in
corresponding squares, and when the music starts, each
couple take* its place on one. and the machine is low-
ered. All parties then enjoy a comfortable dim e with-
out a single poke in the ribs or a bruised corn from the
excited wrestlers in the vicinity. The device enables
tiied or badly-wounded dancers to rest occasionally, and
still k-ep right along with tbesqu ezing. which is the
main thing a ter ail; while, for obvious reasons, the
fences will be about e'ght feet high, and won’t havean.v
boles that officious people can look through. We feel
sure that this invention is a boon which only needs to
be known to become a social necessity. The special
advantages of the "Patent Waltzing Pens’* may be
thus summed up: The ease wii h which the structure
oau be raised or lowered, the additional spueezing facili-
ties, and the delight of knowing how exasperated the
antique spinster chaperones get when they can’t see
what’s going on.
• • «
The Bace Ball Wagga), though not so
numerously attended as usual, passed off very success-
fully on Thursday evening last. About thirty couples
were present, who, with a well arranged programme,
good floor, and Mr. Broadhurst’s playing, could not
help enjoying themselves. Two sisters in blue were
much admired. There were a few fancy dresses, princi-
pally from “ Pinafore.” Josephine looked very well,
but such characters are played out. The lady from
Newtown had to retire early through illness, and the
sunflowers were missed, as were also two sisters from
“the Hill."
• * •
Last Thursday, in, Bourko-street Wesleyan
Church, a very large number of persons assembled
to witness the marriage of Mr. Louis Edgeby, a
thriving Bathurst bmiaess man, and Miss Ida Arm-
strong. The bride’s tall and handsome figure showed
to advantage in white cashmere, trimmed with white
brocaded silk and lace. Thei e were six bridesmaids :
three in cream, with cardinal roses, and caps to mateh,
while three prjtty little girls, in pale blue silk trimmed
with cream lace, wreaths of forget-me-nots and pink
rosebuds, and attended by three little boys, dressed as
middies, formed a pretty procession. Honeymoon at
Lithgow.
• • •
A late arrival is shortly to convey to the hyme-
neal altar one of Australia's fairest daughters, and the
honeymoon trip will be to England vid America.
• * *
The Quean beyan girls are in the fourth heaven
Of delight since three or four camps of surveyors have
located on the outskirts of the town. The road leading
towards the tents is a fashionable promenade, and it’s
wonderful what a lot of surveying the young officials
have done—along that road.
» • •
In Melbourne, the annual celebration of St.
Patrick’s Day by the members of St. Patrick’s Society
was marked by a banquet and ball in the Society’s Hall.
Over a hundred couples danced till near daylight.
J. W. Howard (president) was in the chair, and Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen and Sir J. O’Shan assy made speeches.
Most characteristic dress in the room, worn by Miss
M*Donald, was an ivory-colour sateen, draped across
the front with green silk, and beautifully embroidered
with shamrock leaves in gold and cretonne lace—sleeves
puffed to the elbow, and also trimmed with shamrock
leaves.
* * *
The Mayor has premised to convene a public
meeting to form an orchestral union for Sydney, when
some preliminaries are settled. It is intended to have
a band of good professional musicians to give concerts,
say, at the Garden Palace, and to play in the public
gardens and other places.
• * *
A very enjoyable dance was given at Ash field,
on the 24th instant, by Mr. R. C. Webster. There
were about seventy guests present, all of whom
thoroughly enjoyed themselves, owing mainly to the
geniality and kindness of both the host and hostess,
The dress of the hostess was much admired, also that
of a young bride. The belle of the evening was the
younger of two sisters dressed in pink.
# * •
Amateurs played “ Withered Leaves ” at
Tumut, in aid of the Reading Room. Our funny man
at once suggests, that we say the audience commenced
to “wither " during the first part of the performance,
and to “leave” during the second. But we cannot
tell a lie to get in a joke. The audience were pleased.
* * #
The Agricultural Show and Annual Races at
Tumut were the best yet held there. A few of the
most conspicuous costumes is the Grand Stand and
vehicles on the course were A pretty navy blue satin
deLyon, with moonlight trimming, and cream etcetera:
a black silk and old gold sash ; pink sateen and black ;
fawn silk trimmed with fawn satin, and Tuscan bonnet
trimmed with cream satin: a peacock blue silk and
broch<s, black lace and steel beads. There are both
fashion and beauty up Tumut way, it seems.
• • *
On Thursday, 23rd March, the grocers of Sydney
held their fourth annual picnic at the Sir Joseph Banks,
Botany. Fine weather, twelve four-horse ’buses,
several hundreds of visitors, and lots of private vehicles.
Frightfully dusty road, Young Australian Band nearly
had their trumpets ami things choked; oysters and
porter on arrival, and then dancing. The anti-dancers
footballod, cricketed, and sported in other ways. The
sports committee wore growled at a good deal, one irate
man with a grievance stoutly asserting that they did
not even show ordinary intelligence in regard to their
duty. There was uncertainty as to when and where the
races would come off, and the rough element was
obtruded occasionally. Host Smith spread a splendid
luncheon, and his waiters, as usual, were civil and
sharp. Mr. P. Kelly was chairman, and “ Soapy ' beg
pardon, Mr. W. J. Allen—made a shrieking speech on
the “ Ladies." His ambition had always been to be a
lady, and the greatest disappointment of bis life was
when, at an extremely early age, he heard the doctor
announce “it’s a boy!” After luncheon, a good many
disappeared from the scene; they were taken to the
beach by kind friends to recover. The picnic was
regarded as a success more from a financial than a moral
point of view.
• mm
A young medico, son of a recently-appointed
M L C., will, early next month, lead to the altar, the
fair daughter of a widow lady, residing at Granville.
• • *
A squatting gentleman, not far distant from
Wellington, will, within the next fortnight, marry the
niece of a Rivorina millionaire.
t • •
Miss Bloomfield, of Denham Court, Campbell
Fields, marries, on the 13th of next month, Mr. Dick-
son; and Mr. A, Bloomfield will shortly lead to the
altar Miss Dickson, sister to Mr. Dickson.
• • •
On Tuesday, 28tb instant, the Synagogue,
Elizaboth-street, was the scene of a very smart wed-
ding, the bride being the daughter of the late Mr. A.
Goldman, of Purdhos, Darling Point, and the
bridegroom, Mr. Hyman, of Narrabri. The bride
looked exceedingly beautiful in a rich ivory satin dress,
with a Pompadour sweeping train, trimmed with pearl
and embroidery, the front with Brussels lace, flounces
very wide. B xlioe sleeves and neck were richly
trimmed with pearl embroidery and narrow
Brussels lace Handkerchief of point de gaze lace;
wreath of clematis, myrtle and orange blossom, and a
very rich amp e veil. Her jewellery consist dof
a suite of pearls, a gift from the bridegroom
Amongst her visiting drea estho most noticeable one is
a walking costume, a rich grenat merveilloux satin, with
chenille and firefly passementerie. On the 26th inst. the
bride erpectante held a recaption, at which she wore a
magnificent pink satio, tric-nud( with embroidered
scarf and lace. The brideanuids were three
sisters of the biide and one of the bridegroom.
Two in cream merveillaux satin and pink C'ua
line, with Languedoc lace, a long sweeping
train trimmed with the new silver Ba’lagure-
laoe. The bodices were trimmed to match. The bon-
nets were composed entirely of daisies, maiden-hnir-
o’-heatb, winch looked very prettv. The two yc uoge.-t
wore short dresses of cream merv.-illeux and ruby rutin
and Languedoc lace; hats to match. Amongst the
visitors a rich mynle >atin and brocade lace and beetle
passementerie, trimmi g to match. Around the
sweeping yold, Bnliagu es lace b mnet of pearls
and cream lace. The j wel ery wo n was of goll.
Another lady, granduiottier to the bride, was habited
in a rich black moird, richly tiimmed with broohe,
very long train, aud cream bonnet. Hat jewellery con-
sisted of an entire suite of diamonds. Amongst the
vuevts was a yoang lady wlo not very long ago stood
in the same place as a bride, aud who wore a very rich
black velvet with a long sweeping train, the skirt being
entirely covered with verv rich white lace; b< dice to
match. The bcunet courid. d ct steel beads • raa-
ments and luce The mother of the bride I oked very
nice in a dress of deep shaded gronat, very long,
trimmed with tame shade of rich brocade, chenille
fringe and garnet passemtn'erie. Bodice to match,
with Flinders lace at nock and sleeves. Bonnet of
oream plush and grenat jewellery, eip suite of diamonds.
Ball to be given when bnde returns.
• • •
A grand ball at Cintra, Burwood, next week.
• • •
On Wednesday evening, at “ The Hopes,”
DarUoghurst, there is to be a children’s ball on a very
grand scale. Some very beautiful dresses were worn.
• • •
Several hundreds of people assembled, as usual,
in the Botanic Gardens last Wednesday, to listen to the
mnsio of the Permanent Artillery Band. The cool
shady seats were all occupied by listere s ! Others
walked witi noiselers footsteps on the green sward.
A fine rich black silk trimmed with broohe and the new
passementerie trimmir g drew its long train over the
grassy carpet, showing to advantage A young lady in
pink, with a large white hat, looked very charming.
The dresses were quite varied, no speciality being
prominent.
* * *
Edgecliffe Road is to have its hymeneal event
shortly.
* • *
Here is something which will draw the attention
of children at Ye Englyshe Fayre at the Garden Palace.
A lady, well-known in one of our suburbs over the
water, is going to have a loliie stall, with twelve boys
and girls dressed in the I ate Greenaway style. This
will I a tol-lolly.
• • •
R. C. Fayre items. —The Dress of the waitresses
in the Chelsea Bun House is to consist of a short brown
skirt, with square body, white muslin chemisette, and
apron trimmed with lace. Sleaves are to be puffed with
pale blue j a white wig will be worn, and low shoes with
brown stockings Stylish lady of Hunter-street is
going as Lady Campbell (of Queen Elizabeth’s reign) in
a dress of garnet velvet and satin brocade, powdered
hair and three-cornered hat en suite A circular issued
in black and red, by Freeman and Co., is unique and
beautiful. In old-fashioned quaintly-spelt language
those who intend to appear at the Fayre are invited to
have their photos taken in ancient costume.
• • •
There are to be about fifty stalls at the
Garden Palace Fayre, which will be opened
by Lord Augustus Loftus at noon on Easter
Monday. Many handsome dresses are being made,
one of the most noticeable being that represent-
ing Queen Elizabeth, for Mrs. Sydney Want. Marie
Stuart and Amy Eobsart will be there. The young
ladies at the Tavern, relatives of a distinguished judge,
will be in costumes of Charles ll.’a reign. A young
yianist, as well known for his quiet manners, as for his
skill at improvising music, will play each afternoon. j
Trinity Ghnreh, Miller’s Point, was the scene
of a fashionable wedding on Wednesday week, the
bride being the daughter ef Hon. P. G. King, of Bank-
sea. Double Bay, and the bridegroom, Lient. Goldfinch,
late of H.M.S. Emerald, and now of the Wolverene. The
bride looked beautiful in a dress of rich white moire,
the long train trimmed with Brussels la.ee, the front of
skirt flounced with same, and draped with moire, the
wreath was small, with a butterfly nestling in the hair.
Eight bridesmaids lent their assistance at the cere-
mony; three were dressed in cream and Pekin net,
large bows of peacock satin; three in pink with sashes
of garnet moire; and two children in pale bine, and all
wearing white caps with flowers to match the dresses.
The bridegroom and his groomsmen were all attired in
the uniform of their Service. Two cousins of the bride
from North Shore were present, one in rich cream
satin and hat of cream lace, leaves, and pink roses, and
the other in pink and cream, with a peacock bonnet
trimmed with pink roses. The bride’s mother wore a
very rich dark silk and light bonnet. Among the
visitors were many well-known people. The cere-
mony was conducted by the Ven. Archdeacon King,
assisted by bis curate, and the Chaplain of the vessel.
* * #
There was a great social sensation in Melbourne
last week, when Mrs. Ann Johnson, relict of the late
Mr. Archibald Johnson, of Toorak, was married to
Mr, Alfred Macnaughton Nicholas, son of Mr. Alfred
Nicholas, secretary of the Beform and Protection
League, on the 23rd March, at the residence of Mrs.
Charles Daakin, Hawthorn. The bridegroom is well
known in commercial and bunking circles. The happy
pair left after the ceremony for Gippslaud, where
they propose to pass the honeymoon. Mrs. Nicholas
is fat, fair and forty—one of those ladies who have a
happy knack of looking as young as their daughters.
Her late hushund, who was as much her senior as her
new partner in life is her junior, only died a month
or two ago, leaving a pot of money. He had been
paralysed for many years, and owned some of the
finest stations in Western Victoria. The lady who has
now become Mrs. Nicholas, is the mother of Mrs.
David Lee—whose wedding, without her parents’ con-
sent, caused a social sensation in the south, a few years
since. She is also the mother of Miss Kate Johnson
(the somewhat celebrated “ Boy-girl ’’) who attained
prominence equally by the eccentricity of her habili-
ments and her musical talents, and whose death
occasioned much regret.
« * •
St. Paul’s Church, Ipswich, (Q), was the
scene of a fashion ible marriage, on Wednesday 22nd
Mar., the bride being Miss Harriet Thorne, daughter of
the late John Thorne, Esq., Cotberstone Station, Peak
Downs, and the bridegroom, Mr, Norman Wilson,
youngest 8m of Mr. G. H. Wilson, Ipswich. The bride
wore a splendid cream satin dress, with long tulle veil,
surmounted by a most tasteful wreath of orange
blossoms. The bridesmaids wore silk sateen dresses,
covered with cream Madras muslin, cream hats and
pink feathers, also silver lookots presented by the bride-
groom, After the ceremony, which was performed by
the Eev. Herbert Heath, the Wedding March was
rendered on the organ in a masterly style by Mr.
Boyles. Honeymoon at Cleveland.
• • •
How many loving couples and indigent families
would ever get an outing if it were not for land sale
tickets? Alderman Farr, of Eedfem and Marrick-
ville, was feted by a number of leading citizens, prior
to his departure for Europe. The company sang in
chorus —“ Thou art so near and yet so Farr.”
Perhaps it is because they haven’t comfortable chairs
at home, that some persons choose the velvet seats in
the dress circle when they want to have a good long,
laud conversation. On Monday night, there
■ ;emed to be some doubt as to who was giving
the performance—Miss Pomeroy, on the stage, or
“ a stout party" in the circle, assisted by two
other ladies in black, and a moustache........
Interesting wedding at Penrith last week. Mr, E. H.
Boat married Florence Christian Vine. Six pretty
bridesmaids and nine buggies were present. Jolly
supper and dance to fifty guests in the evening. The
least the happy man can de for this little notice is to
sand ns his foatograph. On 13th March, at Mel-
bourne, a Mr. Hunt married his (Emily) Self, and is
desirous of Sydney and N.Z. papers copying. We are
always willing to oblige, and so comply with his re-
quest. There are many who, though wedded to self,
don’t care about the fact being published. But then
their •• elf ’’ isn't so nice as Mr. Hunt’s. The price of
t ! ii-, dear Mr. H„ will be 10s. by P.O. order At
C vis hureh (N.Z.) the daughter of an ecclesiastical
d ei i ary, while asleep, had her hair shorn oft her head.
In order to evade publicity, the matter is being hushed
J'P given by Lithgow ladies on Wednesday A
bazaar will be opened at Lithgow-in about a week in
aid of St. Paul’s (C.E.) Bachelors’ Ball at same place
in about a month The recently wedded Burwood
doctor and his bride have settled down after their
wedding trip, and are now receiving The young
gentleman of Campbelltowu, whose suddeu marriage
the other day disturbed the tranquility of the ancestral
halls, leaves for England with his bride next month
A popular surveyor of Campbelltown marks out the
course of life for himself aqd a dashing widow in a few
days.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.
English religions census returns show a church
attendance far below the accommodation.
The election ef the Ahb6 Dagorne to the French
Chamber of Deputies has been annulled, on the ground
o£ undue clerical interest.
Since that “Constantine” fight the “ sooperior
Catholic olargy don't subscribe to the Fuebmak's
Jouujial T hiy harrow it.
Sunday lectures on secular subjects are being
delivered in Edinburgh, More marvellous still, the
lectures are delivered in a church.
Numerous religious, debating, and political
societies m England, have declared the exclusion of
Bradlaugh from the House of Commons to bo illegal,
unprecedented, and fraught with danger to the coni.i!
tution.
Mr. W. A. Duncan, who has been described “as
1 •uc em T S i C *£hoiio layman in Australia,” maintains
with Sir John Eobertaon that St. Patrick was Scotch
It may not be generally known that Mr. Duncan was
once a Presbyterian.
Farmer a melodious Mass in B flat was very
artistically snng by the choir at St. Joseph s E.C.
church, Newtown The soloists were Mrs. J. J. Evan,
soprano; Mis* Lillie Galvin, contralto: Mr. B. Fitz-
gerald, tenor; and Mr. F. Scott, baritone. Mr. Fred.
Croft presided at the organ in his usual effective style.
With regard to the matter of a religious oath,
fhe Mayor of Plymouth recently took a rather startling
step. Wheh enrolling the borough constables, he
said' Instead of taking God's book in your hand and
sweating, you will now only make yonr simple declara-
tion, as men of honour and truth."
At Rockhampton, a Roman Catholic was the
other day refused Christian burial at the hands of his
Church, because, laooordlng to a correspondent of the
D.N. Abgus, •• he would not, as he honestly said, con-
form to the rites of the Church, in paying money
which he could not pay without doing someone a
moral wrong.”
The N.Z. Public Opinion says that on Mr.
Denton’s return to Dunedin it is the intention of the
Dunedin Young Men’s Christian Association to have
him prosecuted for blasphemy. A legal gentleman
who is connected with the Association, has succeeds*
in unearthing an old Act of the English Parliamen
passed some centuries ago, that has never been re-
pealed, which deals with blasphemers in a pretty shar
manner, and it is under this measure that Mr. Dento;
is to be arraigned. Hallelujah !
Cardinal Manning recently made a very dig
cournging statement as to the condition of Christian
education in England. He expressed his belief tha
the religions life of the country was declining. If th
ten years since 1870, when the new Act was passed, wer
considered, it would be found that education in Englanc
was becoming less and less Christian, and he though
that, however they might strive against tha stream
they would find the torrent dashing too strongly agains
them and nothing could resist it." These are ominou
words.
Bishop Merrill, of the Methodist Church (TJ.S.)
thus on Mormonism :—“ It is one of the vilest carica-
tures on religion, one of the foulest abominations tha
now exist in the world, one of the most terrible impo-
sitions ever practised on man or woman, one of the
most wicked deceptions ever imposed upon people
abroad, and one of the worst “ systems” that ever goi
a foothold in our country.” A Mormon elder has
replied to Bishop Merrill, and says that the Bible, in
numerous places, sanctions polygamy. He further
maintains that Joe Smith, the Mormon prophet, had as
much right to interpret Holy Writ as has Bishop
Merrill, and the Elder says he still holds out tor the
right of private judgment.
Unless the Holy See speedily interests herself
in Scotch ecclesiastical matters, it is thought that a
long-smouldering schism will eventually break out in
full fury. Within five years more than thirty-five
priests, connected with one of the largest dioceses in
North Britain, have resigned; and nearly all were
welcomed and are succeeding in other districts. At
this moment two, if not more, of the Scotch prelates
are practically “Boycotted,” and their resignations
are expected. For one convert there are at least thirty
who fall away for want of religious instruction. There
is not one purely voluntary R. 0. institution in the
whole of Caledonia.
The condition of affairs in France with respect
to religion and education may be correctly gauged by
the fact that M. Paul Bert, the Minister for Public
Worship and Education, is “an atheist notorious
among atheists.” This ultra-red is a man of science,
and regards every religion as a bar to political progress.
His appointment by Gambotta has been described as
“ the moat flagrant indecency on record in political
history." M. Bert is a clever man, cool and calcula-
ting, an effective orator, and a worshipper of science,
with an implacable, over-active hatred of the Church.
He does England the honour of hating her. He main-
tains that the development of Secularism in Prance
will be fatal to Imperialism in Germany, and that tha
opportune time for attacking Germany will be when the
Empire is falling. Already, in France, State and
Church are for ever divorced.
Years ago, at his coronation, King Cetewayo
said he was sorry that the English had ever been ad-
mitted into the.'country : they simply did harm. A year
or two later, two of his principal chiefs bitterly ex.
pressed their opinion that directly a Zulu did wrong
he at once sought a refuge at the mission station on the
plea of desiring to become a Christian. They said : 11 If
he wants to run away with a girl he becomes a Chris-
tian. If he wishes to be exempt from serving the king,
he puts on clothes and becomes a Christian. If a man
is an evil-doer, he becomes a Christian. Ah, these
people are the subjects of the king, and who will keep a
cow for another to milk it ? This Christianising of tha
Zulus destroys the land, and we will not have it. The
missionaries desire to set up another power in the land,
and, as Zululand has only one king, that cannot be
allowed." Poor old Cetewayo and his obiefa are evi-
dently men of some perception.
Tha Right Rev. Bishop Moorhouse, has stepped
away from the ecclesiastical grindstone, and wants to
waken up Victoria on the subject of irrigation. Dr.
Moorhouse doesn’t believe that God will irrigate for
people who won’t irrigate for themselves. Though his
Lordship wouli’nt pray, “ straight out ” for rain, ho
" prayed God that he might never see again the scene
of desolation he witnessed while passing over the
Plains" to Kerang. Bishop Moorhonse’s views
always stick out at unexpected angles, like the akimbo
arms of a blathering virago, though Dr. Moorhouse
himself is loveable and manly. He has distinguished
himself in the past by his eloquence, his broadness of
view, his pedestrian feats, his fondness for a quiet
whiff of the pipe, his hatred of the smallest silver coin
of the realm, his pro-Cathedral energy, and his
denunciation of the “secular ” system of education in
vogue in Victoria. And now ha has added to this long
list of angularities, his objection to whine to the
Almighty for rain, and his peculiar motives about yeo-
man agriculture. For, in addition to lecturing on
irrigation. Dr. Moorhouse has advocated the cutting
up of 320-acre sections into 10-acre blocks, and tha
settling down of every adult under his own vine and
figtree.
The Salvation Army have got out anotl «r
paper, The Little Soldier. It is a juvenile War C±..,
in fact, and all the unpleasant blasphemous features of
the older journals are reproduced in the younger. The
plan of the editor is a simple one. He announces in his
paper that anything the readers, however young, may
write, or send, or cause to be written, shall be inserted.
The result is that we find column after column filled
with the ravings, not of adults, be it borne in mind, but
of children from five to twelve years of age, written
with all the wealth of religious slang and canting ex.
pressions in which the Salvation Army glories. Bn
void: “ I thank God that he has washed me in His
precious blood. I want yon all to get saved. I was
saved on Friday night. Satan shall not get me now.—
Sabah, aged seven years." . . . “I am washed in
Jesus precious blood. My mother loves Jesus v and my
little sister Emma is fond of me. My sister Sarah,
when wo are playing at Salvation Army, waves her little
bands about. She is like a little Captain —Martha,
ten y«ars." ... “ Trowbridge.—We still mean to
roll the old chariot along. We had a glorious time of
it here this afternoon. At the close of the meeting,
fifty went down on their knees and asked for pardon,
and we hope soon to have more,— William." . . •
“ Happy Emma.—l thank God lam washed in the blood
of Jesus Christ, and I sell War Cbts, My mother and
father are not saved yet, but I believe they will get
saved seam. I pray for them every night. Mylnther
is saved. I go to the Children’s Meetings and sell
Little Soldiers; they call me Happy Emma, Last
night (Thursday) I was selling War Cbts atd Little
Soldiers, and singing, and one of the scoffers said to
me. Shut up that noisy row ! and I said to him, It is a
pity you aren’t saved 1 and he went away when I said
that. I saw him again, and he said. There goes Happy
Emma I— Emma, aged eleven years." . . . “The
children stood up, waved their caps, hands, and hand,
kerchiefs about, and when the Captain gave the invita-
tions for them to come to the Lord, they jumped over
the forms, and eatne to the form until they were nearly
on the top of one another. There were about eighty.
Pray for us.—A * Happy George,’ Bristol."
* * #
Dr. Ellis says that the broadest stories he ever
heard were from the lips of clergymen. Very sad; but
what layman would seek out a parson to toll’ him
naughty morsels ? Henry Ward Beecher made the
extraordinary statement, the other day, that «the mass
•t the lady teachers in the American Public Schools re-
ceived their appointments at the price of their honour.”
been aroused, but Beecher declines to
retract 874 people at Museum, Sunday afternoon......
Bon mot by the Wagga Archdeacon: “You know, my
Ctuistian friends, that although the Water of Life is
free, yet it is only right that the pitcher should be
paid for.” The new Wesleyan Church at Wollon.
gong costs £27OQ It is proposed to start a
Baptist cause at Petersham In the Salvation
Army, females administer the Lord's Supper
M. Leon Taxil, author of a scandalous novel, entitled
** Los Amours Secrets de Pio Nono,” has been fined
£l5OO by a French court. The prosecutor was a nephew
of the deceased Pope The Rev. J. K. Wagor, a
Methodist minister at Eagle Bridge, N.Y., has refused
to accept the proceeds of a ball for the liquidation of
the church debt, on the ground that the oburch em-
phatically denounces dancing,


99 YEARS’ LEASI
with option to converl
A FREEHOLD
within the first 7 (seven]
On the Direct Koi
THE ILLAWARRA RAILV
SUBDIVISION of that well-k
WEST'S PADDOC
In Area about 50 Acri
tr On the MOST NOVEL and I
conditions ever offered to th
Every Lot will be sold subject to a
the amount of which will’ be
AUCTION SALE, coupled wit
the LEASE may be converted i
AT ANY TIME during the fir
payment of 20 YEARS’ PU
GROUND RENT.
eST Should the purchase money I
time within the flr?t 3 (three)
rent already paid will be trea
PRINCIPAL.
(9* The immense advantage of this
CESSION needs no exph
Within seven years the land will hav
in VALUE; nay, will, no don
second ASHFIELD or BURW(
£lOOO to £l5OO per acre, thus pi
to convert his LEASEHOLD h
lor the small consideration of 20'
BENT at present market assessi
BATT, RODD, and PURVES
sell the above by public auctic
on
SATURDAY, Ist APRIL,
Intending purchasers are retain
PADDOCK is five miles on the 5
GEORGE’S RIVER, and will be in a
EIGHT MILES of SYDNEY. Th
LINE is already LOCKSPITTED d
Edate, and the RAILWAY STAT
CLOSE to the Land, RICH SOIL.
VIEWS. EXCEPTIONAL TER
advantages of a FREEHOLD, whih
RENT HAS TO BE PAID.
PLANS now REAI
Surveyor, W. H. BINSTED, Esq.
Solicitor, A. S. GILDER, Esq., El
Pamphlets, giving views and al
ready, and obtainable from the AUt
OMNIBUSES leave our Rooms o
1 45 p.m. sharp, and will pick up it
at Kedfaru Railway Bridge at 2, Noi
Newtown Bridge 2 30. and Cook's Biv
THURSDAY, APF
IMPORTANT SALE
SUBURBAN PROP
W. PRITCHAI
WILL sell by auction, at
Qeorge-street, on the above
VALUABLE BLOCK 01
Situated opposite Mort’s Dock
Works, having frontage to SHORT,
TREE STREETS, BALMAIN.
Containing 1 acre, 2 roods, and 32
did chance to Subdivide.
THE LINDEN ESTATE, BLU)
ADJACENT TO THE LINDEf
Containing 130 acres, subdivided i
to 10 acres. Suitable for Gentlemen
3 acres 2 roods of lan
ROCKY POINT RO.
Situated between the properties
ford and Gannon
COTTAGE AND LH
Fronting the Government Road ;
ments, Garden-street, near the 1
Hotel, Botany, known as Mi
Property.
BLOCK OF LAND, GIBRAL
BOWRAL, NEAR THR RAIL\
Per Full Particulars and Terms, t
29th March.
TITLE 4 FREEHOI
(in consequence of onr Melboun
of
BENT and BAGHEL
CHRISTY'S 1 ANGLO-AMEBIC A
The present programme the moi
presented.
FRIDAY EVENING, B:
in aid of
"THE BULLETIN” LIB
SATURDAY, Ist APRIL,
Entire change c
MONDAY EVENING, 3r
Complimentary bene
MR. W. HORACE
Under the patronage of the U.S.
Kahlor, Esq., and positive
night of the Minstr
Box office at A. Huenerbeiu's. .
25., and Is.
QPE R A H
Lessee and Manager Mr
••BULLETIN” LIBEI
IMPRISONMENT of HAYNES i
A performance will be given, in ai
by members of
THE LYTTON DRAMA!
assisted by
MISS MARIAN W
(her first appearance in thi
TUESDAY, AIRIL
Byron’s serio-comic dram
DEARER THAN I
Committee :
Mr. G. H Reid, M.L.A.
B. O. Holtarmaun
Evan Jones
T. Do Conrcey Brown
P. K. Ho.dsworth
G. R. Dibba
W. R. Campbell,M.L.A.
C. T. Pierce
R. L. Rowling
D. O’Connor, M.L.A.
Mr.
PROLOGUE: MR. B. I
DEARER TUAN L
SYNOPSIS uF SCEI
ACT 1-GARNEks DINI
Clouds Threater
ACT 2-GARNER'S DRAW
The Storm,
ACT 3-AN ATTIC IN BLt
Sunshine after Ra:
I JTicVets may be had from any of t
A, Hnenerbein’s Music Warehoi
where seats may be secured.
G. R. DIBBS, Chaim
G. U. REID. M.I
C. T. PIERCE
P. R. HOLDSWO
Prices : 55., 3s. 25., Is.
HBA T E B
Lessee I
SIXTH WEEK
and another artistic Triumph conpl
the popular Shaksperian i
Louise pomer
l-OUISE POMER
To-night, THURSDAY, positive!;
Shakspeare’s Tragedj
WINTER’S TAt
WINTER’S TAD
Hermoine and Perdita LC
To-morrow (FKIDAY) N gh ,
for tha BENEFIT ol
UNITED VOLi(NTEEit Pin]
LOUIsE POMEhOY as THE I
oATUxiDAY, ROMEO A M]
Box office open daily at Eivy atd (
where seats can be secured Tick'
the house at Llovd’a. n. xt Theatre.
a
’"ISIT IS. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
F
ALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J, T. FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVES VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions :
London International 1862
18G4
1873
1876
Paris
Vienna
Philadelphia
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST-
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE.
Reisllng Aucarot
Verdeilho Brown Muscat
Tokay
Champagne, Medium Dry.
RED.
Shiraz Hermitage
Carbinet Malbeo
Burgundy
Champagne, Dry.
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE.
332 George-atreet.
*!'
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES. f
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTEU. 1
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO.
BERDEN and
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and 00.,
And other First-class 'Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON.
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PEEK ot FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
HE PAINLESS CORN RELIEVER.
T
A Sure Relief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.
vendors.
ASK POE HANDBILLS.
MACHINERY
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, &c., &c., &c.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other particulars on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
JL7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
482 1.t,484 GEORGE STREET
MARi/rTn nruuii i
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
OPPOSITE THE FRUiTMARKETS,
ESTABLISHED 1864 .
A LARGE and WE LL SELECTED STOCK
WOOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
FASHIONABLE
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO ORDER
, 12/s.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BtSfoPPCE.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTINC COTTON.
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES, is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS manufactured by
them .—Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal, London, 1851. Only First-class Prize Medal, Paris, 1865. Prize Modal,
12. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South Africa, 1877.
London, 1862. , . ~ ~
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, 1880.
Ask for B HOOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Warehouse,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales#


MARTIN «fc PAIN,
389 6EORQE-BT,
Sydney.
FOR THE PLOU6JNG SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising our customers and the
Fanners of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AM ERL
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us wit!
their orders early, as
William Richie’s ISB2 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
INFORMATION * CHAFF-DEALERS
* Owners of Horses, &c.
READ WHAT PRACTICAL I«EN HAY ABOUT }
OUR BUNGLE S MACHINEi
i
Before Ordering,
send for
Our Price Lost
AND
All Particulars.
MARTIN*-
AND PAIN,
389 George St,
SYDNEY.
Intending Purchasers should be careful to see i
Cutters offered them as Buncle’s pattern are THa
INE BUNGLE. .
John Bunole, of Melbourne, has been 26 years perfecting
his Chaff Cutters, and any machines that have not his name
oast on fly-wheel and mouth-piece, are not of his manu-
facture.
THE DEPOT FOR BUNGLE’S MACHINES.
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
-
IT
3,i, lI.HUNTER STREE'
twm
r "
a
SILVER <? WATCHES
FROM X. 4.10.
SYDNEY.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
GOLD WATCHES
FROM Ji. 3.10.
fJpiHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None batter than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
6’
SYDNEY
o^l
FOR
BATHS,
HAIR - CUTTING ,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS
And Ornamental Hair W ork.
otf See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street,
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
TOS
HERMITAGE.
DINNER WINES ~,..10/. per dozem
SHIRAZ T Fruity Y,,,
MADEIRA } Wines S '' ** "
BURGUNDY-) Dry To,,
RIESLING j Wines V ll ' •• "
WINES.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL.
Ac., Ac.
YIN ORDINAIRE
8/6
PER GALLON.
r G. H. STEPHEN & CO., "
4 Wine Growers and Merchants, ►
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
6 /-
PER GALLON.
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPINQ MIXTURE and
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours to deceive the public by SUBSTITUTING
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS Of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
bearing
« THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE.*'—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Importers,
thus—
Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PURE
TEA, must be certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ARE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCHER,
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
TORE STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gaaflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers' Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &o.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET. SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMKERFIELD,
235 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER, 16s. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
GUARANTEES A PERFECT FITI
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Sends Self-measurement forms free by post!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by post!
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the BEST CITY CUTTERS!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
Speciality Suits to measure, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
Speciality Trousers to measure, 16s. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
235 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
lENTEAL TEA AND COFFEE WAEE-
-1 HOUSE,
571, GEORGE.STBEET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of the Best Quality in the Trade.
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address-
-671, GE ORQE-9TR EET,
Between Liverpool and Gonlbum Streets.
The Teems of subscription for The Bulletin are—-m
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly*
Ss.; booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances may
bo made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.*-’
er by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.*
24 Pitt-street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H. Tkaill & Co.,
The Bulletin office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S-
Wales.
MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEO-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can he found by using
PANTER AND PARRY’S NEW EXTRACT
OP SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
from indigenous
1 PLANTS)
fen own. and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
nle ng smell, will not injure the most deli-
bands, is the greatest time-saving of
laoour rendering any article cleansed there-
-SSTo th purest whiteness « the.most
SrHOUs| h
JPItSSStb. surpassed the W„hmg
“ 4 °'Sttel Hauta Crockery, Olw.
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grecers and Storekeepers through-
° Utt WOEKSr7OO d GEOEGE STREET.
’SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
PUBUCNOTIGE
'Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than ai V.
other House in Sydnev. All kinds of Patem,
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, *o.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS* SUNDRIES.
Se id for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
illy attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
ou cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings.
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew's Cathedral.
Medals of evary Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on th 6
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE!
A now And Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stoek.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
a
KING
STREET
m
&
SYDNE
TAILOR
N
m
P
M
°o
mm
§4is
H
RT
<ANb POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
.SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER
FIT GUARANTEED!
ftlV handwork.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
•Cl O W L E E’S P 0 T T E E Y
AND
BEICK WOEKS,
AMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Prioe List on application.
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
.fOR
Business
promenade
Travelling
QU ALI T Yyacht in G
BufStmy Picmcin6
UNSURPASSED CriCKGLIIICf
“ Standard Tweed Suits JBI 5 O
11 Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 6
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits ... 112 6
•* Standard ” Superior ditto 115 0
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
PEAPES ard SHAW.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'enness
Cured
DRUNK
Book free by post.
|i> CALL ON OR ADDRESS
S. FRESHMAN,
359 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
n
GOLD CUBE.
GOLD CUBE.
