

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 10.—No. 127.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1882.
Prico—3
SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1882.
A Needed Reform.
In Great Britain and her dependencies the Bench
and the Bar have, from time immemorial, been
reserved to a favoured few. The choice of the
Crown in looking for fit occupants of the judg-
ment seat, and the choice of litigants in selecting
E orsons to plead their cause to the best advantage,
ave been artificially narrowed to members of a
small guild. The principle of natural selection
has never been allowed any influence outside the
barriers. Judges have been not the best men
available, but simply the best men among barris-
ters. Similarly, a litigant has not been permitted
to select his advocate from a wide field, but
has been restricted to choose the ablest of a few
score of men, strangers to himself and his case.
It is a maxim among lawyers themselves that “ a
barrister is Dorn, not madeyet, in the very
teeth of that dictum, they cling to the system of
manufacturing barristers, and trusting to chance
that, among the pleaders turned out by machinery,
a decent proportion of “bom” advocates may
come to hand. The practice is just as sensible as
though the world should refuse to permit to per-
form in public any musicians who had not
gone through an expensive academic training.
Indeed it is a good deal more absurd.
The genius of a great musician is almost
invariably manifested at an early age,
whereas the most successful barristers have
frequently been undistinguished until they were
advanced in years. The Bar, in fact, constitutes
the most exclusive trade association in existence.
It is true that among its greatest ornaments have
been men who forced their way in, and had started
without the adventitious pushing which thrusts
so many genteel incapables into the profession.
But this is one of the sort of exceptions which
merely help to prove a rule. When one reflects
upon the frightful waste of energies and of talents
which must have, in each instance of a man
battling his way into the profession, occurred be-
fore hm talents could be rendered available for
useful purposes, the custom of surrounding the
Bar with artificial obstacles looks uglier than ever.
* * •
When an occupation is open to all comers, the
whole world competes for its prizes. The best
men win without reservation. The public gets the
most efficient service at the hands of the most
capable men. Another immense gain is in the
direction of economy. Competition invariably
tends to cheapen prices. Now, it is one of the
profoundest maxims of philosophy that jus-
bice, to be effectual and equal, must be
cheap. Yet the whole tendencies of existing
arrangements are to foster inequalities in
tee administration of justice. The de-
mand for really able advocates is every-
where far in excess of the supply. Not only
i* the limited legal circles of these colonies,
but oven in England, where manufactured
barristers exist in hordes, the few men who by
accident have some of the qualities appropriate to
teeir avocation are overwhelmed with work, and
ore thus enabled to fix their remuneration at
prises which none but wealthy litigants can afford
te pay. Thus the rich suitor is placed in a position
te nave a monopoly of the “ born barrister,” while
tee poor suitor must suffer the disadvantage of
having to be content with the services of the
barrister (so called) who is “ made, not born.”
• * *
While the precincts of every court of law are
pervaded by a rabble of bowigged noodles, whose
employment depends solely upon the impossibility
«f suitors being able to pay the price demanded
by one of the few clever pleaders, and upon
tee prohibitory arrangements which preclude them
front availing themselves of any one, however
deier, who has not the right to wrap his head in
horsehair ; there are plenty of born barristers
measuring calico behind counters, and allowing
teeir abilities to shrivel at office desks, because
teey see no door open to them. It is only a few —
a very few—who combine with the inspiration of
tee pleader, the dogged hard-headed perseverance
which enables a man to grind his way from the
situation of office-sweeper to the elevation of the
Bench. As a matter of fact, the qualities which
Pertain to the successful advocate are actually the
very obverse of those which are requisite for a
long-sustained, grim, enduring struggle against
oiicumstanoes. The quick intuition, prompt judg-
ment, slashing repartee,' and brilliant extem-
poraneous inspirations which constitute the chief
qualities of a successful advocate, are not at all
akin to the stolid resolve, dogged patience, and un-
changing resolution which render a prolonged
crawl over social and technical barricades possible
te some human caterpillars.
# # *
That some qualification should be exacted from
Persons who desire to practise in Court may be
conceded. If the position of pleader were open
without preparation to every backer or spokes-
man whom the confidence or infatuation ot liti-
gants might induce to select as their repre-
sentatives, business would be entangled by the
misconceptions of ignorance or the irrelevant gab-
blings of vanity. But there is a great difference
between necessary qualifications and organized
“Protection.” Sir George Grey has just
re-introduced into the New Zealand House of
Representatives a Law Practitioners’ Bill, de-
signed to break down the artificial barriers which
have been erected around the legal professions.
Sir George preposes that the sole requirement
shall be that the candidate shall pass an examina-
tion in law. He is not to be required to serve a
certain time in any office, or to study in any par-
ticular place. He is simply to prove that he has
acquired a competent knowledge of the business
he desires to conduct. How or where he acquired
that knowledge is reckoned no matter. He has to
prove he has it, and that will suffice.
• • *
Among the objections levelled against his
measure was the shock contention that something
more than legal knowledge is requisite for a lawyer,
especially a barrister. General knowledge is like-
wise desiderated. Sir George slew his adver-
saries on this point with an arrow feathered from
their own pinions. It is impossible, he urged, for
a man to have acquired a respectable knowledge
of law without having in the process absorbed a
great amount of general knowledge. Taking, as
an example, that the aspirant had to show himself
versed in Blaokstone's Oommentariers, he would
inevitably have acquired in that course of study
an extensive knowledge of history, a wide ac-
quaintance with the motives which actuate the
human mind, an immense knowledge of the laws
of other nations and of other ages, and
a large grasp of general information. But an
argument of far weightier significance was like-
wise employed by Sir George Grey. Taking
inte view the case of the United States, where a
law similar to that which ho proposes has long
been in operation, he asks how it happens that so
many of the greatest men have risen in recent
times suddenly, and in mature life, to positions of
greatness P The reply was, because the institu-
tions of the United States offered openings to
talent and worth, such as are unknown in Great
Britain. For example, take the instances
of Lincoln, General Grant, and President Gab-
field. How was it that these men, who were un-
known to the world in youth, suddenly, in mature
life, took a very great position and rank amongst
the greatest benefactors of their time ? Lincoln
was a rail-splitter in the forest. A man well-known
te h ive been of very great ability, ho carried into the
forest law-books, and so instructed himself in the
science of law. Then he went and passed an ex-
amination, was admitted to the Bar at once, took
a leading position, and ended by becoming Presi-
dent of the United States, and one of the greatest
benefactors of his country. It was the same with
Grant, and the same with President Garfield.
None of these men could have obtained their
positions had not such opportunities as are ad-
vocated existed in the States.
♦ • •
The wide and comprehensive effects which would
be secured by thus breaking down the most rigid
of all protectionist trade unions deserve to be fully
understood. The influence of the change would
not be felt merely in a larger choice of able bar-
risters. There would be an appreciable quicken-
ing of aspirations, not merely among young men
who set themselves deliberately to qualify for the
bar, but among a vast number who, without
definite intention of setting decidedly to work,
will yet compound with irresolution, and have fits'
and starts of self-improvement, encouraged by the
consciousness that there is a goal not impossible
of attainment save by the most powerful rujjnera.
It would be a real gain were a wider circle of young
men imbued with the sense that the baton of a
field-marshal in the departments of law was in the
knapsack of their brains.
• * •
Of course, all these arguments will be contested
and resented by “ the trade.” No member of a
Monopoly ever yet was able to appreciate reason-
ings wkioh touched his self-esteem and threatened
to affect his profits. But the class of persons who
will view such proposals with repugnance has been
so aptly described by Sir George Grey that the
application to our own community requires no
adjustment on our part. With reference to the
division. Sir George remarked : —“ Into onejlobby
will walk antiquated prejudices and old notions—
men who believe that the Judges should have the
power for a word or a look in Court to imprison a
man for life without trial, entering even no record
upon the proceedings of the Court, and the Crown
itself cannot interfere to pardon him —men who
believe that for some supposed libel in a newa-
paper a J udge should be able to put a man into
gaol as long as he likes without trial. Let such
men all hurry into that lobby. Let them go there,
and support these antiquated notions; and let
young ideas, and hope and love for the greatness
of New Zealand, and ’a desire to open and aid
avenues for its talents, all walk into the other
lobby, this night, and support what is for the good
of this young nation.”!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Compensation Swindle.
The dodge of creating a nuisance and then getting a
premium for removing it is as old as the evil side of
human nature, and has been worked in hundreds of
various ways. Any outrage or swindle, perpetrated
originally by irresistible violence, or effected in the
most guarded secrecy, has only to subsist for a genera,
tion or two to become invested with a sort of sacred-
ness. A very old and flagrant abuse, which, by reason
of its very long continuance, has inflicted an immense
aggregate of injury is generally styled a “vested
right;” and a “vested right" is an affair which the
dull fools generally referred to by other dull fools as
"all right-thinking persons " speak of with reverential
tone, or fling at the heads of down-right thinkers, as
a matter which it is impieky and evidence of an ill-
regulated mind to question, and of violent and revolu-
tionary temper to disturb. A “ vested right,” never-
theless, when analytically and coolly investigated,
generally turns out to be a long-endured wrong, or an
unfair advantage which has been impudently taken for
a series of years. But, just as there exist
dodder-headed antiquaries who go into raptures over
the meanest pot-lid, if it be only rusty enough, and
invest it with a sacredness and nobility as a relic of
knightly armour and of chivalrous days, s« there oro
political and social Smeefuno uses who abase alike their
judgment and sense of right in presence of any abuse,
no matter how flagitious or degrading, providing it bo
but embellished with the rust of age, and its ugly and
sordid outlines softened by the influence of antiquity.
It was due to the prevalence of this distorted sentiment
that the [men who disgraced the pretension of Great
Britain to be a civilized and Christian nation by batten,
ing on the wealth attained by the blood and sweat of
slaves, were enabled to obtain from the pockets of the
tax-payers huge sums as compensation for being com,
pelled to terminate their disgraceful and inhuman
operations, and to set at liberty the fellow-men whom
they had not blushed to . treat as beasts of burden
and articles of merchandise. They pleaded, and
not i» vain, their “ vested rights,” the vested
right to shut their ears to the voice of conscience and
humanity, and to carry on a monstrous trade because
they succeeded to it by inheritance or purchased it for
cash. In the same spirit the descendants or assigns of
the original filibusters, court favourites, and so forth,
who seized upon, or were granted, territories in Ireland,
and thenceforth, generation after generation, have dealt
with the original tenants of the soil as conquered
serfs, to be squeezed and plundered without ruth or
moderation, now advance claims to be compensated by
the people of Great Britain, should they have to sur.
render their heritage of stolen property and release
their gripe from the throats of their impoverished serfs.
Why should the British people pay these favoured
few ? The loss of their properties will cause among
them and their dependents wide-spread distress. That
is true, but have they not for centuries, they and their
ancestors, enjoyed compensation by anticipation H Their
titles have ever been bad, for violent appropriation, or
the receipt of property so acquired, can never constitute
a good title in justice, whatever it may do in law.
It is not surprising, therefore, that radical thinkers in
the British House of Commons should object to the
impudent proposal that the consolidated revenue should
be drawn upon to provide one-third of the arrears of
rents-admittedly rack rents, that is to say, unjust,
excessive and oppressive rents—which the Irish laud
lords are unable to squeeze out of their tenants. And
still more comprehensible is it that the same class of
politicians, now happily growing in numbers and power,
should oppose utterly every proposition that savors of
compensation to Irish landlords for losing, as these
seem fated to lose, their hold upon estates which, and
tenants whom, for generations they and their ancestors
and predecessors have treated as a prey, till their
oppression and greed have produced the very convulsion
for the effects of which they now seek to be com-
pensated.
Gold Jewellery.
The conviction of “ Dr. ” Eodwat for false pretences
in selling as gold jewellery articles which were of base
metal with just a film of gold, was satisfactory as tend-
ug to the protection of the public. It was elicited
the evidence that Eodwat was a scamp and an adven.
turer, and, possibly, people will be cautious how in future
they buy “gold" articles from persons who have no
recognized place of businesi. But it appears to h©
doubly requisite that the public should be ou their
guard against persons who have regular shops. Accord
leg to a decision just given in the Melbourne County
Court, jewellers are justified in selling, as “ gold,”
articles made of alloys of which gold constitutes the
smallest proportion. A leather-worker, named David-
son, claimed £lO damages from William Allen, watch-
THE LATE REV. DR. M'GIBBON.
(See page 10.)


c
OUGHS AND COLd
The Best Cure for the above ii Rum made Hot
and taken at bed-titne. *
S.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. Per Imperial Quart.
C. W. ROBERTS’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. ROBERTS’
NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
■where you can obtain for
6 4 .
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT WINE
SHERRY, OR BEER, ’
of such a Quality i hat cannot be surpassed at aay
otuer establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED OR WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PRODUCT OP AUSTRALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPARMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OF ALL BEVERAGES.
MADE HOT IP REQUIRED.
Please Call and Sample.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
at 4s. 6d. per bottle, is unequalled.
VERDEILHO,
a lovely White Wine, Is. 61. par bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d, per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT
2b. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY
FURNITURE! FURNITURE
FURNITURE I 11
“ “'OTT'HERE is the best place to buy Furniturei
\ \ This question is being asked every day, and
is ot as mueh interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the “ Happy Couple” just setting np house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kltchea
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
;iTDE FARE
URNISHING EXHIBITION
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(LatefcHARDY BROTHERS).
EVERY HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAT BE HAD
HEEjii.
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by sendiig
from one place to another j bat remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hyde . Park Furnishing 1 Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE FURNITEEE,
Go to the
HYDE PARK FFRNISHING EXHIBITION.
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability ot
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilst the Prices will be found
M?A RVELLOUSLT LOW!
This vast Collection has'been selected and
tuced with a practical regard for Modern requiremen
and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock j you will no*i ke
asked to buy what you do not want; for our object is
RE TAIN as well as OBTAIN patronage; and we rev
on the satisfaction, good opinion, and reconm-en
tion of our customers.
Remember these important fact*
OUR STOCK IS THE LARGEST.
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE,
OUR STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST
tor The utmost eare is given to packing and
ing all Goods bought at this Establishment, ana o
try Customers may rely upon the prompt executio
their orders the delivery of their purchase *
sound condition.
maker of Bourke-street, for selling to him, as gold,
articles which, when tested by aquo-fortls turned
green, and, consequently, were just as much copper as
they were gold. A jeweller, Egbert Robertson, called
for the defence, testified that “gold” might consist o f
only four or five carats, and that two years ago he bad
seen a bar of gold only two carats fine, sold
in Birmingham! It appears, therefore, that, in the
eyes of the trade, and of the law as interpreted in Mel-
bourne, copper is gold provided there bo a little gold
mixed with the copper. Of course, respectable jewellers
do not lend themselves to such frauds; and it is toler-
ably easy to make sura of dealing with a respectable
jeweller by resorting only to old-established and first-
rate shops. But, unluckily, first-class jewellers charge
so exceedingly for their respectability that many
people prefer dealing in less pretentious establish-
ments ; and it is certainly absurd that the public should
be abandoned by the law to the alternative of paying a
heavy premium to a first-class jeweller by way of assur-
ance against being cheated, or of running the risk of
being by some inferior tradesman deluded with “ gold
which is 'chiefly icopper. In buying gold jewellery,
therefore, purchasers will do well to protect themselves,
and insist upon having with every article a written
guarantee that |the gold of which it is made is so many
carats flue.
An Odd Contrast.
A pkcwliar action for slander was last week heard in
the Melbourne County Court. The defendant was
proved to have spoken of the plaintiff as “a scoundrel,
a villain, a convict from Tasmania.” In the course of
tho evidence it transpired that the plaintiff had bean
all these unpleasant characters, hnt had subsequently
figured as a shining convert, and his career and
repentance had been celebrated in a pamphlet or tract,
headed "A Monument ot Grace.” It appears that in
tho regards of a certain grade of “ serious” persons, no
man’s virtue attains “monumental” dimensions unless
bis vices have been of proportional magnificence. The
plaintiff had figured as a distinguished ornament of a
“ Particnlarist Baptist” congregation, on the merits of
his being the hero of tho tract in question. This would
load ns to suppose that tho “Particnlarist Baptists”
are so styled on tho luma a non lucendo principle,
because they are not at all particular. Among
the witnesses called was Councillor Gatehouse
ot Melbourne, who had shared with tho plaintiff
the distinction of being a member of the Rev.
Mr. Oharlwood'b congregation, and whoso testimony
that the congregation “ were of a most exemplary
character” was received with laughter, probably as-
cribable to a recollection of Mr. Gatehouse’s own
“exemplary” exploits, when Mayor of Melbourne, m
riding home in the small hours on a gingerbeer harrow*
From the exemplary congregation of Mr. Charlwood,
the plaintiff transferred his monumental grace to the
ministration of our own Pastor Allen. Seemingly,
the distinction he enjoyed, as the Monument among
the former worshippers, palled upon him. He became
modestly weary of his hard-earned distinctions, and
on removing to Pastor Allen s circles changed his
Initials, and even denied his title to rank as monu-
mental. Iu other words, he repudiated his certificat e
of religious merit, by denying that he was the
party concerned in the tract—a denial the utter-
ance of which caused another “ particular ’’ Baptist
called as a witness to “tremble” when he heard
it. “ Particular Baptists,” perhaps, still expect
repetitions of the unpleasant experiences of Ananias,
not considering the vast demand for skilled oculists
that manifestations of that form of Divine displeasure
would create in modern times. The utterance of the
slanders was fully proved, but the Judge ruled that-
“ if the plaintiff were a convicted felon, there was no
slander, because the statement complained of was
true ” : and the jury returned a verdict that the words
alleged had been uttered, but as there was no proof of
damage to the plaintiff, they gave the verdict for the
defendant. The administration of law in Victoria con-
trasts very oddly with its administration in New South
Wales. Here, the laws seem to be specially directed to
the protection of black sheep, even although they have
never undergone the scouring process of attaching
themselves to an “ exemplary ” congregation. In New
South Wales alone—among all civilised communities—
are libel and slander treated at law as practically idem
tieal.
The Technical College.
The new calendar of the Technical or Working Man’s
College lies before us, and it is with real pleasure and
hearty congratulation that we observe the long and
respectable list of classes and lecturers therein. We
know something of the Technical College, and what wo
know onables’.us to say that the teaching is sound,
and that the system upon [which that teaching
is given is working well. This being so, we
do not doubt that the young men who study there
will do credit to themselves and to their teachers. Not
to be too flue, we may divide the subjects into three
classes, the Technical (properly so called), the Scientific,
and the ;Artistic and Literary. Thus, into the first
category will fall applied mechanics, building con-
struetion, design, freehand drawing, perspective, me-
chanical drawing, modelling, and wood-carving; into
the second, anatomy, actuarial science, botany, chemis-
try, electricity, law, mathematics, nxaterica medics,
political economy, physical geography, surveying, and
telegraphy; into the third, primary school subjects,
English history and literature, classical and modern
languages and phonography. If the technical subjects
he well taught it will be a decided step in advance, for
youths will learu to know why they do their work
as well as how they do it. It is the mischief of all
all profe-sions and trades, but more especially is it the
mischief of the trades which necessitate Jxnrd work,
that the tendency is to become mechanical and rest
upon the ipse dixit of a master- 0* employer. Wheu a
lad is apprenticed, say to a carpenter, he is shown the
tools of his futxire trade, and their various uses are
explained to him; after this, his career is, in ninety-uiuo
cases out of a hundred, as purely imitatory as the
work of beavers is instructive. But when the young
man is taught that a deep law underlies his common
work—that, in fact, that work is only a manifestation of
that law,|he will be led to look upon his work as higher
and therefore as more responsible. And thus a
meliorating influence will be introduced among the
practisersof the banausai tekhnai which they sorely
need. The scientific classes eommend themselves
to youths already past the asses’ bridge oi their
learning. In a special degree, however, arc bhe lectures
ia the third class interesting. To many a young man in
this city who would fain come within the poet’s defini-
tionof a man, “a being of largo discourse that looks
before and after," and yet who knew not how to attain
the object of his ambition, the institute has been an
outstretched hand with more than a promise behind it.
It remains now to congratulate Mr. Dowling on the re-
sult of his up-hill work and to apply to him those oft-
misused words, “Well done, thou good and faithful
servant.” Mr. Dowling sees his work approaching
talnas*, and his proudest satisfaction is that what all
see now he almost alone foresaw. He may reflect
that ever
“ Nor number, nor example with him wrought
To change his constant mind,
MILTON.
Though single.”
Judd’s Theory of Representation.
One of the problems prescribed iu the working of
representative Government is the relation which sub-
sists between the representative and his constituents.
There are some who contend that the representative
should be such actually as well as nominally, and that,
so soon as he finds his own views out of accord with
those of his constituents, he should resign ; while
others, admitting the value of this argument, urge
that if it were strictly enforced, Representative Govern-
ment would become impossible, since there is no man
who at all times and iu all things holds the same views
as his constituents. Nor is it at all desirable that such
should be the case even if it were possible. But, so far
as is generally known, there is no authority, in the
matter under notice, who recommends the representa-
tive to nullify himself, to stifle the workings of his own
mind, and to aim solely and only at being a human
plaster-of-Paris model of his constituents’ whims and
prejudices. How grateful, then, should we be to a man
who with no commendation from the wise, and re-
lying only on the applause of his constituents,
consents to this abnegation 1 Such a one have we
found iu the person of Hr. Alderman Judd. Fame 1
neglect not this honoured and honourable name. Mr.
Judd, we hasten to inform the public, is not only an
Alderman, but he is an Alderman of St. Peter’s Muni-
cipality. Mr. Judd, at a meeting of tramway-seekers
at St. Peter’s on Monday, 20th June, premising that he
was not an enthusiast3iu tramways, went on to say :
** In justice to those who returned him to the Council,
and who wore nearly all in favour of the tramway, he
thought it was his duty to sink his private opinions and
study them.” There I Now you behold exhibited be-
fore you all the inestimable magnanimity of Mr. Alder-
man Judd. Lot it not bo understood that we say no
representative ever cast himself down before his con-
stituents and promised to accept and cherish all their
opinions as his own, of his own proper notion and dis-
interested regard. Far from this; wo regard this
acceptation of our opinions as the pink and crowning per-
fection of not all, but nearly all, our representatives—
Aldermanic, Parliamentary, and so on. And, where-
fore should we not P What is a man to us if he will
aot be pulled by our strings ? What portly elector,
man of standing, if not of understanding, would not
audibly sniff at—nay, even laugh to scorn —the idea of
electing a man who could not be stirred up to saered
enthusiasm, hateful to Ministers, under-secretaries,
and such like, by the recital of the “ state of the Syd.
ney Eoad,” and the ominous condition of the Bridge
over Warrumbobungle Creek ?
A little circumstance illustrative of the splendid
possibilities which attach to the business of under,
taker?, cropped up during a recent trial in Melbourne.
A witness under cross-examination was asked whether
he remembered being brought to book for his charges for
burying a man. It then transpired that the witness had,
as an undertaker, buried a man belonging to a
and had charged his estate £175 for the job. The
iniquity was exposed by the Argus, at the time, and the
charge was out down to only £ 5, but public opinion
seamed still to regard that sum as too great. Pew per-
sons can afford to spend £75 for the mere luxury of
getting buried, and this particular undertaker’s busi-
ness was ruined. Now, had this happened in New South
Wales a little time ago, there is little doubt that the
undertaker would have brought an]action against the
newspaper which exposed him, and would have stood an
excellent chance of getting a thumpiug verdict for
damages, provided he could «nly have shown that the
journal had published about that time in some other
issue something which the jary might, in default of
explanatory evidence which the def endants would have
no opportunity of submitting, regard as disoreditable-
It would not need to be anything about undertakers’
overcharges. Something about the morality of the
Kamsckatkan nobility would perfectly serve the pur-
pose.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
A Maitland tradesman advertises in the local
paper for a “second-hand baker" or an improver. ,i...
At Toowoomba, according to the Chronicle, brick-
layers' waves range from 12s 6d. per day for ordinary,
to 17b. 6.1. per day for first-class, hands! Away
South, a Government official went for a feed of oysters.
He then read the Fisheries Act, and became aware of
the fact that a shopkeeper cannot sell oysters without
a license. He next ascertained that his oysterman was
breaking this regulation. He had eaten the oysters,
but he “ informed ’’ all the same. He was a Government
servant, and it was his “ dooty.” He expects promotion
shortly.... A steerage passenger by the Caroline has been
fined £1 at Brisbane Police Court, for refusing to take
his share of the daily cleaning up between decks
18 000,000 ft, cedar are now lying in the Barron scrub,
bf.Q Prom Nymagee to Eubalong the stage is forty
miles. One pair of wretched animals aro sometimes
made to do the coach journey, the driver having
periodically to alight and prod the horses with saplings.
During a recent Journey, the passengers had to camp in
a deserted hut while the “critters” had a spell, and
the coach was twenty hours late at Eubalong. The
only meat along that line of route is said to be pork
W. Burt, Indian merchant, had a narrow escape from
having his eye picked out by a tame magpie. It is sup-
posed Burt was abstracted and his old diplomatic Are,
rolling at the back, tempted Maggie Senior constable
E»an, «f Bowen, was suspended for “ not having been
sober." If Bowen gets a railway it will shelve its
claim to a Supremo Courtin favor of Townsville, That is
to say—“ If Government will afford us scope to clear out
while we’re sober, we’re quite willing for any number of
Towrsvillims to be triedfor their lives in their own city."
A Forbes squatter growled about this year’s “ lamb-
ing," and bis wife gave birth to three young wool-
growers. Swears lie’ll never growl again Camper.
down (Vie.) teetotsllers have been getting “ tight” ou
gingor-wine. This ia one of the subtlest devices of the
Enemy A Cooittwn alderman asked, at the
last meeting, what had become of the ducks,
fowl, and other “ refuse" from the proposed
Perkins banquet. Before dealing with that problem,
Mr. Alderman should have measured the waist.
baud of the man from the local Herald
Dr James E. M, Eobertson, M.D., C.M., F.G.8.,
P.E.G.S., &0., ia iuapeoting Mount M’Donald goldfield,
with which he is favourably impressed Several libel
notions on the carpet at Tenterfleld On Gowan run,
Macquarie River, which consists of 32,000 acres, 5000
kangaroo scalps were taken in ten weeks P. H. Fitz-
gerald, jun., and Co. have now 140 acres land under
sugar-cane on tbe Johnstone Elver Last Hodgkinson
and Etheridge escort consisted of eight European
and eight nigger, troopers, and brought 12.776
ounces gold, of which the Etheridge goldfield
furnished 7155 ounces, and the Hodgkinson 5G21
It is calculated that the Cobar Copper Mine will em-
ploy 500 men for 20 years The editor of a Northern
imper is named Hurlbut. A sfange coincidence. Wo
know thebsssof a Sydney daily who ia Hurlbnt an
editor Mary Money, once a leading Melbourne lady
worth much money, but now a common prostitute, baa
been dealt with for smashing windows at the Conference
Hotel, Flindera-streot At Townsville, this year,
blankets were given to 371 blacks, comprising 103 adult
males, I9S adult females, and 32 male and 41 female
children CiUan Park Asylum will accommodate 666
patients, who will require 00 or 70persons to look after
i hem. The contract for the buildings is £230,000
Victorian railway department settled with 17 persons
injured in the Wlndfor railway accident for £l2OO
A beautiful impression in stone of a fern with root and
all complete wa« found lately in a tunnel of the Mount
Kembla mine, Wollongong “ Five pounds reward
will be given to any person who saw my spting-diey
broken in Smith's Yard, Snssex-strcet, or who tried to
injure my horses. John Grant, 65 Suasex-street."
Surely, the miscreant who tried to injure the horses
will own np and claim the fiver?....Sir BryanO’Loghlen
hsc partially knuckled down to Mr. Francis, by pro-
mising to bring in a bill to reduce the postal rate, aud
by abandoning the proposal to abolish the tea duty.
The tax upon the beer of the wurruking man ia, how-
ever, to be allowed to lapse. Even Berry will hardly
have the hardihood to stop the tap of the “tangling "
mob, though ho has made it up with teetotal Muurv....
1 At Auckland (N.Z.), the crew of the cutter Dave* r..
have, under the Act, taken forcible possession o ti
craft on account of the captain’s inabi ity o *
wages due. The charterer, Mr. K. A. Morri,-o . <->
euchred pro lem. The cutter belongs to Captain \ < r
son, of Auckland At Mnrrah, Bega, Mr. O’Nei 1 * i s
lost two children by diphtheria... Dr. Bennett, of Young,
has filed his schedule. Lia.bilif.ies, £313 7s 6d ; assets,
£ll5 45.„...The thousands of buffaloes on Neville Island,
Northern Territory, are bred from those left by an
Imperial party many years] ago... Hayes, just sentenced
at Young to three years, has been sixteen years in the
colony, and has passed fourteen of them in ga01......
Two swarthy miners entered a Northern gold-fields’
shanty, and demanded rum. “Wo never serve black-
fdloivs,’’ was the host’s re I’. “By St. Pathriok, y< u
murthering thife av the wuiruld,'’ nowied one of th,,
“niggers," “iaitme mither’s syn, O’Grady av Mount
O’Grady, ye’re aft.her sailing a naygur. Bod cess to
yez, yer poisoning omadhann’’—and he rammed
a tin billy over the publican’s sku'l
An ljswich(Q.) youth was, one evening, “blowing" to
a new chum, and wound up byldeolaring it to be his
pride that he was a N.S.W. native, The new ohnra
nonchalantly retorted Dear me; I always thought
till now that nil natives had to leave the town before
i sundown.” The “native" buried himself absently in
• his “ long-sleever.” A country bailiff recently said
he was justified in searching a lady, in the absence of her
husband, with a view of finding money to liquidate a
1 writhe had B-rvedJfor a few shillings... Adelaide Gas Co.
trying to get power from B.A Parliament to supply
electric light; “Chaffey” Baker doing the necessary
1 shove in theiLegislafive Council... At Bathurst, J. Hif, for
[ owning a complete kit of burgling tools.a loaded revolver,
r and 70 cartridges, has gone up for 18 months
Proprietors of Melbourne Akops gave £250 towards
Working Men’s College there ; Age £2OO Queens-
, land Government making changes in constitution of
■ local volunteer force, and will dispense with the ser-
! vices of Colonel Blaxland, the commandant, after end
of August Thomas Eeynolds, cabinet-maker, burned
to death in fire at Cohen’s, A’Beckett-street, Mel.
bourne,...Eooky Waterholos Hotel, near Wilcannia,
burned down. Mrs. O’Brien, hostess, burned to death;
her husband afterwards died in Wilcannia hospital
from injuries received from the fire Up Mudgee way,
John M’Grath, mail-boy, aged eleven years, whoso
business it was to carry the Mt-rendee mail-bags, and
who three times reported that they had been stolen by
bushrangers, has been bowled out. The police ran
down the boy’s tracks and found the mail-bags at the
end of them. He named some person whom he called
“Old Ben" as having “put him up” to these larks.
• • *
The physique of the Italian army is described
as superior to that of the French army A 12-year
old black hoy, in New York, picked all the “ unpickahle
locks" to the private letter boxes in the Baltimore poet
office with a strip of wrought iron hammered very thin.
The genius is in gaol The Prefect of Police at St.
Petersburg received an anonymous present of a basket-
ful of Easter eggs. They were charged with dynamite.
The Prefect said there was a plot hatching...." No slop
boots for me, not if I know it; they go in a couple of
months,” roared Guitean, as he pitched them away aud
ordered number sevens with a few nails under the toe.
Our defeated sculler, straight-going: Ned
Trickett, arrived in Sydney late yesterday (Wednes-
day) afternoon. It was gratifying to witness the
generous reception the Sydney public was prepared to
accord a game and honest though defeated
rowist. Thousands of persons rolled up to soften the
anguish of Ids landing, but a hitch in the preparations
marred what would otherwise have been—to Trickett—
a gratifying recognition of pluck and perseverance
crowned only by misfortune. Sir John Robertson and
other notabilities attended at No. 3 Jetty, where it
was supposed the ex-champion would debark, but he
was unexpectedly landed at Princess’ steps, and the
lively knight had to “shove along" with the meant*
crowd as best ho could. Trickett was quickly smuggled
off to town, and sought to dodge the public by tacaing
up Bridge-street into George-street, thongh his
destination was Punch's hotel. 'Jhe disconsolate
crowds, robbed of the spectacle they had anticipated,
swarmed along Pitt-street towards the centre of the
city for many minutes after the vanquished hero had
passed along. At Punch’s Hotel, he was formally wel-
corned in customary fashion, but the lateness of the
hour prevents us from giving further details at present.
The Young Australian Band surpassed themselves by
tooting, “ Thy face is always near to me, Though thou
art far away,"
Two Songs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUNLIGHT AND STARLIGHT.
The stars in this blue Southern sky
Have never shone on thee 5
The stars I knew when thou wert nigh
May shine no more on me.
But though our stars do differ so,
The sun is yet the same
That sots thy dear head's gold aglow.
And scorches mine like flame.
Eyed like the night in lands above
The Austral maidens are,
But who has seen the Sun of Love
Cares nought for any star.
So never light of their bright eyes
Shall my true heart enthral.
While one fair face from far-off skies
Shines steadfast over all.
THE DELL OF DREAMS.
The birds sang: sweet for her sweet sake,
My love who loved me well.
And warm winds diu a music make
iEolian through (he dell,
For her whom I loved well,
Whenas I whispered faint with fear
The tale I had to tell,
And she gave answer low and clear—
“ 0 love, I love thee well,"
Within that happy dell.
But this was long and long ago,
Before the last leaves fell
From that fair tree, whoa a blossoms blow
No more within the dell—
Where once the birds song well.
Alas, that all my songs must turn
To tears at last 1 Farewell,
0 songless fairyland of fern 1
O grave where She sleeps well I
O dear dream-haunted dell I
VICTOR J. DALEY.


s
A T U E D A Y,
WATERLEY
JULY
Ist*
WAVBELET
WAVEELEY
CLOSE TO THE TEAM TERMINUS.
OCEAN VIEW LOTJ.
FRONTING DOUGLAS-BTEEET
BAEOLAT-SiEBEr
LBICHHARDT-STREET
KENT-STEKET
C A RLTON-STEEET.
20 CHOICE LOTS.
MILLS PILE and GILO HEIST
will hold a
PRIVATE SALE on the GROUND
on SATURDAY, Ist JULY,
at half-past 3.
of the ABOVE CHOICE LOTS, which will be pointed
eat on the Ground and each lot SOLD ON THE
EXACT SPOT.
PRICE A 2 PER FOOT.
TEEMS: 10 PER CENT DEPOSIT, and the Bal-
>anoe in 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS, bearing 6 per
-cent, interest.
TITLE, TOR HENS’ ACT.
LITHOS. NOW READY.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHBIST.
Auctioneers.
THE GREEN POINT ESTATE.
GOSFOED,
BRISBANE WATER.
•T In ANSWER to the EXPRESSED WISHES of
uumeron* intending purchasers who were unable
to attend the late sale of this VALUABLE
ESTATE, whentwo-thirds ef the allotments wore
sold (want ef time alone preventing the whole
subdivision being disposed of),
BATT, EODD, and PURVES have much
PLEASURE in announcing that they have re-
ceived instructions to hold a CONTINUATION SALE,
t the ROOMS, 88 Pitt-atreet,
on
TUESDAY, 4th July,
at 11,30 a.m.
W The TERMS will be on the same liberal scale
as before,
viz i—
-15 per cent. DEPOSIT, 10 per cent. In three months
and the balance by equal instalments at 9, 12,
15,18, and 21 months from the 20th June.
Interest at rate of 6 per cent.
PAMPHLETS, with plans showing the UNSOLD
BLOCKS, on application.
i t OBERT H. BERNARDO, Grotesque Clown and
Jester, late of Burton's, and Barlow’s, and Wal-
Ealla’s Circuses, haring just flnisbed twelve months’
-engagement with Ashton's Circus, will be at liberty
after July Bth. Address, Bernardo, core of Mr. Alfred
O. Jackson, Advertising Agent, 299 Crown-street, Surry
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY,
,SBL GEORGE STREET.
f Library is supplied regularly by every Mail
JL Steamer with the latest Publications in History,
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Popular Theology, and
the higher class of Fiction; also, all the leading Maga-
zines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway or Steamboat com-
munication with Sydney, every facility is afforded.
Department of Mines
Sydney, 23rd June, 1882,
Notice ito applicants for golb-mining
LEASES.
IV'OTICE is hereby given that nnless the Lea-
*A-N sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned gold-mining leases within thirty days
from this date they will be declared void.
ARTHUR REN WICK.
Mudoee Mining Distbict.
Ne. 167; George Crossing and others; Portim No*
312; County of Wellington, parish of Merinda; 8 acres 1
Appliottton No. Mndgee.
HSNTEB AND Mi.CI.EAT MINING DISTRICT,
No. 569; Alexander Donaldson and another; Portion
Ne. it. 60; Connty of Gloucester, parish of Teleraree;
4 seres ; Application No. Bulladelah 69.
No, 870; John Ireland and ethers; Portion No. o.L.
Cl; County of Gloucester, parish of Teleraree; 5 acres;
Application No. Bulladelah 98.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 20th June, 1882.
NGTiCB TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees exsoute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty
days from this date, it will be declared void.
ARTHUR REN WICK.
Tvmut and Adnlong Minin* District.
No. 1M; George Dobbyns and others ; Portion No. 2;
Merrfe’ Reef, oonnty of Clarendon, parish of Euren-
Rllly I 7 seres; Application No. Gnndagai 80-6.
Advertising. Sydney t. and o. com.
PANY’B OMNIBUSSES.
The undersigned are now receiving ADVERTISE-
MENTB for DISPLAY in the above 'Busses, plying
throughout the oity and subnrbs. A rare opportunity
is thus offered to the advertising public at a moderate
charge. As the space is limited, early application is
respectfully requested to
The Sydney Tram and Omnibus Advertising and
General Agency, 388, Qeorge-street, Sydney.
June 26, 1882.
TO ANGLERS.—If you want good sport with
rod or line, buy land at CAREEL BAY, PITT-
WATER, on THURSDAY, July 6th. At W.
PRITCHARD’S Rooms, 289, Qeorge-street. Call for
a Lithograph.
TO YACHTSMEN.—If you want a good water
frontage camping ground, with plenty of water,
buy at the sale of CAREEL BAY on THURSDAY,
July 6, at W. PEirCHAED’S Rooms, 289 Giorge-
•treet.
r*lo ORANGE GROWERS— Buy land at
JL CAREEL BAY. PITT WATER, where you can
get road or water carriage for your produce. Sale at
the Rooms, 289 George-street, THURSDAY, Ju y 6
W. PEI I CHARD.
€AREEL BAY. PITTWATER.—The FINEST
HARBOUR after SYDNEY in the Colony. Great
Bale of water frontage land at the Rooms, 289 George-
street, on THURSDAY, July 6, by W. PRITCHARD.
Call
T
xeajxk MARK
UjllEDl
ONE OP THE WORLD'S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
TN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
**l have found St. J ACOB’S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
mo of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ox*
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at onoe to the sent of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.”
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from ona
who knew what ho was talking about ( and now he says
that St. JACOB'S OIL and good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT. PRICE HALF-A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
8. HOFPNUNQ & Co., Pitt-street,
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Georga-street,
I, JACOBS A Co., Hunter-street.
m
&&
■
......
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
IPmm the CHEAPEST. CLEANEST, and
18m. PER TOST NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and Vara kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner Are thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable amoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze tiro, while it imports to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND GO'S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
DJAHFAS
MANUFACTORY,
BONACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAKIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
PERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
rr
trade!
.'MARK
£
4J
SELF RAPING FLOUR
YEAST POWDEE.
This is tha most effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &e. j is
simple, elean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This QkSis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expanse is entirelv confined to the quantity of tal-low used, and wood for the furnace;;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
T tLTjOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Govemmentßailways in perferenee
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, Ac. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which re«*
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS,!
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 RING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
MACHINERY
FOB
ETOTIRMILLERS BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
1 l jUU bQUATTEBS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., Ac., Ac.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
Va have a large atook of the above in onr Stores and to arrive, end shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other partioulai a on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Uni vers al~Be wing Machine
r .m , Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
“ *“,u3£?£S£Sr^Si c «“
old on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dop6t,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NKIT TO 'BUS QFFCE. _
MANUFACTORY:
Qkobqb-stkebt West, Sydney.
fESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.]
H
ODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY.
601, QEORGPE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Goulburu-atreet.
B. HODGSON.
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, *o.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Qreen Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
I■ I
□
I I
1167 Q | h.HILD E R.!670
6-70
E-R... 167(5
I H.MILDER
w-fmm
Mi
M
.■// i,. >
H. HILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
C
ENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE.
HOUSE.
571, GEORGE-STREET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER,
TEAS, COFPEFS, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of the Best Quality in the Trade.
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address—
-571, GEORQE-BTREET,
Tl « -


SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a:
at tbo
SYDNEY AIM
SINGER’S SEWING ]
AKK MADE ONLT
The Singer Mauufaotnri
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Ettr
39 FOSTER LANE,
Dapdt for New South
NO. 1 DARLING STORES. HAJ
S
I
N
G
E
II
SINGER’S SEWING 31
HAVE
All the Latest Impro\
SINGER’S SEWING a
FOR
Largest Variety of 1
SINGER’S SEWING a
FOE
Strength and Beauty o
SINGER’S SEWING a
FOR
Embroidery, Braiding, an
SINGER’S SEWING a
FOB
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SEWING a
FOB
Kilting, Cording, and.
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TEEMS—2b. 6d.
AGENTS IN EVERY
Offices in Sydne
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STORES, HARBOUR 1
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, «R.
NARANDERA. PARRJ
227 QUEEN STREET, BE
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARB THE
RECOGNISED i
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PATMEN'
2a. 6d. per wfeok—2s. 6d. per week
And NO INTEREST Ol
10 per cent, off for «
BEWARE OF IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLT " SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHfisTO!
SEWING MACHII
TARtroK
HAYaLABKB 1
Machines /
Public Compan
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with pc
£.1,000,000. Reserve Fane
Directors s
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J<
Buq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt'
General Manage
Vincent Wanoatrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willi*
BRANCHES IN NEW SOD
Albury, Annidale, Ballina, Bi
Bonrke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innos, Qoulb
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kompsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Mtorpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terraco, Reekie
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tc
Urano, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannla, Woodbum, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE]
Brisbane, AUora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac:
Barene wood, Rockhampton, Stant
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in ail the Australian Colon
the World general
rHE MERCANTILE BAN.
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF 1
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fuad,
DIRECTORSj
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hou Uenry Mort, M.L.C.
Goorge S. Caird, Esq,
Hon. Wa Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidiey King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Soroggie, Esq*
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
[MANAGER;
F. A, A. WUaon
SECRETAiaY :
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorgc-street, Brickfield 1
Girilambonej Gosford;
LONDON BANKE:
TLo National Ptovlnolai Bun
Loudou Office; 15K Leaden
Direotor: Edward Chapr
Agent: G. fl. Akxiudi
■This bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the must, xatuu
Rills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mm
other produce shipped to England £
.F * J , POL
CHORD
TAILORING ESTABLIS
28 GEORGE STREET,
A Lrge and well-assorted stock cf 1
direct from the Manufacturer:?,
Ann Garments Cut in the Most F
PERFECT FIT GUARi
Note the;Addrcai
728 GEORGE STREET
HEAR HAY MARI
THOMAS WEBB
Business Annoanc«
\WV
maw
STEAM BEDDING F
and
ECENITUEE WARE I
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25,
T. WEIGHT, 529 George-street,
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has eon
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite t
News Office.
g-
ciynioox
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent "
Chemists and Dn
J.
S. ABEAHAM’S PILL
THE GREAT LIVEE :
And successful substitute (or C
Podophyllum, and all No
Famous as a Eostorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of th<
Famous for the Curs of all Disoi
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonii
rives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare
J. S. A B R i
At the Laboratu
434 GEORGE BTEEET,
COUGH WHILE YOU
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amc
Linctus, you will not bo able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 17'
Punch’s Hotel
miCKLE YOUR APPETI
I trillion Relish, made by 1
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
ATLAS FOUNDRY &
GOMPAN
HAY-STEEET, SY
TBNQINEEBS, Boilermakers, ai
fij and Brass Pounders, Cop]
The above firm are pn
cftntraots for the manufacture of A
Engines, Boilers, and Girder We
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining,
other descriptions of Machinery,
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with
pxioe given for metal.
gTU
Have y<
re-c
Paraso
e<
j. i
5-t
Brick
Liverpcs
Parasi
tumos. I
JOHN R U
183 PITT STEE
from
D. JONES & i
Respectfully invites an inspect!
bMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH
BEDSTEA
BE
All of the best quality, and sole
RELIABLE MANUFACTURER!
Furniture re-covered and carpel
charges.
George
(Formerly of Geot
IMPORTER 01
CHINA GLASS AND EA
Begs to announce that ho hai
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC!
where every article in the above li
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERS!


SMITH AND mg,
W. HOWARD
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Omens : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE^
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-atreet.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Capital, £1,000,000.
Subscribed, £650,000,
Directors :
Hon. J. J. Casey, C.M.G., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq., Vice-President.
John Eobb, Esq.
John Whittingkum, Esq.
William M'Loan, Esq.. J.P.
Hon. James Munro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
Temporary Banking House, Sydney:
257 George-street, North.
Francis S. Macdormott, Esq.,
Manager.
John Docker, Esq , Accountant.
Messrs. Robertson and Fisher, Solicitors.
THE FEDERAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA (Limited)
offers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Require
Banking Accommodation.
1. Interestwill be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
rates.
3. Every branch of banking business transacted-
4. Bills will be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS S. MACDESMOTT, Manager.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock,
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
CASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES,
AND SPIRITS.
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
COLONIAL WINE,
RED.
per doz
10s Od
Us Gd
lie Od
13s 6d
c , . Per di
Sweet Shiraz ... is a
J. T. Fallon’s Pott 27s
Adelaide Port ... 30s
WHITE.
Reisling 10s Od
Hock lls Od
Madeira 12s 6d
Bouffier’s Fineau.. 16s Od
Brown Muscat
Adelaide Tokay ...
Tokay, vintage ’73
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 48a Od
Krugs Champagne
qta 90s Od
do. do. pts. 92a 6d
Roederer do. qts. 105 s Od
do. do. pts. HOs Od
Good Sherry 24s to 54s Od
Heidsieck’s Dry
Monopole Cham-
pague ... q ts . 105 a
Julius Lorrame
Champagne pts. 70s
FrenohClaretfrom 30s
SPIRITS.
Hennessy’s • Case
Brandy 69s Od
Hennessy’a ♦••
Case Brandy ... 71a Od
D'Orville’a ♦ Case
Brandy 45a Od
Charente *** Case
Brandy 60s Od
Good Dark French
Brandy 45s Od
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 43s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky 42s Od
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky
Imperial •• Seot
ditto
Imperial •♦♦Soot
Whisky
Rum, Red Hear
Brandy in flasks.
Cases of 2 doz
Gin, Key, Case
15 Bottles (laa
size)
Gin, Key, Case
15 Bottles (m
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapj
40a Od
42a
40s Od
48a 0d
52s Od
46a Od
43s 6d
43s Od
ALES AND STOUTS.
Ball Dog Ale, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints
Foster’s Ale qts...
lls Od
8s Od
10s 3d
7s 3d
lls 6i
Boar’s Head Ale,
Pints 7 S 6d
HeUes Hannover
Lager Bier, qts. lls 6d
Kaiser db. qts. 12s 6d
Burkes Stout qts 10s 6d
do do pts 7s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts
4dozen in a cask; pints, 8 dozen. Boar’s Head Stout*
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Branci
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Boar’s
Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts in case; 7 doz. pints.
•ST Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
will be charged.
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 17s. 6d. by Post Office Order or
Stamps. Country Cheques should have 1s added toe
exchange.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Redfern Railway Station
Terms—Prompt Nett Gash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO„
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-stroet, Sydney.
Presentation —Mr. Hubert Dillon, ‘ ‘ with twins.”
The Tasmanian public want to know whether
the Chief Justice will how retire from the Bench. It
is generally considered that, after losing his case, he
should at once resign.
DH. STANICH desires to announce that poor
parsons suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Dis-
eases will receive his valuable services towards their cure
Gratis, every THURSDAY in the week, at 60 Wynyard-
Bfjuare, Sydney. To prevent disappointment, however,
applicants must he provided with a letter of recom-
mendation under seal from some Government or
municipal authority, otherwise they will not be treated.
—Advt.
It is necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to beat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that yon got CAD-
BURY'S COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra protit. Makers by speeial appointment
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
BATES’ DANDELION COCOA is destined to become
the most favourite of all household beverages. It com-
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa with
the well-known curative powers of the Dandelion flower;
consequently is invaluable for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, indigestion, debility, &c. Ask for a sample
packet from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
COULTER, Sole Agent. 107 Sussex Street.— Advt
you want a really palatable pleasant cup of
tea, of acknowledged purity, strength, and excellence*
ask your grocer for The Calcutta Tea Association's
Pure Indian Tea. Out only Wholesale Warehouse in
Now South Wales, is at 28 Charlotte Place.
no retail establishment whatever, and employ no
hawkers. All the leading tea dealers and grocers ui
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
“Calcutta Tea Association ’* on the labels in three
different places. The teas of the Association are ac-
knowledged superior to any packet teas ever sold in the
Colonies. — Advt.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 Qeorge-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
Wo trust our readers will not neglect this upper-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If you want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call atsB4, and “see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be in great demand
now, if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
The Rockhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring to the widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Rockhampton, says : —“ When visiting
Rockhampton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz., the Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel,
Bast-street. This Hotel has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars in town; also, the best furnished sitting
rooms in town. The Billiard Room contains a table
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Room,
which is large and well ventilated, will be found a
brilliant-toned piano. You will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladies." The lease, etc., of above
flourishing and rapidly improving bar business, to be
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, Dlj Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
—Advt.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Darley, Q.C., has been presented at Court.
Wholesome fun.
Lord Rosebery has unveiled a marble statue of
Bobby Burns at Dumfries. This is a great honour for
—Lord Rosebery,
Governor Sir William Robinson, brother of Sir
Hercules, ia said to be deeply imbued with the princi-
ples of Orangeism.
The two first newspapers in West Australia
were issued in manuscript. The rival editors, one lof
whom was a lawyer, fought a duel at Freemantle, in
which one of them was injured severely.
The Hon. Thomas M‘ll wraith, Premier of Queens-
land, entertained Archbishop Vaughan and other E.C.
bishops and clergy at dinner, at his residence in Bris-
bane. MTlwraith is a Presbyterian, but as broad as his
own shoulders.
Sir George Bowen has the same habit as Dickens
ascribed to Inspector Bucket in “ Bleak House.”
Whenever he is perplexed, anxious, and in a (brown-
study, he holds up his fore-finger, and appears to talk
to it, as if it were a Familiar Spirit.
A Forbes speculator launched, twenty years ago,
into the potato trade with half-a-crown capital. His
bank balance is now about £50,000. And, twenty years
ago, a man arrived in Forbes with £20,000. He now
borrows “ sprats” to raise a “ long-sleever.”
Rumour says that the Hon. John Wallop (pri-
vate secretary to Sir Q. C. Strachan, Governor of Tas-
mania) will marry the second daughter of Lady Wilson.
The late Sir James Wilson was a brewer, and left a con-
siderable accumulation of cash, which useful article is
in request by the Earl’s eon.
There’s a staircase in Government House,
Hobart, called “The Prince’s Steps.’’ What of that?
—Oh nothing !—only that when the Duke of Edinburgh
was staying with Governor {Gore Browne His Royal
Highness was put to sleep in a bedroom that opened on
these stairs, which also open on to the street 1
Mr. Samuel Plimsoll, M.P., the well-known
sailors’ friend in the House of Commons, should be in
Queensland by this time Mrs and Miss Plimsoll have
been some time in Brisbane and Toowoomba, awaiting
his arrival via the Torres Straits rontf. Perhaps some-
one may show Mr. Plimsoll round the floating coffins of
Sydney.
It is generally understood that the Chief Justice
of Tasmania, Sir Francis Smith, will retire on his
fension at ence, Judge Dobson succeeding him, and the
remier of the colony (Mr. Giblin) going on to the
Bench as Puisne Judge. The chaotic consequences of
Mr. Giblin’s removal from the political arena are some-
thing too awful to contemplate.
Sir Archibald Michie evidently struck terror into
both Bench and Bar by the firm manner in which he
conducted the cause celebre Smith v. Smith, recently
heard before the Hobart Supremo Court The local
legal night-floats are quite used to being sat upon right
and left by the Bench, but the wily barrister-knight was
all teo much for everybody, and won in a canter, hands
down.
Bailey, of the Temora Herald, and the
“ Wizzle Wozzle" are at it again. The former in-
dignantly denies a report which he states to have been
propagated by the latter, that he intends retiring from
the editorship of ihe Herald. We are glad to have
this assurance from W.H.L. We, having the welfare
of the country at heart, always glory in the fact of a
national calamity having been averted.
Mr. Flint, telegraph station-master at Alice
Springs (S.A.), believes he has found traces of the lost ex-
plorer, Leichhardt. In latitude 22 45, longitude 136 35,
about 100 miles east of the telegraph line, he was in-
formed by the Terakwa, a friendly tribe of blacks, that
some white men had died many years ago in the country
of the Terypoodaa (the adjoining tribe) blacks. Mr
Flint failed in piercing the Terypoodna country, owing
to want of provisions and water.
Judge Billing, of Victoria, died last week, after
a shoit apoplectic illness, said to have been induced i y
exhaustion, consequent upon excessive work. Ho was
a native of Ireland, and 68 years of age. He arrived in
Victoria in 1856, and soon became one of the leaders of
the Melbourne bar. Ha was one of the lecturers on
law at the Melbourne University, and about two months
ago accepted a County Court judgeship. He leaves a
widow and one child.
Bishop Stanton, of Northern Queensland, is on
a visitation tour. Ho has done Herberton, and started
for Northcote. The only places available for divine
service at Northcote are a billiard saloon (bark) and a
■ly-grog shanty, generally graced by the ministrations
•f Gentle Annie, and “The Hollow Log." If Dr.
Stanton could make a commencement by converting
these lovely magdalenes, it weuld give him a grand
start. Moat of the diggers in that part have got into
the custom of following the lead either of Annie or
“ The Log," and habit might lead them to grace.
The Hungarian, Arthur Sieber, who tried to
shoot the girl Lizzie Maher at Kadovick’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, in April last, and who subsequently attempted
to commit snioide by plunging a long-bladed knife into
his aide, is a smart, good-looking young man, with fair
complexion and fair hair, light beard and moustache,
sparkling blue eyes, and altogether most refine!
and gentlemanly aspect. He is still somewhat delicate,
but the confinement he has endured during the last
three months has evidently done him a considerable
amount of good. Miss Maher is still very weak and
ilk
The rapid strides now being taken by the
Northern Territory have induced the South Australian
Government to send forward a number of additional
officials. Amongst those who left Sydney for Palmer-
ston by the s.s. Catterthun are Messrs M‘ Minn (Acting
Government Resident), Price (Government Resident,
who is on leave and will probably resign). Bean
sdirector5 director of the De Lissa sugar plantations), J. W.
ames (chief surveyor), O. F. C. Reichardt (chief of
survey party), Searcy (Customs), E. King (overland
telegraphs), W. St. Panl Seitz, and N. Waters (mounted
police), Messrs. Poelsche (Inspector), J. Greig,
Read, Mayne, Finlayson, O’Ntili, Nesbitt, Robinson,
Seabrook, Cowie, Laurie, Gore, Diaper and others in
South Australian Customs, Survey, Engineering and
other departments.
Sir Henry, poet and statesman, was, it would
seem, once a rebel. Here is a sample of the views held
by him on the Irish question years ago—prior to the
advent of the Kiama ghost:—
Though it seems as if God had inserted a tongue
In every red wound that had done been so long.
And the slaughtered are calling in accents of fire
To Erin to arise 'gainst the foe in their ire.—
******
Let the scorn of the world on thy tyrants descend —
******
First thy vile rulers in idiot amaze
Wax pale as their blood-torches over them blaze
And the heart of their fatherless children still bleeds
In the light which they cast on their own hellish deeds.
Colonel Angelo, late Commandant of the Tas-
maniaa volunteer fores, at the magnificent stipend of
£2OO a year, has been appointed to a similar position in
West Australia, at a salary of £350. He was recom-
mgnded by Lord Kimberley. Three years ago. Sir
Harry Ord offered t.o obtain the services of a military
commandant, but the W.A, Legisiatuie then declined
to provide funds for the payment of such an officer’s
salary. Colonel Socatchley’s visit to King George’s
Sound, however, influenced the Governor so strongly
that he applied to Lord Kimberley, with the result
above stated. Colonel Angelo’s “ screw " is to be paid
out of savings from the lump sum allotted to volun-
teers. The Ord-ites are rampant, the Legislature ia
backing, and Colonel Angelo’s pathway is strewn with
anything but roses.
Mr. Copeland, M.P., has returned to Sydney
after an absence of four mouths, during which time he
has visited Java, Singapore, and Penang, besides
several of the Malay States, especially Perak, where he
made an expedition into the interior, doing the journey
in canoes, and succeeded in reaching a part of the
country where no white man had ever before been
seen. One of Mr. Copeland’s objects was to examine
' the country for gold deposits, but these were not dis-
coverable, though alluvial tin was found iu several
places—in fact the country abounds with this valuable
mineral. Wo believe Mr. Copeland intends to publish
some notes of hia trip which will, no doubt, prove
interesting to those who have not had an opportunity
of visiting these tropical countries. Mr. Copeland
was agreeably surprised to come across a recent copy
of The Bulletin in Batavia, and thereby learned of the
incarceration episode.
Mr. S. Croumbie Brown, notable as a journal-
ist, lecturer, and schoolmaster, has come unexpectedly
across an old pal. His business avocations caused him
to have sou>e correspondence with the Union Steam
■Shipping Co , and he was struck by the signature to
the company’s letters, which resembled the initials of
a schoolmate he had parted from in Edinburgh twenty
years ago, and who had joined the navy. On the
chance of its being his old mate, he wrote a note:
“Dear Sir, —If you are Tom, I am Sam." The prompt
reply was, “ I am Tom,” with, it need scarcely be
added, a long letter and much exchange of old remin-
iscences. The erstwhile sailor is Mr. T. W. Whitson,
of the head office, U.S.S , who has seen as much life as
Croumbie Brown himself. The latter, before he went
to N.Z., was Lannoeston correspondent of the Hobart
Mercury, and then snb-editor of the Age. He has also
done the States in his day.
Mr. Richard Cochrane who, with Mr. Dunn,
founded in Victoria many years ago the Warrenheip
distillery, is now an Irish landlord, and has come under
the Land League’s ban. The following cheerful
missive has been received by him, the place of the sig-
nature being taken up with the representation of a
black coffin: —“ Take notice, Richard Cochran —we de-
mand you to stop your tyranizing, or if you don’t, you
will share the fate of Lord L si trim, and if yeur tenants
pay any more rents without reduction they will get the
same. We also object any man to employ Richard
Cochran's steam mill, or if they do they will get buck-
shot and bullet, and no Forster. We also demand no
man to go sneaking about any man’s land before or
after he gives it up, or if he does, We, the members of
the Land League, who can rule the Government and the
Irish landlords, will give them a quick death, and it
will be a daylight job."
The unorushable Ebenezer Ward, M.P. for the
Burra, S.A., has revived his City and Country. This
time he has raised a plant and prints his own four-page
sheet, which he calls (in addition to the City and
Country) the Farmers’ Messenger and Racing
Record. Ward’s past experience has been most un-
happy, but it seems that he can always find people to
put up the necessary money to give him a start. His
last £lOOO paper just ran for one quarter. The fact is
that Ward's object is secured so long as he can run a
rag during the session of Parliament. His style is to
praise up hia collaague Rounsevell and himself in every
issue, and to advocate any peculiar crotchets which it
is his temporary purpose to ventilate. In his paper he
advertises Ward and Rounsevell, and from his seat in
Parliament he advertises his paper. In reality, how-
ever, Ward is so politically dead and characterless that
SMison himself couldn’t invent a machine to vitalise
him.
Though there are many fine churches in
Washington, the oldest and shabbiest of them all is
where President Arthur goes. Every Sunday morning
he is seen, on foot and unattended, crossing over to the
old moss-grown sanctuary of St. John’s. For it is
there comes to his ear, above the music of the organ
and choir, the sound of a voice he once loved best,
now “ singing in Paradise.” The romantic story is
very short. Years ago, a young lawyer, named Chester
Arthmr, chancing to spend a Sunday in the capital,
strayed into St. John’s, and saw for the first time,
Ella Herndon, who sang in the choir —a sweet
soprano, clear and rich, that filled with melody the
musty old place where Presidents went to worship nigh
eighty yers ago. He did not make her [acquaintance
then, but he ever thought of her, and, when her father,
a sea-captain, went down with his ship in 1857, the
young lawyer met and befriended the widow and her
daughter 1311 b. She was very prepossessing, of willowy
figure, loveable character, and rare attainments, and
t ho voice of an Israfel. They were married. She died
in 1880. a >d her portrait hangs in the oernlean chamber
of the White Hous*. And that is why the President
of the United States goes to the shabbiest old church.
The arrival from ’Frisco by a recent mail steamer
of a lady well-known in Sydney and Melbourne society
reminds us that she, when unmarried and belle every,
where she went, was a passenger by the Californian
steamer on the occasion of its being stuck up by Cap-
tain Semmes of the Alabama. The redoubtable captain
made sure of a million dollars in gold when he sighted
h ?r, but found ne had mistaken the ingoing vessel for
the outward one. The people on the mail steamer had
no suspicions, even when the Alabama crossed close to
their stern, and Captain Semmes writes that the view
was really beautiful, with all the ladies and gentlemen
admiring his man-of-war, which displayed the stars and
stripes at its mizen peak. Suddenly “ hate’s polluted
rag ’’ went down, and up flew the dreaded ensign of the
Confederates, while a speaking trumpet announced
“ This is the Alabama.” A panic followed. Captain
Semmes picked hia handsomest lieutenant to go on
board the mail, and reassure the ladies. There was a
general state of hysterics, The young gentleman
quieted it, and oame back denuded of his coat buttons
and other insignia, as mementos ; completely plucked,
like a peacock stripped of his feathers. The mail
steamer was allowed to go, because Semmes had no
accommodation for the 300 people she carried. He
hung about with her for a day, in the hope of capturing
an inferior vessel into which they could be transferred,
as he had set his heart on burning the mail steamer,
one of the most noble in Commodore Vanderbilt’s
fleet. By the way. Captain Waddell, of the Shenandoah,
has visited Sydney since the war as a commander in the
servioe of the P.M.S.S. Co. In all, Semmes captured
about 300 vessels.
The Charters Towers ecclesiastics denounce
Thadeus O’Kane. Here is a bit cut from the veteran
journalist’s rejoinder If we mistake not, the Rev.
Mr. O'Donnell argues that this right of the Press was
dependent on the neglect of the same duty by the
pulpit. If, be says, the pulpit neglected its duty, then
the Press had aright to step in. We reject this teach-
ing altogether and claim for the Press higher and
wider functions than ever the pulpit possessed. The
pulpit has in every age proved itself the sycophant of
courts, the adulator of power, the ally of tyranny, the
enemy of knowledge and pure progress, and the un-
relenting and obstinate opponent of science. The
Press has been the great defender of liberty of con-
science, of toleration, of the spread of education and
diffusion of knowledge, the foe of tyranny, ef supersti-
tion, of blind and brute obedience to authority, of
belief in religious hypocrisies and impostures. The
Press represents man in his various developments, and
its power and influence are felt in every country in the
world as the supreme governing and directing force of
civilization. The creeds are all worn out and their old
garments are hung up to scare women and children; the
living humanity of this age is found in the Press. It
is the great crucible into which are poured the
thoughts, opinions, aspirations, of every country and
clime; the dross is swept away and the pure gold
remains—eternal truth. Hence, then, the Press de-
rives its rights from humanity itself, and its voice can
search all things, all human actions relating to the
public life and intimately connected with it. Its title
is original, not derived. Let the pulpit claim its title
from Sinais, or Horebs, or burning bushes; its glory
has departed and the present age has closed its ears to
its message. The Press is the great Lay Pulpit of the
present—it addresses a universe, and speaks the lan-
guage of universal Humanity, Brotherhood, and Free-
dom." One can see from this that there are few men
in Australasia who wield so eloquent a pen as the hated
and persecuted Thadeus O’Kane.
Mr. Samuel Tomkinson —one of Adelaide’s three
Sammys—M.P., for Gumeraoha, S. A, has an identity
peculiarly hia own. He is of n® party whatever, and
shows no wish to be. His views are a jumble of
notches —Tomkinsonian notches. He is decided
on all points, and every decision he gives
is a thoroughly original one. In his younger
days, he was a radical of the Joseph Cowan stamp.
He claims to have fought the battle of the anti-corn
laws with Cobbett and his brethren. Until the last
two or three years he was principally known to the
public of South Australia in hia capacities as a banking
manager, a member of the Chamber of Commerce, and
an indefatigable writer of letters to the Press. Sammy
is as fond of letter-writing as ever Micawber was.
Every little splash in the local fishpond brings on with
him the cacoethe s scribendi, and he rushes into print.
Strangely enough, as a prominent citizen of Adelaide,
his radical proclivities carried him to the breach of
defending the ratepayers’ properties—his own included
—from municipal taxation. This would have been con-
tradiotory in a mono-colored radical, but it is the per-
fection of consistency with labyrinthine Tomkinson.
However, his reputation is spotless. He is immaculate
as far as cozening or corruption is concerned. A trifle
vain, but vain only in a Tomkinsonian way— stern and
inscrutable, first fighting out the merits of a question
in the Tomkinson breast by the aid of Tomkinson
logic, and then, if the applause come, vain of it; but
swerving not one hair’s-breadth from the ultimatum of
his logic for any prospective honors or applause, be
they ever so seductive. As a banker, he was nonpareil
in Adelaide. He was manager for years of
the National Bank of Australia; but a year
or two since the new Bank of Australasia induced
him to take its affairs iu band ;and immediately upon
his doing so, Bank shares rose a trifle in the market.
Shortly afterwards, he became a candidate for the Legis-
lative Assembly, wooing verv late in the day the electors
of Gumeraoha. “ Near ’’ John Rounsevell, however,
beat him by a short head, as the sports say, Tomkinson
finding that many who would have supported him had
already promised their votes. At the next election, a
few months after, he went in flying. As an orator, he
was a failure. His language is good, and his ideas are
thoroughly original—because they are Tomkinsonian.
His utterance is jerky, and audible only to the few
around him. Knowing these defects, he characteristi-
cally chose the most obscure corner of the Legislative
Chamber—that furthest from the Speaker and the
reporters* gallery—as his own locale. His brilliancies
have thus been lost. The gallery hacks dun him for his
manuscript notes, but these are as inscrutable as him-
self—a mass of disjointed hieroglyphics. In person, he
is short, spare, and erect as a bean-pole. He is always
immaculately dressed |iu black or blue cloth coat of
stylish cut, and sober-hned continuations, while his
parchment-toned, serious face sticks out upright be-
tween the supports of stand-up collar, and overlooks a
starchy [and white expanse of shirt front. He never
indulges in elocutionary gymnastics, but stands statue-
like all the time he is on his legs, except when he bends
to refer to the notes before him. Personally, he is love-
able, despite his peculiarities; in fact, he has no personal
toes, and is a staunch depreoator of dragging person-
alities into public questions.
• * •
A dashing individual who never went anywhere
in Hobart, even to the very smallest tea-and-toast,
without his opera-hat, isn’t where he used to be. L.s.d,
once more Darwin only recently published a work
on worms. It’s the worms’ turn now Marriage is
spoken of between a daughter of Argyll, and Hallam,
Tennyson’s youngest son Mr. Joseph Whitwell
Pease, one of a new batch of baronets, will be
the first Quaker who has accepted the title.
How about the plain “Thee" and “Thou?"
“Small, bow-legged as a cavalry colonel; always
hugged in a frock-coat buttoned tight up to the chin
like a Quaker ; bald as a billiard ball; red moustache
out like a brush; eyes sparkling and piercing, behind
gold spectacles." This is the portrait of Le Roper,
ttie new President of the French Senate, as given by a
Paris Paper...... Mr. Lachlan Beaton, Reuter’s agent
here, has resigned his position and become assistant
manager for Messrs. Howard Smith and Sons Mr,
David Gibb, late chief engineer of the Lady Bowen, is
dead; so is Mr. George Sutton, the well-known host of
the Sydney hotel, Maryborough (Q) Brinsmead,
the piano-man, has a sugar selection in Queensland,
which is being managed by Archibald Meaton, lata
member for Rosewood and ex editor of the Brisbane
Obsbrter Randall Webster, formerly a member of
the Queensland Civil Service, has absconded from the
chief secretaryship of the Crown colony of Bermuda,
leaving a £lOOO deficiency in his accounts
Poor Chris Barnett, one of the “ starters” of Barmed-
man diggings, has been conveyed to his last resting
place London barmaids have had meetings to agitate
for shorter hours and more pay Cesaroni Qaleatti is
an Italian boy aged nine, whose piano performances are
wonderful. Vanity Fair says" When at the piano
he seems transformed, and scarcely like a human
creature; not only can he play at sight anything put
before him, but if be is given three or four notes of any
kind of air he improvises in a most extraordinary
manner for an hour at a time, bringing the air
into a berceuse, a valse, a fugue, anything
Mr. Greig, of Greig and Murray, the well-known Mel-
bourne auctioneers, has just died in Loudon. He was
a native of Tasmania On severe nights in the House
of Commons, “ the people’s William ’’ refreshes him-
self with an egg beaten up in sherry In America,
railway tickets are sold in shops and post offices Sir
Thomas Elder has expended £lOO,OOO in tanks and wells
upon his Paratoo country, N.E. of Burue, S.A The
Queen says:—“ The royal princes of England are pro-
verbially good valsers; notably H.E.H, the Prince of
Wales." This is news to anyone who saw Edward and
George at balls in Sydney, while it is well-known that
H.E.H., their noble pa, does the “hop" waltz because
he can’t do any other Mr. T. H. Paige, the well-
known manager of the Commercial Bank, Brisbane
(formerly at Goulburn), has just retired from the Bank
after a continuous service of twenty-eight or twenty-
nine years, during twenty-three of which he has filled
the position of branch manager The great-grandson
of Daniel De Foe is in want. He lives at Shirley, in
England, and has tried in vain to find employment.
James W. De Foe is his name, and he is the sole lineal
male descendant of the author now living.... Tom Bent,
Victorian Minister of Railways, will be present at open-
ing of Hay (N.S.W.) railway.


ANTHONY HORDFHN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
IN order to meet the ever-increasing requirements of the NEW SOUTH WALES PUBLIC, we
have this year Imported
FROM ENGLAND AND THE CONTINENT OP EUROPE,
2422 PACKAGES OF GOODS.
BOUGHT DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
And are now prepared to offer our Stock of WINTER GOODS at exceptionally favoumble prices^ to
the Inhabitants of Sydney and surrounding districts. VISITORS FROM OTHER COLONIES are
specially invited to inspect the FINEST DISPLAY of Goods ever exhibited m Australia, and see one
of the VERY LARGEST DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENTS in the World.
Be sure of the Exact Name and Address. We have only one Place of Business, and no connection
with others of the same name.
J ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS j
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (Only),
Where any of the following Goods may be purchased Under One Roof.
TO ANGLERS.— Tf you wan
rod or line, buv land at CAR
WATER, on THURSDAY, J
PRITCHARD’S Rooms, 289, Geo
a Lithograph-
JiO YACHTSMEN.—If you;
, frontage camping ground, wi
SA tb ." “w“ SSSSSSFt
street. _____
TO ORANGE GROWERS
CAKEEL BAY, PITTWATI
got road or water carriage for yo
lha Rooms, 289 Georgo-street, THI
W. PRITCHARD.
fi’lO Buy
' U BAY, PITTWATER, while
In a short time you will teiinable
this locality. W.
street, Thursday, July bth. Call I
inspect.
mo SPECUL xTORS. —Buy
I BAY, PITTWATER. while
In a short time you will he umible
this locality. VV . IRIIcHA
street, Thursday, July 6th. Can
inspect.
A REEL BAY, PITTW VTF
HARBOUR after SYDNEY i
sa'e of water frontage land at the
street, on THURSDAY, July 6, b :
Call for a plan.
FOR SOHE KYI
1Y WILDER’S MAGIC EYI
will never use any other.
Ildar’s “ All Healing Lotion ’ u
S. hopfnung & CO.,
ELLIOTT BROS., Bnsbt
To Country or Intercolon:
A GENTLEMAN, educated, we
liable, is willing to supply!
Address, “ Mecum,” Bulletin Offi
THE APOLLO COMP A
PYRMONT, SYDI
DIRECTORS:
JOHN KEEP, Esq. | R. T. R
GEORGE TURNER—M.
Office 348 George-stree
Manufacturers <
the Celebrated APOLLO STEAI
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and PAN(
GLYCERINE, CRUDE an
PRIZE MEDAI
PARIS.
PHILADELPHIA.
SYDNEY,
and
EURE
KA
JJUREKA TOBACCO(
Each Plug has the word El
SMOKERS, BE WAR K OP 1
■IT IS RICH IN FLAVOUR, AND I
This brand is destined to become
its kind as quickly as itsvnuperior m
Latest Novelties in Brocaded Velvets.
Brooaded Silks. Broche Silks and Satins,
Lyons Vel vets. Genoa; Vel vets.
Louis and Manounium Velveteens.
Plushes and Plnsheltes.
For all Shades and C ilours.
Cashmeres, Sublime, Brittany, Ac.
Reversible French Caubmert s.
Terra Cotta and Bective cloths.
Ladies’ Kid Gloves, latent Fasteners.
All Light Shades and t'olours.
Laces—New Patterns. Evening Dress.
Eibbons—Plush, Moire, Satin, &c.
Choicest Delicate Shades.
Millinery—Latest Parisian Fashions.
Ladies and Childrens’ Boots and Shoes for Walking.
Fancy. Kid Boots and slippers for Evening Wear.
Workboxes, Toys, Ac., &o.
Ladies’ Jackets, Dolmans, Ulsters.
Umbrellas and Parachuters.
, GENTS, YOUTHS, AND BOYS,
Overcoats, Ulsters, Winter Suits.
Hats and Caps, Sealskin, Felt, Ac.
Boots and Shoes. Grest Variety.
Curtains, Table Covers, Napkins, &a.
Table Linen, Damask, Choice Patterns.
1 White and Grey Sheetings. Flannels.
Blankets, Counterpanes, and Eider Down Quilts. All
sizes.
Calicoes, Prints, Cretonnes.
Bedsteads all Sizes, and Styles.
Furniture of Every Description.
Drawing and Dining Room Suites.
Carpets, Hearthrugs, Mats.
China, Gloss, and Crockeryware.
Stationery, Statuary, Pictures.
The Largest stock in the Colonies, of Fancy, Rerlin, and Shetland Wool Goods, every colour and
shade, Collarettes, Fichus, Shawls, Capes, Opera Cloaks. Ladies’ Wool Vests and Skirts. Childrens
Wool Skirts. Dresses and Jackets comprising every latest novelty for warmth and comfort.
Every requirement for Dress either for Girls, Boys, Ladies or Gentlemen may bo obtained on visitin
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET
(ONLY).
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERT SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning 1 .
NO SMOKE OB SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Fanoet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
I
A GOOD LIGHT
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction mads to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LABSETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE FAINT FOR IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
Mark
Trade
V’
Q k
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OP HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVER
BLISTER CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, is white, W***
SEWING
and colours.)
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTINC COTTON.
• (XAue. MARK
COTTONS,
OP
ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES ie a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the C^TONS^rnajX^tacUire^W
them:—Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal; London,' 1861. Only First-class Prize Medal, Paris, 1866. -“7-
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of 'Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South lifnee, 1
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First AwfjTd, Sydney, 189fc
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTON&'%}^\
■
All Correspondence fprAUSTRADIA and NEW ZEALA-ND should be addressed tojtheir Warehouse*
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales*
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
Dr Kelvnack has been lecturing at Marybo-
rough andXmple. At Gympie they call him - the
renowned lecturer. •
in “ Patience” when playing in that town.
s passt? *^s m si3s m «bs4
and have no time, in their exertions towards teaching
the natives godliness, to tell them anything abo
domestic economy and that cleanliness which is far
better than “godliness.”
Melbourne Punch commented thus on the
net ion of slander (since withdrawn) brought by the
Eev John Dowie * garnet Mr. Thos Walker, spirituaiis-
tin torturer Let us hope that, if the rev. gentle-
man succeeds in lauding a good staUo this time, he
wilt retire from the turf, end build that fabcrnaoloin
Bvdnev for which be is said to have received £20,000.
We shall be very sorry to lose him, but, considering the
benighted state of New South Wales, we feel it o
duty*not to offer any impediment to his departu .
>&£££ i *
ting very bad, and the workus funds Jon t allow no
think warmin’, as the Christian Sisters do
Mr WS. Day, formerly assistant-clerk.at the
Auckland Corporation offices, is now a leading Mormon
oUtah Salt Lake, and holds a position in a co-
ooarative store in thit Modern Zion. Some Mormon
eXrs rmurrnng fcom N.Z. have been crying out
against the wickedness of that colony and saying that
if does no; contain a virtuous woman. Mr. Day nas,
according to his own statement in a tetter to an A uck-
land naner. boldly refuted this calumny, and claims that
N Z. female virtue is far above the average to bs found
anywhere else in the world.
There are a lot of people in England who have
brutally tender hearts The amount of want
and destitution in Loudon is fearful to think , y
when Jumbo, the elephant, was started off: for New
Vork gifisof fruits, liquors, delicacies, and even wines
were’sent for h“s consumption, literally by tons One
lady actually sent him twelve dozen oysters ! Hy sterical
sztsesizussz.
no attention.
Writes a correspondent:—“ There was a change
made lately in the circuit of the Wesleyan Church in
village on the Parramatta Kiver. . The new
Minister, a widower, made hil appearance in chapel
wearing his wife’s wedding ring, and another plain rmg,
S L kJ wcrn for years, and which he actually
which be mm wcrn iv j . tion of the eongre-
of this clergyman; bnt it would almost have been a
well to have one’s mind centred upon other matters
on such an occasion—and at all events, upon his first ap-
t, ~ .u ..... listened to what he had to say in*
luad “ of hurting his feolings-fomentmg discord in
their church, and making themselves objects of
de hava a AM. Samuell in the Melbourne Be-
former The great Hillel. called the Freethinker,
who died when Jesus of Nazarethiwas ten years of age
was asked by the heathen to tell him the whole Jewish
law while he stood on one leg, and he said Do to
others as yon would thatothereshouddoto you;
that is the whole Jewish law. This is not quite tne
iwhssimo verha. and as some of our readers may not
know anything about Hillel. we will explain in our best
George Washington style who b. WM, how the
above incident came about. Hababh (the Babylonian).
HUlel'ato Hazaken (the Elder) Hillel was torn In
Babylonia, of poor hut honest parents, about 112 B C.
He migrated to Palestine in order to study the law.
He worked at stone-napping. and, to gain oppor-
fur learning, gave half of each day’s wages he
owned to the door-keeper of the academy, where She-
mala and Abtalion, the great masters of the period, ex-
mounded the Ualaoha aud used the birch He took all
??_ nrives and soon became a master himself. He
lived. P 120 years—4o in ignorance of the law; 40 as a
i 1 6 nn nil of the law: and 40 as boss master of the
“/ th “ profits ’’ A hoary old heathen C.H.Q.
once laid violent hands on him. and wouldn’t let him go
onoaiaiav ~ a u the law of Moses” while he
a w. T^hkht
31 a ) The C.M.ii. presented him with a tram-ticket
and let him go. , ,
If anv average sinner should go to heaven by
a member of the Salvation Army, he will
hlve“he dubious satisfaction of going to the happy land
in very curio*. company. Not only are these generals,
maiors. captains, and officers Of every con-
solvable’ mUitaxy rank in’the army, hut those who
choose^ toTndulgo in variety name themselves whatever
they like! Some of these choice apostles who “tes-
are the “Converted Drunkard, the Halle-
} /' h pishmonger,” the •• Blood-washed Miner, the
“ 3 «wnv Baker*” the “Devil Dodger,” the “Halle-
lniahPParson.” and the “ Satan Walloper.” When the
“testifying” of these zealous but distasteful converts
takes the form of “brass instruments, drums, tarn-
homines and trumpets, to sound the praises of God in
open air.” at all hours of the twenty-four, the
average sinner feels unchristian passions rise m hia
breast, and he wishes the generals, and colonels, and
vnaiors hod gone to Gehenna unconverted, instead of
“viug to “testify” so vigorously, late at night. The
stories which the noisy saints tell about their past
lives are quite equal to anything in the London
Journal. One brother ” used tobacco for 21 years,
nnuldn’t pray without chewing, but surrendered at
last” Another said : “ I used to go Ito public-houses,
and stand on my head on the table, and play my ooncer-
ttoa and dauce with my feet against the ceiling, but I
am saved now.” “ Captain ” Beaty was a boot-flnisher,
who was so thirsty that he used to “ kick hia wife
round the room, and knock her down with chairlegf.
He seemed the devil in human form, and was called
Friday and Satan set his servants to work to prevent
Boor simstainod Friday from becoming a saint. How-
B after an extra big drunk. poor sm-stained
Friday " joined the Army, and now ranks as Captain
These intorcsting people hold midnight meetings, and
at one such in Manchester, they shouted, danced.
veiled 6 and “ came to the fountain.’ till five in the
corning and then went home “ better in body and
roul thfn when the meeting began " One regiment is
“Jr, .t .. nuntL «nd Glorv Lads, and on one oc-
called the D j and fire" meeting in a
which “ greatly affected “ the other
SXT Ho wonder. The original Salvation Army
is lo successful, and money pours in so freely, that
there are now rivals in the field. Another army has
W started called “ King Jesu’s Army,” but of course
“General ” Booth promptly calls the rival commander
an impostor, and cautious his own “ converted clowns,
bakers.” and “ Devil wallopers," to have
nothing to do with the opposition show.
* * *
Dr Tuffnell, ex-Bishop of Brisbane, and now
Vicar'of Croydon, has accepted a residentiary Canonry
in Chichester Cathedral. Truly the harvest is large.....
Th« New York Baptists propose forming a Denomina-
tional Bible Society, independent of the American and
Foreign Bible Society. Their special grievance is that
the preßent Society will not change the phrase “Bap-
tieo with, water” to “Baptise in water. These are
Particular ’* Baptists, beyond doubt .......A, young
fellow in Washington (a oitv which some people may have
h-ard of from the fact of its bavmg bcen by
Pirkes) is in gaol for writing modest love-le ters 'o a
blushing youmr lady belonging to Henry Ward B"ch(r»
Sunday School. Yet they didn’t put
when he wrote things to •’ Eliza. .. ...A Bill W amend
the N.Z. Education Act by introducing Biblc-re; admg
wfts thrown out by Parliament ..... Bishop *
monialised to the tune of £2OO at Rsckhainptou (Q-) —•
One of the men who perished in the Timaru (N.Z.)
harbour disaster, when the huge waves were over-
whelming him, was seen to be lifting hi f .
shouting n message of triumph to he bent Jot the
encouragement of Mrs. Hampson, the y
Down South, a Dean gives away so much m chanty
that he has not enough to pay his debts. .._Y^Hughes
has been lecturing up at upon Darwinism ,
his enraptured audience included seve ™J ,fJ’
whom a sense of duty impelled to be present.. Bishop
Selwyn has declined the proffered See of Adelaide
vacant by the resignation of Bishop Short; so also has
Canon Mason, of Truro,


This naturally led our thoughts round to
ths “Money Spinner”—now on at the Royal—and when
Jenny waltzed out again we wound our pen up out of a
crack in the floor where she had stuck it, fished our
paper from under the table, and plunged fn median ret,
wkieh means to say we sloshed right into the middle of.
the subject. And here we are. The plot of the piece
is something after this fashion. Baron Croodle, a
nobleman of the Faubourg St. Humbug, is a person
of magnificent tastes. He goes one bettor than the
Pacific slope desperadoes who used to keep their own
graveyards. Ho keeps a hell of his own. He has two
daughters, Millicent and Dorinda. Lord Kengussie, a
Sootah lord, and Harold Boycott, a clerk at Rouen, both
want to marry Millicent, and so verify the old Bast
Anglian saying, “he has married the devil’s daughter
and gone home to live with the old folks." But old
Croodle has arranged that Millicent shall marry the
Scotchman, who is represented, with the usual wild
indiscrimination of dramatists, to be excessively rich.
She loves the clerk, however, and, notwithstanding all
her diabolical old father's beseechings, marries the man
«f her choice and boycott’s Kengussie. A certain
Madame Montlouis enters the gambling saloon, and in
revenge for an indignity offered her by Croodle threatens
to bring round the Ferret, a celebrated detective. An
old bibliomanias (Jules Foubort) wanders into the
s&leon under the protection of Kengussie. He leaves
a book behind him ns n keepsake, and on the fly-leaf a
note intimating that he is in the habit of rising early
in the morning when he is on the rampage for worms.
The Baron then discovers that he has been visited by
the Ferret, throws mp his hands, and so the curtain
fells ©n the first act.
• • •
Wa fiud that, as we don’t contemplate issuing
this journal subsequent to the Day of Judgment, we
shall not have room for the finish of the detailed
account we were going to give of the plot of the " Money
Spinner.” It will be sufficient to remark that Harold
Beyeett gets into trouble over some money matters,
and his old rival. Lord Kengussie, rescues him. The
latter also winds up by marrying Dorinda Croodle.
The enrtain, as usual, falls upou happiness and much
kissing. By the way, it is a wonderful but perfectly
reliable acoustic fact that the sound of a kiss travels
fester and farther than the sound of anything else
Except the thud of the old man’s boots that sometimes
follows it.
• • •
It will be perceived that there ia a good deal of
scope for acting in the “Money Spinner..” None of
the company—with the exception of Mr Wybert Reeve
(Baron Croodle) and Mr. Frank Cates (Lord Kengussie)
—rise to the occasion. The latter, however, is excep-
tionally good. Mr. Wybert Reeve has been praised
often enough when, perhaps, he did not deserve it so
much, to be able to dispense with praise this once that
he does deserve it. Mr. James Carden (Harold Boy-
cott) is agreeable enough in the quieter portions of the
play, but he has no passion. Several splendid oppor-
tunities for the display of vigorous acting were lost.
Mr. A. J. Byrne (Jules Foubert) and Mr. Gladstone
(Seekett) wete not noticeable for any flashes of genius
la their performances. Miss Blanche Stammers
(Mmicwife the Money Spinner) had a magnificent
dhanee to show herself an actress. But Miss Stammers
eft«n mistakes hysterical gush and rant for pathos
and Are. Miss Lena Ellis (Dorinda Croodle) is much
more of a hoyden than she need be. Miss Playfair
(Madame Montlouis) has not much to do, but quite
enough. Miss Brayburn (Margot) is charming. An-
other London comedy, “ The Passing Regiment ” is iu
preparation.
** * *
A complimentary benefit was given to Mr. G. L.
Goodman, treasurer of the Theatre Royal, on Thursday
evening. The piece put on for this occasion was “ Pyg-
malion and Galatea." In this, Miss Blanche Stammers
is superb. She has very little to say. In fact, she is
ia statu nue mest of the time. But Miss Stammers has
a splendid figure, and charms old Pyg. in first-class
style without saying anything. Perhaps this was one
reason why ho fell in love with her. There are other
mea hodden Pyg who would like to come across a dumb
wife. Mr Q. L Goodman, better known by the endearing
feikinutiv# "Goodie," is an institution ak the Royal.
H« is always in the front. Whenever we have passed
Vf the dress-eirele door in the dead of the stilly night
soon a form lying across the threshold wo have
foa« homo thinking of the story of the Roman sentinel
*t Pompeii. We used to cherish in secret the conviction
that it was the faithful Goodie who was lying there, to
keep watch over the premises he loved so well. But
the dream is shattered. Goodie goes home at regular
hours, and it must have been a belated journalist whom
We saw. 'Twas ever thus.
We never reared a younp gazelle
To glad us with its soft dark eye
But it would learn to swear like •,
And ehoke itself with mutton-pie.
** * *
The Gaiety Dramatic Company, consisting of
Mr. W. H. Leake, Mr. Arthur Vivian and others, opens
lH Newcastle on Saturday. July 8. The plays to be
Performed axe “Honour, “My Partner,” and “Neck
a nd Neck.” Mr. Sydney Hall is the advance agent.
** * *
The “Professor” has had a good run at the
dpera House It gives place to Burnand s comedy,
Jennies,” on Saturday evening. This will be the first
PBwwMoii of that piece iu Sydney.
** * *
The Diorama of the American War now shown
r® Victoria Hal! seems to have as much attraction
“ 8 ever. The paintings don’t look much the worse for
year, and the thunder of the big guns has lost none of
/“Old form. A number of really valuable gifts ore dis-
rated every evening. One would think that this has
om«hmg to do with tha large attendances, only that
* Australian public is so monumentally disinterested.
Raymond lectures with a considerable amount of
of some expression, and an incalculable quantity
, cnaxm. Ia fact, if we had only to let a dozen bayonets
w rtui into our diaphragm to get her to lecture over us,
laai w °old make ourselves a prong-wiper for the Per-
, “ eat Force to-morrow. But she won’t do it under a
that ' » our diameter not being much greater than
don't".- a potato-chip at a fashionable restaurant, we
still v WB 9° u id make room for this number and
•nb , - on sm iling. Mr. Roper may be congratulated
i« i, aTIu l> socured such a,charming ally. Her front name
■ owever, not Allyza, but Jessie.
„ >f * * * *
T.p has run its successful course at the
Pithnit?®hkide), and Rignold, feeling that “Youth”
U SivJi himself would bo lost, has consented to show
ydaey before long. He thinks that “Rignold"
ought to b® printed m bigger typo than “ Youth," and
intends to sit on any compositor who dare think differ.
Grattan Riggs and “Shin Fane" take th#
Gifted Youth's place. Riggs means to adventure,
despite the kingly shadow which still haunts the Royal
The Irish were always a foolhardy race ! At the Ade-
laide Academy, Georgie Smithson’s Dick Whittington
Combination Troupe opened on Saturday week before a
good house. Georgie’s people manage the obstinate
scenery much better than the great Daniel E. Band-
nmnn did; but we are afraid that their acting cannot
5* Placed on a higher grade. They imitate Christy
Minstrel and Music Hall showmen ; they imitate per-
formers of pantomime and stag® professionals gener-
ally; and sweet Georgie herself imitates Maccabe so far
as a woman can do. Though imitation is said to
the sincerest flattery, it may be doubted
whether the great Frederic would feel much flattered
by anything that Georgie accomplishes. She is a per-
sonable body, a splendid limbnist, and looks well in a
photograph. Avoiding anything like conceit, she only
says she is the quickest female dresser in the world;
and, avoiding anything like high-faluting language,
Georgie is content to call her particular form of enter-
tainment merely kaleiscoteriecosmograph, which, she
says, means fine characterization accompanied by
music and dancing. We thought, from ocular demon-
stration, it meant much the reverse. The Rhoister fell
foul of Georgie’s exuberant display of figure, and
Georgie Incontinently invited its representative to see
her on the stage—behind the scenes, of course. Fear-
ing the blandishments of womankind, that censorious
pressman neglected to keep the appointment, and most
probably missed the delicious sight of Georgie pre-
paring for kaleisooteriecosmographication. James Hol-
loway postures as Cat and Clown, and is really a clever
pantomimist.
** * *
Miss Emilia Melville opens Bth July, at Mel-
bourne Opera House.
it It k k
Our Auckland correspondent writes us that the
Williamson Opera Co.’s season was an immense suc-
cess, the receipts being large. “Patience" was played
a fortnight, “ Piuafore ” three nights, and “ The
Pirates” five. Alice Rees’ Josephine and Mabel,
vocally, were the best heard there, while the mounting
of each opera could hardly have ‘been excelled. There
was great disappointment at not seeing Williamson and
Maggie Moore in one or two of their characters. The
company arrived in Sydney by the Arawata (s.s.), and
open at the Melbourne Royal on July 1, in “Patience,"
every seat in the dress circle being booked in advance
for the opening night.
** * *
Raphael's Opera Company was, at last advices,
at Rockhampton. We don’t know this impresario.
Our recollections of Rockhampton are pre-Raphaelite.
But we see that Mrs. Fox is prima donna. “ Freis-
chutz,” “ Sounambula,” “Girofle” and “ Bohemian
Girl" are in the company’s repertoire. Mr. Charles
Harding is the primo tenore, and seems to he a great
favourite. Ho has been “ dined ” by the Bockhamptou-
ites, Feez, M.L.A., genial old boy, in the chair. After
dinner, a small roll of notes were handed to Charles, as
a nucleus of a fund to enable him to go to Europe for
the cultivation of his voice. This is the Rockhampton
way of complimenting a First Tenor. Charley must be
an exceptional artist to admit that his style is not per-
fection. There seems a chance under the circumstances
that he will one day be able to sing. Most of our
travelling First Tenors never will.
** * *
The Petersham Musical Society gave what is
understood to be its final concert on Thursday evening
last. The Society has dwindled down to a mere hand-
ful, its original secretary, conductor, and accompanist
having left it long ago. To make up for its weakness,
the children of the local public school sang choruses,
and several amateur soloists assisted. Miss E. A. Foxall
essayed two heavy operatic selections, far too arduous
for her, singing, instead of the beautiful Italian words,
execrably translated English. Ballads would suit
this young lady better. Percy Jones was in excellent
voice, but his “ Ah 1 non avea pin lagrime ” was killed
by the slow time taken by the acoompanist. Mr. W,
Smith sang “Won by a rose," and “Heme of my
heart,” in his best style. Some of the solos, notably
a ballad, were sung in very slow time, and warranted
a suggestion that the words should be given out two
lines ao a time, to enable the congregation to join in.
Mr. H. T. Wilkinson was in very bad voice, suffering
from a bronchial affection. Mrs. E. E. Morris appeared
to be ill; at any rate her singing was far from being
as satisfactory as usual. Mr. J. T. Brown, Miss Bone,
and Mr. T. Loveridge also sang solos, and the Society,
sang two choruses. The best seats in the hall (Town
Hall) were filled by public school children. “;to the dis-
gust of the members who pay their subscriptions and
attend in evening dress." It is only fair to say that the
children behaved well, keeping their eye on their
master, Mr. Arthur Wood, whose daughter sang the
solo in “ Children’s Voices.” The pronunciation of the
singers, especially the ladies, was painfully defective,
the principle of “the first shall be last” being carried
out with the alphabet, for whenever an a occurred it
was transformed into ay. The concert concluded with
the prayer fromiHorr Alpen's Exhibition cantata, words
by Mr. E Lewis Hoott. Herr Hugo Alpeu conducted,
and Miss iiout shared the pianoierte accompaniments
and played a duet with him. No encores were permitted.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Pollard’s company had a grand reception at
Ipawioh, and is described by the enthusiastic c
pondent ns “ tbe grandest'yet seen in this town.” It
was only by constant prayer that the local parsons were
enabled to resist the temptation. The Ipawioh people,
by the way, are open to exchange 20 parsons for five
pretty girls, of which article the town is said to be
sorely in need. The sizes of the boots worn by the
local belles vary from sevens to tons. The young
opera artist ,who is being brought into the Divorce
Court by his wife is a Tasmanian by birth, and well
connected Maccabe is slowly recovering in Brisbane
from a severe attack of inflammation of the lungs. He
hopes to renew his entertainments in about three
weeks The Montague-Turner Opera Company will
open with some new artists at the Theatre Royal.
Brisbane, on the 10th July There is, in London, a
man exhibiting who can cover his face with the skin of
his forehead, and tie knots with the skin of his knees.
There is some talk of a play being written for him. It
wouldn’t be a bad thing, by the way, if some of our
actors could hide their faces with the skin of their
foreheads occasionally If they then modulated their
■‘fog-horns,” the illusion would be complete Bur-
lesque opera in Melbourne after the Ist. There seems
to be no limit to “ Pat ioaco.” George Darrell about
toretnrn. Beliid ! Bland Holt opens at Christchurch
31st July; Auckland in September Another "great-
est living violiniste,” with the usual style of name,
coming to the colonies—Bercawviez Kicoardi has
been in trouble at Auckland over his bankruptcy there
in 1881. Several of his creditors intend to have their
pound of flesh Williamson will probably take
another company to New Zealand in the Spring
Mr. Raphael, manager of the Opera company
now in Rockhampton (Q.), was dragged out of his hotel
in the dead of night by a certain Foley, sheriff’s oflloer,
at the suit of Shepperson, Raphael’s agent, under a
warrant that he (Raphael) was about to leave for India.
Much indignity was offered to the ladies of the com-
pany by this man, Foley, while making the arrest.
Great indignation at the occurrence is expressed in
Rockhampton. Mr. Raphael is out on bail.
* * #
When Mdlle. Cora Pearl first appeared on the
stage as Cupid, sho was hissed off, though she wore
boots with eight diamond buttons on each. Boots,
even with diamond buttons, are a rather meagre dress,
when a lady doesn’t wear much else A new swindle
in London. A bill-poster enters a shop, leaves four
bills and asks the shopkeeper to exhibit them. Then
he asks : “ Would you like an order Shopkeeper :
“ Tea." Bill-poster : “ Give me four envelopes and put
stamps on them." Shopkeeper does so, but never gets
the orders. Bill-poster " makes’* the stamps ....Emily
Soldene and Alioe May were travelling in a sleeping
car, recently, when there was a collision. Both ladies
were thrown violently out on to the floor, but sus-
tained no very great damage. When they had risen to
their feet, Alice couldn't find her jewel-case, which had
been hanging oyer her head, anywhere. All of a sudden
Emily commenced to cough. Then the bag tumbled
out on to the floor. It had fallen from the rack into
Emily’s mouth, and had remained concealed in the
cavity of a hollow tooth. Next boy can try now.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The letter deliverers and female clerks in the
Melbourne Post Office are protected from lip-flirting
during office hours by wire-netting," says some un-
tutored scribe; meaning, ot course, you can’t kiss 'em
through wire-netting. The experiment has been tried.
The girl inside kisses the tips of her fingers, and you
kiss yours, then bring the tips to meet. This may
seem to the uninitiated unsatisfactory, but it’s better
than nothing. However, we admit that a man likes to
get a grip around the waist and neok, and make a long
speech over it.
At a recent freethoughfc meeting at the Masonic
Hall, n Mr. Browne discoursed on ‘‘Mar-
riage.’’ Ho pointed out some of the debasing sur-
roundings of many marriage contracts, and thought it
was not sufficiently borne in mind that love alone hal-
lowed marriage. He was opposed to divorce, as he
tconght men an* women should be left to bear the
consequences of their own ill-choosing. Many of the
speakers objected to Mr. Browne as an authority, on
the score of his being a bachelor j but the lecturer In
his reply, and his supporters also, pointed out that he
was, on that yecy account, likely to be more impartial.
All of them, however, disagreed with him on the ques-
tion of divorce, as they considered divorce an excellent
remedy for ill-assorted marriages.
Colonel Mapleson’s newly-found French pritna
donna, Mdlle. Vaohot, was not n success, and the
Colonel and her father are at war. Vaohot pdre asserts
that Mapleson took his daughter away nndsr seductive
promises that he would lead her to a land of balmy,
perpetual summer, where, for her singing, flowers, dia-
monds, and doves would ho showered on Per. But she
didn’t get the diamonds or the flowers, she had to wear
heavy fare during the New York winter, and, worse
than all, ehe was ** sacked" because she could not sin#
well enough. So Vaohot •pert challenges Mapleson to a
duel. But the musical Colonel ienies that he made any
illusory promises, and declines to fight with a man who,
on the strength of his daughter’s engagement, came to
the bedroom door in the middle of the night and whis-
pored, “ Can t you let me have 50 dollars on account f ”
The racy American writer, Clara Belle, went to
see Miss Anna Dickinson act as Hamlet, anu, amongst
other interesting remarks, this is what she says of
Anna’s principal limbs : —“ Her legs were incased snugly
in plain silk tights of a dark purple. Some staid ad-
mirers of the former leotuross and Quakeress may be
pained to know that she made no attempt to mitigate
the disclosure. There was no drapery of any kind.
The legs were in view their entire length, and more,
too. They wore a shapely, solid, and altogether pre-
sentable pair, but, oh I how badly managed. It seemed
as if, after forty years strict seclusion, they were
embarrassed by sudden and entire publicity. Their
conspicuousuees was wonderful. They seemed to bo in
half-a-dozen corners at once. It was difficult to believe
there were only two of them, and the fact could not be
soti lt d except by other data, because they never stood
still long enough to be counted." Perhaps Anna will
meet Clara some day, and then Clara will be sorry she
said all this.
Women, as a rule, are not ambitious. Mostly,
they are quite content to remain in subjection, provided
their ruler is manly and worthy. The man who has to
make a fortune and carve a career has to work very
hard; his wife seea him go out every day to do it, sees
him come home every night tired and worn; and she
does not envy his eminence obtained at such a price.
The liberty which involves heavy responsibility has no
fascination for the ordinary woman. Those of an
active, soaring nature are exceptions to the rest of their
sex. Woman is satisfied in the sphere where she knows
she reigns. Needlework gives to a room an air of home-
liness and comfort; and a pretty woman never looks
prettier than when, with her own implement, the needle,
she sits at the bright fire side and works quaint Devices
by the fitful glow. It shows her in the pretty feminine
character which is her great strength, and the greatest
attraction to most men. She is delicate, dainty and
charming, and the atmosphere is pleasant in the home
where she reigns. Man likes to have his supremacy
openly acknowledged: and woman secretly delights in
her piotaresqne slavery ; for she knows well that there
lies her power.
Here is the treasure we have long sighed for.
The ad., though, unfortunately appears in a home
paper. This is it: —“ A lady who has had considerable
experience as governess or nursery governess, will
shortly be at liberty; therefore she desires a re-
engagement in a gentleman’s family, where the children
are young; only those persons need reply who are true
Christians, and can give her a minister’s reference as
regards their private character; hers, thank God, will
bear thorough investigation, and first-class references can
be given. Address, A. 3, at the printer’s." We know
this Christian prodigy. Wo have her oven now in our
mind's eye, Horatio. She is tall and gaunt, with a
planklike figure, t-nd a wooden countenance. Her
entrance in the house freezes everything, and at the
sound of her voiee the kids howl dismally. She will
pass most of her time swilling tea, and when she is not
doing that she will bo ma’igning the family circle
generally. She will always go to bed with a bible on
her pillow, and a mysterious bottle beneath it. There
are a few of her kind round about the Sydney Female
Refuge. But she can be seen in full bloom, sitting,
armed with a magazine of clergyman’s letters, at a
strictly Protestant registry office.
Listen to the Campbklltoww Herald ;
“ As showing the good nature existing amongst young
ladies, wo insert the following sent in by a correspon-
dent: —‘A young lady on being asked the other night
if she was going to the Bachelors’ Ball on the 28th,
said, ‘I should like to go, but I have only got my black
dress to go in.’ Her lady companion at once promised
to wear a black dress also, and thus the difficulty was
solved. ’’’ What are you sliding at us, dear boy ? We
like you for trying to make the most of your little
village, but keep within bounds. You may have a
School of Arts, and even a drinking-fountain, but don’t
try to run us into believing that the wealth of your popu-
lation ever increased to enormously as to permit or a
Campbelltown girl possessing such an extent of war-
drobe as chronicled by yonr correspondent. The fact
is the young ladies had only a black frock each in
addition to the pompadour peignoirs which faced the
Dutch cheese in moments of deshabille, but with
womanly cleverness they make the most of them. We
like these girls somehow. We are sure they are
ingenious. The sort of young girls, in fact, who would
out a fish-tin in two, take half each, and persuade that
editor that they were diamond tiaras. By the way,
how the first of there girl- must be looking forward to
the next funeral in the family.
This is how H. A. Dugdale lets herself out to
“ Humming Bee *’ in the Australasian, and shows
how deeply the wearing of stays affects human pro-
gress and civilization “ Kindly also let me know
Lady Harberton’s address. Being mysolf the rara avis,
a woman not having worn stays, or the remotest sem-
blance thereof, since irresponsible girlhood (forty years
since), I think that lady would like to know some
particulars from me. Ever since my thoughts began
anything approaching cohesion and direction, the im-
provement ot women’s position in the world has
occupied them deeply and tenderly, not, as some men
pretend to believe, from paltry jealousy of or wish to
wrench from them the very many advantages they
have so cleverly usurped to themselves ; bat simply
and purely os an Influence on the growth of higher
nature in the whole of mankind. Remote as the
apparently trivial matter of stays-wearing appears in
connection with so important an attainment, forty-five
years ot reflection have taught mo that the two are
closely connected. Any one who has considered the
subject impartially will acknowledge that no great
number of noble men can appear in the world without
noble women to give them birth; and it is equally
certain that no woman can become noble who fritters
away her beautiful brain-power by Buffering from head-
aches, back-weakness, indigestion, and dozens of other
ailments, resulting from compressing all the delicate
organs it is absolutely necessary should enjoy full free-
dom to give health to body and mind."
• • •
A great hoax was perpetrated at the last Turin
Carnival. A young sculptor, Calandra, with the aid of
some choice spirits, deluded the committee into be-
lieving that Sarah Bernhardt would attend, which was
accordingly announced. Everyone was in expectation.
At last the door was thrown open, and a thin, graceful
figure ia a magnificent ball dress entered, leaning on
the arm of an escort. Duchesses, Counts, and Dukes
thronged to tell her how glad they were to meet the
distinguished diva. By and bye she went into the
robing room, and emerged in black goat and trousers.
Then the Mite discovered they had been homaging the
T , f Hd .”s I and iheM was terrible anger....
Hm tT^ arbo !i ton 8 dl , vlded Bkirt 18 what may be seen B
Th» d : day> in Constantinople or Cairo..
at F P rbea of the barmaid who lost jft
situation because she wasn't good-looking enough to
25* wia°h nade & tls ® B talwart gentlemen of that might
Chfef abont by the ugliest man in town ...
wedd f in^^ C °i ori u haa j nst! doo >ded that a wife*
Theriff eta be l ong to her bnaband. When
® „ • ?, ed a m ?! lad woman’s jewellery forlpayment o
bU * ™«P before marrfaga the Cour
no j to .. be returned to her husband There bein
o?the Sfwi h Wlfo m merica ’ the wi,e of the Speake
the land 1 T h M Prec f dence over every oth er lady
1 oo Nevada * a woman w» 8 divorced twice
went m trahrh y 6!l r 8 ° ld ’ ° n the Becond deor « e *
?n»in 8 J' ra * h l ? rom the oour t te her third marriage
AmerfcaH* 8 arc now worked bv electrioify in
America,......H.E.H. the Duke of Albany's weddimr
ELI* Blx f eet high, and weighed 2001 b Louisa
Publishing “ The Superfluous Woman,’
3 sous-in-law know too much of her already...,*.
19 ca t‘ou was made to the Lord Chamberlain lor
12,000 tickets to witness Leo’s marriage. WO wore
nonl-''.'-.'-^' adie *i flfc toud the gallery of Parllamen
House very regularly at Wellington (ITZ.) Mn. Bat.
km is almost as (regular as the Speaker .An
eipanenoed European singer hae said that black* silk
* la J, ma * n «tio properties, which conserve the
energies of the wearer. Mrs. Hardinge-Britten said the
ItZl W knr« SLe WaS i l6oturiD ff from the Theatre Royal
stage here several years back. She always wore
black silk and she is probably the granS
female public speaker of the decade .*„Ttia
?“?. 11 hopelessly untruthful Yankee paper that
thin legs are coming in.” If so, what a lot of giddy
old fascinators will come outl Mrs. Langtry can't
sing, but she can sit down and play the accompaniment
while another lady sings behind the scenes. The
illusion is perfect so they say—almost os perfect as the
special correspondent’s telegrams in the Hbeald when
somebody announces where Parkesfed last Patti has
One hundred concert dresses and eighty-three reception
robes. Her dressing gowns are of soft eurah satin of
all colours trimmed with maltese lace. Yet she can
only wear one dress at a time, poor thing Several
native ladies of Cairo, accused of complicity in the
plot to assassinate Arabi Bey, were imprisoned ,
r m y° utu asked his ex-sweetheart for his letters
baok ; . m aiden replied: “ I value your letters so
much that I cannot give them up for less than 100,000
francs. And the matter haa gone to oourt The
Princess Royal is threatened with blindness . .Ladles
do not require sleeves t» ball dresses now. But, as per-
”ndlty , lf , not ton > they wear the “faintest
excuse, ont of compliment to a supposed modesty...
A London paper says that a young Viscount in the
Guards gave Mrs. Langtry £lOO each for the pair of
,^ l i k^ t ?u km ? 8 Bhe wore in “ 0,,r8 .” deliverodwhen
the run of the play was over. This may, or may not
be true; but it s just a little bit nasty, either way
The PriDcess Dolgorouki (the Czar’s widow), inspires
much interest in Pans. She is of beautiful figure, and
she and her family, even to the daughters’ dolls, wear the
deepest mourning The Princess, according to Russian
bad her head shorn on her husband's death,
and she wears a widow’s coif that gives her the appear!
anoe of une rthgieuse An American editor offered a
Pf** e f° r *b® best form of proposal from a lady. He
picked out one sent by a prepossessing and rich widow •
wrote her an acceptance, and, by threatening an action
for breach of promise, actually captured her... As a
last resource to stave off importunate suitors,"Mrs.
Bonanza Mnokay has formally intimated that her
daughter will have no dowry while her parents live.
President Arthur, who is a widower, receives an
enormous number of presents from ladies. His •* blue
bedroom is stocked with pincushions, soent-
bags, slippers, embroidered braces, and the like
Eed-no>ed women owe their complexions to tight-lacing.
°ff d me “~ but there the tightness is due to some,
thing else... A remarkable case of transfusion of blood
was successful in Pans, A woman was dying of hemor-
rhage, and tranfusion was the last resort. A strong
young man was brought in, and 160 grammes of his
blo° d were imparted to the woman, whose breath and
pulse had both ceased. The operation lasted 5 minutes.
Next day she was able to talk and eat... .!!
Mrs. Scoville, at latest, was lecturing in New
York on * the Guiteau case from a sister’s
standpoint ...Miranda Polver. an ambitious
young Melbourne State-school trainee, who wanted to
pass an examination “with honour," and made the
mistake of trying to bribe a Government Printing
Office apprentice, instead of somebody higher up;to pro-
cure fer her a set of examination papers, has been
prosecuted for Inciting to larceny. As she was young
and petty she was held to have been sufficiently
punished, and was discharged.
Colonel Fariola requests ua to aay that, d nil |
the American civil war, be waaeugagedloa the North «i n.
not on the Southern side, as stated in our last issue.
In the Sartor, Carlyle says, “ When I read o
pompouaceremonials, drawing-rooms, levees and coro-
nation, on a sudden often the clothes fly off the
. fancy and ihey stand there
straddling in a half-ludicrous, half-horrid condition.”
All vtry well for a sage, but the English fashionable
journals wouldn’t nsk that instead of their six-oolu*
accounts of Prince Lac poll's marriage.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A shining bar of sunlight falls
Across the paper,
And round the corners of the walls
The shadows caper.
We had intended overnight
To rise at dawning,
And now we settle down to write
At noonday—yawning.
In vaina footfall on the stairs
As light as fall of
The rose-leaves falling unawares.
Warns us that all of
Our resolutions help us not
When Beauty vetoes.
We are as helpless then, God wot,
As blind mosquitoes.
Who thinks that he grows wiser by
Hl* growing older,
Just watch him when long tresses lie
About his shoulder.
• • •
A knock. “Come in.” We know that wa
Cannot escape her;
We simply wait to cross a “ t "
Then sling the paper
Beneath the table. What must be
Must so be. Minn eftose—
You never saw sueh shows as she
Makes of these same “ Shows’’—
And s© our Jenny waltzes in
With giggles many.
And sits her down her yarns to spin—
Sweet spinning-jenny.
A Soothsaw.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'Tis false that all happiness flees us.
Unless we own acres and cash.
And, therefore, unless one’s a Croesus,
To marry is wickedly rash.
If the woman you love will not share
The lot which is furnished by Fate,
She's not fit to wed—go elsewhere—
Do not marry too late.
Perhaps you would fancy I rave, or
The many-shaped reasons which rise,
All urging the truth in my favour,
I’d write for your wondering eyes.
Is not the young year in its Spring,
When blooms hud and chirping birds mate
Why, Nature speaks plainly one thing—
Do not marry too ikte.
Obey the sweet voice—should you stint h
How sadly Life’s current will flow
*Tis turning your Summer to Winter,
And filling your bosom with snow.
The heliotrope, nipped by the frost.
Droops blackened in pitiful state j
Why stay till your freshness be lost ?
Do not marry too late.
Don’t fancy one cracked, I know how bar
Is often a poor start in life•
Yet surely that fellow’s a coward
Who can’t make a home for a wife!
But mark, ere the girl is a bride,
There must be two chops on the plate—
Work, work, they will soon be supplied
Do not marry too late.
By Jove! my life’s gained quite fresh feature
With children and wife at my back
And they are but semi-male creatures
Who these true and gentle friends lack..
Is loneliness good for a man ?
But one pair of toes on the grate ?
How pleasant and safe the old plan,.
Do not marry too late.
When wifeless, neglected, and pursy.
In years which so shortly will be.
You breathe at a hovvtv-keeper's mercy
Who smuggles yowr brandy and tea ;
When e’en after dinner and wine.
Old meia’rtes bat sorrow create.
Remember 'twas preached in one line—
Do not marry too latv.


PEPPER AND SALT.
John Lucas has half-a-dozen sons in the Civil
Service. John is, therefore, a true Jpatriot. We’re
quite sorry the jury didn’t see its way to give each
Lucas, junior, a wool-store at the expense of this
bleeding colony. John reminds us of the Spartan
mother who, having had half a dozen sons killed in
battle, with her own hands buckled the sword on the
seventh and last remaining, and, adjuring him to
“never turn in flight,” started him out on the war-
path. We hope John has another son to give us, even
if we haven’t a wool-store to give him. We don’t know
whether the Spartan mother got for her son a wool-
store at the public expense. But having carefully
read in the history of the time, wo must say it doean t
Lucas if she did.
• • •
From the Evttnooze :—“ I, John Brown, Jun.,
will not be responsible for any debt my wife, Ann
Brown, contracts after thia date, she having left her
home on her own account. John Brown. Burwood,
Jane 28.1998.”
Hot tears of sorrow for you, John,
To our eyes quickly mount 1
To think the ** missis ” should have left
You "on her own account 1”
But. prithee, bear in mind, J.B.,
Although these trifles bother.
Far better “ on her own account ”
Than on that of another.
• • •
A Mrs. Eokford, in Saturday’s News, in giving
a medical gentleman of advertising proclivities a lift in
the way of a certificate of cure, states the following:
« That she was for many years suffering from dropsy,
enlargement of liver, affection of the kidneys, heart
disease, nervous and rheumatic pains in teeth, jaws,
head, and shoulders (sometimes excruciating), swim-
ming in the head, great difficulty in breathing, choking
sensation in throat, never could get a good meal from
feeling of fulness, could not lie down to sleep, could not
stoop nor raise her arms to her head, was exhausted
with the least exertion, bowels never moved without
medicine, was greatly puffed and swelled from the head
to the feet, so that her life was a burden and a misery.’*
She is now ns good as new 1 Let’s see ; we’ve stated
that the patient's name was Eckford. Wo feel that
this par. would be incomplete without adding that the
doctor's name is—Walker.
• • *
It is on record now that Sir Henry kept two
dukes waiting for dinner while ho listened to Glad-
stone’s budget speech. We have known the time when
we have kept a distinguished company waiting as well.
But we didn’t blsme the fascinations of an oration. We
were honest, and told the company in so many words
that she hadn’t sent ’em home,
• • •
A Civil servant applied for leave of absence and
was refused. He ventured to seek a reason, and was
told that the date he had fixed was suspiciously like
that of the Melbourne Baoes. Did he rush off for the
over-convenient medical certificate ? No. He said ho
wanted to meet a cousin (female), who was expected
from England about that time. He was asked to point
out the name of the lady in the list of passengers tele-
graphed from Adelaide. He| did to, and even then did
not get leave. He had, unfortunately, hit on the name
Of the stepdaughter of the very man he was talking
tO.
• • •
We learn that in her own right the Duchess of
Albany has £250 a year. This will just be enough to
keep little Leo in indiarubber knee-caps, goloshes, and
Armstrong's ointment. The Princess is stated to be
very pretty. Well, anyhow she has [a Prince and a
Colonel in the British'.army for a hubby. A good deal
of the rest is whalebone, indiarubber, and a red uniform
With something just alive inside. Yet for all that, if the
Jook had travelled out here for a wifey, he might have
got a finer girl and half-a-mi)lion. When il est question
of a red uniform, our girls are not, as a rale, very par-
ticular as to what is inside.
« • •
NEW ZEALAND INTELLIGENCE.
STYLE OP THE VEBY REMOTE FUTURE,
They’ve, hokey, pokey,
Hung Hiroki;
Yet, highty-tighty,
Feast Te Whiti.
So Te Whiti has his jokey pokey
Against the dead-and-gone Hiroki.
We wonder if this style will ever become popular 1
• • •
Not long since a gentleman not entirely uncon-
nected with the City Engineering Department of Flim-
Flam took his wife on a little trip to Melbourne, and
engaged one of two furnished cottages which were side
by side in a nice street at South Yarra. Next morning
he went out for a stroll before his better-halt was up,
and, on returning, walked into the front room, sank down
in the easy-ohair, and was soon deep in the paper. In a
little while a pretty servant-girl appeared, and, observing
the engineer, uttered an exclamation. “What’s the
inatterP” he enquired. “Why, what are you doing
here ? ” asked the girl. “ ‘Doing here ? ’ That’s good!
Why, I suppose you know I slept here last night.” On
this the servant gave a lond scream, and bounced out of
the room. “ The girl’s mad evidently,” said the engi-
neer; “I’ll soon see about this.” And, taking up the
paper, he walked into the bedroom. Once inside, ho
Saw it all. Sitting up in bed, sipping coffee, was a
buxom widow. He had gone in next door
A little later that day the widow received a profuse
letter of apology and a bouquet, and the pretty servant-
girl got a new dress. Now, when that engineer goes
about in Melbourne, he does so accompanied by his
wife, a compass and a guide-book, and has always a
pocketful of apologies already written.
• • •
A certain distinguished statesman who has just
become politically dead, now keeps a boarding-house in
Maoquarie-street. Peace to his hashes!
• • ' •
Pour weeks ago strange ventriloquial sounds
commenced to be heard in Milton. Timid foot-pas-
■angers, on entering stores to purchase their customary
oatmeal and red herring, were terrified by vocal blasts
proceeding from the upper regions, and it was generally
remarked by the servants at the different houses that
there was a good deal more “ do ” going than dinner.
At the dressmakers’, the auctioneers’—nothing but
vocalization. “ Do, re, mi, fa, so, la, si, do,” every-
Where; and.Joonsequently, peace nowhere. In a word,
all the town was preparing for a “ Service of Song ’’—
Eva ” (poor Eva I lucky you died, you poo’ chile !)—at
the School of Arts. " The proceedings,” pathetically
remarks the local bandage, “commenced by a bar-
moninm solo, * March aux Flambeaux,' by Dr. Foord-
Clark.” &o. Although we can’t a-Foord the doctor
much space, we may say he was the conductor, and
that he subsequently eang, “What do the angels dream
of, Mothah ?” in a manner, which, notwithstanding
that ha had previously disposed of several rounds of
toast, gained him several rounds of applause. Miss L.
Allen then warbled “ Too Late, Too Fate.” this being a
pleasing and ingenious complimentary allusion to the
bun-woman who had taken the muffin-contract. In
conclusion, the Milton Times says: “We have no
hesitation in ascerting (sic) that they were all rendered
in a manner reflecting great credit on the Solois’s,
Choir, and Conductor.” On the whole, we consider
that if there is any one thing on earth that we should
prefer to a service of Song, it would be a service of
cookies.
• • •
Stipendiary Dillon objects to the style of the
toilettes, and the high aroma of the “ uauals ” brought
before him, and threatens if they don’t improve he’ll
have them forcibly washed before he tries them. To
most of the “wall-polishers" this will be worse than
flogging. We may yet see the day when a man cannot
be fined 40s. or receive seven days unless he appears in
evening dress.
• • •
A certain party living not 1000 miles, &o , got
rather mixed one night, and when taoking along
Boomerang-street, was met by a former gardener and
man of all work named Panl, who thought he was safe
for “five bob” if he assisted the old gentleman (that’s
to say, the “ party") home. They reached the gate,
which Paul opened, and then he waited expectantly,
but, receiving nothing, murmured: “Nothing for me,
sir; nothing to say, sir P” jEeplied his excellent l
master: “ 'Sh all right, Paul; good night, Paul; yesh,
your namesh Paul; say, Paul, when do you expect an
answer to that letter you wrote to the Ephesians ?”
“ Mr. Farnell and his followers have been re-
leased from Kilmainham Gaol. Now for civil war." So
runs the pyonuncidmcnto of the Lixhgow Mercury. We
are in a position to state that the Mercury is in oner.
Mr Farnell is engaged In getting off by heart pathetic
apostrophes from the poets, and impromptu perora-
tions from Jebb’s Attio Orators. Nobody is ever put
in gaol for stealing from the ancient dead.
« » •
There is no exaggeration about this item. We
have seen the parties. A young gentleman of fortune
was engaged recently to a young Sydney lady who
resides at—say—Woollahra. They had been “keeping
company” for some months, and he had been much
concerned about the alarming smallness of her appetite.
One day about two p.m. he called, and was shown by an
unwary slave into the dining-room. Pa and ma were
out, but there, seated at the head of the table diving
into an underdone sirloin, slab-spread bread-and-butter,
and a huge bottle of pickles, was Sophonisba. Next
day she received by post the following
I could have pardoned that red beef,
That butter also—firkins—
But now farewell—yon love my chief
Aversion—pickled gherkins.
It’s all over now. He does the block daily with a silver
pickle-bottle on his watch-chain; while she tells all her
friends that she gave him np because she found he had
only one silk handkerchief, which he used to wear out.
side his coat, while he blew his nose surreptitiously
with a duster.
• • •
The Jewish Would has just discovered that
the reason Jews are isolated is “ because they are so
immeasurably superior to their neighbours, physically,
intellectually, and morally.” No such grandiloquent
cause whatever. The reason simply is that there are
Jews and Jews, and the “and" Jew has evil breath,
doesn’t clean his nails, and says “ s’help me.” Also,
he always clears a space for himself with hia nose.
Tho Triple Globe then goes on to state that Jews are
to other races as men are to apes. To which we remark
that we will listen to yon, sonny, when yon have scraped
the detritus of eighteen centuries of Gentile spittle
from off your gaberdines.
• * •
He drives a ’bns and owns a wife and six child-
ren. Earns 30s. a we* k, is in the yard at 8 a.m. and gets
home about 10 p.m. Pays 10* rant for three rooms, and
is exposed to all weathers. Gats his meals as best he
can, and sees about as much of his family as he does of
Arabi Bty or Mrs. Langtry. And yet he’s not contented,
because he says the trams come along and then he loses
even that 30a. Sometimes he asks is life worth living ?
but that’s a conundrum which puzzles others besides a
’busman.
• • *
Truth is stranger—much strung er—t
At a recent party near Warialda, in the Warrcgo
country, the fair and amiable hostess provided spirt-
tnous liquors in abundance for the male portion of the
invites, while Seidlitz powders Were supplied to these
ladiee who didn't like grog. We could say a great
deal more about this matter, but—Ho, there without 1
let our Ancient Minstrel attend. Minion, we would
have thee chant-
“ Dearest Dennis, meet me P. 0., Mudgee, 20th.
As ever, Myra.” Dearest Dennis and Myra have been
at it for a long time in the Herald " personal” column.
If Myra had been half as pretty as she is gushing,
Dennis would have eaten her ages ago. When they get
married, they'll probably drink tea out of the same cup
Meanwhile, Myra takeslelevens in boots, wears a seven
pound set of false teeth, but Dennis don’t know it The
bleeding public of N.S.W. are thoroughly sick of Dear
est Dennis and his best girl. If. high time they inter-
viewed Parson Fullerton. If Dennis' master, the tripe-
merchant. won’t raise his wages, we’ll lend him a fiver,
or give him a billet at carting poetry away from this office
When such advertisements appear in the London
Times, they presage a burglary. We hope Myra isn’t a
burglar.
* * •
The discovery of those leg-irons in the old well
at the Infinmary site has produced a frightful hoax.
Carriage after carriage has driven np, and charming
ladies, holding leading positions in society, have de
scended to put, one after another, the same question to'
the workmen’s overseer: "Oh, I hear your men have
found some ornaments that used to belong topapawl
I can identify thorn. Li ik pattern and very massive."
But none of the applicants recognised the articles, after
all, on viewing them. Cruel, wasn’t it ? But in Sydney
chains aren’t a stain oh one’s oharaoter-they’re merely
iron-moulds.
• * #
A week or two ago the shareholders in the cele-
brated Day Dawn claim, Charters T.w.rg, bought a
battery for a few thousands. Their fortnight’s crush-
ng, about 600 oz., was looking nice in the retort the
other night, but the retorter, having left for about
twenty minutes to help in cleaning the plates, found on
his return that the retort had been “shook” off the
fire, and with it, of course, the gold. Loss, £2400.
The police were called in, nigger trackers employed,
and the retort found in a gully, half a mile away, empty,
barring about a couple of ounces of gold scraping. The
boss of the machine at once travelled like greased
lightning to inform Mr. Pfeiffer, the principal share,
holder of the loss. Said ho : “Mr. Pfeiffer, the rstort,
with all the gold, 600 oz., has been shook off tho fire
this morning.” To him Pfeiffer: Did they shake the
engine too P” “No.” “Then, no matter; but you’d
better watch next crushing.” However, chose share-
holders who own about ten scrip and whose income is
half-a-soversign a week, are for sending to Scotland
Yard. Pfeiffer’s income is from £2OO to sometimes
£ISOO a fortnight.
* * 9
Prom an Adelaide paper:— “Von Sanden—
Hodgkins— On the 13th June, at St. Peter’s Cathedral,
North Adelaide, by the Esv. Dr. Dendy, Bernard Pran-
gott Leberioht Casimir Baron von Sanden, only son of
the late Bernard Wilhelm Baron von Sanden, of Tub-
sainen Castle, East Prussia, and Maria Countess von
Huelsen, to Alice Emily Eosevere Hodgkins, third
daughter of the late Captain Daniel Hodgkins, of
Adelaide and London.” Hallelujah 1 What will tho
heir’s names be? By the way. there was. some years
ago, in Melbourne, a Baron von Sanden who used to
stalk np and down Collins-street in a Prussian hussar
uniform, and said he was nephew to Bismarck. Well,
as we are in N.S.W. and not in Victoria, we’ll say no
more. We remember the Baron, and hope he will be
happy.
Education again. “ What’s that you’ve got in
your mouth," roared Uncle Ben, on meeting Jack (13)
coming home from school with a pipe in his mouth.
It is,' replied Jack, •• the agifler of youth, a*d the
jumfier of age; a soother in distress, a vigourifler in
feebleness. Ton haven’t got such a thing as a match
about you T ”
The American writer who penned these lines
must have visited Sydney within the lasc twelve
months:—"We must, for the present, live in cheap
houses, but we are net content that they should look
cheap. Consequently, the architect is forced to accept,
and the builder to resort to, all sorte of expedients to
disguise the real quality of materials and workmanship."
The only point in whieh the qmotation does net apply,
is with regard to the cheapness of houses. We do not
live in cheap heuaes, because they arc not to he had.
A family named Feddon, belonging to Bolton, in
Lancashire, England, has just come into a fortune ef
£4,000.000, In 1857. Mr, j'ohn Taylor, of BuUngden.
died. His will directed that his estate was to remain
in Chancery for 25 years, the accumulated rents to be
applied in the meantime to clearing off a mortgage.
!n 1881, the property was to he divided—one-half going
to Mr. John Seddon, of Bolton, and the other to two
ladies, named Isherwood. The latter are still alive, but
John Sedden died in the workhouse. Hia heirs, how-
ever, get the coin.
MR. J. Y. MILLS.
(Messrs. Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist.)
THE DARLING HARBOUR VALUATOR
(See page 10.)
MR. MARK J. HAMMOND, MAYOR OF ASHFIELD.
(See page 10.)
A WARIALDA WHISPER.
A funny tale has reached us here,
A whisper; nothing louder.
How, at a party, 'stead of beer.
Each girl had—Soidlitz Powder !
'Twas at a little spree up north,
The stronger sex and prouder
Drank wine and spirits, and so forth.
The ladies—Seidlitz Powder.
Men oft get 11 on” with wine that’s red ;
Bat it must bo allowed a
Girl never could get “ off her head”
By drinking Seidlitz Powder.
This plan quite too teetotal is.
We really wonder bow’d a
Pub do biz whose only fizz
Was made of Seidlitz Powder ?


BRIEF MENTION.
Mr. Salomons calls John Lucas “ the claimant.”
Sir Henry forgot his wool duties for wolfing
duties.
During the late drought the oasis of the plains
Ont West was the nest of the industrious and energetle
soldier-ant.
The convalescence of a certain damaged foot-
baller oalls forth the announcement that he is “alive,”
but not “ kicking.”
Certain officers of a Tasmanian Volunteer regi-
ment never attend a Ball (“offloiolly") without getting
drank. “It is their nature to.”
Text of the Darling Harbour Railway Land
Grabbers. “ The lines have fallen unto ns in pleasant
places, and truly we have a geedly heritage.”
“ Hands all Round ” is the chorus of the navvies
when a ring is required for “ Muok Billy" to go for
“Five-belted Ned” in real heavy brigade style.
“ Thin, sir,” said a D.T. leader-writer the other
day, as he flourished his rag,—“ this is the paper for
the people." But ha didn’t say how many people.
“Your father was a Point Puer b*y,” said one
enraged Hobartonian to another. “No matter," was
the reply, “ your mother wasn’t;*, Puer girl.” One for
his nob 1
A clergyman'of considerable notoriety in another
colony is now visiting Sydney. Having read this gentle-
man’s biography, wo are intensely anxious to hear him
anathematise.
When a certain Inspector in the Western district
visits selections, the squatter or manager of the run
accompanies him —of course in the selectors’ interest I
How disinterested i
Chief qualifications for Owiaom.
Soft goods and tinware.
A member of a leading club
secured a pile of hats over the Qoodlet
and Smith case. He saw the jury,
doubted their capacity to grasp so
large a sum as that claimed, betted
accordingly, and won.
The directors of Sydney Hospital
offer premiums of £25 and £5 for de-
signs for a common seal. Our design
is an allegorical figure of “ The
Reaper,” with a stall of surgeons shar-
pening his scythe.
A patient in whom we are in-
terested, recently came out of the in-
flrmaryiafter a three;weeks’ stay there,
and has
visited by 75 Christian ladies, and that
ho was presented with 130 traots]and
o i orange.
“Pilot Burrell, of Rockhampton,
was preparing some melted fat and
gunpowder as a dose for a sick horse,
when the mesa exploded and blew him
up badly. The horse always refers to
the accident as “ a Providential inter-
position."
When a profound student or
compiling parson wishes to garnish
his page with an elegant extract, he
arms himself with a sharp pen-knife,
waits until nobody is looking, and then
snips out what he wants from an ex-
pensive volume In the School of Arts.
England can’t teach u» —that’s a
fact. We have the very best school
system in this, or any other world wo
know of, and Dr. Jackson asserts part
of this system is the bailing out of a
ohoked-up drain with the pannikins
from which the children drink.
There’s a scholar short at that school
now—typhoid fever.
Milner Stephen says he received
the gift of healing after praying whilst
on circuit. We kne w a little boy onoe
who prayed for a squirt. But as he
didn’t get the squirt from cerulean
skies, he adopted one from the toy
shop. This is only a gentle reminis-
cence. There is. of course no parallel
to be drawn between the two oases.
A theatrical lady, now in Sydney,
was, when on a visit to India, pre-
sented with & handsome gem, which
she resolved to have set in a ring.
Before finally ordering the ring, the
gem was submitted to an eminent
authority in this city. His reply was
short and to the point: “ The ‘ gem' is
piece of stained glaes and of no
value."
Two barmaids at a popular hos-
telrie had a row the other day about a
handsome lodger. “ You’re out of it,
my dear,” said the brunette; “ I have
had him at my feet for ever so long.
“ Booh 1 ” cried the fair one, “you never
had but one man at your feet in your
life. And that was the Indian corn-
doctor.”
How is it that none of the
evidence in the Supreme Court case of
Mercer v. Robertson and Fisher,
solicitors, was published in the daily
papers of this city? And is it true
that one of the parties applied to the
judge for an order prohibiting publica-
tion—which order, however, woe not
given? We wonder h®w the pea got
under the thimble?
Here’s some genuine European
news. The Emperor of Russia has
fallen in love with a French opera
bsufle actress. The Nihilists have
therefore temporarily suspended pro-
ceedings. They're going to give
Medelle. Amedeo a show for a month
before resuming operations. Opinions
differ as to whether his majesty will
need any dynamite or not. The con-
splrators are all going abont tapping
their noses, and saying—“ One thing
at a time.”
Land frauds are rampant all through. the
w astern districts. Government land offloiala either
cannot or will not prevent them. “ Tipping ,” an “
dummyism do the trick.
When a Parsee tabes the oath he grabs a cow
hy the tail. When a libel juryman takes the oath, he
usually hangs on to the posterior appendage of the
nark gentleman who bosses the brimstone trade down
below.
The Forbes Municipality has lent .£lOOO, and
the ratepayers go in danger of being bogged at their
own door-steps. The aldermen go in for plenty of mud
and plenty of money— thit for themselves j that for the
ratepayers. *
This is the straight tip. When you want a man
t 0 Put up his props,” and he makes no sign on being
called a "liar," lust allude to him as an “A»a cable-
gram. ’ or as a “ Washington.lrving-Garibaldi-FariiaU."
It never fails.
_ A. Northern parson the other day denounced
inn Bulletin fr*m his pulpit. His reverence has come
uown in the world—for he used to be a printer. He
writes all the articles for the local chop-cover, and is
known as “The Widow’s Mite."
An Irish landlord is advertising in the St»nht
~ Uil „ He wants some rich Australian oaf to hand him
over £60,000 for the certain and delightful prespeot of
oeing shot. Let Lord Clod de Tenant Crusher remain
where ha is and enjoy the well-deserved luxury himself.
At the time when a recently-deceased gentleman
met with the accident which caused his death he was
proceeding to “shepherd home” a man who had gob
i on the Proceeds of a cheque belonging to his
employers. Which is another proof that the boy who
-! from Sunday-school always brings home the
nest and biggest fish.
♦..?° rtain ° f our big swells have a great ad van-
? ver the old nobility and gentry of Europe. The
embers of the latter can only claim to be descended
from some great ruffian. Now, some of oar First Families
can claim to have ascended from a similar pro-
genitor. It is muoh more honorable ,to have ascended
than to have descended.
Th* improvements on a certain free selection in
the Laohlan district, which has been taken ns nearly
three years, consist of a gunyah, composed of half-a-
dozsn sheets of bark, a bed, composed of an old door
resting on two legs, the tail-end ef a bine shirt, one leg
of a moleskin breeches, and a roofless hat. And it’s
bound to be passed. Another dnmmy victory.
Those “fewvacancies” intheN.S.W. Permanent
Artillery have not been filled np vet, nor are those mem
who are at present in the corps likely to remain when
they find that the higher authorities of this free and
democratic country allow a lah-de-dah Lieutenant to
speak after this fashion to abont fifty men at a working
party You’ve got no more common sense than a lot
of dam pigs.”
A leading paper has recently published a series
of articles on the sanitary improvement of the dwellings
and streets of the oity. Yet, on the Paddington read,
the fat proprietor has built a number of houses th*
latrines of which abut on the kitchens, and the yards of
which aren’t muoh bigger than the smallest rooms.
And tkat’s in a auburn where there is no drainage
system.
Dp North, there’s a merchant who holds the
peculiar theory that the only honest people ore those
possesing red nobs. He has none other in his employ-
ment. Every day at one o'clock ’tis funny to see those
four-and-twenty “ foxey Uriahs ’’ filing out to dinner.
The merchant himself has black hair, and, judging him
by his own theory, he must be to be concluded in
onr next.
The Native bear is armless, he is also Tailless,
ho goes up a Tree head First and comes Dswn tail
foremost —that is, where the Tail ought to grow. All
their Children’s Christian names are joey. They ride
on their mothers’ Backs hence bare-backed riding in
the circuses when Danger's a Bruin they trust to their
tears and can erv a perishcr. They have blinded the
eye of a Mndgee Pumpkin cookatoo. This is Johnny's
letter to his Deer Father.
The Southern Cross says Sir Henry Parkas’
American trip will not bo without fruit, as it has
“ induced him to select Lithgow as a site for new work-
shops.” The MuLLAßxrimo Ikdepsndent, hearing this,
will suggest that the Shire Connell cable home and
premies that, if Sir Henry will get the local post-office
shingled, he needn’t bother about the rest of N.S.
Wales. The Council will banquet him on his return,
and theTKDiPMDBHT will bring around popular feeling
into a right groove.
Th* Maryborough and Dunollt Adtbr-
Ttssa has its bard as well as other local roarers. A
correspondent has forwarded us a sample of Adonis’
lyrioe. We haven’t time to quote any of it, but have
forwarded a M.S. copy ef it to a metropolitan contem-
porary, in the columns of which it will doubtless
shortly appear, with a pleasing editorial introduction
about “ a correspondent having forwarded us this
meritorious sample of Australian vers* which we have
much pleasure in,” &o. The piece is called “ Wooing,"
and is about several things.
A Gnndagai station hand “took” a bees, nest
lately, and was at a loss for the wherewith to strain the
honey from the comb. However, ingenuity triumphed.
He qnietlv took off hie “ Scotch twill," tied the sleeves,
and realized enough to supply the hut for th* winter.
The “bullocky” eays that he didn’t trouble washing out
the “ twill" afterwards—he didn’t waeh it beforehand—
b«t put it on again ae if it never had done duty as a
strainer. He’s wearing it now. Cleanliness is mere
bunkum. Such fellows as “bullooky” don’t peg out
till they’re eighty.
On the Great Eastern Railway reigns an official
who has discovered a new offenoe. He reported the
guard for wishing him “Good morning” in a “sar-
castic manner.” It is wholesome fun to watch the
demeanour of these two officials. The guard persists
in bidding the S.M. “ Good morning,” while the latter
politely does the same to everyone but the guard,
Then James the guard strikes up a psalm containing
allusions to a party uamed Belial, and the train moves
on. Remonstrated with, James avers that he must do
it, or else he’d bs accused of the crime known in
military language as " silent iusolencs."
Tbs D.T. has a ‘' Detective” on its contributing
sta«. This aas-tute official started on Sunday last,and this
is what he tells us about the larrikin;—” Ho answers his
mothtr back, and bi« sisters can rarely get a civil
' m ' . R°, *k o servant girl or nurse-
A, T yj. Bn £ women in general cattle. It
Mas been noticed that he swears and curses more since
pl ?J rtn JL °, f . th » new Licensing Act than ever he did
.Jr 8 S** 88 *™ oa ?, A ll th * *? M nothing
»tmn this about the subject, we advise then to
.— a i l e T. en 0I ? ly fetches
two odd boots and a plats of boarding-house hash.
A Sydney barrister, travelling up Tumnt way
by coach, is reported to have entered the township in a
decidedly awkward manner. While doing the journey,
he placed a not-extinguished pipe iu one of his coat-
tail pockets, and he managed to burn—not the seat of
judgment, but another seat. A learned judge, who
present to welcome the distinguished legal visitors.
The Sydney barrister made thebest of a bad business,
and coolly pinned a silk handkerchief that might have
done fer the Union Jack on to his fribbled coat-tails
and adjacent ciothing.
The junior member for Young, who is known by
the soubriquet of “ Boxer,” seizes every opportunity to
air his eloquence. At the late Masonic Ball he was an
invited gusst with others, and felt himself called upon
to propose the health of the Masons. He said that,
although he did not belong to that body," 1 he had never
entertained himself better in his life." On a more
recent occasion he occupied the position of chairman
at a banquet, and, in proposing the health of the
Queen, startled his hearers by announcing that there
wa* much cause for congratulation that “ Her Majesty
had escaped suicide.” Ho was surprised to notice that
his audience laughed about so serious a matter.
What w« thirst after is foreign information. So
when wa read what is below we were perfectly satisfied
—so satisfied that, when we had done gasping, wo went
on with that letter in which we stated that it wee not
quite convenient at present, but etc.: — 11 A new Egyp-
tian Ministry has been formed, constituted as follows:
—Eagheb (I) Pasha, Premier and Minister for Finance;
Rescind (11) Pasha, Minister fer the Interior; Zeohy
(III) Paeha, Minister for foreign affairs; and Arabi
Bey, Minister for War.” This is doubtless a joke, and
yet the morning the cable came we lighted on a batch
of grovellers at the Exchange, who were saying:
“ Ragbag, Rasher, Zachary, and Arabia—oh, this will
bring things to a climax." We shan’t take that cable
home at present.
At thit conclusion we’re a jumper.
Somebody has told a thumper.
Yon can’t often see him on the block. He is a
tall fellow, and hie “ ponum" has a decided list to star-
bo&rd. This is how it occurred. He was somewhere
one night.Jand a small naval officer was there also. The
sea-dog called for sherry, and the man with the ponnm
drank it. Once again the officer requested to be
served, and onoe again the tall man drank it “ for
a lark.” Still patient, the lieutenant onoe more
demanded! a glass of wine, and for the third time
the same individual imbibed it
When he was helped down to the sofa, in the back
parlour, by all the boarders, 6 weeks afterwards, there
was as muoh sticking plaster about him as would cover
a 4-aoro lot, and his nasal organ was so metamorphosed
that it required a strong iron apparatus to prevent the
point of it from poking out his right sye.
They gave ex-alderman Eitohie a Ritohierch6
banquet at Parramatta, t* celebrate, as nearly as we can
gather, the manufacture by him of a prize plough or a
patent rat trap. Things were convivially carried out,
and mercurial Oyrns proposed the gnest’s health to the
extent of a column of his paper; at the expiration of
this oration it is not improbable that the audience
were extremely Falter. The guest responded in a
speech twice as long as Cyrus'*, a sample of after-
dinner tast#|whloh may be safely described as Ritcbied.
The final item on the programme appears to have been
•Our Municipal Officers," by a Mr. Gee, which sample
of oratory on part of Gee banged the feast effectually.
The picture closed in on a storm of hiccups, the last
tableaux being afforded by two of Wehlow’s waiters
sweeping up the H’s.
The world is evidently full of funny people; but
New Zealand is exceedingly strong in tne breed. One
Christabelle, in a Christchurch paper, is so good tnat
she ought to b« embalmed—that is if she is not so
already. Here is a little bit of her contribution ;—“I
was onoe in th# gallery to witnees a Charles the Second
Ball given by Her Majesty the Queen; this per-
haps, was the very grandest ball I ever witnessed : and
I can quite remember it (a little girl in a white frook,
looking out of the flowers in a corner) that it had re-
quired high influence [presumably in the pantry] to
me. Yet with these two grand remembrances
of ‘period’ balls, I prefer the ‘ mixed fancy.' It is
so muoh better fun.” What sort I “Mixed fancy.”
There is only one thlngf we want to know now, mum;
and that is—la what form you take your tarbacker.
To-day Saturday, Gniteau wil
gniteanver to the golden shoah.
It is explained that the reason
why a certain civil (“compensation”)
suit was tried at Darlinghurst, instead
of in the Jnry of Baroo Court was that
it was regarded by Government as a
case of attempted robbery.
Most Swiss cigars contain no
tobacco—they're simply cabbage and
beet root soaked in tobacco j nice. The
cigars in Australia have the outside
leaf of paper so steeped. Inside they
are of anything from Virginian up to
stringy bark.
You should have seen the look
on that boy’s face when his father told
him that if he kept quiet as a mouse
all the afternoon, did his sister's sums,
and didn’t wake the baby, ho should
be taken to hear Cyril Havilaml leo-
uro, . . . The misting lad is 8
years of age, fair complexion, and
answers to the name of Bobby.
If the Nihilists pot the Czar be-
fore he is crowned, be cannot bo buried
with his fathers. When he postponed
the coronation this was pointed out to
him, but he remarked with a grim
smile, that, as he expected to be
buried by instalments, and didn’t want
to show any favouritism so hia de-
ceased ancestors, he weuld risk it an-
other year, and they might shove in a
leg here, and an arm there, as they
picked them up. Only label them
“Royal bones," he said, and I’ll settle
jealousies the other other side."
The Central Australian
says that a certain young cirons left
without parting—which at first sight
may appear paradoxical. The agent
had previously looked round, asked for
change for a £5 note. But the paper
hadn't that much in the office. Of
course not 1 How little acquainted
with affairs journalistic poor Eighs
showed himself. As if any paper ever
had change for a fiver in the office, ex-
cept the Express and the Pkisbt.
tebian.
The Brisbane Evangelical
Standard staff must have sampled a
new brand of zoedone before concoct-
ing the following remarkable para-
graph, which appeared in a recent
issue of that pious journal:—“Dr.
Cani arrived at Rockhampton at 1J
o’clock on Friday nighi, and on land-
ing was raceived with loud cheers.
He was escorted to the deanery by a
long procession, headed Turkish Com-
missioneron hearing of the outbreak
at onoe hastened to Alexandria.
Forty persons have been more or less
injured. The by the town band. He
conducted service on Senday, and
gave all present forty days’ indul
gonce."
A Rockhampton man who is in-
terested in station property on the
Queensland coast, recently put np at
a station not 100 miles from Marl-
borough. Bis temporary host, who is
noted for his “ near" eccentricities,
when showing hie guest to his “cham-
hah,” contrived that the lamp should
conveniently go out. However, the
Rockhampton man rolled into a bunk,
and slept the sleep ,of the weary till
morn, when he was awakened by an
unearthly clarion, and fonnd that he
had been bestowed In the fowl house,
and that a couple of roosters were
having a combat on his breast, while a
harem of hens looked on from the
raltars above. On another occasion,
the eccentric “ equattah " lodged the
owner of a neighbouring station in the*
calf-pen. He is a Christian gentleman,
and eays he can’t bear to bo inhospit-
able. He is also a J.F., and one of hie
latest freaks was to appear on the
magisterial bench without any boots
on.
We learn that Jumbo, the great English ele-
phant, was appraised at the Custom-house as dutiable
merchandise worth 10,000 dollars, and was taxed 2000
dollars, bat P. T. Barnum made oath that he had im-
ported Jumbo for breeding purposes, and his elephant
was passed by Uncle Sam free of duty. So Barnum
told one for £4OOl Well, the game perhape was worth
the thumper. You could buy a good many round about
in police courts for that sum : or if you didn’t happen
to have it about yon, you oonld use beer and tobacco
with considerable effect on lioeneing days until you
could borrow it. And this reminds us of a police-
court incident. A case of Sunday trading was about
to be called on, when an interested party said to a
possible witness—” I say, what are you going to swear ”?
“ Can’t say,” was the reply. “ Don’t know till I get
inside.”
A London Magistrate has instructed a pawn-
broker to regard every article of plate that is brought
to him bearing a crest or armorial bearings as stolen.
This mandate has exercised in no small degree many
members of the London upper crust. For instance it is
stated that a well-known marchioness, who always
sends her teapot in at the end of the season, is in tears;
and a sporting duke, whose forks have many a time
helped him over a bad Monday at Tattersall’s, is using
bad language. It is fortunate no such movement is on
foot in Sydney. Why, after the passing of the Stipen-
diary Magistrates Bill, and the glories of licensing field
days were gone, there was such a rattling in of orest-
emblazoned teapots to my uncle as never was seen.
We know a high-toned lady who happens to be
fond of a singer, and the singer happens to be fond of
hazard. When he’s “broke" (which average*about once
a week) he calls ronnd, and the extent to which he
takes away the plate in a bag is a caution. He is often
to be met with a soup-ladle in his coat-tail pockets, and
a fish-slice in hie hat. Then, later, the lady travels
round and gets them out. Just fancy, now, if that
singer were given in charge on offering the lady’s urn
in pledge. What would her bus wo mean, family
say?
ONLY A BLACKFELLOW!
AN EPISODE OF CIVILIZATION IN AUSTRALXA.
WHO TOLD IT?
Levien, that legal “ out-and-outer,”
Proclaims that Yardy is a “ touter; ”
And Carroll also yells out—” Drat it.
Your Worship, hois always at it."
When eaoh of wrath has broke his vial,
Y. gives it all a “ stern denial.”
“ Of gentlemen," say* he, “in short,
I am the flower of the Court,
And, rather than be touting, I
Would seek my little bed and die,”


wai CTsawes* -ibjss
" pill-roller?." They seem to doubt it.
TVm mysterious sausage is growing more teartnl
day 5y fay Thelalest from Bathurst is that a miner's
right was picked out of a "prime pork.
Wa are informed that F. C. Burned a new
and orisinal «"thetio comedy, “The Colonel, i
aboutto be trap elated Into the French language. Its
title will be-" Un Man A la Ca mpaane.
At the late District Court, Kempsey, one eon-
stable deUbcnetely swore that at the t,me of!.. certain
Bprest his brother policeman was not sober. After th 8
K along the millennium. Even judges wiU soon
cease standing by each other.
\ i a dv of the old school was on the Bedforn
Staton pretty
the new r()&a to atheism.
They ell go that way when they commence to be
scientific. „ ..
and this '"o match is only lor gents. QiV us a chaw er
an erroneous impression amongst the
SlSwffrar is* -*ssa* as,
it loose again. . , ,
r TOowioa (IMG. has been appointed
of tfeQovernment^and aU its doings, take, great .are to
Magistrates are not donated with tram-tickets.
Cooks, the Christian, is to . t fc e j^£&P a '“tram®
to B protect Cooks— real Christian the " fooroe *•
bXg. ol course, engaged "surrounding the back-
yards of empty public-houses.
Some ten years ago, the son of a wealthy Vi«-
toriafdiod |As a gr*at favour another gentleman per-
stss^iisg
isls^lsps
the honorable and wealthy citizen to remove them.
The transference would cost money you know, a
money weighs down sentiment.
This isn’t th© proper season for wnak* Rories,
&as^.2as?Bg|
Tredit for her courage and presence of mind ; for, think-
inir it was only put there for a lark, she only screamed
a fittlo But ‘ when she felt it cold against her knee,
she iust opened her mouth and appealed straight to
heaven The snake was killed by a gentleman who was
the spot " .Now, what smart parted
him to the spot ?” Was it the snake or the gni t
Mr. Bent pulled through his e “£“ r y “S
* * h.„ :t wfiß oil over, ft terrible blow awaited him.
ThVs WM a ipTrit-poem published intbat weekly journal
of Melbourne which has facetiously appropriated our
namf. This is how it begins i—
•• Your Tommy Bent, the Railway King,
Has often said * I am
That noblest of created things,
An honest working man.
The author of this is alleged to be the late Tom Hood.
MA ThoM is something in this. The assertion i.
evidently ft MAHooder.
The “Bonnie Blues” play a very prominent
part on public committees and in £n
Tdimmrs • stills there is on© little foreigner
thL X cin“ pack" the natives while s&.pinr
Sf i. tbe uMsident of the School of Arts, president of
Hosp?tal. pr.sVdont of the Building 800 aty.
presidentof the Chamber of »•*££
Municipal Council, close up May or, if bo goes for u ,
likewise vice-president of the Pastoral, Agricultural,
and Mining Association, and ever so much director on
Mining and other companies, and anything
Baaraawai«R.asKa
Old Teddy." , , ....
He was “ very tired,” and his nose had evidently
been oZ theS when it was red. but, he
noramble into the Wavorloy tram, ud took his scat
next to a divine who occasionally heads the Never-
to“oh4te.» As the fatigued party made .everal
attempts to stand on his head, and shoot out of the
dcKirs on the sky rocket principle, ■ the |° h
held him down: took care of him, and liana ea mm
gently out at the terminus. The unsteady gentleman
was profuse in his thanks, and wound digging bln
thumb into the cleric’s ribs and stammering ost.
“ gholl ri’, now ole man. I shee you know wash it is to
be drunk yourself. Good day." The oar was crowded,
and the incident *'took well,* as Alfred says.
A hopeful youngster, home from school for the
winter bohdays. was ordered by his stern parent to
vnHrn to his study for an hour every day and devote
hi ms elf° to his exercise'. But the youngster was the
sole proprietor of a sixpenny yellow-Uoked blood-anA
thunder novel, and instead of studying he devoted the
time to a further perusal of ,h ® tX LsfeoMnJ
the Bandit and the Headless Horse. Tho suspecting
M engaged in most abstruse calculations, " Fifteen
your n fl ob e " n ro .red tC old vigorously applied
put the peg in. •
tat ». P.WIC
Should understand Ih.t they .r. }«>“ * ™
dramatic artists*, professionals, or exhibition prom'ou rs
of anv kind.” . . . Rigbya replies to this, but
Heller is silent. But it is Heller’s ** fad to be silent.
Father Mah ny says that Heller has
him since ha 1-it. Why he retired so suddenly the rev.
gentleman can't ima inc. Father Mahony also assures
us that even on the eve of |the, secretary « depsrtii re ho
was quite willing to keep his Herr on. The very latest
is that the Chiistchnrch fayte was a frost.
Fancy ! Bartlemy Fair cropped up again, and
Mr. Curtis gained his case against Mr. 1 ester for stall
hire. An a reason for not anto-ing up, Foster said
Richardson’s show was “ft p-.rfect disgrace . ®*,7
this is rather a nice thing 1 A more gratuitous insult
to a number of gifted performers we .ever heard!
Whv that show was the cream and essence of tbe k air.
Flynn*s legs were ftlona wortli a tram rid© to see» and
the cotton tights of the ladies presented an equally
gorgeous speoticle. Then there was a gentleman who
anno nc d the performances*and who seemedulways in
a condition of colonial, but really wasn’t Alrp ! how
ta greatness faded 1 Wa saw this splendid official the
other dav doing the i owl for two bob a night at Paddy s
Market for the stalled alligator, and the two-headed
hott led baby. Bartlemy’s was a very moe fair, and we
don’t Uko to see it libelled. We think it, therefore a
sad t hing that a mere fiver should have had tho effect
of thus uncorking this Foster.
If Charles Darwin, who visited N.S. Wales in
1836, were not dead, the indignant aristocracy of this
country would hunt him to tho ends of the earth to
1 w- vg. taua*. sal
css s tokSrsiJsrss buna!.
bark on unoooupled ground, buys or ■ fcea^* li ®;
animals, sells a few, sella spirits without a license,
receives stolen goods, and at last *h eM
the horror of all honest neighbours. Of oomse, these
are all deliberate lies. Anyhow, ft squatter no wad ays
is a man who wears good broadcloth, is apUWr of the
Churoh. robs nobody except his country, gets knighted
and goes hems to furnish material for the Kngusn
satirists. Mr. Darwin then ?oes on to define a
“mfLwlar” as an "assigned convict, wno runs away
HvShfw he 8 can by U theft.”ln time*
•• crawlers " hang out at Government House, ana nmo
on fowl reared on the premises. Tempera mutantui.
We have received about half-a-mile of a p°em
written on the back of dog forms, and gladly print one
sweet stanza in the hope that the writer m y
cognised and banded over to the proper authorities
Newcastle must be rich in stable-boys and
warrant girl*. Their organ is now before "•
hare bean amusing ourselves by taking a df 1 ,?* .*
The editor is evidently, whe* not employed with the
oart of a facetious disposition. He says:— our "°J’ l “”
are especially open to contributors, but it must bo em-
phatically under stood that we do not in any way identify
ourselves with the opinions or sentiments expressed
therein. We confine ourselves exclusively to those
vented in our leading articles.”
Then immediately underneath—
Leader unavoidably held over."
The opinions—political, social, and scientific of this
gentleman would, we should consider, it weave to judge
of them by his paper, be abundantly eomprised in the
sentence we have quoted. The paper itself is about the
size of a porous plaster, and positively reeks of the
stable-brush and the dripping-j ar. Some Ooth from a
tripe-shop sends a poem about a party. Here « a bit of
him
** Then oime Miss Murphy, too.
Who’s called the sweet potato,
With hair of satin (blue),
How all emulate her.
•• Also Hoppy P—,
With lame leg, squint and all.
Came early and had tea,
Aud then stayed fer the boll.
Another writes
M Where was Charlsy on Wednesday night? Some
one had his girl at the theatre. Never mind, ene good
tarn deserves another after Monday night.
And a third, telling a little aneedote about & kitehen-
boy and a haah-eook, dreamily remaiks '•
" Months went on. and Maggie chanted — ' Donald
I*ll be true nnto thee,* and absenso (tie) seemed to make
the heart grow fonder."
The editor in a notice says that “ Httia things of this
description ean do no harm.” He seems to forget that
this remark does not apply to either loose palings or
■hoe leather.
The Lata Rer. Dr. McGibbbon.
The death of IDr. MoGibbon remove* one more ot
the men who have borne a part im moulding the
institutions of New South Wales. Although tor
29 years the minister of one congregation, the de*
ceased gentleman was probably more prominently
known throughout the colony than any other
clergyman since Dr. Lang—with whom, by the way,
Dr. MoQibbon had a long sustained feud. Dr.
MoGibbon was a man of insatiable energy and
powerful convictions, but small adaptability or
originality. He cherished throughout the whole
course of his life the prejudices whieh it
was customary at the time when _he was
a boy to instil into the minds of
Presbyterian children in Scotland. The in-
fluences of later and better times found in his
disposition no assimilative faculty. 1 (deration he
could only comprehend as a right denied to Pro-
testants in countries prostrate beneath the heel of
the Papacy. Dr. M'Gibbon’s virtues belonged to
no particular period. He was towards his own
people an earnest and aithful shepherd. Hie
merits were of the domestic order. A born or-
ganizer and leader, he never flinched from personal
sacrifices, and his own followers found in him one
who never shut his ears, his heart, or his purse, to
the solicitations of a comrade in distress. In the
abstract, he cultivated a love for all fellow-
creatures, and in the hour of a man's need would
not stop to inquire what was his creed. The
pretensions of tne Church of Home had in hi* an
uncompromising antagonist. His ardent temper
carried him in regard te that Church into ex-
tremes which it would be impossible to reeenefle
with the spirit of the Master ho tried truly, but
after a fashion of his own, to servo. Dr. M'Gibbou
was born centuries too late. In his course of life
he was more in sympathy with the days of the
Solemn League and Covenant than with modern
times. He would have been in his element
leading the Chosen People to combat, with a
bible in one hand and a broadsword in the
other, and shouting, “ Slay and spare not,”
Aa the conductor of the Protestant Standard
he imparted to polemical literature a bitterness
and an often ludicrous vehemence unparalleled in
modern times. If one could have credited the
general drift of that journal under his editorship,
all priests were conscious imposters, and nun-
neries were harbours for immorality or cruelty.
Yet, by a not uncommon contradiction, no man
more keenly felt and fiercely resented reflections
upon, or criticisms of, his own opinions. Had his
power equalled his will, he would have silenced
every expression of modern thought, and rendered
penal every divergence from the observances of
tua religion. While fiercely denouncing the sins of
an Inquisition which knew no better than to
silence Galileo, he took prominent part in the
proceedings to close, so far as the Civil Power
could be moved to assist him, the mouth of
Proctor, the astronomer. Beneath a Genova
gown, Dr. M'Gibbon cherished the spirit of a
Torquvmada. A true disciple of Calvin, he would,
probably, had he lived at the same time, have been
equally ready to procure the burning of Sorvetas.
Yet, Uke Calvin, Dr. M'Gibbon was a man of
genuine piety, and full of consuming zeal for the
eternal welfare of humanity. Those who knew
him most intimately saw his best qualities.
To the public generally, however, he was
chiefly known as the fiercest polemic of his
day. Such a reputation could scarcely attract
much affection towards a professing follower of
the meekest and mildest Hon of Man who ever
walked this earth. To Dr. M'Gibbon may be
fitly applied the quotation : —“ The evil that men
do lives after them; the good is oft interred with
their bones,” The personal kindnesses, the un-
tiring liberality towards those in distress, the
kindly comradeship, are no more. But the seed
of sectarian animosities which the deceased
ter was so eager in cultivating, will bear bitter
harvests long after his remains have mingled with
the dust. It is a matter for profound regret that
so energetic a career should have been mainly de-
voted to perpetuating in this young land the
irreligious feuds whion. in the old world, have
occasioned so much bloodshed and misery, and
which have been instrumental in postponing the
happy day when all mankind shall £ e ®l on ® ™
another the true sentiments of brotherhood. Our
photo, is by Newman, of Oxford-street.
Mr. John Yelverton Mills.
Politics or patriotism in this colony having taken
the practicaltormof “compensation —or,rather,
fearless outspokenness on the part of some sec-
tions of the Press having revealed the fact that
“compensation” has all along been politics an
patriotism in this eolony—it is cheering to find
one man courageous and honest in public duty.
We venture to say that few men in this country
stand higher in public estimation at'the present
time than the man whose name heads this oner
biography. Mr. Mills, in the Darling Harbour
resumption business, faced a gigantic combination,
whose influence few men could have been ex-
pected wholly to withstand. The Government
reposed implicit confidence in Mr. Mills integrity,
his experience, and his judgment; and the result
is known. The country has been already saved
many thousands of pounds by his valuations. Uf
course, there are in this matter claims, by business
men, which have only their own internal un porta® e«;
but there are others whieh have an external
significance that has naturally aroused the widest
interest, and attracted public attention in a
manner which is quite without precedent, it is
by this fact that Mr. Mills’ services may be esti-
mated at their full value. Mr. A ills was born at
Parramatta in 1811. He is the eldest son ot Mr,
John Mills, now of Cheokley, who was induced, in
1839, when ho arrived in the colony, to open a
private school at Parramatta. _ For 22 years
Mr. Mills’ school was valued for its high moral
tone and sound English teaching. On his
mother's side, Mr. Mills is a representative of
the Cheokley-Yelverton (Avonmoor) family. He
was educated at his father’s school, and was well
grounded in the true principles ef an honorable
and useful life. He continued at home, varying
toil and study with occasional travel until loot,
when the late Dr. Greenup entrusted him with the
superintendence of the Castle Hill estate. In 1806,
Mr. Mills commenced business as an auctioneer,
when he was taken into partnership by his father-
in-law, the late Mr. T. W. Bowden, whose sound
business judgment and well-known integrity,.added
to many years experienee as a leading auctioneer,
in Sydney, assisted in forming Mr. Mills career ;
and daring several years elose relationship, the
advice and correct perception of the late Mr. T. K.
Bowden, the well-known solicitor, guided him to
sound and correct principles as a practical business
man. On the death of Mr. T. vY. Bowden, Mr.
Mills earned on the same business with Mr.
George Pile, and subsequently with Mr. J. O.
Gilchrist as a third partner. Recently Mr. Mills
was asked to undertake the Darling Harbour
Valuations on behalf of the Government, and the
results, when published some time back, created
great astonishment. How far Mr. Mills was
eorreot, the public have ample means of judging
for themselves. Photo, by boott.
Mr. Mark J. Hammond, Mayor of
Ashfield.
The subject of this sketch, Mr. _ Mark J.
Hammond, Mayor of Ashfield. was born in Sydney,
November 15, 1844. His father, a sterling repre-
sentative of an old Kentish family, came to the
colony three years previously, and entered upon
agricultural pursuits. Heavy losses by drought,
wnioh at that period were general all over the
colony, resulted in the family removing to the
goldfields. This change in their prospects found
young Mark Hammond, then but a mere youth,
resolutely battling with fortune, and few
men’s histories exhibit such vicissitudes, or
disclose such self-dependence, courage, resolu-
tion, or perseverance. He may be said to have
virtually had no boyhood, for, at the age of sixteen,
with no friend but a younger brother, he was a
full-fledged miner, on new and distant goldfields,
exercising the right and voting as a miner under
the existing law. He experienced the varying
successes of the Turon, the Lambing Flat, the
Macquarie, Forbes, and other gold-fields. His in-
tuitive knowledge gave him a mastery over the
men ho fell in with, the result, in most cases, of
correct judgment in the search of the preoieus
metal, .Before he was eighteen, jenng Hammond
had accumulated a considerable snm, but was vic-
timised by designiug speculators. Changes of for-
tune found him |pretty near direEct at Hawkins'
Hill. Certain shareholders of the principal mine, to
ensure Hamraond’e assistance, bought aim a share
for ,£5OO, transferring it to him without a scrap of
paper or document. Mr. Hammond, while still
retaining an interest in several mines, then came
to Sydney, where he has been successful iu
real estate investments. His career on the gold
fields was not without profit iu another way.
He fell in, as it were from sympathy, with the best
educated men on the various fields. Fxperien oe
shows that many a man who wooed fortune in the
rugged pursuits of gold-mining, in the good old
days, had passed though the Fngliah Universities,
and was a capital oorh panion for an observant and
a reflective lad. Wnen Hammond ceased his
mining operations, ho tuns entered upon the pur-
suits of city life with a knowledge of men
tested by experience. Hie work in the
metropolis has been of a very valuable character,
and his contributions to the Press ou all the great
questions of the day demonstrate him to be a
man of philosophic thought and practical
research. He is the author of some of the ablest
vindications of John Stuart Mill as to assisting
native industry. Mr. Hammond, though no teeto-
taller, was largely instrumental in preventing the
sale of spirituous liquors at railway stations ; and
likewise aided the removal of the gold tax. His
contributions [on the necessity of mining law re-
form have been productive of practical results in
the way of preparing the public mind for reform
in the existing law. In municipal work Mr. Ham-
mond has proved himself a thorough representative.
As an alderman of the Ashfield Council, ho origi-
nated the idea of a system basing taxation on
capital value, leading to a more even and equitable
method than had ruled; and, though delayed aud
hindered, his proposals are destined to become
law, and to meet with adoption, not only in a
municipal, but a national, sense. The Kenny
Hill water scheme won iu him an ardent supporter,
and, as the affair gathers new friends every day,
a significant revival is not far distant. The muni-
cipal conference on this subject was the result of
Mr. Hammond’s action. Mr. Hammond is now
Mayor of Ashfield —he was on
his own vote. Mr. Hammond has been more than
once solicited to stand for a constituency but has
declined. We shall be mistaken if something ia
n«t heard of him at the eleotoon.
Our portrait is from a photo, by Boyd.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Conference assembled at Constantinople ; Count
Corti, Italian ambassador presides .- Turkey not
sented Sir Ed ward Malet. British Consul at Alexan-
dria, has been instructed to ignore B*(?heb P#shafl
•overnment Saltan hM telegraphed AraM Boy, ex-
pressing approval of his M«t oondimt, and
appointment as Minister of war In the f
t ration Sultan also conferred Turkish
Medlldie on Arab! Bey Arab! Bay insihtson with.
drawsl of combined fleets precedent to any -"
Sue* Canal control question excluded from deliberations
of Conference An expeditionary force is to W<wnt
to protect the Suer Canal,,. Egyptian Bine shows
that Bnsland has in the past been greatly hampered by
French Ir eeolutlon Activity In Baglish d(Kky.rds
and areenak ; additional workmen and qnaa-
Wes ef war and store material being g<*
1000 marines preparing to embark at
26,000 feroepe reedy te sail for
preparations going on la *h*»ee,„... Frt*««
opposed to an Anglo-French occupation ef agypt,-..-
JkiTuyßof Conference have signed a protocol disavowing
any desire on part of their rospsoMre Governments to
obtain any individual advantage in dealing wlbh the
affairs of Egypt London Timm nrges Government
te bo prepared ter eventualities.......Bastav making
military preparations, gstting ready her navy, and
adding 39 gsn-boats to her flsst......*epros»lon o
Ocimo in Ireland Bill will be retrospective m regard to
compensation to victims of
pony for Ireland, with a sapital ef £76* 980, projected
te lease and work boy sotted farose .....Fenians Mtivo;
London Times efioe threatened and mow guarded Iby
peliee Hundreds of Fenians marehed ln “ llltar /
proosssion through the strtetspf Amaf h pn »4th June
Fighting eontinnes in Znlnland; unbats, brother
of Cetewaye, defeated Oham, another brother...... Chiefs
arming to ipake united attack on John Dnun; protracted
war Imminent Cetewayo permitted to visit Ergland.
......Sir Henry Parkes interviewed M - Frevcmet, French
Minister for Foreign Affairs; concluded Continental
trim and leaves, vid Cape of Good Hope, for Australia,
on Satnria-, Ist July.
VANITY FAIR.
The “ Decameron” of Boooamo is, as eveiy
yenng lady knows, an exceedingly naurhfcy book. Weij,
L edition printed at Venice. U sold at the
death of the Dnke of Roxburgh, K.igbtof the Oarfer,
it. owner, in 1811, for after a
amotion, contested by Barl ftponoor L°rd dlthorp.
Lord Althorp hetaig the buyer. And to think that be
_-_ij nA « ffok ®> n 166 bibl® for ono-AHu-six
" S*mr Ae boeaf " fbulloek’s blood)!* tho latent fafhion-
able colour Receptions at the White House, Waat.
ing'en, have hitherto been full dress. P r «» ideßt
Arthur ha. Introduce* the froek coat instead^... .At
Prilloo Leopold', wedding. Waohter-* ® oyal f C^ rt ® r
wae the champagne meed Signor Laeina, of Rome,
kaa invented a legno phone — a musical machine of
.tick* and straws ” —and think, about revolntionising
the wW with it. It won'd be a bad spse to patent &
out here — we’ve had an opera bonffe crowd too often. _i
VANITY FOCUS B
* * *
The roil worn by the Queen at Prince Leopold’s
wedding, was the identical one she need at her own
marriage A daneing eelebrity has just died at Paris.
Markowski was once the chief fitting-mister,*!*
mtde, of Paris. Ho taught Royalty and the aristocracy,
and kept a splendid saloon many, many years ago, but
his improvidence brought him low. He Arst intTOdncod
the Mazurka to Parisian society ; he invented the Var-
sovisna, and other steps new long he died
in a lodging-house where beds cost Sd, a night.
It is understood that the Attorney-General w
ba examined as & witness in'.the Bacas Compensation
ease.
A special meeting of the Trustees of the National
Park has been called by order of the Government to
deal with an urgent and important matter of business.
It is understood that Mr. George Withers will
move Parliament again »n the Kenny Hill water
neheme, the practicability of which has lately become
thoroughly apparent.
Good for the Australian Eleven again '. A gainst
the United South of England team at Ohiehcs er, the
Eleven made 501 In the first inmr gB. of which Honm
contributed 118. The United lost three wickets for 67.
The editor of the Cobar Hiralb “notices
that Mr. Toy’s new bar is graoed by one of the prettiest
and most pleasant of barmaids." Last time we beatd
of him he was killing a snake on aglrls knee in Mr.
Gill's hotel. It’s clear that, between girls and snakes
and new bars, the Cobar editor is having a good time.
A reporter was recently cast for the duties of
“doing ’ an Agricultural Show during the afternoon,
and a grand ball the same evening. I hi* wthesty le of
thing he produced : “ Mias Alice B , a beautiful blonde
heifer, eow-bell and diamonds, etc. Miss Nettie C.,
charming brunette, pink silk and pearls : second jinsa,
shorthorn. Miss Sara Eliza X.. a beautiful matron,
arrayed in Durham satin, ©mbroidere i|in Alderney t i£*
eow-bell set in diamonds, real lace, and weighing IUdJ
on the scales, first prize."
In M. Pasteur’s magnificent oration before the
French Aeademy, on 27th April, he used these words,
in reference to hi* belief in Spiritualism and the realm
of the tiiwa j—" The Greek* «*d*rs«>*d ‘
•bc power of the iu»**e« werld. They have left •• * ko
Mblret weed 1b onr langneg*. * eothrelMm —«i Thn»t
SB Inner God. Tae rreatness of knnaaa fired* tu ha
meaemred by the inspiration that glare th«mbirlh.
Happy the man who ha* an inner Sod within hi*, an
ideal of beauty, and who obeys his behest*. The ideal
of art, the ideal of science, (the ideal of country, the
ideal of the virtues of the Gospel—those are the living
sources of great Ideas and great deeds.’’ Yet the world
is full of men who boast that they won t believe what
they ean’t see, and who fancy they give indications of a
great mind by never admiring anything.
A nunnery scandal has been unearthed at Cracow,
Austria, through the instrumentality of a faithful old
servant, who was employed in the convent and informed
tho victim’s brother. Bister Salomea was of a good
Bllssian family, and gave np all her property to the
convent when She entered it, some eighteen years ago
She refused to aeeep* a young oonforeer introduced
into the convent, and was oonfistd iu a solitary cull.
She wore the same gown for eighteen years, and. had had
no change of underclothing or shoes or stocking* for
BQT6S jean. Her cell had nob been ctetned for a twelve-
month, and »he wa* never allowed to leave it. The
straw of her bed was rotten, and fnll of vermin. Her
brother only obtained an interview by calling in the
polio*. She was found to be in a terribly emaciated
condition, and had to be supported by two nuua. The
other slaters of the convent denied her statements, but
she persisted in imploring her brother to free her from
her terrible position. The affair is to be investigated
in a court of justice, until whioh trial *h« has to remain
ia the convent, her brother only being permitted to
supply her with food and clothes 1
In Philadelphia (U.8.A.) lives a woman who lira
contributed to |tha peculation the fair number of ‘2l
children. She married at 10, her husband being *».
The first pledge of eoanubial fealty earns in the shape
of triplets. John Jntdn’t expected sueh itartling re*
suit*, but “ it's a good beginning,” hs said. Then a
pair of healthy twins appeared. John observed, “We
mom to be falling back a little j” and when a solitary
boy eame, he remarked “ we’re getting down to an
economical basis at last." A fair average was main-
tained on the next two interesting occasions, twins
coming each time. Baring the following 10 year* only
six single births occurred ; and then the perplexed
father again received a present of twins. “Oh, hang
it," said John weariedly, “ 1 can’t support the whole
vonnitry," and he went on the spree. Two years later;
the wholesale family was increased by another batch or
triplets. That broke John up ; he died. The widow
confessed that there was difficulty at first about getting
names for all the little strangers, but, said she, “ John
got hold of an almanac with a list of names > iu it, ana
then we were prepared for anything." John’s untimely
decease, however, .
A MIMBER AV THE FORCE.
Oh ! their’* nothing: half so straining,
Or spraining, or braining,
As there is in the training
Av a number o’ the Pooree,
No matter what yon do,
Bure if you tip a blue,
He’ll always pull you through.
Will a mlmbof o’ the Pooree.
For he knows a man of caste.
Though he be a trifle fast,
He is sure to let him pass,
As a gintleman av ooorse.
If he’s tight, he knows it’s right.
O'er the Park he’ll help the spark.
Oh I they’re molghty dooint fellows.
Are the mimbers av the Pooroe.


CITY CATERING
315 fcffiOEGE STB
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional workm
tioal experience, neatly all from th
°f Compagnoni and (Jo., who pel
and carry oa the working of the
general manager.
It is not a public company, and tl
th o expenses appertaining thereto.
—Since opening, on 2J(Bh i
aucoessfelly catered TAB LMiUt
CULT, and MOST RESPONatBL
have taken place here to the preset
The Consular Dinner, in our new hi
His worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entertainr
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worship,
teined their R.H.’s PRINCE ALI
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Offloi
Squadron.
Maaonio Ball, English Constitute
tlon Building.
Masonic Ball, N.B.W. Constitut
Sydney.
Visit of their K.H.’s PRINCE AL
to Lithgow Valley Mines and i
Ruaae, for 60, in Government Pal
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,00<
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—i
NOTICE, only receiving the ord
ready on at 12>30 Pja. tl
Visit of
R.H.’b PBII
GEORGE to Captain Cook's La
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon i
100, under VERY SHORT NOT!
at 9.30 p.m., to he ready on tha s
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Toi
The (Union Club) " Bachelor's I
Building, for 506.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge V
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Room
Dinner d la Ruste at St. Paul’s Coll
of the Church of England Synod
Dinner d la Ruasa to the luterc*
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment
gentlemen, at tha turning of the
Bros.' New Railway Rolling Sto
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment'
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Rosreshment
Races, in Grandstand.
Refreshments atr e Favre of i
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Engli
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of P
Dinners, I easts, &0., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMP/
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, G 1
and all requisites for Bails, Picnici
and will he glad to send out the
Pastry, Cokes, Jellies, Ices, Coulee
Civil and attentive waiters ale
services required.
We have in our possession letter
high standing in the eity, oompli
manner we have performed the dut
CHAB. B. SMI
([Late of the firm of the original Cc
QE I E
N T
J* 16 following Steamshipi
ORIENT CO., and the PACI
SYDNEY at noon on the unde
LONDON, via Melbourne, Adela
steamer’s option), the Sues Cana
and lorluigETly then
SALOON PASSENGERS allow
journey.
ORIENT PARCELS EXPRESS
or 6d. per lb.
PASSAGES PROM LONDON
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDON P
and iANDERSON, ANDERSON a
A PASSAGE MONEY, 15 to 70
tioulars on application to
H
Dr. Simms’ Last Week of Lectures.
DS. SIMMS, the unrivalled physiognomist and
entertaining speaker, will close his lectures in
Temperance Ha l, Pitt-street, this week He will lee-
ture on •* The Nervous System and Mind,” This liven,
ing, June2yth, ontinuing Jnne 30th on ‘‘The Proper
Care of the Human Body;” July 1, Saturday, the last
lecture, will be on “ Love, Courtship, and Marriage.”
This will be the last time to hear Dr. Simms lecture.
Call before Saturday to obtain a chart and description
of your health and character, and learn what you can
best do to render most service to the world.
THE NEWSLETTER.
The Prince Alfred Hospital will open about 6th
August.
1184 Bottomless Pitites at the Museum on Sun*
dayafbernoon. Total for the four Sundays in June,
4890. Average, 1222 S.
Brutal murder in Melbourne. The body of a
powerfully-built man was found on Tuesday
tied to a post in shallow water, in the river Yarra. His
temple was gaping open, and his body covered with
ghastly wounds.
Respecting one big mining company recently
parted with a huge boom in one of the colonies, it is
said that the original proprietor first had » crushing of
one ton of quartz. He managed to place ten sovereigns
lu * 6 cra °ikle, and the result of the assay waa so good
that ho fl nated a company in no time. A criminal
action is talked of.
The Attorney-General of S. A. has introduced a
bill providing that any arraigned person may, if he
choose, give evidence on oath in regard to the charge
against him (the accused), and that no presumption of
pruilt shall bo made from the fact of snob person elect-
ing not to give evidence. It is, of course, intended
that such self-evidence may be used against accused.
The Junoe people hare a grievance. They say
that Mr. Oaitnor, of the local refreshment-rooms, baa
an undue advantage over other residents. In that ho
receives from Sydney, free of railway charges, all
goods—not only those legitimately connected with his
business as a licensed victualler, but also building mate-
rial, including bricks, lime and timber, which are
plentifully produced in the district.
Once more “toll for the brare.” A boat
belonging to the schooner Magnolia, was swamped off
the 90-milo beach, Victoria, on Sunday last. A heroic
young sailor, named George Abbott, of the Magnolia,
jumped overboard, swam through the surf, and rescued
the two fishermen. Ha then swam back to render
assistance to his comrade, but his strength failed him,
and he was drowned. The other drowned sailor's name
was George Goodman.
Mount Bisohoff (Tasmania) tin shares worth
£65 Issued at £l. 12 000 in the company. Shares
have paid £25 each in dividends since 31st January,
1878. The Hon. Dr, Arnew bolds 700 shares, and draws
his £350 a month; sometimes £7OO. By the way, a
well-known Sydney tin speculator and two confederates
some time since paid £lO,OOO for a Tasmanian tin pro-
party, which will probably bring them £250,000. They
mean to work it themselves.
Tho Channel Tunnel is absorbing attention just
now ; bnt, for all that, the scheme for uniting Ireiand
and Scotland by an artificial isthmus, connecting the
north-east point of Ulster with the nearest jutting point
of Argyleshire, has by no means been lost sight of. Its
promoters are only biding a more favorable time to
announce and develop their plan to the public. An
alternate plan of a tunnel between Donaghadee and
Fortpatriok has also been mooted.
Mr. Mirls, locomotive superintendent of the
Victorian railways, stated, before the “ Jolimont acci-
dent” Board, that when the Government took over the
Hobson’s Bay railway and he inspected the rolling
stock, ‘‘his blood ran cold." If it had only stopped at
Mirls, it wouldn’t have mattered, but tho rolling stock
made several poor fellows’ blood run cold, while
the Government had to " bleed" freely and warmly.
What everyone wants to know is—what steps were
taken to stop the Mirls’ blood-curdling process f
No announcement has yet been made of the
examinations whioh New South Wales Publio School
teachers were forced to undergo in December last. The
only intimation the plucked birds get is a peremptory
order to come up again for a further examination in one
month from date of notice. Many of these poor devils
are old and well-tried teachers, and an uneasy feeling Is
gaining ground that there is an “ underneath” motive
in the plan being adopted. Can the idea be to create
vacancies for the sake of political patronage and
nomineeism F
It seams that Oriental birth is by no means an
essential qualification for speedy camel-driving. Mr.
J. Tarragan, one of Cobb and Co.’s drivers, by himsalf
took the last mail up to Milparinka, on three camels, in
five days, although detained fully half a day by wet
roads, over which the camels refused totravel. Thelocal
P.M considers the public of tho district greatly
indebted to Tarragan, whose services, ha hopes, will
meet with recognition. Messrs. Cobb and Co. generally
seem to have the right man in the right place in time
of emergency.
New Orient steamer, Austral, arrived in Mel.
bourne, at midnight, on Monday, having completed her
first voyage in 36 days, or 32 day* 12 hours’ steaming
time. Her carrying capacity is 3000 tons cargo, and
2500 tons of ooal. Average speed at Tial trip was 16 10
kaots per hour j greatest speed, 17.5 knots. She can
carry 29,000 superficial feat of canvas; is so constructed
that she can hardly either sink or burn ; has full boat
and launch accommodation for all passengers and erew,
and is the finest passenger boat which has ever visited
Australian waters.
A boy, under fifteen years of age, was found
lying helplessly drunk in the main street at Kiama, on
a rainy Saturday night not long ago. He had been
turned out of a hotel, after 11 o’clock. Me had got
drunk in that hotel. Tho magistrate “admonished
and discharged him,” says the local paper. Vary good ;
bnt what we want to know is what the magistrate said
to the landlord. If we ean’t find this out, we would
like to learn what the Minister of Justice has to say to
the magistrate. We are under the impression that
there is a clause in the Licensing Act, which, Ac,
The “ notorious bushranger,” Tommy the
Ambler, has been captured near Girilambone. This
desperado, who struck terror into a few thousands of
people, is about five feet in height, and his fighting
weight is seven atone nothing. He was armed with a
six-shooter, but knew no more how to use it than Mrs.
Ah Tow—the lady who is now in gaol for murdering
bar Mongolian husband with the first gun she ever
fired off in her life. Tommy, when bailed up, threw up
his arms at ouoe, and was white-livered all through.
Yet, if he had stuck up Nymagee, the other day, the
residents would probably have huddled up like a flock of
cowed sheep.
Hewit and Go ’s Maokay sugar esfcata has been
bought by a Melbourne company for £5B 000 Apropos,
the Bdgar Planter points out that coloured labour
must be a godsend to the oane-growers (who alone are
entitled to employ niggers), as it enables them to tnrn
their land to account, such as is quite out of the reach
of other land proprietors. The selector cannot get a
man to put up hi* fence or dig a waterhole, under 25a. a
week and his keep; the planter gets a kanaka for £6 a
year and tucker. If sugar growers om make such
profits, it is clear they have a vast advantage over other
agriculturists, and there is no reason why they
should enjey it. A Government has no right to grant a
privilege to one class.
There has been a big slaughter of blacks up
North. The mob who speared Jack Skene lately sur-
prised a party of kanakas at work, and carried off the
previsions before the kanakas could attack them. The
■next 4ay ; however, four white men headed a partv of
kanakas, t}ja Europeans having rifles and the kanakas
long knives, (to which they are accustomed; and early
the next morning the company started in pursuit, fol-
lowing up the tracks, and came on the camp late in the
afternoon. The rifia men covered the kanakas at a
distance, and the latter attacked the camp of over 30
flaggers with their knives, ipakmg a total slaughter ef
them. In an hour there was not a nigger left. This
occurred near Herbert! u. Wild River, •* Only a black-
fellow 1 ”
There aro only five newspapers in all Tasmania !
The Mercury, Conservative, welUpriuted, pig-headed,
intensely respectable; its weekly tender, the Maft,
merely a scissors reprint and tasting terribly of .Tester-
day’s cold mutton these represent publio feeling of
Hobart 1 Launceston has—the Examiner, a musty old
sausage-wrapper, said to ha edited by a monthly nurse
addicted to “ peppermint drops," and the Telegraph, a
smart, neat, little print, that promises to become better
known. Latrobe has the Devon Herald. Of course
there are the usual lot of small comics—Rep.eeb,
Church News, Evening Star, and Presbyterian
Magazine ; but these ore rarely seen out of the
butcher's shops. Stay—we forget the Standard or
Ephraim, an intensely cheerful fortnightly fly-paper,
manufactured at Launceston.
The tin-lode owners up North find it lhard to
£et labour, Chinese even refusing to work for £2 a week.
Largo areas of tln-oonntry are being applied for in
the neighbourhood of May town. Palmer Elver, The
tin-mining prospects of the far North are brilliant.
At thejAttenbsrg mine, Saxony, which is worked at a
dep'h of 1020 feet, tbe percentage of metal yielded by
the rock is only one in 250 parts, yet itpavs. Ac the St
Anstel (Cornwall) mine, as much as 1100 tons of rock
are crushed and dressed for one ton of black tin of 66
p c., while at Dalcoatb, the richest and most pro-
ductive mine in England, and which is worked at a
depth of from 11500 feet to 1800 feet, the rock yields
only on the average 2$ per cent, of ore of 66 p e., equal
to 1 65 of metal Ten tixes tKis percentage would
hardly be looked at in Queensland,
Hay is thrilled to the marrow with anticipatory
joy. His Excellency LordLoftns has proa, ised to go up
there at the opening demonstration of the railway. But
there is a fly in the Hay treacle. It is said that tho
Hay hotelkeepers decline the honour of providing Lord
Augustus with accommodation, and the resources of the
railway department will therefore be taxed to tho
abnormal extent of supplying a tarpaulin wherewith to
shelter the vioc-regal frame. Eight here, too, is the
place to suggest the provision of stilts also at every
street crossing of this noble town. By the way, there
seems to be some dissatisfaction respecting the invita-
tions to the banquet and ball. Except the Engineer-in-
Chief and the Commissioner for Railways, the Railway
department has Jbaen ignored, while the Inspector of
Police, the Auditor General, and other Civil servants,
quite unconnected with “ rails,” have been invited,
Gundagai would seem to be blessed in its
doctors. A Mr and Mrs. Irving of that place recently
brought an action for £3OOO damages against Dr, Ogg,
for injuries caused fcy his alleged negligence and igno-
rance ie his treatmsmt of Mrs. I. during her confine-
ment. The case was one yell throughout. Mrs Irving
got bad under Dr. Ogg'e ©are. D-. Marshall, another
local medico, was oallsd in, treated her for a com-
plaint she (according t® the other side) did net
suffer from, and cared her. Dr. Marshall, it
seemed, had been a storekeeper, a oom-de«l*r, and
had kept a butcher’s shop; while his diploma
was a Cincinnati five-pounder. Marshall, how.
ever, scored a poiet when asked if Ogg had taken
away any of his patients. He stated that a Mr. Mao-
gregor had gone over to Dr. Ogg, but had died almost
immediately. If ever we get sick in Gundagai we shall
simply order round the beetle-poison at once. Verdict
foe defendant.
The shorthand writers of Sydney, who have
formed an association, have been squabbling in the
press about the merits of their various systems. 1 Jacob
Pitmaa riled a stenographer by the sweeping and
ungenerous assertion that none but phonographers
could read their notes after tho lapse of a period. “ Sten-
ographer” rallied up against the Pitman system in a
letter to the Herald, and, of course, one or two
phonographers took tho chance to get a free advertise-
ment by replying thereto, and giving their names in
full. Pitman’s men, however, should not beguile the
publio into believing that they have a weax case, by
evading discussions of systems, and dropping into per-
sonal pud vain-glorious (altercations. Pitman’s
system is strong enough to stand upon its merits, and
the aim of a Shorthand Writers’ Association should
not be to spread one system only, and advertise Pitman,
but should also be the conservation of the interests of
all classes of professional shorthand writers.
There aro just now about eight hundred people
at Herberton (N.Q.), fully two hundred of whom
are loafing about the town, doing nothing but star-
gazing and sitting in the billiard rooms or on benches
outside of the hotels. At present, It seems to bo the
resort of all the broken-down ebaraotera in (ha North,
not even excluding female society. There are evidently-
some Sydneyites up there, for East Herberton has, for
a variety of reasons, been christened Woolloomooloo.
On the field there are simply two classes of people—the
men with money and the men without it, the latter
class being the mu numerous. Still, it must be borne
in mind that on tho Wild River tin re is only a shilling
a day between the man who works and the man who
doesn’t work, and tho latter has it. Thera are men now
walking about with leggings, silver.monntad whips, aad
swell toggery, who arrived on the field twelve months
ago with tho rims of their hats and the toes of their
boots, and this change has bean effected not by a super-
fluity of intelligence on their part, bnt by the force of
circumstances and sheer good luck. There are men
there agents for capitalists and superintendents of lodes,
who know as much about reefs and tin mines as ** Soapy
up."
As there happens to be one payable gold-bearing
reef in 8.A,, speculations are endless on the local
Corner and brokers* wits sharpened to an nnnatnral
extent Many new companies have been floated, one
(at person being especially admirable in the way n
which he takes parties of investors to a claim, an-
finds splendid gold-strewn stone for them. Yet people
get gradually behind the scenes, and it is slightly dis-
gusting to have it authenticated that one smart broker
had written to Mount Browne for “ five hundredweight
of the best specimens.” Wishing to meet the general
rage for gold-mining In Adelaides firm of iron founders
manufactured and mounted a publio crushing battery
on their own constructive principles and after their
own design. A person determined to test this battery
lately, and being a sharp fellow, engaged a member of
the above firm ia a wager to the effect that their
battery would not save more than half the gold in any
given quantity of quartz. Before several witnesses he
piaoed five ounces of gold among two tons of road
metal. Then this road metal and the gold were pat
thioagh the battery. Tho official returns of that
crushing were U oz. of gold, and when the testor had
proved, as he was well able, the loss of 3) oz., the firm
acknowledged that there might bo better batteries in
the wide world.
One must go. from home to hear news. Prom
the 8. F. News Letter of April 29, we glean details of
a wonderful machine, “invented by a judge of the
Supreme Court, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia." It
is the Autophouosteuograpb, and reports spoken words
verbatim, by means of electricity. The invention is a
combination of the microphone transmitter, and phono-
graph, with a little of the type-printing machine
thrown in. In shape, like a small harmonium, there is
a key for each speaker, and, when the opening of the
judicial mouth indicates that kis Henor is about to
-peak, the man in charge presses tbe “ judge ” key, the
words are recorded, and issue out ef tbe machine soon
afterwards in plain printisg on long slips of paper. It
a lawyer interrupts, the antophonostenograph man
presses the “ Daney ’* or “ Buchanan ” key, and the
wholesome fun or the pleonastic string of adjectives
that issue from the legal luminary’s mouth are
unerringly recorded for the benefit and delight ef com-
ing generations. Each speaker has a separate slip of
paper. By aa ingenious contrivance, also, the operator
in charge can print on the under side, as the paper runs
through, any remarks he may wish to make. This is
of great advantage, as the opinions of the operator
would be valuable. The vvaid “ foolery " would no
doubt be repeated very often on the under side, with “ro-
guery" now and then as a variation, changing, of course,
to “perjury" while the jury of four were being sworn, or
when they gave their verdict. By a ohronographio
apparatus, the actual time when each sentence ia
uttered, is also set down, and, by placing the slips
together, the whole trial is before the eje as it pro-
ceeded. There is only one thing disappoints us about
this machine. That is, that tbe antophonostenograph
cannot be looked np in tbe room and dispose of all the
oases itself. This would save judges and lawyers the
bother of coming to court; give honest men a chance
of justice; and save jurymen and police witnesses from
an etsmity of brimstone.
The Chinese question is being chewed over yet
once more by the journals of the colony. Certain re-
velations made by the Kev. J, C. Kirby, of Adelaide, to-
gether with events that have occurred lately inN.S.W.,
have aroused a froth interest in the subject. Now, for
our own part, we are sick to death of the Chinese and the
Cninese question. The Chinese have brought disease
and filth and immorality to this country, where there
was enough of all three before, they oa a e But when
they commence to traffic in flesh and blood, and start a
market for white women, wo I egin to think is t me
we ran the plank out over tha side of the ship of State.
The core of the matter is simply this.—if Chinamen are
allowed to come into this colony, then they should be
compelled to bring their wives with them. If
we’re to have Chinkies at all, let us have the
pure breed—not a cross of colonially-raisad Anglo-
Mongolian larrikins with a strong Irish accent.
If the Chinkies come here and marry cornstalk girls,
they must marry some fellows’ sisters, and no decant ’
Au-tralian would care to have an almond-eyed, opium-
soaked cabbage-seller for a brother.in law, or a monkey-
faced hybrid for a nephew or niece. If we let them
and their club-footed females settle here, in twenty
years the European population would do well to look
around the South Pole for suitable places to colonize—
the shaven-heads of the Mongolians would in NSW.
be as thick t gather as the wooden cubes in King-street.
The only way to deal with tbe matter is to treat it as a
snake-bite—burn it withoaustio. Make the Chinese who
'are here walk the plank into space in the good old pirate
fashion, and allow no more to come in except one or
<< WO i, n i OW tllen to P rov i4e a reasonable amount of
wholesome fun” for the rising generation. As was
the case in Victoria, we shall have a lot of holy howlers
ri i n niug the Kerristian ticket, and saying that, instead
of dealing cruelly with the a'mond-eyed vegetable-
merchants, we should keep them on hand and turn them
into good hard-shell Biptists or double-patent back,
action ranters. Our reply to that—the sooner such
Kerristians clear out of this country, and start a new
breed of yellow saints on the baaks of the Hoang-ho,
the better.
Michael Irwin, dairyman, of Toowoomba (Q.),
•«° H. as * n le habit of drinking, was missed, and his
wife thought he was “ on the spree.” Bnt the police and
black-track.r. ran up a track along whioh his corpse
had been dragged, and followed it to where a number of
palings, slabs, and tufts of grass had been heaped to
conceal the exact locality of his assassination. Mrs.
Margaret Spillano was next arrested, and soon after-
wards her husband, who was away at Westbrook, was
taken in charge. He, however, was nob connected with
the murder. The prisoners were brought up at tho
Police Court, and remanded, Mrs. Spillaue havisg been
even as tel to leave the dock. Just then, however, she
msde her confession. Prior to it, she appeared to
■« suffering from a horrible mental weight. For four
or five minutes her lips were compressed, her lOinten-
once underwent several changes, and she appeared to
bs straggling to exercise self-restraint. All at onco she
exclaimed, to the aatoaishment of her husband and
everyone ia court, “I murdered Michael Irwin,” She
fell on her knees in an attitude of prayer, clasped her
hands, and, looking upwards, exclaimed, “ God have
mercy on my soul, and on Michael Irwin." She ex-
pressed a desire to make a statement. The court was
cleared of all the spectators, and when the doors had
been closed, the wretched woman was accommodated
with a seat at the table, and supplied with a drink of
water. She then, in a (cries of hysterical, ejaculatory
sentences, more than in a composed and connected
narrative, related the circumstances of the murder.
According to her story, she mistook ths inebriated man
for a Chinaman about to rob her hen-roost, and, becom-
ing suddenly seized with a demoniacal fury, she bat-
tered in Michael Irwin's head with a paling The
first blow would probably have resulted fatally, but she
followed it up with four more, until the man’s skull
was crushed as «ne would crush an eggshell. This was
at 11 p.m., and Irwin lived till 2 a m.. when she and her
son dragged the body away. Alter she had confessed,
she again called upon God to forgive her, and then ex-
olairaed, “ Oh, Michael, why did you !not speak, and
then I should not have done it." Her son Timothy,
aged 12 years, who helped her to drag away tho body to
a place of concealment, will not bo charged as an acces-
sory, but called as a witness for the Crown.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondente who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
A.L.G. : Very acceptable “Mylas.”.- We
use your items ”,J.D": Thanks •• Charley":
Kindly send your full name, so that we may make a
deal with a view to procuring your skeleton for the
Museum n fumes Send us something new—some-
thing that the Herald editors didnft read when they
were In the ark “ Zuled” : Thanks, used one. As to
the “letter” to the “honorable gentleman," it only
contains about a million truths—no, we mean, N S.
Wales libels. However, we have dared to hint at it
“C.H.’’: Latin adverb meaning “so" or “thus" ; often
used between parentheses to show that a mistake
quoted is “sic" in the original quoted from A cer-
respondent (male, of course) desires to know where he
could procure a photo, of Miss Alice Rees, how playing
“Patience” for Williamson. If he is himself suffici-
ently attractive, the fair Alice, whose address is care
of Williamson and Co, will no doubt supply the
yeamed-for carte on receipt of a polite note enclosing
the shadow of her admirer “Quombo”: No
joke in it as told; have adapted the idea
*‘J.S" (Cobar): Chambers’ Cyclopaedia article on
Mexico is the nearest we can think of “ Oula":
Tour stuff on the “Dinner Hour" not up to the
mark; rlyme and rhythm fair, but ideas as watery as
boardinghouse soup “J.C.8.": No; the George-
street railway office wasn’t insured. Government
buildings never are. Perhaps some enterprising insur-
ance agent set light to the place with a view to intro-
ducing the insurance idea and drawing commission
“E.MF.": Your acceptable note has been mislaid
“GE T ": Shall be glad of a line from you '* J,B ":
You had better direct the attention of the police to the
manners of the you** gentlemen of Sohoollahra
“Review of Nooze": Unsuitable “Felix”: Notour
stylo “C.L.": AS we do not know b»yond question
the facts of the case, we give a condensation of
your statement, which will suffice to draw attention to
tbe matter “C." (Newtovn): The question of what
style of harp will be served out to the Israelites when
thep get to Heaven is a profitless one, as neither Jew's
harps nor any other will be available. All the front
s ats ore oooupied by Scotch e.ders who have pawne d
the harps and gone back to the bagpipes “Sophia
Kemp": No you don’t “5.P.0.": Without a word
of explanation as to what the document is, we fail to
fathom your “ curiosity ’’; all the time we might other-
wise spare to it is engaged in assisting Gladstone to
solve the Egyptian crisis “ Quack": It’s no use
“tahing Cain" because a new member of the Torpedo
Corps has been made Corporal over the heads of
more deserving men. This sort of thing is
common to every department in every colony.
Else, where would we get our CM.G's?
“J.P.": We have used in our sporting columns your
information with regard to the shooting, and admit
that we are open to correction. However, your whole-
sale statement that “during the last five or six months,
any boat-race, walking-match, running-match, or horse-
race that has been done in fast time, is put down os the
fastest on record, or best in the colonies,” is egre-
giously incorrect ; especially os you say in the same
breath that “ with regard to these I am not prepared at
present to prove you wrong, although I think,” &c., &o.
We are very careful about our quotations of “best-on-
records,” and before we publish them, take some
trouble to satisfy ourselves of their authenticity.A
Miner," Reedy Flat: Too stale “ Chandos ’ : Yob,
please send pithy account “ Warrego’ : All right.
“P.E.J.": Glad of them “One who was presort":
N'thing in jour letter “ Pnona ”: Next week
“ L.L.": Wo really cannot tell you why Dan. O Connor
M P., didn’t attend the rev. gentleman’s funeral
“XI 'The bett part of your contribution is the vul-
gar fractions’ problem on the back of the paper
"Jennie’’: Will try and condense. [V large number of
corre pendents whose communications arrived late will
have„a show next week ]


Tobacconist*
TO SMOKERS WHO PROPESSLTO
AMERICAN TOBA(
THE following facts are coin.pl
resources, and, therefore, shoi
special interest i — , . . 10
DIXSON AND SONS paid doty in 18
All the othersjpaid duty in 1880 on
DIXSON AND SON* paid doty in 18
All the other* paid duty in 1881 on .
Imported manufactured tobacoo paid
on for the twe years was 0n1y.,. ,
DIXSON AND SON'S BBAB
TAN KBS DOODLE, 003
SIB. ROGER, GOLD
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror ore
genuine “Tin Tag," each plug!
Round Single Tin Tag, stau
queeor” or “ Yankee D(
ALL TOBACCONISTS' GOOD!
*0 t)V
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LH
A ND the enormous success of tl
has not escaped the usual pen
reversal popularity has excited the
if epecnlators who trade upon the d
if i/botrowed name. My Tohaoeo
md counterfeited, and although I »
ible means to guard the pubh* agfth
to punish fraud,
tions bearing nay brand, >ut
the ever pepulw »«*
have been impo*'d upon pnWi*
AMERICAN WEB f*. , N ° w ’ J* ,
numerous Customers in both town a
as th« Smoking PnWi* from »U
arranged with the Amebian Manu
ping of my Tobaeee be branded. I
bearing the device thus':
without which none is genuln'*. H
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well
comment. But in justice to the
myself, I urgently request my cnst< i
selves that the article they pure!
that each ping tear the above devi
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B
Heartily thanking the public for t
and determined to deserve a contv
by keeping a firtt-class article at
price.
MICK SIM
Sole Wholesale Agent in the <
Can’t B Beat Xc
CORN EXCHANGE 3
CORKER OF GEORGE and CAM
HAYMABKI
N.B.—NO BRANCH
READ THIS! RE4
'Business Annoanc
A
USTEALIAN “HOW
SEWING MACHIS
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
ling* profit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
a=a_
~n tIt XPRESsi
a
&
1H?
THE HOME SHUTTI.E L(
Manufactured for us, has the abo
name on the work pi
PUBCSASjB no othe
We eolioit j»/o»e»»tioH ef the atte
terfeite of the ehere Uaefane. wh«
notion in proteetien ef ear rirkiie.
In »mt dietriet where ear r««ui«
procumele, we wiH ferwmd them
rest Oflee Order.
WB HAVE *#W,C«IWD C
HAN® MACHINE COMPT F.TE
TRtADLE MACHINE, COUPLE
Do., Wlftf COVEK COMP
No charge for cases or packiur.
Circular post
M. MOSS AMD
WYNYA.KD LANK, S
Hotels, Jbo.
JOHN A. WIL
COOLALTA WINE C
119 PITT STREET
VINEYARD—COOT, ALT A, BE
SOUTH WALE.
BED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No 2
Burgundy
Port ~.
Yin Ordinaire
WHITE WINE!
Muscat
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown ..
Sherry
Ho. 1 Coolalta ..
No. 2
VinOrdindra ..
M
AGNTPICENT IPON-ER
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gald, Bose
Imparted by as diraoi. s»d man
for this elimata to the order of ear
Bt.j-t instrument J« WAEKi
TEA *4. They ar# af T*ry hsudso
ars most *en»lti»e, sweet, and powe
LOW PRIORS for di*H.
EAST TfSRMS of TIME FATM
Examine and lest them before pn
All our PIANt S are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALB and COMP.
1, Oxford-etreet; 612, George-e
Buildings, Sydne
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Higl
Howiok-street, Bathurst j A
bum; Church-street, Pairami
Brisbane.
No matter where you live wo wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
LATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPEBHANGIN
(a really splendid si
BOOM and PICTUEE-FEAME
KENT’S BEBSH
GOLD LEAF, *
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK,
w
H A R
PROVISION MEEC:
AND GENERAL COMMIBB
343 and 345 KENI-STanirr, kka:
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
E. Whittingham and Co.’s Lorn
Excelsior Mill’s prise Victor!
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s VictoriaToi
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria Cor
A. M. Hnnt & Co.'s Goulborn I
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, neoi
346 GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & g
fT.ato Josenh Bulli
Hotels, fto.
Q. U N S L E K’S
noeth terr
ADELAIDE.
It
OBEBT BUT OB
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME]
634 GEORGE STRi
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
COUSTBY ORDERS RECEIVE PEO
F
ALLON’S PRIZE AL
J T. PALLON in asking publi
WINES, and to the awards train?
intimate that ho holds rery largo si
and the publie may rely opon gettu
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot
91 PITT STREET, SI
he Celebrated
WOLFES
The PurestSti muiftNT
WORD'S-
Im ot M. MOfcS & < t *
erery Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
OVER 50 TEARS.
BBTABLISHFD
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS'S PALE ALE.
LIM Ml]
None Genuine Without the Abe
The GREATEST CURE ON E
MATIBM. BAW COLDS. SORI
limbs, ASTHMA, &o.
This is the rsme Liniment as usi
miners of Cornwall, who have to woi
ness of the bowels of the earth, and
being used all over the world, and
mish Cure.
Price, 5, per lod
Those who carry out the direc
eviry label and wrapper, cannot I"
the greatest remedy erer brought t
t»old by the following chemist*
Sydney: W. 11 D uflm Mifcnh?
Baat; J. Abrahame, 434 George-str**
iMGeorra-ntreet! n B 1'
T»r IT AND JUDGE FOR 1
your Chemist and Druggie*, has not
he earn have a supply hy applying b
WHOLESALE AGE
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS
S OM Aaw
J. W. WILLO
General 'Electric
95 MARK ST EE \
and at London,
MANUFACTURER, IMPORTS!
Electrie B«lle, Batteries, Indicate
Improved Patent Tire and Bnrgle
Tube#, Lightning Med
Blectro-Magnetie Meehine#, Elec
Gilding and Plating Materia), Elect
on the latest and most Improved p
in London, Paris, Aw.
The BEST AXE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPI
MERCHANTS.
VIEGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
MASON BROT
& 16 £
S 3
Have always it
to the TEA
BALE BUT]
lEONMONGE
GENE!
GLAE
eaeth
WINES, BEB
aw


The Referre
SPORTING FIXTURE.
[We shall he glad to have this index posted up hy secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club July 1.
Hay July 6. 7.
Deniliquiu July 19.
Rockhampton July 6, 7.
Clarence R J G July 12, 13
V.R.C. Grand National July 22.
Tattersall’s, Randwick August 12,
Hawkesbury Spring August 24, 26.
Geelong August 5.
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 2,5, 7, 9.
V.R C. Spring Oct. 28, 31, Nov. 2, 4.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Marrambldgee Turf Club Nov. 22, 23 24.
V. New Year Meeting January 1,1883,
AQUATICS.
Layoock v. Boyd, £2OO aside. Tees July 3.
J, Power, v, C. Reynolds £2OO, at Newcastle July 3.
Largan v. Pearce, £lOO, Putney to Mortlake July 10.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta August 28,
Krug Champagne Trophy November 25
Gardiner Gt>p, Amateur ..December 16,
PEDESTRTANISM.
W. Battye v. C. Engelheart (5 yards start) 200
yards, £6O, Alliury July 1.
Edwards v. Clifford, six days, at Geelong, £200...Ju1y 3.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports August 19.
Bathurst Football Club Sports July 29.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. Burwood July 1.
Glenhead v. Rugby, Stanmore July 1.
Geelong v. East Sydney, Association Ground July 8
Geelong v. Sydney July 11.
Geelong v. Petersham. ....July 13.
Geelong v. Combined Team July 15.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club’s Eaca Meeting (Association
Ground) August 26.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Leicestershire June 29, 30, July 1.
Northamp’oashire July 3, 6.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
According to the published list of fixtures, to-
day (Thursday), Friday, and Saturday, the Australian
Eleven play Leicestershire county, at Leicester. On
Monday, a match will be commenced against Nor-
thamptonshire, to be continued on Wednesday,
Tasmanians are expecting great things from
Stoekwell, who is entered for the Melbourne Cup. It
will be remembered that he ran a good second for the
Hobart Cup, and won the Launceston Cup the week
after. He is developing into a magnificent animal, and
is the very picture of an English racehorse.
The Glenhead and Parramatta Carlton Clubs
were the first exponents of the Eugby game on the
Association Ground this season, and the matoh on
Saturday was very uninteresting. The Glenhead won
by four goals and eight tries to nil. There were no
accidents, and thereby the publio may be satisfied that
the play was not first-class.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club are making most
complete arrangements for the Woodstock meeting, on
June 30th and Jnly Ist. The following are the office-
bearers : —Flag steward, Mr. J. H. Crowley; slip
steward. Dr. C. Belisario. The meeting is expected to
be one of tha best ever held by the club : the ground is
in splendid order, and the game plentiful and strong.
Cricket in Sydney next season will receive im-
petus from the opening of two fine grounds—that
of the Agricultural Society and the formerly impass-
able Blaokwattle Swamp, which has now emerged into
a “ thing of beauty, &0.," under the historic name of
Wentworth Park. There is some bother, however,
bet* e.n ericketera and trustees, which we hope to see
satisfactorily settled.
Last week, a fine young fellow, named William
Panned, came down from Ipswich to Brisbane to assist
the Wallaroo Football Club in the first match of the
Rsason. He was seen off by the night train by some of
the Wallaroos. By some unaccountable means he was
thrown out of the train, and his body was afterwards
discovered frightfully mangled. His comrades are sub-
scribing liberally to place a monument over his grave at
pswloh.
A pleasant gathering of the St. Kilda College
Athletic Club took place on the Association Ground
June 21st. The grand stand was undergoing repair,
and the ladies were admitted to the pavilion. Several
of the events were wed contested, notably the three-
mile bicycle race which was won by H. Moyse, The
prizes were presented by Mrs. John Young, The
German Baud played some excellent selections during
the day.
The publication of the weights for the big handi-
cap events in the Spring has not caused any material
increase in the betting. The best business is done
about the first event at the Hawkesbury meeting.
Stella, Kingsworth, and Prima Donna have found sup-
porters at 100 to 4, and Creswick is very much fancied
for the Metropolitan. There will be no decided favour-
ite until owners begin to take fancy shots about their
best stable performers.
A London weekly sheet, of a semi-sporting and
semi-sarcastic style, tells the following good yarn anent
a lucky layer of odds, viz.:—"As an instance of the
gains of bookmakers at Goodwood we have only to
mention that Messrs. Bayliss and Foster won £30,c00.
On settling night the prinaipal partner, who rejoices in
the nickname of * The Gloater,’ took the money, con-
sisting of notes, cheques, and gold, home, and, throwing
the lot into a bath, solemnly undressed himself and
rolled in."
Bell’s Life in London says Pearce is
not an Adonis exactly, but he is a likely sculler, from
what little I have seen of his rowing on Monday, when
he accompanied the race between Brightwell and Per-
kins a great part of the distance, and ho may get a
match in this country. Laycookistoo much for mo-t
of our men at present." Pearce is a very powerful
man. He can sit down on the ground, tak* a pair of
561 b. dumb-bells in his toes, lift them up and bring
them together.
As far as can bo gleaned from the cabled re-
sults of matches, the averages in England ot the Aus-
tralian Eleven up to the olose of tie matoh with the
Gentlemen of England|were as follow:—Murdoch 56 1-3,
Massia 37 4-17, Bonner 27J, Bannerman 24 9-17, Blaok-
nam 23 4.9. Giffen 22 2 5, Horan 21 9-10, Palmer 12 12-13,
Jone a n 8-13, Boyle 11 2-9, Garrett 10*, M’Donnell
+2 9 1-5. Spotf. is evidently a little abroad
this trip, in the bowling department Giffen has com-
pletely put “ The Demon’s” nose out of joint
The English Association footballers intend to
make an antipodean tour at the end of the season
ISB2-3. There are fe wjherejwho play their game, one of
the principal canons of which is that the ball must not
po touched by hand. In Victoria, we believe the game
is not played. In New Zealand, the Rugby game pre-
vails, and in South Australia, the Melbourne game bolds
the fort exclusively. So we very strongly reoommend
the English Association footballers to stop at home. A
visit from a Eugby team would cause more excitement
and damage.
Mr. E. A. Noble, of Sandhurst, has just im-
ported a new British 53-inch bicycle, manufactured by
Dinger and Co , England, which possesses some im-
provements of an important character to bicyclists,
ihe pedal:;; are "ball bearing,” which facilitates their
revolution, the “ balls” being fixed to both front and
« fisi wbee^8, The machine has a dust-proof head, and
ail its connections are so closely finished that it is
impossible that dust can got inside them. It has a
poon brake, nickel plated, and the weight of the
machine is 441 b.
150 yards’ race for <£loo, on Saturday, on
0 Agricultural Society’s ground between Farrell and
Thompson resulted in an easy victory for the format
by five yards iu 15i secs. A deal of money changed
hands, and there were the usual insinuations indulged
in by some of those who lost their money. Professional
pedestrianism has arrived at such a low pitch in Syd-
ney that little or no interest is taken in these matches,
except by the acquaintances and friends of the com-
petitors. _ Cobar has more races in one week than Syd-
ney has in three months, and the Gobar pedestrians
invariably go for the money.
The race for senior scullers in club skiffs in
connection with the Glebe Rowing Club came off on
Saturday, over a course from Pyrmont Bridge road
past Jarrett and Glebe Points to a buoy moored off the
wharf at Annandale and back to Club-house. Messrs
F. J. Bull, J. Degotardi, and A. Ickerson were the
starters. Degotardi took the lead, and Bull and Icker-
son kept on even terms till past Jarrett’s Point, whan
Ickerson had a slight lead. Degotardi rounded the buoy
first, and the others close ujj immediately fouled, leav-
ing the race at the mercy of Degotardi. Bull beat
Ickerson by a length for second place.
A race was rowed on Saturday week on the
Brisbane River between two Queensland National Bank
clerks, named H. O. MoClymunt and L. Doyle. The
eourse was from the Victoria Bridge to the Regatta
Hotel, a distance of about 3 miles. The competitors
had been training for some time previous to the race
and a close contest was anticipated. Both men went
well together for the first half mile. Soon after they
passed the B. E. C. boat-shed MoClymont, who showed
the better form, drew ahead. Boyle, after one or two
attempts to regain his lost ground " caved in” alto-
gether, leaving his antagonist to score an easy victory.
A correspondent informs us that the shooting at
the S.A. Eiflo Association moating, in Juno, was, after
all, not unequalled. Our readers will remember that at
that meeting Messrs. Robertson and Roberts made 100
oat of a possible 105 at the three longest ranges. Our
informant states that Corporal Lancaster, of the Vic-
torian Artillery, made 100 points out of a possible 106 ;
and Private Tillotson, of the Engineers, performed the
same feat, for which he received a handsome silver
salver, for being the first in the colonies to make 100
points; and this was done with the ordinary Govern-
ment rifle, the Martini-Henry. Colour-Sergeant Gee,
of the N.S.W. Infantry, has equalled the above scores.
Mr. S. Jones, of the Australian Eleven, is to be
commissioned to procure a cup of the very latest de-
sign, for competition next season by junior cricket
clubs, under the same management which proved so
able m the Thompson Cup contests. Mr. Fred. Iron-
side is already at work. In addition to tha oup, fifteen
medals are to be given to players in the winning club.
The best junior clubs are to be selected, and a new
arrangement is to be introduced by which a club, which
otherwise might be shut out by an untoward defeat,
may qualify itself for another contest. The opening
match is to take place early in September and gentle-
men willing to subscribe for trophies are requested to
communicate with Mr. Ironside.
It is very satisfactory to learn that Mr. J ohn
Conway has investigated the facts in connection with
the cricketing scandal at Melbourne, and finds there is
no foundation for the rumours that have been freely
bandied about. What we should consider rather inter-
fered with Jack’s investigation is the fact that Selby,
Shaw, and Ulyett are a good deal out of town just now,
but, of eourse, if the bookmakers gave the affair an
emphatic denial, why that is quite suffloientfor us. We
have lived a great deal too long in this world to doubt
for a single moment a bookmaker’s disclaimer when
charged with a little hanky-panky. All things con-
sidered, therefore, Mr. Conway’s "investigation" must
be written down a pronounced success. A-hem!
The six days’ bicycle tournament for the cham-
pionship of Australia terminated at Adelaide on Satur-
day in favour of Rolfe, who covered 703 miles 7 lap«;
Press was close up with 708 miles 3 laps. The latter
had been gaining during the last two days, but on Satur-
day night Eolfe put on a spurt, and won by four laps
Spicer covered 535 miles, Gault 481, and Silitoe 476.
Eolfe won the six days' contest at Melbourne in De-
cember last, beating Press by about 12 miles. Besides
being a long-distance rider, he can cover the mile in
2 58, which is an excellent performance. In the six
days in Melbourne, he rode more than 900 miles in
seventy hours. Press was the champion of South
Australia, and has greatly improved since the Mel-
bourne contest.
A South Australian clergyman, in a sermon on
gambling delivered in Adelaide recently, was " very
severe " on the totalisator as an instrument of gamb-
ling. Perhaps the report of his sermon wa.s curtailed,
as we cannot find any reference to the evil effects of
holy shows or religious raffles. We were touched to
the heart, though, by what he said. Still, we are open
to lay five to one that, if the gate-money on racecourses
and a percentage of the profits on the totalisator were
handed over to the church, we should hear no more of
the evils of gambling. The thing lies in a nutshell. If
people lose so much money on racing, they have so
much less to give to the church. And if the church
can’t do all the bookmaking, then every rival ring is
anathema and the seed of the devil.
Apropos to the Oxford and Cambridge boat-
race, the Athletic Review of April 5 writes in very
high terms ot the Australian representative. It says :
‘ The most genuine worker from first to last of the
whole sixteen oarsmen was Pairbairn. No man in any
boat-race ever did his duty more manfully than did this
youthful antipodean Hercules. The power he put on
every stroke was immense, and no one could have_ been
more thoroughly or completely rowed out at the finish.
This is the sort of man we like to see row. Outsiders
generally go into hysterics over a man who rows a close
race and finishes quite fresh—without * turning a hair ’
is the correct expression. We confess we are sceptical
about the merits of that kind of oarsman. No man,
however strong he may be, can do his best in a stern
wager from Putney to Mortlake and be anything hut
done up at the finish." This is not the first of the
Pairbairn brothers (who hail from Geelong) that has
had a seat in au English University crew.
The Australians defeated Yorkshire by six
wickets. It was almost the same team that the Austra-
lians met before, when the match resulted iu a draw.
The attendance was large, and the weather fine, though
the wicket was heavy. Yorkshire went in first, and
were dismissed for the small score of 92—Ulyett 38,
Lockwood, not out 20 j Hall 10. Five ot the team got
‘•duck-eggs.” Spofforth took one wicket for 26runs,
Garrett 4 for 27 runs, and G ffen 5 for 16. The Austra-
lian Eleven made 148—Murdoch 54, Bannerman 34,
Giffen 16, Bonnor 9, Spofforth 9, Massie 7, Horan 7,
Palmer 4, Blackbam 2, M’Donnell 1, Garrett, not out, 0,
sundries 5. Neate took 7 wickets for 50 runs. York-
shire did better in the second innings, making 153
Ulyett 30, Bites 30, Emmett 25, Lockwood 22, Peate 11.
Palmer took 4 wickets for 31 runs, Garrett 4 wickets
for 37 runs. The Australians iu the second innings
scored 99 with the loss of four wickets —Massie 44,
Bannerman 36, Murdoch 14, Horan 1, Bonner, not out
4; Jones and Boyle were the Australian emergencies.
Yorkshire seems to he especially favoured by the Aus
tralians, no less matches having been arranged
with that couatry.
Tha race for the challenge cup presented by the
proprietors of the London sportsman was rowed on
Jane 20 over the champion course on the Thames.
Layeock, Largan, and Peace were the only starters
There was a good race between Largan and Pearce, but
Layoock was soon beaten, and he stopped before reach-
ing the winning-post. Largan eventually beat Pearce
by two lengths. Laycock's performance is unaccount-
able. As it was only a fortnight before his race with
Boyd, it says vary little in favour of his prospects, if
waul of condition was the cause of his defeat. In a re-
cent letter, he stated that the prize was hardly worth the
winning. Probably he made a waiting race of it, think-
ing that Pearce could win. It will bo remembered that
Mr. W. J. lanes offered to back Largan against
Trickott for £lOO. Possibly Largan is a better sculler
than w# take him for. It is universally admitted that
Boyd is his superior, and if Laycook beat Boyd (wo
think he will not) the “ confusion will be worse con-
founded,” showing that oven in aquatics “ you never
can tell till the numbers are np." To cap this list of
incongruous complications, Pearce, defeated twice by
Largan, is to scull him again over the Thames course
for £5O aside on J uly 10.
The Australians have established their claim to
supremacy by defeating the Gentlemen ot England in 1
innings by Iran, This is the most formidable team
the ioolemals have yet met, and The result will invest
with additional interest the fortohooming match
against All-England. The attendance was enormous,
and the weather generally fine, though on the first day
heavy rain put a stop to tha play. The Australians
went first to the wiekets and made the splendid total of
334 —Banner, 74; Murdoch, 57; Bannerman, 50 ; Giffen,
48; Massie, 32 j Garrett, 26; M'Donnell, 19 ; SpoSor’h,
not eat, 10; Palmer, 8; Blaikham, 6; Jones, 4; sun-
dries, 5, Grace took 4 wickets for 45 runs. The Gentle-
men made 182—Grace, 61; Patterson, 20 ; Hornby, 20 ;
Read ,17; Lucas, 16; Leslie, not out, 18: Steel, 12;
Studd, 0; Studd, Ramsay, and Tj-lecote,'duck-eggs;
sundries, 14. Being 152 behind they followed on and
were disposed of for 151—Grace, 32; Steel, not out, 32 ;
Bead, 19; Hornby, 17; Patterson, 15; btudd, 11;
Leslie, 10; Stnda, 6: Lucas, 2; Tylecote, 1; Ramsay,
0; sundries, 6. In the first innings G.ffen took 8
wickets for 49 runs, snd Spofforth 2 wickets for 61 inns;
in the second, Giffen took 3 wickets for 60 runs;
Garrett, 2 wickets for2B runs; Palmer, 4 widets for 22
runs. Boyle and Horan were the emergencies. The
Gentlemen have not for years experienced such a
crushing defeat,and as this match waa anticipated as a
trial of strength between English and Australian
cricket, the result proves that as far as cricket is con-
cerned, the statement of (sir Henry Parkes, that we
have nothing to learn from the old country, was not
quite unfounded.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A large fish, supposed to be a salmon trout, was
caught in the Saltwater fiivtr (Vic.), on 21st June
South Melbourne, on Saturday week, at Adelaide, beat
South Adelaide by 6 goals 18 behinds to 1 goal 2 be-
hinds Prometheus won the Cup at the Newmarket
(S.A.) Races on June 20. Hotspur pulled off the
Steeplechase The Norwood Football Team, from
Adelaide, is on a kicking visit to Victoria
A day’s coursing was held at Woodlands on 22nd June;
Sixteen dogs entered (for open stakes; winner £8
runner-up £4 ; third and fourth, £2 each. Rhubarb won;
Buayfoot was the runner-np. The beaten dogs in the
race ran off, and divided between Larrikin and Tinpot.
Tha coursing for the West Bourke (V.) Plate, on
Juno 22, resulted in a victory for Phantom, with Werri-
bee Quin as runner-up “Geraniums" intend hold-
ing a two days’ meeting at Bathurst in September.
£lOO and £5O handicaps Mr. Geo. Vowles is to han-
dicap for the July meeting of the Hay Jockey Club
At the Maoleay annual races on 20th June, the Town
Plate was won by Young Australian, Kildare took the
Shorts, and Waterloo the Maiden P ate The Club
trophy of ths Naval Brigade Rifle Club for the best
eight scorers out of twelve for the ye ir was won by A.
B. Penn, No. 1 Company A football club is being
formed at Tares Pigeon-shooting matches are becom-
ing quite a Wednesday afternoon i .stitution at Bourke.
At the Bendigo (V.) wiuter meeting, on 22nd June,
Sarsfleld wou the Steeplechase, and Wandtrm the Han-
dicap Trot Mr. Franck has issued a challenge of £5O
to any person who thinks he can prednoa a better or truer
to alisator machine than the Fnn k machine regi—
tered by the new oo uj-any fotmedat Mel' ournj (V.)
A handicap pit eon match of £lO is announced to take
place at Carooar on Boh July The champion plough-
ing match for a prize of £BO, took plaoa on June 21, at
Baulkham Hills, in Schofield’s Paddock, and was wou
by M. Redden with a Ritchie plough. The other com-
petitors were J. Stranger, Q. Whiley, and M. Power.
The result of the English Derby was published in
the Melbourne Argus before it appeared in the London
morning papers. This is claimed as a triumph of
telegraphy A handicap foot-race, 150 yards, for a
silver stop-watch, valued at £25, was run at Tamwo.tth
on Saturday week, resulting in a win for Lennan. There
were 44 entries, but oily 18 started A football club
has been established at Maryborough (Q.) under the
Victoilan Association rules. About sixty members
enrolled themselves at the opening meeting At
Avoca, just after the races, some rogue passed a bad
half-sovereign on a poor woman. She soon discovered
the trick, and rushed to the railway station, whence
her quarry was just about departing by special train.
Joe Thompson got the half-sovtreign haem, and threw
the man out on the platform, and the old woman went
on her way, rejoicing A 150 yards’ race took plaoe
at Penrith on Saturday week, between W. Acroyd and
E. Barlow, resulting in a victory for the latter by
about two yards The Sydney Nimrods have failed to
arrange a fishing match with their Newcastle brethren.
The list of piscatorial artists who were to drop lines for
Sydney was too much for the Northerners The
Wallaroos played the Newcastle Football Club at New-
castle on Saturday, and. defeated them by two goals
and two tries to nil At Adelaide, on Saturday, the
football match.between South Melbourne andr Port Ade-
laide Clubs, was won by the former by 4 goals to 2
Pofc-bnnters, assisted by “ *Arry and bis friends/* have
pretty nearly succeeded in wiping all feathered game
if t Tasmanian creation. Pointers and setters are
‘DToke’* to sparrows and oats now A “new sensation,
big bonanza gifts,** man was, at Brisbane, last week,
sentenced to two months* bard labour. He merely sold
pencil cases, and the purchaser was made a present of
a pa( ket which might or might not contain money.
There s a man in the same line of bus ne?s every Satur-
day night at the ccrner of two of our main streets
The football-match in Moore Park, on Saturdav,
between the Redfern and Parrmatta clubs, resulted in
favour of the Redferns by two tries to a disputed try,
...... A great match was played in Geelong on Saturday
between the Carlton and Geelong clubs, resulting in
favour of the Carltons by 1 goal 7 behinds to 1 goal 6
behinds... ...The Melbourne Football Club defeated the
Norwood Club, from South Australia, on Saturday, at
Melbourne, by 8 goals to ;i E. E. Hicks, of
Ryde, and T. Thompson, of Sydney, well-
known pedestrians, are shortly to be matched
The sculling match at Maryborough (Q.) on Saturday,
for a cup offered by Mr. John Hurley, resulted as
follows: MWalten 1 Sim 2. Mate 3. A splendid race.
Barton led for three-fourths of the distance, and then
collapsed...... A bookmaker in Adelaide was nearly being
committed for contempt of Court the other day by the
Supreme Court j udgo. His Honor asked“ Did you
see the witness at such a time and place ?” “ You
bet." was the ready rejoinder The N.Z. “ clever
p arty'( Ron, W. Robinson and H P. Lance) will make
a big bid for the Melbourne Cup this year if they send
a representative over. When the stable have their
money down, the publio can always depend upon an
honest run, and not a repetition of former years So
says our N.Z. correspondent The gentlemen of Eng-
land defeated the first Australian Eleven by oneinninus
and one run. The present Australian team have now
returned the compliment by beating the gentlemen of
England by exactly one innings and one run.
• * *
Two champion “quoitists” in Sootland have
lately played what a home journal may well term "a
most exciting game of 61 up," the match being gained
4Lt° ne ioi° mfc ■■ The best record of Ma * d 8 - ia
Z mm. 10i see., but her trainer thinks she could do her
mile in 5 see. less, and “ faster would not surprise me,”
he declared. Her stride has been measured, and is
found to extend to 18i feet.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Tennyson’s next poem will be “
the gaslight brigade."
Cardinal Newman says that a gentleman is one
tleman™ lnfllots paia ’ rhen no d ««tist can he a gen-
Women are supposed to be at the bottom of
of tL sea. llChBlor 8878 Lot ’ 8 wifB “ uat beat
„ In ,.North Queensland a blackfellow is called
civilized wile* he’d rather get drunk in the town-
ship than spear and eat you in the bush.
“ Where are you going, my pretty maid P"
“ To sing in the opera, sir," she said
"What is your talent, my pretty maid P"
A divorce and two runaways, sir," she said
“Pa," asked little Johnny, “what does the
teacher mean by saym' that I must have inherited my
bad temper ?" " She meant, Johnny, that you areyour
mother’s own boy." u
A tour year old, on seeing the cook take the
baked potatoes from the oven, was astonished at one
which had burst its akin. » Oh. Annie," ho exclaimed.
“ there s one all unbuttoned I" '
He was sitting in the parlour with her, when a
rooster crowed in the yard, and leaning over, he said.
Chanticleer." "I wish ybu would," she replied-
" I’m sleepy as I can be.” He cleared. ’
H’s a good job Fergy wasn’t in when the fellow
went to burgle the Times office and smash the type the
other night. Fergy, had he been there, would, after a
terrible struggle, have succeeded in robbing him.
In London, a man v ho has long been under re-
mand for murdering a po , iceman, has been discharged.
They might have known from the first, that the man in
sleep* 611 d ° Wn 811(1 tllled himself while walking in his
There was a very little boy wading up to his
knees in the bay last Sunday afternoon, when a passing
gentleman said to him. "Why ain’t you m Sunday-
■°hodl. young man ?" " I’ve got the hoopin’ cough ?’’
It is said that under the laws of tha Pilgrim
fathers, a man could not kiss his wife on Sunday
Judging from the picture of some of the Pilgrim
mothers, in the Me j ..ourne gallery, one day’s vacation
a week was none too much.
When two men go for a speaking tube, one at
each end, at just the same instant, and each gives a
hearty blow to sound the whistle at the other end, the
man who has been swallowing onions and wniskv
usually gets the best of it, and the other man—ugh.
Colored preacher “De fore part of de church
will please sit down, so de bind part of de church can
see de fore part, for de hind part can’t see de tore part
if de fore part persist in standing before de hind part
to the utter exclusion of de hind part by de fore part."
Mistress—“ I understand, Mary, that you are
about to get married ?” Mary—“ It’s tfcru», mum, an’
aiver a n’ater man walked than Denis Mulcahy.” Mis-
tress—" You love him very deany Mary—" Indade
Ido not." Mistress —“ And why not, Mary ?" Mary—
"Beoaze he he’s always afthor botherin’ to square me "
Said George Elliot : “ Childhood has no fore-
bodings ; hue then it is soothed by no memories of out-
lived sorrow." You see, George never had any chil-
dren, and didn’t know. Where’s the boy of ten, who
hasn’t the memory of outliving the sorrow caused by
the old man’s trunk strap, when he put a wet sponge in
the old man’s boot that squirted water clear up the old
man’s leg.
• * »
Said a lecturer : “ The roads np these mountains
are too steep and rocky for a donkey to climb, therefore
I did not attempt the ascent." "A damp, raw morn-
ing,” said a pastor of one of our churches lately to a
pat iahiontr. •• Tee, your nvirence, you are right, it is
a damned raw morning." Thus Josh Billings: “I
have finally cum to the koncluviou that tha best epitaff
enny man ken have tor all practical purposes, is a good
bank akonut "
Little boy, holding up before his father an India-
rubber ball: * Papa, why is this ball like your head ?"
Papa : “ Because its round." “ No, because it’s hollow.
Ala told me to vny.that.”
At the New Zealand Exhibition, just concluded,
Singer's Sewing Machines have carnea everything be-
fore them, taking a first order of merit, t»o gold medals,
and two silver medals. The New Davis was awarded a
silver medal,
“Professor Hug’ is doing the Milner Stephen
business at Dunedin He h ais the sick by faith, and
diagnoses dir eases upon the inspection of a single hair
from a patient's head. A newspaper man has chal.
lenged him to submit to a scientific test, but Hng is
“ not on ” He is coining money, and quite satisfied.
He also does the clairvoyant business, and the news-
paper man offors to give in if he will read the writing
in the enclosure of a sealed envelope. It’s net known
whether the Dunedin girls like the Hug treatment-
judging by the crowds who regularly patronise
Dr. Simms’ physiognomical lectures, the Sydney public
is strikingly earnest in acquiring self - knowledge.
"Man, know thyself," appears to be the text Indi-
vidually applied by each of this popular lecturer's
clients. Dr. Simms' lectures are both amusing and
instructive, and the success ho has commanded has
encouraged him to repeat his course. Consequently,
i hose who have not heard him discourse upon a branch
ot science of which he can speak authoritatively and
philosophieally, aie afiorded another opportunity of
becoming acquainted with a much-neglected depart-
ment of knowledge.
THE ELECTEIC LIGHT.
At the Railway Station. Genial Party (who has been keeping it up): Shay, olo fella, blesht if
it isn’t to-morrow. There’s the sun rising.


RILEY BROTHE
886 GEORGE STREET,)
600 GEORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
QOTLB %VcAsr
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET,
THE CHEAPEST DB
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLO
the originators
NOTED £5 BAL
JE5 Pamilj
1 pair White 01
Blankets
1 White or Oolo
large size
5 yards Whit
bleached Shi
10 yards Whit
bleached Cal
5 yards Whit
Flannel
12 yards Wincey
other Dress
6 yards Str®J
Shirting
pairs Women
3 pairs Men’s f
1 pair of White <
Stays
10 yds. Strong C
2J yards Gam
strapping
8 yards Stro
Holland
2 large size
Towels
8 yards strong
1 Linen Dam
Cover
1 pair of Strom
Moleskin Ti
1 pair Men's,
or Child’s B
1 Belt or pair i
i doz. Pocket’!
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle f
Pins, Needles, 1
tons, Butt<
and Eyes, &
£5 Hen’s
Ban
Mother’s £S
2 Ladies' Night-d
2 Ladies’ Chonuw
2 pair Ladies’ Dn
1 Ladies’ White 1
1 pair Ladies’ Sta
1 Ladies’ Camlsa
2 pairs Ladies’ Si
1 Ladies’ Flanl. I
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-(
2 Infants’ Long 1
1 Infants’ H a
Monthly Go*
2 Infants’ Kollert
i 1 Infant’s Stay B
\ dozen Infanta
Squares
Puff box, P off ft
1 Flannel Head 8
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boot
1 Infant’s Christ’
1 Infant’s Cl
Square, trimi
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Cl
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter
1 pair Large Bit
i l large Marcella
10 yards Good 81
20 yards Strong (
12 Strong Cotton
20 Wincey Dress
10 good Welsh F
■ 6 yards Strappi
* All the aboT<
wearing articles.
f £5 Free Sel
Bale.
• 1 nair large Bias
£2 Infant's
4 Infants' Shirt
2 Infants’ Nighl
2 Infants’ Long
1 Hairoord Mon
2 Infants' Bollei
$ dozen Diaper i
Pnff Box. Fuff.
£2 Infants’
enlng Pa
1 Handsome Wh
Long Christei
richly trimmer
1 Infant’s Whitt
Square, trimm
silk
1 Pair Tweed T
1 Crimean Shir
1 Beat Cotton S
8 Pairs Strong
Q Pr»rtlrAf,>lft.nlce]
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
flannel Petticoat
Carriage free hy Bail
or Steamer.
We wish it to be distinctly
article in the Bales may be cha
FOE BO'
School Suits, 2s
Hussar Suita, 3s
Picnic Saits ,3s 1
Sunday Suiti ,7s
Youths’ Suite, I!
School Hats, la
Sailor Hats, Is
Bhakspearc Hats
White Shirts, la
Workl- g Shirts,
Linen Coate, 2s ]
Tweed Troueere,
Moleskin Tronse
Trousers Tweed,
Linen Collars,
Elastic Braces, •'
Cotton Socks, 3c
Heoties, 3d
POE LA.E
Dolman Mantlet
Satteen Prints,!
Dress Materials,
W.«l, Aiwa /to
FOR Ml
Working Shirts
White Shirtg.,2
Oxford Shirfutfi
Linen
Seamless Socks,
Elastic Braces,
Tweed Suits, 19
Sommer Snits,'
Trousers and V
Tweed Treuserf
Best quality, 7»
Mole Trousers,
Tweed Pigets, 1
Tweed Coats. 1(
Linen Sacs, 4s 1
Shakspeare Hat
Colonial Tweed,
Bilk Umbrellas
FOE TUB ]
American Long
Nightshirt Oah
Grey Calico, 21*
l)r*n hi a width Cl
Ingham’sEnphorbia Pilalifera
land care for asthma, bronchitis,
tions. Guaranteed to afford relief,
also a* a Tobacco. J. Manning, age
of Eookhampton, 13 ’, E.izaboth-it.
Dr. Sbanich desires to arm
sponse to the urgent solicitations
Melbourne, he will leave Sydney t
15th July, and return to Sydney
when he will receive patients at
rooms, 50 Wynyard-sqware. Those,
treatment in Sydney should apj
delay.—Advt.'Jl
“Yes,” murmured the Anci
accepted the stranger’s invitatioi
emphatic statement, “ mine’s rum
power of strange sights in my. day-
THIS PRICE LIST.—Persons
advertisement most not think th
ot some articles are ridiculously 1
common. They are by no means _
We have lower prices still; but tl
now in tho Drapery Trade is so ke
but with manufacturers in Baglai
can now be had at very low prices
SOCIAL.
The Protestant Hall was the scene of the
Scandinavian Society's third annual ball om Friday,
when the light-haired sons and daughters of the North
made merry till late in the morning. Twenty dances
were on the card, and the strains of the trio of
musicians were in very goodtiinemdeed j but the floor
wan wretched About the fittest lane that could be
played in the Protestant Hall is “The Blue Alsatian
Mountains," because, by a slight stretch of fancy, you
can easily imagine you’re travelling over them all the
time. Plain dress (plane dressing is what the floor
wants) was worn by the fair guests, a ruby plush-ftnd
straw-coloured satin being the handsomest costume,
but a little child of some seven seasons was very pretty
in her light pink frock and loose-flowing hair that was
almost flaxen-white. Refreshments were placed under
the gallery in a cosy place screened off by flags, and
the officers of the Society used evary effort to render
the ball agreeable. Mr. L. DaQroen played selections
on the piano beautifully, the " Mocking Bird being
a treat. A Tyrolese Walt* was am unusual feature on
the pregramme, and is rather nice, as it introduces
graceful posturing and gestures with the hands. A fair
haired Danish lady, clad in cloudy blue, was especi-
ally noticeable for her elegant dancing. The galleries
formed a pleasant retreat for those who preferred to
watch the dancers. Mr. Turner acted as Master of
Ceremonies, and generally supervised the proceedings,
ably and courteously.
• • •
’ Last Friday, the wife of a wealthy M.P., whose
palatial residence is between a statue and a quay, gave
her first carpet dance to a party of young people, me
brilliant ballroom was fairly filled with fair bread-and
batter misses,” and virgin tail-coats. Dancing was
carried on with vigour, but also with that due regard
for “ the steps,” always noticeable in young ladies and
gentlemen who are fresh from the professorial hands.
The new waltz and the lively polka were special favour-
ites. An elaborate supper was spread, at which, out of
regard for the tender years of the gentlemen, speeches
were omitted. It is because youth needs no gilded
frame, and because one rainbow is like another, that we
do not describe the many tinted dresses. Bet the
glories of such be for the more blast!, who need them.
The young guests were delighted, and the hostess
pleased that they were.
w • •
A- departure from the usual mode of celebrating
the nuptials of two hearts that beat as one was made on
the 15th June, when, at St. George's Church, Miss
Maggie, daughter of Mr. John M'Leod, the well-known
contractor, was married to Mr. William Grigor Taylor,
of electri* fame, from the Ln Perouse cable station.
Four bridesmaids looked charming. At the conclusion
of the ceremony,! some 200 invited guests stepped into
a special tram at the corner of Bathurst-street, and
were whirled out to the SiilJoseph Banks establishment.
Botany, in about twenty minutes, whither the happy
CGiiple, their maids and grooms, had gone in hand-
somely decorated carriages. The Young Australian
Band struck up a Wedding March, and the lengthy
procession, headed by the two hearts that &e.,
wended its way to the large pavilion, where a capital
repast had been prepared by Mr. F. Smith. After en-
ioyment thereof, the special tram returned to Sydney
at eight p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor are on their way to
England. * * •
At the Petersham concert the other night, dark
dresses were the rule, and, with few exceptions, they
were almost quaker-like in their plainness. The wearer
of a black silk, richly adorned with bugle trimmings
and cut square, was pretty, and would have looked
prettier had the sombreness of her attire been relieved
by, say, a few flowers. The ladies belonging to the
society nearly all wore dresses high to the throat, but
as if to balance this extravagance of material, the
skirts were very short; so short, in some cases, as to
exhibit not only good-sized boots, but something more,
to the interested occupants of the front seats. The
singer of " She wore a wreath of roses" looked well in
black silk grenadine dress, pale blue flowers at the
throat and in her hair. A very small singer (who took
part in Miss Mountain’s concert) wore cteam cashmere
with cardinal satin trimmings, bordered with swan's-
down. Hair falling over the shoulders seems to be
again coming into fashion.
• • •
On the 4th July cornea the American Ball, at
•• Nilhsdaie,” under the patronage of the Consul, Vice-
Consul, and prominent American citizen*. As tickets
stand at the fashionable price of two guineas, the boll
will be extremely select, and arrangements down to
the minutest detail are being made to ensure enjoy-
meat.
* • •
On the 21st Jane a Subscription Ball took place
in the Cringe School of Arts. About 100 present; danc-
ing till early morn. Ladies' dreises were elaborate, and
gave evidence of highly cultivated taste. One tall young
lady from Hill-street was charming in a pale blue satin
and Indian mnslin, trimmed with cream Spanish lace
and cardinal flowers, cream gloves and coral bracelets.
Two sifters from Parke* looked handsome —one in satin
of pale pink and pale bine, with silver in the hair, and
the other in steel grey silk and satin, trimmed with
cardinal flowers, and steel and straw pendants. Another
young lady from Hill-street was nicely attired in white
satin and cardinal plush, jessamine wreath; while a
charming little daughter of a respected auctioneer was
quite a Vsnus in cream and cerise nan’s veiling. A
popular Molong gentleman was conspicuous i also an
aspiring candidate for wig and gown, proud of his
snowy shirt front and its glittering gems. Mr. Ber-
nasoeui was an energetic M.C. One blooming maiden,
over whose levely head earn® oight-and-thirty varying
cycles have oast their shine and shadow, objected to go
at the invitation of a gentleman, because yonng girls
ought always to be chaperoned. So nice to see the
proprieties practised out West. The refreshments, in
the 1.0.G.T. style, were not tempting. The music, by
five members of the Liberty Band, was it nearly
tempted some people to manslaughter,
* • *
There’s to be a Moonlight Concert te-night
(Thursday), at Manly, in aid of the Bowing and Sailing
Ulnb. An attractive feature, it is said, will be a double
sand-jig, by a bank manager and a high church cleric,
ifteamjr returns after concert.
« • •
The Sb. Kilda College A. A. Club’s annual
sports meeting came oil on Wednesday, the 21st, at the
Association Ground. As the grand-atand was receiving
a new coat, the visitors, of whom there was a consider-
able number, found accommodation in the pavilion
usually kept sacred to members. The change was
scarcely appreciated by ladies, since, in lieu of the
velvety lawn for showing-off purposes, a gravelled walk
only was available. Certainly, there was the grassy
ring all round, but the admiring spectators were not
there, and what’s the use of wearing an ultra-rich and
tasteful toilette if no one is to gaze on it ? So the
owners of handsome dresses, and there were many,
heroically underwent the pain of pebble-treading, in
order that the majority might observe, admire, and
criticise. The German bandsmen were placed in a
sheltered corner, from whence they wafted familiar and
welcome melodies ; a deal table, partly concealed by a
showy covering, upon which were the cruet-stands,
vase- pickle-jars, albums, Ac., usually awarded to vic-
torious athletes, formed a centre piece, to which the
eves of all were attracted; and the remainder of the
ground was taken up by collegians, their relatives and
friends Two or three rev. fathers shed a halo of sane-
tity over the meeting, and viewed the proceedings of
their youthful charges with dignified pleasure. The
youngsters, like their elder brethren, when stimulated
1. v beauty's glance, put on all their energies, while their
friends obligingly exercised their lungs in cheering
contestants on to victory. Mrs. D. O Connor figured
amongst the promenaders in a very rich dress of
black satin brocini and moir<?, and her sister s
nrettv figure enveloped in black cashmere, brocaded
satin bodice, trimmed with silver fringe, and a
cream lace toque on the small head, was also noticed.
Exceedingly pretty was a fair young lady, of slender
form who Was smitten with the sunflower craze ine
plump daughter of a medico did not find the gravel too
hard, nor did her cavalier, judging from the amount of
promenading managed between them. “ Lady Archi-
bald Campbell.” from the Cathedral Fayre, threw aside
her satin gown, white curb and velvet hat, and appeared
in a seal brown cloth dress, provided with bodice and
h uids of verv handsome shaded plush; large brown
satin-lined hat. A well-known cautatrico was present.
The little daughter of a legal gentleman wore a pretty
combination o! ruby Batin and velvet, beneath a grey
felt hat; mamma's dress was equally handsome, and
similar in hue; velvet bonnet corresponded. In a
quiet style, two of the nicest dresses noticed were
black velvet and grey cloth, and ruby velvet and grey
cloth with large felt hats, black in the first instance,
grey in the second. A Glebe Point matron 8 tmtette, of
prune satin skirt, polonaise of brocaded velvet, taste-
fully trimmed With bronze beaded embrmdery and
velvet toque garnished with a band of the same
trimming, was perhaps the most striking present.
More showy, but not more admired, was a mingling of
satin and velvet, garnet-hned. decked with floral-
patterned rayon d« soleil beads, worn by a Redfern lady.
« • •
Mercantile Ball next Thursday. Gentlemen are
reminded of it. Ladies don't need to be.
• • •
A complimentary return ball was given to Miss
Dean, of Balmain, lately, in the local Town ® I AV
in honor of tho occasion, was decorated with flags,
wreaths, garlands, and tho word “ Congratulations in
scarlet letters on a white ground. About fifty couples
were present, many of whom appeared in fancy costume.
Miss Dean loeked very pretty as Music, in a ruby veivet
tunic hung with bells, cap to match, white curled wig,
cream satin skirt inscribed with the musical staff and
notes and lute suspended from her shoulder. A Gipsy
Queen, Miss F. Shepherd, was most characteristically
?ot up With striped satin skirt, very■handsome> oriental
scarf, velvet bodice, and scarlet satin cap hung with
sequins. Mrs L. Stewart, as Snow Queen, wore white
satin sprinkled with swansdpwn, and her sister as C au-
dine, from Tambonr Major, looked very nice. Amongst
the host of notioarkle impersonations mav ke r«°lroned
Miss Whayman's Tyrolean Shepherdess; Miss Milson 8
Colleen Bawn; Miss M'Clement's Winter, of white
satin and swansdown, holly berries and leaves, and
robin in hair and on the shoulder; Madame I avart,
Fortune Teller, and Pollow-tbe-Drum. Much admired
was the dashing torreador. Escamillo, in the person of
a handsome young banker, who donned a suit of blaek
velvet faced with amber satin, Spanish cap,
vest ornamented with amber satin, scarlst hose sboes
and buckles. Two Brigands, a Picador, a Pirate,
Barber of Seville, Cricketers, Midshipmen, Footballers,
a Trooper, whose dancing was the th'me of remark,
aad a Nervous Cure, in a suit of window-blind material
and conical cap, moved amongst the throng of gay
revellers, who kept up the fun till close upon 4 a.m.
• * •
Sunflower Ball in the Town Hall, to morrow
(Friday). The black and gold tickets are the utterest
things we have seen. They’re perfectly hnnky, and a
guinea each. m m m
A very large attendance on Moore Park, on
Saturday afternoon, to view tho football contests; only
a few found their way to the Association Ground, and
the majority of fair visitors, after a couplo of turns
round the circle, betook themselves and their pretty
toilettes to tho public park, where thore were more
admirers The most showy dross on the green enveloped
a fair girl, whose pretty face was as much admired as
her costume; tho latter consisted of a riolot velvet
princess robe, fastened with silver buttons and
sparingly brightened by violet mmr* ; a picturesque
of similar hue was bordered with cut steel
beads. Two Jewish sisters were objects of odnuration,
one wearing myrtle green velvet and satin, with a hat
(Rubens shape) to match; the other,
cashmere and velvet. A semi-sporting costume was
composed of two shades of violet silk, and a jockey-cap
of the same materials. On a symmetrical form, a very
short grey skirt, tight sleeves, navy blue velvet bodice
and overdress, and long Polish boots, looked very nice
though a trifle theatrical. A charming young (ace, with
beautiful dark eyes, peeped out fromavalret poke
bonnet; and a quiet grenat costume set off the clear
olive skin of its owner to perfection.
was the general dictum pronounced upon two sisters
peaoook-blne dresses, handsomely embroidered with
cut-steel beads in a scroll pattern.
** * *
A matrimonial engagement in very high soeiety
at Hobart has been broken off because the money
couldn't be got at.*’ The Tasmanian Glub have pur-
chased a fine central site, and intend at onee erecting a
fine new elub-house. The elub used to be very select
formerly At a grand ball in Wellington, N.Z., among
the arrangements was a cosy bower prepared specially
for the Governor. It was beautifully ornamented, and
it was only just at the last moment that someone dis-
covered that the bower was roofed by a large Russian
flag. In about ten seconds a dozen sailors had it down,
and as a big bit of British bunting was not to hand, his
Excellency sat nnder the star-spangled banner instead.
Preparations are being made for a grand ban at
Bourke, on a scale hitherto unattempted there. Itwill
be held while the Pastoral Show is on Mr. R. Man-
ning, of tho Shipping Foundry, Drultt-street, was enter-
tained by borne friends at a picnic, who gave him some
silverware and cutlery, on Saturday last Great pre-
parations are being made for the half-yearly subscription
ball at Warialda. Girls all in a chronic state of elysmm.
Big battle for the belle-ship on 30th June...... A skating-
rink has been opened at the Mechanics Institute, Gonl-
bnrn. Sydney proper will soon be the only township
without a risk On the 4th July, a P^ ain
fancy ball will be held in the Cumberland Assembly
Rooms. Liverpool, nnder the patronage of the
Mayor. There will be visitors from up and down the
line, and the Parramatta contingent as n5na1.......
A large landowner—he is many square miles in extent
—in the Macleay district is to be banqueted
next month Calico Ball at Brisbane in aid of
the Hospital on 7th July So successful was tho Owl
Ball, that a surplus of about £5O remains. The society
intends, on opening the new Owl year, to have a
Hyginx :of which, more anon At Port Macquarie,
the Nimblefoot Club held their first subscription
ball, recently, in the Government Asylum. The belle
(of the two score guests) was dressed in Ren-
der lace, with a tulle tippet, and looked beautifully
tall. Thus, the local Jeamos; who, however, is better
on sawmills than on dancing The Citizens Ball to
officers of H.M.S. Kelson, was the most brilliant ever
seen in Wellington (N.Z.). Sir Arthur Gordon and
many members of Parliament present On Monday
night, a splendid ball was given on board tbe Japanese
warship. Tskuba, in Hobson’s Bay At a grand
cathedral wedding in Hobart, recently, the happy father
was so pleased at getting one daughter eff his hands,
that he could scarcely get along the aisle. We expect
it was a fellow she had refused said this.. . This (Thurs-
day) evening, the Woollahra Rinking Club give another
of their pleasant dances To-morrow (Friday) a well-
known member of an American bookselling firm leads
to the altar the daughter of a late Sydney auctioneer.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nlthsdale) June 30.
Sunflower Ball (Town Hall, Jane 30.
U.S. Independence Day Ball (Nithsdale) July 4.
Plain and Fancy Bail (Liverpool) July 4.
Mercantile EG Ball (Exhibition) J U J *
German Ball (Nithsdale) ••••• July
Oddfellows'Ball (Protestant Hall) July 18.
Hercules Dramatic Club Ball (Nithsdale) July 25.
Masonic Ball, I C, (Town Hall) July 27.
Wallaroo Football Olnb's Sports July 29.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Military authorities in Berlin are paying par-
ticular attention to the possibility of a France-Russian
•oalition against Germany.
The indebtedness of New Zealand is said to be
about £6O per head. It's a question whether it
wouldn’t, be wise to let half the heads slide, and shovel
in tbe fifty pounders.
The Mayor of Long Island, New York, has been
arrested for embezzling .$114,000 of the city funds.
These Yankees are but bunglers, after all. Theoompen-
sation dodge doesn’t seem to have occurred to them.
The Nihilists are certainly the most ingenious
conspirators the world has ever seen. Their latest
dodge, just discovered, was to line a lot of peasants
hats with explosive substances. These hats were to be
enthusiastically flung into the air at the Czar a corona-
tion. Falling at his f*et they would explode by per-
cussion, and would blow the holy Czar to kingdom
come.
“The Emperor of Russia has given 20,000 roubles
to the St. Petersburg Geographicil Society toward
meeting the expense of another Polar station at Nora
Zembla The fact is, he thinks a suitable place for his
coronation might be discovered up that way .But he is (
nervous about the propinquity of North Pole.
Experience has led him to suspect all Poles of plotting
against him.
Mr. Gladstone proposed to send a single army
corps from Malta to settle the Egyptians. The French
have nine army corps In Tunis, and don t flnd £ho“
all too many. But, then, every fool knows that one
Englishman can with one hand lick three frog-eating
Frenchmen. So that one British array corps, using
both hands, may be regarded as equal to nine French
army corps. The only hitch in the argument is that,
although any fool knows that one Englishman can, So..
*o.. tl ere is not a single sensible man who is equally
•s.ktnre.
The Victoria Licensed Vietnallars’ Association
approves of Sir Bryan O'Loghlen s intention to abolish
Kutron beer. But we wouldn’t mind giving long
edds that the baer-guzzler will have W P'f
same as over for his pint or art pint. So immediately
does this abolition of duty affect the pockets of Itcenswi
victuallers, that Mr. Parker, secretary to tne Associa-
tion, has declared that within a fortnight he will raise
£lO,OOO, which sum shall be available for the assistance
of candidates who will stand in the interests of Licensed
Victuallers at the next election.
There’s treason in the camp of the Maoleay
Cupid. Attar this tho editor of the Manning Eiver
Something will never more be officer of Burdett s. He
of course :-“If Mr. Smith severed his
connection with the Macleay electorate t^“ orr °! r ’ a
dozen constituencies would receive him with open arms,
but. as there seems no prospect of the consummation
they s > devotly desire, the greox-eyed
te the fore ” ** Green-eyed monster I Nice name to
ctll a member who’s given each of you a military road
to your selections, and a bridge agin your own door.
However, we’re loyal to Cupid if Iffie P a P®”'J’’?
Bat there I We suppose that editor wanted Richard
sent up to grind away at his double-demy.
Mr. Rowland Roes is the new M.P. for Onkapa-
rinra. BA. He beat Mr. Thomas King, the chief pro-
prietor of the S.A Advertiser by 32 votes. Thleishsws
tho value of 111-advised opposition. H on“t Com Play-
ford.” the late Commissioner of Crown Lands, put out
the best strength of hie burly shoulders to get Kingin,
and accused Rees of having been opposed to a loeal rail-
wav Playford earries great weight, but the accusation
only served to bring “ Rowley” into greater Prominence
as he trumped Playford’s trick by getting Mr. Bundy
—late Attorney-General, and a colleague of Playford
to show that he had actually worked hard togetthe
railway. Bees, who is a fluent speaker—though a bore,
being ultra-Johnsonian in his Isngnage-mado the most
of this sympathetic reaction, and topped the poll. He
claims to be the most eloquent orator in the colonies,
and behss certainly always a chronic diarrhoea of words.
But whatever talents he possesses are blemished by his
sickening van'tv, which has passed into a proverb m
South Australia.
One who knows has at length let us into the
secret of the banquetings, Ac., which have signalized
the visit of our absent-on-sick-leave Premier. The
Conservatives have for years abused the Liberal patty
for their persistent refusal to strengthen the hands of
the colonies. They are justly blamed for the with-
drawal cf military protection from Australia, and
altogether their acts are said to be such as to create a
desire on the part of the colonies for separation from
the mother country. Boused by this fading, i
ingin a very large degree the justness of the censure,
the Liberals determined to do penance by loading with
attentions the first Colonial statesman who visited
England in his official capacity. The fun of the recent
junksttings is, however, that Sir Henry Parkee does
not visit England in his official capacity, but as an
individual in search of health, who was playing truant
from the Macquarie.street school, and who would be
flagellated on his return. The peculiar fitness of the
recipient of these honours to mix in aristocratic circles
must have convinced Gladstone and Co. that the
penance might wisely have been withheld until a more
suitable object whereon to exercise it could be found.
We punish by dismissal Crown Lands Inspectors who
dino with squatters; with expulsion from Parliament
members who participate in Treasury votes, but the
man who makes a laughing-stock of the country, keeps
its legislated stagnant, and earns the contempt of all
welt thinking men, will doubtless receive a better
C M.G. -cum-Macleay-cab-reception than poor Ned
Triokott, who in some races, perhaps, failed to win as
ranch by reason of his honesty as on account of his
weakness. _
i * *
Tho total earnings of the people of Great Britain
increased from £961,000,000 in 1870 in
1880, an increase of nearly £200,000,000, which equals
nearly £6 per head of the entire population Customs
revenue last year was £3.700.000 ; estimate
jor current year is £4,101,000; estimate of teder*
revenue, £6,342,000 A meeting of detectives was held
in Berlin recently to consider the best means of severing
the German Socialists from the Nihilists...... Kossuth
has nearly completed his memoirs. He predicts that
Hungary will shortly separate herself from Austria......
The senior member for Forbes has been piloting the
Minister for Works out Cobar way. What does the
Minister for Works intend piloting the senior member
into? Of 489 miles railway authorised by the Vio-
torian Parliament eighteen months ago, 389 miles
have either been completed or are in course of con-
struction. Next month tenders will be called for the
remaining 98 miles. The Minister anticipates that re-
ceipts for the current year will be £120,000 in excess of
those during the Exhibition year. 66 newlines will be
constructed at a total cost of £2,433,194.........
At last census population of Queensland, exclusive of
aborigine*—“ autochthones,” Forster calls them—was
213 525, consisting of 125,825 males and 88,200 females.
The number of Chinese was 11.229, of whom 23 were
females: Polynesians, 6348, of whom 373 were females.
The number of lunatics was stated at 563. There were
6J.246 married people# and 911 quasi-married. Octo-
genarians numbered 194 The S.A. newspaper postage
tax imposed last session wld piobably be abolished,
having been found to bo utterly unremunerative. Ibe
additional revenue for one quarter was only 4,1343,
while the extra expenses were heavy... Rumoured
that one of the members for the Manning will shortly
resign . ..Dr. M'lnerney, L.L.D., and bhakspeanan
scholar." Melbourne, has been charged with writing
I “the disloyal address,” but denies the impeachment.
1 By the way. the Rev. E. Turner, Free Methodist (very)
describes the address as “ a hellish document. .....The
onergetin Mr. Hoyle, of Bond-street, is spoken of as our
next; member for Glen Inno* Two old fossil S.A.
Legislative Councillors are “at it. One (Hogarth)
holds fast to “ the secret of England’s greatness, and
wants it read in schools; the other (Spence) says that
all the wars for hundreds of years back have been
caused by Bible-reading—by squabbles about the con-
struction of words—that all the present trouble be-
tween England and Ireland has been brought about by
so-called Christianity, and that “in view of what has
been brought about by differences as to the construc-
tion to be placed on the Bible —on words—don t let us
have it in the schools, and then there will be less
quarrelling.”
DEATH.
MAHER. —Jane 14th. at the Star Hotel, Cobar, the
residence of her husband; Caroline Maher, beloved
wife of Daniel Maher, and daughter of Mr. Boas, of
Caithaeeßshire. Home papers please copy.


FRIDAY, Jane 30.
GRAND SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
SATURDAY, July 1.
First production of the Powerful Chmedy.
THE PASSING REGIMENT.
Prices as usual. Box Office at Eivy and Go’s ,
G iorge-streefc. TieVefes for all parts of the house at
Lloyd’s, seat the theatre. Children 1h arms net ad.
mittedw
vZteaaee..
BAT
B E
ROYAL.
• Msi(ieelHM<l|H«teMe*e«ueMt He. Sana, ham,
Sub-Lessees Messrs. Allison and Hiseook*.
Manager for Mr. Reeve Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Treasurer Mr. G. L. Goodman.
riFrHJNHHK sad CONTINUED SUCCESS
of WYBEBT REEVE’S COMIDY COMPANY^
_ TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, June 20.
SPECIAL COMPLIMENTARY SENEFIT OF
MR. GEO, L. QOODMANi
PYGMALION AND GALaTEA.
BOX AND COX,
and other Entertainments.
O
PB R A
Lessee and M an«g«r
HOUSE.
... W- J. Wileon.
NINTH WEEK
of
Mr. Frederick
MARSHALL
and his
Comedy
Company
Every
Evening
at 8 o’clock
FOURTH and
LAST WEEK
«f the
Successful
The
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFB9»OR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
Last
Nights
of the
Realistic
Scenery
by
Mr. George
GORDON
Comedy. PROFESSOR
SATURDAY
EVENING
July 1,1883.
F. S. Bertrand's
4-Aet Cemedy
JEAMBS.
_ „ Prices ae aeaal.
Box Man at A. Hneaer eeim’a, CUorge-st.
Acting Mamager for Mr. Marehall, V. H, POLLOCK.
T H
A T K B.
Q. A I H T Y
Lessee* Messrs. L. M. Bayless and W. Reynolds
Sab-Lessee and Proprietor, Mr. Martin Simonsen
SIXTH WEEK of SIMONSEN’S
ROYAL ENGLISH AND ITALIAN OPERA
COMPANY.
Legitimate and Genuine Succors of
Miss MARTINA SIMONSON,
who received a perfect ovation on her first appearance
as Luola in Douiaetti’a Grand Tragio Opera in 4 aots.
LUCIA DI LAMMBRMOOR.
TO-NIGHT, Thursday, 3»th.
THE HERMITS BELL.
FRIDAY Bfith instant, fer the I*st Time.
THE GRAND DUCHESS, THE GRAND DUCHESS,
SATURDAY NEXT, July 1,
LA FILLS DE NAOAMB AN GOT.
Box Plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’si
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of the
ZULU WAR.
Public Hall, (Jreymonth, 24th May,
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
Abbott’s New Theatre, Auckland, July 13th, lour
weeks.
Houses packed te suffocation every Bight.
N
EW TOWN HALL. MTTDGEB
MAIN HALL OPEN FOB ENGAGEMENT.
FIRBT*CLASS SCENERY, GAS, SEATS for WO.
Applications for engagements to be orwarded to
BBBSBZER LOVE JOY.
Town Clerk.
8
0 U T H
OPERA COMPANY.
Now en route BATHURST, ORANGE, DUBBO,
And MUDGBE.
SOUTHERN LINE TO FOLLOW.
NEW REPERTOIRE.
Address ;
FREEMASON’S HOTEL,
•• BULLETIN OFFICE.’*
Sydney,
H. J. WHITTINGTON.
Agent,
M®.
AND MRS. JAMBS CARDEN.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH )
Arrangements completed fer eae year, eammeneng
Jnt Ist, W 33, under the management of
MESSRS. GARNER. WILLIAMSON, t USGBOYB.
Theatre royal, or ft®n
OPEN FOB ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat erven er eight hundred people and np
with Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Tramps.
Terms moderate. Apply te
W. ATTWATER.
Proprietor,
A LBBRT HALL, Brisbane, oamfe
dating 130# people, is new avauab
ible of aoeommo
ibie for theatrical
ether perfermVnee*. The stage is ever 5# feet ta
depth, and ha* a neat preseaninm. For terms, apply
BAVIB LOTH, Brisbane.
rLLOYD’S HOTEL,
-i HOWICK STREET, BATHURST.
Hers Snperio* Aecomodation to Commercial Travel
lers, Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
PnorMßTon.
F. JANSEN
TOBACCONIST,
B
472 GEORGE STREET,
EG3 to inform his customers and the public
general, that he has
REMOVED
from MARKET STREET TO GEORGE STRE
Opposite the Markets.
VICTORIA HALL.
Lmim ... Mr. E. F. ROPER.
£29 worth of gifts distributed amongst the audience
every night, WELLS (late (Thompson's) War
Diorama.
CROWDED EVERT NIGHT.
COMB ONE 1 COME ALL and score the Grand
Presents.
Prices of Admission—3)., 2s , andjls.
Tickets .during the day at Walton’s, 21 Arcade, and
at Huenerbein’s, Gsorge-street.
TO THE OPERATIC AND THEATRICAL-
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA HOUSE,
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z,
Bole Proprietor, H. N. ABBOTT.
SHUTS Magnificent Building is now completed. It is
L THE MODEL Opera House of Australasia, and
e Largest and Mast Commodious in New Zealand.
Erected on lastast models, it will be found replete with
every Modern Comfort and Luxury (before and behind
the curtain) appertaining to the best appointed
Theatres in the OW and New Worlds. The Ventilation
is perfect. AH parte ef the House are easy of ingress
ana egeess from broad, fight, and airy eenridors. Every
precaution bffe been takes to save Rfe and property in
ease of fire, and thp Anekland dtp Goes ail hare recently
inspected and highly commended the measures adopted
to Riot end. Magnificently and Brilliancy Lighted,
its Luxurious Private Bowes, Brest Circle, end Or-
chestra Staße, togeifcer with its nasurpassed Pit and
Stalls AeeemedaHeo, are features hitherto unknown in
©denial Theatres. The Opera House will he opened
by Mae WllUmusom Opera Company for one month,
sons«tseeing from Mrd May next. Theatrical Managers
and Agents 1 " Stare, aad Cemhißatieus are hirited to
apply to the Proprietor hr teams aad further iaferma-
Mi.
M* EOANTILB ROWING
SEVENTH ANNUAL BALL.
CLUB,
Under the patronage of the
MAYOR and MERCHANTS of SYDNEY.
The M. B. C. Seventh ANNUAL BALL will be held in
the EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park, .
6th JULY NEXT.
DRESS, PLAIN AND FANCY.
Tickets, double, 365; Gentleman's Single 20n; Lady’s
Single 13s tl, may now he obtained from the following
Warehouses:—Messrs. Holdswerth, Oardvae, and
Oe, T. Loeeotter and Ce., Themp-on aad Giles, W.
• H. Palieg, Klry end C» , Peapee aad Shaw, Gserga
street; Farmer and Ce_, Pitt-street tB. Cantor, King-
’ street; J. Blleroamp, Hunter-street,
Or from the Stewards and committee.
Stxwaeds :
John Harris, Esq. (Mayor John Hinahcliff, Esq.
of Sydney) J 8 Jamieson, Esq.
Hon. James Watson Wm. Laidley, Esq.
Hon. J. B.Watt
Sir P. Jennings, K C.M.G.
Wm. Alderson, Baq.
T. R. Allt, Bsq.
Henry Bull.lßsq.
Thomas Dalton, Esq.
John Gardyne, Esq.
J. G. Hanks, Esq,
John HarUe, Eeq.
C. K. Moore, Esq.
John Pop», E»q.
Charles Pearce, B*q,
Chas. J. Roberts, Esq.
Carl Sahl, Esq.
John See, B»q„ M.P,
K. Sands, Esq.
Themes Thompson, Esq.
John Young, Esq.
COMHTTFEB :
Messrs. R. W, Benson, John Blackman, A Byrno, fi.
Brindley, L. G. Birehall, P. O. Boulton, F. J. Bull,
A. Bros, W. A. Blaekstone. W. H. Bros, A. Croull,
D. Dennis, D Fletcher, W. J. Foster, A. Green, K.
GllHnan, B. Hanson, P. Q Hordern, Fred.R. Isler. R.
A. Keddie, W. Lee. N. Loekver, L. R. Mitohell, J.
Playfair, ianr., N. Shelley, T. O. West, H. B. Wilkinson,
O.H. Williams,
D. MURRAY, Hon. Sec,
A, P. BROS. Trees.
UNION MORTGAGE AND DISCOUNT
COMPANY.
Head Offiae: 769 GBORGE-STRBET, HAYMAEKET.
To Small PREEHOLD~and LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETOR*.
This Company is prepared to grant loans on mort-
gage ef freehold or leasehold properties. Advances
noes the deposit of deeds, on completed buildings, or
on houses in course of erection, in the city er suburbs,
repayable by the smallest weekly or monthly instal-
ments, taken by the society in this city, as the follow-
ing table will show i
For every £2O harrowed, 2s 21
„ £BO „ 8s Id
„ £4O „ 4* 41
„ £5O „ Bi lOd
~ £75 i, 83 4d
„ £lOO „ 11s 81
and up to any amount at the same ratio.
For further Information spplr at the offices.
WM. P. BMAIL, Secretary.
nnBNDBR* are imvitpd for the ereotien of TWO
I WOOL WARE HOUSES for R. QOLDSBROUGH
and CO., LIMITED, at Pyrmont. Darling Harbour,
namely, one in Horris-street, about 120 feet by 80 feet,
of i stories; aad one in Pyrmont-etreet, about 854 feet
by 1C« feet, also of flro stories.
Separate tenders to bo given for each warehouse, and
may be for the whole, or in tkrse portions for each, viz ,
Ns. 1 for Stons work. No. 2 Ironwork, No. 3 Carpenters,
Joiners, Plumbing, Painting, Ac.
Plans and speoifloations can be seen on and after J one
26, between the hours of 10 and 4 o’clock, at the offices
- 0 f tbs uadersigned, to whom tenders are to be ad-
dressed up to 12 O’CLOCK AT NOON, on FRIDAY,
‘ JULY 21.
I ’riie lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
W, W. WARDBLL, 08.,
Architect.
189 Pitt-street, Sydney.
CH. FERGUSON,
• UNDERTAKER,
Late Manager of W. and H. Kinsela’s principal shop,
George-strect, has commenced business on his own ao-
count at
835 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Railway Gate, a few doors higher np,
and 195 DEVONSHIRE STREET, Near KILBY-BT.
Is prepared to furnish Funerals CHEAPER than
any other house in the trade, and, having purchased
everything New, hopes by civility and attention to
Business, as he has done to his lute employers, to merit
a share of public patronage.
C. H. FERGUSON,
UNDERTAKER.
jgi OURTH OF JULY BALL
To bo held at NEED’S ROOMS,
167 Liverpool Street.
Bale of Tiaketa limited and only procurable from mem-
bers of the General Committee
CHA3. KAHLE, U. 3. Consul, Qeorge-street
T. H. BOYD, Vice-Consul, 252 Goorge-street
WM. FLEMING, 23 and 24 Clareaco.streot
H. SHAW SMITH, 17 Pitt-streot
E. A. LITTLE, Atqgrican Novelty Co., Pitt-street.
Dr. G. M. SLATE, Wjßyatd Square.
C R 0 S S’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS !
Will CUBE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CUBE INDIGESTION.
Sold in bottles, 2s. 6d, and 4s. 6J., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee :
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viet.; M.H.P.5.,Gt.8.,
GAWLER, SOUTH AUSTBALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BBOTHBBS. HOFFNUNG & CO.
u NDER SECTION V., ACT 532.
ABT UNION.
PUBCHASB of the BUNGAEEE JUNCTION
FEEBHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
IMS# BUBBCRIBKEB of £1 each.
12# PRISfBd ef the fall value of £lO,OOO.
117 lets guaranteed, oaah if preferred.
Lot I.lst prise £4oo# I Lot ». 3rd prize £l3s#
Lot 8. 3ad prize £BOOO | Lot 4 4th prize £4OO
Lot* S te 9, Prizes of £l6O each.
Lot I#, 1 Prize of £SO.
Lots G to *s, 10 Prises of £lB each.
Lots 21 to 120,100 Prizes ef £4 each.
The management is compelled to extend the time of
drawing to the first day of August, 18S2. Notwith-
standing this announcement, the drawing will posi-
tively be proceeded with seven days after the shares
are subscribed for. All unsuccessful applicants will
have their money returned per return of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, if not a large and independent fortune,
for £l.
Address—SETH E. PEESSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers j Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
BEAD PKOSPECTUS.
fTIHE BLACK CUEEANT BALSAM
Acts llkoa oh arm in every kind of Cough.
A Single Dose gives Belief at once, and procures
Refreshing Keep.
MADE ONLY BY SENIOR,
Chemist to His Excellency.
FURNITURE!
FURNITURE !
MAKE YOUE HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur
nishing a New Heme or adding to the comforts ol
your present Home, yon will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CEEEEY & CO.
who will furnish houses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
•ST Noth the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M'CEEEEY, & CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
SO6 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Oppoeite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
J. THOMAS.
BILLIARD TABLE MAKER.
15S BATHURST STREET.
CUBS, BALLS, TIPS, POCKETS, &o.
H. PALI Q,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
■V-
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES o( EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
TVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE STDN NTBRNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
EAR MON I U M 8,
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at loiv prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Ployel’s, Anchor’B|
Soafleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Huudt and Sons Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren's, and Smith and Company's Organs.
w.
Q.
H. PALIN
352 GEORGE STREET,
WTNYARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. F. DeCOURCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of Now
South Wales).
Apthob op the *' Mustbrs’ Handt Book,” &e., &0.,
MINING EXPERT,
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
128 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &e., &o.
l7fll R TAY”<m s ii7oi
'ISIT R. BURQIB’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
BLACKET AND DAYY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOE
BARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN'S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MStKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.


pUBLIC N
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPI
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecu
endeavours to deceive the public b
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for the
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED to
bearing
“ THE TAEPINO MIXTURE.’
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signatu;
thus—
Clifford, Love, &
Those who are desirous of havini
TEA, must be certain that ever
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which for th<
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A
MIXTURE ARE GUAI
• . PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCH
WHOLESALE GROCER AN
YORK STREET, SY
JOHN D
IMPORTER C
Plumbers* and Engineers' Brass
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine 1
Iron, Brass, Coppei
and Lead Pipe,
119 LIVERPOOL STREE
H. L. SUMKE
235 Pitt Street,
THE PEOPLE'S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS T
H. L. SUM ML II
SPECIALITY SUITS TO (
THE PEOPLE’S
GUARANTEES A PER:
H. L. SUMMI
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUG
THE PEOPLE'S
Sends Self-measurement fori
U I fill M M I
MOST PLEASANT
WHEN PURCHASING YOUR GROCERIES
ask for
PANTER AND PARRY’S
new extract op soap
householders,
TAKE NOTE OP THIS.
AND SEN THAT TOC GET IT.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
TraEST Washing and Disinfectant Prepara*
R- B tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Croekery. Paint. Glass, and every Household
purpose. Used and recommendedl in the
Laundry at Government House, Mr. Sey-
mour (Inspector of Nuisances), Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and by all competent
judges to bo the best article manufactured.
REMEMBERI
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour. #
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OF ALL GROCERS.
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
THE PURE COCOA,
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Delicious
C
<b
£
*
&
&
Beverage.
*
£
V
❖
o
Ci
o
C
Invaluable
for invalids, or
those who cannot
drink the thick, heavy
\ j liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
CLACK AND COLOURED BROCADED
VELVETEENS, 20 DIFFERENT COLOURS
at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
868 BRICKFIELD HILL.
jing in price from Is lid to 7s 6d per yard.
MYRA’3 JOURNAL” says :-The * MANCU-
NIUM ’ Velveteen (called from the Ancient
iame of the City of Manoheiter when held by the
tomans) is superb, soft, and brilliant, of pure black
OLOTJB, FULLER and DEEPER thanORDINART VELVETEENS.
Ph'.ch err on the side of blneness, and therefore match
VITH NO OTHER BLACK MATERIAL,
:The ‘MANCUNIUM ’ IS so RICH and pull in tone it
AN BE USED WITH ALL CLASSES OF FABRICS* which will
e of importance to many. 1 *
SEE THEM. EXAMINE THEM.
♦'LA MODE ILLU3TRE” says.—'" Velours ‘MAN-
IUNIUM’ Une imitation parfaite dn pins riche
r elours de Lyon so rencontre dans un nouveau velours
revets sous le titre de MANCUNIUM.
*• Ce Velours est brillant d’aspect; la profondeur ot
i durability de la oonleur en sont remarqnables, tandis
ne par une combinalson de plusieurs autres qualites
rcellentes 11 ost sans rival. La teintnre du Mancnnmm
at garantie solide; jamais I’exposition a Pair nen fera
Itdrer la oonleur; voila une raison snfflsanto poor qu on
t choisisso pour remplacer le Velours do Lyon.”
LSK THE ASSISTANTS TO LET YOU SEE THEM.
“THE LADIES’ GAZETTE OP FASHION” says ;
•c* The best recently produced is the ‘ MANCUNIUM,
phich seems to have made immense way among fash-
omble people. It possesses the suppleness of Lyons
felvet and power of forming those charming folds
rhich make tho depth and richness of Velvets a oon-
tant delight to the painter’s eve. For those Ladies
rao require an evening dress of Velvet we recommend
he adoption of the ‘ MANCUNIUM.’ ”
20 DIFFERENT COLOURS,
ALL PRICES
at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
CCB BRICKFIELD HILL,
Remember this is the “Brickfield Hill” Hordern.
VURNITUKE. FURNITURE. FURNITURE.
Cheapest House in Sydney for Furnishing Prices
; to be equalled anywhere in the city. H. LEVY
I CO., Central Furnishing Arcade, 20, 31, and 33.
pk-sfcreet. .
IIME PAYMENT. TIME PAYMENT TIME
' PAYMENT. —H. LEVY and CO , Central Tur-
bine Arcade. 29. 31, and 33, Park.street Houses
ni• hrd from £lO to £lOOO on weekly and monthly
m nts. N.B.—All goods marked m plain figures,
[ n i deception.
lOR SALE. PIANOFORTES, in handsome walnut
cases inlaid, by Erard. and other best m akers.
lord ire n frame, with certificate (guar«nteedhto be
at English cost, on time payment H. LEVY and
, Central Furnishing Arcade, 29, 31, and Si. Para
, SALE, Handsome Drawing SUITES^ .in
raluut iramcg, from £lO. H- LFVY and CO.,
Purnhhing Arcade, 29, 31, snd 33, Park-street.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
-E, OWL E B ’ POTT E E Y
and
BEICK WOEKS,
CAMPEBDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
JAMES MARTIN
JAMES MARTIN & COMPY., 389 George Street, Sydney.
INTENDING PURNSASWS i-PUASE NOTE II!
THE RELIABLE ALTETOWSE MILLS
Can not be had from any other firm iti the Ookmy. Wfc
introduced this Mill into Australia, and. no other firm in
New South Wales has similar Mills to offer you.
Our Prices .£2O .£22 10s. £5O
Diameter of Sails 10 ft, 12 ft. 14 ft.
Write us for our large descriptive Windmill Circular.
„ reliable althouse mill JAMES MARTIN & COMPY.. LATE MARTIN & PAIN.
SILVER V WATCHES
FROM cJ^.4.10.
Turing
9. gc. lI.HUNTER STREET.
"CHE GOLD WATCHES
0. SEND FOR FROM <£.3.10.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
6’
m H E GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
“** xTone better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ABIE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TET ONE. ' F ° B
C. E. WIGZBLL, BATHS,
Oxford-rtrwt. HAIR - CUTTING,
SYDNEY STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work.
O*T See WIGZILL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
• *
M. GOULSTON,
(ESTABLISHED 28 YEARS)
WELL-KNOWN TAILOR,
58 Market Street.
TRY
OULSTON'S
Jt 3 Ss.SUITS!
JB4 4s. SUITS!
JB4 10a. SUITS!
y.
ALL GOODS
Thftrdughly
SHRUNK,
and
NO MISFITS!
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HODSEB.
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
jo a
Business
promenade
Travelling
LurSiftty m
unsurpassed Cricketing
“Standard” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
PEAPES and SHAW,
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
