

THE BULLETIN
Vol. lI.—No. 136
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1882.
Price—3d
%\t §ulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1882.
Jack’s Yarn.
There is every indication that the present session
ia to be a session of disappointment. It has
opened badly, with an amendment on the Address,
which,' ust though its terms ware, was weakly
conceived, and gave the go-bye to the real issues
engaging the public mind. The Legislative As-
sembly has already shown itself to be devoid of
enthusiasm and of strong conviction, except that
a majority of its members are convinced that
whatever is, is right. With tha political instinct
which is to a great extent the secret of the
Premier’s success in public life, Sir Henry
Parkes porceivel this disposition at once, and
hie reply to the leader of the Opposition was
framed in accordance. He scarcely deigned to
argue, and did not at all exert himself to persuade
or convince. He had rightly estimated the intelli-
gence of his majority, and did not even take the
trouble to give their dooility the decent excuse
afforded by eloquent sophistry. Perceiving that
nothing, no force of demonstration, would be
sufficient to penetrate their indurated determina-
tion to believe that a Ministry which had passed
an Education Act which suits their sectarian pre-
ferences could not by any possibility bo wrong
about land legislation, or blameable in adminis-
trative action, Sir Hbnbt coolly took their snp-
port for granted, explained nothing, and justified
nothing. The event has proved the soundness of
hU estimation of the quality of his followers.
They were content to gulp his quiet contempt and
smack their *ips over it, as though it had the
sai our of compliment to their intelligence,
luey remained for the most part complacently
dumb, like the concise, but not very capable,
gentleman who supported an orator with the
pregnant words, “ Them’s my sentiments ! ” They
said little, but they compensated for their dull
lack of reasonable speeoh by cheering much. Like
a good many other persons, although incapable of
moulding their devotion into intelligible prayer,
they showed themselves to have a wonderful talent
for saying “Amen.”
* * *
The oration of the other^JPromier — Parkes’s
long-lost brother—Sir John Robertson, was
modelled on plan, with merely so much
variety as was inevitably due to the different
genius of the artist. Sir John’s versatility
carried him away a little, and ho said nothing in
a great many more words, and showed a great
many more moods than his colleague. In thus
giving way to his natural bent, Sir John proved
himself less sagacious than Sir Henry, and
showed that the oracular style is, under existing
circumstances, more effective than the noisily
empty. Sir John’s speech constituted a very
thorough example ot the argumentam ad hominem.
He showed himself as secure of a favourable echo
anything which he might choose to say, as Sir
Henry had been. But he was not so philosophi-
cally content to accept the substantial advantage
and let the shadow flit by. Although secure of
the vote to come, he must needs have his little
fling, and said so much, on so many things, as to
deprive himself of excuse for not effectually dis-
cussing what people outside the Assembly re-
garded as the essential points. Where Sir Henry
had coolly neglected to offer any explanation
whatever, and had comported himself as though
there were no question in existence, either in the
Assembly or out of it, Sir John made a pretence
°f explaining, with the effect of raising a question
why, having undertaken to explain, he did not
explain in a more convincing and thorough
fashion.
* » *
Sir John touched upon a variety of very in-
teresting topics—topics which everyone except
the members of the ministerial majirity in the
Assembly regard with a lively curiosity. But he
Bitted from one such topic to another with an
airy levity which suggested the flighty inconse-
quence of the butterfly, rather than the fruitful
industry of the bee. Thus Sir John dipped into
the subject matter of Mr. Stuart’s amendment,
and undertook apparently to explain how the
government justified the delay in calling Parlia-
ment together. But all he had to explain was that
e personally accepted the responsibility. Not a
ord on the principle of the occurrence. Not a
ihgle attempt to show a way of looking at the
m some special light which would give a
uifferent and proper appearance to the deception
the colony were led to believe that Parlia-
ant would re-open in June. This was one
nance of the argumentum ad hominem. Sir
n °t attempting to demonstrate that the
P r °P° r or excusable, simply declared
£i ho accepted the responsibility for it, and
u*«d confidently for the approval which might
ve rewarded the most lucid exposition of some
unanswerable constitutional demonstration. And
sure enough, a chorus of “ hear, hear !” from his
complacent fmajority signified that his reckoning
was accurate, and that even such an explanation
was good enough for them. The veteran debater
scarcely showed that ho had got the measure of
his opponents, but he certainly did show that he
had quite accurately gauged the general situation,
and that he had ascertained with admirable pre-
cision the exact measure of his supporters. Any-
thing was good enough for them. He had only
to pause for a cheer, and it came leaping out of
the open mouths of his crowd. Whether he vowed
that the Lands Department had not a case in
arrears, or intimated his opinion that Mr. Reid
was a tomtit, or announced his intention of employ-
ing a detective, he was never disappointed of a
volley of applause. Sir John Robertson is not
a humorist, yet his points were productive of
more laughter than Mark Twain could have
raised by his beat lecture.
* # •
Tha H-nourable gentleman was actually ap-
plauded when he explained the frightful dilemma
to which his unfortunate land law has exposed
him at this moment. He had promised that his
agrarian code would settle a population of honest
sturdy yeomen on the soil; and it was his miser-
able fate to be under the necessity of standing up
in the Legislative Assembly to announce, as one
of the fruits of his system, that half a million
sterling of the capital which should have been ap-
plied to tne fructification of the resources of the
colony had been impounded from persons who had
been tempted by the defects of his laws to pervert
their means to illegal and immoral attempts to
avail themaelves*of the facilities for fraud, offered
by these very laws. Five hundred thousand
pounds wrenched from detected dummies ! What
then, in Heaven’s name, must be the amount in-
vested by the dummies who have not been de-
tected ?
m m m
But this was not the bitterest dose which the
Ministerial majority swallowed with smacking of
lips and every token of gratification. Sir John
Robertson was at no stage of his speech more
lustily cheered than when he explained that he
had at last recognised, as a necessary corollary to
his vaunted land laws .investigations by detectives,
and a series of criminal prosecutions ! This, then,
is the fruit of Sir John's capacity and foresight.
These are tha frightful blossoms which have
budded upon the tree which ho planted in 1861.
First catch your industrious yeoman, then—
criminally prosecute him 1
* # •
Despite tha ductility of the Government sup-
porters, it was truly remarkable that no member
on the Ministerial side rose to protest against the
deliberate process of stuffing, when the veteran
Land Minister strained the gullibility of his par-
tizans by such a statement as that the dummying
class “ had dropped half a million of money, and
had not got an acre of land to represent it 1 ” If
that assertion wore not utterly, flagitiously false,
then, indeed, there would be little more to be said,
and dummying would necessarily be extinct. But
it surely requires no demonstration —it is a fact
notorious to the meanest understanding—that the
dummying class are as lively and active as ever—
not even scotched, let alone destroyed—that they
have secured an immense area of land, and are
quite as ready during the next twenty years to
lose another .£500,000 and accept the balance when
reckoning their gains as against that loss. This
.£500,000 is but so much per cent, reckoned as
losses in a big business. It represents but the
one ship captured as against the twenty that get
through in a blockade-running venture. The pro-
portion of loss represented by that sum is so
utterly insignificant that it has never for one
moment checked the progress of dummyism, which
ia as rampant to-day as ever. There could be
constituted, at a week’s notice, from among the
members who, in their places behind Sir John,
gobbled up his fallacies with as much gusto as if
they were inspired truths, a syndicate which
would undertake to pay another j 6500,000 into the
Treasury on condition of being merely permitted
to acquire as much and as good land as has been
grabbed by the class who suffered the impound-
ment of that sum, provided they wore enabled to
acquire the land at the same prices. The operation
would be one of the vastest and most profitable of
the age.
Bat another and
was elicited by Sir Job manner adapted
mg, as above, demonstrate tho deterrent
to the capacity of his PI „ roc00( j 0 d to de-
effects of fine and forte . P work ou fc his
dare his determination he , . , Courts ! His
splendid land law in for
spirited declaration that those wno
dummying would begin to find it a very dangerous
game while he was Land Minister, was received
with a round of admiring “ hear hear’s.” It has
frequently been argued that the land revenue
should be, at least partially, applied to defraying
the expenses of immigration. But, after a score
of years of its operation, it is now demonstrated
by its framer that it would be no more than con-
sistent to devote a share of it to the construction
and maintenance of penitentiaries for the correc-
tion and reformation of the offenders who are se-
duced into the special crime called into existence
by the law itself. Besides, if the great Land Le-
gislator is to-day resolved to show himself a terror
to the criminals manufactured by his law, what
has he been about all these past years P Sir John
Robertson has been, whether in office or in Op-
position, potentially the Land Minister of the
Colony, ever since 1861. Why is it only now that
he resolves to apply the corrective of criminal
proceedings ? He had just vigorously protested
that he had never asserted that dummyism was a
new thing. Then why at this, the eleventh hour,
apply a now remedy P Clearly Sir John has weak-
ened, or his hand has been forced. This confes-
sion that the law cannot bo worked without dog-
ging selectors with detectives, and swooping upon
them with criminal prosecutions, is a clear admis-
sion that the agrarian system, which he has for all
these years declared to be the perfection of wisdom,
is radically bad. Surely after this confession of
collapse, it will bo understood that something
more than an amendment is needed.
• • ♦
To be a good law, an enactment requires to be
so adjusted as to work with the minimum of
friction; to harmonise with the character and dis-
Eosition of the people it affects ; and to find its
est support in its own essential tendencies. A
law which has arrayed class against class, which has
involved penal forfeitures of five hundred thousand
pounds merely on discovered breaches, which has
tempted decent citizens to enter upon a career of
wholesale fraud; which has created a vast system
of false declaration : and which is now discovered
to be only workable by criminal process, cannot
be a good law. Such a system saps the entire
structure of public morality. It operates to de-
stroy the rectitude of the public conscience, and to
sap the respect for solemn affirmations. It creates
a constant conflict between a sense of honour and
self-respect on the one hand, and a prospect of
gain, or a necessity for securing one’s position, on
the other. Many attempts at demonstrating the
iniquity of the land system of Sir John Robert-
son have been made at various times, but never
has there been one so clever, so convincing, so
crushing, as that furnished in this speech by Sir
John himself. And the quality of the intelli-
gence possessed by the Ministerial majoritv could
by no possibility have been more aptly exposed
than it has been by the fact that, while the
Minister for Lands was thus destroying the last
vestige of his own prestige, these gentry cheered
him to the echo, under the impression that he was
favouring them with a masterly defence of his
system.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The War with Egypt.
In the views which we have expressed with reference
to the morality of tho war with tho Egyptian people,
wo do net stand alone. Even in these colonies, the
Melbourne Age has maintained the same position.
And in England itself all the leading Radicals not in
the Cabinet have expressed their repugnance to tho
attempt to quench the constitutional and national
aspirations of a people, merely to secure the usurious
interest claimed by the world’s money-lenders. John
Bright resignedjrather than countenance the violence to
liberal principles done by the conflict commenced by the
bombardment of Alexandria. The great London dailies,
however, generally approved the course adopted by the
Government. The Times declared that tho bombard,
ment has “produced the most favourable impression
both on public opinion and on the judgment of States,
men in Europe,” and that “tho representatives of
three of the Great Powers have, we believe, already
expressed in friendly terms their satisfaction at tho
action taken by the Government.” The Standard-
declared that “ the feeling among all classes of English
men, with very trifling exceptions, is one, we believe, of
approval, qualified only by the regret that the measures
token at last were not taken in the beginning.” The
Daily Telegraph declared that “ this strong and stern
course on the part of Her Majesty's Government must
be cordially approved and heartily supported by
all patriotic persons." The Morning Post said,
“ Never was naval victory more crushing or com-
plete ; ” and the Daily News confined itself to
hoping “ that more blood may not be shed.”
Vanity Fair, however, adopts—although ordinarily a
Conservative journal—the contrary opinion, and thus
comments'“ The word ‘ victory * was prostituted to
describe the issue of what was never even a serious
MR. WILLIAM CAMPBELL, M.P.—(See page 7)


ROUGHS AJs D COLDS.
The Beat Cure for the above ii Bum made hot,
and taken at bed-time.
PUEE E U M ,
Extra Strong,
6s. Per Imperial Quart.
C. W. ROBERTS’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPAETMENT,
MAEKET STEEET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. EO BEETS’
NEW BAE,
6EOBGE STEEET, NEAE MAEKET STEEET,
where you can obtain for
6 d .
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEANDY, POET WINE.
SHEEEY, OE BEES,
of auoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. EO BEETS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPAETMENT,
is now open in
MAEKET STEEET.
BED OE WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PEODUCT OP AUSTEALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPAEMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP ALL BEVEEAGES
MADE HOT IP HEQUIEED.
Please Call and Sample.
C. W. EOBEETS’~BPECIAL WHISKY,
at 4s. 6d. per bottle, is unequalled.
VEEDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
POET MACQUAEIB EED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MUBEUMBIDGEE POET
2s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MAEKET STEEET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!!
PUENITUEE 1 1 1
\\T HEEE is the best place to buy Furniture
▼ T This question is being asked every day, and
is of as much interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the 11 Happy Couple” just setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kitchen
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE PARK
FURNISHING EXHIBITION
OXPOED STEEET. SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(LateIIHAEDY BEOTHEES).
EVEEY HOUSEHOLD EEQUISITE MAY BE HAD
HEEE.
Don’t be misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LAEGEST STOCK OFPEES THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hyde Park Furnishing' Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL PUENITUEE,
ELEGANT PUENITUEE,
WELL-MADE PUENITUEE,
DUEABLE PUENITUEE;
Go to the
HYDE park: furnishing exhibition.
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability of
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilst the Prices will be found
MJA EVELLOUSLY LOWI
This vast Collection has; been selected and mannfafl»
tured with a practical regard for Modern requirement#
and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock; yon will not be
asked to buy what you do not want; for our object Uto
EEXAIN as well as OBTAIN patronage; ana we rely
on the satisfaction, good opinion, and recommends*
tien of our customers.
Eemomber these important (sets
OUE STOCK IS THE LAEGBST.
OUE STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE'*-
OLE STOCK IS THE BBST,
OUE STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST,-
«#* The utmost care is given to packing and fofwabd*
ing all Goods bought at this Establishment, and Coun»
try Customers may rely upon the prompt execution ot
their orders and the delivery of their purchase in ■
sound condition.
fight, the word ‘ glorious ’ was degraded to describe an
act as violent and lawless as it was disgraceful, and the
world was called upon to admire the shocking and dis,
graeefal Eight of English ships and English sailors
being used to blow away the last vestiges of respect for
those rights of nations by which England herself alone
subsists. We must raise our voice in earnest and
solemn protest agaihst the act that has been done. Ear
from approving of it, we declare that it is the most
monstrous and wicked, and* at the Same time, the most
cowardly and foolish thing that has been done by any
English Government in |our time. It was not an act
of war, for no war had been or has yet been decltred
against any State whatever. Nay, not one even of the
necessary precedent steps, without which no war can
justly be levied, of stating grievances, making a de-
mand for their redress, and meeting with a refusal, has
been taken. Nor could they have been taken; for the
grievances, if any, were all, not on our, but on the
other side. For upwards of two months the English
Fleet has been lying at Alexandria as a standing
menace, first to those Egyptians who wished to manage
their own affairs, and secondly to the Sultan of Turkey'
whose subjects they are. There was a riot, no
doubt, begun by a British subject, and in which ten
times more natives were killed than Europeans—but it
was a riot which was intensified, if not provoked, by the
preseno* of the fleet. And last came the allegations that
the Egyptians were repairing forts and mounting cannon.
This, which they had a perfect right to do, was
treated as an act of hostility. The fleet might bring
their cannon and point them on the forts—that was
nothing; but if the forts did likewise, that was wicked,
hostile, and properly to be punished. Such was the
argument used; and, in pursuance of it, a peremptory
summons was addressed to somebody to dismantle the
forts—and fire was opened—and the forts laid in ruins.
Mr. Gladstone denies that we are at war with Egypt;
hut, that being the case, the bombardment was nothing
more nor loss than an act of piracy." For aur own part,
we regard this war as being as unjustifiable and as
deplorable as was the war against the American
colonists, now known as the war of American Indepen-
dence. The situation is meat distressing to every true
Briton who holds principles to be superior to Jingoism.
He cannot but wish success to the arms of his country,
yet he must constantly regret that they should be
engaged in a bad cause, and lament that their triumph
will involve the repression of a patriotic sentiment,
and the triumph of native sycophants and traitors over
patriots.
Teachers examined before the Education Commission
in Victoria condemn the system of payment by results
as tending to bald cramming. Any assistant going for
illustration of his subject to any matters not set down
in the school books is straightway stopped by the
head master, and compelled to grind away the dreary
repetitions which sicken children of school life. Our
©wn system is no better, and never will be while
Ministers are selected for the Education Department
according to the necessities of Jack or 'Eney, and
school inspectors’ qualifications are only a smattering
of learning. The one use Universities should be put to
is to direct education, and it is because they are ap.
plied to every purpose but that, that academic distinc-
tions are lightly held. A Chair of Education is surely
as great a want as an elaborate system for turning out
annually a handful of doctors and lawyers, to bleed and
drench us.
In the course of his speech in the House the other
night. Sir John Robertson narrated a case of
attempted dummyism, in which an aged man so utterly
imbecile as to be unable to comprehend the plainest
question put to him, was taken to a Lauds’ ofilce by an
attorney, who guided his hand while he wrote his
si 4nature to the documents. The case was reported to
the Minister, and Sir John immediately cancelled the
selection, and ordered that the forfeited deposit money
should be placed in the hands of trustees to be expended
by them for the benefit of the old man. This statement
of Sir John’s was loudly cheered by members who
must have overlooked the fact that the money so for-
feited becomes part of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund. There is not the least authority for a Minister
to act as Sir John did, unless it be assumed that he is
the Parliament, and that one stroke of his pen is
equivalent to all the forms through which a Bill has
to pas 3 before it becomes an Act-
Bulletin Monthly Number.
In response to a wish often communicated to us, and
to meet what seems to he a general desire, we have
arranged to issue, for despatch to friends at Home, a
Bulletin Monthly Number, comprising four weekly
parts, neatly bound in an attractive cover. Price, one
shilling. Sold by all agents. On receipt of stamps for
the cost of the number (one shilling), together with
3d. for postage, the Monthly part will be forwarded to
any address in the United Kingdom or the United
States. The forthcoming Monthly Number will be
published on the 14th September, in time for despatch
by the next outgoing mail steamers. Agents and others
are requested to send in their orders without delay.
After our hat of Sporting Fixtures ” had been
sent to press, we were apprised that the date of the
Globe Bowing Club pair-oar race had been altered to
September 9th.
“ Ugly” Do Young, the Adelaide insolvent,
who has been kept in gaol for eighteen months or so
on an Insolvency adjournment sine die, on suspicion of
having concealed in Melbourne or elsewhere, a large
portion of his estate, has succeeded, through the efforts
of his counsel, the astute Charley Mann, Q.C., in hav-
ing bis case set down for re-hearing. Do Young was a
terrific plunger on the turf, got alarming overdrafts on
the Commercial Bank, Adelaide, and then smashed for
many thousands, showing proportionately few assets.
Wo have received from Mr. James Edwards,
the well-known Melbourne boat builder, a most in-
teresting letter“ The Sorata arrived here on Satur-
day morning, bringing Dayoock, Pearce, Perkins, and
Fern, haycock had a narrow squeak on the voyage by
falling down a hatchway. It looked bad when he
became insensible, and his heart seemed to stop its
beat. He brings three boats with him, and Pearce
brings two. George Perkins brings one practice-boat—
his racing-boat is following him out. He rowed a great
deal with Hanlan, and ns the latter coached him into
his style, Perkins was considered very like the cham-
pion in form. He went for a spin on the Yarra from
our place on Saturday afternoon. George Porn is a
long-distance swimmer and is bringing out two boats
for Largan, whom he will train for Punch’s affair.
Largan comes by way of 'Frisco, where he picks up his
brother, a runner of considerable note. By the way,
these arrivals will necessitate Punch’s giving the extra
money he promised, Fittes, whom I trained for the
Champagne Trophy, will not start for the senior
scullers’ race at Albert Park Eegatta, on 2nd and 9th
September. Beale beat Fittes at Melbourne last year.
The latter steered horribly. However, Fittes, in a few
months, won at Sydney, so that some interest attaches
to tceir next meeting. Fittes is adding to his business,
Bud can't spare time to train,”
POLITICAL POINTS.
Suttor in reply“ Waitah, another glass of
■whisky.”
The three Graces of the Opposition—Forster,
Stuart, M'Elhone.
Mr. William Forster’s idea of Sir Henry Parkes,
crystallised —“ Jim Crow.”
Parkes’ jackal is now seen prowling alone about
the back stairs and behind the speaker’s chair, like a
troubled ghost, and no man regards him.
A young gentleman connected with the Treasury
Department picked vp two cheques amounting to £670
this week, at the door of a fashionable pub.
The London World says:—We are told in
some quarters that the consequence of our active in-
terference in Egypt must be war with France
Sir John Robertson said that there may be much
in Mr. G. H. Reid, but nob much comes out of him.
Possibly Sir John meant not much comes out about
him. Eh ?
Mr. Ham, Mayor of Melbourne, and Hon. F. T.
Sargood, at present in England, will stand for Victorian
Legislative Council; former for Melbourne province,
latter for South Yarra.
The Hekker thought fit to authoritatively
deny a supposed rumor that Mr. William Forster had
accepted the recently vacant portfolio in the Parkes*
Ministry. Fancy Forster coalescing with the coalition.
“ I trust the Government will soon bring in a
bill to exterminate rabbits," said the spectacled mem-
ber from his place on the Cross Benches. “ Yes,” re-
plied M'Elhone, in a voice that could be hoard up
Lime Cove “ they’ll bring in a bill to kill fleas.”
While Alderman M’Elhone was roasting Withers
and Carter for not voting for the perpetual
disability, C. cried out, “I am not a M’Elhone,"
whereupon the irate municipal tiger turned upon him,
and shook him as a bulldog would shake a poodle.
“ Old Jack” has fired his shot. It all amounted
to this—that for a young man, representing the first
constituency of the country, and speaking in the interests
of those who sent him to Parli-ment, to criticise the
actions of a pair of old professional politicians, is gross
impudence.
On dit that Mr. Baker, ex-Minister for Mines,
still reckons that ha is the legally-constituted member
for Carcoar, and intends to test in the) Supreme Court
the validity of the action taken by Parliament in ex-
pelling him. Praps he better do the Bradlaugh business,
take his seat and —the consequences.
Sir John Robertson spoke for over three hours
on Friday night, but more than half the time was de-
voted to personal abuse of the assailants of the Land
Act. Sir John was, it possible, less intelligible than
ever. It is easy to imagine that the Hansard re-
porters found him to be a decidedly “unpalatable"
speaker.
Rumours are current that Mr. Lackey will
shortly resign the portfolio of Works and visit the old
country. It is just possible, however, that this has
been put about to keep the Government majority
solid. A portfolio to be disposed of has a wonderful
influence upon the political opinions of Waiters upon
Providence.
Mr. Reid : “ I have always felt that Sir John
Robertson is a man to love." M'Elhone : " Why don’t
you go over and kiss him, then P" Mr. Read : " If I
had my choice, I think I should prefer to kiss Sir John
rather than the hon. member, notwithstanding those
delicately curved lips and that angelic face for which he
is so noted."
It is reported that the Rev. Dr. Steel was
beguiled into that thebe Davies’ bnn-and-biscuit ban-
quet, under the impression that John would clear up
that " hat” and “diamond-ring" affair; but the cleric
was sold. The C.M.Q. gave them all the “ go-by," and
talked sentiment and twaddle. It went down beauti-
fully, like the cakes and coffee. Y am I Inal
At the Select Committee, yesterday, the Mayor
stated that Davies told him that he had already paid
for the hire of the Coonanbarra the £lllos. out of his
own pocket, and upon hearing this he handed the C.M.G.
a cheque. The Mayor also stated that the £ll 10s. was
paid out of Munloipalfands, and that Davies has cny
returned £8 2s Committee still sittirg,
G. A. Lloyd looks more glum and stolid than
ever behind the Parliamentary lounge of the Great I
Am, since the Hon. Alexander Campbell has been
offered the appointment of Postmaster-General. G.A.,
or his jackal, howls in the Evening Snooze over it.
George has nothing to give, Aleck has. “ There’s the
respect that makes calamity of so long life,” etc.
Said Mr. Daniel O’Connor in the House the
other day“ If I had the power of putting the Colonial
Secretary into the witness box and compelling him to
give the Information, I would get out of him the admis-
sion that the land given to the Governor was the price
of his letters of introduction to distinguished men in
Europe.” Hot coffee, that, both for Lord Qua and the
Great Mogul.
Sir John Robertson resigned from the Parkes
Ministry to save Garrett from political extinction in re
Milbnrn Creek scandal. He says he went back again
because he sympathised with Sir Henry’s ill-health,
and because the land-laws wanted amending. Of course,
the ill-health, and the need for the emendation of the
land laws, didn’t arise at all until Tom Garrett had been
pulled out of the slough.
It will be long before people who saw it will
forget the way poor old Jack wriggled and squirmed,
while the young athletes on the Opposition benches
were driving their spears into him one after the other,
in the discussion on the Address. And when at last he
rose to reply, he complained that he had been attacked
in a cowardly way, while he was too ill to defend him-
self, and was “writhing with pain," It transpired later
that his serious malady was a “ cold in his head."
With respect to the resignation of John Bright,
the Daily News remarked : “ By resigning, Mr. Bright
has been honorably true to the convictions of his
whole life. He now finds the Government committed
to a course of action ha is nnable to approve.” Just so.
But what about Mr. Gladstone and those " Liberals ”
who had all their lives professed convictions identical
with Mr. Bright’s, yet committed those actions which
necessitated hts resignation to save his honor P What
about their honor, and the convictions of their whole
lives ?
A London paper says : —The promise to support
the Khedive does entail disgrace on the promisers if
not carried ont. The Khedive has been made the tool
of the residents, he is now a foreign Viceroy, and we
have no right to impose him on the Saltan or on the
Egyptians. The people of England will submit to any
Government that has led them into war, but there car-
tainly will be a section who will ask how, and to whom,
is England bound to undertake the management of
Egyptian finances in despite of the people and Govern-
ment of Egypt.
Mr. J. P. Abbott, M.P., who Ideprecated the
imputation of motives by one hon. member to another,
yet found it necessary to square his own conscience by
making this general statement: —“ I know some mem-
bers who are sitting behind the Ministry, who strongly
condemn many of the acts of the Government, but who
have a pet scheme to engineer through the House in
the shape of some railway before they dare go in Op-
position. They cannot be independent; they cannot
forget what they want to get." A true illustration of
our legislation.
Tho Day business was nicely cloaked over to
prevent it being introduced into the debate which took
place _ in the Assembly last week. The member so
peculiarly implicated in the business took advantage of
the earliest opportunity to give notice of motion for
the production of all papers connected with the case.
To outsiders, this may appear to be a manly course of
action, but to the Initiated, It assumes a different bear-
ing. Pending a decision on the motion, it would be out
of order for anyone to refer to the case. And a well-
disposed Government needn’t hurry up with the papers.
Seef
Hon. members have scores of times recently,
at banquets, meetings, and other public ceremonies,
told tho panting country that the present Parliament
was as good as, if not better than, any of its prede-
cessors. Last Tuesday was to have been the first
business-day of the session ; yet, after the Assembly’s
Address-in-Reply had been presented to His Excellency,
a quorum of our noble representatives—who have bad
over six months* holiday from their Herculean labors—
oonld not bo obtained to carry on the business of the
country. They weren’t even in the refreshment-
rooms.
For raking up impertinent questions commend
ns to the Forbes and Parkes Gazette. What this
obtrusive journal ” wants to know you know” at pre
sent is this :—“ 1. Is it true that the Hon. John Lackey
bought land at Flagstone Gap, and placed his son on the
* Blowoloar” station? 2. Is it also true that it is now
almost a settled thing that the extension of the main
Great Western Railway will piss neither through
Forbes nor Parkes, bat will go via Flagstone Gap. and
be within 7 miles of Parkes and 6of Forbes P” We
don’t know—ln fact we don’t cars to know. If it is
not true that settles it; but if it is true, why, it’s only
one of those extraordinary little coincidences which
leak out day by day, and which no fellow can under-
stand unless ha knows but no matter.
Willie Campbell “ came out of his shell” so to
speak, in the Assembly on Thursday night. He is a
thorough oppositionist now, and in his speech he di-
racked several sledge-hammer blows at the Government.
Ho infused a large amount of humour into his utter-
ance The best evidence ©f its entertaining quality is
the fact that a large number of members sat patiently
for twenty minntes, after the regular hour for refresh-
ment, to listen to the concluding portion of it. He was
savere on the C.M G. appointment, which he attributed
to the influence of the Premier. “ The other day he
was in favour of ‘ Pop,’ and now he is siding with
1 Bung,’ " —‘ Pop’ being Davies, and • Bung,’ of course,
beingEoberts. This is the summary way in which the
young oppositionist disposed of the latest C.M.Q.’s.
Is it not a remarkable thing that the two mem
hers of Parliament who have figured so prominently be-
fore the public recently, on the Darling Harbour Com-
pensation oase, should have thought that their ser-
vices could bo ef no value to the over-indulgent public,
daring the first week of the new session of Parliament.
As everyone knows, the honourable has gone to New
Zealand for the benefit of his health—very conven-
ient to be troubled with ill health at such a time, but
as for the other compensationist, the universal query is
•‘Where is he?” Out surmise is that he has betaken
himself to some lonely garret, where he is absorbed in
the preparation of a book to be entitled “The mud-
encrusted banks of Milburn Creek, and the slimy waters
of Darling Harbour,” or “ the Royal Road to Fortune —
in politics."
Minister Robertson now admits there is a cer-
tain amount of dnmmyism going on, but he “didn’t
know” it before The public knew it all the time.
Minuter Foster now admits Schoolmaster Plomer's
was “ a most abominable and heinous crime,’’ but
he “ didn’t know” that it merited the death punish-
ment before. Minister Lackey now admits that our
railways and tramways want a little alteration, bat ho
“ didn’t know” it before, because he always travels spe-
cial to the country, and uses a cab in town. Minister
Snttor admits some of our school inspectors are more
competent to wheel a barrow than hold examinations,
but he “ didn’t know” of this irregularity either, and
if there was a Postmaster General up to his work in
his official affairs he'd probably find oat something he
“didn't know” before also. Those are the style of
Israel's gods at present, but it was ever thus —the last
one to hear of a wife’s misdeeds is always the man who
should know first, that is—her husband.
Sir John Robertson says he “ knew where Mr.
Buchanan’s heart was, and he hoped to see him on that
side of the Bouse addressing the Opposition in less
than a fortnight. He did not care, however, what side
of the House the bon. member talked from; but he
liked him to talk whether or no, because his talk was
worthjhearing.” Mr. Buchanan t “ You will hear me
talk a good deal.”— Herald.
Arab! Bey is described by Dr. Henry Field, an
American, wno mat him in company just before the
war, at a party given to celebrate George Washington’s
birthday, as a man of large bnild and heavy features,
with a brilliant eye. “His manner," says Dr. Field,
“ was very quiet, and although it was a merry party,
and Americans and Europeans on all sides wore gaily
drinking wine, he was very grave, and I noticed that
he did not even raise the cup to his lips. He spoke
Arabic, but, through the interpreter, he told me that he
had come out that evening, although not feeling web
to do honour to a man who had freed his country from
a foreign yoke. I felt that he was thinking that what
Washington had done for America he might do for
Egypt. His heavy jaw shows a strong will, and his
eye indicates craft, but it he proves himself a great
man he will disappoint most people who have studied
his face, probably. He is also considered by those who
know him well a sincere patriot—that is, he desires to
elevate Egypt and make his country great. But un-
doubtedly selfish ambition ismingled with his devotion
to Egypt and Mohammed, and he would like to make
himself a monarch." Commander Gollidge of the
U.S. Navy, who resided in Alexandria superintending
the removal of the Obelisk for N. Y., says of Arab! :
I met him frequently and oonversed with him on
Egyptian politics upon several occasions. He struck
me as a man of much force, but not of remarkable
capacity. In manner he was always earnest, and the
mainspring of his thought and actions seemed to be
patriotism of the most lofty type. He never expressed
any dislike for Christians, but frequently gave expres-
sion to feelings of the most intense bitterness against
the English."
On the 10th November last. Sir John Roberts©
resigned his seat in the Ministry because he dis-
approved of the action of his colleagues in the Baker
and Garrett cases. On the 15th ef the same month the
Treasurer delivered his financial statement, in which he
spoke of the inadequate rental received from the
squatters—about £240,000 per annum—and went on to
say “ Were these lands classified and a better tenure
guaranteed to the squatters, the rents of runs might
be fixed at so much per acre according to the suitability
of the country for grazing purposes, by which an
annual revenue of from £1,500,000 to £2,000,000 could
easily bo secured. Even at Id. per acre, 139,000,000 acres
would yield £555,000 which is neatly three times what
it will render this year." The other night Sir John
Robertson was speaking on the question of squatters’
rents and tenure when Mr. Raid referred him to the
statement above quoted. Sir John at first said that
the Treasurer could not have made such a remark;
then, finding that there was no escape on that point, he
tried to put it off by saying that the Treasurer was no
better than other men—he was quite capable of making
mistakes. He repudiated the Treasurer’s doctrine
entirely ; he said that the squatters cannot pay much
more than they do; at any rate the idea of their paying
£2,000,000 was too “ ridiculous, too preposterous, too
absurd” to be thought of for a moment." “Talk
about pushing our railways into the interior to secure
the wool trade for Sydney," continued Sir John, 11 why
if we were to make the rental so high the squatter
would not grow tbe wool, and we should not get the
trade. For me to make such a proposal would be a
crime ; it would be terrible, knowing as much as I do."
Curious logic this : that if the squatters were made to
pay a higher rental they would net produce as much
wool as they do now. Ordinary people would assume
that the squatter would grow all the more wool, so as
to maintain tbe profits to whioh he had been accus-
tomed. Mr. Reid’s interjection must be considered a
happy one, inasmuch as it revealed that on this laud
question the members of the Government do not
agree : and it forced on Sir John the task of declining
to swallow the anti-sqnatterial pill cotnponnded by his
financial colleague. When he makes his financial state-
ment, the Treasurer is considered the mouthpiece of the
Government* and in this case it has heen shown that
there was an extraordinary change in their opinions
within the course of five days. The Treasurer's re-
marks on this head when next he makes his financial
statement, will be awaited with interest. Will he have
what Sir John would term “ the audacity," again to be
"too ridiculous," “preposterous" and ** absurd” ?
We’ll no more shake at Russian threats,
Our little forts to pulverize j
No German growl onr soul now f ets;
No fear of Franco is in our eyee 1
Let cannons thunder—what care we
More terror sure we’ll never feel j
For horraw-frozon now are we—
Great Dave intends to talk a deal.
Oh, mercy, David I Thou art great
Behold us now before thea crawl.
Wouldst thou slay us with a debate ?
Wonldst kill us with a period tall ?
No, David, no, thou hast a heart —
A soul which can soft mercy feel—
Oh, hear the prayer our lips do part,
And, David, don't talk a good deal.


ESTABLISHED
FOWLER'S P
AND
BRICK WOE]
CAMPEEDOWN, NE4
Prioe List on applic
EUR
KA
EUREKA
moke
THE PARAGON OF PE
FINER THAN THE
tH e TOBACCO OF
destined to eclipse an
ALL OTHER BRA
the ONLY TOBACCO COMBINI
OF QUALITY WITH ECONC
Each Pint? is stamped with the v,
SMOKERS SEE THAT YO
Take no other
MANTJF ACTUB
SAYWELL'S TOBACCO I
at the eagle t
KENT AND CLAEENCI
And 0&H ba obtained wholesale at
j Park-street, tiydt
Bold and will bi
as soon as its merits beco
EUREKA TOBAC
Bettered according to Act of Pt
the public against spurious and w<
"HADDOCK'S SELECT
.381 GEORGE STR]
rTIHIS Library is supplied regal;
| Steamer with the latest Pub
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Po
’the higher class of Fiction; also, a
: tines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway
ununioation with Sydney, every fac:
THE HARWC
FIBRE CHAIR SI
Possessing all the qualities of a
Strength, Durability, Ease, Bear
Cheapness.
rpHIS CHAIR SEAT is made
I known fibres and a perfectly
and after fifteen years' constant
poeltivelyl as to its merits. It ca
neither will exposure to sun or rail
Awarded Gold Medal at the la
Massachusetts Charitable Meohani
FOR EE-SEATING, it is un
I house, store, and office, are Chairs
Any person can re-seat and ma
a chair that is otherwise worthle
-expense.
POE SALE BY THE TRADE I
AGENTS WANTED IN EYE
’From £3 to £5 a week can bo mai
*3r boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS &
GENERAL A9ENTS FOE
o ft nr ADDiirnti cm
VIRTUTia GLORIA MEROj
COALCLIFF C
T
HIS NEWTS ST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY annul
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TOR RET. delivered witl
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well fret
and cleaner fire thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smokj
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bnt it affords that domestic desi
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a chare,
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLE!
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO V
ALLAN A. MARSHAL
BONACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLA
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS,
DIVING GEAR, &o.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,;
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES. &o.
THE
WINDO
THE
MOST 1
FASTI
Prevents all
the windt
No weights,
Celebrated; CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS & SPECIAL
I . ■ . i. ed
• i - - • g
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
TI7HEN building nee CALLENDER and SUNS' Pure Bitui
W Cheaper and MORE EFFECTIVE than I
fW. THEGREAI
mam
ONE OF THE WOBLD’I
OARSMEN.
IN a reoont conversation in Kin
a representative of one of the 1
the United States, Mr, Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to i
world, iraTe the following u Aval i
THE
SELF EAISING FLOUE
YEAST POWDER.
H
[■Established 30 Ye.
ODG SON’S WHIT
601, GEORGE STREET
near Qoulburn-giro
B. H O D a s
■Wholesale and Bet
WHIP THONG MANUPAC
Every Description of Kangaroo and <
Made to Order.
'Pl’-iTi'fTTD
670 h.HILD
0-70
"Hllotj
HW.OER
fiQQ>
3
THE BULLETIN.
BfePTEMBIsR 2, 1882.


Chemists and Druggists
ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
Registered.
THE GREAT LIVES REMEDY,
*lO
■ Uj
o
Sr
\0
■S/d
CAUTION.—Owing to the immense sale that my
Pills hare commanded, it has induced dithonest and
dangerous imitations. Ask for
J. S. ABRAHAM’S FILLS
and see that each box, by whomsoever sold, bears the
inventor’s name and trade mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotus, you will net bo able to eough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pltt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
fTUCKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Ana-
JL. trallan Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt Street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY.BTREET, SYDNEY,
■jJNQINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
JJCJ and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marino and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep.washing. Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, with latest improve-
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
JOHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, fto.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
FT
I
G E
O R Q E LAN
(Formerly of George-street,)
IM PORTER OF
E .
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that he has RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartbnrn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Bold in bottles, 2a. 6d. and 4s. 6d., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee.
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viot.; M.H.P.5.,Gt.8.,
QAWLER, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNG * CO.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
(MLIiRALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
;:i>«AINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c, and
€Skcn internally cures DIARRHOEA, DYSENTERY,
«#IAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
and pains. __
J»rice, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor,
MUET.IBOTJKISriE jNTI) SYDNEY.
PAINT
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
One Ounce of Pact is Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES*
»
As is usual, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest Possible Awards.
SINGER’S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition, 1832—Singer’s Sewing
Maohhu s.
FIRST ORDER OF MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS.
Public Companies
rjIHE AUsTEALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-np Capital, .6500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors s
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman ; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Rundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Eedfern,
Glebe, Burwood*
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bonrke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliqnin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gacu-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Molang,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rcckley, Rylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Teuterfield, Ulmann,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Rayenswood, Kwkhamptos, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
XHE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY,
ESTABLISHED 1809.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEHAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300.000
Reserve Fund £120,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
lion. Ww. Busby, M.L.C.
lion. Philip QkUey King, M.L.C,
AUDITORS
las. Scroggie, Esq
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilton.
SECRETAkY:
Hector Alitn.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, brickfield Hill Redfern;
Girilambone; Qoaford ; and Nyngan.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank ot England.
London Office: 15i Leadenhall-street.
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: Q. H. Ah zander. Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Financia
Agency Business on ths most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool an<
other produce shipped to England for sale.
E. J. FOLLEB
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, SY DjN EY,
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direet from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut n the Most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-728 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMAEKET.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to announce that they have
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON'S
ENCAUSTIC TILES.
for
|e ' • ;
FLOORS and HALLS.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
D’AECY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pure, Palatable, and Pleasant.
TRADE
MARK,
rpi Jss
BARRE JOHNSTON AND CO.,
AGENTS,!
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IN BULK AND CASE.
SECTION YII —SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For their
collection of Manufacturing Machine?, a first
order of meric—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company,—-For the Best
Family Sewing Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of construction and dura-
bility,—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
BEAD THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWiEDa
Eoey Terms. Weekly 2i 61 Weekly. Easy Terms.
No Interest. No Addition to the Price. No Interest.
Chief Depot in New South Wales :
No 1 DARLING STORES. HARBOUR STREET.
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathurst. William-street
Malranald,
Dubbo,
Qonlburn, Auburn-street
Qraiton, Viotoria-street
Glen Innes, Grey-street
Hay, Laohlin-street
Ketnpsey, Smith-strcet
Lismore, Wood-Jark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mudgee, Lewis-street
Mos* Vole,
Narandcra,
Newoostle, Hunter-street
Parramatta, Churoh-st
Sydney, The Sydney
Arcade, George-
Street.
Tamworth, Peel-street
Wagga, Bayliss-street.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS
and
SAMPLES OP WORK
Free rom any Depot.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ABE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS i
2«. 6d. per week—2s. od. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no intbeest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER”—
TURNER A COMPANY,
863 Qeorge-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT.
HATMAEKET.
R
O
A
mi
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE. /
New Davit. /
HOWE, / /-
lc.. 4e. /
o
0
The
v
O
*
K
Light
Running
V
STANDARD.
O
9r
V
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and pnrts for all
RRachines.
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath is the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and bane, can bo affected
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, &o„ and rids the
system of all impurities; even mercury is taken out of
the body.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. MOORE,
Hommopathist,
151 Elizabeth- street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which remeves all pain from a burn or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
certificates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
crlkatlve effect on lung complaints, when rubbed into
the chest. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a po 1 kept in every house, oven if
the house is empty, it willdo for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pota, la. and 2s. 6d.
each.
T
HE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER,
pOOLALTA WINE, BODEGA.
MOBT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. U.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had at
the Bodega. Hot Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p m.
A
MAG A WIDF FOP,
f X 0 !• Li. LNCE OF QUALII V
AND 11 IF UIEMIOALJUtiGES 01 IMP
6V DNEY l|4;i ERrJAt r I6N/sfLfXHIBITIGN
H AVF CER fIF If D THAT 11 IS RE At I Y
THE PUREST AND
BEST ID THE WORLD
B V AW ARD I N G .t 6<’>U S THE
ONLV PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECI lON
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
/’ - SYDNEY.
WILLIAM DAVIES COY.
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIbBS
Automatic
Si'ent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10a
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUENB.
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
*o., *o., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
-AN D
g *mp&
vw
Also
F.T. WIMBLE & CQ,
STEREOTYPE / jf J yS
Founds
—AND —
(PUNTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
Hamili n St., Hunter St,,
UTT TD TsiTC^Sr.
LITTLE COLLIN 3 STBEET. KZLSO7SK&
THOMAS W) ARNE,
ENGINEER A " OUNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
TIRE GIRDERS,
AND STOVES.
BURGLAR if COLONIAL
PROOF OVENS,
SAFES DEED
and fmmawßMiy BOXES,
DOORS. *c„ *c.
Works, SUSSEX STREET. * GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Offide and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STREET.
To Country or Intercolonial Journalists.
GENTLEMAN, educated, well-informed, and re-
L liable, is willing to supply city correspondence.
iress, “Mecum,” Bulletin Office.


w. HOWARD SMITH
STRUTH’S WHARF and N:
(Foot of King-strec
Offices : 7 SPRING S
Steam to MELBOURNE]
Every TUESDAY and FR]
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTC
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
i
PATENT PORTABLE GA
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, SY
A
COMPA
ISSUED Ai
be;
TE A I
TRADE MARK ;bi
The Company is now prepared
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores, i
quire no trimming, afford a brilliai
coal gas or kerosene, at lees coat, ai
the hand.
Samples may be seen, and lamps
at the Company’s Show Rooms. Sto
Price lists, 4c., on application to S<
A.
piHARLES TWEMLOW desi
friends and the public that h(
oentraliy-situated Premises, next t<
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, wi
and specially selected stock of Ji
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical (
fully invites an early visit, which \
goods, which are all marked in plain
moderate in price and of the best qn
An experienced staff of workmen
Presentation and other jewellery mo
Watches accurately repaired, ati
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmit
]y E W P R E 1
MR. J. CALLAI
CONFEC lONER AND
so favourably known to the General
Aldermen of various municipalltioi
bodies, has REMOVED to his El«
SHOP, No. 007 * 712 GEORGE STKI
the corner of Qonllinrn-street, whor
to seo his old customers, and to whor
for their liberal support, and hope)
There is a private room and lavi
requisite much needed in Sydney, an
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN S DINNi
WEDDING BREAKFA
MINISTERIAL BAKQ
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is requests
FURNITURE! FUR
MAKE YOUR HOMES CO!
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT
BEFORE commencing the seriou
nishing a New Home or adding
your present Home, you will do weli
WILLIAMSON, M'CREE
who will furnish houses
PERSONAL ITEMS.
1. Gardiner, our late esteemed bushranger,
■ died a pauper inmate of one of tbe ’Frisco
This explains his absence from the Parkes
Werman Hardie goes for the Mayoralty next
3 That’s perhaps why he voted to burke the pro-
-innirv into the Coonanbarra hat transaction of
John Davies.
The three Studds, the cricketing trio, Figaro
A are prominent members of the Salvation Army.
f»J 8, j occasions. General Booth, therefore, has, like
the reporters on economical papers, three studs in his
of piano and boxing celebrity, will
■ a hv the Cuzco. He is chief robber in the firm of
art*tv6U y_ q 0 i w ho have 2810 acres of sugar-land
Creek, Barwon river (N.Q.), Meston is
paging partner.
® rrhe Earl of Clanwilliam, who commanded the de-
fouadron with the Princes on board, and returned
invalided last winter, is again so much out of
W®;. to bo obliged to leave London, and is now
ggj with Lady Clanwilliam.
Amongst Melbourne visitors to Sydney this
iT were—Graham Berry, on private business, and
w®** r p on sick leave. Pait of Graham’s business
to play billiards at a Woolloomooloo hotel with
Me's now damping the Newcastle district.
„ p e iling Hugh Gough Pigott Stainsby Conant,
solicitor, Echuca," has been gazetted a commis-
Esq-, 80 affidavits for the colony of Queensland. Any
sioner i p H Q. P.S.C.’s signature to it would be
doeunie itself. Wonder whether his arm aches
his name once?
An old N.Z. identity has passed away in the
An j 'William Dawson, senior, who died at Inver.
er9 °ll on July 26th. The deceased gentleman landed
cU p'rt Chambers in 1851, was first engaged in business
&t answer, and then took to farming at Long Bush,
u 'loaves behind him 86 relatives, including children,
«nd!ohil6reu and great grand-ohildren.
8 TTcrr Meiling, one of the principal navigators in
n, German navy, ts accused of having accepted a bribe
v! 000 roubles to deliver over to the Russian Qovern-
* « o nieB of the plans and drawings of all the defence
“kVon tbe German coasts. This is, therefore, pro-
TwV the ofiloer who was reported by recent cablegram
t£ have been arrested on a charge ©f treason.
Fred Hatvie Linklater, barrister, erstwhile of
« s, T fiv and now of Adelaide—tbe man whom the iusur.
no awindler Forsyth accused of being the “ specific
“Tof his ruin," and guilty of a “ breach of trust"—
To taken the first proceedings necessary to become in.
D i ent Perhaps Foisv'-h’s return to South Australia
unexpected and unpleasant surprise fsr H.-.rvie.
Rather an amusing little incident occurred be-
t " n Sir George Grey and the Hon. Johnny Martin
JTjL The latter, who always has his coat adorned
.ithsomething floral, met the knight of Kawau. The
nttsr said, "Ahl Martin, I see you have digosma."
Tohnnv was taken all aback, coughed, spluttered, and
«id •• Yes, I have had it rather severe for a couple of
days."
Victoria Woodhull—who is married again, but
» ow t her new name—is going to start as female
candidate for the Presidency of the United States,
The argument of her supporters is that if one Victoria
om govern England, another is capable of governing
America, especially as “the other” him more ability
and character than the first. We don’t say what sort of
character, though.
O’Donovan Rossa is beginning to stink in the
nostrils of American 0 . The banks have refused to take
his account, Ihi Monarch Steamship Co. has with-
drawn his ticket ageuev, and he has received an anony.
mens warning to leave the country if he doesn’t want to
bo lynched. One hundred subscribers have stopped
taking his paper, and the heads of the Land League
have denounced him as an informer.
Rice is mind-reading in the country districts of
fl A., cn route East. He disputes the pretensions of a
Miss Pearson, in the South Fast, who, friends assert,
possesses powers of mind-reading not inferior to those
ct the Professor himself. Rice intends to interview and
te-t the girl. Her raUtives lately endeavoured to
negotiate for an appearance at the Royal, but, perhaps
firtanately for such a novice at public business as Miss
Pearson must be, failed in the attempt.
Lord Augustus Loftus is not likely to become
fond of having the feet of Mr. W. R. Campbell, M.P.,
too often under his mahogany. This is how W. R. C.
alluded to Hia Excellency the other night in the 'Ouse :
—lt, instead of sending us out worn-out, impecunious
politicians,they—(fit this pronoun on t o Downing-street,
dear reader)—sent ns men like Sir Hercules Robinson,
we might be properly represented to the home authori-
ties." And the Speaker never cried, “ Order."
Frank Skeffington Carroll, of the Adelaide
Lantern, in trouble again. The holder of the copy-
right of Pasquin— the racy satirical paper edited by
the late Mr. Mitford —employed a London firm of
printers to publish the issues of that journal in a
volume, for the benefit, it is alleged, of Mitford’s
widow. Carroll advertised that he would publish
Pasqcin by instalments with the Lantern, and give it
away. He did so, was hauled up, and fined £2. He
Intends appealing.
Burns, the man brought in aa “ not guilty ” of
the D-ep Lead murder, now stands charged by detec-
tive Brown—the father of the Melbourne detective
force—with the murder of a quondam mate named
Qoinlivan two or three years ago. Burns has not the
orthodox murderer’s features. Ho is a moder-
ately good-looking man with a long beard of a
sandy colour, just turning grey. He has a furtive
habit of throwing sly glances around him, which is his
only unprepossessing characteristic.
In July last the Lord Mayor of London granted
a summons, on the information of Sir Henry Tyler,
Bart., M.P., against Mr. G. W. Foote, editor, Mr. W.
J. Esmeay, publisher, and Mr. E. Whittle, printer of a
paper called the Freethinker, published at the office
of Mr. Bradlaugh, 28 Htonecntter-street, London. The
summons charges the defendants with writing, print-
ing. and publishing a blasphemous article in that paper
This was a preliminary to the prosecution of Mr. Brad-
laugh himself, news of which was received here by
cable in August.
Mr. Fleming has just been tried for clearing out
with funds to the extent of oie million pounds’
sterling, the property of the City of Glasgow Bank, of
which he was th« dearly-beloved director. The reason
he didn’t take the bank along as well was because he
was afraid his brother directors might miss it. His
punishment was terribly severe. He was sentenced to
eight months’ imprisonment, or exactly ten months
less than a post-office clerk receives for lifting two
pounds. This clearly proves wo don’t monopolise all
the [roguery or stupidity on this earth by a long way,
that Judges are Judges all over the world —except
10 E?JPt; there they go as it pays them.
Says George Augustus Sala in the Illustrated
Lor non News Archibald Forbes should have been
aboard ship in the harbour of Alexandria on the morn-
JjJJ 0* Tuesday, July 11. But the great war special, I
S““*r from the San Francisco News Letter, is at
Melbourne. Unkind people say that Smythe greased
vße steps of Government House, so that the journalist
supped and sprained his ankle after dining with Lord
"Mtus." We needn't wonder about general English
jfßorance of Australian matters when such a great
utcr&ry gnn as Gussy complacently lives und. r the
Jr 11011 that his vice-regal namesake is Governor of
v lotona. Sir ’Enry hasn’t half advertised us.
pTbo atrabilious David Blair, who used to be a
Wsbyterian clergyman, hut is now an unbeliever and
nr> fv,° n L- or two °* Mortimer Franklin's bantlings, got
w«» e Melbourne banquet to Sir Henry Parkes. It
the way, David who edited Henry’s volume of
speeches,’’ published a few years ago. Biair, after
“turning round a great deal, found that he ceuldn’t
«p a meeting to take the affair in hand, so he went
hirnfu Bomeone to Mr, Berry, and tried to persuade
banquet to Sir Henry was just the very
v. “*• tl.B. good-naturedly assented and now we
who 8 r**st us a distinguished visitor from Victoria,
anaS ’ ed get somcbod y into our railway.
the officials are injuring their intellects in
daoa 10 why Cainese Gordon should re-
* nu °wn salary. The conception of a perfectly just
man, who considers his own interests as impartially as
he considers the interests of other people t is notjpossible
to the official mind. Here is a man who has no desire
to grab money, no desire to be puiled, no desire for any-
thing in the world except to live a noble and gracious
life. What can the British Official make of such a
phenomenon ? The British Official simply gasps and
makes plaintive inquiries." The foregoing is from a
London paper. Things are quite different here, of
course. John Davies is the man who could fully enter
into Colonel Gordon’s feelings.
John Davies, C.M.G., might well envy even a
Spanish bull being baited for the delight of an amphi-
theatrioal audience. He sneaked into the City Council
Chamber last week when there was barely a quotum of
aldermen present, tendered a quati-apology before the
minutes were read, and sneaked out again. Alderman
Playfair has dabbed him a “ walking mystery.” On
Tuesday last, when M'Elhono brought forward a motion
that Davies should be required to prove his allegation
that he could “ involve the whole Council," the C.M.Q.
didn’t turn up. “Honest John” declined to “kick a
dog when he was down," but threatened to bring an-
other motion on, it Davies didn’t attend next time.
The “hat trick” will also bo explained in due course.
General Booth, of the Salvation Army is 52,
gaunt, iron grey, and by no means vulgar; vigorous,
never jolly, and 'pure English. He was “ converted ”
at 15, and has preached ever since. He knows nothing
of any games, recreations, literature, science or music,
except so far as they are brought into the combat he
imagines himself to be waging with the devil. H ; s
children are steeped in “salvation" enthusiasm, and
the keynote of their teaching is to do the devil all the
harm possible in as many ways as possible. He is the
supreme power in the Army, and says he intends to be
so—the power cannot be divided —and, when he dies,
bis eldest son is to inherit the mantle. Altogether, the
General is so terribly in earnest, that it’s impossible
Old Hornie can survive much longer.
The Californian Tiohborne Claimant cropped
up in this fashion: —A year ago, an attorney of
Sonora, was requested by a new client to write to the
United States Government with respect to his pension
as an officer in the late war; and that attorney being a
cute man, soon discovered that his client’s name was
Tichborne. On this—with inconceivable folly, instead
of promptly dying and taking his dread secret with
him —he made inquiries, and spread the awful news, the
result being that the client owned he was Boger, and at
once proceeded to draw a ground plan of Alresford
House, his family seat. The Sonora “ Boger” has been
recognised by a party on the spot, who was page-boy to
Sir E. Doughty ia 1835 That, going by the precedents
we possess, is about the worst thing that could have
happened to him. It makes the odds against him
positively crushing.
The trustees of the Australian Museum are
advertising for a new secretary, the gentleman who
has hitherto occupied that position having levanted
with £6OO or £7OO, more or less, belonging te the insti-
tution. When the matter comes to be thoroughly over-
hauled, it is to be hoped that the trustees will be com-
pelled by Government to make good the lots out of
their own pockets. Had proper precautions been taken
the defalcations could not possibly have occurred. One
or two of the trustees knew all about the deficiency a
good while before the departure of the secret ary, who
is, probably, now cooling his heels on the way to
Shanghai. The most wonderful part of the business
lies in the fact that, though weeks have elapsed since
the money was missed, not a word has been said about
the affair by any of the Sydney papers, though even the
Namoi Independent appears to have known all about
it.
Mr. Thomas Bracken, M.P. for Central Dunedin
(N.Z.) is a genial Irishman, and a pressman. He is
author of the well-kaown (in N.Z ) “ Paddy Murphy"
papers, and edits the Saturday Advertiser. Mr,
Bracken is famous also in N.Z. as a poet, and a bari-
tone singer. He recently astonished the House of
Bepresentatives with his vocal talents. He was de.
tending Mr. Fish,from the attacks of the Colonial Secre-
tary, and asserted to Mr. Dick that the expression,
“ Mind yourself afore folk,” is part of a Scotch song,
and not a proverb. At this stage, some wag interjeoted,
“Sing it, then;" and, to the utter surprise of the
House, Mr. Bracken sang the whole song in h'B deep
stentorian voice, a U Elooardi, and the argument was
settled. The House was convulsed, and an encore was
demanded, -wMle Speaker, who is a Scotchman,
said nothing, hot stit inwardly choking with laughter.
Bracken didn't respond to the encore, however.
Joseph Cook has been interviewed by some
ambitious yoath on the Advertiser staff. Joseph is
rough on the religious publications when
saying that —“ In Melbourne and Sydney there
are one or two disreputable weeklies published.
Of course the best part of society detests them, and
they live only on the support accorded them by the
loafer classes of the community." Joseph, speaking of
Sydney matters, said: “The curves of the rippling
coves are things of beauty and will be joys for over.’
Now, what coves does he mean —policemen, M.P.’s, Or
tram-drivers ? A tram-driver is possibly a oove who
ripples more than a policeman—but what cove is it that
ripples most? If a cove can’t ripple in Sydney without
attracting Joseph’s sttention life will go hardly there
with most of us. When Joseph ripples into the here-
after he will be one cove pitchforkod and brimstoned,
if his theology i* trae, into regret for these needless
aspersions on other coves.
Mr. Quongr Tart, the Chinese tea merchant, has
had a grievance with the Evening News. He prevailed
upon some Chinese friends to attend the banquet to
Sir Henry, and the News, in a brevity par, asked why
they did honour to the man who brought in the Chinese
Bestriction Bill. Quong called at the office and asked
for the manager, who was produced. “Ihave a few
words for your paper” said Quong, “ I not want all of
it, but I will oblige yon with two inches." His letter
was published, in which he stated that so much had
been said about the Chinese being unwilling to enter into
social life with Europeans, that he thought the banquet
would bo a flitting opportunity to induce some of his
friends to appear in public in refutation of the charge.
Those were their motives for attending, as well as to do
honour to the father of the Chinese Bill. When Quong
made his request to his countrymen, they demurred,
pleading “no savee" as to the customs of the
Europeans at a public banquet. “ Oh, welly easy," re-
plied Quong, “all same drink plenty, eat plenty, and
shout hoolay,"
Sir A. H. Gordon arrived in Sydney harbour in
the steamer Gunga. Lady Gordon and family
are here waiting for him in order to proceed to
England by the P. and O. mailboat. Sir Arthur’s
Fijian servant has a cutateous eruption which gives
symptoms of being small-pox, and the vessel was quaran-
tined in consequence. It is wonderful how long it
takes a medico to diagnose small-pox. If a poor an-
influential man gets a rash, the chances are ten to one
his house ia whitewashed, his goods and chattels dis-
infected or burnt, and he and his family are clapped off
to the quarantine station without delay. But when the
flunkey of|a great man becomes sick, and the great man
is likely to be inconvenienced, it “behoves"—as Jack
Gardiner of Victoria would say—the attendant medico
to be careful, and to only look wise until the disease
surely develops itself. When a man feels like getting
small-pox, ho ought first to hire himself out an a valet
to, at least, aC. M.G. However, what wo are troubled
at is, not the detention in quarantine of Sir Arthur
Gordon, but the quarantining of our usual supply of
bananas.
Archibald Forbes has run his warlike frontis-
piece against the 8. A. Marine Board. It appears that
an accident recently happened to a dredger-hand, who
was temporarily disabled. Archibald Forbes incident-
ally alluded to this fact in one of his Adelaide lectures,
adding—’ 'a ben efleent Govern me nt has natural ly stopped
his pay during his illness." The Marine Board, with the
great Fergusson at its head, got wroth. The dredger-
hand was in their department, aud Forbes evidently was
guilty of the crime of being ignorant of their existence.
So they corrected the great lecturer. Speaking of this,
Archibald Forbes said : “ This the Board did in a oour-
toous and foibesriog manner for which I am naturally
gratelul. I seem to have bean only twioe called itnper-
tinont, and three times a liar. Under these cireum-
stances, I most readily and fully withdraw the state-
ment that gave offence, and apologise for having given
the Board the pain of having to make use of some pretty
strong expressions. From this category, however, I
would exsept the language made use cf by Colonel Smith,
the terms used by that distinguished and gallant officer
having been exceptionally courteou-, genial, and
flattering,”
Skobeloff, the papers say, died of a cardiac
affection —he strained one of the valves of his heart at
Plevna, Henri Bcchofort, however, avers that the
great Russian General was poisoned. A London paper
takes the same line, remarking.:— “We shall never
know the exact truth, but we can pot things together.
Skobeloff was too powerful; he had come to favour the
Society of the People’s Will; the Army would have
gone to Ohina with him; he was the hope of the Revo
lutionary Party; he was bitterly envied by Melikeff;
Melikoff is the son of the Tzar and ally of the Court
Party; hundreds of other officials hated and feared him.
Add to this string of facts the followingSkobeloff
was in splendid health, but there is a drug called
digitalis whereof one grain will kill the strongest man
instantly; Skoboloff’s heart stopped, which is the
instant result of taking digitalis ; the heart was gorged
with venous blood—therefore the intelligent and courtly
physicians said the heart was * contused.'And the Eng-
lish journalists believed this story. The wild hero has
gone to his rest, and it is perhaps well for us. No man is
necessary, but be was the only Russian General who,
while wishing to strike at India, had a definite notion of
how the blow was to be struck."
Sir Garnet Wolseloy, the British Commander-in-
Chief in Egypt, joined the 80th Regiment in 1852, being
then 19 years of age. His first service was in the
second Burmese war, under Sir John Cheape. In a
storming operation against the stronghold of Kyouk
Azr('n, he was wounded in the left thigh with a gingal
ball and sent home invalided. This led to his pro-
motion to a lieutenancy in the 90th, then engaged in the
Crimea. In trench duty in August, 1855. Wolseley was
all but shattered by a shell that killed the two sappers
who were assisting him. The shell burst in a gabion
that had been packed with gravel, and the explosion
simply "stuck Wolseley full of stones." Jagged bits
of pebb’os were embedded in him all over from head to
faot. There was not a square inch on his face that had
not its stone ; his left cheek was all but torn away, his
eyes were closed (to this day he is blind of one eye),
and part of the bone of his left shin was carried away
bodily. He was picked up for dead, but astonished the
surgeons who were speaking of him as quite gone, by
cheerily mumbling that ho was “ worth a dozen dead
men yet." In 1857, he started with his regiment for
China, but the 90th was, while en route, diverted to
India to assist in the mutiny. He was at the
final capture of Lucknow, and saw the last of the
mutiny. Ho was created a lieutenant-colonel at the age
of 26. He next fought in Chinn at Sinho, and saw the
surrender of Pekin. At the close of this war he was
despatched to report upon the Taepings. Afterwards
he was on the Canadian staff, and he paid a visit to the
Confederate armies during the American civil war. He
commanded the bloodless Red River expedition, which
made him a colonel and a K.C.M.G. In 18?3, he was
sent at the head of the Gold Coast expedition, at which
the now famous " Wolseley gang" were first enrolled.
This Ashantee campaign ended, Wolseley was created a
Major-General and a K.C.8., and was further awarded
a grant of 425,000. In turn, Natal, the Levant, Cyprus,
Zululand, and the Transraal received his services. Now
his place is Egypt. The Horae Guards authorities are
inveterately hostile to Sir Garnet, who, however, has so
far overcome all obstacles by the sheer force of his in-
domitable will.
Lavington Glyde, the present Treasurer of South
Australia, has always been a financier. He came to the
colony some thirty years ago, with cash and a draft on
the Bank of South Australia at sixty days. The pro-
clivities of the man were early developed, for within
the next week all his money had been lent out at a high
rate of interest. Then he wanted to draw against the
draft, having further applications for loans; but old
Stephens, the then manager, refused uncivilly. When
that draft matured, young Glyde withdrew the amount,
walked up the rudimentary King William-street of
that period, and opened an account with the Bank of
Australia. He still banka there, and his cheque would
be good for a satisfactory (though not massive) figure.
Lavington, always an intensely respectable man, once
was a pillar of the local Congregational Church, and
still attends occasionally at evening service. At no
time during his residence in South Australia has he
been able to grasp the real meaning of large affairs—to
see a future tor the colony—or to do anything but small
things in a small way. His Jeremiads became proverbial.
He incessantly cried " Wolf " for the simple reason that
such capacities as were his mental stock-in-trade would
never allow of any other conclusion. His want of faith
in the country, and inability to see a future before it,
have been simply ludicrous. A more honestly unpopular
man never breathed. If it rested with the electors of
his own district—his neighbours, and those who know
him best—Lavington Glyde would never occupy a seat
In the South Australian Parliament. At least, he pos-
sesses the virtue of knowing this, for the electorate
which returns him is next to the Victorian border, and
has nothing like a reasonable cognizance of its
member. It is questionable whether at this moment
Glyde believes in the country of his adoption. Fears
of national bankruptcy incessantly have agitated him.
He timidly deprecates everything resembling enter-
prise—which ho is unable to dissociate from wild specu-
lation. His income has mostly been derived from
agencies for absentees, money-lending, and wool-buying.
His people belonged to Bradford, and there Lavington
acquired this last business. So far as regards the
initiation of anything approaching a suitable public
polioy|there, is no man living in whom the country
would have less confidence. Glyde never initiated;
never was capable of doing ; and follows in the foot-
steps of those who do in fear and trembling. But
all along he has been noted as a consistent, if grueful,
politician ; an honest taxpayer; a decent, if somewhat a
Gradgrindish, father; and perfectly incorruptible as a
private individual. No man looks sharper after
a five-shilling director’s fee, and, possibly, no
other man would do so much work for the
money. Lavington’s faith in the place was,
perhaps, rudely shaken by a fit of mining mania
which overtook him when copper was up in price and
rampant on Yorke’s Peninsula, and when useless silver-
lead was raised from the treacherous Talisker mine.
The writer would sooner have the sum then lost by
Lavington Glyde than many a big newspaper’s gross
receipts for a year. Poor old Eustace Mitford
(“ Pasqnin") hated Glyde with a perfect and unending
hatred. He looked on Lavington as the very person to
throttle a new country. Mitford’s tremors were quite
excusable, for a close grasping, business-like Christian
Pharisee will never inspire confidence in patriotic
thinkers. Just now, Glyde seems anxious’to free him.
■elf from his well-earned reputation of smallneis and to
plunge blindly in another direction. This is but
blundering, and blundering which may be fatal to him-
self and the Ministry for whom he finances. He has no
in* {mates outside his own family, and makes the grand
mistake of never propitiating humbler people. It would
be allowable to go further and assert that Laving-
ton Glyde cannot anyhow produce an agreeable
impression on those beneath him. A true gentleman
can always be pleasantly familiar with his inferiors.
Lavington, however, is unable to do this, and conse-
quently gains credit tor a careful snobbishness which
nowise helps him. Perhaps this weakness is merely
the result of an overmastering fear of the bond fides of
other men. His favourite poet is Tennyson, on whom
he occasionally lectures. Lavington is possibly not to
bo blamed for the greater wrong done to Charles
Dickens. He is, or was, very similar in features and
build to the late distinguished novelist. Dickens, while
alive, was informed of this by some malicious colonial
correspondent, and ever afterwards considered the fact
his worst misfortune. Lavington plays whist well, and
belongs to a whist-club. He lives at Kensington in an
ugly, bl;f bouse, on a desolate triangle of ground, use-
ful for nothing but to produce straggling gums. So far
as private rectitude goes, there are few members of
Parliament who surpass; but, somehow, the newest and
boldest adventurer can gain a better place in the affec-
tions of the South Australian people than Lavington
Glyde after an unblemished residence of over thirty
years among them.
• * •
W. F. Brown, a rich young squatter at Tunde-
burine, near Coonabarabrau, leaned his head on his rifle
and blew his cranium to pieces Some Upper Waikato
natives have issued a proclamation offering a reward of
£lOOO, or 5000 acres of land, to any person who will
deliver into their bands Barlow, the capturor of Winiata,
who was, the other day, hanged in Auckland for murder-
ing Packer Mr. T. P. Pugh, Police Magistrate at
Rockhampton, presented with an address and purse of
sovs. on the occasion of bis transference to Warwick.
Mr. Pugh is an old Queensland identity, and was for
many years in Brisbane, being well known as a press-
man and as the compiler of “ Pugh’s Almanac." He
has a brother on the staff of the Melbourne Abqus.
Mr. O. P. Murray, P.M., goes to Toowoomba, and Mr,
B. Cribb takes Pugh’s seat on the Rockhampton Bench.
Tennyson receives a guinea per line for his most
ephemeral writings, and £4500 a year for the sole light
of publishing his works The World says that a
very curious question will shortly arise, and a trial take
place, respecting the law of legitimacy, which closely
effects the family of a popular earl.
5
September ii, 1882.
THE BULLETIN.


THE ACSTEALASIAN D]
COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will bo undertaken
ptmy to bore any sized boles, ver
up to
3 INCHES OE LAB
if required, to any depth, at a re dm
25 PEE CENT BELOW ANY PM
The Company in all oases will fine
water for drilling purposes, and v
for loss of diamonds or wear and
will also provide workmen, enginee
The nex duplex barrell introduce<
Mr. J. Coghlan will be used free (
searching for minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every ronfldenc*
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, tb
give general satisfaction, as well i
all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices. 283 Ge
JOHN COQt
General 1
>EIZE AWARDED, MEL]
BITION. 1882,
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLi
COMPANY, SYDb
Manufacturers o
SCHOOL, GI.DE £ and CHUI
and Educ pliances of <
R. C. TROUGHTON
PEOPEIETOES
Contracts taken, and estimates g
up of Schools, Colleges, Church
Museums, &c , to any extent and i
Proprietors, Inventors, and Manufi
ton’s Eoversible Desks. &c. (Eegisl
AND GENERAL CONTB
Steam Works —DICKSTEEET, ol
STREET.
Lithographs of Designs and Cata]
application.
Upwards of 200 schools already
ILTING.—PASHIONAI
_ STYLE 1 BEAD’S Im
Jnsifont, 55., at Sewing Machi
yiv
6
u
NDEE SECTION
AET UNION.
PUECHABE of the BUNGAEI
FEEEHOLD ESTA
by Subscription.
10,630 BUBBCEIBEES ol
120 PRIZES of the full vain
117 lots guaranteed, cash if
Lot I.lst prize £4OOO I Lot 3.
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £l5
Lot 10,1 Prize of £5O.
Lots 11 to 20,10 Prizes o
Lots 21 to 120,100 Prizes
The management is compelled to
drawing to the first day of Augu
standing this announcement, the
tively be proceeded with seven da
are subscribed for. All unsuccesi
have their money returned per rotm
the grandest opportunity ever offc
stantial prize, if not a large and ii
Address —SETH E. PBBSSE, N
European Chambers; Box, Post Ofl
BEAD PEOSPECT
THE BLACK CUEEAI
Acts lil ea chirm irovery kin
A Single Dose gives Belief at oi
Eefreshing Sleep
MADE ONLY BY
ANTHONY HORDER]
PALACE EMPOF
HATMAEKET (ONI/
Paper hia ]
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAP]
CEILING
figu;
imported by
ALEXANDER BO
281 GEORGE STREET (Oppo
PAINTERS’ AND DECORATO
Ganuine White Lead, Oils, Paints,
Brashes, Gold Leaf
Q
UEENSLAND
GRBSLET LUKIN a
Sydney,
PASTORAL, MINING and PLAI
Temporary Offices, 289 G«
Opposite Huater-st
GRESLET LUKIN and CO. ai
lowing Incorporated Gold-mining (
land: —
Glanmire and Monkland G. 1
Hibernian Tribute G. M. Co.
Nicboll’s Lease G. M. Co.
North Lady Mary G. M. Co.
No. 2 North Lady Mary G. li
North Glanmire G M Co.
North Monkland G M. 6a.
No. 1 North Phoenix G. M. C
No. 2 North Phoenix Q, M C
United St, Patrick G. M. Co.
New Zealand Tributors.
Mining Managers’ Reports regnli
est information on Queensland J
tained through special agencies. 1
ing journals filed.
RIVER DARLING
COMPANY
To be Incorporated bt Act c
CAPITAL, £200.000 IN SHARI
Provisional Direct
EDWARD QUIN, Esq., M.P.,
THOS. LUKE, Esq., J.P., Wilcam
T, J. HAYDON, Esq., J.P., do.
Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L
W. C. Palmer, Esq., J.P , "W
E. W. Donnkllt, Esq., Qnal
O. H. Wbeford, Esq., Moon
H. C. Armstrong!, Esq., Wil
Arthur Woodfall, Esq.. W
Walterus Brown, Esq , J.P
Charles Q. Lush. Esq., Mel!
J. 8 Reid, Esq., Wiloannia.
J. Sugdf.n, Esq,, Wiloannia.
W. J. Holding, Wentworth.
T. W. CHAMBERS, Esq., Wil
THIS Company is proposed to
I urpose of making the EL
nously navigable between Wilcanni
distance of about 270 miles.
Tho total fall in the River bet'
mentioned has been ascertained by
to be only 87 feet 3 inches.
Tho River is known to possess gr
for Looking, the bed of it being b
places along its course by bars «
Locks or Weirs could be construct!
small outlay.
It has been determined, in order
having a thorough survey of the I
liable sstimate of the cost of consti
Looks ,and for the disbursement
expenses, to dispose of 50,000 Sha
upon which one shilling per Shar
ment, with a guarantee that no t
upon the said 50,000 Shares until fi
construction purposes.
Discretion is given to tho Froi
expend any moneys subscribed for
jocts of the Company, notwitbstan
Shares proposed to be sold may nol
Forms of application for Shares (
Messrs. Robertson
Wiloannia, May 2nd, 18S2.
s
ydney woo
■ft) THE WOOLGROWEES 0
WALES AND QUEEN
In again offering you our servic
wool or other produce, we desine
notice the increased facilities pro
trans icting any business with wh:
SPEINQ COSTU
THE NEW FANCY P0M1
COSTUMES this season are exo
fording ample room for choice in '
the same time the prices are very
Ladies Costume of this material,
Plain Sateen for 12s. 9i. Child
4ts lid.
| MANTLES AND D(
Specially selected from the foi
don and Paris ; THE NEW GEA
DK LEON MANTLE trimme
Fringe, and Splendid Ornaments,
LACE FICHUS &o , &o., in gr<
| HATS AND BON
The Latest snd Most Fashional
HATS and BONNETS for prasen
in our Show Boom, and also in o
dows in Gipps-street, where ever
seated.
SPEING FLGV
For Beauty, Variety, and Coi
Cases present the finest display c
Flowers in the City, every Colon
being found in this collection.
LACES. |
By the use of onr New Patto
effect a very greet saving of tii
New Patterns being sojirranged.
I MEN’S cloth:
Onr preparations in this Depart
Rummer Seasons, enable us to of!
GENTS’, YOUTHS’, snd BOYS’
description of cloth and variety
well oat and made, and at prices f;
below Sydney usual prices.
Oents’ Reasonable Suits, com pi
Gents’ Fancy Vests, neat patte:
Gents’ Black Cloth Frock Coati
Gents’ Fancv Worsted Coats 31
Gents’ Tweed Trousers 3s 9d.
Youths’ Sac Coats 3s 6d.
Little Boys’ Knicker Suits 5a 1
MEN’S HAI
STIFF FELTS 3a 61, splendid
FRENCH POCKET HATS 4s
DR AB SHELL HATS 4s 6d, v
BLACK PARIS HATS 6s 61, t
BOOTS AND SI
AT THE PALACE EMPOBIDI
Cheaper than at any other Hoi
the largest Stock to select from
A very good pair of
LADIES' BOOTS for 3s 6d
GENTS’ ELASTIC SIDES foi
DERBY SHOES for 5s 9d.
CARPETS, FURNITURE, GLaSS A
IMMENSE PALACE
HAYM A K J
(ONLY).
NO BRANCH HOUSES. ONLY TI
PATENT GL
NEW J
(Specially wotmi
SEWIK
SCROCHET AN
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of
them :—Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prise Medal; London, 1861. Onl
London, 1862. Gold Medal; Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honov
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence.
Ask for BROOK'S SEWI2
BROOK’S
Trade mark
BROOK
ANTHONY HORDERI
T
iHE TAILOE FOR THE PUBLIC.
F. H. HA6ON,
late cutter to K. C. Hagon, of 127 King-street,
havingftaken -
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
- at -
162 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every I acility will be afforded him, for
hayipg his work cade under his
PERSONAL. S OPBBVIBION,
iajiojy in a position to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILORING
of a quality and price that cannot be Excelled.
West of England'TwetjdTSnits, to order. 63a.
Saotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 63*.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16a 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 16s 6d.
N.B.—All Garments HAND-MADE.
P. H. HAGONV
F..H. HA.QON.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
a line about the Royal. The last nights of
K-Vnidh” were as remunerative as the first. This
slma has had a magnificent run. The "Lights of
London" will be produced on Saturday night.
* ♦ * *
A number of semi- melodramatic dramas have
been put on at the Gaiety during the last week. On
Wednesday and Thursday night we had the "Colleen
■n ’’ This piece belongs to a class of plays which
C?«Tnot vet become unpopular, bat are running, with
TLlbrakes up, down a very steep gradient to unpopu-
JkjL, People are getting the! of the gush and the
ii©tasane drollery that playwrights have been giving
for some years past as genuine reproductions cf
♦be wit and pathos of the “ green pile." However, as
People are always getting tired of something at some
♦fme or other, it may not be the chivalrously correct
♦ biue to kick thess poor old tatterdemalion dramas
'w that they are down and the cobwebs have
D ottled a foot deep on their venerable scenery. Let us
Ha charitable, and let them rest in peace and rot in
pieces, “ the world forgetting, by the world forgot.”
v m • •
Mr W. Reynolds didn’t make half a bad
„ Mv ies na Coppaleeu.” We dare not trust ourselves to
“anything further lest we should make some state-
ment that would wound Walter’s feelings, which, as he
knows we would not do for the whole world and a
capper button. There is, fortunately, no necessity for
•urh reticence in the case of Mr Frank Cates, whose
•‘Hitdress Cregau ’’ was a highly presentable character
—if not a very impassioned one. It is a pity that this
clever ysung actor is compelled to take parts which are
so utterly foreign to his style of acting. Mr. W. Medus,
os Kyrle Daly, was no better than he ought to be with
such a name—which means that he is of ghastly little
account, indeed. We should, in order of merit, have
dealt with Mr. W. H. Leake first, but our judgment
was dazzled by the big type in which Walter’s name
was announced at the top of the programme. Mr.
Leake’s Danny Mann was a good piece of acting,
although such parts are, as in Mr. Frank Cates’ case,
infinitely below him. Mr. J. Fo’ey’s Corrigan was more
than passable. The rest were just passable enough to
he passed without further mention.
• • •
f»MiaB Myra Kemble made a pretty, if not a
highly artistic, Colleen Hawn. Miss Nelly Playfair,
mAubo Chute, was just as she always is and
always will he in any part—which statement, if not
bcwilderingly novel, is at least convenient, as it saves
us from a lot of criticism which we imagine would
he quite as disagreeable to the young lady herself as it
would be to us. Mrs. Stammers plays Mrs. Cregan,
Miss Grace Hathaway Shelah, Miss B. Sutherland
Ducie, and Miss Camb, Kathleen.
• • •
We have taken up so much space with the
consideration of the classic “ Colleen Bawn,” that we
have not much to spare for the “ Octoroon," which was
played on the succeeding nights. Walter Reynolds
played Wahnotee. This noble savage, as Walter repre-
seated him, seemed to have had trouble before he got
mixed up with the affairs of Jacob M’Closky. He had
evidently gone upon the war-path against another
tribe, and found the tribe at home. Consequence was
that they scalped as much of him as they could catch,
that is to say the legs up to the thigh-bone. The fore-
going sente uce seems to sail along pretty smoothly,
but we have a corroding suspicion that our knowledge
of Indian anatomy is a bit shaky. The question stands
thus: If an Indian were skinned, what colour would
kis endermis be ? The epidermis is red, and the other
should be white. We have never seen anything skinned
except a parson’s horse or his congregation, conse-
quently we are not in form to grow eloquent over this
phase of the subject. But Walter was very piebald
indeed. His body was red and his legs were white
There is never any monotony about Walter. His act-
ing was fully equal to his make-up, and his make-up
was frightfully suggestive of the “raw-headand bloody
bones ’’ ogre, whose expected advent down the chimney
used to make one skin crawl with terror in the days of
onr happy childhood. Salem Scudder wore a hay wig
to indicate that ho was the good robber of the play,
and Jacob M’Closky, a black one made of tarred boot-
laces, to show that he was the villain. This touching
fidelity to the traditions of barn-door tragedy is one of
the things that make us look with some respect upon
the patient moke trudging from day to day upon his
weary whim-round. Mr. W. A. Leake played Salem
Scudder, and he played it well. Mr. Tasman played
Jacob M’Closky, and he played it—well. The two fore-
going sentences will serve to illustrate our new patent
method of varying our meaning while economising our
language. Miss Hathaway took the part of the
Octoroon, and Miss Playfair that of Dora Sunnysides.
We have nothing to say about either of them or about
anyone else in the piece, save that we suppose they did
their best and that we wish their best were better.
* * * *
Kellar’s season at the Opera House concluded
on Friday night. Horace Bent’s burlesque business
was a mighty attraction during the last week. Mr.
Kellar goes to Adelaide this week. We wish him better
success there than he had here.
* * * *
Mr. Vernon Reid, being a nice little singer,
shall have a nice little paragraph all to himself. One
night next week he takes a benefit. The programme
will be eclectic. The last acts of two or three popular
operas will be rendered, and songs and ballads during
the intervals One of these songs is, a little bird
has whispered to us, now being written and composed for
the occasion. We can’t disclose the name of it for
several reasons—principally because we don’t know.
If any further attraction is needed to fetch you round
to the Victoria Hall, dear readers, why, we shall he
there. You will know us by our smile.,
* * * *
A popular concert was given at the Temperance
Hall en Saturday evening last. We are given to un-
derstand that these things take plaoejregularli, but as
the Horror on the Threshold is said to scrutinise the
face of every one who passes in, and refuse admission
to anyone who has a lambent nose, we have not patron-
ized these entertainments as yet. We are indebted t©
a correspondent for the information that the conc-rt
was a reasonably decent one. We sympathise com-
pletely with the motive of these shows. They serve as
counter-foils to the bar-counter and other inducements
of the like kind, that lead the youth of this fair land
astray on Saturday evenings. If the concert had a
head we would pat it.
* * * *
If any actor in this city deserves a really square
par. that a«tor is Mr. Frank Cates. This gentleman
has done more, both in person and professionally, to
elevate the prestige of the Stage than a number of more
pretentious persons who have come here from time to
time in a blaze of glory and with a blare of jewsharps to
carry everything before them. Which leads up to the
statement that Mr. Cates takes a benefit at the Gaiety
on Friday night, when he will play the original version
of "The Bells,” as played by Mr. Henry Irving at the
Lyceum, Loudon. There will be an interlude in which
Mr. F. j. Hallewell will sing, and Mr. Walter Reynolds
will recite. Tom Buckley and Charles Holly will also
appear, and dance their “Double American Champion
Belt Jig,” and Mr. Walter Carle will sing a musical
medley. The entertainment will be concluded by a
performance of the “Area Belle” by the Lytton
Dramatic Club, assisted by Miss Sutherland and Miss
Hathaway. If Mr. Cates rakes in as much money from
this benefit as we wish him, he will kneel down and pray
for somebody to come and rob him, to get rid of the
anxiety of looking after it.
* * * *
A Musical Society is to be formed at Windsor,
and the talented Mr. Fred. M’Quade is to be conductor.
We shall be surprised if the genial Frederick dees
»ot make our metropolitan societies look to their
laurels.
* * * *
Lehmann’s American Bellringers are playing
roimd the suburbs just now. They open in Penrith
oh Saturday night. Mr. Jas. Marshall is the agent.
* * **
We were at the “ Grand Social Re-union of
•Liberals ** at the Masonic Hail, on Tuesday uigkt. The
place was filled to the very doers# The concert was a
fair one, but the programme was not sufficiently varied.
After it was over, the audience rose up as one man and
rushed for the refreshment tables at the lower end of
the room. We took a hand in this part of the show
also,on the nihil humanum ne alienum puto principle. We
drank more gingerbeer there than we ever did in our
life before. There was a dance going on all this time.
Every minute a young man would slide out of the set,
dash out through the crowd, seize a gingerbeer bottle
in one hand Jand a bottle of tongue-sandwiches in the
other, held the bottle to his partnership’s month and
the sandwiches to his own, and then the pair would go
waltzing round in dreamy eostacy, she gripping the
ginger-beer bottle, he grasping the sandwiches with the
grasp of dea'h. But, all things considered, the enter-
tainment was a really enjoyable one.
* it k k
And now we dip onr little qnill yet another
time in our little ink-pot preparatory to giving a
miniature notice of Pollard’s Liliputians. The
children are certainly clever and well-taught, and as
far as children can, sing and act their parts with much
sprightliness and vigour. They all seem pleased with
their work and enter thoroughly into the spirit ef
their parts. Patriarch Pollard took us to the back of
the stage, we had no sooner got there than he was sur-
rounded by the youngsters who all called him “Pa.”
We wiped away a silent tear as we stood by and thought
of our own childless old age. “ La Fille de Madame
Angot ” is not an opera for children to play. There is
too much salt in it. Nevertheless, the little ones did
wonderfully well, especially Miss May Pollard
(Clairette); Miss Amy Brooks (half a dozen parts) ;
Master C. Osmond (Aup Pitou); Master E. Osmond
(Pomponnet), and Trenitz (Miss Lena Sa'inger). The
latter dances delightfully. We have not space to go
into further detail just now. The programme will be
changed on Saturday night when, probably, “The
Prince of Xrebizond" will be put on.
* * * *
South’s Opera Company are, as they well
deserve, doing remarkably good business at the Vic-
toria Ha’l. “ Girofle-Girofla " is a success. The com-
pany perform it in surprisingly good style. Mrs.
South, as the twin heroines, is piquant and pretty. She
sings the wine-song, “ See how it sparkles,” with as
much verve as a Bacchante. Mr. J. A. South (Dm
Bolero) makes all the’ fun of the piece, and we never
knew before that the piece bad so much indigenous fun
in it. Charlei Lecocq was a sly dog. When he wrote
that libretto he knew the weakness of Australian human
nature and how an Australian audience would be
fetched by allusions to the “fin of the sacred Jew-fish,”
and the “hop of the holy kamtaroo.” Yes, he was a
very sly dog, indeed. Mr. Vernon Reid sang the
“ Marasquin” music deliciously. But Mr. Vernon Esid
always sings well. Mr. Sullivan’s make-up as I 'm-
zack was magnificently blood-curdling. It would be
too hard to say that his singing was equally so, but he
was not in his usual good voice on the night when we
hrard him. Miss Browne makes a pretty Ferdinand,
and Miss Emma Rogers a nice Pedro. And Miss Fox
(Paquita), whom we have left to the last, not because
we like her least, but because we love her most, what of
her ? It’s no use. Our heart is too full to speak.
* * * *
Another little paragraph. Mrs. South takes
a bent’fit on Thursday night, when the commodore
and offbers of the Nelson will be present. These gen-
tlemen have gallantly bespoken this particular night,
the choice lay with them as to what they would like to
see performed. They chose ’• QirofleQirofla.” Without
doubt there will be a crowded house on this occasion.
* * * *
Fred. Macoabe opens in the Masonic Hall on
Saturday next. Fortunately he is too well known to
need any eulogistic announcement from'ua—fortunate,
because we haven’t the space to spare just now. But
next week is a new one, and we shall then be to the
fore.
Kellar, the illusionist has gone overland to Ad 0
Iside, whern he opens at the Academy of Music. Cnna a
his manager, left by the John Elder.
» * * •
We conquered our scruples and went to the
Temperance Hall on Tuesday night to hear Lydia
Hastings. The man at the door spoke never a word as
we handed him our ticket, but simply revolved one
lustreless eye in its socket and pointed with a fleshless
finger to a legend written on the wall We went up and
looked at it. There was a picture of a beer-jug with
the froth lapping over the brim, and underneath a
ghastly conundrum about the number of threepences
that the filling of that j ug took in a year, and how many
suits of clothes, silver watches and happy hours might
be bought for the same amount. By the time we had
got through this, Lydia Hastings came on tho stage.
She is distinctively American in manner and in appear-
ance, but with an air of power about her which gains
her a hearing at once. And yet we were disappointed
8 he has about the strongest American accent we have
ever heard. We hardly undertand this. The cultured.
American speaks as good English as any man on the
globe. The fearful ruggedness of this lady’s pronuncia-
tion spoiled the best part of everything she did. Set-
ting this provincialism aside. Miss Hastings displayed
great ability. We are much mistaken if in her reading
of the “ curse scene from Richard III" she hadn’t some
stage model in her eye all the time. There were cer-
tain noticeable mannerisms about tho way in which she
delivered Richard’s speeches, which pointed to this
conclusion, in that they were unequal and seemed to be
at times forgotten for her own style. Yet we say again
she has abilility. But she should never attempt low
comedy. The sight of a woman going through the
duties and making the grimaces of a clown is rather a
shock to one’s ideal of the refinement that should hedge
her round as divinity does a king. We don’t say, re-
member, that Lydia went as far as this, hut even a step
in the direction is a false one Besides very few women
have any real conception of humour. Tho programme
chosen on the night wo attended was a very poor one,
consequently we may be ab’e to say better things when
wo attend again. Mrs. Colboru Fraser and Mrs. E.
Barrington played some pretty music on the Temper,
ance Hall poJico-van piano in the intervals.
* * * *
Writes our Adelaide correspondent under dat®
23rd August The dramatic season at Adelaide is now
a thing of tho past. Last Monday and Tuesday the
management staged “ Valjean, or Saint and Sinner";
Wednesday, “Eoynl Pardon"; Thursday, “ Belphegor";
Friday, “ Louis XL" (Mr. Dampier’s benefit); and
Saturday, “Grimaldi” and “Rob Boy” (Mr. Carey’s
benefit). It is pleasant to record that the better the
drama produced the better did Mr. Dampier’s capacity
appear. Wo consider his cargo of specially provided
theatrical thunderings about the silliest lot of wordy
fustian that one man is ever likely to possess. Judge
him by these, and Mr. Dampier’s rights to honours as a
“ star " may be seriously questioned. Judge him, how-
ever, by his " Belphegor," or “ Louis X 1.,“ and we must
own him superior on the whole to what are known as
stock-actors. Ho is not a great actor. Far from it.
And his entourage is a source of weakness. No need to
be more specific on this point. But ho is, histrionically
speaking, a young man, and may yet become strong
enough to banish Gentleman George and everything of
that ilk from his repertory, and to make himself a posi-
tion which shall not rest for a foundation on the minis-
trations of wandering scribes or the applause of the
groundlings who,as my lord Hamlet says, “arecapable
of nothing but inexplicable dumb-shows and noise.”
At'tho same time, if an actor affect tho commercial, and
trade in gallery-plays, otherwise known as popular sen-
sations, he may make money. He may do this, and most
probably will, at the risk oi losing all chances of artistic
distinction. He has invested a certain amount in
certain property. It is therefore his policy to make
that investment pay. Pure dramatic considerations
are naturally out of the question. The atrocity must
be “ starred " as well as tho actor. And perhaps so far
as tho public are concerned it is better that some re-
sponsible actor should speculate in theatrical ware than
that some “ irresponsible trickster of immoral gim-
cracks” should do so. The actor knows his business,
and if he elect to let the old-time artistic aspirations
be ovv rbalanced by the prospect of so much extra cash, it
is, after all, his own affair. We may regret tho fact
it early potentialities suggested the future presence of
a true artist, for true artists are amongst the rarest
and noblest specimens of the higher humanity and our
world has none to spare Mr. Carey hud a groat
house and a great bill on tho occasion of his benefit.
Midnight souded as people left the Theatre Royal
execrating tho memory of Sir Walter Scott who in-
vented Eob Roy. Eob is a good enough fellow in a
book, but when he comes on in that full-feathered
Highland costume of his, and invests the stage with
his tremendous personality through five long weary
acts, whore the only balm of Gilead seems Major Gal-
braith, touched up behind with a red-hot poker, well,
we begin to wonder where the man may be fonnd who
turned Eob into a dramatic nonentity, and whether,
when fonnd, it would seriously be reckoned murder
if, in the warmth of a sudden greeting, that man were re-
morselessly pistolled. Nevertheless, Mr. Carey deserved
a paying benefit because he is intelligent, trustworthy,
and capable within certain limits. It would be impos-
sible to name a single male char inter within the range
of the entire drama that Mr. Carey could not play re-
spectably, at a day’s, or say , a twe days’ notice. No
one would cast him as Ophelia, though Ophelia, by W.
G. Carey, would be quite as reasonable ns Hamlet by
Louise Pomeroy. But wlatevar Mr. Carey doe* is
done in that conscientious and painstaking manner,
which, if not an attribute of genius, Jis recognised and
warmly appreciated by playgoers generally, as oondne-
ing to their immediate comfort, and deserving their
steady support. Simonson’s people open in “Lucia"
on Monday night. We trust that the billing of Brennir
as a “tenor" may be nothing more than a printer’s
error.
"THE POOR PLAYER”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Carrie Godfrey playing at Tivoli Gardens, Frisco
in “ Las Voltigeurs." Lieutenant Manfred Rose
playing to crowded houses at Herberton at latest dates
So Searelle’s " Wreck of the Pinafore” only lasted
10 days at the London Opera Comiqae.lPoor Lusoombe,
though he has not garnered in any wheat, has come in
for any amount of chaff. Cruel newspaper wags, in
alluding to Lnsoy’s and Lingard’s chef d'wuvre, talk
about “ Now that the wreck has cleared away," and
they call the composer " Sore-eal." It is but fair to
state that there are people who consider the mnsio of
” The Wreck” superior to “ Pinafore” proper. These
person*, however, are understood to be the gifted
librettist, and the talented composer.
• • •
The author of “See that my Grave is Kept
Green,” is in gaol in Indlanopolis for forgery, while
the originator of “Kiss onoe More my Pale Lips.
Mother,” died of a brick-bat in a street row. The
composer of “ The Moon beams on the Fairy Water,"
is bailed out by his son six times weekly! and the in-
spired poet who gave to the world “In the Glawing
Sunset I hear the Angels sing," is a deaf cripple who
sells matches at Roberts’ Corner. la contradistinction
to this, we may state that the splendid bard who wrote
the well-known classical lyrlo “ The Rorty Rollicking
Rams," is a ten thousand pound man, a workhouse
guardian, and a oburoh-warden of his parish
After this we oaloulite we shall fight rather
shy of going where the moonbeams lingah
The Duke of Edinburgh is determined to write mnsio
and has placed his soore in the hands of Arthur
Snllivau for " revision.” It his score does’nt beat his
fi Idling, Arthur has his work out out A New York
paper reports a dwarf on exhibition who is no bigger
than one of Tom Thumb’s fingers, and that “ he is no
taller than he was when one year old." Neither is the
yarn.
Mr. William Campbell, M.P.
Oxjb portrait this week is that of Mr. William
Campbell, member for the Gwydir. Mr. Campbell,
who is a son of the late Mr. Robert Campbell,
formerly Colonial Treasurer, was born in Sydney
in 1838, and received his education at the King’s
School, Parramatta, under the Rev. Robert
Forest. In 1860 he went on a three years’ tour
to England. In 1868 he was nominated for West
Sydney, and was returned, defeating his opponent,
Mr. Joseph Woarne, by a considerable majority ;
but two years later, ho himself was rejected for
the same constituency. At East Sydney and
Central Cumberland, Mr. Campbell was no more
success!nl, and he retired altogether from politics.
He engaged in pastoral pursuits in the Gwydir
district, and at the last general election was re-
turned unopposed for a distinctly selectors’
electorate. Mr. Campbell is pledged to a
really liberal land law. His reference, in the
very capable speech delivered in the House last
week, to the way in which Government patronage
is distributed, explains the strange silence ex-
hibited by several of the ardent followers of the
Government.
“ There is no place like home, said a young
English Quaker, *• that is, under ordinary oironmstanoes
—but now that red-eyed battle is shaking his gory locks
over in Egypt, and we are called upon to turn onr
ploughshares into swords, and our kettles into hydro-
cyanic acid bullets, I’m off to the Antipodes. I feel
more resigned to this course, now I know that E. Wolff
and Sons, of London, the celebrated manufacturers of
pencils, drawing chalks, crayons, and other artists’
sundries have established an agency in Sydney, under
the management of Mr- E. B. Wolff, and don’t you
forget it.”
Net profits of intercolonial cricket match,
played at Melbourne between local and Sydney teams,
were £BO Latest soratohingsMetropolitan Stakes :
Annandale, Crazy Jane, and Lord Clifden; Epsom
Handicap: Daughter of tho Regiment; Darby tho
Blast, for all engagements; Tho Qsm for all A.J.C.
engagements; Brunette for A.J.C. Derby Robert
Little, of North Shore Bowing Club, presented on
Monday night with illuminated address, on occasion of
his departure for N.Z Prizes won at recent Sydney
Bowing Club Regatta were presented to winners on
Tuesday night by Mr. Cope, the club’s captain ; songs
and a jolly evening.
Gno of the most extraordinary doctrines ever
Eropounded was that of which Mr. Cameron delivered
iaiself recently. He was condemning tho appointment
of Mr. Thomas Codell to the Upper House on tho
ground that that gentleman had not taken any active
part in politics. " All that he has done" the excited
speaker went on to say *’ has been to take care to line
his own pockets well, regardless of whether other
people succeeded or not; and now he wants to got tho
empty title of • honourable’ affixed to his name," If a
man who has succeeded in life without the aid of
politics is to be condemned as unfit to have a say re-
specting the destinies of h<s fellow men, what are we to
say of the numerous body of men who do not seem to be
able to achieve any success outside the sphere of
politics ?
In tho Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Diseases,
consult Dr SIANICH, Aurist to His Excellency, Lord
Augustus Loftus, Governor of New South Wales, who
will give the benefit of his Services Gratis to the Poor,
without recommendation, on TUESDAYS and SATUR-
DAYS, at 50 Wynyard-sqnare Sydney.
At the New Zealand Exhibition, just concluded,
Singer's Sewing Machines have carried everything be-
fore them, taking a first order of merit, two gold medals,
and two silver medals. The New Davis was awarded a
silver medal.
BATES’ DANDELION COCOA is destined to become
the most favourite of all household beverages. It com-
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa with
the well-known curative powers of the Dandelion flower;
consequently is invaluable for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, indigestion, debility, fto Ask tor a sample
packet from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
COULTER, Sole Agent. 107 Sussex Street. — Advt
In«ham’s Euphorbia Pilulipkra. — New
Queensland cure for Asthma, Bronchitis, and all chest
affections. Testimony already received from hundreds
as to the wonderful curative powers of the Herb. No
case hopeless. Instant relief obtained. Prepared in
essence also, as an Anti-Asthmatical Tobacco, Notice
As there are poisonous species of Euphorbia, bo careful
to get that scientifically prepared only by Thomas
Ingham. See advertisement Apply J. Manning,
Agent for Thos. Ingham, 130 Elizabeth-etreet, Sydney,
— Advi.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
First session of third synod of the Anglican
diocese of Bathnrst was held last week, commencing ou
Tuesday and terminating on Thursday. The Rev. Dr.
Marriott, late incumbent of All Saints, was created
Dean of Bathnrst, and diocesan canons for the election
of future deams, and for the appointment of Bishops
tribunals, were passed.
Joe Cook is next going to delight the Ban anal an"
ders. His “ terms,” which are 15 per cent, of gross tak*
ings or £4O per leotnre, have been accepted. Down in
South Australia. Joe told tho people that he didn’t lecture
so much for money, but to do good. It was stated on
his behalf that all profits *• above a certain amount for
necessary expenses *’ —yes, dear boys—would go to the
Y.M.CA,, or some charitable institutions. But no
“name" was put on the certain amount, and, we
believe, Joe worked for his own hand alone here and in
Melbourne. But S.A. is the paradise of strolling
snufflobusters, and, when there, Joe oonld afford to
play it high np on tho chest notes. The Melbourne
correspondent of the S.A. ’Tiser called Joe tho ” King
of Lecturers," and said he was “ merciless, but fair " in
his logic. This will bo news to his Sydney patrons.
Anyhow, the “gag" went down. Joe told Adelaide
that he never allowed himself to be styled “ reverend,"
and informed Rev. W. Roby Fletcher, that, although,
as an individual, he (Joe) was a brothor-congregation-
alist, yet, as a lecturer, he was a cosmopolitan Chris-
tian. “ All fish,” etc.
• • •
The Roman Catholics of Rockhampton intend
building a £15,000 Cathedral...... The finale to the New
Plymouth (N.Z.) Presbyterian row is the burning down
of the Church, It was insured for £4*oo Talmage is
defending the turf in his sermons American pre.
jndice against Jews is so strong that scarcely one first-
class summer hotel will receive a Jew as a guest. The
Hebrew refugees from Russia are said to be giving the
Yanks more trouble than all the rest of immigrant* put
together On September 10, as a seqnel to “Other
Bibles and Other Beliefs," the Rev. J. Jefferis will
commence a course of six lectures on “ Our Bible and
Onr Belief."
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
Medical Inquirer : An ex-parson, quack, and
black sheep; has served a sentence “J. 0.": We
don’t care about verses of the purely mechanical order.
“ Brasher ” : Will see what can be done “ D.D.";
Good; will use shortly “Verity" (Ipswich): Yea,
verily......“ Plut o" : Go back whence you came, old
king “Ralph ”: The theme of your verses is so well.
worn as to demand livelier treatment “ Federal";
The ••J.C." story old; the other, which we have not
seen before, we print “ A Rura-antio ballad Too
much sugar and too little sauce “ S P.”.- Yes A
quack; Here’s a little hint. A man of that name
walked into the manager’s room in an up-country town,
and with a grand air of patronage spoke of a column
advertisement, and would like a local notioo. And a
fine looking fellow ho was, and brought a handsome
yonng lady with him. Bat despite his attempt at au
off-hand manner, he was nervous—not at ease, and the
lady's face expressed unmistakable anxiety and care.
The manager understood the situation in a moment,
and rather pitied the forlorn adventurer and his
troabled companion, and said a few sympathetic words,
besides letting the ad., curtailed, appear, but no local.
The man went to the shop and got some
posters done, announcing that “ Anodyne is the exclu-
sive property of Professor Blank," and he seems to
have got at the local chemist, for the little township
smelt all next day of drugs which the “ Professor" was
compounding in a big saucepan in the kitchen of the
White Horse. Ho professed to cure most things with
this marvellous compound, and doubtless Scooped
money enough to clear out. This man advertises
in the same name and in the same style
“ John M ’(Surry Hills*’): Rather thin that yarn of
yours about the cow. But it the cow got into the
draper’s shop, it would surely have been easy to have
yarded her. But perhaps you were afraid of auy action
in that line of yours getting into the papers under the
heading of a Cow-yard-ly Performance “Peeping
Tom" (Lower Clarence): Thank you. Opinions differ
aa to what Is the best diet to do literary work on.
Well, we should say when you are not going round the
world in 82, the saveloy. That Is because it is too rich
a viand for Continental climates. The results it pro-
duces, anyhow, are surprising "Ckntnee": Very
good. Your par. will not cause the party the I Rant
Indiary “Nundah" (Brisbane): That kanaka it;m
is rather too strong fer us. We are a secular paper
“Aleck" (Fiji): First-rate. Probably have to wait
till next week “Omega"; Next week “ W.A."
(Panbula) ; Lines fair, but not suitable for us
“Baldy”; Rhyme, but not a suspicion of poetry
“H.W.": We road your poetry right through. But
very few would “ J.8.M.” : Your friend’s
effort not nearly good enough. If you catoh him
trying “poetry" again, kindly stop him
“ W.P." (Albury): Publications received. Shall be
glad to have contributions. Send a batch, anyhow
“ T.K.”: We cannot say who Julias Conor's mother
was. He never told ua “Dando": Needs a little
consideration “Little Pat ": It is not “pat”
“ Weeping Willow No, you shan’t bewail in these
columns the departure of that handsome, fair, young
bank clerk! We know him He had two curl* over
his left ear, and two mere curls in his legs. What’s
the good of weeping. Console yourself—with us I We
haven’t got those curls over the ear, ’tis true; but
then we haven’t these in the logs either. Inspection
invited.
“ If the Premier tries to ride the ’i 'orso he will
fret a lesson suoh (is he has had before/’ says Mr.
Fanioll. Our idea of it is that the Premier does more
than try to ride the hi horse j he trots out his “I"
pretty often. The animal is a very much hack-neyed it
not brokon-kneod one.
Mr, Cameron describes Mr. J. P, Abbott as a
political baby who has not yet cut his eye-teeth, and
who is likely to die of political dentition. We suppose
that Mr. Cameron is a political boy who assumes the
airs of a man without having sufficient sense to entitle
him to the name—politically speaking, of course.
Alderman Simpson, of Townsville, —bettor
known ns the “ Separation Secretary "—and Mr. Knapp
of the Standard, have each taken up £lOO woith of
shares of the Townsville Herald, which Knapp is to
edit vice Meston, who was in Sydney on Tuesday and is
now on a visit to the Clarence.
When Postmaster-General Brown was asked if
he intended to resign, be replied he didn’t know. When
John, the Muffin Man’s Friend, was asked a similar
Question touching his perch on the Licensing Bench,
he didn’t know either. But to I Prospero Purges gives
one wave of his magic wand, and prostol everyone, irom
Caliban up, finds his proper place instantsr.
Sir George Grey has praanted to the Auckland
University his library, which is said to be worth over
£30,000, It contains many rare books now out of print,
and its documents relating to the colonies are probably
not equalled outside of the British Museum Librarv.
The Mayor of Auckland, Mr. J. M’Cosh, has offered
£5OO towards tho formation of a local School of Arts
The Attorney-General was forced tho other
evening to make an explanation respecting tho actu n
of the Government in reprieving Plomor. Mr. Wisdom
described Plainer as the most atrocious ruffian who
ever crawled on the face of God's earth, and said that it
came out in evidence before tho Executive that he had
been gnilty of debauching the girls of all the schools
at which ho had been employed. Tho only reason why
Plomer was not hanged was, that it was not made clear
to the Executive that there had not been consent on
. the part of the girl who was so brutally maltreated by
the infamous ruffian who is to be kept in idleness at
the expense of the State for the rest of his life. 1£
abuses of Executive power, such as this is, are tolerated,
the sooner the law of capital punishment is abolished
the better.


PEPPER AND SALT.
More glory. The tenantry of Fanlconbridge,
having apparently changed hia mind—or a change of
pints failing him—and tho, welcome not having eventu-
ated, Sir Henry has been more than compensated by
the cordial accmil vouchsafed him by the children of
Springwood. A more affecting ceremony than this has
not, perhaps, made the world weep since] the sad
catastrophe that betel Mary’s Little Lamb. A fort-
night lhaving been allowed for the preparations per-
taining to this interesting little ceremony, the
knickerbockers of all the kids had been newly seated,
and, an hour before the time arrived for the Premier
to come creaking Into the schoolroom, the order was
given for every scholar to lick the treacle off the next
one’s oyebrow. The first boy having been inducted
into a pair of his father’s moles out down for the
occasion,; and the shirt of an ancestor, all was in
readiness. The “address” written by one of the
pupils (who was in a state of open-eyed astonishment at
the phenomenal beauty of her hand writing) was hungup
against the wall; while the interior of the building
was decorated with green—a satirical allusion, of
course, to the well-known commercial and political
innocence of the Premier. Bound the address the
“ kind teacher ” had, with the aid of a box of paints
(warranted nonpoisonous), executed a tasteful
border, the amalgamated chain cable and pris-
matic cobweb design of which was the
admiration of the artist. Sir Henry, having
taken the address, and having handed it to one of his
suite with instructions as to its future destination in
the Fanlconbridge washus, addressed the children as
follows Noble and patriotic infants 1 It is with
pleasure that I gaze upon your open countenances,
gleaming alike with yellow soap and loyalty; and amidst
the odour here of soholastia moles and the lunches of
learning, I snuff the scent of patriotism amongst you.
Tou have begun well. Go on in this path and you will
prosper. The verb ‘to love ’is played out, conjugate
it no more; ‘to honour,’ you can shunt with your
christening ‘to obey,’ shelve till you get into Parlia-
ment ; but, at night time, and in the morning, never
forget that there is one active verb which must over be
on the tips of your tongues. That verb is— * to crawl.’
Crawl, therefore,and be famous; seek independence, and
you will come to an inglorious death, futilely fighting
for your falling country. And now, in honour of this
glorious occasion, I shall proclaim it a half-holiday,
which yon, noble band of budding patriots, can employ
inwoeding the Fanlconbridge garden. Good-bye.” And
with elevated head he walked out into the afternoon
sunshine, like the high priest of the summer-weather.
* # *
Here.takeaback seatfor a bit, Arabi and the Bun-
yip, and the sea-serpent, and, above all, the snakes. Let
a dog have a show. He lives along the line near
Orange, and as the train doesn’t stop at the station
where tha master resides, that gentleman has con-
tracted with the engine-driver to throw into his pad-
dock every day a Herald as he passes. Well, at the
time the train is duo, a retriever dog belonging to the
gentleman stations himself every morning near the
line, takes the paper in his mouth, and runs home with
it to his master. The other morning, however, tho en-
gino-driver threw him by mistake a Telegraph, which
Was intended for an Albury bus-driver. No sooner had
the dog taken it in his month and tasted a copy-book
■nb-leader, than he dropped the]paper, and ran barking
after the train. That day, the dog returned for the first
time for years withov t the paper, and his master, in a
rageon being bereft of thedaily news, remonstrated with
his four-footed friend to a fliil accompaniment. Later,
however, accompanied by the dog he went to the point
where the train passes, and caught sight of the Tele-
graph lying unheeded near the fence. Then he under,
stood it all. And sinking upon his knees in the long
green grass ho asked the dumb animal’s forgiveness.
We will break off at this point to allow of our readers
going upstairs to get their pocket-handkerchiefs. The
foreman’s apron has already served our turn.
• • *
A correspondent sends us an anecdote which can
only be fitly commemorated in verse. Thus our office
Shelley :
“ What do you want aboard my steamer?” said
the captain of a Richmond boat to a palpable book-can-
vasser, on discovering him down below in clo'e proxi-
mity to the sherry-decanter. “ How do, Cap,” was the
rejoinder, “jest the party I want to snivel. Here ye
are—'' Kitto’s Biblical History’ in 16 volumes—fine
author, Kitto—knows his subject—advance agent fer
Moses once, they say-” “ Here, clear cut—" “ Hold
on till I tie em up for you—and here’s two piolurea
for the Missis’s parlor—boy tumblin’ over a style—gal
danoin in a hay field—you can have the boy cheap—
stay—a pity to part ’em as you say—” “Isay, sir-
leave this cabin.” “ I’m jest off, but I leave yer this
Shakespere along of old Kit, so as he won’t be lonely
and clattering the lot down upon the table, he sprang
three steps up the companion. “Hi-take away this
rubbish 1” yelled the captain. 1 ’ Pooh, you may as well
stick to ’em Cap," said the book agent, “for I signed
the orders for you a week ago and have already collared
the commish." And with a wi’d whoop of victory he
was away.
“ In the House of Eeprcsentatives, New Zea-
land, any member absent for a week without leave may
be adjudged guilty of contempt and fined £so.”
Exchange
The M.P.’s of the Zealand Isles
Must be a genus higher
Than those who, with their pranks and wiles.
Set New South Wales on fire ;
For while they plank their “ fifty" down,
If one week off their tether.
We’d sling our “ mob” our bottom crown
To hook it altogether I
f ‘‘ er6 ’ 8 no “istake,” said a Balmain resident
the other day -that since S. C. Brown took the rein*
at the Post-office, ho has made things hum in a most
exemplary manner. Why fancy: A letter was ported
to me here m Sydney on Monday morning, and ft was
actually delivered on Thursday afternoon." " Wonder
jSnnrf eX3Ia f lme<i fdend: " but the P orf eotion of the
Department even goes further than this" «• Tm
possible "cried the Balmain party. -Not at all"
said his friend; "listen. Last week a friend up.
country who is musical sent me this wire :-'Have you
score T)er Ring des Nihelungen V And they got very near
to it indeed. When the wire was delivered to me it
••Woldt'w r
Alfred’s new Junius, who goes twice round a
time-payment Cuckoo weekly, is evidently well-known.
He was in a pawnshop last week, and writes :—“ Moses
then catches sight of us. He comes smiling across,
and asks what ho can do for us. We quietly say wa
will wait our turn.” There is no hurry in this case, of
course. We fancy we can hear Moses say as he, a
little later, pitches the bundle into the corner, “ Same
old child’s frock and pair of boots. Must have made a
rise, eh 1 For you haven’t brought the hex iron."
Joking apart, the Lounger’s description of a pop-shop
is, in detail, significantly similar to a sketch on tho
same subject, written by one “ Boz.” Of oourse, the
language of Alfred’s man is immeasurably ruperior
and we aro quite sure “Lounger” hasn’t read Boz’s
sketches, for they are now published at 61. a copy-
If we cou'.d only strike a sketch.writer like “ Lounger”
we should treasure him up indeed. And we’d find him
something to do, even if it were at digging Ithe garden
or levelling the back yard.
ON THE HIGH HORSE!
STUART (faintly): "He must come down.”
THE BOLD FISHERMAN.
It was a cunning fisherman,
Of Bateman’s Bay,
Whose debts his fishing gains outran
In wholesale way;
And though his profits were all net, bis breeches
Were seldom lined with anything but fishes.
He sold to one of Braidwood’s Chow?,
Wholesale, of course;
And John would trot from house to house.
And shout till hoarse—
“ Flesh fish, oh! All flesh, oh ! welly good, welly—
-0 kahfo! fish, oh I all flesh—you smollee!”
The son of Neptune turned his quid
(He didn’t lack a—
Though nix in coin his pockets Lid-
Small quid of bacci),
*’ Im blowed,” he cried, “ if this fix aint a caulker.
I’ll have to beat to wind'ard cf that hawker.”
Jack chawed his pigtail—not the queue
Of Chinaman;
And thought, not of his " lovely Sue,”
But of a plan
THE SIAMESE TWINS.
(Together): “Don’t cut! It would kill us both.”
To weight with ballast all his bream and mullet
By ramming pebbles down each fish’s gullet.
'Twas done: Jack sold by weight to John
The whole lot of it;
And John made, what he’d reckoned on,
A swanking profit—
The Braidwood dames planked gladly down his levy,
And took his fish—they were so plump and heavy.
But when the gudewives scraped the scales
From off the fish.
Fresh scales fell from their eyes, and wails
Bose o’er each dish.
Then vowed they vengeance on the race of Chinkies,
Till things for John looked gory as red ink is.
* * * ♦ .
The end of this tale and of Johnny's—
A wrenched-off queue I
The fate of many a Braidwood don is
Most queue-nous too!
The townsfolk who these pebbley fish did snavel
Have since been laid up, one and all, with gravel!
JULIARAN AND MEDIA.
A SYDNEY PASTORAL.
Blue-eyed, and bright, she was as fair
As an ideal Ophelia :
She and her sister made a pair.
Did Juliaran and Melia.
Now Melia worked hard all day long.
She was a 'baooa twister;
And she knew hardly right from wrong,
No more did Melia’s sister.
Just gone of ten was Jnliaran,
And “ twelve next birthday " Melia;
And wild that childish couple ran—
Like Bosaliud and Celia.
But while these lived ’mongst flow’ry joys,
And dallied with love verses,
Ours “ carried on” with butoher-boys
And learned grew in curses.
In a vile shanty “ down the lane”
The little sisters tarried ;
And no one there, they’d tell you plain,
E’er thought of getting married.
Both orphans there, they stopped with “Sue”—
A harridan of forty—
One, Jobson, was a boarder, too.
Whose other name was " Korty.”
They were so poorly clad, 'twould make
Your heait bleed to have seen them ;
All they earned weekly “at the fake”
Was “ half a bull ” between them.
So oft when none were by to heed
(Their chances were not many).
The giils would “suave!" sticks of •• weed,”
And sell 'em at a penny.
With them the parsons had less show
Than with a Khan of Khiva;
They told good men, in language low,
To quiekly “ sling that guiver."
The night-school for instruction both,
With scorn, refused to try it,
Tho’ to the “tent” went nothing loathe.
But only just to “ guy” it.
They went to chapel, too, one day,
Amidst much joy and laughter;
’Twas.thus—tbey’d “not a mag" to pay.
And tea and buns came after.
But here they did both demonstrate
Their love of evil courses.
For Juliaran, she stole a plate,
And Melia cups and saucers.
We met them both not long ago
(We often since have seen them),
A slaughterman cf aspect low
Was swaggering between them.
“ Why tell us, children, who’s that man f"
’Twas in low tones we spoke,
“ Oh, him I * said laughing Juliaran;
“ Why, that’s Amelia’s bloke.”
“DUMMYDOM.”
(A PATRIOTIC NEW SOUTH "WAIL.")
Hail Austral's gem !—the homo of bliss—
And of strong fighting rum!
Where Jack and ’Arry peaceful kiss;
Fair land of Dummydom !
No wonder 'Arry “ blow'd” we’d lick
Them into fits “to hum,”
And teach them many a knowing trick
In “ leary" Dummydom!
Tour cup is full—the Southern Czar
St. John is thine—hut, mum!
Before that iron railing star.
Bend low in Dummydom !
Tram-tiokets, hate, iron-railing, and
Things our frail minds can’t sum—
He’s got a bogus fonr-ace hand,
And “got" you, Dummydom I
Do I that last Bradford trump he played
Must strike the angels dumb!
How sweet by saints ’tis to be flay’d.
Oh! muoh-gnll’d Dummydom I
But now ’tis yours—with glee elate
To see, in Death’s band numb.
High saints your broad lands triturate—
Oh! Christian Dummydom!
And when the poor skunk’s final breath,
So long pray’d for, has come.
To hear, “One section morel Ha! Death
You re God of Dummydom!’’
POPULAR SONGS—ILLUSTRATED.
“Little Sweetheart, come and kiss me.”
GLORY !
“ In the engagement which took place at Eamses
on Thursday, the losses of the British amounted to 9
privates killed and 30 wounded. The enemy lost 400.
The Duke of Connaught distinguished himself by his
able direction of the movements of the Guards.”—
Sydney Morning Female,
Hail Mars! Great god, come guide our lyre I
We’d sing of battles and of Are !
Of carnage grim, of war’s alarms.
The boom of guns, the din of arms;
Tke clash of sabres, tramp of shoes.
The blast of clarions, wild hooroos;
Dash from our harp as we do sing,
A note of Are from out each string.
We’d Homer shame in warlike song;
Our strain would be on every tongue,
Andechoed to a war on high
Would be our martial melody I —
Clear as the clarion, land as drum —
But, hang it I Mars don't seem to corns!


“The Adelaide Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation have secure! a site for a hall, and propose at
once erecting the building at a cost of £16.000.”
Exchange.
What 1 sixteen thousand sovs.! By Georgs!
There’s money “ gone to seed,”
To raise a “ holy place ” to gorge
Folks with some bigot creed!
It makes us heathens weep to see
This precious golden “ pot”
Go just to test to what degree
For us they’ll make hell hot!
• • *
An ad. in the S. M. Hekald runs as follows :
•'Medical Practitioner wanted, for good city practice;
income, £16,000; no clubs; furnished house, in excellent
position; no premium. L. Brack, medical agent, 23
Castlereagh-street.” Since this appeared, things have
een pretty lively in College-street. No doctor’s coach-
man has, on starting, required to be told where to drive
for the last week; but it is only since we went to press
that a truly sickly smile has been noticed to play almost
universally upon the faces of our medical men. Of
course not a single one of them had happened—been so
busy, you know, old fellow—to have seen the advertise-
ment.
* I f
There has been joy at Pyrmont. A tea-meeting
was held there lately in aid of some holy man’s grocery
bill, and the civilized portion of the inhabitants rolled
up in a very enthusiastic manner. Admission was
eighteen pence, which sum entitled the ticket-holder
to be also present at a concert hold afterwards. The
hall not being large enough to accommodate all the
feeders at once, the guests were filled, in detachments
of so many at a time; while the “ empties ” sat up in
the gallery, glancing anxiously at the banqueters
below, and nervously scraping their teeth with their
pocket-knives. Before the onslaught commenced, the
aspect of the tables was exceedingly pretty; the flowers,
fruit, and luscious jellies in the centre imparting quite
a Balthazzar-like tone to the
feast. The first contingent, how-
ever, rather put a set upon the
picturesque part of it. One man,
after taking out his eighteen-
pennyworth in five plates of
tongue sandwiches, four of thin
bread and butter, and eight cups
of tea, took a pine-apple in the
palm of his hand, and proceeded
to devour it with the aid of a tar-
bespattered clasp-knife. An-
other, on sitting down, ac-
quainted the presiding ladies that
“the booze had put him off his
tucker,” and, by way of demon-
strating that he was disinclined
for a heavy collation, drew a jelly
towards him, and devoured the
same with the aid of a table-
spoon. Those who sat down last
had rather a poor time of it
gastronomically, but made up
for it socially by letting off small
fireworks under the table, and
bombarding each other with bread
pellets across it. After tea, there
was a “concert,” in the pro-
gramme of which were announce-
ments of “addresses” on part of
certain reverend gentlemen. The
behaviour of some of the specta-
tors during this portion of the
evening was, we regret to say, of
an exceedingly hilarious descrip-
tion, When one holy man said
that Heaven was his Home,
an ill - conditioned person in
the gallery ordered him in per-
emptory tones to "put the kiver
on his •' pitch’-potand on a
young lady half hiding behind a
screen to play her “ piece ” on
the piano, there was a loud yell
of “ Bring her out! let’s have a
look at her,” which exhibition
being granted, the performer was
saluted with a howl indicative of
profound disappointment. Later
on, a modest young man came for-
ward to sing a sentimental ballad,
but no sooner had the first bar
of the prelude been attempted
than a voice said “Ton’d better
orry 'ome, 'Arry; your missis
’as bin three times round to the
publickouse, and wants the three
bob you promised her to pay for little Charley's
hook.” With the exception of these ill-timed inter-
ruptions, the meeting may ha written down a success;
although the harmonium accompaniment would have
een better had not some fiends in human form slipped
ln before tea and filled that instrument with orange-
Peel.
This is carrying things too far. The O’Gorman
and ° n ’ dined wit h Mr. Forster the other night
So SIDC!e this h 0 has been oat by the Parnellites. Now,
for instance, during the Gardiner debate,
Party feeling ran high, an opposition member had
sid 6 Witk Manley Bennett, would But.onoon-
tru6l^ 011 ’ contin Senoy would have depended so
be d UPOn P r * ce °f flour that a parallel can hardly
j.- rawn - To bring the thing more down to the present
e ,’ We can only say that if we hear of Dan O’Connor
0 ln K into the A. S. N Company’s iron yard, and
thumbing half Garrard’s lunch, we shall (say nothing
about it to Slattery. We don’t want to see a division
between great men.
* • *
A Yankee reporter, wishing to compliment
Parkes as a self-made man, described the Great Mogul
thus : "A man who at one time gained a precarious
living by holding horses and doing other odd jobs, by
which to pick up a stray sixpence.”
This tale of 'Enery 'olding 'osses
Cannot be true!
We know too well what our groat boss is.
And how ho grew!
1 et truth gay fiction oft surpasses,
He now holds in a lot of asses!
By the way, Sir Henry is not the only Australian mag.
nate whose career had a horse-holding episode in it.
Another gentleman was explaining an early event in
his life the other day, and protested that he secured
his passage simply by leading a horse down a street.
The owner hadn’t asked him to lead it, however.
• • •
There was a man of rich but simple tastes.
When alive, though he kept several equipages, he al-
ways made his family walk to church, which was only
some 200 yards distant from his mansion. Since his
death, however, the bereaved widow has out the greys
to clatter up to the sacred edifice with. So prostrated
with grief is she that her poor feet cannot totter thus
far. She gets her sackcloth and ashes from Peapes and
Shaw’s.
• • •
He was a rich man, and was a£the last gasp,
surrounded by all his relations. ‘ Is there anything we*
can do for yon?” chorused the expectant legatees.
“ Tes,” hoarsely rattled the dying man. “ What
what ?—Oh, answer!” they exclaimed. “ Let me hear
the truth before I die,” was the answer. There was no
rejoinder; and the silence of the death-chamber was
only broken by the sounds made by a party of six
broken-hearted relatives who were rummaging for the
will in the next room.
• • •
Last week a fine haunch of mutton was sent to
a certain ex-Judge. “I think it wants a little more
hanging.” said the eook. Then the ex-J. clapped his
hands to his head mechanically and said : " God bless
my soul, what have I done with the black cap P” ("This
is a Flim-Flam item,—Ed, B ]
• • •
The old man had turned hia toes up at last, and
the widow wept herself round to the undertaker’s to
give her orders. She froze on to a fine imitation oak
shell, on the lid of which was a gorgeous tin insurance
plate, surmounted by a low-comedy angel, who was
labelled E.1.P.. an expression which she was at first
inclined to consider out of place, bub on recollecting
that it had been a favourite term of her husband’s,
under certain conditions, she resolved to let it pass. A
couple of handles, which would have been showy for a
circus-car, were then chosen, and having bargained for
rsal copper nails, and clean straw for the mourning
coach, the lady sobbed herself round to the newspaper
oflloe to stick in the customary ad. She then bought an
eighteenpenny pound-cake, a bob’s worth of biscuits, a
bottle of Colonial port, a bottle of Ultimo sherry, and
returned, though heavy laden, jet with a comparatively
light heart. She knew that she was about to distin-
guish herself, and that “next day” would be long
remembered in the neighbourhood. And there was
quite a little cosy tea that night, a few sobbers having
dropped in "promiscuous;” and during the meal the
general opinion of the company seemed to be that the
widow was rather too good for this wicked world, and
that it was a pity the old man couldn’t be brought to
for a minute or so, just that he might appreciate the
trouble that was being taken about him.
Skoffington Carroll, of the Adelaide Lantern
was recently fined, under the Coyywright Act, £2 for
republishing a satirical paper from PASQtns-an Ade-
aide comic, that had been dead twelve years. Formerly
Sketf., when he wanted copy, used to borrow, not from
a paper that had been dead twelve years, but from one
that had been alive twelve months. We were then-we
can’t help blushing—just a year old.
• • •
Property is not generally considered to be very
secure in Sydney, but the climax has now arrived with
the intelligence vouchsafed by the Echo that someone
has stolen a tree from the Randwick road. After this,
it will be scarcely safe to leave a C.M.G. patent hanging
on a fence after dark. A pawn-ticket or a commission
of the peace would be snavelled directly.
• * *
Tom Slattery doesn’t think the Judges get
enough screw, and is going to ask the House to give
them more The Chief Justiee. for instance, only gets
a paltry three thousand, and the others have to ad-
minis er jus- the law, rather, for a paltry £2500.
r f thls 18 a terrible state of affairs. Why, it’s
hardiy worth while being a Judge at all in this country.
It would pay a man better to go about bringing actions
, £ 1 colonial newspapers. We sincerely
hope Tom will be successful. The letter-carriers are
only peoriy off and policemen have to supplement (as
tokLrtr n) ,o ir WagoB byaU kindB of little games
Lg the . tho d °° r; and — a °d—but there!
Judges^ 6 PoBtmeQand Policemen; let’s look after the
„ * • •
Which will you take.” said Sir Samuel’s butler
“ 9 I nn ’ kor ’ on the occasion of the Knightly banquet-
poulardes a 1 ambassadeur. filets de laperanx & la
marechale, or chaufroix d’ homards & I’italienne ? or
will you try the Enssolnick a la Eusse ?” Henniker
es ated but one moment; yet in that brief space every 1
nci ent of his life seemed to pass in review before him.
He saw himself writing up ** portraits,” dusting the
old man’s slippers, pricking across the plain at sun.
own, mixing the office paste, and dead-oat oratising at
Temora. And he answered faintly— 11 Eustyniokler
Boos.” And a moment later he was, with a haughty
curl of the lip and a patrician smile upon his face,
eating salt-fish soup with a knife and fork.
Usually eloquent on the Temperance platform,
his disceurse had been tame and ineffective. " What’s
the matter with your father that he’s so lukewarm in
the cause to-night, my boy?” asked a muffin snaveller,
f the orator’s son, who was present; "is he sick?”
*‘ No, but he found a pound-note in a schnapps bottle
h s morning," said the boy, ‘‘and that’s put him eff a
bit.”
* * *
George and J emima stepped into a temperance
bar for refreshments. George gave a mysterious signal,
and a wink with the words:—“A little of the usual,
Joe. But wasn’t Joe astonished just when Jemima
gave the same signal and wink, saying.- “ That’s good
enough for me, too.”
* • *
This is the way a red-headed squatter settles
with his Chinese ringbarkers. “Well, Ah Foo, what
do you want ? ” ”Me wantee settle up, Misseo Blown •
you owee me fl’poung.” '• Five pounds, eh? We’ll
see. Manar. bring me the book. Urn! Let’s see. One
shesp. ten shillings.” » "All litee, Misseo Blown.”
Three pounds of tobacco you got, eighteen shillings.”
"All litee; all litee, Missee Blown.” "Um—ahl—and
three pounds you didn’t get, eh? that’s eighteen shil
lings.” " Yes, Missee Blown ; thee poung me no
gettee.” "Just so. Then there’s ten shillings you
gave to the Wangdoodle hospital, and ten shillings you
didn’t give, and another sheep, Ah Foo.” “Yes, Missee
Blown ” "And one yon didn’t have, ten shillings.
Let]me see. Bought and height’s height an’ height’s
sixteen, six’n carry one, &c. &o. Why. von damnoH
yellow swindler, you’re in debt. Get out of this o? FU
have you dogged off the station 1 ” ’
Force of habit.—Well-known
Teetotal Member, dismounting
from his steed at a suburban
friend's house, to groom—“ Just
take the saddle off and give him
a feed of shavings." Groom (sur-
prised)—"Eh ?" W. K. T. M.
(confused)Hem-I-er-mean
—Corn.”
* * *
A correspondent, signing
“Nundah," writes us frcm Bris-
bane in such a delicious strain
that we feel sure he must occupy
a by no means undistinguished
position in the social scale. He
considers he has noticed in our
Denominational Droppings"
(sic) paragraphs adverse to a cer-
tain rev, gentleman of the Catho-
lie persuasion, but the writer
states: “ I have watched him
since his consecration to see if
he put on any haive.” Ntmdah
has been unable to detect any.
And no wonder. It is not likely
the rev. gentleman would put oH
hairs when it is his creed to
take them off. Our correspon-
dent being, apparently, very much
in earnest, we can only regret
that our 11 Denominational Drop-
ings" do not please him. He
pleases us very much. We trust,
therefore, that “Nundah" will
continue to correspond with us,
sending us an occasional item
about those simpering suburban
curates, who, not having as yet
got the hang of piety, put hairs
on in a double sense. You know
the style, dear blue, eyed devour
ers: “ Let us—haw—sing—praise
—glory— aw—the thurtah fooarth
psalm—haw 1" A twirl of the
moustache, a glance [at (his girl,
and then the noso-buryor.
• • •
Eli Johnson says that tho
translators of the Bible are all
wrong, and that the word “ wine "
isn’t to be found in the original
text. Just so. Old Noah got
boosed on zoedone, and tho mar-
riage feast at Oana in Galilee was
chiefly remarkable for the quality
of its vigorine. The original of another text was—“ You
can t put old soda-water into new bottles," &c Paul
told Timothy to take "limejaice for your stomach's
sake. And the " publicans and sinners ” phrase should
have been translated •• coffee-palace keepers and church
choirs. We want to know now what Eli’s name was
intheoriginal—Hie, Helie, or Ulio?
This is what Arthur Sieber said when asked
cannot go home any more to them Da nnf Lnllt ’ *
PSUSSSS
I cannot go homo to sec my father I^cannotl,, -®’
pnsonment. I have lost mv father 7 T L UOt i ea i lm '
I -,, 1 *> »Ot ..nt to ’
t 1 hop you wlll s ive me death. That is the
Sf„on™^t VOU ?t yOU -° an do “ e - 1 cannot st£nd im!
pnsonment. It is too much."
Disgrace has often fallen on the English
of late Hastings, Shrewsbury. Lonsdafe) Lfoth/rs
have besmtrohed the purple with mire. The latest
addition to the list of these noblemen, elevated by the
prayer book into " our betters.” is Sir Wihiam Alex-
amder Louis Stephen Donglas-Hamilton, Duke of
Hamilton, Brandon and (Jhatelherault, K.T. and
Hereditary keeper of Holywood House. Many peers
have suffered from monetary difficulties, had estates
encumbered, and seized; but his Grace of Hamilton ia
the first who has ever been known to deliberately dis.
mantle and sell at public auction the old ancestral
palace inherited from noble ancestors, and tho priceless
heirlooms and treasures accumulated during centuries
and cherished almost as the family honour, and to do
so for the solo purpose of obtaining money to squander
It is a bitter blew to the old noblesse, to see the stately
halls and the grand art treasures going to the highest
bidder—Jew, parvenu, or eoin.gorged bourgeoisie And
there is a significance in it. which bespeaks a change
that is even now going on. Peers cannot always main,
tain a position simply on the strength of their noble
ancestors. They are going down, and they are met on
the laider by those who are going np to usurp their
places, the millionaires from the lower ranks, squatters
miners, contractors, manufacturers, whose wealth
stands them in place of breeding and lineage, and who
buy palaces, castles, and "ancestral portraits to
THE KNIGHT AND HIS INDUSTRIOUS YEOMANRY.
THE CHAIN OF EVENTS.
SIR JIHN ROBERTSON:-"If we took half a million of money out of those who dummied, that was little restric-
tion ; a nd if We C ould put the nippers on a few of them under the criminal law, that also would do something to stop
them. We would no more give up the attempt to put down dummying, than we would give up the attempt to stop pocket-
picking. Some few person escaped in either case, but those who went dummying would begin to find it was a very dan-
gerous game while he was Land Minister.
"SYMPATHY.”
A TOUCH OF NATURE.
Kir gad, footsore, worn and weary,
Tott’ring with a moaning child
By a building gaunt and dreary
Sto sank down with gosture wild.
“ Let me in, my child is dying—
Let me in, I beg—implore I”
Beating, while thus wildly crying,
Her poor braised hands 'gainst the door.
“ Let me in," she’s loudly shrieking;
“ Cold’s the rain and chill’s the blast ...”
Heavy hinges make a creaking,
Surly porter comes at last.
*’ What d’ye want here, eh,yon baggage?—
Fainted—bosh!—yer game I know
Come on then ” —in low tone savage
“ Up you get and in you go /”
Lady in a parlour reading ;
Babe and mother brought in there :
Lady says she’s " pained” exceeding
Thus to see the wretched pair.
” ‘.Wronged I’—‘deserted!’—this surpasses
All I really ever heard:—
Morals of the lower classes
Dreadful are upon my word!
11 Who’s the man you say betrayed you ?
Silent! — Shall I ask again 1
Yet you said you were afraid, you.
Of the wind, and cold and rain ;
“ What ! lie— speak it, woman, in a]
Louder voice now—if you can—
He ! you wicked, shocking sinner I
. . . What a naughty, naughty man.
IN MEMORIAM.
CAVE ADULLAM.
Faded recently from the Newcastle Fletcher.
Another “institution” gone!
Cave’s turned his old toes up, too,
This trnly makes us feel forlorn.
And fills our bitter cup, too.
To die, poor Cave, was not thy fault;
So cheer up and be merry;
They’ll like thy style dawn in the vault
ThouTt charm the cemetery.
The pit eh about the “dame august”
Will charm all the “ autopses ;”
Thy jokes on “ 'Enry ” will make « bust ”
With glee, the other corpses.
S?, rest in peace thy dear old bones
Thou art where they’ll be feted 1
Thy little pitch scrawl on tombstones—
'Twill be appreciated.


BRIEF MENTION.
A funeral train —The Oxford-street tram.
“ Damnable iteration”—The want of confidence
debate.
The Bradfords got two years—from the City
Council.
Up North the newest name for Chinamen is
“ varioloids."
At Parliament House and at the Town Hall, the
impenitent thief is still “ on the cross.”
Two to oue the All-England Eleven win on the
Oval; the Australians can only play “ on tho square.”
Notice above a mining shaft up North : —“ Don’t
fall down this shaft, as mere are men working at the
bottom of it.”
The Messrs. Bradford’s City Council emolu-
ments turn oat to be £14,000 iasteap of £6J, as implied
by the cornered C.M G.
Not one Sydney doctor willing to attend the
orphans at Eandwick bossed by our own C.M.G. 1 The
antidote doesn’ticare to couple with the bane.
Triumph of flesh over spirit. A shining light of
the Congregational faith in a Queensland riverine town
has given up the pulpit for the butchering business.
This is Alfred the Awful’s very latest —“ Wo-
men, especially in the higher droits, shrink naturally
from intoxicating letters.” This is rough on the
Daily Dram.
The Melbourne Evening Mail is dead. This
is a fate, if we are to judge by the quantity of ads. in
last Saturday's issue, which will never befall the
Sydney Mob si no Female.
Straight from Europe. Sir Sam. (introducing
well-known N.S.W. politician): “Mr. Joskins—a
former minister, my lord" His Lordship: “Haw-
Little Bethel, I pwusume I”
During the Browne-M'Elhone trial, Mao. used
to stand nehind Mr. Salomons and give him lolliee. If
he stood behind Mr. Salomons now, we wonder whether
John would give J ulian lollies.
“Some salad please,” said a Sydney man at
lunch to a Townsville landlord; “ I don't see any on
the table." “The cabbages is a-growin’ out at the
back,” was the reply, “ go and pick some.”
“Where’s your master? ’ enquired a customer,
of the clerk, entering a broker's office last Monday.
“Gone out of town for three months,” was tho reply.
“ What for ?” " He wants to read through Saturday's
Herald."
Ominous. Amongst the property left as security
with the Pyrmont Bridge collector f jr the penny toll,
are four note-books, oue sandwion-box, a copying
pencil, and two copies of the Town and Country
Journal.
Some time ago, at Forgytown, a man got fined
£5 for illusing a horse by overworking it. It was sold
that afternoon for the wherewithal to pay the fine.
Next day it was carting boulders for the Chairman of
the Bench.
Says the Evdnoozb’s Bulwer Lytton : —“ The
worst feature of the debate on the address was the one
assumed by some members of the Cabinet.” Now, is
this a hit at Sir John’s oonk, or a dive at the “gash in
a bladder of lard ? '*
An Age cablegram says that Turkey has pro-
hibited the export of mules to Egypt. If tho Melbjurne
thunderer could only be believed, what a rare chance
for N.b. Wales Municipal Councils to sail into the
market with aldermen.
If you can’t have the dash of Skobeloff, let us
have the strategy of Moike. A red stockinged Sydney
footballer observed a cow staring through the fence at
the game. He turned pale, and lost a mark, but saved
his life. He tied a white pooket handkerchief round
his leg.
A great discovery of water has been made in the
Nymagee mine ; 3000 to 4000 gallons per hour are new
available, and 17 diamond drills are boring day and
night for a whisky spring, just to take the dampness
out of the mineral waters. We wish all success to the
good cause.
An Adelaide paper has been calling Miss Mar-
tina Simonsen “ the young and talented oantatina.”
This word is probably by the same lop-eared juvenile
who interviewed Eev. Joe Cook, and discovered there-
from that the kangaroo is a “ graceful animlle," and
Sydney Harbour the “ prettiest in the world, bar Elo."
The Evening Commissioner announces that
“ The Model Lodging House is quite a popular institu-
tion with the class it is intended to benefit." We are
glad to hear this. And it will be a boon to the public
besides. For iu the cave of an accident occurring, it
will always be known where one's band can be placed
upon a reporter.
A lawn tennis clnb has been established in Ade-
long. Since this, a pleasant change baa come over tne
dream of the scho il-cbildren The banks close at three,
and the schoclmarms think it a pity to keep the dear
children in after that these lovely afternoons. Jane,
lend me your striped stockings. Tue master has come
over from Tumut.
Sir Henry Parkea was treated to a welcome home
by the scho ars of the Springwood Public School, cn
Monday afternoon last, and presented with another
address. The chief actor in this interesting ctrenony
was a lad named Master Geirga Corbin. Lit us take
hjs name another way : Corbin, Master George. His
initials are now prophetic.
Rockhampton possesses an eccentric cabman
who rejoices in the classic name of “Jerry.” The
other day a "fare” who, when under Jerry s charge hid
received a good “ shaking up,” remonstrated with him
for his careless driving, whereupon Jerry, pointing to
the " ruts” in the ruao, replied—“ Begerra, how kin I
hilp it at all at all; look at the hoight of thim holes.”
The latest “ Sea Monster” discovered hangs out
at Shetland. The authentic account of this " mens tros-
ity” winds up thus :—“ Given under our hands at Mid
Yell.” Tne comp, whi set up that was a member of
the sainted Y.M.C.A. The way it should read is this :
“ Given under our hands at Mid Hell.” The “ Mon-
ster," of course, being old Beelzebub himself, seen
through a fighting rum telescope.
IN THE STREET.
“ Say, whafs that heap of clothes, oh, Ma, dear
That’s all mixed up with raspb’ry jam,”
“ I do declare that that’s your Pa. dear ;
He's been run over by a tram."
A letter appeared in Friday’s News, headed —
“ Where shall the Postmaster-Geaeral sit ? " Well,
really, now .
A Reedbeds (S.A.) lady, aged 82, reminded her
son that it was her birthday anniversary, and said
•What present are you going to give me?” Tne
dutiful son replied, “ Mother ; my filial duty prompts
ma to make yon a present of that gum-tree," pointing,
as he sp< ke, to a giant of the forest, *’provided you
cut it down." The old lady took him at his word, and
in two hours was negotiating with a sawmill proprietor.
A judge on circuit borrowed a horse not long
ago to" go lor a ride. He went for a ride in due course—
to the next town, forty miles off. Next day, the steed
was sent back by the mail boy, without a word of thanks
to the lender, and the following morniug tnat judge
gave a prisoner six mouths' hard labour and a lecture
lor wrongfully using a horse. Next time his Honor
goes that circuit, the nearest approach he will get to a
borrowed horse will bo a bair-trunk.
This is as true as gospel. Up country, the
other day, two estimaule citizens had a quarrel, during
the course of Which one called the other, among a
variety of other things, “A Wesleyan.” Several days
afterwards, the individual who had been so denominated
sent his friend a writ for slander, ene of the accusations
in which was that be had been publicly termed “ a
Wesleyan,” the innuendo being that he was “a dishonest
and hypocritical person who was disinclined to pay his
lust dents.”
The other day, the head master of a Queensland
‘U.ate School was absent from duty through illness, and
. “ raw hand ” was lift in charge, who, being loth to
He the stick, tried his best to keep the “kids" in
i-der by calling out, in a loud tone, to those most re-
f actory. The row that ho made maddened the In-
pector, whose office is adjacent to the school, to such
an extent that he ran to the school-door and “ yelled
ont”: “Mr. 1 Come outside, and hear the noise
you’re making 1 ”
In hia “ Murmurs of the Stream ” the poet
Parkes (the D T. says he is a poet) desetibed the shoot-
ing of a ’possum, Having Explained that he who
wished to bring down a ring tailed varmint invariably
got the animal between him and the moon and fired at
“pale Cynthia,” the poet went on to say that the
ehootist fired, “ and the wounded creature fell.” Bnt
whether the “ wounded creature ’’ in question was
poor woolly Joey or “loale Cynthia" aioresaid, the
Twaddligeaph’s ganins.failed to state.
Thus the D.T. in defence of its ministerial
patrons:—“ Avery unsatisfactory feature in the Par-
liamentary debate of last week was the tendency in the
younger members who spoke on the Opposition Bide
to speik in flippant and disrespectful language of old
and respected politicians. Tho want of a proper respect
and reverence for age, and fer those entitled to respect,”
ko, kc. Not a word, however, against Sir John Robert-
son calling Mr. G. H. Raid such epithets as “ tomtit,”
“ cocksparrow," ko. Those Government Aivts., you
knew.
Quite a little confusion, and something else, was
caused in a suburban church, last Sunday, dy a rather
strange occurence. It seems one of onr tram guards
is religiously inclined, and was lately elected as a
duly qualified elder. On the day referred to he was
entrusted with his first responsible duty. This hap-
pened to be the raking np of the collection coin, and
the feelings of a certain pious merchant in the front
pew may he imagined when the gnard thrnst the cash-
box under his nose and roared “ Fares, please 1" That
guard was reduced to the ranks immediately.
Two almost fundlesa whalers rolled up to the
head-station about sundown, opened np their swags and
produced their bags for the usual pannikin of “ oust"
and bit of meat. No. 1, after getting his, asked the
price of flour, and was told “a shilling a pound."
“ Then give me a bob’s worth on top of.this," he said, —
remarking aside to his mate: “ I guess this fetches it
down to sixpence a pound.” No. 2 took his allowance
with a very black look, and then asked lor a bit of salt.
“ Hanged if I do,” replied the storekeeper; “ my in-
structions are to give away no luxuries."
This is the way the new funnyman who runs the
Dubbo Express fraternises with a eoming boniface :
•■ Onr devil has jnst suggested a bit of play on Mr. Skin-
ner’s name ; bat we have promptly rejected it, knowing
as we do, tnat tho gentleman was never kaewn to be
guilty of anything wrong as a publican." When Mr.
Skinner re ids this dubiously ambiguous encomium, ne
will be in a dilemma as to whether he Ought “ to shout”
for the lucid writer, or brain him with a rum bottle.
We deprecate the latter course. There’s no objection
to splashing the man’s brains abont, but, hang it I sup-
pose his skull resisted; think ol the waste .of ram.
So many equivocal and suggestive advertise-
ments are now goiug the round of tha daily papers that
it is refreshing to come upon a really straightforward
outspoken announcement. Here bow, is one which we
have carefully culled from the Herald: —"Wanted,
for a gentleman’s family, in the suburbs, a superior
person as Parlourmaid : light duties; separate bed-
room; Protestant.”
The dnties here are light, you see.
Impossible to donbt it;
A place a fay might take with glee.
There’s nothing dark about it.
Rumour with its thousand tongues declares— ‘ ‘A
divorce suit is on the tapis at Sydney, in which
the petitioning husband joins as co-respondent with
hia defaulting wife a well-known clergyman, located in
one of the Sydney suburbs.” When this tap ia fairly on,
there’ll be a goodly crowd of the usual intellectual
gentry who take hats and love these refining enter-
tainments like they did one of the old-fashioned har-
bour picnics, or an opera bonffo. Divorce biz. seems
mighty brisk at present, and the “ moan of the tied
is heard from shore to shore.” To be shore this
ia very satisfactory now, but part of our posterity will
be apt to get extremely mixed when it talks abont its
parents.
A tale of the old days. Some prisoners were
being escorted to Bathurst gaol in the stiff times.
Amongst them were Stapleton, sentenc:d to ten years
for robbing the Mndgee mall, and another prisoner
under sentence of death for murder. The mnrderer, in
getting ont of the van, struck his head against the
wheel and became solicitous »bout his injary. “ Pooh,”
said Stapleton; “ that’s nothing, you’ll lose your head
in Bathurst.” When the man was hang, Stapleton
cheerily noted the fact that the hangman gave him a
drop too mnch and actually severed bis bead from his
body. Stapleton served his ten years, and is now a
harmless lunatic; so that he may also be said to have
11 lost his head.”
A certain ward in the Municipality of Balmain
is represented by two members, one being an active,
intelligent little Irishman, tho other a canny son trom
“ SooJllund.” The other day the Irish member pro-
posed that the quarry men’s wages shoal 1 be raised
from 7s 6d. a day to Bs., because good men would then
apply for the work. This was seconded by the Scotch
party, who gave a* his principal reason the taot that
••th’ men as a rule had vera large famileas.” It was
poinfce 1 o it, h iwever, that if a “ worrkan man ” was to
be paid according to the number of his offspring a
single man would have to either starve or beg, or
borrow or steal a family, and so the motion was run on
the proposer’s reason.
Not far from Parramatta lives a gentleman who
is as remarkable for the eooeutrio stylo of his head-geir
as he is for his legal and botanical let ruing. Being the
owner of a splendid orchard, ho ia naturally tha sworn
enemy of every urchin wiohin a radius of 51 miles.
During the last water-melon season he happened to
stroll down the garden one morning wiib something on
his head that might be mistaken for either the Garden
Palace dome or a Yankee circus, and just at the same
moment three young assassins were preparing to mount
tne fence. Of course, a retreat was sounded, but
before the gang cleared the leader called ont, •* It won't
wash, ole man—yer don’t cop us like that— wo kiu sou
ycr lege stickin’ ont below yer hat."
“Enquirer” asks what is meant by a “spon-
taneous welcome and banquet.” We don t know, bnt
we once heard of a noted official up Greenland way
receiving a “ spontaneous welcome,” which ms largely
composed of gangs of hia subordinates and their subor-
dinates down to the 37th degree, who were rounded up
for the occasion, and who cheered as if they were doing
it for their very lives—and billets. We also heard of a
“spontaneous banquet" being given shortly after, at
which the above crowd were rallied up once more, and
allowed to purchase tickets enabling them to sit up
stairs and watch the lions fed at halt the cost the same
tickets were sold to tho outside public. Of conrse we
only heard these things. No one bnt a person behind
the scenes could swear to it.
Sydney can’t beat Leicestershire, England,
for Juvenile crime. Recently, there Alfred Burdett,
aged two years and nine months, caught up a p. a mate
named Brewin, aged one year and ton months,
squeezed his stomach in till Brewin was black iu
tue face, scalped what little hair Brewin had with a
piece of tin, and threw Brewin down so that hie skull
was fractured A coroner’s jury decided that brewin's
death was caused by tha “ acts of Alfred Burdett, who
was a child of such tender years as not to bo crimin-
ally responsible for his behaviour." During the en-
quiry Bnrdett smeared the coroner’s papers with a
bloody pinafore, and wanted afterwards to tear them
np. By-and-bye, Bnrdett will emigrate to Australia,
enter politics, and become Woa Emma.
Parkes is now of course the Premier Poet of
Australia, although some critics seem to favour the
claims of fhil M’Carroll’s Bvronic odes to “Hind
Quarters of Lamb,” and “ Bologna Sausages.” That
Sir ’Enry’s brilliant genius has not suffered from hia
recent intercourse witn Tennyson may be seen from
the following verse which forms part of a sweetly
pretty little gem, entitled “ Farewell to Clovely’a
Knight, and written .the nighs the poet sailed for
“ Y urtup ”■ —
“ Ha gazed, as I slowly withdrew.
My bunk I could hardly discern.
So sweetly Jaek bade me adicn.
I thought that he bade me return.”
N ow, the bard ia sure of it.
A widow, hailing from “ the land of sophistry
and mist," and now residing in New Zealand, has cha-
racteristically upheld the reputation of her nation for
canny nearness. She is the rioh reliot ol a wealthy
squatter, and recently had two sons in a boarding
school. Tne sons took tha measles, and tho lady prin-
cipal desired the mother to take them home in order
to prevent contagion. No ordinary vehicle could be
obtained to cart off the measley boys, and, in despera-
tlon, she hired a hearse, and had a third-class live
funeral. The undertaker proposed to make the regular
charge for a one-hearse dead-beat journey; bnt the
canny Scotchwoman successfully beat him down fifty
per cent., on the ground that her pair of live, thoufh
measley, darlings were “ not the regulation ‘ stiff’nns. ”
There’s nothing like the maternal instinct strong in
life.
Pass round tho chloroform. We would die. We
have seen the Auckland Observer’s portrait of the
bust of Admiral Sir F. Beauchamp Soymonr. We have
wanted to go to Egypt badly all along to hslp onr
bleeding mother country, bnt if Beauchamp is any-
thing like his portrait, ho has only to look Upon Arab!
to make that Arab wither like a Violet oh the kitchen
stove. His picture shows that he has been the hero of
a prolonged drunk, has mistaken his bedroom, been
kicked downstairs by an irate landlord, and fallen into
the coalscuttle. Half his face has been tarred and
feathere.l, the eye on the other side is black, and his
mouth is evidently fall of tobacco jdtee which he
dUrS’nt squirt out, because an invisible girl is watch-
ing. Tee, all this is depicted in this work of art, which
is a perfect poem—of a “ bust."
The Auckland (N.Z.) Free Lance is sending a
special reporter “round the pubs.” The special’s «om
de plume is ** Shandygaff," He has written half a
dozen papers, and already shows signs of giving ont.
In No. 4 he says that “ round the pubs is a hard way to
travel.” It appears that some of the Hebes have
sworn they will drown him in a barrel of his favourite
swipes. A “ dark-eyed Welsh girl” says he was drank
when he wrote a certain par. about her, the “ darling
Norah ” has stowed a pint-pot under the counter ready
for action, “Joan” has bought a three-and-sixpenny
umbrella to mash him with, and the modest Monte
wishes the shandy-gaff-swilling scribe might choke.
Well, well; Dunedin is not half so far advanced as
Sydney. Why, here, the proprietors of papers don’t
need to send their reps, “round the pubs.” The thing
runs itself.
A smart Government officer raffled a watch in
the Far West, the other day—twenty members at a
guinea a member—all the snrronnding aristocracy
“ going in," except the poundkeeper, who viewed,
however, the filling up of the list with a beaming smile.
WeD, at length, the wonderful watch (which they had
all along taken on trust) was thrown fir and won, when
it turned out to bo the Government official’s own ticker,
a decrepid, pale-faced little “ horizontal,” that he had
purchased ten years ago of the poundkeeper and never
paid fot. The present trouble is that the whole of the
latter’* time is now taken up in pursuing alternately
the raffler and the winner—tho former who is migratory,
and the latter who lives 350 miles off. In the mean-
time, the pound has gone to wrack and mis, a poley
cow having eaten her way clean out, and the lueky pos-
sessor of the ticker is busily employed in assiduously
getting up another raffle—all members to be within a
radius of five hundred miles, and every subscriber to
take the article on trnst. The list is again filling, and
a fight may be expected shortly.
The burning question of the present day is
“ What shall we do With John Darns f " To work
would kill him fatally dead in the first act | to beg
would be slightly infra. dig. after all his past greatness,
and, like ourselves, rather than steal, he’d starve all
over. Some billet must, however, be found for the
man whom kings delight to honor ; and this reminds
us of the tale told of a noted place-hunter who
asked Frederick the Great for a rich, Protestant
bishopric The King expressed his deep regret that it
was already filled ; but broadly hinted that there was a
Catholic abbey at his disposal. In one week’s time the
applicant was thoroughly converted, and received into
the bosom of the Church of Bone ; after which be
rushed to the King and told how his conscience had
been enlightened. “Ah ! ” exclaimed Frederick,
“ What a terrible misfortune I I have given away the
abbey, bnt stay;—the Chief Rabbi has just died, and
thesynagogne is at my disposal; suppose yon turn
Jew." The coavert now saw where the laugh came
in, and so retired to slow music.
Parramatta Fergy has boon running his head
against some theatrical celebrities, who, it appears,
have been in tarn threatening him with dark and
bloody hints of law proceedings He wants to know
what these gentlefolks object to, and wades into his
theme hot and strong in these terms:—“ Will it snr-
prise these choleric and tonohy ehevaliera to know that
there are managers of theatres in the world whose lives
are one chronic infamy ? That one has jnst patehed np
a reconciliation with his wife, after the outrages by her
husband had forced he? to appeal to a court for proteo-
tion ? That a second lives in open shame with a mem-
ber of his company, and goes to see his wife and child-
ren once a week. That a third will spend two guineas
on a bouquet tor a ballet girl, and grndge his wife the
price of a pair of gloves or boots ? That the life of a
fourth is so lewd and filthy that tales ef his shameless
amours furnish the principal pabulum for raconteurs ?
Will they be surprised to learn that in some theatres,
at times when spectacle necessitates the employment
of coryphees, scores and scores of young shapely girls
have to change their ordinary walking cos tome to
fairies in the sight of the male employees P Do they
know it has been the boast of some men engaged in
theatres that they have debauched every female super-
numerary ? Have they every heard a ‘star’ boast that, of
the man' girls employed in a piece, those whom he did
not defile were defiled by his friend ?"
Is it a genuine fact, or only a piece of “ whole-
some fan,” that, daring the coarse of a Parliamentary
rally three years ago, John Davies, of “involving”
memory, observed he had a document in his possession,
and. were he to expose it, it wonld cause Sir Henry
Parkes to fly from the country ? If this is true, now
is the time to trot that document out; if it is not true,
why do some journals print the statement, and why do
knowing persons, when the affair is mentioned, simply
give their heads a “Well, well, wo kno v,” or “We
could, an’ if we would” sort of shake, and then pro-
ceed to talk of Arabs or the weather ?
Mr. M‘Elhone deliberately “ sold” a House-full
of members last week. He rose from his seat whh the
air of a man who had some damaging deliverance to
make, and his looks didn’t belie the expectation of
members, because he further announced that he had a
serious personal charge to prefer against the Premier.
Sir Henry was out, but the faithful Watson soon
brought him in. and then M'Elhone proceeded“ The
charge which I hare to make against the Premier is
that whilst he was in England he did not get R. B
Smith appointed a K.CMO" Everyone present eu-
joyed the ‘‘sell” except Burdett, who was not seen in
the House during the remainder of the sitting.
Alderman Taylor startled the City Fathers last
Tuesday by unearthing another rotten sffiir in con-
nection with the Davies-Bradford complication, which
tended to oast a reflection on the honesty of the officers
of the City Council in relation to contracts. In carry-
ing his motion for a select committee to inquire into
the matter, Mr. Taylor said that he grounded his
charges against the officials upon two public documents,
which he read to the Council, wherein it appeared
that, although the tender of a certain firm in
the city was accepted by tke Council, the contract
was given by the officials, behind the Council’s back,
to the Bradfords, who had never tendered at all.
The Bradfords got all the particular iron-work
in question, while the firm whose tender was
accepted, and who, on the official invitation of the
Council, had entered into a bond for the due fulfilment
of the contract, have not received a particle of work
from that day to this, after going to the expense of
getting men and material to enable them to carry ont
tkeir engagement in a proper and satisfactory manner.
It had been proved that the Bradfords had offered
presents to the Maj or and an official of the Council,
and the inference was that the other officials had been
tampered with, in order to give one firm an undue
advantage over the other. Alderman M'Elhone, on
this, brought out his patent scarifying double-action
tongue, and moved “ That, in futnre, no tender from
Messrs. D. and £. Bradford, for Corporation work, be
received." He was particularly “hot” on Alderman
Withers, who said he would “ vote against the motion,
although, if it were carried, it would serve the Brad-
fords very well right;’* also against alderman Carter,
who considered that it had cot been shown that therehad
been “ any unfairness in these tenders ” John politely
styled Mr. Carter a "cur of a representative," and wished
ho “could give him seven years and send him ont of
the country." The Connell, however, deserted |the
M’Ethonian standard, and voted for aider mam Chap,
man'slamendment, by which the Bradford’s, as contrac-
tors, are barred lor two years.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
THE WAR AGAINST EGYPT.
Reported evacuation of Kafrdowar by Arab!
denied On 23rd August, British occupied Terapenm,
captaring four guns Mahmoud Pasha, late Egyptian
Minister for Works, arrested Friendly interview be-
tween Sir Garnet Wolseley and Baron de Lesseps, re
occupation of Suez Canal Egyptians concentrated
25,000. men and 60 guns at Telelkibir, west of Istnaila
......Governor and troops of Soudan faithful to Khedive,
......Sgypt ians cat Sweetwater Canal River Nile ovei-
flowing its banks On 2Sth August-, town of Ramses
was captured and occupied by British troops after sharp
engagement..;...Egyptian forces becoming demoralised
Sir Garnet Wolseley, with small force, captured
Dam Carnal Naggar, after series of brilliant skirmishes.
..i...0n night of August 24, Arabi’s forces observed
striking tents ; supposed his intention was to endea-
vour to effect junction with other troops stationed be.
tweei Cairo and Istnaila Egyptians constructing
extensive entrenchments near the ruins of Heliopolis...,
Since capture of Dam Carnal, enemy reinforced by
10,000 troops; British opposed to them at first num-
bered 1500 only, but extra assistance was obtained
previous to advance upon Ramses, which was captured
together with fire Krupp guns and an immense quantity
of war material; British loss, 9 privates killed and 30
wounded; the enemy lost 400 Duke of Connaught
distinguished himself by able command of the Guards.
Eighty railway carriages, loaded with provisions
and Remington rifles, captured at Mahtomah
Deserters report Atabi to have 20,000 men at Kafrdowar,
which place he is fortifying,... Weather hot; 50 privates
sunstrnck Arabs at Qnemileh on August 27 were
largely reinforced, and threatening Port Said
Cavalry pushed on to Kassaroin on Aug. 17th, thus
securing safe passage for troops Rill way from Suez
to Ishmaila repaired Arabi’s entrenched camp can.
nonaded by General Hamley’s diversion on Aug. 27;
enemy’s replying fire feeble; believed most of the troops
there withdrawn to recruit others opposed to Sir Gar-
net Wolseley First of Indian cont ngent landed ou
23th; Bengal cavalry despatched to join Wolseley in
the front Sultan of Turkey at length agreed to pro-
claim Arabia rebel, and accepted military oonventicn
for Anglo-Turkish occupation of Egypt, Turkish forces
to be nuder direct control of British commander-in.
chief Bedonin Arabs incxbasing in numbers around
Alexandria; emboldened by departure of British troops,
they are entrenching themselves near Fort Mex Re-
sults of fighting at Dam Carnal understated ; enemy fled
towards Zagazlg, leaving everything behind them
Mahmoud Fehmay, chief of Arabi Pasha’s staff, was
captured in the affair at Kassaroin; he stated that
great distress and disorder prevail in the Egyptian
camp, and that only a few earthworks have been
thrown up at Telelkibir Indian troops rapidly arriv.
ing, and being sent to front British troops suffering
greatly from heat; cases of sunstroke numerous
New Egyptian Ministers appointed : Cherif Pasha, Pre-
sident of Council of Ministers, and Minister for Fo-
reign Affairs: RUz Pasha, Minister of the Interior.
Omar Pa»ha, Sinister of War On Monday night,
August 29, Arabi with all his available fores attar x-d
Sir Garnet Wolseley’a position at Kassaroin Lock, but,
after repeated assaults, was repulsed with great loss
of men and war material, the latter including 11
gnns; British killed and wounded totalled 120 men.
• • •
Thirteen persons arrested on suspicion of being con-
nected with Longh Mask murders; 10 identified by
actual witnesses Guildford Onslsw, ex.M P., dead
British and Burmese treaty fallen through; Burmese
embassy returns to Mandalay Colonial agents at
Bordeaux Exhibition disagreed respecting appointment
•f wine jurors, and Earl Kimberley nominates them....
Smallpox at Capetown Over 400 suitors und>r
Arrears of Renta iu Ireland Bill; 32 assistant commis-
sioners appointed American land-leagneis forwarded
last quarter 7000 dollars to Patrick Egan, treasurer of
Irish land leaguers ; they denounce O’Donovan Rossi
as an informer Cetewayo returns to Znluland on
Sept. Ist Parliamentary bine book issued dealing
with confiscated Maori lands ; Sir Arthur Gordon thinks
Maori chiefs entitled to claims preferred under treaty
of Waitangi 3000 shipwrights on the Clyde on strike.
Porte denies outbreak of anti-Curistian riots in
Syria Archbishop of Canterbury ill; congestion of
lungs Cholera at Philippine Islands ; 4000 victims.
Limerick police threaten resignation, if ringleaders
in the increase of pay agitation aro removed ; five
eons able i dismissed, a sixth transferred Aus-
tralian eleven cricket matches:—Beat Somerset-
shire by one innings and 19 runs Drawn with Glen-
oestershire: —Australians scored 190 in first innings,
and 98 with loss ol six wickets ; Gloucestershire, in ono
innings, 131 Match against the All England Eleven
commenced Monday: Australians mane only 63 iu
first innings; English, 101 inns.
The Comte de la Molthe recently married a
handsome wife, who soon tired of him. She was
detected bringing gallants home, but boldly threatened
to involve the Comte in a duel if he took action. Soon
afterwards she brought to the ca«tle three pretty
milliners, whom she treated as members of the family.
The snare was succesful. The Count next figured in a
law court as defendant, the Countess obtained a separ-
ation, and, as she left the court, she triumphantly
poked her lord in the ribs with her parasol, saving,
•‘You are knoeked into a cocked hat, my darling!'
Moral: Don’t ride the high horse with lovely women.
Good news for “ Our Girls” at last. Corsets
are now made up with a clockwork attachment, so that
when wound up and set going the com,- reesors ara
guaranteed to squeeze the wearer’s fairy waist from one
to two hours, whilst a;false moustache on the end of a
wire gently rubs her cheek and makes the oldest spinster
think of Compagnoni’s creams and Martin Tapper’s
poetry. This invention enables the girl without a bean
to enjoy some of the delights of being conrted, but
somehow we are afraid that in spite cf all our ingenuity
can ds, many love-born maids will agree with the
Parramatta girl’s remark, ‘ There’s no style of courting
after all to touch the old old one of our grandmothers.”
Thus the Cooktown Herald re the Mrs Wat-
son testimonial: —“ * Tell it not in Gath, publish it not
in the streets of Askalou; ’ neither a minister nor a
priest of any denomination ever, so far as we have
heard, spoke one word in favour of, subscribed one six-
pence to, or took in any way the slightest interest in,
the movement which was necessary alike for the honour
of the dead and the living."—
Now, had it been a “ puss,” we ween.
To sling some unotious brother.
On pleasure trip, to slily slip.
Some bogus qualm to smother.
We had not heard that by no word.
Nor act of “ Christian" feeling.
Parson or priest the “ fund ” increased—
Endless then their appealing.
Bu f , unto her whose tale will stir
Great hearts in future ages.
And wring a tear, sod and sideere.
From youth and hoary sages,
By word or deod these saints of “creed”
No gracious aid could render
To raise a shrine, her bravo, divine,
Mem’ry aye to keap tender I
An Australian blonde has been doing the New
Yorkers. Under the name of Gertie, the obtained a
billet as a “ help ” in a boarding house kept by Mrs-
Crane. Gertie was apparently as modest aud well-
behaved as she was handsome. Aronnd her there was
hovered an atmosphere of melancholy as if she had
lived through some great sorrow. She never divulged
her troubles, but kept iu strict seclusion. One day a
new chum came to the tablo, and with the ejaculation,
“ Good God, it is Willie," she swooned. Being brought
round, she told her story thus to Mrs. CraneT*! 15
man is my brothe. I was born in Ballarat, Australia-
I am now eighteen years old. Four years since I ran
away from my father’s roof and got married. I did no-
live with my husband long, he was so jealous of mo. |
made up my mind to leave him. Where to go was the
question that troubled me most. My parents had not
spoken to me since my marriage. I saw an advertise-
ment iu the Melbourne Akgds that a widowed lady w'°
was travelling to Europe would give a companion m r
passage in exchange for her compaty. I applied ' ot
and got the position. I left Europe seven months ag< >
and since landing here have been employed as a bod -
keeper in a down-town store, which position I
lorced to lea vs through no fault of my own. My next-
situation was as waitress; that was in this house-
Gertie would not remain at the hash-house, but
off with her brother without delay. A lot of clot bus
and jewellery went off at the same time.


Department of
Sydne
T IST of Applications reoei
ment of Mines, for permi
roads, &0., &0., under the Min
tion 28.
AH']
Dite of Application, July 21, :
G. M. Larnaoh j Under the Parra:
Elvers j 610 acres; To mine for cc
Date of Application, July 21, 18
M. Larnaoh; Under the Parran
Bivers; 640 acres • To mine for cc
Date of Application. July 21,181
Larnach; Under the Parramatta i
610 acres j To mine for coal.
Date of Application, July 21,18
M. Larnach; Under the Parran
Eivers; 610 acres; To mine for c<
Date of Application, July 21,18!
M. Larnack; Under the P&rram
Elvers; 610 acres; To mine for cc
Date of Application, July 21,18
M. Larnaoh; Under the Parran
Eivers; 640 acres ; To mine for c
Date of Application, July 21,18
M. Larnaoh; Under the Parran
Eivers; 190 acres ; To mine for ci
Department <
Sydney, 1
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS F
LEASES.
is hereby givei
Lessees execute and 1
undermentioned Gold-mining 1
days from this date, it will be c
AE
Pam. and Uealla Mini
No. 260; John Lord and anoth
County of Parry, parish of Nundl
tion No. Nundle 63.
Department of M
Sydney, 1
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given
sees execute and take d
mentioned Mineral Leases wit
this date, they will be declare
AB
No. 1266; M. Perry and Q. Bos
County of Murray, pariah of Boi
plication No, Gunning 81-la.
No 1267; M Perry and G. Hos
County of Murray, parish of Bo
plication No. Gunning 81-2 a,
Department ol
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given
sees execute and take d
mentioned Mineral Leases wit
this date, they will be declare
AB
No. 1268; Peter Byron and oth
200; County of Gough, parish <
Application No. Vegetable Creel
No. 1275; J. Anderson and oth
200; County of Clive, parish of
plication No. Vegetable Creek 27
No. 1276; V. Oiraaio and otl
701; County of Gough, parish o
acres ; Application No. Vegetabl
No. 1311; J. Hussion and anot
County of Oongh, parish of Sooi
Men No. Vegetable Creek 657.
No. 1316; E. Gibson and oth
County of Gough, parish of Well
Application No. Vegetable Creel
No. 1317; J. Henriokson ; Pc
of Clive, pariah of Book Vale;
No. Vegetable Creek 661.
No. 1318; G, Halket; Portic
Gough parish of i-traohan; 20 a
Vegetable Creek 581.
Departme
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS ]
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given
sees execute and take d
mentioned Gold-mining lease
from this date, they will be de
AB
Batkvbst Minins 1
No. 163; Henry Oliver and ot
flAnnf.r nf RAf.hnrflf. nfiriih of TVn
GENUINE IRISH
WM. JAMESON & CO.'s DUI
UNBUBPASSI
IT is bottled in bond for Exp
Dublin, and consumers ma;
it has not been In the hands of
When yon ask for it, see that j
trade mark J in diamond on label,
DALT BROT
Sole Agents for N.B.W. ai
'OLD MATURED' SCC
“ As we Drink it in £
THOM AND CAN
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate a M
WHISKY as they drink it' at I
be a welcome boon.
DALT BROT
Sole Agents for N.S W. a
Importers of IBISH and SCOTi
General Merohat
309 GEOEQE ST
gT. VINCENT S HOSPITi
Under the distinguished Patron
the Bight Hon. Lord AUG I
Lady AUGUSTUS ]
and Suite.
PLAIN AND FAWC
E HIBITION B
Prince Alfred 1
WEDNESDAY, BEPTE
Tickets s
Gentlemen..
Ladies
SIR P. A. JENNINGS, I
A. J BRAD’ 1
W. H. M‘CA
BREL LAS
RE-COVERED.
T 1
s
Have ;
re
Paras
AUTI]
ARE THE B
SWISS c]
TRY TH
TO BE HAD OP ALL 1
WATSON AN
T T NICKEL and SILVE
Ship and Bath Fittings, Si
Instruments, Fire Irons,
and metal surfaces, Ni
Best Style
Old Electroplate ware of ev
silrer-plated eqna
STEAM, BEASS. & ELECTB'
336 PITT S'lE.
CITY CATERING
815 GEORGE STJ
A NEW CATERING*
Comprised of professional workn
tioal experience, nearly all from tl
of Compagnoni and Co., who pt
and carry on the working of thi
general manager.
It is not a public company, and i
the expenses appertaining thereto
N.B.—Since opening, on 3j£h
sncoessfelly catered THE LdfiGl
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBI
have taken plice here to the pretH
The Consular Dinner, in our new
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entertain
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worshij
tainod their R.H.’s PRINCE AI
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Offli
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitut:
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Censtitc
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’a PRINCE AI
to Lithgow Valley Mines and
Rum, for 60, in Government Pa
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,0<
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—
NOTICE, only receiving the on
ready on the spot at 12,30 p.m.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PEI
GEORGE to Captain Cook's 1
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon
100, under VERY SHORT NOI
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, T<
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judg
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Sum at St, Paul’s Col
of the Church of Eugland Sync
Dinner d la Russe to the Inter
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refresh-men
gentlemen, at the turning of thi
Bros.’ New Railway Rolling St
vllle.
The Luncheons and Refreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Rosreehmei
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ya Olde Ena
Palaoe.
Together w th a numerous lot of
Dinners, 1 easts, &c., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMI
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, (
and all requisites for Balls, Picni
and will bo glad to send out ti
rastry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confc
Civil and attentive waiters al
services required.
We have in our possession lette
high standing in the city, oomj
manner we have performed the di
CBAS. B. SIM
(Late of the firm of the original (
MALT 81l
The great Cure for Indigostio
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE ~ ...
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE,
43 Ertkine bt:
AND
W. H. SOUL, Piti
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET
CURES
ALL STOMACHIC DIbAR
Consumption
Acidity
Heartburn
Registered Trac
CALL at the KOUMISS MA
PANY’b Office, 161 Philli
ons TESTIMONIALS from v
p
ÜBL I C 1
J. TURNER ROBINS
TAILORING- BUI
late 482 and 4
ESTABLISHED 1861, B
478 GEORGE
Viz., NEXT DOOR j
or
TWO DOORS NORTH oi
■jyroNEr advanced t<
WITHOUT SECII
At moderate interest and easy t
No Delay. All transactions^!
MR. G. W. QOI
178 PHILLIP S
Near King-stre
JOHN R~O
(15 Years Secretary of Sc
"QUEEN’S NA
TOBACCO]
90 KINO STEE.
Next to " Oiret I
Articles of the boat quality or
folly solicited.
«
O
STAND
T H
AT
KOCKWOOD, CAMPB
THE IMPORTED EX a
"fiIBTHOMA
Winner of First Prize, April, 18
national, 1879-80 Champion Chf
Judges Special Prize, 1882.
Terms : 4 Guineas ei
Every care taken, but no respor
Mares met at Campbelltown on
Season closes January Ist, 1883,
be paid for and removed.
For further particulars apply t<
The Mi)
800 l
BW OL F F I
• Manufacturers
■Rlaok Lead Pencils, Drawing Cha
Materials, and Stationei
akers, by appointment, to Her IS
and the Bank of Ei
Office and Warehonse : 55 Qr<
•oln’a Inn Field’s, W.C Factory :
London, S.W A full
een and further particulars obtai
E. B. WOLFF (Solo Agent f<
Messrs. Feldheim, Qotthelf and
Sydney.
S
YDNEYPERMANENTP
and BUILDING SC
Established 1875. Reserve Fr
received on fixed deposit; it for 1
allowed. Savings Bank Dapaitn
notice required for withdrawals
the Society's usual liberal terms.
313 Pitt-street.
gALE OP BOOTS
H. HANNAH wishes to inform
and customers that he intends ha


Annoanc
A
USTRALIAN “ HOA
SEWING MACHII
Unprincipled Dealers—to make
lings profit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
"osss
&
'P
&
B
THE HOME SHUTTLE L(
Manufactured for us, has the aho
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHi
We solicit information of the att<
terfeits of the above Machine, win
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuii
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE KOW SOLD (
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLE
Do., WITH COYER COMP
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
M. MOSS ANC
WYNYARD LANE, S
€-A
AMD
,<■'
TS
ALL CHEST AFFE
NO
i
UNION MORTGAGE A 1
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEOEQE-STEEI
To Small FREEHOLD and ]
PROPRIETORS
This Company is prepared to g'
gage of freehold or lease bold pr
upon tVe depoelr of deeds, on com
on houses in course of erection, in
repayable by the smallest weekly
ments, taken by the society in thh
ing table will show: —
For every £2O borrowed
>, £3O ~
„ «40
~ £5O ~
.. £75 „
„ £lOO „
and up to any amonnt at the same r
For further information nnjly at
WM, P. s:
Business Annoaucemes
J*
D
Q v f
539 &
NGARLYOPPC
//ISs/LfiTc of sq
Tobaooonlsts
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE
AMERICAN TOBACCi
THE following facts are compiled
resources, and, therefore, should
special interest: —
HIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 c
All the others paid duty in 1880 on ...
HIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 c
All the others paid duty in 1881 on _ ...
Imported manufactured tobacco paid dul
on for the two years was only
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQ
SIR ROGER, GOLD FI
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL M
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are orig
genuine “ Tin Tag,” each plug bran
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped
qtjerob" or '• Yankee Doom
ALL TOBACCONISi’a* GOODS, F
READ THIS! READ '
A. SALMON 6
FURNISHING DEPI
fco.
G
UNSLEE’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
K
OBERT BUTCHER *
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
0 0..
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Couktet Orders Rbcjcive Prompt Attektioh.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
80S GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
BPI HIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMPIELD3
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN HITTERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
NOTICE TO_PUBLICANS.
f«IHE Sale over the tar of inferior and adulter-
| ated liquor fraudulently put into genuine
bot'lea bearing the registered labels of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has induced legal action in Victoria, in
three different instances, and the Publicans have
been fined up to £lO with £4 4 < costs, or one month’s
imprisonment as reported in the “ Argus " of May
19, May 31, and June 15th.
It having teen proved that similar fr’uds are
hfi"g practiced in this colonv, NOTICE IS NOW
FORMALLY GIVEN that Legal Action will be
instituted in all instances coming to the Knowledge
of tbo Proprietor. wVo has determined, regardless
of expense, to protect tbo reputation of his
Schnapps, and pi event the Public being wronged
and injured. Evidence upon the subject is inviiod,
addieased to the Sole Agents,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
'VetEBR AT®*
Stole
FOSTER’S Buqll Br>nd.
Hotels, fco.
JOHN A. WII
COOLALTA WINE C
11 PITT STREET
VINETARD-COOLALTA, BR.
SOUTH WALEi
RED WINES.
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coolalta Red
No. 2 „ ~ ••• •••
Burgundy
Via Ordinaire
WHITE WINES
Muscat
80. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2
Via Ordinaire
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-PEJ
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rose
Imported by ns direct, and man
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WAHRJ
TEARS. They are of very handso
ore moat sensitive, sweet, and powe
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PATH
Examine and tost them before pu
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMP;
1, Oxford-street; 612, Gaorge-s
Buildings, Sydne
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Higl
Ho wick-street, Bathurst; A
burn; Church-street, Parrami
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
CENTRAL TEA AND C
HOUSE,
571, george-ste:
CHARLES J, CHRI
WHOLESALE AND FAMI
TEAS, COT FEES, SUGARS,
of|tbe Beat Quality in tl
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address—
-671, QEOEQE-STE
Bxt.wmm Liverpool mii! Oou
w
H. A R
PROVISION MERC!
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 AND 345 KeKT-STREET, NEAj
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
E. Whittingham and Co.’s Lorn
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victor!
Boncraft & Co?)
Swallow and ArieU’s Victoria!
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Con
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn 1
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, neai
346 GEORGE STREET
STUBBS & S
V
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINBI
MERCHANTS.
VIRQOE, RON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
MSS
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’B
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
T LAWLER, 008, George-street, Bedding Manufac*
• turer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock. Established 1960,


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rtr« shall he glad to have this index posted uphy secretaries
of racing clubs ond onagers of sporting events in general.]
EACINQ.
u*.*** rr==«&2is^
sBS^'«as==«i?&a
oBr l ld Hnnfc Club „ September 30.
£&>•«« (»■*•> j: °-<***•■ -ssSSMt
|»*~==ESSa
9 nrrumbi<l?eeTurf Club Nov. 22, 23. 24.
Tinnedin (N.Z.) Spring November 30, December 2.
Adelaide Eaoing Club L I^.
ronferburv (N Z.) Summer Janury 1,1883.
V EC New Tear Meeting January 1.1883.
Club January 26, 1883.
Anokllnd (N.Z.) Summer Jan. 26. Feb. 1, 2. 1883.
pqnedMN.Z.) Autumn February 21. 22, 24. 1883.
AQUATICS.
OlebeE. C. Senior Pair Oars, Mr. T. Punch’s
016 Prize September 16
Mr Frank Punch’s Prizes ...» October 3,5, 7.
« s ytr Rowing Association Eegatta October 14
North Shore Bowing Club Annual Eegatta...Ootobor 21.
Gardiner Cup, Mercantile October 28.
Olebe E. C. Junior Double Sculls, Mr. P. Punch s
Prize ...I October 28.
Krug Champagne Trophy Tfi
Gardiner Cup, Amateur.. December 16.
Parramatta
PEDESTEIANIBM.
E „,.„ 16.
Sodnev A. A. Club, Association Ground... September 23.
WaUsend Athletic Club Sports November 9.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. King’s School, St. Leonards...Beptember 2.
Glenhead v. Eedfern, Moore Park September 2.
BICYCLING.
Suburban Bicycle Club Two Mile Eaoe.
Military September 13.
AUSTEALIAN ELEVEN.
United Eleven at Tunbridge Wells.... Aug. 31, Sept. 1, 2.
Nottingham (O-icroft’s benefit) Sept. 4,5, 6.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Parramatta Carltons were defeated by the
Penrith team oy six goals to ni'.
The -entries for the Eifle Association matches
olose on tne 18th September. The matches commence
on the 11th October and close on the 11th.
The Our Boys Club of Sydney played the Nor-
thumberland Club on the Albion Ground, Maitland, on
Saturday, the latter winning by four goals to three.
Largan, the sculler, is coming to Austialia yi&
San Francisco. He evidently means business, as ms
trainer and boats are on the voyage out by the Sorata.
The football match at Norwood Park between
the Petersham and Sydney Clnbs resulted in favour of
Petersham by one goal and seven behmds to one goal
and three behinds.
The Rockhampton people are endeavouring to
complete arrangements for a visit from the Hon. Ivo
Bligh’s team. They guarantee expenses and half gross
proceeds from the ground.
The settling over the Hawkesbury meeting has
been satisfactory. Sting has been made first favourite
lor the Metropolitan. Cunnamulla was scratched for
the latter event on Monday.
Boylo, Blackham, and Massio were unable to
play at Northampton. Mr. Beal t the manager, had to
don flannel. The Australian public now yearn for par-
ticulars of 11 our own Charley's*' exploits.
A public meeting was held at the Town Hall,
Balmain, on Monday evening, for the purpose of making
preliminary arrangements for the annual regatta. A
large and influential committee was enrolled.
Three English salmon were placed in the Fish
Acclimatization Society's breeding pond at Ercildoune,
Vic. One died, but the other two recently spawned,
producing about 100 J ova, 500 of which are good.
An English cricket writer says that the Hon.
Ivo Bligh’s team of cricketers is free from snobbery,
and includes men who are capable of judging people,
not as they suppose thorn, but as they know them. We
shall see.
The Australian Cup, run for under the auspices
of the Fitzroy and Wesi Bourke Coursing Club, on
Saturday, at Melbourne, was won by Mr. M Oullooh s
Marshal M'Mahon, D. Davies’ Grand Flaneur being
runner-up.
A rifle contest took place on Saturday at the
Paddington Kange between the No. >1 Co. Ist Regiment
and the Parramatta Coups resulting in a win for No. 4
Co. by 57 points, the scores being, No. 4 Co., 343; Par-
ramatta Corps, 286.
A word of adieu to the footballers en route for
New Zealand. Make a good preparation, and lose no
opportunity to get a win. We are afraid that the New
Zealanders play Rugby too well for out men. The team
is not so strong as it might have been.
The new Tamworth Racing Club have fixed
their first meeting for October 11 and 12. Ten events
constitute the programme, covering £355 added money,
a* well as a special prize of a Cup, value 20 guineas, pre-
sented by Mr. M. Cohen, Mayor of Tamworth.
The printers are to play cricket matches for a
cup, next season. The employers are to be asked to
contribute. The matter is taken in hand by an energetic
committee, and the printers’ contest should be as
interesting as that for the Junior Challenge Cup on
Moore Park.
On 21st and 22nd August the Australians played
at Taunton against Somersetshire and won in one
innings with IS runs to spare. The attendance was
large and the weather fine. The Australians made 245 ;
Bannerman 50, M'Donnell 48, and Blackham (not out)
43, being the highest scorers.
The Queensland footballers were banqueted on
their return to Brisbane. The captain spoke in the
highest terms of the manner in which the team had
beaa received and entertained in Sydney. both by the
footballers and the public. The toast of the Southern
Rugby Union was heartily drunk.
The English bookmaker, Sutton, made hia first
appearance at the Hawkesbury meeting. He laid 100 to
1 against one outsider, and twenty-five and fifty to
nothing against two others. Of course, they did not
come off. He has a clerk with him who enters the
—agers laid. The “ring” do net regard him with
favour.
The Bur woods took a very weak team over last
Saturday to play St. Leonards, and after a gallant and
ohwe fight they were just beaten by two goals to a goal
and a try. The Burwood best men were absent, prao-
tl ® m 8 with the team who are to visit New Zealand, and
what would have otherwise been a runaway match for
■Burwood proved a severe and exciting contest.
. The team that represented one county against
tne Australian Eleven was an All-England Eleven, and
was selected from the following cracksA. P. Lucas,
A- Q. Steel, J. F. Tyleoote, W. H. Patterson, P. H.
Morton, J. Docker, Hon. Ivo Bligh, C. L. Thornton,
®naw, Selby, Scotton, Shrewsbury, Flowers, Barnes,
Mycroft, M. Read, Morley, Foster, with A. N. Hornby.
The Australians put this lot out for 76 in the faoond
innings. The match was a draw, the Colonials having
38 runs to make with five wickets to fall.
The London Globe bids good-bye to Layoook
and Pearce in the following strain :—" There was but
small field for either of the Colonials in this country,
where they have between them done much to lower
professional sculling in the estimation of the public in
a very short space of time, and their departure will not
be regretted." Their visit to England should be re-
gretted by the English scullers.
The Australian Coursing Club’s Bracelet meet-
ing was concluded on Saturday, with the following re-
sults:—Norwood Plate, won by Mr. Whittingham's
Legerdemain, with Mr. E. Chirnside’s Werribee Shadow
as runner-up. The Lady’s Bracelet, won by Mrs. W.
M'Culloch’s Miss Katie, with Miss C. Hood’s Drew as
runner-up. The Ladies’ Purse, won by Miss Jones’
Lady Evelyn. Mrs. G. Fenner’s Strideaway having been
drawn from distress.
Following is the football team that start to-day
(Thursday) for New Zealand by the Eotomahana :
Messrs Baper (captain and manager), Graham, Bioh-
mond, E Thallon, H. Fligg, Baylis, Walker, W. Flynn,
M’Clatohie, C. Evgate, Barry, Mann, E, Hill, Hawkins,
Howard, Butler, Logan, Addison, Jennings. These form
a fairly representative team and should give a good ac-
count of themselves. The Eugby game is well played
in New Zealand, and the contests are sure to bo keen.
The proposed route is Auckland, Wellington, Christ-
church, Dunedin, and back via Christchurch and Wel-
lington to Sydney.
Much discussion has been caused, and many
opprobrious epithets used of late over the respective
merits of the Eugby and N.S.W. styles of playing the
“undertaker’s friend,” or football. And yet the whole
thing lies in a nutshell. It a player wishes to be tram-
car’d into hash on the shortest possible notice, all he
has to do is to take one tussle with a crowd of Eugbies;
but, if he wishes to die to slow music, as it were—that
is, to lose an oar to-day, an arm to-morrow, and the
roof of his head the day after, the colonial game is the
very pill he’s looking after. Both modes, however, lead
to the same result—a small " lot ” in the nearest bone-
yard.
The Australians were fixed to play Gloucester-
shire on August 2-4, 25, 20, but the rain on the first day
prevented play. The match resulted in a draw. The
weather was showery on the remaining days and the
wickets were heavy. The Australians went in first, and
were dismissed for 190, Jones 43, Horan 41, and Massie
39, being the highest scorers. Murdoch and Palmer
were not well enough to play. Gloucestershire, first in-
sings, made 131, to which Townsend contributed 27.
Spofforth bowled splendidly, taking five wickets for 30
runs. The Australians in their second innings had
lost 6 wickets for 98 rua, Massie, not out, contribut-
ing 55.
The Queensland Tnrf Club Special Race Meet-
ing on Saturday was very success ful. The weather was
showery, but there was a good attendance. Four
started for the Selling Stakes, which was won by Czar
by a neck. Only three started for the Hurdle Saco;
won easily by Blazeaway by six lengths. Seven started
for the Exhibition Handicap. A great race home en-
sued between Legacy and Moorlad, the latter winning
by a neck. Nabocklish fell. Five started for the Cor-
inthian Stakes, which was won by Pinafore. Goverty’s
Eclipse won the Plying Handicap by a length. Seven
started for the Forced Handicap, which was won by
Nabooklish by three lengths.
If this meets the eye of “ Young Dutohy,” he
will hear of something to his advantage by calling on a
party named “ Alpha,” Independent Office, Tamworth,
as that gentleman is desirous of risking £l5O for the
privilege of " putting a head ” on the Dutohy, or vice
versa, Lotus pause a moment here to take stock. A
smart clerk, after passing the usual University exams.,
and doing a three or four years’ probation in a Govern-
ment office, may then be able to earujElSOin 12 months.
Either Dutohy or Alpha can earn it in 12 minutes.
proves that when Bulwer Lytton wrote " Know-
ledge is power ” he hadn’t the pleasure of knowing the
weight of Dutchy’s “ left ’un."
According to published list of fixtures the Aus-
tralian Eleven play to-day (Thursday), Friday, and
Saturday, at Tunbridge Wells, against a United
Eleven; and on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday
against Nottingham, lor the benefit of Oscroft, a pro-
fessional who visited Australia with W. Q. Grace’s
team. It is to bs hoped that proper arrangements will
this time be made for luncheon and that the honour and
appetite of Australia will be at last appeased at Netting-
ham. The colonial flag has been dragged through the
mite a bit lately, by a few defeats ; there is now an
opportunity for glory by administering a sound drubbing
to the Nottingham players, and also effectually con-
cealing their " grub.”
The Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club
are to have a meeting on the Association Ground on
the 16th Sept., and on the following Saturday the
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club hold their Spring
meeting on the same ground. Anyone desirous of pre-
senting a special prize is requested to notify the secre-
tary of each club, at the same time to name the race for
which the prize is given. The 8.8. A..A. Club has, among
the proposed events, a 1000 yards flat race for the
Challenge Cup, at present held by Mr. O. 8. Metcalfe;
120 yards’ strangers’ flat race; 1 mile flat race; 1 mile
walk handicap; 2 miles walk handicap. The B.A.A.
Club has \ mile flat race for Challenge Cup, at present
held by Mr. Metcalfe ; 1 mile flat race; 440 yards han-
dicap ; i mile flat race handicap; 2 miles walk handicap ;
maiden 440 yards; maiden mile walk; schools’ champion
100 yards ; one mile and three miles bicycle races, han-
dioap; and Mr. E. A. Arnold offers a oup for beating
club record time in any walking race.
The Spring Meeting of the Hawkosbury Race
Club proved most successful. The attendance on both
days was largo and the racing better than at any pre-
vious meeting. The recent heavy rain made the course
very soft. Basilisk was the favourite for the Hurdle
Eace. He had a narrow escape from coming down at
his second jump. He won rather easily; Nigger who
was second, jumped very well but lacked pace. Speranza
was made a favourite for the Auction Stakes, but she
allowed Cedrio to get too much of a lead and could not
catch him. Six started for the Guineas, Heola being
the favourite at the poet. She was in splendid condition
and won easily, Jessie being second, and Vauolnse
third. Cetowayo got a bad start and Fandango ran un-
kindly. Jessie was not in the best condition. A fine
race took place for the Coim'y Purse, resulting in a win
for Hastings, Brian Born, v ..o was coming fast, being
second. Sting, the sensational winner of the Hawkes-
bury Handicap, ran in heavy plates, and was a splendid
last. The Maiden Plate was an easy win for Eva,
Malta being second and Gamin third.
Hawkesbury Race Club Spring Meeting.
Second day. The attendance was very large, the racing
food, and the arrangements excellent. For the Mares
'reduce Stakes four started; Heola was made the
favourite, and she won hands down, Hastings being
second. A field of twenty sported colour for the
Grand Handicap. Kingsworth was made first favourite,
but he ran unkindly. Sting got into a good position
during the race, and was the victor by half a length
after a great struggle in the straight with Masquerade.
Comet, who came in the straight leading, went right
out against the left handrails, an I thus lost his chance,
Britisher, three lengths off. Masquerade was third.
The time was 2min 36J secs —the fastest mile-and-a-
half ever done in Austm.ia. Tristan was made favour,
ite for the Two-year-old Stakes, Eosebud got the best
of the start, but Kingsdale came to the front at the
distanoe and won easily; Moroeau, who got badly
away, being second. Venice was made a nost for the
Member’s Handicap, and she won easily, beating
Saionara and Malta. The Prince of Wales Stakes was
a gift for Bob Sawyer, who was knocked down to Mr.
Foster, for 95 guineas. Comet seemed to have the race
for the Turf Club Handican well in hand, but ho again
ran out at the turn, and Kingworth coming up on the
inside, won easily.
Despite the counter attractions, there was a
large attendance at the Mercantile Bowing Club Re-
gatta on Saturday. The water was smooth, and the
various events were well contested. The Maiden Single
Sculls, in club skiffs, resulted in a win for L. C. Birohall
who took the lead after rounding Fort Denison and
maintained it to tho finish, beatinjf G. Seal® by about
two lengths. The race for Senior Pours in outriggers,
was disappointing. One of the contestants broke his
oar just os the two boats were racing Ineok and neck,
and his comrades had to stop. Mr. Wilkinson s crew
rowed the rest of the distance to win. The Junior
Sculls, in outrigger sculling clinkers, was won rather
easily by S. H. Martin, who led from the start. A good
race took place between tho second and third men,
who foaled, for second honours, Bull getting in before
Brown. Three crews started for the Maiden Pours in
string.test gigs, A good race took place, Mr. Brindley
taking his crew olf at a rattling pace; however, Mr.
Young’s crew wore him down at the finish and won by
three lengths; Mr. Hanson’s crew were never in it.
A good race took place for the Junior Pair Oars in out-
rigger skiffs, which was won by Messrs. 0. Booth and
B. Ives, although Messrs. L. C. Birchall and W. H.
Bros seemed to bo coming at the finish. A fine race for
the Scratch-Pours in string-test gigs resulted in a
win for the Nellie by half.a-length, Polly being second^
In the second division for Scratch Fours in string-test
gigs Patience won easily from Hanlan.
Circumstances seemed to conspire against the
Gymnastic Sociable last week. Two dayo previously,
the practice bar, an old and trusted friend, gave way
under the strain; during the whole day and evening
rain fell, and various mishaps caused gaps in the ranks
of the gymnasts. Prof. D’Harcourt was weak from
recent severe illness, and the prizeman Cansdell was
ill. Others were absent. Notwithstanding, the build-
ing was full, rows of ladies adorned the front seats, and
a number of lady members watched the movements
most intently from the platform Programmes wert)
provided, and the German Band played. Punctually at
8 o’clock, ten members took up position for damt-bou
exercise; then the various apparatus followed. The
broken bar had ©nly just been replaced, and it was a
disadvantage to go on an untried one. The performers
were Clement, Dovers, Fry, Bowerman, Poole, Muir,
Kellerman, Chambers, Bensusan and Bbsworth. The
feats of Muir (who carried off the highest prizes in
Scotland some years back) were good. Bowerman
distinguished himself by the boldness and grace of his
" curly ” tricks; and Kellerman was a most finished
little gymnast. Olemeutand Muir lifledheavy weights,
and Hunter brothers fenced. D'Haroourt gave illus-
trations of wrestling movements, use of the gloves,and
of Ling’s system of calistheni :a. Through several of
the senior members being absent, the “ tricks’’ mostly
showed activity rather than strength, and there was a
decided tendency towards showy feats, rather than
the steady muscular exertion which comes more within
the domain of legitimate gymnastioe. Agility and
suppleness were far mors marked than strength. When
rounds of applause can be gained by dash and daring,
few care to submit to the severe and constant training
necessary for a first-olass gymnast. This tendency to
show should bo guarded against. There were fewer
performers on Wednesday than on any previous occa-
sion, and the work was run through very early, the
building being clear at a quarter to ton.
The Sydney Bicycle Club held their first meeting
on Saturday on the Association ground, before nearly
10,000 spectators. The arrangements wore more com-
plete than is usually the case at sports meetings ; the I
blackboard was attended to, laps and times for the
various events were marked without delay, and in
this particular the Club has set an example to other
more experienced Clubs. But, in addition, the bicyoie
races were closely contested, and aroused a state of ex-
citement seldom experienced at amateur meetings.
The mile maiden handicap, which was contested in
heats, proved eventually a gift for M’ftae, who went
through his opponents like a tradesman. Time 3.30.
The ten mile scratoh race, for the amateur champion,
sbip, was very interesting up to a certain point, when
Copland, who looked very much like the winner, cams
a heavy cropper through Shute's carelessness. God-
win then had it all his own way, although Barker
made a gallant struggle for the prize. Shnte, who_ re-
sumed riding after bis fall, seemed to do nothing bmt
prevent Barker fretn coming up to Godwin. Time,
39 minutes 49 seconds. Knsn went for the 220 yards
flat race, but failed to get a place, Smithers, with eigh-
teen vards start, winning in 24 minutes 2 seconds, P.
W. Baylie, with two yards, being second. The one
mile open handicap was won by J. Barnet. 160 yards,
Q. P. Cook, 75 yards, being second. The 100 yards slow
race was cleverly won by A. W. Crane. The mile
race, for the amateur championship, was a contest be-
tween A. Lee and H. Moyer, the former wearing his op-
ponent down in the last round, doing the distance in
three minutes thirteen seconds. Bush did not start
for the 440 yards flat race, which was won in 54 secs,
by A. H. Maoarthur, A. P. Phillips, being second, and
8. H. Pairland third. The three miles handicap was a
gift to J. Barnet, who had a start of 300 yards, and
kept his distance easily. G. W. Godwin, 75 yards, was
second, and H. Moyse, scratch, third. Time, 10 min-
utes, 55 seconds. The mile handicap (without using the
handles), was a gift to A. W. Crane, H. Beattie being
second. Copland, was again unlucky, and had a very
severe fall. Some single and double tricycles were on
exhibition, and a race was improvised, several of the
competitors coming a cropper.
J. L. Sullivan, tho American pugilist champion,
made a match with Tag Wilson, the English middle-
weight champion, to knock him out of time in fifteen
minutes, in four rounds of three minutes each, with a
minute time between, both men to wear ordinary
boxing-gloves. The event came oft at New York on
17th Jniy, at Madisen-Sqnare Gardens, in the presence
of nearly 12,000 spectators. The stage was about five
feet high, and a ring twenty-four feet square had been
erected. At 930 p.m. Wilson appeared, and was lustily
cheered. Sullivan followed, and the house fairly rose
at him. Sullivan is ten years younger than Wilson, Is
sft. lOJln high, being three inches tailor, and weighs
thirty pounds more. The gloves seemed to be ratner
small for him, as he had difficulty in getting them on.
First round, Wilson lot out with his left on Sally's
mouth. Tho latter followed with a right and left in
rapid succession, and then sent Wilson down with a
right-hander on the side of the head. Wilson was up
In the prescribed ten seconds, let out with his left,
Sullivan returning with both hands, the right dropping
Tug. Getting up again, ho was treat ed to a series of
right and left handers, and he was floored near the ropes.
Sullivan then knocked him up against the ropes and
propped him, and Tug dropped on his knees. When,
the round was over, Wilson was led to his corner un-
steady in his legs, and seemingly the battle was all over.
Second round, fug gave Sully a left-hander on the nose
and mouth. Sully returned without effect, and Tug
slipped down. Tag then closed with Sully, half-arm
hitting ensued, and Tug went down on his knees. Sul-
-11 van tried to keep Wilsen at full-arm distance, but Tug
knew too much and closed, took half-arm punishment,
and dropped to save time. These tactics benefited his
chance, as he seemed to be better off than at the end of
tho first round, and Sullivan was tiring from his exer-
tions. Third round. Tug let out right and left; Salli-
, van returned, Wilson dodging; Tug closed, and Sully
held him round the neck to keep him up, but failed to
administer a sensational upper-cut. Separating, they
came together again, and Sullivan threw Wilson by a
neck-hold, Sullivan falling over, Sullivan then got in
a right-hander which might have decided the battle at
the commencement, but his strength Was failing.
Fourth round, Sullivan was evidently much distressed
with his exertions, and puffed like a steam-engine when
he came to the scratch. Wilson's wind was still good.
Both were shaky on the pins. The hitting was wild-
They clinched and struggled about the stage, Wilson
falling, bringing Sullivan with him. Once or twice
Wilson was knocked down, but frequently he wit
down of his own accord, partly through weakness. The
crowd roared (or Sullivan to go in and finish his mar,
but the time was called, and Wilson was still able to
stand before him. A mighty cheer wont up for Wilson
for his pluck and generalship. The Queensberry rules
wore somewhat infringed; wrestling is not permitted,
but the men closed and struggled several times with the
referees’ permission. In the third round, Sullivan, in-
stead of retiring to his corner when Wilson was down,
stoitdover him and hit him as he was rising—another
violation of the rules to which no attention was paid.
Sullivan knocked Wilson down twenty-seven times.
The gate-money re lohed 16 000 aollars. Sullivan bet t
himself by his exertions, and a orominent American
spotting writer says that any gocd man who can dodge
his powerful blows for ton minutes must than be able
to go in and win. Tug Wilson is bettor known as the
British middle-weight Joseph Collins. He was born
31st March, 1817, at Leicester, England; stands sft.
7iln. in his stockings, and goes into the ring weighing
IStlbs.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The second football match between the Brisbane
players and a combined N.S.W, team resulted in an
easy win for the N.S. Wales by 3 goals and 2 touch-
downs to nil. The Queensland men were sent on their
voyage home with ail the honours, and they express
themselvei delighted with the treatment they have
received in Sydney A moonlight football match for
the benefit of the local charities is on the tapis at Bris-
bane. Certainly, this would be a novelty, for footballers
have to keep their eyes open in daylight, and yet cannot
prevent accidents. Consequently some of the players
will regret taking part in the moonlight game
The Commissioner of Customs has decided, in conse-
quence of the present scarcity of fish in Lake Tyers,
owing to netting by Europeans, to reserve fishing in
that sheet of water solely for aboriginals A
billiard match (300 up came oil on last Friday evening
at Larkins’ room between Perkins and Simpson. The
former was the favourite at 6 to 4, but Simpson won by
82 points, the scores being:—Simpson, 300, Perkins,
218 Dr. Beaney, of Melbourne, has offered a diamond
bracelet for yachts nominated by ladies at the Albei t
Park Regatta The Mount Gambier (S.A. ) Hunt Club
had a tun at Millieent on 23rd August, when John
Shanahan, a farmer, was thrown and injured danger-
ously. He was owner of the racehorse Young Leapyear,
the winner of the Handicap Flat Race at Mt. Gambler...
Herbert Lockwood, who was stated to have lost several
thousand pounds with bookmakers and in card play,
was sentenced to two months’ imprisonment for steal-
ing a gold ring and some money from his landlord. He
pleaded drunkenness In a charge of card-playing at
an Auckland (N.Z.) hotel, the magistrate decided that,
11 euchre" was not an unlawful game A cricket
match was played on 4th July at Shsatham, England,
between the local club and the Bohemians (Australian).
The latter team included Massie, Bonnor (Sydney),
J. Menzies, A. F. Robinson, and A. Campbell (Mel-
bourne), A. E. Ayers (S. Australia). Massie was caught
for 4, Bonnor mode 100 (not out). The Bohemians
made 135. Sbeatham made 320 tor five wickets, the
Erinoipal scorers being W. H. Game (not out) 144. H,
.eat 05, W. S. Trollope 22 In the race for the Handi-
cap at Hawkesbury on Saturday, Comet, who ran out at
the turn, knocked Jimmy Ashworth down, shaking the
veteran jockey severely Geelong played Hotham at
Melbourne on Saturday and won by seven goals to nil...
Pigeon matches are the rage just now on the Lachlan.
Joe Workman, one of the orny ’anded, wears the badge.
The “ uppab ten ’’ backed their two cracks, Waugh ana
Strickland against him at Forbes lately; “a century"
each aside, but Joe pub them both through without
blinking Huokstep beat Walsh for the walking
championship of Auckland. The ground was heavy
from rain. The distance, 7 miles, was covered in 62min
121soo Thirty-five thousand persons paid for admis-
sion to the match Lancashire v. Australia Tinley,
who was in Australia with Farr's team, was present in
the Pavilion each day of the match Notts v. Australians
Ed word Butcher, a Rockhampton sculler, has issued
a challenge to row any man in Queensland, for £lO or
upwards At the sculling contest at Maryborough (Q.)
on Saturday Mr John Hurley’s trophy was won by
Barton Mr. Qadan. the Victorian ICoursing Club
judge, is to take the place of Mr. Pitt in that capacity
in connection with the N.S. Wales Coursing Club.
• • •
The New York Clipper of Bth July says that
" Hanlau intends going to Australia next fall for his
health and will give an exhibition of rowing feats.’’
Tug Wilson, before bis match wfth Sullivan, was inter-
viewed by a reporter who asked him whether he had
seen Sullivan box. Be answered: “No, 1 have not,
bot I have beard about him. I don't care if he stands
seven feet, he can’t knock me out of time with the soft
Slaves or with his fists in four rounds. It he licks me
i four rounds you can bet I will go back to England;
bat he can’t do it, in my opinion; and, if be does, he
will be the best man that ever put up his bunches of
fives in a prize ring, barring nobody.” Edward
Uanlan publishes a card in which he thanks Wallace
Boss for the magnanimity he displayed in not claiming
the forfeit to which he was entitled iu,their recent match.
He says he hopes to be able to meet Ross next season...
A week or so before Sullivan's match with Tug Wilson,
he had a bout with an American artist, Jimmy Elliott.
Sullivan offered him 500 dollars to face him for four
rounds of three minutes eaeh, with one minute rest be-
tween, under the Queensberry rules. Sullivan knocked
him senseless in the third round. When Elliott came
to, Sullivan shook him by the hand and presented him
with a roll of dollar bills. Sullivan must be a great
•‘hit,’’ wherever he goes Tug Wilson was to get
1000 dollars and half the gate receipts it he was success-
ful in his match with Sullivan The French Govern-
ment is making experiments with the electric light as a
means of luring fish into nets. The light is placed inside
of a glass globe and] sunk to the desired depth. The
fish flock to that part of the sea thus brilliantly illumi-
nated Charles E. Courtney is stated to have been one
of thirty persons residing in Union Springs, N.Y., who
were poisoned July 4 by partaking of ice-cream in which
some miscreant had put tartar emetic In a game
played at Horsham, England, F. M. Lucas made 302
runs, the highest individual score this season in Eng-
land W. Russell in a recent college match
in Edinburgh, Scotland, got 14 runs in two
successive hits, one being a 10 to leg
Two remarkable bowling feats were recently accom-
plished in Scotland. In a game between the Glasgow
University and Greenock, M. P. Frazer took five
wickets for no runs, four being clean-bowled. A still
more wonderful bit of bowling was performed by D.
Taylor, who took six wickets with six consecutive
balls, his analysis showing eight wickets for five runs..
Lord Harris was to be presented with a handsom*
otndelabrutn, value 400 guineas, during Canterbury
week, for his valuable services to the cause of cricket in
Kent On June 23, at Lillie Bridge Grounds, W. O.
George, from scratch, ran a mile in 419 2-5 The half
was made in 2 4, and the three-quarters in B*3-5, which
is five seconds under record time It may not be
generally known that Foxhall was so named after hi*
owner, Mr. J. K. Keene’s son, who, iu tura, donved hi-
name from his uncle, Admiral Foxhall Parker.........
Derbyshire possesses one of the largest and best cricket
grounds in England. There are numerous praotld
wickets always in first-class order, yet th
County is one of the weakest in England
W F Hamp, Cornell University, recently made a fool
bail place kick of 177 feet 6 inches, the best oil record
If Joe Collins (Tug Wilson) fights John L. Sullivan
for the championship of the world, it will be the Sayer
and Keenan battle over again, as regards stiength ai <■
aoienoe Hanlan, when training for a race, rows aid
walks sixteen miles a day.
Beware of unscrupulous imitators and false
statements. The Pcee Indian Teas of the Calcutta
Tea Association, are recognised as a standard branu
for purity, flavour, economy in use, and every excel
lonoe, despite the attempts to imitate the brand. In
dian Tea in packets was first sold in the colony during
the Sydney Exhibition, by Mr. Inglia, ol Inglis, Brown,
and Co., who are the sole agents in N. 8. W. for The
Klalentta Tea Association. Wholesale Warehouse, 2k
■Chariotto Place. No hawkers, no retail shops. None
■but genuine teas sold. Ask only for the Calcutta Te
Association’s Pure Indian Teas, and don’t buy "rub
blah” packed in imitation wrappers.—Adtt.
TO ELIAS LAYCOCK, ESQ.
SYMPATHETIC STANZAS.
Hail, Layoook! we with pleasure unalloyed
Salute the gallant conqueror of Boyd I
Not thin-skinned wo: at strictures wo but soon,
And greet the man who’s pulled the money off I
For sculling would be mosc infernal rot
If sometimes one oould not “ upset a pot;
And one big virtue that tho gods do send
Is that, you know, of standing by a friend I
So, therefore, in a pot of Toohey's ale.
We pledge thee, great aquatic god I—all hail I
Let British rags at thee, our hero, rail:
Theif pars, are but a feather in the scale I
Our lives we’d stake that all was straight and fair;
We feel we know, although—we weren't there I
What! sell a race, and take the public in,
Elias p Never 1 Why, the thing’s " too thin.
That dart drops harmless from thy helm, old boss,
For what in thunder oarest thou tor dross P
And yet behold I unto thy native land,
Thou dost return, the trophies in thy hand.
And no triumphal oroh is reared on high t
No flags are flying to attract thine eye;
No banquets laid with wines and floweis fair,
No Dan O'Connor’s •• proud to take the chair ;
No list is opened, and no speech is made.
No money’s promised, and no money’s paid;
No beery moh does yell “till all is blue’’
(That self-same crowd would cheer the devil too);
No drag is harnessed to the Quay to go,
No bells are ringing, no champagne does flow;
No “ Keep back there I’* to timid souls is howled.
No hats are waving, and no ballad’s yowled ;
To all appearances it might just be,
A man of letters who had crossed the sea.
But ’midst the public gloom, oh, thou must see,
Elias, that our hearts are true to thee I
And though, great souller, now, it does befall,
Thou’rt scorned by welcomers professional,
Lo ! we stand forth, and o’er a pot of ale,
Great Vanquisher of Uoyd! bid thee all hail I


RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GEORGE STREET,
600 GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STREET,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND i
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPEST DRAPERS
IN THH
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
THE OEIGINATOES OP THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
BLACK SILKS, BLACK SILKS.
EXTRAORDINARY SPECIAL PURCHASE,
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NOW IS YOUR TIME.
ALL PARCELS SENT BY POST FREE.
A Black Silk Dress is always fashionable, and la the
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers have pleasure in informing their
Country friends that their Paris buyer has sent them
out the CHEAPEST AND BE >T LOT OF BLACK
SILKS ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers have determined to sell them cheap
and give their customers a turn:—
Lot 1 A Beautiful Gros Grain Silk 45s 'l
2 Rich Corded Gros de Suez 60* |
3 Heavy Corded Gros Roy ale 80s f-all 15 yards
4 Rich Drabs, Fawns and Greys I I
Suitable for Weddings or j 60sJ
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in each dress, but Customers
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Special Silks will ba sent, if asked
for, and we will send full directions for self-measure-
ment to Ladies requiring dresses made up.
All Parcels Paoked Carefully, and depatohed by post
Free of Charge.
SYDNEY.
RILEY BROTHERS,
£5 BALE WAREHOUSE,
383 GEORGE-STREET, NEAR POST OFFICE,
and 600 BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Mother’s £5 Bale..
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large sine
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
21 yards Oambroon for
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Mon’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. Poeket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. Ac.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Pettiooalf
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Boilers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
I dozen Infants’ Diapsf
Squares
Puff box, PnESt Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Christ’ing Robs
1 I nf a n t’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood, or Bat.
£5 Winter Bate.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 large Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cbtton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the above are good
wearing articles.
MB
Men’s Clothing
Bate.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
MB Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
5 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are mads of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead ef any of the above.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gam broom
6 Brown Holland
4 large White ,'ow
3 yards good Trousers.
Tweed, Bntton
Thread, ho.
£■s Mourning Bale..
25 yds. Black French TwilK
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS'
M 2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Bos;, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
8 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
M 2 Stockma n’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trc sera
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cptton Shirt
3 Fairs Strong Socks
3 Pockethaukerchiefa
I Soft Felt Hat
1 Elateie Belt
M 2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslia
Long Christening Robe#
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin off
Bilk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Rail,
or Steamer.
M 2 Ladies’ Parcel
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawer*
1 White petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
$ Pairs Stockings.
Flannel Petti cob*
Carriage free by Bafl
cor Steamer.
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by
or Steamer.
We vgisk, it to be diet lastly understood that anW
article in the Bales may be changed for some other oi
about the same price.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THB
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA*' .
SOCIAL.
The August Ball of the Sydney Private As-
sembly, held on Friday, was unusually large; some faces
were handsome, and dresses gay. There must have been
over 150 present. Very bright was the ballroom, with
its crowd of light-hued, gleaming satins, aed the uni-
forms interspersed among the sombre swallow-tails.
Gold lace still has a charm for the fair, and whoever
may go partnerless in the ball-room, officers don’t A
number of couples could be seen doing the new glide
which has lately come into such favour, not only for
the waltz, but for other circular danoes, and in some
cases most graceful proficiency was shown. Kopff’s
band played fast music. In the garden the struggling
moonbeams’ misty light fell on those little pictures
that the moonbeams are accustomed to fall on; while
the traveller on the top story of the passing juggernaut
gazed with contemplative interest on the sights which
the lanterns dimly burning revealed on the front veran-
cab The smoking and supper rooms also had their
occupants, and their charms, for those not too actively
inclined, and it was easy to pass pleasant hours till the
carriages trotted round about one o’clock, and then
rolled home.
• « •
On Faturday, a juvenile party, but including a
few seniors, took place in the Kandwick Town Hall, at
the invitation of Professor West. Tho young folks
had decorated the hall with ferns, wild flowers, lilies,
! and so on: and friends, who occupied seats on the
platform and in the opposite gallery, watched the
dancing which went on to the regular music of Mr.
IWyndham. Somo Sydney visitors were inconvenienced
by the tram being an hour and a half late ; or rather,
by two trams not running at all. There was a tram at
Moore Park, but the official declined to run it out to
Randwiok; he preferred not to risk a reprimand for
repairing the blunders of tho Department. At last all
i arrived. Many of the juveniles were from the ladies’
* schools at Randwiok, and looked pretty in their best
I "party” dres-es. A plump young lady, garbed in
. white and blue, executed a Highland dance in a way
that would justify her claim to a " light fantastic toe,”
and her younger sister in a sweet blue satin was good.
A pretty dot ef six or seven, with flaxen hair and a
Scotch name, seemed to be full of national enthusiasm ;
for she threw a spirit into her Scotch dancing that did
credit to her tartan scarf. The ease was most marked
with which oven the youngest little girls reversed, a
pi aotioe which many elder people find so difficult, and
often cannot manage at all. Some young ladies from
“ Llanfoyst ’’ were elegant and correct dancers, and
one fiom “ Clytha,” wearing white, trimmed with
dark red, and a wreath, was noticeable. An anbnrn-
baired demoiselle from the Glebe waltzed with skill;
two daughters of a city warehouseman from “ Oak-
ville,” one of a postal official, and one from Avoca.stieet,
all in blue, as well as a fair little maid in a cream satin
frock, also excelled. The children enjoyed their treat
in the big, bright hall, and their self-possessed grace of
manner .showed how different, dancing is when learnt
from what it is if “ picked up ” in parlor romps. If a
maiden is trained to dance while she is young, then,
when she is old, she won’t make her partner’s arm
ache. , , *
Saturday afternoon was fine, and the spectators
of the bicycling contests were legion. They filled the
stand, and formed a dark ring round the ground, and
some of them used hot and hasty words to express their
feelings about the ticket and tram arrangements.
Hundreds of intending tram travellers, after weary
waiting, took cabs to the ground, of course arriving just
after the race they particularly wanted to see. When
the superintmdent of tramways dies, which will pro-
bably be soon, as he’s very clever, Sydney cabbies will
be destitute of gratitude if they d, n’t erect a monument
to their truest friend’s memory. There were few close
races, though the sport was interesting from its
novelty. Sometimes it was even thrilling, and on
counting up the total of mishaps, we have come to the
conclusion that bicycling as a means of adventure is
only a little behind steeplecliMing or the Rugby game.
When you consider what a very narrow gauge the
bicycle runs on, it’s not wonderful that it should
occasionally tip over—in fact, the wonder is that it
ever stands up; but it was rather remarkable that the
thioe-wheelera seemed even better adapted for the
somersault business than the others. They displayed
a readiness and facility in capsizing, without the
slightest apparent cause, that was almost marvellous.
Now and then, when these skittish machines rested for
a while from their eccentricities, there was time for a
glance at the lawn. Ladies carried on a fair amount
of promenading, but many who secured good seats
did not care to risk losing them, and remained seated
all the time. There was nothing very novel, and nothing
very prevalent Dark velvets were plentiful, some
black ones extremely nice, dark satins were common,
pinks quite absent. One rich dress, displayed by a lady
of good physique, was of dark old gold beaded gimp
trimming, and worn with a bonnet to match. Close-
fitting beaded bonnets were worn a good deal. A fair
girl in purple velvet, with purple moire sash and trim-
ming; a portly married lady (with Hibernian prefix)
with a fine black silk-velvet, and a hat of peacocks’
eyes; the stately wife of a well-known stock salesman,
wearing claret velvet and moire, trimmed with
brabant lace; and an architect’s wife, in black satin
and moire antique, with bronze-beaded close bonnet;
passed up and down. A fair girl wore moire antique of
bnthstone colour, very heavily embroidered and edged
with seaweed fringe, a dashing hut, and underskirt of
pompadour sateen, all to match in colour. A lady
from Ashfleld wore (the dress of the clay) a magnificent
costume of ruby velvet, elegantly trimmed with the
new ficelle laoe, bonnet of same laoe with Maroohale
Niel roses. A lady from Tumut was attired in a cos-
tume of terracotta satin, embroidered with copper
passamenterie, bonnet and parasol corresponding. Two
sisters from Wynyard Square were dressed with ex-
quisite taste, the petit young lady graced a costume of
brown mervei kaux satin trimmed with ficelle guipure
embroidery, ficelle lace hat with pearls and blush
rosea The taller sister looked very stylish in a cos-
tume of sapphire blue satin, with trimmings of royal
Stuart tartan and cream scarf with hat of same colour,
and cardinal roses; tout pneeml)U very taking. A lady
under a cream bonnet contrasted peacock blue silk, witn
a short Persian silk of damascene design, long train. A
ptpiking o gtume was striped silk of that peculiar
changeful blue glint which meefjj the eye in a sardine
tin after the luscious contents are removed for con-
sumption. The wife of a lately created O.M.G. was in
rich brown satin brooby and brown laoe and bonnet. A
bright crimson watered velvet with moire tpimiping
was prominent; and so was a gaslight groan plush and
cashmere dress, which its wearer amply filled, large hat
to match. But most prominent of all were two
slender young ladies of the blonde type of beauty,
who maintained admirable self-possession under
the very general and critical gaze directed towards
them. One dress was a pretty dove-coloured satin,
so constructed as to be removed from any possible
contact with the ground: the other was a Imvely sky.
blue satin, while both ladies wore splendid flowers to
harmonise with their stylo. This sentence scarcely
does justice to the dresses, yet it’s a short sentence.
From Paddington, a parliamentary gentleman’s wife
came, in slate-grey grosgraln. Her daughter in leaden-
bine silk and brabant lace, with large daisies round the
hat. Not showy, but very tasteful was the dress of a
dark, tall young lady, brown satin bodice, and a depth
of kilting of same material at the bottom of tho dress,
while the skirt, made full, was of simple gray beige.
A young lady, in well-fitting black satin, bugle trimming
and fringe, b aok straw sailor hat, travelled unceasingly.
The younger of two sister actresses displayed a blaok
velvet tpimmed with brown fur, tartan sash round the
itipt; notiopable. but scarcely enchanting- An olive
green cashmere With “ gpeenery-yallery” design for a
border was a good fif;. A» unjjsqal colour was mauve;
the dress was velvet and sflk, anfi good. A fair little
lady was charming in a loosely made black (lowered
silk. From Marlborough-stroet was a winsome face
above a robe of peacock blue velvet and satin, and
pretty mob hat to suit; and from Randwiok a dress
whose colour was uncommon but pleasing, a sort of
dead-leaf-in-autnmn tint, blaok velvet hat shading a
handsome dark face. A black cashmere, worn by the
tall sister of a pianist, was beautifully crewellod
in the gayest of colours; while a blaok French me-
rino, worn by a fascinating little beauty with a fas-
cinating friz, was black-beaded, and as neat as any-
thing on the lawn. A graceful Hebrew brunette wore
exquisite silk velvet of Vandyke brown, and straw
hat with same. A fair lady chose bright green
watered velvpt and cashmere; another combined a
lichen grepn velvet bodice, with a shade lighter skirt,
and blue beadipg, yarj rjoh. Several black velvets
With white apd oreajp m* ioofcfid well) a few double.
breasted jackets, and many birds* feather hats were
visible: and among tho crowd were two dark-eyed young
ladies conspicuous for their complexions—few girls as-
sist nature so palpably at such an early age. More re-
markable than any lady was the havaunah-hued compe-
titor on tho course; there were some very heavy falls,
and Copeland had to bet twice assisted off the ground;
the slow race was the closest of the day ; the Formal-
ent Force band played; there was the usual melee out-
side the gates, where plunging horses and frightened
ladies mixed in dangerous confusion. But, for the thou-
sands of people, there was not a single tram when the
sports concluded.
• w •
There is a municipality in the North, where
*• the Mayer," in honour of his election to that high
and mighty position, gave a ball to his most enthu-
siastic supporters. In due time, the elite of the town
gave a “ return ball" to the Mayor. They did so in
the local School of Arts. All the fashion, youth,
beauty, wealth, and influence;(including all the Alder-
men), were invited by special Invitation cards, and, to
do still greater honour to the guest of tho evening, each
gentleman’s card had inscribed upon it-" Gentlemen are
requested to wear gloves." Mach surprise and dissatis-
faction it felt at the omission to suggest also that the
guests should wear shoes and stockings.
* * *
Each Petersham Owl, as he went to tho hoot in
the local Town Hall, last week, muttered " It raineth,
and the wind bloweth large," which was quite true.
Despite the weather, some 120 owls and visitors were
there. The programme was—vocal and instrumental
music, recitations, and dancing, "Stella Confidante,"
with violin obligato, was sweetly warbled by a visiting
ladybird. A violin solo was well rendered by "Hum-
ming Bird j ’’ and a recitation was given by “ Condor,"
who addressed his boots and the ceiling alternately.
We don’t know the name of his piece, as we never heard
a word of it; but, from bis actions, we should judge it
was probably an "Apostrophe to Heavea and Hell."
A scene from " Henry IV." (who is fortunately dead,
and therefore didn’t suffer as ha wonld havo done if
he’d seen the scene) brought the end of Part 1. Twelve
dances followed. Some of the Ovis looked splendid
sitting down, but they did not shine in the Terpaiohorean
line. One particularly fascinated ns: his dancing was
new, being of the " onc-leg-off-and-the-other-after,"
or " dancs-while-my-hoels-are-in-thc-humour ” style.
His toes only tonohed the (floor at long intervals; ha
did all the work, his partner had merely to keep from
under his feet while he flogged the floor
with his heels. Numerous light-coloured pretty
dresses and several handsome dark onos
were seen. Best were those of the " Hamming
Bird’s” mate, a prune satin de Lyon, trimmed with I
brochd and duobesse cream lace, and a black satin,
trimmed with crewel Refreshments and music, light
and good. The Owls "hooted" from 8 till 10, they
"looted” the supper tables, they "footed" till 13, and
then went home to blink.
• • •
A very successful Bachelors’ Evening Party
took place at Tamworth last Friday evening. There
were about thirty couples present, and dancing was
kept up with great spirit tJU 4 a.m, Some handsome
dresses were worn by several young ladies, notably a
Peel-street young lady in pale pink satin trimmed with
cream Spanish lace, and pale pink flowers. Another
Peel-street lady looked very nice in black velvet, cream
Uoe, and blue flowers. A graceful lassie from Fitzroy-
street looked wall in a pretty drees of pale green tarle-
tan trimmed with Spanish lace, and dark green leaves.
She was a splendid dancer, and with her charming
manners and graceful carriage soon drew a crowd of
admirers. A cream sateen costume worn by another
Fltzroy-street lady looked pretty. Two lady friends
from Carthage-street looked very nice. One of them
wore a black silk dross trimmed with blaok laoe, and
lavender flowers; the oth,-,r, in a cream costume,
trimmed with Spanish laoe and cardinal A tall fair
young lady from Darling-street wore a veryipretty dress
of pale bine trimmed with white laoe and silver
flowers.
• • •
Balmain lowing Club’s first annual ball eventu-
ates on Friday night, at tho local School of Arts.
Visitors from Sydney will have an opportunity of re
turning by a special steamer about 3 a.m.
* * ■* *
Arm [dale has been lively lately—musical even-
ings, at homes, or dances, every evening. It is ex-
pected that this prevailing sociability will give the
matrimonial barometer a rising tendency. Indeed, two
marriages have already transpired. But the fact that,
net long since, five pairs of twins made their appear-
ance in a period of six weeks, exercised a depressing
influence for some time. A good deal of social sun-
shine is required to counteract a shock like that
The family of a woolgrower down South have rendure-i
themselves objects of much interest by their peculiar
engagements. Tho maiden, jnst oat of her teens, was
engaged to a youth still in them; but that is " off **
Now, her future happiness is a gay bachelor, ten years
Older than her own father. He is himself father-in-law
to her .uncles now: what on earth he will be, we can’t cal-
culate. One youth, her elder brother, is engaged to his
first cousin, who is a widow with five children, while the
younger brother is to take the eldest of the se children. ..
The Fellows of the Shorthand Society were lately
entertained by a distinguished litterateur of London.
Same here, the distinguished Mr. Sam Cook footers
the young phonographera by dinners out at Marriok-
ville The first Tradesman’s Bill took place at Pen-
rith a few days ago; moderate attendance Several
frisquette clubs are forming In the suburbs On the
18th, the bachelors at Armidale gave the ladies a ball,
which was voted good; plenty of room, good floor and
mnsio. There were two belles; it’s no nae dia-emblin’
the fact, one married, and one single, in white satin,
trimmed with white silk lace The followers of fris-
quitto. thanks to the persistent broadsides of the
indomitable Ironsides, have prevailed on the Ak r i° u^'
tural Society to grant tfieip a piece of ground A
quadrille party took place on Friday at Newtown. It
was not pretentious, but all seemed to enjoy it
There is a whisper of another Cinderella Party by the
Mayor soon; also of an entertainment by the Opossum
Clqb The Glammis Hall return ball is quiescent;
apparently it need* a kick On Monday evening,
members of the Mercantile Dramatic Society, at
their rooms, presented their instructor and stage
manager, Mr. J. H. Rainford, with an address. It
was in gold and colours, with pho*os. of the acting
members, f hey also gave film a gold Iqoket with dia-
mond cross and complimentary enxraving thereon
Despite the oloads and damp ground, paradefs went to
the Nfilson Band oopoert in the Gardens on Monday,
but the toilettes, of ooqrqe, were loss gay than in flue
weather. This band is to play every Monday afternoon
while H.M.S. Nelson Is here ; and the Permanent Ar-
tillery take their turn on Wednesdays Fully a
hundred participated in the Glammis Hall dance last
week. Music was breathlessly fa<-t. Slight symptoms
of more dressiness; but the chief charm of the pleasant
gatherings, so tar, has been their simplicity. An in-
crease in the number of skaters, who, as rinks are
scarce this season, are glad of a ohanee to practise. Pro-
parationa are going on for the subscription ball, which
will be the final gathering at the close of the winter
Connter attractions affaoted the attendance somewhat
at the Mercantile Rowing Club Regatta. On the
steamer, and in the boat shed and grounds, several
hundreds of friends, including many ladies, gathered.
Dresses were tasty, bat did not exhibit anything parti-
cularly striking.,..The Bong Tong Society of Tamworth
had a ball on the 23rd. At first it was intended to con-
fine it strictly to drapers’ assistants and telegraph
operators, but a subsequent decision allowed of counter-
hands from the grocery palaces being admitted. The
exclusiveness of the affair did not prevent it from being
enjoyed by those who went At the opening of the
railway to Uralla, the banquet and ball drew more
people to the t )wn than were ever in it before, or are
pver likely to be again—unless the aldermen, who are
always doing something startling, convert it into
a seaport. Members of Parliament were dosed
with _ Dalwood and Bass; while ginger- beer was
supplied for the Sous of Hope. The escapees from
Maoquarie-street spouted—very watery eloquence, too ;
and at 9 o’clock the ball started in the goods’-shod.
Dancing was more fantastic than light; the sapper was
extremely light, half the people never getting even near
it, for a corps of athletic young men breasted the re
freshment-bar—and cleared it. Beds were beyond
price, and guests were lucky enough who could
" collar ’’ empty flour-bags for a " doss." There was
a surplus from the ball, which will be spent in obtaining
a supply of the " First Book," and the •• Royal
Reader," for members of the Municipal Council
The phonetic gentleman at the Asylnm is energetically
striving for a return ball to the Randwiok footballers.
It successful, the ladies will rise up and call him
blessed The Bachelors who have had six Assemblies
this season at Nithsdale, hold their last but
one on Friday week. Next season, they intend
to launch out on a scale hitherto, and so on
Last week, at the wedding of Mr. Moses Goldstein,
J.P., of Melbourne, to Miss Rachel Kurts, some strik-
ingly handsome dresses were worn. The bride was ar-
rayed in pearl moire, antique, trimmed with pearl satin,
real lace, and orange blossoms, veil very elaborately
embossed. Her sister wore garnet satin, embroidered
in pink and gold, pink kid glovos, with puffed and
satin gauntlets to elbow. Other conspicuous dresses
were:—Cardinal satin de lyon, embroidered with cream
flowers, a black velvet with gold beads and chenille
fringe, a vi .let silk, a dove coloured silk, a pearl satin
with ruby velvet, a black velvet robe with black and
white silk trimmings, a myrtle green satin de lyon
trimmed with brocaded gold, and an emerald blue
brocaded moire antique with train of blue velvet. A
bridesmaid, from Brisbane, wore white eashmere, with
white and cardinal satin de lyon, gloves with puffed
gauntlets to elbow.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Balmain Rowing Club Ball Sept. 1.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 6.
Private Quadrille Assembly (Liverpool) Sept. 6,
Bail and Tramway Picnic and Ball Sept. 14.
Bnrwood Private Assembly Sapt. 15.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports Bept. 16.
Woollihra’Private Assembly Sept. 23.
Railway OUlcers’ Pienio (Botany) Sept. 26.
THE NEWSLETTER.
In the will ease, M'Elhone v. Browne, the
expenses have been something enormous. The juror’s
tees alone amount to £5ll.
Mr. Wilkinson, the gentleman lately appointed
to visit Lord Howe’s Island, sailed in the steamer Ajax
about a fortnight ago. On his return he may bo ex-
peoted to report on the remonstrance of Captain Arm-
strong, R.N., against the removal of that gentleman,
late resident magistrate, from his charge, on the
strength of an inquiry hold by the Hon. Bowie Wil-
son.
Cooktown (N.Q.) is enthusiastic about Mr.
Jack’s geological report, which indicates that there are
close to the line of railway and within easy access of
Cooktown, splendid coal mea ures which can be pro-
fitably worked. It is probable that, contingent upon
certain of the items in the Queensland estimates being
passed, Melbourne capitalists will send up a deputation
to inspect the country mentioned.
Queensland Government has concluded with
Messrs. Shaw and Blyth, on behalf of an Australian
syndicate, a provisional agreement for the construction
of a railway from South Western terminus to N S.W.
border via the Warrego, 250 miles, to bo completed in
three years. The syndicate will receive a land bonus of
10,000 acres per mile, Government to have the option
Of purchase at half coat within six years. Bill will be
made a Cabinet question.
We have received the prospectus of a proposed
"Sydney Home and School for Nurses.’* The object
of the Committee of ladies who have taken this in hand
isjto provide skilled nurses who will be available at a
moderate expense. The prices charged by nurses at
the present time are almost prohibitory to people of
■mall incomes anyhow. It ie proposed to give nurses a
regular training in a hospital, to pay them a fixed sa-
lary, and charge a fixed but reasonable amount for
their services. This will bring them, lixe sewing-ma-
ouiues, "within the reach of all." We sympathise
heartily with the movement.
Apropos to the recent, bombardment of Alex-
andria. Tae Inflexible is the most powerful turret ship
afloat; each of the four eighty,ton guns she carries
throws a shell weighing 1704 lbs. The Snperb has
s.x teen eighteen ton guns. She was purchased from
the Turkish Government in 1878, and her first warlike
action is against forts owned by the Sultan. The Alex-
andl.l carries two twenty-five ton and ten eighteen-ton
guns, and is protected with armour ranging at water-
line fr >m six to twelve incha.. The Temeraire
is the only Barbette typo of vessel in existence.
Daring the bombardment Admiral Seymour’s tactics
were to keep the warships moving in oblique lines to
baffle the Egyptian gunners.
The Evening Mail of Melbonrim—published
at one halfpenny by the Argus office—has thrown up
the sponge, bays the editor, in his death-ohauut;—
* Experience has shows that the halfpenny, as a current
coin, is practically unknown amongst us. He goes on
to tall how many of the buyers had to part a penny,
but that the office never reaped the benefit of the
donbled price. The proprietors considered whether
they should raise the price, or knock under, and
decided to do the latter gracefully. The Mail has, by
a rtement, transferred its interest to tho Evening
Herald. From this it will be seen that it takes some-
thing more than money to run a paper. The Mail s
last issue was on Saturday last.
The tortuous ■vyays of the art xeportorial as
practised by onr leading dailies, were well exemplified
in connection with the Reunion of Liberals, at the
Masonic Hall on Tuesday night last. The reporter of
fhe eccentric journal which is making such a spasmodic
struggle for Government advts. to save itself from
speedy dissolution, with a keen sense of discrimination
which does credit to his heart if not to his head, lumps
a three-quarter hour address from the moat eloquent
orator now in Australia, and a scientific display of a
character never before seen in these colonies, under the
comprehensive heading of " a few songs.” But even
thjs was out-done by the other daily which represents
the united parson power of the city. Tnis journal,
after taking upwards of K 5 in advts., and accepting, and
udog, three tickets at 2s. 6d. each without demur,
reciprocated the compliment by utterly ignoring a
meeting at which 800 ladies and gentlemen were pre-
sent, and compromised with that curious portion of its
organization which it euphonises as its conscience by
giving a three-inch report to a holy tea-fight, at which
were assembled three or four “ gospel sharps ” and a
dozen or two of pious maidens. The editor is to be
congratulated on his keen sense of humour, and his
penetrating perception of the wants of the age.
These ara the vital organs of the cause celdbre,
Browne v. M'Elhone, reported by the mile in the city
dailies. Mr, B. died, and left his mint of money to
a couple of sons, and his blessing only to three married
daughters—Mrs. M'Elhone, Mrs. Rigney and Mrs.
Williams. Mr. M’Elhone entered a caveat against ad-
ministration on the ground that old Browne had a warp
in the beams of his npper storey when he made such an
unnatural disposition of hla property. The heirs by
will brought an action to upset M’Elhone’s legal ob-
struction, and hence the title of the cause read—Browne
v M’Elhone. Counsel for the defence thought the old
man was decidedly aranky, but the Judge summed up
otherwise, and the jury said *’ Amen" to the Judge. So
“ honest Jack” is out of it. The law shuts the claimants
out, but human sympathy wants them in very badly—
one of them more particularly. The husband of Mrs.
Rigney is blind and not wealthy. And tho jury had
their bowels so moved that they took the unusual
course of signing a collective note expressing their
earnest hope " that those who have inherited ihe tes-
tator's property will take into consideration the position
of their sister, Mrs. Rigney, and her blind husband,
ani trust if they cannot recognize it as a duty, they will,
as a matter of sympathy, compassion, and' affection lor
her as their sister, make somo provision for her out of
the wealth they havo inherited" Sir George Innes
cordially endorsed tho jury’s recommendation, and
forwarded it to tfje Primary Judge.
The German Fair now being held at the Exhibi-
tion Building, though not carried out on so extensive
a scale as the recent monster Fayres, is a quaintly
attractive spectacle. The stalls ate prettily arranged
as okilets, the nicknacks for sale are of the most
curious and fantastic kind, and the whole Fair is
Teutonic in its aspect The Fair is open daily, from
2 30 pm. to 6 p.m., and again from 7p.m. till 10p.m.
The German band under Herr Kreitsohmann executes
well-ehosen programmes daily, and the whole scene is
one of active bustle and enjoyment. A feature In tan
Fair is a set of magic drums whose past career have
been warlike: they were in the Franco-German War.
The proceeds of the Pair are to be devoted to the build-
ing fund of the German Evangelical Church of Sydney.
Saturday is the closing day of this merry and quaint
spectacle,


Q.ERMAN NATIOf
GERMAN NATION A]
GERMAN NATIONAI
LAST THREE
Thursday, 31st A
Friday, Ist S]
Saturday, 2nd
GERMAN NATION
IN AID OP THE
BUILDING FUND OF THE G
OPEN EVERY
Till 2nd Septemi
From 2.30 till 6 p.m., and fro
GERMAN BAND IN THE AP
EVERY NIGH'
CHANGE OF PROG]
GERMAN AND SCANDINAVIA]
TYROLESE CONCI
&c. &c.
O N
FRIDAY ]
MAGIC DRUMI
(Under the supervision of Mr.
WITH ORCHESTRA ACCOMP
[The Drums exhibited were used
German War.]
ELECTRIC LIGB
ILLUMINATED CHEISTW
NATIONAL COSTU
Admission, One
Children, Sixpi
Gr
RAND COUNT
of
POLLARD’S LILIPI
COMIQUE OPERA BOUFFI
including
Orchestra and Choi
of over
100 PERFORMERS
Now performing
at the
OPERA HOUSE, BYI
with
Unprecedented Sue
The Only
LILIPUTIAN OPERA 1
that has hod the honour of appeal
throughout the Australian Col
the undermentioned placet
following operas:
•* MISER AND HIS C
" MADAME ANQC
« H.M.B. PINAFOI
“ PRINCESS TREBIZI
School of Arts, Wallsend,
Theatre, Newcastle,
Theatre, Maitland,
Odd Fellows’ Hall, Tamworth
Si
Thence Oundagai
Bathurst lino to fol
SYDNEY GY
LIVERPOOL STR]
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
ALL BRANCHES OF ATHLE
O. H. d’HARGOURT, I
A LBERT HALL, Brisbane, os
dating 1300 people, is now avi
. . i .il- TTift R+.n^
w.
H. P A I
PIANOFORTE WAREH
852 Qoorge-stroot, Sydi
mm
SK
PIANOFORTES, PIAN(
Just unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-
MBNTB, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
I>LE COLLARD and COLLAR!
bouplbto.
BURDEN and C
TROBT
AUCE
And other First-class Makers, in
Black and Gold, and Wah
AMERICAN ORGU
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON
SM
And other Renowned I
ft armoniu
By Messrs. A ,EX ANDRE PBRE (
I irst-olass Manufaot
A Largo Assortment of Now an
ways on hand at . _
W. H. V A Jm
852 GEORGE
OPPOSITE WTBTAB
SYDNEY.
Ha h.
T
bates
i6S "Sub-Lessees and Sole mi
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, i
vrnTTTI Merrifc and Harris
TU —• ~ Great Drama.
bignold.
tout a.
sw-
eiqnold.
yOUTH,
BIGNOUD.
tout a,
BIGNOLD.
touts,
bignold.
IOUTH,
LAST NIGHI
Great Oast
of
Characters.
Immense
Success.
Scenery
by
John Hennings
Curtain rises
at 7.45.
Theatre Closed To-morrow (F
Box Plan now °P On dlily from
entrance, Castiereagh-street. Seats
fiavfl in advance, and Tickets obta
the house at Lloyd's, next the Thea
Treasurer... ...Mr
Manager Touth Combination...Mr
Assistant Stage Manager Mr
SATURDAY, SEPTEM
LIGHTS O’ LOND
Mr. frank CATES begs
BENEFIT
AT THE GAIETY THI
ON FRIDAY, Sept
When he will produce the origins
THE BELLS,
As played by Henry Ii
For numerous other attractions
Opera h
Lessee and Manager
Proprietor
Stage Manager ... ...
Conductor and Musical Directo
Leader
loatinued and Uninterrupted Suooei
JLIPUTIANS, who will make t
nee in Sydney
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENIN
in Lecocq’s Celebrated (
MADAME ANGOT, MA
producing a GRAND BALLET, n
for Pollard s Lahputh
New Costumes, New Appointment
Prices of Admission.—Private Bo
llrcle, sv, Stalls, 3; Pit, Is. Box
«in’s Music Warehouse, Gaorge-str
rms not admitted. Tickets for all pa
ohnston’s, t ibaoconist, under Thea
39. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10
Fall Rehearsal of Chorus and Pi
Trebizonde) 10 sharp this day.
y i c
T
OKI
A
CONTINUED LEGITIMATE £
South’s Opera Com
Witnessed nightly by Enthusias
THURSDAY, August 31st, last ni
GIBOFLA; Benefit of Mr. J. A Si
distinguished patronage of Commod
and the commanders and officers of I
Our next Opera MARITAN A. Bo
bain's, George-street.
ACCABE. MACCABE.
IMPORTANT FAREWELL ANN
MASONIC HALL, YORK
SATURDAY NEXT, 2nd
’"Mr. P. E. Hiscocks has the pleasur
fhe Sydney public generally that
Mr. FREDERIC MACC
the originator and personator of the i
"BEGONE DULL CARE" JENTF
whose success during a brilliant seas.
EIGHT CONSECUTIVE 1
at the School of Arts, in 1881, will o
well performance on SATURDAY,
above popular place of amusement. I
proceed to New Zealand to fulfil se-
g&gements previous to his depart ure 1
therefore, will be the only opportui
eminent
MIMIC, VENTRILOQUIST, and
DELINEATOR
a his popular entertainment.
The management deem it quite un
upon the merits of Mr. Maocabe’s pei
•are that the above announcement of
will evoke a sympathetic response
Sydney, where he comes to bid a flna
JOHN F. SUTTON, Seoretar
TO THE OPERATIC AND
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA HOI
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCI
Sole Proprietor, H. N. A 1
M.
T H C
IMPORTER 01
WORKS OF A
GERMAN AND SWISS W 0(
ARCADE BUILDII
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. e
SOLICITOR, has oor
practice ot his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
BICYCLES AND TRI
SOCIABLE_TRIC'
THE LIGHT RUNNING
The Lightest Running and Stronj
Eor Racing, Road, or Tourist, the
THE BEST INVESTMENT OP TE
The Latest Novelty is the Sooi
Cushioned Seats for two persons,
know what real enjoyment is, shoal
TRICYCLES FOR I
The Latest Design. Cannot Ifpsa
arms or collar bones. Travel with 1
No Boy should be content till he
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUBS
'EENNICK, KBM3LEI
38 CLARENCE STB
SYDNEY.
tamtam
.CLARKSON
BOOTHS
hydropathic bathing
ESTABLISHMENT,
CORNER OP COLLEGE AND OXFORD STREETS,
HIDE PARK.
JOHN G. TRESEDER.
NEW NEW I
GARDEN SEEDS, FLOWER SEEDS,
FOR PRESENT SOWING.
A Collection of Twelve
Leading Variet'ei cf Veget-
able SEEDS, in Twelve
Sealed Packet?, sent free to
any address in New South
Wales, on receipt of Stamps
for 3s. 61.
tar The quality of my
Seeds cannot be surpassed.
St trig! will ptive this state
neat to be correct.
mm
W;
M.
POE PRESENT SOWING.
Twelve of the most Showy
Kinds for the Flower Garden
sent free by post to any ad-
dress in the colony on receipt
of 2a. 6d. in stamps.
w Address direct to the
S )ed Stores and Nnrsery—
be correct.
JOHN G. TRESEDER, UNDERWOOD NURSERV, ALT STREET, ASHFIELD.
OYSTER
WOODWARD'S OYSTER ROOMS,
Bfi CABTLEREAQH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KING STREET. NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE. |
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE PARMER’S.


r.’OST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OF r
A
N
D
8
A
F
E
8
T
WHEN PUECHASINO YOU
ask for
PANTER AND P
NEW EXTRACT C
AND SEE THAT YOU G
BUPEEIOE TO ALL (
BE -T Washing and Disini
tion known, for Clotoes
Crockery, Paint, Glass, and e;
purpose. Used and roceanr
Laundry at Government H
monr (Inspeotwr of Nuisance
(Orient Laundry), and by
judges to be the best article n
EEMEMBEE!
Washing and cleaning do
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Uealt]
pleasant alter using.
HOMES MALE Hi
TO BE HAD OP ALL (
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-S
IN THE WOP
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
*
*
V
*
O
C!
O
drinl
liquid yiel<
ORDINARY
ter SOLD BY ALL C
OLD AND NEW
Re-Printed fro
THE SYDNEY MORNIN
By Permission op the
by
EDWARD HORDERN
James MARTI
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (opp<
Our Cheap Qffer
FOR 1882 HARVEST.
FARMERS^ NO THIS /
Our HORRSBY-MARTIK Reliable
MOWER & REAPER
THE
PARAGOI
We have givi
years to the pe
Machines,
provement tha
Our cnstc
Machines,
also, with or ’
cut up to 5 fee
PRICE
1
INCLUDING
2 KNIVES, WHIPPLETREES,
& Supply of WEARING PARTS,
viz., FINGERS. SECTIONS,
BOUTS, RIVETS, &C., Ac. BOX
OF TOOLS, containing Wrench,
Spanners, File, Oil Can, &c.
Working Instructions sent with each Machine.
This is the Cheapest, Best and most Reliable
Reaper and Mower ever offered. (
JAMES MARTIN & Compy.'l Sydney.
1 THE F
Cable Address:
“Cliffobd."
Clifford, Loire, c
EASTERN ftlEEi
FOO CHOW,
CH
and
YORK STREET,
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AN
COFFEE,
RICE,
PEPPERS,
SPICES,
TAPIOCAS.
CHUPNEYS,
INDIAN PEISEE
CHINESE PEESEJ
SILKS,
„ MATTI]
„ SPECI4
Give Special Attention to \
EASTERN PRO
JOHN E
IMPORTER
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Bras
Gasflttings, Globes, Electr
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Copp
and Lead Pipe
119 LIVERPOOL STEE]
o
PITT ST REE'
BEAUTIFUL . 4
or 'L
ALLWOOL
TdJWEED
TAILOB,
&
m
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, ,£3 sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .63 15s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. £4,
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. =64 4a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 10a.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
M. QOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON 'S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIEST-CLASS HOUSES.
EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS!
PEAPEB& SHAW
•
Have concluded their Annual STOCK TAKING, and will, ON THE ARRIVAL OF THE « PHTIIRfiT?»•
be in possession of their FIEST INSTALMENT OP NEW tPEXNG GOODS. as follows :- '
CHTLDEEN’S FEENCH KID GLOBES
in Blacks, Dark Colours, an! Fancies.
LADIES’ "FIEST CHOICE” FEENCH Kin GLOVFS, from TWO TO TwfiiTT BUTTONS Tisr nm?
CELEBEATED MAKES, "FLuEA” snl CLEOPAIEi.” OLS
THE NEW SWEDE MOUSQUETATRE GLOVES.
NEW TAFFETA GLOVES, IN TWO, FOUE, AND SIX BUTTONS,
Note All the above goods are made to onr special order.
HEW FRENCH WOOLLENS.
IN THE GENTLEMEN'S DEPAETMENT we shall show OUR FIEST SHIPMENT OF FEENCH
MANUFACTURED WOOLLENS.
Our cast experience has confirmed us in the opinion that these peculiarly Light, Soft, yet Durable Goods
are the most suita 1 . le jlass for this warm semi-tropical climate during the Summer months.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEOEGE STEEET.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEOEGE STEEET.


History of the Ophir Goldfield.
Xh»b* are many people scattered over the gold-
fields of the six colonies who will look back with
interest on the early history of the Ophir goldfield,
the eradle of the great industry of the country
And many thousands who benefited in an indirect
way from the discoveries will, doubtless regard
with no less interest a brief sketch of the incidents
9 f this rich historic spot. The name Ophir con-
eys the idea of a locale of great mineral wealth,
and it is strange that the work of to-day should
tend only to justify the correctness of the idea ;
for, while at the first discovery of gold, the field
£ave extraordinarily rich returns from the alluvial,
the whole community have, within the
last few weeks, had their attention attracted
to enormously rich yields on this very
spot —the historic spot where gold was ac-
tually first discovered and worked in Aus-
tralia. The discovery of gold was first practically
announced in 1851, but in 1841 the Rev. W. B,
Clarke published the news of his *’ finds” in the
ranges separating the Eastern and Western waters
of the Macquarie. On the 15th May, Har-
68 B k° we< * how gold could be sepa-
by the tub and cradle, and the mining
f" QStry °* the country takes its date from the
tho ° U ; * st k" Ophir was quickly rushed, and
,*he ground was taken up by the most
!t . P®^ 8n oed, and worked in the .most primitive
0 bidden wealth of the field began quickly to
t e lal ltB6lf ’ The papers published at the time
Bome extraordinary “ finds poor lads who
’fith*? 111 awa y fr om misery in Sydney, returning
4 nd h Ffre BUma ’ men unaccustomed to the pick
s P*ce °I Unear fhing pretty large fortunes in the
•ucce °k a wee h o ) and so on—the average
h* thin higher on the first field ever worked
8 cotl ntry than any other subsequently
*hout !e7i* f n the space of a couple of months
**cite wor fh of gold was unearthed. The
highest e^ t hy the rich finds reached its
Wag ’ OWev or, when the Kerr and Suttor find
T ein o f D ™ These gentlemen came upon a
lb. atLo V * r^n metal in weight about 106
UlBa roe k » an d their discoveries being
ths hy numerous other good finds in
tetggj r ° n the population rapidly in-
he Wentworth discovery was then
announoed, and shortly after came Wattle Flat.
Here occurs the most extraordinary feature of the
history of the Ophir—certainly a most satisfactory
thing for the present holders of ground at Ophir.
The discovery of the Taron, followed, as it un-
doubtedly was, by excellent returns over a large
area, attracted the population of the Ophir who left
en masse for the new field. In the midst of its
great success, Ophir was really deserted, and it has
practically remained deserted up to within a few
months ago; and now no sooner are operations
resumed, than cheering news of the old character
is to hand. The mining population has travelled
from new field to new field, and the men who met
with such grand success on the Ophir have
either died out or never had the opportunity
of returning to the old spot. True, the bed
of the Summerhill Creek was worked in the
interval with splendid returns by fossiokers who
kept their finds as secret as possible, but practi-
cally the field has been idle. The “ Ophir Joe” class
are now, however, succeeded by capitalists, and
where the most primitive methods of mining were
practised thirty years ago, we shall soon find the
best of modern appliances in full operation.
Public attention has lately been specially directed
to the Ophir by the rich finds at the Bel-
more, and to the Bluff, where an enormous
body of stone of great length and width has
been laid open, and preparations made for con-
tinual crushing operations. Mining engineers
regard the show at Ophir as the best ot
the kind in New South Wales —reefs in great
body, easily producing sufficient quartz to give
permanent returns. Of these results, the
Mining Warden, writing to the Mining Depart-
ment, Sydney, speaks in extraordinary terms. He
says that these grand finds are proof of the opinion
long held by him that old Ophir still existed. His
exact word to the Minister are “ You will re-
member I have always held that Old Ophir would
surprise the world. The whole range from
the Bluff to above the Belmore and
round by Jaw Bone, is full of leaders, and the
immense wealth hidden will doubtless soon be un-
earthed.” Ophir is situated about 18 miles from
Orange, and is the centre of a rich auriferous
country—practically untouched. The first rush
has served only to show that gold existed in great
quantities. In no gold-bearing country has the
production of gold by washing in the beds of
creeks extended over a few years, as the rich spots
soon get worked. The gold must be found in the
matrix, and the surprise is that capital and
energy have not been directed to its extraction.
But Ophir, irrespective of its rich reefs, pos-
sesses the additional advantage of giving good
rewards to the independent worker. An im-
mense area is covered up and sealed hermetically
by trap,— the lava of extinct volcanoes, — in
exactly the same manner as at Ballarat in Victoria.
The alluvial deposits beneath this trap are still
virgin and only require prospecting to give many
years of lucrative work to a large population.
Had Ophir been situated in Victoria, our enter-
prising neighbours would long ago have had
thousands of stampers at work, for the similar-
ity which exists between it and Ballarat would
at once have indicated the enormous wealth
of the district. The Ophir has in its imme-
diate vicinity the rich Lucknow country, where
mining operations, years ago, were attended
by the most extraordinary results. But, like the
Ophir, the district has only lately looked up in a
public sense, and it is not unlikely the present
impetus felt locally will continue. There are also
the Forest Reefs, from which some rich returns
are just announced. A sample of 6 cwt. 2 qrs.
from Newton’s Freehold, Forest Reefs, which was
sent to England for treatment, yielded at the rate
of 2150 z. gold and 30oz. silver to the ton. Another
sample of 1 cwt. has given at the rate of 437 oz.
gold to the ton. The reef is 6ft. thick, and 93 feet
from the surface. During the past month, the
amount of the rich finds in the Belmore, at Ophir,
has been followed by the news that a company is
to be formed in Sydney for the purpose of
working the celebrated Bluff. This extraordinary
mountain of auriferous quartz rises from the
bed of the creeks where such large finds were
made thirty years ago, and exclusive of probably
rich streaks or shoots will pay to work right
through. The Bluff is about 63 feet wide, nothing
more nor less than a gigantie reef, and would
furnish stone from the start for a 100 stamper
battery, but it is contemplated to erect one
of 40 only to begin with, which will be kept
running night and day. In Victoria hand-
some dividends are paid on a yield of dwts.,
but here j oz. may be taken at the lowest
return from the Bluff. All the stone is gold' bear-
ing, and it is expected that operations will show
additional wealth as the work proceeds. Our
sketch is seleotedjfrom a choice' lot of very large
photographs of this mountainous region. There
is a capital road to Ophir from Orange, a distance
of about 15 miles. In neighbourhood of the gold-
field some of the most beautiful scenery one can
imagine is to be found, and the genial host and
hostess at the local hotel assist to make a visit to
Ophir one worth undertaking from Sydney, and
long and pleasantly remembered.
The Ophir Goldfield.
Tan following report has been received by the
Minister for Mines from Warden John T Lane
Orange, dated 17th July, 1882 : I have just returned
from Ophir, the spot to which so many eyes are
directed at the present moment. The Belmore
reef is running parallel with Ophir Joe’s old lead,
and only a few yards higher up the range. There
have been fine gold-bearing leaders within the
space of six or seven feet, but there are now only
two clearly defined, and it is from these the gold is
being procured ; the missing leaders have evidently
run into the remaining two. The general appear-
ance of the tunnel as regards the “ walls,” the
“ dip,” and the kind of stone, resemble Ophir
Joe’s in a most striking manner, the quartz in the
leaders is about the same in thickness, but not so
solid and connected, and does not contain so much
gold ; the precious metal encases the quartz, and
beautifies the “ walls ” by a thin covering. In
some places the quartz is nearly superseded by
large pieces of almost pure gold, differing in ap-
pearance to any I have ever seen before, or that
Mr. Spencer or others present have seen. The
flakes, or leaves, are very thin, and the large
pieces—you cannot call them nuggets —wear a
dark blue or slate-coloured coating. I saw a 5 lb.
piece, which was procured yesterday afternoon,
that a stranger might pass without noticing,
unless his attention was directed towards
it; but a touch or scratch would disclose
its worth. I suppose I saw nearly 40 lb. weight
of the kind of gold I have been describing, and
which is to be brought into Orange to-night. I
might have observed that some pieces of quartz
bore gold all through them, and thus resembling
more particularly what had been formerly dis-
covered in similar leads.
(COPY.)
Orange, 12th August, 1882.
C. J. Buokland, Esq., Sydney.
Dear Sir—l now beg to report on Mr. Slater’s
property at Ophir as follows
The leases are situated near ithe junction of the
Summerhill or Frederick’s Valley creek and
SCENE OF THE FIRST COLD DISCOVERY IN AUSTRALIA. THE CELEBRATED BLUFF AT OPHIR.


gold to the ton of quartz will pay handsome dividends, as
for instance, the “ Criterion ” ground, at Chines, yielded
for 30,120 tons of stone, 6,457 ounces 4 dwts. of gold, or
at the rate of 4 dwts. 11J grains to the ton, and paid
regular dividends ; while, during the last twenty-five
years, the “ Black will ” lode, at Ballarat, has been made
to pay well for an average of about 3 dwts. Numerous
cases of large dividends being paid from poor reefs could
be quoted.
At no place in Australia does quartz appear in larger
quantities than at Ophir, and gold can be obtained from
the stone along the entire face of the exposed reef, which
is over 40 feet in width. This quartz could be followed
from the surface at the bottom of the “ Bluff” into the
Tiill, thus affording at once hundreds of thousands of tons
of quartz for back stoping, and permitting its being
obtained at a minimum price, therefore it is contemplated
to work these huge reefs by means of modem appliances
and labour-saving machinery. Bock Drills, driven either
with steam or compressed air, when used to bench off the
quartz, will lessen the ordinary cost of mining fully one-
half, and the admirable position for crushing machinery,
immediately contiguous to an inexhaustible and pure
water supply, guarantees the most efficient means of
saving the gold and auriferous pyrites, as well as the
cheapest means of crushing.
By reference to the plan enclosed, it will be seen that the
leases and machine site adjoin one another, except where
Damper Street appears. The sole right to mine under the
street has been secured by Mr. Slater, so that the {area
available for the Company is actually more than 44 acres
The machine site is embraced in the offer of the property to
the Company, but the area is not included above. Mr.
Surveyor Blacket’s renort follows with others. The actual
diitances of the workings on the enormously rich veins in
the Belmore Company’s ground from Mr. Slater’s boundary
are there set out.
A thorough examination of the property has been made
by Mr. Norman Taylor, the well known and talented
Victorian geologist, whose report is given above.
Machinery to crush 500 tons weekly, with patent percus-
sion tables for saving pyrites, stonebreakers, and the
most improved and complete stamping gear, can be
erected and set to work for £7,000.
It has been calculated that the cost of working will be as
follows for one week, viz.: —
To wages of 30 men employed in the mine
raising &c., at 50s
Do. 3 engineers driving mill
Do. 4 men employed at mill at 40s
30 cords firewood at 20s
Wear and tear of plant and general expenses
Management
£75 0 0
13 0 0
8 0 0
30 0 0
20 0 0
10 0 0
Eiturns. £156 0 0
600 tons of quartz will, at 6 dwts. gold per ton,
yield 150 ozs. This at the average value
of Ophir gold, say £3 19s. 6d. per oz.,
amounts to 596 5 0
Leaving a profit of ... £440 5 0
or. at the rate of £22,893 per annum ; and this profit is
irrespective of large sums obtainable from rich patches,
which are certain to be met with occasionally, if not fic-
quently.
It will be seen that this handsome profit is estimated
to be made on the low return of 6 dwts. per ton of quartz,
and that low average is purposely given because Mr.
Norman Taylor saw prospects crushed and panned off,
indicating an average of 6 to 7 dwts. pier ton, but there is
reason to believe that a much higher return may be con-
fidently expected, and this fact must not be overlooked, a
larger number of stampers than are required to crush 500
PROSPECTUS
•F TUB
OPHIR BLUPP GOLD MINING AND QUARTZ
CRUSHING COMPANY, LIMITED,
(To be Registered under the Companies Act.)
Capital, £25,000, in 25,000 Shares of £1 each,
of which 17,600 arc offered to the public on the following
termsIs. on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment, and that
portion of the balance required as the money is wanted, by
calls not to exceed Is. 6d. per share, and at intervals of not
less than one month.
The Hon. G. H. Cox, M.L.C.
Andrew T. Kerr,Esq.,M.P.
J.P.
John Newton, Esq.
Frederick Troweekc, Esq.,
J.P.
Provisional Dirkctors:
Esq.,
Edward Combes,
C.M.G., M.P,
James Dalton, Esq., J.P.
Henry Austin, Esq., J.P.
W. S. Spencer, Esq., M.D.,
J.P.
Bankers :
Australian Joint Stock Bank.
Broker:
C. J. Auckland, Exchange, Sydney.
mni8 Company Is formed to purchase and work the
J- rich Gold Mining Leases belonging to Mr. George
Slater, at Ophir, ■ containing about 44 acres of Gold-
bearing Reef Lands, at the well-known “ Blutf,” near the
junction of the Lewis Ponds and Summorhill Creeks, and
adjoining the celebrated “ Belmore ” Mining Property.
Uphir is situated about 15 miles from Orange, and is
the locality whore gold was first discovered in Australia,
and, in the immediate vicinity of the “Blutf,” the first
alluvial gold mining was successfully carried out in 1651.
The gold in its character was generally uuggetty, and
pieces were found weighing up to 120 ounces each ; many
of the smallest of these pieces were attached to quartz,
and wore sold under the name of “ specimens.”
The “Bluff” itself has evidently been formed by the
Summerhill Creek impinging against the hill side, and
cutting away a large portion of rock and earth thus
forming an almost perpendicular cliff, and exposing an
enormous quartz reef. The “Bluff” Keef is,in the
opinion of all miners, the main reef of the Ophir Gold
Field, and there can be no doubt that the alluvial gold in
immediate contiguity came from this reef, the mechanical
action of the water having played the part of a quartz
mill, disintegrating the reef stone, thus setting free
the gold, which, after untold centuries, the diggers
collected in their cradles and tin dishes. But if any
further proof were wanting, it is furnished by the
fact that, about 15 years ago, Driscoll and Party made
a great discovery of “ specimens ” immediately under a
huge mass of slate rock, which had evidently fallen
from the “Bluff.” These “specimens” of quartz and
gold had been imprisoned in a crevice, at the slaty bottom
of the stream, by this heavy covering, and contained—
after being crushed by hammers —an immense quantity of
gold. Itis towards this reef that all the leaders which
have been, and still continue so rich in the immediate
vicinity are, apparently, directing their course. Of these
may be mentioned the one on the top of the “ Bluff,” in
Mr. Slater’s ground, from which 200 ounces of gold were
obtained in a few hours, and those in the celebrated “Bel-
more ” claim, which are now so rich, and from which a
large parcel of stone, recently treated at the Mint, yielded
at the rate of 4,300 ounces of gold to the ton. The report
to the Minister for Mines from the Warden of the Orange
Gold Field, John T. Lane, Esq., dated July 17th, 1882,
mentions this discovery. His report is given above.
In the principal Gold Fields of Australia, notably at
Ballarat, Sandhurst, and Clunes, early attention was paid
to quartz deposits. Mines have been working for many
years, and hundreds of thousands of tons of quartz raised
to the surface from depths of from 1,000 to 1,600 feet. This
shows the permanency of quartz mining, and proves that
when quartz can be obtained in quantity, a few dwte. of
tons of quartz per week, when employed, would give even
more than the same proportion of profit on the outlay, a»
some expenses would not be at all increased. Mr. Taylor
went so far as to report that the whole hill would probably
pay for crushing.
The terms under which Mr. Slater offers this magnifi-
cent property to the Company are—£2,500 cash and 7,500
shares fully paid up, out of the total number of 25,000
shares, and the only other charges upon the Company’s
funds will be for usual brokerage, printing, &c.
Early application should be made for shares, as a large
number has been applied for privately.
The quartz being simply ready lor quarrying at a
moment's notice, and no dead work to be done, the right
is reserved to declare the Company formed when 12,000
contributing shares are allotted, as it is very desirable to
give the order for crushing machinery without any delay.
In the event of the Company not being formed, deposits
will be repaid in full, to applicants.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To Mr. C. J. Bucki.and, Exchange, Sydney, Broker for
the Ophir Bluff Cold Mining Company, Limited.
Sir,—I hereby request that you will allot me
Shares in the above Company, and now enclose One
Shilling per Share as deposit, and I hereby undertake to
except the above Shares or any portion thereof that may
be allotted me, and to sign the Deed of Settlement when
be called on to do so.
Dated the day of 1882.
Name in full
Address
Occupation
Lewis’s Ponds creek, and are shown on,the accom-
panying sketch.
The blocks are numbered as under
No. 207 (Machinery site.)
No. 202 (four acres.)
No. 209 (four acres.)
No. 210 (four acres.)
No. 203 (four acres.)
No. 208 (three acres )
No. 204 (twenty-five acres.)
The property is bounded on the east by the
Ban de Cologne Creek, which has yielded large
quantities of gold in former years ; and on the
north by the Lewis’ Ponds Creek, the fiats and
points of which have been washed over and over
again. The gold in these creeks has been derived
from the denudation of the Bluff and other large
reefs, with which the whole property is studded.
The Bluff Reef is an immense mass, or rather
accumulation of quartz veins and leaders passing
throngh the property. There are no defined
walls, but the main mass seems to run in the
bedding planes of the early mica-schists forming
the “ country while smaller leaders run at
right angles to them. The quartz measures about
40 feet on the surface, where I had it opened up,
but it is, probably, not more than 20 between the
walls. The dip of the schists is E. 90 deg.; N., at
an angle of 59 deg.
Several prospects were tried, with very even
results of extremely fine gold, indicating an aver-
age, I should say, of from 6 to 7 dwts. per ton.
The quartz is full of included slate, and, at
times, contains small quantities of iron and copper
pyrites, galena, and zinc-blende, which would,
probably, increase at a lower level.
The hill top is about 180 feet above the river.
The reef has been opened np in several parts of the
hill. Adjoining the property is that of the Bel-
more G.M. Company, in which a remarkably rich
leader ia now being worked. I saw Mr. Spencer
chopping it off the face in small slabs of solid
fold. This leader has a direction of N. 6 deg ,to
0 deg. W. t and cuts across the curly mioaoions
slates nearly vertically.
In lease No. 210 is a leader from 2 to 6 inches
thick, dipping due East at an angle of 45’, which
may be a continuation of that in the Belmore.
The machinery site ia well situated for working
the ground. With a large powerful plant, and the
immense amount of quartz at hand, which could
be quarried in a tfaoe, the venture should be a
payable one.
The whole hill, in fact, would, probably, pay for
crushing.
I remain, your obdt. servant,
(Signed) Norman Taylor,
Late Field Geologist,
Geological Survey of Victoria.
Geo. Slater’s Goldmining Lease at Ophir.
This property, consisting of six leases, viz.: —
Bos. 202, 203, 204, 208, 209, and 210 in the parish
lonnox, county of Bathurst, and embracing an
area of forty-four (44) acres, has frontage to the
lewis Ponds Creek, and extends thence in a
southerly direction to the north boundary of the
Belmore Gold Mining Co’. 15 acre lease ; one lease
(No. 204 of 25 acres) lying to the eastward of the
Belmore mine and including the Eea-de-Colonge
Gully and Refif. The Belmore Company are at
present mining in two places, the distances from
these workings to the south boundary of George
Slater’s lease No. 210 are about one hundred yards
and one hundred and forty yards respectively.
The machinery site (lease No. 207) which is not
enumerated above, has frontage to the main road
from Bathurst to Ophir, and also to Lewis Ponds
Creek, occupying a position immediately below the
crossing place. The site alse adjoins the mining
leases, and having a supply of water from the
Junction Watorhole, it possesses every reqnisitefor
the economical erection and working of machinery.
The contour of the ground is also naturally adapted
for the purpose.
K TAHJTTAO BT ACIZPT
JAMES R. BLACKET
Mining Surveyor.
“ Am I hurting you badly?” asked a dentist of
a lady whose teeth he was fixing, and who was emitting
horrible groans. " Ob, not in the least, but I love to
groan 1” was the reply. The patients of Dr. Slate, the
eminent American dentist, of Wynyard-square never
groan.
“ Wrecker” tells a tale of Alfred the Fiddler,
which certainly reads a trifle shady for oar royal hero.
It seems Alf. and his “ Missis ” had to cross the chan-
nel the other day. They might have taken one of the
Queen's steam yachts by themselves, or they might
have gone with the ordinary passengers in the regular
packet. They did neither, but had the packet “re-
served ’’ for them, while the three hundred other pas-
sengers were crowded in a crazy old craft long disused,
discarded, and unseaworthy. While the Prince and
his wife were steaming away in glory, a cylinder burst
on the old tub, signals of distress were sent np, which
were disregarded by the royal party, which steamed off,
leaving " the regular passengers to their fate." After a
16 hours’ innings of the "Oh Mvs," the parties on the
old tnb got back to the English coast, and we suppose
began to frame the usual address and testimonial ex-
pressive ot their wishes for the royal parties’ happiness,
and successful voyage. Some persons, however, must
have felt annoyed, (or the St. Jakes Gazette says:
" But that the ordinary traffic should be impeded and
hundreds of lives placed in jeopardy in this manner is
certainly more than the public will stand, whatever
may be the alternative course to adopt."
VANITY FAIR.
A pretty fashionable novelty is made entirely
of artificial roses, suspended by a rope of briar from
the neck, the thorns quite soft Evening dresses are
made with very pronounced tonrnure, so much so that
the hem of the skirt stands out nearly a yard from the
feet. To effect this, tulle and neat flounces are super-
posed so as to support each other, and the petticoats
are much starched Sleeves are very shorts gloves
long, and skirts high enough to display the embroidery
on the stockings Satin shoes are painted, Em-
broidery and painting are both in favour on shoes, as
they are ornamental, but do not spoil the outline, as
rosettes and other trimmings do Truth observes :
The low bodice is again very fashionable. Two seasons
ago it was hoped it would be banished from good society,
hat it is here again, with its unpardonable want of
grace, and threatens to be less becoming than ever,
owing to the tendency to discard the useful finishing of
lace. Some low bodices have not the least mitigation
between their edge and the skin. Even the tulle frill
is gone, and those who forsake the frill, abandon
their best safeguard against each an accident as
befel a lady last season at one of her Majesty’s
Drawing-rooms Sunflowers are said to be going
out. Cowslips, buttercups, and marigolds are
taking their place Mrs. Langtry is engaged
to visit America on higher terms than paid
to either Patti or Bernhardt Never was
fashion’s fleeting show more mercurial than now;
it is quick come and go ; all the aim is to be first with
soma novelty—either pretty or not, so long as it is
novel—and then throw it aside directly others adopt it.
Every fashionable woman pretends to an independence
of idea. One brings a flounce in vogue, one a scarf, one
a flower. They last a day, and go. The latest trifle is,
carnations; printed on fabrics, embroidered, fixed on
bonnets, carried in bouquets. This is the freak of the
moment; the next may be a new curve in a hat brim,
or a hue in hose Beaded stockings are still worn by
Farisiennes; they do not wash, but go to the cleaner’s.
Piouncings of ficelle lace on white muslin are worn
Natural flowers are worn in large bouquets on
skirts, in preference to artificial ones. White lilies on
white tulle, or Gloire de Dijon roses on pale yellow, are
happy White jet embroidery on a white ball dress
looks very pure; and deep violet heartsease embossed
on cream satin, is tastefully striking The London
Bazaar foridistressed Irish ladies was grand, and crowds
were drawn to the stalls by some of the most aristooratio
beauty in England, whose costumes were bewitching.
The Queen and Prince and Princess of Wales purchased
liberally. At some stalls, no article was less than a
guinea. It closed with a charity ball The use of
paper snowballs in the cotillon isj very general at home.
The meldel was kept up long and vigorously at a late
Eothschild ball Sunday dinner parties are usual in
London haul monde, Eothschild had a large gathering
lately on a Sunday evening, to meet the Prince and
Princess of Wales, and his gardens were illuminated
The great Hungarian band also plays in the public
parks and gardens on that day, though they probably
suspended operations while (Parkes was there —at
Proctor’s special request Lawn tennis is popular
with the naval and military aristocracy, and their
sisters, and their cousins, and their aunts. No less a
personage than the Senior Sea Lord of the Admiralty
lately sprained his illustrious leg while playing
at it The last novelty in ritualism is the in-
trodnetion of girls wearing scarlet chasubles in the
processions “Why should not two poets drink
their own health ?" said Victor Hugo at dinner,
as he turned smiling to Goppda. "Ah!” was
Copp6e’s modest reply, “ there is only one poet here.
With courtly grace, the great Frenchman asked, “And
I—do I not count P’’....This is authentie about Madame
Dam ala. She lay down on the beach one day, dressed
in white. A laundress who came along picked her up,
and it was only after giving her two or three severe
twists she discovered the divine Sarah was not a bath
towel laid out to dry There is a clear distinction
between a bankrupt and a bustle. The one was better
off before j the other is better off behind.
• • •
According to “ European Breezes,” a descrip-
tive book written with some power by Miss Mane J
Pitman, of America, the ladies of Austria are the be»t
yet. There isn’t a virtue they lack, or a viee they've
got. Nearly all Vienna ladies are taught to swim and
ride well, and instructed, no matter what their rank,
in the whole range of domestic duties; or, to put it
in Miss Pitman’s own words, “there aro no ladies in
the world capable of doing so many things, and doing
them well, as Austrian ladies of high birth,” From
cutting a dress to making a salad, they are ready.
Titled girls serve an apprenticeship to milliners; and
the daughters of the noblesse go to learn cooking, not
from a club or lecturess, but to large \ nvate houses
where there is a famous chef, who gives them lessons.
This is a recognised thing, part of the chef's
perquisites, and the ladies need not even known
the mistress of the house; it is a matter
quite between the cook and themselves An Austrian
lady of station who cannot cook scarcely exists.
Memory, languages, needlework, music, are all culti-
vated from boyhood- One peculiarity is their tact in
dressing for the occasion. The simplicity of attire
worn by ladies who trace their lineage back to the
knights ot the crusaders’ time contrasts strongly with
the show made by the nouveaux riches of England and
America. At the most fashionable lawn party, the
Austrian girl wears prettily-made calico or cotton. The
higher the rank, the plainer the dress in the street. A
Vienna Baroness, whose jewels would stock a shop, and
whose laces were of priceless value, who had a million
florins in her own right, and had been playmate with
the Emperor’s children, could afford to go to an after-
noon ball in a cotton sateen at two shillings a yard.
But it was perfectly made, and she was the belle of the
ball. But at a State ceremonial, a formal dinner party,
or a grand ball, the Anstrieane can be regal m her
raiment, and dazzling in her jewellery, her beauty,
and her style Altogether, the Austrian girl seems to
be the sort of one the world wait# f0r...... A weird fancy
dress character was "A Witch” —elf-locks of grey,
steeple-crowned hat, mantle, broomstick, and a black
cat on the shoulder In Kentucky, the fanatic young
women of tho latest religious revival use note-paper
stamped “ Praise the Lord." One of Worth s novel-
ties is embroidery on soft white kid; it is as beautiful
as lace, and goes as high as £3 a yard...... Sweet little
Gipsy hats for young girls are made of shirred silk,
trimmed with white lace and small roses ..The
wealthiest American women wear fine cloth walking
costumes, tailor made. A well fitting wool suit lacks
better than wrinkled satin or silk.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Chinese eager to get to Mackay from the Palmer
are rushing the boats 412 emigrants coming from
England in the ship Baun During 1881, 1604 ships,
manned by 49,321 seamen, arrived in Melbourne In a
storm up-oountry, 20ft. corrugated iron sheets were
blown off the roofs and carried 20 miles by the wind
The sea monster recently seen by the fishermen of the
Shetland Islands is now floundering along through the
daily papers Mr. Stapleton, manager of the Now-
rilyan (N.Q.) Sugar Company, has let a contract for
clearing 300 acres to a Chinese headman—not a bad gap
to taka at one sweep out of the scrub Intercolonial
Exhibition under Victorian Chamber of Manufactures
to be held in Melbourne in 1834, the jubilee year of that
colony Agnes Wilson, a Toorak (Vic.) dressmaker,
made £250 by falling through the trap-door of one of
her lady customers A Kerang (Vic.) farmer named
O’Donnell was aching for amusement when he tied a
wire cage full of empty tins to a horse’s tail, blind-
folded the animal with a bag, and started it off at a
gallop. The horse knocked its ribs in against a stump,
and had to be shot. O’Donnell now beads his humour-
ous instincts to the napping of blue metal £1420 al-
ready subscribed to the Working Men’s College, Melb...
Philip Davis, a Dunedin (N.Z.) plumber, suicided by
taking spirits of salts used in his trade. Ha had been
drinking heavily, aad, coming home drunk, was re-
proached by his father, whereupon be went and took
the poison Total debenture capital on Victorian rail-
ways is £17,672.460; yearly interest payable, £918,218;
mileage open for traffic, 1247 miles ; gross revenue
earned last year was £1,665,209; expenditure, £913,572.
Q. T, Bell and Co., of Brisbane, formerly of Bunda-
berg (Q.), shipping 100 cavalry horses to Egypt on spec.
Lieut.-Colonel E. E. Drury appointed noting Com-
mandant of Queensland Volunteers Caledonia pro-
specting claim, Charters Towers, got 1481 oz. gold from
230 tons stone.
• • •
The St. Gothard tunnel is 9$ miles in length, or
H miles over that of the Mont Cenis catting. Its cost
was £9,000,000, and it was nearly eleven years in course
of construction, 4000 men being employed A man in
Michigan sat in the fork of a tree while he sawed off a
branch. As the branch fell, the tree split open, and as
he dropped in, closed on him. After an hours chopping
and prying he was got out, with three ribs broken
It is said Darwin has left a manuscript autobiography,...
The police in Naples “sprung a plant” of forty fans,
beautiful, delicate things. Each, though, had a dagger
in the handle Rev. Stephen Gladstone, son ef the
Premier, very unwell Mr. Holloway, of pills and
ointment fame, gave £10,920 for two pictures. Which
proves the truth of the adage, “ sweet are the uses of
adver ’’-rising M.B.S. of Mozart’s famous trio in Q
major sold at auction in Berlin for £OO This is a
Mexican he. A Manzanillo lake went on the burst, and
poured its waters into the harbour. The lake was full
of alligators, and the harbour crammed with sharks.
The new neighbours didn’t agree, and a royal battle was
waged between them. The sharks ate all the alligators.
A triple tragedy occurred at a " barn-raising” in
Winston, N 0., lately :—Five men were at work on
timbers, two on the frame and three on the ground.
The two on the building got to quarrelling, and one
threw an axe at the other, catting his head open and
killing him instantly. The man who threw the axe lost
his foothold in doing it, and fell from the frame and
broke his neck. At this awful sight one of three men
on the ground, who was raising a heavy timber,
lost his hold and the stick fell upon one of
his companions and crushed him to death
The King of Abyssinia outs off the noses of those of his
subjects who snuff and the lips of those who smoke
There are 62,100 miles ot cable lines throughout the
world; value, £20,000,000 To smokers; 20,000 owt
of beetroot is annually used in the adulteration of
tobacco New domestic animal found in South
America—called the Cabiai. It resembles a pig, but is
cleanly in its habits, and has the attachment to men ot
a dog Russian labourers work 20 hoars every day,
more or leas. But they get the bulge on the free-born
Briton as thus. In Russia, they observe one hundred
and sixty saints’ days, and get drunk on vodka
On the Ist Jnae, 1876, a “ lightning express" left New
York for ’Frisco, and going forty miles an hone, ran
throngh the 3316 miles in 8t hours The blessings of
civilization are spreading. There was a big fight at
Calabar the other day, between two bodies of niggers.
One chief had a Gaoling gun, and employed it with tre-
mendous effect too, killing 500. The only mistake was
that it was a detachment of his own side that he blazed
at, taking them for the enemy Two steamboats have
been constructed for the British Admiralty capable of
running at the rate of 26 and 27 miles per hour, with
the tide, and 23 and 24 miles against the tide. They are
said to be the fastest steamboats ever constructed
At a banquet given in Liverpool to Captain Burton
and Commander Cameron, who have for some months
past been exploring the Gold Coast Colony on the West
Coast of Africa, Captain Burton said that “ landing
upon the shore they found women washing tho sand for
gold, and getting from half a dollar to feur dollars a
day of gold out of it.” Seven wonders of the world
(old style) :—Pyramids of Egypt; Pharos of Alex-
andria; walls and hanging gardens of Babylon; temple
of Diana; statue of the Olympic Jupiter; mausoleum
of Artemisia; Colossus of Rhodes. Additional seven
wonders (new style) :—The printing press, steam en-
gine, telegraph, daguerrotype, telephone, phonograph,
and electric light The Gnion mail steamer Alaska
left New York at l'2sp,m. on the 26th of April, and
arrived at Queenstown at 6T5 p.m. on Tuesday; time,
seven days and 26 minutes. The daily runs were as
follow April 26, 368 miles; April 27, 402 miles; April
28, 413 miles ; April 29, 402 miles j April 30, 396 miles :
May 1, 399 miles; May 2, 396 miles. Her outward
passage occupied 7 days 4 hours 42 minutes, making the
round voyage out and home in 14 days 4 hours 58
minutes. No steamer afloat has ever approached this.
The circulation of the Feeiheit, the socialist Q»r-
man paper published in London, two successive editors
of which have been imprisoned for their opinions, is
only 3000 In Johnstown churchyard. County Kil-
dare, Ireland, there is an in memoriam tablet to the
Aylmer family, who formerly owned the Cloncurry
estates. This is distasteful to the present Lord Clou-
curry, who applied to the Local Government Board to
have it removed. The Board refused the application,
on the ground that the departed Ay liners were not his
lordship’s tenants, and eould not, therefore, be evicted.
A Dr. Sinclair Stevenson asserts that tincture of
eucalyptus is a cure for hereditary leprosy To teat a
statement that very rapid breathing was equal to an
anaesthetic to deaden pain, Dr. ML T. Yates submitted
to a severe operation. The inhaling and exhaling of
breath was as quick as the panting of a dog on a hot
day, and though Dr. Yates distinctly heard the knife
ripping the flesh, he felt no mere pain than is usual at
vaccination The highest price ever given far a
picture is said to have been £6300 fir the “Babylonian
Marriage Market," bought by Mr. Holloway. Two
pictures by Long fetched £10,920 at auction. Mr. Henry
Wallis purchased Meissonier’s “ Napoleon " for £6OOO,
which Buskin had previously acquired by what he con-
sidered the large outlay of £lOOO.
Pive thousand people leave [King-street by tram in an
hour every afternoon.
Rainfall general throughout the colony.
Thunderbolt declined a C.M.Q.-ship.
Laycock met with an accident coming out.
Mr. J. Charles Cox, for many years favourably
known in the land auctioneering business in Sydney,
has commenced on his own account. His office is 126
Pitt-street.— Adv.
At a Brisbane School. Teacher to dull boy:
How many kinds of Geography are there. D. 8.; Two.
Teacher : Oh 1 indeed, what are they. D. B. i Pnysioal
and "Cornwell.'*
M. Duolero, the new Premier of Franco, began
life in 1836 as proof-reader of a Parisian newspaper. In
1343 he was Prime Minister of the French Republic,
and assisted in the crushing vistory which kept the
Anarchists under for 20 years.
The friends of Mr. John Rogers, who for the
last fifteen years was the indefatigable secretary of the
School of Arts, and who raised that institution to its
present state of perfection, will be greatly pleased to
know that he has opened business as a tobacconist at
No. 90 King-street, at which place his bappy counte-
nance beams forth a welcome to all.—Any.
PLAN OF THE OPHIR BLUFF COMPANY’S GROUND, &c.
