

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 11.—No. 153
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1882.
Price—3d
®jre bulletin.
ATURDAT, DECEMBER 30, 1882.
The Mawworm Cabinet.
The Paekes-Eobinson Cabinet is true to itself.
It retains its Mawwobm rule of life to its last
moments. Like that celebrated character, it
‘‘likes to be despised,” and lingers longingly in
an atmosphere of rotten eggs. During its tenure
of office, the Pabkes-Eobbbtson Ministry has
been profuse in expreesiona of assurance that to
study the public interest is its rule of existence.
It lived only for the common weal. Yet it now
appears that the pseudo Ministry is totally incap-
able of dying for that public interest. Its mem-
bers cling to the positions, distinctions, and emolu-
ments which no longer belong to them, with a
Tite-Babnaclb tenacity whioh would be divert-
ing were it not equally contemptible and trouble-
some. On Friday last, the complete result of the
elections had been ascertained, and it had been
demonstrated beyond the extremity of oavil that
the country is sick of the quasi-Government, its
Tartuffian affectation of sectarian enthusiasm, its
jobbery, its corruption, its intense indifference to
the vital necessities of honest and able adminis-
tration. There had been a faint expectation that,
when matters had arrived at this stage, the Coali-
tion Ministry would wipe itself into the political
dust-hole and permit its successors to commence
the urgently-needed process of cleaning up the
places it bad occupied. But even that obvious
decency has been too lofty tor the dishonoured
Cabinet to attain. The members of the Ministry
will neither retire with the dignity of men who
feel tnat they have been understood and wronged,
nor wait to receive the definite kicking out which
the people’s representatives have been appointed
specially to deal to them. They cling to the
offices of State to the last instant, and in effect
postpone the exigencies of the country to their
own convenience.
* m •
Had the Ministry resigned immediately on the
result of the complete elections being ascertained,
the Governor would have sent for Mr. Stuabt,
and a new Cabinet would have been formed. The
re-election of the members of the new Government
could then have been proceeded, with and the
Parliament could have got to work on the busi-
ness before it, almost, if not quite, _at
the date originally fixed for its re-assembling.
It is very hard to imagine a satisfactory
explanation for the singular tenacity with which
the quasi-Administration clings to the offices it no
longer properly holds. After being thrust aside
by the constituencies with every expression of
contempt and disgust, it will surely scarcely
venture to perform any but mechanical functions.
According to true constitutional spirit, the pseudo-
Government has no title whatever to offer advice
to the Governor, other than formal advice as to
who shall be called in to form a Cabinet to replace
it. The Governor is supposed to take advice from
the representatives of the people of the colony,
through the medium of the leaders and spokesmen
who in their turn, represent these representa-
tives. The Pabkes-Robeetson coalition lot
now represent nothing but slapped faces and
kicked corpses. His Excellency will have to be
extremely careful how he permits himself to be
managed by men who are become mere usurpers.
The indulgence already shown to them in granting
a dissolution has aroused a jealous and suspicious
scrutiny of the relations whioh exist between
Lord Augustus Loptus and the bedraggled
desperadoes who have returned from the country
•with their reputation in shreds, and in several
instances without a seat in Parliament. Already
His Excellency’s kindness in granting the Adminis-
tration a dissolution of an Assembly elected
under its own auspices has been severely com-
mented upon. In this respect, reflection will
probably convince dispassionate people that Lord
Augustus Loptus took the proper course.
Although the late Assembly was, unquestionably,
the House of the Paekes-Eobeetkon Cabinet,
and elected under its auspices, it must not be for-
gotten that the elections which brought it into
existence were made to turn specifically upon a
very mischievous and degrading cry—a cry which
carried back the colony a century, to times of
religious feud and sectarian supremacies and op-
pressions. The late Assembly—the worst and
weakest, the most feeble, despicable, and corrupt
which ever cursed this colony— was elected, owing
to the personal management of Ar Hen by
Pabkes, exclusively on a question of sectarian
interest. It cannot have been already forgotten
how Sir Henet, exasperated by the humilia-
tion inflicted upon him by being the lowest
among the elect of East (Sydney, fulminated
a declaration that he was determined to uphold
Protestant ascendancy—a declaration which only
bigots applauded, and which evoked m men who
truly appreciate the sense and grandeur of reli-
gious liberty a glow of indignation and a biush of
shame. The Parliament elected on such lines,
and under such auspices, was certainly not entitled
to express the sense of the country upon other
branches of public policy, of separate and distinc-
tive importance. That has been our contention
all along. It has been repeatedly pointed out in
these columns that the late Parliament owed its
origin to a sectarian plot which took the people at
large by surprise, when unprepared, and that for
the discharge of the ordinary and proper functions
of a legislature, the majority got together on
seventeenth century principles was incompetent
and without representative force or claims. This
theory has been also constantly endorsed by
members of the late and present Parliaments who
now blame the Governor for having consented to
dissolve Parliament. To have held these views
and yet to find fault with the dissolution is to con-
tradict one’s-self.
• • •
To determine the land policy of a colony such
as New South Wales is the most vital of all ad-
ministrative functions, and is a duty whioh it
would have been grossly wrong to entrust to a
Chamber which had no claim to represent the
opinion of the country in that particular. Hod
Mr. Stuart’s motion been a direct vote ot no
confidence, to grant a dissolution would have been,
on the Governor’s part, a flagrant abuse of his
power and a distortion of his functions. The late
Parliament was, constitutionally and technically,
quite competent to decide upon the merits of
thePABKBS-EoBE rtson Administration, notwith-
standing that really and practically its utter
incompetence to do anything of the sort has just
been conclusively demonstrated by tho result of
the elections. It will not do, in considering the
constitutional aspect of the case—.the aspect which
a Governor must chiefly regard—to confuse the
action of the Assembly with the action of the
constituencies. That Chamber had by decisive
majorities not only supported the sectarian pro-
pagandise! of the Government, but had eaten
Milburn Creek dirt with it rather than desert it;
bad borne without murmuring the notorious incapa-
city of the Treasurer ; had endorsed the original
immorality of the interested junction of Pabkes
with Robertson to divide in perpetuity the spoils
of office ; and had condoned the later infamy of the
alternate desertion, repudiation, and reconciliation
of the two leaders, which scandalised the country.
The same House, but by a diminished majority,
refused to endorse the Land-law proposals of the
Government, and gave its preference to the scarcely
defined and not at all detailed suggestions of Mr.
Stuabt. VVfien the effusive and thiok-and-thin
adherence of the House to the Government on so
many occasions came to be balanced with its
defection on this one point, it was not reasonable
to insist that the Governor, who held the scales,
should decide that the Assembly, scarcely repre-
senting the country with reference to the Land-
laws, expressed the sense of the constituencies to
the extent of requiring a peremptory dismissal of
the Ministry, without appeal.
• • m
It must be remembered, hard as may be the
exercise after all that has transpired, that evidence
of the extent to whioh the Administration had
forfeited the confidence of the country did not
precede, but followed, the decision of the Governor
to grant a dissolution. The Assembly had not
condemned—it had not even explicitly challenged
—the general conduct of the Administration. It
was the constituencies who brought in a vote of
want of confidence—nay, a vote of contempt, dis-
gust, and abhorrence. Lord Augustus Loftus
could not see that his responsible advisers, fresh
from the compliments of Princes and the effusive
rapture of banquets, had so lost the regard erf the
people they pretended to represent that as soon as
they issued from the fortresses of official position,
and came within reach, they were doomed to be
figuratively rolled in the mud and ducked in horse-.
ponds, as the only treatment whioh could be
popularly hit upon as merited by their career.
They went to the country on their Land Bill
proposals ; but the constituencies promptly en-
larged the issues, and dealt with them on their
whole deservlngs—sending them to the right about,
not merely with their Land Bill protestedTont witn
*' disgrace and dismissal” dangling like signboards
from their tweaked noses and branded upon their
aching shoulders.
• « •
Tho course proper to be adopted by the Governor
was in fact a very open one. Had he dismissed
the Ministry and invited the Opposition to give
effect to the agrarian reforms proposed by its
leaders and endorsed by a majority of the
Assembly, His Excellency could scarcely have been
blamed. But neither can ho, as we have endea-
voured to show, bo justly charged with indecent
partiality in adopting the alternative course, of
permitting his then advisers to appeal from an
Assembly, of dubious representative authority in
this matter, to the country at large. That he
should, in a nice dilemma, lean towards his
existing advisers, was but natural. It may be
admitted that he did lean in that direction, and
thus show a degree of partiality, justifiable
although it may be. But if it be thus granted,
with reservations, as it appears to be popularly
assumed without any reservations at all. that
Lord Augustus Loftus evinced a partiality
for the Pabkes-Eobkbtson Cabinet, the most
scrupulous and severe attitude in dealing with
that little guild of repudiated and outcast politi-
cians, many of them now not even representatives
of any constituency, is incumbent upon his
Excellency.
• «
Tho people of the colony are irritated and sus-
picious. It has not been forgotten—it cannot be
forgot—that, even admitting that in granting the
recent dissolution to the Parkks-Eobertson
Cabinet Lord Augustus did not extend his
favour further than constitutional practice
justified him, he had accepted at their hands
personal consideration involving a violent and
indecent contempt of constitutional procedure.
It was only the other day that Sir Henry Pabkes,
replying to a deputation who requested that a
reserve for recreation might be purchased for a
certain suburb, pointed out that there were no
funds legally available for such purchase. But it
ifrpa the same Minister who bought for tho use of hia
Excellency the Governor a summer residence, al-
though for that outlay there were likewise no funds
properly available. This was a clear breach of con-
stitutional practice, and Lord Augustus Loftus
not only consented to it, but advantaged by it. Not
only had no funds been appropriated by Parlia-
ment for such a purpose, but respecting the pro-
priety of encouraging the Governor of the colony
to reside at a distance from the capital and seat
of Government no opportunity of expressing an
opinion had been afforded it. His
Excellency stands in a very sorry plight at the
bar of public opinion in reference to this
matter, and some excuse is thereby afforded to
the popular, suspicion that a friendly barter of
unconstitutional favours has been going on
between the Governor and his accommodating
advisers. Again, there is the affair of the North
Shore bridge, and the extraordinary anxiety
evinced by tho Paekes-Eobeetson Cabinet to
study the interests of Mr. Gabbett in connection
with that work. In the popular eye, Mr.
Gabbett is a cypher by himself. He is not
known as a man of capital: he is not distin-
guished as a man of talent. Prior to his miracu-
lous appearance as a volunteer contractor for a
vast public work, he was not known at all except to
a limited circle, and to that circle only as a fashion-
able lounger, whoso credentials were a dote
intimacy with Government House. In short, Mr.
Gabbett alone was a cypher, meaning “ nought”
until an integral figure was connected with it, and
the Governor was regarded as that integer.
Gabbett stood, politically, socially, and finan-
cially, for the figure 0. His Excellency stood for
1, or 2, or 3. Hence the resultant effect.
Governor-cum- Gabbett stood for 10, or 20, or
30, all substantial entities. Now, there has been
no patent reason why the Pabkes Government
should have been, so attentive as it appears they
have been, to Gabbett’ s interests ; but the public
have solved the problem by making the most
obvious, although very li'kely quite fallacious,
connection, and have deduced therefrom very
peculiar conclusions —say, that the Ministry had
perceived that Mr. Garrett's success would be
pleasing to his friend Lord Augustus Loftus.
It must be noted that these are no emanations
from our imagination, nor ia any way inventions
of ours. They are the talk of the electors, and
the theme of current conversation. We refer to
them merely as matters of significance at this
time, as indicating the necessity which exists for
His Excellency tho Governor eschewing any
course which might intensify the tendency of the
public—already irritate * beyond measure by the
conviction that there has been betrayal of public
confidence by men in high places—to regard him
as in any way identified with the Ministry which has
just been dismissed by tho constituencies with cir-
cumstances of contumely, probably unprecedented
' i colonial history.
MR. S. A. STEPHEN, M.P. FOR CANTREBURY—(See page 7).


OODGHS AND
The Best Care for the above is E
and taken at bed-tux
P U B E ED
Extra Strong,
Os. Per Imperial Qua
C. W. 808
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPAI
MARKET ST REE’
WHEN YOU VISIT ST
go to
C. W. EO BEETS
NEW BAE,
GEOEGE STREET, NEAE MAB
where you can obtaix
e*7|
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEANE
SHERRY, OE £££
of such a Quality that cannot be
other establishment in th
C. W. ROBERT!
COLONIAL WINE DEPA
' is now open in
MAEKET STB
BED OE WHIT]
only
Bd. per Half-Pin
Quality Superlatix
NONE BUT WIN
the
PEODUCT OP AUBT
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPA]
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP A
C, W. EO BEETS’ SPECIAI
4s. 6d. per bottb
clynelish’whis
6s. per bottle.
VEEDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6c
POET MACQUAEIE EE
Is. d. per bottb
MUEEUMBIDGEE
2s, per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR ••• P
6s. per Bottle.
C. W. KOI
MARKET STEE:
FURNITURE! FUR
FURNITURE I
** HKKE is the best place t
V V This question is being as
is of as mueh interest to anyone i
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple " jn
keeping, and who want everyth!)
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE PA
FURNISHING E)
OXFORD STREET, £
Just opened b]
Hell at Hay.
Some time since, attention was excited by the
letter of a Sir. Richardson which appeared in a
contemporary, describing scenes to be witnessed
in the Chinese camp at Hay. Although his reve-
lations were (though “toned down”) so horrible
as to suggest the idea that he was writing—as his
Honour Sir William, with innocent complacency,
w nld say,—for sensation, ’ yet they wore con-
siderably corroborated by other evidence. Or
course, the Hay policemen, like the bogtrotting
constables who for years preserved the purity of
•*—er, down the harbour —would swear, as long as
their tongnes wagged, that “ they didn t see any-
thing improper.” Yet many knew that Mr.
Richardson's descriptions weronofc exaggerated.
Even for decency's sake, they had tube toned
down so as to be far within the truth.
• • •
A few days ago a party of gentlemen went
through the Chinese camp at Hay. 't hough pre-
pared to see vice and bestiality, they naturally
expected to have some difficulty in penetrating to
the very esoteric centre of immorality—expected
to find, at least, that some pretence of secrecy
would be observed, and some, at least, ostensible
barriers confronting them, such as might do to
check a perfunctory constable in his efforts to
subdue gambling and prostitution. .Not at all!
There was no bar ; there was no veil of conceal-
ment. These dens are open to any who would
walk in, even to their innermost r«cesses !
Decency forbids ns, and space will not allow us,
to quote anything like in full from the documen-
tary evidence we have as to the character of these
places.
r • • •
We condense a few particulars. Just suppose
we sre now in hell—not tho theological, but the
Hay hell. The fan-tan tables (of which there are
eight or ten) are in a room 20 feet square, at one
end of a building 150 feet long ; round them are
Chinese and whites, shearers, bnllockies, talent
from town, and an occasional semi-respectable
looking face, with eyes feasting on the cash as the
croupier rakes it in. We can scarcely get up to
the tables, they are so crowded; and the game
proceeds without the least apparent fear of inter-
ruption from police or others. Proceeding down
a dingily-lightad passage, we see doors on each
side opening into small rooms with beds, and in
them Chinamen, white girls, blear-eyed bushmen,
and trne larrikins from town. How they subsist
is a mystery to most. Exposed to the view of all,
were white women and Chinamen lounging to-
gether on the couches, smoking opium ; in various
stages of lethargy, and in an atmosphere fetid
almost to stupefaction. We were asked to produce
sundry coins of the realm for “drinks,” and
having done so, were invited to partake of a
mixture of fusel oil and. potash that no man
could drink—and live. As if by instinct
smelling the vile compound, doors flew open,
and women, half-dressed and dishevelled,
appeared, armed with bottles, and backed
up by “bullies” iu beer-soaked black cloth,
and bushmen in flannel shirts and moleskins.
Poison all round pacified them —indeed, was the
only way to escape safely—and, under its potent
influence, we learned that thirty-four white women
occupied dens in pandemonium, some earning
thirty or forty pounds per week by lambing down
in shearing time. Besotted and beastly, reeking
with disease and debauchery, some of the hags
stay and drag out an existence all the year ; the
younger only coming up for the “ busy season ”
from Little Bourke-stroetand its purlieus. “ Down
the harbour,” when its nakedness was exposed,
was high-toned compared to the Hay camp.
Lechery and animalism that recall Gomorrah to
mind are talked of and practised openly. Few
who are lambed down will prosecute, partly from
shame and partly from the difficulty of proof.
Some storekeepers do a large trade with the camp,
which is good pay. so they “ don’t see,” and don’t
say anything. Phe virtuous policeman is just
what his official superiors have made him ; he is
discreetly blind and deaf, and builds terraces and
prospers. No newspaper editor could safely pub-
lish tke names of those who own the ground on
which the Hay hell stands ; he would be at once
pounced on and punished for “ sensational writ-
ing.”
• • •
And so the rotten sore has festered on, under a
Government whose members were on the spot not
six months ago, banqueting and belauding one
another, with noses too high and eyes too low to
see or smell anything but their holy selves —a
Government who forbade the people to hear of
science, to gaze on art, to listen to a band, or to
drink a glass of wine on Sunday—a Government
whose claims to greatness rest on the fact that it
has squandered the people’s patrimony, looked on
at the murder of their sailors, piously gagged the
Press, and fostered their larrikins till they have
attained a pre eminence in filth and fulsomeness
unknown in the rest of the world. A Government,
dear reader, which blushes when you mention the
C.D. Act, has permitted the hell at Hay.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Coming Cabinet.
When Mr. Stuart and the gentlemen who may be
associated with him in his Ministry assume the Govern-
ment cf the colony, the task before them will be in one
important respert infinitely lighter than has been the
struggle sustained for se many years by the Parkes-
Robertson Coalition. Their duties as legislators will,
indeed, be extremely arduous. To frame a Land Bill
which will be sufficient to meet acd dispose of the
frightful agrarian complications due to twenty years’
operation of Sir John Robertson’s law of confusion and
end will be of itself a Htrcv.lean task. To take up the
tangled threads of other necessary legislation, so long
neglected in favour of mere scheming administration,
f will be a work of surprising difficulty. But all these
will be trifles, if resolutely grappled with, in comparison
with the endless troubles, involvements, and shift ngs
whieh entangle and harass||a Ministry which merely
seeks to hold office for the gratification ef vanity or the
enjoyment of profit direct and indirect. The country
has shown its temper and disposition very distinctly.
It wants honest and straightforward government above
all things, and it desires, further, a thorough and work"
manli v e reform of the method of dea’ing with the public
lands. If Mr. Stuart and his associates can show that
the new Cabinet is resolutely bent upon supplying the
first a genuine and hearty indulgence in every other
respect will certainly await it. The country is evidently
disposed to give every chance to an honest Administra-
tion, provided it shows that it can competently deal
with one great measure for a start. The prospect before
the coming Administration is therefore cheerful enough.
It has to show its competency, and to suit the consti-
tuencies with a Land Bill; and, failing in these respects,
it has merely to retire. The process is so simple and
straightforward that it is quite surprising any Ministry
should hare vaiied it, by twisting and twining, swallow,
ing professions ; alternately de slating and renouncing
principles; corrupting this legislator, and intimidating
that one; coquetting with public peculators, and
coalescing with furious sectaries. Mr. Stuart and his
colleagues have a grand opportunity to shew a striking
contrast, even if it take the form of demonstrating te
the people that a defeated Ministry may retire with
honour; that it is much more pleasant to be out and
respected than in and despised much more graceful
to be bowed out than kicked out.
That Blessed Land Law.
Wa have before ns a draft petition to the Legislative
Assembly, which illustrates one of the huEdred phases
of • agrarian discord now rending our misruled com-
munity asunder. This petition sets forth that during
three years ending in March, 1882, 94 actions for tres-
pass were brought in the Goulburn District Court; 52
actions of the same kind were, during the same period,
brought in the Yaaa Court; 24 in the Queanbeyan, and
59 in the Cooma District Court. It appears that many
of these actions are spread over a period of six years,
and that they have arisen between neighbours who had
been in the habit of allowing their stock to run to-
gether, until some cause of altercation led to quarrels,
vindictive action, and law suits. Moreover, it is stated
that, apart from these feuds between neighbours, a
system of extortion has arisen by which innocent
and helpless people are daily victimised. The
remedy sought by the petition is that the right
of action for trespass be limited to six months.
Thus it appears | that in the south-eastern corner of
the colony 229 law-suits, involving much loss and pri-
vate suffering, have arisen from squabbles about grass.
There is no difficulty in tracing this to the iniquitous
land-law which still oppresses the coleny. Supposing
two men apply for a prelease of the same ground, both
applications are accepted, and the preferred rent goes
to the Treasury, while each, as a matt-r of course,
believes that the Department has accepted his applica-
tion only. It is perhaps years before the identity of the
two dessriptionsis established, and in the meantime the
two applicants fight it out. Various reflections arise
naturally from the extraordinary state of things dis-
closed. Firstly, it is difficult to say whether the policy
of the law, or the method in which it is administered,
is the most objectionable. If the ona is essentially
vicious, the other is hopelessly idiotic ; unless indeed
both have been conceived and framed in order to play
into the hands of lawyers. Secondly, as this is only
one minor feature of the huge land-muddle, the charac-
ter of the legacy left by the P.obebtson-Parkes minis-
try—the enigma which the Opposition wish to solve—
may be grasped at. No shilly-shally will be of any use.
Every corner cf the eolony his aims cancer or running
sore, like that of Goulburn and Yass, and a resolute use
of the knife is the only safety. Interests built on class
discords and litigation must be vigorously excised by
the roots before we can attain the social peace and
healthy security so much wanted.
Wanted—A Pitchfork.
When the Government takes office its members will
have plenty of work to do. Apart from the neglect of
really serviceable legislation, which has marked the
past five years owing to the staving off policy of the
corrupt coalition, administrative details seem to have
been pervaded by shameless corruption. Never before
in our history have (back-stairs influences so intruded
into the management of affairs. The Departments of
the public service have been inundated by shoa'sof in cap
ab’es, pushed into places of profit by sheer force of
occult pressure. There is a Government
establishment in the North where expert work-
men have to take their orders from lucky dogs
who have never worked at the trades they are supposed
to supervise, and who are paid—apparently as a reward
for their superior merit in never having hardened their
hands with base mechanical work—double what expert
artizans receive. These bosses are not even, it appears
successes as canvassers. The dexterity of one who
interested himself for Lloyd, is only measurable by the
fact that Lloyd is at present not in the House nor in a
position to again hold himself up to schoolboys as an
exemplar of what strict honesty will do to elevate a
man. The Government might just instruct a competent
engineer or expert to drop in and make a few smart
inquiries. Such for examp’e as, how many perches of
a boss’s garden a hand must dig to qualify himself for
an increase of salary as (say) a cabinet maker; or how
many rods of a boss’s house one must paint to ensure
advancement in pay as, (say) a blacksmith. It might
also be worth while to enquire whether the recent
increases in wages were partial, and why ? The sug-
gestion might even be adventured, that it would be to
the public advantage that mechanics ia the Govern-
ment service should be advanced according to their
skill at their trade, and not in proportion to their
aptitude in the noble art of Koo-too.
“Commercial Principles."
A coroner’s jury has saddled the responsibility—to
the extent of a charge of manslaughter—of the Haw.
thorn railway accident upon two persons—Thompsor«
the Hawthorn station-master, and Hunt, the guard of
the special. It has also made some specific recommen-
dations about divorcing the Government railways from
purely political Government. Therein lies the kernel
of the whole nut. Thompson and Hunt may be indi-
vidually responsible for this particular accident, but it
is the happy-go-lucky looseness of departmental admin-
istration that makes such accidents not only possible
but probable. In poor murdered Finlayson’s day, when
a private company owned the Hobson’s Bay lines, no
such tremendous disasters occurred. These particular
suburban railways even then required the closest
supervision, as trains were running at extremely short
intervals throughout the entire day. Then came
Woods with his “break" fad, and Bent with his “com.
mercial principles,” and the door was opened to politi
cal patronage. Unless one was a member of Parlia-
ment, orwell-known as exerting beverage in the political
world, the Hobson’s Bay railway offleia's—now become
Government servants—didn’t think it worth while to
be civil, and fell into tbe Government stroke. They
could always demand “ a Board," and their political
friends would pull them through. The service became
crammed with incompetents who were appointed be-
canse thsy could not get on anywhere else, or because
they had some brother, cousin or uncle who was arch-
flam of some political league, or arch-toady to some
frothing demagogue. Mr. Bent even went so far as
to send to members of Parliament psssessing relations
and friends a list p£ vacancies aa they
periodically occurred, and these members “nomi-
nated " candidates. All this was very pleasant and
digrdfled. Now, Victorian ministers are very much
surprised indeed. Tom Bent thinks he has had a run
of ill-luck. Woods swears that if his brake had been
on the two trains concerned, they could have been
stopped in time to avert a collision. Parliament is on
end with a temporary desire to change things. Tom
Best is to bring down a Bill for the better management
of the Government fiailways. The rider of the Coro-
ner’s jury about appointing a permanent political head
should be attended to. Whose is the responsibility
now ? Can the Commissioner for Railways be prosecuted
criminally for lives lost because his Department is in
chaotic disorder ? With a permanent professional
head, the responsibility for maladministration or dis-
organization would be absolutely fixed. Tom Bent can
advantageously empley the “otiosity” of the holiday
recess in consulting Mrs. Bent on these few vital
points.
A Valuable Volume.
It is with great pleasure we chronicle the fact
of having received a most remarkable historic
chronicle. The title of this important work is
“ Some names written] in a Birthday Book
the Property of Sir Henry Parkea.” In
pamphlet form the volume consists of 18
pages; and the names of 207 persons all more
or less illustrious, are given, while a notice
at the end informs a panting public that
“ about three hundred other names ” could be
given. Possibly, however, in withholding these
300 signatures from the public Sir Henry has
exercised a wise discretion. Since the names in
the book are given with their full titles, such as
Bis Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, KG.,
the'Hon. James A’atson, Varney Parkes, Esq., &c.,
the notion (a wrong one possibly) pervades our
mind that the signatures in frir Henry s birthday
book bore that strange caligraphio similarity that
was noticeable in the visitors’ volume at Mrs.
Anderson’s Artizans’ College. If so, this must
have saved a good many of the 300 whose names
don’t appear a great deal of painful embarrass-
ment —not to say humiliation.
• • •
As a matter of fact the list before us does not
contain the names of a great many of persona who
can fairly be included in the category of the
Premier’s friends. We can perfectly understand
the appearance of Mr. Critchet Walker’s name,
though that gentleman being an eminent —
ahem! —civil servant. 'J homas Chenery’s name
(ho being the editor of the Times and a brother
litterateur) appearing by no means surprises us,
and, as a natural consequence, the “ monniker ”
of Mr. J. R. Fairfax (the Gordon Bennett of
Australasia) also gleams in the pages. Mr. Oscar
Meyer, having sold Sir Henry all his statuary,
naturally (since the book was to be carted 16,000
miles away) allowed his name to be made use of.
Then we have the Archbishop of Canterbury,
and, as a natural consequence, Mr. J. Henniber
Heaton, the Princess of Wales and the Hon.
W. J. Foster. But though we see Colonels
Richards and Roberts of the Paddington Porter-
gaffs, we cannot, to our sorrow and surprise,
trace out the name of our old pal, Alick of
Moscow. Guilford Onslow’s name is inscribed,
but he is now dead. And we may also chronicle
the fact (but without guile) that since Dr. Tait’s
name has appeared in the book the spirit has
soared mysteriously upwards.
• • •
It is pleasant to find enrolled among the names
that of *■ Henry Irving, Eso., actor,” but we are
disappointed at not seeing in the list the cognomen
of Sir Henry’s faithful Hughey. Perhaps, how-
ever, Mr. Taylor hadn’t relinquished the butcher-
ing at the time Sir Henry was canvassing for
signatures. And while (we are quite serious) the
name of Robert Brass, Esq., is not absent, those
of both Messrs. Garrett and Baker are not to be
found ! Nor are those staunch supporters of the
“ strong Government,” Mackay and Wynno,
enrolled amongst the list of Sir Henry’s editors.
This cruel slight to purveyors of journalistic taffy
is only paralleled by the apparent omission of the
Premier’s staunch supporter Mr. Roseby. Miss
Tait, of Lambeth Palace, has accorded Sir Henry
the same favour which she conferred on Tai-
whanga that of her signature. But it is
certainly surprising that, though the Queen of the
Belgians and the Duke of Teck figure in the book,
neither the name of Mr. Garbett nor that of
Andrew Lynch, Esq , is recorded! More
astonishing it is, too, that that luminous legislator,
the Hon. Alexander Campbell, does not appear ;
and though Alfred Tennyson, D.C.L, and
Robert Browning, D.C.L, show—being poets of
similar calibre to Sir Henry—John Davies, Esq.,
C.M.G , is unaccountably left out.
•. # *
Mr. James Boskins, the ex-Minister for Lands,
comes between Sir Pope Hennessy and »Jr H. T.
Holland—these gentlemen being in happy igno-
rance of the amount of hash James used to devour
in Bent-street for his weekly 25 bob Mr. H., we
may remark, got rich on his official screw, and is
now at home endeavouring to solve the problem
of how to distend his stomach three times daily
for the princely expenditure of half-a-crown per
diem. His Majesty the King of the Belgians is
on page 10, and just before him gDams the patro-
nymic of Ratu J (we mean His Honour Sir
Joe Innes). Sir Garnet Wolseley, who must blush
with nervousness at finding himself in the same
roll of fame with the gallant commander of the
Sydney shandygaffs, is. with R. A. Withers, Esq.,
in the W’s., and though we can nowhere discover
the name of R. A. Poctor, we are glad to see the
Duke of Sutherland in close proximity to the
“ Hon. Arthur Renwiok ” and Miss Lily Faul-
conbridge (!) Parkea.
• • •
It is impossible to conjecture in what manner
Sir Henry managed to get people bke John Bright
and the Prince of Wales to tign thtir names in
his birthday book, but it is by no means difficult
to correctly guess 250 out of the 300 names that
have been hidden from the public gaze. We can
see as plainly as if we read it the name of Mr
Jamieson, that of Mr. Henson, poor old Pid. and
H. H. Cooke. We cm also ducern the classic
cognomen of Smith, R. B , and Andy Lynch, and
Fremlin and old John Sutherland. John Robert-
son is amongst them (or Sir Henry is very
ungrateful), and the gifted Solomon who was so
eloquent upon the subject of the Parkes banquet.
What names there are there, however, form an
interesting study ; but we think the public would
be considerably more interested in studying the
list of the absent 300.
We have to acknowledge the receipt of the sum
ef .£5 13r. 6d. subscribed by the employes ef the
Fresh Food and Ice Company, Harbour-street,
towards the of Messrs. Beath, Sohiesa
& Co., of Melbourne, now on strike against a
reduction of wages.
2
December 30, 1882.
THE BULLETIN.


HUST’S boot emporium,
404 GEORGE STREET,
near KING STREET.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior Quality
from 10a 61.
Superior Ladies' Extra High Qlac6 Kid Button
Boots, superior quality from 10s 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoo?, a great variety, from 4s 6d.
fr:
EURE
KA
EUREKA
MOKE
TOBACCO.
the paragon op perfection.
FINER THAN THE FINEST.
THE TOBACCO OP THE AGE!
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERSEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
THE ONDT TOBACCO COMBINING EXCELLENCE
OP QUALITY WITH ECONOMY IN PRICE.
Each Plug is stamped with the word “ EUREKA.’
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU OBTAIN IT.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYWEITS TOBACCO CO., LIMITED,
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE ISTREET,
knd can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be need by everybody
as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Etegistered according to Act of Parliament, to protect
the public against spurious and worthless imitations.
THE HARWOOD
FIBRE CHAIR SEATING
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, via.:
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness and
Cheapness.
rHIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly Waterproof cement,
nd alter fifteen years’ constant use, we can speak
ositivelyl as to its merits. It cannot split or check,
either will exposure to sun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
dassaohusetts Charitable Meohanie Association.
FOR RE-SEATINQ, it is unrivalled. In every
wise, store, and office, are Chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new
ehair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
tpense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USB.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
From £3 te £5 a week can he made by any smart man
i boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.
general agents for Australia.
82 CLARENCE STREET.
IE APOLLO COMPANY,
pyRMONT, SYDNEY,
LIMITED
DIRECTORS: „
HN KEEP, Esq. 1 R. T. REMINGTON, Esq.
GEORGE TURNER—MANAGER.
Office S4B George-street, Sydney.
Manufacturers of
i Celebrated APOLLO STEARINE CANDLES,
OLEIN,
HOUSEHOLD and FANCY SOAPS.
QLYUERINE. CRUDE and REPINED
PRIZE MEDALS
SYDNEY,
and
MELBOURNE.
OLE AGENT FOR BLACKMER’S PATENT
ELECTRIC SIGNS.
J. w. wiHoughby.
General Electrician,
95 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
and at London,
kNUFACTURER, IMPORTER, and FITTER of
>trio Bells. Batteries, Indicators, Insulated Wire,
roved Patent Fire and Burglar Alarms, Speaking
as Lightning Conductors, Medical and other Coils,
'tro-Macnetic Machines, Electric Gas Lighting,
ing and Plating Material, Electric Dight Apparatus
ho latest and most improved principles now in use
london, Paris, Ac.
Liberal Discount to'the Trade,
ante of every description of Electrical Apparatus on
the most favourable terms.
Estimates Submitted Free of Cost.
C. H. 6LARKE AND CO.,
ELECTRICIANS.
IT’ANUPACTUEERS and Importers of Lightning
yl Conductors, Copper Wire, Rope and Bands,
lectric Bells. Billiard Markers. Thief and Fire Alarms,
fining Signals, Electric Bells for House and Ship,
pparatns and Batteries, Blasting by Electricity,
estimates given for fixing same.
9 ARCADE, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
AIETY HOTEL
CORNER CASTLEREAGH AND BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY,
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Colonnade Hotel, comer of King and Cas
tlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends and the
public generally, that he has removed to the above
hotel, which has been lately known as the " Hyde Park
Hotel, ” and which he has thoroughly renovated. J. S,
trusts that by his usual strict attention to bum ness
combined with the best brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.,
to merit a fair share of patronage. J. S. desires t«
state that he still draws the famous
••SILVER CUP BEES,"
t-ar
mm
V
wm
■C Y.
'
£3
W-
m
VIRTDTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCIiIFF COAL.
mHIS NEWEST and NEAREST JOAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, wad
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Goal in the Colony,
19s. FEK TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting*
and cleaner fire thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, (nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English ooal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak aa thoroughly and cleanly as a chareoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMEES
OFFICE —A. B. BLACK, 247 GEOEGE STEEET.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLGO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD, & IRON WORKS,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTEEB, AET METAL WOEKERS, Ac.
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTS RS OF CHANDELIERS, (BRASS WINDOW BASH BARS,
LIVING GEAR, &o.
PUMPS,! HELMETS,
I DRESSES, HOSE.
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with load soles),
REP AIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, Ato.
[THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST |
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and fastens
the window at any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, Ac.,
required.
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Boles, Bodies,
Manufacturers ef the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Ranges fitted with hot and eold water. Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS A SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS.
Established 1855.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
PEAPES &
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
8 HAW
HAVE always berne the palm for the beauty and variety of their CHRISTMAS IMPORTATIONS, but never
before have they been able to off-r so large and varied a selection ©f STYLISH AND USEFUL NOVEL-
TIES aa thov have FOR THE PRESENT FESTIVE SEASON ; and they would respectfully ask the Public to
bear in mind that nearly THE WHOLE OF THEIR GOODS ARE IMPORTED DIRECT FROM THE
MANUFACTURERS, THUS SAYING ALL INTERMEDIATE CHARGES. SO THAT THEY ARE IN A
POSITION TO SELL AS CHEAPLY AS ANY HOUSE IN THE CITY OF SYDNEY.
PEAPES and SHAW’S ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENTS FOE LADIES
Ladies’ Hand Bags in Russia Leather, Real Sealskin, Plush and Velvet in every size.
Ladies’ Purses, Portemonnaies, Cord Cases, Pocket Companions, Baantifully-fitted Cases with Ivory Brushes and
Cases, Writing Cases, and Work Boxes fitted, Hand Mirrors, bevilled edges, French Work Baskets
Ladies 1 ’' Dressing Cases and Dressing Bags, with Ivory and Sterling Silver Fittings.
Beautiful Hand-painted Fans, the Latest Continental Novelties.
Glove and Handkerchief Sets, Richly Mounted in Nickel and Gilt.
The largest Assortment of Fancy Basketware in the City, Writing Cabinets, Writing Desks, Blotting Beoks,
The New Spring Ink Bottle for Travelling, Atkinson’s and Sainsbury’s Celebrated Perfumery, in Neat Cartoons,
PEAPES and SHAW’S CHARMING SOUVENIRS* FOR PRESENTATION TO GENTLEMEN.
Gentlemen’s Fitted Travelling Bags from one guinea to 35 guineas.
Gentlemen’s Dressing Cases, Cigar and Cigarette Cases, Purses, Pocket Books, Wood and Ivory Hair
Brushes, in cases. Pocket Albums, Cara Cases, Despatch Cases, Writing Desks, Russia Leather Collar
&o.
REAL DRESDEN STATUETTES and VASES,
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUMINATED PORTRAIT ALBUMS,
LARGE VARIETY 0F SWISS NATURAL WOOD and GILT CARVED BRACKETS, from Is 6d
upwards
CHARMING BEAL AND IMITATION LACE GOODS,
ALL the NEWEST SHADES in SASH RIBBONS, and in every width from six inches to 18 inehes
wide.
OUR FLORA and CLEOPATRA GLOVES, BEST VALUE anywhere. Gentlemen cannot make a
mistake in presenting a lady with half'dozen Gloves in one of onr Elegantly Scented Sachets.
PEAPES and SHAW’S NOVELTIES FOR CHRISTMAS.
DON’T FORGET THE CHILDREN.
FOB GIRLS —Lovely Dollies, Pretty Work Boxes, and Work Baskets, Silver Thimbles, Inexpensive Parses,
Work Companions, Cabinets of Games, Necklets, Cheap Glove and Handkerchief Boxes, &o.
FOR BOTH— Cricketing Sots, with Book of Rales, Tool Chests, Boys’ School Companion, Skittles, Domi-
noes Draughts, and all sorts of Games.
noes, Draug LOVELY DOLLIES, LOVELY DOLLIES at
PEAPES & SHAW’S.
PEAPES & SHAW’S.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND (MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 riTT STREET, SYDNEY,
ARE
SOLE AGENTS
FOB
THE TANITE EMERY CO'.
EMERY WHEELS AND MACHINERY.
ALL SIZES IN STOCK FOR SAW SHARPENING AND GENERAL PURPOSES.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS. ’
ONE OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in tbs
world, gave the following as his opinion.
** I have found St, JACOB’S OIL a sure and certain
core, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cored
me of severe pains in back, brought on by over-ex,
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without farther trouble."
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about; and now he says
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, or
what all our young men want.
ALL DEUQQIST'S SELL IT, PEICB HALF-A.
CEOWN.
WHOLESALE BY—
ELLIOTT BEOTHEES 112 Pitt-street.
8. HOFFNUNG A Co., Pitt-street.
E. FEOSSEB A Co., Pitt-street.
MYEEB Awn SOLOMON, George-street.
L JACOBS A Co., Hunter-street.
PERRIER'S BAKING POWDER,
r
MARK 5
TRADE
«>.
SELF RAISING FLOUR
YEAST POWDER.
MANUPA CTORT t
Gioboe-strbkt West, Sydney.
H
[Established 30 Teaks.]
ODGSON’B WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Qoulbura-atroet.
B. EODGSOR,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, geo.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongl
Made to Order.
miPiiilnt.TniTiTnmTrTT7i<rmrmn..mrm.„v.,
- '
L_
V
- - - -
B;
ri67Qj H . H i L D E R.S67Q
670
'SIIDF
rvKWtvoS-
H.HILDcR
Bq St
H. HILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURES AND IMPORTER
670 GEORGE STREET, STDET.
Mr. T. P. DeCOURCY BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining- Board of Non
South Wales).
Author or the "Mirrens’ Handy Book." Ao-Ao-
MINING EXPERT
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, AND MINING TITLES
AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
XS 6 PITT STREET,
(Near Zing-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN.
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OB COUNTRY Me,
3
THE BULLETIN. '
December 30, 1882.


Chemists ud Drmf
ABEAHAM’S PILLS
Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER R]
Kj
ST
S/4
CAUTION.—Owing to the imm
Fills have commanded, it has iud
dangerous imitations. Auk for
J. S. ABRAHAM’S
and see that each box, by whom so
inventor’s name and trade mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU OAt
taking Dr. Thompson's Ameri
Linotns, you will not be able to o
WASHINGTON
Punch’s Hotel.
H. SOUL’S, 177
miCKLE YOUE APPETIT]
JL tralian Relish, made by W
177 Pitt street, priee one shilling.
THOMAS WE
ENGINEER ft lEONFO
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS
Works j SUSSEX STREET, ft Ql
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 !
COOLALTA WINE
MORTS PASSAGE, back ol
Paling and Ce.’s,
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bo
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wii
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
E
VERY DESCRIPTION of F]
WHOLESALE & EE
EASTWAY BRO
413 GEORGE ST
B. COCH]
PIEST CLASS TAILORING 1
418 GEORGE S 1
HAVING secured the services o
of Buckley and Nunn, Mel
Perfect Fit and Satisfaction can
Cochran has had a long experience
will continue his importing, consec
can rely upon a
FIRST CLASS QUALITY
418 OEOBGii £
near ROYAL H (
Opposite Coffee Pa
THE AUSTRALASIAN D]
COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will ho undertaken
pany to bore any sized holes, ver
up to
3 INCHES OR LAE
If required, te any depth, at a redui
85 PER CENT BELOW ANY PEI
The Company in all cases will fine
water for drilling purposes, and v
(or loss of diamonds or wear and
will also provide workmen, enginaei
The new duplex barrell introduce'
Mr. J. Coghlan will be ased free c
searching for minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every confidence
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, th
give general satisfaction, as well f
all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 Qe<
JOHN COQH
General 1
w
ILLCOX
AND
GLbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STEI
To Crown Lessees, Free-Seleetors, ]
M E 8 CAB
LAND AGENT,
WENTWORTH I
Church Hill, Btdi
J A
8
INGEE’S SEWING
TURNER & C<
Ann the
RECOGNISED A
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU!
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2s, 6d. per week-
And zro interest ohi
16 per cent, off for o
BEWARE OF IMITi
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A <
THE ONLY “ SING!
TURNER A '
Opposite (
IJNDBE SECTION
ART UNION.
*Tnumni nt »t>« nnvami
Public Gompanl
r|lMh!
MERCANTILE BANE
ESTABLISHED 18
IKCOEPOBATED BT ACT OF Pi
Paid-up Capital.......
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORSs
The Hon. Sir John Hay. K.C.M.
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qicfley King, M.L.C
AUDITORS
Jaa. ScrOggie, Esq
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
F. A. A, Wilson.
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 George-street, Brickfield H
Girilambone; Goaford; and
LONDON BANKEI
The National Provincial Banl
London Office: 158 Leadenl
Director: Edward Ohapno
Agent: G. H. Alexanda
This bank transacts all nsnal Ban
Agency Business on the most favoui
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mad
other produce shipped to England fc
F. J. FOIi
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLIS;
728 QHORGE STREET,
A large and well-assorted stock of Ti
direct from the Manufacturers, a
All Gabments Cut n thb Most Fa
PERFECT FIT QUARA
Note the, Address-
-728 GEORGE STREET,
NEAR HATMAEKI
THOMAS WEBB
269 GEORGE S
Beg to announce that th
JUST RECE
a Large Consignmen
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC
for
FLOORS and HAL
J. MASSEY.
10 PARK STRI
Busings Announcements
D’ARCY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pure, Palatable, and Pleasant.
trade
MARK
* >
PRICE AND SAMPLES ON APPLICATION
IN BULK AND CASK.
BARRE JOHNSTON AND CO.,
AGENTS,!
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
One Ounce of Pact is Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES f
As is usual, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest Possible Awards.
SINGES’S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition, 1882—Singer’s Sewing
Machines.
PIEST ORDER OP MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS.
SECTION YII—SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For their
collection of Manufacturing Machines, a first
order of meric—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company,—For the Best
Family Sewing Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of construction and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
EEAL» THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWARDS.
Easy Terms. Weekly 2s 6d Weekly.
No Interest. No Addition to the Prie
Chief Depot in New Sonth V
No. 1 DARLING STORES. HAEBOI
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathnrst, William-street
Balranald,
Dubbo,
Qoulburn. Anbnrn-street
Grafton, Victoria-street
Glen Innee, Grey-street
Hay, Laohlin-street
Kempsey, Smith-street
Lismore, Wood-lark-et.
Maitland, High-street
Mndgee, I
Moss Yale
Narandera
Newcastle
Parramatl
Sydney,
I
Tamworth
Wagga, Bj
ILLUSTEATED PEICE I
and
SAMPLES OP WOEI
Free rom any Depot.
SINGER’S SEWING MA
T.
S. HUNT
PROPERTY SALESM
and
GENERAL A TOO TIG
Respectfully announces that he hi
NEW PEOPEETY AUCTIOI
for the Sale of Land, House and oi
124 PITT STRE
Personal Attention, Punctuality,
Settlements.
PHOTOGRAPH
COENEE QEOEGE A MARKET 5
ASCEND IN THE ELEV
To Country or Intercolonial
A GENTLEMAN, gducated, well-i
liable, is willing to supply citj
Address. “ Mecnm,” Bulletin OfEe*


The Furniture Column.
MUCH HAS BEEN SAID ABOUT
THE GREAT CHRISTMAS BAZAAR
AT
The Royal Furnishing Arcade
And we here give a few examples calling attention to
thefact that we are selling as we profess REALLY
CHEAP
Three-tier Crystal Flower Stands, engraved, 7a 6d
Plush-cover Albums, 11s 03; Floral Albums, 12s 6d
Ladies’ Companions, plush, 8s 6d and 10s
Work Boxes from 8s: Writing Desks, 9s 6d
Crumb Brushes and Trays, 5s 6d
Card Receivers. 2s 6d; Opera Glasses, 7s 6d
Large Sets of Trays, 7s 6d
Carved Bread Platters, 2s 3d
Cut-neok Water Bottles, la6dj Engraved Water Jugs,
Ss 61
Set of Napkin Rings, 2a 61
Gilt framed Pictures, ohromos, 10a pair
Table-mats, seta of Six, from Is 3d
Sets of Dish-covers, 10s 6d; Revolving E.P. Cruets, 9s
Soda Tumblers, 5s dozen
Table Toilets, sets of three, ss.
Engraved Lemonades, 7» 6d dozen
Glass Dishes in sets, 3a 6i; Glass Table Filters. 4s 6d
The celebrated Fly-traps, Is 0d
Glass Butters and Sugars, Is 0d pair
Cut Decanters, sets of four with Claret Jug, 12s 6d
Dinner Sets from 17s 6d; Tea Sets, 15a 61
Carved Book Slides, 2s Sd
Electroplated Butters, from 2a
Worked Foot Stools, 7s 6d
Porcelain Hall Lamps, 35s
Dessert Services, 18 pieces for 12s 61
Suites of Glassware, 9s 61, and many other things
highly attractive both in character and price too
numerous to mention.
The prettiest lot of Toilet Sets we have ever seen,
ranging in price from 16s. The White and Gold
Sets we are selling at 14s 61
TOILET TABLE ALMANACS.
These pretty little Cards, conveying the compliments
of the season, with a neatly printed calendar for 1883,
are daily distributed to our customers, and sent post
free in response to applications from the country.
Already wo nave to publish a second edition*
Rive list No. 4 taken from our New Book,
The ECONOMICAL HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDE,
to which we direct special attention.
For the sum of JBSO prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows :
PARLOUR.
Upholstered Spring-seated Suite, consisting
of Couch, six chairs, and easy chair
Cheffonier
Oral pedestal table
Gilt frame pier glass
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and brai
Lamp 10s 61; Clock ]ss
Pair vases
Fender and irons
Velvet pile hearthrug
Fancy matting, 16 yards
Door slip
BEDROOM, No. 1.
stead A ...
Pair palliases w ...
Wool flock mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Large chest of drawers
T, E. Wash stand and set
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Table toilets
Rocking or folding chair
C. S chair
Matting for room
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Bedstead, halt tester
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Roister and pillow
Washstand and set
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Chair
Matting
SERVANT'S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliases
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Table
Glass Is 6d, Chair 2s 6d
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe
Two chairs
Six soup plates
Six meat plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates
Meat dishes Is 9d, 2s 3d, 3s
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Six china cups and saucers
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cnps
Two bread and butter plates ...
Pair salt cellars
Set jugs
Pair decanters
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six Mosley's dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley's dessert knives
Six nickel dessert forks
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle 5s 6i; Boiler 10a 6i
Saucepans Is 9d, 3s, 4s
Prying pan
Grid-iron
Tea pot 2a; Tea-caddy Is
Coffee-pot Is 6d; Colander Is 6i
Bread-grater... ... ...
Wash-basin ...
Dipper
Tubs ss, and 6a 6d
Bucket
Wash-board
Two candlesticks
Baking dishes Bd, 10d
Knife box
Paste board
Pepper caster
Set skewers
Nutmeg grater
Patent box iron ...
Pair bellows...
Hair broom
Hand broom
Dust pan
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoo brushes
NEXT WEEK THE £7O LIST WILL APPEAR
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
BOTAL rUBNISHINO ARCADE
426 Oeorge-street, Sydney,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Wholesome Fun” is back again. We hope
Mr. Darley had a great deal of wholesome fan on the
Continong.
Mr. John Edward Redmond, M.P. for Wexford,
who is on his way to Australia, in the interests ol the
Irish National Land League, is the youngest member
of the House of Commons. He is only 24 years old,
and is *• one of the most eloquent and gifted members in
the House."
Pretty Peter Campbell, bush missionary, comic
lecturer, bridegroom-of-a-day, 0.M.Q., &0., is nothing
if he’s not original. At the leceub meeting held in the
Melbourne Town Hall re the ureswick accident, the
evangelist donated, “two gold rings " worth £4 This
looks as if Peter was just about “ jack ’’ of Eliza.
Mr. Christy Palmerston, the explorer, is “ in
it.” Notices in the Herald and London Figaro. Why
is this? Can Mr. P., have come in for a legacy, or have
joined the Congregational Church ? Those are the only
two things that would get anyone a notice in the
Herald. An*how, we want to know how the milk got
into this cocoanut.
The English papers have a nice way of putting
things. It seems at Kassassin in the Egyptian war,
before getting near the enemy, Sic Simon Lockhart, of
the Ist Life Guards, was found to be non est. He turned
up later—after the row was over—and said he had got
lost and had " f ought his way back to his regiment.”
He then had a strawberry ise, said his prayers
fervently, and want to bed.
The enormously wealthy Duke of Westminster,
now 57, has espoused Lady Gatharine.Caroline Caven-
dish, a handsome woman of 24 years. The ceremony
was performed recently at Holkham, the seat ot the
Earl of Leicester in Norfolk. The bride’s eldest sister
married Leicester when he was 52 years her senior, and
he is one of the five children born after his father’s
marriage at 70 with a young lady of 19. Sturdy as oaks
some of these old Englishmen.
According to the Hekkeb, “ Mrs. Thompson,
wife of the ex-Mayor of Adelaide (!) ” has been pre-
sented with a brooch, earrtags, and diamond ring.
Now, the popular brewer, Edwin Thomas Smith, has
been Mayor of Adelaide for the last three years con-
secutively. There was an H.W.NX.Y.Z, Thompson,
who was Mayer of Port Adelaide last year; but Port
Adelaide is no more Che capital city of South Australia
than Williamstown is Melbourne, or Botany, Sydney.
Proctor and the astronomers generally have
declared the moon to be a dead planet. Bat an Ameri-
can astronomer, Jackson, asserts that he has discovered
three new volcanic craters, and a cloud of vapour hang-
ing over them for a while and then floating away. This
discovery indicates that the moon has an atmosphere
and is inhabited. Over a hundred years ago, Sweden-
iug, in his “ Earth in the Universe,” declared that the
moon was peopled. He described the Lunanians as
dwarfs, like boys of seven years, with robust bodies and
pleasing countenances.
The agent in America, of Williamson, Garner,
and Muagrove, has, we hear, offered big terms (£2OOO
and all expanses for 25 lectures), to Colonel Robert In-
gersoll, the great orator, on account of Charles Bright’s
interview with him, which rooontly appeared in this
paper. The Colonel at first refused to entertain the
proposal, but subsequently stated, that should Mrs.
Ingersoll overcome her objection to undertaking so long
a sea voyage, he would cheerfully pay Australia a visit.
In any case, he wonld do his bait to set foot on the
land of the kangaroo within a year or so.
The three great English Radical members of
Parliament, —Labouchare, Brallaugh, and Sir WiKred
Lawson, are all water-drinkers. *• In past times,” re-
marks the Liberal, “ teetotalism has been made too
much a religious matter, and in many instances is so
still. It is probably to this fact that it owes so maoh
of the fanaticism that has been mixed up with it. Now-
adaya, however, total abstinence is gradually being
seized by the infidels as their own, and, to compare
small things with great, it may be mentioned that of 23
in the executive of the Sydney Liberal Association,
12 are total abstainers. Two also are practical vege-
tarians, and three or four nearly so.”
When Mrs. Langtry first appeared as Rosalind
in London, there was a tremendous crash of the fast
young bloods, from the Prince of Wales down to that
moral young man, the Marquis of Huntly ; for they all
expected to see the Lily in tights. Not the slightest
attention was given to the play till the one for her
entry was heard, and then a sigh—almost a heartgroan
of disappointment—went through the house from pit
to ceiling. She wore a tunie from neck to ancle 1 The
fact is, the public don’t understand how determined
Mrs. Langtry is to remain a lady, though she is an
actress. A funny incident occurred, though, which
made the people langh, glum as they were. In the
sentence, *’ Were Ia woman,” the beauty had only got
as far as “ I would kiss as mauy of you " when a
stentor’s voice came from the back of the pit—“ Oh,
take us all in 1 ”
Algernon Swinburne, the strange, strong poet,
is about to visit America. It is supposed he will
lecture. He is exceedingly plain in appearance, very
nervous, and drinks deeply, like Poe —whom he
resembles in some respects—if ho didn't, he would
cease to write. In Loudon, he leads ostensibly a
bachelor’s life, but is known to keep up establishments
devoted to Venus and Bacchus. Swinburne is of good
family ; his father was an admiral, and his mother the
daughter of an earl. Ho has turee sisters, ornaments
to society, the youngest being a beauty possessed of
four thousand a year in her own tight, and a pair of the
smallest feet in England. Swinburne is not a sober
man, and the usual result of intoxication, say at a
dinner-table of his friends, is poetio improvisation of
the most bewildering character,
Mr. Passmore Edwards, of the London Echo
fa half-penny evening paper, containing nbout twice the
matter—and all original—that is comprised in our little
paper of the same name), was recently talking in
the House of Commons (of which they are both mem-
bers) to Mr. Samuel Storey, of the Sunderland Echo,
when the latter said he had a good mind to risk starting
a paper in London. “ Bay mind,” said Edwards.
“What do you want for it?" enquired Storey.
“£70,000,” was the reply, “I’ll take it," was Mr.
Storey’s rejoinder. And he did take it. But a week
later, Passmore felt a hankering after his paper, and
bought it baok, iriving Mr. Storey £SOOO on his bargain.
4)75,000 tor a halfpenny paper, eh 1 There must be some
people in London, after all.
Bradlaugh has “ euchred” his arch-enemies,
those holy frauds Charles Newdegate, Sir M. Tyler, and
H. L. Clarke, who hoped to force him into bankruptcy
by saddling him with the accumulated penalties total-
ling £350,000, incurred by him in sitting ana voting in
tbe Commons without having taken the oath. Brad-
langh has proved more than a match for the whole tribe
of lawyers. It appears that penal actions instituted
by common informers cannot legally be brongbt on
after the lapse of a year from the data of the incidents
to which they refer. This is the ceoret of all the in-
terminable motions on technical and legal points
brought before the courts by Mr. Bradlaugh daring the
last twelve months, and whicn have led even many ot
his friends to think him over litigious. By getting all
these teohnioal pointqargued one after the other he has
so far delayed the main proceedings that the limitation
clause now operates, and the prosecution lapses.
Lately, subscriptions were raised in Adelaide for
putting a railing round the grave of George Loder, who
died fourteen years ago. He was one of the finest
musicians whs have ever made Australia their home,
and his death was the end of a curious romance. A
young lady of gsod birth and education, who was en-
gaged to au artist (his pictures are yearly seen on the
wails of the Academy; became stage-struck, and, in
spite of objections from his sweetheart and family,
went on tbe Boards at a fashionable theatre in London.
Her artist lover said he could never marry an actress,
and, from night she appeared, the contract was
broken. With pride she defied him, and in pique she
vowed to marry tne first man who asked her. George
Loder, then confine tor of the orchestra, was that man,
and Emma Neville became Mrs. Loder. Strangely, it
was not an unhappy marriage ; he was devotedly lov-
Ing to her, and when, years after, she died he ohloro-
dyned himself so heavily that they were only a short
time separated.
When the young Princes were in Ceylon th
went elk banting. Bat as elks are not quite so übiquit-
ous as R.B.'s umbrella, none turned np; was at last, utter
h&lf-a-day’s journey, the party came upon a buffalo. This
Albert Victor shot at, knocking down with great pro.
ciaion a cottage chimney. At length it was pretty well
riddled by the naval officers present, and when the
beast fell, the future King of England drew his dirk and
sawed the ferocious animal’s jugular in twain. The
horns were then sawn oil, and handed to Dalton for
transmission to the Prince of Wales; and Prince
George (who would seem to have a natural humour)
created great amusement by twisting the animal’s tail.
Just as the merriment at this farcical procedure was at
its height, a peasant fellow stalked ap, and, seeing the
dead buffalo, uttered a yell of despair. It had, he ex.
plained, been working at his cider-mill for thirteen
years. Being asked the price, he said four rupees,
whereupon he was given an order for that amount on
the Circumlocution Office at Somerset House. So
ended the great buffalo hunt of the Princes.
Mr. A. G. Taylor, who made suoh remarkable
speeches during his candidature for Mndgee, and was
returned at the head of the poll by a large majority, is
a remarkable young man. Ho is a native of the Mudgee
district, a son of well-bred parents, and he lived and
studied and laboured well, till in the flush of life he
turned to horseracing and won a big doable, Ailed his
pockets with gold and his head with folly. The gold
melted, but the folly endured. He found himself with*
out money or any great multitude of friends, sought the
Brigade office, and joined the Permanent Force, had a
big row. and then turned up at Bathursc as a newspaper
man. Then he again appeared in Mndgee, as editor of
the Independent, and has during the last few years,
sent his journal, now the liveliest;©! provincial papers,
steadily up, and the rags steadily down. Mr. Taylor is
about eight feet high, is in appearance and manner a
typical cornstalk, and is a nephew of the celebrated
“ Lord Morpeth,’* who was a man of fashion in Sydney
many years ago, and who, in the words of a witty mem-
ber of the bar, did for this young country what statuary
and so on do for older and more civilised communities.
Adolphus—for that’s A. Q's. first name—has a hand
like a shoulder of mntton,and is an esteemed contributor
to The Bulletin.
Sir Robert G. W, Herbert, the new K.C.B ,
permanent head of the Colonial Office, is a very able
man. He was the first Colonial Secretary of the colony
of Queensland, and as ha occupied that post to all
intents and purposes as a nominee and pet of the
Imperial authorities, it is a singular fact that Queens-
land has never since had a Premier of greater ability
and never one of equal talent till the present holder of
the position. Sir Thomas M’llwraith, acceded to office.
Sir B, G. W. Herbert is a gentleman of goed family,
a handsome man, a university graduate, and was private
secretary to Mr. Gladstone before his Queensland career.
He was a very able debater, and smart at repartee.
On one occasion Mr. John Douglas, who has since been
Premier of Queensland, a fluent and eloquent speaker,
who occasionally in his younger days allowed his flow of
language to sweep him further than his ordinarily
excellent taste ana oaltared feeling endorsed on second
thoughts, was delivering a burning oration. “ In re-
ference to these matters, Mr. Speaker, the whole atti.
tude ®f the Government is false. The Ministry is an
embodied lie I’’ Here Mr. Douglas caught himself,
stopped short for a moment, and resumed with an
explanatory tone, “ I speak metaphorically, of course.’’
Mr. Herbert immediately rose and retorted eooily,
“ Metaphorically speaking, you’re another.”
A newpaper having offered a prize for the best
“ Apology for Arabi," in 20 lines, it was awarded to O,
Cooper, of London, tor the following:
I saw my country struggling day by day
Beneath a weight of tyranny and greed ;
Her fertile plains to foreigners a prey.
Her children suffering from the direst need.
I saw her princes slaves in all hut name.
Her wealth impov’rished and her rise suppressed t
Justice become a mockery and shame.
Her commerce crippled and the poor oppressed.
I saw each year her revenues decrease.
Her substance gathered in by alieu crews :
Could any son of ifigypt hold his peace
And be a second time despoiled by Jews P
Should I stand by and tamely see our land.
Where once the mighty Pharoahs made the laws,
Become the prize of some ambitions hand.
Without one blow for Freedom's glorious cause ?
• • •
Though I have failed, I mourn not at my fats ;
The world now seas the justice of oar strife.
Allah be praised I Assistance comes, though late,
And Egypt now shall breathe a freer life.
Mr. S. A. Levy, who waa one of the witnesses
of the historical atrocities of the oannibal Maori chief
Kereopau, is now one of the principal residents of
Tetnora. la 1864, Sammy was located at Opotoki, when
Kereopau headed a party of Hau Hans from Taranaki
and came to Opotoki for the express purpose ef killing
the Eov. Mr. Volkner. This missionary was caught
and hanged. The cannibal wretehes next decapitated
the corpse, and, gouging out its eyes, Kereopau swal-
lowed them before his people. Mr. Levy, the Eev. Mr.
Grace, and other Europeans were next taken prisoners,
bound hand and foot, and threatened with execution.
After a big meeting of chiefs, however, it was agreed
simply to hold a hostage until the Government in
Auckland could be communicated with. 8. A. Levy
heroically consented to remain as hostage, and the
other Europeans were allowed to leave by a schooner.
Sammy managed afterwards to seonre a canoe, which
he paddled successfully to H.M.S. Eclipse. Mr. Levy
had, three days after the Volkner outrage, purchased
from the Hau Haas the missionary’s headless trunk.
This he buried, and he fenced in the grave. He and
his brother, Captain Levy, lost about £2u00 by the
vagaries of Kereopau and his followers, and were re-
warded by the N.Z Government with some paltry land
scrip. Sammy received no reooguition whatever of his
services in the Volkner affair.
The late Commodore Vanderbilt was as rough
as he was rich, and while ha was glutted with gold, he
allowed his two sons, Cornelias and 'William, almost to
starve. For years, William H. Vanderbilt felt the
stings of absolute grinding want. He married as a
stock-broker’s clerk on a mere pittance, and reared a
family, just keeping on the struggle till the Commodore
died. Then it was found that to him was left the bulk
of the old bear's enormons fortune—Cornelius being
“out of it,” He has prospered yet more since, and
now is one of the wealthiest men on the earth. In
politics, bnsiness circles, and money markets, his in-
fluence is nnliraited. He on pass laws, or prevent
teem; can bay verdicts and control Wall-street. He
has two hobbies—pictures and horses; and he possesses
the fastest team of trotters in the country. To an
Englishman it seams incomprehensible that anyone
should like to sit in a very uncomfortable skeleton
buggy, and have his arms nearly torn from their
sockets by pulling horses trying to “ lower the record ’’
of someone else. Yet this is glory to an American.
And on the Manhattan Boad, amid the motley, dashing
throng, William H. Vanaerbilt is the most conspicuous
figure. With head thrown well back, his feet in a sort
of stirrup, and holding a rein in eaob hand, strung
almost to the tension of a haxp string, he speeds
through the crowd, and all turn to look round on the
flying millionaire. He leaves them all behind, and then
the richest man in the world has reached the height of
his ambition.
Here is a little more about the Princess Emineh.
wife of the Khedive. This giddy old girl, who was onoe
known as ** The Star of the East,” is now fat, fair, and
forty. iVhe wai originally swapped off to a hideous old
ghonl of a Pasha for a dowry of something like
£1,600.000, in about ten days she got tired of her lord
and master, and as no Turk dare enter his wife’s private
room if ehe reverses her shoes and leaves them outside
her door, Emineh worked this tantalising game until
the Khedive appointed her spouse to the generalship of
Sonakin, on the Bed Sea. However, as ho never arrived
there, it is generally thought he got a “souaking" on
the road, and is now keeping a hair-ontting saloon
among the mermaids. In Turkey official circles, this
is known as |a ** well-deserved promotion. Then the
Princess built an 80-room palace near the Nile, and has
since led the life of a Mrs. Potiphar, Cleopatra, and
Lucretia Borgia all rolled into one. It’s not a good
thing to be a handsome man, when Emineh does the
block—in fact. Signor Verdi and ourselves wouldn’t
last a week in the land of old Moses’ cradle. Some
time ago there was a handsome young Swiss officer
named Gott in the Khedive’s service. Emineh saw him,
loved him. lodged him, and pretty soon he became an
Egyptian Vanderbilt and a bigger man in his subjects’
estimation than ever Sir ’Enery was in his own. Pre-
sently, however, a French actress, Ernestine Ledao,
came along, and then that morbid desire for novelty
which afflicts some men, and nearly all women, got
Gott by the wool. The pair assimilated, but not for
long. Ernestine was found one fine day most
scientifically strangled ; and ten days after, the river
overflowed, and left all that was mortal of poor yonng
Gott In front of her gay admirer’s palace. Bis hands
| and feet were tied together, the eyes torn from their
sockets, and his heart hacked into mincemeat. Of
course there was a “ orowner’s inkwich ” held, and a
verdict returned that no blame was attached to anyone.
Over here we'd say the ill-starred soldier died from
“ the visitation," etc. Some time after Gott’s removal
a young Austrian named Caraelli, a military surgeon,
arrived, and about 11 one night a carriage rolled up to
the door, and a gorgeous eunuch told him that his
master Kamil Pasha had been suddenly taken ill. In
ten minntes Caraelli was a prisoner in the Seraglio, and
for 23 days he was kept in Ermlneh own apartments
and never saw a soul save his fair enslaver and her
trusty servant Kerim Aga. (On the 23rd night, how-
ever, Kerim rushed in to say a groom had been kicked
and was dying. The doctor hastened to his aid, and
as the prinoess “kissed him good-bye,” she exclaimed
“ Beviens vite, men oher, je V attends avec impatience! ”
Bat Caraelli had heard ot Gott, and knew himself now
to be ” a gone oeon." Instead of leading to the stables,
Aga took him through a long dark
passage, at the far end of which the doomed man
could distinctly hear the ominous splashing of the
waters ot old Nile. Arrived in the centre of the pas-
sage, the ennnoh suddenly dropped his lantern and
rushed on his intended victim with a drawn yataghan.
But Caraelli slipped off his shoes so as to make no noise
nor betray his whereabouts. Keran, however, slashed
wildly ronnd him for a time, and at last put the key in
the door to obtain assistance. Instantly the Austrian
sprang like a tiger at the nigger’s throat, held on to it
for a while, and dashed out his friend’s brains on the
stone floor. Then he took the eunnoh’s keys. That
night he left for Trieste, where he is now practising.
These are the kind of people in the snpport extended to
whom by our rulers is to be found the “ secret of Eng-
land’s greatness."
Thin is how the wedding of Mr. Bramwell
Booth—eldest son of General Booth, and chief of the
Salvation Army •* staff”—with Miss Florence Eleanor
Soper—a lady who was mysteriously described by the
“ General" as having been “ with Miss Sooth in Paris
in the most difficult period of their history,’’ was
swung off. The civil contract was first signed at the
Registrar's office, and then the “ Salvationist" cere-
mony came off at Clapton Hall. Although it rained,
some 6000 people walked ot rode through the mud to
see the pair tied up, there being, amongst others, ne
less a personage than the Lord Mayor of York. Pro-
ceedings commenced at a few minutes after eleven. The
brass band and the big drum burst into music as the
General (in uniform) and bis missis entered. As the
music died away, there was a mighty cheer, and Bram-
well in his nsnaff uniform was seen fighting his way np
the gangway. After another pause, Florence Eleanor
and ber father straggled up similarly. Tne bride wore
a dark dress, which set off her almost golden hair, neat
figure, and white-and-pink complexion very nicely. She
also wore spectacles, and smiled happily during the
ceremony. A few others wore wedding favours. The
“ General” bessed. First the audience yelled out a
hymn from the “ Salvation Wedding Songs, price one
penny," and in between the “ giving out" of the lines
ohe "General” favoured the audience with comments,
in one place he showed his cuteness by stating
chat he “enjoyed being written against, for
chat meant being advertised for nothing.” The
hymn had a rattling ohorns, which the crowd
took np con spirits, waving pocket-handkerchiefs,
meanwhile. Next, one ol the “officers” and a lady
offered np prayer, the Misses Booth following with a
song. Then one ef the sons, assisted by bis sister, sang
a wedding hymn, ot the merits of which this verse is a
fair sample—
God bless the General’s first-born son,
Give power to do and say.
The chief and bride nnite as one.
Bless both this wedding day.
The General expounded the 23rd Psalm oat of what he
called the “ Salvation Bible," and as many of the
audience began to sidle off, he hurried np the collection,
jocularly remarking that it wouldn’t be a “ salvation
meeting" at all without that ceremony. He said that the
marriage *• was a pledge of the permanence ot the work
ot the Salvation Army," waa " a guarantee that the pro-
perty would be devoted to its proper uses," and some
other funny things. In particular, that it was “an indi-
cation of anew order of agencies. Hitherto, they had
worked with brands plucked from the fire ; now, anew
class was coming who had never known the devil (I),
who had been devoted to God from their birth. Tae
children who had been bora in the Army were rising up
to take their places.” Next came speeches from Miss
Booth, "Commissioner" Sailton, and Mrs. Booth.
The latter afflirmed that “in her son she had seen the
answer of her prayers;” that she had given him the
name of “ Bramwell,” after an eminent revivalist; and
that she had now been married twenty-seven years.
Upon the last remark, the General exclaimed, “And
you are as fond of me as ever; ain’t you, dear ?" She
assented. Thus the young conple, having sworn “ not to
hinder each other in Salvation work,’’ the wedding came
to an end with laughter, and prayer, and singing, and
shouting, and exhortation. Many of the crowd quitted,
but others stayed on to the “ Holiness meeting,” held
all the afternoon and evening.
• • •
The will of the late Mr. William Forster baa
been sworn under £32,271 Mr. Unwin, of the
Colonial Secretary’s Department, succeeds Mr. Regi-
nald Bloxsome, as private Secretary to His Excellency...
We read that Dr. Ratter, who died the other day at
Parramatta,aged 82, practised near Btoneleigh,England,
when a young man, and Sir H. Parkes was a small boy
there, operated on him successfully for an impediment
in hia speech. How much wa owe to the late Dr.
Ratter I December 29th is Gladstone’s birthday. He
is now 73 “ Handsome” Fred Cooper, one of the
members (or Ceok electorate, N.Q., is, we notice, now
on a visit to Sydney. Frederick Augustus is the
political Oily Gammon of tbe North as Arabi Bey is
to bo deported to Ceylon, the North Q .eensland people
fear that be may delelope into a full-blown Cingalese
and eventually find his way to Maokay, Bnndaberg, or
the Pandora Plantation on the Rockhampton reserve...
The most ingenuous George Washington of the day
lives in Adelaide, SA. His name is Hales. He pat np
for alderman for that farinaceous village, but was re-
jected. At the declaration of the poll, he stated that he
had been beaten “on his merits." The Messrs.
Chlrnside pay taxes on £*60,000, the capital valno of
their landed property in Victoria. Sir W. J, Clarke
pays taxes on £350,000, and Sir Samuel Wilson on
£200,000 Dr. W. F. M’Lean, M. 8., o( Wiloannia,
who had been ailing fer some time with heart disease,
died suddenly the other day at Felgate’s hotel, in the
presence of his old crony. Dr. O’Connell. M’Lean had
just expressed his desire to “have a smoke and a
‘ pitch,’" with O’Connell, and was walking towards the
verandah when he fell dead Mrs. Bunker, who was
born at Parramatta in 1802, has just died at Liverpool.
Her father, Mr. Joshua Allott, waa Colour-Sergeant in
the 11th Regiment, and was through the Peninsula
War, where he was taken prisoner by the French.
Abont five years after he was exchanged, au>. went back
to England. He was drafted into the 23ch Regiment,
and with his companions arrived in Sydney
in 1800— in escort of convict ships The
Hon. Henry better known as “ Money ’’—Miller,
of Melbourne, lately bought an old house, in Bridge-
road Richmond, and daring alterations to the cellar,
three boxes were discovered containing bank notes,
jewellery, and nio-naos. Thus we see how " Money ”
makes money. A poor man would probably have dis-
covered some smallpox germs, ot something The
Argus which is being sued for libel tor £lo,ooo,obtained
leave to administer nine interrogatories to the plaintiff,
Joseph Austin, a squatter, in regard to the hondfidis of
the sale of his collection of pictures Mr. William
Lynoh, of Melbourne, who, as an art connoisseur is no
mean authority, says that daring his visit to Auckland
he found in the museum there a collection of paint-
ings, small, yet surpassing in point of exoeilsnoe what
are to be found in Melbourne and Sydney Galleries, the
finest picture being a landscape by Von Lupen Mr.
L. £. Threlkeld, whose death, in London, was an-
nounced a little while ago, was very successful in
numerous land speculations about Sydney last year.
His visit home, in fact, meant that he was sitting down
after some laud work, waiting merely for tbe returns to
oome in.
• • •
Mr. Algernon Thomas, of Oxford, has been ap-
pointed Professor ot Natural Science to Auckland
(N.Z.) University; and Mr. Thomas Tucker, a Follow
of Cambridge, Professor of Classics and English
Prince Albert Victor is to study at Oxford University
for one term Mr. Blggar, Home Ruler, M P., will
probably he prosecuted for sedition Captain F. W.
R- Maxwell Heron, of H.M. drill ship Clyde, belonging
to Naval Reserve, Aberdeen, Scotland, court-mart tailed
and dismissed the service for peculation........ Major-
General Sir Evelyn Wood new commander of Egyptian
army at Cairo.


w. HOWAED SMITH AND SONS,
STEUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Poet of King-street).
OrriCEfl : 42 KING STREET,
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 13 o’clock
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
AH particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
42 King-street,
the official business of tie Ann is now carried on at
this address.
PATENT PORTABLE GAS COMPANY
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
ALL THE
COMPANY’S LAMPS
ISSUED AFTER THIS DATE
BEAR THEIR
TRADE MARK
ON THE
BURNER.
The Company is now prepared to supply Lamps
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores, Ac. The Lamps re-
quire no trimming, afford a brilliant light, superior to
coal gas or keroeene, at less cost, and can be carried in
the hand.
Samples may be seen, and lamps and fluid obtained,
at the Company’s Show Rooms. Storekeepers supplied.
Price lists, &0,, on application to Manager—
E. C. DIXON.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the Oeorge-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, Oeorge-street.
EW PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors am
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other pabUi
bodies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and SplendS
SHOP, No. 607 * 712 GEORGE STREET, one door tron
the corner of Gonlbum-street, where he will be please
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders
for their liberal support, and hopes fop a con tin nano
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies,
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended t
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN’S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up in First-lass Style.
A Visit is requested.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!
EXCELSIOR
FUENITUKE WAREHOUSE.
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
FROM £1 TO .£5OO WORTH.
ON THE BEST TERMS IN THE CITY.
WE CAN SUIT ALL CLASSES WITH TERMS
WILLIAMSON, M'CREEBY, & 00.,
606 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court, up stairs.
ARMSTRONG’S.
HYGIENIC & RELIABLE REMEDIES.
[Registered under the Trade Marks’ Act, 1865. J
Armstrong's Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
The only advertised preparation for the CURE ef
HEMORRHOIDS, recognised, and prescribed by the
FACULTY. It improves the geueral HEALTH, equa-
lises the CIRCULATION, relieves CONGESTION, »top f
BLEEDING, pain, and itching, in from 34 to 28 hours
Sold in bottles only, at 4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
Price, 2a.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills
AS A GENERAL FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE,
have No Equal.
FOE the Cure of INDIGES t lON, Dispepsia. PAINS
in the Side, HEADACHE, Giddiness, HEARTBURN,
Flatulency, and Habitual CONSTIPATION. They give
a Healthy TONE and VIGOUR to the necessary Organs
of DIGESTION—The STOMACH and LlVER—and be-
ing Mild in their OPERATION, promote DIGESTION,
restore the APPETITE, and strengthen the entire
System. Price, Is, 2j, and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with DANDELION and POTASH.
•* Recommended by the Highest Medical Authority as a
VITALISING BLOOD RESTORATIVE and TONIC.”
SURPASSES all other PREPARATIONS for the
Speedy and Permanent CURE of Skin Eruptions, ARIS-
ING frmn an Impure or Over-acid-state of the BLOOD.
Diseases occasioned by the injudicious use ef MER-
CURY upon the SYSTEM, Syphilitic Affections, and
Chronic RHEUMATISM. Bottles, ss, 6d, 10s. 6d. and
21s.
«■ Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies, and
PRICE LIfJTS sent poet free.
Two Doors below Compagnoni’a.
PAP E E HANGINGS,
"*■ with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, *o.,
Imported by
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Huntor-st.)
PAINTERS' 'AND DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Varnishes,
Brushes, Gold Leaf, Sets.
UEENSLAND AGENCY.
™ QRESLEY LUKIN and CO..
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLANTATION AGENTS,
Temporary Offices : 289 Geovge-street.
HAVE FOR SALE—
A number of lightly stocked STATIONS, the highest
class of sheep country, including areas from 2000 square
miles downwards, in districts of
W arrego
Gregory, North and South
Bourke
Cook
North Kennedy.
A Permanent Steam Mail, and Cargo Service is now
established between Normanton and London, via
Thursday Island.
VAUTIER’B
ARE THE BEST
SWISS CIGARS,
TRY THEM
TO BE HAD OF ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A. A. DEBNEY AND GO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX. BAGS.
TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A A. DEBNEY AND CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
HOSIERY, MERCERY. SCARPS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOE GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an experienced
London Cutter. d
N.B.—Country Orders received Special attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate interest,
on Furniture, without possession. Deeds, Bond
1 cates. Shares, or other Securities, payable to
suit convenience.
No Deduction made from Amount Required, which
will be paid in full within twelve hours of Application.
MONT DE PIETB,
Central Loan Office, 98 Castlereagh-street, one doo
South of King-street.
S
■ ■
YDNEY GYMNASIUM
LIVERPOOL STREET
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S CLASS DAILY.
ALL BRANCHES OP ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
Q. H. d’HAEGOURT, Instructor.
PRIZE AWARDED, MELBOURNE EXHI-
BITION. 1882.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLASTIC TRADING
COMPANY, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of
SCHOOL, OJLOiE E and CHURCH FURNITURE
and Edno pliaccoa of every description.
R. C. TROUGHTON AND CO.,
PROPRIETORS.
Contracts taken, and estimates given for the fitting
up of Schools, Colleges, Churches, Lecture Halls,
Museums, Ac., to any extent and to any design. Sole
Proprietors, Inventors, and Manufacturers of Trough-
ten’s Reversible Desks, &c. (Registered),
AND GENERAL CONTRACTORS.
Steam Works—DlCK-STREET, off ABERCROMBIE-
STREET,
Lithographs of Designs and Catalogue forwarded on
application.
Upwards of 200 schools already furnished by us.
p U B L I C NOTICE.
T. R. SMITH, CHAPMAN, ft SMITH,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have com-
menced business as
AUCTIONEERS, VALUATORS,
HOUSE, LAND, ESTATE, & GENERAL AGENTS,
and
will be pleased to use their best efforts on behalf of
VENDORS and OTHERS
who entrust them with the disposal of
HOUSE and LANDED PROPERTIES,
General Merchandize, &0.,
either by public auction or private contract, at the
RED HOUSE AUCTION ROOMS,
458 George-street,
opposite the Markets,
and trust by paying strict attention to all business to
merit the support of
BUSINESS MEN and SPECULATORS.
Subdivisions of land sold on the groond every Satur-
day afternoon.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS,
85 CASTLEREAOH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROY AT.,
187 KINO STREET. NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.!
187 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
BOOTH'S
HYDROPATHIC BATHING
ESTABLISHMENT,
CORNER OF COLLEGE AND OXFORD STREETS
HYDE FARE.
■ALCOCKJt C os .r
.lilAßb TABFi
£ a.GARDYNE AGFNi ;
10 5 pj rt si ref 1 svnm * .
TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM IF REQUIRED
BLACKBT AND DAY T,
BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOE
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND POETABLB
STEAM ENGINES
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
sLl*
r
mm
m
li'ii.’fii, iti
.—v.-
Siii
m
LSEM'iiiniiiiiMiniiiuitfmj
T
M'Lean and Sou’s Electroplating Works.
HE above is a sketch of the interior of the Electroplating Works of M'Lean and Son, Hunter-
street, Sydney. _ All kinds of electroplating, gold, silver, and nickelplating are done on the
premises in the very highest style of art. Trophies of all descriptions are manufactured here by the
best experts in the colony. A sample of the artistic work executed by M'Lean and Son may be seen
nightly at the Theatre Royal Pantomime. Forty pairs of silver-plated cornets and bracelets have
been manufactured for the Royal carnival. Letters by post, and all other inquiries promptly attended
“ A MEB.R7 CHBJETMAS ”
Can be enjoyed by procuring from
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE’S
Large awd well-selected STOCK.
HAMS.
Compton’s No. 1, Bodalla, and U Brand.
FRUITS.
Elemes, Sultanas, Mnseatels, Currents, Figs,
Crystallized Fruits in Fancy Boxes.
TINNED FRUITS
Cuttings, 21b. tins, Table and Pie Peaches,
Apricots and assorted.
OX AND SHEEP TONGUES.
CHEESE —English and Bodalla.
C. and B Tinned Meats and Soups, JAMS.
Jellies. Preserves, and all manner of
Delicacies suitable for the
SEASON,
NOTE THE ADDESS—
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE.
Central lea and. Coffee Warehouse,
571 GEOEGB STEEET.
(Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.)
JLAWLEE, 608, Oeorge-street, Bedding Mannfac-
• tnrer, importer of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock- Established 1860.
VIGORINE
IS A
DELICIOUS, SPARKLING, & INVIGORATING
TONIC,
Handsomely put up in pint and quart bottles, and
is (par excellence) the Beverage for
BALLS, BANQUETS, PICNICS,
And all festive occasions.
In this warm climate Vigorine will be found to
be a delicious beverage, being pleasant to the
palate, quenching the thirst, and enlivening the
WHOLESALE AGENTS;
BARKER AND JAMES,
Market-street
T
|H E ocmmji
CHAMPION COP.
ouwcription, 20s.
First Prize, 40 per cent,
oaoond do, 20 do.
Third do, 10 do.
Balance between starters and non-starters.
•to be run January 1.
, t fF pli ° atio ? s b y letter only, with exchange added an
of thu ™ COV ,t r , re * lBtrati ® n “ad return letter, hau
of this consultation not bein* filled, the amounts
r b e\«e B^ U toha P v r0 t j: a<a -
requested to have their addiesses plainly written
Address—
„ OCCIDENTAL”
Cj,.o LD ,VARI) PFKKINy. Koyal Exchange Hotel,
■rv v byaney.
Bankers—City Bank. Bydney.
W.B.—All names and results strictly private.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Kotal —“Aladdin ” (Pantomime)... Fide p. 15
Gaiety Theatre.— “ Sinbad the Sailor" (Panto-
mime)... ib.
Opera House —“FatinPzj," ib.
Academy or Music—“ Zulu War Liurama" ib.
Wo hardly know whether we shoul l sling this
item in here, or jam it among the fashionable intelli-
genon in our “docial” columns. But on Feoond
n oughts wo will keep it to shed a glow over the more
ornery theatrical pars in this page. Here it is :—Sam
Daarln and Alf. Lawton, lato of tbe late Clark and
Hyman’s oaterwauiers, have arrived in town. And, by
the way, they and ono or two others were the only
redeeming * points” about that same crowd. Wo
were standing on the Post Office steps, the other day,
waiting for somebody to drip stamps enough to pur-
chase a pie with, when they came up, and, laying hold
of an arm each, backed us up against one of the pillars,
and commenced to tell ns a long story about—we are
not certain what, because we went to sleep—but we
think it was about the rheumatism George Washington
got through lying in tha back yard after his father had
cut off his left Ifg with an axe for not lying in the
front garden. While they were talking we had still
consciousness enough lefi to notice that Dearin’s hat
had grown white with grief since ho left Sydney to
start on his Q leensland tour, and that there was some-
thing about Lawton’s pants which was suspiciously
suggestive of their having been out out of an annual
aboriginal blanket. But this is, perhaps, only a quaint
way they have of dressing as they datuplease, and wo
admire them for it. We met them later on, and then
discovered that they had beea telling us about a trick
a certain actor man had play ed on them up North. It
seems this gay individual, after securing their services
for an entertainment and afterwards securing the pro-
ceeds, had quietly walked out of the town with them
leaving these babes in the wood to shift for themselves.
The landlord of the hotel they were staying at saved
them the trouble. AU this must ba true, because we
remember seeing an account of it in the local paper.
Anyhow, Daarln and Lawton are now going to Mel-
bourne, wnero, wa understand, ft new minstrel com-
bination is to bo formed under lha auspices of Bishop
Moorhouse.
♦* * *
Says our Adelaide correspondent All those
whom a sense of duty or au evil star took to the theatre
during the last week are now, with tew exceptions
cither corpses or hopeless lunatics. The weuk-nerved
ones went first when the “Irish Detective ’* was put
on, and “Josh” and “Ireland as it Was" curled up
the others. Two hours in the theatre is now reckoned
to be equal in (ffeot to half a day in a refrigerator.
When a man gees home after seeing any of these hair-
lifting dramas, he has to sit half-an-hout on the gas-
stove to thaw him salt back to normal limpness again;
and if he finds it necessary to talk, has to unatiffeii hia
tongue with something strong before he can get It to
move. And even then it doesn’t, sometimes, move
intelligibly. In fact— ,
Though we regret it, Mr. Riggs,
We’ll say it, s’help us never—
Your Irish jokes and Irish jigs
Have lost their fun forever.
Such soapsuds plays why don’t you take
And star with in n wash-house ?
You know your Josh is Bosh, yet make
Our theatre a Josh-house.
What have we doae over here in Adelaide, that such
stuff is thrust upon us ? We support good plays well
when we get them—which is dashed an! blanked aud
hyphened eeliom. If the management ithat bouses tbe
tinsel world over here cant givens something which
will be, at least bearable, they had better shut the
theatres up altogether and turn them into deadhouses.
But we were forgetting—perhaps they intend this, and
have sent over Grattan Rig vs with bis grave-filling
repertoire to pave the way. A 1 that we are promised
for Christmas is Eignold and “Youth. This play has
hv now, Income a bit too patriarchal for its title.
Besides, we have had it here before, and we don't want
to watch how age has told upon it in the meantime.
And by the way, Herbsrt Fie nming and the residue of
Wybert Eseve’s company are going to sue the lessee of
the theatre for breach of contract They say that they
were engaged to support Rignold, and that their engage-
ment extends to the end of January, or beginning of
February As Adelaide is at present bossed,
it will be wive for the profession to shun the
town at Christmas time, unless armed with a legal
engagement, duly signed and witnessed. And it would
also be no indiscreet thing i? they were also to arm
themselves with a few links of Bolognas to eat, and a
dog-house to sleep in, in case cf emergencies.
** * *
It was at the Royal the night after the Masootte
loft. Everything appeared to bo in mourning. The
lamp in front burnt with a feeble, discouraged-looking
flame, which only served to make more ghostly the long
shadows that wavered up and down ih« lonely passage,
and an earthly odour, like the first whiff from a freshly-
opened mummy vault, floated down the stairs and away
round the corner till it became absorbed in the more
potent, though kindred, emails of the Shroud office. A
superstitious terror began to creep flowly over us as
we stood there and caught the square broadside of this
sepulchral blast. Wo were afraid to go inside There
was a covert indication in the pallid faces of the ushers,
a dim suggestion in thofantastic flickenagsof thosiokly
lights that there was something gruesome going on
inside. Who knew but this night might have bean set
apart by the pious management or dead
and gone actors to play once more before au audience of
ghosts the plays of “twenty golden yews ago ? We
went up to a foreign-faced gentleman, whe stood clench-
ing his hands, gnashing his teeth, and muttering
“ Diavolo " in the halt-dark just within the penumbra
of the lamp. Him we asked, in choice .Tuscan, what
was being performed inside. Ha stared at us gloomily
for a moment, tilted his hat on one side so that it hung
on simply by the nm of his right ear, and then with a
demoniac laugh shrieked out, lam sorreo for moo*
and plunged wildly into the darkness*
W e went in at last, and found that there was
nothing more to be afraid of than nn Italian Opera
Company singing in concert fashion. They sang very
well too. Signora Belli Paoli is an accomplished artist
whom we sincerely hope to hear again under mors
favourable circumstances. Signor Viganotti and Sivmr
Shriscia are also cultivated vocalists. Signor Castolli,
the tenor, is a yet more celebrated man—not on
account of hia voice tkongh, which is moderately
ind fforeut, but because there is a popular superstition
among the perfenh that be can grow a beard In a single
night. It is said that when one of the ladias of the
oompam wist a hairpin they go and pull one rat of h!s
chin. Bat however that may be, Signora Boy Q.lbrrt
has a hard and sharp tkongh well-ttaieei voire We
were extremely sorry to see that they opened to such a
hungry-looking house, and still more to notice how the
lonely foreigner on the front turned green at the
unoonsoions sarcasm of f.n old woman with a gallery
ticket who asked him if there was ‘‘any room inside.”
We have been suffering from a cold ever since, so we
suppose that old womai is dead. It could not be
expected with a cheerless, carpetless stage and no
aocersories of any kind that a company should succeed
after such a n ngnidccntly moontsd piece as the
“ Masootte." At least we could not expect it. How.
ever, wo shall be glad to hoar the Oagli aud Paoli
Company when they are able to open in fitting style
Some of them are flrjt-olass artists, aud deserve a
show,
» # » m
The candle flickers, pale and thin,
la its tin socket;
A moon-ray through the blind steals in,
As if to mock It.
The cooks crow. Can it bo they greet
The morn already.
Or are they wakened by the beat
Of feet unsteady.
Wo cannot cither guess or doubt—
We’ve get no time, sirs—
\Ve simply have to write about
The pantomime, sirs.
• *
It opens very quietly with a scene representing
a willow-pattern pinto, before which Abamzar, tbe
magician (Johnny Hall), So-Bli. Slave of the Ring (Sam
PeoU). atd Shi-King, Slava of the Limp (Miss Dooy
Stewart), ttmd and interchange celestial “gujvor.”
Fomo cf the local hits made hero are very telling
Thin the plate craeks in two, and aioh half is shunted
back, revealing a street in China filled with a pig-tailed
and club-footed population, whoee sols employment In
Ufa seems to bo in fanning themselves with paper fans
and marching round in circles. Thsir dre ses are at-
tractive and appropriate. Something »r other—prob-
ably the d nner bell—calls them eff the stage, anl then
Aladdin (Miss Maggie Knight) buiits in with a crowd
of Pekine-e lanUins at hoc hods. She looks very nice,
and all that, but when compared with her mother.
Woe-ping (Mr. Harry Leston), who is mahogany-faced
and Mongol e>ed, she is too much like a Caucasian
slur upon the virtue cf Chinese females. And, by the
way, though Mr. Leston’s “ make-up ** is good, it lacks
architectural harmony.git is anaohoristlo as well as
anachronistic. It violate the unities of both time and
place. A full dress blouse, made haply in some tailor's
shop, tho crooked-lettered sign of which twang back-
wards and and forwards in thy winds that blew up and
down a little tea-caddy coloured Pekinese street in the
good old days before tha tailors ci.me, hangs down in
fluttering folds over feet that arc covered with nnmis-
takiablo Brickfield Hill bluchers of the present decade.
Tbe discovery of errors of this sort at the outset is
very discouraging to an audience who ware asked to
imagine themselves in China,
• * •
But ono forgets all these trifles when his
Imperial Majesty Haag Ta is borne in upon the sacred
hanlbarrow. His attire is a blaze of blinding yellow
and glowing green, over winch jewels as large as gas-
jets are strewn with royal recklessness- After lamping
him up and down the stage two or three times, the
most noble hand-barrow bearer damps him down in a
corner, aud then ho calls for tbe dancers.* The dancers
step forward and execute some »ery|protty movement*.
The oistnrae of ono section of the"! is remarkably
elegant. It is much like that of the Turkish women—
loose trousers of silver gauze ct something, aud all
hung over with little bells that ring tiny chimes to tha
music as the ballerinas dance. Toeeo tinkling appen-
dages might not havo been belle when we come to think
of it, but as we havo so written so let it stand. lha
celestial acrobats—Mons. Muartia, the Matthews
Brothers, and Little Carl—who are described by the
reverend gentleman who localized tbe piece os “first
glass tumblers,” are then introduced, and perform
what are reilly some of the cleverest feat* of tumbling
wo have overseen. The little imp in grey—Carl—is
particularly good Then a Chinese oorrobbotoe is
executed, and the curtain drops upon the grand
Lantern March, which is taken part in by the “ whole
strength of the company.”
• • •
The next scene is the magician’s cave, wherein
appear So atli and Bhi-Niug. Miss Dioy Btowart here
sang a pretty sentimental song, which was much
applauded. And as we are speaking of her we may as
well say now as at any other tLae that she speaks her
speeches and makes her ” points” much better than the
other leading ladies do theirs. Whatever she h is to
Fay is said clearly and never falls to fetch the audience.
And having said eo much it will save trouble at some
future time to state here that her dress in the second
act is verv tasteful—grey-blae tights, light grain and
gold tunic, with dark green sleeves. We ara very
much pleased with Miss Dooy Stewart.
• • #
We are not nearly so much pleased with Mr.
Johnny Hall, who was very shaky in his part through-
out. as he had very frequently to fid up self-to-blame
blanks in the dialogue, he was frequently not funny.
And whether it be that he hia caught a cold or the
croup, we do not know j but, anyhow, his voice is not
as distinct or pliant at it used to be. We really don’t
see that because Mr. Hall is clever ha should consider
that he is privileged to come before the public with any
sort of rough-and-tumble preparation he chooses. He
can play this part well if he will take the trouble. He
can’t play it at all if Lo doesn’t.
• • *
The first thing that strikes one, with regard to
Miss Maggie Knight, is that she is remarkably graceful.
She moves in curves. The second impression is that
she has a nice pleasant face, with a peculiarly taking
smile. And, thirdly, a sweet voice. This voice,
though, is rather light, aud where it is necessary, tor
tbe ocuvoyanoe of puns or local allusions, that she
should sing with vigour, she hardly succeeds. This,
by the way, is tbe objection wo havo to make to all of
the principals—with the exception of Dooy Stewart aud
Harry Leston. They don’t, as they most decidedly
should do, throw the jokes out into relief. They speak
them in exactly the Fame tone as they do the rest of
the dialogue Sam. Poole certainly raises hia voice and
speaks louder when he has to bring out a “ point,” but
he never changes his tone. But, being a “slave,” per-
haps he thinks he should not ba t-io high-toned. We
shall have t) hurry through the rest of this notice, or
wa shall bo getting dreary.
• • •
Miss Jessie Grey plays the part of the Princess
Bidroulo-idonr. Wo have up to now been dozerifui
whether she was gifted with talent or genius. Kow we
are conclusively^.convinced that it is tulant. She is
pretty, piquant, and pleasing. Yen somehow she falls
short of our expectations In this part. Of course we
take Into consideration the fact that it was the first
night—and the wont night possible whereon to
judge definitely of thelperforcaanoe, and that everything
may turn to rose colour when she aud others bei ome
more familiar with the text of the author. And so we
shall wait to learn. Qiti vivra verra.
« * *
Mr. Sam Poole is whafc might bo oallad steadily
good throughout. Bo is Mr. Dick Stewart (the
Emperor Haag Yu), But Harry Lsston is a more
pronounced success, considering the smallness of his
part, than auy of thorn. Certainly what he has to *ay
is funny, buo It would not be so funny if ha didn’t
understand what ho was saying or it nobody could hear
him. Tha minor characters are right enough.
« * *
Some of the songs are very good indeed—
notably “ Bye and Bye,” and “ Wo can’t get ’em,"
which “ got” the audience right away. The words are
witty, and the alluvions—all local—considerably to the
point. It is a pity they are aot better sung.
« • •
The “ Valley of Veiled Jewels ” is a very beau-
tiful piece of soone-paiating The march of the ** Jewel
Fays,” led by Miss Qraoe Henriques. fakes place lore.
Theooronetiof the fays are shaped like flit-iron stands,
and each one (like the toad) cirrles a precious jewel in
her head Theoommingllng of all tbe colours—emerald,
ame'hvst, ruby, diamond, sapphire, and the rest.—is
splendidly, iridescently, zffeottve, But fho figures of
the fais are not productive of snob cheerful emotioas
The majority of them have lamentable legs : soma of
these limbs are as gnarly and crooked as the legs of
rustic garden seats or iron railings that have been struck
by lightning, while others are bulbous it the ankle and
spindly at, the—ah—upper part of the limb. It would
have been a graceful and kindly act for the management
to have supplied the most eMveless of these ladies with
pads. If we are to have any illusion at all, let it be
consistent.
• • •
The transformation scenes are works of art.
There are four principal pictures representing the Pour
SetFoas. Each picture was full of poetry—that of
Autumn, where the reapers are sitting in the cornfield
in the hush of a g ildea afternoon, is absolutely lovely.
The artist (Mr. Hennings) was called out half a dozen
times during the evouimg.
Finally, wo believe that when everything is
sailing oil an evou keel, this pantomime will pe a grand
success.
** * *
A concert was given at the Masonic Hall on
Boxin; night, in winch several well-known artists to>k
part—viz Messrs. F J. Halle well, C. Huenerbein, S
Hodge, Miss Lydia Hastings, and Miss Cowley The
programme was very satisfactorily carried o it. Mr Hnl-
lewell’s song “I am a Roamer ’ was given in capital
style. Miss Lydia Hastings, the tilented elocutionist
r iiisad the house to enthusiasm wi*h her rendition of
“Pemberton Mils," and “ Bub -ostein s Playing”
Miss CoWley sing au “ Unfinished song” in an effective
style Another concert will be given on Saturday, and
one on Monday, when Miss Kate Mayor and Miss
Lydia Hastings will assist.
** * *
The Rum, on the subject of the (Pantomime, was
funny ns ever In a prclixiuiry par. about “ Aladdin,”
at the Royal, the hungry man to'd off 'o notice the book
hangs on with great gusto to Mt. Robert Recce's tun-
title, which is as follows:
“The wonderful ring, the magical lamp,
And the pretty young maiden who loved a graat scamp;
The funny old dame, and tbe latest edition
Of the musical, model, and mystic magician,”
This, of course, being written by Mr. Reece, must be
good. As it happens, however, these few lints, the
whole of the punning bill, and nearly ail the burlesque,
were written in Bvdney. This, of course, alters the
whole sspect o( affairs 1 We shall look forward with
some interest to further equilly intelligent remarki
from the hungry man, who, now that Christmas has
passed, will be hungrier than over But he'd better be
quick for obvious reasons, and write them.
** * *
Mr. W. H. Thompson, of Zulu Dioramio fame,
is a sensible man He knows the wtakast and meanest
sides cf human nature, aud is sensible enough to pander
to them by means of ” drawing room suites,” kitchen
oleoka, “ Chaney vorsas,” and other treasures. And it
is in evidence how mean wa are fiom the fact that by
moans of these presents W. H. contrives to cram Young
Dutohey’s Academy of Music nightly. As a lecturer,
“ Zu'u" is original in skyle. When he is talking about
tbe War and explaining the tableaux, you can see at
the same time that he i* counting the house, giving the
tip to the man at the crank, winking to Lieut. Herman
(late of the Zanzibar Zoedocc*), and occasionally letting
an admiring (bnb strictly platonic) eye light upon a
buxom teapot-gleaner in the front seats. Mr. Thome-
con’s show is an entrancing one tor those who like
dioramas We do, of course. Wo love to see those
horses whose legs get mixed up like spillikins, and to
hear William's voice when be puts on the patriotic
rattle—wo moan, quaver. There is no need, we should
thick, for Mr Thompson ever to got a new diorama.
Hie oratorical attractions and his clocks and sofas will
draw for over. It’s a sight to view the crowd of
covetous faces when ho is giving away the things ; but
we don’t care about saying what kind of sight it Is.
• • •
Lieutenant Herman informs us that he is going
away in a day or two (possibly to join his new regiment,
the Ooonanhara Cocktails), and he will be Fuooooded in
his duties by Mr. Raphael—an enterprising ngvnt with
level heels and a considerable amount of shirt front.
The giving away of the presents, wo may remark, has
nothing to do with this or any ether Raphael. [We
apologetically call our reader*' attention to the fact mat
this is the festive season.—Ed. B |
** * *
Re the Lingard train accident, Henri St, Manr
(one of the company) writes to the N.Y Miieoe saying
that, when the collision occurred, Mrs. Lingard ap-
peared to bo standing upon his heid. Me says it was
the pleasantest railway accident he ever experienced.
Searelle, who was clasped round the neck by Lingard,
says he will travel by coach in future. The company
ware, at latest dates, at Toronto, and Mrs. P. M Bates
was doing “East Lynne" at Prison. There is no
record, by the way, ae to who tbe present Mr. Bates
is. Ana this reminds us that bet ween Mrs. B. and poor
Marcus Clirke there was a— well, an “artistic affinity."
And yon all remember the case of Clement Saott v.
Sampson, of the Referee. Well, Mr. Sampson, having
paid the damages, >o v publishes a par., through
‘•Carados," in which ho says that ho has found out
that the information supplied to him was false, and
concludes as follows ” Just as wo fought our hardest
while wo felt onr cause was the cause of justlss, so ve-
in accordance with the constant attitude taken by the
Retiree since it had an existence —admit, and regret,
our error as soon as we learn that no dependence is to
be placed upon the sources of our information " Oh,
and the Holloways are at Cooma, and announce the for-
mation cf a new company. Neither Henry Irving nor
Edwin Booth are at present mentioned.
** * *
As Rosalind, Mrs. Langtry wears a tunic which
reaefae i vary low down indeed, much to the indignation
of the New Porkers, who consider that which is visible
shows such glorious ptomis*. Oh, and while on high-
class theatrical matters, let us recollect that the now
bill-poster from Melbourne wants a notice. Ho has
bought up a lot cf the other paste-slappors, and is
happy. Thus do wo advertise him gratis. It is Roff on
us, but we do it, because wo have been told by Mr.
Jefferls that if wa do a lot of kind actions we shall have
luck equal to that of the Harvey’s “Jolly old man."
But why not say, with bated breath, tuat W. D. Cava-
nough is at Caudelo, phrenologizing, and is a great
success. He gets candy high and Candela from “the
prominent residents,” it the looal organ is to be be-
lioved. A id, wait. Miss Juno, as the “ Woman in
Red," at Hamilton, is scooping it in. The paper man
there is evidently touched. Anl it’s all on account of
Eloise, ah 1
■*■***•
Complaints are made by theatrical managers of
of the abnormal number of man who tqneeza in on the
press racket Canvassers for ads., accountants, and
counter-clerks shove m in shoals when allowed, and the
only fear now on the part of the theatre people is that
the machine-room bunds will want dress-circle seats
reserved for them on first nights when there has been a
big let throughout the week. But, don’t lot’s forget
tips. Ernest Harvier, the journalist masher who froze
on to Mario Prescott, has been arreeted for perjury.
It's rather natural, on the whole, that Miss Present
should not coincide with hi* remarks. Aad w# hear,
now, that his Excellency's daughter, having got rid of
her fickle Colonel, can now marry again. Bo can
Colonel Wellesley also; but it is unlikely that ko will
marry Miss Kate Vaughan. And, talking of Katie, it
reminds us mat all the London Gaiety beauties have
occasioned trouble and divorces—Violet Cameron,
Florence St. John, Nellie Fatten, Constance Loseby,
and “Lardy” Wilson—since watted to brighter (or
darker) realms. If things go on like this, we shall give
up theatres aud take to church choirs again.
Signor Augusto Cagli has written us a letter,
dated irom the Royal Hotel, aud couched in the
“ choicest Italian.” He considers, ho says, that/
our criticism* axe ehef d’ceuvret of discrimination and
acumen, and he hopes wo will accept the assuranca of
his distinguished consideration. This we do with
p easure- but, as this is Christmas time, we cannot but
think that something more substantial —a goose say
would havo been a more seasonable (no allusion to
sage, etc., intended) compliment. However, wa aie
grateful for small mereies, and we have put the Signore
letter with onr other valuables In the lolly-can cn the
top »lelf of the kitchen dresser It is rumoured that
the Ishrodd people, likewise, vr re honoured with a.
communication from Signor Cagli, and, niter having
passed it round till it exhaled an odour a cross between
a public-house spittoon and a boiling down, they
chartered a Dutchman to translate It. Hot to be licked,
the giddy Teuton said it was an invitation to n tripe
supper, with the date omitted, and ever since young
men d’uns mtse negligee have hurra weed iho hotel porter
and worn out the dvot-mat, requesting to know when it
was to come < ff. Thus the poor Signor would seem to
ba doubly unlucky. “I arm aourrie fom-r me."
** * *
Moulton and Fred. Millie leave on Friday with
their now entertainment— or, ratner, Mulis s—for Wol-
longoug aud the coast. It is called ** Mr. Poppinjuy'ii
Pioutc,” fnd is something after the style of Maeoabe’e
first part. Millie had intended to give a show in
Sydney, but he considered that the Masonic Hau was
too muoh out of the way, aad be feared that tha
Governor wouldn’t patronise Dutchey’s Academy of
Music. Moulton gives a very good show, too. He came
rannd to heal ns the ether day, but we nil bid away in
the bat of a clergyman- wo will not say Dean—who bad
jast called round to pay hU aubsoxiuioii (and solicit
one).
*» * *
“ W th sorrow ” our best friend sayij “ hence! ”
Belter than dull be dead.
Wap iut to her pictur. d presence
Slowly wagging our head.
For mw—ah, no more impassioned
Strive we our grief to hoax.
By eating for hours of hash, and
Making of dismal jokes.
Aud yet Louise has only gone up to Newcastle.
Sweet dreams and fair hopes follow her.
** * *
We regret that wo are unable to give a notice of
“ Fatinitzn,” now being played at tie Op ra House.
We were not there to see it. Ouo can't be übiquitous—
at least, wo can’t, and don’t want to be. We havo on
several occasions found that to be in ono place at one
time was moie than we cared for.
** * *
Wo can only write a paragraph about tbe Gaiety
pantomime) this week bacauae we oouluu't manage to
see it all last uight. Bar, anyhow, wo can tay tbia f/»
certain—“Sinbad "is a sure success. For one thing,
it’s in good hands—nod yet it’s in-bad. The house, wit
coarse, was crowded, aud, as we came late, we had to-
be Kiiti.«fit d with enuring our nocks over the beads of the
oi polloi at the back of the pit wbeciwvcr we wanted to
get a long look at the charming Rosa in bar captain's
uniform A young lady wnose name wo gathered, from
the conversation of a gentleman whom she addressed
with the endearing diminutive of Billy, to be Lizar,
placed one of her hands upon our shoulders and eo sup-
ported herself in the giddy position sue bad assumed
on the top of a chair-back immediately wo pushed into
the crowd. For a while we felt llitiered by this silent
suggestion of womanly werknets leaning up«u manly
stiengtb, but, after a little, we got tired, and, looking
up to see the faou of the sylph wn had b««B bold-
ing up, wo saw a sight which froze our blood
with tenor. And yot it was only the face of
a female larrikin At this moment tha audience
were stormi'y applauding the duo ”1 shall never
be happy again.” Miss Kiss Towers as Sinoad is
superb She speaks her linos perfectly, and alms every
pun with a precision that never misses. Frank Towers
as AU Ben Bloper lh very funny. Ho has very consider-
able abilities, has Frank, in this lino of acting. By ha*
Johnny O’Neill, who played the Widow Sinoad splen-
didly. Katie Tower* also acted very nicely. Tn«
soeiipry is pretty. We didn’t, see enough of it to say
anything more raptorons than this. Next week,
however, wo ihnll be onb on the warpath lu earnest.
A drama, “ J he Little Treasure," pruoudtd the Panto-
mime, Wo ate informed that this was alee a hit, bub
wo prefer to wait till wo can see it ourselves before w»
express an opinion. And now—and new we bad a
splendid joke to conclude this par. with, only we care-
lessly wrote it down on tbe back of a summon* form
when it struck ns, so, of course, it was torn up and
forgotten.
«• • •
We saw, on Saturday night, what was probably
the last psrformanoe in this city of a really good actor.
We are apeaking of Mr. Sheridan’s " lugomar.” Taken
by itself, this part is not even one of bis second best,
but it is fall of interest because it indicates th* range
of his powers, and is a striking illustration of hia
ability to think in the grooves of many and various
minds, and identify himself with so tuxny utterly dif-
ferent cuaracters As Ingomar he is tne very child-
giant of the German forests. And in this, as in every-
thing else, he is consistent throughout Every charac-
ter which we have seen Mr, Bhsridan put into life was
a law unto itself, but within the limit of that law per-
fect It was carefully thought out and fashioned and
finished aud given to the wwrld with the stamp of the
master’s hand upon it There was no slurring, uo
mixing up cf the idlosjnoraoks of one character with
those of nnoibir. Bat his ”Lear " is—we think—hie
real chef d'ceuvre. In it he touches the heights and
doptha of huuan feeling. In it he is the full ma.-:.
We regret to lose Mr Sheridan, bos ides being a fine
rioter, na is a gentleman of considerable ouPuro and
first-class entertaining powers We wish him luck
wnerevar he goes. We hardly dare trust ourselves to
say adieu to Mias Davenport in prose. Let us try it in
rhyme—
She went in tie heart of summer
Over the shining etas.
The laat and the sweetest comer—
Lovely and dear Louise.
Mr. S. A. Stephen.
The portrait of Mr. Septimus Alfred Stephen,
one of the new members for Canterbury, appears
on the front page this week. Mr. Stephen i< the
seventh ron of Sir Alfred Ftephen. late Chief
Justioe, and was born in Sydney. He was edu-
cated at the Meads, Ashfield, then kept by the
Rev. Frederick Wilkinson, and subsequently at
the Collegiate School, Newcastle and Cook’s
River, by the Rev. H. H. Savigny. He entered
the office of his brother, the late M. Coneott
Stephen, in 1858, and was admitted solicitor in
1864. The brothers then entered into partnership
under the name of Stephen and Stephen. He is
now a member of the firm of Stephen, Lawrence
and Jacques. Mr. Stephen has been solicitor to the
Australian Mutual Provident Society since the
year 1864, has attended all their meetings, and
has had the passing of all the by-laws since that
date, in 1864 Mr. Stephen married the daughter
of the Hon. Robert Campbell, formerly Treasurer
for N.S.W., and has five sons and two daughters.
At the last election Mr. Stephen contested
Canterbury on a strong and an influential requisi-
tion. and he was returned as one of the throe
members. Mr. Stephen is a man of independent
means, keen observation, and large experience.
Hia programme, if conscientiously adhered to,
will bring him into useful prominence in the
world of colonial politics-
In tho Bye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Diseases,
consult Dr S i ANIOH, Aurist to His Excellency, Lord
Augustus Loftus, Gsveruor of New South Wales, who
will give tho benefit of his Services Gratis to tbe Poor,
every TUESDAY and SATURDAY, ftt 5 Wynyard.
square Sydney,
CRUSHED.
Ho was boss of the how.
And he stood at the door
The first night, smiling so
That no mm might smi e more.
It was music—high class—
Not your stupid randan
That may here take the mass.
But won’t do in Milan.
Hi’f au hour later on
He stiri stood at tha door,
But his gladness was gone
And he smlied never more.
Said a man then to him,
“ Siguor, what is it that
Makes you frown and loon grim,
And so crush up your hat ?’’
“ Is the pit pretty poor ?
Doss the circle look queer ? ”
Then the entrepreneur
Yelled liae mad in his car,
“ Bih i ze public I’ve tried
Wiz muozeek good, aud see
Thei e are Scvven inside—
-1 am sorree forr mie.”
HE GOT WET.
A man of nerve— L’Estrange his name-
wished both for money and for f ime.
Advice of friends he would not heed ;
With danger he thought he could cope ;
Eo tried on a velocipede
To cross the Harbour on a rope.
Nor fame nor money has he yet—
We’re sorry for this athlete bold—
And as he got so very wet,
We trust he didn't catch a cold.
And this’is all within the rango
Of English soft as love’s sweet tale,
That wo can now write for L’Estrauge—
It bores us so when people Jail.


PEPPER AND SALT.
“ She has deserted me, and I’m going to commit
Suicide,” said a mournful man te a friend the other day.
“ No need to do that," was the reply; “ here’s an erder
for the infirmary.”
• * •
The Bega rags are at it. Of-the Gazette, the
STasdaed says: “ We determine to cease the usual
courtesy of exchange, and we will take our own course,
without farther reference to Mr. W. H. Braine.” Eefer-
ence to Braine would be, we oan understand, at all
times a painful subject. But there! Let these people
kiss and make it up. That is, supposing the Stakbaeb
boasts of a conductor of the Carcoar calibre. And
that reminds us. It is ages since we have seen our
Bister scribe. We shall be always happy to see her.
We are hard np for sunbeams at our corner.
• • •
There are several political rnmouus current.
One is that Sir Henry is to visit Tenterfleld with Sir
John, and another that the ex-member for Wollombiis
to be appointed a truant inspector. We neither believe
the one nor the other. Sir Henry has no reason to go
to Tenterfleld, and Joseph Eckford, Esq, has no reason
whatever, either, to be a truant inspector. Since Mr.
Eckford, by an unfortunate combination of circum-
stances (which we shall ever deplore I), is now debarred
from accepting the Portfolio of Publie Instruction, wa
might suggest that it would be a graceful act on the
part of Parkes to confer upon " Faithful Joe " an ap-
pointment commensurate with bis acknowledged classi-
cal, social, and legislative abilities. It’s a pity in the
House there is only a and no Sergeant-
at-Hash.
• • •
Mr. C. E. Mathews has retired from the Camp-
belltowk Heeald— having sold out to Mr. Webb. In
leaving Mr. M. is touchingly pathetic. He says that he
has got an advance on what he gave for the paper, but
confesses to not having been appreciated. And this
after (he observes with emotion) "we advocated a
night-school." The public, he says, have not paid up.
So he is going on the war-path to co fleet what is due to
him. Bash man 1 And this is at a time when they are
running excursion trains to Sydney, and when second-
hand bricks are sold at such alarming sacrifices. Mr.
Mathews evidently feels sad. He says" The death
of Mr. John Hurley has created quite a gap in this and
surrounding districts." We are very sorry indeed to
learn that " John has turned his toes up." For many
years we have bung upon the magio words of his fiery
oratory. To talk, however, of him making a gap now
•' in this and the surrounding districts,” savours of
levity. There is only one man whose grave would do
that. And he is a eylph-liko M.L.C.
• • o
The Holt Howl announces the invention of an
«irreproachable waltzer.” This is a wooden frame on
wheels, which folds np so as a lady can carry it eut with
her to balls, and have no nasty man putting his arm
round her waist, and other enormities. We expect the
man who invented this lives in a cave guarded bj a
dragon who is parasol-proof. Fancy sending a girl an
invitation, with "Dancing.” and "N.B.—You are re-
quested to bring your frame," in the corner. It’s bad
enough to eee two girls dancing together. Why, Frank
Smith won’t allow even that at Botany, so what would
he say to frames! It we had read this item in any
other organ but the Howl, we should be inclined to be
sceptical. But that journal being as " irreproachable ”
ns the waltzer, of coarse we must believe it. Our only
fear is that it may be yet another •• Popish plot" to
hoax our unfortunate contemporary.
“ The Salvation Army ” have had a poor time in
India. No sooner had they landed, than a young man
(a captain, probably) who persisted in blowing a trumpet,
was arrested. The Harmy, however, was received with
unbounded applause by the Hindoos, who thought that
the procession was a gratuitous pageant got up by the
Government in honour of the victory of Tel-el-Kebir.
Our Harmy is alive in real earnest now. On Christmas
night a band of demoniac vocalists, led by a sworn
torturer with the concertina, marched down to Dawes
Point at half-past eleven o’clock, singing “Elijah was
a jolly old man,” or “ flaul had a hole in his Sunday
gooks,”—making every dog bark in the neighbourhood*
People not in the secret came to their windows, and let
off oaths and orange-peel; but the Harmy calmly pur-
sued the even tenor of its way, unmoved even by certain
rude street-corner lads singing secular songs to ribald
tunes. We understand from Madame La Capiiaine
Sutherland that the cropule is going to be the Harmy’s
especial dart. Well, they don’t live at Dawes Point.
People who live there are either swell theatricals—
Williamson, for instance—or Oathohe priests, or Sisttrs
of Merey. Unproductive ground to begin on 1 If, how-
eve*, kSs. S. wonld like to taekle a swell first, we advise
her to go down to Watson’s Bay early any morning, and
ask a white-headed old gentleman there why he was
mean enough to coalesce with the great I AM, That’ll
start the movement properly.
• • •
The Tichborne crowd—Charles Orton and D.
Smith (the latter vaguely described as of Cletkonwell)
have arrived to identify Creeswell. We have seen that
interesting madman in a yard of the Parramatta Lunatic
Asylum, and in answer to a question as to who he was,
he mnmbled something like “ Fog and Filberts." He
is a man of abont sixty in appearance, and of the ortho-
doK bnshman type. Be might be Arthur Ortou and he
might be anyone. Or likelier still, no one. When we
saw him he was in company with a gentleman who first
said he had a telegraph pole in| his inside, and then con-
fldentially whispered—" Tell the Queen I love her."
Joe Eokford, we believe, has imported Orton and Smith.
A London paper says: “On there arrival in Sydney
Messrs. Orton and Smith are to be conducted to the
Asylum by Mr. Joseph Eckford a prominent [I 1 ! ]
mertber Of the N S W Legislature, who has coilectsd a
large number of facts during the last four years, having
an important bearing on the question of Arthur Orton’s
identity." So they will evidently expect to see J seeph
dressed in a cocked hat and a Court sword, waring his
hand on the wharf like the pictures of Captain Cook
in the patriotic song books. We learn also, in connec-
tion with the “ persecuted nobleman now in Dartmoor”
(as his friends have it), that during his imprisonment
Mrs. or Lady Tiohborne has increased the population
on no less than three separate occasions. This has
caused a great outcry, and her ladyship, having lost
all her friends, first went into the workhouse and after-
wards to a low pet-hense as barmaid 1 We are severely
virtuous, as all our readers know, but we are (foolishly
perhaps) inclined to make soma allowances for this
poor woman, the more especially when we consider that
during the whole of his five years of splendour “ Sir
Bogec ” devoted the whole of his attentions to the
ballet. But no! We—er—don’t wan’tto tread on the
corns ©f the clergy.
• • •
A man named Barrit saved Sir Henry’s life
in M 76, and Sir Henry sent him a pound. It wouldn’t
be worth anyone’s while to save it now, as we don’t
suppose he'd value it at more than two and six. He
has seen everything he can socially, and done every-
thing he can politically since then.
• * •
The other Sunday a Newcastle boy, who wasn’t
particular to a shade, went to a pub. and borrowed a
beer-bottle to get some salt water in for his father, who
had sore eyes. On his way back with tho “ briny,” he
met a big policeman, who said, pointing to the bottle,
“ Where did yon get this P” “At tho Crown and Shin-
bone,” was the boy’s tremulous reply. “ Let me taste
it,” said the crasher; and he took a long pull. Then,
leading the boy back to the hotel, he said to the land-
lord, “ It’s the worst beer I ever drank, and I’ll pull
you up to-morrow for selling an adulteration." There’s
a brilliant future iu store lor that constable. He’ll be
heard of again.
• • •
You all known that Crown-street juvenile pun-
ster whom we thought was dead last week. Well, he
wasn’t. And, what’s more, he’s been at it again. His
father sent him to the pub for some beer on Boxing
Day, and told him, as he might break the jug, to
borrow a bottle. By and bye he returned—after having
played three games of “ hopscotch," and had two
fights—and he said: “ Forder—(here the old man began
to loosen his strap-bucklsj—the man wouldn’t lend a
bottle; why it is a very heartrending case, forder
The parent uttered never a word. “ Because," he went
on faintly, ‘ it’s a case of juggernaut, forder.” . . ,
Next moment he was cooling on the doorstep.
“ Despising the worst theological weather.
They arranged to dine and be damned together."
DR. WATTS.
The farewell Ministerial banquet was a graceful and
somewhat pathetic re-union of the master intellects of
our political system. It was originally intended that
tho feast should have been of a more national character,
and that invitations should have been issued which
would have brought to the hospitable board a crowd of
distinguished men. But entirely unforeseen circum-
stances prevented this splendid hospitality, and it was
deemed desirable that the dinner should be limited to
the guests themselves. Sir Henet Paekes intimated a
desire that the festival should be celebrated with the
strictest seclusion; but on its being pointed out that
this morbid passion for secrecy was unworthy of hia
noble frankness and inconsistent with his quite recent
publication of the titles of all the people who had written
their names in his birthday-boon, he at once gave way,
and expressed his willingness that a full report should
be furnished to the press; or, in other words, to this
office. The room was, as may be readily imagined, hung
in mourning; and a copy of the notice in the Gazette
dissolving the late Assembly was placed, with a deep
black border, over the mant&.piece, ornamented by a
St. Petersburg carte.de-visite of Lord Augustus Loftus.
The menu, of which we are furnished with a copy, was
the result of a careful search through all the festive
remembrances of Sir Henet Paekes during his
European tour, with some modifications rendered
necessary by recent events; and the dinner was served
with elegance and perfect taste. The following is the
Bill of Fare: —
Potage en fausse tertne, dla Tenterfleld.
Eperkns eu gonjons frits dla Kiama.
Tomates farcies d la Tnmut.
Anguilles do Wollongong d la sance verte.
Oreilles de pore d I’ambassadeur a Londrcs.
Chonx de Bruxelles d la CocEbeejl et Cib.
Bognon de veau rfiti d la Kkhwick.
Come ombres farcies d la Ministre de Justice.
Crfime hrhide.
Marinade de cervelles d la Sutton.
Gateau des rois Flamandes d la Leopold 11.
The toasts were few, and in the following order.
1. The Electorate of Tenterfleld, coupled with the
name of Mr. Whereat.
2. pious and immortal memory of Mr. John
Davies—drunk in solemn silence, with the health
of his friend Dean Sheridan—with Kentish fire.
3. The Princes and people in Parkes’ birthday book.
4. Paekes and the past.
5. Paekes and the future.
The band of the Wolverene played a selection of popu-
lar airs during the entertainment—
1. The Dead March in Saul.
2. The Dies lice.
3. The Miserere,
4. Down among the dead men ; and
5. The melancholy air wedded to the despairing
words—“ What the devil shall we do now ?"
The cloth having been removed Sir Henet Paekes rose
and submitted the various toasts. In proposing the
last,] he was overcome with emotion, and actually
after a brave effort to deal with its subject, succumbed.
He was understood to express a hope that he might ha
permitted to end his days in peace—if possible, on the
bed upstairs, and in the society of Piddington. What
he longed for now was repose and tenderness. He had
become surfeited with princes; he sighed for the con-
eolation and love of Fid , the friend and benefactor Of
bis early days. The scene was a melanohely one.
Strong men wept; and the inarticulate prayers of Mr.
Foster were mingled with the deep and half smothered
condemnations of Sir John Eobektson. The lights
were slowly put out, the party staggered from the
chamber, and the band played the “ Marehe I’unehre de
Chopin."
Ellen Burns, who suicided at] Coonanbarabran
the other day, was known in the palmy days of Qulgong
as “ The Breeze of Wind.” She lived with a man
named Aldridge, who deserted his wife and family to
take up with Per. In those times he was a *• golden
hole" man, and used to drive his paramour, habited in
the most fashionable and costly dresses, through the
streets of Oulgong in bis buggy. His geld did not last
for ever, but he and the woman remained constant to
each other. Bbe hanged herself when Aldridge was
arrested for shsepsteahng.
In the libel action Jackson v. Goode, Goode
“ won it.” Jackson is a person who styled himself
“W. J Jackson, M.l>. &c., Camden, late Pacific
University college, St. Mary’s Marine Hospital, the
University of Durham, the Newcastle-on-Tyne School
of Medicine, and the Manchester School of Infirmary.**
He appears to have picked up vagrant crumbs of medical
knowledge here and there as a dispenser, and had
nobbled a “ Pacific University" diploma. He made a
declaration to our Medical Board that he had “ studied
for three years in a school of medicine"—which, it now
seems, was a barefaced lie. Further, he produced a
certificate from the Apothecaries’ Hall. London, testify-
ing that he had attended so many lectures, and con-
fessed that one of the signatures—supposed to be of
the lecturers —was a forgery, and " might have been
written by himself." The jury brought in a verdict of
£5 for slander. His Honor refused costs, and impounded
the certificate that had been tampered with. The duty
of the Medical Board is now clear, and “ Dr." Jackson
will have to ‘‘get." Tho duty of the Crown Law
authorities is also clear. The public observe with
pleasure that Jackson (who was appointed a corcner by
the Parkes Government) gets £5 damages. It delights
everyone to see that libel jurors haven’t quite lest their
sympathies with frauds.
CHRISTMAS DAT.
[Written at 1 a.m. December 26th.]
0 what joy to think these weary hours ev’ry one have
passed,
And that infernal Chrismas Day really gone at lastl
That day with greetings hollow that are piped from
door to door.
With stimulated jollity—the whole an awful boro 1
He plumped for Andy Lynch, but his vote was—
informal.
BACK FROM THE COUNTRY-BUT THEY’RE NOT ALL HERE.
RECKLESS ROSEBY.
When Eoseby at Shoalhaven to
His crowd this time appealed,
He had—to cut a brilliant dash—
Sis shoes half-soled and heeled.
Thus spruce, with patches on them too.
He made sure that he’d win;
But though he smiled that unctuous smile
They wouldn’t put him in.
He spoke upon the hustings for
A full hour and a half,
And he wound np each paragraph
With some nice epitaph I
And when they howled and shrieked and yelled,
Soft to himself he said—]
“ I’m played out with the living, but
I can command the dead.
With mournful mien, upon his ear,
Back that apostle came.
And once mere in the tombstone yard
These words he did exclaim :
“ Oh, cruel fate—Dame Fortune seems
On me to play her tricks I
The water-dodge is not a go.
And—fled is three-and sise.“
•T is gone with its smug parsons, who are quavering
from use.
And preaching well-worn sermons when their thoughts
are full of goose I
’T is gone with all its dinner-smells, that put me in s
rage—
It’s steaming seent of gravy, and its vapour-baths of
sage.
•T is gone with all its chiming bells, with madness in
each chime,
It’s beery voices with their "Merry Christmas!" all
the time;
It’s mince-plea that breed nightmares, it’s padding
that is sent,
For human crimes to be a moat terrific punishment.
With night the Christmas vapours ail have floated far
away.
Yet some belated revellers still " keep up ” Christmas
Day !1
They have a concertina —oh, good heavens! how they
shout —
••Whoa, Emma I” Yes—the sentiment of Christmas is
played out.
Well, there may be fingers taper
That are rolling of the paper;
And there may be bright eyes, too,
Making cigarettes for you.
But, withal, amongst that weed
There meuy lurk of death the seed!
For the world’s not very good.
E’en though ministers do bless it —
If we said more you would
Be quite certain all to guess it.
A CIGARETTE.
You have heard it often said
That there’s poison in the bread;
And that raspb’rry jam’s a lot
Of disease in every pot:
And yet none of yon knew yet
Death lurked in a cigarette !
You’ve had visions so consoling—
Many with you now do linger—
Of sweet girls the paper rolling,
Each one with a taper finger 1
NOT ON THE HIGH-HORSE NOW.


BRIEF MENTION.
Parkes represents Whereat, and Davies
flowbera.
“K C.M.G.” means, in Queensland, “ King of
Coolie Members’ Government.*'
If those Cingalese -were not single-ht’s, prasps
their influx wouldn’t matter so much ?
Th* Bum has trained a new subscriber, and is so
jubilant over the unprecedented event that it publishes
the latter which encloses the welcome tuppence.
According to the Ram, nearly all the members
returned are Ministerialists. This comes of reading
the political situations through an up-tumed tumbler.
We draw tho attention of the authorities to the
fact tjiat an alien newspaper is published in this city by
people who are still unnaturalized.
Supposing G. R. Dibbs was a Chinaman, would
bo have to pay poll-tax, or wouldn’t his head be clean
omt of the oolony?
A large number of rata were seen by the Cor-
poration Labourers in King-etreet on Christmas morning.
There used to be something about rats and a sinking
ship, bnt we forget It.
Frank Warden, the Domain preacher, said he
wanted the Art Gallery shut on Sunday. Then be went
in tor a little false pretences, and now he wants Dar>
langhurst opened on the Huwbath.
Apropos of strikes. Up at Maokay on a recent
festive occasion, this toest was proposed ; “ Confusion
to the erippler of enterprise, the working man.” It
was daa.«k perfeiridly amidst a chorus ef *' Divll knit
Tm.”
What steps do tho Medical Board of New South
Wales intend to take for the removal from the register
of medical practitioners of the name of Quack Jackson,
so thoroughly exposed in the recent libel oase of Jack-
son d. Goode P And what does the Attorney- General
intend to do respecting that dscament containing a
orgery and the false affidavit P
C.M.G. means—“ Can’t Man-
age the Ghost."
A fellow up North recently
engaged a married couple for his
station. The pair had to wait
for a fciw days eu route, so they
went to the best hotel end took a
private sitting-room and the best
bed.room. When they arrived at
the station, the lady had on, be-
sides a lot of other things, a real-
skin cap and veil and eight-button
gloves, and her hair was plaited
and hanging down hex back. Of
course the squattah had to pay the
expenses.
More Moscow muddles. In
his semi-inspired speech at the
recent Grammar School ‘‘break
mp,’’ Lord Brahmapootra sug-
gaated that the school he re-
moved to that more commodious
and high-toned old shanty, the
Benevolent Asylum. , Consider-
ing the manifold benefits which
would arise from the fact of our
trams, trains, and boneyards bring
so conv-nifc’-itly situated to this
venarable old pile, we infer our
“ trusty aud loving counsellor”
was prompted by some of our
load However, one
removal wtll certainly take place
befoae the school goes to the
Asylum, and it will be that of his
Excelknay himself.
The Postmaster - General’s
hst mitbetic alterMion of names
breaks out iu the CftzßTrE. Tho
Post and Telegraph Office hither-
to known as “Gmindcra" i« to
be known as “Hall” Why?
barely the ringing native namr
is better than that ot a crawl,
ing btmbranger—more e> peel ally
Bj the bushranger’s name must I«
rather a sore subject to some of
the >eople livinr not a hundred
mites from Girindeial One
bloated squatter started up from
Sydney, having, at the Boyaland
elsewhere, boldly proclaimed his
intention of blowing tho stuffing
out of Hall and Co. with a revolv-
ing lifle. En route, he got out to
walls up a hill, and suddenly the
stuffing was frightened out of him,
while Hall and Co “rifled" his
shay, and annexed rifle and all.
Yes. better still call the plaoa
“ Ghiindera.”
We heard a lot about a' candidate who got mad
after the election, but we never hear much about those
who are insane before they go up. They haven't spent
their money then, you see.
As there have been in his electorate complaints
{shameful and unfounded I) about Andy Lynch’s ora-
tory, it is reported that h« has purchased a complete
Parliamentary orator. Can it be David? No, hang it 1
We forgot. He gave a shilling for it.
Great surprise has been expressed in London at
the ridiculous conduct of a pedestrian named George,
who has crossed the A tie otic to walk Myers for a paltry
trophy only. The Auri-alian Eleven consider that
George is unfit to bo at 1 rge.
The following legem’ stands out in bold relief on
the “shingle" of aNewown tradesman: “Venetian
blinds made to order. A I kinds of widows repaired, or
fitted up at a moment's njtice." Perhaps the obliging
cuss means “ windows." .... cur
Extraordinary Christmas leader in the S.M.
Herald. Subject: " Has Christianity been a failure r
Conclusion (condensed) : “ Decidedly of opinion that it
is very hard to fdtm an opinion 1”
Prom Maryborough Chronicle j—“ Mr.
Clayton handed in a notice of motion in favour of
securing a cemetery reserve in Tinana, adjacent to the
proposed Polynesian hospital. This concluded the
business."
Judge Dowling says “ shouting” should be
made a mirdemeanor punishable by law. “ Parkes’
Pander" will scarcely coincide with his Honor,
because if this ever becomes law the whole of the staff
will commit suicide by drinking water.
Fashionable intelligence. “ The Earl of Derby
has intimated that he will receive Agente-Ganeral for
the Colonies oa the same footing as Ambassadors." And
Thir Thanl Tbamuel bath ordered a noo thuit.
In the opinion of Sir Alfred Stephen boys
suffering from a loathsome itch, and who are vermin,
ons, come under the aatfgorv of "deoently clad and
well-nourished children.” Now that we know where
the line of deoenoy has to be drawn, we can start our
“ wholesome fun" on a higher level.
One or two ostensibly masculine idiots in Sydney
are, we see, wearing gold and silver bracelets. Bracelet
wearing, by the way, was fashionable in Sydney many
years ago. The bracelet used to be connected by chains.
So that the fasaion may possiby be accounted tor on
hereditary grounds.
Hordes of ownerless dogs from the Mount
Browne diggings are, so the nea> est local paper sayv,
doing great injury to the sheep in f he neighbourhood.
It is popularly supposed by the squatters around there
that when blackmailing selectors die their souls enter
into the bodies of these dogs.
A Newcastle paper informs its readers that the
tailoring trade has been so brisk up there that one firm
is paying its employes over £5 a man. From this we
infer that it is just £4 12 n 61. better—barring cricket-
club dinners and election drinks—to be a tailor than a
j •mrnalist—in Newcastle.
When, the other day, at Adelaide, the woman
M'Qree was found guilty of murder, a jury of matrons
was ordered to be empanelled to try whether she was,
etc., when no good ladies could be immediately found.
A jury was, however, hunted up before it was found
necessary to apply for assistance at the office.
An Italian, who was looked up with another
Florentine and a Scotchman, in J ower George-street,
the other night, nearly kicked the Gael to death. When
asked what excuse he had for snob conduct, he ex-
plained that he had been a considerable time in the
country. Committed.
A Maori woman in Auckland, who has set up as
a doctor, has performed some remarkable cures. She
gives no medicine, but enjoins sobriety and frequent
baths. Wbat a valuable attendant she would prove on
the staff of the daily Starvhling.
Once, up North, there was a Government official,
who was religious, bat was pretty well known to Inter-
cept some of the supplies which ho was supposed to
dole out to the aborigines. A blaokfellow just hit off
his character— “ Too much Gad, but no damn blanket,"
said the dusky heathen.
The S. M. Herald and the other daily papers
should copy this. In describing the funeral of the
unfortunate victims of the mining disaster, the Argus
says " To-day has been like a Sunday in Creswicx,
only more sad."
“ And you do all this dirty work for lls, 6d. a
dayf’ enquired Mr. Eeld of Detective Abbott, whom he
was cross-examining. "Yee,” was the reply, "and it
you don’t think it’s enough, Mr. Held, you can raise it
when yoa get Into office."
Thady O’Kane says that 451200 has been sub-
scribed to bring a plant and start a paper in opposition
to him. We think wo oonld put the subscribers on
to a plant that they will be able to get cheap before
long. Also a oopy right 111
Braldwood possesses an ingenious publican.
When hauled up because he hadn’t hie alterations com-
pleted, he said be was waiting tor the repeal ef the
Licensing Act. He was Immediately, not to say hur-
riedly, discharged.
It may interest people to know that the key of
'\a Infirmary dead-house is kept In the kitchen. An-
her little item of hospital gossip is that the other d»y
. man had a dispute with a circular saw and lost bis
arm in the fray. The fellow who brought him to the
hospital rolled the arm up in brown paper and presented
it to one of the doetors—evidently under the impres-
sion that it eenld be glned on.
During the hearing of the M'Clintock larceny
oa'e, last week, it transpired that 12.0C0 letters passed
through tbo Dead-Letter 08100 every month. Last
year, no less than £lO,OOO was passed over to this de-
partmenti and jet tho weekly salary some of the
handlers cf this treasure receive amounts to the priaoely
pittance of AOi. .No wonder we want more gads.
On the sth day of the present month. 1851, the
telegraph was first need in this colony The average
number of messages then was about *5 per diem, and
the e’eotric experts used to pass the gr«ater part of
their time spearing flies or pitching damps at a red rag
for pennies. To-day the number of “ wi. es " is nearer
to 25,000, and yet the Department •’ squares checks
li balances the previous dav's business) in the same
old imbecile way it did when Liverpool was the leading
station, and its cash receipts seldom over 15s. This is
ono causa of the many delays our telegrams are heir to,
and Mr. Craoknell might with profit “personally in-
vestigate ** the matter, for, like the Exchange
telephone blow-up, it possesses "several interesting
aspects.’* A few weeks ago it took an express epistle
six hours to travel from Bathurst to Orange.
To Glen Innea,” was the cry of John Davies,
after be got crumpled for Kiama. Ho betook a cab and
bade the man drive to the H.8.8.N. Co.’s wharf. But
ho didn’t go. Ho didn’t find the steamer that waa
going that night sufficiently Hat-tractive. Hem I
I (The Rum works up a climax thus : "Blind
pasoion fostered by ribald rags, reeking with blasphemy
bullying, and blather " This reminds us of the French-
man who said of Blstori •' Mon Dieu 1 She ees roagnee-
feesong, she ees snpairb, she ees pretty meeddling."
And both the Bum and thelFreachraan nave the same
excuse—ignorance of the English language.
Justice in N.S. Wales is so rotten to its founda-
tions that we find a Criminal Court Judge asserting
that he cannot, possibly do his duty fairly, because of
the physical ills and insanitary inconveniences he has
to endure in the court-house Wonder how many men
have been judicially murdered here because the vitiated
atmosphere of a close court made Judge or Jury or
Counsel sick ?
Out Glebe way the mosquitoes are a terror.
The oocnpant of a wooden honse awoke the other night
and found his roof cff. The weather was quite calm,
so he started up to look for the cause. He found a
swarm of mosquitoes squatted on his fence, each male
fanning a female with a shingle. The man who told us
this has joined the Salvation Army, so we can take onr
affy-Davles to it.
Another “ well-connected ’’ thief! It is under-
stood that Mr. Jones, the Education olerk who is non
cut, is vorv *• well connected.” And the rumour is that
if the police wore as sharp as Detective Abbett, of the
Postal department, who arrested the •• well connected"
Mr. M'Clintock, they could effect Mr Jones’s arrest in
a certain railway suburb It is said that the Education
authorities were aware of Jones’s misconduct sometime
le'oru the police received information.
The English Government’s generosity to the
Maori King is evidently setting a bad example to
Tewflk. His Government, finding AraW is a broker,
are about to allow him *530 a year We trust that
Arabi won’t bo tempted to bo giddy with this prodigious
income By the wav, we think it is high time some-
body gave a pension to both D. B. W. Bladen and
Joseph Eokford, Esqa The ono for the excellence of
hfa literature, and the other for the excellence of his
hash.
The Barwon Argus is to hand—the new pro-
prietor having, apparently, succeeded in getting the
1-iau of the paper bespoke about. There is a column
and a half of reading matter, ono-thlrd of it being at oat
a soap.worke The editor save that "judging from the
bar be hns received, the boiler should'know hie busi-
ness.” And, as all the other items are of an equally
absorbing nature, wo have no doubt the new paper will
create some considerable excitement in the district.
A “ Coffee Palace” said a smart thing yester-
day. “I just mentioned to her," explained the hair-
pnrted-in-ihe-middle young man who drove down to our
office in a cab to tell us about It, "that a fellah died
from eating the tops off lunifah matches, an* bai jove I
what d’yer think she said ? Stupid idiot I * Couldn’t
he wait till after he died for hie brimstone H’ Smart,
wasn’t it P'* We said it wasn’t bad, and to let ns know
when she made any more Jokes. Then be skipped down
the marble steps again, and to day bo’ll be there first
thing to breakfast, and as she fetches him bis two slices
of toast and a small egg, he’ll place the Bulletin In
her hand, and proudly say, "Lock here, Jemima, I
put that in I"
The executioner’s tariff in the fourteenth century
was lately discovered in the archives of Darmstadt. For
boiling a criminal in oil, t ho executioner received twenty-
four florins ; if the wretch was burnt alive, the fee was
fourteen florins ; and ten for hanging. To break a man
on the wheel cost six florins j the fee for the rack was
five, and the same sum was charged for branding on the
shoulder or forehead, or for cutting off the nose and cars.
Oh | Well, right here in Sidney, in the nineteenth cen-
tury, we offer to put criminals through the same pro-
cesses for no other reward than the gory pleasure of
seeing them squirm while the operation is going on.
But we moat have the ahoioe of our criminals. In some
cases, we are even willing to pay a premium for the
privilege of torturing traitors and sconndrels. There is
in this city, for instance, a political thief for the joy of
cutting whose oars off wo are willlnv to give what
remnant of our soul the professional snuffl o-busters have
not y>-'t damned. If anyone wants to trade, let him
come along.
A few nights ago a report was spread through
Newcastle that a headless ghost had been seen on the
bea"h at midnight. And the only inhabitants who slept
a wink after the yarn got round were the dead drunks.
Next night the phantom was seen again clad in spotless
white to the shoulders, and holding his head under his
right arm. Most of the horror-stricken spectators fled
immediately, and others fainted, but a strong body of
armed constables and plucky citizens boldly marched
down to the aoectre, and found it was the “ouller’d"
cook off one cf the colliers. He had white drills and
a white coat on. T heso were seen, but his face was so
black that one would have to feel for it. The head
he had under his arm turned out to bo his bundle of
washing. And so another thrilling Seventeen-edition
sensation has gone bung, and all on account of a uiggah.
No ghosts ate reliable unless marked, “Our own make.
Henry Porkes, Kiama."
Says a Queensland paper : 11 Two old men whose
names we do not know nave been wandering about
among the shearing sheds down the river lately. They
had left Dnnwioh Asylum, and trusted themselves to
the generosity of the public for support. One is said to
be quite blind and the oiher partially so, and both are
about 70 years of age. They were found late on, but
neither of them wanted to go back to Dnnwioh, for
• reasons of their own ’ Ij this an allegory, or a
prophecy, or whatlP We have shrewdjsnspioions that
this spiteful llttlelNorthern paper ia alluding to our own
two old men. t~.~ Z ' ’ -
At an annual race meeting a flash youth had
been making himself disagreeable all round, but. as he
was accounted a bit of a bruiser, no one oared about
tackling him. However, strategy is just as good as
strength, sometimes. An insignificant looking party,
quietly dropping his tall Yankee hat over a stump—a
rood solid little ehank of a stump, yon know—so that
it appeared to rest on the ground, said, insinuatingly, to
the universal smasher: “Look here, old *un, I don’t
believe you’re the bit of stuff to kiok ray cady there ?’•
With a wild yell, accompanied by the choicest selec-
tions of blasphemy, the deluded veung bru'ser went for
the chapeau. One terrific kiok I and—the doctor says
he will never wear a slop boot on that foot again.
Soane, up-country. Farmer: grot some
of the primest snnds this year aa was ever seed in the
district, real soUookers; and as for tho punkins and
invuns, they can’t he beat ” Editor of tho Wfaklt
Watermelon (with well-affected nonohalabce, but a
watery look about the month): “Well. I believe it hat
been rather a good season, and I’ve bad lots of applica-
tions for notices; but you see, Mr. Tuber, space is very
limited in the Watermelon (N.B. A cart onm-stnmp
collision in the main street Is a perfect godsend): be-
sides, it’s only hearsay." Parmer: ■“ Well, now, I'll run
you up a underd o' spuds, and a dozen or two punkins
to-morrow, and you can see ’em; will that do P” Editor :
Right you are. Yes. I don’t wind if I do—eame seeing
“Miss Jenkins.” Next Thursday— Weakly Water-
melon : “ We were lately favoured with a view of some
wonderfully fine potatoes of the Early Rose variety,
also a few reaHy magnificent pumpkins, grown by our
esteemed neighbour, Mr. Tuber, whose well-mannged
farm,” *3. “Favoured with a view." Ahem I
Surry Hills owns the most sagacious canine
ever born. It attended the West Sydney election with
its master, who, antl-John-Davies-ed himself with bad
whisky until ho canted over almost as much as the
s. a Austral. Then the balmy odour and inviting
comforts of a oow-yard induced the “corned”
wanderer to ourl himself up into peaceful slumber.
Now was the sagacity of that deg evinced. It watched
and waited till It saw two policemen coming round the
corner, and then It darted cfl like a mad bull in fly
time. By means of signs it led the “oonnors” to its
master, and saw him gently run in to the Darlinghnrst
jug. Then it trotted off home, and told tfce missis not
to sit np for the old man. because he had gone to dire
with a couple of friends. Later, it ran four mi'es and
roused up two chums to bail its master out. We can
vouch for this yam, because we saw the dog
A card. “ Professor Alias. The most accom-
plished criminal impersonator of the age. On hand at
a moment’s notice. Terms moderate. For drunk®—
505., besides amount of flue and perquisites Other
misdemeanours taken upon special rates. Agents
wanted. A pushing person can earn £G per wetk.’’
The above, if course, is only an Resumed card, and,
equally of course, is descriptive of a business done ia a
city whore theporlioe are net so rigidly unbribablo os
they are in Sydnej In that city, any well-connected
young buck who knows the ropes need never fear the
reonlts of any “indiscretion ’’ When he finds himself
"lumbered,” he gives a wrong name, gets out on bail,
and calls upon Professor Alias, who, in the morning,
dons his clothes and a disguise, pockets a fee, answers
to the roll-eall, and planks down the fire. Thus are the
tender shrube of aristocracy shielded from the pollution
of vulgar odium.
A “ bookmaker and dealer” with .£B5 to his
credit In the bank was charged with having insufficient
means of support, and on the evidence of the "D.V*
that he was a mogsmeu be got three months. We don’t
mind this at all, for Mr. Thompson wasn’t on onr visit,
ing list; but if he is to be imprisoned for having insuffi-
cient means of support with £B5 in the bank, what
chance would some of the hungry shadows on tho
metropolitan press have f There are a few gentlemen,
teo, who hang abont club card-rooms on tke watch to
divaHte elevated squatters, who would have a poor
chance of esoapo if they were arrested “on the vag."
These parties play with valueless cheques, and always
keep a shilling to their credit. It having been decided
that three-card monte is s game of skill (which it most
undoubtedly is) the magsman is at once a professional
man—equally so with cricketers who play (and fre-
quently lose) for money. Well, it would seem that
Mr Thompson has bees hardly treated. But perhaps
he wasn’t—say—“well connected.’’
Exactly twelve months ago
Sir ’Eaerv Parkes left for Europe
with ** all his colours flying,”
and his patrician proboscis ele-
vatsd to an angle of 75 degrees.
To-day, none so poor as to do him
rsverenos; or even say, “ ‘Arry,
ele man, will yeu try a zoedoae r*
There’s one apparently hon-
est man at least, at last. We quote
aa advertisement: ” Wanted,
Agency, or eome position ot trust
by a married man. who is neither
a Sunday - school teacher, lay
preacher, nor a 1 well-connected *
clerk in a Post Office. Address
'Alpha,’ 0.P.0."
They are very “utter”
Melbourne. Not long ago a select
committee *' sat on ’’ the hospital,
and part ot the subsequent cor-
respondence saidi “We are also
of opinion that the alcoholic
element skonld, as far ns pos,
sihle, be eliminated.’* Whit the
“cabbage gardeners’’ meant to
say was “ Stop the booze.’
Henry Godson, a sign-
painter, has, we see, suicided.
Thus, at the early age of twenty-
eight, bis career has oh sed, his
ambition to disfigure cur build-
inga had the kibosh put upon it
with a pistol, the yearning of his
restless soul to make out streets
hideous is without fruition. No
mors will he miiplace tbo apos-
trophe; no more put tho heavy
stroke of the V on the wrong side.
His life-long effort to reconcile
the difference between the plural
number and the po. sesrive ossa has
come to naught. O, ye who be-
Have In the Resurrection—ye to
whose hope this life is bnt a pre-
paration for another and a better
world —ye who have assurance that
the good work begun belew will be
finished above, think and be com-
forted. Know that In that far,
fair realm beyond the blazing
sons and twinkling stars, this
gentle soul will improve tho count-
leas ob ms of eternity by blazoning
the walls of Paradise with signs
and portents, in which his 8 shall
be turned the wrong way, and his
O divinely fat.
There was trouble about in a certain city ohuroh
last Sunday night. It seems the way was short (to tho
pub. opposite) and the atmosphere in the choir most
oppressive, so tha organist and three of the principal
male singsrs departed during sermon time to conceal a
few ” long colonials " The feat was toon accomplished,
but. horror I as they prepared to leave, the landioid
informed them there was a “mimbir av the foorce
stationed at the door, and he dated not open. They were
finally released from quarantine jast aa the hurried ser-
vice waa over, and it took tho organ-thumper four hour*
nett day to convince the “olargy" that he fainted
through the excessive heat and that his three friend*
had to carry him out and soak his head in a horse-
trough.
15 000 persons visited the Art Gallery during
the four bunders of November. Should this continue,
no less IHa 180,000 Sawbath bursters will be damned
every vvar—st ledkt, so 'oly ’Enry tails us. Hell will
therein* irqHro enlarging, and for our own taka wo
sincerely Hurt that some pious old Cot potation con-
ttacfoi will art the job. We can then lean up agaiist
the wall, at-d so escape.
The Political Water Jug CRACKED AT NEW-
TOWN.
PROCEEDINGS DE NOVO.
REV. PRESIDENT (loq.): “Brethren, the negotiations for the appointment of a Bishop having fallen through, the pro cee lings
will be commenced de novo. Let us pray—I mean let us to work.”


Sir John Eobertson says of Mr. A. Q. Taylor
the newly elected senior member for Mndgee : *• That’s
♦he best speaker I ever heard in all my life, that young
follow. He’s long and lean and lank and limp, but he
oan talk.”
A refined reporter of one of the W. A. papers
writes about *’ whisky with a fragrance like flowers and
h taste like the dreamy melody of Mendelsshen’s
music " Even a Swan river reporter can bs inspired to
poetry by liquor.
The Narrabri paper says that Sarah Bell has
been committed for wilful vurgery Let’s see—they
t-peak French, ’tia said, at Dubbc—what do they speak
at Narrabri. The language of the Dutch—or rather
the language of the Datoby.
John Dow, who was supposed to have been lost
in the bnah near St. Laurence (N.Q.), has turned up
alive. He subsisted for tea days or so on snakes, and
centipedes. He subsequently exclaimed that ho had
been living for a long time previously in B:igh-street,
Sydney.
Just prior to the departure for Ceylon of Arabi
and his comrades, the Khedive, so a oable says, "pub-
Holy degraded them from their rank" in the presence
of a large number of spectators We may remark that
nothing done by so mean, dissolute, and morally filthy
a crawler es the Khedive, could possibly degrade any-
one.
We read that “ A Sydney man has tanght his
dog when offered sausage to smell it and then turn away
with a mournful howl " Well, what of that I Ltt him
train the *’■ Vagrant" of the Shkobd to this. Then we’ll
applaud his dexterity to the eoho. But to teach this
feat, it would want the man with the grain of millet and
the seadle’s eye. And wouldn’t he have to watch the
grain of millet ?
Sir James Martin who, we are glad to hear,
is a little better ia health, ia going to England (for the
very first time) to make a study of Eiglish jurispru-
dence. Porhapa when Sir James returns there will be
n. chance—for virtuous people horrid plainsp»ak-
iug journal's. We wish his H mcr a pleasant trip,
and if Sir William were going too we would wish him
something. As it is wo merely sav— *' A merry Christ-
man and'*—wa can’t spell what comes after this.
The Wide Bat News—which is growing quite
a sensational little paper—says that •* one of the men
connected with the murder of Lord Cavendish was for
eight or nine weeks running round the Maryborough
district as an agent for the sale of sewing machines."
Only a sewing-machine agent or a book-canvassor could
have committed so deliberate an aisassination, so the
News’ par. has veracity stamped on the face of P. Then
there’s another frisky item : “ A grand drawing of
prizes is to take place in hydney shortly on the Art
Union principle, the chief * gift’ among them being a
daily newspaper with a most complete plant for printing
of all kinds The price of tickets is only £l, so that
a princely fortune evidently awaits some lucky specula-
tor." Let’s see—which daily newspaper would be most
likely to give you a princely fortune? Ob, yes—the
Ktm. Bat surely it can’t bo
Joe Povey, a farmer at “ Tin Kettle Creek,
between Digby and Dartmoor, in the Western district
of Victoria," has forty aores of land, which is be-
witched. Sometimes it is a set of high ridges over-
looking the whole country. At others, it sinks into
deep glens, to the bottom cf which the sun hardly
reaches. Now end again it is the bed of a big lake.
And it carries Joe and his hut wherever it goes. Joe
was frightened at first, but got used to it eventually.
Then he tried to make profit out of it. He coaxed his
forty aores to heave up from the middle like and spread
out. The conseqnenoe is, Joe and his hut and land are
Dashing the next selector’s (onoe way across country in
rout, while the back of Joe’s land ia crowding off the
eighbonrs o* the other side. By andbye Joe’s forty acres
will lay all over Victoria, when Jos will go home and
buy out Sir Samuel Wilson. This is condensed from
the Border Watch.
A diabolical trick has been perpetrated through
the advertising columns of n Sydney daily. A well-
known gentleman living in one of the suburbs with his
angle and aunt is betrothed, and recently bis fiancee
ptid this tmole and aunt a lengthy visit. Seme
scoundrel obtained the insertion of an advertisement,
announcing the birth to this gentleman, and at his
uncle’s house, of a son, the innuendo evidently being
that his flanotSe had committed an indiscretion. Uimn
enquiries being made at the newspaper office, it was
found that the advertiser had left nt the counter one of
the young gentleman’s own cards, and that this had
been taken as a sufficient guarantee of the genuineness
of the announcement. So far as we know, the news-
paper has not publicly contradicted tho decootion. By
the way, this young gentleman seems destined to be
the spirt of an adverse foriune, he having suffered
severely in a pecuniary sense at the hands of some very
well-known and very pious people.
This was a tearful episode, and it happened at
the Coffee Palace Hearing that “Miss Blank." the
only ministering angel who has remained in that home
of stout-hearted philanthropy since it opened, was
about to leave (to —hem I—better her position), the
coterie of admirers who go daily to her table, and would
starve eooner than go to any other, sent round the
plate, and amt a good Christmas box. A demure member
of the Y.M C.A., who was known to have hod great
experience in seeing girls home from choir practice,
and was therefore specially fitted (or the delicate task,
was chosen to make the presentation. So, last Friday,
no sooner had the damsel handed one youth his ver-
micelli—which choked off his gushing compliments—
and another the menu, which induced him momentarily
to rivet has eyes upan herself, than tho Adonis of the
party (a regular matrimonial advertisement young man,
“tali, dark, good-locking, about thirty,” and so on)
rose, and with a face about the tinge of our blotting-
i-ad, put the gift into her ut jewelled fingers. Tbe fair
recipient was rather taken aback at first, and e j isolated,
“Ola I" but toon recovered herself, and observing,
“One seeking pig and two cabinets?" tripped blnsh-
ingly down to tho kitchen slide, and told the sym-
pathising cook how good the young men had been.
Jenny.
AN AUSTRALIAN STORY.
CANT[?] I. (Continued.)
CXXIII.
At d, being robed at length in snow-white vesture.
Frilled down the front with marvellous design.
She went to bed. “ How, Susan, yon can rest your
'lired bones," she told hcrtelf; “and sleep till
nine—
That will be bully. Edinal Why, I’m blest, you re
Not on your Hide ! How dare yon sleep on mine t
To-morrow, miss. IT! taka you several pegs down,
And now take that 1 and stretch your clumsy legs
down."
exxiv.
And, pinching sharply her unconscious sister,
(As she believed), she softly sank to rest;
Another night she would have fondly kissed her
Ere going to sleep, and called her all the beet
And dearest girls She always loved to list her
Small»alk about the way the girls were dresved ;
But all this night she had been quite unpleasant—
Perhaps because young Harry wasn’t present.
exxv.
Meanwhile, without, the gentlemen had gathered
Down by the •* panels" on tho Six foot track.
And each in turn, or all together, " blathered"
Of during deeds performed a good while back.
Here Dick the Siom er found that he hud leathered
Both Joe the Prodigal and Cranky Jack j
Whereat Jim Smith, who was a, man of sinew.
Exclaimed at once : “Yon liel it isn’t in you."
exxvi.
Which meant, of course, hostilities—so stripping
Beneath the light ot tho Australian moon
They went right at it, when the Sponger, gripping
Uis foe aiound the neck, had very soon
Disabled him. Some said his style was " ripping,"
And others thought the moment opportune
To say it wasn't. Bo that all who could shed
Their neighbour’s blood went in again for bloodshed.
CXXVII.
And all this time Selina and her lover
Sat hand in hand, and " saw that it was good j”
He swore to her by all the gods above her.
As nooneelss (except a witness) could.
That from her side he’d never be a rover,
And honestly believed he never wonld.
And so did she whe heard him strongly vow there.
And would have dearly liked to stay till now there.
cxxvm.
But, who is there "can tetber time or tide,” as
(some obscure scrawler has observe 1 before.
No man or wotnua with the gold of Midas
Can make au hour extend on; second more ;
And Time, when fun is on tbe boaid, will glide as
Though forty trams were racing for his gore j
And, so it came to pass, that it was four, at
The very least, when 'Lena was her door at.
cxxix.
The door was lacked, and answer to her knocking
Came none whatever, and, in sore amaze,
She thought, “ Whatever «an she mean by locking
Me out like this ? I can’t make out her ways.
I’ll sleep with Mary, then—these stays are shocking
Tne way they hurt me, but they re ioveiy stays.”
(Man’s love is woman, but his love s love varies
From him to stays or parsons or canaries.)
exxx.
Tnea, pouting prettily, she sought the kitchen,
And passing through it, readied a pamtlena door
Woioh was tee entrance to a small room waioh, lu
Its primial days, had bten the hotel sto e.
But now possessed a bed, the dimpkd witouiu
Which was tuo lively servant girl who ware
The velvet bodice, add adored the hero
Whose reputation, now, was down to zero.
cxxxi.
She lay dejectedly upon the tester.
And tears yet trembled within both her eyes—
The recent combat had eou.uch distressed tier.
She could not sleep, and purposed to arisa;
She was extremely apprehensive lest her
true love should die —a mournful sacrifice
To his unwise redundancy of valour.
Which thought o’ersptead her healthy cheek with
pallor,
exxx i.
Selina, coming suddedly upon her,
Arousid her instantly to active (ear ;
She thought it must be Bob or Ned O’Connor
(A youth pho loved devotedly last year).
And screamed : “ I'll yield my life before my honour,
My money’s spent—there’s nothing for you hero.*'
(The average slavey, from remotest ages,
Esteems her virtue much at ova he; wages )
CXXXIII,
She soon was reassured, and quite disguising
Her own ditqaiet, said it was a shame
Ssllna’s s stcr should go tyrannising
(hhe called “ bossing,” but it means the same).
And showed a nature large and sympathising ;
And said, as sore as Mary wa's her name,
She never sea a house before like this is.
And only wished Selina was its missus.
cxxxiv.
And added that, as day would soon bo breaking.
She’d best «et up—there was enough to 00.
It was no ooußtq icuca whose heal ita< aching,
The work in. there, they had to got it through ;
’Twa* always washing, suruboiug floo s, or baking.
And hearing dirty words from such a craw—
If she had omy known the place, how low ’lis.
She’d not a given her lust missus notice.
cxxxv.
So she turned out of bod, and straightway into
Her place Selma got with much dispaten,
Remarking that it really was a eiu to
Pat Mary in a room with but a latch;
Wuile she, in tu.i email kitchen, did begin to
Light fires and mix the dough to set a batch,
And dropped a knob of soda iu tho copper
For tea—which, in the country, is thought proper.
cxxxvi.
And, being quite alone, she lot her grief out,
And sobbed most pitifully now and iheu ;
And, going to the cupboard, look some beef out,
Ana wept, then put it down, and wept again ;
Thon rushed the cat, which was a notad thief, out.
Then mourned the goiugs on of brutal man;
Then, having nothing to console her handy,
Went to the bar and took a drop of brandy.
CXXXVII.
And, feeling something easier, went back to
The kitchen, where her fire was blazing high,
And murmured: “’Twas enough, that cruel whack,
to
Stretch ®ut poor Bob to all eternity;
I eaw two teeth knocked out—his ej e was black, too—
I hate a man with a discoloured eye.”
And soon her sorrow changed to mild resentment.
And tnat, m turn, to general contentment,
CXXXVIII.
And how fared Susan ? Fast in dreamless slumber
She and thoughtless Harry, side by aide.
Lay till the eight-day clock teld out (he number
Of six, which made her eyes come open wide.
** Well I if she ain’t as cool as a cucumber—
Sslina I will you never wake ?” she cried ;
** It’s no use calling her, she always goes oft
To sleep again,” she thought, " I’ll drag the clothes
off.”
cxxxix.
Which she prepared to do, when on a sudden
Upon the floor she saw a mighty boot
But half unlnosd, with yellow ro&deida mud on,
A**d near—a pair of trousers I Every root
Of her brown hair was stirred. The ■ inguina blood iu
Her heart grew chill. She eat up stony, mute,
Like some snd sculptured goddess of the past—a
Colonial replica of dumb Jocasta.
ext.
Had some sly fairy brought those strange things
hereP or
Had ’Lena done it thinking to affright
Her sister in the morning ? That seemed nearer
The truth ; and Susan, with an angry might,
Piuokod off the blankets from the blameless shearer.
And saw through all in “ lightning-flash of sight.”
Then from the bed halt scrambled and halt fell out.
And let one fiendish everlasting yell out.
CXLI.
Just at this moment Mary’s melancholy
Had quite deserted her, and, in its stead.
She felt a disposition to be jolly.
As the rich brandy mounted to her head.
She put the tea in, in a manner wholly
Without a precedent, and gaily said,
•• They’ll say of Mary, anyhow, when she leaves,
* She gave us tea not made of wora out tea leaves.’ ”
GXIJX,
And moved round fleetly, mercilessly wasting
Whatever could ha wasted then and there;
Sh-.’d just decided on a second tasting
Of Martell’s pme elixir for despair.
And held a ladle, and was fiercely basting
Some meat, when Susan’s yell rang in the air.
And made the ladle fall and spill its gravy
Upon the legs of the excited slavey.
(To b« continued.)
Dr. Fitzgerald, of Melbourne, has under treat-
ment a patient who suffers from a rare ditease,
viz., hydatids iu the bone of the thigh.
The colonisation of that rich country, North
Borneo, is being rapidly proceeded with. Mr.
De Lissa, we are informed, has just returned to
Singapore from Borneo, after having definitely
selected 20,000 acres of Jand, and he has hopes of
obtaining more for the purposes of his Company,
which has been thus fairly started.
LATE SPORTING.
The ,£5O Handicap at Bathurst, 100, 150, and
200 yards, on Tuesday, was woa by P. Kessey, .Temes-
kury second, SEublin third, Malachi fourth.
Wallsend Races, Tuesday. Flying Handicap :
Avalanche Handicap Hurdle Kao* : Crusader. Town
Plate : Qif ensberry. Belling Eaoe : Little Nell.
South Grafton Races, Boxing Day. Shorts
Handicap : Bootnng Produce Stakes : Hat or swill.
Souta Gr.tftoa, li mile; Pole-ti*", 9st. 0 lb, Fate*
well Handicap: KUaplan, 7at 121 b., 1. Pony Pace:
Orphan.
East Maitland Athletic Gathering, Boxing Day.
Maiden P.ate: J E. Daris, Hun Ur’s Util, lj P. Hannou,
Maitland, 2 Grand Hmdieap, £26: J Gibson, Walla-
® id, lj A Spruce, Newcastle, 2; H. Thompson, Seven
Hills, 3. 410 yards Handicap : J WaiDend lj
J. Sneehy, Maitland, 2; Dunlop, Hvnilton, 3 Mile
Handicap: W. Allen, Hamilton, 1; S. Eedgrove, Greta,
2; P Quinlan, Mait’and, 3.
The results of the three days’ play of'the Inter-
colonial Cricket Match in Melbourne augur badly (or
N. S. Wales. Victoria went in first, and were disposed
of for 143 runs—Horan, with 33, making top score.
The New South Wales innings began ba Ur- Hassle
was disposed of without scoring, but Murdoch and
Bannerman made 71 and 78 respectively. The other
d mbie figure scorers were SpcfiEorth 31, Evans 22,
Garrett 10 The total reached was 247- Victoria In
the second innings have nude 332 for the loss of six
wickets—Horan 129, M'Donneil 70, Midwinter 38,
dlaohham 27, Hcott 15, Bounorl3. Eosser and Allan at
the wiekets, 17 and 0 respectively.
Victoria Amateur Turf Club meeting, Boxing
Day, was a great soccer. Weather gcoi. Selling
Haoe: The Qbo. t 1. Kanaka 2, Juntas 3; won by five
lengths. Juvauila Stases: Duenna 1. I<e 2, Monsoon
3j won by a length Hurdle Eaco: Lady Hampden 1,
Dharringile 2, P.G 3; Basilisk, Maid ot the Vale, and
Pilgrim fell; won by iwa lengths Curistmas Handi-
cap: Baron Voa Mueller ran a deal neat with Col-
stoun, Anglesey third ; in the rnn-oif. Oolstouu won
easily. Opan Steeplechase: Bryan O'Lynu I, Tbe
Hawk 2, Abdallah 3; Blackthorn, Colling woo Premier,
p quire, and Breechloader fell; won by three-quar’ers
of a length. Two-j«ar-old Selling Eicei ameua Vic-
t vria 1. Frou Frou 2, P ato 3; »o« by two lengths.
Malvern Handicap: cquraan 1, Transferred 2, Lohen-
grin 3
There was a skating matoh last Saturday at the
Sir Joseph Banks pavilion. Botany, for a five-guinea
medal, given by Mr. Frank Smith. Harry Moyse and
Oliver Clews were the competitors, and the distance
was five miles, or 63 laps. Clews gat away best at the
start, and quiekly obtained a lead of 30 yards. Both
skidded a good deal at first., and had narrow escapes cf
coming to grief, and at abont one mi'e Clews topoled
over. This gave Moyse a chance to g-t some 50 yards
in fro at, and, as Clews tumbled a second time 3 laps
later, he increased the gap and kept improving his
position up to 3i miles, when Clewes put on some
spirited spurts aud bfgan to oome up, amid great ex.
oitemeat. Thera seamed every p:oipaot ot a tight
raco when, for the third time, the same unfortunate
corner caused trouble, aud again the gallant Oliver lay
01-iv-er heap on the floor. Even then, ho gain'd on hi*
leader, but. a scramble outside a pest in tbe 620 d lap
lo t him all chance, and Moyse rolled in winner Dy half
a lap—moyse-t all over, for it was expensively warm.
The A.J,C. Summer Meeting took place on
Boxing Day. The wsatlur was flue, barring a slignt
shower in th-, morning, and the attendance must have
bean upwards of 15,000. For the Hurdle Eacc, Dun-
dreary led Sportsman into the straight, and won by
t»o lengths. At the start for the December Stakes,
Kiigsdale received a kick which threw him out of the
race. Blue and White took up the running at tbe
start, was caught, and won thre-' quarters of a
length from War wick. The Summer Cup was a grand
race—Silver Arrow lad into the straight, but Sard mjx
took command at tha distance for a taw strides only, as
The Gem and Morpeth came with a great rush, and
The Hem, drawing away in the run home, won a great
race from Morpoih thrve.quarters of a length away,
Sardonyx finishing third, two lengths behind. The
Amateur Handicap resulltd in a win for Bandmaster,
who b;at CiraoHcus by a neck, Halvid jre third, four
lengths away. F..r the Selling Flats Stella brat Stock-
dale by a length, Speranza third, For tbo Two-year-
old Plato, Little Wonder won a good race by three-
quarters of a length from Tristan, Gtrtrude third. The
A J.C. Handicap was an e"Sv win for Willaroo, who
came thn-ugh his horses inside the distance and woa
comfortably, Hesperian second, and Godiva third,
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Combined and consistent action is to be taken
by the tt C. authorities for supporting their schools
after the withdrawal of State aid. When their schools
are full, there will be a move to appoint Government
inspectors to look after them.
The Leeds Mbbcdey is a paper that, during
the forty-flvo years it has been in existence, has never
noticed a theatrical entertainment. It has recently
departed from its rule, ani give two columns to Marie
Eoze’s Fidelio. This surprised all the Leeds peop'e a
great deal, but not so much as it astonished the pro-
prietor of the paper. He had left his third son in
charge, and . . . But not even hard shell Baptists
are infallible—er— not even especially hard shell
Baptists.
We clip the following little bit of religious
1 gossip from a pious journal, the Protestant Standard:
—“ Some very queer things are reported to us irom
Forest Lodge, la one case, some stories about a widow
and a will, and of coarse a priest; in another case an
elopement. In which the female party did not exactly
wait to b« a widow, and a reverend gentleman figures
prominently. Will our friends over there be on the
look-out, for ‘ hush up ’ is the word among the faithful,
and even among the Injured. Th« thrue church and
its holy priests 1 ”
Says the Echo : —“ Christmas has been an in-
stitution in tko world (or 1883 years.*’ (I) If that s the
sort of wonderful information the Hunter-street
Evening Educator spreads around, the sooner its staff
goes to school the better. Christmas—the •* human
invention savomiug of papistical wiil-worship" of the
Dial enters—does not actually fall on the real birthday
of Christ, which is unknown. The instiontion was
created somewhere abont 150 a.d , supposedly by Teles-
phorus, who flourished in the reign or Antoninus Pius,
ISB —l6l ad. Hunter-street is too FcHO-tistical.
Eleven Roman Catholics recently published a
letter in the Burranoohg Argos, jointly signed, deny-
ing the truth of certain statements made by the Rev.
Father M'Grath from the altar of Tonng church with
rnsp°ct to the relations between Mr. Carlo Marina and
his E.C. employees. These two sentences occur in the
letter: “Thank God we have always lived amicably with
our Protestant f.'llow workmen and our Roman Catholio
and Protestant neighbours, and we intend to do so.
We also wish Father M'Grath to understand, let him
s ty what he likes, that he will not make us turn nomads
or swagmen.”
Commenting on the result of the University
senate election, the Express says that: “ The Rev. Mr.
Jeflens has the reputation of being a man of deep and
extensive erudition, but during the short time he has
made Sydney his dwelling place, he has given no evi-
dence ot much power or llnerality of mind. His lecture
on Rome was as flagrant a specimen of bigotry, intol-
erance, and incomprehension as we remember to have
read, and alt this with a loud profession of truthful-
ness and impartiality. He appears to have wandered
through Rome with bin mental perceptions shut to fact,
and open to the wildest imaginings. We acquit him of
any intention to give a false representation of what he
saw—(would it ba too much to say, what ha thought he
saw ?)—rather excusing him on account of early im-
pressions and defective training; but is a man of that
calibre fit to bo public instructor and representative in
our greatest scholastic institution?" The naivete oftha
last sentence is exquisite.
As tho “Salvation Army” passes, your ears
detect a bundle ot discordant, wheezes indicating that
the quartette are do ng something that they think is
singing You look at them first pityingly, and then in-
dignantly, with a ssa-sick feeling amidships. You
v/puld lock them up if yon could and forever debar
I Mem from degrading humanity, insultirg civilization,
and satirizing intellectual progress by such a series of
crankeriea as would deba e a monkey's cage. Do they
imagine, these gospel-yellers, these pulpit gymnasts,
these duly accredited pissenger agents to heaven, these
rlght-hand-mcn-of God-A'mighty. that they are helping
tfceir fellows or the cause of rehgicn by such ttanscen.
dent and imbecile follies? Do they nob know that the
more they cheapen religion ; the n ore they strip fr m
a mjsiicat God the grand, intangiile and indefini'e
g r eat» e-s w th which the superstitious, and theief re,
religious, mind ch tbe-i Him, me mere they weaken hta
hold >'pon the imagination ai d ihe mind? Are they
so blind as nob to me that while they are trailing tl e r
deity in the dret cf the comrcnt'plhoa and making His
son a blood relation of ever* filthy and unkempt Aran
of ths macadamized desert, the Catholic religion which
they affect so to despite and hHe is going far by and
beyond the n ? Let any one of them, any of the Silva-
tionists whose well-fp’irgef idiccv bai net whol'y filled
up his cranial cavily, compare for cn instmt, the
deg-ading familiar and ei ly fashion in which ths
Di.ine Creator is referred to and considered in in
ordinary protestimt rev va* meeting, with the mystic-
ism, the halAtights, the reverential silences, the grand
musical re vi e the awe-inspiring chants, the myster.
ions sytni o'.isms of the altar, and all mvei tiom which
the worshipping minds of oahtunes have devised to
captivaie and enthral the imagination, and then dreide
which of tb« two ways of regirding t he things of heaven
ia more likely to enchain alike the intelligent and the
unlettered of the Birth.
The Rev. Newman Hall found it necessary to
" sunder the bonds whi -h God had j dned," because h s
“misins” used to rig fl i'lg-horses in his study ebair,
and physio his coffee, and flirt with grooms, and wonder
aloud before the company how she canid ever have
been so foolish a» to marry the rev. gentleman. Then
there is the fashionable divine who, until very recently
preached oth real sermons to his culohawed congrega-
tion in a Pittsburgh church, and who used to exhort
his loatient wife at home by slinging a hot cup of
tea er a greasy -steak into her face, and then haul her
round the room by the h«ir if the didn’t say "Bor
these and all other gifts,” &c. with beooming zeal and
devotion The*e little pleasantries leaked out during
his trial also. Then we have P istor Ln. 'cay, who was
a good and true old man, and wanted to bring up
his family properly However, little Tommy Lind-
say was au obstinate child, and naed to ‘‘play
the wag" from Sunday-school This got little
little Tommy disliked, and one night his good old Pa
remonstrated with him. At the end of the it quest
next day the jury found a verdict ftr th* plaiutifl, and
new Paster Lindsay is actively engaged converting blue
metal into gravel and three-ply oakum into door mats
bearing the social salutation “ Salve.” Deacon S*mp.
son, of” Noo Jerrs’y ” endeavoured in the meet {raise-
worthy manner possible to keep two wives at onoe, but
somehow Providence went, back on him, and he couldn't
•* make it ” Hia real wife ventilated herself with a
pistol; his congregation “bagged” him, and now ha
billiard marks, whilst his second spouse gets her living
by standing at street corners atd asking strangers
“ ain’t they goin’ to likker.” Brothah Barns, of
Chicago, was an earnest worker in the vineyard on the
Sawbath, and during the rest of the week he ran an
opera-bonffa company under the name of Bourne's,—so
that he treated his flock to ” Mary Magdalene ” on the
first day of the week, and “ Madame Angot" the night
after. One night, however, a tenor named Pirez was
unmercifully “goosod” by the audience. Another
worker was then substituted —the leading soprano
refused to sing with any other yelper except her own
deariPirer; Bournes told her to draw her salary and
go to the dev-the placi where glory waiied her;
the squaller “ split,” and now Burns burns in the roast-
ing fl-unes of Chicago’s indignation.
It was the little boy who said—“ When there’s
two you call ’em twins. end when there’s three you call
’em giblets—do you Ma P ”
Lady Montague said: “It goes far towards
reconciling me to being aw- m-u when I reflect that I
am thus in no danger of marrying one." It reconoiles
ns to being a man that we am never be the wife of a
libel juryman.
At last the elocutionary art is receiving some
attention at ladies’ seminaries and other educa-
tional institutes in this city, and clergymen and
others, whose living it is “to speak well,” are
paying a little more attention to the study. This
is one of the results of the presence here of Miss
Lydia Hastings, who has been induced to remain
and offer encouragement to the elocutionary ait.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained such
high txceilence as in Sydney. Certainly wj are in no
sense behind any other city. Visitors to Sydney might,
to test this, visit the eetaolisnaient of Messrs. Adolphe
Gabriel and Comma'-, 18, Wynward Square, two doors
from Pfahlers’s Huel Hero the manmacture of every
essential ia tie profession la carried on. At tbs rear of
the surgery Is a oompaot little factory where all the
requisites for supplying every dental defect In the
human month are made, Messrs. Gabriel and Co.
.(whose only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two tirnu of the same name in
he Square, patients will oblige by paying particular
ttenaon to the Christian name, Adolphe, and tb r : unm-
et, 18, 3 doors from Pfahlurt’s Hoteb
The Stumpy-Tailed Dog.
[A BELTYANDO FACT]
It was when the evening shadows fell upon the survey
camp,
And the cook was sloshing victuals round, there came a
seedy tramp.
Closely followed by a mangy cur whose ragged, wrinkled
ramp
Couldn’t sport a festive tail, but wore a disappointing
Stump.
Said the stranger curtly—** Say, mr.tes! I am ravenous
as h—1,
And this terrier dorg is ravenous as well.
If the tucker's on, I'm there, you bet." He sat down
on a log,
And wo passed the veal and damper to him for him and
his dog.
'Twas the last wo saw of any o! that damper, of that
oalf,
For the stranger collared one, and chocked to Stumpy
t’other half;
And the Cook retired unto a sweat, sequestered spot to
pray
That ha might be blessed with visits from such gorgera
every day I
For it pleased his pride to see grub melt away liko
valley mists,
So he *‘ prayed " while cooking halt the night against
their morning ** twis's."
Gut the camp had ate and gone to work before that dog
and man
Uncurled tbsmee'.ves from sleeping as the weary only
can.
Whin next the sunken ana brought back each man unto
his tent,
Ths ohain-nan yelled, “ Halloa I My (clotted) cabbage-
tree has went ;
And all my blarsted bacca, too, some (ruby) thief has
took,
And my (ensanguined) swag’s bean broaahed 1 Gaul darn
it, where’s the cook ?
You (gory) gobemouohe; what d’yer mean by letting
(crimson) blacks
Clear out with all our (ruddy) things, and make (rubes-
oent) tracks P
You know darned well, you (rufous) fool, that you’re in
charge of camp ”
Replied the oaok, •* It warn’t the blacks. It wero that
blonzy tramp! **
And so it was. The gorgeous rip had rifl ad all our duds.
Had stol’n a sack in which he’d damped at least 61b. of
spuds,
A billy-can which he had lined with bacca, sugar, tan ;
And with the loose cash iu the camp he’d made un-
common free;
He’d snavelled flour and salt junk which wonld last the
camp a week,
And spotted out the bacon, too, which had the choicest
streak.
Then each man sallied forth and cut a sapling switch,
to flog
The next starved tramp who calls round with a stumpy,
tailed small dog.


CITY CATERING
315 GEOEGE STJ
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional workrt
tioal experience, nearly all from tl
of Compagnoni and Co., who pe
and carry oa the working of tin
general manager.
It is not a public company, and t
the expenses appertaining thereto
N.B.—Hince opening, on 27th
encoessfeily oatered THE LdEG
CULT, and MOST EESPONSIbI
have taken place here to tho prese
The Consular Dinner, in onr new 1
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entertain
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worship
tained their E.H.'s PEINCE AL
Earl ClanwiiU&m, and the Oific
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constituti
tion Building.
Masonic Baal, N.S.W. Constitn
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.'s PEINCE AL
to Lithgow Talley M.nes and
Russe, for 60, in Government Pa]
travelling.
Government Eafreshmont to 15,00
Queen’s Statne Demonstration—
NOTICE, only receiving the ord
ready on the spot at 13.30 p.m. t
Visit of THE 18 E.H.'s PEU
GEOEGE to Captain Cook's Li
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon
100, under VEEY SHORT NOT
at 9 30 p.m., to he ready on the e
kg day.
The Lady Mayoress' reception. To
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s J
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge 1
Banquet Eoom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Eoom.
Dinner d la Rugae at St Paul’s Coll
of tho Church of England Synod
Dinner d la Russe to the In tore
Town Hail.
The Luncheon and Eefreshment
gentlemen, at the turning of the
iros.’ New Eailway Eolling Sto
ville.
The Luncheons and Eefreshment ]
Eaces, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Eesreshment
Eaces, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Payre of i
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Engh
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of P
Dinners, 1 oasts, Ac., Ac.
The CITY CATERING COMPf
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Q 1
and all requisites for Balls, Picnici
and will bo glad to send out the
T'astry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confeo
Civil and attentive waiters ale
services required.
Wo have m our possession letter
high standing in tho city, oomph
manner we have performed the dut
CBAS. B. SM3
(Late ©f the firm of the original Cc
MALT BIT
Ihe great Cure for Indigestion
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE 7! ...
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, C
A. GORMAN,
(late of the Telegraph Hotel, laverell),
HAS OPENED THE
“ CLARENDON,”
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel.
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to «rai •> a
share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS will find this
surpasses most of the leading HOTELS for ACCOMMO.
DaTION and every CONVENIENCE ; and, tea it over-
VENtSatId >A * K * ib mUBt to WELL
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It, is not recess-arv to mention the quality of th%
WINES. SPIRITS, BEERS. &c. as he is. and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES to r
elling nothing but the very best.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Sir Henry Partes’ view of the attitude of the
oo»Btry before the dissolution only extended as far as
ms I could retch.
According to the Rum, Mr. Bruoa Smith, “a
shipowner and ship indent,” is the new member for
Gundagai. What unnaturalized alien wrote this ?
The men in the late election who browbeat the
f° r saying so much about csnruptlon forget tbs
rant th»t if you bar# a pimple on your nose the looking
glass is sure to show it
After all, Mr. Quin takes the seat for Wen
worth. Mr. E«n« was last week generally credit*
witn a majority of 49, but a number of additional return
which have sine* eome in reverse the positions of th
candidates, and give Mr. Qain a majority of two.
A wag said, the other day, that Mr. Johnston
who lost his £4O in the Qlonoepter election* t o
haye got la. He had gok schools for the district* sue
bridges for the children to r#»aoh tham* and wherev«a
©here was a church or a pub. he put a loot*up.
We have received no reply as yet from the Sfc
.Leonards returning officer with regard to the rumon
mentioned in ear last issue, of one of his deputies
acceding pay u a canvasser. Wo presume the re
turning officer does not wish the matter to be hushe
up. We want bo know—that's all.
At the Armidale election, at a meeting, some
T £ *hrew an egg and hit M'Elhone in the eye. An
Jack had no sooner began to swear, thaa a man said—
It wasn’t meant for yon, Mao,, bat that
Proctor.” *• Then beg that Proetor’s
pardon,” yelled the dandy democrat.
It is stated on good authority that the legalit
of the late election at Forbes will be called in questio i
on -,7 s l.L lo . n ?.^ roal:ld8 ' Amongst other allegations it i
said that the proper electoral rails wore not used a ;
pome ol the polling booths. A good many regard thes
statements as mere bonnes of a defeated party, wh
are taking their licking very badly.
At the late electioneering campaign in th
Porbes electorate the committee of Mr H. H. Coo
determined to run him and Mr. A Stokes together
Atter a week, however, they discovered that th
majority of Coonan’s supporters would als* go fo
aind that thus Cooke would bo helplessly throw
oat, as Coonan’s election was a certainty. They a;
once threw Stokes overboard, and went in for plumper
for Hanry Harris, which accounts lor the good stand h
made.
We are proud to chronicle the fact that Mr
Fletcher. M.P., opened a pub. billiard-room at N=w
castle, the other night, amidst much enthusiasm. Hi
popularity is such that, if he opened an oyster, ther
would be geatral rejoicings. Mr. Fletcher must hav
done a good deal to deserve all this. Well, John Davies
has done a good deal, and yet, if he opened even
Temperance Lodge, all the doge In the city would
commence barking. This comes of being too lavish
the hat line.
Mr. Percy Hodgkinson, who was licked for
14 Man bey an, after the declaration of the poll, eon
s.-gned the returning officer and the free and inde-
jpendent to Hades, and himself to Goulburn. We ar
nclined to think that, from his utterances on tt
“nstings, Mr. H. would have been, if not an ornament,
at least a highly respected member of the Assembly-
had he been elected. Nothing was heard of poor old
<*a.e in connection with Qnsanbeyan this time. But
liaely enough he pondered over that last £4O.
v ®°^ er * a » 0.M.0., has given up the
Gazette, Threepence a week isn’t much, bn
Etillitwas the "threepenny" that made Charley all
nets. Charles, it appears, is in favour of clesine the
5? t r 9 . 0 £. San , da 7* aßd at H P-JU. weak nights—hence
his defection from the Trade Defence Association. Now
we all know that the hoar between 11 p.m. and mid-
night was for years Charley’s sheet anchor, and that
one of the features of the Sunday in Sydney for years
there •» Com9 roand to Charley’s, yen can got good tack
Says a local paper; “Almost simultaneously
with the amvai of the Hon. E. Wisdom at Morpeth
a brilliant aurora borealis was observed at that place.’
JTnis i* pleasantly humorous, and it is the more pleasant
because it is not inspired. The great lark is that Bob
nas been vaguely wondaring ever since whether the
editor means a compliment or " borack.” When one of
t<^ rnej, : GO l ? e f al l 8 00ll «ft«ne8’ attention was drawn
to this item by Hobart, the hon. gentleman angrily re-
marked that if aa aurora borealis got within reach of
hfm he would get a stick and kill it instantly.
We wby some of the papers that an Orange
clique in the Hawkesbury electorate do not intend in
any way to recognize Mr Harry MQuade as their mem-
her, now that Mr Bowman has been rejected. They
say they will oppose anything M Qcade projects for
donf? 6 fVl ra - te ' x . Tbus these foreigners fathom the
depth of their patriotism. It is to be presumed their
attachment to the Q ueen is conditional. But the point
is—do these foreigners want to be disfranchised ?
Orange societies and Hiberni in political organizations
are foreign to this climate and soil The political pro-
gramme of this country for the future is to foster no
Londonderry 1 "*^ 8 Bpawned at Dublin or whelped at
“ S l r Henry Parkes has had a great detl of
?“? Jhrown at him bsoaure he went in for little Ten-
twfleld after being defeated at the great East Sydney.
But Gladstone did the very same thing nearly a
decade (!) back, when he sat for the small constituency
of Greenwich after his thorough defeat in his former
constituency ” That is how Henry Harry Cooke puts
it m the Forbes and Parkes Gazette Of course it’s a
Cooked statement. This incident of “ nearly a decade
back occurred in 1863—but is nothing like on all fours
with Parkes s burglary of the Tentorfield constituency.
In that year, Gladstone was defeated f->r S.-W. Lmim-
shire, but elected second for Greenwich. The differ,
enceiltee in this— Parkes sneaked an unopposed claim :
Gladstone wont to the poll against other candidates
Eke a man.
“ They throw Bible* and bear at Gladstone’s
headland how shall I eseape.”—Sir H. Parkes.
Sir Honry Parkes has had a number of foolish
speeches ls.id at his door in times p\st # but hero is one
wherein he exceeds himself in folly. He in report* dto
have said lately : •* All young pent* whose heads are as
eurg-sheUu, and who em’t carry aught heavier than a
pwtty two-ouneo cane are against mo." Ghost of
Kiama 1 what is he giving ns P Here is a little advice
for hltu ia rhyme—
The secret is out at last. The Tenterfield paper
new admits that several " serious and alarming caspg of
mania" have occurred up that way during the "last
,^ e flr,t symptom* are ssid ie be
•wiUWnsr* of the nerve* somewhat similar to those
produced t>X -Strychnine ; and some days after, sudden
pels and nsania eeiae the sails* ta. who, if not forcibly
retained, would daeh their brain* out against ths walk
and during the paroxysm do all in their power to bite
those holding fiiem* This thing has evidently boen
kept in th« dark for some time. Most of the maniacs,
by the way, conn from a cheerful retreat rather appro-
priately called '* Snake's Valley.'* We would like to
find oat—simply for the curiosity of the thing, you
know—just how many votes Sir Henry Parkes would
have polled had there been a contest in this sylvan dell
1 a t', ? OEa P' ire ,l the number polled in less snake*
[ ridden localities. Also, what commission the snakes
would have got after tke election.
Parliament without Parkes and Robertson
| would not look like the propsr thing."—Pubbo Dis-
patch.
Of course not; if you, the true ring
Guage of that phrase “the proper thing,”
1 Now, let us analyse the •* biz,"
And see what this 11 thing proper ” is ;
That is, of oourse, on the high rule
Paid down by the King ‘Enry school.
t NoBo * ” aT ® In strong atiay.
Led, like pig-Cooke, into each fray.
Second. Illimitable *’ blow,”
To overcome a modest foe. ~
TTiird. Let your conscience be, aye, nen est
And soorn all words and actions honest;
And, fourth, though void of right to fill it.
Stick like a horse-leech to your billet;
In fact, with thiok-ik.naei 000 l vflfont'ry,
Uphold yourself, and damn the country 1
Tela, under our late pious King,
Was what was deem'd the proper thing 1”
300 tons of tobacco will be sent from Tmnut
this season, representing in value £20,000. The highest
price that bus jet been paid for any leaf is eji. per ft....
At Gama, Q, James Fowler clubbed a isnider rifle,
deliberately swung it with all his strength, and com*
pletoly smashed in his wife’s skull.
Blow, ye breezes, gently, pray.
On the youth of ’Eighty-two;
One strong puff would blow away.
Half the crutch and toothpick crew.
Fragile fops who smirk at balls.
Tightly-laced, stick-sucking get,
- Pumps and shirt-fronts in the stalls—
Lemon squash and cigarette.
Conciseness is a virtue whan telegraphing A
man wired te his wife: “ What bad you for dinner, and
what did the doctor say about baby,” The tuuwer
came; •• Boast pork and the chicken pox.”
Now-a-days if you want to be complimentary to
a ladv on the perfect .fit of her dress, tell her it gits on
her like paper on a wall 1 George S. Peters, of lowa
tell m love with a mdliner, paid his wife £lOO for a
divorce, and had be«n free only two months when Mrs.
heir to £IJ OCO, and the milliner robbed him
of and levanted At Melbourne a woman
named Solomon snrd her husband for maintenance
Solomon is blind Fourteen years ago Mrs. Solomon
performed an operation on his eyes with a pi ir cf
scissors. He says he had detected her in impro-
prieties, when he put out his eyes. She denies his
statement, and saj sit was all an accident. She alto
says be has plenty money, and is living with another
womaa_ He baa agreed to make hep an allowance.
Mr. Csbb recently married Miss Webb ; he knew that
they were intended far each other as soon as he spider
.. ''The only jokes women like to read are those
which reflect ridicule on men" That is why, on
taking up a paper, a woman iuvariablv turns to the
marriage column An Italian gentleman named
Driscoll, who does Victoria the honour of re-iding at
Geelong, tore oil his wife’s lower lip the other night.
He wasn t kissing her at the time, but caressing her
with a brick.
Thady O’Kane, of the Charters Towers Miner
has been “ slated” in a libel action to the extent of £159
sad coats. The plaintiff was the celebrated Willie
Morgan, the goldfields’ solicitor, who said in his speech
that “he asked the jury for £2OO damages: he did not
want any farthing verdict or £5O verdict, but be wanted
£2OO out of O’Kane for the manner in which he had
slandered him and dragged the names of 1 i- wife and
children before the public ” One of the libels com-
plained of was that Mr. O’Kane wrote in his paper that
it was apparent that Mrs. Morgan was a “ pale-faced
sad-eyed woman." He (Mr. Morgan) had “ taken Mr.
O’Kane to his house and fed him,” which, of course,
meant asked him to dinner—a rather feeble thine, it
strikes us. to try to make a point cut of in an ad captan.
du>n address But if O’Kane libelled Morgan in r,is
piper—which very likely he did—Mr M'rgan, in his
opening speech in court, was disgustingly abudve—
availing himself to the utmost of the license al'owedto
(bat ©ply seized upon by cowardL) counsel to blast *be
character of the defendant. Referring to O’Ksne, Mr
Morgan sail— amorgst oth»r things wo can’t quote
—that “it was known that bo (O K ) was br.mg’-.t np
in a charity-school, the* dragged through Maynocth
College; that ho was intended for the priesthood, hut
when his crooked eye and crooked nature were dis-
covered, the Church would not have him, and he was
kicked out, reneg-de and apostate that he was. Then
he slandered the Prime Minister of England, Lord Pal-
merston, and tried to extort money from him at the
expense of his wife’s honour, but he was driven from
the Four C ourts of Dublin . . . . ” Mr. Morgan
likewise stated that tho Miner “had hounded p*or
Grenside, who committed suicide the other day, out of
the town." Thus far, ns the case went on the plaintiff
had decidedly the best of it; but when Mr. Marsland,
the defendant’s lawyer, came to cross-examine him on
bfthalf of defendant, Mr. Morgan did not so particularly
shine. It sterns that one of tho six articles of which
the plaintiff complained was entitled “ Samivel bevaro
of Vidders,” an allusion, as Mr Morgan admitted “to
Mrs O’Neill, who was krown to everyone in town as
“ the widow," and the par. referred to her. He admitted,
however (wa quote the Herald), that he frequently
visited Mrs. O’Neill’s house; had been there late at
night; had snog songs; had snng a parody of *My
Grandfather’s Clock;’ had been drunk, as many better
men than you (Mr. Marsland) have. Also he said • I
am the only lawyer here with a palefaced wife except
ycmrsalf (Mr. M . again), and yon never gointo a public-
house; don’t believe you ever had a glass of grog in
your life, er had a stomach big enough to carry it ”
And Mr Morgan got £l5O damages! Well, it is known
that O’Kane won’t lose a farthing by the verdict, since
his is the “ big party ” on tho diggings, and the miners
always plank down their coin for Thady. At the same
time, it would seem strange to the inhabitants of any
conptry but New South Wales that, while Mr. O’Kane
never said anything half so rough about Morgan as
Morgan did about him (being fully reported), Thady
should get the worst of it. Perhaps, though this is
the penalty of greatness, and of sneee*s. If this be the
case, there is bo need of the Shroud ever fearing a
“ slating” in an action for libel. Poor thing I By the
way. Morgan’s marriage was one of the most creditable
episodes of his chequered career. He was boarding
with a family, when the father died, leaving a widow
and two charming daughters totally unprovided for
Morgan removed to other quarters, but saw that the
distressed ladies should want for nothing; and, after a
proper interval, married one of the daughters. Mrs
Morgan was always delicate, and Thady O’Kane was
amply brutal when ho made of the paleness of her com-
plexion a weapon to attack her husband. At the same
time, it is a thousand pities that there is no wav of
making lawyers pay for the frequently equal brutality
of their attacks upon the private characters of liti-
gouts in court.
We read, with a good deal ef amusement, that
Mr. .Fred, Mervin is still bad with Lronchitis. Poor
fellow I We sympathise very much for Merv'n, bat we
don’t woep particularly for the managers ! They ought
t o lay him up in o_>i ton wool —or—hah I—Laverneder,
Talking of stars, we saw Joe O’Brien, the other day,
who was agent f-r the l.eake.Simmons Combination.
Joe looks very well. He has the healthy appearance of
a man who has walked far I Thantme of Joe, as you
® thetics will admit, at once snggeststhit of Mad-eihs
Onner/e l- . who need to be Madame JBenudctf— de la
main gauche, has j ust got married at the age of fcs. She
has onoseu au actor named Jmval, who is said to be
pliying the Duval (whoop) with her money. Fancy a
woman of 65 getting married—at last! Une <ju i a vc'cu.
This par. will be a 15-puzzlo for the Hum.
Captain Webber, of the Californian mail s'earner
Zoalaudia, well-known in thi* t ity as couunandvr lor
many years In the A 9. N C >.*s cos’al su-rvice, and later,
as master of the ocean-going steamers Qunga and Ocean,
trading to F ji and t> China respectively, is veiy popu-
larin his pie-tnt command. His officers and ct<-w like
his hearty wajs, and find nothing unpieasa *.t in een-ible
discipline good humouredly admiau ered. With pas-
sengers—gentlemen as wall as ladus—Ciptain Wibber
is a prime favourite He takes a lot of trouble to
organize amucementi and promote sociality during^the
passages of his steamer Bifora thn Zsalandia
reached Auckland oa her last voyage to the colonies
the passengers got up a testimonial to Captain Webb r
and subscribed to (.resent him with a splendid gold
chronometer Waltham watch.
Many imagine that that interesting case at
Sierra Leone, where two girls wire (-tripped, flogged,
peppered,_ a--<l broiled in the sun, occurred lately. It
occurred in 1877, but the labourers in the Lord’s vine-
yard forgot to mention it in their annual report at the
time. The two zealous missionaries who did it were so
busy in establishing the mild sway of the Prince of
Peace, that such a trills slipped their memory. The
facts antecedent to the Christian auciplice of strip,
ping, flogging, peppering, and broiling are these: Two
native girls of tender age had the inestimable privilege
of being allowed to serve in the hou?ehod)s of the?e
godly men, being m enraged, even constrained, to cul-
tivate the soil, carry bmdens, a T ;d do everything neces-
sity to relieve the holy men and their wives from the
unpleasant irksomem-ss of physical fatigue. B?-
oau-», dear reader, the climate is rather enervating
“where Afrioi’s sunny lountsius roll down their
golden sand;" but the children of sin are used
to the heat. lu spite ef these opportunity s
of achieving godliness, the inherent wickedness and
depravity of the heathen nature cropped up, and, not-
withstanding they were daily smitten, the girls r<-
mained human, and imperfect. One day, after a pro-
longed Christian smiting, they ungratefully left their
benefactors. This wag too much I and the devout man
of (Jod, nerved by a tense of doty and sparred on by a
love of souls, felt it necessary to inflict, for their eternal
welfare, soma Christian discipline on the backsliders.
Wa need not repeat what has been already deter bed :
the discipline was merely stripping flogging, peppering,
and broiling. It was only done for the good of the
contumacious girls, who had been so unutterably sinful
as to leave the •* service of the Master '—or the Master’s
men, which is just the same. One of them was so har-
dened in wickedness that she died—and, probably, went
to hell, 'the two holy missionaries pursued their
devoted labours for four years, and then some uncon-
verted persons—wicked freethinkers, most likely—” lot
up’’ on them. So now they don’t work in the Lord s
vineyard any longer, but are ruefully occupied with
little hammers and little heaps of stones.
What, 'Bnyy lat y«u Bibles throw!
rou, who. m Sabbatarian glow,
Ont-pac'd In high and pious canter
The most infatuate Domain raster !
Would not, as from a sacred minister,
The -good hook " dodge thy featured sinister?
Waste beer on you! W« do not think it;
fho prndent crowd would rather drink it I
No! no! to strike you truly dumb.
They’d pelt you with "your weakness"— Bum,
Farkee. Bibles, bear \ a mixture curious,
A combination highly spurious.
Oh, oaekle, cease, we beg,
Your satire falls too flat.
Yonr ewn bead’s but a huge goose-egg.
And addled, too, at that.
Y oa’ve stood noon this egg of late
Before high heav’n—and thus.
Though nothing you could incubate,
You were an incubus.
To speak ef oanea, some sense you lack—
Why, man, yeur weals are raw—
And now might yosir old camel baek
Be broken with a straw.
An Incident in the Belyando Country.
The sun was slowly slaking.
As, tired by his tramp;
The sunburnt bushman walking
To reach his welcome camp
Saw, Sitting on a log near,
A man Wnoss hair was groy-
ne said, “ Good evenin', gnv'nor.
How lar’ve you come to-day f "
No answer gave the traveller—
He scarcely seemed to hear;
The greeting was repeated,
■Bat still he gave no ear.
He seemed so old and wretched—
The bnshman said ; “ Yon need
A spe'l, old man ; get up now,
Come.down and have a feed.”
With this he shook his shoulder
And startei back in fear :
The poor, o d, weary traveller
Had sat there dead, a year.
Thus many tired swagmen,
Ha'f poisoned with bad grog,
D!o in the bush n«Vr heard of
-Pike this one on thedog.
Am I Better or Worse?
I deemed it a sin in tha days of my youth
If I e’er passed a chared without dofflag my bat.
For I thought there enshrined was the spirit of truth.
Of charity, virtue, and faith, and all that I
Am I better or worse now to think, as I do.
That avari c and pride are the things that hold sway.
That the teachings of Christ have been lost to the view
In the pomp of the sanctity meant for display f
Am I better or worse if the Sunday pass by
And I don’t go to church, but go out in the fields
And view God in Nature un earth and in sky,
And rej >ice at the good that the bountiful yields ?
Or to gaze from the beach on the ocean’s broad breast.
And watch the great ve~sol so stately and tall
Borne away till it seems like a seagull at rest.
And thus rev'renoa him who created them all ?
Am I better or worse when I think, ns I do.
That it mu to hit fe low ba nought and just.
With the path of in'egrit? ever in view,
..Contagiously, manfully, holding his trust,
With a hand that can do, and a heart that can feel
For anott er’s affliction, another a distris’,
Tho he ne’er goes to church with his neighbours to
kneel,
He has acted a ttus man’s part nevertheless ?
Am I better or worse when I think, as I do.
That the cunning of has always designed
To bir up all progress, and liberty, too.
And religion’s a bond jast to felter the mird ?
When I thtnk of the martvrs to science and arr,
Who gallantly, fear'essly, championed the truth;
A feeling regretful will steal o’er my heart
For doffing my hat in tha days of my youth.
F.E.
Brisbane.
Christinas in the Bush.
“ The Young Chap from Home."
Oh ! I wish I was back in that dearol.i land
Where each face was the face of a friend )
I am tired of a country that always seeuio strange,
Uf forests and plains without end.
I wish I could hear that old neighborly talk.
Or stroll only ome down the lane.
Or go into church just as sirvise begins.
And j ain in the singing again.
I Could cry like a oh Id when I think that to-day
The old table is spread there at. home.
And they’re gothning around it all tappy and bright.
All but one, and be never will come ;
The children aro there, fro n thj yonngtst and least —
Wee things just beginning to speak ;
Will anyone miss me, and wish I was there ?
Oh yes, mother has tears on ter cheek.
She thinks of her absent boy, morning and eve.
And prars for him, too, < n her knees ;
Ah 1 now I’d have, scou r than all wesl'h could buy.
One crust Of her brown bread and cheese.
She knows nod, though I do, how dearly I’ve learned—
I would not. believe it a hen told
That the wealth of a home that’s entiohed by her love
Is dearer than nuggets of gold.
T. S., Tim’s Gally.


B
6. B. MODI
GUN-MAKKR AND C
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (th«
at the International Exhibitio
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS
A MAGNIFICENT stock of E
barrelled Breech and MfmU
Rifles. Revolvers. Ac. AH »oocf
guaranteed at 652 GEORGE SI
assorted stock of Table and Pock
ceived. AU work and repairs exe
European workmanship.
N.B—Sole Arent for Australia
English maker. Chas Osboehe ; al
of Brescia, Italy.
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRj
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rose
Imported by us direct, and naan
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WARE./
FEARS. They are of very handso
are most sensitive, sweet, and powe
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TEEMS of TIME PATM
Examine and test them before pt
All oar PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMP.
1, Oxford-street; 612. George-/
Buildings, Sydne
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Higl
Howiok-street, Bathurst; A
burn; Church-street, Parrami
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
"J£ I STORY REPEA
As Eve tempte* 1 . the Firs
TEMPTS THE PRESENT MA
not the same Eve, bnt
JAMES E
149 KINO-STRE]
Opposite Theatre Royal
With the best brands of AM To
JW. R. Cl
• BOOKSELLER AND ST
5 and 6 MARKET BUI
GEORGE STREET, S'
Opposite Market-st
B. BRAU
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER,
376, George i
Near the Post OS
Jewellery altered or made to order
Watches repaired on the premiss
workmen —woek gbab
A LARGE ASSORTMENT of LA
in JEWELLER
Agent for Botheram’s and Wa
346 GEORGE STREET,
STUBBS & 5
(Late Joseph Bull
Business Amxoano
THOMAS ]
HERALDIC AETI&T AND
10 ROYAL AECAI
PLAIN AND FANCY STA
The New Invitation Note Papei
;aent of Christmas and New X*
variety.
Albums, Parses, Picture?, Far
Come one. Come all, an insj
EW 0L P F A
# Manufacturers o
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalk
Materials, and Stationers’
Makers, by appointment, to Her M»
and the Bank of Beg
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great
coin’s Inn Field’s, W.C. Factory: Pi
Battersea. London, S. W. A full 80
seen and further partieulars obtain*
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for
Messrs. Feldheim, Qotthel and C<
Sydney.
10 EAILWAY CONTRACT!
DOBBINS, DRAYS, WAGGONI
A Large Stock always c
GOODWIN and
VALENTINE LANE, off (
N EAR RAIL WAX ST
GOOCH &
WILDERNESS
40, HUNTER 8
giin
Have yon
re-co
Parasols
eqt
J. s
541
Brickfl
Liverpool
Parasol
tames. Re
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
WATSON AND
NICKEL and SILVER
Ship and Bath Fittings, Snrj
Instruments, Fire Irons, Bi
and metal surfaces, Nick
Best Style.
Old Electroplate ware of ever;
silver-plated equal t
STEAM, BRASS. &ELECTR'iP
336 PITT S’IREI
SYDNEY PERMANENT FR
and BUILDING SOC
Established 1875. Reserve Pan
received on fixed deposit; if for 12
allowed. Savings Bank Depaitme
notice required for withdrawals. 1
the Society’s usual liberal terms.
313 Pitfc-street.
%Ar.
AMD
*i ■ fur or avci
Business Announcemen
m
at
c
m
l .VK’
tT'ASV
VA’Pe®
jOi
v\N®;
/C> 01 ®.
339 &
NCARIiYOPPC
DAT€
9 <5
or
bM?
Tobacconists
“ Yankee Doodle” & “ Conqueror
The above Brands are so well establisbei
and tastes of all smokers for their purity i
that it merely remains for ns to caution
itations which we regret are numerous.
DIXSON & SONS’ Registered Chief
Dark Twists : Yankee Doodle, Twists, 1C
quersr, Twists, 20’s: Sir Roger, Thiel
Challenge, Twists, 10’s and 20's. Dark I
The original and only genuine Tin Tag. 1
Plugs (stamped with a single round T
queror plugs (stanped with a single ro
Blight Tobaccos: Gem of the South; !
*c. Cut Tobaccos: (in i-lb tins and
weights and withpnre tin toil) iiough Cu
tal Mixture; Negrohead; Gold and Ciga
&0., *o.
U.B,—We import regular shipments oi
Meersham, Clay, and all other Pipes;
jttes, and all Tobacconists Goods.
DIXSON & SONS
155 YOKE STREET S'!
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKEE AND IMP
Hotels, fco.
G
U N S L E E'S
hosts tbbb
ADELAIDE.
«OBEET BUTCI
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIBIT ME:
534 GEOEQE STB]
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Ooustst Obdkbb Escsiv* Pbo
JAMES MAC6R
308 GEORGE STB
WHOLESALE GR
and
WINE AND SPIRIT Ml
SOLE AGENT
for
BEOOMFIELDS CELEB'
SCOTCH WHIS
IMPERIAL SCHN
LITHUANIAN MAGEN
GENERAL IMPOI
of
MACHINERY
MONTHLY PRICE
on
APPLICATION
«
MANUFACTURER OF THE
BTJLTAN3 COPFI
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand,
HHMR Ĥ
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINB|
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, lON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS
MASON BROTHERS,
IS
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
UD
EAETHENWAEE,
WINES. BEERS, asd SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac,
J. T. OAYEN'S
behnappe and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.


The R eferee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up hy secretaries
l of raving clubs ond managers of sporting events in genaral.]
E AGING.
Parramatta December 30.
Auckland (N.Z ) Summer .....Deo. 26 ; Jan. 1,2, 1883.
Murrnmbidgee T.C ...January 1.
Queensland T.C January 1.
Tattersall’a Eandwiok January I.
Adelaide Pacing Club January 1.
Canterbury (N.Z.) Summer Janury 1.
V.R.C. New Year Meeting January 1.
Adelong January 1, 2.
Hay January 1, 2.
Clarence Tattersall's J.C January 2.
Candolo January 4, 5.
Bega ..January 11,12.
Sydney Turf Club January 26.
Blayney January 26.
Parramatta Turf Club January 27.
Armidale J.C January 26, 27.
Moruya January 27, 29.
Moama February 1.
Wellington (N Z ) Summer February 1, 2.
Vegetable Creek Meeting January 13,14.
Newcastle February 17,18
Dunedin (N.Z ) Autumn February 21,22, 24.
N J C. West Maitland February 22 23.
Tasmanian E. C. Rummer Meeting... February 20, 22, 23.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn Match 15.16.
Gundagai ..March 16,17.
Liverpool March 17.
Tumut March 22, 23,
A. J.C. Autumn March 26, 28, 30, 31.
AQUATICS.
Larganv Pearce, £5O aside December 30.
Newcastle Regatta January 1, 1883.
Larganv. E Triokett, £lOO aside January 6.
Largan v. M‘Donald, £lOO aside January 13,
N.S.W. National Regatta January 26.
Intercolonial Eight-oars, Parramatta
River. March.
Bush v. Layoook ....March 10.
CEICKET.
Australian Eleven v. English team, at Melb Jan. 1.1883.
Australian Eleven v. English team, at Sydney... Jan. 26.
Sydney v. English team March.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Grafton Eegatta comes off on the 10th
March. Same day as the Eush-Layoock match.
For the Printers’ Challenge Cup. Saturday last,
the Caxton C.C. beat the Evening News by one innings
and 25 runs. Crushed again.
At the Melbourne Gun Club’s Grounds, Mr. A.
W. Pearson won Dr. O’Hara’s trophy, bringing 13 birds
to grass without a miss.
“ Advance,” the Melbourne correspondent of
the N.Y, Spirit of the Times, in that paper tipped
Masquerade to win the Sydney Metropolitan.
iflMr. Lambreoht, the Canadian amateur cham-
pion, at Montreal, made a “ best on record" throw with
the 161 b. shot, covering 41ft. 4}in.
The firstjprize for the champion four-oared raoe
at the Lyttleton Eegatta, N.Z., is £125 There are five
entries. Better entries than we had for the Gardiner
Cup.
The following record of the celebrated Maud S.
will show what dependence can be placed on a tune
trial: Her best in company with other horses, 2131; in
a time trial, 2 101.
Here’s a chance for our amateur athletic clubs
to give an afternoon’s sport in aid af the Creswick or
Woniora Fund, and see if a small charge for admit-
tance will have any effect upon their—to quote the Eum
—usual large and fashionable assemblages."
Professor Miller recently lifted a dumb-bell
weighing 1921bs at arm’s length above his head. It’s
lucky the Olympic Club Gymnasium, Melbourne, is a
lofty structure—or otherwise he might have lifted the
roof off.
W. L. Murdoch shot with the Eaywood
G. C. against the Melbourne G. C. at Melbourne. The
Bay woods won the match. Oar Billy dropped five birds
running, and made a total of eight out of eleven birds
at 27 yards rise.
The last match of the first division for the
Furness Cup was played on Saturday, between Our Boys
and Sfc. Peters C.C , the former club winning by 52 runs.
The St. Peters are entitled to another show in the
second division.
A Melbourne correspondent writes : —At the
various public “ speech days " now being held daily, it
is noticeable that the champion of the school receives
almost twice the amount «f applause awarded to the
dux. Muscle has evidently got the upperhand of brain
here.
At the Olympic Athletic Club’s meeting, Sep-
tember 23 at 'Frisco, E 8. Halley won the 100 yards
run. The times, as given by the three timekeepers, were
9} sec., 9 4 5 sec , and 10 sec. So tnat the timing mast
have been very loose, and cannot very well be taken as
a record.
At the annual meeting of the Prince Alfred
Yacht Club it was arranged that a series of evolutions
should take place on January 6th, and that a general
handicap race for Vice Commodore Underwood’s prize
should come off on 13bh January, the club to add second
and third prizes of £lO and £5 respectively.
A meeting will be hold on Friday evening, 6th
January, at Punch’s Hotel, William-street, with a view
to making a start with the Woolloomoolo Bay Rowing
Club. The Bay was the head quarters of amateur row.
ing in the old days and there is do doubt the physique
of our rowers has sadly fallen off since then. Fancy
such men as the Garvans, Freemans, Clarks, Murphys,
and many more of the same stamp alongside our last
Intercolonial eight!
Raynor won the final match for L. L. Smith’s
48 hours’ champion challenge belt. He covered 149
miles 14 laps, and could, without doubt, have increased
the distance. Be has offered to give a 50 miles' exhi-
bition in aid of the Creswick Disaster Fund, it a room
can be provided.
:: Thus the N.Y. Spirit of the Times finishes
an account of Lake Maasabesio (U.S.) Regatta, at
which Hosmer, Lee, and Eiley rowed : “ Boat racing is
certainly deteriorating as a pastime for deoent people,
and its fntnre depends on the oarsmen themselves." A
great number of our races could be summed up in the
same manner.
At the Hamilton, Ontario, meeting of the Cale-
donian Society, Oct. 14, those two great athletes, Duncan
C. Eoss and Donald Dinnie, were for ever barred from
participating in games under the auspices of the society,
on account of “ ungentlemanlv and unsportsmanlike
behaviour" at recent games there.
Captain Webb, at Boston, Mass., for a wager,
stayed in a bath 1281 hours, with the exception of 15
minutes in every 24 hours,—thus upsetting the dicta of
several scientific men that to remain in the water for
36 hours was certain death. The eaptain lost 201 b.
weight and was rather chafed, but otherwise he left the
water in good condition.
Prince, Ogg, and Co., and C. Newton Brothers’
and Co clubs met on Farmer’s ground, Moore Park on
Batuiday. Prince, Ogg, and Co, 143: C. Newton
Brothers and Co., 106. Principal scorers for the victor*
—J, Searlo 31. E QosweU27, J E. Chant, 22; for the
losers—J. Tiddy 20, J. Boulton 16.
W. Beach and T. Clifford rowed over the
champion course, Parramatta River, on Saturday after-
noon, for £2OO aside Beach took the lead at the start,
and at the mile point had a clear five lengths to the good.
He won easily by eight lengths. Time, 25min. and
28seo. against wind and tide.
At Birmingham, England, a six-day pedestrian
contest, for Astley’s championship belt, ended as fol-
lows: Littlewood, 415 miles and 6 laps, doing 414 miles
in 70hours, 20 minutes, 5 feoonds, thus beating Dtbier’s
record in New York of 414 miles in 72 hours. Little-
wood took the belt and £5O. Day second,! scoring 377
miles; and Corbett third, 347 miles. Pearce, of America,
finished sixth, with a score of 305 miles and 8 laps. The
competitors walked 12 hours daily.
J. Kiluff, the jockey, met with a nasty accident
lest Thursday morning on the Flemington course, Ylo.
The horse Chronograph fell on a fence with him. He
was badly bruised and received a deep gash in the fore-
head.
“Beacon’s” tips in the Otago Witness*
N Z., for the Dunedin Spring meeting were not happy*
He says: " Should any of the public have been tempted,
by the success of my Christchurch tips, to back those
I gave for the Dunedin Spring meeting last week, I
herewith offer them my sympathy, which is more than
tipsters get from the public."
The two days’ match between the Carlton and
Albert clubs was continued on Saturday afternoon, and
resulted in a draw in favour of the Carltons. The fol-
lowing were the scores.- Carltons, first innings, 232 J;
second, 7 wickets for 140, Alberts, first innings, 159.
In America a trotting match for 2,000 dollars
was decided between Yellow Dock and Billy D., each
having a tunning mate The former, a mare, won three
heats 2 nin. 16} see , 2min 18sec., and 2miu, llseo., the
last being the best On record with a running mate, and
has’only been beaten by Maud S.
The Canterbury Times (N.Z.) says :— Barton’s
batting this season has been phenomenal,and the result
of his efforts so far, together with his flae style aad
undoubted strength of defence, gives him a decided
claim to the front position amongst New Zealand bats-
men. In local matches, he has made something like
500 runs ia seven innings, three of which were not out,
A footrace is on the tapis between Callaghan, of
Maitland, and Archie Farrell, of Sydney, who has
gained great notoriety in Queensland and the Metro-
polilis, several good men having gone down before him
in handicaps and matches, amongst them the veteran,
Frank Hewitt. Callaghan ia desirous of running in
Maitland on the 24th February, the Saturday after the
Maitland races, and the only difficulty is the matter of
expenses.
In the half-mile raoe between Mr. George, the
English amateur champion, and Mr. Myers, the Ameri-
can ditto, at New York, ou the 6th Nov., the American,
after trailing George nearly the whole distance, shot to
the front, and won by about three feet, in the remark-
able time of 1 min, 50 3 5 geo. The results of the quarter
and mile races between the pair are not yet to hand.
George Littlewood, who competed unsuccess
fully for the O’Leary International Belt, at Madison
Square Garden, last May, is now in England, and has
deserted go-as-you-please in favour of fair walking. In
a six day walking sweepstakes at the Drill Hal', Shef-
field, March 6 to 11, he walked a remarkable race, and
totally eclipsed the former long distance best-on record
madeby O'Leary, Vaughan, and Harriitan. He walked
631 miles 667 yards in 139 hours 30 minutes.
At a recent race meeting in India, one of the
races was for a Cup, the conditions being: three horses
to start or no raoe. A, B, and O entered horses It an-
pears, however, A hod backed B's horse, B had done the
same as regards C, and C had laid heavily against his
own monnt. On the morning of the race A said his
horse was unfit to run, but would start to make the
race, and pull up. B waited on him a bit, but, finding
it was no go, caused his mount to bolt off the course.
C, not to be outwitted, quietly threw away some
weight, and returned to scale 7ib. light. The bets are
still unsettled.
We are not likely to hear of Donnelly’s 24-foot
flyers coming to the fore for the remainder of the
season, unless the old Lottie comes out of her shell.
Mr. Hyam some time ago parted with all racing gear,
and decided to use the Carlotta as a pleasure boat alone;
and the Victor has evidently fallen into bad hands, as
she has been b idly beaten by what may be termed
second-class boats. Mr. Fitzhardinge in the Adelpbi is
too much for any of our amateurs ; in fact, many good
judges think he is at least a match for any of the pro-
fessionals.
They put things “ straight ”in America. “ Mr.
Jim Deyo continues his knavish tricks on the Western
turf, and although under expulsion himself for many
years, he now operates through one Fred. E. Sauer, of
Jackson, Mich., who has nominal charge of Billy 1.,
the black gelding that Deyo made a horseman of this
city believe he was getting in trade, but it turned out
t® be another black gelding. These worthies, it appears,
have been * working’ the recent Michigan fall meetings,
trotting an ineligible horse, the chestnut gelding Boyd
P., alias Boyd Pantlind, expelled September 29, 1882,
and Fred. E. fc-auer is in the same boat.” A par. of
this sort would be a Temora to Jem, in N.S.W.
P. J. Fitzgerald, winner of the 142 hours go-as-
you-please, Madison Square Gardens, N.Y,, U. 8., Oct.
23rd to 28th, is, beyond all question, the greatest six-
day pedestrian ever known. He was for years a suc-
cessful pedestrian at short distances, and is the only
man who ever, in America, ran 11 miles inside an honr.
His first six-day race was Oct. 6 to 11, 1879, and his suc-
cessive scores in such races have been, in even miles:
Oct. 6 1879 488 miles ; Dec 27,520 miles; January 25.
1881, 513 miles: Mav 28 536 miles; Dee 31, 1881,582
miles; March 4, 1882, 577 miles; Oct. 28. 577 miles.
Within the past ten months he has three times beaten
677 miles, and could, in this last race, easily have
passed 600 miles if it had been necessary.
The latest rage in speculation is said to be
crab-racing. It has been invented in France, and is
practised on the coast of Normandy. Tne crabs are
weighed, handicapped, and placed in line on the beach.
Bets are made, each nominator holding his finger on
the shell of the crab that carries his colours and
fortunes. When the starter waves his handkerchief,
the impost digits are removed, and the crabs, by
instinct, make for the sea, which is the finish of the
race. To such an extent has the sport been carried,
that the length of the course has been definitely fixed
at twenty metres, between sixty and seventy feet, not a
long distance, but the time consumed is greater than
in any dash race by thoroughbreds, and the excite
meat among the spectators equally intense. The
pity of it ia that the exceptionally fast crab that
distances his competitors cannot be recovered from his
native element for future triumphs. This is the first
we have heard of crab-racing. The nearest approach to
it was when two Eton boys paddled a canoe raoe in the
Hon. Ivo Bligh’s crab shells. However, crab-raoing
may yet become popular, and every votary may keep a
set of stud crabs.
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
Athletic sports at Carcoar on New Year’s Day.
There will be a footrace for a £2O prize Acceptances
(or the Clarence Tattersall’s Handicap on January 2:
Polestar, Bst. 121 b.; Jason, 8 it. 101 b.: Filibuster, 7.c.
7ib. ; Shamrock, 7st. 121 b.; Booyung, 7at 10lb.;
Prism, 6st. 101 b ; Warory, 6st.; Gtanamie, sst. 121 b. ..
The half-decked yacht built by Donnelly anil Sullivan,
to the order of Mr. Elliott, has been removed from
their shed, and the finishing done by Gardiner, of
Balmain. She is a beautiful looking oraft, very roomy,
and ought to be remarkably fast. There are variius
rumours as t® why she left Donnelly and Sullivan's
shed, to be finished vhe other side of the water ...
French and Beaver plajed quoits at Footaoray on
Saturday week. The latter won with five points to
scare. The game was played in the Sheffield style, with
flying motts Mr Alfred Lee and Mr. W. J. Paterson
started from Sydney on bioyoles on the morning of
Saturday week, and arrived in Goulburn early on Sun-
day evening. They stayed a day in Goulburn, Mr. Lee
having i ome business to transact, and left (or Yass
about 11 a.m. on Tuesday morning, arriving at the
Commercial Hotel abont half past eight on the
same evening, having completed the journey
of 187 miles in about two and a-half days* travelling
A one day’s match between two mixed elevens from the
Carlton and Warwick Clubs, was played on the Associa-
tion Ground, on the afternoon of the 29th. Th® War-
wioka made 182, and one Carlton wicket fell for 69
Mr. Greenland must be the Melbourne Ive Donnelly—
-5 of the winning beats at the late Melbourne Regatta
were built by him...,...The yacht Australian—better
known as the Beaky, was put up for auction last week,
and passed in at £2lO. She has been a wonderful boat,
and was considered " done np " as far as racing is con-
cerned, many years ago, but the present owner, Mr.
Henck, had her strengthened, some tons of lead put on
her keel, and brought her ont the oraok boat of her
class Orientals and Manly cricket dabs contested a
match on Saturday last, at Manly. The Manlys scored
136 (Mr. Hunter Month being top scorer with 65), and
the Orientals 96 for the loss of one wicket.. ...Legerde-
main carries top-weight in the Queensland Turf Club
Midsummer Handicap Mr. N. Lookyer, the captain
of the M.E.C., collected £4O towards the cost of a now
boat for the N.S.W. crew in the coming Intercolonial
*i*bt oar race At Townsville Messrs. J. C. Martin
and J. Phillips rowed three quarters of a mile for a
wager, Martin won by 14aeo Marylobone v. Cljde,
Moore Park, Saturday last. Marylebono 80—Boulton 18
(not ont), Smith 15, Evans 13. Clyde 22 and 37
Bradley 12 At Eutherglen, Vic., James Slattery aad
J*® eB .Bhrr ran three events, 100, 150, and 200 yards—
£2o aside, Slattery easily won the first two races
Penno and West ran 123 yards at Homebush on Satur-
day last, for £5O. Penno won easily by six j arda
Donnelly and Sullivan have the following boats well
upder way. Wager boats (or Largan and Trickett.
14 feet g.b dingy; string-test gig for Glebe Rowing Club,
and a beautiful model of a 23 leet working fishing boat,
—scale 3 inches to the foot—intended to be sent to the
Amsterdam Exhibition. They have orders for wager-
boats from McDonald, Laycock, and Pearce B* the
steamer Cairnsmnir, wbich left Melbourne for India a
lew days ego, Messrs. Thomas Learmonth and Madden
despatched 255 horses. Many of them are by Snowden,
John Bull, Australian, and other good sires... ihs Hon.
E. K. Cox has determined not to sell his yearlings this
season. His principal reason for taking this course ia
the preponderance of fillies, most of wnom are by .the
defunct Chanel os, andas he is anxious to keep the blood,
be has decided not to sell “ Trampator," in the
ndiLaiDE Observer, states that daring the time Mr.
J. E. Savill resided in South Australian he trained 111
winners "Augur" says it is Mr. Da Mestre’s inten-
tion to take a libel action against a Melbourne weekly
(or some very strong remarks made respecting the
running of Gudarz in the Spring Handicap aad V.E.C.
Handicap. The damages will be laid at a very heavy
sum The cricket match Candelo v. Bega, was decided
by the first innings scores :—Candelo 89; Bega 65
Some forcible language is used by the writer of a letter
to the Marlborough Express (N.Z.), who complains of
the owners of brood mares "putting these and their
better class of mares to half-bred, coffin-headed, ball-
necked, straight-shouldered, long-baoked, flat-sided,
goose-rumped, oat-hammed, gummy-legged brutes of
stallions with which the country is overrun, while the
only stallions in the province really capable of getting a
good horse are not half patronised." The following
nig yarn is from the Tumut and Adelong Times :
11 Piscatorial.—A Tumut angler recently hooked a plump
fish about 31b. weight, when by oame a voracious eel of
great size and swallowed the captive on the line. Onr
fisherman obtained assistance and tried to land his prize,
but in vain, as the larger fish disgorged the smaller one
and disappeared." This is Tnmutch to gulp. We think
the angler has bean " codding" the T. and A. T
An American trotter named Honesty, with a record of
2 min. 25}seo , has been shipped for Melbourne to take
partin the trotting race of 500 sovs. in March next. It
is reported that Gibraltar, with a record of 2min. 19seo.
and Brigadier, another good one, are also on their way.
......J. Inskip beat W. Eltheringtoa in a foot raoe, £lO
aside, at Dry E.ver, Bega. Another match is talked of.
At Yarra Bend Ground, Vie., a match was played
between eleven All Comers and thirteen of the Benders,
the baker's dozen being made up by the inclusion of A.
Bannerman and T. Horan. The All Comers included
D. Soott (captain), W. L. Murdoch, C. W, Beal, 8. P.
Jones, and J, M. Blaokham. The thirteen scored 152,
and tne Ail Comers only 70 —Murdoch 0.
• • •
D. L. Hill, of Rochester, N.Y , hopped 100 yards
in 16} sec , beating all previous records The American
trotter Wildflower's two-year eld record is 2 21
L. Strange, of the G.-rman Gymnastic Society, dim feed
up and down a 60 ft. rope in four minutes, nsing both
hands and legs At the International Military Praotioe
Rifle matches, Creedmoor, America, fifteen shots at
800. 900, 1000 yards, F. W. Parties made 74 out of a
possible 75 at each range Writes an Ameriean paper:
“ Mr. H. C. Eomruell, the well-known amateur athlete
and oarsman, of the Triton Boat Club, Newark, N J , a
few days ago incautiously allowed his name to be used
as a guarantee of the geod faith of one of Goo. W. Lee’s
challenges to Courtney. He must be now more amused
tnan pleased to read, in a few hundred newspapers the
following paragraph : —* An amateur named tom nel,
attached to the Triton Boat Club, of Newark, N.J , is
anxious to row Courtney, and, it the race is made, t > be
rowed on the Passaic River. Rommel will accommodate
Courtney at once, and to the extent of $lOOO a side.’"
The N.Y. Spirit of the Times states that "noman
in the world has a genuine properly authenticated record
of less than tea seconds for running 100 yards. Seward’s
100 yards in 9} sec. is a humbug, long since exploded"
The year 1880 was the best on record in the production
of trotters that beat 2 20, there being no less than four-
teen new comers to the charmed list. At the head was
Maud 8., ever since the Queea of the Turf, who trotted
in 2.10 J, lowered the following year to 2 10}, and now
the mark that all are aiming at; Hatti W ood ward,
2.15}; Charley Ford, 2.16}; Monroe Chief, 2.18};
Patonen, 2.18}; Kitty Batoa, 2.19; Wedgewood, 2.19;
Keene Jim, 2.19}; Parana, 2.19} ; Driver, 2.19} ; Moose,
219}; Daisydaie, 2 19}; and Deck Wnght, 2,19}
There was a tremendous race at Lexington, Ky.,
America, Oct. 16, between Budd Doble's brown stallion
Monroe Chief, and W. F. Anderson's bay mare Rosa
Wilkes The stallion won the first heat by a head, in
2 19}; the mare won the second, in 2 19}, and the third
in 2.19} ; the fourth heat was dead, in 2.20, and the stal-
lion won the fifth and sixth, time of each heat, 2 21
At Harlem Eegatta the timekeeping was a curiosity.
Ia the senior singles, when the boats finished so close
that it was hard to tell who won, and the official de-
oision was "by 3 feet,” the times were given 6min.
14aec. and 6min. 15sec., which would make a difference
of about 14 feet. In the pairs, the decision was,
second by 10 feet, third by half a-length, yet the times
are 6oain. 15sec., 6min. 20see., 6min. 255e0., which
would put 70 feet between each boat. Perhaps this
accounts for some of the American sensational times....
The Newmarket Second October meeting will beremem-
bored as the Crawfurd week in English racing circles,
rendered so by the signal success which attended the
scarlet jacket of Mr. W. S. Crawfurd. He won the
Cesarewitch with Corrio Roy; the Middle Park Plate
with Macbeatb; divided the Champion Stakes with his
noted filly Thebais, who ran a dead heat with Tristan,
and ended the week's triumphs by winning the Great
Challenge Stakes with his two-year-old colt Energy
Jimmy M'Langhlin, Dwyer Brothers’ great jockey,
U.S , has won 71 races, and oame in second 34 times out
of 117 mounts this season, Billy Donohne crowds him
with 48 firsts, 32 seconds, and 19 third positions out
of 151 mounts With all Vanderbilt’s money, he
seems unable to obtain the fastest trotting team in the
United Slates, which worries him more than the great
care of his railroad and stock interests. Mr. Work’s
great trotters are said by experts to be able to post
Vanderbilt’s best flyers The trotting meeting at the
Austrian capital, on September 17, 20, and 24, was dis-
tinguished' oy some exceptionally good performances
and lowering of records. Dr. Carver's American
stallion Cupid trotted 3600 metres (69 feet less than two
miles and a quarter) in 5 35}, a very fine performance.
Oa the second day of the meeting, the novelty, in
Austria, was introduced, ef races of mile heats, and
Cupid trotted a second heat in 2.24}, and a third heat
in 2.25 The fastest mile trotted in Austria previous to
this performance was in 2.29, and this lowering of the
record caused great enthusiasm among the Viennese ...
Hanlon has been amsted as being concerned in the
Uavendish-Borke murders. Wallace Ross, on receipt
of the news, spent several dollars in drinks, but was
disgusted when he heard it was not the champion
At the (all meeting of the League of American Wheell
men. held at Boston, Mass.. Oct. 20, it was decided that
the standard measurement of bicycling paths should be
made three feet from the fence At Laniffimr* IT m
J H. Eiley beat J Ten Eyck sculling, mlfes with
a turn. Winner s time, 20 min. 45 sec At a bicycle
race, Harnsburgh, Pa.. Miss Louise Armaindo ran
second m a mile handicap; all the other competitors
were of the sterner sex. She also raced the toottSg!
horse Starry Clead. receiving fifty yards' start in half a
mile from tue equine; she won in 1 min. 31 sec. An
American paper states that ike prohibition of
making on the Madison Square Gardem U S wS *.
great drawback to the success of the recent s’ix-dws*
go-as-you-please ...Foxhall has started in twelve race!
won eight, was three timee second, and onoe un*S
amou “ t to over £12.000. Iroqnom
e,OVea ’ waa thro4 S
and onoe third. His total winning 8 amount to £l9 000
vv imam Elliott, ex-ohampion sculler of England, hu
just beaten George Game! of New York. U S ’in a
sculling match for £BOO Mr. T Bone
the Hillsdale crew resided while in London, died on
September 15, from congestion of the lungs. Mr
Bone held the amateur championship of EnvUnd in
1850-51, and at the time of his death wM in h^irty.
eighth year Here's another challenge from Wallace
Bose, " I will row P. H. Conley, of Halifax, either on
St. John harbour or Kennebeocasis River in (onr weeks
for 1000 dol. a side, allowing him 100 dol. expenses. I
have deposited 250d01. with D. C. Clench, banker, of
this city. If this suits Conley he can forward articles
at onoe for my signature." There were six starters
in ths single scull raoe on Lake Masaabesie, U.S,
Hesmer, Lee, Eiley, Driscoll, MTnerny, and Casey.
The race was won by Hosmer, Lee second, and
M'lnerny third Vill Bose, a journalist ard-bioycle
tourist, of Danville, 111., who started for San Franoltoo
on a bicycle, has arrived at Cheyenne, Wy. Territory,
after travelling 1400 miles on a bicycle At last Ed.
McGllnohey, of Bridgeport, has accepted the challenge
of Charley Norton of New York, the light weight
champion pugilist of America, and offers to fight for
the light weight championship with hard gloves,
Queensborry rules, for 1,000 dole, aside, or a purse of
1000 dole., the fight to take place within 100 miles of
New York within six weeks from the signing of the
articles At the Manhattan Athletic Grounds, U.B ,
there were six starters in the Consolation Race of 66»
yards, for beaten men. Myers went in, and sailei
away from the others, when he pat on a spurt near
the finish as though they were standing still. H u
time was 1 min. 39 2 5 secs It ia stated George H.
Hosmer will shortly row “ double sculls " with a young
lady residing at Westend, Boston, U.S. Fred. Plaisted
is said to have similar designs on a young Canadian
1ady..... The Field, in an article on the hygienic effects
of bicycle racing, says :—“ It requires from its devotees
long-continued active exercise in the optn air. It
cultivates habits of quick observation, and necessitates
a rapid command of muscles that is most useful in
daily life. Excess in drinking is utterly incompatible
with the pursuit; and, with a very large proportion of
the riders, milk, with or without sodawater, and tea,
are largely taken, being found by experience to be
better adapted to sustain lung-continued exertion than
alcoholic stimulants." His Excellency Sir Hercules
Robinson has managed to infuse new vigour into the
sporting world ef Sooth Africa. A new jockey club
has been started, with Sir Hercules at its head A
fall brother to Foxhall, named Potosi, ran nuplaoeid in
the Clearwell Stakes at Newmarket, England a
gentleman at Doncaster on the St. Lager day won £lOOO
by taking 1000 to 20 abont Dutch Oven "out of cart-
osity," because he had never before seen Archer riding
anything that started at 50 to I.
INTAGLIOS.
1883.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
N o benediction for the old.
No welcome for this newest year;
Dreaded the tale before ’tis told—
Ones doubly dear.
Naught but the sterile desert glooms
Of Failure mark the Past. To day.
Naught but a sterile desert looms
My Future way.
I cannot cheat myself that Hope
Is mine as long she used to be ;
And feebler grows the power to cope
With obloquy.
So easy is it e’er to yield.
So sure an opiate is Despair-
Let others come and plough the field.
Its soil is bare.
He lies who says such things are chance,
Or luek makes men and women (ail—
I know he liee—and drop my lance.
And doff my mail.
For, as of old, the venal powers
Crowd where we straggling mortals press,
And guard their favourites, charm the hours.
To only bless—
Beat thousands back, and blindly thrust
Success on those who well we deem
But fit (or crawling in the dust—
Or, do I dream ?
Are they recipient who deserve ?
Do those whom Fortune crowns as blest
Beyond their fellows, never swerve
From high behest ?
Are there ue cheats who occupy
The seat of office P Is the hill
Mounted by merit ? Do none buy
The place they fill ? k
Are those who toil with honest hands
Those who pre-eminently hold
The influence bred of spreading lands
And piled-np gold ?
Are politicians clean again ?
Do they no longer upward climb
Through Parliament o'er better men.
Hoodwinking Time ?
How may they seem who sit above
The crowd P Are they our ohoioe because
Impartial, virtuous, fired with love
Of holy laws P
Do they j udgo Justice to be chief.
And Truth her essence P and no day
Field to the formal, perjuring thief
An equal sway ?
If this be so, then all is well;
I have no right to scorn the year
Departed to the nether hell
Of loss and fear.
If this be so, and onr young land
Is free from gray, conventional death
Of Eight and Honour, I may stand
And draw new breath
And hope again, and hold life dear.
And know my folly cause of (all.
And bless the Father and His year
Now born for all.
Gone Evening Gray.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
The Mora came flashing over a wall
Of amethyst-breasted and amber cloud ;
I heard his voioe through the meadow fall.
Like the voice of a lordling merrily proud.
"O see 1" he sang, •• see, O World, and be wiae I
There is naught so dear as new-r -.-n Day,
There is naught so fair when he kies * t ■ skies—
Behold, and forget the gone even.. 8 4J ("
A pain grew strong in my haart as he spake.
For of all the time that is holy to me
Is the time when tender-eyed stars awake.
And the heavens are opaline over the sea.
I gazed on the morn; Creation was dyed.
Filled and enriched with his many tints gar:
I turned to my heart and Memory sighed,
“O, who could forget the gone evening gray I”
O Horn, thou art bright and mighty, and held
Free-handed our weal, for thy wondrous power
Sheds on all being life's magical gold.
Which gains in thy light fresh glory and dower
Of grace—l arise—l worship—l greet
Thee, young Morning I But my soul looked away
From splendour of dawn to things doubly sweet
Which rose and fled with the gone evening gray.
And mornings may come and mornings may go
With many a hue that is lovelily fair.
While the brain will borrow that resy low.
Seeking in besnty fulfilment of rare
Sapt promises breathed to the soul alone.
Ah, still we shall torn from their kingly ray
To things they know not, to things of onr own
Which came and went with the gone evening gray.


B I 1 H T BROTHER S’
GREAT SALE IS NOW ON.
TERMINATION OF PARTNSRSSIP.
Country Customers wiH do wdll to make their purchases Now, as such an opportunity rarely occurs.
.... i in, i
£B BALBS of DS&PEB7 at greatly reduced prices.
CARRIAGE FEBE ALL OVER THE COLONY.
PARTNERSHIP NOTICE.
Ve beg tc£peefcfe»Uy to aetjaaint me eaetomens and the pafc-
Se *bat ©or present pertBfrship wHf termtr>»t® by (tfiaxion of
tltmo at hb« end at the premst year In order feat accounts
may b« »a»l«4artc*»fly adfoeted, it is absolutely necessary that
ttie greater parties o I ove pseeent ateek— to up.
wacda of tSW.OOG —ah ail be tamed late ready mousy. We bare,
therefore, detsnaiaed on KoUUag a series of
PARTNERSHIP SALES,
Which Hath Ifew Cokhpsceb
„The goods to ho disposed of, consist of MEN'S. BOYS', and
YOUTHS’ CLOTHING, BHIETS. HA'S, GENERAL
BBAPETdY, MILLINSrY, to, which are bt-irg offered at
puces which mast ensure a speedy clearance.
We invite inspection and comparison —
KJIET BROTHERS, 8fiS decree-street, near
RtLEY BROTHERS, flwO Geor a-street.
BriAfli klBill.
RILEY BROTHERS. 167 Oxford- street.
RILEY BROTHERS, GomJborp.
BIUY BROTH Ea*, Newcastle.
BILEYIBBOTHEBS, London.
RILEY BEOTHE
GREAT SALE IS NGW ON
TERMINATION OF PARTNERSHIP,
■£80,000 WORTH OF DEAPEET MUST BE CLEARED
Country Storekeepers, Hawkers, &o., now is your tine to secure bargains.
Don’t Miss tkis Opportunity.
R 8
OUT.
JpUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON and GO’S.
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
BEHOVED TO
4781 G EOEGE-STREET,
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
•r
TWQ DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOF,
SOCIAL.
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Richardson, of “ Moon
gee Mall," entertained about 150 ladies and gentlem
at a ball on the 20lh instant, at the Ashflold School o
Arcs. On entering, the unique dooorationa at on
caught the ej’e; a breadth of crimson cloth, edged wi
leaves ran round the walls, between the windows we
aim start, armorial shields and flags, and festoons o
foliage, the platform being decked with pot plants, anc
ferns at cue end, and a curd alcove flagged oil oppusi
Which was frequented by those of the guests who feei
older now than they used to feel. A capital supper w
spread in the long room down stairs by the City Cate
icg Co. Of the ladies, who were rather in the msjoril
none looked better than the young hostess in an eiegan
rusepmk satin, and her pleasant little courtesies heipet
the enjoyment wonderfully. A rather novel stylo o;
toilet Was been in two instances. First, the hostess o;
“ Abhgrova ” wore a figured satin of creamy gre
groumi, with large brown fl iwer pattern on it, tnmme.
with white lace, a kilting of lichen-green at the bottom
and the train was attached from the neck and earn*
down the length of the figure—being caught in at th
waist—creating quite a court effect. And the sam
idea was carried out by a lesser lady in black satin
The hostess from “CioveJly” displayed tho none
toilet—a combination of cardinal br001.5 and c >ra
hued satin, white lace and wild roses; her daught
wearing blue nun’s cioth and flowers. An aubur
blonde from "Russell-leigh" was well suited with a hia
satin and gauzy trimming; aud a tall dark young lac
from Croydon appeared in atoilette consisting of crea
satin polonaise, crimson underskirt with deep quilliu
round the bottom. Two little brunette sisters wer
exquisite dancers, in white, with paniers of pink anc
blue, respectively; while a maiden in white stripec
satin was about as bciUiant a partner as any One eve
saw anywhere. A combination of electric blue ant
white satin, with trimmings aud wreath »£ pink heal
was pretty from Summer Hill; and a ruby velvet wit
broad cream lace flounces was also good attire. Severs
sunflower fans were extremely "osoar," and the brea
up was soon after one o'clock, which is late enough :
midsummer for most people. The ball was a nice on
in every respect.
• • •
There was a very large number present at th
Nilhadale annual ball on Thursday ; aud, despite th
heat, a score of dances were managed, in addition to
double hornpipe by Meters. E. bleeds and Bicbardr
and an Irish jig by Mr. Hilliar Heeds, in character
Novelties in fancy (frets are scarce now The styl
has teen so much adopted, tor several years, in Sydnuy
that it is hard to hit on anything new. However,
gentleman in black velvet, fitting faithfully all over
was a novelty. He was heavily trimmed with ailve
bullion lacs and cord, and called himself the "Frino
of Night." A gentleman from Cook's River wa
Charles the First; and another from somewhere els
must have been Charles the Fortvfhst, judging from
hia red and y-llow magtiflcenco, and the Way he wt
embellished with bits or antimacassar, furmtuio bruit
and fourpenuy brooches stuck all over. Among th
gentle ones, too, some costumes wore very funny ; com
very pretty Ann among those that were either fanny
or pretty, or either, or both, we noticed several whio.
were exceedingly so; though, of course, others wer
not at all, or not much, anyhow We only make thi
remark to show how thoroughly impartial we are deter
mined..to be. Then, iu addition to these, were—Mis
Walker, a perfeotly effulgent American; and Mis
Davies, of Bandwick. good as a Spanish Girl; anc
Miss I. Davie?, as Gertrude, in "A loan of a lover;'
also a young gentleman from tho Survey Office as the
Duo Della Volta, with bis Bambini; and several sun
flowers with Buutfaornes attached to them. Misses M
and L. Mills were nice aud cool iu oatnuai cloth
dresses, ducked with blue fringe, sash, daisies, and for
get-me-cots. There was the daughter of a gentleman
who went to tho top of < he poll fur a city electorate in
blue siik with plug wreath ; and a sprightly maiden
from Cook's Biv»r, with a pretty face, cardinal satin
bodice, skirt of alternate bands ot cteam and cardinal
and ribbon fillet round the head. Now we come to the
good-looking people, viz., a young lady who wore a sort
ot orange-pink sa in, and danced well; and Mr. A
Teaoc, who was highly effective in a yellow jumper as
ru Escaped Convict. Miss Kcso Jones wore a yachting
dtess, with iidtia s showing she is partial ta the G B.C
and her sister. Mis* Emily, wore the dress that Nellie
Stewart wore us Fiametta in the Saltcellar troupe—
that one with the oocoa-broom bodice, yon know, that
enthralled tho stalls, and the luuiliuskirt that was Jut. I
long enough and just short enough, to the inch—anc
this dress enabled Miss E r.ily to score more marks than
other young ladies—who didn't score so many. Miss
Carugati iu blue moire. Miss Carroll in white stripec
satin, aSb'ialbaven bride in her ceremonial raiment, and
a Campbclltowu bride in shaded pinks, all deserve
column each—aud it is only tho euormou- quantity ol
poetry sent in this weak, commencing ‘ Halil morry
Christmas," prevents us giving them at least, that space
or more. Mi-sO Brien, from Leichardt, wore a stately
white satin, ruff-neck, quilted skirt, and trimmings of
holly and pearls. Miss Needs was Patience, Miss L
Taylor was Josephine in all pink, and Miss Holmes was
fancifully dressed in different shades of golden satin,
studded with pansies. A pair of really pretty young
ladles were Miss Boylan, in white with dark oidpedhair,
and MissEllioDwyer, of Q.'oucestor-street,in white satin
and trimmings. Mies T. Edmonds was Bluebell; Mr.
Buchanan, Captain of a French Privateer, iu white
satin skirt and blue satin troupers. They looked very
nice ; but we regard blue satin troupers as an inilis-
oration, unless the wearer makes special arrangements
not to perspire freely. Cricketers, Midshipmen, Rings,
and other popular characters, weieof course plentiful,
but evening dresses were the most worn. The ballroom
was a very busy and bright spectacle while the fun was
going on, but it will have a rest now for several weoks,
to give the holidays a chance.
• • •
A brilliant conversazione was given in the
Ex change last weak, about 250 parsons being present to
wit up 88 the wonders of electric lighting. Evergreens
and flowers ware prettily placed around, and the system
of illumination was as novel at it was susoessfu l , the
soft stream of tho heat let* rays serving to show to
Advantage the delicate dresses and airy headgear of the
ladies. Two slender figures iu silver grey were
especially conspicuous by the enormous halo-like hats,
faced with black velvet, which looked picturesque but
indescribably outlined against the white light. The
large mirror was edged with dark green foliage,
sequestered amongst whiah were soma seventy little
pexrlshapod glasses, each shedding an electric gleam,
and similar glimmers came from tho hearts of flower
bouquets placed on bracket* and on tables. During the
evening the little electrician got up on a table and made
a few “ light" remarks, light refreshments were banded
round, and "light laughter rippled from rose-red lips"
as little maidens wer.deu home in the moonlight full ot
delight at the glimpse of fairyland which the conver-
sazione had given them.
* * **
A rosily nice entertainment was given by Mrs.
Chambers' pupils ia the North Shore School of Arts on
the 20th instant, at the Christmas breaking-up. Glees,
duets, solos, and songs were performed by the young
ladies; and n buries quo, " Who is Who,” and a farce,
** Damestio Economy," were given with the ussistanoo
of two gontl men. The place was quits full, and all
went smoothly, ending at half-part 10 There was a
ball at Nymarso recently in aid of the hospital, and the
back-block toilets were as vlorious as a comet ....Nearly
20,000 people west to the Gardens on Ghfialmas after-
noon, to hear the Young Australian Band play sacred
muMc Blondin mad« a fine dive from a height
of 30 feet on Saturday. But ha didn’t mean to New
Year’s partv inJKard wick Tewn Hall on Monday
Mr. and lW>s. Maitland gave a party at "Afreba,"
Stanmore Boad, lart Friday, to about 70 friends. The
S irvey office, and the Herald stetf were largely re-
presented, and tho ladies wi re as gay as usual. Dancing
terminated at 5 a m Bovers Cricket Club have the
Imperial Bar d at their aunual picnic 13th January, at
tbs Avenue There is a capital and characteristic
programme for the Woniora Fund Concert to-night
iThursday), lots of sea songs.... Garden Party at Govern,
unit Houbu on Saturday... Alter a stay of some six weeks
at Hobart, tbs Vf leou is expected te oome to Sydney
again, then on to N.iS...,List Thursday an open-air con-
cert was given on Mr. Harnett’s grounds, Mosman’s
Bay; a fine night, Chinese lantornr, fair items, and
special steamer. In aid of the contemplated School of
Arts To morrow night (Piiday) the Botany Social
(Tub give a plain and fancy dress ball at Correy’s
Gardens, dancing at 8 o’clock. The invitations are
prettily printed on Australian Christmas cards selected
for the purp05e,,,,.,,..An interesting entertainment was
Riven by the Balmain literary and Debating Club on
the 20th instant, including a burlesque ami musical
numbers. Debating Clubs hare never been brilliantly
fuccesslul in Bdmain, within the memory of the oldest
Inhabitant, and the local ladies wco came to the aid of
the young men in this case were real good Mr F.
° Brian ot the Omnibus Company was pie mated
with a gold chain and locket by the drivers.
De had a gold watch before; it was given to
him iu New Z aland for services in conncct'on
with capturing mo Burgess gang cf murderers
On Friday, the Bnrwooa Town Hill was Ailed by an
audience who witne.-sid a performance given by the
P/cP i • Burwiod S .hcol, assisted by amateurs.
aad is parting,'* sung by raven little girls, was very
pretty. Solos, duets, nigger sketch, ki , also given
it is de*i ed to buy instruments for a band of school-
boys... The annual brraiing-up ot Granville Public
school occurred on the 22 .d instant. SpeerKei, a
concert, recitation contest (won by Claude Hailett,
Emily Gapes receiving special prize as well), then out-
door sports and refreshments. Miss Metcalfe, rofc&t 12,
was pianiste Catholic Denominational Scnool, Bt.
Leonards, broke-up on Friday, and the pupils gave Mr.
J. Crowley, who has baon master for twenty years, a
costly present Petersham Public School commenced
vacation on the 2ldt. Prizes wore given, also speeches,
songs, and prefect* T«e annual presentation of
pr zea at Sydney Grammar Sobooi wis made on the
20th instant, by His Excellency Lord Loftus, who
spoke of the cramped accommodation. Large assem-
blage.... St. John’s Church of England Denominational
School at Darlinghurst closed for the holidays on
ihursday last. Kov. S S. Tovey delivered address,
and Mrs. George Lord and some nice young ladles dis-
tributed the prizes. Mr. J. S. H.rdy, twenty five
years master, received a tea and coifee service from the
scholars whom he haa sj industriously led from the
tree of knowledge during the whole or a portion of
that time The distribution of prizes (at Petersham
lown Hall) in connection with Newington College,
Stanmore, was th i twentieth annual event, and a large
number of persons attended Reports were read, and
a Idrassea and adv oj lavished on the good boys,
everyone of whom regards learning as infinitely pre-
ferable to riches, or playing orlvket, or a square feed ...
Mr. James, the popular chief effuer of the s.s. Leioh
hardr, has become a benedict at Brisbane At
Hawker, ts A., Charles Urquhart, an insurance agent,
went through a mock ceremony of marriage wit'- Carrie
Mundia. It was the stale novelist’s device of getting
a friend (Edward Clayton) to impersonate a parson.
Edward has now turned Queen’s evidence The
exhibition of children’s wora at Crown-street School
was kept open two days last week, and was thronged all
the time. Drawings and illuminated designs by Chaudie
Hull, Alice Burney, and Emily Small were very good :
needlework by Florio Marks, Sarah and Alice Clear,
and Florence Beeby ; and maorame work (which is
simply working twine or string with the hands only) by
Alice Herdaou (hewed great industry. The largest
I article in the room was a gaudy chair cover, executed
by a small girl of 9 years, who lives and labours under
the fearful name of Pniladelpbia 1
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Woniora Fund Conoert Deo. 28.
Mr. Dailey's Lecture on Burke Deo." 29"
Rovers G. 0. Pionic Jan 13 1883
International Cricket Match Jan", 26.
The Ministry in Explanation.
An anonymous correspondent, who writes on paper
bearing the Government House stamp, and holds,
we have good grounds for believing, a portfolio in
the Pabkss Ministry, sends us the following,
which, as will at once be observed by the intelli-
gent reader, bears evidence of a desire on the
writer’s part to constitute The Bulletin the
organ of the Government,
THE EEAL QEOUND3 OF THE DISSOLUTION.
reasons were put before the Ojvernor to
satisfy him are not known, and perhaps never will be
18 probably neither pxrty to the transaction
i anxious fo make fuithar revelations on tbe
subject; but the reasons put before the public were
188j rly itunffloient -"— 3 - M - Heeald Leader, Dec. 26,
In order to counteract the injurious consequences
of the above statement, we have been authorized
to publish before the meeting of Parliament the
following memorandum, which has been forwarded
to us for that purpose. To enable Lord Augustus
Loft us to have the fullest and clearest view
of the political situation, Sir Hbnbt Parke 3
drew up a minute embodying all the leading
circumstances of the case. He pointed out
that the defeat of the Government on their
Land Bill was of the smallest possible conse-
quence, since not one of the Ministry, except the
author of that measure, believed in a single
principle of it, and proved this ,to his Excellency s
entire satisfaction by the published speeches of
suoh of his colleagues as could spa»ak, and by the
reputed opinions of the remainder. On this point,
therefore, the Ministry could hardly be said to be
defeated at all, because their opinions were quite
in aocord with those of the majority. But at the
same time, Sir Henry Pabkes placed on record the
strong grounds which, in his judgment, would
render the granting of a dissolution an absolutely
essential proceeding on the part of the Governor.
It is for the justification of both his Excellency
and his advisors that we have been asked to
publish this important paper, which is in the
following words :
“ Reasons which are respectfully submitted to
the Governor in support of the advice tendered to
him by his advisers, that a dissolution of Parlia-
ment has now become inevitable.
“1. The extreme pecuniary inconvenience of having
highly remunerated public offices at an instant's
notice.
“ 2. The necessity of having abundant opportunities te
arrange all papers, documents, records, oorres-
pondence, &)., so that those who are to snooeed
us may not And themselves embarrassed with ex-
cessive information concerning transactions which
may provoke or aronse popular suspicion er in-
dignation.
“ 3. The chance that we may return—the hope that our
enemies may be extinguished—tho certainty that
our successors will have a legacy of confusion
“4. To afford a distinguished citizen who has been
honoured by his Sovereign a full opportunity of
vindicating his character before the public, in
connection with questions of snub overwhelming
constitutional importance as the hire of steam-
boats, the purchase of hats, and the gift of iron
railings,
“ 5. To put olf the despatch of public business.
“ tf. To have the chance of raising a new religions war-
cry.
“ 7. To establish a new constitutional precedent for a
dissolution, since none was ever granted betore
under like circumstances ’*
His Excellency, having soberly and dispassionately
considered this important (state paper, arrived
at the conclusion that the grounds tor the exercise
of the prerogative were irresistible. But he pre-
ferred basing his determination on the Ist and 7th,
as being the most reasonable, intelligible, and
conclusive, and, at the same time, most clearly
constitutional. His Excellency was, however,
much impressed with tne fourth ground, and
sagaciously remembered that tho national im-
portance of arriving at the exact truth with regard
to the Coonanbarra hats would of itself have
justified an appeal to the country.
When you see a lady brush up against a newly,
painted pillar post, carry away a pretty correct
map of the Russian possessions in Asia, and only
smile sweetly, don’t take the whole show for
granted. Just follow her home and see how oho
fits the old mftu'a head into the coal scuttle.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications notioced.]
. Charming thing, but continuation too
li> Ptobably be auorea and renewed “ oiagnum
Bonnm : You •* wrote m enigmas " because you didn’t
J? Plainly..PollWe don’t k.ow why the
Watson s Bay company are allowed to stack ouals on
8 • w ha*t at Circular Quay Protably oeoause a
01 the CloWn 19 in the Co “ W.J H”• You
I might just as well hare sent a crab, or a Murray cod, or
j a cray ban, or a conger-eel, oraroes.oystor.to represent
yon in the Assembly "Borneo’: Yonrrhyme is vtry
£S*--V" * <. ™ : Soaroely interesting
enough...... Wallabadah When you write ns nox
time, ask all your fam.ly not to shake the table. Thank
you lor saying you “willoften ooreepon,.” "Ajax":
True, of oonrse, but rather too tropical You ought to
know that, who hare written lor ns so often. Try again.
We hear the glazier's sister got married lately, send
us a list of ihe wedding dresses “Long Amber": If
your wife has departed, we are more sorry for yon than
you seem to be for yourself. We consider this portion
of your oltgr to be bordering on the flippant:—
She imbibed of the Coional (si«) brew.
And by tea she was thoroughly tight;
This sacred spot it s my duty to mark,
That all the world may know the news
On a polished slao of the best iron-buk,
that she died entirely from boose “
*!“• *V f ot Y°“ r mother-in-law, you sly dog ? We I'ka
nn Y llo w. Send us a Monody on the Snam/o
Phi* n( ? t i? neXt W ?? k> you wUI kno * we waiting
: I f,> T oall K Hogarth will sendua sketch., we will
I ~T m V H l= H the doctor wrung
the «eoks of Are cats, what in sulphur would he want to
order Worn to be drowned in a bucket of water’ for P
Send us some more itoms-aftor Christmas "Malt-
mud. : ihe facts you mention are valuable. “ Tr»de
Protection means blackmail out ana out, if what you
state is correct. Please forward document at once.
Bos : About 870 teams run in and out.'of the Bridge-
street terminus, daily -Quiz Perfectly natural.
It 8 the girl with the biggest feet who wants to play
Cinderella .....■•M/ra’’; It is not necessary to go back
to the Druidioal uays for the derivation of the word
mistletoe. It comes from the aessrtion • mis'll toe’’
the mark, of course, when the bough is hung up. If yen
doubt thin, dear, come round to our olHoe any day this
week. We won’t have time to give you personal proof
though. Since we hung the mlitletoe bough over our
door wa have been so besieged by Baanty teat we have
nad. to hire a man to do the 1 isslng for us
Namol’’! You’ve evidently just become au L.getee
...... ■ W.V.B. ; Thanks ” Q B.” (Melbourne): Many
thanks... ..“J.U. 'i Your surprise is mot singular.
Everybody who is not in ta« secret of the Shbouu’s
exist oi Co which means everybody but ourselves, the
hot pie men, and tn« sipulohral staff—would wonder if
they saw it how tbs giiaiy speatre manages to appear
weak after week. This, daar boy, is a journalistic
secret—the (shroud is heavily sabsidued by the under-
takers,,...." Arauann "i Yea, dear boy, bat a wealthy
man’s is atives always judge of the state of his mind,
not by his manner aad actions while he lived, but by
the terms of Ids will.
THE NEWSLETTER.
In a recent issue we published a letter signed
** Morse,' in whluti the writer stated that some oi tho
telegraph operators have, on ooowious, to work sevenl
hours extra without additional pay. In ord-r that such
of their colleagues as are members of the t irpoao oorps
may go away to drill. We have since harut, oa tho
moat reliable authoiicy, tula i. not strictly tra.., The
operators referred to can refuse to come on duty if they
ctmoie, but, as oar informant m i/aly continues, * they
are not asses enough to kick agamst tho pricks." Una
refusal to "turn up ’ at 1 p. 0,. instead ot 3 ou Baturelay
would, m all probability, lead to a Dutch promotion
the mutinous clerk who receives £l5O per annum hire
being soon after sent to “ Murdering awamp." or
other cheerful Ultima T xule at an increase of ‘it. Hid.
per week, and, this bein' considered aa increase, n«
would be required to iay hla o*n late and th-t of his
wife ana family as well. We need sotrcaly say that tht
children of this generation—having level heads—do tue
extra work in situuoe, and some even go so far as to sty
they rather like it. The atatemeat that this d> tiling
does not affect the lightning-like celerity of t e busi-
ness of this department is simply a lie— that is t* say
it is merely a Muistar.al wta ament—in j real fact
being that incompetent juniors are maae to do ihs
worx of experts, and quite frequently soma lisas are
left without an operator at all for hours. However,
this is merely a secondary canaideratiou, as we never
know when the hostile Greeuiauders may swoop down
upon us, and then—but not till than—we 11 require our
bravo Torpedos.
Irene.
A MANLY BALLAD.
A tall and spare and haggard manj
Sad visagtd he, to view j
His (ace was wanj be stood upon
The deck ot the Emu.
So deep—so very deep—he sighed
That melancholy cuss ;
Then gazing on the flowing tide
Ue told his tale to ns.
It was on Manly’s pier I gazed,
• Upon the ocean sheeny
When glancing up with eyes half-dazed,
1 looaed upon —Irene I
A vision she—her figure had
Oh, such a sylph-like contour;
I looked and longed and loved, hedad I
Aid then, Sir, I froze on t'her.
Her voice was far more musical
Than any harp M olian;
In grace ot courage was that gal
A howlin' out A Boleyn.
Her eyes—each was the lustrous star
You find (in poems) and Asia; —
Bright ■* windows of the soul," that are
Put in by Heaven's glazier. ’
Well, cheek to cheek and hand in hand.
We sate—old love-words crooning 1
Long hours upon that starlit strand
We crooning sat and spooning !
When, close on midnight’s mystic chime,
I murmured, “ Sweetest creature,
To-morrow—tell me at what time,
My darling, 1 shall meet yer."
*• At even time,” out on the air
Her pure and sweet tone wells it; —
“ At night Dad fishes over there.
And in the day I sells it.”
Adieu, Irene," then I cried—
So ends one ot my crazes.”
Above the rhythm o( the tide
She said—** Oh, go to 1”


G
AIE T Y
Lessee
Directress..
THEATRE
Messrs. L, M. Bay less.
.Mrs. M. GHadetane-Bayless.
Under the management of MR. FRANK TOWBKS.
SLNBAD
SINBAD
SINB4D
SINEAD
SINBaD
THIS EVENING,
Thursday. December 28,
at 8 sharp,
A. Harris’s Coined* In 2 sets, the
LITILE TREASURE
sinbad
SINBAD
SINBAD
SINBAD
SINBAD
At 9 15, Frank Green’ j Successful Juvenile Burlesque,
SINBAD THE 3 4.(LOR
SINBAD THE SAILOR Miss ROSA TOWERS,
Characters by
Messrs. Frank Towers, T Bnokley, J, O’Neill,
J. Cottier, F. Cottier, W. Love, S.
Hail and
Misses Mav Vivian, Verge Vivian, H. Tnlloch,
Katie Towers, H, Sherwood.
New and beautiful Scenery by Mr, W. KINCHELA
Doors open at 7, commence at 8 sharp.
o
PE E A
HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager ...
Directress
Manager for Miss Melville
Treasurer
W. J. Wilson.
Bmelie Melville
T. S. Ca a selli.
W. P. Morrison.
EMELIE MELVILLE OPEEA COMPANY.
No Free List
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION.
FATINITZA. FATINITZA. FATISITZA.
Founded on incidents of the Turco-Euesian War.
GREATLY AUGMENTED CHORUS.
SPECIAL ORCHESTRA.
CORRECT and ELEGANT NEW COSTUMES.
LEON CARON, Magical Conductor.
Reserved Seats at HUBNERBEIN’S, 411 Qeorge-st.
til H E A T K E
aos a l
Lessee Mr. Sam. Lazsr.
Treasurer... Mr. Qeo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management ©f
Messrs. WILLIAMSON, QARNEE.Jand MUSGROVE.
A Merry Xmas and a Happy New Year to all 1
EVERT EVENING.
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ALADDIN ALADDIN
HARLEQUIN
The Wonderful Ring, the Magical Lamp,
And the pretty young Maiden who loved a great scamp;
The Runny Old Dame, and the Latest Edition
Of the Musical, Model, and Mystic Magician.
No free list. Box plan open daily at Theatre from 11
till 4. Seats secured six days in advance, and tickets
for all parts of the house obtained aho at Lloyd’s,
next theatre. Seats secured by telephone-
-0 F
MUSIC.
Lessee ... Mr. W. H. Thompson.
Farewell visit
Previous to its departure for South Africa, of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
OF THE
ZULU WA. E.
Bln consequence of ENG COUS SUCCESS of
this Entertainment on its forme. Visit, the proprietor
will distribute every evening at hie discretion, without
the slighest element of chance being introduced, a
number of elegant CHRISTMAS and NEW YEAR’S
GIF J'3, consisting of Gold and Silver Watches, Suites
' ct Fu. Harmoniums, Pianos, Horses, Allotments
of Lam., Bedroom Suite of Furniture, Buggies, Tea
and Coffee Services, Oil Paintings, Papier Mache
Tables, Silver Candelabra, Silver Epergns, Presenta-
tion Cups, and a number of other presents too numerous
to mention. The whole conducted ou a scale of
Liberality never before attempted in Sydney. The
leading presents for the first six nights will comprise :
SIX SUITES OP FURNITURE,
SIX SUITES OF FURNITURE,
SIX SUITES OF FURNITURE,
g«X GOLD WATCHES,
SIX SILVER WATCHES,
SIX TEA AND COFFEE SERVICES,
SIX PAPIER MACHE TABLES,
12 PRESENTATION CUPS,
12 SILVER CANDELABRA,
12 EPERGNES,
12 MARBLE TOILET GLASSES
AND M)0 OTHER VALUABLE GIFTS,
Making a total of £2OO for the week.
Prices of admission: Front seats 3s, Second seats 2s,
Gallery Is. A Few Fauteuils 4s.
Tickets for all parts of the house may bo obtained at
Kirby’s, Bookseller, Pitt-street.
Doors open nt 7 30, overture 8 o’clock sharp.
Lecturer MR. W. H. THOMPSON,
Agent LIEUT. HERMANN.
■JYJ- CO N NEE
DRAPER AND MEN’S MERCER.
43 OXFOED STEEET.
WEAEING APPAEEL
of the Beat Description and the Latest Fashion
at:
EEASONABLE FIGUEES.
A Large and Yalnahle Stock of Ladies’ Under-
clothing, Dress Materials, Eibbons, Laces,
Gloves, &o.
The latest designs in Fans and Fancy Goods
generally.
M. CONNEEY,
48 OXPOBD STEEET,
C
HANCE FOE A FORTUNE.
CHAMPION STAKES, NEW YEAR’S DAY.
Australasian ’’ Consultation, 12 000 bhares at Sapor
Share; an even Pour, 20a,
Non Starter*
Prizes; 50 at £5
do. 50 at £2
do. 40 at £lO
£250
250
100
400
►First Horse ... £lOOO
Second do 500
Third do 250
Startera 250
Total £3COO.
-Stamps for Reply and Result. No Coins. Address:
Australasia " Oopapiny, Care of Mr. H. J. Franklin,
,Bookseller, 119 a Bourke-street East, Melbourne,
[HE HATMAEKET PEI
BUILDING AND INI
COMPANY (Lim
Dikectoes
JAS. T. TILLOCK, Esq.,
(Messrs. Tilloak A Co., Merchants
WILLIAM HARRIS, E?q, GEO
Killarney, Mulgrave. A
SIMEON BROWN, Erq., TH(
Builder, Burwocd. Ef
11
WILLIAM PEITCHA
(Messrs. J. and W. Pritchard, Soa
lecturers. Camper*
SECOND ANNUAL
presented to the Shareholders at 1
held at the Corn Exchange, Haym
November 23,1882, at 7 30 p.*a.
Tour Directors .have pleasure
Second Annual Report and Bala
gratulate shareholders on the gr
during the past year.
The Virginia Water Estate, Pet
public auction on March 11 last, an<
profit on the outlay.
I’ho Town of Vermont Esiate,
Belle Vue Estate, Leichhardt, at
Sans Sonoi, have been purchased, t
at satisfactory prices.
Motdialloo Estate, Marriokville,
Board anticipate subdividing and
expiration of the present half-year,
Estates in first-class positions t
Hurstville and Hornsby.
(since the last general meeting th
been advanced on mortgage,
The Directors have secured on a
and at a satisfactory rental, the
company, together with the one
taking steps to improve the same ii
reflect credit on the institution th
represent.
The whole of the present capital
scribed, and in view of the rapidly
of the Company, and the fact that
quired to carry on the business the
now under consideration i ho advisf
issuing new shares to present shar
The net profits for the year, aftei
interest on deposits. &c , and dedu<
from Office Furniture Acconut, amt
The Board purpose declaring a <
year at the rate of 25 per cantnn
monthly balances cf the paid-up
absorb £2373 15J Id) and carrying
19i 6d) forward to the credit of pro
It devolves upon the meeting to di
Directors shall be, and to elect tw
Auditors.
The retiring Directors and And
ro-election, and have given the nec
intention to again offer themselves
JAS. T. TIL
Balance sheet for half-year, endi
1882;
LIABILITIES
Paid-up Capital...
Share Deposits...
Dividends ... _ ..._
Deposits and other Liabilities ...
Interest accrued ...
Accountsowing...
Profit and Loss... ...
ASSETS.
Amount on Mortgage ...
Balance owing on Land Sales
Land not sold ...
©ffloe Furniture
Stock Stationery
Cash Balance ...
PROFIT and L(
Dr. "
To Dividends ...
Interest paid and accrued ...
Office Furniture Account ...
M anager’s Bonus ... £!
Manager’s salary ...
Directors’ Fees ... 2i
Auditors’Fees ... 2
Surveyor’s Fees ...
Legal expenses ... (
Commission ... ... 1
Salaries ... ... H
Rent... ... ... It
Advertisements ... It
Printing, stationery,
stamps, &c. 16
Balance
or.
By Balance November 15,1881 ...
Forfeited shares ... 1 6
Interest ... ... 688
Premiums ... ... 21
M.
T H
IMPORTER O
WORKS OF ,
GERMAN AND SWISS WC
ARCADE BUILD!
SYDNEY.
Mo LEAN AND SON, El«
and Nickel Platers on i
Manufacturing Silversmiths, Wato
l6js. Established 3d years. Show
21 Hunter-street. All descriptio
Dish-covers, Cruet-stands, Tc-a-set
re-platcd equal to new. Seven
besides Silver and Bronze Medals i
Exhibitions of 1879 and 1880. M
draw particular attention to the a
and carriage fittings, shop-fronts, a
&0., are NICKEL PLATED.
Literature, I
WM. WALLACE begs to a
• eoratnenced business as
STATIONER in the largest sh
ARCADE, 496 Georgc-street.
All the newest Publications at
spec'ally imported for this market
ENGLISH AND CONTINEN
Scientific, Architectural, Meohanit
cal. Historical, and Engine
American Publications and Sahot
editions. Works of Fiction, Trav<
Law, Commercial, and Fancy Stat
1000 pounds worth of Christmai
Friendship, and Birthday Cards,
York, Paris, Berlin, and will be sold
Albums, Church Services, Prayer
Writing desks, and a large quasi
articles too numerous to partlcul
have had the personal supervisio:
axd his long and intimate conne<
and Stationery Business in the Cit;
for variety and sterling value.
W. M W allace hopes to merit a
ronage, which can only be deserve;
tion to charge moderate prices.
W. M. WALLAC
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEO
N.B,—Leading English, Americ
Newspapers, regularly received by
9aa Fraacisco mail.
Advertiser wishes to comm
of Middle Age with a view
Lady must have ample means and |
previous behaviour from a Clergi
the Peace. Advertiser is Middle-a
and Is worth £20,000. This is a
Offer and will remain open for a m<
Photo, at this offl
LADY MUST SEND
Address—"BACHELOR," Bo
xuia’iirre nasnrara
CLARKSON
I
D. W, CLARKSON,
Removed to 97 Market Street, i
Tweed Suits from 3s. Twt
P. .TAW
w.
H. PA
PIANOFORTE WARE]
SS2 Qeorge-etreet, Syi
yf."" V • ■; I JSB
PIANOPOETES, PIAN(
Just unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK QP FIRST-
MENTS, by 1
ERARD (Faria and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLAR!
SOUFLBTO,
BURDEN and 0
TROBT
AUCB
And other First-class Makers, in
Black and Odd, and Wall
AMERICAN OEQi
by
BELL and CO
WATERS and SON
sm:
other Renowned P
HAEMONIU]
By Meagre. ALEXANDRE PERE e
First-class Manufactn
A Large Assortment of New and
ways on hand at
W. H. PAL
852 GEORGE STRE
OPPOSITE WTNIAB
SYDNEY.
8
ALB OP BOOTS
JJfeJIANNAH wishes to inform hii
and customers that he intends havir
A GREAT SALE
BOOTS and SH(
in consequence of Alteration in his 1
fully intends to carry out in the gre
to oommenoe on
FRIDAY, 11th Augt
and to continue till cleared out.
Don’t forget the Address—
H. HA
&
Educational.
MISS LYDIA Hi
will receive a limited num
Instruction in the Important Art of
VOICE CULTUBE AND E
Address—
-10(
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SI
SOLICITOR, has oomi
practice of his profession, at li
PITT-STREET, opposite tb
Om os.


JamesMAX&T]
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opp.
OUR STOCK FOR
Comprises all the
OUR 1832 RELIABLE
STRING BINDERS.
Our 3 Speed
hornsbv-maktin
PARAGON
MOWERS & REAPERS
WOOD'S RELIABLE STRING BINDER.
TAMES MARTIN & CQMPY., 389
FARMERS,
GET THE
BEST.
THE RELIABLE
1882
THE BEST
IS
PARAGON. ALWAYS
THE
CHEAPEST
a- WE POST ALL PRICES, ILLUSTRATIONS, AND
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE IMPLEMENT AND
Cable Address i
“ cJofforSi"
Post Ql
No.
Clifford Love, & Om
[EASTERN MERCHANTS
Foo| CHOW,
CHINA.
and
TORE STREET, STUNK!
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AND CHIN
COFFEE,
BICE,
PEPPERS,
SPICES,
TAPIOCAS,
CHUTNETS,
INDIAN PRESERVES,;
CHINESE PRESERVES,
„ SILKS.
„ MATT INS 3,
„ SPECIAL IDLES
Gire Speeial Attention to the Pars
EASTERN PRODUCE.
notice op hemov
MR. JOHN
ban removed from
119 LIVERPOOL STREJ
to his
NEW WAREHOU
363 PUT STBBET, 31
Where a New and well-assorted stock
Gasflttings, Plumbers and Baffin
ware, Gas and Water Pipes with
will always be on hand.
Noto the New Address—
-363 PITT STREET, i
EASTWAY, BROTH
WIBE-WOHXEBI
■WTfTTSH to call your attention to
W we make and have in stock as i
FLOWER STANDS, for holding 11
made of Iron ana wire, handsomely Irani
suitable for rooms, hall", balconies,
conservatories. Also, WIRE PERN
sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, tor aoreeni
oonl, Ae, all moehee, from 1 hele to
aqn are inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for pretoe
from breakage caused bv hailstorms or
stones. Al?o, WIRE NJIt a '®, »H n
to 72 in. wide. L '<£.
CAGES of every deaeri a * Y*or eanai
singly or in nests, suitably -t jtoreheei
And every deaeripuao ot WIEB WOl
premises.
lASTWITVB *o T
413 GKORSL-STRBET
*,'• Illustrated Oateloffnes en art’
THE TRADE BUPPLIB
MO CONNOISETJRS OF WB
'A BRANDY. —W. sad A Gilley's C.
WHISKEY and L'OR EXT BAIT BJ
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER Sc f
an
D. & R. BRADFOi
CHRISTMAS CARDS.
Boat and moat Beautiful Productions of the leading European and
1 American Houses, can now be seen at the
FINE ART PUBLISHING GO’S. GALLERIES.
1 SYDNEY ARCADE,
and
19 and 21 R O T A L ARCADE.
Come Eablt and Choose the Best.
Also, a Beautiful Collection of PICTURES and other Works ef Art, specially
imported for
CHR.BTMAB PRESENTS.
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
•gr SOLD BT ALL G
JJEATJTIPUL and moat El
TEENS, moat of
are really
VERY HANDSC
FLORAL and ESTHETIC PEI
at
ED WARD HOEDEEN i
EDWARD HORDERNi
668, Briokfield-h
668, Briebfield-h
nery Ho» ary
Hoaiery Moan
ry Hoaiery
Hoaiery Hoai
Hoaiery.
v,> f.yto ‘ ae
We do please
We al
mporimn Our Emporium
is
Well lighted
and
r» vj_ re.
Light, DeUoions
Beverage. <
drink
liquid yield
in
ways will We
iwaya will W«
y>
1
If. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FEOCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOE FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR _
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, sa.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 15a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. £W
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4 4a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £ 4 10a.
Warranted Shrank, and Perfect Fit.
Suita to Measure on Shortest Notice.
58 MARKET STREE
NEW GOODS EVERY: MAIL FROM FIEST-C
A SIMPLE DDR
DEFECTIYE Ml
SAY THE FOLLOWING LINES EVE
IF I want to sret a Carriage, Buggy, Trotting: Snlkv, Express War
Mill. Saw, Flour, Shingle, or Chalf Mill, Steam Engine, Harvest
article the best and most modern ganranteed to me, I go to
FLEMING'S
CARRIAGE ANi> MACHINERY R 1
22 and 24 CLARENCE SIRE
SYDNEY.
TRY IT.
BROOKSISEWING
