

THE BULLETIN
VoL 11.—No. 139
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1882.
Frio*—3d
% bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1882.
Absenteeism.
Thebe must be some unsound principle in the
constitution of a community when absenteeism
becomes a marked feature. Our natural sense of
the fitness of things is opposed to the wholesale
appropriation of a country’s products to enrich
people living elsewhere. It the custom or fashion
of non-resident ownership becomes so general as
to form a system, then the growth of both natural
and political life must become dwarfed and
stunted.
* • *
A condition of society such as this might possibly
arise in our inland pastoral country uader existing
laws. Fortunately, some portions of New South
Wales are safe from this risk. The wiser laws of
an earlier period have done something in one part
of the solony, and nature has done something
elsewhere, to maintain a sounder state of things.
But some 30,000 square miles, not of barren back
block, but of Biverina, the cream of Australia,
intersected by railway and navigable rivers, and
in the very centre of traffic, are likely at no dis-
tant date to be in the hands of a few score of pro-
prietors ; and while the same causes continue to
affect our inland districts, the same effects are
likely to follow. Another ten years of free
selection and pastoral finance, uninterrupted, may
likely enough bring most of our Western grass
country under the same influences as Biverina.
The owners of such estates as are likely to be
created under these circumstances will necessarily,
as soon as they are clear of encumbrance, follow
the traditional practice, and become absentees.
• • «
The instincts that now take our capitalists in
twos and threes to spread their plumes before be-
dazzled Europe will inspire their congeners and
successors in hundreds to seek their destinies in
like fashion. Their huge domains will be inhabited
by overseers and boundary-riders under the super-
vision of business managers. Bankers, attorneys,
and friendly politicians will look after their inter-
ests. Holding an immense share of the property
of the colony, their voices and influence, though
absent, will be all-potent in moneyed and political
circles ; they will pay well for service of ail kinds,
and their wishes will be carried out with zeal.
Wo have nob got this length yet, but we are in a
fair way for it.
• • •
The method of working stations by powerful
companies or syndicates, now becoming common,
tends much in the same direction. The place of
the individual squatter is being taken by these
moneyed associations. Such bodies, in their con-
stitution, oombine all that is characteristic of
absentee proprietorship with another element,
which harmonises as little with the responsibili-
ties or the progress of actual colonisation. When
three or four stations in a block fall into the hands
of such a corporation, it is like so much country
cut out of the colony. Every competing interest
w quietly bought up, put down, or absorbed.
Every farthing got from the grass goes to Mel-
bourne, or, it may be, to London ; and, for any
national or social purpose it serves, the tract of
country might as well be a worked ont mine or a
mangrove swamp. Moreover, there is neither a
visible proprietary nor a responsible representa-
tive. The Dean of St. Paul’s declared that a
corporation had neither a soul to be saved nor a
Oo dy to be kicked. The syndicate is an absentee
corporation.
• • •
But, apart from these modern influences, there
8 > m the squatting tenure itself, a strong tendency
° a state of things, which—if not absenteeism—is,
or the public welfare, quite as bad, if not worse,
ike practice has always existed for squatters to
cu out and leave the colony with every farthing
oey could take away. This has been the necessary
consequence of their holding huge tracts of
W- r ? 0a an uncertain tenure. Debt and specu-
turn have always been seated, like “ atra cura,”
e the croup of the Crown leasee, so his game
JJt? Perforce been to stock up and sell out at a
P oe per head. This feature came to light so
Vfin aa , when the pursuit was bately twelve
evfJ 8 0 * Thomas Mitchell, in giving
"Hi ?° e before a Commiltee of t*o Council, said
ui*t under this method the resources of the
0 -* ny ?* re ava ßable to temporary occupants
all oonße( l a ently the profits of the industry
im-, W 0 k° England, leaving nothing for the
provemont and permanent advantage of the
mumty.” He strongly recommended that the
*, ln ? should be recast by reverting to
holdi° ri^in f Bystem °^. a freehold tenure, and
with D^B ° * m °derate size, as more in harmony
Thaw 801111 ** So ttlement. In this opinion Sir*-
ColJ^i 8 cT a 8 Bu PPorted by Mr. Eiddell, the
mal Secretary, and by other gentlemen of
standing, but the suggestion either never reached
Downing-street, where the Government of New
South Wales was then carried on, or if it was
received, it was not understood. The forty
years that have passed since this evidence
was given have only supplied additional proof
of the accuracy of the opinion. Though
we have now thirty-six millions of sheep instead
of the three millions of that day, the holder
of the pastoral lease still remains by law a nomad
camped on the soil. Nothing has been done by
legislation to turn him into a real settler, or to
place him in a less invidious position. Though
holding a monopoly of the pasture, he has to fight
daily for his grass and water in the Land Offices
and Law Courts. He is hooted at from the
hustings as if he were an outlaw, while selection
and usury open their jaws for him. No wonder
then that he feels he owes nothing to the com-
munity, and readily takes the first good chance to
get away with what he can gather,
• * «
The absenteeism that we condemn, then, on the
ground of public welfare, turns out to be the
direct outcome of our institutions. By establish-
ing insecurity of tenure as one principle, and
class-discords as another, we have prohibited
-thousands of our best colonists from acquiring
any permanent interest in the country ; while
occasionally we have fattened up a few millionaires
for export. The huge fortunes acquired by these
men or note are nearly all the wreckage of stations
foundered in some financial crisis, bought for an
old song, and in the periodical rise of prices they
become worth untold thousands. The large
estates again have mostly been bank securities
imperilled by selection, and they have been con-
solidated in defence with the aid of cheap English
money. Do these things denote wonderful pros-
perity f Or, rather, eould we well have done more
than we have done to throw away our resources, to
drive millions of money out of the colony, and
create the very thing we condemn ?
To denounce the individual absentee, or the
squatter who sells out and takes his money away
with him, would be meaningless in the face of the
policy that has been so long maintained in New
South Wales. It might be more to the purpose if
we considered how the colony would fare under a
law having a different tendency. The problem is
not very difficult to solve. With security of
tenure established as the basis of the system, it
needs little forecast to perceive that one-half of
the evils which we suffer under would be removed.
With secure holdings of all sizes provided by a
well-considered survey, grazier and agriculturist
might both be well provided for. Our standard
industry would be best conducted on a sheep-farm
—larger than a selection, smaller than a station. If
such were to be had, run-dealing and speculative
borrowing would be less practised ; and there
would be speedily seen instead, the kind of work
that is prompted by actual possession—energetic
application in making the moat of both land
and stock. A dozen such homesteads would find
room on a space where the sheep of one
proprietor spend half their time in starving,
and the wealth got from the grass would take
the form, not of absentees’ remittances or land-
agents’ fees, but would be expended in promoting
domestic en j oy ment and creating substantial works.
This is no visionary chimera ; for the very state of
things we have sketched is in actual existence now
in the first occupied part of New South Wales—
the Old Settled Districts. Such security of tenure,
if extended to the rich inland country, would supply
all that is wanted for its full development. Before
a sound title, the difficulties of water-supply would
rapidly vanish, and the capital that is now looked
up in dead land purchases,! or the defence of stations
against selection, would be profitably employed in
making these grazing farms and estates drought-
proof. Instead of absentee millionaires, titled or
otherwise, we would have prosperous families in
thousands ; instead of huge unpeopled freehold
stations, the back plains would be spotted with
homesteads. There is no imagination or theory in
this at all: for, if the poor country of the table-
lands supports a thriving population, the rich
inland pastures could certainly do the same under
a land policy equally favourable.
• • •
So far, we have remarked on the evils produced
by bad laws still in force, which have driven both
men and money from among us. As to individual
colonists spending a portion of their lives in
Europe or elsewhere, we think it very desirable
that the colony should, through those who may be
held to represent her, come in contact with the
ideas and culture of the great world. Many of
our colonists have done good service during their
absence. Sir Daniel Cooper, though resident
in London, never fails to keep hia eye on colonial
interests. It is not long since he scrutinised and
exposed abuses connected with the wool-sales.
There may be an Austral knight here and there
craving social distinction and grovelling before
fashion, but most of our men of mark have been
of a more manly caste, and have more worthily
represented us.
* t •
It is not to be exepeted that any reflections put
forward in connection with this topic can have any
weight with politicians. More practical matters,
involving immediate returns, engross their atten-
tion. But, still, it is well for those of us who have
leisure and reason sufficient to refer effects to
their causes, to give some thought to this question
of absenteeism, and consider how, as a growing
feature of the future, it may be beat met.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exit Arabi Bey.
Ababi’s discomfiture was a stern necessity. It was ef
the first importance that the warlike spirit of the some-
what placid John Bull, which had to all appearance
expired on the Afghan plains and among the jungle-
brush of Zululand, should revive itself effectively
beneath the shadow of the Pyramids, unless the hard-
won prestige of the historic past was to die out in a
pitiful fizzle at last. It has revived itself. Sir Garnet
Wolselet has seen to that. The armed hand has
closed on a parcel of practically defenceless wretches,
struggling for liberty, and Britain’s historic spirit has
vindicated itself—-pace John Bright. By this time,
Ababi will be material for a bowstring, perhaps; or
worse still, the coming lion of the next giddy London
season, in the room of the sable Cetawato, and our
own bond-scorner, Parkes 1 Meanwhile, what will
become of Egypt ? Arabi struck for Egyptian indepen-
dence—independence of the SmrLOCK-like grasp of a
handful of rapacious bondholders. It was an effort to
redeem the people’s birthright from the octopus-like
grip of international money-lenders—usurers who had
gained a hold thereon through no act or fault of the
people, but by the fraudulent breach of public trust by
unworthy and unscrupulous rulers. The attempt was
unsuccessful. “ The rights of British bondholders
must be protected," it was said. They were protected,
and—exit Arabi. It matters little what becomes of
that versatile individual. He was merely the implement
of a people, even though his part may have been alloyed
by self-seeking. A hull on the stockbrokers’ market
has been too much for stock-broker Arabi this time.
And the Egyptian question re-commences.
Thirty Pieces of Silver.
“ not where to lay His head." That’s one of the
mistakes in being born 2000 years ago, and picking up
the notion that His Father’s work was what he should
attend to. We live and learn. Peter dried his nets
upon a rock. Leo and Antonelli and Borgia no longer
go out to take a small coin from the mouth of a fish.
To them the whole world is a fish-pond, and their hook
is in every mouth. The old Evangelists thought they
did well if their preaching carried conviction to pagan
souls. The new think they have done nothing unless
they carry forward balances, and die “worth money."
Old Dr. Backhaus, of Sandhurst, died recently
“worth" over £lOO,OOO in real estate (this world
is all a fleeting show—nothing real about it)
besides many thousands left to his relatives. To his
mother cne enthusiast, bent on heavenly work,
said: “Woman, what have Ito do with thee?" Dr.
Backhaus is now being requlemed for by the best
choristers that money can buy ; Dr. Vaughan has just
bagged 220 Wagga sovereigns; and only recently in
Sydney, a Presbyterian clergyman who, it is presumed,
was one of the elect, left £7OOO odd. Moelet Punshon,
the great Wesleyan light, left thousands. The im-
mortal we need not give his name—of a certain
ever-memorable wreck, left to his son £9OOO, which that
youngster ran through in “nap.” and dissipation.
Then he went to gaol, and then he came out, and death
ended hi* squandering of the accumulated “three-
pennies" of the poor. “A’ for His glory!" A Church
of England cleric left £3OOO here lately. We forestall
the stereotyped reply, “ The labourer is worthy of his
hire." Let him, however, say straight out that he does
work for hire, and not pass away into the tomb with
the oily pretence on his lip that he works for eternity.
The actual needs of a self-sacrificing clergyman are
amply supplied by church provisions. All else is of the
world, and Iscariot.
MR. J. M. PURVES, M.P.-(See page7)


£1 [OUQHS AND COLDS.
The Beat Cure for the above is Rum made hot,
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s, Per Imperial Quart.
C. w. ROBERTS
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W. ROBERTS'
NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
6 4 .
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT WINE
SHERRY, OR BEER, *
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET,
BED OR WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PRODUCT OP AUSTRALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPARMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOMEOP ALL BEVERAGES
C W. ROBERTS' SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNeLISH WHISKEY,
6?. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURBUMBIDGEE POET
2s. per bottle.
HENHESSY’S 3 STAR PALE BRANDT.
6s. per Bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITUR EM
FURNITURE 111
W™ 18 P* ace to buy Furniture P”
. Jr » This question is being asked every day, and
is ot as mueh interest to anyone needing a single ar-
ticle, as to the '* Happy Couple ’’ just setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kitchen
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HYDE FAKE
FURNISHING EXHIBITION
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(Late HARDY BROTHERS).
EVERT HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAT BE HAD
HERE.
Do®■t be misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hyde Fork Furnishing Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT FURNITURE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE FURNITURE#
Go to the
HYDE PAEH FURNISHING EXHIBITION.
Pot good Workmanship, Excellence acd Durability of
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilst the Prises will be found
m;a evellouslt low /
This vast Collection has been selected and manufac-
tured with a practical regard for Modern requirements
and improved taste.
We Invite yon to inspect our Stock; yon will not be
asked to buy what you do not want; for our object is to
RETAIN as well as OBTAIN patroaage; ana we rely
on the satisfaction, good opinion, and recommenda-
tion of our customers.
Remrmber these important taets s
OUR STOCK IS THE LARGEST.
OUR STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE#
OLR STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUR STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST/
■*" The utmost oar# is given to packing and forward'
ing all Goods bought at this Establishment, and Ooung
try Customers may rely upon the prompt execution of
their orders and the delivery of their purchase in a"
sound condition.
A Groan from the Civil Service.
A philosopher connected with the Telegraph Depart-
ment sends us a Jetter this week, which certainly is a
most extraordinary production to come from a Civil
servant of the country, of whatever rank or grade. Of
course the poor devil is sore about his salary, and if
one tithe of what his letter contains is true and
Heaven knows, it displays every sign of truth! —he has
ample material to be sore about. He tells us, what we
knew before, that young lads are taken into the depart-
ment as probationers, in the first instance; such are in
attendance from 8.30 a.m. to 8 or 9 at night, perhaps
for two or three years, without pay. “If lucky,” our
philosopher says, "he (the probationer) is then ap-
pointed- Junior Operator, at the smallest salary,"
where ho will remain until, after repeated applications
and begging influences from some M.P , he receives pro-
motion, and at lost may be appointed station master at
somewhat less than a good labourer’s wages. We
have called our correspondent a philosopher, and so he
is, even if his orthography is defective. He goes
solemnly into this matter, and his disclosures by no
means end here. He has much to say respecting the
legion of Inspectors, of every conceivable description,
and no conceivable business — " State paupers osr
man calls them,—who absorb the fuuds which should
jfo to support the workers of the Civil Service. Sud-
denly, however, his prudence gets the better of him.
•i i faff n ot sign my name to this," he writes, “lest the
matter should leak out;" and some hoptful young
probationer should squeeze him from his miserable
berth, the squeezer to be disappointed and squeezed
•at in his turn. The letter before us is simply a stifled
groan for assistance—stifled by fear before it has time
to definitely shape itself. We would like to see an
inquiry instituted into the working of a Department
containing a feature like this.
Again!
After all, what is really the core of the Art Gallery
opening question ? There are some who object to such
a step, because of its absolute evil, while others only
go on the dubious ground of its being that hackneyed
“ thin edge of the wedge" which ia to open the very
flood-gates of evil themselves. These latter have been
often enough answered. They are alarmists, to whom
the best answer suggests itself in the fact that the
very eommon-sense and rational intelligence which
their vapouring outrages will be the best guarantee
against the weird and wonderful evi's their law-
less and eccentric imaginations are perpetually
conjuring up. Those who see an evil in Art
itself, however, have at least some tangible ground
to go upon. There have been religious vandals
in all ages. The zealous craze of Savonarola
must have deprived the world of many a priceless
masterpiece and fair treasure of Florentine art, aud
does not quaint historical record tell how the glorious
wealth of brilliant hues that streamed from the painted
windows of the early Canterbury Cathedral, faded
beneath the barbarism of the zealot churchman, who
playfully characterised his ruthless act as " rattlynga
doune proud Beckbt’s glassie bones P" For our part,
however, we prefer to go to auothtr source for an
opinion on these subjects. It is Ouida who best
describes, in one of her hooks, the real influence of
Art on the popular mind. In Italy, she says, where
every little chapel has its masterpiece, and every
public square Its statue from the hand of a master, the
social life is instinct with Art’s influence. Generations
of youths and maidens have not plighted their mar.
riage vows beneath those altarpieces of martyr or
Madonna, without the fortitude of tho one and the
gmUillesee and sweetness of the other entering into their
tires, and intensifying with each generation which
comes after. And really, we must add, we would
prefer such a social character as is thus produced, to
•the one which will be the product of the Premier’s
Simile clause and the Sunday trams.
C.M.G. and D.T.
Alderman John Davies, C.M.G., is treading on hot
bricks. Despite the issue of the £20,000 writ for libel,
Alderman J. D. Young has given notice that he will
move the following resolution in the Council“ That
this Council, having adopted the report of the sub.
eomraittee with regard to Alderman John Davies and
the hiring of the Coonanbarra, is of opinion that Aider-
man Davies has been guilty of conduct unworthy of an
alderman, and ought to be called upon to resign his
position in the Council.” The Press has been effectively
silenced from temporarily discussing Alderman Davies’
connection with recent mysteries, i.e., it has been pre-
vented from drawing logical conclusions from any facts
which may tell against the C.M.G. But anything that
can be said for him, though not ultra vires, is “safe.”
And when a “ safe ” thing is on, the Daily Telegraph
is always “there." This brilliant toady has discovered
impropriety in Alderman Toukg's action, who, it argues,
afkould have let John Davies alone, “ at all events till
4he conclusion of the action he has instituted la the
Supreme Court against the Mayor.” Says the argumen-
Native idiot who wastes ink in the leading columns of
that paper:—” It is no doubt his (Davies's) own fault
that ho did not answer the summons of the committee
and state his case in the Council, but had he done so he
would certainly have weakened his case in the Supreme
Court, and no reasonable person would have expected
him to follow such a course." This is logic with a
vengeance. If Alderman Davies had cleared his char-
acter in the Council, there would still have been no
obstacle to his receiving compensation at the hands of
the Supreme Court for past damages to his reputation.
Bather would it fortify his position. In its anxious
desire to prop up a parasite of the Ministry, the
Telb«haph says:—“ It will be time enough to call upon
Alderman Davies to resign his seat in the Council after
ho ha* failed to sustain his action against the Mayor."
It wades knee-deep into comment upon a case sub judice,
because the tone of its comment is favourable to the
plaintiff, and not likely to lead to anything unpleasant
In the shapo of “prohibitions,” Ac. But, with its
characteristic infelicity, it murmurs“ We are not
•anguine enough to expect that Alderman Davies will
e able to clear up all the mysteries of his doings.” And
•gain : —“ Alderman Davi es may have received a present
in iron rails which he had not the courage to own up
to; he may have compromised himself over the engage-
ment of the Coonanbarra; but after all, these are only
trumpery affairs. When all is said and done,
they amount to f" This is slander straight. And
slander, not directed against John Davies solus, but
against our Municipal and public institutions. “ What
do they amount to ? ” They amount to the allegation
that la “ trumpery affairs ” our Aldermen are thieves.
And those who are thieves in trumpery affairs are not
likely to be honest when gigantic pickings are to be
made. If the Dailt Telegraph thinks that Alderman
Young has been guilty of impropriety, it should set
that gentleman the example of keeping silence about
pending legal proceedings, and not go accusing, by
innuendo, John Davies, C.MG., of the very crimes for
the allegation of which he seeks the small solatium of
£20,000. We much prefer to believe Alderman John
Davies to be an honest man until he is proved a rogue.
To crown its act of shamelessness in commenting upon
a case suhjudice, the Daily Telegraph has since allowed
the article to be inserted in its advertising columns,
thus doubly attempting to prejudice the trial against
the defendant. Who pays for this advt. ?
The death of Dr. Pusey recalls his life work to a pro-
minence which a few years will level. It will he
disputed whether he and his fellow ritualists have
improved the morals of the time. His thoroughly
Christian life and the veneration in which he was held
by all sects will soon he forgotten. Other good
men die and are forgotten. What has he done
to add to human knowledge or advance the morals of
his contemporaries ? He has preached of Beauty, and
got it into the churches. He las got in the Pagan
notion of Form to assist the Christian notion of Sub-
stance. That is, he, and Newman, and ethers, feeling
the baldness of Protestantism in matters of ritual and
authority, fell back upon the old patriarchal notion of
providing toys to attract the “Children” of Israel.
All such attempts go into oblivion. As saith Thomas
Carlyle of man: "No kernel of nourishing corn
comes to him but through his labour spent on the soil
which is given him to till." In other words, virtue is
self-culture, not patronage or authority.
The Coalition Ministry is " rifting.” So says Rumour.
And Rumour, in this instance, has some solid ground
to go upon. It is said that the Minister for Works,
Mr. Lackey, actually resigned his portfolio, but was
induced to temporarily return to his offic al duties
in order to give the Government a chance to
consider its embarrassment. Sir Henry Parkes is
stated to be anx'ous to resign, and Messrs. Suitor
and Watson are represented as being tired
of the’r dignities. On Wednesday afternoon, an
atmosphere of expectancy pervaded the Legislative
Assembly, bub this feeling was disappointed. No
Ministerial statement was made, and the “ Orders of
the Day ” on the Notice Paper were, almost fort- e first
tim«this session pioceeded wi h without being kept bac t
by a formal motion. Mata, nous nervous. As to the arent
tnac is hydrating the lime of the Coalition Ministry,
opinions differ. Some say it is the Land Bill, others
say that it is the result of misfortunes that are falling
upon a non-ministtrial head. It is more likely the
v sitation of God.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondente who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to he their communications noticed .]
“Boss” (Balala): Thanks. However, your’
poetry isn’t up to your intentions "Dowling-street": i
Miller, the wrestling champion, is now in Melbourne, j
He has a gymnasium, we believe, in Swanston-street..... ,
"Alabama": She was sunk in the English Channel by '
the Kesreage, on 19th Jnne, 1864 “Hobart": We 5
don’t know that the homoeopathic infinites simal-dose
racket proves anything, but, if it does, it simply proves
this —that the less medicine you take the better
"Puck": Glad to hear from you often “Sprint":
Wo have already said so. Myers has been beaten —
recently—by J. H. Brooks, of Tale Univsrsity, a new
man, who won th* 220 yards level race from him in
22 2 5 *eos “ 5.8.": Yon evidently don’t know much
about our libel law—or about our Supreme Court
"It appear*”: You "want to know- if w* can
give you a local in the paper constantly ” Certainly.
How long do you want it, and where placed? This
Journal was started with a view of general philanthropy;
therefore, having by thi* time exhausted nearly every
form of good nature, we cannot do better than begin by
advertising theatrical agents gratis. We don’t mind
doing anything reasonable, but we are hardly disposed
to jam your block for evermore baag in the centre of
tho leader "J.A. M y”: Capital »tory. Hope it
ia not a Joe Miller " ArcheologistThe Pape’s
triple crown is so called because it is made of trip*.
Hence the well-known Pontifical phrase. " I’ll eat my
hat if such and such is not the case,” Ac “0.P.": Wo
don’t know. One paper say* eh* died of paralysis of the
heart “ Eiverina ’’: Tn West Australia no convicted
person can hold the office of M.L.C. or Mayor, nor is
he properly eligible for any official appointment. A few
noted exceptions exist “Donald” fMadgee) ; Ex-
cellent, but altogether too hot for th* libel law of this
free country. ..."Q" (Meloourne) : Very much obliged...
“W. H.”: That’s a mere nothing. At more than one
well-known station on the Lachlan, the samq set of
veteran improvements—moveable of course—have done
duty on various selections during the last decade
"A Stranger" (Narrabrl): How eould “aristocratic
debauchery ” be indulged in at a valedictory dinner to
a bank-mansger ? This is bosh. What did they do to
you? A little forgetfulness in feeing the man who
looked after the coats and hats, we expect. We are
glad, however, to hear that Host Something’s catering
was " superior.” We can quite Believe you on that point.
You were in that place whore you were enabled to make a
continual itudy of the banquet all round the table
“ Shoalhaven": If the Nowra people “roared with
laughter" at a young lady saying: "Oh, very well, but
everything was very dry, there was no grass about,"
we envy the facility with which they are amused.
Perhaps it is “ wholesome fun ’’; in that case it is not
surprising—not having the acumen of Mr. D*rley—that
we can’t see the joke. But if it i« nnwheleaome fun we
don’t want to see it “O K Z.": How can w# logically
consider " a poer attempt at verse ” worth " entering
in onr valuable paper?” We have mo wish, however,
to entirely deny publicity to your muse, but we ehoutd
take it as a favour if, the next time yon write to us, you
would only decorate one side of the leaf out of the boss’s
ledger. 1 his bit of what you call your ‘ epitaph *’ ap-
pears to ns to be adapted to a place at least in the next
Telegraph supplement :
4 jjut wondrous are the ways of men.
And most peculiar the pranks of jurymen
Pot after due contemplation,
They considered him unworthy
Of any compensation."
By the way, ihe singular beauty of your handwriting and
the aohokrlike sty’e of your compo-itlon have suggested
u. question to ns. V e have seen a Poet maater-G jneral’s
minute, aad-ar—are you—John Davies C.M.L.P.'’:
You do not tell us what the extract refers to “A
Pubican": The only argument needed why the £5 fine
formerly imposed on offending publicans should not be
reduced by the Bench to £3 or £4, so as to preclude
appeal, is that cancellation follows a third conviction...
"M.D.” (Tenterfieldl: Thanks......"Curiou*”
lington): (1) No. Flame consists of hydrogen and
carbon in combination; th# oxygen ©f the air merely
support < combustion. The black on the plate is a
carbon deposit—in fact, soot. (2) We haven’t statis-
tics handy. Perhaps some of our subscribers can say
whether an acre of land in N. Z. has been known to pro-
duce 120 bushels < f oat l " J ustioebefore Generality”:
You state iu (.fleet that a subarbin Dorcas Society
takas the bread out of the months of professional
seamstret sea. Do you m- a i that the ladies cbtrge for
tbe appa el they make? If not, wheie’s your pont?
Tao poor w:nld, in tae laiter case, b nuflt by get ing
gratis wha they formerly had to pay for—a commend-
able resu t “ B F.H., (*• troud) : How long have you
had ’em? You be.ce r try Freahuaan’s ged cure.
“Australian": Torn yo m n 'September" iaimio h
tut o«ly reel 10 te. .no tpring teasoa iv too hack.
neyed a enbjeo- • Jams* Hair, din*’ 1 Gtod seigs
for a sheerer* hut;*arciiy §uita ! !ef rus "D ns ’
(Woo.iatua): kxa.er at verb sity; we’d bo nearly -s
•‘d«n>’’ a jouar. u wo printer it "J.S." (fdarra-
bri): Cotdensad; we I "pat you on" when you come
to Sydney Anythin* ’’: An allnnon or two too
Ohio ire; but very weioome Similar pars, wanted
* F G.": Too personal, sonny ‘‘Pater Nolens':
Under notice "La Plume”: Will consider
•Sydney District Court”: Yon don’t state any facts
leading up to tbe opinion you wish ns to express
••Alpha’’: Will I. ok into it.
A CRUSHED TRAGEDIENNE,
OR,
THE VILLAIN STILL PURSUED HER.”
A number of persons have written about their
colonial experience, and, perhaps, as many lies have
been printed on that as on any other topic—mission-
aries’ labours alone excepted. We have had the
“ pitch ’* of the farmer, the screed of the stockman,
and even the adventures of the boiler-inhabiting baronet,
and the whole thing we regard as so exceedingly played
out, that it is only the extreme novelty that encircles
the work of the same class, now before us, that induces
us to give it an airy notice. The author of the book is
“a lady," who, in her own words, was “a popular
Loudon actress and manageress,” one who had been
“ always accustomed to live in luxury and to command
and we have it, also, on her own authority, that she is
“handsome in person, with a lively temperament, and
a strong inclination to sarcasm.” (I) This splendid star
travels to Australia per sailing vessel, accompanied, it
seems, by a daughter and a dog, and, during the voy-
age, drinks champagne (‘‘having a ease of Heiaschek’s ”
—whatever that may be—“on board”), eats cake, and
horsewhips an old gentleman. She then “insists on a
separate table,” and dines in future with the mate, the
daughter, and the dog. On her arrival in Melbourne,
“ tfce managers of the theatres sene their cards to
welcome and introduce themselves;” and sunshine
seems about to shins on "our heroine," when the
impresarii inform her there are “no vacant dates at the
theatres," intelligence which “ naturally sent a chill
through Madame’s heart.”
• • •
“At last ” —we quote the book—“an open-
ing was offered her by Professor , at the St.
George's Ball,” and once more all appears bright and
gay. But “ the villain still pursues her "; for, we are
told, “the stage was to small that only selections from
different pieces could be given—in fact, dress recitals,”
To make things worse the " star ” engaged from
another theatre an individual who oould neither act nor
walk, at a salary of £6 per week: but “afterwards
learnt that this actor and the manager were in league
together, thereby making a nice little profit between
them"; two circumstances, we consider, to be quite
unique in th* annals cf theatrical history—the engage-
ment by a “star” of such a peculiarly incapable
comedian, and the conspiracy of a manager to effect
his own discomfiture I We learn that “ the opening per-
formance was but slightly praised by the Press,”
which cannot be called surprising, and “ our heroine ”
therefore, accepts an engagement to star in her own
pieces at Brisbane, but is surprised on arrival to beho Id
herself billed to play Lady Macheth that night, “ The
eyesing came, and Macuetn was played under great
difficulties, each member of the company having to
double three andifour parts”; (!!!) ano, “in conse-
quence of the manager having quarrelled with all his
subordinates, be had to do all tiie scene-shifting him-
self.” [We pause, at this juncture, to rub our aching
sides with nine oils—and proceed ]
• • •
“After the performance,” (we regret to learn)
“he informed the lady ’star' of his intention to put on
* Hamlet,’ himself playing the part, and insulted her by
suggesting that she should play the Queen, while his
own wife did Ophelia.” This insult the “ popular
Loudon manageress ’ very properly resented by placing
“ the monster ’’ in the hands of her solicitor. She then
starts for Sydney, leaving “a diamond bracelet ” with
the hotel-keeper for an £8 bill. Once ia this city,
Madame signs an agreement with Sam L/izar to produce
“Bag Fair" at the Eoyal, a document which is appa-
rently witnessed by one “ James Booby ” But “ the
villain still pursued her,” and, “finding that her efforts
wore not appreciated as an actress, Madame determined
to rel ire from publio life, and turn her attention to busi-
ness ’’ Tbe London favourite t hen took a refreshment-
booth at Middle Harbour, and when in that occupation,
“ being about to open a bottle of ginger- beer for a rough-
looking man, he took thi corkscrew from her hand say-
ing, with the greatest respect, * you were not born,
Madame, to wait on sneh as me.’" The boalh going
bang, and “defeated on every aide, our heroine began
to turn her attention to the ‘ pas t, present, and future.' ”
In order to accomplish this eud, she borrows £5O on her
wardrobe, and opens a little “ cigar divan,” having
rented bilf a shop from a shoemaker. One night, how-
ever, a fellow who was tight behaved in a giddy manner,
and on “Madame” being naturally “indignant,”
smashed the show cases. He was then given in charge.
[Onr authoress’ statement of the manner in which this
adventure concluded necessitates another turn at the
tine oils and flannel. So I We can now go on.”|
• • •
Business was good the first day, “ but the villain
still pursued her,” and, “ seeing that her existence wasa
continual struggle, she made up her mind to dispose of
the business.” But we shed a tear to learn that “ the
week’s rent had become due, when one morning the
shoemaker (who had falsely giveu her the lease) put a
man in possession, and seized the stock and fixtures,”
which were eventually “sold by auction, and Jdadame
found herself helpless.” Applying for assistance to a
gentleman, he not only refused to advance any more
money, which we could have forgiven, but for
the first time, used unbecoming language; an
offence wo can never condone. He had the unfeeling
audacity to recommend her “to sell her dog." After
this repulse, “ again our heroine changed her lodgings,
this time taking furnished (heaven save the mark !)
apartments in the honse of a maiden lady, without
board, who had just undergone the process of white-
washing.” But this was not the only peculiarity per-
taining to the extraordinary landlady, for, though she
detested “ our heroine’s dog," she was partial to poul-
try ; her infatuation for fowls going to the extent of
“ allowing them unlimited freedom amongst th e
crockery on the breakfast table 1”
* • •
The star-actress then takes to dressmaking, but,
“ the villain still pursuing her,” she shakes the Sydney
dust off her tandais and hies to Melbourne, taking
leave, prior to her departure, of her only friend—" an
old man (a Mormon by faith), who had been in several
businesses, and bad also been a digger, but was now
selling newspapers and oranges for a living, and on
Sundays preaching bis faith, in the hope of making
ooßverts, and who liked Madame’s * Freedom of Beh-
gion.’ ” In Melbourne, she wishes to lecture for the
Temperance cause, but the secretary declines to support
heron the ground that she invariably “drank porter
with her dinner.” She then leaves the Temperance
cause “ for ever.” Later, " our heroine ’’ lectures on
“ Freethought," and other less savoury topics, but
whether in Sydney, or Melbourne, or New Zealand, “the
villain still pursues her; ’ At Melbourne, she teld forth
at the Waxworks (1) “to large and appreciative audi-
ences, until failing health compelled Per to coase.”
Then, alasl as she herself pathetically states —“The
great Temperanca Lectuross was now down on a sick
lei." While “ writhing in agony," her landlord,
because she would not admit him, bombarded the
house, throwing heavy stones on the roof and against
the walls.” ihe star-actress, after this, does other
things, but in her every undertaking “ the villain still
pursues her," and in all probability is pursuing her
still 1
• • •
We are unable to give the name of the lady’s
book of Colonial Experience because it possesses rather
a giddy title, and it will, wo are sure be almost un-
necessary to write down the cognomen of the authoress.
For who has not divined long since that “ our heroine,"
the star-aci res?, the “ popular London manageress of
handsome appearance” is none other than that blithe
and gentle creature—Madame Lotti Wilmott ?
Some gymnastics were on the programme of
sports at the Association Grouud on Saturday, but
they were not carried out, owing to objections on the
part of those acting for ihe trustees of the ground.
The chief objection, as explained by the honorary
official who raised it, was, tuat as the ground was Ist
to the club for athletios it could not be tued for
gymnastics ! In view ef the novel and limited meaning
given te the werd “athletios " by this innocent gentle-
man—as he’s in the Education Office, we suppose be
ought to know—the club ought certainly to subscribe
a few shillings and present him with a Chambers*
Etymological Dictionary. At present, the oomprehen-
sive title “athletic ” is a misnomer for almost all the
clubs that use it, seeing that they foster scarcely any-
thing but pedestrianism.
Chasing mosquitos around your room in your
shirt and drawers with a wet towel for a raquet is good
practice for lawn tennis.
2
THE BULLETIN.
Septbmbkr 23, 1982.


B
ESTABLISHED
o W L E BN3 P
AND
BEICK WOE
CAMPEBDOWN, NEi
Price Hut on applii
EUR
KA
MOKE eureka
the PARAGON OP PE
FINER THAN THE
tH e tobacco op
destined to eclipse an
ALL OTHER BRA
THE ONLY TOBACCO COMBIN]
OP QUALITY with econc
Each Plug is stamped with the v
SMOKERS SEE THAT YO
Take no otheb
MANUPACTUE
SAYWELL'S TOBACCO
AT THE EAGLE A
KENT AND CLARKNOJ
And can be obtained wholesale at
Park-street, Sydr
Sold Retail everywhere, and will b
as boob as its merits beoo
EUREKA TOBAC
Registered according to Act of Pi
the public against spurious and wi
"HADDOCK'S SELECI
,381 GEORGE STB
THIS Library is supplied regal
Steamer with the latest Put
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Pc
the higher class of Piotion ; also, a
zines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway
munioation with Sydney, every fac
THE HAKVS!
FIBRE CHAIR S
Possessing ail the qualities of a
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beai
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made
known fibres and a perfectly
and after fifteen years’ constant
positively! as to its merits. It cs
neither will exposure to sun or rai
Awarded Gold Medal at the li
Massachusetts Charitable Meehan
FOR RE-SEATING, it is ui
house, store, and office, are Chain
Any person can re-seat and mi
a obair that is otherwise worthh
expense.*
BOR'S ALE BY THE TRADE :
AGENTS WANTED IN EVI
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be ma
or boy in his own neighbourhood,
NICHOLS &
GENERAL AGENTS FOR
ONE OP THE WOULD’
OARSMEN.
TN a recent conversation In Kin
a representative of one of the I
the United States, Mr. Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to :
world, gave the following as his onii
mm
—k.*N. • i
' s>! V ><, ‘
'^mmm
frtS
1«
3W
fV
«:,.v:^
• -Ttp
f;MI
a
mMk
HOp^
W ~-<
-
K&
Se
it
ShTiJU.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MEM
COALCLIFF C
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY Irani
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony, 1
IBs. FEU TOW NET, delivered wit
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and fears kept well trt
and cleaner Are thaa any other. It neither hae the objectionable smok
it splinter and fly off like the Western, bnt it afforda that domestic des
heating an iron or cooking a steak aa thoroughly and cleanly as a ohar<
■teak none o£ that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes arivei
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLE
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO 1
ALLAN A. MARSHAL
BON-ACOORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PU
MANUFACTUEEES AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS
DIVING GEAR, Ac.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,;
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, *o.
THE
WIND(
THI
MOST
FAST]
Prevents all
the wind
No weights,
Celebrated; CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS & SPECIAL
Established
&
-
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
w n
BN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitur
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than I
PERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
rr
TRADE
MARK 3
m
*
MANUFACTORY:
Qeobgke-street West, Stdnit.
SELF EAIPING FLOUE
••rWV-LMtiiS.
["Established 30 Tsi
H OD
GSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET
near Gonlbura-stroi
B. H O D G S
Wholesale and Rati
WHIP THONG MANUPAC
Every Description of Kangaroo and (
Made to Order.
‘ -
■
* Mi
m
m
i i
.
&. 1
116701 H_. H I L D
~gyoH~H V fjff
tram
H.HI.LDER o
AIM


SINGER'S SEWING MA6HINE&.
One Ounce of Fact is Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
As is usual, where over and whenever exhibited—
Highest Possible Awards.
SINGER’S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition, 1838—Singer’s Sewing
Machines.
FIRST QRDBR OF MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS.
SECTION VII —SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Public Companies
IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Redfem,
Glebe, Burwood,
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Caasilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, DenlGquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inues, Gonlburn, Grafton, Gwui-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hills ton, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menlndle, Melang,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Ormigc,
Parfces, Raymond Terrace, Hockley, hylsfcone, Hingic-
ton. South Grafton, lemora, Tenterfleld, Ulmana,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wiloaunla, Wood burn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Maokay, Maryborough,
Rarenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
''THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
JL ESTABLISHED 1869,
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 187 J
Paid-up Capital ~...£300,000
Reserve Fuad. ....£120,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Boa. Philip Qlaiey King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoa,
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield Hill Redferu;
Girilambone; Gosford; and Nyngan,
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office: 15S Leadeuhall-street.
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: Q. H. Absconder, Esq.
This bank transacts all nsnal Banking and Financial
Agency Business on 6he most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
E. J. P OIjLE’S
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, S Y D|N EY.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut n the Most Fashionable Styles
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the'Address-
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMARKET.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to announce that they have
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON'S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
(or
FLOORS and HALLS.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Drug 1 gists
ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION),
Registered.
THE GEEAT LIVER REMEDY,
K/O
ST
\0
S/A
\VS>
CAUTION.—Owing to the immense sale that my
Pills have commanded, it boa induced dishonest and
dangerous imitations. A»k for
J. s. ABRAHAM'S FILLS
and see that each box, by whomsoever sold, bears the
inventor’s name and trade mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN I Because, after
| taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
LJnqlns, you will not he able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Pmsok’s Hotel.
f IfWOKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Ana-
J- tr&haa Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Bold everywhere.
rnr* 1 -'*”
A^AS
FOUNDRY Zc ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAT-STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS, Boilrrraakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrlffhts. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep-washing. Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, witn latest improve-
ments.
N.B, —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
TURKISH BATHS.
OPEN DAILY (Sundays excepted). For Gentlemen,
from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; for Ladies, from 9am.to 6 p m.
Bathers not admitted later than one hour prior to closing.
THESE BATHS have been pronounced to be highly
beneficial to all persons suffering from rheumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dsypepsia, indigestion, cold, sciatica,
and all complaints of this nature, as well as being a
healthy, invigorating renewing of the system to all
persons obliged to lead sedentary lives.
Try it, and experience its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission—Single hath, si. Six tickets, fl.
After 5 p.m.. 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, £5. Family tickets as per arrangement.
C. A. SUEBWIN, Manager.
Bligh-strcet.
G
EORGE LANE,
(Formerly of Qeorge-street,)
IMPOETER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that he Las RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CUBE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Bold in bottles, 23. 6d. and 4s. 6d.» by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Bole Proprietor and Patentee.
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viofc.; M.H.P.S.,Gt.B.
GAWLEB, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS, HOFFNUNQ * CO.
WITSI
FRUIT
KYER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
■wn can prove what we sny. There are no failures and no
appointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also core
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEI*A, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
rty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
ulato the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
I BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicino
ns, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
r are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price In. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Business Announcements
D’AECY’S
LD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pure, Palatable, and Pleasant.
TRADE
MARK
PS.ICEZA-SD samples on application
IN BULK AND CASE.
READ THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWAEDS.
Singer Manufar-tnrlcg Company —For tbelr
collection of ManufHohiritig Machines, a first
order of merio—Gkfld MtdSl.
Sttiger Manufacturing Company —For the Bert
Family Seeing Machine, tncmdiag variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of eonstrnction and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines. —Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Companv.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines. —Silver Medal.
BARRE JOHNSTON AND CO.,
AGENTS,!
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COOLALTA WINE, BODEGA.
MORT'S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. «.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be bad at
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wines daring Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 pm.
JOHN ROGERS,
(15 Years Secretary of School of Arts.)
“QUEEN’S NAVY"
TOBACCONIST,
90 KING STREET 90
N ;xt to 11 Civet Cat.”
Articles of the best quillty only. A call is respect-
fully solicited.
&
T
o
STAND
THIS
SEASON
KOCKWOOD, OAMPBELLTOWN,
THE IMPORTED IXIIDOR PONT,
“*IR THOMAS."
Winner cf Pint Prize, April, 1879, First Prise Inter-
national, 1879-80 Chamaion Challenge Cup, 1881, and
Judges Special Prise, 1882.
Terms ; 4 Guineas cash Mare.
Every eare taken, but no responsibility incurred.
Mares met at Sampbelltown on receipt of due notice.
Season closes January Ist, 1833, when all mares must
be paid for and removed.
For further particulars apply to
The MANAGER,
Bookwood, Campbelltown
w
ILLCOX
AND
GLbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn -shelters,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walntt
Wood,
Ac., Ac., *o.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
BLE&Cu^
F.T.
STEMS
-AND-
vv
—AND —
PRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamili n St., Hunter St,
S eparrD-NnErs-. •*
Also at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STEEET. MELBOWSJ-
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER A IRONFOUNDER.
tfINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Worksi SUSSEX STREET, A GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STREET.
girders,
STOVES
COLONIAL
OVENS
deed
boxes
*O., *O.
To Country or Intercolonial Journalist*.
A GENTLEMAN, educated, well-infomed, and re.
f\. liable, is wiliine to supply city correspo
tddress, “Meouin,” Bulletin Office.
Easy Terms. Weekly 2s 6d Weekly. Easy Terms.
No Interest. No Addition to the Price* No Interest,
Chief Depot in New Sonth Wales:
No. 1 DABLIN3 STOBE3, HAEBOUE STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Local Depots:
Bathurst, William-street
Balranald,
Dubbo,
Qoulburn, Auburn-street
Grafton, Ylctoria-etreet
Glen Innes, Grey-street
Hay, Laeblin-etreet
Ketopsey, Smith-street
Liemore, Wood-lark-et.
Maitland, High-street
Mudgee, Lewis-street
Moss Vale,
Narandora,
Newcastle, Hunter-street
Parramatta, Chureh-st.
Sydney, The Sydney
Arcade, Qeorge-
Street.
Tamworth, Peel-street
Wagga, Bayliss-street.
ILLUSTEATED PEICE LISTS
and
SAMPLES OF WORK
Free rom any Depot.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
S
INGEB’S SEWINO MACHINES
TURNER & 00.
ABE THE
BECOGNISED AGENTS
or THE
CELEBEATED SINGEE MANUPAOTUEING CO,
TIME PAYMENTS i
2s. fld. per week —2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per week.
And ho ihtebest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWAEE O F IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE •• SINGER”—
TUENEE A COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
TUENEE A COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
B
A
o
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE, y
New Davis. /
HOWE. / r
Ac., Ac. / N,
ft
TSb®
v»
o
*
Light
CO
Running
T
STANDARD
o
2s. 6d.
ft
per week.
ft*"
V
A
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Rfiachines.
Electeicity
Administered in a warm bath is the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and bone, can be atfected
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, &o.„ and rids the
eystem of all impurities; even mercury is taken oat of
the bedy.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. M O O E E,
Homoeopathiat,
154 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Bouseheld Eemedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a burn or scald in
three to IS minutes. It is the only ointment that has
certificates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
oOTative effect on lung complaints, when rubbed into
the chest. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a p. t kept in every house, even if
the house is empty, it willdo for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pots, Is. and 2s. 6d.
each.
The ameeican caeeiage
KEPOSITOEY,
COENEB CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER,


w.
HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
SXRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
PATENT PORTABLE GAS COMPANY
(Limited),'
52 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
ALL THE
. J Q COMPANY’S LAMPS
JlDl * ISSUED AFTER THIS DATE
I 1 BEAR THEIR
I* - TRADE MARK
ON THE
TRADE MARK .burner.
The Company is now prepared to supply Lamps
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores, &c. The Lamps re-
quire no trimming, afford a brilliant light, superior to
ooal gas or kerosene, at less cost, and can be Carried In
the hand.
Samples may be seen, and lamps and fluid obtained,
at the Company’s Show Rooms. Storekeepers supplied.
Price lists, 40., on application to Secretary.
A. G. SHELTON,
Secretary.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform hia
friends and the pnblio that be has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the George-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fuDy invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which ate all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the beet quality.
An experienced stall of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to ordei.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street.
N
E W
PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other pubUo
bodfßb, has REMOVED to Sis Elegant and Splendid
STBP, No. 607 k 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
the corner ot Goalbum-etreet, whore he will be pleasec
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thank
ter their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies,, i
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended b
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN’S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFAbTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up In First-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
FURNITURE!
FURNITURE !
MAKE TOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISE
BEFORE commencing the serious business of F>
rushing a New Home or adding to the comforts , i
your present Home, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CREEEY, & CO.,
who will furnish houses on tha
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
•ar Note the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M'CREERY, 4 CO.
Excelsior Furniture Warehouse,
506 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS.
ARMSTRONG'S
HYGIENIC & RELIABLE REMEDIES.
[Registered under the Trade Marks’ Act, 1865. J
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills
Stand UNRIVALLED as a GENERAL FAMILY
APERIENT for INDIESTION, DYSPEPSIA, Pains
in the Head and Chest. HABITUAL CONSTIPATION.
HEARTBURN, Giddiness, WindSpaams, and Dizzluess
of the Eyes They promote a HEALTHY ACTION of
the STOMACH and BOWELS, cause neither griping
nor sickness, and are confidently recommended. Boxes,
Is., 25., and 3s.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Is recognised by MEDICAL MEN us a triumph in
EMPIRICAL MEDICINE, being “thk only known
cuss” for this hitherto intractable disease, relief from
pain, and arrest of hemorrhage. Can always be relied
upon in from 24 to 48 hours. 4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s Bed Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
Recommended by the highest MEDICAL AUTHO-
RITY AS A BLOOD RESTORATIVE and TONIC,
inoombination with DANDELION and POTASH. For
the removal and permanent cure of all kinds of SKIN
DISEASE, arising from an impure or over-aoid state of
the BLOOD, Chronic RHEUMATISM, NERVOUS
DEBILITY, Affections of the CHEST and LIVER.
Price, ss. 6d., 10s. 6d, 21s.
m- PRICE LISTS sent post free, and Goods for-
warded to all parts of the colony.
E. B. ARMSTRONG, Registered Chemist,
WHOLESALE and RETAIL DRUGGIST
160 PITT STREET,
Two Doors below Comp'agnoni’a.
“ Madame,he said sorro
never be young again." ** No,” sb
him with (a cynical expression, " v
mistake she never repeats the expei
material."
Poor actor: “ I'm very ill. 1
liver won’t act." Cynical acquaint
like your liver."
“ I wonder ” remarked a littl(
grandmother had promised to i
"whether I shall get the wato
funeral P "
Some very handsome dresses
Messrs. J. L. Hordern and Co.,
St. Vincent's Hospital Ball. U)
white satin, with Venetian point 1
white glass, as if wrought in the fa
tabller held bunches of soft frosted
was quaintly draped with Elijahs
with pearls, enclosing sott drapes o
aad nestling in the folds a cluster
chrysanthemums; the jupon, whi
also elegantlv trimmed with v p. li
shirred nrettily on to the bodice, i
a large dtreotoiie bow : with this (
an elegant parure of diamonds.
S. A. mining specs, look de*
The Bird-in-Hand mine is the only
gold, and its yields are now deolini:
local sensation has been caused in
extraordinary meeting of the a
Nonpareil Extended Gold Mining (
over £2loo,'and got not even an or
four first owners bought in for £8
eight others for £llOO. They appei
to be the only persons who profit*
curious fa3t is that two of a loci
most pious past reporters are up to
muddle.
Eli Johnson facts :—Fifty our
essence of commerce added to X
spirit, and 41bs of sugar makes 100
brandy, pale or dark, according t
need. One pint of gin essence sin
sugar) makes 100 gallons gin. On
dittoed, makes superior rum; an*
whiskey essence provides 100 gallo:
like when doctored acoording to fa:
The second edition of “T 1
Book,” by T. F. de Courcy Browne
In addition to the contents of the
forth the mining transactions whi
operation of the Stamp Duties Act <
the addendum of a copious inde;
notes have been amended and ampli
revised to date.
At the New Zealand Bxhibitic
Singer's Sewing Machines have cai
fore them, taking a first order of me
and two silver medals. The New I
silver medal.
In the Eye, Ear, Nose, and
consult Dr SIANIGH, Anrist to E
A T.nffn a fTrtxrflWtwxr A# Nfa
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Young is out of prison and all the streets at
slide look crooked. People never know now exactly
then to turn a corner.
*, „ Mara uis of Lome and the Princess Louise
from San Francisco to British Columbia. It
htt n*d to better for them to visit Concord.
wO . Queensland M. P was the other day
a pa for being drunk and disorderly. It’s not the
fl ♦ fim© Thomas has been drnnk tnd disorderly,
*hoafih it »* possibly the first time he has Leen fined.
Macars Salomons, Dailey, and M. H. Stephen,
n, d Mr David Buchanan, have been retained by
* ‘ Tnbn Davie* in re Davies v. the Mayor It is
d stood that Mr. Harris has sent a retainer by cable
Mr- Darley, Q C.
The late Captain Johnston, E.N., though pressed
Governors to accept a seat in the Legis-
Council, always declined to do so. “ A private
1 tatlon." he said, “ is the post of honour in New Soush
House, and the Union Club, and
. hL.v™akere, and a variety of other institutions and
(be , hgve « suffered ” lately. “ Suffer isn’t the word
P*°f. V. portunatus said In the pantomime. A certain
teryW swell ll uow abBcnt from Sydney.
L, Ir W. B. Eedmond, late owner of the well-
* «n Tyroonnel and Lizzie Redmond claims, Kmgs-
wlnasb N.Q., who not lon S a ß° sold his mines to a
Brisbane' company for a large sum, and cleared out to
v land ro-spneared the other day on the scene of his
trntT mining triumphs. It is not stated whether the
Aoosity of hisdilly-bag created a sensation among his
English friends.
One of the sons of a recently-deceased million-
•U is now a gnard on the Western line. He had a
siffnrenoe with his father many years ago concerning
matrimonial matter, whereupon he resolved to shift
* himself, and he has ever sines done so. It is stated,
wfJaver that his father, admiring his pluck and spirit,
a 0"_ n Jrudge against him, and that he is “ handsomely
Mmembered" in the old gentleman’s will.
We are very sorry to hear that Mr. J. H. Want,
Bo has of late been somewhat seriously indisposed,
v a found it necessary to relinquish work and visit
upland for the benefit of his health. All who know
♦sn blunt, manly, " Jack Want," whether as a barrister
a yachtsman, will join in the hope that he may soon
or inrn to Sydney, full of health and energy. Mr. Want,
Bo has rapidly acquired one of the best practices at
Thn N S.W. bar, has been “ overdoing it" lately, and
has thus rendered a rest a matter of absolute necessity.
Little Mirams, one of the members for Colling-
nod Melbourne, received a blow on one of his little
i.iathe other day while witnessing some lithofracteur
ninerimeats. We are told that erysipelas is setting in.
Tat Mirams is one cf the staunchest of teetotallers,
* d temperance men have always boasted that alcohol
d erysipelas ran in leashes together. Should the
incident necessitate amputation, Mirams is doomed.
. wav his legs, and there will be nothing but his
b3Mded head and umbrella left. Poor Mi. I
Mr Lackey, son of the Minister of Works, sued
Bis father in his official capacity at the Supreme Court,
this week, for £5OOO, as compensation for injuries
* »d in a railway collision at Granville some eon-
.idelfble time ago. The award of the jury was £6OO.
The damage defendant suffered was to one ot his eves—
musing him to blink very much. We should not think
♦Bis much of an injury. We should rather say it was a
defect that exactly fits him for the position of Minister
—gay as a successor to his handsome father.
John Eodd Child, lieutenant of H.M.S. Espiegle,
was drowned off the Cape of Good Hope, on February
25th under most melancholy circumstances. He had
an unusually vivid dream, among the incidents of
which occurred the cry, “A man overboard." In a
state of somnambulism he rushed on deck, and, at the
neril of his own life, as he supposed, sprang into the sea
to sue a drowning shipmate. The sudden immersion
awoke him, but he became so stupeflsd at hi* surround-
ings that he was unable to rally his presence of mind
and was drowned.
I (Perhaps, now that Captain Johnston is dead,
the Government will resume the land owned by him
opposite the Stanmore platform. When the captain
some time ago received notice that the Govern,
ment intended to resume this land, he went t« Sir John
Robertson with tears in his eyes, and begged that the
resumption might be postponed till after his demise,
urging that ha had lived so long there as to conceive an
affection for the spot, and that he couldn’t “ last much
longer ” S‘r John Robertson, in hi* own expressive
language, “was blanked if he could refuse the old
fellow."
“No one can land from any West Australian port
at Adelaide or Melbourne without a “ tioket-of-leave ’’
certifying that the possessor is not, and never has been,
a ’convicted person. Wanting this voucher, arrest is
certain until the W.A. authorities are communicated
with S _>mo time back an arnusln g case occurred. The
eon of the resident magistrate at Albahy proceeded to
Melbourne without a ticket, not thinking it necessary,
as his father was the officer who issued them. On
arriving at the port, he was, however duly collared
and kept in durance vile until his father certified that
his well-beloved son wore “the white flower of a blame-
less life I”
‘ * Milner Stephen is again holding seances in Mel-
bourne. He claims to have, by mesmerism, restored
to eight a Miss Jones, for 10 years a teacher at the
Sandhurst Asylum for tho blind, and who had herself
been blind for 38 years. One ot Mies Jones eyes was
supposed to be absent altogether, but Milner mesmer-
ised it out from its oavem. He also caused one of the
same lady’s legs, which had been six inches short, to
grow to its normal size. He has performed a similar
leg miracle, he alleges, with his assistant, Mrs. Grace
Halley. Milner holds seances, which open with prayer
and an address, after which breathings through a silver
tube and red flannel on his part, with unlimited excite-
meat and faith on tho part of his clients, do the
business.
Mr. David M'Kellar, a well-known squatter of
the Hamilton district, Victoria, is going in for a “big
thing" in Mexico and New Mexico. M'Kellar and some
friends recently secured an estate ot 300,000 acres in
New Mexico, and started squatting in the colonial style.
A colonial manager and colonial stockmen have been
duly installed on the station to make things gee .
M'Kellar and a syndicate of capitalists have applied to
the Mexican Government tor an immense tract in
Northern Mexico—something like 13,000,000 acres. If
this gigantic purchase is concluded, 10,000,000 acres of
the land will be offered in the London market, and the
remainder submitted to colonial capitalists. The
Mexican Government finds it to be advantageous to
offer colonial settlers land on the most favourable
terms.
Bishop Moorhou.se, Judge Williams and Judge
Holrojd ate three of the smartest amateur walkers on
the other side of the Murray. The Bishop thinks
nothing of a fifteen miles’ tramp in the country, and on
on* occasion walked thirty miles through the ranges to
deliver a lecture in an almost inaccessible Alpine
sbip. Judge Holroyd can do hia five miles an hour with
ease, and Judge Williams, in addition to his well-known
Pedestrian proclivities, handles the gloves with the
test of the talent. He had many a bout with Jem
Maoe when that worthy ran the Athletic Hall, in
Bonrke-street Bast. He is also a “ rowist ” of no mean
reputation, and in summer frequently, after donning the
ermine and sentencing some poor devil to five years
bard labour, he may be seen having a quiet pull up the
river beneath the shadow of the willows.
The brother of a certain very distinguished per-
sonal attendant on Her Majesty was a miner on the
Ovens some years ago. He got married there, and
shortly afterwards induced a storekeeper to start him
With euffiaient stock to run a small store in an outside
camp. Iu a little while, something cam# to the store-
keeper’s ears which caused him to pay an unexpected
to hia debtor, whom, curiously enough, ho found
ia the act of making A bonfire of his premises, the goods
having been previoniAti removed to a safe locality. The
iagenloug, or, rather, imitative debtor was then acoom-
moQated for a short time at the expense of the State.
Alter his release, he essayed to perform a carrying feat
for a wager, aud succeeded in crippling himself. He is
®ow among the ranks of the Queen’s servants.
i (^ r ®' a a l ai ’k- Captain Doherty, son of the
late Chief Justice of Ireland, was recently eueing the
•London Jockey Club (or libel, in posting him as |a
defaulter. In the course of his cross-examination, it
transpired that when at Goodwood he had received a
ticket for the Royal enclosure, but in consequence of
the Jockey Club notice he was turned out by Lord
Hardwioke, Master of the Buckhounds. His Lord-
ship’s action was highly commended at the time, but
’he gilt was a bit taken off his heroic action when it
was di«covered a few days later that he owed the hook-
makers about five times as much as Doherty. It is
stated that the aristocracy hardly ever “part" on bets to
professionals within the stipulated time—if at all; but
then on the other hand, they hardly ever win.
Some 25 or 30 years ago, the late Captain John-
ston. R.N., in walking through one of his paddocks on
the Parramatta River, came aoross a man oross-outting
and splitting timber. In the days of thick sera*,
settlers were only toe glad to permit men to clear off
any timber they required, and Johnston stayed to have
some conversation with the man, who was, apparently,
a stranger to him “ Whose land Is this P” playfully
aiked the Captain. “ Old Captain Johnston’s," an-
nounced the man. “He must be a pretty rich old
fellew ?" queried the Captain. “fes, he's pretty well
off; he holds a lot of property around hero." " Well,
how would you like to be one of his sons ?" continued
the wily Johnston. The reply was rather startling.
“Don’t like it at all," growled the man; "I use the
word ‘dont’ because I am old Johnston’s son, but I
had a barney with the old man fifteen years or so ago,
and I’ve not looked on his face since. I’m d— d sorry
lam his son 1" Tableau.
Thomas Walker, the Melbourne lecturer who
has recanted Spiritualism, and has been elected Presi-
dent ot the Australian Secularists, admits lots of past
humbugging, but accuses spiritualists generally of
“puttimg on the gloss." When he was sixteen he used
to lecture at Liverpool, England, aud spiritualists used
to tell him they could see spirits around him doing the
inspiration business. One fool told him once that he
saw sixteen soieutiflo spirits controlling his youthful
deliverances. What made Thomas mad was that the
Melbourne spiritualists said, in effect, that though he
was eloquent when "possessed," ho was an arrant
numskull when not in a trance. He says that
spiritualists, in fostering mediums, place a premium on
dishonesty. The qualifications of a medium are Ist.
Excessive desire to please. 2nd. Love of notoriety
3rd. More or less mental ability; but very little of
ability is required. Many times he had wept salt tears
on his pillow at night, because of the “ painfulness of
his position," and in his new line [he feels he is ‘'more
true to himself " (I! 1) Walker—r 1
Jack White, the South Australian farmers
delegate, who is now in N.S. Wales, is a stout,
powerfully built man. His colloquial soubriquet
is “ Nobby White.” Jack is tramping the Aus-
tralias in search of good farming land. He eays that
if the climate in New South Wales will not yield
nine inches of rain annually, he might as well get
into his canoe and go back again. John was struck all
of a heap the other day in our Land Office. He wanted
information; bub the “ wise men of Gotham " were all
box turtles. He had to waddle out, as ignorant of our
land laws as he waddled in. Perhaps they thought he
was a “ blackmailer ” or a would-be “ dnmmy." “In
the Victorian Land Offloe," said the Port Augusta
farmer, " I got all the information I required readllv,
but here well, humph 1 ” Anyone could see White
was nettled. “ I have lost £3000," said ho, “ trying to
farm talt-bash country at Honran; and now, when
I come here to see what I can do for mvself and brother
farmers in my own part of Australia, I can’t learn any-
thing at all. You people over here seem to be afraid
to let a man know all about your land laws." “ Have
you seen old Jack ?" inquired ni* interlocutor. “ Who's
old Jack F” replied the man in search of a farm. " Don’t
yon know who old Jack ia ? Why he’s the father of
our land law—the very thing yon are needing. Go back
again at once, and ask to see old Jack." The farmer
shrugged his shoulders and said he was full of it. He
was off that night for laverell. Jack likes to be near
the tin.
The Burgess family are old identities in West
Australia. William, or "Bill Burgess” as he was
generally termed, who died some time back, was noted
tor his eccentricities. In the old days he was resident
magistrate ana virtual despot in the Northern part of
the colony. Bill lived on one side of a stream, and, in
the rainy season, delinquents were tried across the
stream on hurried occasions. This was the order of
procedure. Bill, on one side: “ Well polioeman, what s
that blackguard been at?” Policeman; “Steal-
ing» yer worship.** Bill: ** Give the rascal a month 1
And so on, through the various minor cases.
Bill was of a religious turn of mind and
quite believed in family worship. At Champion
Bay, on one occasion, he stopped in the middle ot an
earnest prayer, and turning to a friend, a well known
M.P., who sat beside him. he pointed to the harbour in
front of them, where two schooners were just beating
in, and muttered in his rich brogue, " I'll bet yon a
fiver, Charley, I name the winner." Then he took up
his prayer as if nothing had occurred. On another occa-
sion, at family prayers, he turned to a servant present,
and roared, “ Them d—d cows are in the garden again;
go and hunt them out," and then placidly proceeded
with his devotions. Bill bad a favourite brother,
“ Look,” as he was generally known. Whatever one
brother said in company, the other always contradicted
to his face. Thus Bill would say, “Lock, dye mmd
that splindid brown coult I had in the owld country,
wasn't he a flyer P” To which Look would Promptly
reply “ Dlvil a brown coult ye over had in the owla
country I” Bill was a few years baek appointed In his
old age a member of the Legislative Council in West
Australia, but died shortly alter on a visit to his beloved
Emerald Isle.
Eichard Birnie, the author of the brilliant,
versatile, and scholarly essays that are published
weekly in the Australasian, is one of the most vener-
able figures in modern Melbourne. He is 74 years of
age. but still retains his keen intellectual insight and
power of literary expression, as all the readers of The
Essayist" column of the Australasian will testify. He
ia the father ©f the Australian Bar, having been called
at the Inner Temple in May, 1833, nearly fifty years ago.
In 1837 ho took his M.A. degree at Cambridge. The
Duka of Newcastle, then Secretary of State for the
colonies, appointed him, in 1853, Advocate-General of
Western Australia, a position he held for six years.
Arriving in Victoria in 1839, he followed the legal
profession for a time, but eventually abandoned its
active practice in favour of the more congenial pursuits
of lecturing and journalism. For many years he has
been engaged in writing his personal reminiscences,
which it is understood, will shortly be published by a
London firm They cental” recollections of Tennyson,
Thaokery, Fronde, Lord < 'ampbell and many other
distinguished people on th, other side of the e<l«ator.
Birnie is a regular attendant ia the reading-room of the
Melbourne Athenaeum in Collins-street, where he may
be frequently seen dressed in a sort of semi-menastio
robe and devouring the pages of the latest numbers of
the magazine*. He has the most wonderful of memories,
knows Shakespeare by heart, can foUew up afflttta
the works ef almost any of the classic poets, and is, per-
haps, the best read literary man Australia possesses in
Melbourne he is celebrated as a gourmet He ean talk
delightfully for hours, and can, at a moment s notice,
supply a column ot quotations apropos to any subject
He may be said to be, in a measure, the literary father
of the late Marcus Clarke, and he is a son of Sir
Richard Birnie, the celebrated London police magis-
trate of sixty years ago.
On the Ist Sept., the following announcements
appeared ia the three Melbourne morning papers fj-
" Campbell— Qjsteiok.—On the 31st ult , at Melbourne,
Peter Campbell, the Australian traveller and town
and country undenominationalist Protestant mis-
sionary, to Elizabeth Agnes Qetriok, an English
lady, now of Melbourne."—Argus.
“ Campbell—Qbtrick.—At Melbourne, yesterday, at
11 o'clock a.m., Peter Campbell, lecturer, loyalist,
and friend of the people, to Elizabeth Agnes Qetrlck,
an English lady, now of Melbourne."—Age.
“Campbell—Qetrick.—At Melbourne, yesterday (31st
ulto ), Peter Campbell, Australian preacher and
lecturer, to Elizabeth Agnes Getrick, an English
lady, now in Melbourne."—The Daily Telegraph,
Thirteen days after the wedding ceremony, the public
read the following startling announcement
“ T WILL neither pay nor bo answerable from this
date for any DEBTS which may ho contracted
or incurred by my wife, ELIZABETH AGNES
CAMPBELL, of Melbourne, who signed a mutual
* Deed of Separation * on 9th inst.—[nine days after
the wedding I]
"PETER CAMPBELL.
“ Melbourne, 12th September, 1882."
Peter will probably now begin to lecture on “ My honey-
moon, or a nine days' wonder." It may interest those
who contemplate matrimony to learn that the duration
of Peter’s courtship was exactly twenty-fonr hours.
All this reminds us that Peter has finally abandoned his
clerical career, and entered the political arena. He has
announced himself as a candidate for the representation
of Sonth Glppsland at the coming general election. His
address to the electors, published ia the Gippsland
Timbs , is couched in characteristically bombastic terms.
He means to “stand ia the Liberal interest, and maintain
the authority of the House and the rights of the People"
with a capital P. The local papers walk into Peter in
deligktful style—an interloper, a firebrand, an itinerant
spouber, a hoary-headed wall, there’s a libel law in
N.S.W. When Peter commences canvassing, we would
strongly advise him to do what he did when he held his
"loyalty" meetings at Ballarat and Sandhurst—sur-
round his sacred person with a dozen “bobbies" cf
Herculean proportions,
• • •
The matrimonial affairs of the Maori King,
Tawhaio, are getting saflly mixed. Tarehauraki, erst-
while the reigning favourite wife, is said to to have re-
tired to Kawhia “ under a cloud." Poihaere, who im-
pressively tapped Tawhiao’s royal “conk" with her
gingham at the Whatiwhatihoe meeting, is now master
and mistress of the situation The daughter of a
well-known and very popular Sydney divine, has en-
tered the Hospital for Blok Children, Glebe Point, to be
trained as a nurse Mr. Mullaly has Issued a writ for
libel against Mr. Abigail, M.P. for West Sydney, for
statements made in the House Barlow, the half-
caste giant, who captured the Maori, Wiuiata, says ha
has been shot at, and shows a singed coat as proof
thereof. Tu Tawhiao, who was with him, eays Barlow
fired off a revolver at himself, and got no the story to
earn more fame Mr. John Hosking, who was, forty
years age, the first Mayor of Sydney, died at Penrith
on Sept. 9, aged 78 years. He was a member of the firm
of Hughes and Hosking, which, as far back as 1835, was
the largest, firm of general merchants and millers in
Sydney Their Albion mills were destroyed by fire in
1838. The firm owned a fine fleet of whalers trading
from Port Jackson Mr. W. H. L. Ba ley, of the
Temora Herald, is in hot water again. He has been
publishing an “unvarnished report" of a meeting
colled for the purpose of making a “ questionable dis-
posal of the Race Club funds,” in respect to which
report a Mr. Orbell claims £2OO damages for libel.
ARABI.
111-fated leader of a hopeless cause.
Struck down beneath the Lion’s blcody paw*.
Are all thy day-dreams for thy country o’er ?
Are all thine aspirations quenched n gore ?
Success had shrined thee in the glorious band
Of patriot-champions of their fatherland :
Toll's, Washington’s, or Garibaldi’s name
Had shone no brighter on the scroll of fame.
The soldier-saviour of the historic shore
Where Cleopatra ruled mankind of yore,
What glories past had been renewed in thee
Had daring served to set thy nation free 1
But Tel-el-Kebir’s daik and fearful mom
Thy hopes and squadrons hath alike o’erborne :
Before free England’s steel thy freedom dies.
And in the lloody dust thy standard lies.
To rise no more; unless, perchance, it be
For one last effort —wild, though worthy thee—
To save thy land, or gain a glorious grave
With Freedom's sons, the “ unforgotten brave I"


fT\HB A OSTEAL ASIAN DIAMOND DRILL
JL COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will Isa undertaken by the above Com-
!pan t to bore any sized holes, vertical or horizontal,
»plo
3 INCHEi OR LARGER,
II required, to any depth, at a reduction of
251 R CENT BELOW ANT PrtETIOUS CHARGE.
'Tbo Company in all oases will find their own fuel and
wat r for drilling purposes, and will make no charge
for ioss of diamonds or wear and tear on plant, and
will also provide workmen, engineers, Ac.
Tbe nex duplex barrell introduced into the colony by
Mr, J. Coghlan will be used free of charge to persons
searching for minerals.
Hr. Coghlan has every confidence, from his practical
kno vledgo of the Diamond Drill, that he will be able to
giv.i general satisfaction, as well as quick despatch to
nil orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices. 283 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager pro. tom.
DEIZE AWARDED, MELBOURNE EXHI-
BITION. 1832.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLASTIC TRADING
COMPANY, SYDNEY.
_ Manufacturers of
SCHOOL, ObbE £ and CHURCH FURNITURE
ai d Eduo pliacoes of every description.
R. C. TROUGHTON AND CO.,
PROPRIETORS.
Contracts taken, and estimates given for the fitting
up of Schools, Colleges, Churches, Lecture Halls,
Museums, &a, to any extent and to any design, bole
Proprietors, Inventors, and Manufacturers of Trough-
tons Reversible Desks. &c. (Registered),
AND GENERAL CONTRACTORS.'
Steam Works—DlCK STREET, off ABERCROMBIE.
STREET.
Llhographs of Designs and Catalogue forwarded on
application.
Upwards of 200 schools already furnished by us.
V S~W7~ ILTING.—FASHIONABLE FRENCH
i\ STYLE I BEAD’S Improved Kilter,
f \ just out, 55., at Sewing Maehine Agents.
lilt RIVER DARLING NAVIGATION
COMPANY.
To BE INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
CAPITAL, £200,000 IN SHARES OF £1 EACH.
Provisional Directors:
TDWARD QUIN, Esq., M.P., Tarella, Chairman.
T! OS. LUKE. Esq., J.P., Wiloannia, \ vio „ PVinir
T. J. HAYDON, Esq., J.P., do. J Vice-Chairmen.
Hon. W. A. Brodeibb, M.L.C , Sydney.
W. C. Palmer, Esq., J.P., Wiloannia.
E. W. Donnelly, Esq., Gnalta.
C. H. Wbkpord, Esq., Moorara.
H. C. Armsvbong, Esq., Wiloannia.
Arthur Wood fall, Esq., Wiloannia.
Walterds Brown, Esq , J.P., Wiloannia.
Charles G. Lush. Esq., Melbourne.
J. b. Kjkid, Esq., Wiloannia.
J. Scgden, Esq., Wiloannia.
W. J. Holding, Wentworth.
T. W. CHAMBERS, Esq., Wiloannia, Hon. Beo,
f"nHIB Company is proposed to be formed for t,he
purpose of making the River Darling contin-
i .ugly navigable between Wiloannia and Wentworth, a
r stance of about 270 miles.
The total fall in the River between the two places
1 icntionod has been ascertained by Government survey
i . be only 87 feet 3 inches.
The River is known to possess great natural facilities
t ir Locking, the bod of it being intersected at several
j laces along its course by bars ef rock, upon which
j ,sck« or Weirs could be constructed at a comparatively
i mall outlay.
It has been determined, in order to provide funds for
l aving a thorough survey of the River made and a re-
liable sstimate of the cost of constructing the proposed
Lock* ,and for the disbursement of other preliminary
< xponses, to dispose of 50,000 Shares in the Company,
upon which one shilling per Share is payable on allot-
ment, with a guarantee that no further calls be made
upon the said 50,000 Shares until funds are required for
construction purposes.
Discretion is given to the Provisional Directors to
expend any moneys subscribed for carrying on the ob-
jects of the Company, notwithstanding that the 50,000
Shares proposed to be sold may not be sold.
Forms of application for Shares can be obtained from
Messrs. Robertson arid Fisher. Solicitors, Sydney.
T. W. CHAMBERS. Hon. See.
WILOANNIA.
Wiloannia, May 2nd, 1882.
8
YDNET WOOL
SALES,
TO THE WOOLGROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
In again offering you our services in the disposal of
wool or other produce, we desire to bripg under your
notice the increased facilities provided for efficiently
transacting any business with which you may entrust
Recognising the fact that the further extension of
our Railways must divert to this market a large quan-
tity of WOOL which has hitherto found its way else-
where, we are perfecting our arrangements for
promptly and efficiently meeting the fresh demand upon
our storage accommodation, and, in addition to onr
large Warehouses at the Circular Quay, have added
extensively to our No. 3 Warehouse at Darling Har-
bour, where every facility is proi ided for the efficient
Btorago and display of wool to the fullest advantage.
This warehouse adjoins the Railway Terminus, at
which station all wool from the Southern and Wes.
tern Districts is received; PROMPT DELIVERY
from the Railway is thus ensured.
We have an experienced staff, who are conversant
with all the requirements of the trade, and every care
is taken to fully protect the interests of onr oonsti-
tnents. Every lot displayed for sale, whether largo
or small, is closely valued beiore being offered, and,
when required, owners are communicated with before
disposal.
Wool, or other produce, will be received for us at
any of the railway stations, or by the steam companies,
and duly forwarded.
We hold Public Auction Sales o Wool on Wednesday
and Friday in each week, and of other produce orTaiter-
nato days. In any ease where owners* limits are not
realized at auction, or subsequently by private con-
tract, we are prepared to ship at lowest freight and
charges, and, if consigned to our Loudon House, make
liberal caih advances; when growers prefer to consign
to their own London Brokers, we will hand over Bills
of Lading as they may direct.
Owners desiring their consignments Insured in
transit from station will reqnire to give specific instruc-
tions to that effect.
We desire to point out that last season a much
greater quantity of wool was sold in the Sydney market
tbaa during any previous year, and generally at prices
which subsequent results have shown to have boon in
favour of growers. The prospects of again receiving full
prices in the local market for the ensuing season are
equally good, and we have no hesitation in recommend-
ing growers to teat values here before hastily deciding
upon shipment.
Every year the number of English and Fsraign
buyers attending this market is increasing, and owners
may safely calculate upon getting prices here showing
a very limited margin on London rates.
Waybills and any further information forwarded on
application.
Liberal cash advances are made on consignments,
whether for sale or shipment.
MOET and CO.,
Wool Warehouses,Circularpiay andDflHing Hdrbour,
p A P E E HANGINGS,-
X with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, Ac.,
imported by
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hnnter.st.)
PAINTERS' AND DECORATORS' MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Varnishes,
Brushes, Gold Leaf, Ac.
/QUEENSLAND AGENCY.
™ GRESLET LUKIN and CO ,
Sydney,
PASTORAL, MINING and PLANTATION AGENTS.
Temporary Offices, 289 George-street.
Opposite Hunter, street.
GRESLET LUKIN and CO. are agents for the fol-
lowing Incorporated Gold-mining Companies in Queens-
land :
Glamnire and Monkland G. M. Co.
Hibernian Tribute G. M. Co.
Nichbll’s Lease G. M. Co.
North Lady Mary G. M. Co.
No. 2 North Lady Mary Q. M. Co.
North Qlonmire G. M. Co.
North Monklaad G. M. Co,
No. I North Phoenix G. M. Co.
No. 2 North Phoenix Q, M Co.
United St. Patrick G. M. Co.
New Zealand Tribntors.
Mining Managers’ Reports regularly received. Full-
est information on Queensland mining interests ob-
tained through special agencies. All Queensland min-
mg journals hied.
VAUTIER’S
ARE THE BEST
SWISS CIGARS.
iTRY THEM
TO BE HAD OF ALL TOBACCONISTS.
■JJNDEE SECTION V., ACT 632.
AET~UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE,
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PRIZE* of the full value of £10,609.
117 lots guaranteed, eash if preferred.
Loti. Ist prise £4OOO I Lot S. 3rd prise £1350
Lot 2. 2nd prise £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prise... £4OO
Lots 5 to 9, Frizes of £l6O each.
Lot 10, 1 Prise of £5O.
Lots Uto 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lots 21 to 120,100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management is compelled to extend the time of
drawing to the first day of August, 1858. Notwith-
standing this announcement, the drawing will posi-
tively be proceeded with seven days after the shares
are subscribed for. All unsuccessful applicants will
have their money returned per return of post. This is
the grandest opportunity ever offered to win a sub-
stantial prize, if not a large and independent fortune,
for £l.
—SETH E. PEESSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
A. A. DEBNEY AND GO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX. BAGS
TRUNKS OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A- A. DEBNEY AND CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOE GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an experienced
London Gutter.
N.B.—Country Orders received Special attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successor* to Hobson and Whiting,
18 HUNTER STREET.
(DALE OF BOOTS AND SHOES.
11. HANNAB wishes to inform his numerous friends
and customers that he intends having
A GREAT SALE of
BOOTS and SHO E S,
in Consequence of Alteration in hie Promises, which he
fully. Intends to carry out in the greatest extent. Sale
to commence on
FRIDAY, 11th August,
And to continue till cleared out.
Don’t forget the Address—
H. HANNAH,
6-48 George.street.
ANTHONY HORDERJ
PALACE EM FOR
HAYMAEKET (ONLY)
mTJ"FT ■R’TPHT WA UT.V DDTnvnvma cit»t»ritn j nrT.,-.>
SPRING COSTUMES.
rANCT POMPADOUR SATEEN
Dy®* ilKS this season are exceptionally pretty, af-
fording ample room for choice in Colour and Design, at
the same time the price* are very reasonable. A Nice
maxes Costume of this material, neatly trimmed with
Plain Sateen for 12s. SJ,. Children's Costumes from
4m lid.
| MANTLES AND DOLMANS. |
Specially selected from tho foremost houses in Lon-
don and Pari* : THE NEW GRAPHIC, REAL SATIN
DR LEON MANTLE trimmed with Beaded Lace
Fringe, and Splendid Ornaments, for 3?«.
LACE FICHUS &o., &*., in great variety.
HATS AND BONNBTh.
The Latest sad Most Fashionable Shapes in STRAW
HATS and BONNETS far present Season may be seen
in our Show Boom, and alee in one of our Large Win-
dows in Gipps-street, where every New Style is repro-
seated.
SPRING FLOWERS.
For Beauty, Variety, and Completeness, our Show
Cases present the finest display of Spring and Summer
Flowers in the City, every Colour, Shade, and Flower,
being found in this collection.
LACES.
By the use of our New Pattern Books, Ladies will
effect a very great saving of time, many hundreds of
New Patterns being so arranged, that they may be seen
almost at a glance'. The very latest New Patterns are
being sold at less than Sydney Wholesale Prices, com-
prising French B jaded Laces, Fine Cut, in vVhite,
Ficelle, and Black, Point Rutse, Albany and Manolo
Fan Lace, and Point Boncaise, Cheltenham, and Point
Lorraine,
RIBBONS
For the richest MILLINE (iY TRIMMINGS ever
our Lace and Moire also Lace ana Satin
* upr £ m ®’ along with the Satin
and Merveilleux, New Moure, and Tissue Royal, tho
latest novelties in Ribbons. J
SASH RIBBONS all widths and colours.
LADIESiGLOVES.
The Now Shades in greet variety are comprised in
first shipment, and Ladies will do well to make choice
early of these BEAUTIFUL KID GLOVES iZ
Taff«ts, and other Fabric Gloves, form a iare seise-
MEN’S CLOTHING.
Out preparations in this Department, for Sprinv
Hnmrner Seasons, enable ns to off at a splendid ,
GENTS’, YOUTHS’, and BOYS’ CLOTHING.in eve £
description of cloth and variety of Patterns, all be ini
well out and made, and at prices from 20 to 25 net
below Sydney usual prices. 1 ceIlt •
Gents’ Seasonable Suits, complete. 18a 63, 25 1
Gents’ Fancy Vests, neat patterns, 6s 6d. 7a fid
Gents Black Cloth Frock Coata 25s, 33a.
Gents’ Fancy Worsted Coats 32a bd, 45a.
Gents’ Tweed Trousers 3a 9d.
Youths’ Sac Coats 3s 6d.
Little Boys’ Knicker Suits 5a lid, 6a lid.
MEN’S HATS. |
STIFF FELTS 3s 61, splendid value.
SOCKET HATS 4a 6d, worth 7s 0d
hats 4s 6d, worth 10s 6d.
BbACK PARIS HATS es 6J, sold elsewhere 15a.
BOOTS AND SHOES.
AT THE PALACE EMPORIUM are fully 30 par cent
Cheaper than at any other House in the Colonies ami
the largest Stock to select from 8 aud
A very good pair of
LADIES’ BOOTS for 3s 6d.
CENTS' ELASTIC SIDES for 5a 6d.
DERBY" SHOES for 5a91.
CALF BALMURALS for 6a lid.
E™. & a^om d l. q 3d ality * Ud ’
SSf iliralR 1:1; Ssa i°tfASS*
DRESS GOODS.
We Have opened One Hundred Cases of New Dress
Materials eeleeted from the most Celebrated Manufao
turera of England, France, and Germany. For man J
years we have held the first position of any Dranerv
VYarehonso in these Colonies, for the extend It
Trade, the variety of our stock, and the moderate
for the best selected Dress Stock out of
This Season we have introduced to the Ladies nf
Sydney, Costume Materials not to be excelled by ™
First Class House in Europe, We have extended 7 m2
Diess Department to double its former size, and
*“? «tendve stock.
I ruavnaojiiH UK O i HJSK WT8E.
CARPETS, FURNITURE, GLaSS AND CHINAWARE.
IMMENSE PALACE EMPORIUM.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
haymakket
(ONLY).
N0 BRANCH HOUSES. ONLY THE ABOVE ADDRESS.
BOOTH'S
HYDROPATHIC BATHING
ESTABLISHMENT,
CORNER OF COLLEGE AND OXFORD STREETS
HYDE FARE.
BLACKET AND DAYY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOB
GARRET AND SON'S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
' SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all tie latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Den6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFICE.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
Hf
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN'S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PER* 0 *
IHITATIHO IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
TAILOR FOR THE PUBLIC.
f. hThagon,
late cutter R. C. Hag-on, of T 27 Ring-street,
havingjfaken '
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
- at
162 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every t aoility will be afforded, him for
having his work made under hie
PERSONAL SOPER VISION,
in a position to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TAILORING
of a quality and price that cannot bo Excelled.
West of Bngland'TweodlSnits, to order, 63a.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 63 i.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16a.6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order/lSs 6d.
N.B.—All Garments HAND-MADE.
P. H. HAGON.'
P. H. HIGON


The Francis Punch Trophy is now occupying the
sole attention of the aquatic world. It would be inter-
esting to know if the names of the men to row in the
various heats axe to be given by the donor of the stakes,
or if they are to be drawn for. We might humbly
suggest that the custom now prevalent in England be
follow* d here; as, if, say, \ onngater " were clapped
in the first htai with a >f veterans, his chance
would b-s irretrievably gone; whereas, if he were lucky
enough to get into even eompany at the commence-
ment. he would, at any rate, give his friends a pretty
show for their money. Wo may mention that Mr 11.
Davis, of Dawes Point, has taken charge of Perkins,
and states that he is the prettiest sculler on the Parra-
matta Kivar. Of that he ll take his Alfred-Davis—we
mean Alfred David.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
AMUSEMENT NOTICES.
Theatre Hotal —“Lights o’ London." Vide advt. p. 15
Gaiety Theatre. —Clark and Byman’s Minstrels, ib.
Opska House —‘•Mignou" ib.
Masonic Hall.—“ Bagons Dull Care." b.
The “ Lights o’ London” is drawing good
houses at the Royal. There are some fortunate people
in the world of whom it is commonly said that wha*-.
ever they touch turns to gold. This is particularly
true with regard to the triumvir ite who manage
theatrical matters on this end of the planet. The
“Lights O’ London,” if produced by any other
entrepreneur/:, would have gone out long ago, despi e its
really splendid mounting.
* * * *
The Minstrels at the Gaiety are a big success.
That is, of course, from the financial aspect. We con-
fess candidly that we were always able to bear up
against the amount of fun and drollery they had to
advance whenever we saw them. But then we are old
and cynical, and consider that the court-iestcrs of the
Troglodyte era played out most of the humour that
was thrown in with the travelling kit of the human
race, when it was first started out, for the benefit of
nigger minstrels and newspaper jokers. Mr. Charles
Heywood sang “ Jannie hear me calling ” very prettily
on the night that we attended the show But in his
female impersonation it would be as well if he were to
leave out certain vulgar doubles-entendres both of speech
and action, which, however they may appeal to the
gallery, are not creditable, nor, in the end, profitable
to the show. Mr. Dixon’s song, “ Sally in our Alley,"
has taken the people by thunder—we are sick of saying,
“by storm.” The sketch at the end of the perform-
ance—“ O’Callaghan’s Home ” —is funny enough but too
long. Mr. C. McCarthy certainly makes an inimitable
Irishwoman. And the rest of the performers go through
their parts well, but the denouement is postponed too
long, and when it does come it is a very harmless bust-
up after all. Gov. Add. Eyman’s lecture on “ Temper-
ance " is not a howl. It is like five-up euchre when a
man’s luck is out —there are not points enough in it.
Alfred Lawton is the best comic man in the company.
But in spite of what anyone says to the contrary, the
show altogether is a good show and worth seeing.
* * * *
The Montague-Turner company, produced
“ Trovatore” during the week. “ Mignon” with great
success has followed it. Of the latter, more anon.
* * * *
Fred Maocabe’s sudden accession to the ranks
of the aristocracy of the earth—those who “ hold it ” —■
has not interfered with his business. The Masonic
Hall is filled every night just the same, and Fred,
though now the monarch of millions, is as unassuming
in private life as he ever was. He doesn't kill bill,
stickers and ticket-takers, on the ground that he is able
to pay for them. Moderation of this sort is so
phenomenally scarce, that when we come across it,
words fail us just as they do now.
* * * *
The “ Mastodon Star Minstrels.” after a peri-
lous voyage, fraught with fearful incident, from the
shores of Wooloomooloo and Surry Hills, have at last
arrived in the centre ft the city, and advertise their
intention of opening their show in the Victoria Hall on
Saturday night.
** * *
Mr. H. J. Whittington, the clever and genial
agent of South’s Opera Company, uses that greatest
triumph of this progressive century—the electric tele-
graph—to inform us that the company are doing im-
mense business. They played at Wagga, last week, to
good houses. The writer of the paragraph has an
affectionate remembrance of Wagga. He stayed there
at one time—boarded under the bridge. The company
play in Narandera this week and next. We are always
g ad to hear of Jimmy doing well.
* ♦ ♦ *
Rainor’s Diorama of the American and Russo-
Turkish Wars has just returned from a four months’
tour in South Australia. The show opens in brisbane
on 23rd instant. It is understood that the spirited pro-
prietor is willing to give a free pass to his show to any
European statesman who will start another war on a
grand scale. Gladstone hasn’t come to terms yet, and
Bismarck wants to ring in his poor relations, which
James C. Rainer won’t stand. There are numbers of men
living who can run a Government, but you don’t meet
in every threepenny bar the man with nous enough to
run a diorama.
* * * *
Writes our Adelaide correspondent:—“ We have
had ‘Maritana,’ ‘Norma,’ and ‘The Hermit's Bell,’
this last week at the Theatre Royal; audiences numer-
ous. An amateur light tenor performed the part of
Don Caesar de Bazan. Though his ideal of the character
discovered the possession ©f a quantity of the highest
Kalmuck taste, he is better as a tenor pure and simple
than any English-speaking professional that M. Simou-
sen seems able to provide for the operas given by his
company in that little understood language. Signor
Coy sang Pollione’s music excellently, though, it is said,
for the first time in public Save that ‘The Hermit's
Bell * is staged better than usual, nothing remains worth
special notice in connection with the various perform,
ances.”
* * * *
Simonsen to Hobart goes
(Having bought Boccacio) ;
Eiccardi also, ‘neath whore nose
Grows a sweet moustachio.
Larry Foley, eh, “you know,”
Will boss Hill’s new theatre;
A company has Miss Juno—
That fascinating cratnr.
Ben Greene writes us that he pants
(This will surely make you laugh)
For a vision,—says he wants
Witching Sinbad’s photograph.
* ♦ * *
Next to the capture of Arabi Pasha and the
general crumpling-up cf the Egyptians, the moat im-
portant item of news is that George Darrell has resolved
once more to shed the light of hia genius upon the
chores of Australasia. We are in receipt of a letter
Jrom this celebrated playwright, in which ho states ha
„ concluded a pleasant twelve months in America" by
winning his law suit,” and, what is of far more im-
portance to the world of art, letters, and general
miiture, produced an entirely original drama at the
® < l nale Theatre—which George informs ns is
the classic temple of the citya piece of inform-
tioa which we regard as strangely unnecessary, since
the severely classical form of Darrell’s dramas is to u«
so pleasantly familiar. Before the play was produced,
George says that. “ The manager, three or four
brother dramatists (!!!) and some dozen experts who
perused the MS. pronounced my play a’sure success."
But the villain would seem to have pursued George
also, as, notwithstanding that he got ” four calls
nightly," the critics combined (they’re always doing
it 11 to damn tha piece, and it was damned accordingly.
Nothing daunted, however, George interviewed Holt and
Wilmot in London, from whence he triumphantly
writes—“ I have succeeded in placing another new and
original drama in the London Market." It is called
“ The funny South," which George informs us in con-
fidence is “Transported For Life” slightly improved—
a literary feat which hitherto we had deemed im-
possible. Our gifted correspondent does not consider
either the London or the American actors equal to the
Australian, and is still sanguine as to the success of an
entirely Australian company playing *’ new and entirely
original Australian dramas.”
** * *
The Lotus Dramatic Club announce that they
will give their inaugural performance at the Yictorieral
to-night (Thursday), and have courteously sent ns a
couple of verv pretty tickets. We iee by an inscrip-
tion thereon that “ no gentleman is idmitted to front
seats unaccompanied by a lady,” which we consider to
be rather an arbitrary regulation, as ever since we got
the orders we have been hunting round to find a lady
who would attend, but so far without success H*w-
ever, if we should not succeed with the lady who leads
the blind man about, we suppose we must content our-
selves with a back seat, that’s all. We might, however,
respectfully request that one be reserved for us—near
the door.
** * *
Tho Excelsior Musical and Dramatic Club gave
a performance at the Mount Carmel Hall, Waterloo,
last week. The performance commenced with
“ Withered Leaves," a comedy in which several people
distinguished themse’ves. This wis f d’owed by songs
and dances, and a farce which was described by the
novel adjective “ screaming ” Miss Green and Mr,
C. J. Doyle were the meteors of the show. Among
other things, they sang a duet of the latter’s composi-
tion. It is printed on the fly-sheet of the programme,
and reads like some of the early efforts at composition
of the pupils at the Deaf and Dumb Asylum. A benefit
is to be given to Miss Green as soon as possible.
** * *
W. H. Leake and Harry Simmons have started
up country with a company to play legitimate drama.
They opened in Lithgow on Friday night, to a good
house.
** * *
Johnny O’Neill’s benefit at the Victoria Hill on
Friday night was a big financial success. The “Brides
of Garryowen” and the “ Happy Man ’’ were played on
this occasion. Johnny was app’auded all the time.
Same bill was given on Saturday night.
** * *
Annie Mayor is in Adelaide recruiting with her
parents She has been working too hard, and Nature
put on the brake in the shape of slight cerebral con-
gestion. But Miss Mayor is rapidly recovering, and
will much benefit by the temporary respite A con-
tralto of some pretensions—Miss Henrica Van Lenden
—is expected to arrive in Adelaide by the Locksley
Hall, now nearly due. She will be warmly welcomed if
fiesh, sympathetic, and capable Kellar’s Illusionists
opened at the Academy to a moderate house on Satur-
day. Things were rather incomplete, but the enter-
tainment is eo clever that it will be surprising if the
little theatre is not crowded in future. Popular con-
certs at the Town Hall are again to the fore on Satur-
day nights Madame Thayer announced a second
concert for Wednesday, with Hermann Schrader again
ai director. Kunde, Simonseu'a first violin, was to
assist.
** * *
Our own Louise —the Pomeroy—seems to have
smiled away the senses of the Brisbane critics. They
have exhausted every superlative in the English
language, besides a number that are indigenous to
Queensland alone, to describe her acting. The Bins
bane Observer man praises every member in the
Pomeroy company, from the lovely Louise hers If to
the man with the bony arm who hump* the side screens
away in the bai quet scene. Saya the esiily first of
Queensland litterateurs with regard to W. J. Holloway’s
performance :—“ Oharlei Surface, the male cnaracter in
the piece, was undertaken by Mr. Holloway. It is a part
that has engaged the attention of some of the brightest
ornaments to the stage, and a trying ordeal at all times.
Mr. Hollowav was more than eqnal to what the occasion
required of him ” That is, Mr. Holloway was eqnal, if
not more than equal, to “ some of the brightest orna-
ments of the stage." A person calling himself a
“ dramatic critic" came once to our office with a
column of M’Gnffinism similar to this. He is not on
the premises now. The dustman took him away.
# it tr k
The Wide Bat and Burnett News speaking
of the performance in Maryborough of the “ Shaugh-
raun" by the Clara Stephenson Dramatic Company
says, “This piece is supposed to depict the state of
Ireland at the present day." (!) Wo expect to see in the
next issue of this enterprising and well-informed journal
a full account of the battle of Waterloo, and the latest
particulars regarding the whereabouts of Bonaparte.
** * *
The threadbare Latin apophthegm, “ Poeta nas-
citur non fit," applies with far greater exactness to the
case of the actor than to that of the poet. A poet can he
made out of any materials Take any person with an
itch for writing, kick him down three flights of stairs,
being very careful that he will fall on his head when
he reaches the bottom, and the chances are a thousand
to one that he will do nothing but write doggerel for
the ’1 own and Country Journal for ever after. Given
a bottle of whisky for a muse, and the indifference of
the cold world to genius for a subject, end almost any
man will write you a pome such as would make Tenny-
son weep after he had read it that he had not spent the
flower of his manhood in patent medicine peddling
instead of going into the immortal verse business.
Anyone can make or be a poet. The first requisite to
success iu the trade, viz., that the aspirant he fit for
nothing else, is possessed by quite a respectable number
of people iu this city. Certainly the sum total is cut
down a bit by some of them being drafted into Govern-
ment bidets, and others getting literary engagements
in Parramatta. But the fact remains. The case of the
actor is quite different. He has to shave his face at
least once a fortnight, and, if in the higher walks of
the profession, has to wash it even more frequently.
Besides that, is he not always a prey to consuming
doubt as to whether his hat is tilted over his eyes at
exactly the right angle or not ? The life of an actor is
a very arduous one indeed. And an actress —well, an
actress has similar troubles, we believe, but our old-
fashioned modesty has hitherto prevented us from dis-
covering what they precisely were. We are not, per-
haps, as serious iu what we have just said as we would
be if we were writing an elegy on a dead dray-horse or
an epitaph upon the “bnst-up" reputation of
John Davies, but we are as serious as are
the consequences of one of Jack Delany’a conun-
drums in what we are just about to say. There
are thousands of worthy aud well-meaning, aud w© dare
say clever, persons in the theatrical profession who do
not come under the head of born actors. We do not
wish to throw the smallest flight upou those ladies aud
gentlemen, but we most emphatically contend that
neither man nor woman can be taught to act in the
grand fashion unless they possess the gift that enables
them to strise to the hearts of their audience any more
than a person who hasn’t gjt a voice can be taught t»
sin? ; which br.ngs us back pensore, so to speak, to the
place we started from.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
cercumen.]
The Good Templars at home have been making
much capital out of the fact that a Berkshire clergyman
has stated it to be his intention in future to substitute
zoedone for sacramental wines. They oaref ally conceal
the rest of the story, vis : that he has been subsidised by
an jErated Waters Factory to do this, aid that he keeps
the sacramental wine for eome consumption.
Hr. Murray, E.C. Bishop of Maitland, has been
vegetating between Rome and Dablin during the past
two years. Now, his Lordship considers the Queensland
eir highly invigorating. The good prelate has been to
Brisbane twice within three month*. His college, in
the, meantime, has gone up a gum-tree, and some of his
priests are going— well, to the Supreme Court.
That snufflebnsting fraow at Oapertee Hall, of
which an »ec»mnt appeared in The Bulletin has ended
in the committal aeveral of tha balllfereate. There
was mn*h hard swearing on aithar aide, and, between
the lot, religion will come off second best. Bat whether
the Attorney-General will flla a bill probably all depends
on the amount of solemn praying done to avert the
danger.
At a little religious rigadoon in Anokland (N.Z.)
To’f'my Spurgeon, son of old Sword and Trowel, gavaa
reading called “ The Intoxicated Geese.” This is said
to have bean received with great applause by tha fermala
portion of the aidienca. Tha males made no aigu. But
the attendance at Tommy’s tabernacle baa baeu on the
decrease ever since, and the collection has now
definitely dwindled down to “thrums." This oomee
of indulging in personalities. Tommy, though a good
young man, is a great asa.
There is great commotion in Palmer-street
Presbyterian Church jnstnow over tha election of a
successor t« the late Dr. M'Glbbon. Same of tha elect
are going bald-headed in their frantic efforts to secure
the Rev. Miller Ross, who is even more of a Pope than
was the late Doctor. Others threaten to leave tha
church in a body if the Rev. Mr Neeley la not “ called ’’
to be their spiritual adviser. Still a third party are
doing their level best to get a piece of very superior
Calvinistio upper crust from home The shepherds
look on with anxiety, while the sheep have a “ bully
old time of it." Meanwhile the Nazarene is lost sight
of for a season.
Archbishop Vaughan has, unlike Sir ’Enry
Parkos. something to learn from the old country. His
Grace is powerful on the “ show" business, and knows
how to run a cathedral opening theatrically, but the
Salvation Army at home can give him points and lick
him hands down. Witness the following advt. clipped
freai the Sheffield Daily Tileoraph “ Saltation
abmt—(D.V.) On Snnday the greatest wonder of the
day, the Army Midget, whose weight is only four
stones; 'also the Army Giantess; Tboma* btreet,
morning; Albert Hal), afternoon and night. Silver at
the Baleonv." How does that strike His Grace for a
neat thing P
In the second balloting in the Anglican Diocesan
Synod for a new Bishop ef Sydney, eleven mms«s were
submitted, and amongst these were two that were not
on the original list of twentv, viz , the Bishop of Sodor
and Man, aid the suffragan Bishop of Dover, Dr. Parry.
The voting resulted in the submission bv majorities of
the following three names—Rev. Canon Flaming, of Bt.
Michael’s vicarage, Chester Sqnare, Lender ; Rev.
Richard Appleton, Pillow and Assistant Tutor of
Trinity College, Cambridge; and Right Esv. Edward
Parry, suffragan Bishop of Dover. These three names
will bo submitted to the Bishops of the Province, who
wiil delete one. The remaining two mines will be
passed through ballet by the Blihops of Australia anl
Tasmania, who will thus perform the final act of
appointment.
Words are cheap. Persons who have assisted
at Ministerial deputations may have noticed ibis fact
themselves. Some little time ago, the English “ Salva-
tion Army " sent a letter reporting progress to Qneen
Victoria. Her Majesty sent a reply to Mrs. Booth say-
ing she “ learnt with much satisfaction the eociety had
been successful in its efforts to win many thousands
to the ways of temperance, virtue and religion." This
reply tickled old man Booth so much that he sent
another letter to ear Gracious Queen requesting that
he might be favoured with a little “spondulix" in aid
of the good cause, and so dead sure was he of success
that he actually bought a stovepipe hat and had his
boots half soled and heeled on spec. Victoria, however,
didn’t seem to see it, and her head clerk politely wrote
to say “ Her Majesty regrets that she cannot contribute
to the Army funds." But she didn’t regret it half as
much as the moral “Majah Qiniril" did.
We read in a home paper that “ the Archbishop
of Canterbury and Miss Tait gave their first garden,
party at Lambeth last Wednesday. Nearly 2000 invita-
tions had been issued, and at least two thirds of those
invited came, but the weather was most unfavourable.
However, there was ample accommodation for the
guests in the interesting state-room of the Palace, but
most people left a» soon as their carriages oonld be
obtained. The Archbishop’s second party takes place
on Wednesday.” And now the cable informs ns that
his nibs the Archbishop (how very like one ano'her all
these Archbishops are!) is dangerously ill. Gastric
derangement, or congestion of the liver, probably.
They sugar the pill in this 19 th century with its pnrple-
and-flne-linen and garden party-and-Punch-and-Judy,
and-greasy-pig-sad-nigger minstrel Christianity. It’s
the Garden of Proserpine, and the “interesting state,
room," now-a-davs. The Garden of Qethsemane .has
gone out of fashion.
Eev. J. C. Byng, of Dunedin, advocates that
Christian young men should be taught boxing, wrest-
ling and fencing—for use in cases of emergency. This
reminds us of another muscular parson—the Rev.
Namtny Green, of Port Adelaide, H. A He is a popular
favourite, an eloquent preacher, and every inch an
athlete. He was one of the pets of Bishop Short, who
lately resigned the See of Adelaide. Bishop Short, al-
though 70 years of age, could box like a good *un and
had a wind like Mazeppt’s horse. He was a short,
thickset man, but could knock the athletic Sammy
Green clean ont of time, unless, Indeed, it may be sup. l
posed that Sammy was too cate to take His Lordship
out of winding. On one occasion Sammy, who was
rather High Church, trod upon an anti-ritualist’s corns
m a sermon. The anti-ritnallst wrote Sammy a letter,
saying that he was no gentleman, and that “ only for
his cloth ” ho would give him what he deserved, “ per*
sonal chastisement." Sammy wrote back saying that,
for the nonce, he would “ lay aside hie cloth,” and ap-
pointing an hoar and place when and where he would
attend to receive hla “ personal chastisement.” But
the anti-ritualist didn’t come on.
The Eev. Frederick Gough, ex-clergyman of
the Church of England at Ganwedah, has ferwatded to
ns a pamphlet and newspaper extracts relating to the
rearous which Impelled him t# return his license to the
Bishop. Briefly stated it all amouats to this: that Mr.
Gough having had some books dealing with the Anglo.
Israelite theory placed in hlahands by a parishioner, at
first declined to read them, but on his parishioner
pointing out that ha looked to his clergyman for spiri-
tual guidance in just such circumstances, Mr. Gough
read the books, and was convinced by their reasoning
that Anglo-Israelism is an essential truth. He moulded
his teachings accordingly, and this brought the censure
of the Bishop, Dr. Turner, upou him. Mr. Gou<h,
after some desultory correspondence, offered Hines’
work to his Bishop, soliciting his Lordship’s guidance.
This seems a fair thing. Mr. Gough only requested tho
Bi-hop to do that for him which he bad done for his
parishioner, and one would think that the Bishop would
have eagerly seized the opportunity to sweep away the
cobwebs from his clergyman’s mind. But Mr. Gough
appears to have been the more earnest of the two. What
he had undertaken for his parishioner, the Bishop re-
futed to do for him. According to Mr. Gough's account
the Bishop turned upon him, and "in a most stinging
voice mad manner" said “I am surprised at yon, Mr.
Gough, askiag me to read iuah a book. I request that
you will not ever mention the subject again." This
looks as though the Bishop either had condemned the
book without reading it, or, having read and disapproved
of it, did not choose to be troubled by explaining t >
Mr Gough wherein that clergyman’s misapprehensions
ns to the validity ©f the arguments lay. Ilian the
Bibhop went home to England far a couple of years
—■as all Colonial bishops occasionally do—aud i
on his return put pressure upon Mr. Gough, as a
schismatic, to resign. That’s about the whole story.
Mr. Gough seems to have been a conscientious man,
but a “wearing” customer for his Bishop, and tho
Bishop considerably high and mighty, as he writes in
one letter “Ton, an incumbent or curate, assume an
authority over him who is over yon in the Lord,” the
reference being to a series of “ posers” whieh Mr.
Gough bed asked the Bishop to solve for his soul’s
sake. Prom which it appears that in the Church of
England no priest has a right to atk questions, except ha
he a Bishop. This reminds us of the saying that iu
England, no man has a right to express an opinion un-
less his income reach £lO,OOO a year.
mm#
Father Bisset, of Kempsey, is dead. He be-
longed to the order of Jesuits, and was one of the first
who was forcibly exiled from France, and was formerly
Professor at the College of Bordeaux A Berkshire
clergyman substitmtes zoedone for sacramental wine.
Blasphemy ? Rabbi Davis on full pay, with
twelve months’ leave of absence M, Roche-
fort sneere at England as “the nation that scatters
tract* over the universe, and at the same time neerol-
lenely exterminates blacks at the antipodes,” and tha
Pall Mall Gxzsttb describes the saying as “ barbed
with truth." Rockhampton (Q.), has started a
“ talvntinn Army.’’ It needs one London Tbuth
feels it to be humiliating for English bishops to havs
to loam sense from Bishop Moorhonse on prayer
The last Protsstant Standard has sn article under the
playful heading t “ Father Garavel rescues God." It
hinges upon an incident connected with tbs recent con-
flagration in St. Mary’s Cathedral, at which Father
Garavel, at some personal risk, “hastened to the
sanctuary and removed the Blessed Sacrament.”
Rev. Jebn Auld told the Presbytery of Sydney that
the " quiet respectable people ’’ who ruralised on
Sundays went, not te the suburbs, but to tha
reserves within the city. Tee, tho audiences
of the Sydney Domain open-air ecclesiastics It
has been suggested that a cricket match bo got np
between the slergy in Sydney now for the opening of
St. Marv’s xnd those in Synod for election of Bishop
Ondit that an Orange lodge wrote Archbishop Vaughan
saying, "As you are going to have a Show, w« will ha
happy to lend you our banners.*’ The Roman Catholic
Bishop of Leeds granted a special indulgence to hia
faithful flock to eat meat on a Friday on tho occasion
of a visit by the Prince and Pnnooss of Wales
In the Melbourne Synod, Bishop Moorhonse slated tho
Salvation Army movement, saying that “excitement was
encouraged, which was not healthy, which might lead
to excess, and must have a reaction. Wild dances and
wilder cries were permitted, bordering on profanity;
midnight meetings were encouraged, which must bo
fraught with danger. He could plainly see that be-
tween the sweet sober piety of the English Church and
the nnbridled excitement of jumping, shouting crowds
of converted roughs and ‘hallelnjah lasses’ there was
a great gnlf fixed ” A Sydney suburban clergyman
announced the other day, that in consequence of tho
high price of provisions, he would require an increase
in his stipend. This will tighten the market for three-
penny bits. Let’s all try the same game, anyhow, and
where would the employers of labour be P Tha Dean
of Hobart, having declined to act pending the appoint-
ment of a new Bishop of Tasmania, the duty devolves
upon Archdeacon Hates, of Launceston.
Mr. J. M. Purves, M P.
We give a portrait this week of Mr. John Mitchell
Purves, member for the Clarence, the validity of
whose right to a seat in the Assembly is now
under consideration by a Committee of the House.
Mr. Purves was born at Port Macquarie, August
2, 1847, and is a son of the late Rev. William
Purves, M.A. He received his education at the
Rev. William Scott’s Collegiate School, Cook’s
River, and afterwards of Elswiok, Petersham.
He entered the Sydney University in 1866, residing
at St. Paul’s College, the Rev. Mr. Scott, hie old
master, being then warden; and was fairly suc-
cessful, taking two first classes in 1866, graduating
in 1869 as 8.A., and 1872 as M.A. He went to
England in April, 1870, with his father, who, how-
ever, did not survive the voyage. He returned in
1871, and shortly after his arrival went to reside
on the Clarence, where he remained till 1876. He
married, in 1873, the daughter of Mr. M. Metcalfe,
of Petersleigh. St. Peters, one of our representa-
tive mercantile men. In 1874, Mr. Purves was
nominated to the Commission of the Peace, and
took an active part in magisterial duties at
Grafton, and afterwards at the Water Police Court
in this city. His private business at this time was
connected with the wool interest, in which he was
successful; and in 1878, he joined Mr. E. A.
Franklin in some tramway contracts ©n the South
Coast. At the conclusion of this work, he became
a member of the well-known firm of Batt,
Rodd, and Purves. He contested the Clarence,
under the old Aet, on the resignation of Mr.
Bawden, but was not successful. On the new
Electoral Bill coming into force, Mr. Purves was
returned unopposed for the Clarence. And now
his tight to a seat in the House has been ques-
tioned, the ground being that he is interested in a
Government contract. The matter has reference
to a contract for the sale of tolls taken by the
firm. But it appears that the business of these
sales is solely in the hands of some of the members
of the firm, and that Mr. Purves has not the
slightest interest in them. Pending inquiry, Mr.
Purves has decided not to sit in the Assembly,
and courts the fullest investigation. [Our
portrait is from a photo, by Freeman, of George-
street.]
Dr. J. M. Creed.
Db John Mildred Creed, whose portrait we
give in this issue, was born at (irenoeeter,
Gloucestershire, England, and educated at Kings-
down College, Bristol. He studied for the medical
profession at the University College, London, and
was admitted as a Member of the College of
Surgeons, London, as Licentiate of the College of
Physicians, Edinburgh, and obtained the special
diploma in Midwifery from both Colleges, by
examinations passed between April and June, iu
1866. At the termination of his University career,
Dr. Creed came to Australia, and on his arrival
in Sydney, was appointed Resident Medical Officer
of the Sydney Infirmary. This position ho re-
signed to take charge, at the request of the South
Australian Government, of their exploring expe-
dition in North Australia, under theleadership of
Captain Cadell. In 1868, Dr. Creed commenced
the practice of his profession at Scone, and in the
same year was promoted to the Commission of
the Peace. In 1872, ho was elected for
the Upper Hunter, and sat in Parlia-
ment for two years. He declined to con-
test the constituency at the next election,
owing to pressure of professional work. Recently
he was gazetted a Licensing Magistrate for the
district of Scone. Dr. Creed is one of the
earlier members of the Royal Society of New
South Wales, and his contributions to the litera-
ture of the day on mining, social, and political
topics exhibit both research and experience. Last
July, Dr. Creed left Scone to practice his profes-
sion in the metropolis, and is now located at
Woollahra. Prior to his departure from Scone,
he received, at tha hands of a very wide acquaint-
anceship, a moat flattering and genuine testi-
monial.
The portable gas at Croydon Station a complete
success—from gloom to daylight.
Here’s a line about Mr. Harry Levien, that
probably can't l>e said of any other solicitor in »h«
colonies. He has been practising 1 welve years, and has
never once prosecuted a man, being, in all hia cases,
retained for the defence.
On tho table lies a litter—
Letters, papers, paper-collars;
Bills with foot-notes curt and bitter.
Books writ by the grand old scholars.
Articles by modern dunces
Of tha local daily press :
You can see the place at once is
In a devil of a mess.
Hard the life is cf a critic;
Harder his who has to joke
In an atmosphere mephitic—
Bum fume* and tobacco-smoke—
Cries af children, never-ending.
On the morning breezes swell.
Then a demon pisses, vending
Pish with a malignant yell.
What if he the madd'ning cup shuns—
Never comes home late at night P
These infernal interruptions
Knock all his attempts to write
Into chaos. But the gentle
Public look for fun to him ;
S© he wields his weary psn, till
Every pot-hook seems to swim.
And, with fingers lean and shaky,
Writes he his own epitaph;
While, because bis hash’s at stake, ha
Hash to make the pnblic laugh.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Sandhurst is being particularly favoured just
now. No less a personage than Lord Marcus Beresford
brother of the Prince of Wales’s “Charlie,” is saidlto
be on a visit to that city, having leftlhis yacht in the
Tarra. Lord Marcus is a splendid specimen ef the
hereditary nobleman, and has beaten mere box-openers,
iissed more chambermaids, and thrown more money,
lenders down stairs, than aay one we can call to mind
since the Marquis of Hastings was in his prime. We
learn with supreme disgust from the Bendigo Indb-
:pbndknt that “ the natural eccentricity of the noble lord
has caused several of the leading hotels to close their
doors to him.” This is a nice thing. Here we have a
fine, high-spirited young fellow, the commonest of whose
near relations is a Viscount, prevented from enjoying
himself to the top of his bent. But, there—hand it
down, mothah. Tear yourself away from the washing,
mother, and hand it down. A soft deferential prelude,
end—
IVs very easy for \a doctor to cure a man of a j
disease he hasn’t got. Ot what is this apropos ? you ask.
We don't know. Do you ?
• • •
As the natives of the place would say, “ thare’s
ruckshins agin in Tunis.” This time the tune is
another glorious victory for the rioters, who succeeded
in killing fifty Frenchmen at the cost of 150 lives on
their own side. A few more successes like this will
secure Tunisian freedom—but there’ll not be anyone
left to enjoy it, and in hot climates this is quite a draw-
hack.
• • ♦
At the banquet recently given by “ the free and
independent ” of Brewarrina to the " Bestless Bussell,”
the usual toast of "The Ministry ” was carefully “put
in the white hat;” that is, thrown overboard alto-
gether. ” The Bestless ” is nothing if he’s not original,
and, even then, he’s only—well, pass on the next item.
• • •
Lie back, ye snakes, and give the dogs a show.
Thus writes Truthful Jeames in a recent Southern
Screamer A most remarkable instance of canine
sagacity occurred in this town on Thursday last. It
appears that a son of Mr. Harper’s was returning from
the butcher’s with some sausages for the breakfast
when he noticed a large Newfoundland dog facing him
in a threatening attitude, and evidently determined to
bar his further progress. The lad was about to reach
for a stone when the dog sprang suddenly forward,
knocked him down, and dragging the sausages from his
hand, coolly took them into an adjacent paddock, and
ate them. This is the first we have heard of a dog
turned highwayman." This is highly interesting.
It is a frightful example of a man who had
struck a grand idea, but couldn’t rise to the situation.
He should have wound up his yarn in thiswise : “As
the unfortunate dog was finishing the last sausage, how-
ever, he was horror-stricken to find, by observing the
name • Topsy * on a piece of leather collar, that he had
actually devoured his own mother 11 So great was the
shook that the poor brute immediately lost his reason,
and, dragging himself slowly over to an adjacent * sojur
ant ’ bed, he scratched his name on a piece of tin,
caught his tail in his mouth, and then turned himself
inside out, and lay down to die. This aroused the
attention ot the ants, and ten seconds later that dog’s
bones were as bare as a Cooktown black in the height
of summer. We thus see, retribution ever treads close
on the heels of crime."
• * *
Scene—the lobby; just after the priokly-pear
discussion. Minister for Education to Minister for
Lands; “ John, what the deuce does Abbott mean by
opuntia ficus Indicat’.’ Sir John: “Oh, I’m blankly
well blanked if I know—the only two botanical names I
can remember are aurora borealis and delirium tremens.
Why the Gehenna couldn’t the talk English ? ”
• • •
This is the enlightened 19th century. Very
well. The law compels all vehicles to walk past a place
of worship on the Sawbath Day, but they can go "full
tear ” right under the window of a poor dying wretch,
whose fluttering soul may bo just on the point of wing-
ing its way from earth. In the first case, the only pos-
sible harm that can be done, is the spoiling of some old
sinner’s sleep; in the latter an additional pang is added
to the pains ot death. Truly, we strain at a gnat, but
we could swallow all the camels that iv.r crossed the
Sahara—especially it they had rich owners.
* * •
The “ straight tip ” to our readers to-day is this
—cultivate cats. The feline market is rising rapidly,
and there’s millions in it. The mysterious sausage and
the unfathomable hash no longer monopolise our toms
and tabithas. The latter have sought other fields and
pastures new, and now form the chief part of our
** bread and cheese and kisses.” The way they're
worked is this: Oleomargarine is made from fat, and
to such perfection has the art arrived that even the
superintendent of a Free-Lunch Brigade cannot tell the
sham from the real article. The “ Potter’s Field,” or
graveyard of a oat, is either the scavenger’s cart or the
dust-bin. During one year, thirty-throe tons of dead
oats were raked off the London streets alone, thirteen
tons oil those of Manchester, ditto Liverpool, and
eleven tons from Gloucestershire. Twenty to twenty-
four pounds per ton is given for the fat as it leaves the
boiler s vat. It then goes through a variety of pro-
cesses, and so the once sweet singers of our woodshed
roofs come at last to grace our festive boards in the
shape of cheese—the mitey cheese. Think of this and
weep, oh ye bar-lunoheoners! and go ye lighter on land-
sale picnics.
The days of assisted immigration are'numbered.
At least, we suppose they are, judging by the following
ad. from a Western paper Families sup-
plied by the quart or gallon !” Fancy a lady tripping
up to a blushing young oounter-skipper and saying,
"Good morning, Mr. Simpson; will you let me have a
quart of boys and a gallon of girls—the very best, mind
—and put them down to Mr. Jobson.” Awful 1 Aw-
ful I
Sir ’Enry has lately played the ’oly part of the
snuffle-bursting Stiggins with suchitfect that his'arp
and wings are all ready underweigh, and he will also be
invited to partake of a bun banquet. ’Tis well, bat
nevertheless for a sixteen horse-power, double-oon-
densed, extra-distilled piece of sheer blasphemy, com-
mend us to that part of a recent speech in which the
Premier observed, “that Mr. Buchanan’s speech ocn
vinaes him that he must believe Jesus Christ to have
been a sort of ancient David Buchanan.” Coming from
a strict Sawbattarian like Sir ’Enry this was of course,
greet', d with roars of laughter I coming from an honest
Freethinker, however.it would ’ entitle him to a three
years’ diet of locusts and wild hominy.
• * #
Mr. E. Lewis Scott has broken out in a fresh
place, the eruption this time taking the form of a
patriotic song called "Sunny New South Wales."
Almost everyone takes to drink or has an attack of
melancholia at least once in their lives, and then they
get into some haunted house or cow-yard, and per-
petrate patriotic songs. From ,the amount of colour
infused into Mr. Scott’s verses, we should imagine he
wrote it in a painter’s back shop. But no matter :
a cruel injustice has been done him at the first start.
The Byronic Bennett has criticised his song; and, after
saying that Mr. Scott may have written •' poetry," but
he has certainly not written facts (as if a poet ever did I)
Alfred turned the ballad over to the “ intelligent com-
positor,” who, of course, hashed the chorus up as
follows:
“ Then toast with me our happy land.
Where all that’s fair prevails,
Our colour’s blue, our hearts are true.
In sunny New South Wales.”
Now, anyone with the brains of a C.M.G. can sec at a
glance that the above should read thus: —
Then toast our happy land with me.
Where all that’s sham prevails;
Our colour’s blue, and green are we
In shoddy New South Wales.
The mantle of Kendall has evidently fallen on Lewis
but it doesn’t fit him a bit.
# • *
One of the moat striking features of the Railway
Employees’ pionio last week was an Aunt Sally—the
noble head of Sir 'Enry being’;substituted for that of
Sally's, and if the sons of toil cnly go for the Premier’s
poll at East Sydney with the same terrible earnestness
that they went for it up at Camden Field, his return at
the next shivoo is a dead certainty. One slinger
banged Sir 'Enry’s nose no less than flfty.three times
m five minutes, but he was a visitor, and it is rumoured
ho has a grudge against the idol of the Daily Toady
for keeping him out of a situation. Net a single bullet
missed its billet the whole day long, and, as the shades
of eve began falling.fast, the proprietor of the shew
gazed sadly down on its wreck and said, “ Well, nlver
mind, I kin sell th’ dam thing for matohwood.” So he
put all that was left of ’Enry in a bag, and “ hoofed ’’
it back to Sydney,
* * «
The Argxjc has just received quite a nice
little letter from tho goody goody little darkies at
Coranderrk, written of course by themselves and with,
out the least knowledge of their boss, just as " Our
Boys ’’ at Eandwick sometimes do, Here’s a junk or
two from this choice epistleWe beg of yon to put
our little Column in your valuable paper please. We
have, seen and heard that the managers of all the
stations and the Contra! Board to have had a meeting
whattobe done, so we have heard that there is
going to be very strict rules on the station, and those
rules will be too much for us, it seems we are all going
to be treated like slave, far as wo heard of it. When
we all heard of it, it made us very vex it enough to
make us all go mad the way they are going to treat us
it seems very hard. We all working in peace and
quiteness and happy, pleasing Mr. Goodall, and also
a owing Mr. Goodall that we could work if wo~had*a
good manager.” This is “budgery ” for Mr. Goodall.
and clearly proves our “black brudders ” have soft
hearts, and heads to correspond. The document is
signed by ten lords of the soil, the first name on tv
list being the highly suggestive one of Wit. Be ha
“ Koment is needles.’*
* • «
It ia a somewhat remarkable coincidence that
received a letter from the aborigines on the Mnck
Mucki Mission almost at the same time that the Aegu
received one from Coranderrk. It is not quite
dignified ia its tone, but it looks straight, and hero
goes: “ Massa Bulletin- You plint im this in yo
cobbawn little paper, Massa Thornton him yan aion
here j ust now, and blenty yabbarlong a Superintendent
Stiggms, then him go to Sydney, and get him
commission, what play debbil debbil with all 0 '
us. Him say must have im more strict rules. This
make us belly mad. Him say evly biackfeller mus
go wash himself once a day. This make us belly sick
Him say no more yon along bublio house, and get im
?lars rum; no more shake im sheep, no more play
im poker, and no more sell him clothes and get it glog
This kill us all dead. All im gins plenty swear a
Massa Thornton too. Tarpot Lizzie she say. sposo
Governor send her calico clothes to wear, him can go to
Hel first ; Sundown Susan say she go long a squatter a
‘church’ juss so often she dam please, and Blaokiu
Bottla Biddy she say no sing it any more blarsted hims
unless getee plenty tucker after. We all livin’ budgery
now Massa Bulletin; me win im to chillm play in
euchre larst night, and Taller Paddy hook im three
chickens from selector Jobnsin’s fowihouse. We no
want any ru’.ei or commissions, and spose thev come
along we blenty shoot im. All we want is more rum,
and bacca, and lots of nothing to do, and chillins Nc
want im any mors mana ors either, cause Mass’r
Stiggins budgery man; not like im older crawlers.
They only yabbar bout Kingdom come, and make
it biackfeller pray im blarsted head off Then aposo
biackfeller ask for glare rum ; parson say, ‘Yon child of
sin; you go long a Hel for sartin.’ You please tell
Mass’r Thornton blaokfellow want im possums more
than want it parsons. (Sig) Poosi Johkny, his X
mark.”
• • *
This ia gospel. In a certain town—name imma-
terial-in this colony the Good Templars of the place,
determining to show their calumniators that it was
just as possible to hive a "high old time” without the
aid of strong drink as with it, took coum el together and
organized a little shivoo to take plaee on a particular
evening. Time, being curious to see how this new
craze would pass out, hurried the hours along until the
evening oame. When the sun had shot over the hills
a last ray of scarlet, like the solitary streak of lean in
the fat ham sandwiches at a Hardshell pionio, the
brethren assembled together, and, after thoughtfully
cursing the caterer for the quality of the gmger-beer
supplied, gave themselves up to the innocent joy of the
hour. Songs were sung, speeches made, and lies
swapped, until the face of each man grew blacker than
tho night outside. At last they separated and started
each for their “happy homes and cheerful families ’’
(wo borrow this phrase from the temperance tracts that
are persistently put under our doors every day). An
hour or two later, when the moon was behind a clond,
two foot passengers collided and fell over each other.
They got up and peered into each other's faces.
• ‘Brother A.,’’ said one severely, after a moment’s
pause, “ you are drunk.” “ Ish lie,” courteously
replied ths brother in question. •* What’s that you’ve
got in that bottle?” demanded the first speaker. After
an ineffectual attempt to conceal the bottle, the person
addressed caught hold of a verandah post close by, and,
looking his questioner in the eye, gravely hiccuped out:
“ Rashb’ry.” Nothing more was said just then, but
the milkman, driving his cart along in the gray haze of
the morning, saw the two companions of fun without,
fuddling, lying aide by the gutter like Saul and
Jonathan with the empty bottle between them,
• * *
An interesting transaction occurred lately at a
chapel in one of the suburbs of a certain Australian
town. Local preachers are sometimes young and im-
pressionable. That was the case with, let us say, Mr.
Ebenezer Jobson. Ebenezer and a male friend, also a
local preacher, young and impressionable, were prowl-
ing round one evening when it was Ebenezer’s turn to
preach. It happened to be a week-day, and certain gay
denizens of the sinful city were returning from a
breather in the hills through the suburb above hinted at.
They were light-hearted and frisky—formed a detach-
ment of two unblushing bosomy females ; and, of course,
stumbled against Ebenezer Jobson and his friend.
With people of a mutually accommodating turn of mind
formal introductions are unnecessary. The quartette
soon engaged in pleasant and even familiar converse,
until Ebenezer, having a private key of the chapel, pro-
posed, as it was near, that they should pass a quiet boor
within its saored precincts before service began. The fair
ones acquiesced. Eb. unlocked the door, led the way into
the building, caiefully locked the door from the inside,
pub the key in his pocket, and yearned for secular en-
joyment. His delight suffered rude interruption, for,
Oh, come to us, most noble Lord!
Oh, fly to us. Lord Marcus!
And we will worship, take our word,
With pride, thy noble carcase!
Thou art a Lord—a thing divine—
And round thee garlands we’ll entwine I
Oh, fly to us, Lord Marcus 1
We’re used to gror’lling. Hate it brings
For ev’ry honest toiler j
We>jp worshipped little titled things
That now sleep in a boiler I
Oh, come to us! You cannot tell
How we all long to greet thee!
Oh, come to us, patrician swell.
And see how we will treat thee!
We don’t eare twopence what you do;
Kill, if you like, a man or two—
But, come, and let us greet thee I
We want to have our windows “broke,”
To hear nocturnal brawling—
Nobility all sin does cloak,
And we yearn to be crawling.
DR. J. M. CREED.—(See page 7.)
THE BATTLE OF THE PYRAMIDS.
JOHN BULL : “Stand Arabi! ‘Forty Centuries Look Down on You.’”


immediately, footsteps shuffled on the steps,
ol® 03 ',, - lantern flashed through the keyhole, then
the light f a koy turn ing lustily proclaimed to
the 90 « that the functionary who cleaned out the
EbeD0 iMd acted generally as verger had forgotten his
° b *i and was about to perform them in time for the
dot !!lching service. Ebenezer grasped the situation
quickness. Between the ceiling and
fL. stretched the usual space dedicated to rafters,
ridges of plaster. Access to this loft was
Ut . through a man-hole by means of a ladder, which
**' ne stood ready in one corner. Ebenezer instan-
al,rayB 1 ruiaad that ladder to the required position,
the two young ladies mount up with his friend
w they reached the loft, slammed back the ladder
dodged be hind the door just in time for the verger
T open and conceal him with it. This latter unsus-
wttng morta! trudged up the chapel with his lantern,
hile Ebenezer made good his escape, only re-entering
T minutes before service time. Eb. officiated with
onliar fervour that evening, and it was approvingly
Uood how his eyes were continually oast heavenwards.
11l went well till about the middle of the sermon, which
Ebenezer cut short as ho well knew how. Lath and
Iftgter are unstable as water, and perfectly unsafe for
romenading purposes. Ebenezer Jobsou knew it, and
hearing suppressed giggling which his rapt auditory
thought proceeded from larrikins without, wished the
eervice over, the verger away, and the ladder again
E lied to that man-hole. Touching lightly on the
vices of the present degenerate age, and glibly exhort-
• e his hearers to flee from the wrath to come, Ebenezer
mged his beloved brethren to beware of all temptation,
a to shun “the daughters of sin." At that
moment there was a crash in the ceiling; half-a-ton of
plaster fell on the amazed congregation, and a pair of
Unmistakably plump feminine legs, arrayed for a certain
dist*"" 0 in red and blue striped stockings, protruded
through the whitewash some feet, giving the idea that
there might be a rafter between them. Every available
masculine eye turned eagerly aloft, as if those legs were
lodestones, while those men whose eyes were full of
plaster atoms audibly cursed the cruel Fate which made
them temporarily sightless. It was awkward for
Ebenezer—also for his friend —also for the young ladies
—particularly for that one . But this narra-
tive is already too lengthy. It may seem ungallant
to leave the unfortunate fair one in such a predicament.
Never mind. This is a golden opportunity.
• • •
Mr. Marrez, a gentleman who, we regret to
chronicle, is not a native of Dubbo, has invented a
photo-machine which will take at one hang a picture of
anything, from a mule to a minister, in twelve different
positions. This patent will of course soon become in
common use here, and we shall watch with interest
the results it produces when worked in the Assembly.
What a pretty result would occur now from the
machine when pointed at E, B. Smith—Cupid pensive;
Cnpid reflecting; Cupid entreating; Cupid passionate;
Cupid in repose; Cupid oratizing; Cupid protesting;
Cupid sarcastic; Cupid indignant: Cnpid courtly;
Cupid artful; Cupid—well, anything but ungraceful
he couldn’t be that! Then there’s tho Leader of tho
Opposition. But, on oonsideration, we think it would be
as well to train the instrument to take some more in-
significant politicians before coming to him. Fanoing
seeing the hon. member for Illawarra, "in twelve
different positions I" That would be too much joy.
BRIEF MENTION.
The prosecuted Hebrew butcher is not a Pole-
ish Jew.
The King wants some specimens of the
Australian fauna. What a chance to dispose of our
very own C.M.G. !
Mr. Ernest Faveno, writing in The Echo, says
that the Gulf country is “ a land of many waters." It
is also a land of many biers.
During the hearing of a sheep-stealing case out
West, lately, the prosecutor was a guest at the house
of the presiding P.M.
Mr. Abbott in debate. “ I will now refer to the
opuntia vulgaris." Mr. M'Elhone. “If you mean that
for me, I’ll o punch yer blank head for yer.”
The 99 years’ lease is the latest land dodge on
the Lachlan. By this trick, selections are leased out —
in fact, virtually sold, a few months after being taken
up.
The authorities of the Lunatic Asylum at Auck-
land, N.Z., report that one of their inmates has
absconded. It is said that he has been tracked to
Sydney. Now we understand how that poetry article
was written.
A Maori Chief in a speech against the Native
Lands Meeting Bill, declared that he would “ build an
I impregnable stone fortress and retire into it so as to
defend himself against the bill" This was the nearest
he could get to “ stonewalling."
Here is one of Clarke and Eyman’s conun-
drums : “ Why is a good woman like ivy ? The greater
the ruin the tighter she clings.” Bones says it ought
be this way— “ The tighter she clings the greater the
ruin." In strict confidence, we believe, Bones is right.
At a meeting of the Finance Committee of the
Sydney Municipal Council, the Mayor said that “ Aider-
man Moore had addressed a newspaper from America
to the committee, but he had not discovered anything
interesting in it so far as they were concerned, except,
perhaps, a diagram of Washington gaol.' The Major
is a bit of a wag.
The Penny Government Footstool has
said that Paikes is a poet. Yet, when speaking on the
Art Gallery question in the ’Ouse, Sir 'Enery said that
he thought the benefit to be derived from looking at
pictures was greatly overrated. Where were hie poetic
and artistic instincts then ? It seems that Sir Enery
is a Kerristian first and a hartist second.
We are requested by a deputation of the best-
dressed young men in Sydney to remonstrate with those
of our Jewish fellow-citizens who, merely out of defer-
ence to a religious custom, closed all the pawnshops
and money-lending establishments for several days im-
mediately succeeding the race-week.
Here is an advertisement that appeared in the
Herald the other day i— “ Wanted, a nice room; 3s.
per week. Christian family.” From the combination
of godliness and economy which this reveals, we sus-
pect that the advertiser is either one of the candidates
for the vacant Bishopric or a dog-stealer out of luck.
The lady fashion critic of a New Zealand society
paper says that with “nice gloves, nice boots, hair
nicely done, and a clean collar, a woman is certain
to look nice.” This costume she calls • the eloquence
of simplicity." We have seen ladies on the Faroe
whose attire spoke volumes, judging by this standard.
And they weren’t, even then, what a truthful person
would call “nice."
i The Spiritualists now object to post-mortems
until the victim has been thoroughly dead for a certain
period, on the ground that “ if the spirit could be capable
of feeling the terrors of the surgical operation, it must
in many cases be in danger of frustrating the very objects
for which post-mortem examinations are undertaken.
The excavating of a spirit’s “ bingey is, no doubt, a
very serious concern, and affords a fine opening for
some Spiritualist member of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.
One of tbe most modest men alive bangs out in a
Lachlan town. The other day he gob married. Hnrmg
the wedding scene, though the day was chilly, the
agony, in the shape of profuse perspiration, kept pour-
ing in a cataract from his burning brow. His martyr-
dom did not end here. On leaving the churoh, some of
hie well-wishers followed out tha ouatom of heaving
old boots after the pair. One of these boots a sturdy
hob-nailed “ nineteener," struck the helpless bride
groom, knocked his cadie into the gutter, and
beautifully ebosisod bis dexter eye. However, this is
but a mild commencement to a Lachlan honeymoon.
Bishop Reynolds, the E.C. pi elate of South
Australia, has administered a smart rebuff to the two
Adelaide daily papers— the Register and the Advbr-
tisbr. A Roman Catholic meeting was being held to
consider certain cases of proselytism under the Destitnte ,
Board, and the two dailies each sent a beardless youth
to report the proceedings. The Bishop declined to
permit garbled or emasculated accounts to go forth to
the world; so he politely requested the “boys *’ to retire,
saying that, unless thedailies chose to send “men” who
would inspire confidence by their appearance, no re-
porters would be admitted. The respective papers
howled madlv over the insult; but all Adelaide knows
that the rebuff was a just one. The Bishop touched on
a raw sore.
Fashionable intelligence. — The_ST. Leonards’
Kanaka announces the indisposition of W. Tusks,
Esquire, who has been attacked by his old (they say
“with his old”) enemy, *' liver complaint." Until the
convalescence of W. Tunks, E»q , is authoritatively
announced, let the sun stand still!
For better than Friars and better than Monks
Is the Mayor ef St. Leonards, W. Tanks I
Asd jov and delight all our bosoms will fire
When O.K.’s the liver of Bill Tanks, Esquire.
“Parties interested in the above, can have it rolled to
avoid creasing in the post, for 4d. extra.”
Apropot to the notorious Plomer case, and also
to the numerous instances in which Victorian State-
school teachers have lately been detected in the per-
petration of indecencies on their pupils, we may state
that we have received several letters urging the
necessity of enquiry being mads concerning the
character of a teacher who now holds a high position
under'the N.S W. Department of Education, but who
is accused of having soma time since grossly betrayed
his trust by committing nameless offences on those
under his charge.
Our bran-new I, Baint, the divine ’Arry, contem-
plates bringing in a Bill to provide for the better
observance of the Sawbath. The following are some of
its features I. To prevent all cows, no matter of
what persuasion, from giving milk on the Looard’s day.
All milkman found aiding and abetting them will be
slaughtered, dla Rabbi Davis. 2. No lighthouses to be
lit up. 3. All street lamps to be extinguished from
Saturday night to Monday night. 4. All policemen,
turnkeys, gaolers, Ac. to remain at home or in church.
5. No pilots allowed to bring in vessels. 6. No military
to do duty. Should an enemy’s fleet be so irreligious
as to come down upon the port while the good soldiers
are asleep in church, we must trust to Providence to
wreck them.
Poor Kendall’s vacant chair is even now filled.
The mantle has fallen upon a bard, who, under the name
of 41 Syntax/* graces - the Coonamblb iNDErENDBNT.
Somebody’s wife is dead, and—but let " Syntax
sing it
“ Sad and lonely the bereaved one will be,
And grieve both late and early.
In this life he ne’er again will see.
His wife he loved so dearly.
When the bereaved one depart this life.
And leave its dark and stormy tide.
Oh, take him to his wife,
And leave him by her side.”
This, no doubt, is all copyright, but we’ll risk it.
Nooze please copy.
The Borbowa Times, having exhausted all
conceivable topics stirring in that country of palaces
and international intrigue, reports that two young men
have been fined *2 and £3 for doing a bit of kangaroo-
shooting on Sunday, and moralises: “ It is much to be
deplored that young men in the colony look upon the
Sabbath Day as a day of recreation and not of rest.
Deplorable ” is no word for it. Why, now, did they
not do as we do ? We are shut up in a stuffy room from
ten to tive, and we occasionally dig in again till mid-
night, for the pnblio must be instructed. Then by day-
light we rise on Sunday morning and mortify the fleih,
We flog ourselves till eight, when one of us attends
early Mass, and the other writes a sermon which he
delivers in the Domain after dinner. Then we tackle a
tough chop, and decide to “rest." We kneel down and
thank Heaven we have still one lung left, and are not risk-
ing the change to fresh air from oar beloved gas fumes
and tobacco smoke. We implore Heaven's mercy on
the wicked men who gallop horses after the innocent
kangaroo, then pull out the square bottle, and “ rest ”
like a king.
Pyrmont is a lovely place to live in. As Kent is
celebrated for apples, cherries, hops, and women, so is
Pyrmont famous for blue bottles, quarry-dust, clothes-
lines, and its band. This latter is one of the moat
powerful musical organizations, we shonld say, in
existence, and we have hoard no harmony like that
which it produces since Fulton played his opera com.
pany at the School of Arts. There are, it is rumoured,
two men to every instrument, and a fresh man, pre-
viously fortified with saveloys and porter, a ula on to
the big drum every night. One evening, a littie wniie
ago, a collector, happening to take Hama-street in the
cool of the evening, was surprised to find every house
in all the terraces birred and shuttered, and papers
bearing the legond *' Gone to Sydney,” pasted on the
doors. “ Why, what’s the matter?” he of a tall
man who was rushing frantically through the deserted
street. '• Save yourself while there is yet time, was
the reply; and, thrusting a printed paper in the col-
lector’s hand, he tore madly away. Opening entthe
handbill, he read as follows " Demonstration at the
Public Hall, Ptemont. At half-past seven the prooes-
trion will pass along Harris-street, Headed by the Ptr-
mont Band."
The editor of a Northern paper got “ hitched ”
the other day, and he had settled with the Missis
beforehand that she was to take him for his honeymoon
to some place where he could feast his eyes, for the
first time, on a railway train and a steam-boat. So the
brida’a trousseau was packed in a No. 4 shoe-trunk, the
groom’s outfit jammed into a saddle valise, and oil they
started per ooaoh —leaving the poundkeeper’a nephew
to run the Pollawonqa Pioneer until their return. In
due course the happy pair struck the railway town, bnt
instead of being gratified by such evidences of progress
as everywhere presented themselves, the bridegroom
grew gloomy and despondent. A visit to the local
newspaper office had the efleat of completely unhinging
him. He saw with dismay that they had books there,
a strangely complicated machine, and to hie surprise
the editor informed him that he paid people to write in
the paper instead of clipping from his contemporaries.
On hearing the mad utterance! of this hopeless lunatic,
the Northern editor fled precipitately, and ere long he
and his newly made bride wore journeying hack with all
speed to Pollawonga. The, next morning saw him
setting np an article on the "Treacherous Advance of
the Iron Horse," while the Misais, in a wincey skirt, no
stockings, and a pair of men’s bluchers, was hoeing the
cabbage-patch at the back of the office with a quart*-
pick. _ . _
The policeman whose fame will never die ia *
country trooper whom N.S. Wales can proudly claim as
her own. What rendered .him glorious was this. On
one occasion, in the diggings days, he and and another
constable were told off to escort a Chinaman to Braia-
wood for trial. On the road the two policemen pur-
chased a bottle of rum, and while they were siHing
down discussing that and the political situation, John
seized his opportunity, and bolted down a raviso.
Finding that it was impossible to eatch him, they after
a while doubled on their tracks, and havinr finished
the bottle began to look the matter steadily in the
face. But the more they looked af it the gloomier
they became. At length a happy thought seized our
very own immortal trooper. Telling his companion in
the force to tarry awhile for him, he dashed back into
the diggings, and, seizing the first Mongolian he came
across in the Chinese camp, he returned with him in
irons to where his mate was smoking a melancholy pipe
and pondering, mot so much over the certain “ bag “ that
awaited at the hands of the Government, as upon the
amount of “ chaff ” he would receive from his confrere*.
On seeing the Chinaman he started up uttering a orv of
joy. ‘'Ong wung chippewang hyar," cried the Mon-
golian. “ Come on wid ye I" yelled the immortal, and
he was led away to Braidwood. There he was brought
up, and the sapient magistrate, being much exasperated
by the eternal “ NoSavee,” which he oharaeterised as a
•• try on," John got three months summarily, and the
constables went on their way rejoicing. Our very own
has since prospered amazingly, and is now located-
[lVould yon ? Ed. B.]
One of the Maori ambassadors, who recently
went home to interview Queen Victoria concerning the
treaty of Waltangi. has sent the following letter to a
friend in N.Z.“ To Te Pukepuku—Go forth my letter
to my loving friend. Salutations to you in the land of
our ancestor Maui. Great is the darkness of my heart.
Aue 1 The great chiefs of this land, and the tohungas
of Exeter Hall forsook me in the hour of my distress,
when the woman of the house in which I lived demanded
utu far my board. Great was the anger of that female.
I offered to marry her on the spot if she would forego
the claim, bnt she had discovered that I was already r
married man. I told her that polygamy is one of fc.e
Maori customs and that by the Treaty of Waitangi v e
are protected in the full enjoyment of our ancient
privileges, but her heart was pakeke. O, friend, no one
can make love here who is not a policeman or a Life-
Guardsman. I tried to get into one of those forces, but
they said I was too small I Kakino I Lastly, O, friend,
when the Queen declined to give me a C.M.G. and tie
Governorship of New Zealand, the old ladies and the
parsons refused to subscribe money. The black suit,
the broad-brimmed hat, and the white tic I hare en-
trusted to the care of a gentleman with three golden
balls over his door, and the tracts and good books I
have sold to a pakeha who sells butter and cheese. I
do not want to burden myself with too much luggage
on the passage out. The English rum is very t : rong.
I salute youl Heoi ano.—Prom your loving friend,
Stdnjst."
THE MODERN KIAMA GHOST:-OR, THE SICK MAN WITH THE SHEETS OFF.
IT REPENTETH HIM.
Seductive Dave, maj thy new bill
To amorous folk prove a hot pill
In this our climate sultry;
You gave us, first, easy divorce,
And now, no doubt, fill’d with remorse,
You’d purge out all adultery t


Master of the Sausage Eolls —A Police Court
Chronicler.
The Evening News of the 15th of September
had three dates—l4th, 15tb, and 51st.
Synopsis of the Egyptian question, in three acts;
Arabi Bey—Arab at bay—Arab obey.
Another explanation. In Natal, the title C.M.G.
is taken to mean “ Cheap and Muddy Glory.”
In the British House of Commons, membaha
taka their seats. Out here they take every thing they
can lay their hands on.
A “pub.” bearing the sign of “ the C.M.G.
hotel ”is going up ou the Glebe road. It will probably
be sacred to “Bung,” not to “Pop."
A Woolloomooloo tradesman has a huge canvas
entablature over his ihop, on whieh is painted : “Dogs
registered here. All trouble saved for 35." There is a
butcher’s shop over the way.
A writer in the Tamworth Observer takes
up half a column in proposing the conundrum “ why ”
he should “ get up." Let him sit down on an antbed
and the ants-sir will come to him like a revelation.
The gifted “ Man on the Shore ” in the Bt.
Leonards paper says, “ Holtorman is wild with me for
writing a joae." There must be some mistake here.
B. O. couldn't have been wild with him about that.
The Brunswick (Vic.) Advertiser describes
the “interesting marriage ceremony" of Mr T. W.
Reddish and Miss J. Price, by saying that "the pair
were made twain for weal or woe by the Rev. J.j H.
Shaliberg."
Two victories were reported on Monday. One,
of the British arms over the Egyptians; the other, of
the N.B. W. footballers over the Wellington (N.Z.) ditto.
The bunting displayed in town was, of course, in cele-
bration of the latter event.
Mr. Kate Thayer writes a criticism on the
Montague. Turner Opera Troupe in the Licensed
Victuallbrs* Gazettb. Miss Kate Thayer is non a
member of the said company. We couldn’t say more
in a column and a.half.
The Vegetable Creek Chronicle went
“bung,” the other day, through the editor leaving.
Now, it is soid that if the editor were to leave a certain
daily, the effect would be entirely contrary. But, per.
haps, be thinks it’s hardly worth while leaving— now.
We never knew until we came across the phrase
“ drippingly liqneous ” that John Keats had over been
in Australia Now we know it This phrase could only
be intended to describe one thing—the condition of a
back-blocks editor on coming home from a ploughing
match.
. Some people never lose a golden opportunity.
'■‘Directly Sir was off a “sick bed," on which it
may be supposed his thoughts turned to serious sub-
jects, he was deputntionleed by a Kerristian crowd, with
reference to the “Licensing Act and the better observ-
anoe of the Sawbath in the Government departments."
Crushed again ! A well-known member of the
great unpaid was in for a vacant P M.-ship north-
ward with a couple of dozen members at his back.
However, the Minister of Justice has done justice this
time, and given the billet to a Civil servant.
In the far west, the parishioners of a holy father
presented him with a testimonial of something or
other. When he stood up to return thanks, he said .-
“ It shall be my dearest care even on my dying bed to
leave your beautiful present as a precious heirloom to
my dear children.” Here the congregation howled.
The reverend gentleman had been reading the news-
papers.
A Qnlgong sportsman borrowed a musket, the
other day, and went out duck-shooting. The first
mark that offered was one of the very birds he was in
search of. Taking careful gim, he tired, and down went
the game. «ith a cry of joy he rushed forward to
seize the prize. On reaching it, however, he uttered
nn exclamation. He found that it was a favourite
drake of his wife’s, which had followed him all the way
out.
Thomas Walker has recanted. He says now
that his “trance" business was all bosh. That being
the case, those who wore supporting him ought to have
known all the while that the whole thing was a mockery.
Let’s see: who was it that used to taka the chair at
Tom’s trance lectures T Not Bowie Wilson, surely I
By the way, some back numbers of the Evening News
would now form interesting reading.
A distinguished lady and her beautiful little
daughter wore strolling down George street the other
day, when all of a sudden the child uttered a piercing
scream and clung in terrible affright to her mother’s
skirts. Then the lady looked up and smiled. “ That is
not the what you think, dear child." she said,
“ that is only a distinguished politician." Now, who was
heP
At the opening of the Queensland Parliament,
Miss Kennedy had, the local paper reports, a splendid
bunch of violets, which not only had the effect of scent-
ing the members, but of practically disinfecting the
reporters’ gall-ry. In commenting upon this a Tewns-
vilie paper trusts that other ladies will follow Miss
Kennedy’s example. Evidently, the writer does not
recognize the doubtful effhaoy of even violets in bis
case.
The Yanjahurra tribe of aborigines inhabiting
the district between Aramac and Blackall (Q.) are a
rum lot. They have a sort of stump fence rudgion of
their own, with a god called Wooneogatue, and a devil
known as Dthoonng. The latter gentleman has a
habit of laying for people at night. When he catches
them, he takes them to the nearest cemetery and buries
them alive. Both the god aud the devil hive to be pro-
pitiated by gifts. Thera must have been missionaries
among these people at one time.
There is a police court reporter in this city who
is as old as the Central itself, though considerably
cleaner. Nearly the whole of his life he has passed
noting down the evidence in criminal cases, and,
such an effect has the jargon he continually hears had
upon him, that, when his paper gave its last picnic to
its employes, and his health was proposed in a flattering
manner by the manager, he rose up to reply, and, in a
tremulous voice said: “I am instructed by my solicitor
to reserve my defence until the trial."
There was a blank charge sheet at the Brisbane
police court, recently, and the deposition clerk pre-
sented the Magistrate, in due course, with the largest-
sized pair of white kids that could be purchased for
half-a-orown. In reply, the P M. said he was pleased to
get the gloves, and trusted that the present diminution
in the number of unlawful ants would continue. At
this sentiment, gloom overspread the features of the
deposition clerk, and, amidst audible murmurs of dia-
satisfaction from the silenoe-vellers, the court was
adjourned until the arrival of the first drunk.
Among the Adelaide Advertiser’s telegrams
recently appeared the following mysterious announce,
ment, from Port Angusta;—Tae Dispatch celebrates
its fifth anniversary next Monday by a wayzgooso."
This will bo caviare to most readers. We may therefore
explain that a wayzgoose means a printers’ spree. In
other words, this highly important telegram simply
signifies that the man and two boys constituting the
staff of the local rag intend to have a howling drunk on
the date mentioned. Jolly sort of thing to confide to
an intelligent public, isn’t it P
The Coonamble Independent relates how a
misguided individual got “ enfolded in the arms of the
solument-diety (sic) under a horse rail," and raged
around generally in the “ Bacohanitea* mundane
sphere" A bobby of the “sphere" didn’t like this,
and “ premtorily (sic) " told the enfolded one to
“ get,” whereupon ttie latter asked that bobby to go to
“crimson Genena (sic)," whereever that may be. The
misguided individual was at length brought to a
“ sc'uoe (sic) ” of his position. We couldn’t get the hang
of this par. at all till we looked at the heading ; then we
found it was a ease of ordinary “drunk.” For true
literary inspiration commend us to Coonamble.
And these be they who provide us with bishops.
Pour huugry-looking members of the Synod entered
llompy’s, and ordered the cheapest tea they could build
up out of the materials on the bill of fare—" Tea and
bread-and-butter—four." One treated himself to water-
cress. At the same table, a gentleman was seated en-
joying bis evening meal, with a rack holding one piece
of toast. While buried behind the newspaper, one of
the reverend divines enavelled the toast. The waiter
twigged, and brought more for the gentleman pre-
viously mentioned. Then the reva. began to settle.
“ Tea and bread-and-butter,” says No. I. “Nine-pence,"
says the waiter. *' Tea and bread-and-butter,” says No-
2. “And water-oress—a shilling," says the waiter.
“I’ve only paid nine-pence for it every night this week.”
“Then there’s six threepences you owe;" and he re-
ferred him to the bill. “ Tea and bread-and-butter,"
says No. 3. “And this gentleman’s toast—a shilling,”
says the waiter. They probably now take cheap tea by
sniffing at the “ Flying Send."
The retiring Postmaster-General of a certain
decade had refused to find a billot for the son of one of
his constituents, on the ground that the boy, besides
being a partial idiot (which was of little con»equence),
had .written his letter of application in a hand that re-
sembled emu tracks in a Queensland desert. A few
weeks after the retiring Minister’s successor had com-
menced to perform his official duties, the father of the
unsuccessful candidate for postal honours met the ex.
Postmaster-General in the street. “ Ah,” said the dis-
appointed parent exnltingly—“ there’s »ummat like a
cove in the orfls this time. I gets my Mueeumbubrah
Signal now reg’lar."
One of the up-country rags reported that —“ A
curious animal was seen the other night in a scrub on
th# road from Orange to Bathurst. It is described as
like an immense baboon, and runs swiftly on all fours.
It seems possessed of immense strength. Several
shots were fired at it without effect, and the persons
who saw it were almost frightened out of their wits.”
A few hours after the paper containing this was pub-
listed, a tall man with a bell-topper riddled with
swan-shot, his right whisker blown away,-a rook-mark
ob the eyebrow, and a brlok-blow on his nose, entered
the office and requested to see the editor. It was the
Small Debts Court bailiff who had just returned from
sarving “ country " summonses.
We see the D.T. is to issue a weekly paper,
the Tribune. This is doubtless an apology for the
daily. In the baptismal notice of this new opponent of
the defunct Christian Weekly there’s a funny blunder:
—“The price will be moderate, namely—
SIX SHILLINGS PIE QUARTER,
or
THEEEPENCE PEE COPT.”
What is evilently meant is “ six shillings per quart.”
You know I But seriously, as we have the Moaning
Rum, wo ought to have the Weekly Rummer.
Oyez! The Daily Telegraph, in its new
position of scavenger to the Government, sticks up for
Bir John Robertson’s pet, Tom Garrett. It starts
heaping up one of its last loads of mullock thus” We
dare eay that in seme of the Darling Harbour resump-
tion of land cases that have come before the Supreme
Court, juries have awarded muoh less than the owners
of the land were fairly entitled to. For instance, in
Mr. Garrett’s case we believe It can be shown that the
verdict of the jury has practically mulcted that gentle-
man in several thousand pounds, irrespective of the
costs attendant upon the suit." Now that the D. T.
says that it was so, everybody can safely wager that it
was not so. We shall have the D. T. going m for com-
pensation next.
The reckless extravagance of some of our
colonial peeresses will bo their ruin. Not long ago one
lady belonging to this patrioian branch of Sydney
society entered the cloak-room of a theatre, had her
wraps taken off, took a tea minutes’ go at the mirror,
used half a packet of huirpins, a penn'orth of fuller's
earth, took a good twopenny read out of the attendant’s
London Journal between the aets, and having drunk
all the ginger-beer out of a bottle which the usher
“ stuck up" for her at the pub. next door, and forced
the attendant to risk her chance of salvation by an
enoominm on the manner her turned old “ moird ”
became her, she said—“ Qood-night. I'll give you
threepence next time I come—if I remem her it." And
hooking herself on to the arm of a partially animated
fossil who was in attendance, her goloshes went squelch-
ing down the staircase.
Says the Sydney Morning Herald of a late
date:—“We have received a copy of an Italian news-
paper called the Guebin Meschino, published at Milan,
a comic illustrated journal something after the style of
the Parisian Figabo." In the Queein Mbschino there
is a par. which relates ta little Hyndes, the Maitland
pianist, and this is translated by our morning contem-
porary as follows t—“ The young Australian musician I
His playing of Chopin is simply wonderfnl. Ha plays
so sweetly, so beautifully, so soft, so like a whisper, and
without the slightest difficulty. Flaying seems a mere
•nothing to him.” It is news to us to learn that the
Paris Fioaro is “ a comic illustrated journal.”
We know a journal of that name to be
a daily paper, only distinguished from other Parisian
dailies by Its bright, slashing style, and the attractive
form in wbioh its news is placed before the public.
There is only one daily comio paper; and that is pub-
lished at present in Sydney. The world is not big enough
to support two of them.
He walked into our office, took a seat, and,
nodding to us in an nnconoerned manner, said “ Qo on
with yer writin’—l ain’t in no pertiokler ’urry for a
minnit or two.” We were in the middle of an exhaus-
tive article on “The Principles underlying the Con-
stitution,” butwa postponed the fate of nations fora bit,
aud looked at onr visitor over oar spectacles. He was a
tall man, with a red nose and a watery eye, and appeared
to be attired in a costume composed of black cloth allied
by lemonade-wire to yellow flannel and soogee bag.
“What do yon want?" we asked. “ Employment,"
said he, trying to convert a hiccough into a sneeze.
“What are yon?" we enquired—“a compositor?”
“No,, sir,” he replied, indignantly; “I’m (nic) an
editor.” “ Ah, then, you’ve come to the wrong office,”
we said. “ But you’re all right. You’re being waited
for, a bit further np.” And, taking up a slip, wo wrote
him the address of the Penny Morning Supplement.
There was a heap of them on the pavement and
in the gutter, and another heap in the lane at the back.
There was a brick-hole through the parlour window of
one house, and a chasm in the front door of the other.
Father No. 1 had got Father No. 2 s Head ground
against the kerbstone under the heel of his boot, while
his own skull was being belaboured by Mother No. 2,
with a box-iron. The eldest son of ouo boose bad got
the second boy of the other jamn-ed under a culvert,
aud the youngest members of both families were mixed
in a big knot in the roadway. “ Hullo I what’s all
this P " said a policeman, who had run npon response to
the neighbours’ cries of “ Murder 1" It was ten mlnstea
before three constables and four strong men could sort
oat the combatants, but when they were all seated
breathless and bloody in the gutter, and two of the
kids had gone in a cart to the Hospital, Father No. 1,
gasped out four teeth, and the following explanation—
“ Their little Bobby chackod a bit of orange peel in
oar backyard."
“ So you want to join the please force, do you P ”
“Yes, sor." “ Well, what are your qualifications?”
“Me what, sor ? " “ What particular personal induce-
ments can you offer that should influence me in en-
rolling you amongst the N.S.W. Constabulary ?” “Is
it poking fnn at a poor man ye are, sor?" “Ob, hang
it I —there—have von ever received a testimonial ? ”
“Niver, sor; oive alwis been an hoaest man, sor.”
“Very well, then; you can go on as a probationer."
And before twenty-four hours had expired, he had sum-
moned three shopmen for standing in their own door-
ways, threatened the orderly for leaving his horse nn-
minded, taken a Minister's wife to the station for
loitering near the tram-effice, arrested a city mission,
ary for “ promiscuous ” behaviour, and chased five
valuable dogs right out into the suburbs. Next day he
was told off for the exclusive duty of closely watching
Albert the Good, and his instrnotions were in the case
of Albert’s evincing any conduct of a giddy nature to-
wards the nurse-girls, to bring him instantly to the
station.
Here is the latest about Tonsen Jeli. Arriving
at the town of Jimboombadgeree, one afternoon, a
meeting of the heads of the teetotal movement was
held, and after some discussion as to the best means of
raking in the spons. for the talented lecturer, it was
decided to advise him to have the admittance free, and
make a collection at the end cf the pitch. At the usual
time, Jell went down to the hall with his props , set out
his vow’s liver, polished up his mule-bone, toned up the
colour of hla nigger's stomach with a few drops of ink,
and having dropped his tobacco “qmid " into the dark I
brandy sample, he peeped through the onrtain to see
what sort of a house he had. To his delight he per-
oeived that the place was packed. Seeing this he slid
out to a hash-manufactory situated at the back, and
borrowed three extra soup-plates; and then returning,
sat down to await the arrival of his chairman. In a
little while that worthy turned up. “ Thank you,
thank yon, kind friend, for thus labouring on behalf of
the cause,” said Jeli; “ there is a full house." The
chairman then took a spy through the hole on
bis own account, keeping his eye there (or a
considerable period. When he withdrew it, a
canons expression played abont the corners of his
month, and he oast an uneasy glance at the pile of
expectant saup.platas, " Pine house, isn't there ?’’ said
breathing on the stomaoh-bottle and polishing it
with his cost-sleeve. "Yep, there are a great many
people here; a very great many,” said the chairman;
■ but there is one little circumstance which might,
perhaps, militate ” ‘‘Yon den’t mean that lam to
expect a disturbance?” said Ycnson, joyously. ‘‘No,
indeed. Tour audience will be quiet-even entbusi-
sstio; but the fact i«, my dear sir, they are all Good
Templars. . . . Five minutes later a dark figure,
carrying in his hand a mule bone, and in his coat-tail
pocket a cow's liver, might have been seen scooting off
to the station to oatch the night mail; while Brother
Boraok, “in the unavoidable absence of the lecturer,’'
was entertaining the audience with bis excruciatingly
funny recitation of ‘‘LittleTommy’s First Tumbler."
“A wrestling exhibition, and dumb-bell and
parallel-bar exercises were also down in the pro-
gramme, but the committee of the ground very
properly refused to allow them to take place."—B, M.
Herald of 18 Sept., on Eastern Suburbs Sports.
Shades of Grecian heroes? What does it mean?
That_ which made the youth of Greece the models of
physical beauty which the world has ever since copied ;
which was to the Honan as the eir ho breathed; which
is now a principal part of education imtho best educated
nation of Europe; the only manly eport that remains
absolutely free from even the taint of dishonesty and
the corruption of the ring, is discovered by the
Frightened Fairfax to be improper! In heaven’s
name, why was it “ very proper" to refuse to allow
gymnastics? Do Granny’s fossils imagine gymnastic*
are a new sort of orgie, or a modified harbour picnic ?
For nearly 20 years Granny carefully fostered Clontarf
picnics, by seeing nothing “ improper " in them ; Vat
she soents it at last in gymnastics I Net long ago ten
thousand people assembled on the Melbourne Cricket
Ground to sea 100 gymnasts give an exhibition where
every man was a picture of health, activity, and grace;
in England, royalty visits these exhibition*, and in
America they are popular. It remains for the Two-
penny Timid to discover that gymnastics are something
which it is “ very proper to suppress.” Now, what do
Granny’s staff know about these things P It they
must make comments, why on earth don’t they confine
their expressions of opinion to bobea and penny buns P
Another fatal effect of going to the “ lodge.”
The Holy Howl says :—" It is reported that the wife
of Den Carlos, the pretender to the Spanish throne, has
separated from him." Don G. has evidently been pre-
tending to do much. We know how these thing* happen
First the man instead of bringing home his money on
Saturday spends it at the pub., and when he returns
gives the old woman a kick and ninepenoe. Well, after
a bit she parsuadss him to take the pledge, gets his
blaok suit out, buys him a one-and-fourpenny ‘‘jewel,"
and sends him to the lodge-meoting—chaste reoitations
—eougs by lady amateurs, etc. Then she sits at home,
makes the little pettiooats with which to “ short-coat
the baby,” and is happy. He keeps the pledge beauti-
fully and hae such a pride in his appearance. Every
night after he oome home* he "cleans himself,” pats oil
on his hair and a ring on his finger, and goes off on some
“ lodge” business. It’s late when he comes home, and
he’s a little absent sometimes, answering a query from the
missis with "Yes, Emma, dear,” and sometime* with
“ No, May, darling." A little later the wife gets an
anonymous letter which recommends her to keep her
eye on her Jim “wot’s a oarryin’ on with Loo Gubbins.”
Thera is a row then—more drink—a warrant —and a
magistrate’s order. They don’t seem to do these things
mush batter in Spain, though, after all.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Daniel 0 Connor, M.P., has invented
another new phrase. While speaking in the Assembly
respecting tramways, he alluded to the “ bloodthirsty
carelessness “ of motor-drivers.
Mr. Mullaly, of Cootamundra, has threatened
Mr. Abigail, one of the members for West Sydney, with
an aotion (or libel, arising out of certain remarks
■whioh the hon. member made ths other day with respect
to a certain domestic servant who had been employed
by Mr. Mullaly.
A sample of David Buchanan's consistency.
In speaking on the second reading of the Criminal Law
Bill, he said that every clause of it would reqdire care-
ful attention, yet, after he had concluded his speech, he
left the House, and during the evening over fifty clauses
were passed without any consideration.
The Cairo larrikins pelted Arabi with rotten eggs
as he entered their city, after fel-el Keoir. They wonld
have served Sir Garnet in the same way had he come
there as a fugitive. Nothing succeeds like suooess.
Our countrymen opened their gates to Wat Tyler, but
closed them to Sir Thomas Wyatt.
Dave Buchanan argued in the ’Ouse, the other
day, that the Crown should not have the right to ohal-
lenge a jury panel, as the jurymen were selected by the
Crown in the first instance. Said he : “If the prisoner
had the right of calling the panel together, do you
think he would dream of exercising the right of
challenge ?’*
Mr. J. P, Abbott has obtained leave to intro-
duce a Bill to provide for the eradication of the prickly
pear. Mr. Forster said that he should like to know the
names of the plants to be destrojed, whereupon Mr.
Abbott trilled forth the following: " Opuutia tuna,
opnntia ficus indioa, and opuntia vulgaris." Mr.
Forster seemed perfectly satisfied; Mr. Copeland
violently clenched a volume of statutes, but did not
throw it; and Dan O'Connor assumed the air of a man
who thoroughly understood all about it.
B. B. Smith was in great form last week on the
Criminal Law Bill, Ho took part in every discussion,
and enlightened hon. members as to the law in England.
No doubt the hon. member considers that he has con-
vinced all the other members of Parliament that he is
the only one among them who has an intimate know-
ledge of the criminal law of England; but, if he does,
we can assure him that ha is mistaken. There are many
member* who wore not blind to the fact that the learned
member did not venture to offer a remark without first
consulting book* bearing on the point at issue.
Mr. Samuel Weller, sen., and our philosophic
Greek from Caroo&r, are not agreed on the *u eject of
widows. Mr. Weller’s advloe is to beware of them,
while Mr. Lynch says that he ought to take care of
them. This remark foil from the lips of the Grecian
orator on Thurfday night, when a clause ef the Criminal
Law Bill relating to the abduction of females was under
consideration., "The clause is Imperfect because it
does not protect the widows,” war* Mr. Lynch’s words.
The excitable little man will assuredly find hlmsAf
overwhelmed with oorrespondeteo after this
Sir John Robertson was not over-oomplimentry
to member* last week. He spoke of the lawyers In the
bouse as those “ snivelling attorneys, who are at wars
blocking up the pa serge at the Lauds Office," and, on
being forced to an explanation, he laid that he intended
to apply the remark especially to Mr. J. P. Abbott.
This comes of a man changing from a government sup-
porter to a decided oppositionist. Then of McElbone,
fair John said that he resembled a blind puppy whica
was always trying to ssent out corruption i* the Lands
Office, tut whioh always stumbled into a mare’s nest.
Kir John’s imagery is as incorrect as it is inelegant.
No one but Sir John would ever dream of a blind puppy
on the scent for corruption.
N.S. W. public accounts for IS3I. Revenue and
receipts On Consolidated Be venue account, £7.377,780
16a. lid.; on trust fund account, £2,9«4.225 2s. 101 ; on
superannuation repeal account, £1,11643.51.; on general
loans account, £2,112,629 14s. 6d. ; total, £12,455,757
JBs. 81. Adding £1,653 198 18a. Id., which was the
credit balance at the '.nd of the previous year, gives
£14,108 956 103 9J. as total available. Payments ;—On
Consolidated Bevenue account, £5 890,579 17s. Id ; on
trust fund account, £2,481 172 3s 61.; on superannua-
tion repeal account, £1,458 Ha. 91.; on loans account.
£2,862,906 Os. lOd. : total, £ll 233,016 s*. 2d. Credit
balance at end et 1881, £2,870,940 Hs. 7d., or £1,217,741
13s. 61. in excess of that of previous year.
The cause of the deficiency in the income at
Bellamy’s—the institution which caters for the nourish-
ment; of New Zealand M’s. P.—is stated to be that the
members have, during the last year, taken *' big nips."
The number of members has increased, the ** grog-.
■Score returns" have been as per nsnal, but the gross 1
receipts have been sadly deficient. The Hon. Mr.
Nurse—the dry Nurse of the Legislative Connell—
described the club room as being perpetually
with tobacco smoke, littered with cards and
glasses, and pervaded with a amell of whisk v -
moved an amendment providing that ohronicLbiH 0 i
tive Counoil offenders should “keep their a ’
places in future,’* and, what’s more, he carried it ?0Pet
We all know David Buchanan, M.P.
adult. And we have his own assurance that’ in
case, the boy was father to the man. He wks =
lad. Hu cheek was always smeared with gt-h'f 9
treacle, and his stomach continually dosed »!??
Gregory s mixture to counteract the effects of
green apple. And he hasn’t even repented of v!;'
boyhood s sms. He doesn’t think Australian Ton Sl s
are a bit worse than English boys, and he points
argument by using his own case as an illuatratw
thus: —“ I can recollect the time when I was a boy in' 1 ,
no orchard within six miles was safe, and, as tom
tricks l and my companions played, they would III
Sydney larrikins to shame.” This was told to tt
House. We fully believe thee, Dave. *' Pfoterii iff
wae not then thy pot theory, ,a
Tho opinion wai beginning to be entertained that
Mr. ICslville was becoming a really sensible
be«a«se fer a fortnight his methodistical voice w..’
•oaroely heard in the Legislative hall., but this embr™
opinion was shown to be an illneiom the other nivht°
The leather-lunged member had a working man’,
grievance in hand, and he howled and gesticulated vi„
lently for an hour or so when he was appatantw
becoming exhausted. Mr. O'Connor came to hlg resona
and pohtely offered him a glass of water as a lubricator
With a withering look snch as that for which ha
famous, Mr. Melville waved Mr. O’Connor aside, La
loudly called upon the Chairman to protect him from
the insults and hypocrisy of the hon. member. D, n
has hardly recovered yet. u *
Despite the ridicule generally thrown noon the
dynamitic vapourings of that sweet creature O'Donovan
Kossa and American Fenians, it is nevertheless true
that an Insh-Amerioan association has established »
dynamite academy in New York, where students are
taught to make and manipulate infernal machines. Of
these, there are three favourite sorts. T >e first ia a
small flask or hand-grenade, charged with dynamite
like those used to assassinate Alexander 1L; .. _ T l
is an infernal machine exploded by clockwork, timed
for a certain period, and much resembling the machi
nery of an elght-day clock. The third is a metal oylin*
der filled with dynamite and covers in at one end with
a thin metal skin ; the other side of the skin is in oon-
tact with a strong acid, which after a while oats away
the skin and reaches tho dynamite, when the explosion
takes place. It is said one of ths three is to be tried on
O Donovan himself.
“ Mr. R. W. Campbell caused some merriment
by congratulating the Premier on supporters, who, no
matter how they condemned a Bill, wound up by sayinr
they would support It."—Daily Press.
Aye, there’s the mb! In storm or rumpus
Not one of these can “ box the compass; ’*
This masterly and faithful •• fly ” lot
Hang all their hopes on one frail pilot I
What, if they see ahead the breakers.
If in the wreckage they’re partakers f
All “noses ’’ may “ keep up their pecker,”
Rich flotsam falls to tho cute wrecker I
So be it then, •• starboard or port it I ”
With .ervile hands they all support it I
Body and soul they’re fairly wrapt in
The humours of their despot captain;
How like a god, august, he poses.
While prostrate bend his supple 11 noses I ”
More than once during the session it has been
made evident that the Opposition are not a happy
family. It is known that Mr. Forster ia not partion-
larly well satisfied, but the reason of his dissatisfaction
ia ** kept elose," and the other night Dan. O’Connor
and the obstinate Copeland indulged in an open assault
of words. Copeland has a great sileotiou for the
Chinese, and in speaking on the Oaths’ Bill ha was
contending that the word of a Chinaman who took the
oath peculiar to his religion waste be relied upon to a
greater extent than thst of many men whe went through
the solemn mooaery of kissing the blhle. “TheChinese
are not much * chop’ any how,” interjected Dan. “ They
■re quite as much ‘chop’ as the hon. member. I
wenld as soon believe a Chinaman as I would the hon.
member, and I would just as soon have dcaliatrs with a
Chinaman as I would with him,” said Mr. Cipeland.
Dan. then sermoaised on the goodness of the Almighty
and the reverence which was due to Him. Mr, Cope-
land muttered—well, something not exactly in the same
strain.
Mr. Copeland wanted to know why it was that
the Criminal Law Bill shonld provide that a man who
broke into a church and stole a tassel from the minis-
ter’s cushion should be liable to fourteen years’ im-
prisonment, whereas if he stole a similar article from a
private dwelling he would get only fourteen daya, or
something like I hat. Mr. Hnngerford came forward
with an explanation. The enormity of a crime, said
he, is in proportion to the magnitude of its conse-
quences to society. Mr. Copeland wanted somethin?
more explicit, and Mr. Hnngerford went on to say that,
as all the articles in a church were consecrated to God,
the crime of stealing any of them was the most serious
which could be conceived; there was no relation be-
tween the oflfonoes of stealing a hat from a private house
and from a church. Mr. Copeland said that it was
unfortunate if God, with His almighty power, could not
protect His own property, and he was immediately
accused of being an irreverent scoffer. These pareoni-
fled people always adopt the same tactics. Let a man
say anything in opposition to their views, and they
will at once throw at him a bombshell, branded “irre-
verent scoffer.” Mr. Hungsrford’s subsequent remarks
would have been more appropriate if they ware uttered
at a Methodist revival meeting.
Writes Vanity Fair ;—“ The moat surprising
circumstance about the bombardment of Alexandria is
that while it is freely discussed on its merits scarcely
anything ia said about its illegality. People praise it
as an act of vigour or denounce it as impolitic, but it
seems to be forgotten that the laws of England do not
permit Mr. Gladstone to dispose, according to his indi-
vidual conscience or judgment, or whatever you like to
call the power acting in his mind, of the lives and for-
tunes of our soldiers and sailors, or of those foreign
fortresses from which he may suppose our soldiers and
sailors to be In danger. Nothing is better established
in the laws of England than that no war can exist but
by the authority of the sovereign declared in due form.
Without this, everyone taking upon himself, or inciting
others, to commit hostilities upon a foreign State, is
liable to the penalties in which these acts involve any
private individual, besides being liable to impeachment
for a high crime and misdemeanour against the author-
ity of the Queen. Sir Beauchamp Seymour, for bom-
barding Alexandria, and Sir Michael Seymour, for
bombarding Canton, are liable to the same punishment
as Dr. Lamsou. . . Mr. Gladstone summed up the
case when he said we were not at war. But killing
when we are not at war is murder."
The reason why Buzaoott, the editor of the
Brisbane Courier, resigned his position iu the Queens-
land Legislative Council, is said to have been mat he
was piqued at not being allowed to represent the
Government in that Chamber, B. D. Morehead object-
ing. Another theory is, however, put forward by the
editor of the Maryborough (Q) Chronicle, who, by
the way, is a relative ol Buzaoott, and probably in-
spired by that gentleman himself. This theory com-
prises t wo divisions. “ Mr. Buzaoott, I know from good
authority, resigned his position in the Legislative
Coquoil for two reasons. Firstly—The Government
party had become so strong there that no danger exiftea
of auy ot their bills being lost. Secondly—Mr. Fed-
berg, who was one of the principal writers on tne
Courier stall, received au unexpected and higbV ,
advantageous offer from the Melbourne Akous, jum
before the session opened, and prevailed on Mr. Buzaoot
to allow him to leave at a few days’ notice, although, i
being impossible to supply his place on the Coubi* i «
the change threw much additional labour oa m
managing editor, and compelled him to reUnquis
publio duty for a time " We notice also that, m ® '
verting to the Courisr being made into 611 .?*** i!!it
paper, the Maryborough relative gushes thus:
has been fittingly reserved for Mr. Buzaoott,
pioneer journalist in Maryborough and Rock hampwi
and now managing proprietor of the leading daily
weekly ot the colony, to occupy ‘the kelm ol
Queensland Press ’ at a time when the colony 18 “
giant strides, and has reached an era of P r0 -*P *
which requires that all the elements in her npwar P
gross must march on together.” This is spread g
thick iu aid of a frost such os Buzaoott is.


CITY CATERING COMPANY,
816 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long and prao
tical experience, nearly all fi;om the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally (Superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It ie not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thermo.
N.B.—Since opening, on 2S(Bi April, 1881* we hare
successfully catered fgn Llff&EBT. MOST DIPPI-
CULT, and MOST EHiPONIBI®LB dndSttaklflgs that
have taken pltce here to the present tiitm, via.
The Consular Dinner* in out na# bAnqti«t rdofti.
His Worship the Mayor'* Picnic, f6r 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquet*, aha all EntOrtainmenfe.
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, fol 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which hi# WOrShlp, John
tained th*lr R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT Afid GBWRGK.
Earl Clan william, and the Officers of the ftrtAohoa
Squadron.
Masonic tall, English Constitution, for 1253, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Maconio Ball, N.B.W. Constitution, ‘at Tdwn Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their B.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag. DimWr d la
Bums, for 00, in Gst eminent Palase Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school ohildrdh— r»
Queen’s Statue Demonstration —under VERT SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to be
ready on th« spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south ride of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and (refreshment, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 8 30 p.m., to he ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Town HalL
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Bail,” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to'Judge Windeyer, in our new
Banquet Room.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judge Innis, In our new
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Rusee at St. Paul’s College, fur 150 Member*
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Rusm to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams,
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
Sentlemen, at the taming of the first sod of “ Hudson
tros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock Works," at Gran-
ville.
The Luncheons sad Refreshment Bars at Hawkesbury
Races, In Grand Stand.
The Lnneheona and Rosreshment Bars at Rand wick
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tyme, St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Te Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Paiooe.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, 1 easts, &o„ <to.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let ent on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, Ac. & ,
and will bo glad to sand out the smallest order lor
Pastry, Cakes, Jellies, lees, Confectionary, Ac.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the eity, complimenting us on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to us.
C£AS. R. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the original Compagnoni and Co ),
Mahaskb.
MALT BITTERS I
The great Cure- lor Indigestion, Biliousness, Liver
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE 2s. od. ~
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chkmist, Ac.,
43 Ertkine Street;
AND
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET.) KOUMISS
0U&E8
ALL STOMACHIC DISARRANGEMENTS,
Consumption
Acidity
Heartburn
Debility
Indigestion
Wasting
Diabetes
Registered Trade Mark.
CALL at the KO UMISS MAN U FACTURINQ COM-
PANY’S Office, 161 Philllp-street, where numer-
ous TESTIMONIALS from well-known and highl>.
respected residents may be seen, nnd Pamphlets con-
tailing full particulars. Highest Medical upiuiou iu
favour of KOUMISS as a curative for above discuses
can be obtained. The following gratifying Testimonial
was kindly sent to us by Mr. G. ISLAUB. of Peter-
sham:—
“ Wheelwrights' Arms, Petersham,
"June 25 th, 1832.
” Gekxxemish,— l desire to express to you my heait-
fait thanks for the great benefit I have received through
the use of your KOUMISS. I had for four or five
years been troubled with indigestion in its worst
forms; I tried several doctors, but could get no relief
till I was advleed by a leading Physleian in this oity to
take KOUMISS. I took it for eome time, in fact till I
was CURED. Since then I have had no return of my
old complaint, andam now enjoying the hast of health.
You are at liberty to pnblUh this, as all my friends can
Corroborate my statement Yoora truly,
•• G. ISLAUB.”
DON’T BUY, LADIES,
UNTIL YOU HAVE INSPECTED THE QUALITY
OP THE GOODS AND THE PRICES AT
MRS. T. C. H_J_N CHCLIFFE’S.
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
OUTFITTING ESTABLISHMENT.
121 and 123 OXFORD STREET,
' SYDNEY.
BABY LINEN, DRESSMAKING, HOSIERY,
UNDERCLOTHING,
dolmans, mantles, jackets,
REA I- LACES,
MILLINERY,
MOURNING OUTFITS,
WEDDING OUTFITS,
BALL COSTUMES, *o., &o.
You ean get the very 1 eat quality and style for the
same prices as you pay at other houses for “IN-
FERIOR." goods otherwise called “CHEaP."
Goods always Marked in Plain Figures.
TEAMCAR3 pick up and set down passengers at the
door.
121 and 123 Oxford-etrsct, Sydney.
CALIFORNIA ART STUDIO.
HE oitiy AMERICAN PORTRAIT PAINTER on
. this coast has removed to No. 3 Bridge-street.
The Best Style of Fainting Guaranteed.
CHARLES MERCK, ARTIST.
To Crown Lessees, Proe-Selectors, Miners, and Othc
JAMES CARROLL.
I AND AGENT, &c,
WENTWORTH HOUSE.
Church Hill, Sypnby,
BEVERLEY PARK. BEVERLEY PARK.
ON THE ROUTE OF THE ILIiAWAREA RAILWAY^
OPPOSITE HIGHBURY BARN and CLOSE to the
PUBLIC SCHOOL.
SUBDIVIDED into
134 MAGNIFICENT SITES,
With the ILLAWARKA RAILWAY LINE running
right through the Eatato.
Frontages to Gannon’s Forest Eoad,
Frontages to Kogarah Rond,
Frontages to Railway Parade,
Frontages to Railway Crescent,
Frontages to Roach Street,
Frontages to Mitchell Street.
W ALL 66 FEET WIDE.
JJATT, EODD, AND PUEVES
Have received instructions to sell by public auction,
on
SATURDAY, 30th SEPTEMBER,
At 3 p m,
ON THE GROUND,
»The mbovo VALUABLE ESTATE, known as
BEVERLEY PARK, subdivided by Messrs. Daw
sow and Stephen into 134 large TSLLA SITES.
The ILL A WARR A RAIL WAT, now being constructs!,
•will RUN RIGHT THROUGH THE LAND, and the
STATION will be either ON, or CLOSE TO the
property.
BEVERLEY PARK occupies ‘a splendid position—
it adjjoins Arueliß Heights, it opposite Highbury Barn,
close to Clune's Hotel and the residences of Messrs.
Smy she, Sleath, Richardson, and others.
Kr The VIEWS from this Estate of the Ocean,
Bo any Heads, and Sydney in the distance, cannot be
sui passed (if eqnalluiv) throughout the whole of the
Hi twarra Railway Route.
TITLE-GOOD. FREEHOLD,
TERMS, Most Liberal, viz.2s per cent, deposit {
the balance by three equal instalments, at 1, 2, and
S years from day of sale. Interest at 6 per cent.
Plans now in the Printer’s hands.
A. GORMAN,
(late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell),
Begs to inform VISITORS and the PUBLIC in general
that ho has taken those splendid newly-erected and cen-
trally situated premises at the corner of ELIZABETH
PARK STREETS, and has OPENED them under
the NAME of
"THE CLARENDON,"
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel.
A. G, hopes, by strict attention to Business, to gain a
share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS will find this
surpasses most of the leading HOTELS for ACCOMMO-
DATION and every CONVENIENCE; and, as it over-
looks HYDE PARK, it must necessarily be WELL
VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, <fcc. *o., as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES for
selling nothing but the very best.
HEALTH and BEAUTT.
THE ORIENTAL
BEAUTT, HERB, OR SERKYS
PRESERVES the BEAUTY and FRESHNESS of
Youth to an advanced age, clearing the complex,
iuu of all blemishes, and giving it the transparency
and loveliness of the rose. It is much in nse by the
fashionable ladies in Paris, as it BRIGHTEN a the
EYES and speedily removes
FRECKLES, TAN. SCALY SKIN, MOTTLES,
ROUGHNESS, SCROFULA,
ECZEMA, SALT RHEUM, PIMPLES,
BUMPS, LIVEfi SPOTS ITCH, MOTH,
BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
and any eruption upon the face or any part of the per-
son of either sex. It is not a Face Powder or Lotion,
but is taken internally, is perfectly harmless, and gives
that crowning glory to women—
A COMPLEXION OP MILK AND ROSES I
a skin of Oriental softness, and transcendental purity
and beauty.
Full Directions accompany each package.
PRICE 3r. SIX PACKAGES, 15s.
Sent by Post, under plain sever.
Ask your Chemist for it, or send your order direct to the
SOLE AGENTS
FRESHMAN & CO.
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N S.W.
LADY AGENTS WANTED.
B. BRAUN,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, AND OPTICIAN,
376, George Street,
Near the Post Office.
Jewellery altered or made to order at reasonable rates.
Watches repaired on the premises by most efficient
workmen— work guaranteed.
▲ LARGE ASSORTMENT of LATEST NOVELTIES
in JEWELLERY.
Ag<ent for Rotheram's and Waltham Watches,
RAND NAVAL PROMENADE CONCERT,
GARDEN PALACE.
Under the Patronage of His EXCELLENCY, LORD
and LADY AUGUSTUS LOFTUS. Sir ALFRED
STEPHEN and LADY STEPHENS. The MAYOR
and MAYORESS. Captain Hixson and officers of the
Naval Brigade.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, OCTOBER 14, 1882.
IN AID OF THE
GOODENGUGH HOME,
BAILORS’ HOME,
NATIONAL SHIPWRECK FUND,
Full Military Band of 50 Performers.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
MORRIS MOSS, MANAGER.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Ist September, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB MINERAL
LEASES.
T\T OTICE is hereby given that unless the
-A 1 * Leasees execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Mineral Leases within thirty
days from this date, they will be declared void.
AKTHUB EBNWICK.
No- 1334; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 89 ; County of Gordon, pariah of Newrea j 40 acres j
Application No. Well'agton 2
No. 1335; Henrv W. sfancnrrow and others; Portion
No. 90; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres ;
Application No. Wellington 4.
No. 1336; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 91; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres j
Application No. Wellington 5
No. 1537; Heary W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No 111; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 6.
No. 1338; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 74; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 10.
No. 1339; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 73; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 11.
No. 1340; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 72; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 12.
No. 1341; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 71 j County of Gordon, parish ef Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 13.
No. 1342; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 70; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 14.
No 1343; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 108; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres 5
Application No. Wellington 15.
BNo. 1845; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 62; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres; t
Application No. Wellington 26.
No. 1346; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portio - 1
No. 63; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acre* ;
Application No. Wellington 27.
No, 1347; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Forth jn
No. 64; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 aow s;
Application No. Wellington 28
No. 1348; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Port ion
No. 65 5 County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; SO aoi es;
Application No. Wellington £9.
No. 1849; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Pew tion
No. 66; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 ai jres;
Applicatisn No. Wellington 39.
No. 135); Henry W. Nancarrow and others; T.’c rtion
No. 93; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 4U*acres;
Application No. Wellington 31.
No. 1351; Henry W. Nanoarrow and others ; P ortion
No. 87; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 32.
No. 1352: Henry W. Nancarrow and 1 ’ortion
No, 86 ; County of Gordon, parish of N ewrea;; a? acres;
Application No. Wellington 33.
No. 1353; Henry W. Nancarrow andothe’.-s; ‘Portion
No 94; County of Gordon, parish of Newre a,; 2 J acres ;
Application No. Wellington 34
No. 1354; Henry W. Nancarrow and otl .era *; Portion
No. 93; County of Gordon, parish of New: rea 2 20 acres ;
Application No. Wellington 35.
No. 1355; Henry W. Nancarrow and o' ,hers ; Portion
No. 83; County of Gordon, parish of Ne' yrea.'; 40 acres;
Application No. Wellington 36.
No 1356; Henry W. Nancarrow and • jther j; Portion
No. 97; County of Gordon, parish of Ne wrea,; 20 acres ;
Application No. Wellington 37.
No. 1357; Henry W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 85; County of Gordon, parish of Ile wce> 4 ; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 38.
No. 1358; Henry W. Nancarrow a* .d othc rs; Portion
No. 95; County of Gordon, parish of , Newrw 1 ; 20 acres ;
Application No. Wellington 39.
No. 1359; Henri W. Nancarrow and others; Portion
No. 96; County of Gordon, parish of Newrea ; 20 acres ;
Application No. Wellington 40.
No. 1360; Henry W. Nancarro- wand others; Portion
No. 80; County of Gordon, parif Jr of Newrea; 20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 41.
No. 1331; Henry W. Nan can ow and others ; Portion
No. 81; County of Gordon, pa i B h of Newrea ;20 acres;
Application No. Wellington 4' i.
No. 1363; Peter Smedegord - Portion No. 995; County
of Hardinge, parish of Cope « Creek ; 20 aoj.es ; Appli-
cation No. Tingha 465.
Depart ment of Mines
Sydn sy, Bt T i September, 1882,
NOTICE TO APPLIC/aNTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEaSET j.
NOTICE is hereby gi yen that unless the
Leasees execute au> i take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mini n g Lease within thirty
days from this date, it will be declared void.
ABTHUB BEN WICK.
Htjnteb amp Mjom :at Mikino District.
No. 595 ;A. Bernard am ;H. Hyornitnus; Portion No.
ol 4; County of Gloucoef ar, pariah of Knowla; 3 acres;
Application No. Oopehur 1 578.
T OOWOOMP.A, QUEENSLAND.
The Botal Asssmbj Booms, having been thoroughly
renovated and fitted' with New Scenery,are now generally
used by Theatrical and Concert Parties. The Hall is
large and the mor c centrally situated and has been
recently visited ’ey South’s, Pollard’s, and English
Opera Companies, Hudson, Macoabe, and others. For
terms, *0 , addre jh Agkmt, care of Paling & Co , Music
Warehouse, But’ rven-etreet, Toowoomba.
Map of the seat of wae,
by G. BUTTEEFIELD,
PUBLIC DEAUGHTBMAN,
15 MACQUABIE PLACE.
May be had of all booksellers.
COLLINGWOOD, NICHOLSON, FENWICK and
EDWAED lEBT.
Edward Irby’s full report of the above case is now in
the press and will be short ly issued; and tjae special at-
tention of all interested in car laws, and the due ad-
ministration of same, is directed to it.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Tord.aeents out West complain that the Crown
* ~*lB absorb all their trade, and thu* largely supple-
°®nt their Treasury cheques.
Cholera at the Phillipines. Its introduction to
. Vfioiifl bv the sugar and cigar imports is reckoned
A ,lost a certainty by the medical faccfty. The Qovsn-
almost warned. The Vlctotian Government has
proclaimed Manila an infected pert.
1 A station near Forbes mainly consists of five
carves, which are fenced in as sheep paddocks. One
f tiieae is the travelling stock reserve I Aelag cleaed
useless, and travelling sheep have to take a circuit-
ons route through lanes, <feo., and run trespass rlaka.
Why? .
More than fifty gold-mining companies were
farted in London to work claims in the Wynaad (India)
They have all proved disastrous failures.
The English newspaper from which ws derivs this
information makes the sugrsstlvs and somswhat naslan-
holv remark that "all the suooeesful gold-mining of
° “j am times has been carried out by capitalists who
« are on the spot. The risk of the capitalist varies
according to the inverse ratio of the square of the dls-
tance.” Gall 1
A Yorke’a Peninsula (S. A.) selector bought a
•not of green ochre, sank a hole on his land and mixed
♦ he ochre thoroughly through the red clay at the
bottom of the hole. Ha took a specimen of the clay to
some capitalists, who pronounced it splendid for copper,
and offered to buy the claim for £6OO. Before the money
was paid over, however, one of them cleaned eus the hole
and discovered the sell. Out of consideration ler the
scoundrel's family, the capitalists let him off, on condi-
tion that he handed £lO 10s. over to local charities.
Bather a reasonable sort of a mad drunkard
was John Pasmore, who hanged himself by a saddle-
tstrap to a tree, the other day, near Wilomet. He left
memoranda in his pocket-book stating that no ons woe
ttc blame but himself ; that Mr. and Mrs. Ploton, of the
British Arms Hotel, Qundibluey, where he had been
■drinking, had " dare all they could to keep him sober,
but thao he had eohnmed to gat grog and had succeeded
iin one way and andfcer." He also made a lucid will,
making dispositions regarding his debts and his pro-
perty. He had been entrusted with £6 by another man
iin order to pay a debt, but this sum he spent on him-
self.
p. Ei. M. Eobertaon, M.T)., P.G.S., F.K.G.S.»
read «. paper in January last before the Glasgow Geo-
logical Society upon an opal mine he had visited and
examined in the Aladdin Hills, Cooper’e Creek, Western
Queensland. The Doctor says that £6OOO worth of
opals per year might be easily taken from the Aladdin
vein, and sold without glutting the market; indeed,
that one skilled man could obtain in a couple of days
n year's supply ready for the lapidary’s wheel. The
ground is freehold, and the owner realised £l9OO in a
few months from the sale in Londoe, Sydney, and else-
where of soma small lots broken out of these boulder*
and stowed i« the comer of a saddle-bag, and so brought
down 1000 miles to Brisbane.
There must be a curious race now in course of
development in New Caledonia. It is the custom in
the French convict establishments to offer all young
and healthy female convicts the chance of releeae, if
they will consent to be shipped off to New Caledonia
and be married there. New Caledonia is the plaee th
which the majerity of Communlets, whe were not shot,
were deported. The offspring of a male Communist and
a female, convicted of murder, but saved from capital
punishmemt (as all French lady-murderesses are), under
the plea of extenuating oircumstaaoes, would not be
likely to promote very greatly the peace and proeperity
of their country.
Eight months ago a boy named Frank Kenny,
the son of a selector who had dealings with the
manager of Mr. Woolcot’s station, Healesville,
Victoria, was poisoned by strychnine given him
on a piece ©f cake. The manager wes charged
with the murder of the boy, but was acquitted.
Again, only the other day, Mre. Wooleot, a very hand-
some woman, was found in bod by her servant in a
dying condition, with a glass beolde her containing
strychnine crystals. We now hear that the police are
in possession of information of a meet sensational de-
saription which throws light on these two mysterious
and horrible events.
The following is the substance of a circular
stating the grievances of which Public School Teachers
complain :—Certificate* for good serviae awarded by
the late Council have been ignored. Teachers’ wives
are not allowed to teach sewing in schools conducted by
tbeir husbands when the salary is more (than £l2 per
annum. Young and unmarried teachers are promoted
in preference to experienced married men. A premium
is thus offered for celibacy and Its evils. Some teachers
are placed in schools beneath their classification, while
favoured ones are promoted above their own rank. To
gain class I. A. teachers are required to obtain over 90
per cent, of the number of maras in about 12 subjects,
and 91 per cent, of the marks for practical skill. This
is an impossibility, and the fact that the grade has
been awarded to two or three teachers indicates that
there has been a eerious miscarriage of justice. Its
award is a gift and not the result of merit.
Thera is incompetency in the examiners’ depart-
ment, questions have been set on more osoa-
sions than one which the highest authorities on
these subjects have declared unanswerable. The ex-
aminers look six months to revise the papers of the
December examination. Many teachers after immedi-
ate failure received a notice varying from three weeks
to four days, to attend a second examination. The
proportion of failures in the December examination is
without precedent. Teachers are compelled to attend
examination, although their failure is a foregone con-
clusion, because they have not obtained the requisite
marks for practical skill. Teachers who have to deal
with children are required to have a higher classifica-
tion than the examiners, inspectors, and training
masters, who have to deal with adalts. The large
number of appeals against the decision of the ex-
aminers indicates either inoompetenoy, or unfairness,
or perhaps both. Candidates for classes I and 2 should
be examined at the University. This will do away with
the necessity for examiners who give nothing but dis-
satisfaction. Country schools are sometimes left tor
weeks or months without teachers. Classes in town
schools are sometimes deprived of their teachers for
weeks or months. Applicants for employment have to
wait months, while their case is supposed to he under
consideration. It take* on an average six months to
get an answer to a letter. In superior schools pupils
are not allowed to enter the fifth class unless they pay
an additional 7a. per month. They are thus deprived
of a fifth class education at Sd per week, for which the
Act provides. Many of the teachers of superior
schools are not competent to teach Latin and Mathe-
matics. For supposed instruction in these two
branches, pupils are required to pay 7a per month.
Such regulations for Htgn Schools have been framed
that these schools cannot bo established for generations.
Thus clauses 25 and 26 of the Aot are dispensed with.
Country electorates suffer the greatest loss, as Sydney
has its Grammar School. The regulations which have
been assented t® by the Governor in Council are dis-
pensed with at pleasure. Eagu'ations 27 and 28 being
noted examples. Fully one-half the Inspector* rank
no higher than second-class. Few proved themselves
capable of writing a report correctly.—See Reports for
1180. Teachers have to pay for the cleaning of their
■ moots. The tax, too, for postage and papers is co?
■iderable, as th® clerical work is enormous.
A perfect furore up at Charters Towers
N.Q., over the *• Lucky Prop ’* gold discovery.
About a ton of stone turned up at the foot of the Lucky
Prop shows gold thickly scattered in almost every frag-
ment examined. Thady O’Kane, the miners’ editor,
gives his boys a timely warning not to tush to the ex-
treme of wildest expectancy, and tenders other solid
advice to them, about “ roping-off ’’ lawyers and letting
pha Warden arrange disputes; also, fencing out the
Ltunkies. It is a pity that no photographer was present
at the Warden’s Court at Lucky Prop on August 18th,
1; was a high old affair. There was a charming ease and
trnelom from official stiffness and Red Tape. A Mel-
bourne oar formed ths bench. However, the Warden
diu not occupy the teat of honour, but a certain name-
lisa legal personage with his hat ou iand "ehmon, far
?. much jaaw," did; the clerk of the court wrote with
the back seat as his desk, the Warden stood beside him
and looked up with becoming awe aad reverence to the
incarnation of legal quibbling, «quatting in the cab
'maaioaaUy solacing himself with a whiff of his
unudeen. There was another nameless lawyer who
Jawed ” across to the other fellow. A group of
miners stood about, smoking, most of them, and com-
menting audibly on the adjective rot of the legal pair.
There were horses and buggies grouped around, a bright
unclouded sky, and a long grassed Australian flat, with
its monotonous gum tree* and iron barks. This is how
the find was made:—J. Hutchings was felling timber,
and the head of his axe fell off, flew against a stone and
smashed it. Hatchings saw gold standing out in
chunks over the stone, and traced a reef to a consider-
able distance.
At last a decisive British victory. One real
battle, and the war in Egypt has ended. No matter
how they Ittty regard the political complexion of Great
Britain’s fiOtien, every true subject of Her Majesty
rejoices at the victory gained by British soldiers. Late
on the afternoon of September 12tb, Sir Garnet
Wolseloy’s entire fore* left the camp at Kassaroin, and
were by sundown bivouacked some miles rearvr Arabi’s
stronghold at Tel-el-Kiber. The British forces con-
siated of 11.000 infantry, 2000 cavalry, and 60 guns.
Tel-el-Kiber was held by 20,000 of Arabi’s regular
troops, with 70 guns. 6000 Bedouins, and a rabble. By
daybreak on the 13th Wolseley had attacked and
carried the whole of the enemy’s position. The
Brit'sh took the Arabs completely by surprise, the
artillery opening fire before Arab! was aware of its
approach. Under cover of the artillery, the British
carried the enemy’s works at the point of the bayonet.
The Highland Brigade bore the brunt of the work, and
were the first to enter the enemy’s entrenchments. The
Egyptians became utterly demoralised, and great
slaughter took place. Since then, the progress of
military events has been remarkably rapid. Ksfrdowar,
Zagazig, Bolbeis, and Cairo, one after the ether sub-
mitted unconditionally, and the inhabitants were
disarmed. Arabi was arrested at Cairo, and now awaits
court-martial, with the most of his chiefs. Damietta,
garrisoned by 5000 blacks, alone refuses submission, and
is to be reduced by gunboats. Sir Garnet says the war
ie oyer, and troops ore to bo at once re-embarked. An
Indian loan of £2.600,000 is proposed to meet the
expenses of the Indian contingent.
For the future all city telegrams marked
** Urgent" will be delivered by the new Postmaster
General, in person, on a bicycle.


Hotels, fco.
Q. U N S L E R'S
HOTEL,
NORTH TEEKACE,
ADELAIDE.
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND BPIEIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Commit Orders Bbositx Prompt Attektiop.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BEOOMPIELDS
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BITTERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY.
WM. JAMESON * CO.'s DUBLIN WHISKY IS
UNSURPASSED.
rT is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that
it has not been in the bands of “ Whisky Doctors."
When yon ask for it, pee that jeu get it, look for the
trade mark J in diamond on label, cork, and capsule.
DALT BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
‘OLD MATURED’ SCOTCH WHISKY
“As we Drink it in Scotland.”
THOM AND CAMERON,
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate e v el low OLD SCOTCH
W UIHKY as they drink it at hame,” thi i spirit will
be a welcome boon.
DAI.T BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N S W. and Queensland,
Importers of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES and
General Merchandise.
309 GEORGE STREET.
n
Stoic
FOSTI E’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, fto
JOHN A. WIL
COOLALTA WINE
11 PITT STREEI
VINEYAED—COOLALTA, BI
SOUTH WALI
BED WINES
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No. 2 i, H m hi
Burgundy ... ... ...
Fort ... ... ... ...
Vin Ordinaire
WHITE WINE
Muscat ...
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No, 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Yin Ordinaire
M A
GNIFICENT IRON-FB
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Eos
Imported by us direct, and ma
(or this climate to the order of om
Every instrument is WARE
YEARS. They are of very hands
are most sensitive, sweet, and pow
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TEEMS of TIME PATI
Examine and test them before p
All our PIANOS are latest sty lei
second-hand instruments nor chea
BEALE and COM!
1, Oxford-street; 612, George
Buildings, Sydn
Hunter-street, Newcastle j flif
Howiok-street, Bathurst; j
burn; Church-street, Parran
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we wi
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
JJISTOEY EEPEJ
As Eve temptc* l . the Fir
TEMPTS THE PEEBENT M
not the same Eve, but
JAMES I
149 KING-STRI
Opposite Theatre Royal
With the best brands of AM Ti
JW. R. C
• BOOKSELLER AND S'
5 and 6 MARKET BUI
GEORGE STREET, &
Opposite Market-s
w
H. A E
PEOVISIGN MEEC
AND GENERAL COMMIS
343 and 34>5 Kekt-street, nej
SOLE AGENT for the imdermeni
E. Whittingham and Co.’s Lot
Excelsior Mill’s prize Viotoi
Bencraft <fc Co.)
Swallow and ArielTs Victorii
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Tc
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Co
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, net
346 GEORGE STREE'
STUBBS & S
/Tata TjMtfMata tJe-11
Anuoan
■jyroNEr advanced tc
WITHOUT SECU
At moderate interest and easy t(
No Delay. All transactions' he
MR. G. W. GOE
178 PHILLIP S
Near King-strot
BW OL F P A
• Manufacturers
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chal
Materials, and Staiionan
Makers, by appointment, to Her M
and the Bank of B»
Office and Warehouse: t 5 Grei
coin’s Inn Field's, W.G Factory:]
London, S.W. A fnll s
seen and fttrtber particulars obtair
E. B. WOLFP (Solo Arent fti
Messrs. FeMhaim, Qotthelf and (
Sydney.
NOTICE—TO THE PROFHBBK
CAL OPERA COMP AN!
TO LET.—The newly erected B
Rockhampton, one of the mf
Queensland, being 75 feet by 40 wit
and centrally situated
Application to be r
The Secretar
Hibeniai
BONNEY and GO
SURVEYORS
Draftsmen, and Map ]
MEARS’ CHAMB
138 PITT STREET. SYDNEY,
S TD:
Have yo
re.c<
Parasoli
eq
J. S
541
Brickl
Liverpoo
Pa rase
tnmes. R
m
/^BELLAS
RE-CtiVEHED.
WATSON AND
* * NICKEL and SILVER
Ship and Bath Fittings, Stir;
Instruments, Fire Irons, B
and metal surfaces, Niol
Best Style.
Old Electroplate ware of ever
silver-plated equal ■
STEAM, BRASS. & BLTSCTRop
336 PITT STREI
YDNEYPERMANENT FI
1 and BUILDING SO(
Established 1875. Reserve For
received on fixed deposit; if for 12
allowed. Savings Bank DapaTtmc
notice required for withdrawals, j
the Society’s usual liberal terms.
313 Pitt-street.
AMD
CHEST
LL
Business Annouiu
a
O
Nj
t'-f
(5"
KCARJiY
LfITC
Tobaoeonlsti
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS T'
AMERICAN TORi
THE following facts are com]
resources, and, therefore, sh
special iutei est: —
U7XBON AND SONS paid duty in 1
All the others paid duty in 1880 on
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1
All the others paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco pai
on for the two years was 0n1y...
DIXSON AND SON’S BRA
YANKEE DOODLE, 00
SIR ROGER, GOLD
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are
genuine “Tin Tag," each plug
Eounb Single Tin Tag, stai
quebob" or “ Yankee D
ALL TOBACCONISTS' GOOD
c> lo
READ THIS! REAI
A. SALMON
FURNISHING n;
v
V
=g==}T3
mm
mh
i-»s
mm
3k >X
&
£
m
m
• -•
=*
GUINNESS'S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Markets
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE)
MERCHANTS.
VIRQOE, lON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Hate always in STOCK, for hat.ni
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUTEES ONLY,
lEONMONGEEY, and
GENEKAL HABDWAEB.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWAEE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SO BIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pals Ale.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
, „ . . ud to have this index posted up by secretaries ]
clubhand managers of sporting events in general.]
racing.
. , n » September 27, 28
K] J—v”"’ " September 28, 29.
Oeraldme (N.Z.) September 30.
Melbourne Hunt ••• September 30.
V.B.C. Spring..- November 7, 8,10.
Canterbury P November 9, 11.
Parramatta _ ..November 15, 16.
Bendbro -;-oinb V.'.'.’.'. Nov. 22, 23, 24.
M ° IN Z ) Sprin? November 30. December 2.
Dunedin »•" December 7, 8.
Temora J-~AViiir oi'nb .' January 1 1883.
rtlbufy (N Z ) Simmer Janury 1 WW.
v!e.C. New Year
January 11,12.
B3|a •••m‘:”fciub January 26.1883.
Sydney Tn January 26 , 27.
’Summer Jan. 26 Feb 1,2, 1883.
1N.Z) Autumn February 21, 1883.
TumaSaa B. C. Summer Meeting...February 20. 22, 23.
AQUATICS.
... Prank Punch’s Prizes October 3. 5, 7.
? , J Bowing Association Regatta October 14
North Shore Bowing Club Annual Eegatta...Ootober 21.
Cup, Mercantile .October 28.
3£ R C. Junior 8cuUs, Mr. P. Punoh
Krat Champagne Trophy November 25.
Qar/iner Cup, December 16.
lnterC0lOn E i^^..:°.' rS :.. r . ra . m . a .. a March. 1883.
PEDESTEIANI8M.
a.Snnv A A. Club, Association Ground...September 23.
H’s HiH A.A. Club Sports September 30.
5S*end Athletic Club Sports November 9.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The A.J.C. realised a profit of over .£l5OO by
the late meeting.
A six days bicycle race commenced at 11 a.m.
on Monday at Melbourne.
Parkinson, the Lithgow ped., is open to run any
man in N.S. Wales for one hour for £25 up to £5O
a The Victorian Cricket Association has appointed
Me. W. H. Cooper the selector of teams for next
season.
Mr Oliver McLean has offered a cup, value 30
guineas, for competition by the senior Melbourne clubs
next season.
The match to decide the holders of the Holds-
worth-Gardyno Cup will be played on the first Saturday
in October.
Eush and M‘Donald have arrived from Grafton,
and intend to at once prepare for the contests for the
Punch prizes.
The annual meeting of the N. S. Wales Cricket
Association takes place to-night (Thursday) at Aaron s
Exchange Hotel.
The N. S. Wales footballers defeated the
Wanganui team by a goal two tries and nine force-
downs to one try and two force-downs.
The rifle contest on 16th September, at
Creedmoor, between the English and American teams,
resulted in a victory for the English.
The race for the Fowler Cup on Saturday after-
noon was simply a row over for Mr. W. G. Brett, and
as this is hia third win, the trophy now becomes his
property.
At the Doncaster Races, on 12th September, the
9t> Leger Stakes were won by Lord Falmouth’s Dutch
Oven; Mr. T. Cameron’s Geheimnis, second, and the
Duke of Wesminster's Shotover, third.
Langan won the champion hand-ball tournament
at the Carlton Ball Court, Melbourne, on Saturday. He
and Keenan played off, when the former won tour
games before his opponent scored any.
The New England Jockey Club intend to have a
day's racing- on the day after the opening of the railway
to Armidale, which is expected to take place early in
December. A big foot-race is also to be run.
In the International Rowing Match, which name
off on the Thames on Isth September, the Thames Clnb
representatives neat the Hillsdale crew, the American
champions. And the T names Club crew are not the
beat amateurs in England.
The Otago Cricket Association have adopted
Mr, Fred Ironside’s Furness Challenge Cup rules (or
their Junior Cup contests. A letter was sent to Mr.
Ironside, thanking him for his courtesy and acknow-
ledging the aid his communication gave the Associa-
tion.
The drawing for the contests for the Printers
Cricket Challenge Gup resulted as follows : G ax ton v.
Herald ; J. Woods and Co. v. Telegraph ; Lee and
Boss v, Gibbs Shallard and Co.; Evening Hjws runs a
bye in the first division. The first match is to be
played on the 30th instant on the Cap ground, Moore
Park.
Beckwith has replied to M'lndoe’s challenge to
swim for the championship of the world. He will
match his son Willie to swim M’lndoo not leas than
one mile for £5OO aside and the championship, and will
allow him £lOO expenses for the match to come off
in England. If time records go for anything, the
Colonial should win.
The Australian Eleven were beaten by 10
wickets by the United North of England, at Man-
chester. The weather was fine, and there was a large
attendance. The home team went first to the wickets,
and made 245. The Australians made 170 and 102. The
required 28 runs were made by the home team without
the loss of a wicket. This match, so far as the Austra-
lians are concerned, was, no doubt, a “ drunken " one.
Three thousand persons witnessed the football
match between Auckland and N.S. Wales, at Auckland.
The New Zealanders won by one goal one try to nil, and
the N.S. Wales men were forced down twice. It must
have been a glorious game, as Kaper had his eye nearly
kicked out, and another had his shoulder wrenched.
We have been informed that a congratulatory
cable message was sent to the Australian Eleven by the
secretary of the N.S, Wales Cricket Association on two
oeeasions when the Gentlemen of England were
“done" in one innings, and when All-England had to
bite the dust. This ia as it should be. We are glad
to let the publnAjcnow that the doings of the “ boys
ate appreoiawCty our highest cricket tribunal.
The Australian Eleven have finished their
triumphal progress through England, and will embark
for home vid United States, in the first week in October.
Doubtless they will play a match or two in America,
and if by chance (er by umpire) or by whisky, an
American team can give them a beating, what a show
for gushing the Yankee papers will have 1
Banian says ho will start for Australia, perhaps,
about the beginning of November He saysl have
a big oiicla of friends in the antipodes, and they have
been at me for a long time to come and show myself to
the people down there. If I go, I am promised five or
■ix regattas in whioh it will be mado well worth my
while to take part." We oan find the friends, but where
are the regattas ?
The Australians played at Leeds on September
11 and 12, against Shaw’s team who visited Australia.
The attendance on both days was large. The Aus-
tralians went first to the wickets, and were disposed of
for 79. Shaw’s team managed to secure the same total.
In the second innings the Australians did better, scoring
129. The Home team collapsed against the Australian
bowling in the second innings, and were dismissed for a
total of 37, the Australians thus winning by 88 runs.
The football match between Wellington and
Sydney came off at Wellington on Saturday. The
weather was splendid, and there was an immense
attendance. Sydney played nine forwards instead of
six as at Auckland, and the game was faster and more
•open. Sydney won by two goals and two tries to one
try. This wipes out the defeat at Auckland.
The bicycle tournament, which commenced at
the Exhibition Building, Melbourne, on Saturday, pro-
mises to be a failure, the bicyclists not supporting it as
was expected. The two-mile bicycle race was won by
C. Thorley, the fire-mile by J. Hoskins, the ouo-mile by
J. Bolfe, and the three-mile by fhorley. The fancy
riding event was won by A. H. A’Beckett.
At the All Saints’ College sports at Bathurst,
on Saturday, the old boys 220 yards’ handicap was won
by Eobert Ashworth, and the amateur strangers’ race
by W. J. M'Fhillamy. T. Parnell secured the Challenge
Cup for the college boys H. M'Phillamy won the long |
jump, and cleared sft. 2in. in a running high jump.
The prizes were presented to the winners at the does
by Mrs. Bean, wife of the head master.
On Saturday the ceremony of handing over the
Holroyd Challenge Bowl was performed at Wormwood
Scrubs. It will remain in the custody of Alderman
John Young until the first competition take place,
when it will pass into the hands of the winning club,
who may retain it until defeated. The memory of the
donor, Mr. A. T. Holroyd, will thus be perpetuated as
the pioneer and patron of the game in New South
Wales.
The Double Bay Amateur Eegatta which is to
take place on Saturday, 4th November, promises to be
a most attractive and fashionable affair, and, judging
from the lazge and influential committee secured, will
be as groat a success as those held on former occasions.
The date fixed ought to suit both yachtsmen and pullers,
as it will give the former a good opportunity of stretch-
ing their canvass, and the latter a test to their muscles
for the first time in the 1882 3 season. The programme
is very well arranged. Mr. W. S. Williams, is hon.
secretary, and Mr. James Macintosh, hon. treasurer.
At the Orange Spring Races the attendance on
both days was anything bat good, though the racing
was excellent. Norman won the Plying Handicap ;
Speculation the Stewards’ Purse, and Forced Handicap;
Hesper the Spring Handicap, and Orange J.C. Handi-
cap; Eosebud the Prince of Wales’ Stakes; Helena
the Ladies’ Purse; Wingadoe the Eowley Mile, and
Ranger the Hack Race The police had their “eye
on the oardsharpers, who were rather disgusted after
the free fling they enjoyed at Randwick.
i (Americans resident in Sydney a r o making
strenuous efforts to popularise here the American
national game of base-ball. The Union Base-ball Club
already numbers thirty-seven playing members—mostly
natives of the States. Last Saturday, the Union Clan
enraged the Occident Cricket Club in a base-ball match
on Moore Park, and administered a crushing deteat to
their less skilful opponents, the scores being—Union,
57. Occident C.C., 7. Ibis Saturday, the 23rd, the two
olnbs piny a crickob match on th© same ground, when
the Occidents hope to turn the tables on their opponents.
The entries for the N.S.W. Rowing Association
Regatta, on 14th October, close on 2nd October. The
courses for the different races are fixed as follow:
First race: Maiden fours, in strimg-test gigs, from
Blaxland’s Point to One Man Wharf. Second race:
Schools, in string-test gigs, pulling four oars, from One
Man Wharf to Putney. Third race: Senior eights,
from Charity Point to the Brothers, Fourth race:
Junior fours, in clinker outriggers, from One Man
Wharf to Blaxland’s Point. Fifth race : Senior scullers,
in outriggers, from Charity Point to the Brothers. The
first race is to start a 2.45 p.m., and the others at inter-
vals of halt an hour.
Mr J. Oatley, who so successfully coached the
victorious N.S.W, eight in Melbourne, is to be requested
to “ take notes ” during the next two or three months
of any likely men, with a view of placing them in prac-
tice for selection of the crew to represent the colony in
the contest for 1883, on the Parramatta Elver. This is
an immense patronage to place m the hands of one
rn«n, but we have always held to the opinion that the
best selection, rowing, cricket or otherwise, is always
made by one man, who is blameable for a bad choice,
and gets all the credit for a good one.
A large crowd assembled on Moore Park, on
Saturday, to witness the opening match for the Fatness
Junior Challenge Cup. The competing clubs were the
Mercantile and the Derwent. The former, who were
expected to do better, were dismissed for 41 runs. Twine,
notout, 11, being the omly player who ran into doable
figures. The Derwents seem to have taken a lease of
the wickets, for when time was called they had made
79 for the loss of only two wickets, J. Dummett, not
out 41. Sparks, 19, being the damagers. The now
wickets played well, and the general arrangements were
complete, reflecting great credit on the manager, Mr.
Fred. Ironside.
The Wentworth Park Cricket Ground was
opened auspiciously on Saturday afternoon. The Mayor
and other influential citizens were present. The match
played was between teams from Pyrmont and Glebe
Clubs. The opening of a new ground will be hailed
with satisfaction by all cricketers, and the committee
of the Wentworth Park Crloke; Association may be
congratulated on their labours. If they adhere to their
regulations, their ground should in time be second to
none in Sydney, and the metropolitan clubs will be all
rushing for matches on it.
The urogramme adopted for the Balmain regatta
consists of twenty-one races, viz.:—Youths under 21,
double sculls ; junior scullers, in wager boats; 16-feet
dingles, amateur crews; juniors, pulling four oars, m
clinker outriggers ; 19-feat skiffs, all amateurs double
Roulls canvas dingiea; all-comers m wager boats ;
yachts not exceeding eight tons, handicapped; yachts
not exceeding nine tons, handicapped; maiden oarsmen
pulling four oars, stringiest gigs; 14-feet dingles; 24-
Feet open boats, crews limited to six ; 22-feet open boats
anv crew ; all-comers, in light skiffs, handicapped , 16-
telb dingles, any crew; maiden amateurs, double
sculls, club skiffs; all amateurs who have never won a
Drize at any public regatta, two pair soulls, light skilia ,
Vernon cutters; and a gig and dingy race.
There was some excitement in Mr. C. T,
Heberts’ racing-stable the other evening. A boy who
had been attending on Masquerade, the winnerr of the
Metrop., had occasion to leave his box for a little while,
when all of a sudden the animal was heard to rear and
plunge violently, and to emit unmistakable sounds of
nither rage or terror. A rush being mado to the
tax. the horse was examined, but nothing was found
amiss with him. but still he exhibited such signs of
terror that it was deemed advisable to take him out and
vi™ him a gallep. Once out in the air and he became
perfectly tranquil. The owner arriving later, the horse-
box was entered, when he at once saw what had ailed
the animal. The boy had pasted on the wall that
afternoon the “ clever portrait of the winner of the
Metropolitan Stakes,” which had appeared in the Town
and Country Journal.
The cricketers in the various banks have decided
to reorganise the Banks’ Cricket Club. Should all the
available players enrol themselves under the new tanner,
a very formidable eleven could be sent into the field.
We want another good club to break the monopoly
that the Albert, University, and Carlton Clubs have
esioved The Civil Service ought also to have their
representative team, A very fair club was parted m
1874 by Messrs. Vivian, Smithers, Korff, and Hinohy,
OTl j ;a ««hummed ** for a season or two, and then died
out. A match between the Banks and Civil Service
would be more attractive than one between Albert and
University Clubs. The Banks oonld produce Massie,
Moses and a few more of that calibre. whil*l>. Gregory,
Garrett. Baunerman, Middleston, Downes, Geary, and a
few more “duffers" could show how the Government
stroke improves orioket. _
The monte-players have had a bad time of it at
Orange Helving on Mr. Marsh’s decision as to the
rnoe-oouree not being a public place, they
could open y plunder at Orange, bat the local Bench
stole a “JMarsh " on them and gave them three
apiece. Although they had free license ttt
we saw one man give them some trouble on the first
day He had planked his sovereign, and was about to
fclck up the right card when the scramble, ugaai m
these oases with the buttoners, took pisoe, and the
cards were knocked over. Then he went for them, they
made a “saint" of him, and refunded his money, but
jfe was not ratisfled with them until he had waltzed
round the operator and the two bnttonors. This alight
occurrence did not prevent them from visiting Baud- \
wick on the other days. The monte-player could be
recognized by his shady eye, and the only men in the
crowd who were disguised by bruised features were the
buttoners whom the “saint ” had visited, ihoir couch
is not always a bed of roses.
The following entries for the Punch Trophy
were received on Saturday evening Michael Eush,
Clarence Elver, white, green sash, East. 4lb. s D.
M‘Donald, Clarence Eiver, white, 10st. 21b.; E. C.
haycock, Sydney, 12st. Btb. ; J. Largan, London, blue,
list. 101 b.; G. Perkins, London, white and blue, 10st.
21b.; E. Triokett, Sidney, 12st. 6lb. ; W Beech, Dapto,
New South Wales, white and black sash, llst_ 101 b.; H.
Pearce, Sydney, white and red sash, lost.; E. money,
Newcastle, wnite and pink sash, i2sc. 7i0.; E Sheppard,
Maitland, white and yellow sash, 12st. 101 b ; and J.
Hermann, pink, list. 61b. It will be noticed that the
above do not include entries from Hearn of New Zea-
land, and Elwards of Melbourne, but should they come
in later on, the commitcee will doubtless accept them,
Dick Hickey is going to try his mettle, and it ho stul
retains his old torm he ought to bo in the dual heats.
As yet there is but Utile betting, hut Lay cock seems to
be most fancied by the nibblers. Triokett is very con-
fident.
The South Australian J.C. Spring meeting was
oommeuoed at Adelaide on Saturday. Euchre won the
Hurdle Eace by three lengths, the favourite, crystal,
being nowhere. Only four started lor the Deroy, Uuesa-
work, the favourite, making all the running, ana winning
hard hold by four lengths. Bassanlo was beaten when
half the distance had been covered, and cantered in 1W
yards behind Irishman, who was third; the time, 2miu.
4Usec, is good enough to make Guesswork a Warm
favourite for the V.E.C. Derby. Jervois won the
Saplings by two lengths. Love being second. Standard
Bearer won the Spring Handicap by halt-a-length froth
Tyropeau, Pour started for tne Steeplechase. The
Knave, the favourite, led from start to finish, and won
by twelve lengths. Shy look won the Holdfast Handicap
by a length, Cremorno being second. Luna, the
favourite, foil, and her rider, Donald Campbell, was
kUled. He was buried on Tuesday by members of the
B.A.J.C.
Sir Henry Parkes, when he took the Domain
cricket ground for Exhibition purposes, said that it
would be returned to the cricketers in the same state.
It was then in line order. Hundreds of pounds had
been spem in improving it. The wlekets were last and
true, tne held had been levelled, and each winter's top-
dressing had made il enjoyable as true turf to tne
cricketers. Sir Henry aoesn’t play cricket, conse-
quently he doesn't see the difference between made
wickets and a grass meadow. There were no important
matches played last season on the ground, and practice
there was indulged in only by those who had not the
time to visit the Association Ground. The bowlers had
all their own way theie, for if they couldn t bowl the
oatsman out, they broke his nose or bumped his rib a
bit The Association have been getting it ready this
winter, but it is still a long way behind its old form.
Getting a ground ready is a matter of time, and we
must wait a season or two before we can hope to see Dig
matches on the Domain; however, the Government, in
good faith, ought to vote a milium or two to help the
Cricket Association to mend the ground that was spoiled
for the Exhibition.
The Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club’s
Meeting, on the Association ground on Saturday passed
OH most satisfactorily. The attendance was fair, the
grand stand being well patronized by ladies and
eke German band playing selections during the after*
noon. The mile walking handicap was well contested,
Oe D. Best at scratch overhauling his opponents m lino
style. He came up to the loading man, A. James, 20
yards, in the last lap, and a gallant spurt ensued, Best
getting the best of it by half a yard, in 7 minutes 51
seconds. The 440 yards Maiden Flat Eaoe was won by
E. G. Allen by three yards. The 120 yards Strangers
Plat Eace was a gilt to Garrard who jumped away with
the lead and won by a yard. The 100 yards Flat Eace
was a remarkable contest, P. W. Bay Us, who got the
hest of the start, E Eusaell, and W. O. Eush running
a dead heat in 11 seconds. In the run-off, Baylls, who
again got the start, was caught by Eush within 10 yards
from home and they again tied, Euasell being a yard
oehind. time 10 4-5 seconds. BayUs subsequently walked
over the course, Eush retiring. Eleven started for the
two miles Handicap Bicycle Eace; three fell; Beattie led
for three laps, when J. Barnett passed him and event-
ually won easily. The 150 yards Handicap Flat Eace
was won by T. M. Thomson, 1 yard, by iwofeet.i .
Bussell, two yards, being second, and W. C. Eush,
scratch, third. Only four started for the 440 yards
Schools Flat Eace, which was of course won
by J. Parker, H. A. Merewether being second,
fi. A. Vallack, with 25 yardf,” won the 440
yards' handicap hurdle race easily, H. B. Hughes,
with tea yards, being second. Ju the 1000
yards’ flat race, Grainger went away with the lead, in
the last lap, Ferns went to the front. Maoarthur came
up 50 yards from home, and won by about two yards in
2min. 43 seo. In the 2 miles' walking handicap A.
J ames made the most of his 60 yards’ start, and though
Shipway, who was at scratch, caught him in the last
lap, he sent away again and won rather easily. L. D.
Best retired after having been passed by Shipway. Ten
started for the 300 yards' flat race handicap, and O. J.
Patiaon won by two yards in 33 2-5 sec. The mile
handicap was won rather easily by D. D. Middleton,
F. E. Pedley being seoond. The 4 miles bic>ole handi-
cap was a race between J. Barnett (75 yards) and G. W.
Barker (150 yards). Lee, Godwin, Moyse, M Eae, and
Crane also started. Barker made a good run in the
last lap. and passed Barnett, but the latter came again
and won by two yards. M'Eae (200 yards) was third.
The bicyclists present did their usual parade, and went
through seme picturesque evolutions, much to the
admiration of the spectators. The Eastern Suburbs
A.A. Club may be congratulated upon the success of
their meeting. «
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A grand kangaroo hunt took place at Trinkey
Station, Liverpool Plains, on Saturday week, when
persons were present, and 3500 marsspials were killed.
Numbers mere would have been killed, but one of the
wings of the trap gave way, and a couple of thousand
escaped At the Redferu Football Club annual dinner
the secretary, Mr. J. J. Allen, was presented with a
handsome gold Waltham watch, suitably inscribed, and
with the recipient’s monogram chastely worked on the
case Mr. J. King’s Kelpie took the first prise for
sheep-dogs at the Wagga Show Glen lunes is shortly
to have a gala week, made up of a £5O pigeon match, a
handicap trotting match, and eleven racing events,
amongst which is to be a Town Flats Handicap of
£lOO, and a Glen Inius Gup of £2OO. Ihe Club is to be
re-organised, and e -aWished “upon a sound bans.
That seems with race clubs
Mr A J. Bray, the woll-known amateur ornithologist,
formerly secretary of the Intercolonial Life Assurance
Association, is the winner of the £lOOO pries in Mr.
well, in the N.B. W. Leviathan’s Melrop. Consultation,
•jL'ka Tenterfleld J.O. intend to hold the ntxt annual
meeting on the day following the Agrioullutal Show, in
March next A coursing match lor £25 a side took
place lately at Lithgow, between Mr. J. Young s Rose,
aud Mir. Gl Jack’s Rather Slow ; the first eleven rabbits
to win. Rather Slow won eleven courses to Rise a
eight An athletic match for £lOO atide came off at
Coleraine (Vic.) lately, the competitors being R.Neaves,
tho champion of the district, and an unknown, named
Ejan. The contest was for the best of five events
Running race of 150 yards, another of 200 yards, hop,
step, and jump, running long jump, and running high
lump. Tho wnole thing was a gift to Ryan, who won
me first two events as he liked, gave his opponent the
next two, and so disheartened Neaves that although he
had before cleared slt. Bin„ he could not clear 6£t im., a
jump which Ryan managed easily. Kits repotted that
the latter has performed at Staweil under the name of
White ....A big 150 yard* race took place Mely, at
Gympie (Q ), between W. Greenwood and 1. Learoyu.
For about 100 yds. tho men kept well together; Searcyd
tnen forged ahead and eveatuolly won by a yard in in
eeoe. ds The time is mot the best on record, on .a o« .1
nf money onanged hands over the event
lwe“s y victo^ e in tne Caulfield Grand^agonal
Steeplechase,the popular croas couniry jookey. l. corrt
gan, won £750 in bets, and, being part o wuer of tne
horse, he also took half the stake. No better
deserve* a slice of luck, for his during his
LinrMF as a iookoy lias I>66H most ©xsinpl^ry*..•••»
fedsafsasf?pfflttSSas
a pto.‘”Por te o,Jd Pm. ol Pari..
188*. 356 entries have already been received
On the 2nd Sept., North Sydney Cricket Club defeated
Bedfern Albion Club, the scores being North Sydney 43,
Redfern Albion 7 Sept. 9, North Sydney C.C.
Lismore C.C. resulted in a draw, the former scoring 60
while the latter obtained 39 for nine wickets Sept. 16,
North Sydney C.C. v. Nondescript C.C. was a drawn
match, the former scoring 112 and the latter 69 for
eight wickets A batcher up North lately made a
wager that he would “ break up and bone " a bullock in
14 minutes. He did it in 13 min. 10 sec. We know a
man who is ready to back himself to eat it—cooked—in
a very short space of time. We won't back him, as he
can’t be expected to eat square, not having had a square
meal for many long and weary years. He says he will
“steak” his own money At Smithfleld (S A ) Eifii
Ranges, on Saturday, a rifle match was fired between
local rifle volunteers and the West Australians.
The former proved to be the victors by 94 points
Raymond C.C. v, Windsor C.C., Windsor ground,
Moore Park. E C.C., st-Mihell 21, Baker 13. W C.G.,
11. Holds worth bowled well for the losers. For the
winners Harden and Howe obtained 7 wickets for 3,
and 3 wickets for 8 respectively It was at the Cook-
town races three weeks ago. A race to be ridden by
Chinese only was one of the first things on the second
day’s programme. Three bead-eyed Bayards contested.
Two of them rode nearly neck and neck. The third
laboured in about a quarter of an hour after with a
smile on his face that could be seen a league off. But
he looked very mad when the judge declared one of the
others the winner, and gravely insisted that if the
horses were weighed he weuld win the stakes. He
thought turf prizes were like church preferment—
decided by the weight of the contestants At the in-
quest on Donald Campbell, who was killed at the
Morphetvllle (S. A.) races on Saturday a verdiot of
accidental death was returned. The jury added a rider
that a fenoa should be placed round the running
ground of the course,
* • •
The new London paper, Cricket, gives a bad
portrait of Tommy Horan, with a short biography
Some people ask why should Tommy bo selected ?
Because he is one of the best fallows in the team, and,
as a “ fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind,” ho is the
boss orioket-writer of the colonies Percy M’DonacU
played for Orleans Club against MiddlesboroughC.C. on
May 17, and succeeded in making 82 by fine orlokot.
The scores were: M.CC. 102 and 36 for two wickets,
Orleans 214 L. E Myers, the American amateur
pedestrian, has j ust given fresh evidence of his prowess
by running 600 yards in the marvellous time of 1 min.
11 3-5 sec. He also covered 1000 yards in 2 min 13 sec
The Australians are great favourites in Yorkshire, and
whan Percy M'Donnell made 82 against their team at
Middlesborongh they gave him a grand reception on his
return to the pavilion. Percy made one grand hit f r
six right out of the ground off Bates, and hit five fou. s
in succession liookwood, the crack Yorkshire bats-
man, made four ducks in succession against the Austra-
lians Garrett, in the Northumberland match, was
the last man, and joined Horan with the score at KM.
He made 59, and brought the total up to 193. He mad i
two fine hits for six each. Horan played a grand
innings for 76, not oat Still another biggest billiard
break on record. According to the Manchbstb i
Sportwo Chbokiclb of July 17th, on the previoui
Tuesday evening Mr. T. Short, of the Compton Hotel,
Liverpool, made the unprecedented break of 2676, con-
sisting of 892 rod hazards, all bat forty-two of which
were made by the screw-baok stroke, his own ball not
being moved more than a few inches At a race-
meeting at Hamburg, the totalisator and list betting
were prohibited Mr. W. Long is reported to havj
bought a very high-class colt at one of the recent year-
ling sales in England, having given 600 guineas for a
youngster by Kisber out of Hsrmiono Mr. Jno
Wilson, of circus renown, experienced bad weather and
equally bad luck on his voyage to India. H« lost the
hurdle-racer Jack, the two-year-old Syndicate, and the
well-known circus performer Abdallah Wallace
Boss and Kennedy give an exhibition at Winnipeg on
Juno 28th, and received £2OO for their work Mid-
winter, who is an Englishman in (Australia, and an
Australian in England, has decided to permanently
settle in Australia. Sandhurst is to be the favoured
spot.
The Undertakers’ Picnic at Botany, 27th Sept.
Why not at the Necropolis ?
The business of Messrs. Harrison, Jones, and
Devlin, wool merchants, &l, has bean boated into a
company of £150,000. Tnn company has power lo
increase its capital to £500,600.
Some extraordinarily rich stone has been struck
in Lucas’s claim, close to the Bluff Company’s ground
nt Ophir. The finds in Lucas’s claim have been fol-
lowed by equally good prospects in all the other claims.
More “ bonanzas ” have been lodged in the
Bank of N.B.W. at Orange, from the Belmore Com
pany’s ground at Ophir, and the prospects of this
famous mine were never better. The Bluff Cempauy,
whose extensive ground adjoins the Belmore, ar.
ordering very large plant of the bast modern
machinery, their share list being about to c ose.
The Governor of New Caledonia and Lidv
Barrier visited the celebrated Ophir goldfield last
week, being attracted to the locality by the illustraioa
and article on the renowned Bluff, which appeared i»
The Bulletin recently. The distinguished part,
greatly enjoyed the trip, and were astonished at the
richness of the field,
Mr. J. W. Clarke, the of the
Illustrated Phrenological Physiognomical an-
Hygienic Magazine, has met with considerable sucoes-
in respect of his new publication. The magazine ap-
pears to meet a long felt want, being a both interesting
and capable production.
The Grand Fapau Co., Georgetown, has sent
down some magnificent specimens of golden quartz an
the first ton of ingot lead turned out of the company’
furnace. The ingots bear the name of the company am
attract a great deal of attention In the Exchange,
where they are stacked. It is a novel kind of gold au.t
silver minimr- The essay shows gold 320 z. Udwt. 12grs ,
and silver 7toz. 9dwt. 12grs. to the ton of lead. TL„
concentrating machinery, which is now on the road up
from Townsville, will enable the Company to kee,.
20 teams carrying pyrites away to the port of Normal •
ton. The results will surprise people, for the Paps •
reef is exceedingly rich—it is more than halt miners I
; An ex-oom. of the 6th Inniskillen Dragoons—
khe man who swore to the identity of “ Sir Boger
|has a poor opinion of the British soldier of the present
day. He said to a London journalist, recently
“ They’re only fit to part their hair in the middle anu
rob fools of servant girls of their wages.”
"THE WHISPER[?]."
He stands at the street-corners, with
A watching, wistful eye,
For coin is unto him a myth.
And he is always dry.
His boot-heels, though the uppers shine
In patent-leather pride,
Careen, just like a vessel beached
Upon her starboard side.
He leans upon the left leg, when
Upon the right he’s stood
Till tired, to see if luck will change
With change of attitude.
Which is the reason why his heels
Are not exactly level.
And why his boots bulge out at last
Like boots made for the devil.
His threadbare pants are strapped to these
With leather stout and strong,
And, though they look too short, one sees
He’s worn them all too long.
The tear of pity dims your eye,
Kind reader, as you read t
Hold on a moment, till you reach
The finish of the screed.
For, see, the whisperer has found
A friend at last. Behold,
They dive into the corner bar.
And there the tale is told.
The old, old tale—bad health, bad luck
—And dam bad luck at that—
The whisperer dines well that day,
For he has struck aflat!


RILEY BROT
386 GEORGE STREET,')
600 GEORGE STREEt, £
165 OXFORD STREET.)
GOULBURN,
NEWCi
AND
10 COLEMAN STREE
THE CHEAPEST
IN THK
AUSTRALIAN CC
THE ORIQINATOI
NOTED £5 B
BLACK SILKS, BLA
EXTRAORDINARY SIECI
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NO
ALL PARCELS SENT B 1
A Black Silk Dress ia always fa
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers have pleasure
Country friends that their Pari
out the CHEAPEST AND BEj
SILKS ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers have determine
and give their customers a turn
Lot 1 A Beautiful Gros Grain S
2 Rich Corded Gros de Sues
8 Heavy Corded Gros Royal
4 Rich Drabs, Fawns and Gi
Suitable for Weddings
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in each i
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Special Silks
for, and wo will send full direct
meat to Ladies requiring dresses :
All Parcels Packed Carefully, ar
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTH
BALE WARS
388 GEORGE-STREET, NEAH
and 600 BRICKFIELD HE
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
6 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
8 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
yards Gambroon for
strapping
8 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
8 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
X pair Men's, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
J doz. Pocket’kerohiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, Ac. io.
Mo
2 Lad
2 Lad
2 pail
1 Lad
1 pair
1 Lad
2 pair
1 Lad
4 Infa
2 Infa
2 Infa
1 Infa
M
2 Infa
1 Infa
I doz<
Pufrb
1 Flar
2 Bibe
1
1
1 In
pai;
Infa
1
£5
1 pan
I larf
10 yar
20 yar
12 Str
20 Wii
10 goo
6 yar
A 1
wearin
£5 Men’s Clothing £5
Bate.
■t ci a. Hnaf. Trrvn- 1 mil
SOCIAL.
The third of the Narmbti Winter Dances took
place on the 6th instant. There was a fear that fends
mhrhfc not forthcomo—especially as the tippah ten were
supposed to he the only subscribers— biit they did.
Supper waa tendered for ; a plan which benefited the
hospital, as most of the corn-beef went there. Legal
fraternity largely congregated; One looked as happy
as if waiting the verdict in one of his favourite cattle-
Stealing cases, and another as happy as Punch—could
make him. The fair Sex were scarce, but obliging, and
beamed their brightest on the bankers. Law and
pquatter vied oh the piano ; one gave all the music, th
other the sound. Ladies looked ns nice as they always
do when they are scarce, and la bells Anglnise was 01
of the best. There is a popular idea that if a dancing
master started classes in Narrabri, he would get rio .
in a few years—unless he went mad in the meantime.
* h #
The attendance at the Eastern Suburbs Amateu
Athletic Club Sports was rather poor ; so was the di
play of But few spring costumes were seen
land perhaps this was fortunate for the ladits, as thi
weather turned chilly daring the afternoon. Adore
or two of figured sateens and cashmeres would near! '
comprise all the light toilettes and velvet was still plent -
tul. On a combination of myrtle-green satin and velve ;,
n bouquet of bright buttercups looked ever so prett;
nnder the chin. Wasp colours—that is, black and ysllov ’
stripes, tastefully trimmed, with hat to mateb, made a .
effective costume from Ash field. Three sisters were a
alike in blue black velvet; one satin flounce, bow o
blue, black for edging, and black plush hats ; white lace
collarettes as a relief. Two daughters of a musioa
lady, both fair, and full in figure, wore costumes wher
grey beige and silver grey satin were nicely combiner,
under straw hats with peaks 1 crowns. A warm, rio
and pretty dress, was run? velvet panior bodice over
black satin skirt, very finely shirred and gathered, blao t
plush hat. A conspicuous character was a miniatnr
footballer about five years old, in the complete "rig
of a popular olub, and no doubt he’d bo an awkwarc
customer iu a “ scrimmage ” with any other baby.
• • •
After the fatiguing delights of an inland picnic
many of the rail and tramway folks still had energy let i
fora ball at night; and many who did not go to th
picnic, but stayed at home to keep fresh, also went t
the ball. Any roan who went without a smoking ca >
committed a serious mistake; for everyone with an '
pretensions to tone wore one—the usual thing, vellov
embroidery or black, with a tassel. The Exhibition
never looked much nicer or cosier, and, as the orna
merits of a previous ball had not been removed, th
nlaves of the tram had the benefit of them. Thes
beautifications, together with n few marvellous onli-
crops of inventive genius intended for fancy dresses
combined to make the scene—like a page of Hauler
Bennett’s spelling—varied and interesting. The bean
pole variety of girl was most plentiful, and one maiden
nnd her chevalier wore remarkable for being olothec
entirely in white. But there was no lack of substan
Vial sweetness for those ardent youths not fond of the
*’ shadow sweetheart” style. A plump girl in cardinal
from Harris-street, could hardly be surpassed ii
•charms—if quantity and colour constituted them, A
pink dress, a pretty face, and a pair of flitting fee ;
■went by like a vision. " Stripes,” too, streaked al mg
fairly. Numbers oamo from a distance to this annua
fun, and fresh country colcur was on many cheeks. Ii;
was a treat to see the dancing of " Bed, White, anr
Blue,” who came from Darlington, with clear grey
eyes, and a cataract of sunny brown hair. Except a
Scotch and a military oharanter, most ladies wore
evening dress—or morning. When the bond deviated
n little from the programme, ordinary people might have
Ibeen disconcerted. Not so the railway people; they
went straight on wit h their mazurka to the " Brie-a-brao*'
polka tune, and it really did not make much difference
to them. If you jnst hold your partner tight, and
throw the heels well out behind, music is only a trivial
matter after all. But the supper table wasn’t. Time
was everything there; in fact it who a "timetable"
that the drivers adhered to with praiseworthy careful,
ness. One individual, especially, was seen with three
chairs in a oerß’fcaUif'aded—while ladies stood wait,
ing, or struggled flUVseat and a sup. It was hard I*
believe that such STSrge-rainded individual, so magnifi-
cently got up and annointed, too, could be—not the
Commissioner, but the man who carries round the
grease. A capital plan waa adopted by the com-
mittoo, of having an interval announced on the pro-
gramme: a great convenience. Mes«rj. Shand and
Dale made as good M C.’s as could be desired ; and,
about four, when they broke up, the company voted the
railway ball of last Thursday the best yet.
• * •
Quiet Clarence Town waa all astir when the
Benedicts gave a b 11, in return to the Bachelors. Most
of the many invitations were accepted, and guests came
from all round the district. The School of Arts was
decorated, at one end was spread a banner, " The Bene-
dicts bid you welcome," and under it was another
spread, the supper. The opening grand march gave
opportunity of inspecting the dresses. Ladies from
Eist Maitland, in pale drab cashmeres and pink satin ;
and from Deptford, in ivory white and blue satin, and
cream and pink satin, were effective. Peacock green
and cream lace, from West Maitland; cream, cardinal
»nd pearls, from Ash field; cream and pale pink from
Fotheringay, were good. Prom the latter place came
Lily, the belle. Some gentlemen danced well : others
shook the building by steps which always indicated,
long before they drew near, that they were coming.
Short dresses were regarded with more favour than
trains.
# • »
Forbea, at one time, was almost Ultima Thule,
hut things have progressed since then. Explorers no
longer ream tho green forests in search of new country :
the blackfellow and tho hinyip give way to Ithe duly
branded jumbuck; and travelling parsons tote round
pious panoramas, and sell the " Pilgrim’s Progress ”
for a penny. In short, civi’isation has spread, and
though there isn’t much innocence, there’s sometimes a
good deal of ftm in Forbes. When the Annual Show
took place there, everybody who was not making money
was spending it, the place was full of swells, and Smith
and Jones, who have been " not speaking ’’ for nearly a
year, asked one another, " What’s yours P ” Thursday,
the 7th, being Show day, all the inhabitants washed
their faces and walked abroad, ladies showed tho last
fashions—sometimes, if not oftener, accompanied by a
pretty face and neat boot—and said, “ How nice!" while
gentlemen-exhibiting, judging, jumping and smoking
said, “ Kight you are! ” Dinner in the evening at tho
Court House Hotel, where everybody smiled and shook
hands with everybody (just like John used to do before
the "hat" business) over a sumptuous repast. On tho
following night, the Show Ball came off, when upwards
of 100 of the giddy and gay danced till 6 a.m. After
which, a little impromptu dance was got np on Satur-
day evening, at Mrs. Vauderberg’s, when there was a
final chance for young men to sneak, if they had any-
thing to say. This was a very thoughtful plan.
• • *
Tho Bachelors’ Ball at Mudgeo last week was
most successful; supper, costumes and music made the
Mechanics’ Institute a pleasant place iu which to spend
nigh/. The editor of the local paper, in sta iog that
tho belle was a ladv either from Oulgoug or Canadian,
is '•areful to protest that this was the opinion of other
Indies, not hii own. From which it seems the editor is
a married man—or a lady.
• »
The office staff of tho Mutual Life Association
of Australasia were entertained by the secretary at a
dinner at Pfahlert’s Hotel, on Wednesday, tho 13bh
i istaut. Eight o’clock was the hour, but many showed
np before, having, of course, carefully abstaieed frem
tea. Seventeen, including the auditor", sat down to a
delicious repast of several courses. When the clatter
of cutlery ceased, toasts were proposed. “ The Direc-
t irs and the Association " was given by tho secretary,
who spoke at length, and also eulogised hi* staff. Of
the other toasts, the principal were—the “ S 'orttary,”
who was voted a jolly good fellow by tho full (very full)
staff ; and the "Officers and Auditors." The company
broke up about ten.
• • #
At Jerry’s Plains there was an amateur concert
and distribution of prizes. Agony commenced at 8,
and culminated in the prizes at 12. As the charming
danglner of a local host, the district parson, and a
neighbouring C.P.S. were on the stage all the time,
many were under the impression there was to be a
marflage, and only the prizes consoled them for the
disappointment. These consisted chiefly of tin match.
br'tes and paper neckties. And the distribution was
hot well managed; it was bad enough to give a girl a
tobacco-pouch, hut when the young man who takes
the gitls’ class in Sunday school became the blushing
owner of a pair of baby’s bootees, it Was evident the
committee had eithelf a mistake, of—had not.
• • •
A Creation of cream cashmere, worn by a plump
and vivacious lady, under a cream parasol, wai decidedly
the most charming dress at the Nelson Band concert
on Monday. A rich mahogany silk, trimmed with velvet
and gold beading, far collar, was worn by a tall Jewish
lady of Surry Hills. Maroon cashmere and velvet decked
a Cook’s Elver young lady. A grev beige, with sash and
trimming of pace watered moli 6, was tasteful. Few
light dresses were seen, although the afternoon was
both warm and bright. Two yonng daughters of one of
the moat extensive business men of the city, bearing
that dreadful epidemic name, wore the prettiest pair of
drosses iu the Gardens. One was of cardinal velvet and
satin, exquisitelv made, large collarette of white silk
deeply shirred j the other, of cardinal velvet and cash-
mere, also with white collarette covering the shoulders j
and straw hats completed really beautiful toilettes.
The music was at times almost inaudible.
« » «
A pleasant two or three hours’ jollification was
passed on Thursday night, at the lodge-room of the
Fidelity Lodge, E 0., of Freemasons. JTho occasion
was to celebrate the projected return to Europe per • s.
Gazoo, of P.M. Bro. Walter Ward, who may he said to
have been the founder of this lodge. His brother
Masons presented him with an illuminated address, a
purse of sovereigns, and a magnificent medallion in
diamonds and rubies. Toasts were proposed, and flc
circulated merrily. Over 60 Masons were present to
wish their comrade ton voyage,
• • •
A dress party took place at the Foresters* Hall
last Mondij, when picked waltxtra from Profesaor
West’s various classes met bp invitation fora three
hours’ whirL Besides having a smooth fleor, the
appearance of the hall is very pretty ; a pale bins dado
rtns round the lower walls, and above ie a light bluff
tint, in each panel of which is an oil picture in mateive
guilt frame, and a narrow one is on each pilaster
Wreaths of flowers, and white lace curtains over the
windows give the room a chaste ensemble. On the
programme every alternate item was waltz, so the lovers
of the queen dance had every opportunity to practise
it. Thirty couples were present, including many well-
known persons, and the ladies* costumes, varied as to
color and style, made a gay seen*. Of course, even
those who all learn from one te&oher are not free from
their own individualities, but on Monday the »tyle oi 1
all was similar in principle. Most preferred the free,
lively motion of the spring waltz, but a few executed
the English slow waltz. It is almost needless to say
that all reversed, and if anyone’s brain had been
clouded by cobwebby prejudices about impropriety,
the easy freedom of the dancers’ movements would
certainly have swept them away. Mr. Somers’ music
was excellent, sad during the evening some solos were
snog, and ths Queen quadrilles, which are uncommon,
were danced.
• • •
The Balmain Assembly Ball was not quite up
to the usual standard In some respects i this was prob-
ably due to the state of the moon, which has a peculiar
effset on Balmainiacs. Some dresses were very expen-
sive, and some very tasteful, but excellence of dancing
was the feet-are of the evening. The floor was splendid;
the music was unsurpassable for tune, but might 1 ave
bean better for time. Belle unpiekabls: the railway
suburbs had it in point of faces, but for figure let us
worship a well-known young lady from Woollahra, in
pale blue, with a pert, winsome faca, and a taste and
grace in dress and dancing as perfect as her form
A tall lady In pale piuk sad cream laoo came next, aleo of
elegant figure. A sweet little face and raven tresses,
in white, with just enough black laoe about her, bore
the palm fer beauty in h*r style, and will no doubt
flourish in a Stamnore atmosphere. A lady in white,
with a rose here and there, looked vary nice—here and
there. Another in white, with a wreath of tiny white
blossoms, also looked well. A married lady, well known
for her fine voice, and her neat eleter-in law, both
danced charmingly. Sunflowers are not pretty, and
only exceptionally pretty women can afford to wear
them. One dress was »o peculiar in colour that we
can’t say what it was till we gw into the backyard and
turn over the dust bin. One lady’s dancing was spoiled
bv her habit of mistaking other people’s toes for flooring-
beards ; while a gentleman’s eymmetry was marred by
his arching his back till it was as hnmpy as the moon
in its first quarter. He was not a good dancer. The
supper was fair, though they forgot jellies and one er
two small things. Taken all round, the sffair was good,
and all got home by special steamer, at half-past one.
« # •
The Subscription Race Ball at Narandera was
well arranged as regards details, but only a partial
snocess in numbers. For instance, three musicians from
Sydney were good, Compagnoni was rood, decorations
and dresses were good; but the entente cordialt wasn’t
good. It was not good to see the spirit cf inflated
squattooraoy overshadowing everything and everyone
that didn’t belong to that adorable section of society.
Nor was it good that young wool-lords should send the
local ladies to Coventry because the girls’ fathers are
not in a position to dummy land, or “ chisel’’ shearers
out of half a crown a hundred a week befere the shed
outs out. The ball was good to those who could dir-
regard these trifles, and some enjoyed it very much ;
but when the committee thought of the numoer they
had guaranteed to Compagnoni, and who didn’t come,
they clutched their pockets wildly. Bat, of all the
festive throng, none, no, not one, enjoyed it like
Jeames of the Narandera Argus, a man who had not
enjoyed himself could never write like this—listen !
" As the euphonious strains of the band filled the room,
every living creature seemed to be wrought upon by its
mellowing influence, the vicissitudes of life being cast
into the cool shades of oblivion for the time being,
while all present, without a single exception, were evi-
dently beat upon calling the flower of enjoyment from
every moment as It was passing by. ... A member
of the great fourth estate seemed to bo thoroughly
immersed in the evanescent proceedings, and was doing
all he could to contribute to the enjoyment of the honr.”
And so Jeames passed the night, alternately “culling
the flower of enjoyment,’* and “ contributing te the
enjoyment of the hour.” This was about four o’clock
on Friday morning. On Saturday morning the Argus
didn't break on a benighted world as usual; but at
eight o’clock that evening it appeared with a par. com-
mencing, “Ourselves —Owing to one of our employ 5«,“
&o ■ —in fact, the regular thing. But a Narandera
Jeames can’t, have many bright spots in his life, so
perhaps the oaoßcribeis may overlook it this time.
• • •
A p-rty was given by Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Quid,
at “ A jioleside,” Woollahra, on Tuesday, when their
nice little danoeroom was filled by about thirty couples.
The hostess was in rich black broch6 with salmon sash
and flowers ; a Bathurst belle in cream and old gold; a
solicitor's pretty sister in blue and cream laoe; and an
architect's wife from Bondi in a handsome cream satin
toilette. As nothing is.perfeet in this vale of tears,we’ll
say the planiste was fair. Cosy corners were found
outside, and Chinese lanterns were as useful as usual;
for, as Ovid says, “ this light to modest maids must be
allowed wheu they go to an evening party.
* * **
On Saturday evening Professor West gave his
Ashfleld pupils a party in the local Town Hall, when a
dozen danoes were enjoyed, and finished a little after
ten o’clock A nloo musical party took place at Glebe
Point a few nights ago, among the musicians being
Miss Hyam, Mr. Paroy Jones and Mr. Parkinson. The
clever daughter of the hostess wore a perfectly fitting
dress of black watered silk, and wag very attentive to
ber guests. A carpet dance concluded the evening
Mrs. Korff gave one of her pleasant balls at Glebe Point
last Wednesday week. The guests numbered between
fifty and sixty, amongst whom warn some of the prin-
cipal belles of QlebePoint....The “Owls ” perched again
last week upon every available roost at Balnford’s bird-
cage, and alargo number of visiting crows were present.
Bather good songs were given by Yellow Hammer,
Mohawk, Bullfinch, and others, and the oomio aoapman
brought down the house. During the evening several
adjournments were made for various purposes The
Show ball at Forb«a, on Bth September, was brilliant.
Never before had Vendenberg’s Victoria Hall looked so
well; youth, beauty, and wealth; and the display of
glass, silver, and flowers most artistic Over 500 went
to Tennyson on Saturday, to the annual picnic of the
Balmain branch of I 0.0 , and danced and raced ad lib.
Same day, the Belmore C.C. picnic was held at Pern
Bay, when the brass band was again useful in the
pavilion The Woollahra Assembly to-morrow night
is the last of the season.... To-night, the last Fortnightly
lakes place at Qiammis Hall, and as Newtown Rink is
also closing the season, skates can be cleaned and put
away till next. May A. party of bachelors, yclept the
“Reform Club," have issued overfonr-soore invitations
for a party in Dariinghurst Road to-morrow night
And on Monday, a largo forty will bs given by Mr. and
Mrs. Lawrence, of Bose Villa, Newtown On the 25th
instant, the annual plain and fancy ball of the per-
manent way branch of the Railways takes place in the
Exhibition Yet another ball in the Town Hall: the
Ivankoe Quadrille Assembly are making considerable
preparations for their third annual ball in the Vestibule.
Plain and fancy costume is optional, and Mr. Chadwick,
the secretary, intends something good on the 29th of
this m0nth.......50me of the Rand wick young men who
have been nsing Mrs. Pemell’s room for skating darin g
the Winter have determined to give her at complimen-
tary party in their Town Hall—probably next Thu re-
day A graad wedding ball took place at Needs’ on
Tuesday night—that of Captain Watson of the Miranda,
and Miss Tkerase, the daughter of Dr. Fischer. Naval
I uniforms by the score, society ladies, and lavish
arrangements for a large party of guests, who kept up
their gaieties till early morning.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
East. Suburbs Hort. and Wild Flower Show
(Garden Palace) Sept. 21.
Woellahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale).... Sept. 22.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports Sept. 23.
Permanent Way Dept. Kail way 801 l (Bxhi-
„ bit ion) Sept. 25. j
Eailway Officers’ Picnic (Botany) Sept. 26.
Ivanhos Quadrille Assembly’s Ball, (Town
m HalJ )- Sept. 29.
Warrene Private Assembly Reunion (Hall’s
Rooms) Sept, 29.
Criterion Assembly Ball (Nithsdale) Oct. 4.
Rowing Club Ball (Parramatta) Oct. 6.
Newtown Skating Rink Ball (Nithadale)....;, Oct. 6.
Naval Promenade Concert (Garden Palace;. Oct. 14.
THE MURDEROUS TRAMS.
We have frequently been asked why we don’t
report ail the tramcar accidents that happen, just as
the “ respectable portion ot the press " does. The fact
is> we use the trucks ourselves occasionally, and are
afraid they may feel revengeful. Acting prudential)/,
however, we clip the following blood-churners from
recent 11 suck-in editions "of the Even Nooze.
• • •
SERIOUS* TRAM ACCIDENT.
One of those every-day occurrences which happen
weekly, and by whien we nave lost no less t han fourteen
cash subscribers, took place last night in O iford-street.
It appears a single, middle-aged old gentleman about 73,
and nls wife, were about to cross the line, when tno
fatal Juggernaut came thundering down as usual.
“John," called out the lady, “ 1 don’t think it can be
did." “ Don’t be an old mule,’’ said John; "of course
it can." Hub the dame was right, and now the pair
occupy the one time-psyment-system coffin, and listen
to the pumpkin* growing at Rook wood. It is believed the
motor wm intoxicated at the time, as the only warning
it gave was to callout, as it struck the woman : “ Whoa,
Enuaal Zhat’sh one down; now who mashe two
Agiin we ask, how long is this man-killer to be allowed
to deluge our streets with ike crimson gore of our best
subscribers ? Let Mr. Goodchap answer,
# # *
ANOTHER SANGUINARY MURDER.
“ I’ve done the deed—did y’ not hear a noise T”—
... Macbeth.
The sickening frequency with which most ot our
aid and respected residents (for many jews regular
subscribers to the Town and Codntbt Journal—cir-
culation now 200,000,000) arc ruthlessly saonflsed by
that shrieking monster, whose breath is death, and
whose sole desire is Murder, has now grown quite
unbearable, and something must at once be done to
relieve the dull monotony. This morning, about 1 p.m.,
Mr. Jonathan Hogg, of Surry Hills, was standing at
the junction of Liverpool and Elizabeth-streets, des-
cribing to a friend how Arab! Bey could be easily cap-
tured by moans of a packet cf Epsom sails concealed in
a keglot colonial beer, when theßandwick tram (driven,
we believe, at the rate of seventy miles anhonr) rushed
along and slit off his tight ear as clean as it would a
boiled carrot. The cars were, of course, thiown otf the
lino, and ail traffic suspended for two hours. It is thus
that our boasted tram does its bloody work I Again we
ask how much longer are wo to be annihilated in this
manner ? Let ns at once return to the old system of
'busses, and then a rtspeotable citizen can walk our
■treeta without having the painful consideration forced
upon him tnat ho Is meandering along on the brink of
eternity, and will, perhaps, be without the price of a
bed when he gets there, f Since the above was in type,
Mr. Hogg has called to say he applied for compensation,
and was unfeelingly told he could have his ear back if
he liked, the insulting official furthermore observing
he thoeght it would make a dam good pair ot saddle-
bags.]
• « I
THE SHAMBLES IN ELIZABETH STREET.
As we write this paragraph, a feeling of horror,
or something equally annoying, creeps up our backs,
and our very kooks crawl down to oar heels in terror.
About 12 noon, this morning, fourteen innocent little
darlings (la yen of whom were vendors of this widely-
circulated journal) attempted to cross the tram-line in
King-street. At that moment the ruthless Redferu
murderer was seen ooming up, whilst the Waverley
tram was rushing down on the sume set of rails. The
Darling Point 'bus was also approaching heavily laden,
and two judges of the Supreme Court were standing iu
the traoa ogling some dressmakers' assistants who were
at the corner. An intoxicated clergyman and a mem-
le: of Parliament —who was even a little more so—
w.re also standing on the line, trying t® persuade each
otner to “ swear oil," when the two trams and the ’bus
a 1 struck the crowd simultaneously. The spectacle
now presented was sickening in the extreme. Strong
women shrieked, and delicate men fainted away into the
nearest public houses. W tiling hands soon came to the
resene, but, up to the time ot ®ur going to
pres*, the only articles recovered axe a leather garter,
the tail pocket of the politician’* coat, containing one
beef sandwich and a pawn ticket, one of the Judges*
wigs cornel ling the skull (which was perfectly empty),
and part of the clergyman’s beat (much worn). Am
inquiry will, of course, bo held, but nothing will come
oc that. It remains with the public to say how long are
the downtrodden ratepayers of Sydney to be decimated
by dozens in this outrageous manner. Citizens, arouse 1
Demand justice, and post a copy ef our 14 th edition to
ail your mends.
• w •>
THE DEATH STRUGGLE.
As our reporter was standing (about four o’clock
this morning), notebook in baud, m front ot the Glu-
cose Hotel, ou the Waveney Road, anxiously looking
for the comet, ho noticed quite a couoiave of dogs, most
ot whom wore of the male persuasion, standing in the
middle of the road, apparently discussing the Cuouan-
barra Hat Trick or some other profound mystery.
Shortly after, the Woollahta tram came rushing along
with such fearful impetus that the vibration ot the earth
caused our reporter to completely lose his equilibrium,
and he at onco fell over backwards into an adjacent cow-
yard Portuuately, however, he foil on his head, and
of course sin-tamed but little injury. On recovering,
ho found the Paddington tram somiug np the
line, and apparently two others thundering down
from the contrary direction. He had just time
to notice the dogs were still ia the road, when
the whole seven motors struct the crowd, and then
followed a scene that no pen can describe —except our
own. Two of the dogs immediately turned green, and
fell tooth and nail on their dread destroyer, whilst a
blue poodle crawled np ou the back of a zebra-coloured
retriever, and began to spit magenta lira over the
drivers’ shirts. A pink Newfoundland having succeeded
in untying himself frem the hind wheels of the Pad-
dington motor, dashed forward, slezad a vermilion-
coloured conductor by the throat, and disembowelled
him in two seconds. A crimson cattlo-dog now bit a
piebald itoker on the nose, and died immediately; then
tne rest of ttie oars closed with the dogs and rolled ever
and over, the motors all the time shrieking like demons,
and belching tUmes that illuminated tne district for
miles around. How long this lasted our reporter doee
not know, as he fainted away, and was found next
morning in the cellar, minus his hat and boots. Men of
Sydney I Wo are tired of calling your attention to the
villainous outrages perpetrated ou you. Bestir your-
selves I A*»ay with these murderous monsters, and
return to your peaceful ’busses. We have doue our
duty—look ye to it. Pull description of the accident
in the next Town and Country Journal,


w.
H. PAL
PIANOFORTE WAEEH(
852 George-street, Sydn
j--/’
Kfc-.
.1...
Sap’s#
PIANOFORTES, PIANO
Just unpacked, &
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRBT-C
MBNTB, by
BEARD (Paris and London),
VT TCYFTj
COLLAED and COLLAED,
SOUFLETO.
BUEDEN and CC
TEOST
AUCB
And other First-class Makers, in «
Black and Gold, and W aln
AMERICAN ORGA
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SONj
other Renowned Pi
H AEMONIUI
By Messrs. ALEXANDER PBRE e
Pirst-oiasa Mannfaotr
A Large Assortment of Now and
ways oa hand at . _
W. H. T A 1m
352 GEORGE STEE
OPPOSITE WTN PAR
SYDNEY.
Wv
w
-y
R
A I N E
GREAT DIORAMAS
AMERICAN
and RUSSO-TURKIS]
QUEENSLAND TC
Commencing: Albert Hall, Brisbar
mnoMPsoN’s colossal
JL ZULU WAR,
COUNTRY TOU
Ofb®
BATHURST, TUESDAY, 12
ORANGE, WELLINGTON, and
W. H. THOMPSON..
LIEUT. HERMAN
TO THE OPEBATIO AND
PROFESSION
NEW OPERA HC
WELLESLEY STREET, AU(
Sole Proprietor, H. N. i
THIS Magnificent Building is nc
THE MODEL Opera House
the Largest and Most Commodiot
Erected on lasteat models, it will be
every Modern Cemfert and Luxurj
the curtain) appertaining to t
Theatres in the Old and New Werlc
is perfect. All parte of the Houa
and egress from brood, light, and ai
precaution has been taken to save
ease of fire, and the Auckland City C
inspected and highly commended tfc
to that end. Magnifloently and ,
its Luxurious Private Baxes, Dr<
ehestra Staßa, together with its n
Stall a Aocomedatien, are features h
Colonial Theatre#. This Opera 1
by the Williamson Patieaee Coni
commencing from 23rd May last
Thempsen’s Colossal Mirror rot six
to be had from both manegsmsnts.
gets, Agents' “ Stars,” and Combin
ansly te the Proprietor for terras a
AND MBS. JAIV
(MISS MABSTON LI
Arrangements completed for ene
June let, 188%, nnder the ma
MESSRS. SABNER, WILLIAMBC
TAT E W TOWN HAL!
MAIN HALL OPEN FOR El
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, QAB
Application! for engagements t<
EBEhEZ
8
T D N E Y GY
LIVERPOOL STB
LADIES* AND GENTLEMEN’S
AT.T. BR * *• OHES OF ATHLE
rv H. d’HAROOUBT, I
A L uEBT HALL, Brisbane, o*
H ddtlng 1300 people, is now avi
and ether performances. The stag
depth, aua has a neat proscenium,
f Tt A T7TTY
G A
lET Y 1
CORNER CABTLBBEAGH Al
STREETS, BYDN
JAMES SHARI
Late of the Colonnade Hotel, cor:
tlcreagh Streets, desires to inform
public generally, that ha has rer
hotel, which has been lately known
Hotel, " and which he has thorong
trusts that by his usual strict at
combined with the beet brands of
to merit a fair share of patrenai
state that he still draws the famom
■SILVER CUP I
The new south wa
PIETE DEPOSIT AND IN
PANY, LIMITED, SYDNBI
TEMPORARY OFI
121 Caatlereagh-street, opposite I
CAPITAL, £50,0
Incorporated the Compa
(*7 Vic., No. IS]
MT H C
IMPORTER 01
WORKS OF A
GERMAN AND SWISS WO'
ARCADE BUILDI
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. g
SOLICITOR, has cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite i
News Office.
BICYCLES AND TR
SOGIABLE_TRIC
THE LIGHT RUNNING
The Lightest Running and Strong
For Racing, Road, or Tourist, the
THE BEST INVESTMENT OF TB
The Latest Novelty is the Sooi
Cushioned Seats for two persona,
know what real enjoyment is, shoal
TRICYCLES FOE I
The Latest Design. Cannot Upse
arms or collar bones. Travel with I
No Boy should he content till he
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUBS
|RENNICE, KEM9LEI
88 CLARENCE STB
SYDNEY.
D’W. CLAEES9N, 1
Us ■ at b_b
Treasure 1 er the ma nage»e
■a-flaqrs. Williamson. Garner, ai
poo« open at 7.15; commence ai
WEEK OP THE Eli
eleventh "" thiro WEEK c
«tjrr.LIANTLT SUCCBSSPI
BEIL the lights o> LOU
«ruten by GEORGE E. SI
EVERY EVES I
s. a new and original Dra]
wiU be acted IWH TJ 0 - Loli
-anal. Box plan open fr
Pn TsU day* in advance. Tick
Maared Bix j d> D6rfc theatre,
tbs bouse at. n fiEg LI3T>
Theatre Rsyal is connected 1
jStuS* Subscribers ean book I
ffifldinm- ———
Th e a t b e
BRISBANE, QUEENS
TO LET,
For open dates apply
geo. l. good:
THEATRE EOYAL, I
Op B E A H
L o3B ee and Manager
SECOND SUCCESSFUL WE
Grand English Opei
MONTAGUE-TUB
*r r Chas. Turner Propri
«, n or D. Db Vivo Manaj
Sfj scan ixeburt Secret
Br. J- 0 rjmjttßJDAY, SEPTEMI
Thomas’s New Grand Opera
Tha Ideal Mignon of Gothea
by ANNIS MONTAGUE.
ON FRIDAY and SATU
Donizetti’s tragic ope
LUCEEZIA BOEt
Miss ANNIS MONTAGUE as Lr
M Mr. CHARLES TURNER a
On MONDAY, and until furt
The Most Popular Op«
MARI TANA.
Conductor, Herr KOTEAS
plan and stall tickets at 1
flsor*e-9»raet. Stall and pit tickets
baooonist, under Opera House.
pAIB T Y T H
Lasseoq Messrs. L. M. Bayless a;
Direotr t sj..Mrs. M. Gladstane-BUy
Sale of reserved seats at Niohola
Qeorge-street. Doors open at 7.15,
narriaves at 10 15-
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, S
SECOND WEIK'S TEOGI
NEW PROGRAMME. NEW
MINStEELS.
E. AMEBY " Happy Day
G W. LAWLESS “ Como A
ALFRED LAWTON “ Dip it
W F. BISHOP “ Only a Fao
F. CLARK
CHAS. HEYWOOD "Jamie,
T, B. DIXON “ S
«SIM DIMPBEY ’’ MINS
Part 11.
OLIO.
To conclude with tha Irish SI
O’CALL VHAN’S HO:
SATURDAY, SE PTE MB
Appearance of Mr. TOM 5
Bon of the late Mr. Tom Sayers, Char
FREDERICK PERKINS, Mas
M
ACCABB’S FAREWELL TO !
M
ACCABE’S GOOD-BYE
_ MASONIC HALL, YORK
Lessee aod Manager Mr. F
FOURTH AND LAST A
of
FEIDEBIC MACCA
in his universally popular n
"BEGONE DULL CA
the most successful of all the ente
to the public; received by densely i
with screams of merriment. It is o
Sydney, and its fame has rendered i
TRAC MON OF VISITORS FOR T 1
WEEKS.
M
ACCABB.—NOW OR NBVI
never seen
MAC 0 ABE
be sure to see him now; those who
him will not require any persuasion,
to avail themselves of this only chanc
neseing the attractive and mirtb-pi
anca ef this inimitable Character DJ
Uosionist.
JOHN G
NEW
GARDEN SEEDS,
FOE PBE3ENT BOWING.
A Collection of Twelve
Leading Varieties of Veget-
able SEEDS, in Twelve
Sealed Packets, sent free to
any address in New South
Wales, on receipt of Stamps
for 3s. 01.
Thfl nnnliftr of mv
THE


SOLE AGENT rFOR BLA(
ELEGTEIC SiG
J. w. wiTlo
General Electr
95 MAEKET STREET,
and at London
MANUFACTUREE, IMPORT]
Electric Boll?, Batteries, Indies
Improved Purest Fire and Burg
Tubes, Tii .hhujg Cbmduotora, M“
Elect'Waehines, Bl<
Gliding n,en Plating Material, Bio*
on the latest and most improved
in London, P-iris, &o.
Literal Discount to t
Indents of every description of El
the most favourable
Estimates Submitted Fi
C. H. GLARKE t
ELECTRIC
CEO&SLEY’S TELBPH
m:
"ANUFACTUREBS and Ire
_ ®onduots>rs. Copper W:
•tiio Belle. Blliard Markers,!
BHnbjc' tignal«, Apparatus and 1
KleOttncßy. EWiimatea given for
79 AECABE, KING ST
THE PURE C C
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Delicious
Beverage.
<b
2
*
❖
C
o
C
drin
liquid yiel
ORDINARY
SOLD BY ALL <
OLD AND NEW
Ee-Pi nted fre
0
THE SYDNEY MOENII
Br Permission of the
BT
EDWARD HORDERN
James MARTIN 4 Compy.
389 GEORGE STREET, SVDKET (opposite Royal Hotel).
The HOBNSBY-MARTIN
RELIABLE
STEEL STRIPPER
We wish the Farme-s of N.S W. to note that we were
the flcut to introduce
STEEL GEARING ON STRIPPERS,
and that no ether firm in the colony can efferthisimpra vc-
ment. We state this, as onr suaefsa has induced our co m
petitors to call their Strippers steel, whilst they only claim
their comb to be steel, a toint which is given on the cheap-
est and commonest Strippers made. As this
COPYING OF THE NAME OP OUR STRIPPER
might confuse intending purchasers, we explain—
OUR HORNSBY-MARTItf 1882 STEEL STRIPPERS ARE WHAT WE CALL THEM,
POr w^er r a rnv BFINTEES, BEST CRUCIBLE STEEL COG
wheels, best wrought steel Beaters, besc wrought .vjeel drum spindl.es.
T. jl 6 ?’ *2u ik 1 * just as redicnloua for on’’ competitors to call a Shipper strel, because i s
•J ** *°. r to oAlltholr Road Wi ought Iron, became it has a wrought iron tyre
? *w• T 6 i o jf h i OW / on our Horn«b.fMaftin KeJiible Ste< 1 Strippers are bud'Ho? on all
pomts to tb]* so-ca!led St. el Stripper, and all we ask intending rnrehnser* is to compare our Reliable S e c l Strip,
per with the Strippers ef cmr oempatitors, and we know how they win decide. We sell our machines on their
Own merits, not udder (ke name given by our competitors. Write for Price > and Fu’l Pcr.lculars Post Free.
best quali nr string for string
BINDERS.
We shall be pie n*ed to post intending perohasen
earn plea cf oar 1882 string, which has been special! j
made tf the very test hemp, and is the finest sam.
nle ever offered ; the Q rality and Strength is
' usranterd tons. Farmers, donot use poor string
ecause it is offered you et Id per lb. under onr
price, it will cost you much more in breakage, loss
cf time, and loss of crop, be ore you are fl .uh«d harvesting.
>
m
■
N- mA
- £8
/,U £S "K*r//v co vsw
ni
- S.'-
A ° Turing
9. &. It.HUNTER STREET
SILVER C WATCHES
jgjQM. ri. .4.10.
SYDNEY
i£ND fOfV.
CATALOGUE.
GOLD WATCHES
'FROM ,4.3.10 .
&
5 >
TAILOR
Cable Address t
“ Clifford."
Clifford\ Love, <
EASTERN MER
FOO CHOW,
CH
and
YORK STREET,
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AK
COFFEE,
RUE,
PEPPERS,
SPICES.
TAPIOCAS.
CHUTNEYS,
INDIAN PRES SR'
CHINESE PRESE]
.. SILKS,
„ MATTI]
~ SPECIA
Give Special Attention to 1
EASTERN PRO
J 0
N I
IMPORTER
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brai
Gasflttings, Globes, Electi
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Copp
and Lead Pipe
119 LIVERPOOL STRE
D 'Moh a .®~
,\A
Tq.TWEED
*
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 ss.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 15s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. .£4
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, ,£4 4s
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £4, 10a.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
PBAPES & S HAW
AYE the pleasure to announce the arrival of LARGE S OP NEW SPRINT GOODS ev OPTPWT
«-«T lsa 0 S?f C^ NY I S^^ MEE! '* CHIMBORAZO. JOHN ELDER, and SORATA, and P. and O STEAM-
oUiJt'a i&UJaJ& and. ILiDL.
H
“PEAPER and SHAW beg to sav that a
CIAPTKAP AND PERSONAL At
SO MUCH THE FASHION
tiouly enumerate the VARIOUS CLASSES
OPENED.
They are as follows
ALL THE NE V SPRING COLOURS IN OUR FAM >US FLORA and CLEOPATRA KID GLOVES fro™
two to twenty i-uttons.
THE NEW MOUpQUFTA'RE SWE'E GLOVES CHILDREN’S KID GLOVE- 5 . IN ALL SIZES md
COLOURS. TI.E NEWEST end MOS l’ FASHION* BLE LACE G -O OS ClI ARMING FRENCH
PRINTED 8A TEENS, EXCLUSIVE PATTERNS A VERY BEAUTIFUL VAhlEIY of LOLMANS
fHOULDER CAPES, and MANTLES, in LA< E, hATINS, and RICH SILK < An EXQUISITE A'-SORi’
MENT -«f NEW PARASOLS MIRAH SILKS, THE MOST FASHIONABLE SHADfcs
S1YL1 . S . tl I>RRSS /RIMMING-). HAND-PAINTED FANS for PROMENADE and EVENING
W , 5vA lawvarlety of 11 expensive Ears f r ordinary nee FRENCH and ENGLISH MILLINERY LADIES’
aBd TT^l lL, ’ Hi, ' N ’ 8 HAnD.seWN and MACHINE MADE UNDERCLOTHING NEW and PRETTY
CHILDREN’S COSTUMES. ro!,w ana TEE1TY
In onr GENTLEMEN’S DEPARTMENTS full assortments of GENTLEMEN’S SCARPS TIES and BOWS,
in all the NEWES1 SPRING PATTKRNS, FH APES, and COLOURINGS *
CHRISTY'S HATS, tn all NEW SHAPES. GENTLEMEN’S WHITE OXFORD and REGATTA SHIRTS
Entirely new of patterns in the two latter. onin ib.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
Onr EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS of the very best ENGLISH, SCOTCH, and FRENCH
epen, and oar fri nds would do well to pay us an early visit.
WOOLLENS are now
PEAPES & SHAW, PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET. GEORGE STREET.


Commercial Union Fine Am
CAPITAL, £2,500,000.
lM.sm.ared.
ANNUAL INCOME, £1,114,996.
We w Uloii. -€;]*. s»lo
ACCUMULATED FUNDS, £2,194,424.
e **x.*n***z&Lm JFIVJE « WKJBimEiKSirA-'
i/. St VINCENT WELCH , /?e& Sec. cfe Underwriter.
9*'. ** -r
<
<
~r*t
v
*
>
/>:
/
-r
%
%
2?^
m
.
-
■/ ''mMMw/f/WA
a
V*#
|Mi
Vw/W'V 4.
=s>-V
»•
lr
w
TpT^
f
Lit
r /-
Eii
Tf^-s
X-
-3iE«fe
J®
r* /.">■
sr*
iflfflS
>
1
£
sz
N
iL>-
.-35®!
TC
Tr
1
il
j
n
: Üb;
r
n
**•
*
•XT'/
/
MW
'"udJS!
' £Z
*v.
3
qf»
C<
*
3C
TWW^-
«e£3
r OUB aSTBJW BOOK,
“THE ECONOMICAL HOUSE FURNISHING GUIDE”
Contains the whole of our former Lists, carefully revised and re-modelled.
PROCURE A. COPY. INOTE WELL THE ADDRESS.
And when you come to the Arcade to examine the articles enumerated in the lists, bring the book with yon ;
or if you send an order from the country, cut out the house, room, or line required, and enclose it in your letter.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE, 426 GEORGE-SL, SYDNEY, Next the Royal Hot*>L
-RTJ XN B
OF THE
©ARDEN PALACE,
Published as
SUPPLEMENT TO THE “BULLETIN.”
EVAN JONES,
W ATHHM A TOTTR f .AJSTID JE W ET .T■TH.'F?.
9 & 11 HUNTER STREET, and ROYAL ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Silver Hunting Lever Watches, manufactured expressly for BUSH WORK and HARD RIDING, from £6.
Note the AddressHUNTER STREET, and ROYAL ARCADE.
AGRICULTURAL PRIZE MEDALS MANUFACTURED TO ORDER.


Baking Powder
Should be kept in every household. It is one of the necessaries of the age. If you
have not yet used it, do not fail to get a supply at once and “TRY IT.”
No pudding, or cake, or any description of pastry (or any other preparation
with flour) should be made without using a small quantity of
Dr. WAUGH’S
Unequalled Baking Powder.
It will make all the difference between heavy indigestible food, and that which is
beautifully light, and easily digestible. Try it, and you will find it is so.
--— ~
Ask your Grocer for WAUGH’S BAKING POWDER, and refuse
all the inferior makes at the same price.
There are many common Baking Powders in the /market, which may be bought
0 » 7 • O
I
by Dealers at a lower price than they must pay J \Vaugh’s; but why should the
public submit to be imposed upon P Remember that WAUGH’S is the best ! There is
no doubt at all about it
An immense quantity is now sold, and the demand for it everywhere is
rapidly increasing. Consumers thus testify continually to its excellence, and they
■Waugh's Baking Powder,
AND
WAUGH’S ONLY,
OBTAINED A
AT THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, and no other BAKING POWDER, but
WAUGH’S, received the Exhibition “PRIZE MEDAL.”
The Verdict of the Chemical Judges, agreeing as it does, with the practical tests of
thousands of Housewives who never use any other make, thus conclusively proves that
mm fftwiii
IS THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
It is warranted free from every kind of adulteration, being absolutely pure. No one,
therefore, will continue to use an inferior article, when WAUGH’S BAKING
POW DER may be obtained by asking for it.
SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
♦
The Original G-OULBURN Medical Hall Baking Powder,
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
JAMES SHANNON,
AT THE FACTORY,
HARBOUR STREET, STDITETT.
