

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 118.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 29, 1882.
Price—3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRILS, 1882.
New Despotisms.
It is interesting to note how greatly reverence for
a name predominates over devotion to an ideal
in human affairs. The British Constitution is,
nominally, a sort of sacred Fetish among the white
subjects of Her Majesty the Queen. The rights
based upon the Great Charter which engaged the
nascent abilities of Sir Henet Paekes while a
young and obscure man, are constantly referred
to as a glorious birthright which men should
cherish, even though the effort to retain these
should cost them their life’s best blood. The
supreme merits of the Constitution, and the para-
mount importance of such institutions as liberty
of conscience, freedom of speech and discussion,
rights of minorities, and protection from punish-
ment except after a fair trial, are constantly
prated about. References to such splendid national
privileges are perpetual and übiquitous. They
are scattered through the pages of children’s text-
books, preached from every pulpit, gabbled from
every platform. They are introduced continually
into Parliamentary harangues and newspaper
articles. They are credited with the virtue of
creating the manly type of the ideal Briton. And
the mission of our favoured nation is con-
stantly declared to be not only to maintain these
privileges and rights for ourselves, but to be for
the whole world the Apostle of political and per-
sonal freedom.
# • *
When a people has pretensions so magnificent,
and professes an appreciation so vivid of its advan-
tages in these respects, it might be conjectured
that the privileges it so loudly, and seemingly
deeply, exults in, would be jealously guarded and
sternly maintained. The actual facts of the last
few years have been strangely at variance with
what might be rationally deduced from these pre-
mises. Th# Magna Charts has long been frittered
into shreds, and those patriots who sought to in-
sist upon its restoration in its integrity have been
stigmatized as traitors and ruffians, quelled by
military force, and treated as criminals. That,
however, is an old story. The Constitution was
supposed to remain, unblemished and in full effici-
ency, after the charter upon which it was mainly
baaed had been superseded. Affairs have advanced
a stage, and the British Constitution is apparently
about to follow the Englishman’s Charter. The
surprising thing is that nobody seems to have
discovered this significance of recent proceedings,
or that, if it has been comprehended, nobody has
attached any importance to the fact. The people
of Great Britain have without any exhibition of
uneasiness or distress, without any protest, and
even with every appearance of indifference, if not
of complacency, observed one violation after
another of that Constitution which they confess to
regard as the Palladium not only of their own,
but of all human political liberty.
* * *
It is certainly worthy of notice that it has been
the work of a nominally Liberal Premier to com-
mence the demolition of the Constitution. Nothing
save the fatuous reverence for names rather than
realities could have enabled any British Minister
to pursue the destructive course to which Mr.
Gladstone has committed his administration and
his party. Had a Tory Premier ventured to pro-
pose measures one tithe as arbitrary and sub-
versive as those to which the present Premier of
Great Britain, and his mixed Ministry of Whigs
and Radicals, have lent their impulse and authority,
there would have arisen a cry of horror from one
end of England to the other at the attempted
desecration of the popular Fetish —the Constitu-
tion. But when a man is recognised as a High
Priest he may tweak the nose of the Idol, and strip
it of its jewels, in the very face of its most fanati-
cal worshippers, and find little difficulty in gull-
ing them with explanations that all his proceedings
are but fresh tokens of his devotion and reverence.
Mr. Gladstone has found no difficulty in per-
suading the present Parliament to assume a
superiority to the Constitution with respect to a
large portion of the British Isles. Whenever
Constitutional privileges have embarrassed tho
predominant party in their efforts to repress the
weaker section of Her Majesty’s subjects, a now
law has been readily passed to override the Con-
stitution, and to cause those inconvenient rights
to disappear. Such is the Treason-Felony Act,
passed a few years ago, and such are the Clftture
regulations brought into force in the House of
Commons at the instance of the Liberal leader.
• • *
Ireland has been deprived of the benefits of
Constitutional Government altogether, and re-
duced to the political condition of Poland. Her
elected representatives in Parliament have been
arrested and held in detention without being
brought to trial. The personal liberty of her peo-
ple has been placed at the absolute disposal of a
handful of Satraps, answerable te no law, and
responsible only to the Minister from whom they
receive their illegal authority and their military
support. The Speaker of the British House of
Commons has been converted from the protector
of members of a minority into their master, and
censor—almost into their public prosecutor.
While the power of Parliament has been elevated
over the might of the Constitution, the influence
of the majority in Parliament has been exalted into
despotic supremacy over the rights of a minority.
It has arrogated to itself the power to deny
admission to the chosen of a Constituency if the
individual happen to hold views obnoxious to its
prejudices. It has assumed authority to close the
mouths of the weaker party whenever their utter-
ances, remonstrances, or protestations become
nconvenient or distasteful. It has formulated a
process for suspending from discharge of his
constitutional functions any individual member.
who may persist in pressing upon the House prin-
ciples which it would prefer to stifle. In a word,
it has reconstructed for its 'own convenience a
despotism, compared with which the rule of a
personal Autocrat is feeble.
• • •
There is singular evidence of shortsighted-
ness, duo to the passion of the hour, in all
this. Mr. Gladstone and his colleagues
may be satisfied with their own virtue and power
of self-restraint, and may bo supported by an
internal sense of good intentions and constitu-
tional limitation. They may be satisfied that the
enormous powers they have usurped will never be
abused by them. But they apparently neglect to
look ahead. How will these same powers bo
employed by the Tories when that party succeeds
in its turn, as it inevitably must, to office ? Will
the representatives of hereditary privilege, of
landlordism, and of aristocratic caste ideas, wield
the scourge of serpents, with as tender, delicate,
and scrupulous a hand as the leaders of the
liberal and democratic sentiment in Great Britain P
The processes which secure the incarceration of a
Parnell and a Davitt, will need little adjust-
ment to be applicable to a Chamberlain and a
Cowan. The powers which are employed to
suspend constitutional protections in Ireland, may
with dangerous facility be brought to bear upon
Scotland, or even England itself when the day-
now fast approaching—shall be arrived at when
the tenantry engage in a struggle with the land-
lord classes.
* * *
The influence of example has also to be con-
sidered. The Liberal leaders of British political
affairs do not appear to have sufficiently regarded
or appreciated the prevalence of imitative ten-
dencies. Great Britain is the fount of immense
communities scattered over the globe, where also
constitutional government exists, and is attended
with its inseparable accompaniments of faction 8
antagonisms and personal ambitions. The S.M.
Herald a short time ago started a very signifi-
cant question. Whether, as our colonial Parlia-
ment claims to exercise all the rights, and to
follow all the processes of the House of Commons,
it will not be open for local Ministries and majori-
ties to assume all the new powers for smothering
debate and quelling minorities, which have been
newly invented in the Imperial legislature. In
small communities, personal antagonisms and
clique animosities are sharper and more potent
than where the field and population are more
extensive. The case comes keenly home to our-
selves in N.S. Wales. Already there have been
ample indications of a tendency on the part of
men in power to arrogate to themselves despotic
functions. Men, whose mouths perpetually dribble
expressions of profound attachment to the princi-
ples of liberty, have in practice shown themselves
too ready to abrogate these very principles and
set them at naught whenever they were felt to
hamper their designs. A very real and serious
danger has been created by the precedents origi-
nated by the present British Administration. The
spark of despotism wafted across the ocean will find
here tinder of a decidedly inflammable kind. The
men who propose laws which would compel any
man, who intended to deliver an address or lecture
in public, first to apply for permission to the
Colonial Secretary—accompanying such applica-
tion with a statement of his projected theme and
views, are but too likely to emulate with effusion
any example which would add to their personal
authority and invest them with augmented control.
Professions in these days of popular shibboleths
are not worth much. The public will do well to
rouse from an oar-tickled complacency and judge
its public men not by what they protest, but by
what they do.
An Injured Innocent.
A remarkable advertisement appeared in last
Saturday’s issue of the S.M. Herald. It occupied
three and a half columns of close print, and was a
manifesto issued by the Hon. W. Campbell, M.L.C.
of Victoria, to the electors of the N.W. Province,
on the occasion of his departure for Europe on a
visit. There are in these colonies about two mil-
lions of men who will regard Mr. Campbell as a pe-
culiarly fortunate individual in being able to re-visit
at his ease the home of his youth. But Mr. Camp-
bell is not happy. He has a grievance, and the
object of his manifesto is to complain of “the
iniquity of the Land Tax Act.” The root of Mr.
Campbell’s woes is that he labours under the
misfortune of being exceptionally wealthy, and
the owner of, amongst other sorts of property, a
large landed estate.
• • •
This condition of wretchedness the Parliament
of Victoria, under Mr. Berry’s leadership, sought
to alleviate in some degree by reducing the
cause. A tax was imposed upon landed estates,
the property of a single individual, which
exceeded what might be regarded as a man’s
fair share of; the territory. Mr. Camp-
bell’s proportion of “the tax amounted to
no less an annual sum than .£460, frem which it
may be inferred that he suffered from a very large
income indeed. But still he is not happy. He
thinks —and, in a windy, wordy way, says—that it
is an infamy that £460 per annum should be taken
for the expenses of Government from his little
pittance of £lO,OOO or so a year, while the man
who has £3OO a year—or even £5O a year—should
not be required to pay anything. Mr. Campbell
quotes, in support of his piteous complaint, the
maxim of Adam Smith, that “ the subjects of
every State ought to contribute towards the sup-
port of the Government as nearly as possible in
proportion to the revenue which they respectively
enjoy under the protection of the State.”
* * *
Now, if the land-tax were the sole source of
revenue in Victoria, Mr. Campbell’s complaint
would be perfectly just, and his quotation from
Adam Smith apposite. But, considering that in
that colony every man is taxed from the cradle to
the grave, and that the poorest contributes to the
expenses of Government through the custom-
house in a much greater proportion to his means
than the well-to-do, the justice of taking some
method of equalizing the public burdens is obvious.
* * *
Taxation should bear some proportion to the
amount of benefit derived from the protection of
the State—in other words, some proportion to the
relative wealth of individuals. It is very
questionable—and a modern Adam Smith would
probably formulate a new maxim to meet the case —
whether taxation on necessaries should be resorted
SIGNOR SIMONETTI (See Next Page).


HOP BIT
ABE
THE PUSEST A*
MEDICINE EVER
They are Compound*
Hops, Buehu, Mandrake
The Oldest, Beet, most E
Valnable Medicines in th
in addition, contain all
most effective curative pn
other Bitters, being the g
Regulator, Blood Phriei
and Health Restoring Age
Ask your Druggist o:
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, anc
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitth
drugged, drunken nostn
Purest and Best Medicin
and no person or family ah
out it.
VALUABLE TB
If you are suffering fron
or languishing on a bed of
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will C
If you are simply ailin
Weak and Dispirited, wi
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will B
If you are a Minister, e
taxed yourself with your pi
or a Mother, worn oat v
work.
Hop Bitters Will H<
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the
every-day duties, or a m
toiling over your midnigh
Hop Bitters Will Str<
If you are suffering froi
or drinking, any indiscret:
tion, or are young and gro
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Hi
If yen are in the worl
farm, at the desk, anywh
that your system needs C'
ing, or Stimulating, witl
ting,
Hop Bitters is Whal
If you are old, and your 1
impure, pulse feeble, yoi
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give T<
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elej
and refreshing flavouring
drinks, impure water, &
them harmless, and sw
month, and cleansing the
CLEANSE, PUEIFT, AND EN
with
HOP BUT
and yon will have no siokne
MONTEPIORE, METC
65 PITT STREET, STD*
General Agents for A
Dugald M'Intyre, aged 106 3
Inglewood, V.
American Waltham Watches
prizes, Melbourne laternatiom
Higher awards than any exhibitor
—Anvr.
It is necessary, during hot
beverages likely to heat or sti
Cocoa, deprived of the superflnou
absolutely pure, is a most sootl
refreshing beveraee. Bo sure 1
BURT'S COCOA ESSENCE wh«
imitations are often pushed by
sake of extra profit. Makers by
to the Queen.— (Advt.)
Trade mark, Waltham, Ma
Watch Company, of Waltham, Mi
hereby give notice that their tr
to at all, unt J taxation on luxuries had been ex-
hausted. In other words, it may be doubted
whether it is right to take tithes from the barely-
sufficient bread of the poor while the champagne
and cutlets of the rich continues to invite the
attention of the exciseman.
* # •
Mr, Campbell, however, has evidently no
sympathies with such fancies. He trusts that
the principles which underlie the maxims of Smith
and Mill are inherent in the hearts of the mass
of the people, but laments that some “ are
frequently misled by designing, envious, impe-
cunious wicked demagogues.” If one may gauge
Mr. Campbell’s ideas by his choice of epithets,
he can scarcely hold “ the mass of the people” in
much affection: he brackets “ impecunious” and
“wicked” together so suggestively. The “mass
of the people” share with these objectionable
demagogues the offence of impecuniosity, and are,
probably, equally tainted with the wickedness
which Mr. Campbell appears to regard as asso-
ciated with poverty.
• ■ •
On the whole, Mr. Campbell has done some
little service by publishing his views. He has
afforded to the people of this colony an opportu-
nity of judging what have been the sort of provo-
cations suffered by “ the mass of the people” in
Victoria,and what has been the insensate,indurated
selfishness of the very rich men who, in the Legisla-
tive Council of that colony, have so long and so
obstinately resisted all attempts to secure a fair
adjustment of the public burdens, so that the
heaviest load should not for ever rest upon the
weakest shoulders.
Signor Simonetti.
We present our readers to-day with the portrait
of a true artist. For many years past Signor
Bimonetti has been engaged in the worthy mission
of familiarising a colonial public with the sculp-
tor’s vocation in its highest development. Our
Art Gallery and public buildings have been en-
riched with the characteristic work of his prolific
hand, and the features of many of our represen-
tative citizens and public men have been re-
produced in enduring marble by the magic of his
plastic art. Born in Rome, in December, 1842,
Signor Simonetti has enjoyed special facilities for
overcoming the peculiar difficulties of his profes-
sion. The son of a sculptor who was himself dis-
tinguished even in the brilliant art-world of the
Eternal City, he studied in his father’s studio and
aho at the Public Academy of S. Luga. He lived
in Rome for nearly thirty years, a student of art
for almost the whole of that period. At an early
age he went to Athens—that cradle-land of the
sculptor’s genius, where Phidias and Praxiteles
and their brethren lived and energised, imaging
“the foam-born queen in foam-white marble,"
and inspiring with their deathless labours the
dreamers and poets of all future time. Here our
artist spent as long a time as is often considered
sufficient to learn many another profession,
and here the finish and polish of the master were
given to his powers. While still in Athens his
talents attracted so much appreciative attention
that he was commissioned to execute busts of the
chief Ministers of State in that city. In 1871
the Signor first came to Australia, under the
auspices of the late Bishop Quinn, of Queensland.
The first-fruit of the artist s genius in Australia
was an artistioally-executod bust of that right
reverend gentleman, —a speaking likeness, worked
in Carrara marble. While in Brisbane he also pro-
duced an excellent bust of the late Sir Maurice
O Connell. This appaars to have been a most success-
ful effort, evincing the possession of the true artistic
faculty. Some few years ago our sculptor left
Brisbane for Sydney, where he has since fixed his
abode, enriching our public places, as we have said,
with the proofs of his artistic skill. Since settling
here Signor Simonetti has executed, among other
works, those four well-known and universally
admired figures ornamenting the Colonial Secre-
tary’s Office, Justice, Mercy, Wisdom, and
Labour. Owing to the short-sighted economical
policy of our local legislators these works of un-
doubted high art were produced in stone instead
of being perpetuated in marble. He has also
executed busts of Sir Hercules Robinson, Sir
Alfred Stephen. Sir P. A. Jennings, Sir Henry
Parkes, J. K. Clark, M.L.A., the late Commodore
Goodenough, John Fairfax, Judge Faucett, and
several others. His chief and moat ambitious
work is, however, the “Venus of the South/’
This group has been said to excel all his
other compositions in statuary. It is life-
size, the subject being Venus teaching Cupid
to shoot. The nude goddess, sculptured in many
a flowing line and graceful curve of entrancing
beauty, is represented seated, in all the ripe
luxuriance of her charms of bodily form. At her
side is tho little Cupid, who has just shot the
arrow, and is bending forward eagerly to see
where it has fallen. The group is easy and
natural, with no forced straining after artistic
effect. It is sufficient to establish its author’s
claim to the repute of a true artist, and its pre-
sence amongst us is a proof that it is no longer
necessary to go the colony for really
artistic sculpture. In viewing such a work as
this, and others from the same studio, the thought
naturally forces itself on one’s mind that we have
yet in this country no duly established Schools
of Sculpture and Painting. We have now
arrived at that stage in our colonial growth
when these adjuncts of culture, and, we might
also say, of civilization, are becoming not
only desirable, but necessary. It has been
frequently remarked that the youth of these
Australian cities exhibit tastes and inclinations
of a distinctly artistic character. The musical
faculty is a common gift. And we are confident, if
the dormant artistic leanings, which must naturally
accompany these in some minds, and flow naturally
from the scenic graces and apparent beauties of
these fair Australias, receive due encouragement
and direction from such schools as we indicate, that
the faculty thus educated and perfected will repro-
duce images of an ideal and imaginative beauty
on glowing canvass or in enduring marble, as
worthy of perpetuation as any poem of native poet
or any song of native bard.
Dr. A Annesley West.
We give the portrait on page 8 of Dr. A. Annesley
West, of the Glebe. Dr. West was born in the county
Kildare Ireland, and was educated at Cheltenham
College,’ and at Wimbledon, England. He began his
professional studies at Trinity College, Dublin, in 1865,
and four years later took the degrees of B.A. and M.is.
He came out to the colonies in 1870, and practised for a
period of seven years at Raymond Terrace, Hunter
River He returned to England in 1877 and took the
degrees of M.D., M.C.11., audM.A. of Trinity College,
Dublin, and also the Licentiateship and the Fellowship
of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland. Again com-
ing to Australia, he resumed practice at the Globe. Dr.
West was three years honorary physician of the Sydney
Infirmary. He is now honorary physician to the hos-
pital for sick children, and is one of the four medical
men in private practice on the Sydney Board of Health,
whoso work during the recent small-pox outbreak was
so satisfactory. Dr. West enjoys a very large practice,
and has now obtained the assistance of his brother, Dr.
W. Augustus West. Our engraving is from an excel-
lent photo, by Freeman.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Russian Atrocities.
The Russian nation occupies a bad pre-eminence among
the nations of Europe. In all countries there are
people yet barbarous. One has only to consider the
wife-kicking savages of England to recognise this fact.
But in Russia alone are the governing classes equally
barbarous with the ruck of the people. True, the
Czar and Princes have a varnish of culture and civili-
zation. They can read and write, patronise the arts,
and probably do not eat with their knives or pick their
teeth with their forks. But essentially they are bar-
barians, and when put to the test evince all the faults
of the savage. The Ministers of the Czar are shameless
and habitual liars. They are fearfully inhumane. They
pledge their honour with deliberate intention not to
redeem it, regarding those who trust their assurances
as incomprehensible fools. For months the Russian
Government has been conniving at the most horrible
atrocities perpetrated upon the Jewish subjects erf the
Czar; end during the same period they have
been blandly assuring the world that nothing of the
kind—at least, nothing worth mentioning—has been
going on. It is very hard to arrive at the real facts as
to what has been occurring in such an Empire as
Russia, when the Press is a mere shadow, such as some
of our own Judges would like to see It in New South
Wales. But, by degrees some facts have become Inoon-
trovertibly known, and, on the 20th instant, the news
came by cable that the Russian authorities had
officially admitted—-what they had previously and per-
sistently officially denied—that wide-spread outrages
on the Jews had taken place. But still it is excepted
that the accounts of atrocities perpetrated upon
women and children are derived only from unofficial
sources. Now, a thing which has happened unofficially
is regarded by all persons of well-regulated minds as
not having happened at all. If one’s house he
burnt down, unofficially, one’s head broken, or
one’s daughter violated all unofficially—it is
proper to understand that one has no cause
for complaint. Unofficial conflagrations do not
eonsume, unofficial wounds do not cripple, unofficial
violations do not ruin. But, not being persons of well-
regulated minds, wa perversely elect to look upon affairs
in an unofficial way; and despite the declaration of the
Czar’s ministers, take the liberty of believing that
women and children have been frightfully abused under
his Government. One plea very strenuously put for-
ward by the apologists of the “ White Father," Alex-
ander 111., when the denial of all outrages began to be
absurd, was that the rioters were drunk. Yet we are
called upon to believe that a mob of ruffians, inflamed
by liquor to the condition of defying the terrible Russian
police—not even heeding the possibility of troops being
let loose upon them—burned down houses, wrecked
shops, and killed men, yet when they came across a
shrieking woman or a child, recollected themselves,
thought of their manners, and, with sudden sobriety,
bowed them politely out of the way 1
Peace Without Honour.
The recent visit to Sydney by Mr. Berrt and hi g
political staff has been an event of more real significance
than the mere present results —or absesce of results—
might be taken to indieate. The ex-Premier, still the
Radical leader of Victoria, may be regarded as a mere
itical straw, wafted hither by a passing puff of
impulse. But even it he be so regarded, the fact that
ho has been here is not deprived of its import. It
furnishes the best appreciable evidence that what has
often been predicted, as to the effect of completing
railway communication between the capitals, is coming
true. The process of blending has commenced, and
Mr. Bebrt has been, without being conscious of it, the
first real harbinger of Federation. When the promi-
nent politicians of one colony can, on a mere whim,
cross the border, and address themselves to an audience
in the neighbouring community, the lines of political
separation have begun to efface themselves. Able men
will become the recognised leaders of opinion in both
communities. A great Liberal in Victoria will naturally
be called upon for the aid of his alliance and advocacy
should the Liberals of New South Wales be at any time
engaged in an arduous struggle. And so with a
Monopolist leader of distinguished power. The ten-
dency is inherent to summon foreign help to turn the
scale in civil contentions. And when help is available,
extraneous yet not foreign, it will be all the more
readily sought. Close relations are certain to follow
such dealings. When a leading man across the border (
is appealed to for the support of his powerful voice and
personal prestige, and sees his way to grant it, he is
certain to go further, and to move his whole following
to'.throw their weight also into the scale. Thus, in time,
it must come to pass that in the two colonies the line of
division will cease to be geographical, and will be
political instead. There will no longer be so much a
frontier at the Murray as there will be a division
into Liberals and Conservatives, working in close alli-
ance and dependence. And it may ho anticipated
that an occasion will arise when, a political party
having power for a while, simultaneously, in both
colonies, the impulse of union, and the desire
to concentrate their strength and consolidate
their supremacy, will prompt them to pull
down for ever the artificial separation which im-
pedes their joint action. The probability of the com-
ing influence which the ideas prevailing in one colony
are likely to exercise in another, appears to have been
apprehended, even if not clearly recognised, in conser-
vative quarters. The S.M. Herald, last week, referred
somewhat querulously to “ the visit of Mr. Berrt—
veteran agitator and champion of Protection in Vic-
toria—to this peaceful land, wherein Free Trade pre-
vails,” as “ a new departure.” It is necessary to dis-
tinguish between peace and torpidity—between material
repose and intellectual stagnation. In New South
Wales torpidity and stagnation of ideas have been
masquerading as Peace too long. We do not doubt
that there will be a flow of ideas, ao well as of men,
across the border. Things and institutions which have
stood unquestioned will be put to the test before long.
Free Trade itself will no longer be an axiom, but a ,
problem; no longer a bolus to be swallowed, but a
tincture to bo tasted and analysed. Arguments will
not be all on one side in N.S. Wales, and all on the other
side in Victoria. Henceforth the prevalent Victorian '
arguments will be heard as distinctly in Sydney as in
Melbourne, and the prevalent contentions of N.S.
Wales will ring in Victorian ears. A peaceful land, in
the sense used by the Herald, we shall not much
longer sutfer from. But, better a land of motion and
tumult; of upsetting and pulling down; of disruption
from whence the Bight ultimately emerges, than a con-
tinuance of sluggish acquiescence in-anything—of peace
with plunder and piety, with public rapacity and un-
checked shamelessness, accompanied by slumbrous
insensibility to growing evils and political juggleries.
A Queer Definition.
When Bishop O’Quinn ruled the roast in Queensland,
he carried his control with a pretty stiff hand, and
made enemies even among his own clergy. Represen-
tations were made, secretly, to Rome, that the Bishop
showed gross favouritism to priests who, like himself,
were Irishmen, and that the Italian priests in his
liocese were not only treated with neglect, hut with
contumely. The charges went further. They ascribed
drunkenness and immorality to Dr. O’Quinn and his
compatriots—charges which were, as regards the late
Bishop, not at all in keeping with the general opinion
of his character. Rightly or wrongly, the Catholics of
Q ueenslaud believed that the Rev. Dr. Cani, who was
Administrator of the diocese while Bishop O’Quinn
was in Europe, had some hand in the representations
made to Rome; and the appointment, subsequent to
Dr. O’Quinn’s death, of Dr. Cani to be Administrator
of the diocese, aroused an amount of opposition seldom
svinced by people so well kept under discipline as
Soman Catholics—priests and laity alike—ordinarily
are. A score of priests—lrishmen, with one exception
—actually addressed a remonstranee to the Archbishop.
This remonstrance is a very remarkable document indeed.
The rev. gentlemen attribute Dr. Cani’s failure as an
Administrator to his natural incapacity for that office,
and finally “to his violent temper and rude manners,
which rendered his government unreasonable and tyran-
nical." This is pretty stiff, but it is straightforward.
The charm of the thing follsws. The remonstrants, in
eonclusion, beg to inform the Archbishop that they do
act ascribe to Dr. Cani “anything derogatory to his
piety, his xea’, or his priestly character I ” The laity
have been favoured with multitudes of fancy pictures
representing what a priest or a parson should be, and,
imferentially, what priests and parsons ordinarily are, or
strive to become. But never before can we remember
that the uninitiated have been permitted to learn what
priests themselves consider compatible with their ideal
of unblemished piety and “ priestly character." Violent
temper and rude manners, unreasonable and tyrannical
exercise of power, are, according to these twenty
priests—surely destined to be celebrated henceforth—
not derogatory to a priest. This is “sticking to a brother
judge " with a vengeance. If this definition of what
is not to be regarded as a blemish in the sacerdotal craft
were not signed by the twenty priests, we should sus-
pect that it had been concocted by an Orange conclave.
Had the rev. gentlemen deliberated how best to endorse
the allegations of the enemies of their sect, they could
scarcely have hit upon a mere efficaeious plan. But
perhaps it is harsh to blame men for speaking—even by
accident—the language of sincerity. The lesson is too
valuable to be received without some degree of thank-
ulness.
The Massacre of the Innocents.
The mortality amongst illegitimate children is hecom-
ing fearfully marked in Rockhampton. Last month the
Local Police Magistrate’s attention was called to the
fact that since the Ist January, 1882, no less than nine
deaths of illegitimate children had been registered, and
that four of the nine had died between the Ist and the
16th March. The circumstances were so significant
thut the P,M. thought it advisable to hold a consultation
of medical men on the subject. At the meeting which
ensued measures were taken to check undue mortality,
which, it was decided, was owing in great measure to
the carelessness of nurses, and the heartlessncss of
mothers. The intended effect of the enquiries was to
make nurses and mothers more careful in their treat-
ment of “farmed-out ” babes, and deter them from
sacrificing the lives of helpless children, for whom the
disgraced mothers can have little affection, and the
hireling nurses little sympathy beyond that engendered
by cupidity. The state of things thus brought into pro-
minence is sufficiently striking. Under such circum-
stances as these, the material instinct is nullified by
the mother’s shame, and misery to the helpless
offspring is a necessary consequence. It is strange,
in view of so much crime and wretchedness
that the persons really answerable should re-
main beyond the reach of the law. The brutalised
miscreants who seduce these unfortunate mothers in
the first instance, taking advantage of their feminine
gentleness and yielding disposition to betray them to
their ruin, are certainly morally responsible for the
infanticide that too often succeeds. Yet the law holds
I them irresponsible and practically blameless. Mean-
[ while, if in such a comparatively small place as Rock-
hampton this condition of affairs exists, the same thing
may also be found in Sydney in a proportionate degree.
( In a small community, these instances of criminal
neglect receive more attention than when hidden in a
dense population. If the law cannot or will not shield
female weakness against the seducer, it should at least
protect the children of their sin. Here, in Sydney, we
have a Foundling Asylum devoted to this purpose.
But every hoarding bears, at the same time, its copy of
some Gazette proclamation of untraced infanticide.
The usefulness of the institution is hampered by the
inquisitorial nature of the cross-examinations to which
each unfortunate applicant for mercy for her miserable
infant is subjected by a Board.
At the dinner given to Mr. Julian Thomas, reference
was made to the inducements to black-mailing offered
by the existing libel laws in this colony. Mr. Geoeue
who is business-manager of the S.M. Herald, and per-
haps thehighest authority on colonial newspaper affairs,
stated that notices of action were constantly being re
ceived by proprietors, that within five weeks the Herald
proprietary had received four such compliments, and
that they recognizing that the recent judgments
of the Supremo Court were likely to result in a regular
system of black-mailing, had determined to fight these
cases in future, and to carry them, if necessary, to the
highest legal tribunals. In other words, the Herald
proprietors have resolved to compromise no more
actions, and not to rest satisfied with decisions of our
Supreme Court. It is a thousand pities that these
gentlemen had not earlier recognised whither their
system of buying off assailants was tending. Had they
had the courage which their position required, the
abuse which has only now been exposed would never
have attained its present proportions. What The
Hekaid should now do to recover its reputation is to
publish some downright libels in the public interest,
challenge some of the frauds who live upon political or
social imposture, and fight them from court to court,
so that the prospect of tackling a newspaper when it
speaks out as is its duty, would become a terror to
those evil-doers who at present regard the law as insti- ,
tuted for their special protection, and the Supreme
Court of the colony as a tribunal where honest men
can be punished for interfering with scoundrels.


VIRTUTIB GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL
THIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to ST DNET supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within Citj bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting*
and cleaner flra than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle ooal, 'nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English ooal of
beating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
Steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas flre.l .
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
ONE OP THE WO ELD’S GREATEST
OAESMEN.
JN a roctnt conversation in Kingston, Can ada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Trickett, ihe celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in tho
world, gwe the following as bis opinion.
“I have found St. JACOB’S OIL asu'a iudce:tain
cure, and one unequalled by any medieine. It cured
me of sjvero pains in the back, brought on by over-ex-
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.”
The writer listened attentively to tho above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about; and now he says
that St, JACOB'S OIL and good athletic training, are
what all our young men want.
ALL DEUGGIST’S SELL IT. PEICE HALF-A*
CEOWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BEOTHEES 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFFNUNQ & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PEOSSEB & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George.street.
I. JACOBS & Co., Hunter-street,
FEREIER’S BAKING POWDER,
CUU39
MANUFACTORY,
BON -ACCORD
[W OEKS|
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
SELF EAI-INO FLOUR
TRADE
MARK
&
YEAST POWDER.
This is the most effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Sec. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and oanbe made by any intel'igent lad with perfect safety.
This G* Sis much cleaner and mare brilliant than coal gas and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace);
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the GovernmentEailways in perference
lmporters and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &o. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER,
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER d 0 0 M S,!
85 CASTLBREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.:
137 ZING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
%
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
XEVERS
S
A.J.HU FTO
2
B
ooo^
r
W
0
633 GEORGE STREET.
MANUFACTORY:
Geoegk-btreet West, Sydney.
H OD
[Established 30 Years.]
GSON’S WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Goulburn-street.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, &o.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
L'.'
I l l
[_
k
>mm ' 1 ; •//'■
[670! H.HILDER .16 70
6-70
15/
HHlBi
□lr
MILDER
Ssr«<'« ko u y f
|V >
mt.
wii
a
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
CENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
571, GEORGE-STEEET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of the Best Quality in the Trade.
A Tiial respectfully solicited.
Note the Addrse **
671, GEC E GE-STEEET,
Fetween Liverpool and Goulbura Streets.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Municipal row still on at Qulgong. The
Mayor, by hia own Vote the other dav, staved olf a vote
of want of oonfldenee in himself 72 000 gals, whisky,
&0., were turned out last year by the Warrenheip Dis-
tillery Co., Ballarat. Bat who ever saw spirits labelled
•‘Warrenheip?” The net profits of R. Goldsbrough
and Co., limited, for six months were £3-',512185. 3d
A Dunedin man has been importing from Adelaide to
N.Z. large anantities of grapes for wine-waking pur-
poses! 150 bullock teams perished during the
present season beyond Dubbo AN Z. inventor has
written to Edison suggesting a plan of shearing sheep,
evenly, rapidly, and without cutting, by means of an
electric wire At last Christchurch assizes, a large
number of oases of indecent assault were heard. The
cat was freely proscribed for all convicted A mud
dredge is being built on a new and improved style at
Brisbane. Its first trial will be upon the Town Council
lt is alleged that the Russian Government ow«
Rothschilds ninety million sterling J Pombart, late
clerk of the local Court, Adelaide, but now sipping
claret on board the Chimborazo, had a £l5O a year, and
lived well. On bidding adieu to these shores, it was
fonnd that he had borrowed, bought, and " collared ”
moneys to the tune of many hundreds of pounds, and
wound up with a bit of a diamond ring on time-pay-
ment He was formerly in the Melbourne Post
Office At the Coro va banquet, a practical joker
usurped the allotted speech of a selector’s man, and
wired in ia defence of the squatters. It was the biggest
hit of the evening N.Z. Government determinedly
prohibiting the sale of intoxicants to natives John
ameron, of Waterloo, N.S.W., threshed 250 bushels of
wheat as the produce ef 4 acres One Melbourne firm
purchased 30,000 galls, wine in the Wahgunyah district
for making champagne this season.... Mr. Jack, Queens-
land geologist, has fonnd coal-measures in the Cook-
town district An Adelaida billiard-saloon pooprietor
has shown how the Licensing Act is to be evaded with
impunity, A “company” of gentlemen “lease” the
premises, and the establishment is a club at 0nee......
City of Melbourne Bank divided 8 per cent.. Colonial
Bank, Melb., made £66,000 profit last half
927 people at the Museum on Sundav afternoon...... A
Queensland station holder, who some time since distin.
gnished himself in a fracas with the son of an Irish
peer, has now been committed on a charge of rape
A Victorian syndicate is trying to purchase a big tract
of land from the Maori chiefs. Victorian capital is
finding its way to very distant places—to wit. New
Mexico, the Cape, and Texas Captain Amora is to
receive an honorarium of £59 from the Insurance com-
panies of N. 3. Wales, for the skilful seamanship and
courage exhibited by him in saving the collier Llewellyn
from being wrecked in a recent gale Two recently
discharged Pentridgess ware caught in the act of
endeavouring to convey 500 figs of tobacco to present
prisoners National Bank of Australasia, Melbourne,
show net profits for the last ha I •-year of £59,998 ; divi-
dend declared of 12J percent Typhoid fever at Rich-
mond (Vic.); a dairy has helped to spread the infection
A double line is urgently wanted on the Paddington
tramway. Going home to d'nner now almost impossible
...John M'Ewan, fireman on the Williamstown (V.) rail-
way, had his brains dashed out on an engine. The
train was 1 passing under the Stony Creek bridge, and
M'Ewan, who was leaning out, struck with his head a
projecting portion of the bridge Amm atEingiora
(N.Z ), named Thomas, killed himself by drinking half
a pint of the solution used iu galvanic batteries. Ho
h id been suffering from sciatica, for which he was using
the battery .Mr. Pookes, overseer at Donor’s Hill
Station (N.Q ) was drowned in the river Flinders, last
week During the first quarter of this year, 93toz. of
gold were accounted for at the Mount Poole diggings.
Bank of N.Z. made £82,000 net profits during the
last half year; dividend and bonus declared equivalent
to 15 per cent, par annum A commercial traveller,
named Henry Gislingham, in the employ of Andrews
and Co., of Melbourne, committed suicide at the
Albion Hotel, Sale, Victoria, while “ suffering
a recovery,” by suffocating himself with bedclothes
Charles M'Donald, a fruiterer at the Thames Goldfield,
N.Z , was sentenced to three months’ imprisonment for
allowing card-playing on his premises. M'Donald was
at one time assistant-surgeon in a leading Australian
hospital In the Collaroy bush, the other day, a lad
named John Dicks, who wanted to have a lark with
another named Egan, played the part of a concealed
’possum, and commenced rustling in a bush. Egan
acted accordingly, with a gun, and unintentionally
killed Dicks The sugar-mill at Broadwater, Rich-
mond River, NS.W., cost £109,000; employs twenty
80-ton punts iu the season, a large paddle steamer, and
several steam launches. There are twenty-four other
sugar-mills on the Richmond River.
• « «
Henniker Heaton, in letters to London papers,
states that Australian children are as highly educated
as those in any Public schools in any country, and at a
nominal expanse. Henniker evidently doesn’t know
much about Victoria A new pyramid discovered 13th
Deeember last, at Meydoom, on the bank of the Nile,
forty miles from Cairo, is supposed to be the sepulchre
of Seuefaroo, the immediate predecessor of King
Cheops, and estimated to data about 4235 B.C. The old
pyramids are not in the vicinity of any rook, and one of
the strangest problems is how the stones were carried
over the sand. This one, however, differs, as it is
actually built round a large natural rock Another
wonderful discovery is that made by Mr. Rassam, of a
pile of ruins three miles in circumference, near Bagdad.
He thinks some of the hieroglyphic records unearthed
there are the oldest in the word, some of Noah’s writ-
ing Thirteen deaths from small-pox in London
during the first week in the month of February last.
Sir Jamas Paget maintains that far more pain
is inflicted on the lower animals in the cause of
sport than by vivisection ..It is peculiar that
though the crew of H.M.S. Bacchante (the Princes’
vessel) were men especially picked for good cha-
racter, no less than 29 were conrt martiailed at Hong
Kong and transferred to another vessel. It is said that
the Cleopatra accompanied her to Suez not only as an
escort, but from latent fears of mutiny, the crew being
very disaffected. The reason is given as, too much
martinet discipline, absence of leave, rigorous punish-
ment on ona hand, against too much lah-de-dah and
lord almighty on the other Mr. Rassam, the eminent
Assyrian explorer, has been excavating at Bagdad, and
has found certain cylinders, supposed to have been
there deposited by one Noah, and to contain an account
ot how the Ark got stranded on Mount Ararat In
America, last year, there were 599 murders ; the authors
of 88 of which are unknown; 15 murderers suicided. In
1831, there were 242 suicides in the Bepublic. One
Chinese only committed suicide ; he was a young stu-
dent, who had fallen in love with a woman, who laughed
at him. Out ot 90 executions, Arkansas contributed
17. Fifty culprits—oue of them a black clergyman
—were lynched. Hanging was the mode of execution, '
except iu one instance, where the mob roasted a man.
’the most exalted persons iu Russia are sus-
pected. The Grand Duohess Vladimir found that a
letter she had written to her family, complaining of the
dullness and insecurity of life at the Russian Court,
had beau opened. Shu inquired, and found that the
spy was her aide-dc-camp. She appealed to the Csar,
but got no sympathy. She then said that if the offender
were not at once dismissed, she would make a public
scandal and leave the country. Then the aide-de-camp
was relieved of his functions, but he is about to receive
another and more lucrative appointment A national
subscription has been started at Madrid for the purpose
of buying Gibraltar from England; some Madrid banners
have promised £208,333, Should England decline to
entertain the proposition, the money subscribed will be
spent in fortifying adjacent points of the Spanish and
African coasts A man who was murdered in France
left a widow and son. The latter got the family doctor
to take out the dead man’s eyes, and replace them with
enamelled imitations. The widow was then told that if
she looked in the dead man's eyes, she would behold his
murderer. She looked, saw herself in miniature, fainted,
and confessed all A diabolical attempt was recently
made m the State of New Fork to spread small-pox. A
letter, which was ot course anonymous, was addressed
to a respectable man, and contained two small-pox scabs.
The letter simply contained the words, “ 1 have sent yon
the smali-pox; go home and die." No clue ‘’Loo-U
Option" iu Massachusetts, U.S., has not been so favour-
able to the Temperance party as in Sydney and suburbs.
Of 96,000 votes, 51,000 were for license, and only
42,000 for prohibition. In Boston, 22,429 voted
in favour of license, and 12,396 for prohibition
A boston Bank clerk was accidentally lucked up iu tue
hank vaults one night, and only released by the fluke
that another clerk had forgotten to lock up a book.
Victorian banks might with advantage take a hint from
this accident, and lock up the cashier nightly. This is
done in Chicago, and defalcations are very rare there.


SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
See the Medals, Cups, and Trophies
at the
SYDNEY ARCADE.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ABB MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head Office*:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.S A.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 POSTER LANE, LONDON.
Depot for New South Wales
No. 1 DARLING STOKES. HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY.
Offlc s in Sydney :
THE SYDNEY ARCADE ( and No. 1 DARLING
STORES, HARBOUR STREET.
LOCAL DEPOTS
BOLTON STREEP, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N., GOULBURN,
PEEL STREET, TAMWOKTH,
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
NARANDERA. PARRAMATTA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
gINQER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ARE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
or THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s, 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2b. 6d. per week.
And ho interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER”—
TURNER A COMPANY,
853 Qeorge-atreet.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
TURNER & COMTANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT
HATMARKET.
O
A
o
<*v
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE, a
WERT HEIM, /
HOWE, / r
Ac.. Ac. /
JbA / sX
*9
!!s
The
v*
o
a:
Light
Co
Running
STANDARD.
v
O
<9
<9
(a
v r
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for ail
Machines.
]7l l kctrtctty
Li Administered in a warm bath is the only method
b.y \vhich every mmole, nei te, at.d b-me, ran i e «(footed
at the same time Itremove-i chronic h»er nomoia’uta,
oongestioo, In oonre, rueumatism. &i,, and ride the
system of all impuiit’.es; even mercury is Lkan out of
the b<dy.
Process and testimonials sent on r* ceipt of 21 stamp to
W. M O O E E,
Horace ipathist,
151 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes ail pain from a bum or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
eertideates of merit from thu managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, coma, banions, and has a
curative effect on Jung complaints, when rubbed into
the ehe.t. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a pot kept in every house, oven if
the house is empty, it will do for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pots, Is. and 2a. 6d.
each.
gMI T H AND YEALE
PROPERTY SALESMEN, LAND and ESTATE
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Properties placed in our hands for positive sale, we
advertise free.
Public Companies
|IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Eedfem,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office : 18 King Wilhaxn-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowr.t, Denilinuin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Gkmlburn, Grafton, Own-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindle, Molong,
Morpeth, Mndgee, Naraudera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rcckley, Kylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tonterfield, Ulmaiia,
Urana, Wagga Wapga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbum, Yass.
• BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Bavenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpc, Toowoomba,
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 187*
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund. £116,894
DIRECTORS i
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wb. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidlev King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Soroggie, Esq,
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A Wdton.
SECRETARY :
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street. Brickfield Hill; Redfern;
Qirilambone; Gojford.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 15' Leadenhall-vtnet.
Dire* tor: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent i Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable tei ms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
T GRAHAM NIXON,
• IMPORTER AND GENERAL AGENT,
17 BRIDGE STREET.
Chief Agent for
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANC COMPANY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBATED GLt NLIVET
WHIBKY.
ANDREW U'TirK’S CET EBRAIID OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
AI • CUI'ON’S PALE ALE.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
26 9 GEOKGE STREET,
Feg to announce that tb y have
JUST RECEIVED
a Largo Consignment of
MI..TON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOOLS and HALLS.
PARLOUR STUDIOS
The Really Popular (aid cbwtpl PHOTOGRAPHER,
8 5 GEORGE STREET.
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies an-’
Children.
Cartes de V isite, 7s. 6d. pee Dozen.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the George-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges i teietty
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street,
Chemists and Druggists
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS. DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Btomash.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The moat delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES. ONE SHILLING.
J.
Invented and Prepared only by
S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON ~
Punch’s Hotel.
M. SOUL'S, 177 Pitt-etreot next to
rjJHCKLE YOUE APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, mode by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
OP GOOD PURE TEA
We beg to draw yon#
PARTICULAR ATTENTION
to the
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY**)
PACKET TEAS,
Packed in pounds and half-pounds i
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. and 2s 61. per lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. par lb.
2s. 61. and 3a. per lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 PITT STREET (next School of Arte),
SYDNEY.
OHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES k CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, Ac.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
*
George lan
(Formerly of George-street,)
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that he has RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
=sa
TOBACCONIST .149.
J.BVE
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers titled.
149 KING STREET.
U ND
ER SECTION V., ACT 532
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 earh.
120 PRIZES of the full value of £lO,OOO.
117 lots guaranteed cash if preferred.
Lot 1. Ist prise £4OOO I Lot 3. 3rd prize , £1350
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize , £4OO
Lot 5 to 9. 5 Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10,1 Prize of £5O.
Lot 11 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lot 21 to 120,100 Prizes of £4 each.
The Management is compelled to extend the time cf
drawing to the Ist of August, 1882. Notwithstanding
this announcement, the drawing will positively be pro
ceeded with seven days after ibe shares are sutsoril e l
for. All unsuccessful ayplisents will have their money
returned per return post. This is the grandest oppor-
tunity ever offered to win a Substantial prize, if not a
large and independent fortune, for £l.
Address—SETH K. PEKSSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
TO PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re-
cover your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Easiness Announcements
MOULTOIrs
rmn
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTnva
FRUIT PILLS. Wo mean cured, not merely relieved a, i
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and t
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also Pl ,
nil BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and Dv
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from to.
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMAUM*
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURtpv
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medici,
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of I'ni t') 1
They are us nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be '
Sold Everywhere, Price ]», 3,1.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor
PILLS
S
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
_ and
FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £ICO
T. WRIGHT, 529 Gkorge-street, Brickfield Hill,
SIDNEY.
[.Legix.J
HOETEE, FITZGEEALD, AND ASHEB
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evxbiks
News Owicr.
READ THIS ! I
THE BAKING POWDER
MANUFACTURED BY US, AND KNOWN
AS DOCTOR
WAUGH’S
HAS A WIDE REPUTATION FOR
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY,
AND THE CHEMICAL JUDGES OP THE SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION HAVE CER.
TIFJED THAT IT IS REALLT THE
PUREST AND
BEST IN THE WORLD!
By awarding lo us the
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER LECTION
FOE FIRST DEGREE OF MERIT.
tOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER PACKETS OR
TINS.
Manufactory-Queen’s Place, Sydney.
WILLIAM DAVIES & CO.
W ILLCOX
ABC
QIbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle End
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shelters,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walbttt
Wood,
Ac., Ac., *e.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE
-AND-
Foundry
—AND—
P
RINTERS’
1
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St,, Hunter St,
£3~srxoisrE'2".
Iso it 70 LITOKS COLLINS ST2B2T, HELBOUSNS.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER A IRONFOUNDER.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, k GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 229 PITT STREET.
GIRDERS,
STOVES.
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES.
ko., ko


w. HOWAED SMII
STBTTH’S WHARF and
(Foot of King-sti
Offices : 7 SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and F
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROU Gl
and
ROCKHAMF
On TUESDA
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITI
STEAM TO LONDON—
-1882.
The following Royal Mail Steal
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGj
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave 8Y
mentioned dates, for Melbourne,
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, call
Ship.
Liguria
Garonne ....
P-tosi
Chimbo-
razo
John Id* r.
serrice win ue maiufe
steamers at intervals of a fortnight
Saloon passengers homewards mi
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goi
steamer within a month; but failin
subsequent steamer having room.
'These steamers not touching a
can proceed to Suez and the Co
Porta included) without fear of
quarantine regulations.
Fores, to Loudon, 15 to 70 guinea
os. in addition.
Passages from London can be era
For plans and full particulars,
and 00., and ANDERSON, ANI
Joint Managers of the line; or to t
General Manager in An
G.
QEIENT LINE OF
PARCEL EXPEE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small packas
Steamers to London at reduced rat<
2s - °d. per foot, or fraction of a f(
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior I
■ailing All freights payable in Si
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILLj
„ Manager of Orient
267 Qeorge-sfreet, Sydney.
CASH PRICE LIBTOF W
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
SPIRITS.
TTamiaaav’a • Hum i
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Darwin is nob dead—but simply further
developed.
Judge Wilkinson is off on sick leave. Another
•« throw-in” for Acting-Judge Cohen.
Alfred Clarson has been charged with unneces-
sarily marrying. Two honeymoons in one week.
Garibaldi has gained strength, some of the
more alarming symptoms have entirely disappeared,
and he is in very good spirits.
Prince Bismarck is too weak to hunt now;
he rarely rides, and says that unless ha soon gets rest
his vital forces will be worn out.
Mr. Scott has been promoted to the position of
.Acting-Locomotive Engineer at a salary of £750 a
year, vice Mr. Burnett, resigned.
Mr. Moffatt, a well-known Northern miner, who
bought the Great Western tin) mine. Wild Elver, for
£lO,OOO, has just sold half of it for £30,900.
Rumour has it that Sir Hercules Robinson
will, ou the retirement of Sir Arthur Gordon, once
again become the Governor of New Zealand.
The London Union Club has blackballed Mr-
Gladstones’* second son, Neville. 33 black balls I
Ujrbert Gladstone was the proposer of his brother.
Mr. F. E. Rogersjdoesbiof intend settling at
Tamworth —unless ic should be decided to remove the
Supreme Court from Sydney to that Northern Babylon.
’ Mr. William Elder, brother of Sir Thos. Elder,
the Adelaide millionaire, and senior partner in the firm
of Elder, Smith, and Co., has died at Cannes, In
Prance.
Captain Boycott, whose name lias furnished a
new word in the English language, is no longer treated
as an outcast, but lives at Lough Mask unmolested and
even popular,
C. 11. Foster, the Spiritualist, of blood-writing
notoriety, who visited these colonies some years ago, is
now hopelessly insane, and in the Danvcr, Mass.,
lunatic asylum.
Jim Mulligan has dropped on to a good tin
selection at the Wilde Eiver. Thousands all over the
colony will be glad to hear of this change in the,veteran
prospector’s luck.
John Campbell, a journalist, died in Castle-
maine gaol, whither he had been sent for drunkenness,
last week. He was a well-educated and able man, and
had been a college companion of Sir Charles Gavan
Huffy.
Sir Samuel Wilson —of Hugbenden, you
know—is going straight for a baronetcy. He is stated to
have built a church at Margate at a cost of £30,000, and
the Prince and Princess of Wales were present at the
dedication of the edifice.
The Tichborne claimant has prison employ-
ment picking oakum in a gang with t .vo negroes. He
has lost flesh and corpulence, but seems to be healthy
and rugged. His fellow convicts regard him as no less
a fraud than the court did
The members of the Queensland Ministry are
perfect saints. Two of them, Macrossan and Perkins,
have taken up large sugar selections in the Mackay dis-
trict, and have given a high price for what thev, as
Ministers, could have got cneaply a few months ago.
Mr. Deffell, Chief Commissioner of Insolvent
Estates, N.S.W., returned to Sydney perE M.S.Kohilla
after 12 months' leave of absence. His deputy. Judge
Josephson, has gone back to District Court work.
Already some people have gone to the Deffell, who looks
Deffelish well after his trip.
Mr. Tennyson is making a big venture now
that he has enjoyed the benefit of Parkea’ advice. The
March number of Macmillan's Magazine contains
a companion poem to “J he Charge of the Light
Brigade,” viz., ‘‘The Charge of the Heavy Brigade,” by
the laureate—Half :ed, not ’Enery.
Blaine, who tried to get for the U. S. supreme
control of the Panama Canal, goes for the next Presi-
dency. Part of his programme is a combination of all
the American Eepublics, and the recognition of the
paramount influence of the United States. This scheme
of course involves the annexation of Canada.
Like a sensible man, Warden de Boos (who in
olden times was a journalist, and a distinguished one)
has abandoned his action for libel against the Teuora
Stab. However, Bailey, ef the opposition paper, seems
determined to have a libel action of some sort, and
intimates that he’s about to take proceedings against
the Stab.
Mr. Edward I. Kennedy, a young and brilliant
journalist, sometime leading editorial writer of the
Alta, California, who committed suicide in San Fran-
cisco recently, left a letter to an intimate friend, saying
that disgust for life was the cause. Mr. Kennedy was
a native of N.S.W., and went to California when five
years old.
An eccentric old colonist, John Pasco, has died
at Ballarat. He was so parsimonious that he refused
to see a doctor, though he was so expectant of death
that he drew up a will, in which £l6 was set apart for
his own funeral, and £lOO for a monument. As his
friends thought him out of bis mind, the will was
never signed, and the hoarded money goes to Govern-
ment.
Re the Darwinian theory, the Heeald gays
that Disraeli •* in one of his bamboozling speeches to
the electors” remarked—“ The question is whether man
originated in a monkey or an angel. Igo in for the
angel." There’s heraldic evolution for you with a
vengeance. What Disraeli did say was : —“ The question
is this. Is man an ape or an angel ? lam on the side of
the angels .” And the occasion was a meeting of the
Oxford Diocesan Society I
Oscar Wilde, in a lecture at Now York, said
that the Pr«-Eaphaelites w«re, in England, regarded by
the profane as "an eccentric lot of young men, to
whom belong a sort of divine crookedness and holy
awkwardness in drawing all the chief objects of art.”
This definition met with some applause, and Wilde, in
continuation, professed his conviction that “ to disagree
with three-fourths of all England on all points is one
of the first element* of sanity."
Mr. Reginald Lowe (who but a year ago was
married to a daughter of the Hon. G. H. Cox, M.L.C )
died last week, at the early age of 27. Mr. Lowe, while
skinning a bullock soma years back, developed blood-
poisoning in hia system, and for many months after-
wards he hovered between life and death. About a year
back he began to improve, and it was thought that his
system had been purged of the poison. Unfortunately
he suffered a relapse a few weeks back, and died in con-
siderable agony.
There was a curious circumstance in connection
with the property of the late Mr. N. P. Bayly, of Mudgea.
His will directed that Havilah estate should be sold, and
the proceeds divided between his wife and children, but
the terms were so ambiguous that it was uncertain
whether the legatees were to receive the bulk sums or
only the interest thereon. Havilah fetched £BO,OOO, and
a friendly suit at law was instituted to determine the
doubtful point. A few days ago. Sir William Manning
decided that only interest is to be paid to the claimants,
and at their death the principal goes to their issue.
Mr. Bayly drew out his own will, without legal assist-
ant?. Which only recalls a certain time-honoured
axiom.
“ Jack” Skene, a miner well known in Northern
Queensland, was, while out horse-hunting the other
day, speared by tne blacks. He was a game man. One
spear was driven through his chest, wounding the
heart 1 a second under the shoulder-blade, and a third
into his loins. Tet he managed, in an exhausted and dy-
ing condition, to reach his home, at Niggsr Creek, two
miles away, and did not die for five noara. When
interrogated by his brother as to his state, he simply
said, “Get Long” (the local chemist). Shortly after
the withdrawal of the spear from hia chest he died—
probably of hmmorrhage. He stated that there was a
nig crowd of natives, that after being " stuck” he broke
the spear-shafts off between saplings, and fonght them
so savagely as to drive the blacks off; he also said that
though he had nothing in his hand, yet—when he
charged the niggers, thoy ran away from him. The
statement was in a great measure verified by the dis-
covery of the broken spear-shafts on the following
morning by the unfortunate victim’s brother at the spot
he indicated. The niggers escaped into the Walsh
ranges.
The brother of General Lee, the great Confeder-
ate captain, baa just died in Wollongong Hospital. His
name was James Lee, and he was 60 years of age. He ha*
been working between Ball! and Appin for the last 18
years, and was subject to fits. Jast previous to his
death he was fencing between Bulli and Coal Cliff.
Not returning from his work as usual one day, search
was made for him, and he was found struck down by
paralysis. He died two days after admission to hospi-
tal, never having spoken since found. By the way,
Miss Lee, daughter of the Qeneral, visited these
colonies some years since, for the benefit of her health,
and was a guest at the Sydney and Melbourne vioe-regal
residences.
No man in the theatrical profession is more
respected in Melbourne than Mr. F C. Appleton. For
some years past he has, with few interruptions, ocen-
pied a prominent position at the Theatre Boyal, and
whatever the critics may have had to say of his acting,
it has been impossible to challenge his well-directed
industry and his scholarly interpretation of whatever
author whose lines ha has rendered. Mr. Appleton, in
addition to the study demanded by his calling—no mean
strain of itself upon any conscientious man—found time
to qualify himself for the degree of Bachelor of Arts,
which he accordingly took at the last tommeraoratiou
of the Melbourne University amidst the plaudits of his
fellow-students.
Mr. John Hurley, ®f Maryborough, Q . isn’t the
sort of man to hide bis light under a bushel. He has
returned from England, and opened offices in the town
named as the representative of the Burrnm Coal Co.
Uj was at the bottom of the polling for the last Wide
Bay election, but has hopes of getting one of the pre-
sent members to withdraw in his favour next time.
Mr. Harley earries a loaded bludgeon, silver-mounted,
and bearing the Inscription—"To be used at election
times." Ha has been courting popularity by present-
ing trophies to locil cricket, rowing, and turf clubs,
and he evidently means to be in the Hnrley-burly at
Maryborough. He brought out from home a few
watohea to present to his gallant, though unsuccessful,
supporters.
Councillor Carter, of Melbourne, is the man
Diogenes wanted. Mr. Carter has resigned his seat ia
the Melbourne Corporation because some other coun-
cillors. who were also shareholders in the Melbourne
Omnibus Co., voted on thu question of supporting or
opposing a Tramway Bill. Mr. Carter had better
not ooaie over to Sydney, as he would stand no
show in our city Council. Ha has long been famous on
the Conservative side of Victorian politics, and hia
strong points in oratory are biting sarcasm and cruel
uuflinchingness. It was once said of him by another
politician—Sir John O'Shsnassy, we think, but we are
not quite sure—that (in an oratorical sense only, of
oanrsa) Mr. Carter " would smile and smile, and murder
while he smiled.” He certainly never spared a Berryite
when he got a show.
Criminals are getting to be quite men and
women of letters. Lefroy Mapleton claimed to take
rank as a literary man. Boderick M'Lean is stated to
be an artist and literary man, though no one ever saw
him write a line or daub an inch of canvass. The great
linguist Howard, who could not get over the Duke of
Montrose, displaced his knowledge of Italian beauti-
fully in changing his surname into Hoovard j, though
real Italians have always been content to pronounce
the family name of the Cardinal as Ovard. As for Miss
Fumeaux, or Fearneaux, or Femieux—for the journals
make as much mystery of the spelling of her surname
ai she does of her sex —she is quite the of
swindling, a* well as the Chevalier d’Eon of the dock.
A Mr. Thackeray, who has just been taken up in Lon-
don for keeping a bogus money-lending office, says he’s
a connection of the Thackeray,
Mr. J, Q-. Davies, one of tbe firm of Davies
Bros , proprietors of the Hobart Mercury, is said to be
going to Parliament at tbe next election. George, as
he is generally called, is popular as a newspaper man, a
cricketer (he is a crack bat), and is a favourite with the
ladies. In the latter line, his younger brother Charles
also shines ; they are both handsome and genial gentle-
men. Old Jack Davies, their father, who died suddenly
some dozen or so years ago of apoplexy, made his mark
os a politician, though bis pecuniary success in the
newspaper line was not very joyous—in Dot, it was
naturally in an inverse ratio to his profuse liberality.
The sun of prosperity, however, has long been shining
on the sons, who deserve their good fortune. The
Tasmanian Mail, which is the weekly of tbe Mercury,
is one of the outgrowths of that prosperity, and has
been in existence some seven years—more or less.
Mr. J. L. Purves, tbe eminent barrister who
now de facto leads the Victorian bar, and is certainly tbe
ablest of Australian advocates, is a native of Victoria,
and bat 39 years of age. He received his professional
education in England and on the Continent. For some
time he wavered between law and medicine, but ulti-
mately chose the former, and has succeeded in a measure
which only those who have been associated with him
can appreciate. When practising oratory he adopted
the Demosthenio method, and he tells a funny story
about how, when in the middle of a florid peroration
(addressed to a Mordialloc gum-tree) he was surprised
by two wood-cutters, who, after quietly watokiug and
listening to him for some time, walked up to him and
unhesitatingly expressed their conviction that he was
mad. Mr. Purves is cynical to the last degree in
speech, manner, and thought, and his biting sarcasm
bas often confounded his enemies in the barren field of
politics, from which, however, he bas now retired.
A marred career, and a miserable end, ia the
story of Edwin James. Though not possessed of the
greatest abilities, be yet was once one of the most ris-
ing and thriving of English lawyers. As a bold crimi-
nal pleader, he stood in the front rank, and, it is esti-
mated, was earning six or seven thousand a year when
he was disbarred in 1862 for accepting a large bribe from
a defendant, while pleading for the plaintiff. When de-
fending counsel in the celebrated Bernard case, he was
the most prominent man of the four. When disbarred,
he owed £lOO,OOl, which he coullnot pay. When he
went broken and disgraced to America, he nearly
starved. He was member tor Marylebone in the House
of Common*; and appears as Mr. Stryver in Dioken**
“Tale of Two Cities." For some years he has been a
sad and seedy object in Louden streets ; a living lesson
of warning to those who make haste to be rich, and sell
their honour for paltry coin. He was his own worst
enemy, and an instance of complete insincerity, com-
bined with unlimited impudence. His want of principle
wrecked his life; he was clever but not good. Theie is
no more to be said of him.
Here are some facts about that sworn friend
of the people, Mr. John Bright. When, in 1844, a bill
was introduced which provided that women over 18
years of age should not be employed more than twelve
hoars a day, that no euild under eight should be em-
ployed in a factory at all, and that bo child nnder
thirteen should be employed for more than six and
a-half hours a day, Mr Bright said this was “ miserable
legislation on principles false and mischievous." In
1847 another Factory Bill was introduced, which re-
duoed the number of hours for work for women and
young persons to flfty-eight hours a week—ten hours a
day for five days, and eight hours on Saturday. Of
this Mr. Bright said, “When the agitation first com-
menced, it was on the principle of protection for in-
fants. Young children were then the objects of solici-
tude with these patriotic individuals. But when that
measure passed, the friends so-called of the infants
still pressed on, and they now asked for the interference
of the Legislature, aud for a display of their sympathies
in favour of young persons from thirteen to eighteen
years of age, and on behalf of women of all ages He
believed that this was one of the worst measures passe 1
in the shape of an Act of the Legislature." (Hansard.
Vol. IX , page 1873.)
Here is a Far Northern episode, as told to us
by a valued correspondent. It will find an eeho in the
heart of many a reader. Billy Little, otherwise Mr.
W. C. Little, J.P , who is known to thousands of miners
scattered all over this Continent, has given the Hodg-
kinson (goldfield “ best," and gone to Mulligan’s new
township. Billy lost over £15,000 hard cash on the
field He was accompanied to his new sphere of action
by “ Yellow Tommy," a Maori, who had parted with a
goad many hundreds in vain endeavours to find ten-
ounce stone. Before Billy left, the people had tbe
generosity to champagne him, and mustered a cornet, a
violin, and a kerosene tin to do him honour. Billy
made a speech before mounting his old pack-horse Sanky.
He said that after a big fight, during the coarse of whioh
the firm of Byers and Little Bros, had at times thousands
at their credit and at others were sorely pressed, he
had been licked, but he would let people see that a
man could in his grouty aye begin the world anew,
fellow Tommy.lwho is a fine specimen of a Maori, and
therefore a good manly fellow, made a speech too
"If anyone here has anything to say against Billy or
myself, let them speak out now we’re here." No one
“ spoke ont," and the boys raised a cheer. The Maori
waved his hand and said good bye in his native tongue,
and Billy Little and hia new mate rode off to begin the
world once more at Mulligan’s township.
The Christchurch exhibition is in full awing,
and Messrs. Jonhert and Twopeny once more command
a success. M. Jules Jonhert in the youngest son of
Mr. Alexis Auguste Joubert, an officer in the French
nary, and was bom at CharenM, France, in 1821. He
graduated at the Royal College Bourbon, Paris, and
served some years in the frigates Heroine and Aube.
He helped to colonise the French settlement of Akaroa,
after which, in 1811, he came to Sydney as Chancellor
of the French Consulate, which post ho Hied till 1818,
when he removed to Sonth Australia. In 1851 M.
Joubert went to Mt. Alexander rush, and in 1851 he
visited New Caledonia, New Guinea, Borneo, and other
islands. In 1855 ha returned to Sydney and engaged in
commercial pursuits. In 1867, he was appointed Secre-
tary to the N.S.W. Agricultural Society, and in 1877 he
went to the Paris Exhibition as Secretary to the
N.S.W. Commission. His connection with Australian
Exhibitions is well known. M. Joubert has received the
distinction of Legion of Honor of France. His present
partner, Mr. It. Ernest Nowell Twopeny, was born in
1857, at Little Castarton, Rutlandshire, England, and
is the son of the rector of that parish. He was edu-
cated in France, and at the Marlborough College and
Heidelberg University. He arrived at Adelaide in 1876,
waa for a short time on the staff of the S. Australian
Register, then in the S.A. Civil Service, and in 1877
waa appointed Secretary to the S. A. Commission to the
Paris Exhibition. Hera he mot and made friends with
Joubert. Mr. Twopeny served S. Australia in connection
with both the Syuney and Melbourne exhibitions, and
then Joined Joubert in tha present lucrative series of
speculations.
* * •
In London there are two N.Z. knights, one of
whom is a director of five or six public companies, and
the ether of six or seven. Neither of the pair—one of
whom is Sir Julius Vogel—draws less than £l2OO par
annum from these sources Professor Denton has
been hunting for—and getting—moa tones in the
Amnri (N.Z.) country Galley only gets the interest
of tha £lOOO voted by the British Parliament as com-
peasatiou for 40 years' transportation. Ha is nearly 80
years of age, and has written home requesting that the
lump sum may be handed to him Lest session,
Gladstone, according to Hansard, rose to speak 1153
times....... The present engagement of Mr. J. Oragson,
superintendent of the Australian Agricultural Co , and
noted as a settler of strikes, terminates in January,
1833 A. Fatchett Martin, the poet, has commenced a
libel action against tha Hamilton Spbctator, which has
been “ taking a rise out of him.” Mr. Q. N. H&lloran,
for about seven years manager of the Bank of New
South Wales at Gnndagai, has been promoted to
Bathurst. He was banqueted by his friends and
admirers before leaving Gundagai Blackwell, of
Crosse and Blackwell, left £300,000 Mr. William
Kennedy, a pioneer Eiverina squatter, died last week at
St. Hilda (V ), aged 51 years. He and his brother
owned the Ticehnrst Station, on the Lachlan The
wife of Mr. A. W. Robertson (Rebertson, Wagner, and
Co.) has been found dead in bed at Melbourne. Heart
disease Robert Tiffany, 27 years coxswain of the
Williamstown (Melb.) customs boat, who was sent to
the lunatic asylum the other day, was captain of the
maintop during Mr. Clure’s Arctic expedition
Captain Townley, late P.M, at Ipswich (Q ), appointed
superintendent of St. Helena prison Mr. Hallam
Tennyson, son and secretary to the poet laureate, is to
marry Lady Violet Campbell, a daughter of the Dnke of
Argyll, and Professor Huxley’s son is to marry the niece
of Matthew Arnold Te Whiti, the prophet of Pari-
huka, and his co-chief, Tohu, are to be tried in New
Zealand for sedition.
The Lancet says that medical men, however
they differ on the drink question, are unanimous in
saying that wine or beer should only be taken with
food.
Mr. William Forster writes in the Melbourne
Eeview on *' .Personal Government," towards which ho
sees a great tendency shown in democratic countries.
The Australasian considers that “ his arguments
would have carried more weight if ha could have kept
his partisan and personal feelings from showing so ob-
■trusively in his paper."
The channel tunnel starts under Shakespeare’s
Cliff, Dover, from the bottom of a 160 feet shaft, and
has now reached a length of 1600 yards, 500 being under
the sea. It is all through compact grey chalk, and not
a drop of water is seen. The tunnel is perfectly cir-
cular, out by an iron 7-feot disc worked by compressed
air, and about 15 yards a day are completed. It is
lighted by Swan’s electric lamps.
The U.S. Senate contingent fund covered the
cost — inter alia— of sponges to 712 dollars; toilet soaps
to 600 dollars; combs, small-tooth and otherwise, to
200 dollars; refined camphor, 87 dollars; 1500 quinine
pills ; besides amounts for snuff, hair oil, alcohol, alum,
soda, cosmetics, glycerine, Lubin powders, camphor,
ice, powder puffs (I), bay rum(!!), ammonia. Jamaica
ginger, Eau de Cologne, Apollinaris water, brushes,
fruit-knives, pencil-cases, purses, card-oases, cards for
ladies, autograph albums, toothpicks, razors, &0., &c.
Victorian Parliament please copy.
The London Piga-ro gives a portrait of the
" Eev, W. Booth," general or the Salvation Army. If
the portrait be a lifelike one, we should say that the
General is a swashbuckling pirate, who has served seven
years chained by a ringbolt to the nose, which member
Has unconsciously elongated in the process. Mr.
Booth originated the army 17 years ago. It now pos-
sesses 257 "corps or stations” in Great Britain, 450
“officers in aetive command,” 41 on “the general
staff," 98 “ cadets ” in the training houses; holds 4300
weekly services; has 1300 “ soldiers trained to speak,’*
hires or occupies 293 halls, ko .; pays an annual rent of
£12,789; has expended in property, and in furnishing
" officers' quarters," £21,391; and provides sitting ac-
commodation for 178,000 persons. Daring the year
ending 30th Sept., 1881, the army received and expended
SUITED.
Dick Swiveller was unfortunate, poor Dick was unem
ployed,
'W hich fact made him uneasy, while his wife it much
annoyed;
They were not short of victuals, but wore rather poorly
clad.
And their lack of decent clothing drove Mrs. S. clean
mad.
So accordingly poor Bichard on', this subject oft got
fits.
And her nighty curtain lectures quite bemuddlcd his
small wits:
Her themes, “ their constant poverty,’* caused, as the
neighbours knew,
"By Kiohard’s loafing ways,” or else “ what ho had
brought her to.”
One night she shrieked, indignantly. “Why if I were to-
die, ,
You wretch, how would you bury me ?—you would not
even cry;
Yon oonld never even follow me to my long home, you
brute—
Don’t contradict me, sir I—Where could you raise a nice
black suit ?”
Poor Dickie rose at dawn of day, worn out with wooing
sleep,
And met with work that suited him—his boss a chim-
ney sweep;
Then quick to tell Matilda Jane the joyful Bichard
hied.
And as he met her piercing eye, he paused, he coughed,
he cried,
“ My darling wife, my love, my life, at last I’ve graft
to do,
I start to-morrow morning, and the screw is two pound
two—
My bilUt, cleaning chimneys, the dust chucked in to
boot.
So, Tilly, ‘die in peace, for now I’ll raise me a black
soot.”
Sydney, April 20th, 1882.
B.


ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
mHE NUMEROUS AND WELL STOCKED DEPARTMENTS of our PALACE EMPORIUM,
-A- contain almost Every Article Required, either by Lady or Gentleman, for Personal Adornmen
or Household Requisites, all under one roof; and are kept up by regular and constant shipments from
England and the European continent, where our Mr A. HORDERN is ever on the look out, deter-
mined to procure, at the Earliest Moment, any of the varied novelties in Styles and Materials con-
stantly being placed on the London, Paris, Berlin, and Continental Markets. Knowing this to be the
case, we say, with confidence, that no other Establishment in Australia can offer their patrons any-
thing like the advantages to be derived in purchasing at THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET
(only), where all goods are NEW, because of the quick turn over for CASH, where all goods are of the
LATEST STYLES, owing to the constant supervision in buying, and close communication with the
BEST MANUFACTURERS, and where goods are from 30 to 40 per cent, cheaper than elsewhere, be-
cause of our OLD, and WELL-ESTABLISHED CASH SYSTEM, in addition to the above.
ADIES HATS and BONNETS.—Latest Novelties
and N ewest Styles, comprising hats in Plush,
Velvet, and Beaver. Hats and Bonnets in Satin
and PJnsh, Chenille, Beal Sealskin, Imitation
Sealskin, Bussian Seal, &o. *o.
MILLINEET.—Choicest and Best Selected Assortment
of French and English Millinery in the
Color ios. Cadies Bonnets, trimmed Plush and
Feathers, from 16s 6 I. Ladies’ Bonnets, trim-
med Satin and Plush with tips, from 21s. Also
a large variety of Children’s trimmed Hats, from
5s (Id each.
FEATI1EES, &c.—A Large and Well-assorted Stock of
White O.S. Flats, 2i lid to 3i»s. Coloured 0,8.
Flats, 2i Cd to 25s. Shaded O.S. Flats 3s lid to
25'• Coloured O.S. Plumas, Hackle-Coque
Ostrich Plumes, Jancer Ends. Aigrette Tufts,
Princess Tufts, Marabout, Coquo Chenille,
Birds, ko , ko.
OBNAMENTS, Ac —Silver, Steel, Gold, Jot, &o. Hat
and Sennet Ornaments in great variety of the
latest novelties.
PAEACHUTES, &c —Ladies* Plack Satin Sunshades,
Trimmed Black Lace, Ladies Lustrine Snn.
shades, and Black Satin Sunshades, frilled,
Twill Silk and Levantine Parachutes.
MANTLES AND JACKETS.—Ladies’ Jackets, Man-
ties, &o., in unequalled variety, from 5s lid to
8 guineas. Beautiful goods for style and quality
—creations of English, French, and German
artists. The beautiful Military Jacket, the
perfect Velvet Brocade Jacket, Silk Brocade
Paletots, Satin de Lyon Mantle, Morveilleux de
Soi Mantle, Bich Corded Silk Mantle.
CHILDREN'S JACKETS. —In all sizes, materials, and
shapes.
COSTUMES.—The Leading Novelties, as worn in Lon-
don, Paris, and Berlin, in French Cord, Cash-
mere, Bective, Tweed, ko , &o., trom 21s to 50s.
Also, a splendid stock of choice Costumes,
from H to 16 guineas.
SILKS AND DRESS GOODS.—A really Immense
Stock of these Goods, recently augmented by
largo purchases effected during the late mone-
tary panic in France, and now offered ta the
public at prices very much to the advantage of
purchasers. Cashmeres, Merinos, &o., all the
new shades and colours ; Silks, Satins, Velvets*
&c., in black and every shade of rich colour for
which the French are so noted.
VELVETEENS.—These goods have recently found
great favour with the Ladies of those colonies;
in fact, they recommend themselves for beauty,
stylo, and durability. About 1000 pieces in
stock to select from.
HOSIERY.—All the now goods and latest novelties in
materials and shades. Ladies’ and Children’s
Cashmere Hcse, in Navy, Prune, Seal, Maroue,
Cardinal, Grenat, Looted, Brown, &c. Ladies*
Merino, Gauze, and Silk Under Vests, in all
makes. White and Fancy Cotton Hose for
Children, Girls, and Ladies.
RIBBONS.—The Largest and Most Varied Stock of
Ribbons in Sydney, Plush, Satin, Moire, Vel-
vet, Terry, and every other novelty in Ribbons.
All the leading colours. Sash Ribbons, 5 to 9
inches wide, as above.
LACES.—Antique Laces, New Designs, in all widths.
Black Beaded Spanish Antique Laces, the only
Arm in Sydney showing the beautiful trimmings.
Florence Lace, 3 to 9 inches wide. The new
Bead Collarettes.
GLOVES.—The New Gants de Snede, all colours and
sizes. The Most Reliable Kid Glove, 2 buttons.
Is 9d, 4 buttons, 2s fid. Josephine Kid Gloves,
nil size?. Fabric Gloves—Thread, Taffeta, and
Cashmere. Plain and Fancy Lined. Children
and Ladies.
SPLENDID Assortment Ladies’ Wool Goods, Curtains,
Linen, Damask, Table Covers, Sheeting, Cre-
tonnes, &c. &c.
JgILYSIUM. ELYSIU
ENFIELD HEIG
AT LAST. AT
NEARLY 100 (ONE HUNI
subdivided inl
VILLA SITES.
BUSINESS S
MBCHj
Immense prospective value,
projected
TEAM EXTENSION from G
BANKSTOWh
SALE DAY
SATURDAY, MA
at 3 p.m. shar]
ON THE GEOII
and
POSITIVELY WITHOUT T
EE SERVE.
JUST NOTE~THE
They are the easiest ever oh
£3 DEPOSIT ON EACH LO'
balance by 21 equal month’
WITHOUT INTE
or
10 PER CENT. DISCOUN
Elysium. —Every lot for UNI
Elysium,— Every ROAD 66 ]
Elysium.— PUßLlC SOHOC
BUSINESS peem:
Elysium.— HEATON PAR I
W. SMITH, 1
HODGSON. Efq., 1
Captain BEEMNEI
Elysium.— WlTHOUT B S
HIGHEST and
LAND between SY
MATTA.
Elysium.— Close to CL AREM
PARK, and ENFIE
Elysium.— For the WORKII
au INVESTMENT
because it offers oh
of the price askec
other suburbs.
Elysium.— For the SPECULA
they can obtain CH£
an IMMENSE PEO
in view of the pro
CANTERBURY to'
Elysium.— For the CAPITAI
SURROUNDINGS,
DELIGHTFUL D
LED VIEWS,
SPHERE.
Elysium.— FOß EVERY BC
VILLA, AND BU
BLOCKS, or Allotr
MAGNIFICENT \
TITLE, and RIDI
TERMS.
Elysium.— NOTE THE TER
£3 DEPOSIT per 1<
equal monthly just
INTEREST, or 10 r
PLEASE CAREFULLY NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY.)
THE PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT, A
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OP NEW SOUTH WALES,
QUALITIES .
A
A
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
w/m.
Mark
m o
Trade
KEROSENE, 150° TTEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VEKY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
Tor Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OP A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED).
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
Wmm.
AS JV
CURE
. ........ ...
Thousands permanently Cured. Endorsed hy Physicians.
A Home Treatment.
Send two stamps for 50 page book (latest edition) and Colonial testimonials
ADDliESS S _ FRESHMAN,
359 GEOKGrE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[correepondente who give neither name nor nom-de- plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Malus”: Nothing wonderful. We never
heard of a man having three grandfathers ; two grand,
fathers are, however, a very common possession.Ara-
luen ’’: Yes. “ Roast beef, serenity ef mind, cold-water
baths, and an amiable wife.’’ Answers. "J.F."
(Wattle Flat): 1, Yes; the race was for £5OO aside, and
the aquatic championship of the world. 2. Not neces-
sarily; the champion for the time being has the choice
of water. For instance, Triokett, went to England and
defeatedi Sadler, brought ths championship to Port
Jackson. Banian was not champion until he defeated
Trickett on the Thames, and the latter imade a conces-
sion in going there to meet him "Cynic": Not a
bad 5t0ry..,..." Semper paratus ’’ (Bega): An apposite
quotation " Soholard ” : You’ve lost your bet.
Never rely on the bog-Latin of the Heuald. It is
"brutum fnimen,” and not " brutem fulmen."
" Funny ” (Victoria-street) : Thanks, but wo’ve already
had it “ Martheguy Creek ’’: It was a sorry joke,
but was intended to apply to both "E. 8.” : Thanks
for your very interesting article, which shall duly
appear " Kiama ’’ : Look up Dr. Eiohardson’s
Works. Ha alleges that bard drinkers can only attain
longevity if perfectly healthy from birth, and when the
drinking habit has been commenced very early and
grown with the body. But no man will last long if be
commences after 30. This shows how important it is
that any man who does not desire to be brought to an
early grave should start drinking as soon as possible...,
"Punch": Very good indeed “E.F.H.": No, you
need not give name and address “ Maraschino ’’: We
have already soon the par re the similarity between the
digestive organs of a pig and those of a man. You
should have added that a man and a monkey are the
only representatives of the sorts of beasts, of which
the male whacks the female "Chorus": Excellent.
" One who Suffers ’’ complains that the Licensing
Aot is very loosely observed at Blaynev. The side
doors of some of the hotels are open all night—Sundays
and week-days alike—and the police mast know it
"C.F.J.": We could not write as you wish on a mere
ex-parte statement "Fair Play": Will attend to it.
“ Passepartout"; Thanks. You’ll find them strung
together “Manus": Were sorry your interesting
letter has been held over; it is now rather stale
"J. 8.": Eeally don’t see where the joke comes in
"Eye-Opener”: Will at our earliest communicate with
you privately “ G.G." : Thanks. Write again
" Patience ’’: We don’t intend referring to the matter,
as onr motives would be questioned. Your proper course
is to bring the subject under the notice of the Supreme
Court, either by addressing a letter to His Honor the
Chief Jastioe or by calling the attention of the attorney
for the prisoner whose chances of a fair trial are un-
doubtedly prejudiced "W.H.H.": Held over
“ Not one of your nervous women": Will read your
play when we have time " Watchman" : Yeur state-
ments are most sensational. Your hideous oaligrapby
prevents us from dealing with the matter this week
"C.H.”: Will be dealt with, “J.H.K.": Written on
both sides of the paper "Marsupial”: Thanks
" Rude Girls," &o,: Very much obliged indeed
" Deadeye”: Yes, but it’s more nonsense to talk about
the injury sustained on the stage while hundreds of them
are engaged long hours at exhausting factory work
"Polo" (Tamworth): Glad to hear from you "Con-
tributor” (Newcastle) : Kindly send your name and
address "Coney” (Wollongong): Very well done.
"Pump": Held over ..“An Interested One":
Good; but who is the second employer ? “ Indistinct
Initials" (Liverpool): Much obliged for item. Very
sorry couldn’t get there “Fanny" : Very clever; so
clever, indeed, that we dare not put some in—they would
bit too hard. Send more, please; glad to receive such
pars.; and we will insert if we possibly can Ee
"Choirmaster”: In such cases, must have name and
address. Your letter appears spiteful, and nothing
wore "C.W.8." : The Queen has no such power.
She is guided by her Ministers. No Sovereign, who
is not supreme, makes war without the consent
of the nation "Onion": Good information
"Sic Itur ad As .ra": Unfortunately overlooked—next
week "Singleton": Will read and consider
"Kappa": Many thanks "Enquirer": Will write
you a letter " Q.E.D.”: Next week " J.A.G.M.":
Under consideration.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Sir Henry Cole, K.C.8., late Director of the
South Kensington Museum, is dead The No-rent
leaders in the Isle of Skye arrested Strike amongst
Wrexham ooal and iron miners Dr. Charles Robert
Darwin has died, aged 73 years Sir Henry Parkes
banquetted by Gladstone Colonial office received
petition from Fiji residents praying that that Crown
colony may be granted self-Government Bradlaugh
touring England on the affirmation v oath agitation
Berlin comic papers suppressed for ridiculing German
Government International Fisheries' Exhibition to
be held next year at London; the Queen will inaugurate
it Sir A. F. Gall, High Commissioner for Canada,
starts for the Dominion shortly King Theban, of
Burmah, has just murdered one wife, two half-sisters,
his Chancellor of the Exchequer, and fifty nobles
Mr. J. E. Redmond, M.P. for New Ross, has been sus-
pended from Parliamentary duties for vilifying the
Chief Secretary for Ireland Russian Council drawing
up a law to clearly define the position of Jews in Rus-
sia Reinforcements of troops sent to Ireland The
Empress of Russia has gone to Copenhagen, Den-
mark, there to await her expected accouchement
Parnell’s parole was a fortnight and not a week ; hence
the idle rumours of his being shot Reported that
conspirators have threatened to blow up the Windsor
Barracks Unemployed in Loudon demand that the
Imperial Government shall assist family emigration to
Canada and the colonies......Anti-Irish riots in Corn.
wall; a Catholic church at Camborne wrecked Three
more of the Hatton Garden jewellery robbers captured
at Berlin cn route to St. Petersburg Ayoub Khan at
Teheran biding his time to again try his luck in Afghan-
istan Marquis of Huntley acquitted of fraud...... Ten
persons arrested at Cork for treason-felony Ex-
plosions in Durham collieries, Durham; many miners
taken out dead Roderick M'Lean, the would-be
assassin of the Queen, tried by special commission at
Reading, and acquitted us insane Dr. Barker, late
Bishop of Sydney, buried at Barlow village, his birth.
place Parnell has surrendered to hi« parole, and is
again in Kilmuinham gaol Canadian" House of
Commons has passed a unanimous address asking the
Queen to pardon and release political prisoners, and to
grant autonomy to Ireland Police at Listowel, Ire-
land, after a desperate midnight affray, wounded and
captured twenty “ Moonlight" marauders out of 300....
Garonne’s frozen meat arrived in splendid condition
Sir Thomas Erskine Perry, formerly M.P. for Davon-
port, and at one time Chief Justice of Bombay, is dead.
Dorris, assistant secretary of Irish Laud League,
liberated from gaol Laycock at Putney North
Borneo Colonisation Co , incorporated by Royal Charter,
has issued its prospectus; capital, £2,500,000 Four
cavalry and nineteen infantry regiments of India to be
disbanded Darwin buried in Westminster Abbey.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 518 George-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this uppar-tuaity
toe vifitthis heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If yon want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a dancing,
pump, yon had better call at 584. and “see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be in great demand
now. if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
There has been a big struggle for the Secretary,
ship of the Sydney School of Arts, which has been given
to a Petersham alderman, who is, we hear, a distin-
gnished litterateur—' tis said he, writeslfor the Ibon-
MONGBR, a periodical which is understood to have an
extensive circulation in the hardware establishments.
For the billet, to which is attached a salary of £450 per
annum and a great deal of hard work—all the harder
because every committee-man regards himself as boss
of the whole concern—there were fifty-three applicants,
and the choice of the committee was, in the first place,
narrowed down to ten, out of whom Mr. John Hender-
son, Iho successful man, and another gentleman were
selected, the final ballot being ten votes to eight in
favour of Mr. lloudarson, who was so fortunate as to be
supported by tho Pitt-strcot Church contingent, and by
the influence of tho Y.M.C.A., and of the good people
geneia'ly.
Produce Report.
IBulletin Office, April 25,1382.
On the wharves to-day, prime green lucerne is selling at
£6lss. to £7, other samples £6 to £6los. per ton. A good
supply of hay continues to arrive, and there is a fair
demand. Maize, prime 5s ; oats, seed and feed, 3i. 9J. to
4s. per bushel: Victorian onions. £4 to £4 10s. ; ditto
chaff, £lO per ton, bags inclusive; War-mam bool potatoes,
£6 10s. to £6 15 per ton Butter, in keg, Is 3d. to Is. 6d.
per lb.; eggs, 2». to 2a. 3d. per dozen; bacon, 7d. to 9d.
per lb.; cheese, 7d. to 9d.; hem, 13d.; honey, 4d. tosd ;
lard, Bd. to 9d.; beesewax, 9d. to lOd. per lb.; millet
brooms, 8d to lOd. per dozen.
Poultry.— At the various auction marts poultry was
in good supply, and sold fairly. Fowls realised from
2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d.; ducks, 3s. to ss. 9d.; geese sa. to 6s.
6d.; ‘turkey cocks, 7s. to 145.; do., hens, 4s. to 65.;
pigeons. Is. 3d.! to 2s. per pair; parrots, 13d. to 14d.
each.
Flour. —The arrivals of flour during the week from
Adelaide and Victoria, Launceston and blew Zealand,
have been far above the usual average. We hear of a
few sales at full rates, whilst the Southern markets are
reported easier. Sydney mill flour is selling, superfine,
at £l5; household, £l4; second, £l3 per ton; Now
South Wales country brands, £l4los. to £l5 ; Victorian,
£l4 10s. to £l5; Adelaide, £l4 10 to £l5 10s. per ton.
Wheat. —During the week the arrivals have been
larger than usual, and large parcels of wheat have been
quitted at full rates, onoliuo of Adelaida at 6s, 2£d., and
another at 6s. Bd. per bushel, comprising in all about
12,000 bags in one shipment. Holders are firm. We
notice the Adelaide and Victorian markets arc reported
easier. Adelaide wheat, 6s. 3d. to 6s. Bd.; New South
Wales, 6s. to 6s. 9d.; Victorian, 6s. to 6a. 6d.; Laun-
ceston, 65.; New Zealand, ss. 6d. per bushel.
Fat Oattlk. —At the Uemebush sales yesterday there
was a moderate supply yarded. The market ruled firm.
Best beef 235. to 255. per 1001 b.
Fat Sheep.—A short supply forward and market
firmer, 541 b wethers 12s. 6d.
Fresh Meat. —At the Railway Station the usual
sales of fresh country-killed beef take place daily, a
good supply arriving and soiling freely. Prices are—
for prime bodies of beef 2Jd. to 3d. per lb. allround;
medium, 2d. to 2Jd. all round; prime mutton also sells
at 2id. per lb.; medium, IJd. to 2d. per lb. all round.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Midnight. We have read all the sermons in
the Protestant Standard blasphemously backwards,
and yet we cannot sleep. We never knew these sermons
to fail before. As a general thing we had simply to
smell the sulphur and burning marl of their anathemas
to sleep the sleep of the jnsb. In exceptional cases, the
perusal of six lurid lines would stretch us out as stiff
as oataleptics. But to-night thq charm is broken.
The denunciations seem to have lost the good old
■oporiflo ring. This issue must have been edited by
an infidel. There is a flavour of Christian charity
about it which no solid Christian would tolerate for as
instant. The guiding hand which gave it* principles
the proper narrowness, shook cayenne over its sen-
tences and rubbed brimstone into its epithets, is now,
Serhaps, meandering over tho strings of a celestial
arp upon the golden shoah. But more likely it is
scooping the collection-plate.—
This life and that to come wo know
Are like as hand and glove.
Those who were harpies here below
Are harpers up above.
• • •
There is a party going on in the next house.
The fat fingers of the hostess come down upon the
piano like a three-man battle upon a paving-stone.
And now a wiry wail, varied by intermittent shrieks,
pierces through the partition like the corkscrew of a
temperance orator through the cork of the surrepti-
tious whisky bottle when the lecture is over. The
daughter of tho house ia singing a sentimental song.
Silence for a second, and the piano-pounding com-
mauces again. Then a wild, unearthly sound breaks
the stillness once more. This is the kinky-haired tenor
gouging out an operatic air. His voice is comparable
to nothing we have ever heard, except the melody of a
rusty chain-cable rasping through a hawse-hole. After
this somebody seems to have convulsions. It is only
the bass of the party gurgling and gasping through a
sepulchral ballad with the folds of his fat chin creased
up against his thorax. Yet these are all honest, harm-
less people in the day time. It is only at night that
they become possessed by a ghoulish thirst for blood
and torture.
# • #
Tho hours roll on. Through the open window
streams in a cloud of mosquitoes with their shirt-
sleeves turned up. They fall upon u« like medical
students upon a pauper’s corpse. Smoking is no shield
against them. We have smoked ourselves as dry as a
Daily Telegraph reporter, but ia vain. They can
smoke better than we can, aud always the same old
hands come round at night. At this present moment
two of them are humping the spittoon to the middle of
the floor. Now they settle themselves round it and
commence to chew. They usually finish a ping of
tobacco before beginning business.
• ft •
As it approaches day all the animals in the
neighbourhood begin to stir themselves and make
things lively. They generally hold their corroborees in
our back yard. At one time we have had there all the
beasts that are mentioned in Eevelations. We have
counted thirteen species of dogs each more malevolent
than the other. No rest for the wicked.
ft * •
Away in the east the rosy dawn rises and
flushes the pallid face of night. The goat below begins
its matin song. There is a deadly feud between this
goat and the hired girl in the next house. It is a
matter of professional jealousy. As soon ns one com-
mences to yowl the other begins too. Bat the hired
girl generally comes off best. She is now spasming out
“ Barbary Allen.” The goat is doubled up ia the dust-
bin. We are clawing up the costly carpet of our
boudoir, and cursing everything from an inch high te
an hour old.
ft ft •
A clatter of horse-hoofs heralds the coming of
the butcher. Then a trio, something after this fashion,
is wafted upon the winds of the morning.—
He.
What will you have to-do y, Elizabeth ?
She.
I hardly know. Your horse is out of breath.
We.
We know too well—lean chops as sure as death.
He.
Whoa horse I O ’Liza, but your lips look sweet,
J ust reach across tho fence one little kiss 1
She.
Kiss you P That would bo too much of a treat.
1 think I’ll take a pound of sausagiss.
We.
Our landlady’s not rich. The man knows this.
And nobody lends a hand to make ends meat.
• ft •
At tho Victoria Hall a “scratch” company of
actors have been giving an entertainment which, with
the characteristic modesty of the profession, they
called Olympic Bevels. This performance was a feast
for the “ gods." Kennedy aud M'Carthy, of Hudson’s
Surprise Party, were the backbone of the show, which
was certainly good enough for the “ houses" it drew.
Miss Marie Trevanion and Miss Marie Louise were the
only other pleasing items in the programme. We wish
the second Marie could sing as well ns she looks. For
then for her—
A saint would leave his psalms and prayers,
A tar would tarry,
Aud we’d give up our fancy fairs
To marry Marie.
* * * *
The Fijian drama criticised in our last issue has
given place, at tbe Queen’s, to what is facetiously
termed an Irish play. Of course, any person of average
culture recognizes it—after hearing the opening
speeches—as an adaptation of an old Turanian tragedy.
The adaptation appears to have been made with a maat-
axo. Now, iu all the tragic fragments that have been
dug up out of Tartar tumuli, the language is agglutina-
tive. Here it is soapy. This settles tho period of ihe
production of “ Sbamus-na-Lann,” Tho question that
next arises is whether the early races—Firbolgs, aud
such—that populated Ireland before the Milesian inva-
sion, were of Turanian descent or not. Wa lay two
drinks they wore. Because (1) it is well known that in
these days tho bards used to write such plays as this in
raised characters on wood—that is to say, bulge them
out on each other’s stalls with shillolahs. (2). The
immutable psychological law which causes hereditary
instincts to pass down the line of family descent is ap-
parent in the present performance of this play at the
Queen’s —i c„ b jing written on and by blocks, it is inter,
preted by slabs. Therefore, after all, it may bo called
Irish. Wa will take a straight whisky—Scotch this time.
This little distich is for the cheerful Mr.—ahem 1—
Blank:—
Poor play, poor house, poor devil—can you blame ns,
That we don’t lie to please you when you Shames ?
* * * *
Tho management of the Theatre Eoyal have
been seen during the current weex in solemn conclave
contemplating the dolefully threadbare carpeting and
oilcloth in the passage leading to the fler.pasture in the
circle, with a view, it i« to be hoped, of putting some
pattern on them.
* ♦ * *
When the astute J. C. Williamson topped
thirteen hundred pounds at the Theatre Eoyal, Mel-
bourne, in one week, and nearly kept up that figure, we
thought the maximum for tho ordinary show at a shill-
ing pit, aud five bob d.o. had been reached ; but like tbe
cup winner's fastest time, it bas been eclipsed, and tbe
•'entrepreneur of the sunny South” narrowly escaped
parting for a new hat on the World’s receipts not going
over fifteen hundred pounds, while the second week
shows little diminution in the treasury. Though “ The
World” is full of inconsistencies, and the ship scene—iu
which the funnel is abaft the fore-top-gallant bowline,
while the occurrences at the gangway areas much like
those which really happen on the departure of a real
steamer as;the Yell is like the London Times— would
exasperate a North Shore ferryman, it is an enjoyable
piece, and brims ov«r with life—of a certain sort. A
tithe of tho tragedies in a lifetime would satisfy auy
unassuming, ordinary tradesman, but no doubt M.
Pettitt mirrors the upper tea and tho demi mondo. As
Tom Hood said of dualling, “it is the law and tho gospel,
and only fit for gentlemen born."
ft ft ft
By-the-bye, can it bo wondered at that the
Hussions and other Continentals are bashing the brains
out of helpless Tidishen and sacking their homes,
when the cultivated and humane English find it im-
potsible te produce a modern drama in which the Jew
who will cheerfully murder and ruin anyone is want-
ing? It may interest readers to know that, though
Gns Harris’ name figures in tho bill as one of the
authors of “Tho World," he is no'more capable of
writing a line or snggesting an incident than Goody, or
the counter clerk of the Herald. Qua. is lessee of
Drury Lane, and tending doors is his forte, “The
World" has also brought ns back Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner, to whom New Zealand had no more right than
it has to our Town Hallj audit (“Tho World”) has
been responsible for more than one debut: notably that
of the charming creature with one leg oerhe or pink,
and tho other white, who carries the bauble in the
dance, and who is nobly connected—ha* an nnole in
the Survey Office, or is sister-in-law to a publican, or
something. Her name is Smith, but a nom de theatre is
being manufactured for her. Enough of “ The World
the other members of the dramatis persona !. even the
coming man Herbert, the matured Vincent Charles, tho
other Holloway, and the dainty ladies with speaking
parte, mast be content this week with drawing their
princely screws.
ft • ft
But before leaving the subject we may mention
that our prediction re the reconciliation between James
and Monte came off in the exact manner we forecast.
The first “ thon." in the bank did the business j the
mutual weeping on bosoms and the “ chain." So mote
it be.
* * * *
Naturally, this weeping brings us to the Pollards,
who wound up “ Les Cloches do Cornoville ” on Satur-
day to a fair house. As a representation by children,
the performance has never been eclipsed, probably, in
any part ef the world. Old man Pollard had the good
luck, when the rage for infantile exhibitions set in, to
have on hand a whole heap of little Pollards.
These wore incontinently converted into Josephines
and Deadeyes, and Porters, and Corcorans; and old
man Pollard had a company of his own to hand. Of
course they have rnn in alien kids, but the Pollard
element is predominant, and the olive branches now
furnish tho table which tho good old book recommends
us to ask they may grace. Tho performance is wonder-
ful, hut with that olher fellow we nt times wish it were
impossible, though we know that the car* Mrs. Pollard
mere takes of the troupe is more than motherly.
* * * *
On Saturday the Opera House will be given up
to Marshall and his company. Mr. Marshall did such
a good business when here before, at the Gaiety, and
has generally scored suoh a success, that further
triumphs may be looked for, and tho farrowed brows of
Wilson and Abrahams will possibly be soonirendered as
smooth as the placid waters of Botany dam m mid-
summer.
* • •
■Which demonstrates that next should come
Keller and Cunnrd, once of illusionist fame—that is,
Keller, for this Cunard is another liner. Keller tells us
that his erstwhile confreres, Ling Look and Yamadevo,
are both dead. The latter burst something while going
through an act, and poor Ling Look died of liver com-
plaint, in the East. Some fraud took Ling Look’s name
in England, but was exposed by Keller. The company
have been;engaged by the übiqitous Allison and open in
Melbourne on the 6th May. As they have all tho illu-
sions from the Egyptian Hall (London) and the boss
left there with a reputation not discounted by that
gainod.by any prestidigitateur iulAnstrelU, their success
should be ensured.
* * * *
As cheese succeeds pastry, next comes Herr
Simonseu, who, like the above-mentioned, has turned
up from what is erroneously called tho East. Martin is
from China or India, and talks of introducing “ dot
opora,”soriouß and bouffe, Italian and English, under
the auspices of—again Allison —" Next” as the barber
whose torn we do not want to take, says. Millia, the pre-
mier ventriloquist, comes from Maitland, and goes to
Grafton. “Fred” is now Moulton’s decoy to lure
people to believe they want curing with Fruit Pills
and Pain Faint, and “ George” assists in the amiable
deception. H. A. Douglas went overland to Melbourne,
and on to Adelaide early in the week to support the
great Louise at —there wo are again—Allison’s Theatre.
He will be interim stage manager vice Flemming, who
oannot yet be spared. We fancy there will be trouble
when Brick Pomeroy’s good lady finds that an exchange
has been made, and this lubricates our memory, aud
fetches oat the fact that the “typos’* have their Anni-
versary concert in the Temperance Hall, on the 29th
instant, and that Miss Clara Hamilton spends “ twa
’oors at hame” in the Protestant Hall, on May Btb.
“ Youth” ia to follow Pomeroy in Adelaide —date 20th
May, and Bartlemy Fair is held in our old Exhibition
Building on the 24th. Sir Bartholomew was (it may not
bn generally known),Nathaniel, one of the disciples. He
laboured, after the Ascension, amongst the Indians.
His “saint’s day” is really 24bh Aug. More news. When
anyone asks Browne for an order for this World, he
consigns them to the next. We hear that Hisoocks has
left Maccabe, but don’t believe it; and are told that
John Wilson did not display his usual good generalship
in moving his circus to Geelong for the Easter week.
Apropos to this, two (of his company, one of the
Matthews, and Charley Boss the agent, married two of
his daughters. Let us congratulate him and them,
Williamson, they say, spends half his time in New Zea-
land in collecting ferns and curios. His business is still
colossal, opera being as big a go as Struck Oil.
* * * *
Herr Bandmann, who ia now with a company at
Calcutta, has parted with his stage manager, Mr. J. H.
Nunn. There was a row on at rehearsal, and Bandmann
told Nunn to “ go to the devil.” Nunn went—oat. At
the end of the week Nunn was paid off, and signed a
receipt in full of all demand. Nine or ten days after-
wards he applied for further compensation, and next
brought a suit against Bandmann for £6l, made up as
follows :—£ll for two weeks’ salary j £25 for a second-
class passage to Adelaide, and £25 compensation for loss
of employment. Mr, Nunn was Nunn-suited.
# k k k
“Honour,” at tho Gaiety, gives Mr. Leake the
opportunity of figuring in the bills as an English artist;
but as Mr. Campbell,;the writer of the play, has omitted
to distinguish what sort of artist, and as Mr. Leake
shows no paste-pot or brush, it seems likely tho writer
trusted to tho actor to hit on his own device to bring
out the artistic Idea. Failing a blackboard and chalk,
be might appear with Howard’s rope and work off Mr.
Harry Sefton for looking tho villainous Gaoler so well.
Mr. Campbell conceals art.
ft * ft
We would lay three napoleons to Mr. Booth-
man’s sou that he can’t see much ia his French gambler
part. His moustache and imperial are the only points.
He learnt his French from “ King " Casey.
• • •
Miss Ward’s Cicely Bkne is as good as it can be
made, but the play does not give her the scope that her
talents entitle her to. Francesca Eimini (Mies Gray) is
the only chsractor with any dramatic force, and, saying
the Madame Vine flavour, she does all that can be done
with it.
* * ft
The little girl Sherwin, as Dolores, plays as well
as a child can be trained to do. Mr. Poole as Fitts
fits in. Miss Nelson’s acting and singing merit the
encores so freely given, and Mr. Hesford’s Merchant is
dignified aud amusing. As the scene changes from
Venice to Borne—on to the Rhino aud Marseilles and
Paris—there is plenty of soope for Mr. Kinchella’s w*d
of bristles, and he paints well. Mr. Miller’s orchestral
arrangements are applauded. It now appears that the
“ Heart bowed down” is not the only bit of vamp that
expresses dismal episode, and he gives Semiramis and
Luoiaa show.
* * * *
Melbourne exchanges tell of the continuation
of “Youth’s” prosperous career at the Koyal. Tke
new tableau has been introduced, aud it is, “ Tahite”
says, acceptable enough to the average mind only, the
poetic one preferring the old inferential ending
“The Colonel” at the Opera House grows in favour
“as its subtle satire is understood." “Maritaua’’
was the opera at the Bijou, but owing to the illness of
Miss Deaain, “Lucia de Lammermoor " had to bo sub.
stituted The last week of Mr. Marshall and his
c jmpany, at the Princess, is announced. Mr. Pollaoh.
the business manager, took a benefit when “ The Girls ’*
was played. “ The Guv’nor ” was revived for Saturday
and Monday, and on Tuesday and Wednesday “ Crutch
and Toothpick" was played, followed by “Betsy,"
with a farce, “My Preserver.” Mr. Marshall took a
benefit, and the whole season wound up with a splendid
send-along. The names of Messrs. Titheradge and
Oates and Miss Fischer run all through the notices,
with occasional mention of J. O. B. Grattan and other
minor members. The last piece played was Gilbert’s
Broken Hearts." On Monday Miss Jennie Lea gave
her impersonation “ Jo,” which she hes made famous
pretty well all over tho world. The “Jo " season is,
we hear, a spec, of Messrs. Allison, Mnsgrove, and
Garner A concert, in commemoration of tho Irish
orator, Grattan, took place on Saturday at tho Town
Hall. The audience was small Melbourne managers
have, it seems, secured the services of the charming
Maggie Knight, and the equally charming Ethel Adele.
I was ever thus since Sydney’s childish hours.
• ft •
Auckland papers tell of the success of Doran’s
Minstrels, at the Albert Hall. De Lias had better
burry back or Paddy Doran will have usurped his place
with the play-going public Dean's Minstrels were at
the Lorne St. Hall at last dates The new Opera
House is to be opened in Auckland on the 15th May.
ihe stage 1s 67 feet by 40. The dress-oirole holds 300
people, and is furnished with iron-backed Ameri-
can chairs. The stalls seat 470, and the pit 450. Total
estimated capacity, 1250 souls. The Zulu War and
“The World” go there after "Patience." What is
there left to desire ? Death alone.
** * *
“ Across the Continent,” with J. H. Hall as
“Knock Me Down Johnny," is the latest at the Bris-
bane theatre. The Courier says it ranks amongst the
most successful plays of the season Carden has come
to signal grief in the Banana Land capital; and Miss
Mansion Leigh has, wo are very sorry to hear, lain at
death s door.
** * *
A Qoulburn paper finds it impossible to close
its notice of the Hudson Surprise party without calling
attention to tho courtesy and business-like habits of
Mr. Hudson’s secretary, Mr. E. Q. Smith, who evidently
paid the bill of our own Biley An exchange says,
“ All actors playing before King The bau have to take
off thoic boots." We don’t dispute the accuracy of
this, but it proves that the life of even an Eastern
potentate isn’t' all beer and skittles The benefit to
Miss Carrie Godfrey in Auckland netted her £BO The
Bboa Standard details in several inches of dense,
solid, unloaded nonpareil “an insult to tho Candelo
public,” which consisted in the refusal of Professor
Jacobs to show to a “multy" house. The professor
and his wife were allowed safe escort on paymeht of tho
rent of the hall. A foot-note gives Jacobs' version to
the effect that larrikins rushed the stage.
* * **
The Masonic Hall looked quite fresh and gay on
the occasion of Mr. M'Quade’s concert on the 19th in-
stant, being prettily decorated with ferns and flowers.
Perfuming tho programmes is a scentsible idea, and
shows Mr. M'Quado nose how to make his audience
comfortable. The attendance was not so large as might
have been expected, owing probably to the concert
taking place in the afternoon. Beethoven’s Andante
Symphonio No. 5 was the opening piece, and if the
second violin’s and Mr. Moss’s ideas of time had not
been at variance once or twice, it would have gone very
well indeed. Mr. Busnelle was down for three solos,
each one of which ho sang just agreeably and no more.
Miss Marie St. Clair knows exactly what suits her
voice, as was manifested by her choice of “ Se Eomeo.”
She was in good voice, aud was rewarded by applause
which was loud and long. Miss Madeline St. Clair
looked charming, which seems to go a long way
with a singer. “Sing sweet Bird" is not nn
easy song to sing well; it requires a more
finished style than Miss Madeline has yet ac-
quired. Still, she looked very pretty—so obtained
a fair show of applause. The chief interest in the con-
cert was centred in Beethoven's Concerto in G, with
orchestral accompaniment. Mr. M’Quade is a true
artist, and played the whole of this difficult composi-
tion from memory. The andante movement was
particularly fine. The orchestra (mostly professionals)
had their work to do to play up to the gifted pianist—
but they did it, and right well too. There is this to be
be said for Sydney people; they know how to appreciate
good music when they hear it, for all through this long
composition not a whisper was heard in the hall, and
we have not such a high opinion of Sydney manners as
to think people would deny themselves tho pleasure of
chattering if they wished it, but on this occasion the
audience was simply held spell-bound. And, talk-
ing of manners, as soon as the last note of the
Concerto had died away more than half the audience
rose and left the hall, as much as to say, “There, we’ve
beard all wo came for: there’s nothing else worth
listening to." And as this was the first item on the
second part of the programme, what wonder if the re-
mainder of the concert was a little colourless ? A very
tiny admirer of Mr. M'Quade tripped up to the plat-
form to present him with a floral offering, and when
the performance was over he met with most hearty
congratulations from his friends on the success of the
concert.
“THE POOR PLAYER"
[Correspondence to invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Some of Miss Alice Rees’ professional admirers
discovered that a “Patience" night, in Christchurch,
was the anniversary of her birth, and fairly smothered
her with bouquets The Boston critics wouldn’t have
George Darrell’s Armand, in “ Camille,” at any price,
but praised his Joseph Surface. Miss Dickinson,
George’s “star,” engaged another Armand; hence
George’s suit against her for 500 dol Davis
(our Teddy) leaves New York for London next mouth,
D’Oyly Carte, who farms Gilbert and Sullivan’s
pieces, has made Mrs. Langtry a swinging offer to go
to America. Being a d’oyly, the carte should be blanche,
und that brings us to the Stray Leaves Company, who
have strayed to Tamworth at latest dates Six weeks
in Christchurch (N.Z.) brought Zulu Thompson £1975.
Mace tackled a lot of amateurs who were blowing
in Auckland that ho was played out, and knocked tho
stuffing out of them The new Opera House at Auck-
land is to be opened in May. It is not much ot an
Opera House, wa hear Kohler Brothers are at
Reefton, West Coast (New Zealand) and William
Kignold has not been a success in America Says
that most truthful of papers, the Chisago World.—
“ Nearly all tha Amerieau actors who went to Australia
are dead; broke, or unable to getaway.” We thought
they had nearly all gone cn prince with onr good sugar...
Dr. Simms was in Bathurst last week phys ornomy
teaching. A. B. Rae was a subject Mr. Appleton,
better known in Melbourne than Sydney, has attained
the degree of B A.—by propp ng np the outside of
theatres and swapping “ shop lies, of course. This is
sarcastic—go ye, some of the “ perfosb," and do like-
wise An erratic constable at Qoulburn arrested Mr.
Smith, Tommy Hudson’s manager, tho other night,
under the plea that he answered the description of one
who was “ wanted.” Smith was recognised by bystanders
and released The Holloway Dramatic Company ia
noticed in the Dubbo Dispatch last week as being about
to play “ Pygmalion and Galatea.” The D.D. gives the
plot ef tho piece—from its Orange contemporary
Thomas Fox, a native of Australia, mat with a fatal
accident while doing aerobatic feats at Woodward’s
Gardens, San Francisco. Professional name Zorilla
Tue amateur rehearsal ot “Patience" goes on weekly at
Newcastle... Ben Allah has been victimising the Albury
people with slate pencils and small bags of flour.
Don may yet get a nasty jar from the yokels At last,
oh at last, we discover Lieutenant Rose; at Gympie,
where the local critic says he “ fully sustained his right
to be considered as one of the most extraordinary illu-
sionists” —and “as a ventriloquist unique." Bravo
Bill 1 “More Blunders than One,” “halt-an-hour of
magic and mystery by Mr. Wittgenstein,” Jos. Picker «-
gill’s “ Catching the Kelly’s," and “ The Nymph and
the Lurleyburgh" formed the programme at Dubbo
lately for the benefit of Miss IhetCfand Mr. A. A,
Inglis, the latter of whom, “returns to Dubbo from
Sydney with a troupe of blondes and blondinettes, to
give entertainments like those of the celebrated Lydia
Tnompson Company.” Naughty Dubbo ! Happy Dis-
patch St. Leon’s C ire mm at Tenttrfleld last week
Harry Shopperson gets a tremendous preliminary puff
from the Daily Northern (Rockhampton) Argus for
on opera company, to open about the middle ot June;
after the Brisbane season The Warrnambool
Standard notices the Georgia Smithson Company as
appearing there aud going on to Belfast.... The Adelaide
Advertiser’s weekly issue records the ro-productiou of
onr Christmas Pantomime there on Easter Monday, mi
great length, and approves of the piece even
as second-hand goods. Signora Pasta gets first
mention, which shows that Johnny Moore has not been
idle. The paper speaks well of the company, and say»
the homes have been crowded ; yet telegrams to Mr.
Allison ask for the speedy despatch of tho people to
follow tke pantomime Alice May is paragraphed by
a Liverpool paper as playing Pekoe in“Auadin”
Mr. Morris Greenwall, agent for Mr. Thynne, who runs
the Mendelssohn Quintette Club, has arranged for all
New Zealand Man fell through trap while rehearsing
‘‘Patience’* In Christchurch. On recovery, lessee
Williamson and proprietor Beattie gave him a good
cheque each. Next week it was found necessary to
double bolt all the traps The Emmetts (Mr. and
Miss Marion Melrose), and Mr. Mowry went to Ade-
laide this week to join tho Eoyal company When
Auckland larrikin* go to the theatre they secure
plenty of room in the pit by chewing wattle seeds.
Wattle seeds smell about a hundred per cent, worse
than strong onions.
• « •
Says the manager to a friend: —“ The last time I
played here I had 2,600 dollars is t now I hs ve 860, with
the same piece." “Same company?” asks friend.
“Yes; all but Joe Jefferson" Boucicault's son has
produced a successful drama ia London, and a son of
Salvini made a creditable first appearance in New York
.Mrs. Lingard is engaged to play the star part ia
“Dlvorcons" in New York Sarah Bernhardt lately
at Genoa went through tho fainting and blood spitt-
ing fakement; amongst the audience were Verdi
(not our George) and Donadio, Patti’s rival. A
police inspector had to apologise. Tho consequence
was that Adrienne Locouvreuv tbe next night
caused a furore. Sally knows her way ab0ut......
A one-legged woman, sitting appropriately clad in a
cascade, and two other tropically-attired females with
no visible means of support except a red ribbon, are
amongst the astonishing scenic effects iu The Crook at
the Globe Theatre, Loudon—says a correspondent to
tho Clipper.
The Bulletin Libel Fund.
A public mooting was hold in the Masonic Hall on
Monday evening last, for the purpose of presenting n
statement of accounts in connection with Thk Bulletin
Libel Fund, The belief that Messrs. Haynes and
Archibald) would bo present helped to swell the attend-
ance, and the hall was representatively crowded. Mr.
D. O’Connor, M.P., took the chair in the absence of his
Worship the Mayor of Sydney. Other gentlemen on
the platform were : Messrs. N. Melville, M L.A,, T. M.
Slattery, M.L.A., E. Lennox Bowling, O. Withers,
M.L.A.,, J. A. Hogue, G. E. Dibbs, M. Hammond
(Mayor of Ashfleld), W. H. Traill, Montague Levy,
Geo. Wallace (Newcastle), P. E. Holdsworth, John
Haynes, Jas. Chisholm, J. Vicars, and E. Luscombe.
Letters of apology for non-attendance were read from
Messrs. G. H. Eeid, M.L.A., and W. E. Campbell. The
Chairman opened the meeting with a tolling speech,
and called upon
Mr. Q. E. Dibbs, the honorary treasmrer, who pre.
sented a statement of accounts, mentioning Newcastle
specially as having contributed £llO, aud stating than
the first cash he started with was a balance of £lO3
from the former Bulletin fund subscription. The
total amount of receipts had been £609 16s. Id.; of
payments for liberation, £6lB Bs. 7d. These payments
were made up as follows Amount of judgment, £597
7s. 7id. (including the historic farthing); sheriff's teen
and poundage, £l7 Bs.; bailiff's fees, £2 2i. j and ca sa
writ, £1 lls. The sum of £BO had been absorbed in
clerical assistance, advertising, printing, aud other
incidental expenses. Alderman G. Wallace (of New-
castle) moved the following resolution
“ That this meeting desires to welcome back to pnblio
life Messrs Haynes and Archibald, and is of opinion
that any balance of subscriptions that may remain after
all out s auding claims are met,and proper provision made
to meet the necessary expenses of obtaining an altei •
ation of the libel law, should be handed over to Messrs.
Haynes and Archibald as a token of appreciation of
their conduct in reference to the Clontarf case.”
( Applause).
In doing so, he referred to the statement of some per
sons that the movement should be considered apart
from the personality of Haynes and Archibald. After
admitting that the agitation was one in favour of the
expression of a great principle, he contended that
Hay nes and Archibald were identified with the advocacy
of that principle, for, said he, ‘’if Messrs. Haynes and
Archibald had exhibited a craven spirit, they might
have apologised to the plaintiffs and saved their and
onr money. They defended the action in the interests
of ordinary merality.”
Mr. Holdsworth, in seconding the resolution,
pointed out that there was yet a great battle to be
fought before an amendment of the libel law was
secured. The proposition was carried nem. dis.
Mr. Haynes, upon coming forward, was greeted with
stormy applause. Ho first apologised for the absence
of Mr. Archibald in consequence of illness. Mr. Haynes
spoke nt considerable length, claiming that a victory
had been gained over bad law aud rampant immorality.
“ Anyone who knows me aud knows Mr. Archibald,”
he said, “anyone who has watched The Bulletin from
the first day it started, knows that the paper has been
engaged in resolute work of reform. (Cheers.) It has
attacked the political and social humbug, and never
before did the political and social humbug hang his
head so low as now. We started on a work of which
the country alone could reap the benefit. I could see
from the first moment the trial opened that the fact of
our being a paper that was coming, a paper that was
going to have a say iu the future of this country told
against us ; it was to be seen right behind the legal show
that was made.” “ Nothing,” continued Mr. Haynes,
“ rouses my indignation more than to hear some scoun-
drel who has felt our lash say that we are a paper that
dives into the privacy and sanctity of homes. I would
like to know where is the family that fears our next
issue. 1 would like to know whose home’s sanctity we
have over Invaded. [A Voice: •• Never.”] . . , . ,
Great as has been the injustice we have suffered, it is
nothing whatever in oompariaon to the results wo have
obtained. Wo had not been above ten or fifteen days
in gaol, when the news came in to us through the pad-
locks—‘No more music licenses down the harbour'
(Cheers.) I said to my partner: ‘That’s one for
us."’ (Laughter). Ho went on to say that the
“picnio mon-stor," which was responsible for tuo
existence of two out of every three of the uafur.
tunato women of Sydney, was, now dead, ns a result
cf the action of The Bulletin, which had d<»ra
the work that Sir Jamas Martin and Sir
William Manning ought to have done when they
were politicians. (Cheers.) “ Soma papers have said
why didn’t So and-so release us from gaol ? Mr, Archi.
bald and myself Are satisfied with the generous and
honourable troattnontjwo have received at the hands of
Mr. Traill.” After stating that The Bulletin would
continue unflinchingly in its work, Mr. Haynes con-
cluded by thanking the public for their liberality iu
obtaining his aud Mr. Archibalds release. Bo also
thanked the gentlemen who had moved in the first
public subscription.
Mr. T. M. Slattery, M.L.A., having addressed the
meeting, cries were given for Mr. W. H. Traill, who in
a few words explained tho motives which had led him
to write the celebrated farthing libel.
Olher speakers followed, aud a vote of thanks to ihe
Chairman closed the meeting.
Messrs. Hajnes aid Archibald have to place upon
record their hearty thanks to the gentlemen who hav •
so generously come forward to icleass them from the
pecuniary and paual consequencei of exposing a crying
public evil. To tho members of the two committees
who have personally exerted themselves they owe a
deep debt of gratitude, their sense of which words arc
inadequate to express.
A cow-boy who writes ia the Cumberland
Charnel-House tins been eulogising Dante Gabriel
lioBB*tLi. This was not the oauae of the poet's death.
The poteens whose slush is printed in these forlorn
little rags are of the kind that the other and the groat
Dame described as being compelled to gnaw their own
heads in Hell—another way of saying that they were
made to eat dirt.
Mustapha Pasha ex-Miuister of the Bey of
Tunis, is, according to the S.M. Herald, paving the
streets or Pans with his ill-gotten gold. The Boy of
Tunis is paving the streets of Hell wick curses. And
Dblm scratching his left olootie thoughtfully with the
point cf a pitchfork, looks upward and mutters softly
t.' b meelf “ Must-have-a Pasha,”


PEPPER AND SALT.
So King Theban, of Burmah, has massacred
‘his inferior wife, two half-sisters, his Chancellor of the
Exchequer, and fifty nobles.” Only the other day ho
slaughtered 200 virgins, and with their blood mixed up
the mortar for his new palace. No, let’s see, that was
his royal brother of Ashanteo. The Burmese are a
peculiar people. Among other things, they object to
missionaries. A little while ago, a divine waited on the
King and requested his permission to tell the people all
about the Joys of Hall and the colour of Balaam’s
moke. His Majesty said yes, but added that the head
would bo knocked off each proselyte ten minutes after
baptism. The Burmese idea of heavenly bliss is that
after death the righteous man is changed into a buffalo
and turned into a paddock, where the lucerne grows 6ft.
high. The Burmese women are pretty, and one wife is
allowed to any man who thinks he can afford to keep
her. “Gentlemen,” however, are allowed what are
called “ supernumeraries.” This is also the custom in
countries other than Burmah.
About the “ softest" billet in Burmah is that of the
White Elephant, who is the Burmese God, ard would
be given a chunk of the moon were ho to ask for it.
The present reigning elephant was caught when but
three months old, and as his mamma was shot, the
King (Theban’s father) gave orders that tweaty-four
of the healthiest Burmese matrons were to be told off
for tho purpose of imparting lacteal sustenance to his
juvenile godship. This is no snake yarn, or special
commissioner’s story, but a steady, solid fact. The cir-
cumstance that King Thebau killed his “ inferior wife”
suggests the idea that she was a bad cook or had been
flirting with his treasurer, while the fact of his amputa-
ting the heads of 50 nobles plainly proves that the ring
was mixed up in a Town Hall contract, or a “ faked “
meter concern, or a Clontarf libel verdict. Only civilised
countries tolerate jobs like these. That's all we know
about Burmah.
• • •
F Berry left Melbourne and was succeeded by
the small-pox and the berl-beri disease, of which latter
two Japanese sailors died in Hobson’s Bay. How
admirable are thy compensations, O Nature
» « •
After Pat (who came out here at the expense
of the Immigration Department) had been settled at
Rockhampton about two months, some wag told him
that he was bound by law to register every quadruped
born on his farm. Shortly after this the goat brought
forth a kid, and to keep within the lex Pat hastened off
to tho Registry Office, where the following dialogue
took place Patrick: “I want to register mo kid, if
you plate, sor." Registrar : “ Whoa was she bom—l
presume it is a she.” Pat: “ This mornin’, your
honor, an* be the same token as fine a kid as y’ ever
see.” Registrar: “ Who was with her mother at the
time P ” Pat: “ Only moself, sor.” Registrar: “ What
religion do you Intend to bring her up in ? ” Pat (re-
flectively) : “Well, I suppose the horses, cows, an’
ghoats must be of the same belafe as their owner—
Roman Catholic, to be sure.” Registrar : “ What the
deuce have I been registering all this time ? ” Fat:
“ Why tho ghoat’s kid av coorse.”
• • •
The lottery’s breathed its latest sigh,
And made its latest prance;
Well, ’tis no wonder t hat should die.
Which only lived “ by chance.”
« «
At the Water Police Court last week, a wharf
labourer named Thomas Barry was sent to gaol for two
months for stealing ss. worth of cheese, tho property
of the A.S.N. Company. He should have stolen it from
some poor, unknown, struggling widow, and then he’d
get—but bold on, let us figure this put a little. Thomas
B,arry steals ss. worth of cheese and he’s “ boosted up "
fpr two months, or at the rate of eight months per
pound sterling. Now, Reginald Montmorency Augus-
tus Dubois robs his bank of £5OO, and therefore, as
Justice is always level, Reginald’s sentence should be
4000 months for 333 years 4 months. But it would
blister his bauds to do it, so we let him off with two
years and then rush round with reprieve petitions.
Moral.- Don’t steal cheese—steal sovereigns.
V. * # * .
Mem. for clerical meetings:—The real hind-
rances to Evangelical Christianity are—" Evangelical ”
Christians. # # #
Tho time has arrived for the muscular young
man to again become the slave of the football fiend, and
go forth to dislocate his collar-bone, tear his gaudy
guernsey, and break the legs of his friends, while his
lady admirers look on with gasping ioterest, and give a
little “Oh!” every tima a bone snaps. He is spurred
on to achieve bruises and glory, and broken joints and
a costing of mud, by the presence of those beautiful
spectators, who shudder oven while fascinated by the
carnage. Never is the muscular young man so happy
as when, blood streaming from his nose, and his smart
jersey and clean white pants covered with real estate,
ho limps past the pitying damsels, on his way to the
ambulance van, where the surgeons stand by with a
tourniquet, an Esmarch bandage, a pair of bulldog
forceps, and an armful of lint, while the girls murmur
—in tones as soothing to his ear as chloral hydrate to
a sufferer from the jim-jams—words of admiration and
sympathy. It’s a glorious thing to bo a footballer—on
Saturday afternoon. It is only when he goes to the
office oh Monday morning, with a swollen mouth,
bojuvna-sized fingers, and lamps os big as tho coast
range all over his body, that the muscular disciple of
manslaughter feels sad.
• • •
**A Queensland lady recently said that no one
had kissed her since her marriage but her husband.
Whereupon (it was “in company”) her four-year-old son
promptly exclaimed: “Oh mi, I saw Johnny (the
Kanaka mau-of-all-work) kiss you in the garden, and,
don’t you remember, you gave me a penny not to
tell pa 1 ”
Writes a Melbourne correspondent;—“ I read
iff a paper the other day the following paragraph, taken
frpm a Queensland journal: ’Some years since, a resident
of Queensland, whose life was heavily insured, was
drowned away lathe interior. His corpse could not be
recovered, but the insurance money was claimed by his
disconsolate relatives. The, strangest thing abput this
mysterious affair is that the body of the lamented de-,
ceased wu» lately seen perambulating the streets of Ban
Eraffcisoo, looking none the worse fps its untimely fmd
inAustwlV This max pr may not.be true,, fori have
in my time read many stories of » similar character
which were gratuitous inventions. But this is a fact:
About ten years ago, a well-known Southerner, who was
supposed to have made a big fortune, partly out of tan- |
pits and partly out of mining, and whose life was insurec
in English and French companies, for, I believe, some
£BOOO, went home. Fourteen months afterwards came
the news that be had died of enteritis at Quebec, while
ou his way back to Australia. lam told that his insur-
a" se polioies'were paid in full; but, anyhow, I, who have
a happy faculty of remembering a face or a voice for
even forty years, saw my deceased friend in the flesh
not a thousand miles from Salford only seven months
ago. An Anglo-Australian intimate of mine met him
a’ out two years since at Woolwich, on the occasion
of the launch of an ironclad, struck up an acquaintance
and dined with him the same evening at Upper Norwood
where be had a pretty little establishment, since tenanted
by another distinguished Australian who got his money
from the sheep's back. My friend, who had never seen
him before, received from him his portrait as a souvenir
I was confident I recognised on tho back of that portrait
the well-known caligraphy which had adorned many a
cheque and bill passed through my hands twenty years
ago, and, to make sure, I looked up the writer. He and
the successful deceased were one and the same person,
though he, who used to shave clean, now affects Dun-
drearies. He has got rid of the old partner in his joys
and sorrows, and now runs in double harness with a
lady |who must be at least a quarter of a century his
junior. I invented an excuse for visiting him, and am
certain be remembered m?, though there escaped on
my side no sign of recognition."
* * *
The consumption of “whisky'* during the
sitting of the Presbyterian Conference has not been up
to expectation. Has climate impaired the race—or has
whisky degenerated ?
• • «
Here is a straight libel, but it’s true. In tho
Far North the other day, two men, N orton and Beck wi th,
quarrelled about some horses. Norton went to a certain
well-known lawyer, paid him a fee and got advice. A
few days afterwards the case came ou in court, when
Mr. Elegant Fleecer appeared for Beckwith. During
cross-examination Norton said he had bom advised to
stick to the horses. 11 Who advised yon ?" enquired tho
P.M.l|*'Mr. Elegant Fleecer," replied Norton. The
situation was fine. The P.M. appeared neither surprised
nor incredulous. Norton was defiant, the crowd
roared, but the lawyer turned never a hair, and seemed
quite unconscious of anything out of tho ordinary
having occurred.VThisis a fair sample of legal etiquette
in North Queensland.
* * •
In the Domain at eventide, pair of doves
roosting on a seat. Edwin drops his stick to clutch
Evangeline—retriever dog passing couple appropriates
stick—after a long interval Edwin discovering his loss
tears madly after dog—returning heated with stick he
finds Evangeline has cleared—slight coolness—letters
and locks returned. Fact.
• • •
June and December have met. The burly and
rubicund widow of a lately-deceased owner of cattle
and sheep galore—a man of the long-headed, shrewd.
North of Ireland type-has mated herself to a young
" gumsucker.” To the ambitious youth she has given,
as a reward for his pluck in turning away from the
sylphs and facing solidity, the modest sum of £20,000.
But, despite her love, the fatuous ox-widow of some
fifty winters has settled themoney on her wisdom-teeth,
cutting bridegroom in such a way that ha can only draw
the interest so long as he behaves himself as a true
knight of her portly charms. The pair are to be seen
daily **oarrlageing it” through Collins-stroet. He
looks rather perplexed; she appears contented. They
remind one of a big spider and a little fly within the
meshes of the relentless web. A good story of the
honeymoon, having champagne as its basis, is afloat.
But no more.
• ♦ *
Mr. John Stuart Mill Cobden Reid did not
travel up the Blue Mountains with Mr. Horace Greeley
Franeis United States Munro Smith Berry,
• • •
i The rekerby circles of the “ curled darlings ”of
South Yarra are in a simmer of anticipated scandal am
excitement. The frail frequenters of the Afternoon
Teas have ordered an extra quantity of Bohea, Pekoe*
and Souchong. Their nerves are unusually tremulous,
,a&d,th9 yirtuous skirt, closely representing the fig-leaf
o* the Kden period, is being drawn tightly round the 1
female form divine of the £liie of Melbourne. The I
cause, that jade, Rumour, states, is the “ Marcu
Clarke Memorial Volume,” which is shortly to be pub-
lished. In it that modern stylo of life, yclept
is illustrated beyond the Q.E.D. standard. Letters are
to appear which show that even a woman passing as an
intellectual being of the highest moral order “ can
smile and smile," etc. (In other words, the mystery of
poor gifted Jaw-driven Marcus’s lifs is about to bo un.
ravelled. During this process little Peddlington will be
convulsed, and a self-exalted one will be brought low,
muoh to the satisfaction (concealed, of course) of that
gentle portion of humanity which would die if deprived
of scandals, tea-drinking, and church-going. Heigh
oh I This is a sorry life when the veneer of fashion is
rubbed off and the whited sepulchre laid bare.
• • •
Madame Blanc, proprietress of the gambling-hell
at Monaco, died the other day, worth a million sterling.
This gives our ideas of things a bit of a jolt. We had
always thought that running churches and fancy fayres
was the most paying game on the planet.
* • •
Theatrical folk are busy talking off the
stage, this time. Tho old, old story is the themo of
conversation and surmise. A well-known actor and his
wife, who are equally popular, have agreed to part. As
usual, jealousy is the cause, whether founded on some-
thing more solid than air this deponent knows not. The
wife, herself somewhat fond of admiration and its
accessories, had suspicions that to a “ fetching"
member of the company her lord and master paid more
covert attention than was likely to result from Just a
mere friendly feeling as it were. A watch was sot on
the truant oaptivator, and this was followed by a
denouement, in which the gay Lothario was found, at
the heur when tho churchyards yawn. &o. Tho in
furiated wife clung to the raven looks of somebody else,
&0,, &c. And, by the way, a prominent Melbourne
man, who recently invited to his house for a few days a
fascinating gentleman, who remained some months,
has had his eyes opened and is going to interview that
goddess whoso eyes are shut.
« # •
The ironical Daily Telegraph has discovered
that ‘‘sleeplessness is the evil of the Civil Service." But
then the Service subscribes to other papers I
* ♦ •
The trustees of a church in Christchurch, N.Z.,
were lately fln?d for permitting the Young Men’s
Christian Association to hold a concert in the church*
This is sufficient proof that the law is effete in Christ-
church. If the concert were of the same class as those
given by the Young Men’s Christian Association in
Sydney, the trustees should not have been fined. They
should have been beheaded.
* •
An older of the Melbourne Presbytery has been
among the Susannas. His brethren in conclave assem-
bled have, however, decided that his ethics are all
square.
• # »
Strangely enough, one of the promoters of the
Christchurch Exhibition was the first to whom any-
thing like an accident occurred. While our friend,
J ules Jouhert*- - ’* the little man with long arms "—was
walking through tho Art Gallery, a piece of wood fell
from the roof (a height of 30 feet), just grazing his loft
side. It dropped with such force that it drove a hole
completely through the flooring, which is an inch in
thickness. In N.Z. Providence appears to work slightly
better than in N.S.W. If the scamped foundations of
public buildings gave way and killed merely the archi-
tects, and if lamps of bogus ceiling-plaster concussed
only the brains of the contractor, it would do more
than fifty barrels of sermons to make good Christians
of us all. Instead of haggling about prayer for rain,
the synods and assemblies might think over this idea.
There’s millions in it.
* • •
A reporter got puzzled during some lengthy
arguments the other day, and enquired of a certain
learned counsel “what it all meant “Well," said
Julian confidentially, “ I’ll tell you. It means a dashed
wg bill of costs on both sides.”
• • •
The latest scandal from our Southern neigh-
bours is that a certain County Court Judge, whose
amours are notorious, became infatuated with the
stewardess of the steamer that had conveyed him to a
town at which he was adjudicating:; and appointed to
meet her on the rocks by the "sad sea waves” on a
certain evening. She didn't keep her tryst, but the
steward, who happened to be in the secret, arrayed him.
self in female apparel, and proceeded to the judicial
rendezvous. His Honor duly showed wp, and—was
pelted with unsavoury eggs. Another Dillon is sadly
wanted down South.
* « #
Pictures of artistes in tights vended alongside
photos, of the Ven. Archbishop at the Fay re of the
Olden Tyme. Some papers take a column to explain
this. We say “nothink.”
« • •
Only one member of the present Victorian
Ministry can waltz. Not more than two of them can
talk decent English. But that's nothing new. Major
Smith, who accompanied Mr. Berry to Sydney, when
Minister of Education in the first Berry Government
used to spell “ recommend" with one “ m,” ana “ until"
with two 11 1's.” The Major writes a bad hand, but this
is balanced by the fact that he has the biggest feet in
Victoria. So big, indeed, that he can ride a horse
which has only been broken to harness, and has never
been backed; for when the equine feels the distin-
guished man's understanding all along his anatomy,
and sees the Major's toes sticking out in front of his
(the horses) eyes, he imagines that he's in shafts.
• • •
Eeflcction of a city publican: “As no roads
are so rough as those which have just been mended, so
are no sinners so intolerant as those who have just
turned saints."
tt # •
At Tam worth. With fore-finger and thumb
in his vest pocket, he walked across the street to the
smart publican. “ Good morning, Mr. ,” said he,
" I think I owe you some money. I want to alter my
account—how much is it ?’’ They wont inside, and the
publican looked at his book and found that the custo-
mer had for over two years been indebted to him in the
sum of 12s. “Twelve shillings,” said the boniface.
“ Eight yon are I” exclaimed the customer; “ now we
may as well have a drink. What's yours?” They
drank. Then, customer to landlord: “ How much did
yon say I owed you?" “Twelve shillings." “Ah,
then two drinks will just make it 13s. I’ll give you a
cheque when it comes to a sovereign. So long, old
man.”
# tt •
Mr. L. F. Heydon writes to the Editor of the
B.M. Herald :—“ Mr. Berry will And no lack of critics,
from yourself downwards." Where does the down-
wards lead to, in the name of all that’s meek and lowly ?
tt • •
Mclndoe beat Corbett in the swimming
struggle on Saturday last, but the latter, who is a civil
servant, had everything against him. He was not (fact)
allowed a day’s leave from his office; and consequently
had neither proper training, regular meals, nor rest, and
he was also at work up to 8 p.m. on the night before the
race. Certain cricketers could got 12 months’ leave to
go home on a business spec., and jot wo have never
heard of a man’s life leing saved by cricketwe have
by swimming.
# # #
Baly’s lines to a lady (with a pair of candle-
sticks) in the Nooze are so delicious that the latest
addition to our staff can’t resist offering the bard of
Charleoot this companion “pome” {with a pair of
snuffers) :
Arcopt. my d«a.r Bsl.v, this symbol from me,
< tt ibe Ocelli so deservedly waiting for thee.
And enough its intrinsioal worth is not great,
’Twill afford thee the means of ensuring thy fate.
Shoujd you ever again feel like to explode
With an epic, a lyric, a sonnet, an ode,
A boon you’ll confer on the world, without doubt.
If you’ll use my love token, and snuff yourself ont.
» m m
The City Mission in Adelaide tried to get con-
gregations together giving free-lnnchea. But it was
found that these were cleared almost as soon as spread
by the itinerant pressmen of that city. As the souls
of these were not thought worth saving at such cost,
the City Missionaries dissolved the combination of
Grab and Gospel. A striking influx of infidelity has since
then made its appearance in police-court reports and
accident paragraphs.
• * •
A number of “ Exceedingly respectable people”
have allied themselves with the Salvation Army in
England. Here, the allies of the Salvation Army, are,
as one might say. . . Let somebody else say ib.
» • *
A certain squatting company recently gained
possession of a Queensland station as mortgagees, and
appointed a manager on the cheap and nasty principle.
There were many selectors on the run, and the new
manager, on his way up, “ blew ” mightily that ho in-
tended to play old Harry with them. A few days after
his arrival, he was waited on by a well-dressed indivi-
dual, who represented himself as a cash-buyer of mixed
cattle. The manager was delighted, treated him, and
sold him some cattle. But the clever man’s horror was
intense when, a few days afterwards, he found that the
real purchasers wore some of the much-hated selectors,
who had by this ruse gained title to cattle with the
station brand. They now call themselves shareholders.
The manager thinks there are some cookies as smart as
himself.
• * *
A Melbourne alderman, “ while aesthetically
opposed |to tramways, accepts the march of improve-
ment.” Melbourne still “ has the bulge” on us. Imagine
alderman John M’Elhone being “ aesthetically opposed”
to anything.
* « s
Old well we will call him Jones, resides
on his station on the Lachlan. Like Captain Wragge,
he has "Joyce’s Scientific Dialogues” at his finger
ends, and delights in airing his knowledge to any one
who will listen. Eeoently he was superintending the
erection, by one of his men, of a building. When the
corner-post was up, the following dialogue occurred:
Jones: “ Paul, what makes that post stand ? ” Paul :
“Hanged if I know.” Jones: “Gravity, sir; the
action of gravity.” Paul; “ Gravel be blowed, it’s hard
ramming." Jones now thinks that scientific instruction
is wasted on some people.
# # #
The Evening News “pen portrait” of Sir
Henry Parkes boiled down to three words»—“A
political dodger.” Those who ought to know say that
the article would not have appeared had the knight and
the “ Special Commissioner” agreed well. (
* * #
Here’s a specimen of clumsy Juden-hetze
The Heraldic scribe says “ Germany has to mourn the
loss of a very famous author, Berthold Auerbach, a
DR. ANNESLEY WEST.


Jew, but a very talented writer.” That “but” not
only argues scant acquaintance with the world’e litera-
ture, but reveals a disposition as brutal as that which
prompts ’the Bussian to ehivy the Hebrew. When
Granny gets into a libel-action, she’ll gladly retain the
services of Mr. Julian Salomons, Q.C.
• • •
Parkes who is quite a dop (a premier donner
In fact) at imparting oracular information to the young
Idea, has been addressing himself to young Warwick-
shire, assuring if that the way to K.C.8.-ship and an
Invite to Windsor is diligence and faithfulness in doing
one’s duty in that state of life unto which one is called
—especially if one is called to p n. making on any thing
like a large scale. Diligence is a safe card, yet some
people succeed by dint of diligence and not meeting
obligations.
• • •
The London Athbnjeum is rough on Melbourne.
In a not uncomplimentary notice of Ada Cambridge’s
•• A Mere Chanoe," a romance of modern Ufa in Victoria,
it saysi “Lest the fact that the soene is laid in and
near Melbourne should deter readers,” etc. How that
“ lest" will grate on the ears of the Collins-street
plutocrats I
* • •
At the Garden Palace Fayre. She was a
beauty of Pepys’; time and he was a oad, who faneied
himself as a sweet savour in the nostrils of the fair sex.
She offered to seU him a bottle ef scent, and get the
reply i ” I never use it, my deah.” " Then,” retorted
she.l “ yon might, with advantage to those around
you.” Lord Augustus was bailed up for flowers, but
refused to “part," and attempted a compliment: “I
never bay from pretty girls.” *' Then,” said she
sweetly, “ buy from me."
* « •
Bradlaugh was formerly in the cavalry. He
enlisted therein. He must, at the time of entering the
Eorvioe, have taken the oath of allegiance. He swore
at that time, no doubt, but of course only swore like a
trooper.
• • •
It wasn’t in town, but at —ah —at Burranjungin
gery that a member of the Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation said, in the course of a debate, that gaol was the
best place for The Bulletin people. Very good. But
wait till that pious young man gets prosecuted for
burgling the poor-box in his church. We’ll give him
just as big a par. as his late respected father got on the
occasion of his last public]! appearance '.as a chronic
horse-thief. Bad as are the laws, the arsonistical forger
and wife-beating bigamist ofjthat quiet Western village
—the last to assail us with a volley of mawkish chad-
bandisms —found that his bucolic was not
concealed from the stern officers of Justice by a saintly
veneer {of’godly gammon. His cattle-duffing church-
wardens couldn’t save him from the bobby, or
turn aside the long-cherished wrath of the flre-
raieing Juryman’whose daughter he had wronged. He
was dragged from the pulpit he had jumped during the
abeonoe of his reverend predecessor, who had long been
"wanted” for dog-poisoning, forgery, and the confi-
dence trick, the latter practised on hia good Bishop,
then specially invited to the district for the purpose of
confirming the children of the local horse-stealers. He
is now in Berrima, The chains we wore at Darlinghurst
await his son.
BRIEF MENTION.
How is it we’ve never tried our Aboriginals at
skulling P
Thebau is a Darwinian. Ha massacres his
inferior wives. Thus do the fittest survive.
“ A Sydney lamplighter found a snake coiled
aronnd a lamp post last Thursday.” Who found the
lamplighter ?
When a certain Northern Town Council want
a clerk, they gat him first, and advertise for him after-
wards. A grim fact.
The Dillon Fire Brigade is now spoken of. The
members are to carry their own beers or revivers, so as
not to jeopardise publicans.
In China, the punishment for adulterating food
is death. In Australia, too, the punishment is death,
bat it’s the wrong man who dies.
The Debating Club in Dubbo has collapsed.
We shall now, perhaps, never know whether or not
the ezeeation of Charles I. was justifiable.
Is there any connection between the episcopal
laying on of hands, and the subsequent parsonic dispo-
sition to lay hands on whatever is to be got P
A woman, 187 years old, died in Bragil, the
other day. This is nothing We have women in Sydney
a eentnry older. They write "leaders" for the daily
papers.
Itxtraordinary Wesleyan occurrence. Prior to
the Eev. Mr. Blank leaving his district, ha was pre-
sented with a purse of sovereigns and—“a pair of
twins."
The Murrumburrah Sion at, (Lord have mercy
on us for printing the name In full I) has said something
about Mr. M’Qrogarty. Copies of the paper can bo
obtained up that way.
That the libel laws of the colony do not require
to be amended.” The idiots who support that resolution
may be classified as fossils —(order Mansfleldian, genus
Martinian, species Manningito.)
A Dubboman cured a biting horse by hitching
a dummy figure of a man to a lamppost, and chiacking
the animal to bite it. The dummy was stuffed with
cayenne pepper, and the horse was sorry.
There’s an Irishman on the D.T. Ho made
Charley Mein, of Brisbane, say, at the Ziz-zag Berry
banquet, the other day, that “Queensland had gone
through her teens and merged into manhood."
Considering the predilection that her Majesty
has always shown for Scotland and Germany, it is
somewhat remarkable that a Scotchman should have
shot at her with a pistol of German manufacture.
Sir Wilfrid Lawson says that the N.S.W.
Licensing Act “certainly does seem to be a great step
in advance,” However, Sir Wilfrid has never been fined
for being on the premises of a hotel during prohibited
hours.
“ How was it,” asks the Anqu(i)s in King-street,
"the brilliant Darwin convinced so tew ? ” The whine
of the orthodox reverses that query, and wants to know
how it is that evolutionists are as thick aallackeys in
the Civil Service.
The 1881 census returns show that N.S. Wales
has amongst its inhabitants 13,543 self-confessed pagans;
Sydney owns 1020 of these. The number of pagans
who have set themselves down under various religions
oannot be estimated.
At a meeting re the Bishop Oani matter in
Bockhampton, Mr. Gleeson moved a resolution which
Herr Bosenberg “seconded unanimously!” This de-
serves framing with Litbgow Cobb of Carooar’s response
to the toast of the Queen.
Two loafers met in Gesrge-street in front of a
restaurant. They sighed, and sighed, and sighed j but
nothing came of it. At last one said to the other,
" Let’s go and read the noospapars stuck up outside the
orfloes." To him the other, “Bight, ole pal: shall it be
the Eeald or the Tallyqbaep ? ” “replied Oh,” the
“I prefers the 'Eeald, ’cob it’s alius fuU of tea-
fights. And they went and wrestled with imaginary
buns and slapdash for a solid hour.
An Ipswich (Q.) aldermanic widower said
marriage was the best ordination of heaven, and that
he would consolidate again next morning if a woman
asked him. Next day, all the ready-made false teeth in
the town were bought up before noon.
Dr. Beaney, of Melbourne, whose £l5OO feed
to the bowlers has been announced, is reported to have
said something about the preferableness (to coin a word)
of bowling to brandy. When you hand over your chain,
Doctor, we will discuss your didactics on its merits.
The son of a local publican had been away in
foreign lands for years, when suddenly he returned.
Great was paternal, maternal, and fraternal joy. Didn’t
they eat? Yes. Didn’t they drink? And didn’t
they sing and dance P No. John Dillon wouldn’t let
em 1
Four years ago there was a Melbourne man
who was boss of a large boot manufactory, and, of
course, a 40 herse.power protectionist. Ha now de-
clares he believes Free Trade is the best horse after all.
But he has lost his Melbourne emporium, and drives a
cart.
The late Mr. Richard Driver was most bitter
in the proseoutioa of cab-dnvers who demanded more
than their legal fare, and yet he admitted that be never
gave them less than eighteenpenoe for the shortest ride
ha ever had. Wbloh is clearly a good way of encouraging
extortion.
It is stated on undeniably good authority, that
a certain prominent man in one of these colonies owes
all bis position, not in the least degree to bis political,
social, or moral merits, but to his possession of doeu-
mentary evidence hold over the head of a powerful
politician.
Professor West, the eminent terpsiohorean, has
commenced teaching adults at Ashfield to dauoe, and
has already discovered that Ashfield intellect is quite
up to the average We judge by this, that Ashfield
adults keep their intellect whore they keep their
bunions—on their toes.
Reporting a “Tea Meeting at Coqpernook.” The
M.E. Times says that “ at night the Eev. Mr. Glasson
delivered an address: thus the day’s amusement
ended.” The Times doesn’t say whether the amuse-
ment finished at the commencement or the end of the
rev. gentleman’s oration.
In the days of Windeyer, a man found guilty
of a certain offence does a “ stretch ’’ of about fO years,
or perhaps slips out of sight altogether; but in the
days of Daniel, two old Judges were stoned to death
for merely “ looking over the garden wall.” They
lived, and died, before their time.
On a Sunday tram. Nervous lady to the man
at the wheel: “Wliat time does this tram start?”
Official: “Ask the conductor; I’m the engineer.”
“ Well, you might give a person a civil answer.” “ So
I would if I was a civil engineer, but you see I’m not ”
Then she said oh I and ho said ah! and the subject
ended.
“ Have you heard the news ?” said one broker
to another on Change last week. “ No,” was the ex-
pectant answer 1 “There’s been a heavy fall in tin,”
the first went on, “ I know it,” sadly replied the other,
as he lifted his hat and exposed the brand on his brow
which the old woman had that morning made with the
dipper.
At Ipswich (Q,.) Police Court, P.M. (to gen-
tleman who has jnst jined the foorca) : “ Well, arrest-
ing constable, what have you to say about this man ?”
Policeman X : “ Well, plaze, yer honor, I found him
lying in the gutter spacholess, uttering profane Hu-
guage.” X has since been promoted to the mounted
police.
Sundry filthy beasts were fined the other day
at the Water Police Court for emptying slops on to
roofs until the down-pipes became choked with putrid
matter, and for other cognate breaches of the laws of
decency. When will the Works Department be run in
for converting George’s and Parramatta Rivers into
open sewers ?
Mr. Sapsford has entered the Moorhonse-
Slattery-Buohanan-Coleridge controversy about rain
for he deolares that ” Floods are the act of God.”
But, Mr. 8., God has endowed man with ability te avert
the devastating effect of rioodwatera, and citizens
should be supplied with protection equivalent to the
rates they pay.
In a Government department in this city, two
of the messengers determined to play a joke on a new
comer, a yokel from the country. They bought three
tarts, prepared one for him, and it was eaten—net by
him, but by one of the Jokers, who hasn't felt well
sines, and is grievously affected by the query: “ Could
yon eat a tart P "
The Adelaide Supreme Court Judge who is
presiding at the trial of the now notorious Barker and
Horton, ordered the evidence not to be published till
the conclusion of the ease. Yet some dally Journals
in this city gave very suggestive synopses of the trial
from day to day. How does that look for the “ respect,
able" and “ non-sensational” morning innocents P
A rival paper cautions Mr. Thadons O’Kane
of the Northmen Miner that ” he is getting an old
man now," and that he should stick to the truth, lest
he find himself in hell one of these flue mornings. If
that advice doesn't coincide with our advice, where are
we P Oh, beware Thadeus, beware I The man that wrote
them there lines knows what he writes about,—or soon
will I
This is a true bill, impugn it whoso list. The
Bev. Cason ■ ■ ■ —the other Sunday, preached a
sermon on the death of a certain lamented Sydney
ecclesiastic, in the course of which he Intended to re-
mark that no matter how good a man might bo, there
woe always someone to fill his place. But the Canon
put It i “There are always men ready te step into hie
breeches." Whereupon the congregation giggled eon.
sumedly.
Jack Woods, of Victoria, used to say, when he
woe Minister of Bailivays, that he was the first capable
business manager of the department. The Victorians,
gnnnikgly and sarcastically, used to agree that there
never was such another railway genius as Jack
Woods. But this sentiment has become modified by
time and added experience. The popular feeling is
now, "There never was such another railway genius as
Jack Woods—barring Mr. and Mrs. Bent.”
The rich discover ies of gold at Bowling Alley
Point. Tamworth, were followed by religious services.
1 he ohnroh suddenly felt a deep interest in the spiritual
welfare of the miners, and no less than four clergymen
visited the field in one day. “And yet," writes “A
Minor of Forty Years," "if wo poor devils were known
to be kyooting in duffers or dry-blowing for tucker,
there wouldn’t be a shovel hat, tC pair of gaiters, an all-
round collar or a white tie within ten days’ tramp."
There are two bishops in Liverpool with analog-
o™ names—Bishop Ryle, Anglican, and Bishop
O Reilly, Homan Catholic. As letter-writers won't
spell properly, the postman goes by the postmark.
r y mtter marked Borne, goes cocksure to the
O Heilly. Recently, however, O’Reilly received a large
donation intended for Eyle, and Evle waded through a
letter congratulating the EC. bishop “on the great
zeal he was displaying for the oonversien of England to
Catholicism.' An honourable exchange, of course,
took place, but It was very Eyle-ing.
This is how the clannish Angus rambles in his
® T =—“ Those in sunny Australia, who hail from the
land of the mountain and the flood • will be gratified
to learn that the murky cloud which has for some time
been hanging over the anoiout and honoured house of
Huntly is at last dispelled. The noble Marquis of that
Ilk has passed through the painful and searching ordeal
unscathed. He has preserved the fair name of his his-
toric family—his esoutoheen is undimmed. The present
Marquis has ever had a high reputation for honesty and
intelligence; and it is p 1 easing to know, therefore, that
ho will bo ablo to maintain that proud prO'Ominenoo
amongst his peers." Ohl Will the writer please give
us his ideas on the recent Milburn Creak diplomacy ?
Also, will he please publish the full and particular
biography of the noble Marquis which recently ap-
peared in Truth ?
RESCUED BY THE PEOPLE.-THE GATES AJAR.


Ihe Kenny Hill water sohemo will shortly be
again on thu tapis.
“ Every spare bed in the Dubbo hospital is oc-
cupied," says the Dispatch.
Legitimate betting men go inside atTatteraall a.
The loafers obstruct tne footpath.
It is not etiquette when you meet the hang-
man, to ask him if there’s any noose.
A provincial paper saya the local Mayor ia
mulishly obstinate. A. hybrid compliment.
We’re on the qui vive for a Trafalgar veteran to
die in Yaas. lie never gathers up his feet elsewhere.
A Bulletin man in a fix, when he wants to
cross the Heron-pond, and can’t even get over the
Manning.
An insolvent Queensland grazier haa confessed
to using the Savings Bank account of a Kanaka in bis
employ. Can meanness further go P
Darwin being dead, somebody writes to ask
what Darwin thinks noir. about his evolution theory ?
In other words, can ho a tale unfold P
John Forgnson, of Parramatta, says that we
have “ pandered to the vilest tastes of the community."
This is absurd. We never consulted his tastes.
Ministers are beginning to think themselves as
valuable os aldermen. The Attorney-General is having
the ceiling of his new office made of wood and paper—
no plaster for his official head.
Madagascar is the teetotallers’ paradise. The
queen of that island fines every manufacturer of intoxi-
cating drink, when caught, ten oxen and £2 f the
imbiber suffers a lighter penalty.
It is said that Dr. Moorhouse is likely to be
elected Primate of the Anglican Church in Australia.
This is a snug little billet. There were some foolish
fishermen in Galileo during the days of the Apostles.
“ I propose as they metals the street over
there from the place where they left off to whore they
began again .” Carried That’s how they do things in
a suburb which now boasts of the newest of Town
Halls.
It has come at last! Mr. Cyril Haviland has
waited on the editor of the Evening News with a
photograph, and has submitted a statutory declaration
to the effect that the portrait is that of the spirit of
a deceased child.
In the Foveaux-atreet tragedy case, a landlord
swore he saw John Clark fall as if dead, but durst not
pick him up and revive him—it being after 11 o’clock.
Wo blame him not—we are too busy in worshipping the
framer of the Act.
“ Young Dntohey,” the eminent light-weight, ia
in Singleton. Which fact has had such an effect on the
inhabitants that at a recent religious picnic two elders
of the church rolled into each other. After a warm ten
minutes one retired with a black eye.
Seven days in gaol without option of fine was
doled out to Alfred Seaton in Melbourne for f iukettling
a wedding party. It is a wonder that some ingenious
larrikin has not thought of tinkettling a funeral. This
would “ soothe the cold, dull ear of death."
Here’s the bloated squatter’s joy. A dummy
selector took up au area comprinug the squatter's
camping ground. Next day ha impounded 1,500 head of
cattle, and out of the profits, paid for the land out-
right. He’s willing to go however, for— £lO,OOO. Nice
law L
An Italian has discovered a process of solidify-
ing wine, and a Marfoilles chemist one by which he
can solidify and crystallise brandy. A toper will be
able to ehow his tipple by-and-bye, and purchase it, like
tobsoco, by the oake. Then what will anybody care
about the new Aot P
Is our mighty engine of the law so pitiably
weak as to be unable to crush to B flatness the impu-
dent miscreants who disfigure street-posts with filthy
and suggestive advertisements ? One foreign •* gentle,
man," who runs a quack consulting room in Castle-
reagh-street, sins notably in this nasty direction.
Two Civil servants had & serious disagreement the
other day—so serious, indeed, that one of them, do what
you may, cannot now be induced to smile. There was,
of course, a woman at the bottom of it. The little man
came off best, and his friend got theprotoundestthrash-
fng ever administered by a non-professional this side of
the line.
Beene: The paddock outside the Grand-stand
just after the last race. Cabman: “Town, air? A
mote, sir” (six times his fare). Gentleman: “Oh,
fifteen shillings is plenty." Cabman retorts filthily—
other cabmen “Joe" the swell, while the Metropolitan
Commissioner's man in uniform turns aside to conceal
his mirth.
Townsville people dress as they please. They
have gone so far as to lling over the coat and vest, and
soour around at their ease. Even the Mayor has given
in to the craze, and a bolltoppar is the signal for a
general rising. Who shall load us here P Who will
monnt the shirt of comfort, rush into the deadly
breech, that we may live and not swelter ?
I [Good scribes of the Telegbaph, ye may seek
to whitewash Parkes re the Butler affair, and ye may
lay the wash on thick, and ye may keep at it &s long as
ye like; but the only effect of your exertions will be to
expose by its contrast with the gleaming patches of
vour brush-work the lladcguard-nees of the modern
Pecksniff’s most treacherous move.
■The uncertainty of obtaining justice in a Go-
vernment department is growing every day. The
clerks now lay wagers as to the result of an application
or the course which will bo pursued in certain ease-,
and each one hugs his theory as a certain favourite.
And this reminds us that prisoners now lay wagers with
their fellow-captives as to the results of their trials.
Perhaps the most business-like man that ever
sat on the Government benches in the Assembly, was
ha who sold a pass to an execution in Dnrliughurst,
some years ago, for 12s. 01- The meanest Minister on
record is, probably, ho who every night went the round
of half a mile so as to steal in the back way to the Par-
liamentary bar—and shout for himself.
A ritualistic clergyman and a Puritan elder of
a chapel—both Sydneyites—wore conversing on Church
and chapel matters. "Oh, yes," said his reverence,
n wo always have matins at our church. ‘ Well, well,
replied the elder, “our chapel is floor-olothed with
kamptnlioon; wo find it lasts better." And they
changed the subject to a discussion upon the use of
praying for rain.
With regard to the Lord Howe Island inquiry, it
ia said that if but half the charges made against i he resi-
dent magistrate are substantiated, the Government
will he compelled to relieve that gentleman of his
duties. We do not pretend to say that any one of the
charges can be substantiated. By the way, The Bul-
letin, twelve months ago, drew the attention of the
Government to the necessity for an inquiry.
By special telephonic cablegram wo learn that
the Queen has invited Sir Henry Parkes to the wedding
at Windsor Castle, where her son. Prince Leopold, is
to be married to day to the Princess Helena, and that
her Majesty will command the aforesaid eloquent
statesman of N.S.W.-as the oldest friend of the family
—to propose the health of the Bride and Bride-
groom ’’ on the festive occasion, 'ip, 'ip—’ooray !
Up to the present time the Czar of Russia has
made no official recognition of Piddingtonsky s cele-
brated speech in the Legislative Council some tune
back This is tad—and the coronation and dynamic
denouement so near at hand! By the way the Bight
Hon. Bookworm has been silent as to the Czar s
genorons treatment of the Jew*. It is not too late for
him to speak. The country will bear with him a little
longer.
She was staying at a smart hotel, at a fashion-
able Queensland watering-place. While at diuurr, re-
ligious subjects floated around. This lady made the
remark ■ “ The chur h services were lovorley, and
the Church of Hingerland his fast driftin’ inter the real
hortheidox views. I say, 'ostess, wot religion are
vouf" " Our family ore Komah Catholics, madame. i
-• Ho! hindeod 1 ahem—l hallways thought you were I
decent people "
In the rider to the Pawnbrokers’ Act, 13 Vic. ,
No. 37* it is specially provided that jsperchauts who
advance money upon property, etc., are' exempt from
the obligation to take out a license, but they must not j
charge more than 10 per cent, as Interest. There are
lota of loan-office keepers in Sydney who lend on any-
thing, charge exorbitant rates of interest (40 and 50 per
cent )t and yet hold no licenses. This may or may wot
be known to the authorities.
Now that winter is approaching, the inhabit-
ants of Surry Hills would be thankful to Mr. Goodohap
if he would enlarge the present waiting-room. Keep-
ing respectable citizens standing in the rain for twenty
minutes is scarcely a matter for the tram department
to brag of, and the present boot-trunk which does duty
ns a shelter is now quite insufficient to supply the
public wants. The arrival of an old fowl-house, or a
big tank, would bo bailed with pleasure.
A young local preacher diddled some monu-
mental masons up the line the other day. It was a land
sale, and competition was brisk. At last, however, the
masons agreed bo let tho holy man have the choicest
allotment to himself, because his pale, earnest face, and
his reverend aspect seemed to make competition a sacri-
lege. and they refrained. You could have knocked ’em
all down with a tombstone next day, when they dis-
covered that the pious one had boon bidding as agent
for a rival mason.
A leading man of Bungendore, the other day,
opened a newspaper, and paralysed his long-haired cus-
tomers by reading out to them that el* veu hundred and
sixty-four inches of rain had fallen in Sydney in less
than forty eight hours. Some one in the crowd declined
to believe it, whereupon, of course, a wager was made
and the matter referred to the local bank clerk, who, in
all arithmetical matters, is deemed by tho yahoos
superior to Colenso. The leading man, after barneying
for two hours, gave way, and is now studying decimals.
It seems that there is some uncertainty about
Archibald Forbes’ visit to Australia Tho boss oorres-
pondent explains the matter himself by saying that he
will have to be on baud in c»so of war b'eaking out in
Europe. But wo know better. Archibald is dissem.
bling. The fact is that ha knows the stuffing would be
knocked out of anything he could say by tho course of
lectures that a certain newspaper commissioner irtends
to deliver when he returns. The subject of the latter
will bo pathetic. Tho opening one will be entitled
•• Good Dinners Gone By.’’ Proceeds to he expended in
boots for the stall.
One day the D.T. had a lugubrious leader
violently abusing David Buchanan. That morning Frank
Smy tho, meeting David in Court, said to him : “ Hava
you seen the D.T. article about you ? It’s tho funniest
thing I over read.” “ I haven’t soon it yet ” replied
the junior member for Mudgeo, producing a penny and
sending a hoy for the King-street oracle. Then David
pored over tho Telegraph's diatribe for five minutes,
and turning to his learned friend, vehemently remarked:
“ Funny 1 There's not a bit of fun in the whole column.
I never before met a man with such a domnable sense
of humour as you possess, Smytho."
The following conversation was recently over-
heard between two Melbourne roughs Hullo, Bill,
you eeem down on your InokP” “Yes, mate; Im
starving in this Paradise of tho working man. I wish
you’d give me a stouah over the ’ead with yer knuckle-
duster.’’ “Why?” “Cos, then, they’d taka mete
the ’orspitle, and the doctors would porsoribe luxurie*
for me. Tkoy say as *ow a woman iu there gets oxtnes
every day up to eight goes of brandy, ten of wine, a
quart of milk, fish, a big plato of oysters, and two
bottles of soda.” “ Yer don’t say so, Bill; let's go and
get up a scrimmage and get ’arf killed.’*
In 1800, some men absconded from Government
work in Sydney. They were recaptured and the follow-
ing sentences passed by the bench (the chairman where-
of was a clergyman) :—“ We do sentence Math-ws, as
principal, to receive one thousand lashes j Moore, Gal-
vin, and Saunders, five hundred lashes ; Francis Allen,
to hard labour with an iron collar at Newcastle ; Wil-
liam Blake, free by servitude, two hundred lashes and
three years’ hard labour.’* This was the Christianity
in vogue among tho early ministers of religion. An-
other interesting historic item is, that in 1803 a man at
Banlksm Hills sold his wife for eix bushels of wheat
and a black sow.
Douglas Jerrold received the princely sum of
£7O for the manuscript of “ Black Eyed Susan." On
the occasion of its 300th representation, the generous
manager who bought this play called Jerrold—who was
pretty hard up at the time —aside, and, bntton-holing
him, observed: “ Jerrold, your piece is the greatest
success I have over mot with: some of your friends
ought to stir themselves up and get you a testimonial."
Then he left, and Douglas began to fumble about his
vest for the price of a gin and bitters. This looks like
a mean lot—hut what have w» done for the man who
wrote tho pantomime of “BinbadP" Echo answers—
Got him a new neck-tie.
A secretary to a suburban Temperance Lodge
has “ got his dander np." Ho was asked by his Lodge
to get ready a report to bo read at a forthcoming public
entertainment. Ho declined to do so, and a meeting of
the Lodge ordered him to deliver up tho secretary’s
books. He immediately tore out the leaves in the
minute-book which recorded the meeting then proceed-
ing, and stalked out of the room. It’s not known
whether he will stalk out of Court with as much
dignity when the legal proceedings eventuate.
One of this colony’s J’s.P. was very amusing
before the days of stipendiaries. He fined a boy £1 for
throwing stones. “L ok 'ere, loetel poy, you got some
fines by von pound—dats twondy Bhlllinka—wut your
fader he’s got to bay dot shillinks ; unt I hot you don’t
trow dot Bhtone some more. I’ll shtop dot shtone-
trowin’, nnt I'll shtop dot caterpillars I" Dick Driver,
who was present, explained—“ Your Worship moans
catapults.” “ I know vat I mean : I mean caterpillars
—shoot ’em mit a pea—bung up yer eye. I know vot I
mean, unt I’ll shtop 'em I ’’—ending with a shriek.
And yet men long for the olden times.
On dit, that the Eev. Thomas Kemmia may be
a bishop some day. There is no clergyman with a
physique better calculated to wear with stately dignity
the episcopal panoply, and that’s not unimportant in
a bishop. We have seme handsome men in the pro-
fessions, and tho wolf doesn’t howl round their door*.
Moribunds revive at the sight of Dr. Fortescue, liti-
gants are awed by the presence of Mr. Scarvcll, and
when womankind sees Dr. Vaughan it is quite con-
viuocd that there must be a Heaven an 1 n Prophet. By
tho same token, whan it sees Dr. Bag it is at once
convinced—by bis silvery eloquence, of course—that
there must be a Hell.
Bcene : Garden Palace j sign of “Yc Silverne
Churne," Old Englysshe Fayre. A young clergyman,
accompanied by two ladies, approaches. </lorgyman,
loq: “Ahl a glass of giuger-r r bee-are for three."
Charming milkmaid hands a ylass of ginger. Clergy,
man : “ Ah, a glass for three-aT." Milkmaid : “ I have
given yen what you ordered" Clergyman: “Ah, I
see. ah. Three glasses. Is this a good thing ? Do you
make much out of it ? What do you pay—ah—for the
privilege of selling here-ah p" Chorus of milkmaids:
“ Oh, we are not professionals!” Clergyman: “Ah, I
didn't know, you know. I have novarr bten at a Fayre
before-arr." Young clergyman retires gracefully.
In a largo church, which might be atCape.York,
the organist is clever, but discursive; and sometimes
the unfortunate early arrivals are treated to a sort of
nothing at all-egro combination of airs, which inkes
them hate their tormentor. Instead of going straight
to work with something that would tone down their
thoughts into a sober and serious groove, he tickles and
teases them with such an extraordinary melange of
melody that every third man feels impelled to at onre
either kies his girl or tight tho pew-opener, to ease bis
mixed up feelings. Besides, there’s the parson We
ask, is it fair, when he has been poring over heatl en
bibles all day, so as to rivet an intelligent audience at
night, that they should be pronnred for his clever ser-
mon by tho organist “leading off ’’ with a medley that
carries their thoughts away to the monkey and barrel-
organ ou tho Qoorge-street kerbstone ?
It was at the Old Irish Fayre the other night.
A sad-oyod, hollow-oheekod man, whose boot-heels
careened over ou the starboard side like a wreck upon
a lee shore, was standing befoie the Caxtou Printing
Office, Ho had a wad of soiled copy paper in one hand
and a carpenter’s pencil in the other. He was evidently
engaged on the daily Press. The two fair damosels in
the Caxton stall caught bis eyes upon them. “Are
you reporters also?" ho asktd in a sepulchral voice.
“ Yes," they replied, with half-coquettish, half-
frightened smiles. “Are you hungry?" “No," was
tho wondering answer. “ Then you can’t be reporters.”
And he made his way to tbe door through the crowd of
swindling sirens olntching his last threepenny bit with
tho desperate clutch of a mau who knows that the
Press is not honoured as it should bo iu this city, aul
that drinks have to bo paid for before consumption.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The exports of Victorian manufactures decreased
from £619;376 in 1878 to £571.206 in 1879, and further to
£556 380 in 188). Protection ?
The MOENIN& Post makes the astounding
assertion that the British navy is now altogether in.
ferior to the French in fighting and steaming power.
More political patronage for Victorian Ministers.
The Victorian Government proposes to create two
Under-Secretaries of the Kailway Department, each to
be an M.P., but not a member of the Cabinet, and each
to have charge of a separate department.
In N.S. Wales there are 39,626 children
between the ages of 5 and 16 years who can neither
read nor write ; 26,993 others have more or less made
the acquaintance of the flrat of the three "n, but
know nothing about the second.
Mr. Berry thinks that Geelong is politically in-
sane. He is no longer a demigod at that port. Last
general election his polling was only 60 votes to the
good, and the very last contest has made him quake.
He may have to throw iu hia lot with the dear M-a jaw at
Ballarat. The Majaw is still king of the Nuggety City.
When the Queen’s outrider was thrown from
his horse, all Flankeydom was convulsed, and there was
a rush of swell idiots to evince their concern with—the
outrider—no, the Queen, who wasn’t even jolted. Mr.
Gladstone, of course, was not among the fatuous
slaverers, and the Whitehall Keviiw makes a tre-
mendous pother about his absence, accusing him of
high treason, and demanding his impeachment 11 1
The Victorian press is rigorous. When, the
other day, C. E. Jones contested Geelong, the local
AbvebtisSu said that his political infamy stood re-
corded in black capital letters in the history of the
country j that his o«ly qualifications for politics were
a glib tongue, a brazen presence, unblushing lying, and
a. glaring falsification of facts; and that it knew of no
member of the House who would introduce him to the
Speaker were ho returned.
Mr. Andrew Lynch told the Cowra electors last
Monday that he knew twenty-four other members who
favoured the abolition of interest. He also referred to
our expensive State prisons’ management. It is not
likely that Mr. Lynch said anything on this latter point
that was eithir new or practical. He should have kept
to the great work of his life, the Blayney bridge, adding
perhaps as a dadi of flavour, his opinions on the
debateable point “ How to twist.’’
A noted Communist who died in February, at
a Paris Hospital, declared that he was despatched from
Genova tto Zululond to secure the assassination of the
late Prince Imperial. He described his adventures and
his method of securing accomplices among the Zulus,
and after the deed he returned to Geneva and
“touched” 50,000 francs, the reward agreed upon.
These he a pant in debauchery after the amnesty, and
died of pleurisy in a state of utter destitution.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen has expressed himself as
being in accord with the Canadian Home of Commons
on the Irish question. If the baronet Premier can only
ret support, he will propose that the Victorian Parlia-
ment also petition the Queen to grant autonomy to
Ireland. Mr. Hnnt was put up to elicit this view from
Sir Bryan. The gentle feeler was not a success as far as
other hon. members were concerned. Mr. Berry could
have afforded to submit such a motion, but not Sir
Bryan.
Vanity Fair tells a story to illustrate dis-
union of sentiment in the British Cabinet, to the effect
that Lord Hartington wrote to Lord Spencer about a
pair of horses, and the latter noblemsn sent on the
fetter to a Tory friend, whom ho thought likely to
know something to suit. Lord Spencer, however, had
overlooked a postscript, which the Tory third party
read with delight, and, being apparently a cad of the
first water, divulged. The P.B, ran thus : " When will
this d—d Government be outf’’
Subscriptions towards the Cathedral to be
erected over the late Czar’s grave, have, unlike the
bomb which killed him, hung fire. To revive interest
the Government has announced that the Grand Duke
Vladimir has given the “ munificent donation" of
100 000 roubles (£16,251). and the Grand Dnkes Alexis,
Sergios, and Paul. 50,000 roubles each. The real fact is,
however, that the Grand Dukes have not given a penny
of these amounts ont of their own pockets. The money
comes from the funds saved by economical administra-
tion of the army.
The troops now in Ireland are seven regiments
Cavalry, 13 batteries of Artillery, 30 battalions of Inf an-
try, three companies of Koynl Engineers, and seven
companies of the Commissariat and Transport Corps.
Including the Royal Marine Light Infantry, dep6ts, &c.,
the total force is about 40,000. The nearest approach to
this large number in Ireland during the last twenty
years was in 1871, when it reached nearly 27,000. The
constabulary are not included in the above reckoning.
They number some 30,000, and are regarded as equal to
the best regulars in Her Majesty’s service.
Says a leading English journal: —I et the
Channel tunnel be made, by all m*ans, but subject to
this one condition, that if at any timo it shall appear
expedient to the Government of the day to destroy
it, it shall be destroyed, and that no compensation
shall be given to the proprietors. This is only fair.
In tbe event of a war with France, or possibly with
any other Power, the tunnel would have to be destroyed.
No one doubts that. Let those, then, who disbelieve
in war take the entire risk on their shoulders. Pro-
vided they are inclined to do that, there is no reason
why they should not amuse themselves in their own
way i but they must not expect to receive a State gua-
rantee to provide for the event of their views of the
future turning out wrong.
The third session of the eleventh Parliament of
Victoria was opened on Tuesday last by his Excellency
the Marquis of Norraanby. The Governor’s speech
promises reforms in law procedure, an amendment of
the Companies* Statue, marine service reform, public
health legislation, mining on private property bill,
amendment of the Looal Government Act, laud tax
amendment, and legislation re defences, water conser-
vation, explosives, the Melbourne Harbour Trust,
electoral districts, and other matters. In the Legis-
lative Council Mr. Stanbridgo moved, and Mr. Ormond
seconded the Address in Reply, and it was adopted.
Mr. Jenner was ro-appointed Chairman of Committees.
In the Legislative Assembly, 81 members were present,
Mr. Francis, as the acknowledged leader of the Con-
servative party, occupying Murray Smith's seat in the
Ministerial corner, Mr. Blackett, member for Fitzroy,
nlOvcd the Address in Reply. Mr, Connor seconded,
and Mr. B*rry obtained an adjournment of the debate
to count noses and deliberate upon the value of the
Liberal dynamite available.
The late Premier of New Zealand, Mr. Hall,
resigned ostensibly on the ground of ill-health, and got
Dr. Grace, of Christchurch, to give his professional
weight to this statement. This is regarded by political
opponents as having been nothing but a Ministerial
blind. Ihe then anti-Ministerialists affirm that Mr.
Hall threw up the sponge mainly because of a seriuns
disagreement in the Ministerial camp on the question
of native administration, andliupplementarily on ac-
count of the unsatisfactory Jesuits of the last elections,
and the prospect of up-hill Parliamentary work. There
can be no doubt that the Hall Ministry could not have
regarded otherwise than as a serious misfortune the
loss from the House of Representatives of such sup-
porters as Sir W. Fox, vnd Messrs. Wakefield and
George M’Lean. It has transpired that two other
Ministers bad intimated their intention of resigning to
Mr. Hall, before he sent in his own resignation. A
new Ministry h*s been formed under Mr. Whitaker as
Premier; personnel same as in Hall ministry, except
Mr. Hall himself. Mr. Johnston takes Public Works
Department, in addition to his old portfolio. Mr.
Hall’s seat remains vacant till Parliament meets.
A tale comes to us from New Zealand showing
that the political machine there has wheels within
wheels. There was at Waipawa, Hawke’s Bay district,
a police sergeant named Kidd. At .Napier lived his
bosom friend. Sergeant M’Mshon, clerk to inspector
Scully. Kidd and M'Mahon wore as loving as David
and Jonathan—for a timo. The Waipawa election came
on, the two candidates being Mr. Orrcoud and Mr. Smith.
Sergeant Kidd had great influence with Mr. Smith, and
he received a letter “ requesting ’* him to use that
influence to induce Smith to retire from the contest.
But sergeant Kidd declined to act inconsistently with
his position ns a police ofiicer. Sergeant M’Mahon was
appointed sub-returning officer at Woodville, and is
alleged to have used every endeavour to influence the
result of the contest. However, Smith was elected and
Ormond defeated The next thing sergeant Kidd heard
wa« that the Native Department had requested the
Police Department to transfer him to Auckland. And
he was so transferred. Shortly afterwards, sergeant
Kidd noticed a letter in one of the Auckland news-
papers, commenting on the Police Department. He
clipped it out, and sent it to his bosom friend. Sergeant
M'Mahon. He shortly afterwards applied to the De-
partment for removal to the country, and received in
reply a curt dismissal, without explanation. Circum-
stances point to the operation of political spite through-
out, and Kidd is going to petition Parliament for an
enquiry into his case. His past record, both as a eom-
missioned officer in the Waikato war and as a police
officer, is excellent.
• • •
Mr. Berry remembers when be was pointed at
as a man more fitted for the Yarra Bend than for public
life. It is astonishing how hard some of these early
prejudices die I If the Legislature did everything
that some people expected, it would have to provide
feeding bottles for the population. Such is the result
of the experience of Mr. Blackett, M.L.A., of Victoria,
who is a chemist.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Two peers’ daughters are in an Irish work*
house, haring been reduced to utter destitution by the
agrarian agitation.
The latest: —“Required in a gentleman’s
family, an active, strong, healthy young porton, as
house and parlour-maid, age from 20 to 25, None need
apply with * fringe.* **
Another queer marriage arranged in English
high life, the bridegroom close upon fourscore, the
bride not yet twenty. Future husband,of course very
ioh; his intended wife, who is penniless, will have a
Settlement of £lO,OOO a year.
Dr. Mary Austin is unquestionably the most
admirable woman in America. This lady has just com.
pleted her 33rd year of wedded life, during which period
she has presented her husband) with no fewer than 2i
pledges of her wifely affection.
M. Leon Gambetta is the first statesman we
know who has shown sense in the selection of an envoy
for delicate diplomatical business. Ldon chose a lady.
She twisted the cabinets of Rome and St. Petersburg
round her fingers. But, then, they were such fingers t
Every married Chinaman who leaves behind in
the Flowery Land a wife, or a wife and family, must
send periodical remittances home for her or their sup.
port; otherwise, should ho ever return, he will he
branded by society as an outcast. The free Briton, who
bolts from his better half, has not to endure any such
horrible shackles. And of coarse one free Briton is
worth a dozen yellow-skinned chinkias.
In 18V8, Madame Katherine Steiner was sen-
tenced to seven years' imprisonment for the murder of
a beautiful girl named Bologh, who lived in Steiner's
dwelling at Vienna. Lately an Austrian named Was.
ohauer has confessed that he was the cause of the death
of Bologh, who was his paramour. He meant to poison
himself with coffee dosed with prussic acid, but his
courage failed him. The girl drank off the beverage to
see whether it was good. Waschauer thereupon seized
her by the throat to prevent her screaming, and she
shortly died. He has borne his hideous secret ever
since. Madame Steiner is now the lioness of Vienna,
and at liberty.
Wo read that Colonel Wellesley, son of the
late Lord Charles Wellesley, and nephew and heir to
the present Duka of Wellington, was the other day
married to Miss Hwfa Williams, in the drawing-room of
the bride’s brother —both parties being in too delicate a
state of health to admit of the usual Church function.
Four bridesmaids waited on the bride, and were of real
service, for the poor lady is lama, and nnable to move a
step without a pair of crutches, and with some difficulty
got through the marriage service. Lord Algernon
Lennox acted as best man, and was also a real support
to the bridegroom, whose health has long been a sub.
loot of soma anxiety to his friends. From all which it
is quite evident that the prospects of the Dakodom of
Wellington are Hwfa-lly rosy.
Melbourne is gloating over a lovo tragedy. A
Hungarian named Arthur Sieber, who has been staying
at Radoviok’s Oxford Hotel, Russel 1-street, became
enamoured of the landlord’s niece, Lizzie Maher. The
girl did not i eturn his passion, and in a fit of jealous
rage Sieber, on Sunday Inst, assailed her in a bedroom.
Clutching her by the throat he fired two revolver shots,
one of the balls wounding her in the side. An
Austrian lodger named Matulioh knocked Smbsr down
and secured the revolver, but a second weapon was
produced, and Matulioh had to repeat the knocking,
down process. Sieber then managed to escape from
the room, and by the time a constable came Pad pro.
dnoedathird revolver. H' fired at the officer, but missed
aim. Sieber wound up bv stabbing himself just below
the heart, and is probably dead by this time. Mias
Maker will, it is thought, recover.
A popular preacher in one of the Samara
Orthodox ohurahes gave deep umbrage to the Kevolu.
tionery Committee of that city by recalling with fervid
eloquence, the assassination of Alexander 11. to the re.
membranoe of his congregation, and vehemently
inveighing against the murderers of the late Czar. The
Revolutionary Committee resolved that he should be
put to death, and its members drew lots for the execu-
tioner's office, which feel to a girl of nineteen. Next
morning the doomed priest was awakened, shortly after
daybreak, by the report of a firearm, discharged in a
room contiguous to his own bedchamber. Upon enter*
ing the room in question, he beheld his only daughter
stretched at full length upon the floor near the foot of
the bed, and weltering in her blood. Bbo had just
strength enough left, before expiring, to confess to him
that she had pledged herself to taka his life, in obedi-
ence to tbo orders of the Secret Committee, but had
preferred killing herself. Exhorted to reveal the names
of her fellow conspirators, she steadily refused to do
so, and died without having afforded any duo that
could lead to their detection.
• • •
A girl in Tasmania five months old only
weighs 41b. Half of this is tongue. The latter state-
ment isn’t true Remarking on a certain lady’s dress,
Talleyrand said : " La robe commence trop tard et flnit
trop tot.’’...A home paper hopes that the ladies who are
striving to encourage home industries by wearing
British woollens, won’t be afraid of buying enough
Bus : A kiss. Bebu : Kiss her again. Omnibui : Kiss
all the girls. Blunderbuss: Kissing your mother-
in-law. Syllabus: Two girls kissing each other
It’s said that the Marquis of Hartiogton was originally
intended to be the husband of Princess Louise; but the
Marquis didn’t consider her dowry big enough, and
declined Hessie Uelfmsnn, the Nihilist who took
part in the killing of the Czar, but who, being enccinto,
was respited, has died at St. Petersburg it childbirth.
ln America, when a female lawyer is engaged in a
case, she can’t well be referred to by the opposing
counsel a« “my learned brother." Nor, out of respect
to that expression, can the latter call her “ my sister."
So he calls her ‘‘my sister-in-law." A Brisbane man
the other day fired two shots at his father-in-law, with
a view to hurting the feelings of his mother-in-law
When two women are seen talking together, it is safe
to predict that they are saying evil of a third; when two
men talk, they are saying good of themselves.
Here’s a show for a seasoned old tippler to take
advantage of. Mr. S. Freshman, of Sydney, advertises
in another column that he has been instructed by Dr.
Keeley, the inventor, to issue a £IXO challenge to anyl
tody that, after trial, he will bo cured ot drunkenness
by the double chloride of gold specific. Who’ll take
up this “ dare ? “
“ You’re a mean, stingy old thing, and I’ll never
speak to you i gain,’’ said Clymtomuestra, with a
cherry-ripe pout, whan Orlando refused to buy her a
tart at tit. Mary s Church i’ayre. •* Now, don’t be so
Pui verse.” he replied, "you’d Batt-or make it up,
because I’m only saving my money in order to buy a
Eodd or two of land at Enfield on Saturday " As ho
banded her a handbill about Batt, liodd and Purves’
“ Elysium’’ sale, their oyea mot, and he, drawing her
fairy form—Hush I


CITY CATERING C
Jl3 GEORGE STB!
A NEW CATERING C
Comprised of professional workme
tioat experience, nearly all from the
of Compagnoni and Co., who pore
and carry on the working of the
general manager.
It is not a public company, and th
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th 4
sncoessffcUy catered TUB LAUGH
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLI
have taken place here to the preaeni
The Consular Dinner, in our new ba
His Worship the Mayor's Picnic, t
and Banquets, and all Entortamm
His Worship the Major's Ball, fi
Building, at which Ms Worship,,
tainod their R H.’sPBINCE ALU
Esrl Clanwilliam, and the Oiiicei
Squadron.
Masonic Call, English Constitutioi
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Constitatb
Sydney.
Visit of their K.H.’s PRINCE ALB
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zi
Jfas.se, for 60, In Government Palm
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen’s Statue Demonstration —an
NOTICE, only receiving the orde:
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. thi
Visit of THEIR B.U.'s PEINI
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Lao
Botany Bay Picnic luncheon ai
100, under VERY SHOUT NOTK
at 9 30 p.m., to he ready on the sp
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Tow:
The (Union Club) " Bachelor’s Bt
Building, for 500.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judge W
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge !
Banquet Boom
Dinner d la Ruese at St Paul’s Collej
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner a la Bum to the lutumnl
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
The foundation-stone of .the O’Beirne Catholic
Bible Hall. William-street, was laid on Sunday last by
Archbishop Vaughan,
The movement in Tasmania to advocate the
appointment of Dean Brotnby to the Bishopric vacated
by his father is being opposed.
Dr. Ellis asks of clergymen who live in harness
to a good old age—" What’s the good of a horse in
harness after he has lost the power to draw ? "
It is rumoured that Canon Liddon, finding Eng-
land disagree with his health, is willing to step into the
late Bishop Barker’s shoes.
Rev. James Jefferis, LL.B., stigmatized the
Olda Engl} she Fayros as "revived tomfooleries." Were
Mr. Jefferis not a man of almost uniformly liberal
sentiment ho might be accused of feeling the full force
of one ot iEsop’s fables respecting unripe fruit and an
animal of cunning tendencies.
The Auckland Star took a census of all
the churches and places of worship there on Easter
Sunday. It showed that over 31 per cent, of the Auck-
land public attended a house of religion. The Church
of England headed the list, than came the Roman
Catholics, Wesleyans, Presbyterians, and Baptists.
The relatives of the late Pius IX. have nob
yet finished squabbling over his property His niece.
Countess Ferretti Fabris. has just gained a law suit,
in which she claimed a whack of the plunder, and the
three Cardinal-Executors have baeu condemned in
costs. Fancy Cardinals condemned to pay costs I Bet
Italy is (comparatively) a free country. Their
Eminences won’t have to go to gaol.
Tamworth Church of England folks are luke-
warm. Only about a dozen attended the Easter meeting,
and one of these was a reporter. The Rev. Mr. Bidding-
ton spoke of the very few who habitually received the
sacrament, and it transpired that neither of the two
churches had a balance-sheet for the year prepared.
There is a debt of £l7OO on St, Paul's church and organ.
Why don’t they get up a fancy fair, or a circus, or some-
thing P
From a Melbourne paper t —“ The Southern
Cross says that though only one-fourth of the popu-
lation, the Romish Church supplies nearly one-half the
crime of the colony The Romish A dvocatb offers as
an azplauation the circumstance that irishmen and
Catholics * cannot carry their liquor so well’ as the
cooler-headed Protestants. A truer explanation,
probably, is that they carry more liquor, as well as carry
it worse, than other people to."
Dean Slattery died at Warrnambool, Vie., on
April 20, aged 75 years. Born at Limerick, and gradu-
ating at Maynooth, ha arrived at Sydney in 183j7, and
was placed ia the Bathurst district, where he minis-
tered for ton years. In 1848, he took charge ot the
Western District of Victoria, and remained at Warr-
nambool till the date of his death. The funeral of the
rev. gentleman took place on Sunday at Warrnambool
and was followed by representatives of all classes and
creeds, the cortege being over a mile in length.
At the Wesleyan Church, Newcastle, on Sunday
last, the Bov. Mr. Osborne loudly condemned the Old
English Fair in the Garden Palace. He also spoke
against tea-meetings, foundation-stone gatherings, and
bazaars, as improper ways of raising mosey for ohurch
purposes. In the course of his sermon, which lasted an
hour, and was listened to with great attention, he
warmly eulogised The Bulletin for its utterances with
regard to Preacher Cooks. The edifice was crowded,
a greet many strangers from other churches being
present.
Goldwin Smith has remarked: “ They say if
Mr. Bradlaugh is admitted you will unohriatianize the
House of Commons. Dr. Johnson once gained a signal
victory in discussion with a person, which led his friend
Boswell to remark, ‘You have made a fool of him.’
• No, sir,’ said Johnson, ‘ nature has been beforehand
with mo.’ Just so is it with Mr. Bradlaugh and the
House of Commons. It has not been left for Mr.
Bradlaugh to unchristianize the House of Commons.
Religion is a thing of reality—not of forms and profes-
sions." This is very rough on the House of Commons.
Bight or nine Canadian ministers of the
Established Church of Scotland have got hold, through
the Privy Council, of the control of all property belong.
Ing to the Presbyterian Church in Canada. The biggest
plum of the lot is the Church Temporalities Fund,
amounting to half a million dollars. At the time of
the union of the Presbyterian ohurohss in Canada, 85
ministers joined the United Church, while only eight
or nine remained in the Established Church, The
Privy Council has decided that these eight or nine
parsons constitute in law the Church of Scotland in the
Dominion. Hence the loot.
Thus the Melbourne Southern Cross, at-
tempting to account for Romanist growth in Victoria:
—Romanism in Victoria is strong and well organised j
it has an able priesthood and an energetic Press; it
avoids debate; it has suffered from no conspicuous
scandals; it is not afflicted with an Archbishop
Vaughan—an ecclesiastical Prince Rupert, who makes
brilliant charges, but loses great battles. Its rulers are
silent men, and work, like the mole, out of sight. It
has been, for the present at least, served—compacted
into closer unity—by the‘grievance’ of the Education
Act. And the exclusion of the Bible from the State
schools is an undeniable gain to Rome in another way.
Rome is strong against Secularism, but weak against
Scripture. In the Bible-reoding schools of the United
States ic dwindles ; in the Bibleless schools of Victoria
it increases. Those Protestants have unwittingly helped
Romo who have as. istod to banish the Bible from the
schools in which the children of Victoria are being
educated.”
The Puesbytebtan, descanting on the Fancy-
Fay re-iu-aid-of-Church question, says:—"We expect,
following the example of the metropolis, to have a
flood of such notices as the following “At Delegate,
lately, a benefit was accepted for Ashton’s circus, in aid
of the local church building fund. AtTitba Tilba an ama-
teur dramatic performance with Box and Cor, Ac, was
the bill of fare. At Nlmitybelle a bazaar, horse races,
and ball and supper were held to pay off the debt on the
Anglican Church there.’ " The Pubshttebian speaks
truly, for in a N.S.W. country town the other day, a
bazaar was held in aid of the local ohurch. Amongst
the articles on sale were several saddles, but as the fair
ones found that raffling was illegal, and, as they, unlike
their sisters of the city, did not know how to drive a
coach and horses through the gambling Act, it was dr.
cided to institute a day's racing in aid of the ohurch,
and to give the saddles as prizes. Thus were the church
and turf united. Even at the Millenium, one could
hardly look for a combination ot the saddliug.paddock
and the pulpit.
When Q-uiteau was asked if he had anything
to say why sentence should not be pronounced against
him, he said“ I am not guilty of the charge set forth
in the indictment. It was God’s act, not mine. God
will take care of it, and won’t let the American people
forget it. He will take care of it, and every officer of
this Government, from the executive down to that
marshal, taxing ia every man on that jury and every
member of this Bench, will pay for it. The American
nation will roll in blood if my body goes into the ground.
The Jews put the despised Galilem into the grave.
For a time they triumphed, but at the destruction
of Jerusalem, forty years afterwards, the Almighty
fot even with them. I am not afraid of death,
am here as God’s man. Kill me to-morrow, if
you wish. lam God’s man, and have been from
the start.” The judge then, in an impressive address,
sentenced him to bo hanged on Jano 30 in Washington
Gaol, between 12 and 2 o’clock. Quitean stood un-
moved while the judge was speaking, but when he had
finished struck the table violently, shouting out, “ May
the Lord have merey on your soul 1 I’d rather stand
where I do than wher* the jury and where your honor
does. I’m not afraid to die. I stand here as God’s
man. God Almighty will curse every man who had a
port in procuring this unrighteous verdict. Nothing
but good has come from Garfield’s removal, aud that
will be the verdict of posterity upon my inspiration. I
don’t care a snap for the verdict of this corrupt gene-
ration. I would rather a thousand time* die ia my
position than in that of those who have bounded me to
death. 1 shall have a glorious flight to glory, but that
miserable scoundrel Corkhill will have a permanent job
down below, where the Devil is preparing: for him.”
Quiteau having talked himself oat. conversed qaietly
with his brother.
The third general conference of the Presbyterian
Churches of Australasia has bean sitting at St.
Stephen's Church, Fhillip-st.. Sydney, The pillars of
the church took it in tnrcs to preside, the iiev. A.
Adam, Moderator of the Victorian Presbyterian
Assembly, having the first honor, and being followed by
the Eev. J. Cosh, M.A , N.B.W Moderator; Elder the
Hon. J. Balfour, M.L.C., of Victoria; after whom the
Eev. Adam took another “trick at the whsel." Here
are some Presbyterian statistics: N.b. Wa1e5,72,000 mem-
bers (although the professed adherents as per last census
number 111,834); average attendance,2o,ooo; 73 churches.
Victoria—l 47 congregations: 12 preaching stations;
12 presbyteries : 151 ministers; 475 elders ; 18,500 com-
municants; 330 Sunday-schools: 2,600 S.B. teacher# ;
27,000 8. scholars ; churches’ income last year £BO,OOO.
S. Australia: —lB congregations ; 7 preaching stations;
11 ministers; 25 Snuday-sohools; 217 88. teachers,
and 1,799 8. scholars. Conference recommends Victo-
rian Assembly to favorably consider transference from
Victoria to N.B. Wales Church of Murrumbidgea Pres-
bytery. Conference has appointed a committee to pre-
pare a scheme for the federation of Australasian Pres-
byterian Churches, which project it considers both de-
sirable and legally practicable. Another committee has
been appointed to prepare a draft code of rules to govern
all Fretbyterian Churches in the colony. Conference
recommended the establishment of weekly Presbyterian
papers—at Svdney, for N B.W. and Queensland
ohurohas; at Melbourne, for Victoria, S. Australia and
Tasmanian churches: and a third in Dew Zealand :
capital for each paper to start, £2,000; also that all
Australasian Sunday-school children of the Preebyterian
Church should support a weekly Mbssbbqhb to be
published at Sydney.
• • •
The Archbishop of York has given consider-
able offence by permitting the administration of the
Holy Communion to four hundred members of the
Salvation Army at the church of St. Peter’s, Holgate
......Cardinal Newman celebrated his 82nd birthday by
Binging High Mass at Brompton Oratory, evidently la
the best of health Quebec has been suggested as a
future residence for the Pope. Though as regards its
R.C. tendencies it is suitable enouih, a more awkward
apot, geographically speaking, could not be found. By
the way, though it has been said that the Pope never
leaves the Vatican, yet it is a fact that not long since his
carriage knocked down an old woman in the Corao
Talking of the Pope reminds us of Peter Campbell.
The latest about Peter is that he wants to preach
on the Sandridge (Melh.) pier. By the way, it’s stated
that Peter has succeeded to a big fortune. It will, there-
fore, be clearly unnecessary for him to take up oollec-
tiona in future... The failure of the Paris Union Gsn<irale
is regarded as a victory for the Jews over the Jesuits.
The Union was a clerical affair from the first, and it was
assailed by the Jews, who feared that tbie combination
ef Catholicity and finance might lead to an international
movement among Christians to get all the great finan-
cial operations of the world Into their own bands
A certain free-lance religionist, wishing to make a
little money, challenged Cardinal Newman to a
public debate on religion. The wily and witty Cardinal
replied: “No, but X will play you on a fiddle, for a
charity." The other collapsed. . . . They have a Salva-
tion Army at Dunedin, the members of which are for
the most part boys On his return to Dunedin Bishop
Moran was addressed and 1000-sovereignized The
Braidwood people have decided to open the local Insti-
tute on Sundays The Prince of Wales ia not a Sabba-
tarian; he has frequent dinnerparties at Marlborough
House on Sundays Clerical chains are loosening.
Several Churoh of England clergymen enjoyed them-
selves at the ball given by the Duchess of Norfolk
A lunatic recently stopped services at St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral, London, by shouting out that he was “ the son of
the Lord Jesus Christ.’’ His hnman name was John
Percy Frend, and he prophesies a Sodom and Gomorrah
fate for London because its citizens are “re hellions.”
Frond is now in Colney Hatch asylum 4 man at
Cowra asks ns where he could get half-a-dozen monkeys.
He wants them to stand at the church door on Snuday
nights and puff smoke into the faces of the people
going in. The monkeys who do it now are occasionally
mistaken for men A few Sundays back, a lady In a
Petersham ohnrch astonished the congregation by lea i.
ng her seat, and, going to the reading desk, com a enoing
o read the Bible aloud. After a little persuasion, she
was induced to retire. Guiteau business The Ea-
demptoriat Fathers recently brought out by Bishop
Murray settle in Singleton Sydney Church of Eng.
land Sanday-sohool Institute now numbers 31 affiliated
schools, and 114 members—36 clerical and 78 lay. It
has a credit balance of £1 7s. 84.
LATE SPORTING.
Albion v. Undaunted, won by former by 6 wickets
and 13 runs.
Mr J. J. Miller has had the misfortune to lose
Iphigenia, full sister to Pell Mell.
Stettler and Penno, two Burrowa peds., run for
£2O aside in about four week’s time.
Myers and Salomon’s champions defeated Hoff-
nung and Ce.'s heroes by 67 runs, in the Domain, last
Saturday.
W. MTndoe barely made his expenses out of his
two splendid victories. And yet he swam for £2uo and
£4O aside.
A crew of South Australians will compete in
the next intercolonial race oa the Parramatta
River, in April, 1&83. >
Eedtern Albion v. Independent. 1.C.C., 26
A.C.0., 9 wicket* tor 49—Lawler (not |ont) 10; he alse
got 7 wickets for 12 runs.
The Bathurst Coursing Club meeting commenced
on Tuesday. Only one hare was killed during the day,
and that in the first trial.
Layoock arrived in England on April 24, and
located himself at Putney to assist Tnckett in his
training. The raae is regarded by the other side, of
course, as another certainty (or Hanlan.
Albert and Carlton Clubs played an afternoon’s
cricket in the Domain on Saturday. The Alberts made
141)—Moses 46, Q. Tooher 23, D Gregory 16, Folkes (not
out) 13, Chiziett 11, J. Tooher 10, Wearue got 6 wickets
for 52 runs.
Satisfactory settling over the Sydney Tnrf Club
meeting. The following amounts were paid over : Mr.
G. Foote £lOO, Mr. J, Onus £lOO, Mr, J. Kerr £9O, Mr.
T. Shore £5O, Mr. E. H. Weston £B5, Mr. J. Allsopp
£5O, and second moneys.
The starter for the Intercolonial Boat Race is
Mr. T. Young: umpire, Mr. E. Carlisle; judge, Mr.
J. A. Levey. Mr. Justin Williams intends presenting a
silver oar to each member of the winning crew. Every
bit of news that we get from reliable (Sydney) sources
points to the likelihood o( those oars coming over here.
The Royston College Amateur Athletic Club hold
their second annual meeting on the Association Ground
on May 10. The programme is attractive, comprising
23 events, including one-mile walking handicap, 100
yards’ champion race, 300 yards’ handicap, 150 yards’ all
schools, 300 yards strangers, one mile bicycles, and
handicaps of 150, 2SO, 440, and 889 yards.
The Sydney Turf Club committee held an in-
quiry as to the manner in which Hotspur was ridden in
the Steeplechase; the cider was held blameless. The
owner o( Euchre complained about the way in which
his horse had been ridden in the April Handicap, but
the committee decided that a ease had not been made
our. againstl the jockey. This is healthy; yet still in
almost every race ran there are rumours, probably
without the slightest foundations, .that certain horses
are not going (or it. A vigilant system o( inquiry upon
the part of clubs would soon eitaDlish public coxfidente
in owners and riders.
Mr. R. P. Pickering (“ Nemo ” of the'STDNEY
Mail) was last week presented by bis numerous sport-
ing (riends with a handsome gold watch and a valuable
gold ring, Rowley has been unusually successful in
tipping the winners during the late meeting. He is
one o( the best judges of horseflesh in the colonies, and
true sport is bred in him. His father, the lato 11. F.
Pickering, M.P., was proprietor and editor of Bell’s
Life in Sydney, and it was on the staff of that journal
that Rowley did the necessary apprenticeship for a
turf-writer.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Christchurch (N.Z.) Tramway Co. have com-
menced to try the experiment of using horses instead of
steam power on the trams,
A Mr. Snow has started a Maori journal in N.Z.,
and advocates temperance principles. Ho is negotiating
to purchase the unused plant bought for £IOJO some time
ago by Tawhiao's people.
The Cardwell and Junction Creek (N.Q.), mail-
man, Petersen, and the Georgetown to Dalrymple mail-
man, Phillips, have been drowned—washed oil their
horses by floods. Neither could swim.
Friendly Societies’ commission dragging its
weary and unprofitable length along. Anybody ex-
amined but these who know anything, and not a man
of figures, medicine, or education among the lot.
Aaron Waxman, money-lender, Melbourne, has
been presented by admirers with a silver plate service
weighing 150 oz., for services rendered to the £ast Mel-
bourne Hebrew congregation. 0 shade of Marcus
Clarke I
William Craig, the oldest Clarence Hirer native,
has been sentenced to three years lor horse-stealing.
His father was the discoverer of, and first settler in, the
Clarence district, and came originally from Moreton Hay
overland.
Joseph Saul, a married man 25 years of age,
has been found guilty at Grafton, N.B.W. of the rape of
a girl of 17 years. The olfenoo was committed near
Lismore. Saul has been sentenced to death, and be soon
among the prophets.
It is proposed shortly to transport to New
Caledonia from France 10,000 “Kecidlvistos"—criminals
frequently oonvioted of potty effenoes, but ouuning
enough never to commit crimes punishable with more
than short sentences.
A Melbourne Hospital sub-committee see three
courses open to them—the removal of the institution to
a more northern sits; the demolition of the old build-
ing and the erection of a new ; or to improve the venti-
lation and fight erysipelas ontiseptioally.
At Berara, New Britain, two children of a
Fijian teacher were fatally speared by the natives,
rousted and eaten. The mother was also speared, but
not fatally. She escaped into the bash, and after 18
days’ wandering about, arrived at Bonluana, a living
skeleton.
At a recent kangaroo drive at Mr. Hoaking’g,
thirteen miles from Nundoorau, over 3000 marsupials
were caught in two hauls. Three kangaroos, it is said,
eat as much as two sheep j yet should there bo another
s«ch bunt in a month or two, just as many of the
tripods will be rounded up.
What does this look like? Mr. Glover, a
Fitzroy (Vio.) publican, declined to attend as a witness
against some larrikins, writing the Bench to the effect
that he feared violence to person or property would
reeult if he gave evidence. He was compelled to attend,
and then gave the prisoners a most excellent character.
Shade of Mahoodl
The Supreme Court has decided that tramcars
and motors have no precedence in the streets. This
being the case, the Transit Commissioners can insist
on their being licensed, the conductors fined for over-
loading, and the oars being kept clean and decent. But
the Commission includes a government officer, who
possibly mightn't like to interfere.
There are, in the Dubbo district, fourteen
aborigines whose ages are between 40 and 60 years j
two 70; 16 from 4 to 40, Only four of the number are
employed. The others are almost starving. They
have few blankets and very little clething. They exist
on opossums, which are this season so terribly poor,
that a man would not feed bis pigs with them.
Mr.’ Childers states that he can get as many
recruits as ha requires for the infantry. The fact is
that the standard has been reduced to fire feet four
inches, and a more miserable-looking lot of boys has
not been seen in the British Army sines the Grim.ia.
Special small sizes of clothing have to be procured for
them, and the belts will not fit, as the recruits are
so small.
Narandera is a fatal spot for hawkers, Many
years since, the brothers Pohlman wore robbed and
murdered there and their bodies burned; one of the
assassins escaped justice, and to this day has never
been seen. And now, two hawkers, Harnett and Vall-
ance, have at Narandera been burnt to death or
smothered in their waggon. Harnett took a lighted
pipe to bed with him.
The creditors of J. M. Shepherd, a Timaru
(N.Z ) storekeeper, have just found that he did “the
Pacific slope" oy the mail-boat before last. Before
leaving he defalcated £10,006, and forged promissory
notes, &o , to the tuno of £2.500, He was very pious,
and was considered most respectable. Five dajs
before leaving Timaru ho preached a most eloquent
discourse on 41 The Atonement."
A railway at Colao named M'Donald
wfia always being pestered by n life-insurance agent.
He hid in a boiler one day to avoid the man, but the
lynx eyed lifer ferreted him out, and the r-an insured
for £2OO in sheer despair of otherwise getting rid of a
nuisance. He paid two monthly instalments only, and
was then ran over by a train at the Colao Bay station.
Some people always have luck.
A shook of earthquake interrupted the proceed-
ings at the Hawke’s Bay (N.Z ) Police Court the other
day. The Courthouse began to quiver, the rafters to
oraok, and the ceiling threatened to oave in. Everyone
bolted —witnesses, lawyers, audience, policemen, and
the prisoner—except the magistrate and his clerk.
When the shock was over, the prisoner walked back
among the rest and took his place calmly in the dook.
Noble man I
T here are about 780 prisoners in Darlinghurst
Gaol. Last week there were 782. This number includes
54 seamen from the meu-of-war, who have beeu impri-
soned for desertion or assaults on pett y officers. A bunt
60 et these men go home to servo their sentences, the
punishment iu our gaols being considered too light.
There are at least 50 men iu gael for twelve months
each for non-payment of maintenance to their better or
worse halves.
A young man has been found dead on the
Friendly Societies’ Ground, Collingwood, Melbourne.
He had been suffocated while lying face downwards in
an intoxicated stupor. On the evening previous
to his death he was fighting with a racecourse
magsman named Watson, and his face was covered with
nasty scars and bruises. A paper in his pocket bore
the following name and address:—’‘Arthur Stringer,
North Terrace, Hackney, S. A."
The new graving dock for Sydney, for which
Parliament voted £i50,000, will be Jexoavated in the
sandstone rock at the S W. corner of Cockatoo Island.
Its total length, with floating caisson, will be 630 feet,
its width between copings 108 feet, and at floor level 34
feet, depth of water over the sill at neap tide will be 28
feet, and at spring tide 30 feat 6 in.; entrance width,
84 feet. The dock will be longitudinally divided into
tour bays, and lighted electrically.
By wire last night we learned that at Townsville
assizes, in the case the Queen v. Mr. Thadeus O'Kaue,
editor of the Northern Miner, Charles Towers, for an
alleged criminal libel on a Mr. Fred. Hamilton, of the
Towers, the Crown filed no bill. The numerous enemies
of Mr. O’Kane, who is fond of talking straight, will be
sorry to hear that there is at present no chance of his
being put into 44 the logs ’’ The article over which the
trouble arose was a 41 perfect screamer.”
During 1881, the Australian Mutual Provident
Society received 9041 proposal, of which 6469 were
accepted and completed to ths tune of £2 141.163. The
annual premiums of these amounted to £78,690 15s ,
while the single premiums were £7038 7s. lid. l)ur-
iag the year 336 members died, and 383 claims, amount-
ing to £195,361 65., which included £27,261 6s. for bonus
additions, were paid; as wore also 26 endowment
assurances, amounting to £12,467, which included
bonuses aggregating £3244. The accnmula'ed fund
now stands at £3,829,185 ss. The increase of receipts
over dlsbur*ements for the year was £449,674 14s. sd.
Mrs. Way Hong, of the Mudgee district, is a
nice specimen of a vagrant viceleper. She has had
real and bogus husbands galore, and is the mother of
a baker’s dozen or so oi children, somo all European,
some balf-Chinoso, somo olivo-tiatod, somo cream-
coloured, Ac,, Ac. She recently left all the cross*
breeds behind her and came to Sydney. Bat now she is
wanted for not keeping up the payments towards the
support of one of her offspring.
The law makes fish of the trams and flash of
private vehioles. John Barden, omnibus conductor for
Harrison Bros., of the Surry Hills line, has been fined
10s. for carrying three more passengers than the
licensed number. The occasion was the Band wick
races, when the trams were stuck up, and the 'busses
rushed. The Inspector and the boy both swore that
they asked the surplus passengers to got out of the
'bus; yet the conductor was fined. This is law, but
not Just ice.
Joseph Tite, fraudulent insolvent, escaped from
the custody of an Adelaide bailiff, and went on the
loose. He took refuge in a yacht at Qlenelg, and the
stratagem employed to get him back was, to issue a
warrant on the ground of perjury during his examina-
tion. On this warrant ho was re-arrontod, but the case
oonld not be sustained, and ha was discharged. Then
he was once more nailed, and sent up for eight months
for an offence under the Insolvency Act. He is now
bottled Tito.
At Avoca Lead, near Maryborough (Vie,), a
bricklayer named Martlew has been half killed by two
Chinamen. He persuaded a woman who had been
living in the Chinese camp to leave, and wont with her
to get her clothes. A Chinaman whacked the woman
with a stick and Murtlew interfered, whereupon another
Chinaman rushed at him with a tomahawk, and u third
joined in the fray with a long-handled shovel. Mart-
lew’s arm was broken, his skull fractured in three
places, and his body bruised and cut all over.
The Insurance frauds conspiracy is still nndor
the adjudication of Judge Boucaut, at Adelaide (S.A.),
Hicks, like a skin-saving our, betrayed his comrades by
turning Queen’s evidence, and the game is going merrily
on for the prosecution, Forsyth “ vamossed” when
he went to Melbourne with Mr. Linklater, and did not
return, and his creditors are petitioning for the seques-
tration of his estate. This w«s how the haul of £lO,OOO
was to have been distributed £lOO to Edmondson;
£lOO to Daniel Fsrgusson j £lO to nurse Coppage; and
the rest, less expenses, equally between Barker, Hicks,
Forsyth, and Dr. Horton. Dr. Morrison would have
had £l5O if Weatherhead had died at Brighton, and the
doctor had given a certificate of death. Hicks, even as
he had betrayed his comrades, was willing in turn to
betray the Crown, and an arrangement was proposed by
which he could “ skedaddle.” He was to ride by relays
of horses, post haste, over the border into Victoria, and
then go where he chose. But ha loved his father, and
his father was bound In £5OO as his surety. So the
filial Hicks required somebody to hand over £5OO to the
partner, and then ho would cut and run. Bat the
smiling, fair-haired, and muscular Detective Dnnlevie,
oame up during the interview, and kept his eye on the
conspirators. A yacht was talked about also, bat the
watchful Dualevie baulked the game. Then Hicks de-
termined to be as true as was convenient to the Crown,
and rolled np with kis evidence like a man. Detective
Dualevie was censured by the Judge for remaining in
the Court after witnesses had been ordered out, but the
Crown Solicitor said that it; was his fault. The
case for the Crown has closed.
Detective Forster, of Melbourne, deserves kudos
for the cute and painstaking manner in which he has
pieced together the " headless trank ” mystery of
Stawell. A man was found dead in two pieces—his
head being severed from his body. There was appa-
rently nothing to lead to identification, but Detective
Forster burrowed away till he got cine after olue, and
now the ohain of circumstantial evidence is alleged
to be complete. The murdered man was one Forbes,
nicknamed Sootty, and suspicion points to his quon-
dam mate Burns as the murderer. The tale runs
somewhat in this wayßurns and Forbes were mates
as navvies working on the Dimboola railway. Ferbos
»old Burns a watoh, and Barns immediately pawned
the article at Stawell. The two mates then went about
the ordinary asinine routine of “blueing” the money
thus obtained. Towards the conclusion of their spree,
they headed Glenorchy way in company with a
gallon of whisky. Only Barns reached Glenorchy.
At the next Stawell races, Burns, in reply to a query
made by an acquaintance, said that Sootty had gone to
N.S.W. Thie was a day or two after Christmas. On
February 23, Burns attended the Murtoa races, and
enquired of several people for Sootty, who, he said,
owed him £2). Ho got looked up for drunkenness at
these races, and in the morning asked, if the sergeant,
with a roared fsoe, what was the charge, as ho wan
non. eompos mentis when ho arrived at the lock-up the
night before. When he fonadit was only drunkenness,
he capered about like a sailor dancing a hornpipe. The
theory is that Burns and the murdered man had a
drunken quarrel—in short, that whisky killed Buras
morally, and that Borns killed Forbes actually.


Hotels, fco.
R
OBEET BUTCHEB *
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY.
CO..
Couvtri Okdxbß Baoiiyi Prompt Att^rtiov.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
‘Business Announcement^
Australian "home” shuttle
SEWING MACHINES.
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a few extra shil-
ling* profit—ore offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
&
£
HO^
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work jdate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit Information of the attempted pole vt coun.
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of eur rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not><
procurable, wo will forward them direst on receipt of
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE ROW SOLD OVER 2G.0C0.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE £4 0 0
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVER COMPLETE ... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
m. moslTand CO,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
p E. LARKIN.
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
IB George-stroet West (late Farromatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pore Cape Barley, Peed and Seed Oatau
P. E. LARKIN,
Wholksaub and Retail Winn and Brian Mnbohant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.— Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
FIREWORKS.
THE ROTAL ATLAS PRIZE LONDON
FIREWORKS
as used by the Public of New South Wales for
the paat 28 years.
NOW ON SALE-
-100,000 gross of the best English Fire-
works, at Is 9d and 8s 6d per gross.
BEST TREBLE CRACKERS, Ss. PER BOX
(40 packets in box)
BOXES con talnlng a SPLENDID ASSORTMENT, at
7s. 6d., 155., 305., and 40s. per box.
Cases containing every variety 'including
CHINESE FIREWORKS, to form a brilliant
display, A 3, lOs , JBS, £7 10s., £lO, £l5,
and ASO, per case.
t erpents,
Blue Lights,
Squibs,
Star Lights,
Trees,
Golden Fountains,
CRACKERBI,
ROMAN CANDLES,
SKY LINE AND SIGNAL ROCKETS,
STREAMERS,
FLOWER POTS
and WHEELS, RED, BLUE, and GREEN LIGHTS,
TRIANGLE, VERTICAL, and CASCADE
WHEELS.
DEVIL AMONG THE TAILORS,
JACK IN THE BOX,
AND 50 DIFFERENT KINDS
MYERS AND SOLOMON,
53G and 533 GEORGE STREET.
Solo A„«mt . for the ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LON-
DON FI REWORKS.
QUEEN’S BITHDAY,
24th day;of;may.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN I
S
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 868 George-street South.
8
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 860 George-street South.
B
RITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869,George-street South.
jpAPE RHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 860 George-street’JSouth.
WHITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
Ac., Ac.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South. .
(LATE GLASS. PLATE G.LABS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
TobaoowHt.
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are complied ttom official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
SONS paid duty in 1880 on 288,303 Tb.
All fhe other* paid duty In 1880 on ... SS^WOllb.
DIXSON ABO SONS paid d*ty hi 1801 dn 478,935 lb.
All the others paid dmty in 1881 on 620,091- lb.
Imported manutoetored toba«oa paid duty
on for the two years was ««■ 307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
TANXEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM.
-OUT RUBT, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
•Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tinta®,” each ping branded with a
Round S*nolr Tut Taa, etaaipod ** Co»»
qoßaon " er ** Tanker Doodi*.”’
AT A. TOBACCONISTS* GOODS, PIPES, So.
vr.
»>
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Roaewood-and-gold.
Imported by ne direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is VIARRAHTED for TEN
FEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, ana
are meet sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments *or cheap rubbish*
BEALE and COMPANY.
1 Oxford-street; 612, George-street; 13, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland j
Howiok-street, Bathurst ; Anbnrn-street, Goul-
bum; Church-street, Parramatta; .Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT.
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
843 and 545 Kent-6tjib®t, near Kins-street.
JOLE AGENT for the undermentioned i->
R. Whittingham and Oo.’» London Prorisions
Excelsior Min's prise Victorian Oatmeal (late O.
Bancroft & OoT)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s GouTburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 346 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
JQEAFNESS !—I have
the recipe
Ear Infirmary (to
an Infallible Remedy
Queen yearly
£100). Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B. MANNAFORD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
3LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPBRHANQINGS
(a really splendid stock.)
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, QEORQE-ST.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT?
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets,
makes carpets feel softer and thiokor, and 1
wear twice as long. For covering steam,
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat ;
great saving of-fuel; .apply several layers
The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paper Works, Liver-
pool. Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Price, 4Jd &6d per yd.
v 80 & 40-Inches wide,
any length.
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
r 36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.^!
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of aeouriiy. Repa>
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Cattlereagh-streot, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
w
ASTE PAPER for SALE, apply Bulletin
Office, Pitt-street.
Hotels, fto.
R
OBINSON'S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP ALB AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AJHI SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockbnrn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15b. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
UNSLER’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
JIALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J T, FALLON in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Dspoti
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VIKETARDI
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALB.S.
These Wines were awarded
following Exhibition 0 1 —
London International
Paris ~
Vienna ~
Philadelphia „
first-class Prizes at the
1862
lBO4
1873
1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. BED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
*
GUINNESS'S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S paleTO.!
The BEST ALE and STOUT in tho Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY
m
RK
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands! when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per eeat> in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
lA&llQSprin Street
Sydney, k
.w
Have always in STOCK w /t SALI
to the TKADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
▲NS
EARTHEN WA EE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRIT?,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
lOOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although tho principal business will bo transactedfat
tho above address, the CELLARS at the A.B.N. Go's
Wharf, Circular Quay, will bo retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
ear Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirk ton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies— Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.
DFSAGSAG
The Fun* of M. MOSS & CO.
Is ob ereiy Genuine Bottle.
WAa*
W'rt.H ~Hc
ti.
*U
te r %
iIL - Ti
r
1 A.G.THOMSON & C 9 H
PROPRIETORS
OLA : S GOW 1|
1 77us rare, old Scotch Blend
I i.' dljtinoui chocl hy ln.vi.ixy nr bpuqueT j ,
?/cf mature
'Hf-S. i I
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOB NEW SODTH WALES,
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gUSINESSES FOR SALE.
FEOST AND CO.,
Estate, Qenonl, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS,
Offer for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and —
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO. Intending Purchasers, who favour ns with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,!
will find P, and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79 P.tt-street.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
W O R M A L D,
U? OXFOV-O STREET.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[IV« shall b» glad to have this index posted, up by secretaries
of r acing eluhs and managers of sporting events in general ,]
RACING.
Deniliquin April 27, 28,
Laehlan R.C May 4, S.
8.1.J.C : May 6,11,18.
Bllgh A.T.C. Mndgoe ..May 29.
Illawara J C.... May 24.
Dunedin (N.Z ) Winter May 24.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24,
Melbourne Hunt Club May 24.
Adelaide R.C May 20, 24. 25, 27.
Copeland J.C Mar 24.
Mnrrurnndi J.O May 24, 25.
Queensland T.C, ~..., May 24, 25.
Parramatta J.C.'. May 24, 25.
Manning Elver J.C...4... May 31, Juno 1.
Coonamblo J C Juno 7, 8.
Warmnmbool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... Juno 7,9,
Brewarrina J.Q,. ~».w . ....„..v . ..v . „,...... June 8, 9.
Eookhampten A .. July 6, 1.
Clarence k J .C.....!!... July 12.13.
AQUATICS.
Watson’s Bay Regatta..,. April 29
Intercolonial Bight-oar Race :....... April 29.
Qlebe E. C. Trial Fours, in Outriggers April 29.
Beach v. Reynolds, £lOO, Parramatta Elver ....April 29.
Triekett r, Hanlan, £5OO aside on the Thames.... May 1,
M.E.O. Janior Single Sculls (President’s
Trophy) May 6.
Krug Champagne Gup, Amateurs ....May 27.
Maryborough (Q ) Regatta May 24.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Ross, £2OO aside June 20,
PBDESTRIANISM.
Newington College Athletic Sports, Btonmore,.April 29.
S. Sports, Association Ground May 6,
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports, Association
Ground May 13.
T. Collins v. T. Allen, 100 yards, £lOO, Home-
bush May 13.
J. Farrell v. E. Hicks, 230 yards, £lOO, Home-
hnsh May 13.
Hunters Hill A. A C. Sports, Association
Ground May 20.
Circoar Athletic Sports May 24.
Tamworth Athletic Club May 24.
Narrabri Athletic Sports May 24.
Eiverina (Hay) Athletic Club May 24, 25.
SWIMMING
Port Jackson Swimming Club matches. April 20.
FOOTBALL,.
Victorian Match (Association Ground). ..May 20, 21, 27.
COURSING. ‘
Australian Coursing Club May 4.
Uawkesbury May 16, 17.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Hon. Ivo Bligh’s English cricketing team
is to start for the colonies in September next.
A big trotting prise, 10,000 dollars, is offered for
a free-for-all race at Rochester, N.Y., on July 4.
IHTha annual mooting of the Western Queensland
Racing Club is to take place at Boma on 17 ch and 18th
May.
It is quite probable that a big sculling regatta
will be arranged on the Thames during the English
summer.
For the B.A. J.C. meeting, comm mciu - May
0, 23 have accepted for the Adelaide Cnp, uuU 31 1 .r t* j
Goodwood Handicap,
The entries for the Eastern Suburbs A.C.
Sports close on April 20 for handicap events, and for
•cratch races on May 6.
Mr. J. Stuart, a patron of aquatics at Welling-
ton, Is reported to have said that ne is prepared to lay
£5OO and back & Wellington fonr against any erew in
Australia!
T. Allen and T. Collins are matched for £5O
a side, to run 100 yards, at Homebnsh, on May 13. J.
Farrell and E. Hicks run 200 yards for £lOO same date
and same place.
By cablegram we learn that the honesty of
some of Shaw's team is being impugned in England.
We are very much surprised to hear it—very. Tes t
dear public, very.
At the Wyndham (Vic.) Races on Saturday,
Eric won the Maidon Plate, Van Tromp the Hurdle
Race, Tide the Grand Stand Handicap, and Boatman
the Mambonrin Handicap.
At a meeting of the Victorian 8.A., ®n April
20, it was decided to sond A. Pittes to Sydney to com-
pete for tbe Krug Champagne Cup, to be rowed (or on
the Parramatta River May 27.
A handball match for £5O aside has been ar-
ranged between M. Laugan and J. Keenan, to take place
at the Rising San ball court, at a date to be fixed. Tbe
rubber is to be the first four 21 aces up.
Mr. B. E. Jones has put in a claim to Joe’s
title of “ King of the Ring.’* Last week, at Tattersall’a,
he laid £50,000 to £260 against Navigator and Gudorz
for the next Y.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup.
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club in-
tend holding their Antumn Sports meeting on the
Association Ground on May 20. Twelve events on the
programme. Entries for handicaps close May 6, and
for other events on May 13.
Little Billabong Turf Club Eaoea, April 23.
Malden Plate: Mystery, 1. Billabong Handicap i
Favour, 1, 9 horses started. Hurdle Race i Obadiafa,
1. Flying Handicap i Lord of Clyde. 1, 6 starters. Con-
solation Stakes ■ Amateur. 1.
The 1000-yards swimming match at the La-
vender Bay Baths on Friday, between Ernie Cavill and
J. J. Smith, resulted in an easy win for yonng Cavill,
who got the hast of the start, and improving his lead,
won eventually by about 100 yards.
The frisquette season commences next month.
The promoters of the game were unsuccessful last year in
obtaining a ground. Probably the Agricultural Society
will have no objection to the frisquettists availing
themselves of a patch of thsir fine ground.
The City and Suburban Handicap (Epsom
Meeting) was run for on April 19, and resulted as
follows j—Passaia, 4 years, 6 st. 7 lbs., 1; Master
Walter, 5 yrs., 7 st. 6 lbs., 2 ; Scobell, 4 yrs., 8 st. 2 lbs.,
3- Another victory for an American horse.
Triekett is confident as to the result of his race
with Hanlan on May S. Meanwhile, 4 to 1 on Hanlan.
Triekett weighs 13at 101 b.—at least the dailies say he
does. It's quite safe to say so. They know he can’t
weigh much less, and isn't likely to weigh much more.
On Saturday m eek a rifie match took place
between the Eueineor Cqrps and Volunteer Artillery
Rifle Clubs, resulting in a victory for the former by 48
points The conditions were ten men a-side, and seven
Shots at and 600 yards. The scores were; Engineers
465, Artillery 417.
- The Victorian Amateur Turf Club intend to
make the prize for the Caulfield Cup only second, if not
equal to, that of the Melbourne Cup, It is to be run on
October 14—a handicap sweepstakes of 10 sovs. each
with 500 sovs. added, in addition to a gold trophy
valued at 300 guineas.
Entries for the S.A. A.O. Sports on May 6
flosa finally on April 29. Mr. R. A. Arnold offers a cup
) anyone beating the olub record time in a walking
D)atou, and tbe olub makes a similar offer in a running
pice. Sixteen events are comprised in the unusually at-
tractive programme.
How quickly does the glory of cricket fade! A
Victorian paper (the Weekly Timas), alluding to a re-
markable score made by N.S. Wales in the intercolonial
match, says: “Garrett 165, and Jones 109, were the
principal contributors I" Murdoch also made a few
rnns—32l, wasn’t it t
. Trickett is reported to be in grand condition,
and yet less than a week before the race he has loft his
training quarters and gone to Hampshire. Is there
anything wrong with him ? We remember that j ust pre-
viously to his former race with Hanl&n, he had to go to
Paris to recruit his health.
To be a successful go-as-yoa-pleaae pedestrian
in America means to win nearly 5000 dollars in a walk
of six days. This was done at New York by Q. Hazael.
The takings daring the week amounted to 50,000 dollars,
about a fourth of which revert to the winner, besides
a sweepstakes of 200 dollars for nine competitors.
Two foot-races came off at Bourke on the I9th
J. M'JCusker, of Bourke, and A. Davis, 100 yards, for £2O
a side. Davis got the start, and won by four yards.
M’Kusker then ran C. Baker 75 yards, for £2O, Baker
giving three yards start. M’Kusker won by three
yards. A good deal of money changed hands on the
latter event. Baker backing himself at 4 to 1.
The Auckland Racing Club have endorsed the
action of the Taranaki Jockey Club in disqualifying the
horse Eandwiok, Mr. Cope the owner, and the Jockey
Joseph Williams, for an alleged tampering with the
weights. It is rumoured that Mr. Cope intends pro-
ceeding against the Taranaki Club for the value of the
prize, and that the Club will defend the action.
Tho N.S.W. Eight arc very much pleased with
their new boat, and have taken all the necessary exor-
cise to beooms uncustomed to it. It is anticipated that
if our eight can hold the Melbourne men for a mile, a
very close race will ensue. The N.S.W. crew are in
good form. They have made the most careful prepa-
ration, and will, it is thought, row to their last ounce.
England lost a great sportsman by the death of
Lord Lonsdale. He was a good judge of horseflesh, and
did not stop at any price to improve his stable. Fetraroh
cost him £lO,OOO, and four great yearlings £15,000. In
1877, his winnings amounted to £12,301; in 1878,
£14,630. In 1879, he sold all his stud for £lB,OOO. He
was a patron of 33 livings, and he died at the early age
of 27.
At the Clare (5.4.) races last week, Horror
won the Hnrdle Race on the first and second days;
King Charles won the Maiden Plate on the first day,
and the Bungaree Stakes on the second day. Fictitious
performed similarly by winning the Clare Handicap
and the Broughton Cup. The Doubles ware easily
picked and the ring must have suffered. Erin won the
Steeplechase.
The University and Warwick Clubs commenced
on Saturday on the Association ground their second
match for the Holdsworth-Gardyua Cup. The Uni-
versity team is weakened by the absence of Garrett and
Jones, and the match as it now stands, looks vary open.
Tho scores were:—University, 123—Powell 49; Metcalfe,
21; Allen, 16. Warwick, 2 wickets for 53—Uiddlestone,
not out, Sl|; DowniS, 17.
The annual meeting of tho Newcastle Football
Clnb takes place on Thursday evening, 27th instant.
Newcastle, though unable to send as heavy a team into
tho field this year as last, will have very fast and good
all-round representatives. Sydney clubs will have to
look to their laurels. Match versus the Efcons (Sydney)
on Queen's Birthday on the Newcastle Ground, which
is one of the best in the colony.
The fine stud on which the late Sir Joshua Peter
Bell spent thousands of pounds and years of labour,
with a view to raising the morale of the Queensland
tnrf, is now owned, ostensibly, anyhow, by an auc-
tioneer and a bookmaking tobacconist. " Those who
know, you know," say there are excellent reasons why
the Grange stud, instead ol being parted with on bloc by
the executors, should have been sold in lots to salt
purchasers.
Another link with tho old generation of sports-
men who'.boxed, gambled, drank, and drove with His
Maiesty King George IV. is snapped by the death of
Lord Wilton. He was a sort of “ admirable Crichton ’’
in his way, a fine horseman beth in silk and scarlet, and
he rode the mighty Touchstone in most of his races.
He was a true, honest, honourable, enthusiastic patron
of all kinds of sport, bat especially racing, yachting,
a.u i << x bunting.
The Sydney i.. held their annual meeting
on April 21. Twenty new members were elected, and
the following are the office bearers for the ensuing
season:—President, Mr. John Young; vice-presidents.
Dr. Durham and Messrs. Andrew Lougbnan and
Wynne; bon. secretary, Mr. X*. Ballhausen; treasurer,
Mr. M. Chambers; committee, Messrs. Butober, Crisp,
Fairfax, O. Ballhausen, Hollingdale, Fierce, and Hill;
captain, Q. A. Crisp; vioe-oaptsin, J. M'Namara.
Annual meeting of tho N.S.W. Football Asso-
ciation on Monday evening. The secretary’s report was
favourable and hopeful. The Victorian clubs, Carlton
and Melbourne, are to play a low matohes here this
season, and the Geelong footballers are expected over.
Office-bearers: President, Mr. P. Sheridan ; vioe-presi-
dents, Messrs. H. 0. Sogers, W. Wynne, A. B. Welgall,
and Dr, Clune; secretary, Mr. E. 0-. Weller; treasurer,
Mr. W. C. Marshall; auditors, Messrs. Kettlewell and
Sibley.
Mr. Justice Firing, a Judge of the Supreme Court
ol Queensland, when Attorney-General of that colony
Save it as his opinion that tho totalisator is not an
istrnment of gaming within tho Act. “ The totali-
sator,’’ ho says, “merely indicates the number ol
persona who have staked their money upon each horse,
and it is not the means of contrivance by which the
money may be won.’’ This should be refreshing for
Mr. Francks, who has been allowed to form a totalisator
club in Victoria, and he may do so over here.
The Bathurst Pionio Races eventuated on
Saturday at Mount Tamar. Tho Hurdle Race was won
by Nigger, ridden by his owner, Dr. Cortis. Trumpeter
fell, and was so seriously Injured that be had to be
killed. The Club Gup was won by Mystery. In this
race, the horse ridden by Master M'Fbillamy fell,
giving his rider a severe shaking. Mr. W. Lee’s Stella
won tho President’s Challenge Cup, and Mr. Strick-
land’s Chester the buggy-horse raoe. Mr. Lamb als o
secured two races.
L. E. Myers, the amateur champion pedestrian
ol America, has entered for the English Sheffield Handi-
cap, thereby becoming a professional. _ The scratch
man is to give him 5| yards in a full distance of 131 J
yards ; Wright and Shaw, two well known English pro-
fessionals, have to give him 2i yards; and Wilks, a con-
verted English amateur, has to give him li yards. Con-
sidering that he defeated the English amateurs easily,
this is either saying that the English professionals are
a long way bettor than the amateurs, or giving Myers
another good chance for America to whip England.
The swimming championship was finally decided
on Saturday, when W. M’lndoe, of Victoria, mot W. F.
Corbett at Foley’s Baths, over a distance ol 1000 yards
for £4O aside. M’lndoe took tho lead, and gradually
increased it to the end of the raoe. The styles of the
men were totally different, the winner showing vast
superiority over his opponent. The time taken is said
to be 16 min. 10 sec., which is the fastest on record in
tho colony. MTndoe will now, no doubt, pursue his
original intention ol tackling some ol the English
swimmers.
The Glebe Rowing Club annual meeting took
place en April 20. The club is in a highly prosperous
condition, the assets being estimated at and the
liabilities nil. The annual ball is to take place in June,
following are the oftioe-bearersPresident, Sir Q. W,
Allen, ' M.L.A. (Speaker of the Legislative Assembly);
vice-presidents, Messrs. William Cary, J.P., T. J. Chap-
man, J.P., John Young, J.P., and George Wood Tate;
captain, Mr. F, J. Bull; hon. secretary, Mr. E. P.
Mayes; hon. treasurer, Mr. E, Shute; committee,
Messrs. J. B. Doutty, A. Ickeraon, S, A. Lee, G. L.
Durrell, G. Robertson, S. J. Bull, Q. L. Maoready, J. S.
Walford, E. J. Haslingden; selection committee,
Messrs. W. Bull, J. S. Walford, and F. J. Bull.
On Saturday week, the University Club was
defeated easily by the Campbelltown Club. The latter
made 232, the highest scorers being Mansfield (not out)
122, I. Rudd 37- Graham 15, Hurley 12, J. Rudd 11.
This, against such a strong bowling team as our Holds.
worth-Gardyne Cup-holders, speaks highly for the
batting talent of the countrymen. Mr. Mansfield
must pay the Association Ground a few visits next
season. The Rudd brothers are woll-know;n players,
and Hurley was a hero at “ little oriokef’ years ago, at
Lyndhurst. Tho University made ISA, to which Carter
contributed 68. He has proved himself a very valuable
acquisition to his club, and should make Wright and
Allen (jo for the average next season, loeton and
Wright made 29 each, and Morewoather made 12. The
local rag, giving a full account of the match, windi up
as follows" A more agreeable match has never been
played in Campbelltown. The visitors acted as Uni-
veraity men should, and when decisions apparently
doubtful were given against them, never for a moment
disputed.” What sort?
Echuca Races, April 20 and 21. Maori won
the Maiden Plate, King and Tollamore running
into second and third places. Wild Dayrell and Lilly-
dale ran a dead heat for the Millewa Stakes, and in the
run-off the former won easily. The Echnoa Handicap
was appropriated by Native Jack after a splendid con-
test. In the Hurdle Baoe Blue Jaeket came in a length
ahead, but a pretest was lodged by the rider of De-
eeiver that Blue Jacket crossed, which was allowed,
ana Deceiver was declared the winner. On the second
day, Marie won the Plying Stakes. Wild Dayrell
scored a second win by defeating Maori and Tollamore
for the Publicans* Parse. Yarree won the Town Plate
Handicap, and M&id-of-all-work the Selling Hurdles.
“ Pendragon,” of the London Rbperhe, is
rough on the new association of English amateur oars-
men. Nobody in any of the dabs enrolled has ever
P 0 ® 1 ? * j-S, ny , way °°nnectod with trade, and he says i
The difficulty will be when soma club not associated
happens to develop an oarsman or two likely to be of
service to the Association. Myself, I should recom-
mend that such men be parboiled, scraped, fumigated,
cleansed of their shopkeeping, clerkly, or other im-
parities, and drafted, after making affidavit never to
buy or sell, or barter for profit, or otherwise offend
again, into one or other of the clubs which consist of
the nobility and the county families only—and thns are
fit for association with one another. It may be, though,
that these rising oarsmen will, when found, decline to
abandon their ancient surroundings.”
This is what a Victorian aquatic man thinks of
our representative Eight:— ll As a crew, they swing well
together and the time is very grood, but there is a total
absence of anything like a good ‘grip’ or ‘lift* in their
stroke. Everyman takes the water at the same instant,
but without any of that dash and vigour so necessary to
make a light outrigger shoot along. The men also ap-
pear to sit low, technically speaking, down in the boat;
the arms are well thrown out, and the shoulders well
forward, but neither arms nor shoulders are brought
far enough back. There is, iu fact, a tendency to bang
over the oars at the finish of the stroke. The ‘ feather-
ing’ is also imperfect. It is done by simply turning the
wrist and without dropping the hands—the result being
that the oars are turned in the water, and the crew
almost to a man feather on the water.”,
The annual general meeting of the East
Sydney F. C. Club was held on April 20. We
learn that since last season Messrs. Nash, Kellett,
Young, and Clay, have left Sydney j the clnb
will, therefore, be considerably weakened by the
loss of such good players. Both Young and
Nash came oil with honours in the match against Mel-
bourne. However, there is good material in the club,
and in the practice of the new game no one knows who
will come to the front. Following are the office-
bearers: President, Alderman Playfair; vioe-presldents,
Mr, S. M. Hyara, and F. L. Weiss ; hon. secretary, J.
W. Kettlewell; hon. treasurer, W. C. Marshall; com-
mittee, Messrs. Harper, Bandall, M'Farlane, Sibley,
Wiseheart, Terry, and Donaldson; selection committee,
Messrs. Marshall, Eaudall, and Sibley. Thirty new
members were elected, and Mr. Sibley was ro-olooted
captain pro tern.; and Mr. M. Howard, vico-oaptain.JJ
Before our next issue Trickett will have had
his second try with Hanlan. It is to be hoped that the
trial will be conclusive, and leave no doubt as to who is
the bettor man. £5OO aside has deen deposited, the final
£250 having been put down on April 24. Triokett by all
accounts is in ilrst-olass trim, and is confident as to the
result. We have bean favoured with a pamphlet on
“ Australia’s Champion Oarsmen," (10,000 copies of
whiok have been distributed gratuitously), written by
“ Charon," who certainly produces good arguments in
■ favour of the assamption that onr man have not had a
fair trial against Hanlan. ” Charon” does not contend
that Triokett can beat the Canadian, nor will ha admit
the latter to be the phenomenal eouller that the English
sportsmen consider him ; bat he argues that Hanlan,
beyond defeating Triokett and Layoook when the latter
ware in bad form, has done nothing more wonderful
than Layoock, who defeated the English scullers as
easily as did Hanlan. However, nous ver rons.
Two matches were being played on Saturday
for the Thompson Junior Cup, that on the cup ground
being between the Surry United and Orient Clubs, and
was continued from the previous Saturday, when the
scores stood Surry United, Ist innings, 96; Orient, 6
wickets for 31. The latter increased the score to 59,
and the Surry Uniteds kept the wickets for the rest of
the afternoon, scoring 200 for 6 wickets. Croker played
a fine innings for 81, and F. Searle 66 not out, is likely
to top that score. This match is to be continued to-
day (Saturday), and is, we believe, the first of the
junior matches that has extended into the third Satur-
day. The other match between the Australian and
Our Boys’ Clubs, was commenced on Saturday on Alder-
son’s Ground. The Onr Boys kept the wickets all the
afternoon, scoring 143—Denniss, not out, 31, Stafford
24, Varley 24, Collins 18, Norman 17. It is now obvious
that, as we predicted at the commencement of the
season, the Our Boys and Surry United clubs will b«
tbs final competitors for the trophy. The Our Boys
were lucky in their defeat of the Orientals, bat we still
adhere to the opinion that the Surry United eleven will
become the eventual winners of the cap, though it is
questionable whether tho Our Boys or Oriental be the
the next best. The Orients should have been oat of it
long ago.
Sydney Turf Club Races, Saturday. Hurdle
Baoe was won by Kaffir, Last Try being a fair second,
and Send third. No one noticed when tne others came
in. The two handicaps caused a deal of double betting,
the two Euchres, and Stella and Qaeensberry being the
best supported stable doubles. Stella won the April
Handicap rather easily in \ min. 171 sec., Gamecock
being second, and Vanquish third. The latter, as in
the Nursery Handicap, got a splendid start, but could
keep ahead for only half the distance. The Juvenile
Stakes was a fizzle, there being only two starters, and
Paddy Pigott on Vestal had just to keep her moving to
beat Tinderbox In the Selling Plate, Bob Sawyer
made a show of his horses, winning easily by over a
dozen lengths; West Country Dick was second, Eosi-
nante third. The Steeplechase brought three starters
to the post—Blaokall, Hotspur, and Wrangler. The
three horses jumped beautifully, though Blackall nearly
fell opposite the Stand the second round. What would
have been a great finish was spoiled by Hotspur baulk-
ing at the second last jump, and the winner of all the
jumping races of this meeting cantered in. For the
Autumn Handicap, Saunterer and Brian Born were
greatly supported, but Qaeensberry won the stable
doable with Stella, the second horse being Euchre, the
third Kerolite, the favourites making a great race for
fourth; time, 2 min. 12J sec.
Joseph O’Brien, the Australian long-distance
runner who has been astonishing the N.Z. public, will
arrive in Sydney shortly, and it any arrangements can
be made he will give an exhibition here. He oomee
red-handed from the performance of a mile in 4 mja.
24 sec. He is quite prepared on good ground tq run U
miles within the hour, or one mile in 4 mis. 23 sec, A
N.Z. critic says “there is little doubt that ha is a
better man than either Cummings ar Duddle, the present
crack milera at homo. The former has the best record
Jet, 4 min. IfiJ see.; but that is on a cinder track, and
certainly consider O'Brien’s 4 min. 18f sec. done on
grass, at Ballarat, a far better performance, as the
track would make more than two seconds' difference."
O'Brien’s performances stamp him as a phenomenal
runner, and he has only once been defeated daring his
career. He comes to N.B. Wales just in the nick of
time, when the athletic clubs are holding their meet-
ings. He was accompanied in N.Z. by Freeman, a
sprinter, who has returned to Victoria, and by
O’Connor, a splendid walker, who will doubtless join
him in his N.S.W. trip. Professional running receives
but little encouragement here for obvious reasons, bat
onr amateurs might make their meetings attractive by
enlisting O’Brien’s services. It will bj hard to run
a true pedestrian into another hippodrome speculation.
O’Brien should be sent to £)ngland with MHndoe, onr
champion swimmer.
The fight between Ryan and Sullivan came off
near New Orleans. At Barnes’s Hotel, under the oaks
and cedars, in the magnificent green immediately front-
ing the hotel, within fifty yards of the waters of the
Gulf of Mexico, the stakes were set. Every available
spot that could command a view of the ring was crowded
with spectators—the balcony of the hotel, the trees,
tops of the houses ; in fact, every available space that
could servo for the purpose was jammed with its crowd
of eager lookers-on. More than two thousand people
must have been present. The rougher element, of
course, predominated, but, per contra, the fair sex was
present as well. The waves of the Gulf were laaily
washing the sand of the plateau only a few paces dis-
tant, and the garden of beautiful flowers was still look-
ing as lovely as when Ryan was training there only a
few weeks ago. Certainly it would not have been easy
to have found a more lovely spot. The sky was without
a cloud, the air was cool and balmy, and, but for the
noise and bustle as the crowd pushed and struggled for
places, everything denoted perfect tranquillity and
peace. The crowd continued to surge and jostle with
eager anxiety to get the best places, bnt no one lost a
particle of good humour. The best of feeling every-
where prevailed, and though there was occasionally a
hurrah for Ryan or Sullivan, none got too much excited
even in expressing that. As beta were offered and
accepted, shouts and cheers wont up from the crowd,
and neither side seemed to want forfrieads. It was
evident, however, that Sullivan was the favonrite from
the moment he first appeared.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Frank Oliver, the well-known Yic. pedestrian,
has In N.Z. been found guilty of the larceny of a watch
and locket from a farmer, whose house he stayed at
while training for a match 68 entries have been le
oeived for the Hawkeabury Claret Stakes of 1883
Clarendon v. Woollahra Victoria Clubs. G.C.G. 88,
W.V.C.C. 22 Ivauhoo v, Morksworth Clubs, Moore
Park, won by the latter by 27 runs. Tipper and
M’Laughlin batted well for the M.C.C., making 10
each, and M’Laughlin took six wickets for six runs,
doing the “ hat trick.” A trout, weighing 18J pounds
has beau caught at the mouth of the Walmakirii,
Christchurch (N.Z.) The sparting editor of the
Evening World tipped Cunuamulla and Rainbow foe
the Sydney Cup. The farmer won: the latter ran third.
The bon. secretory and the bon. treasurer of the
N.S.W. Bowing Association aro about to visit the
adjoining oolony to witness the eight-oar contest.
Their advent to Melbourne will be looked upon with
great interest, ns they are appreciated in other than
aquatic circles ; and it is understood that out of con-
sideration for the young ladies of Colllns-street they
have arrived at an amioable arrangement to the effect
that when the hon. treasurer makes his appearance, the
hon. secretary takes his departure Mace, Miller,
and Victor, the Freneh wrestler, are about to tour N Z.
in company Mace has been superintending a big box-
ing contest at the Lorne-street Hall, Auckland A
number of Maories recently interviewed Jim Mace, and
desired him to visit the native settlements for the pm •
pose of instructing the dark men in the noble art
When "spielers” lose money they now often give
cheques and stop payment of same, on the ground that
they have been obtained illegally Sporting men will
be sorry to hear that Dick Lang, the jockey, is now an
inmate of the N.S.W. Asylum for the Blind. The first,
mount which brought this lad into notice was when ho
steered Thya to the Glen Innas Cup, which, at that
time, boasted of its 1000 guineas added money Santa
Claus has gone into Mr. P. Dowling’s stable. Somer-
set, Paragraph, Transferred, and Dictator have been
purchased for India Hearn is likely to have another
opponent for the NZ. aquatic championship. Ho ii
from Riverton, and is named Harrington A sculling
match in light skiff's oatue off at Grafton on Saturday,
between two amateurs, named J. Baruior and D.
Cameron, the former winning easily The Ballarat
bowlers have had a good time during their stay in
Sydney. On Saturday they had an opportunity of sur-
veying the beauties of our harbour in Dr, Evans’
yacht, Pert North, the barber who levanted from
Wellington (N.Z.) some time ago, with a £2OOO sweep,
has a hair-dressing establishment at Santa Cruz, 00
miles from San Francisco, and is doing a roaring trade
and a continual drank The newly-formed Hartley
District Jockey Club intends shortly to hold a two days*
meeting........ Alliance ▼. Balmain Colingwood Club.
A.C.C., 63. 8.C.C., 17 Alexandria v. Conqueror
clubs, at Double Bay, on Saturday. Won by the former
by five runs and two wickets. Ellis, for the winners,
obtained 7 wickets for 8 runs The second race for
the Wood trophy is to oome off at Newcastle to-day
Saturday, and is the subject of much speculation.
• • •
HAfter five nights’ exciting play, Slosson, the
American, defeated Vignaux, the Frenchman, in the
International billiard match at Paris, by 447 points;
stakes £lOOO An English nobleman, name not given,
has been hissed out of the gambling rooms at Monte
Carlo. His first downward move was made at Good-
wood Sylvie Gookin, the American sculler, mot
John Largaa on the Thames on March 7, for £lOO a
side. The Britisher won by two lengths During a
recent football match near Middleton (England) five
players were so badly damaged that medical attendance
had to be called in; and of two accidents occurring in
Oldham one resulted in death Midwinter, the well-
known Anglo-Australian cricketer, has again been en-
gaged by the Marylebone Club and Ground. Probably
the services of Peate aud Bates will be secured Dr.
W. G. Grace has expressed his intention to play In the
two mktehes for the United Eleven against the Austra-
lian Eleven One of the curious facta in connection
with Foxhall is that his parents were stable compan-
ions in Mr. Sevigert’s racing team of 1875 Passaic
who won the City and Suburban, is an A merlc&n-hrea
horse, though now the property of Lord R0aum0r0.....,,
A rival of Hutchins, the 47seo. quarter-mile performer,
has sprung up in England in the shape of one Tatter-
sail, of Clitbcroe, who will run “ any breather breath-
ing ” 410 yards for £lOO a aide.
Worse Uanea wanted up Bundaberg way.
Clergymen killed right and left. This can be jread in,
divers ways.
A correspondent wants to know how it is that
the Civil Service Co-operative Society sells spirits, Jio.,
without a license.
Tommy went fishing the other day without his
mother’s leave. He said he didn't catch anything—
until he got home.
Thirst can be assuaged merely by moistening
the tongue, the roof of the mouth, and the throat, with
a tabiespoonful of water.
The World hears of a wonderful preparation
from the "eucalyptus plant,” which is said to ho
marvellously effective in oases of consumption
particular phases of lung-disease. It is the invention!
of the Hon. Wyndham Stanhope, who, at latent, was tn
Madeira for the benefit of his health.
An erstwhile gonial dancing maaW*\ at— ■never
mind where—whose religious opinions were rather
materialistic, has "found the light.” He suddenly
gave over his gay ways, and attended at a red-hot brim-
stone tabernacle, presided over by the Reverend Fisjry
Furnace. His next step was to inform his dancing
class that he could no longer conscientiously follow his
sinful avocation, and the class was in consequence dis-
banded. When asked how he became converted, he said -
that the Rev. Fiery Furnace had convinced him of hell- .
fire. “ But," pursued his interrogator, “ how did you
first come to attend at the tabernacle ?" “Ah!" said
the ex-danoiug master; “ I was struck off the jury list,
and 1 took it as a judgment from above. It set mo
about reforming my evil ways.” So that the next cion-
tarfy defendants will have no chance of a pious jury,
man.
Booths, etc., have just been erected ***
Junction Creek (very Far North Queensland) race-
course. The grand-stand consists o$ % tall Moretonj
Bay ash, and an iron-bark tree, which grow in close
proximity to each other. steps have been put
up, and the charge for tjop seats, which holds two malc£
and one female, or five inaies crushed, is £5, Pat Bvaa.
who embarked njoney-jnaking spec., is a ifonia?
sort of fellow, who can shoo a horse, fight a dog,
a t-,earn,, and talk of the lads of Ireland. Another item
I interest from the North is that Captain Blank’;*
i drag was dragged a dozen miles full-split by a pair e$
greys, whilst the Captain’s legs were over the box-seat,
and the Captain’s head near the The m»n
who tells us this adds: “You couldn’t run a,
drag In Gaorge-streat like that.” He con-
tinues:—“ Two Chinese were killed on the Lynd
River, thq other day, by the niggers, who, a
week later, had a * perfect gorge ’ of roast white man.
Old Frith, of Mount Surprise, says the darkies are
worse now than in the first days of the Palmer rush.
The big drink up North now is * chloride of gold,’ made
by Frtshman of Sydney. It takes well, but the price
doesn’t, for it's dearer than champagne. Sorry to hear
you’re in the logs. However, better be in gaol than
dollying for tucker on this field.’* Dear boy, we’re out.


RILEY BROTH
386 GEORGE STREET,
600 GEORGE STREET, 5-
165 OXFORD STREETJ
BATHURST,
GOULBURN.
NEWCAS
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET
THE CHEAPEST I
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COI
the obiginatob
NOTED JBS BA
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair Whit# or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
8 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
6 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Winoey, Print, or
other Dress material
8 yards Strong Cotton
Skirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Seeks
I pair of White cr Coloured
Stays
18 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2$ yards Gambroon for
strapping
8 yards Strong Brown
Holland
3 large size Bedroom
Towels
8 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair ef Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
er Child’s Boots
1 Beit or pair of Braces
tdoe. Pocket’kerchiefs
Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needle*, Tapee, Cob-
tone. Bnttona, Hooks
and Eyes, Ac. &e.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
3 Crimean shirts, large sice
2 beet Cotton Skirte, large
else
1 best Felt Hat, any size
8 pair strong Cotton Socks
8 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braees
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, dee.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
8 Ladies’ Chemises
8 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies Cam holes
1 Ladies* Petticoats
8 Children’s Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
8 Night-gowns
8 Petticoats
The above are made of
good lougoloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered In-
stead el any of the above.
Mo
2 Lad
2 Lad
2 pair
1 Lad
1 pair
1 Lad
2 paii
1 Lad
4 Infa
2 Infa
2 Infa
1 Infa
M
8 Infa
1 Infa
| dezi
S<
Pnff b
1 Flai
3 Bibi
1 pair
1 Infa
1 In
%
1
H
£B
1 pal
1 far)
10 yar
20 yar
18 Str
80 Wii
10 goo
8 yar
▲1
wearii
£5
1 paii
1 wh:
8 yar
10 wh
Ca
8 wbi
13 yar
12 yar
4 pah
1 paii
1 Dai
8 str<
6 Brc
4 larj
8 yai
T i
Th
£5 1
25 yds
3 yan
1 doz
1 Bla
1 Lac
1 Trii
1 paii
Ca
RILEY BROT
£2 Infant's Parcel. £2 3
4 Infants' Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hanc
2 Infants’ Long Flannels Lon*
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown riohl
2 Infants’ Boilers 1 Infar
4 dozen Diaper Squares Squa
Puff Box, Pnff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infar
t Bibs Silk
1 Pair of Wool Boot* Car
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockmb n’a £2 3
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nigh
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chen
1 R/a.4 nsktt-ean O D.i.
SOCIAL.
There was a blaze of beauty and a glare of un-
limited gas at the Petersham Town Hail the other
night. Outside, all was dust and i-dbns, and masons’
chips, hat in the large hall, the spacious, splendid floor
was all that a dancer could desire. Decorations lined
the walls, while the combined attractions of full-
dressed aldermen, pretty girls, the local band, and
sapper, seemed the acme of festive and social
grandeur. Mr. Mayor Gelding made a pithy speech,
and the music started at twenty minutes past nine
precisely. It is only fair to say that the Petersham
brass band is good, and went creditably throath a pro-
gramme of 20 dances, as well as extras. Ihe Mayor
in the opening quadrille, stern and heroic as
Horatius at the Bridge. His Worship’s dancing it not
apparently a natural gift, but rather, we should say,
the result of much arduous rehearsal in the back par-
lour, under domestic tuition. When he lifted one foot
into the air, he always put it down again in a way that
showed he intended there should be no mistake about
it. It was a bold, iron-clad sort of performance that
might have been practised by Oliver Cromwell, or the
Black Prince in fall armour, or some other man who
wouldn’t be trifled with. The stern gentleman would
have got through better, perhaps, if the floor hadn’t
kept getting in his way. But let us to the beauty.
Most of the aldermen were present—the caterer
can corroborate this statement. The belle was ata'l
brunette in yellow. Two tall Star more sisters were in
white with cardinal bows. From that locality too,
came, in white and amber, with anbnm tresses, the
Blender daughter of an Inspector of Schools. An ex-
Alderman’s pretty daughter was in light greet, set oil
with red bows, and mn after by a lot of other beaux.
An architect’s wife Jfrom St Mary’s Fayre wore a hand-
some black satin, with si*boned silk flowers on the
tappets of the skirts. One of the prettiest girls in the
room—the dark-haired daughter ef a C.M.G —was in a
dress of rich maize satin, with embossed silk border-
tug ; while a young lady in skyblue satin, with a gar-
l\nd of red robes from the shoulder, honeycombed onr
impressionable heart in half an hour. A charming
figure was clad in a combination of crimson and black
satin, with broad white lace. A beautiful dancer in blue
silk and cream lace was the daughter of an Ex-Post-
master-General; a tall brunette in all white, with
white chaplet, was graceful, and there were other good
toilettes. A large number of leading residents were
present, as wall as several influential visitors, including
iurselves and John Davies, who, by the way, doesn’t
dmce.
The Evening News’ description of the drees
worn by the Mayoress of Petersham at Mayor Gelding’s
hall, may possibly be correct in the minutest particular
save one—the lady was not at the ball 1
* • s
St. Thomas’s Church, St. Leonards, was
crowded on Wednesday afternoon, l»th inst .duringthe
marriage ceremony binding Miss Charlotte Adams
(daughter of Mr. P. F. Adams, Surveyor General), to
Mr. Cunningham, of Melbourne. Many of the ilite of
Sydney, as wellas oflNorth!-bore,were present, including
Sir Alfred Stephan, Sir John Hay, Hon. T. Oadell, Mrs.
8. Want, Mrs. Mort, and several of the charming stall-
holders from the Garden Palace Fayre. The church
was decorated, and an appropriate text placed near the
altar. The bride wore a splendid white silk dress,
tastefully trimmed. After the ceremony, the wedding
party and a large number of guests adjourned to break*
fast at Theulda, the residence of the bride's father at
Kirribilli Point. The toast of the happy couple was
proposed by 8;r Alfred Stephen.
• • •
Last Thursday, a large party was given at
Pyrmont House, Pyrmont, by Mr. and Mrs. Webb, on
the occasion of their grandson, Mr. W. Lippmann,
attaining the age of twenty-one years. As Mr. Lipp-
mum h»d never been 21 before, the festivities
were made worthy of snch an unusual event in
his career. The rooms were decorated with flags,
flowers, and greenery, and Chinese lanterns lighted the
verandahs and garden—excepting, of coarse, a few use.
ful corners. Dancing was carried on all night to ths
music supplied by Shapter and Hermann, Exceedingly
charming were some of the dresses wern by the fair
guests. One of the richest was a brocaded cream silk,
and one of the prettiest a maize of pale blue satin. A
novelty in headdresses consisted of pink daisies studded
over the entire coiffure, in a style strikingly suggestive
of brass-headed nails in a shoe-trunk. How those
daisies were coaxed to stay there is an insorntable
mystery : they were not pinned, and there were no dis-
tinct traces of glue to be seen. An nnfeeling monster
Bald they probably stuck in the head because it was toft.
Pink suited well the brunette complexion of the pretty
daughter of the house. A quartette of charming
sisters came from Marriokville; one being in pure
white, with white wreath, and another beautiful dancer
in all-blue satin, trimmed with cream lace. At the
supper table (which was admirably managed by caterer
Cripps) the healths of Mr. and Mrs. Webb, and others,
were drunk, some speeches made, and Mr. Lippmann’s
friends showed their appreciation of his having success-
fully lived so long by giving him an illuminated address
and a handsome present.
* • •
The wedding of Mr. Samuel Patrick and Miss
Antonia Louise Hnenerbein, celebrated at St. James’
Church en 19th instant, by the Eev. William Hough,
was one of more than ordinary The bride was
tastefully attired in white satin, and there were eight
bridesmaids, each dressed in different-coloured satin,
with wreaths of flowers to match dresses ; and a neck-
l.co of pearls gleamed on each snowy neck. The
coloured satins were—pink, cream, pale blue, peach,
dark blue, pink and cardinal, cardinal, pale pine and
white. The idea is novel, and, being combined with
gracs and beauty, was pleasant to look upon. The
Wedding March was played by the bride’s brother, Mr.
Charles Huenerbein, and flowers were strewn from the
church door to the carriage steps. Honeymoon to
Lithgow.
« • •
Any one who stands on the Post Office steps on
a fine afternoon must admit that the great Waist
Question is highly im jortant. Has or has not a woman
a right to do as she likes with her own waist ? And
when she likes, as she often does, to compi ess it into
the smallest compass, where is the harm?' If harm
there is, she is not to blame. Tight-lacing i* the men’s
fault; they admire a small waist; and they won’t
admire a substantial one. However, they are poor
deluded fools; they admire where there is no real
beauty, but only meretricious artifice. They exclaim ;
"What a lovely figure Miss Smith has!" And what
has Miss Smith ? A beautiful neck, sloping shoulders,
well-curved form, or shapely arm ? Nothing of the
sort. Simply a squeezed waist and exaggerated bust.
Miss Smith has square shoulders, bony neck, skinny
arms, and a back like a baking-board; but she has a
small waist. As long as addle-pated fools will ran after
every slabsided female who wears a corset like a black-
smith’s vyce, and carries a bale of cotton on her cheat,
and rave about her “ lovely figure," so long will tight-
lacing continue. But there is the ether side. It is very
well for medical men asd others to bewail the dreadful
injuriousness of tight-lacing; but the obstinate fact
remains that they can show very little of this injuri-
ous ties s, gave wbat is in their imagination. As a matter
ot truth, notwithstanding all that is said, women do
Jive and thrive with squeezed waists just as wellas men
do without them ; what is more, they seem happy, and
cheerful, and comfortable, and healthy; they eat and
di ink, laugh and dance, and have pretty, healthy chil-
dieu—tight-lacing all the time So it can’t be sj
dreadfully dangerous. People talk of the wondrous
Venus de Medici; that estimable lady is no doubt
much admired theoretically; but if she mixed
in the procession of her sisters past the Post Office
steps, she would go by a great many times without her
"lovely figure" being discovered, it it was not encased
in an ideal corset. Of course, it is plausible in theory
to suppose that tight-lacing is a terrible thing; but the
human form, especially woman’s, is very adaptable.
While women can get admiration by compression, they
will have it. Adaptability is the whole secret. The fact
remains, despite all tbolament and reproof addressed to
women on the injuries of tight-lacing, that they do it and
thrive on it, and as long as men will be so foolish as to
give them credit for a 11 lovely figure" they have not
got, they will keep to it.
see
A fancy dress ball took place in the Wollongong
S’hoolof Arts, on Monday evening, the I9th instant.
About 200 invitations, issued at the invitation of Capt.
Owen &nd Mr. F. A. Franklin,reunited in a large number
of guests, ladies preponderating. The display of cos-
tnmes and millinery, fancy and plain, was one of the
finest ever seen in the district. The palm of honour, for
grace and attractive attire, was conceded to the wife of
a Unanderra J P., whose costume and coiffure were
elegant. A niece of the local medico was also
much admired, her habiliments being the richest
in the room—the character assumed by her being
Queen Catherine —while her sister, the lately,
wedded wife of a Qnnnedah journalist, represented a
Boyal Cook, and danced most gracefully. The wife of a
Bnlli M.D., as a lady of the Elizabethan period, die-
played splend'd jewellery. Many character* "-ore of
“ye ollf ne ty me:" there were al«o “ Nights,” Gipsies,
Flower Girls, Spanish Ladies, Spring, <tc . whilst some
appeared in evening dress of a fnper-Esthetic character.
Gentle man were principally military characters, some j
being Brigands, Hunters, Sailors, Freemasons, and
foreign and grotesque-looking individuals of donbtful
character. ‘‘Dick Deadeye,” the brother of the worthy
P.M. of Wolloigong, was thought to be beau of the
ball, and his dancing was admired. The hall was
decorated nicely with works of art, paintings, flowers
and ferns. The “ giddy whirl ” commenced at 9 o’clock,
the local harmony baad providing music. Dancing
altogether was execrable, the room being too fall. An
excellent and rechercht supper, mostly sent from Sydney,
was laid in the wings, and at midnight it disappeared
like a beautiful dream before the healthy company,
plenty, however, being available for all. Some of the
brigand desperadoes were sack hearty partakers that
they fonnd it neoessary to retire to the reading-room.
At Sam, the pleasant party broke np, and at the
sober morning dawn the feastars and dancers wendsd
their ways to their quiet oonntry homes.
• • •
Bartlemy Fayre, 21th May.
• • •
St. John's Literary Society gave a eon versa aon#
os the 18th instant, in Darlisgknrst soheelroea. Up-
ward! of 100 proaest, the room baing ornament*! with I
Chinese lanterns, flags, plants, ta. Cosy oornarg and
dim recaises were carefully arranged for these who
enjoy snob things. On the tables were art Journals,
photos., sketches, and other works of ark. headings,
songs, and ransio were given by members and friends,
and daring the evening refreshments were served. All
the gentlemen and sevaral ladies wore evening dress;
with the latter, black and red predominated, though a
blue silk with white lace, and one or two light toilettes,
just averted sombreness.
• • •
Ashfield flower show on the evening of Friday,
28th. Ashfleld Amateur Athletic Sports en 29th.
e e •
The attendance at the Turf Club meeting on
Saturday was not large, neither was there the brilliant
display of costumes common to soma occaaions. Some
very pretty dreases ware, however, seen; and, as the Stand
and Lawn at Eandwlck give a fair criterion of the pre-
vailing fashiens generally, wo mention a few of the
chief dresses noticed:—Handsome black brocaded dress,
with bugle fringe, cream hat and gloves, black parasol.
Salmon-eeloured eatin. with pompadonr and dark green
fringe, cream hat and parasol. Maroon silk, with maroon
plush body, and hat to mateh. Handsome brocaded
steal trimming, bonnet and sunshade to match. Navy
bine, with large saeh, black bonnet with eloth-ef-gold
rosee. Two blondes wore spotted navy bine silk top-
skirt and navy blue underskirt, and leeked pretty. Twe
light dresses, trimmed with maroon and lace, cream hats.
A very handsome cream Indian muslin, trimmed with
satin, light maroon bonnet, and cream parasol. Snuff-
coloured cashmere topskirt, and satin drawn underskirt,
bonnet to match. Prune brocade velvet, bonnet of same
colour. Black striped raoirfi antique dolman, parasol,
and bonnet, en suite, all trimmed with bugles. Pretty
pale sateen, trimmed with lace, parasol of pale blue, and
oream bat. Black cashmere brocade, blaok velvet body,
with trimmings of same. Maroon topskirt, pink under-
skirt, trimmed with lace, and cream hat with dark rose
Black satin, richly trimmed with cardinal, bonnet and
parasol to match. Navy bine silk skirt, nicely trimmed
with pompadonr, navy blue silk bonnet, and black
parasol.
* • •
Mr. S. E. Kennedy, the well-known and popu-
lar amateur baritone, is slowly recovering from the
effects of the terrible smash he sustained a few weeks
ago, by & fall from his horse.
• • •
The Palace Fayre is all over now, and there is
nothing left to do but for the Revs. Childe and Yarneld
to count their money. The closing ceremony was very
similar to the opening one—no one saw much or enjoyed
much j but there was a good deal of squeezing, and a
good deal of noise, and no doubt a good deal of joy in
the hearts of those who pocketed the “ spous. So
there's satisfaction somewhere. At the door, a small
and mixed procession was formed, two Heralds in
“ property ’’ clothes of primitive colours (now laid aside
kill the next pantomime at the Queen’s church—theatre,
we mean. Pardon the mistake: but, really, these things
do get mixed sometimes). Than two Beadles, sternly
determined to do or die ; and, judging from their
emaciated appearance, much more likely to do the
latter. Each was provided with a staff to loan upon—
which was fortunate, as thsir legs certainly did not look
reliable. Then camo a variety of persons, including
respectable tradesmen, a Judge, some Cs.M.G., a Post
Office messenger, two grocers, merchants, musicians,
and others —all in pairs. No, there was one man who
was not in pair. The Rev. 8. H. Childe walked in
his spectacles and in his stately majesty, alone.
And calm serenity was on his massive features,
as he reflected with delight on having raked in by one
fortnight’s labour more than his fellow-workers In the
vineyard could get by passing the plate round for halt
a century. With pomp the procession went to the
concert room, where, on the platform, the stallholders
in their fancy dresses were all ranged tier above tier in
semi-oirclea, with the Queen of Moots in the place of
honour, her four Maries around, the Roses af York and
Lancaster above, and the others at the wings. A few
speeches were given ; but as ye Naval Brigade Band,
ye Volunteer Band, and ye Burwood Hand were all
playing vigorously at the same time different tunes in
the building, the words were not heard in comfort.
The Pollard troupe sang that pretty little hymn in Dr.
Watts’s “Cloches de Corneville” collection, ‘‘Dingle,
dingle, dingle,’’ and the National Anthem closed pro-
ceedings. The ladles, of eourse, were thanked for their
labours—" for the love of the Church.*’ The ladies
were very nice, and of course ought to be thanked: but
at the risk of seeming either less credulous er more
honest than the rev. gentleman who thanked them, we
venture to think that if the " love of the Cbureh ” had
been so strong as he suggested, there would never have
been need of the Fayre. Later on, the auction
of articles took place. The goods fetched fair
prices and the bargains asked by some were not ob-
tain* d. Sprucely-attired individuals marched off with
all sorts of articles. A curly-haired young lawyer, of
band-box neatness, became the possessor of a dog’s
head m a dish, the Crown Solicitor bore away a huge
brown paper parcel, a spray of pansies and a fan. Most
of the stallholders were glad enough when the finish
came; the constant powder, paint, and patches became
very monotonous at the last, and the freshness of the
first day was not there at the last. During the second
week, the amateur waitresses at the Chelsea Bun Honse
and the Old Tabard were replaced by a detachment of
professionals from the Cathedral Fayre. People said
they got tired; they were the only ones who got so
tired that they had to leave. Rumour said that the
patrician damsels made the unpleasant discovery that
the profits of their services went, not to the Church as
they supposed, but into the pockets of a caterer, and
that they did not relish standing in the position of
unpaid waitresses to a pastrycook. It is impossible to
believe this. What! A Vere de Vere selling penny buns
for a baker P Never. However, the matter is trivial,
quite unimportant—the money was raked in trium-
phantly j that’s the main thing. One remark we would
make, for the benefit ef the cads. Even paying a
shiling for an ice does not entitle anyone to be rude to
the person who serves it. There was a final flate-up of
the discordant side ■ show*. Punch and Judy,
the alligator and wild beasts, acrobats and
other contrivance*, announced by yelling criers,
mounted on chairs and gin-cases, and dressed in
all the garments ever seen or heard of from William
the Conqueror till now. Messrs Labertouche and
Freer acted in Richardson’s Show with Miss Melrose,
and, at 5 o’clock , Miss Bertha Phillips gave a recitation
and Miss Sussmilch ployed on the piano. The Maypole
manoeuvres were repeated onco more to a gallery full.
Up to the last we watched anxiously for the Nautch
girls who wore to perform their bewitching dance. All
through the Fayre we looked for them, but they never
came. At length, the great crowd filed out, the bands
ceased their melody, the powdered, jaded, chintz-clad
beauties passed for the last time through the gaping
crowd at the gates in their ulsters to cabs carriages.
Ths Bst. Childe smiled with sanctified satisfaction,
most 11 Childe-like and bland,** as he thonght of the big
bags of coin that he won’t know what to do with, and
Baldwin-Bigbye went home to rest.
♦ ♦ •
Avondale Quadrille Club held their first annual
picnic at Botany, a few days ago. 'Basses conveyed
abont forty couples out to the Sir Joseph Banka, where
sports were held and refreshments provided. The party
was photographed, and a return was.made at 10 p.m.
An act of singular bad taste occurred at the
Olde Englysshe Fayre just held in Ballarat. A lady
lecturer on phrenology entered the hall with her hus-
band, in the guise of a nun, including the head bandage,
bandage, face drapery, and cross. In the middle of the
hall she clasped her hands, and stared with a fixed
devotional gaze at the ceiling. As many Catholic visi-
tors were present, whose feelings would be naturally
hurt, several Wesleyan ladies and officials of the Fayre
suggested to the husband that his wife’s actions were
indiscreet. He was dull enough to reply that his wife
was entitled to wear what she liked. She maintained
her attitude of fervid religious meditation a few minutes
longer, but the observations of indignant spectators
at length induced her to withdraw. Her first idea may
have been the result of thoughtlessness; her persist-
ence in what was evidently offensive to others was
execrable.
• * •
The first annual ball of tbs Liverpool Quadrille
Club was held Is the local Tows Hall on the 18th in-
stant. when about forty eon plea tripped to the music of
Gordon’s atrisg band. The hall was nieely decorated,
asd some beautiful dresses were displayed. A brunette
is black velvet brimmed with silver was considered the
belle. A lair yessg lady is white, with spangled lace,
was charming, as was also a tall blonde in sauff-col cured
silk looped sp asd trimmed with eardisaL Two eesems
is blue asd white silk, with eepe te match, were very
pretty | ee were twe dark ladies is black satin and
silver. Among the guests were the Mayor of Liver-
pool, several aldermen, and ladies and gentlemen from
Sydney and Parramatta. Dancing was continued till
morning, and the guests thought the ball a decidedly
enjoyable one.
e • •
Herborton, on the Wild Elver, is no doubt the
home of a respectable and refined community, but one
eannot read of their social doings without an idea
stealing on him that there’s a good deal of the “ early
aboriginal” abont society' there. “Wild” Hirer is
saggestir* in itaelf. "Nigger** Creek must differ
frem Mayfair. The quadrille assembly is called the
•« Pioneer; " aud when they istimate by advertisement
that glovee should be worn at their grand ball on Easter
Monday, we feel that there’s just a toooh of untutored
artleseneas about the place still.
« * •
At Mr. M'Qnade’s well-attended and enjoyable
matinee at the Masonic Hall on Thursday afternoon.
Misses Marie and Madeline St. Clair gave two selos
each. The latter lady, in a picturesque toilette of cream
mu-lin, with a breastknot of violets, and a large cream
hat set back on the well-shaped head, was very charm-
ing. Mr. M*Quade was cordially received, but the
smile elicited by the gif* of bouquets from a young
lady, was the only thing that-broke his imperturbable
nonchalance of manner. His playing was exquisite.
Amongst the audience were noticed a well-known
musical divine, officers of H.M.B. Nelson in full regi-
mentals (as patrons), and some charming ladies. A
stallholder from the “Crusader” was in white lace,
with cardinal ribbons, and a pretty little headdress on
a curly brown bead. The dark-eyed daughter of an
M. noted for his plain speaking, was innlaek, with
white plush hat. Daughter of the Lieut.-Governor
wore quiet black, with violets in a black bonnet.
• * •
That eminent and much-admired soprano, Miss
Hate Slattery, is sow the wife of Mr. W. M’Donald, ef
the A.J.S. Bank. The wedding was a quiet one,
attended only by intimate friends, and took place in the
private chapel of St. Patrick’s convent, on Tuesday
hist. The bride looked piquante and charming as usual,
and the ceremony was performed by the Eev. La
Rente!, S.M. The party adjourned to a sumptuous
dtitiner prior .-to starting for Coogee, for the honey-
moon.
** * *
Events of more or less importance : A vivacious
young widow in Phillip-street, after a preliminary in-
terview with a clerical gentleman at Windsor, goes to
warm the hearth ef a Cobar man, who studies the law
and the profits The younger of Jewish sisters in
Darlinghurst Hoad has consented to make a Bathurst
man happy A genial little fellow in a Pitt-street
Insurance Co. this day unites with the dowried daugh.
ter of a Band wick auctioneer Which reminds us,
her brother will go the way most men go, ere long
Mr. Joseph Knowles, who was connected with the
Melbourne Exhibition, was married on the 17th at
Emerald Hill, to Henrietta, youngest daughter of
Mn Thomas Keighran, of Drodle Oooma, well known
as one of the pioneers of Eiverina, Bride in cream
corded silk. Two maids in sapphire satin and toques to
match Dancing, roller skating, and frisquette all
start in earnest in the merry month of May.
A Flower Show comes off on Friday, in St.
John’s Schoolroom, Ashfleld. Everybody will be
there, and a Band Boyston College Athletic Sports
on the Association Ground, Wednesday, 10th May
Hasty marriages seem to be popular in Litbgow. The
sister of a respected local J.P. was spliced last week to
a well-known townsman, with a by no means uncom-
mon name, and a young lady daughter of a prominent
resident of Bathurst has promised to make a bashful
young man happy after a fortnight’s acquaintance
Recently, the Melbourne Turn Verein Leidertafel had
another of their grand evenings. Only gentlemen were
present. All the leading musical societies, including
the Metropolitan Leidertafel were represented by mem-
bers. Singing, flute, violin, piano, zither, and orches-
tral selections were given. At 11 p.m., most of the
leading musical pros, from the theatres joined the jelly
company. Signor Zelman managed Dr. Beaney gave
a banquet. The bediamoned doctor is to be entertained
at a ball in return The Mayor of Christchurch,
N. gave a large ball in the Exhibition building
recently. 750 guests were present, including Lady and
and Miss Gordon A wedding has been arranged at
Burwoodin which the presents of the bride will include
half a jeweller’s shop Mrs. John Harris, Mayoress,
holds a reception, on Friday, 28th inst., at tho Town
Hail A lieutenant in command of a small man-of-
war was to be conrt-raartialled at Malta just after the
mail left. Ho brought with him, on his return from
England, where he had been on short leave ef absence,
a lady whom he introduced to everyone as his wife.
As such she was asked to Government House, and to
all the houses of military, naval, and oivil officials on
the island. The valat of a noble lord, who only re-
mained two or three days on tho island, told his master
“ something,” which led to farther inquiries, and as it
turns out that the fair one is not the wife of the gallant
officer, the latter is to bo tried for what society rightly
deems a very serious offence.
Mr. J. F. Doyle, a gentleman who has for fifteen
or twenty years actively identified himself with the
progress of our great Northern pastoral and agricul-
tural interests, is dead.
A man 92 years old was lately sentenced to six
months’ hard labour in Young gaol for horse-st»aling.
iSure'y the magistrates made a mistake here. Was it
not the horse that should have been sentenced f Per-
haps, however, it was the natural feeling of kinship
that prevented, them from taking this more sensible
course
A Taranaki (N.Z.) solicitor, named Halse,
suicided by poison, lb is said that he embezzled
/20.000 of Government trust money, and his affairs are
in a great state of confusion. He left a letter addressed
to his son-in-law thns“ I have thought the matter
over, or at least endeavoured to do so, and matters will
he facilitated by my stepping;aside. My head is burst-
ing. MylfareweU ends."
The female prisoners of Montreal (Canada) gaol
bed a rare shivoo on February 18th last. There were
300 of them, nearly all prostitutes. The prisoners there
are governed by nuns, aided by three male guards. The
nuns had to lock themselves in a cell while the prisoners
b oko up the furniture and played the mischief gener-
ally. Police from the central station were sent down to
quell the disturbance, and found it the hottest thing
they had dipped into for many a day. The Amazons
lough'' like tigresses, using any available article for a
weapon. Every bobby was severely, and several were
dangerously injured.


I
HBA T E E
M
Lessee
jres surer ' J
SECOND WEEK and CONTIN
o; the
MOST SUCCESSFUL ]
ever produced iu the Southern
rLAND HOLT'S Picturesque Spi
D THE WORLD. THE -V
THE WORLD. THE V
THE WORLD. THE V
irjje Blowing up of the Steamer.
1 Seen 0 Tne Aquarium ftcsne.
Operation. The Escape from th
Ball. Formin'? the gi
0 f scenic effects in the worll.
prices a* usual. Box Office a
•pickets fcr all parts of the h-uae •
theatre. Children in arms not adu
at 7.15.
Baaines Manager for Bland Holt—
JAMES ALI
PE E A
H
0
Lessee and Manager.....
Acting Manager (for Mr. Marshall
ME. FRED. MARSI
and his
COMEDY OOMPAj
will commence
ON SATURDAY S’?
next,
(APRIL 29th)
with
THE Q U V’N(
NEW SCENERY, by GEORG
Box Office at Mr. A. Huenerbein’e
Qeorge-straet.
Private Boxes, £3 2s. Drees C
Pit Is.
M 1
AND MRS. JAIV
(MISS MARSTON LI
Arrangements completed for ena
J une Ist, 1883, under the ma
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMS!
Theatre royal
OPEN FOR ENGAGE
Will seat seven or eight hundre
with Gas; lately patronised by the f
Terms moderate. Apply to
Yl
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, o«
dating 1300 people, is now avi
and other perform an oes. The stag
depth, and has a neat proscenium
DAVID
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAR.
ACADEMY OP MUSIC, CHi
ONE MONTH
THEATRE ROYAL. WELLIN
MONDAY.
Department of A
Sydney, 2
LIST of Applications reoeiv
mont of Mines, for permis
roads, &c. &o, under the Minii
ion 28.
ART!
Dale of Application, April 3,188
Land fronting Jerusalem Bay, parit
of Cumberland,! portion of reserv
mine for gold.
Department of IV.
Sydney, 2
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS ;
LEASES
NOTICE is hereby given th
sees execute and take deli
mentioned Mineral Leases withii
this date, they will be declared
AKTI
No. 1220; William Marshall and <
43, 47; County of Gough, parish of
Application No. Vegetable Creek 51:
No 1231; William Marshall aud <
65; County of Gough, parish of 1
Applica'diiu No. Vegetable Creek 51
Ne. 1227; William Marshall and <
66; County of Gough, parish of
armiination No. Vegetable Creek 5-
The advertiser, a <
Vienna, lately arrived, and dei
the colonies, wishes the POBITI I
or Instrnctor to schools and collei
ments; thorough knowledge of t
music, also of condaoting a band
Herald Office.
MISS MAGGIE DURKIN
self to be genuine, and will
ing* against old offenders. Any
never had any property must j
Returning to Melbourne to claim al
DRUNKENNESS
OB
£lOO FORI
IMPORTANT NOT
J HAVE been instructed by Dr
the sum of £lOO to anyone who,
DOUBLE CHLORIDE OF
FOB DRUNKEN
IS NOT PERMANENT!
Call, or send for 800 l
S. FRESH
SOLE AUSTRALIAN EEPR]
359 GEORGE S
READ THIS ! REA
A. SALMON
FURNISHING C
577 6EOR6E S
BRICKFIELD H
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF G
FROM, Consisting
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Draw
Pier G
ALL GOODS MARKED IN V
Note the Addres
577 GEORGE !
BRICKFIELD H
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LI
AND the enormous success of
has not escaped the nsual pe
universal popularity has excited th
of speculators who trade upon the
of a borrowed name. My Tobaccc
and counterfeited, and although I 1
able means to guard the public aga
to punish fraud, both Foreign and
tions bearing my brand, but lackin
the aver popular and well-know
have been imposed upon fhe public
AMERICAN WEKL». Now, to
numerous Customers in both town
as the Smoking Pnblio from all
arranged with toe American Mant:
plug of my Tobacco be branded
Mil
11 111
r~
VISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILOEING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STEEET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP,
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.
F,
J. P O L L E '
• OXFORD
TAILOEING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from ths Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Gabmbsts Cut in thh Most Fashionable Styles,
PEEFECT PIT GUAEANTEED.
Note the Address—
-728 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAE HATMAEKET.
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 Oeorge-street.
mm
mam
PIANOFOETES, PI AN OFOETES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and LondonJ,
PLEYEL.
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUPLBTO.
BERDHN and
TEOST
AUCHEE,
PALING and 00„
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut oases.
AMEEICAN OEGANB,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO„
And other Renowned Makers.
H A E MON lUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE FERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
w.
O,
H. PALIN
852 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNTAED STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE PAINT POR IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDSHB ACTION OP HFAT AND COLD, AND WILL KEY EE
BLISTER CRACK, OE FLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DUEABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVEETTHINQ CONSIDEEED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
S 3 OLAEENCE-STEJSET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTEALIAN AGENTS FOE
Tg E TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
MACHINERY
FOB
FLOUEMILLERB, BOOTMAKERS. TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., Ac., Ac., ’
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other particulars on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
17 I ITT STREET, SYDNEY. ”
A°-> CiEORCE STUFF!
r.cr
THE *V
MARINE! CLOTH HAM , ’
OPPOSII FTME FRl'i! MARKE TS Cf
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS «H
TO ORDER. - .
WOOL TWEED TROUPERS, T 0 ORDE R, 12 6.
ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSjERS. Tfl ORDER,
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, black
and colours.)
SEWING
Trade mark
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THB WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION'PRIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS manufactured by
them -Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal; London, 1851. Only First-class Prize Medal, Paris, 1855. Prize Medal.
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The’Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South Africa, 1877
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, 1880.
Aslc for BBOOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should he addressed to their Warehouse,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.


MARTIN &R
INFORM
fS.
READ
OUR B
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to Da aavißirg our oa*vmers and the
Fanners of N.B. W. generally, thit our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI-
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AQEST3 FOE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF pare am atta ,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with J
their orders early, as
William Richie's 1982 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANT OTHEB SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FAEMEE9 NOTE THIS YBEY CAEEFULLY.
Our Price
AND
Ad Particu
MARTIN
Pi
389 Georg
BYDNE
fotendin* Pup
Outkera oAred t
INK BUNCLB.
John Bonds, i
his OhaS Out ten
it oo gy-vfaec
past on
jkitaa
- (THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE £
MR ■ 4 *rw?m6jtw£'- Lt -
Jsk* * 3. II HUNTFR ST
s i L.v e rC 1 Vat cues SYDNEY
FROM <£.4.10. SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
IHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None hotter than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy<
pUBLIC «r
The IMPORTERS of the TAEP
MOSUL MIXTURE wUI proseo
endeavours to deceive the public
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for th
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The frnblie Are CAUTIONED t<
bearing
« the taeping mixture.
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signatn
thus—
Clifford, Loire, &
Those who are desirous of bavin]
TEA, must be certain that ever
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTER)
to take inferior teas, which for tb<
ore offered to the public
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A
MIXTURE ABE GUAI
PURE TEAS.
TThdlesate Afcelrt^
r. butch:
WHOLESALE GROCER An:
Fork street, st
JOHN D
IMPORTER O]
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass*
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers' Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, I
110 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L SURRCEI
235 Pitt Street, S
THE PEOPLE'S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO
H. L. SUMMEI
1 SPECIALITY SUITS TO 0
THE PEOPLE’S
GUARANTEES A PBRF
H. Li SUMME
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUG
THE PEOPLE’S
Benda Self-measurement form
MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLI
TAKE NOTE OF '
WHEN PURCHASING YOU
ask for
PANTER AND P
A
N
0
s
A
F
E
8
T
NEW EXTRACT C
AND SM THit tOO <3
SUPERIOR TO ALL <
BEST Washing and Disinl
tion known, for Clothes
Crookery, Paint, Glass, and e'
purpose. Used and recomi
Laundry at Government H
moor (Inspector of Nuisance
(Orient Laundry), and by
judges to be the best article r
REMEMBER
Washing and cleaning do
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Hcalt
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE Hi
TO BE HAD OP ALL <
WORKS, 700 GEORGB-S
IN THE WOP
W. KERI
MANUFACTURING 3
WATCH AND CLOCK
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s (
of every Maso
Bentation Trowels designed a
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT
A aew and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in i
Waltham Watches, from
THE ORI6INA
UNTRAMMELLED AN
EDWARD HORDERN J
NOB
BLANKETS, SHEETINGS, Ql
VELVETS, STAYS, HOSIER
To newly married Couples and th<
ws would specially recommend out
beauty of thesd well-khdwn blanks
PLENTY TO TUCI
We would particularly draw th
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
JOR
Business
PRO MENACE
Trevellin^
QU ALI TYyachtin G
BurSiufy Pipnicini
UNSURPASSED CriCkGUllCf
“ Standard ” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
"Standard” Very Superior ditto
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto. Extra Long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
FEAFE3 and SHAW.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
9
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all tiie latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Cedi and see this wonderful Machine.
Bold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the DopAt,
48 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'Btfa OFFOE.
