

THE BULLETIN
Vol. iO.-N0.12S-
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUDY 8, 1882.
Price—3d
Wyt bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1832.
Cheap Railways.
Mr. Lackey, at Cobar, sprinkled his discourse
with sense. The public of the colony has been so
accustomed to-verbal lollipops administered by
their public men, in the way of sops, that too much
importance need not be attached to Mr. Lackey s
hints, when he said that the Government had Deen
giving their attention to the and
desirableness of introducing a system of railway
construction which could be more expeditiously
carried out, and in initiation be less costly than
the present system. Still, it may be hoped
that there is really something fermenting in
Ministerial minds on this most important subject.
The public have, at least, the encourage-
ment of knowing that the future adjustment
of our railway constructions is not in the index ox.
purgatoris of the coalition. It is not, for instance,
is the same category with Land Law reform—a
. subject of such diametrical and essential disagree-
ment between the two leaders of the coalition,
that there is necessarily an understanding not to
seriously touch it at all. Still, it would not be
wise to reckon too much upon Mr. Lackey’s
expression of earnestness and conviction. The
agreeable frankness with which Sir Henry
aekes explained at the luncheon given him by
the United Kingdom Alliance, must operate to
curb over-sanguineness in the value of a Minister’s
promise. “In New South Wales,” said Sir
Henry, “the exigencies of Ministers, and not the
necessity of society, often carry the day.”
# # «
It is not apparent that any “ exigencies of
Ministers,” unless it be the lateness of opening
the session, need interfere with practical legis-
lation to accommodate our system of railway con-
struction to the circumstances of outlying settle-
ments. There lis evidently a wide gulf between
the dray-track and railways made on our present
plan. Thus far our system has been an almost
servile imitation of the European methods, with-
out any reference to the radical difference of
conditions on this side of the world. There has
been a certain bumptious conservatism in our
refusal to learn from America, where in reality
conditions approach much more nearly to our own.
In N. S. Wales, we have no intermediate between
a bush-track and a model railway which might
challenge comparison with the principal English
lines for solidity of construction and luxoriousness
of rolling stock. Now it is perfectly evident that
on certain lines of traffic the bullock or horse-dray
becomes insufficient long before the business at-
tains proportions which justify the construction of
such railways as we are accustomed to make. It
has, thus far, been the practice to make a sort of
political toss up. As it has been financially im-
possible to give every locality which had outgrown
the bullock-dray stage of development a railway
at .£12,000 to .£15.000 per mile, the system has
been to let political influence decide the toss,
and while giving to one district a railway
far more costly and efficient than its case
reqnired'or justified, to leave another district, with
quite as good claims, unprovided with asy railway
whatever.
* * •
Now, if it were possible to arrive at a plan by
which a railway could be laid down at a low cost,
—which would bo more rapid and certain for
goods than a dray, and more comfortable for pas-
sengers than a coach —it would be possible to give a
great stimulus to the progress of localities which
under present arrangements may remain neglected
foif years. There is really no need for hesitation in
the matter. The whole problem has been studied
for years by our Queensland neighbours, and has
been decisively solved. We do not here specially
refer to the narrower gauge adopted from the first
by the Queenslanders. Judging from Mr.
Lackey’s speech, he contemplates no altera-
™vi - onr P gauve. His idea is that,
while still adhering to the existing gauge,
™ a y be means of economizing in construction.
Now this is exactly what has in Queensland been
proved to be possible. The lines at first con-
®brujted were made with! heavy cuttings and em-
bankments, easy curves, and great depth of
calkst. In fact they were miniature models of
the best British railways. And they cost on an
average quite ,£lO,OOO per mile. Latterly, how-
the railways were made in entirely a Afferent
style. Steeper gradients and sharper curves were
adopted, and, consequently, the amount of cutting
and embanking dwindled wonderfully. Increased
attention was given to the sleepers and rails, while
the ballast was reduced to a remarkable extent.
These changes were found still to give a splendid
substitute for bullock drays, and, indeed, almost
as satisfactory a railway as the old style. Con-
sequently, gaining courage, and casting aside
prejudices, the engineers began to do without
embankments altogether whenever the nature of
the material surface permitted. For miles the
sleepers were laid on a few inches of ballast,
deposited On the undisturbed surface of the
ground, culverts, openings and trenches to turn
and discharge the surface waters of semi-tropical
rains, being provided when required. This is
succeeding exceedingly well also, and—note the
fact —tho cost of railway construction has been
reduced from ,£lO,OOO or i£12,000 per mile to ,£2500
or .£4OOO, according to the nature of the country
traversed.
* • »
Clearly, if our engineers can he persuaded to
move towards a similar reform —and the prime
difficulty in Southern Queensland was the con-
servatism and timidity of the engineering officers
—railways could be constructed and made to pay
in localities where at present it would be an
injustice to tho tax-payers of the colony to lay
down a line.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Case of Dalby.
How many innocent men are immured to-day in our
gaols ? What an uncomfortable question ! No doubt
itis disquieting|to turn things over in this fashion; and,
to do so without definite purpose would be like flagella-
ting one’s self without reason. But look at the case
this way. Whatever may be the discomfort of facing
the idea that there may be innocent men suffering the
hardship and degradation of imprisonment, the sum of
all the uneasiness which people feel when confronted j
by the idea cannot weigh a feather’s weight in the
balance when set against the misery which racks the
mind of one such victim of a miscarriage of justice.
There exists of course no exact method of ascertaining
how many innocent men are enduring punishment as
guilty. But a tolerably fair approximation may be
arrived at by a process of analogies. Every one has a
general knowledge of the uncertainty of the law in civil
cases. Theoretical perfection has so broken down in
this department of judicial proceedings that it has be-
come a common saying, “That a man had better submit
to any wrong than seek a remedy in the courts."* If
the courts are thus uncertain in civil cases, it follows
that, in criminal cases, they must run out of gear also.
There are several distinctions, however. The tempta-
tions of plunder are more active and general than im-
pulses of sheer malice. Many a man will urge an un-
just claim or resist a just one, who would shrink from
concocting or pressing a criminal charge against an
innocent man. Still there may be exceptional cases.
The expense of prosecutions in criminal cases is borne
by the State, and thus one deterrent, which operates to
disincline people from embarking in civil suits, does
not operate to hold them back from initiating a criminal
prosecution. Every lawyer, having extensive practice
in criminal cases, has a story to tell of clients whom he
conscientiously—-which is a different thing from pro-
fessionally—believes to be innocent, who have been
declared guilty by a jury and sentenced to penal servi-
tude. This is a harrowing conviction. Tho ordinary
formalities of criminal process operate most prejudicially
to an accused man. The verr fact of an accusation being
levelled against him at once weakens his position.
At the very outset —at the preliminary investiga-
tion—he is surrounded by an atmosphere of disgrace.
He is in charge of the police. He is thrust into the
dock, and, by that very fact, degraded and tainted with
a presumption of wrong-doing. Dalbt, who has just
been released, after serving six out of a term of ten
years’ hard labour, to which his original sentence of
death was with difficulty commuted, was charged with
a capital offence committed on a young girl, sister-in-
law to a man with whom he lodged. The evidence
against him was that of this man, his wife, and the girl.
For the defence there was only the negative evidence of
neighbours, who did not hear the screams which it was
sworn the girl uttered There was, besides, only evidence
of Dalbt’s good, andof the principal male tness’s had,
character ; several respectable witnesses swearing that
they would not believe the man, Springfield, on his
oath. Tet Dalbt was convicted, and sen tenced to
death; and it was not until on 12th June last, Spring.
field, who had cleared as was supposed to New Zealand,
was caught and convicted of having, within six months
from Daley’s sentence, forged a cheque. Dalbt’s
hypothesis had been that Springfield had coveted a
little bit of laud which the former had purchased with
his savings, and had conspired with the female prosecu-
trix t© trump up the criminal charge in order to hlack-
ma him. The whole circumstances point directly to
the important influence exercised, now-a-days, in
judicial ati'airs by
Ferjury.
No one who has paid the slightest attention to the
deportment of witnesses in contested cases, civil or
criminal, can have escaped being painfully impressed
with the conviction that the obligations imposed by an
oath have no longer an influence proportionate to the
reliance which ia in legal process placed vq>on them.
Courts of law, having their origin mainly in ecclesias-
tical jurisdiction, retain still some of their pristine
colouring. The assumption with respect to oaths is of
ancient date, and relates to sooial and religious condi-
tions which have long since passed away. When all
men held one faith, and lived in complete intellectual
subjection to the ministers of that faith, and when the
courts of justice were in the main controlled and con-
ducted by ecclesiastics, and penetrated theoughout by
a sacerdotal flavour, [an oath was a very tremendous
affair, alike in its spiritual and its temporal aspect.
The wretch who desperately defied Heaven and Hell,
and dared the eternal judgments of the Almishtt, by
swearing falsely, had still to reckon with the
Church upon Earth. If he fenced with questions,
and feigned convenient lapses of memory, as so
many Witnesses do with impunity to-day, although '
a formal prosecution for perjury .might nob be possible,
the confessional troubled' bibb V.bjkL the clergy who
monopolised the privileges Of pleading at the bar passed
the word to the outer branches of the all-comprehead-
ing and all-powerful organisation to which they
belonged. A blight fell upon the detected trifler with
the mysteries of religion. He had not only obstructed
justice, he had offended the Church. Thug, if the
terrors of hell did not deter from perjury, there were
the terrors of this world. To-day, the dexterous per-
jurer steps jauntily from the witness-box, and mingles
among his fellows with confident effrontery. As likely
as not, he is entertained at a banquet by sympathising
friends—in the same swim. That all men have pene-
trated his flimsy fictions, and fully comprehended his
infamy, he cares little. He has been dexterous enough
to leave no loop-hole for absolute proof of his men-
dacity. He has eluded all the inconvenient questions
which he could, and has affected failure of memory
when no other plan was possible. He is little likely to
care that men saw through his almost insolently trans-
parent perjury, considering that he has net heeded the
scrutiny of the Searched of Hearts. The gist of the
matter lies in the fact that perjury has become an
institution. Reckless and false swearing occurs
every day. To a large class of witnesses an
oath is no bond whatever. Now, the entire
existing system of judicial procedure is based
upon the supposition that a sworn witness will
not lie. So essentially does this theory enter into the
system, that the evidence of an unsworn man is ncc
even entertained, and, unless a man profess some belief
as to a future state of reward and punishment, his ter.
timony cannot, without difficulty, be entertained in a
court at all. But this grand pedestal of justice hr s
collapsed. Men now not only habitually disregard the
idea of future punishment, hut pay very scant deference
to the idea of temporal penalties. In fact the ecclesisr.
deal idea has survived its usefulness. The theory of
leaving men to the tortures of hell and the pricking of
conscience is still permitted.to prevail; whereas tie
real necessity of the day is, that prompt, sharp, and
exemplary prosecutions against obvious perjurers
should be constantly instituted until the witness wl •
cares nothing about perjury should dread the cense,
queuces of giving occasion] even for suspicion that he
has perverted or even concealed the truth. The per-
jurer assassinates justice. He should be pursued, and
evidence against him sought with the same activity f a
it would be against a man suspected of the lesser crin e
of having murdered an individual, or sold a drink en
Sunday. Were a few of the scoundrels who have, evea
of late, defied Providence and snapped their lingers 1 1
human [justice, in the witness box, subjected to a
determined prosecution, there would be a chance that,
hereafter, judicial decisions would not be secured by
the party who could swear most cunningly, or bring
forward the most numerous array of witnesses without
conscience.
Open to Hay.
The general tenor of the orations which will b* de-
livered at the celebration of the opening of the railway
to Hay, might have been anticipated without hesitation.
The Ministry are glorified as having accomplished a work
long required, and the grand benefits conferred upon
the country by the kindness of Divine Providence in
permitting so strong a Government to exist are
religiously impressed upon the banqueters. Stress
is laid upon the fact that it has been reserved for
this powerful Government to accomplish public works,
such as the extension of the railway to Hay, the neees.
sity for which had long been obvious to the meanest
understanding, and the non-construction of which
attributable to the comparative weakness of former
MR. ALEXANDER BOWMAN, M.P .—(See next page )


AND COLDS.
The Best Cure for the above is Bum made hot,
and taken at bed-time.
PUKE BUM,
Extra Strong,
6a, Per Imperial Qnart.
C. W. ROBERTS’
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPABTMENT,
MAEKEW STBEET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
go to
C. W, BO BEETS'
NEW BAB,
GEOEQE STBEET, NEAE MAEKET STEEET,
where you oan obtain for
6*7
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEANDY, POET WINE,
SHEEBY, OK BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. BOBEETS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPABTMENT,
is now open in
MAEKET STEEET.
BED OB WHITE,
only
3d. per Half-Pint.
Quality Superlative.
NONE BUT WINE
the
PEODUCT OF AUSTEALIA
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPAEMENT.
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP ALL BEVEEAGEB.
MADE HOT IF EEQUIEED.
» ■ 1 ■
Please Call and Sample.
C. W. BOBEETS* SPECIAL WHISKY,
at 4a. 6d. per bottle, is unequalled.
YEEDEILHO,
a lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
POET MACQUAEIE BED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MUEBUMBIDGEE POET
2s. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
MAEKET STEEET,
SYDNEY.
FURNITURE! FURNITURE!
PUENITUEE 1 1 1
«• ■WTKT'HEEE is the beet place to buy Furniture ?’*
W This question is being asked every day, and
is ot as much interest to anyone needing a single ar-
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple" iust setting up house-
keeping, and who want everything from a kitchen
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE PARK
FURNISHING EXHIBITION
OXPOED STEEET, SYDNEY,
Just opened by
MANDELSON AND DAVIS
(LateJiHAEDY BEOTHEES).
EVERY HOUSEHOLD REQUISITE MAY BE HAD
HERE.
Don’t he misled and waste time and money by sending
from one place to another; but remember that
THE LARGEST STOCK OFFERS THE BEST
SELECTION.
The Hyde. Park Furnishing Exhibition
is the
MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT IN
THE COLONIES.
For SUBSTANTIAL FURNITURE,
ELEGANT PUENITUEE,
WELL-MADE FURNITURE,
DURABLE PUENHWEB,
Go to the
HYDE PARK FURNISHING EXHIBITION.
For good Workmanship, Excellence and Durability of
Materials, the Goods now on offer are unequalled,
whilst the Prices will be found
MARVELLOUSLY LOW!
This vast Collection been selected and mauufao-
tuted with a practical regard for Modern requirements
and improved taste.
We invite you to inspect our Stock ; you will not be
asked to buy what you do not want; for our object is to
RETAIN as well as OBTAIN patronage; and we rely
on the satisfaction, good opinion, and recommenda-
tien of out customers.
Remember these important facts
OUE STOCK IS THE LARGEST.
OUE STOCK is the MOST COMPREHENSIVE,
OLE STOCK IS THE BEST,
OUE STOCK IS THE CHEAPEST.
•ar The utmost care is given to packing and forward-
fn'g all Gd6ds bought at this Establishment, ahd Coun-
try Customers may roly upon the prompt execution of
their orders and the delivery of their purchase in a
sound condition.
Administrations, had militated against the develop,
ment of the colony’s resources. It will he wise, how-
ever, for the public to reflect what are the real facts
which the language of compliment and adulation are
adjusted to cloak. This extension to Hay should have
been completed ten yews ago. That it was not long
since undertaken is distinctly due, in a great measure,
to the fashion in which the selfish aims and personal
ambitions of the two leaders of the present Coalition
wore permitted to prevail over the practical necessities
of good Government. It has been an invariable
Custom for Sir John or Sir Henrt, when
in Opposition, to protest that ho would not offer
a factious obstruction to such measures of his anta-
gonist in power as could be regarded as likely to ad-
vance the interests of the commonwealth. But it has
been as invariably the rule for each to throw every
obstacle in the way of the other, when that other
appeared likely to accomplish any legislation which
seemed likely to secure to him the favour and confidence
of the people. Rather than permit the colony to be
benefited by the exertions of Sir John, Sir Henrt
would exert himself to prevent a benefit being bestowed,
and, sooner than endanger his tenure of place and profit
by adhering to a scheme beneficial to the community,
Sir John would avert political shipwreck by throwing
his cargo of useful worka overboard. It is requisite
therefore to discount all the fine things said at
Hay on the mutual-admiration principle, which
never fails to obtain on such occasions, and which has
attained such proportions as to deprive banquet-utter-
ances of any value as indices of the actual drift of
public sentiment.
Invading Egypt.
The expressed intention of the Cabinet of Mr. Glad-
stone to undertake an invasion of Egypt with an army
of 20,000 men. and “ protect “ the Suez Canal, and,
indeed, all the military and naval preparations with
reference to dealing with Egypt, read very queerly
when perused by the light of history. Sir Evelyn
Wood is to command the expedition. The list of
possible leaders is not great. We presume that the
Field-Marshal Commanding in Chief, H.R.H. the Duke
of Cambridge, hero of a hundred severe engagements—
at Aldershot and Hounslow Heath—cannot be spared.
Fiold-Marshall H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, conqueror
of so many professional beauties, is no doubt as able a
leader as his brother-in-law, the Crown Prince of
Prussia; but when one considers how many drawing-
rooms would be desolate were he to take the field, it
was certain that H.R.H. would remain to defend Hyde
Park. Major-General Lord Chelmsford continues to be
in high favour at Court, and, at every banquet which he
attends, he answers for the army. But there are popular
prejudices against this “ Carpet Knight,” and the
general opinion is that a dining-room is the only place
where Lord Chelmsford can be trusted to “ answer for”
an army. When these notable leaders were omitted,
the list of distinguished commanders dwindled to three.
Lord Napier, of Magdala, made his name by a very
well-managed bit of military “ overlanding ” in Abys-
sinnia; but did more real fighting as an obscure
Indian officer than fell to his lot during the
campaign which made his fortune. Approach-
ing Magdala, his troops encountered a horde of
niggers, armed with spears principally, and dispersed
them with Snider breech-loading rifles. Magdala was
stormed, more by luck than good management, seeing
that when the storming party had rushed to the gates,
it was discovered that “ someone had blundered,” and
that there were no petards or powder bags to blow down
the barricades. Besides, as it turned out, the gateways
had been filled up with masses of stone, so that they
could not have been cleared in any case. A soldier dis-
covered a ledge by which he climbed up the ramparts,
and, as the defenders had lost heart, the stormers were
permitted to get in that way. This terminated the
“ war.” Admitting that these prodigies of military
talent stamped Lord Napier as a great general, the
affair happened a good many years ago. His Lord-
ship was advanced in years then, and has not been em-
ployed in active service since, for reasons. Then we
have Sir Garnet Wolselet, who has also conquered
some niggers armed with "brown bess” muskets, and
is thus stamped as a great general. Of more recent
date is Sir Frederick Roberts, a commander who has
really shown the qualities of a good brigadier, and
fairly out-generalled an Afghan chief. General Sir
Eveltn Wood has simply never commanded an
army before. 20,003 men, thus led, are to invade
Egypt; and of those 20,000, probably not 5000
have ever faced an enemy in the field. Just
eighty-four years ago, the French Directory under,
took the same enterprise. To accomplish it,
they despatched just double the number of men.
The army which lauded near the city that our iron-
clads to-day menace—Alexandria —comprised 40,000
men of all arms. Veterans to a man. As M. Theirs
emphatically remarks in his History of the Consulate
and Empire, “it was the old army of Italy.” In other
words, these 40,000 were the victors of eighteen pitched
battles, participants in sixty-seven engagements, and
captors of 150,000 prisoners, of 166 standards, 550 pieces
of siege artillery, and 600 pieces of field artillery. In
short, troops inured to war on the grandest scale, and
accustomed to victory over the best generals and finest
armies of one of the most formidable Powers in Europe,
namely, Austria. And the man who had led them in
Italy was chosen to lead them in Egypt. This name
was not Wolselet or Wood. It was Napoleon
Bonaparte ! As lieutenants, Bonaparte had under
him half-a-dozen generals, already famous throughout
Europe : Lannes, Kleber, Desaix, Murat, Regnieb,
enod . They wore similar soldiers, the same commau.
- der, and the same lieutenants—except Kleber, doomed
to sink under the assassin's steel—that, later, conquered
every army they faced in Europe. In Egypt, they—
failed! What Napoleon Bonaparte, seconded by
generals of splendid genius, failed to accomplish with
40,000 veteran troops, Mr. Gladstone apparently ex-
pests Sir Eveltn Wood to effect with half the
number of raw soldiers! There is talk, indeed, of
having recourse to the desperate expedient, which,
when adopted by Benjamin Disraeli, Mr. Glad-
stone denounced as unconstitutional. Native
regiments are to be drawn, if possible, from
India, to fight our battles against the Egyp.
tians, and, probably, the Turks. There seem over-
whelming reasons for believing that this assistance,
even presuming that Mr. Gladstone could, without
being driven from office, so turn his back upon himself
as to resort to it, will not be available under existing cir-
cumstances. When Disraeli set the Indian native
troops in motion it was to fight the Russians—the
•aemies of the Mahommedan faith, and of the Caliph.
The Indian Mussulmans, in British uniform, started on
such an enterprise with cheerfulness and even with
enthusiasm. The affair bore to them the aspect of a
holy war. But the case is reversed at present. They
are to be brought to fight for the Gioaur, against their
Mahommedan brethren ; against the Padishah, against
their religion ! It would scarcely be reasonable to
reckon upon mercenaries and aliens under such condi-
tions, and it would not be surprising to find them at
the first chance deserting by twos or threes to the
enemy, and, on the first reverse, going over by battalions.
But there are native regiments who are not Mussul-
mans. True, there are regiments of Hindoos, Brahmins
chiefly. They have no love for Mahommedans. Granted;
but it is a part of their singularly impracticable religion
that by leaving Hindostan they lose caste. It is un-
likely therefore that they would budge at all. It is
certain that they would not go cheerfully. Their,
morale would be bad from the start. The slightest dis-
comfort, mischance, or defeat, would demoralize them
altogether. The 10,000 Indian troops will, therefore,
probably be Europeans, and, perhaps, Ghoorkas. Eng-
land thus will weaken herself in India to' strengthen
her hand in Egypt.
Sir John Kobertson seat, only the other day, to the
Daily Telegraph, an indignant negative to the
question asked in the Echo whether it was true that
the expenses in Europe of Sir Henry Parkes were
being defrayed out of the public funds. Sir John was
very indignant, and virtuously hurt, that any such
transactien should have been ascribed to the Govern-
ment. Now, we want the people of the colony to be
authoritatively informed whether it is true that bills
drawn by Sir Henry Parkes, prior to his departure,
are being met by the Treasury as they fall due, and
charged to " incidental expenses,” or if they are simply
being met out of Sir Henry's salary ? Perhaps Sir
John Eobbrtson will, if it be not the case that Sir
Henry’s expenses are being paid by this device, spit
another indignant denial into the usual receptacle.
-♦
A. very pretty little quarrel is afoot between the Her alp
and Echo on the one hand and the Daily Telegraph
on the other, “The kettle began it" as Dickens
remarked in his introduction to “The Cricket on the
Hearth." lu other words, the Daily Telegraph
neglected to send a special reporter to Gundagai when
Mr. Forster addressed his constituents. The Herald
did send one. Mr. Forster, as it happened, delivered,
prior to the formal meeting, an extemporaneous ad-
dress, which the Herald, man duly wired to his paper,
and which was published intheEc 0. Next morning,
the Daily Telegraph not only took up the Echo re-
port but had a leader on it, obviously written on the
mistaken hypothesis that the speech was Mr. Foster’s
pronunciamento. But the Herald now published Mr.
Forster’s actual deliverance, and let out at papers
which prig. The Ecso also rubbed the Telegraph
down, and evoked a whimpering tu, quoque from the
offender. The Telegraph charged the Herald with
having cribbed from it a report of a meeting at Pfal-
lebt’s Hotel. Just so ; but the Daily Drivel should
learn to distinguish. If the meeting at Pfahlert s
was missed, the fault might very likely be that of some
poor devil of a reporter. Herald reporters have not
the same keenness of toent for hotel meetings as some
cheap reporters have. On the other hand, the neglect
to send a reporter to attend the principal member of
the Opposition when addressing his constituents must
have been due to the inefficiency or economy of the
conductors of the Daily Telegraph. What can be
expected of a journal whose conductors make it their
business to send a special reporter to lick up all the
wisdom which might dribble from the mouth of B.
Burdett Smith, and which couldn’t or would nt send
one to report Mr; William Forster? What people
will now naturally be asking is, Who paid the expenses
of the special with B. B. Smith P
4.
Mr. John Want may be hailed as the inventor of a new
dodge for discrediting, by anticipation, an adverse
witness. In cross-examining Mr. Pile, in the Lucas'
compensation case, Mr. Want demanded whether the
witness bad not said something derogatory to Mr
Lucas at the Sydney Club, and been threatened with a
horsewhipping by Mr. Lucas’ son. Mr. Pile ex-
plained that nothing in the way of unpleasantness had
occurred. There had been some chaff, but Mr. Lucas,
junior, had not put on frills, much less talked horse,
whips. Thus Mr, Want’s device to some extent failed.
But no mechanism works perfectly at first. There is
the I germ of a grand conception in Mr. Want’s idea.
If Mr. Lucas, junior, had only comprehended his oppor
tunities and his filial duty, he oould have materially
helped out his father’s counsel in advance and damaged
the force of a possibly awkward witness’ evidence in
anticipation, by electing to take deep umbrage at Pile s
table-talk, and by upsetting the crockery, or mouthing
infiamma'orv buukuin relative to pistols for two. Mr,
Want should be > ff jred the felicitations of bench and
bar. A new dodge, oaleulated to add additional thorns
to the thicket ef tricks and chicaneries which experts
have cultivated all along the paths of justice, means
more work, more complication, more uncertainty, and
| consequently, more fees.
Mr. Alexander Bowman, M.P.
Wb give the portrait this week of Mr Alexander
Bowman, Member for the Hawkesbury. Mr.
Bowman is a scion of a family of colonial pioneers,
and his career, while occupied to a considerable
extent with public affairs, has been largely identi-
fied with tbe development of our pastoral wealth.
He has lent valuable aid to many of our pastoral
and agricultural societies, and turf clubs, mainly
for the purpose of encouraging an improved breed
of stock. As a municipal worker, Mr. Bowman
has proved himself a thoroughly practical man
and an earnest representative. He has been an
alderman of the Borough of Singleton, for over
twelve years, and Singleton is about one of the
handsomest towns in Australia. For seven years
in succession he was Mayor ; he entered office
facinga heavy debt, and left it with a solvent trea-
sury. though nearly .£5OOO was spent in improve-
ments. He secured Burdekin Park for the people,
and, though not representing the district, has
obtained Government grants to preserve it in geod
order. Recently, he got the Harbours and Rivers
Department to examine the country for the pur-
pose of water supply, and in this direction imme-
diate satisfactory results are expected. To the
Northern Ag ioultuial Association Mr. Bowman
has been a liberal contributor in the shape of
prizes. The Windsor' district, which comprises
the Hawkesbury electorate, has derived much
benefit from Mr. Bowman’s representation. He
has been active in Parliament with practical work,
but has not been identified with any party or
particular line of politics. His vote has been
thoroughly independent, and the best public
undertakings have had, at all times, hia warm
advocacy and support. A few days ago, Mr.
Bowman was banqueted by his constituents, at
Windsor, when a high eulogium was paid him for
hia disinterested services to the district. [Photo,
by Freeman.]
Compensation!
The bubble has burst. We begin to touch the
epoch of reform. Our Tammany Bings quiver
around their entire circumference. A man who
was but yesterday selected by our patriotic Minis-
ters as one peculiarly qualified for legislative
functions, as one to bo raised on high as an
exemplar for the young, and a model for aspirants
to distinction in the State; a man upon whom was
conferred the right to indicate the grounds of his
elevation by being addressed always as Honorable ;
a legislator, trusted till his dying day to conserve
the interests of the public, has attempted to filch
from the Treasury a magnificent fortune for him-
self, and has been detected, foiled, and thrust off,
as a dishonest servant might be hustled out of
doors, and the wages coming to him flung after
him. The Hon.—let us write it again, and in
full—the Honorable John Lucas claimed, as
compensation for being deprived of the leasehold
of one acre of land, ,£75,915. As an
Honorable —yes, an Honorable —and conscientious
man, he was exact to a .£5 note. He was, after
impartial valuation of the leasehold, offered
.£5676. In justice to himself, and to his numerous
family—most of them quartered in various
Government departments—he repudiated such an
offer, and pressed for his carefully-considered
claim, in full. A jury of the people who enjoy
the privilege of having him for one of their rulers,
and whose property, rights, and institutions are
entrusted to his fostering care, has awarded him
JMSOO; that is to say .£1176 less than he was
offered at first.
• * *
These bare facts are full of significance. But
they are overflowing with meaning when all the
attendant circumstances are considered. The
Honorable Mr. Lucas was not a stranger to the
jury. He was no obscure individual. As a public
man his career had been under observation for
years. Impressions as to his worth and integrity
had been formed. The sound of his name evoked
certain corresponding sensations. He came into
Court with his honours thick upon him, such as
they are. There is no mistake here. Every
public man wears decorations, although they be
intangible, and to himself invisible. The public
sentiment fixes them. Some plain coats blaze
with symbols of esteem and reverence. Others
are blotched with tokens which resemble the scars
of shameful brandings. “ Honorable ” as Mr.
Lucas was by the grace of God —knows who,
his reputation bent and failed under the ordeal lie
has just undergone, and was too weak to bear him
up against the testimony of his own evidence and
the disclosures made by others.
• * •
The jury had heard him swear. They had seen
him weep. They had observed that on one crucial
question being put he seemed to think that his
mere oath would not obtain credence, and with
self-convicting anxiety supplemented it with his
—oh irony!—his word of honour. They had heard
the opposing counsel, in terms seldom applied to
the most notorious rogue, charge him with con-
spiracy, with concocting correspondence tendered
in evidence, and with collusion. They knew that
unless they returned for him a verdict at least ap-
proximating to the value his lease must have held
had he not been guilty of these things, they would
rivet these accusations upon him and blast his
character for ever !
» « *
And they returned a verdict for one-seventeenth
of the sum he claimed from the people he was
sworn to serve. His oath, his word of honour,
his pathos, his parental affection, his tears, wore
all by the alchemy of that verdict transmuted into
blistering brass and returned to pour in a scathing
steam upon his humbled head. His contracts
which were no contracts, his ignorance of what
the very boys in the gutters knew, that re-
sumptions were to be made, his obliging _ and
zealous action, when as Trustee of a National
Park, he sold to that Trust the timber which had
been delivered for his compensation buildings,
have all turned back and, like evil birds, come
to roost on his own door-steps. What now is to
done with the honourable —once more, Honorable
—man, who helps to fill the Civil establishment
with his sons, and to swamp the Ireasury with
his claims for compensation ? Is it a penalty of
i past supineness on the part of the press and
public that the presence of the Honorable John
Lucas is to be endured to the heavy end in the
■ Councils of the State? and is the confidence of
the country to be for ever reposed in the Trustee
who sells goods to himself ? Is there no way of
' promoting him to a position where he will continue
to be an ornament to public life, while removed
from the allurements of Compensations and Trusts ?
Is there no vacant Companionship of Michael and
George in which Mr. Lucas could be established
with some assurance of congenial fellowship ?
• • «
So far, good ! We drop Lucas, Humptt
Dumpty has had a great fall. But look at the
lesson of the thing. There has never been a re-
sisted claim for compensation until within the
last two years. Have there never been claims
before? What secrets do the histories of past
transactions conceal ? Is Lucas the only Lucas ?
How comes it that it is but lately that the public
suspicion and vigilance has been aroused after a
slumber of twenty years ? Can it be because a
little sheet, sneered at by the heavy dailies which
had dealt in dreary common-place year after year,
startled and shook the community by a trumpet-
sound of plain English, and won such applause
that the old sleepers, astonished and jealous, at-
tempted a system of emulation —can it be due to
this that Tammany, after decades of comfortable
prosperity, trembles, shudders, and crumbles ?
J. Z. Sellar did not beat Informal after all, for
there were 26 informal votes in the late Oukaparinga
(8.A.) election, and James Zimri polled but 8. Despite
King's money, Eowland Eees won ths day, and was
except at Tom Playford’s hamlet, the popular candi,
date. J. C. P. Johnson incautiously spoke in favour
of King at Woodside, the most important polling place,
after which the newspaper man’s chances vanished
utterly. By the bye, as we all know, David Syme and
King became bosom friends during a voyage to the
old country not so long ago, when it was agreed
that the Advertiser should take Age cables.
Hence we found tbe 'Tiber strenuously uphold-
ing the voraciousness of Bryant's Russian taoe
fabrications, and a few days since announcing the death
and printiug a column obituary notice of tbe famed
Edward Hanlan King is nothing but a successful
book-keeper; a clerk from his big toe to his pia mater;
made an impotent) Minister of Education j and has
spared Oakaparinga much dissatisfaction by getting
gracefully beaten.
There was a cessation of the usual dancing and
snorts at Botany Pavilion for a while, last Saturday
afternoon, to allow Mr. Charles A. Booth to ride Lis
bicycle. He went as smooth as a swan on a lake, riding
side-saddle way, standing up, on one knee, ani finally
standing on the scat with one foot, with the other up
skywards. Mr. Booth is a fair young man with a
moustache and goatee, and, according to the signboard
he carries with him, he is the “ Champion of America,”
the “Dunrow of the Bicycle,” acknowledged by the
press of Europe and America to be the most expert
bicyclist of the age. Charles A. was applauded, and
the Baud tootled out “Yankee Doodle” to keep his
spirits np.


W. D. EAMI
CHEMIST AND DJ
APOTHECARIES 1
14 OXFORD STREET,
Respectfully returns his t
and the public for the patrc
him for so many years He has I
20 years, and the (act of hie having n
tions registered in his Oxford Sti
guarantee of his experience, and tl
oines entrusted to him will be faith
At this season of the year, whc
are so prevalent, he wishes to dri
his preparation of
HOBEHOUND AND CO
Sold in Bottles, at Is 6d am
Persona living in all parts of the
and pronounced it an excellent rem
it readily.
EAMES’S BALSAM OF
n Is. Bottles, quite equal to the I
EAMBS’S OCCULT LOI
r the same complaints, are ver
as they can be carried about and tat
convenient to take liquid mediein
TV. D. Eames has also a preparat
which deserves to be more widely
TIVE CANDY" or Pastil is c
regory’s or Fapsine Powders,
rice. Is 6d per Box.
adies will find here an Excellent I
Requisites, such as—
Complexion Powders, Violet P<
Earth, Sponges, Perfume
Brushes, &o.; ah
Feeding Bottles and other Nurser
the Best Quality and at Reas
TV. D. EAMES
FAMILY AND DI3PENSIN
14 OXFORD STREET, i
RECENT TESTIMO]
Freeman's
Syd
Mr. TV. D. Eamks.
Sir,—As one who generally puts
medicines as efficacious remedies,
less, believes in giving credit where
testify to the excellence of a ooug
tnred and sold by yon—viz. you
AND COLTSFOOT" mixture. 1
at the Paddington branch of your i
it in relieving a child of mine, who
very oppressive cold on the chest
effect of administering it was so sat
diate, that I recommended the mixi
in my employ, who bad for some
from a harassing cough, and in his i
prompt and beneficial consequence
people who were in need of similar
nessed its efficacy in his case, ha'
the happiest results in every case
the hope of making known, at a seas
colds are so prevalent, the fact that
for that species of malady lies wit
You are at liberty to make whatev
this testimony.
Yc
MADDOGK'S SELECT
381 GEORGE STBI
THIS Library is supplied regmlt
Steamer with the latest Pub!
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Po
the higher class of Fiction; also, al
sines and Reviews.
To parties residing near Railway
munication with Sydney, every faoi
SOCIABLE TRIG
THECHEAT
ONE OP THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
TN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Trickett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
“ I have fonnd St. JACOB’S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex.
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.”
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who know what he was talking about; and now he says
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PRICE HALF-A-
GROWN.
WHOLESALE BY—
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George-street.
I. JACOBS & Co., Hunter-street,
VIBTUTIB GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
TThmSemS SJSS SSISiJoiSi iS , ulco™y, m ' W, ''“ CHEAPEST. CLEANEST, .nd
18s. FEB TOW NET, delivered within City bounds.
andrfliSiOT k9T> t, Well *£• trom ash ’ makes a •*««•»«. more lasting,
U roliXr and fly off liketheWests™w * flare aad 800 t ot Newcastle coal, mor does
it splinter ana ny on uae tae western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a ohartoal or breeze Am. while it imlarts To the
■teak none of that d^^able lodonr of the unwholesome fumos given off by a breeze or w fire P t 0 tho
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WhSIeSALE CUSTOMEBs!
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
a
MANUFACTORY,
B ON-ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
FEEEIEE’S BAKING POWDER,
rr
TRAD
MARK £
£
4-
MANUFACTORY :
Geoege-steeet West, Stdnet.
SELF BAILING FLOUR
YEAST POWDEE.
This is the most effectual substitute fer kerosene in lightning Conn
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with
This QASis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, w
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity o
in some oases almost ml. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic f<
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS,
Medalists and Special Prize holde
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINI
DAMP
D .
c URSE! DAMP
SUNS' Pure Bituu
EFFECTIVE than S
■■■-yyjffTjr 1 uu—
RESISTING SOI
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER
den them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be a
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chan
WOODWARD’S OYST
85 CABTLEREAOH STREET, NEXT '
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEO
107 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FI
H
[Established 30 Teaks.]
ODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET, STDNET,
near Goulburn-street.
E. HODGSON,
■Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER, be.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thong*
Made to Order.
Miiiiiiiw
L
J
I 1
r_j~]
I
: i- =
ST
670 H . H I L DE R. 670
6VO
1675
jLHIJLOER
Sr *i*Soi2-
mD£R
b oot
Mu
MM
Sft
H. MILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
670 GEOEGE STREET, SYDEY.
C
ENTEAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
571, GEOEGE-STEEET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER,
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of the Best Quality in the Trade.
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address-
-571, GEOEGE-STEEET,
Between Liverpool and Goulbnrn Streets,


SINGER'S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, ai
at the
SYDNEY AR (
SINGER’S SEWING I
ABE MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufnctnri
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Euri
39 FOSTER LANE, ]
Depot for New South
No. 1 DARLING STOKES, HAI
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING M
HAYS
All the Latest Improv
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Largest Variety of \
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Strength and Beauty ol
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, an
SINGER’S SEWING N
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and ]
SINGER’S SEWING W
FOE
Kilting, Cording, and 1
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TEBMS—2e, Cd.
AGENTS IN EVERY
Offices in Sydnej
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and
STOKES. HARBOUR £
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEWi
WILLIAM STREET, BA’
AUBURN STREET N., Q
PEEL STREET, TAMWO
VICTORIA STREET, GRi
NARANDERA. PARR.A
227 QUEEN STREET, BE
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE S'
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C<
ARE THB
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2b. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week-
And no interest oh
10 per cent, off for c
BEWARE OP IMITi
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER 4 (
THE ONLY " SING!
TURNER 4 i
Opposite <
s
I
N
G
E
B
JOHNSTON
SEWING MACHIN
HAYMARKET
Public Companies
|IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Rundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager s
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOHGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Brunches: Haymarket, Kedfem,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office : 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Cooimbara-
bran, Coon amble, Copeland North, Cowr.t, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inues, Goulburn, Grafton, G»c 11-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Maeleay, Menindie, Molong,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Hockley, Kylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfield, Ulmaur,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburu, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Cloi ment,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Raven'swood, Rockhampton, Stauthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
The mercantile bank of stone*
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 187!
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £iio,sal
DIRECTORSi
The Hon. Sir John Hay, A.O M.G., Chairman
Hon Uoui j Mon, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Ron. Philip Uidiuv King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Soroggie, Esq,
H. £. Coneu, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A, A. Wilsoa,
SECRB'Ia'hY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brick Held Hill Redfern;
Ginlambone; Gosford; Nyngau
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 158 Leaden hall-street.
Director; Edward Chapman, Esq,
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on tn© most lavoiuanie tonus.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
F. J. P 0 L L E’S
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, BY D.N EY.
A large and well assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut n the Most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED,
Note the'Address—
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HATMALKET.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to announce that they have
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOORS and IIALtS.
QOOLALTA WINE BO EGA.
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, fey the glass or bottle, may be had at
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p m.
Similar wines, by the dozen or in bulk, can be ordered
at the Bodega, at Cellars adjoining, or from Head
Cellars, 119 Pii t-street.
TWEMXOW desires to inform his
friends and the puhlie that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the George-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, axe strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order,
r Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street.
Business Announcements
•
JE
\WO*
pJh
IfKJEAD
m
BEDDINC MANUFACTORY^/
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY.
and
FURNITURE wAEE HOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25, £3O, £5O. and £ICO
T. WEIGHT. 529 Gf orge-strect. Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr, t. m. slatteey,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 285 J
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
tiYTr.
m
m
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10a
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shelters,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
16 GEORGE STREET.
F. T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE^^y
-AND-
PRINTERS’
r WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
S'X-JDBTH'ST. ta
'Also at 70 LITTLECOLLIHS STBIIT. MILBOE2ITE.
THOMAS W) ARNE,
ENGINEER A ' DUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
/ AND
DOORS.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, A GLEBE FOUNDRY,
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
Ac., Ac.
Chemists and Druggists
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
* THE GREAT LIVES REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
St Most h famouB as the only Tonic Aperient that never
file B most'delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to sret Imitations#
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
J.
Invented and Prepared only by
S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Pnce Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul.
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY-STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work. Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, with latest improve-
menta. ... . , , , .
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
prion given for metal.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Be-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Sullivan’s
511 Qeorge-street,
Brickfield-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
UMBRELLAS
S
RE-COVERED.
JOHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D, JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH.
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, *c.
■ All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
George lan
(Formerly of George-street,)
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to anaounoe that he baa RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
J.BVB . TOBACCONIST .14*9.
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
SEURAL6IA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c-, and
tpken internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY,
AMPS, COLIC, and all other internal aches
am 4 pains.
Price, 3/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor,
MULBOUENE -AND SYDNEY.
PAINT


w. HOWARD SMIT
STRUTH’S WHARF and ]
(Foot of King-str
Offices 7 SEEING
Steam to MELBOURNE^
Every TUESDAY and P.
Steam to BEISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH
and
ROCKttAMP'I
On TUBS DA
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITI
HE FEDERAL BANK
(Limited).
T
SYDNEY and MEL6<
Capital, £1,000,0
Subscribed, £650,1
Directors :
Hon. J J. Casey, C M.G.
J. B. Watson, Ecq , Vice.
John Eobb, Esq.
John Whit.tingmam, Eiq.
William M’Lean, Esq.. J,
Hon. James Munro, M.P
ing Director.
Temporary Banking Hon
257 George-street, N<
Francis S. Macdcrmo
Manager.
John Docker, Esq , Acc
Messrs. Robertson and Fish
THE FEDERAL BANK OP AUf
offers several
Special Facilitie
to those
Who Require
Banking Aocommod
1. Interest will be allowed on can
2. Fixed deposits will be receive
rates.
3. Every branch of banting bnsir
4. Bills will be discounted dai
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed
ness without delay to custonr
FBANCIS S. MACDEfi
J. MASSEY
10 PARK SIR
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GRJ
The Latest, most Popular Mi
J. MASSEY AND
10 PARK STREET, SY
CASH PRICE LIST OF VI
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
per doz. I
Claret 10s Od I Sweet f
It will donbtleas set the pa
world at rest to know that Jumb
has arrived at Barnum’s. From 1
that lie was met on the Gravesend I
Coutts, Lord and Lady Tenterden,
tingnished visitors, who bade hi
Mr. Coutts was unavoidably absen
back casaing a big cheque, and I
sent in an apology. Jumbo seemed
at parting from to many influential
half the sense that he has, and
take any food—until it was offered
better to be an elephant, or a p:
one of London’s starving poor 1
Thus an eccentric correapon
lately, there has been what Joe
‘larx.' The last of these was ar
somebody's cousin in the Civil Ber
which took the shape of a,public si
Won of a six-foot illuminated addre
inch choke-bore bluchers, and a
threepenny pieces, to a poor, deon
water joey," named “ Tommy, ti
people of the border village hi va J
the presentation horror, so they res
and to envelope the name of tenth
haze of nnbreathable multiness. T
movement had placards printed,
subscribers that their donations
worthy object, as, upon careful inq
although the emoluments accrni
Tommy the Londoner are fluctui
exceedingly small, still Mr. Curra:
rigid economy, in keeping ont c
struggle has at times been so hard
had to dispense with the assistant
rant. They also And that Mr. C
health and old age, must shortly re
position of Tommy the Londoner
fresh woods and pastures new on e
ours, they would like him to carry
a souvenir of the great charitable 1
of Albury. Doors open at balf-pae
impecunious will be kept ont by a i
pence admittance.—Signed by ore
management.— Nemesis, Hon. Be>
crowded. The oil-side Town Crier
man, and with due form and ceren
fellow townsmanl" was invested w
his Goulburn-made number fifteens
Carlyle arise I Speak 1 Smith has
Jones also; Brown hisl Shall n<
doner, too, have his? What is
canaille; dishevelled, red-eyed—d
resolute; stormful. See, it augme
many—Ha 1 this is Citizen Gulsor
have rest, oh, Briokmaker Gulson
thou canst mould. Again tempos
Gray has come—Gray, leonine, ma
from! Night goes before, and arc
of men—police after; police with i
Concealed Meat. *To the Hall!’
Hall 1 Bar up your doors; keep
that sound, oh. Swell Mob, Upper C
ye not what bulges out the Future
ments; of Tick, nothing; Hell up
incandescent Hell-Flames after Ear
It is necessary, during hot ■
beverages likely to heat or stir
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous
absolutely pure, is a most soothi
refreshing beverage. Be sure tl
BUSY'S COCOA ESSENCE wher
imitations are often pushed by a
sake of extra profit. Makers by s
to the Queen.—(Advt.)
BATES' DANDELION COCOA ii
the most favourite of all household
bines the strengthening qualities of
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. H. Levien, M.P, has entered a libel action
against the Cumberland Iniependbnt for £2000;
matter complained of was a paragraph in connection
with a recent gambling expose.
The greatest marine painter who has ever been
in the colonies —Haughton Forrest—is now residing at
Hobart. There is not a shadow of doubt that the day
will cone when his pictures will fetch any sum.
A charming Tasmanian heiress (.£100,000 !) is
free to be won, having snapped asunder the chains
that bound her. It's an ill wind that bla’s naebody gnid,
as this leaves a big-little man’s son and heir open to
another engagement.
Thadens O’Kane in hot water again ! Applica-
tion has been made to the Queensland Supreme Court
for a writ calling upon Thady to show cause why he
should not be committed for contempt. When will the
mules up North learn the folly of “ kicking against the
pricks ?’*
A ‘ ‘ thought-reader ’ ’ is attracting considerable
attention in London. Mr. Stuart Cumberland gave an
exhibition in the presence of Professors Lankester,
Robertson, Bastion, Kev. Newman Hall, Mons. Capel,
and many other eminent men, and was pronounced,
after a severe test, to be the most wonderful mind-
reader of the day.
Sir Wilfred Lawson, the head of the Tempe-
rance organisations in Great Britain, has a great
reputation as a humorist. Wo can understand it now.
He can never have said anything funnier than when at
the luncheon to Sir Henry Farkes he remarked of that
statesman, “Heis an honest man.” The Englishmen
didn’t take the joke. Sir Wilfred should come out here
and repeat it.
Sir George Strachan makes it pretty lively for
the high officials in Tasmania. At the end of one of
his visits to the Public Schools lately, the Inspector—
a very big bug in nis own estimation—turned to the
Governor and requested him to “ let him know ” when
he would inspect another establishment under his heel.
“ Be at your office at ten every morning, sir, and I will
let you know," was the reply.
Up North there is an aborigine. He is clothed
in dirty, old moles, broken at the knees His Crimean
shirt is something to shudder at, and as for his caubeen
it is indescribable. His manly and ebon breast is deco-
rated with a brass plate, bearing this legend—" King
Solomon ” Herein is that passage in Holy Writ anent
the lilies aptly illustrated—" Solomon in all his glory
was not arrayed like one of these."
Sir Archibald Michie, Q.C., is still sojourning in
Tasmania, taking breath after his decisive victory in
the celebrated Smith v. Smith case. He is—so say the
Tasmanians—brilliant, sharp, intelligent, and ready as
ever, and has, it is sai ’, accepted briefs in some heavy
oases now impending, one of the Glasgow Bank stamp
involving enormous issues If Mr. Giblin goes on to
the Beach, Sir Archibald will have the Bar at his com-
mand ; not that he has yet announced any intention of
remaining in Tasmania.
W. H. Vanderbilt ia reckoned to be the richest
man in the world, and worth, at the lowest calculation,
£40,000,001). He c juld buy any of the Rothschilds, and
still head the list Of ooune, he got all his money
honestly. Some say he got it by railway jobbery, and
swindling in Wall-street. This must bo a lie- Some say,
also, that the foundation of the Rothschilds’ fortunes
was laid by falsifying messages, and then operating in
Btoe as accordingly, during the Peninsular War. This
is a lie too. It is best to tell lies sometimes.
Earl Shrewsbury, who figured lately in the
Divorce Courts, has experienced all that is conveyed by
the word disenchantment. Not so, however, his fair
enslaver, Mrs. Miller-Mundy, who declines to give up
her prize, and who displays him on a coach by her side
to the pitying eyes of Tunbridge Wells. The Earl’s
case was looked upon as hopeless, both by himself and
his friends; but rumour has it that unexpected chances
of salvation have risen above the horizon of his fondest
hopes, in the shape of intervention by the Queen's
Proctor before the rale nisi is made absolute.
Fancy this! Dr. Lamson after having adminis-
tered the capsule containing the death-dose of aconite
to Percy John, sent him half-a-orown in an envelope
from the railway station.
He gave thi dose of agony
To strike the poor lad down;
And then to hush his dying sigh.
He sent Mm half-a-crown.
The Dector, however, has met with his deserts. And
though "hanging was too good for him," it was a
pretty comfortable thing for the general public.
King Kalakana baa been going it since his return
from his European trip. He has been lavishing money
on his new palace at Honolulu to such an extent that,
by the time all the fittings and furniture he ordered
in London and Paris have been sent out, it will have
cost him nearly £so,ooo—a tremendous sum for a South
Sea Island monarch. One of the features of the royal
billiard-room is a marble buffet at which a half-caste
American, specially retained, mixes “ cocktails!” and
other “ long " drinks—one of which, said to have been
invented by the King himself, is called “ The Polynesian
Smile."
The Batavian experiences of Mr. Henry Cope-
land, M.L.A., are now appearing in the Sydney
Morning Herald. From what we know of Batavia,
we «au safely hazard the opinion that the raciest and
most interesting observations of Mr. Copeland, M.L.A.,
do not and never will appear in the Herald or any other
paper. The Tahitian adventures of " The Earl and the
Doctor” must have been but a circumstance beside
Henry's Batavian ones—that’s to say if he kept his
eyes open. And in Batavia, which is the Clontarflest
place known, it would be hard for even the pions and
dirty St. Simeon Stylites to do otherwise.
It is stated that Sir Francis Smith, Chief Jus-
tice of Tasmania, won’t retire just yet. This rather
cogs the wheel of promotion for the present Premier
and Attorney-General; but, equal to the occasion, the
difficulty will be got over by appointing Mr. Giblin
third Judge. Mr. Giblin is a good lawyer—ho mav, too,
perhaps be called a brilliant advocate. It’s a sorry
spectacle, seeing such a man betaking himself to the
seclusion of the Tasmanian bench for so paltry a con-
sideration as the salary of a Tasmanian Judge, and the
prospect of the Chief Justiceship at £l5OO a year or so.
Mr. Giblin could make £3OOO or £4OOO a year in Sydney,
where the bar is now at zero. However, perhaps he
prefers reigning in hell to serving in—New South
Wales.
The ordinarily unassuming Mr. W. J. Clarke,
too, is bidding for a baronetcy in England. He bos
given to the Royal College of Music (which is the
newest fad of " Wales,” and a most fashionable affair)
a scholarship, value £3OOO, for open competition in the
colony of Victoria. Sir " Salmon" Wilson, by the way,
donated £5OOO to the same institution; but as Salmon is
now a member of the English aristocracy, and no longer
a mere mutton millionare, it of course didn’t occur to
him that the interest of his money might be devoted to
helping a struggling Australian musical genius in the
battle of life. Mr. Chrke is a decided improvement on
his father; we suppose Sir Salmon is an improvement
on his father, but we are sorry to see that the umbrella
boy doesn’t promise to be any better man than Sir Sal-
man of the flame-coloured whiskers.
Up North the other day, a handsome and rising
young solicitor, hailing from Sydney, went out riding
on the quiet with the handsomest girl in the district,
who ought to have been at school. Neither told their
respective families where they were going. The steeds
were fresh, the pace was furious, the tree was an iron-
bark (so they say, though neither can tell how it hap-
pened) and great was the fall. Tableaußeauty
mopping up tho life-blood slowly oozing away from the
brow of her darling, and weeping piteously. The young
man is on a fair way towards reoovery,|minus a much-
prized eyebrow, and plus a life-lasting soar which will
lock very ugly. Unkind folks say that the cause of
tho accident was —well bachelors should not ride
married men’s horses, as they are not used to close
quarters. The rivals (innumerable) were beside them-
selves with joy when they heard of the interloper’s
capsize.
The House of Commons is hugely tickled at the
thought that Mr. Joseph Gillies Biggar has committed
himself in suoh a way as to have a breach a promise
case hanging over his .nature and knowing head. The
damages are laid at £5OOO, and the disappointed lady is
implacable in her thirst for vengeance. It was at Paris
that the member for Cavan fell beneath the spell of
feminine attractions, and the lady who brought out hi*
latent sentiment is said to be a sister of one of the
Irish “ patriots” of *4B. Mr. Biggar went to the French
capital on Land League business bent, but remained to
woo, and till the disillusion came, it is said that no
swain could have been more attentive. He proved
himself, in fact, quite a chevalier des dames. Bat, alas !
it is all over now. Dickens' Joey B. *• may have been
tough, sir, tough and dayvilish sly," but Mr. Biggar
has certainly lost that reputation for acuteness and
general subtlety since he has thus fallen a prey to lovely
woman. And he knows it, and he is no longer the man
he was, his manner now being of a sadly meditative oast
quite wonderful to see.
A month ago, Mr. Charles Bright was in
Chicago, having given three Sunday-evening lectures
there. Mr. Bright intended starting eastward im-
mediately for New York, via Niagara. He hoped to
call and interview Hudson Tuttle, one of the greatest
writers, from a scientific standpoint, on spiritualism,
as well as Colonel Ingersoll; on the road. Mr. Bright
had a pleasant stay of over two months in Salt Lake
City, gave twenty lectures there in all, and founded an
association called “ The Utah Freetbought Union."
In an interesting letter to a gentleman of this city, he
says his health is now completely re-established, his
lecturing power much improved, and he no longer re-
quires any notes whatever. He cannot say definitely
when he may return to these colonies, but adds that
whenever the time comes, it will be a rare pleasure for
him to visit Sydney again. Respecting Ingersoll, Mr.
Bright writes: ‘‘Next Tuesday is what they term
Decoration Day, held in honour of the soldiers who fell
in the Civil War. Ingersoll has been invited to deliver
the oration in New York, before the President, Con-
gressmen and others, and the orthodox papers axe
foaming over it."
The most extraordinary social metamorphosis
I ever observed in South Australia is the recent trans-
mogrification of H. S. Anthony. For years H. S. Anthony
had cultivated the Anglican Church, and the Church
had cultivated H. S. Anthony. She made him her
St. Peter, handing him the keys of Pandemonium
—or, in other words, appointed him Registrar of the
Diocese, Secretary of Synod, and gave him other awe-
inspiring offices. H. S. Anthony, as long as men
remember him, dressed like Hamlet, in “ customary
suit of solemn black," attended worship twice every
Sunday, became unctuously corporative, adopted cold
water within and without, and threw an odour" of
sanctity around him which moved his late friend, the
apostle of cnlchaw, W. B. Stanford, to tears. Tidings
flashed through Adelaide, a fortnight ago, that H. S.
Anthony had given up the Ghost, cut his clerical
connection, and become a partner in a brewery. Then,
as if to clinch the bargain, H. S. Anthony was seen in
the streets, clad in an ordinary brown sac suit, with a
low-crowned hard hat, and loomed before the wonder,
i-g citizens nothing but a common, fat, beer-making
mortal. The shock was dreadful! There is nothing
left to Adelaide now half so holy as was H. S. Anthony.
South Australians are pleased that Gillen has
fairly sustained his reputation as being one of their
best men. George has taken part in every match of
importance played in and about Adelaide daring the
last few years. He was always an enthusiastic cricketer
—too enthusiastic indeed for Thomas King, boss of the
Advertiser, on which paper he was assistant pub-
lisher. King refused to give George necessary
leaves of absence at last, and when on the occasion of
an Intercolonial or other great occasion, George, so
circumstanced, took French leave, Tom was certainly
i within his rights in refnsing to re-employ George, and
in engaging a fresh assistant-publisher. Then the
genial Todd, C.M.G.—the man who makes bad puns
from early morn to dewy eve, and remains unhang—
compassioned G.lfen, appointed him to a billet in the
Post Office, and said that George oould return to that
post when the Australian Eleven's tour was ended.
Gillen, being callow, copied Alfred Shaw, and then
afterwards followed Spotforth. He acquired a great
off-break with hang, variation of pace, and, later on,
something like judgment. His delivery much re-
sembles Shaw’s but has a run belonging to Spofforth
only. His bowling was reckoned only so-so last season
in Adelaide, but his batting seemed much improved.
Ho is, after all, an improveable youngster, and has
notably conquered an infirmity of temper, which often
caused impromptu exhibitions on the field. It shows
what wisdom there was in making a non-bowler captain
of the Eleven, because, in consequence, Australia pits
a comparatively unknown bowler against the famed
Gentlemen of England, who takes six of their hitherto
impregnable wickets at the small cost of 49 runs.
Says a writer in the Whitehall Eeview :
“ There were 260 colonists present at the Parkes ban-
quet. I have befere me a somewhat curious calcula-
tion made by a banker who deals largely in Autralian
finances. He has placed a cross (X) before the names
of all those at the banquet who will ‘ cut up * for
£200,000 each and over, and a circle (O) against the
names of those who will ‘cut up’ for £50,000 each
and over. There were three millionaires present,
although two make themselves out as being ‘poor
indeed.' Thirty-six colonists were calculated to be
worth over £200,000 each, or a grand total of ten
millions sterling; and seventy-six colonists over
£50,000 each, or a grand total of four millions. It was,
indeed, a highly respectable gathering. * from a ban-
ker’s point of view,’ Among the rich men my friend
placed Viscount Sherbrooke, and in explanation
he informs me that *|Bob Lowe’ has always
believed in Australia since he lived there, and now
has invested forty years’ savings in Sydney property.
Those asserted to be two hundred thousand-pounders
are—Sir Donald Currie, M.P., K.C.M.G., Sir Jas.
M'Culloch, K.C.M.G., the Lord Mayor, Viscount Sher-
broeke. Sir Samuel Wilson, Messrs. Thos. Sutherland,
James Howard, M.P.. D T. Edwardes, jun., W. L.
Merry, W. Hemmant, H. Kent, J. H. Flint, S. Macleay,
S. Monutford Gibbs, Laidley Mort, P. N. Bussell, Fred.
Tooth, the Hon. Jas. White, A. W. Young, the Hon.
Thos. Holt, the Hon. W. J, Clarke. W. Howard Smith,
J. L Montefiore. Alex. Brown, D. Larnach. A.
McArthur, M.P., F.A. Du Croz, F. Q. Dalgety, Major
F. T. Sargood, Sir D. Cooper, Bart, K.C.M.G., Mr,
Sheriff Ogg, A. Landale, R. Campbell, W. K. Thomson,
F. H. Dangar, Th. Brown, Alderman W. McArthur,
M.P., Mr. Alderman and Sheriff Hanson, J. A. Ewen,
S. Hoffnung, and A. Mollwraith. The fifty thousand-
pounders (and upwards) are Sir Charles Nicholson,
Bart., Messrs. J. A. Youl, C.M.G., W. O. Gilchrist,
E. 8. Houldar, S, W. Silver, W. W. Billyard,
A. Hodgson, C.M.G., £. B. Fennel, J. Henniker
Heaton, Albert Spicer, Thomas Russell, C.M.G.,
Q. C. Ogg, M. Patterson, the Hon, G. M. Waterhouse,
Allan Campbell, Kirkcaldie, D. Melhado, J. Alexander,
John Ross, J. F. Morgan, Waterhouse, P, W. Anderson,
H. Osborne, Nathaniel Cork, H. D. Larnach, G. M.
Bell, John Simeon, Robert Porter, the Hon. J. H.
Thomas, A. M. Bethune, C. W. Simson. Edward Keep,
R. Rome, B. W. Kor, J. White, T. D. Gardner, George
Meane, D. Mackie, B. Buckler, J. Croft, C. Chapman,
J, H. G. Berger, C. M. Kennedy, F. H. Billinghurst,
T. F. Roberts, C. L. Wade, Pleydell, R. Campbell, jun.,
R. Stewart, C. Dunckley, S. Taylor, Meadmore, Dalv,
George Hopcraft, C. Newton, C. L. Williams, A. H. j.
Baass, J. M'Donald, D. Storer, T. Storer, W. Storer,
C. S. Kawkes, F. Barnes, Henry Hill, J. Gilchrist,
J. H. Kershaw, J. B. Tickle, Charles Hartridge, Alex.
Freeland, W. W. Tickle, W. H. Holt, J. Stephenson,
Caleb Peacock, Major H. A. Joseph, and Alderman Sir
R. Carden, M.P.” Now, the foregoing, taken in conjunc-
tion with other paragraph, which have of late ap.
peared in Whitehall, contains very strong internal
evidence as to the identily of the “ banker who deals
largely in Australian finances." We notice that Hen-
niker Heaton is among the list of “ those worth £50,000
—and upwards.” Ahem 1
• • •
Mr. Oscar Wilde—so says Whitehall—netted
£5OOO by his lectures in America 55 guineas a week,
states Figaro, is the rent agreed upon to be paid by a
Colonial millionaire for a furnished house in Portman
Square, which has been let to him for the rest of the
season. Mr. W. J. Clarke is referred to Tho veteran
secularist leader, 6. J. Holyoake, has received from tho
Premier a grant of £lOO in order to enable him to visit
America to complete his work on co-operation.
Some of the English papers object to Mr. Glad-
stone’s thus “ patronising an atheist." It is
rumoured that Mr. Samuel Motley, late editor of the
Fobtniohtlt, is to be created a peer Dr. Treiber,
the German physician who attended Lord Byron in his
last illness at Missolonghi, and who subsequently
settled at Athens, has just died there. Dr. Treiber is
said to have left behind him some interesting notes of
his acquaintance with tho poet Dr. John Browne, of
Edinburgh, author of “ Rab and his friends,” is dead.
He was the son of “ Bible Browne," author of Browne’s
Commentary J. B. Gongh, the temperance lecturer,
has lost his voice, and cancelled his lecture engage.
mentis. Matthew Barnett is also noted for his chronic
huskiness... We read that 41 Sir Samuel Wilson, the Aus-
tralian millionaire, who recently leased Hughenden
from Balph Disraeli, has now given the Earl of Craw-
ford £53,000 for his town house in Brook-street, May-
felr. Sir Samuel is determined to cut a dash this season.
His carriage horses are the finest in London
Mr. M Far land, one of Melbourne's leading common*
*aw barristers, appointed County Court Judge vice
Judge Billing, deceased, Mr. M'Farland is a graduate
of the Melbourne University A London paper, in
pointing out that Oliver Cromwell never had a statue,
nor Darwin a decoration or title, says, *• It is better so;
it gives them a grand distinction over the crowd of
nobodiea to whom monuments have been erected." No,
Erasmus Darwin wasn't even a C M G Professor
D»nton lectured at Auckland for five nights to tolerably
large audiences Mr. Edward Hordern has made a
wonderful rally from his recent severe illness, and
seems to be once more in good health. Under medical
aavice, he takes a trip to England or N.Z. shortly
Mr. Thomas Hughes (Tom Brown of Bugby) has been
appointed Governor of the Isle of Man, with a salary of
seventy-five hundred dollars and a fine house The
Duke of Westminster reckons that at the end of the
century his property will produce an income of
a a ln Melbourne, a well-known iron-
merchant is suing for a divorce, and making a very bass
singer in a certain city church the corespondent
Sirenree to be banqueted at Melbourne The last
words of Lord Beaconsfleld :—*• There is something
more dreadful than plague, famine, or war—it is the
Irish agitation; because under the appearance of
martyrdom she scarcely hides her real design."...Mr. J.
B. Thackeray, late proprietor of the Maceat Free
Press, has accepted the editorship of the Wide Bay
News, which is now to te issued tri-wet k’y Ihe legal
houses of Fitzhardinge and Coleman, Wagga, have amal-
S mated. Mr. Coleman completed hi. articles with
essrg, Slattery and Hey don but a tew mouths since ...
Acting Judge Cansdell was once Attorney-General of
Tasmania... .The Marquis of Lome and Princess
Louise visit California in September Mr Charles
Reade, the novelist, wrote to the London Daily Tele-
graph in support of Lamson’s plea of insanity Mr.
Patrick O’Connor Hishon, one of the first settlers on
Raveuswood, is dead. He was “ a white man,” was
well-known in the North, and his kindness to many a
struggling miner will be long remembered. In fact, his
difficulties in money matters were chiefly caused by the
indiscriminate generosity of his warm nature. Thus
the Northern Miner 'ihe health of Prince
Bismarck is at the present moment most unsatisfactory.
He is confined to his bed, and is unable to walk, or even
to stand. He has not been so debilitated for a long
time as he is now.


ANTHONY HORDrRN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
THE ORIGINAL CASH SYSTEM FIRM.
NO BRANCHES.
NO OTHER PLACE OF BUSINESS.
ANNUAL MID-WINTER STOCK TAKING.
COMMENCED
MONDAY, JULY 3rd, 1882.
GREAT BARGAINS OFFERED IN EVERY DEPARTMENT.
GOODS CAREFULLY ARRANGED.
NO TIME NEED BE LOST IN PURCHASING.
EVERY FACILITY FOR INSPECTION.
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
in Costume Cloths,
in Drt ss Goods,
in Wool Wraps,
in Ladies Ulsters,
in Children’s Ulsters,
in Wool Goods,
in Wool Fichus,
in Wcol Clends,
in Millinery,
in Fleecy Gloves,
in Ribbons,
in Laces,
in Ties,
in Parachutes,
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
Bargains
in Men’s Hate,
in Men’s Overcoats,
in Men’s Trousers,
in Youths’ Overcoats,
in Youths’ Suits,
in Little Boys’ Suits,
in Ties and Scarves,
in Men’s Shirts,
in Hosiery,
in Boots and Shoes.
In Flannels,
in Blankets,
in Carpets,
in Umbrellas.
BARGAINS EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT THE
IMMENSE PALACE EMPORIUM,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET
(ONLY).
A Trams atop at GIPPS STREET close to the PALACE EMPORIUM.
■ ; s,
Trade
Mark
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VEST SUPEBIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OB SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Fanoet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOB. IRONWORK AND OTHER USB.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN AN CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION m jatOm, COLD. AND WILL NEVER
IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST/.EVEBTTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks ]w kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, b
end colours.)
SEWING
brooks crochet and tatting cotton
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES 1* a sufficient guarantee'©! the superiority of the CJOTTONB maiL'factureL
• only Prile Medal i London, 1851. Only First-class Prize MedoUParia, 1856. 3Ti«e Med*
London, 1862. Gold Medal, lans 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold ffiedal, South Africa, I*'
•Meclai and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special Firat Award, Sydney, 188#.
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTJSONS.'
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should heiaddreflseil-to.their W*rehouB<
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, Mew South Titles.
Dramatic academy
93 ELIZABETH STREET.
Under the Management of
MR. JOSEPH SIMMONS,
Whose many years experience in the Theatrical Pro-
fession, both as actor and mnaager, peculiarly qualifies
him as an instructor. The satisfactory testimonials
presented to MR. SIMMONS by thos® upils, who, in
a short period, have achieved good on the
Colonial and London Stage, must insp confidence in
those studying under his direction.
PRIVATE LESSONS IP PEE
W The Pupils meet eve . J f and
r Irj wiw' ‘ _
SATURDAY EVENINGS for e i.-' ' Terms
on application from 10 to 12 an
"v. ;
DR, SIMMS, owing to the great demand for Des
criptions of Character, will be at the TEMPE R
A NOE HALL to-day, also on Friday and Saturday
from 9 a m. to 5 p m. only, for the last time.
.«■ o
■gJUEEKA TOBACCO (REGISTERED).
Each Plug has the word EUREKA upon it.
SMOKERS, BEWARE OP IMITATIONS 1
IT IS RICH IN FLAVOUR, AND SWEET IN TASTE,
This brand is destined to become the most popular of
its kind as quickly as its superior merits become known.
FINER THAN THE FINEST.
FREE PROM ALL IMPURITIES.
As a matter of health, comfort, end economy,
it stands peerless and alone.
The Cheapest Smoke in Australia!
ASK FOE THE ••EUREKA.”
TAKE NO OTHER.
SOLD, retail, everywhere ; obtained, wholesale, at the
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYWELL’S TOBACCO CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
SOLD EVERYWHERE; OBTAINABLE AT THE
WAREHOU&E, 6 PARK STREET.
To Country or Intercolonial Journalists.
A GENTLEMAN, educated, well-informed, and re-
liable, is willing to supply city correspondence.
Address, “Mecum,” Bulletin Office.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
The 3132 tons quartz crushed on Charters
Towers ju May, averaged loz, 13 uwts. 15 grs, per
ton Experiments made the other day at Qympie
proved Nobel’s gelatine dynamite to have twice the
destructive powers of ordinary dynamite The new
preparation is perfectly fameless, and cannot decom-
pose ; it is slower and purer in its action and not so
sensitive to detonation. Its introduction has caused a
sensation on the field Winiata. the murderer, was
captured by a half-caste who anmstheticised him
with chloroform. When Winiata found himself
bagged, he indulged in very un® -thet.io remarks
Mr. W. Allan, M L.A., has selected 1280 acres on the
bankss of the Herbert, to grow coffee 13,000 acres
more sugar land at Cooktown. Disputed
selections sold at 375. per acre At Auckland, N.Z., a
young fellow of 22, who had been married but six weeks,
finding that his wife was in love with another man,
shot himself through the heart The Patea News
says n number of farm hands recently refused to emi-
grate to N.Z., “because there were no poor-houses
there." Johnny Bing, a well-known and lively Mary-
borough (Q ) black tel low, who is very much libelled if
he hasn’t committed half-a-dozen murders, has been
arrested by that eminent white-blackfellow, Constable
King James Conway, of Tumnt, died of pneumonia,
but before dying sent for a man whose haystack he had
been charged with firing, and denied the imputation
•' I’m leaving thee in sorrow," remarked the burglars
as they dropped a £lOOO box of specimem, twenty yards
from the claim of the Egerton mine, Vic Rutledge
Bros., of Farnham Survey, Warrnambool, have let
1000 acres of their land for next potato season, at from
£4, to £5 sj. per acre An extinct crater has been
found in the Upper Barron scrub, N.Q , but no explora-
tions have yet been made at the bottom The Orient
Co. made £16,000 net profit last year A Christ iharoh
tobacconist repeatedly missed cigarettes from his shop-
window, in the vicinity of a broken pane of glass. He
concealed a rat-trap in the cigarette case. There was
shortly afterwards another broken pane, and a respect-
able citizen slithered up the street with a rat-trap on
the end of his biceps Pigs, starving through the late
drought in Western Australia, attacked human beings.
An obstinate juryman in Bouike said, “ No, gentle-
men, I’ll stay here till 1 starve sooner than agree with
that verdict,” and went on biting his nails. “We’re
out of it, boys,” said the foreman, “ ha hasn’t tackled
his toe-nails yet." Verdict straight away Mr. W.
Bischoff, the mining expert, reports of Craig’s anti-
mony lease, Northcote, Walsh Bivor, N.Q.
“ Even in its present state of development 1 feel
assured that thousands of tons of 50 per cent, ore
could be speedily and cheaply raised from it."
Councillor Fawcett, of Buln Buln, who assaulted Mr.
Gannon, a Qippsland Independent reporter, was fined
£5 and and costs ihe “Antediluvian Order of
Buffaloes" are about to make a start in Sydney Two
brothers fought with a horsewhip and a gun in Gipps-
land the other day. The gun was seriously inj nrod.
Later in the day, “father" fought with the two
brothers. They now take their meals standing
At the trial of Collins, in Adelaide, for selling bogus
Krug, the jury had to taste the real wine and the
spurious. When they were quite agreed they gave
their verdict. It was —“Hio —guilshy.” Mary-
borough (Q ) has now a Theatrical Gazette. A pawn-
shop will surely fellow—and ultimately a gaol
Detective Farrell, of Auckland, suspected Fraxer of
some connection with a robbery. Frazer was wroth,
and demanded an apology, which Farrell refused, A
stand-up fight bashed Mr. Frazer out of shape, but
Farrell was dismissed..." Some fiend or fiends removed
the roof from Bobertson’s outhouse, and carried off a
carcase of pork,’’ says the Newcastle paper. This is
opposed to Scripture. We have Gospel guarantee of
fiends entering into swine, but none of swine entering
fiends...Tbe Ravonswood Miner says that “Mr. Fletcher
Sicked hime«;fap, am* found himself insensible 1”
[r. B. H. Reynolds, as experienced mining speculator,
has, during the past week, after inspection, given £5OOO
cash for Bond’s reefing claim at Hargraves Denili-
quin water supply works have been oommeuced. There
being no eminence between the tovn and the river, as at
Forbes, it is necessary to construct a stone water tower
100 feet high, on which will be built a tank capable of
holding 70,000 gallons Mr. O’FarreU, of Elaine,
Vio., has crushed 100 tons stone for 1100 ox. gold. The
reef, which is a true lode, is two feet wiOe. and has, in
plaeas.iyiclded over 50 oz. to the ton It is slid that
the Day Dawn claim, Charters Towers, has suffered t <
the extent of thousands of pounds by the pilfering of
miners The Brisbane Observer says it has no
desire to prolong a controversy with the Courier,
whose superciliousness of antique respectability impels
it to ignore the existence of other journals A Far
Northern exchange says that when the niggers attacked
a Chinaman on Schnapper Island a spear thrown at a
distance of sixty yards "struck a grindstone and
smashed it to atoms 1" The Bundabevg Mail sai b
that Mr. Nott, of the local Windermere Piantation, is
reoeivinglby the next mail steamer a contingent of 100
Cingalese labourers The|civilixation of Maryborough
(Q.) is suiely advancing, ihe News shrieks ut for a
“ Black Miria." Prisoners under committal should
not be drugged through the stree's under the gaze of
the public The Vegetable Creek News has made
its first appearance. It doesn’t look well—in fact it
looks suggestive—to see a paper start with a sketch
entitled, “Cockatoo Island; by a Lifer.”
Says the Camden Times:—"Mr. Garrett, one of oar
members, won his case against ihe Government. Ver-
dict returned for £8740." The Sydney papers evidently
don’t circulate up Camdan way A pubho tribute was
paid to the memory of Garibaldi at Christounrch (N.Z )
a pull-covered coffin was the resting place for two
crossed swords, wreaths of laurel and white camellias,
and a “ Garibaldi ” red shirt. Numbers of Italians wore
hands of crape at the ceremony in the Exhibition, and
the Austrian Band played Beethoven’s “March Fune-
j,r 8 « During the last half-year, 3036 drunkards were
charged at the Central Police Court as against 4108
during the corresponding period of 1881 Victorian
railway department, in view of ihe opening of the Hay
railway, considering the advisability of reducing freight
on goods sent to Biverina. Now, Mr. Goodchap, trump
that trick Honest thieves in S.A. Last Friday, at
Mount Barker, a flour-mill was robbed, but the thieves
returned all the cheques and documents—which were
of no use to them Big fire at Ipswich (Q.) on Sun-
day. A “dawg" had been locked up in the premises of
Lossberg, chemist, and be cavorted around amongst the
explosives. Four establishments destroyed ..The
Moota mines proprietors have formed themselves into a
company, with a capital of £480,000 Mr. W. Beay, a
Melbourne temperance spouter, sueing W. M. Clark,
M.L.A, proprietor of Wiliiamstown and Fooiscray
Advertiser, for libel Fred. Morgan, of Mount
Wheeler (Q), has bad a crushing of 7 ox. gold to the
ton. His claim is bettering daily In the
Queensland C.E Synod, Mr. C. F. Chubb, a lawyer,
said that a man who got drunk three timesja year was a
habitual drunkard. This should induce good citizens
to forswear all further attendance at banquets, picnics,
steamer trips, and Municipal Council meetings Pay-
able reefs have been struck at Mount M'Donald 280 feet
down Baffle Creek Station, Port Curtis district,
Bold to Mr. Q. Skyring for £50,000 hard cash. 12,000
head of cattle were counted prior to the purchase
London Figaro of April says “ There has lately been
formed in Sydney an Anti-Shouting Society." Strange,
the people of England heard the first of it just about
the time we heard the last of it What must be the
state of morals in Maitland when the head master of
the principal school is obliged to advertise in the local
Btartler, “ Immoral and unruly boys notadmitted.”
George Lansell, the Sandhurst millionaire, has failed
in his Supremo Court appeal re the Coleman and Taochi
amt. It has been deoided that an account be taken of
gold removed from the ground in dispute. Mr. Lam ell
will have to hand over not less than £40,000 and costs...
He lived up North. The other side engaged two
Q.C’s. and as many juniors, but he obstinately refused
to retain counsel. Said he was bound to win, for he
knew the jury; and he did win A gouty Ipswich
(Q.) J P-, who ha* gout, said the other day that his
malady was now “greatly obliterated."...ln Melbourne,
probate has been granted in the esiate of Thomas
Burke, a labourer, who has been missing for a couple of
years.' He had deposited over £1,500 in various banks,
nod in 1881 a bag, containing the deposit receipts, was
fmndou the bank of the Little Biver,.,The Beeohmbr,
a Melbourne monthly “secular journal open to the ex-
pression of all shades of opinion, ’’ publishes a letter
from a correspondent who wants to form a
Malthusian Society in the Cabbage Garden
Qaorge Maokay, carpenter, out his throat with a razor
at Hawera (N Z.). The windpipe and arteries were
severed. Death was instantaneous A potato-digging
match for 50 a aide, against time, took place in a N.Z
•onatry dlat let. The wager was that a certain man
go aid not dig halt-aa-acre in eight hours. He won with
I four minutes to spare, 73 bags m 7h. 55m.
They weighed 6 tons 2 cwt A man named Ruph
Reading was working at the circu'ar saw in Christ,
church (N Z), when a portion of it flew oft and struck
him on the head, cleaving it open from crown to chiu.
Death was instantaneous The Melbourne cabmen say
that the adoption of tramways would throw 13 n 0 men
out of employmen t As an illustration of the rapidity
with which the “ bush-telegraph *' works, it is stated
that, although only thirty-six hours’ notice had been
given of certain recent festivities on the Wallamba
river, some of those who attended came a distance of
over twenty miles At Goulburn, there is a Life Assu-
rance agent who is also an undertaker 1 41 Nothing
like leather," howled Mr. Theobald Samley, the
suburban shoemaker, as from behind he spoilt the seat,
of his friend, Mr. C. J S. Hanlon’s, pants on finding
him in deep confab with his wife under the clothes
line A Hay correspondent enquires whether the
local police are paid for loafing in the Chinese camp-
er whether they’re meant to look after the townspeople!?
James Smith, a native of Tarraville, near Port
Albert, who was recently committed for trial, on bail,
on a charge of cattle-stealing, and subsequently
re-arrested for other offences, strangled himself by
fastening a saddle-strap to the window-bars of the
Toiravilie lock-up, and noosing his neck. The window
was only thirty-four inches from the cell floor, aid
Smith lay on the floor on his back Melbourne rough
William Eandell.l tired, £lO for brutally assaulting his
mother, a decrepid old woman. He was sent to gaol for
three months for assaulting the police. Just so. If a
man whacks his crippled mother, fine him. If le
*• resists ’’ the police, jog him without the hoption
Sydney carpenter diddled out of £l5O on Monday night,
by that stale hoax —the match-box trick 91,500 on.
of gold yielded from Sandhurst district during the
last half year j dividends paid amounted to £142 739
Prank Johnson] is the name of the poor Mtloourne
girl whose heart-rending appeals, to the seducer who
had ruined and deserted her, in the agony columns of
Melbourne papers, have been setting aglow all the
charitable emotio is of,kind-hearted dames. Frank re-
prepenied that he was a young mother of shame,
deserted and dying. He received lots of letters con.
taining money. He at last also received a warrant, and
doesn’t think fo highly of his swindle now
At oxford (N.Z ), John Grenfell, an insane platelayer,
fatally adzed kis mate, John Horn, in the midst of
work, and then chased another platelayer who,
however, wrested the adzs from him. Whereupon the
lunatic went and suffocated himself in a puddle Sin.
deep George de Safe has been committed for trial at
Parramatta, on a charge of swindling at gambling. He
won about £7O (in I O.U’s.) from Charles Gaud at
betting upon drawing highest marbles out of a basket,
and it was alleged that he 41 fumbled” the marbles.
Charles didn’t want to prosecute, as he had received his
I.O.U’s. back after threatening law proceedings F.
Goddard, Adelaide Civil servant, who suicided by
bleeding, left a good bank balance and a will. He had
nothing to trouble himself about, only ha. had lately
taken to drinking whisky at the rate of a bottle a day.
One day recently the worthy host of the Com-
mercial Hotel, Adelong, was fined 10s, or seven days
for allowing a theatrical performance to take place in
his hall, the use o! which, together with lights, Ac., he
had given free for an entertainment got up by Adelong
amateurs in aid of a destitute miner who had been
blinded by a blast Mr. William Butler, late Mayor
of Bathurst, died on Tuesday Spillane, husband of
the Toowoomba murderess, arrested on a charge of
insanity.
* « •
In India, in 1875, 21,391 persona and 48,234
cattle were killed by wild beasts and venomous snake a.
3OOO Chinese coolies have saled from Hongkong for
Victoria, the capital of British Columbia £l4OO nave
been subscribed by .the American public for the wife
of Sergeant Mason, who tried to shoot Gaiteau, Since
this has bean known, when Gaiteau felt like looking out
of window he poked his head up the chimney.


CITY CATERING
315 GEORGE BTI
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional workni
tical experience, nearly all from tl
of Compagnoni and Co., who pe
and carry on the working of th*
general manager.
It is not a public company, and t
•“* expenses appertaining thereto,
N.B.—Since opening, on 2Sjh
aaooessfelly catered THE
CULT, and MOST EBSPONSTBI
hare taken piece here to the prese
The Consular Dinner, in our new I
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entertain]
His Worship the Mayor's Ball,
Building, at which his Worship
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE AL
Earl Clanwiiliam, and the Offlo
Squadron.
Masonie Ball, English Constituti
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Conatltul
Sydney,
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE AL
to Lithgew Valley Mines and \
-Russe, for 60, in Government Pal
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,00
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—i
NOTICE, only reoeiving the ord
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. tl
Visit of THEIR B.H.’s PBII
OGOBGE to Captain Cook’s Le
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon i
100, under VERY SHORT NOT
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the 8
mg day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Toi
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s I
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge T
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Room
Dinner d la Basse at St. Paul’s Coll
of the Church of England Synod
Dinner d la Basse to the Intero
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment
gentlemen, at the turning of the
Bros.’ New Railway Bolling Sto
ville.
The Lnnoheons and Refreshment ]
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of i
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englj
Palaoe.
Together w th a numerous lot of P
Dinners, 1 easts, &c., <ko.
The CITY CATERING COMPi
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, G 1
and all requisites for Balls, Picnioi
and will be glad to send out the
I'astry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confoo
Civil and attentive waiters alvi
services required.
We have in our possession letter
high standing in the city, oompli
manner we have performed the dut
CHAS. R. SMI
f (Late ef the firm of the original Cc
MALT BIT
The great Cure for Indigestion,
Complaint, Weakness, &o.
PRICE 7! ;
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, C
13 Erskine Stre
A»D
W. H. SOUL, Pitt £
ELECTRICITY IS ]
Tea ! When properly applied
THE MACrJN
The only Cure for RHEUMATI
All Nervous Affeoti
Requires no Acids, no Attention, ai
SEND PARTICULARS OP CASE
.T n tt ivr £
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Yet once more, O ye laurels and once more
Ye lorels—
This word, mayhap, you have not heard before—
The quarrels,
The fun, the fuss, tne frolic of the stage
We sing you,
We wish you joy—whatever joy this page
May bring you.
We make our verse no more a cynic’s tub
To scoff in,
We’ve just been measured for—ay, here’s the rub—
A coffin.
Fact is, the fair, false idol of our soul
Has sold us—
Who goes through Wishing-gates must pay the toll
Love told us;
But we were deaf. What man, though born to bliss,
Such bliss met
As ours ? And now we turn the talk from kiss
To Kismet.
And so with a sad sigh we wander on to the
congenial topic of the new play at the Queen’s Theatre.
“ Unearthed ”is what they call it. We have no heart
for speculation now, or we would enjoy guessing
whether Dr. Schliemann or Layard dug it up. But this
is vain. “Unearthed ’’ is probably the author’s way of
spelling unearthly. The title alone would be sufficient
to recommend it to the management of the Morgue.
The points of the play, judging by this, have to be
searched for with a diamond-drill. Which is a bore. But
let us be good-natured for once. “ Unearthed ” is a
dramatization of one of Miss Braddon’s novels, and, if
popularity in Melbourne counts for anything, should
draw good houses here. It contains three “thorough
villains,” a first and second murderer, a stern parent, a
detective, and a number of incipient assassins. This is
rather below the average intensity of sensational drama
in the Queen’s Theatre, but ic would be a spine-freezing
combination anywhere else. The play will be produced
on Saturday night next. There is a race for patronage
going on just now between the various theatres in the
city. We hope that in this instance the devil will have
to take some other instead of the Queen’s as the hind-
most.
** * *
“ Jeames,” the new comedy at the Opera House, is as
much funnier than those that preceded it as John
Lucas is fatter than Tom Garrett. It concerns the
blunders and bizarrerios of a footman suddenly raised
by a stroke of fortune from the kitchen to the drawing-
room. These are so atrociously comic that one would
suppose even a tombstone would have to laugh if it
happened to drop in for an hour’s fun on its way from
the stoneyard to the cemetery. And yet there was a
man in the back row of the dress circle, who was read-
ing a book all the time, and never once lifted his eyes
from it, though the audience were in a state of hilarity
bordering dangerously upon apoplexy, We were curious
to know what kind of book it was that could make any-
one forget that mouths were made for guffawing now
and then as well as for putting knives in. So we looked
over his shoulder. It was the last half-yearly volume
of Stdnet Punch and the man was in a dead trance.
• * •
The piece is magnificently set. Mr. Gordon’s
scene-painting is User art than a good deal of the work
hung up in galleries for the admiration of the Sunday-
suited intelligent artizan. The acting of Fred Marshall
in this play surpasses his previous performances as the
landlord’s bottle surpasses the bar-nymph’s whisky-
and-water and a leer. Miss Emma Fischer as Lady
Angelina is charming except for her voice. It has a
rasping twang that was well enough in the woods where
saw-mills might reasonably be supposed to be in full
swing, but which, in the drawing-room of an English
Earl, was just a trifle too democratic for the times.
We have never been in the drawing-room of an English
Earl ourselves, but we have heard Burdett-Smith say
that it is a very difficult thing for a free born Australian
to escape tripping over the absurd lines of etiquette
laid down there Use man-traps and spring-guns to catch
the uninitiated at every step. He says, for instance,
that it is not considered en regie for the guest of an
English nobleman to spit upon his hand and then bring
it down into the palm of his host’s like a sledge-hammer
with a thundering " put it there, old man.” Certainly
the mother country is becoming effete. What more we
have to say about “Jeames” we shall say in our next
issue.
** * *
“The Passing Eegitne- produced at the
Royal on Saturday night, is a pleasant little comedy
with no more raison d etre than a troop of soldiers pass-
ing through an American village. The soldiers make
love to the girls and carry them off Roman fashion.
The German doctor is about the funniest of the charac-
ters, and there is not much Joe Millerism even in him.
Wybert Reeve plays this part, and plays and looks it
remarkably well. Miss Blanche Stammers (Tolka), wo
are compelled to acknowledge, makes a very charming
ingenui. Miss Brayburu (Linda Bunker) is lovely as is
the first of the month to a Government clerk, and goes
through her part as cleverly as a policeman goes
through the pockets of a “drunk” for loose change
before taking him to the lock-up. One takes his
similes from his experience. We had this from an
Evening Times man. Miss Lena Ellis has found her
forte at last. She plays in this piece an eye-glassed
middle-aged matron. Of course we would sooner die
than say that Lena is qualified by age for such parts.
We simply mean that she can enter into the spirit
of them better than she can into the spirit of
skittish young ladyism. The Misses Teresa and
Eugenio Horan make delightfully natural “ Slaveys.”
Ta*en altogether, “The Passing Regiment” is de-
oidedly the most amusing light comedy Mr. Reeve has
given us. The waifs between the acts are not
so long as usual. Perhaps this has something to do
with the specific gravity of the piece.
w • •
Hold on to the handle of the mangle if yon are
a man, and make ready to let go your stay-laces by the
run if you are a woman, who read this, for there is going
to be a shock. Mr. Harkins played “Othello” at the
Royal on Monday night. We would like to compliment
him, but if we did we could not look Peter in the face
when we meet him “on the front” of the House not
made with hands. Why in thunder must a man roar
and snort and bellow and paw up the ground like a
bull, when he is acting the “legitimate?” Darn
the legitimate if it only means hydrophobia. In the
great speech ending with “ Othello’s occupation’s
gone," ha for au instant recalled to us the Othello
who howled like a hyosna that liad rooted round
all night for a corpse only to see it carried
away in the morning from under its very nose by an
Arab mummy-seller. Mr. Cathcart was not half a bad
lago, but the half that was not bad was sepulchrally
indifferent. Miss Brayburn made a pretty Desdemoaa.
We hive had enough of the “ legitimate.”
** * *
The Simonsen season at the Gaiety has not been
as successful as we could have wished. We say this, of
course, from that philanthropic standpoint which we
hive taken with regard to the poor players all along. But
reverence for the truth, which is our distinguishing
characteristic in these sorrowfully unveracious times,
compels us to remark that the cause of this non-
-BUOOOBS lies to a great extent at the door of Martin. He
haso iosento fallow the example of Signor Catalan! in
deali g with the public. His show consists of sa femme
et quelques pouptes. Madame is a magnificent veteran,
but Time kills everything—except the orchestra which
sometia.es (kills time —and ' Madame his wrinkles of
age in her voice that no artistic “wrinkle" can
smooth eut. And the demoiselles are not divas as yet.
Marlin'has also two tenors who have |an unfortumte
knack of breaking down exactly at those times when
they should be at their Lest. This is a kind of gift
which might be appreciated at a burnt-cork entertain-
ment where breakdowns are in request, but it is not
the sort of thing that wou d bo tAeraied in La Scala.
pUoourse, Martin may sa; that he cannot get other
tabors to relieve this erratic pair That, however, is
his affair. The) public look to the result—not to the
bVGinoks arrangements of Ms*. Martin Simonsen.
» » * Kf
. ,l b» Machine An.got” is now gathering
ui the aristocracy of Ash field and the nobility of Pott’s
Point to the Gaiety. Madame Simonsen plays Lange
instead of C burette Angot, which she made such a
success of in the old days. Leonora has succeeded to
this part, and sings like a siren. , Mr. Brennir’s Ange
Piton is good. We speak comparatively. And we
always compare Mr. Breunir with Mr. Brenuir. The
gentlemen who take the minor characters ore as
cheerful-looking as coffin-plates, and as tuneful as
steam-rollers grinding up blue metal But Madame and
her daughter make up tor ,a good deal. The choruses
also are sung with spirit.
** * *
Tho sepulchral gloom and Stygian horror that
brooded over the Queen’s Theatre so long has been
momentarily dispersed. Instead ®f the dismal ghoul-
ishness of such titles as “ Lifv in the Dart,” etc., the
management have given us “ Hazel Kirke " this week.
This has a pretty sound and is suggestive of idyllic
happiness in the vales of Arcady. But, alas, it is only
another of those “ great emotional dramas ” that are
dug up out of the dust-bin of oblivion every week to fill
the air with the mustiness of the mausoleum. Ghosts
of o'd dead and gone dramas that everybody thought
had been laid for ever, walk up and down the boards of
the Queen’s with as much self-possession as though
they were on the tramp to Jehosophat. It is said in
whispers by those who don’t kaow that the stage of this
theatre was constructed out of the stosk of an under-
taker who had committed suicide, and that the moment
the curtain rises on a “ new and lively ’’ piece, the
footlights begin to burn bine. The gloom has increased
in density since that “ original and sparkling come-
dietta,” “Telephone,” was produced. The author of
this, with a wisdom beyond his literary abilities, did
not give his name. But wo know him. jke lives out at
Haslem’s Creek and digs graves when he is not writing
sparkling comediettas. Bass round the cypress.
** * *
One night last week, after the performance was
over, a theatrical manager in this city was walking up
and down behind the scenes, cursing his luck. “Not
enough money in the house to pay expenses,” he
groaned. “ Yes,” said a super, who carries banners
and sings in monosyllables, “it’s very disheartening.
I felt so cut-up about it myself that I could only walk
through my part.” Another. The same shining light
of the stage was cast for a microscopic part in a certain
piece by the manager aforesaid. After a while, the
latter came to him and told him to “ double ” it with
another part. He got the book and proceeded to study
the parts. Then the manager came to him yet another
time, and said he might as well throw in a third small
part and play the three. “ You're sure you can do it ?' ’
said the boss, before leaving him to hi* study. “ Cer-
tainly I can do it, but ” “ But what ? ” “ Oh,
nothing," replied the super; “ only two of these char-
acter you want me to play have to fight together, and
the third has to come in and separate them.” Bat, as
we’ve hoard this before, it can’t be true on the present
occasion.
** * *
A very picturesque lecture on Macaulay was
delivered at the School of Arts by Mr, E. Colonna-
Close, barrister-at-1 aw, on Wednesday night week. The
hall was packed. The lecturer dealt with his subject
in a masterly manner. Mr. Colonna-Close has a line
platform presence and a magnificent delivery. His
analysis of Macaulay s character and genius did not
reveal anything not already known to thinkers, but it
was a clear and clever epitjme for those who have not
had time to think on these matters.
** * *
The Diorama of the American War is still on
show at the Victoria Hall, and Mr. Boper still con-
tinues to fling around lever watches with a reckless
hand.
m♦ ♦ ♦
Signora Fabris and her pupils will give a week’s
performance of “II Trovatore.” at the Victoria Hall,
commencing on Monday, July 17th. We have had the
pleasure of being present at a rehearsal. From the
manner in which this went off, we judge that the per-
formance, when it opens, will be about the most unique
thing in the city. The leading singers are good. As a
special favour, we were shown some of the new dresses
that are to be worn on the occasion. They are beautiful.
One of the young ladies at first objected to our seeing
them, on the ground that we were a profane male
person. But another, with a face like a seraph, whis-
pered good-naturedly, “Ah, but then he’s so ugly you
know, dear. Show them to him.”
** * *
There was an immense attendance at the Victoria
Hall on Sunday night last, Mr. Hughes was lecturing
on “Beligious Liberty. He has the floor to himself
now, as his namesake, the Professor, has had his
lease of the Theatre Eoyal for Sunday-night lectures
suspended.
** * *
Mrs. Dargon Piercy (Miss Augusta Dargon)
gave a very pleasing entertainment at Wagga on the
2tth ultimo, in aid of the fund* of the Turf Club. The
hall was crowded; proceeds very large. Some of the
most striking pieces in the programme were the recita-
tions of “ Beautiful Snow,” the scene from" Macbeth,”
and the scene from “Schoolfor Scandal.” but thecbase
scene from “ London Assurance” took the audience by
storm. Mrs. Piercy met with a very enthusiastic re-
ception; the stage was covered with bouquets.
** * *
The Montague-Turner troupe (fifty performers)
are en route to Brisbane. They shortly le-appear in
Sydney. The eminent Mr. Jack Scantlebury pilots the
show on this occasion. By the way, the Josephine of
our hearts is still with the team. We hadn’t time to
call, but we are told that she is looking lovely.
* * * *■
Among recent arrivals is Lydia Hastings, a
young lady whose ability as a dramatic reciter and im-
personator has been emphatically recognised in
America. The New York Art Journal says of Miss
Hastings that “ she does not read her parts, she clothes
herself with them.” This is exactly what is wanted
After so much Tambour Major and Olivette business, a
dramatic impersonatrix who clothes herself in any-
thing will be a pleasure and a solace.
** * *
Writes a correspondent:—The Mendelssohn of
the North has shot to the zenith like a star. The
oratorio produced at Maitland a short time ago,
composed by him, drew crowded houses. Beauty
was there crowned witn immortelles, and smiled
and smiled the hearts away of the young men with
the bangs pasted down upon the flat-iron fore-
heads. Now and then, during the performance, each
person in the audience after gazing enraptured at the
composer, wenld turn round and say proudly to his
neighbour “ That’s him. He was raired right here.”
The oratorio was onrang-outangesque for gnarled and
knotted awkwardness. There was only one air running
through the whole piece, and oven it was of the sort
that blows nobody good. Miss Dora Browne and
Mias Cobcroft sang very well. But the tenor was a
screech-owl from the mouldering towers ol Afraaiab.
“ Both " is the name of the oratorio. The composer
had little upon the publi 0 jj o w, we have not heard
the oratorio, and don’t gj va 8 88 our opinion. It's
funny, bat so very man-, ( unny men don’t understand
music.
** * *
Georgie Smithson and her combination faded
away from Adelaide after a week’s indifferent business
at Garner’s Georgie is a dear good soul, but a little
too gifted for the bucolic inhabitants of “ sunny South
Australia.” At the Eoyal, Grattan Eiggs has made
himself a favourite, his sketches generally being re-
garded as admirable samples of the comedian’s art
The dramas which serve as stalking-horses for these
sketches are, however, fearfully and wonderfully made,
and very trying to all whose destiny is to appear therein
either as good people or as villains. Magpie Oliver
scored a decided success as Molly Sullivan in “ Shia
Fane,” being funny and spontaneous, and evidently able
to see through any meaning or figuration, which the
character actually does, or is supposed to,
Maggie can not do so much in “The Irish Detects,”
for the simple reason that the compounded of this
indigestible hash gives no such opportunity. Harry
Emmett, as the villainous Dpctor, has the bast chance
after the stps in thip latter piece. He owns a capital
voice, and wpre.his intelligence comparatively co-equal
make”a name for himself by-and-bye “ ’Tis not
in mortals, ’|etc. W. G. Carey can only, just now, wear
his best curled wig, morning-coat, and Sunday trousers
—which he does to perfection. Herbert Flemming
makes a new departure in “ The Irish Detective.” He
plays the noodle, Augustus Tiverton. Theappreeiatoty
warmth with which the’effort is received by the gallery
is simply gorgeous. If experience be worth anything,
Herbert should at oace cease the presentation of
Romeo, and lay himself out for such characters as is
the “ don’t signify-ing” Augustus. After all, as C. J.
Mathews was wont to observe, people go to the theatre
to be amused. True, that more often than not Romeo
does amuse But thus the great Author’s intention is
not consummated. This is the point which we think
the handsome Herbert—with such a start as Augustus
Tiverton gives him—might well consider.
** * *
It is possible that Miss Augusta Darron (Mrs.
Piercy) and Mr. Prank Cates may, in a week or two,
-.rernnence a short seiies of drawing-room entertain-
ments in Sydney.
** * *
A first-class company, among whom we are glad
to see the name of our trumpet-voiced friend, that good
artist, Mr. Edward Earley, have been engaged to sup.
port Miss Emilie Melville. The campaign commences
on Saturday night at Melbourne Opera House with
“Perichole.”
** * *
There was a dejeetod-looking villain who called
himself a “ pressman ” —a Parramatta pressman,
probably—round at the Victoria Hall the other night.
He sent in a conundrum. Roper promptly returned it
with the remark that he was not just then collecting
epitaphs. It appeared as a leader in the—well, a
weal paper, next day.
** * *
H. J. Whittington, the reckless agent of South’s
Opera Company, has spent a shilling in sending us a
telegram. This is the regal style of sloshing money
about that we like to see. Bnt we are glad to learn
that the company are doing “ big business.” They
open at Mudgee on Thursday in “ Madame Angot.” We
have been informed by persons who have been several
miles out in the country, and have returned to tell the
tale, that, whenever Jimmy South and his troupe enter
a town, the editor of the local paper goes out and gets
drank for mere joy. You see when he puts in their ad.
he knows he will not have to pursue the down coach
with a meat-axe to collect the account.
** * *
Misa Lily Marsh’s Comedy Company has been
doing goon business up North. They were playing
“ Pygmalion and Galatea” in Tamworth at latest dates.
The whole three local papers speak well of them. The
fourth don’t say anything, because it's dead. Miss
Marsh has evidently fascinated the susceptible Tara-
worth editors, for
Of her they don’t say one word harsh
It seems she’s “ knocked them silly,”
But then yon know Miss Lily Marsh
la fair as a marsh lily.
** * *
It’s a curious thing, but no one seems to have
heard of Defries since he went back to England. A
Christchurch amateur, who went home,cheerfully wrote
from London recently, dating from the Vaudeville
Theatre, that he was playing Charles Surface under his
own name of “ Henry Neville,” and further says : “ By
the bye, I have j ust been introduced to Maud Branscombo
and Connie Gilchrist, the new English comedy actress.
But must stop now (1.26 a.m.), as it is getting late, and
Katie [Kate Vaughan !], is yawning. So good-bye for
the present, with regards to all my old friends in the
office and yourself." Now, as this fellow has coolly
stolen the name of a well-known English actor, he
(that’s to say, the New Zealander) won’t live long. But
there is some go in him; whereas Defries, who was
such a bright particular star in these diggings, might,
for all we hear of him, be snowed up in Nicaragua. We
should like to know what has become of Defries. Could
he have played Hamlet at an East London Theatre, and
But, no, Because, if that had been the case, they'd
have sent a knee-cap of him over, anyhow, to be put
behind the fear in a glass-case at Larry Foley’s hotel.
** * *
Madame Ristori, though a pretty old warhorse
by this time, has not given up the stage yet. She has
taken Drury Lane Theatre for a series of representa-
tions, now on. On Monday last she was to have made
her Atbixt in London, of which she wrote to a Sydney
gentleman thus : —“ Now I have an extraordinary piece
of, news for you; on the 3rd July I am to make my
dtMt in London, in Drury Lane, as Lady Macbeth, act-
ing in English with an English company. You are
astonished, are you not ? But the spark of art will
never be extinguished in me, it will rather light up
again and again that I may the better bring out its
infinite beauties. After ‘ Macbeth ’ I shall give ‘ Eliza-
beth, Queen of England,’ the translation of Paolo Giaco-
metti’s version. On the 20th September, I goto Dublin-
lin, Edinburgh, and to make a tour in the provinces.”
We are not astonished—not a bit. We’ve been hearing
about this d£h fit in English for the last two years.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Dick Kohler, in addition to doing the towns, is
visiting even the smallest N.Z. villages J. B Howe,
with Julia Hayward as lead, blood-and-thunderising at
the Dunedin Queen’s “ Zulu" Thompson was to
unfold his canvas at Anbett’s Auckland Opera House
27th June Prior to their departure from N Z., the
“ twenty love-sick maidens" of Williamson’s company
were worshipped aud champagned by a number of young
bloods Koyal English (opera company, (Mrs. Fox,
prima donna) in Gymplo. The theatrical loadstone
Pinafore" their latest performance. Biz. fair
Prom S. M. Herald of to-day, Monday, 3rd July i—
“ Wanted, 50 more stalwart young men, for the pro-
duction lof ‘Youth.’ (Apply stage door, this morning,
10 o’clock. H. Slaughter." Fred Maccabe’s illness
at Brisbane was something very like inflammation of the
lungs. He hopes to re-appear after a tew wees s’ rest...
Pollard aud Co., have been Pinatoreing at Miry.
borough. Big boom Maoe and Miller played at the
Christchurch (N.Z.) Gaiety Drayton f s action for
libel ag:ainst the Christchurch Press, comes on at the
next sitting of the Supreme Court there The so-
called “Australian Circus," travelling in N.Z., has
lost ft number of its members. They are now perform-
ing on their own account under the title of “ The Aus-
tralian Surprise Co." Christchurch (N.Z.) Free-
thought Association contemplate building a theatre
Barry O’Neil is singing with Jem Mace’s pugilist'o
show in N.Z That eocentrio comedian, Johnny
Hydes, accompanies .the Mastodon Minstrels on their
Australian tout Johnny Hall opened to a £5O
house at the Auckland Eoyal in “Our Girls.’
Tho performance was tame and support of the
company weak. Maggie Ford was not in the cast
H. Jr. Towle’s production of “La Petite Mademoiselle,”
at Christchurch (N.Z,), was a pecuniary success. He
has joined Williamson's Opera Company Freeman’s
Dramatic Company in Bourke at latest. As usual, the
local George Washington says that “those who
have not seen the company have missed tho best treat
ever here.’’,,,...At last accounts, efforts were being made
in Christchurch to organise a company on the common-
wealth principle, with Amy Horton asiead The Amy
Johns and J. Wilkinson company were last heard of in
the Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) province A company of the
"perfesh" were departing from Christchurch (N.Z.)
tbe other day when a bailiff attacked their *• props "
Trouble momentarily appeared imminent, but at length
the needful was produced Leon’s circus has Isft
Hockhampton tor the North; tho Dwarf and,Magnetic
Lady are doing good biz. in the city of sin, sweat, and
sorrow The) Montague Turner Opera. Troupe open
at the Oj-era House 11th September, on their return
from Brisbane. n '
Have jotj, bought your “ Lady Harberton ?”
Fashionable wedding on the Clarence last week.
Bridegroom 48, bride 13 —usual age up there.
It is stated on apparently good authority that
the Darling Harbour resumptions wid compromise
certain people in high places. A financial relationship
is said to have been in existence between one of the
delinquents and a very virtuous minister.
On Tuesday the Australian Eleven commenced
their fourteenth match in England this season, against
eleven of Northamptonshire. The local team went in '
first, but were speedily put out for 122, Garrett taking
three wickets for 27. The Australians had made 143
with the loss of four wickets when the stumps were
drawn for the day—M’Donnell 30, and Qiifen (not
out) 41.


PEPPER AND SALT.
It was at the Tumnt cemetery. Wo like writing
about cemeteries, because such a cheerful ignorance
prevails among the living about the political outlook
in he land of the dead. Also because we shall
be able to line our cofflas with our own literature,
nd read it for all eternity. Nothing else that we have
yet seen is worth reading. Well, it was at the Tumut
cemetery. A fashion of flower-lifting from graves has
become popular up that way. Brown and Simpson were
bitter enemies. They died ust about the same time.
Both funerals largely attended. When the bodies were
safely planted, the weeping survivors decked the graves
of each with ornamental shrubs and flowers, bought at
two-and-six a pot. But Brown’s friends one day bought
a flower-pot with the biggest geranium in the town in
it, and put it on his grave. Whereat the friends of
Simpson waxed warm, and got up in the night and laid
hands upon that flower-pot, and transferred it to
Simpson’s grave. There were people present who say
that when this was done they could hear the boards of
the coffins below cracking with the laughter of old
corpse Simpson and the rage of cadaver Brown. So the
game went on, and so strong was the feeling ot rivalry
engendered that, it is stated, the corpses of both
Brown and Simpson at last wormed their way up to the
surface, and were found by a constable one morning
engaged in a deadly combat over an old cactus root that
somebody had dropped upon one of the graves and each
oorpse claimed. They were promptly run in, and taken
to the look-np, on a charge ot having no visible means
of support. This affair has caused considerable
sensation in Tnmut.
• * *
An editor for a daily paper ia advertised for in
the S.M. Herald, who “ must be a short-hand writer."
Here's a chance for soma of the “ gallery hoys.” We
know the sort of editor this means. A pushing young
fellow who will do the polioe courts, flower shows, and
Municipal Council meetings by day, give a couple of
hours to the House in the evening, and then return*
transcribe his notes, dish up the copy, read the proofs,
superintend the publishing, and sweep out the office.
We kaew one of these editors once. His coffin only
measured nine inches across the broadest part.
♦ • •
South Australia is getting on nicely with her
fortifications. One of these defence towers is at Glan-
ville, a place on the railway-line near Port Adelaide.
This fort contains a powder-magazine and armoury, and
is garrisoned by a battalion of four, of whom one is a
cripple, and another so deaf that he hasn’t heard the
one o’clock gun for forty years. Small boys coming
home from the publio-sohool heard these wavciora in
their den, and not unfrequently storm the fort under
eover of a shower of apples, and canse the garrison to
seek the isolation which a counterscarp affords. If
ever the enemy came to that fort, the deaf warrior
would unhesitatingly lower the drawbridge, and raise
the portcullis under the impression that it was the
milk ; while, if a Russian arrived there to bribe them,
the general impression is that all except the bedridden
soldier would turn out in military order holding out
their hats, and that half-a-dozen tins of red-herrings
and a quarter of a ton of flour would buy up the lot.
If any one wants to blow the place up and partially
wreck Adelaida, all he has got to do would be to buy
three bottles of rum and borrow a dark lantern. Or if
he can’t got rum, let him take liniment. That would
do very nearly as well. Of course, with this magnifi-
cently-garrisoned fortress to protect them, the
Adelaideaus feel pretty easy. They are not demon-
strative about it, but they are comfortable. Confident
in the prowess of tho chivalrous garrison of Port
Glanville, they pursue their daily. avocations with
serenity. “ Let but the foot of the foreign invaders
toush our sacred soil, and the guns of Glanville shall
blow them back into the sea." And all this time the
garrison is wishing to thunder the enemy would be
quick and come—and bring some tobacco with him.
* • #
Poor Sam Lazar was known to be pretty smart
at repartee in his primest days. A good joke is told of
him ‘when running a show in Tasmania. The Town
Clerk of Hobart, a particularly irascible old fossil,
wears a wig, and is made as “ beautiful for ever" as
even the famed Madame Rachel herself could have
wished. Sam, having business with “ Old Harry,”
thonghtlesAy entered his office without taking his hat
off 1 This acted like a torpedo on the T.C., who jumped
again, vociferating, “ How dare you, sir; how dare you
come into my office with your head covered 1" 11 All
right," said Sam, “ set the example by taking your wig
off."
• • •
A Sydney telegram in the D, N. Argus (Q.)
reads as follows The ‘Owl’ Club gave a successful
hall last night. The Club is composed chiefly of literary
men and actors." We do not know, of course, who
wired this hoax, but we expect it must be either
Johnny Cowan, or Johnny O’Neil. The president of
this noble club is a very excellent gentleman in tho
ironmongery line ; and the secretary is a worthy person
who, besides being secretary to the Owi Club, is secre-
tary to a slop-shop. The president, it is true, goes in
•• hammer and tongs ” for art, and the e eoretary pants
with admiration for the dramatic pertesh, and longs to
have the same vested interest in a theatre that he has
n a clothing mart. Wa have bean to an Owl meeting,
and if wehaan’t been told what it was, we should have
bought it was a night auction. Such a collection ot
Moses and Noses we never saw gathetel together
before. This is the sort of thing you hoar there “ I
thay, Abramth, wath the nexth itemth on tho pro-
gramth?” “Oh, Aaronth Melehisideth isth going to
give a reoitationth." Then you got it—
“ The Dkthketed Villithe.
“ Thweet Auburnth 1 lovelieth villathe of the
plainthe,” Ac.
Yes; we’ve been onoe te the Owls. Bnt we don’t thick
we shall go there again—unless we either want to buy
a wash-hand basin or a fUh-basket, when the shops are
shut.
• • •
The “ Patience ” gags are about played out.
We shall only use them in future when wa are writing
of a live reporter or a dead mule. Can anything—
except Tom Garrett oratiug about his bleeding coun-
tty_be more ridiculous than this, which we clip
from a country rag '* Mrs. B. in ‘ Qirofle-
Girofla,’ is quite * too utterly utter.’ ” Now there is
nothing in the least bit tcithetic about Girofitb She
awfully tight, and doesn’t appear in the least
shocked at the idea of having married two husbands.
Perhaps, however, Mrs. B. edited that issue ot the
paper. If we had a country paper (our dearest dream),
she «J*ld edit any number of ’em, and write a poem
about the falling leaves of Autumn pgbt in the middle
•f the yadsr,
There is a railway township in the Far North,
the greater part of the population of which consists of
“navvies.” They have two grievances: one is mud,
the ether a doctor—or, shorter, mnd-head. The mud is
caused by the oveiflow of rain-water into the “town.”
All the dwellings are eased, so to speak, in a Sahara of
slush. This is because the Government have banked up
all outlet for the aocumul ited water. 1 he doctor comes
more under the heading of a visitation of God than man.
He was formerly a hair-dresser, and a damd bad hair-
dresser at that, if what the friends of his obscure days
say can ha trusted. The railway contractors deduct
sixpence per week from the wages of each of their
employes to help to distend the paunch of this Gar-
gantua. The other 'day two or three jokers played a
trick upon old Bleed and Blister. One went round to
his place carrying a polite invitation to a friendly game
of “ Nap." and a bottle of something stronger than eye-
lotion, at the house of a leading citizen. As two feet of
water on the ground rendered it impossible that a gentle-
man faultlessly attired in check dittos and a “pot” hat
should walk to the appointed place of meeting, a cart
was arranged for his conveyance thither, and the beau-
tiful smile with which the old pill-pounder walked into
that cart is said to have been only paralleled for con-
summateness by the howl of agony ha let out of him
when he found that just as the shebang had got into
the centre of the sea of slash his faithless conductor
had flipped the traces and left him stranded there
exposed to the j aers of the sons of Belial upon the banks.
• •
The writer of this, cno« hid a paper at Copper-
field (Q.j It was a Saturday papsr, but when it came
out on the following Tuesdry the sixty subscribers used
to rub their bands and say that the town was going
ahead at last. When it was ns late as Thursday, there
was no enthusiasm ; and when it didn’t come out at all
the population used to troop down to the slab btat
which it was printed, and poke bottles of soda-water
under the door. Well, on Wednesday, just as we had
jot the compositor sober, and were commencing a
paragraph about the editor of our Clermont contem-
porary haring been found speechless at the assizes, 10,
and behold, the first show that Copperfield had ever
seen arrived. It was a Variety Company of two—oon-
sisting of Dan Briggs and his wife When
Saturday came round, an " Extraordinary" about the
size of a blister was pasted outside the office, which
said—" Dan Briggs shows to-night, and two men have
been drowned in the dam. The two men being already
damned let them slide, and give Dan a bumper." A
week later ths following ad. illumed the columns of the
Rockhampton Bulletin :
“ Wanted, for a paper up North, a tober editor.
One used to tbe butchering preferred.”
This emanated from the bloated proprietor. A fort-
night afterwards the new editor arrived, and was duly
installed vice ourselves—dismissed. Bearing no malioe
to the "boss,” we undertook to stay a week and show
the new man the ropes. There had been no paper on
Saturday, and this was Monday. During the period we
coached the new editor, his condition was as follows:
Monday—tight; Tuesday—very drunk ; Wednesday—
suffering a recovery; Thursday—speechless; Friday—
raving; Saturday—" in the logs.” Then a deputation
of citizens waited on the proprietor and pointed out
that they had been so long without their paper that
they were hot only ignorant of the form of Government
under which they lived, but were completely in the
dark as to the political situation of Uruguay, upon
which the M iner had promised to enlighten them. Tbe
latest news that had reached the subscribers was that
the Shah of Proosia was at Berlin—which appeared to
bo his proper sphere—and that a mob of 20C0 “ weaners
had passed through the Peak Downs run. They de-
manded that we should be reinstated. And we were
and, every morning after that, we strolled round to the
shop where the new editor was "knockabout hand,”
and called out in derisive tones —“ Pound’n’arf of chops,
butchah ! ” That was sweet r-revenge!
* # #
Sir Henry Parkes recently paid a visit to Ten-
nyson, who, though supposed by many in Sydney to
live on the Parramatta River, really resides on the
Isle of Wight, which, for the benefit of R. Burdett, we
may state is a piece of land entirely surrounded by
water, a little to the south of H impshire, but upon all
points respecting how the name of Wight came to be
given to the island, we must be discreetly silent. Well,
on parting, the two poets exchanged adieus in verse.
Tennyson’s hasn’t come to hand yet, but here is what
Sir Henry crumpled into the Poet Laureate’s hand, as
his hair-trunk was being hoisted into the carrier’s cart,
the kitchen-chair being even then ready against the
wheel for him to mount by. All rights reserved ;
j iThis is how one company was started.
The promoter took some poor quartz t« an assayer.
Waiting on the assayer while at work he said, “,I have
a friend who wants about a five-ounce button of colonial
gold. I have some colonial sovereigns. How many
sovereigns are needed to make snch a button p” The
assayer, an indolent, if capable, man, replied, “Oh, ten
sovereigns will do.” “By Jove, I have them in a
pocket here. Melt them down for,me will you?"
“There’s the retort on the furnace now with a few
pennyweights in from that poor quartz of yours. Put
the sovereigns in yourself.” “ Very well.” He did so
The assayer made up a neat button, which included the
inflniteesimal genuine prospect and the sovereigns. The
promoter rushed up with this button to where his pro-
visional directors and dupes were sitting, and presented
it as the real yield from a ton of quartz. They believed
him. A strong company was formed, underground
workings were carried on for months at great expense,
and at last a trial crushing of 90 tons yielded 12 penny-
weights of gold. They are searching anxiously for that
promoter in the South-West (another colony) just at
present—searching with a warrant.
Mr. Jeff. Buckland, for 15 years stock and sta-
tion agent in Geelong, Vic., has arrived here, and in-
tends starting auctioneering, &c., in Sydney. Mr.
Buckland is a brother of Mr. Stephen Buckland, of the
well-known Geelong legal firm of Taylor, Buckland, and
Gates.
Port Macquarie thinks it has got the prize dog.
yarn. Here it is. A carpenter there had an animal
called Larry, who used to —we quote now—“carry tool
for him, take a letter home, and bring anything given
to him in return, as safely as any human being. His
owner, who was woiking at a house a couple of miles
out of town, had forgotten his screw-driver, so wrote
out a few lines to his wife, to give it to ‘Larry’ to bring
out for him. The dog went home, delivered the note,
got the tool, and started away on his return to his
master." Well, Larry stopped for a drink at a water
hole, and dropped the screw-driver in, and ha “ never
passed the hole subsequently without swimming in and
diving about a certain spot, or if half a-mile away, and
was asked where is the screw-driver, would trot away to
the water, and have a dive." How, this is very fair
so far as it goes, but we know a dog-story that lays
right over ic. Our dog belonged to a blind gentle-
man who lived in the country, and part of his duties
were to accompany his young mistress, atat 15, to tchocl
along a country road every day, and when she was
safely ensconced in the school-house to return home to
his master and bark. It came to pass, however, that
the young lady made the acquaintance of an alluring
youth one day, and he used to meet her every morning
and accompany her to the school. After about a week
of this, daring which the dog was much perplexed, it
happened one morning that bis mistress didn’t go to
school at all. The time arrived for Ponto to xua home
and bark, but there was his mistress sitting on a log
and chewing the young man’s ear. Suddenly the young
lady cr.el— “Good gracious, Alonzo, if the dog don’t
go home and bark. I'll get a taste of Pa’s crutch." So
Alonzo got up and pelted Fonto with bricks and sticks,
but all he gained by it was having to restore and repair
his pants with gum twigs. Then the young lady called
the dug, and, kneelii g down by his side, whispered in
his ear. Ponto saw how it was then, and immediately
tore home and barked violently. After this the young
lady always never went to school, and the dog, being in
the secret, always barked before the blind man exac.ly
at the proper time. Wo rather flitter ourselves that,
after this, Larry can go and hide his head where he
dropped the ecrew-driver. There nUI ba no further
enquiries after him.
THE CABMAN’S SOLILOQUY.
The cabby sits upon his perch.
His visage seared with care.
And eyes each heavy loaded car
With dark and dull despair.
With high displeasure doth he view
These snorting, screeching trams,)
Consigning drivers, cars, and all
To H 1 with wicked d ns.
And several other shocking words
Por which he’s safe to bum
When Satan gives his sinful soul
What “Larriks” call "a turn."
In hoarse and gutt'ral monotone
His woes he doth relate,
Apostrophising Fortune, and
The harsh decrees of Fate—
The gentleman who got out of the tram while it
was moving.
“ Why wos them things invented for
To rob ns coves of fares,
And stop us chargin’ fancy rates,
Which now we never dares ?
•• Why wos them blasted motors made
(Quite ever me it gits)
Except to frighten woman-kind.
And ’osse'! 'to fits ?
“No wonder I gats riled and oops
What •* tarries ” call the “ spike,”
Them tram-cars grind us cihmen down
And pulverise us like
•« That Juggernaut turn-out, of which
Them missionaries speaks,
(My lipshaint touched a jug o’ naught
Bat water, not for weeks!)
“ We never gets no chances, now,
Mora‘sugar’ to extort
From coves as wants our shandrydans,
Than what we really ort.
“ The times is past and gone when we.
With confidence, could arks
A cove a crown for drivin’ ’im
The length of both the Parks.
And laid itself caressingly
Alongside of his nose,)
"Lord! how we used to charge’em! well.
We hadn’ cause to growl.
Until them cussed snortin’ things
Came round here on the prowl.
“ A takin’ from us lawful prey,
An’ robbin’ us of bread—
’Egad. I think, I’ll go and smash
A tram-conductor’s head!
“ Or run my cab agin a tram.
And knock the thing to pot.
An’ make a bloomin’ holocaust
Of all the bloomin’ lot 1
«* It can’t be worse beyond the grave
Than things is gettin’ here,
With Hacts to regulate yer fares,
And Hacts to stop yer beer.
The lady who missed the tram.
“To take a trip above, I guess.
Would be a bloomin’ treat.
And, praps there ain’t no tram cars on
The bloomin’ jasper street.”
PARKES' ADIEU TO TENNYSON.
Illustrioia like thyself, and like thyself, a bard,
I part from thee—and fled that parting hard
But if ’tis hard, O, Tennyson! to me.
What pain my going must inflict on thee 1
But grief will not thee, brother, ill beseem,
For thou’st perused my “ Murmurs of the Stream.”
I, with thy “ Princess ” some hours did beguile,
Both masterpieces—in a different style.
Adieu 1 When nightingales their notes do trill,
’Midst whisp’ring airs of ev’nings still;
Or when, on break of day, do sing the larks.
Be joyful. For you’ve seen Sir Henry Parkes.
We’ve anticipated the Stdsey Mail this.time.
“ We liked a fare as didn’t drop
Down to our bloomin’ dart,
A suwney lookin’ country cove.
Or hunproteoted bark—
“ A sohool-girl oil a Manly boat,
As soft as mouldy cheese.
Young, bunsopbistioated 'ers.
As was without their 'es.
M And helderly hold fowls as got
Caught sudden in the cot —
O’ course we never charged 'em more
Than what we ought, you bet"
(We may remark, as he B&il this,
Hia grimy Auger racs :
MR. JOHN SEE, M.P.—(Seepage 10)


BRIEF MENTION.
The latest Nooze—Goitean’s.
Dram not that ye be not trammed.
John Davies’ political creed—Lemonade and
Orange aid.
Germany is the Fatherland of Teuton princes
and princease», England is their Fodderland.
On the 30th June, at his residence, Sing Sing,
suddenly, of asphyxiated funnambnlation, Charles
Galtean, Esquire, C.M.G.
“ What a fine Frenchman hi would ’ave made,”
remarked Onr Henry on landing in Belgium; “ no
'orrible haitches to puzzle me."
The last words of Guiteau : “ The thought that
the Town and Country may engrave my portrait
makes death inexpressibly bitter."
Something for Mr. Goodchap to paste on his
nose-nippers :—Attach a sleeping-car—or a policeman—
to Waverlev trams leaving town after 7 p.m.
There was a clean charge-sheet at Parramatta
the other morning. This was a source of annoyance to
the reporters, because it made them think of break-
fast.
The Wesleyan Advocate says the brothel is
the road to hell, and the theatre is the road to the
brothel. What a venerable old macquereau Bishop
Moorhouse must therefore be I
“ What a splendid driver he is,” she exclaimed
as he bowled along the King-street cubes in the Con-
cord buggy behind the bay pair. “ No wonder, his
father was coachman to " -but, no, yon don't.
A sweet young bachelor preaching in a suburban
church, the other evening, on " Christian love,"
brought two souls together, and left them “ melting
like two dew-drops in the heart of a buttercup 1"
Salah!
The editor of the Wesleyan Advocate re-
joices that " hell and damnation " are still left in the
Bible. As an editor, what a consolation this mnst be
to him I Else what woold become of
nd poets
The coronation of the Czar has been once more
put off, Moscow being so unpleasantly mined that
Alexander can't go there. It la believed in well-
informed circles that his Majesty will eventually be
crowned at Dubbo.
They’re getting moral on the Palmer. A land-
lady, recently, was “cautioned” for allowing singing
in her house after 12 o’clock. If they go on being as
strict as this you won't be able to kill a man there soon*
let alone steal a horse.
A young man in Church-street, Parramatta, is
six feet eight inches high, and weighs a trifle over a
hundred pounds. They jndge by his appetite that he
is hollow clear down, and think of amputating one foot
and using him as a stove pipe.
If you want to know how Schopenhauer, the
Pessimist, judged of the constitution of the universe,
gaze earnestly on the lower lip of an aged 'bus horse.
Yon needn’t read Schopenhauer, nor hear the Bev.
Joseph Cook lecture on him.
From the Evening Shadow Probably the
editor of Die Freheit merited hanging just as well as
Gniteau. Both were partly mad, probably (sic). This
is called “ Table Talk;" but it’s a good deal more like
Under the Table Talk—“ probably."
A German named Jahr has invented moonlight
photography. He’d make a fortune by trotting his
apparatus round Hyde Park seats of a night. The
pictures would be invaluable to fellows who want to
hug their best girl, and don't know how to do it.
RE EANDWICK.
'Twas mean to grab the tickets, John,
That certainly is true;
But t’other took the lunches, and
He took the tickets too.
Two young Hebrews went to look at the Fish
Market, the other day, and stood behind Mr. Seymour,
who was selling. “Now these black-bream are all di<>.
posed of, what shall we say for these small Jews ? ’
Then the Inspector turned round, but they were gone.
With rage the Morning Gaeran fires,
And'yells “ O Eum, you steal my wires
While sneeringly the Bum retorts —
“ Don’t, talk, for you crib my reports !"
While Alfred grins, for’t does befall
He grabs the wires, reports, and all.
When a Parramatta reporter returned to his
hash-house after the Bitchie banquet, on Wednesday, he
called his landlady and said that he wouldn’t wont any
more board that week. He subsequently retired to
rest with his bell-topper on and an umbrella under hia
arm.
Quid-nuncs says that at a private interview
between Leopold and ’Eary, the former showed the
latter how handling iron could be done so as to produce
brass,—and as the Alderman’s daughter in “ Crutch
and Toothpick" observes: “ It can all be done on
paper."
Enquires “Wrecker”:—“How on earth can
the managing authorities of Prince Alfred Hospital
hope to secure for the salary of £450 per annum such a
person in the capacity of Medical Superintendent as
will command by nis professional status the confidence
of the community?”
A Rockhampton alderman is to be seen going
forth every morning with a bottle of rum in one band
a nd a kettle of boiling water in the other. The kettle
of boiling water is to warm up the lagoon a bit ere
taking a header. Who says now that a a occasional
City Father doesn’t wash himself ?
Queensland rum levels all ranks. As a proof
of this, a well-known judge was seen walking down a
main street arm-in-arm with a man who, some lew
years back, received at the hands of the aforesaid
judge, a two years’ sentence for borrowing a horse
without first obtaining the owner's consent.
The ignorance which prevails among well-
informed people in England relative to Australia and
N.Z., is almost inexplicable We read the latest bull lu
Figaro thus: —“ It is said that Canon Mason, of
Truro, will bo the new bishop of Adelaide. In that
case the gain of New South Wales (stc) will be the loss
of Cornwall."
“Mr. Blank, S.M., complimented Mr. So-and-
So ’’—etc.
THE HONEST PAWNBROKER.
I cannot take it in, ma front,
I can’t upon my shoul;
Some monish, ’course, I uould have lent.
But, den, I know it’s stole.
We have just received from the publisher,
Halwiok, of Cincinnati, U.S., a piece of music, “ The
Verdict March,” which has the title page embellished
with portraits of the judge and jury who tried Guiteau.
This gives ns the idea of publishing a Libel Verdict
March of our own, and we’ll get Signor Giammona to
eompose for it music as like the Eogqe’s March as the
libel law will permit.
At a meeting of the Victorian L.V. Association,
Mr. Cody said that the numbers of the Beohabites were
multiplied in a fearful and wonderful way. He knew of
one youngster who figured as six converts on the cold
water rolls. The secret of the matter was that he got
a blue ribbon every time he renounced alcohol, and this
consideration had led the enterprising juvenile to take
the pledge six times I
“Sir William Manning, whilst felling a tree, out
his hand severely with the axo." This is what some ®f
the country papers say. But we are told that the
trouble occurred while he was trying to “ joint ” the
nbe of mutton for breakfast. It’s no good. Judge,
your trying to pose as the People’s William. Yon’li
only cut yenr fingers. You wield the axe as awkwardly
M Jon wield the sword of justice.
At Roma (Q.) recently, the Mayor and an Aider-
man had a stand-up fight at the Town Hall. The
“5 ,a ’J°il had to adjourn while the fight was going on, as
the Mayor was a good deal mors under the chair than
After a bit, however, the b tile was stopped and
ofi? Proceedings were resumed, the Alderman wearing
«fibs. of steak over his left opiio, and his Worship
saving a heed on him like a forty-shilling fish-globe.
Resident:! of the Shoalhaven district who rank
£519ug the “great unpaid ” are so proud of their posi-
tion that whenever they sign a memorial to the Govern-
memt, or subscribe their name to a letter in the local
*!*?***» invariably flourish the magical letters,
/Jufl* j , „ ls reminds one of the Ballarat dairyman
(elected to Parliament because he was the only man who
promlwd to support Berry) who got his name, etc.,
painted on his dray thus: “ John Bird, Esq.. M.L.A.”
* P-the Hon. John Colton was animadverting
in the S.A. Assembly upon the evils of juvenile smoking
and all kinds of intemperance, Mr. Gilbert, another
non, member, during a pause, pushed a glass of water
over to him. “No, thank you,” was the reply; “I
sever take water." This brought down the ’Ouse;
though Colton only meant that his oratory never
heeded lubrication. It needs something, however.
Pxaps a leetle whisky would rouse up his parsonic
drawl.
The Yass Courier saya, apropos to the
Hkbalb article on the “epidemic of obscenity spread-
ing over the colonies," that the larrikin isn’t solely
responsible for the “trouble." When KC.M.G’s
heady beastly jokes, and the dons of the “ wealthy
lower orders" repeat with gusto the foulest smut, is it
any wonder that the roughs should indulge in similar
luxuries ?” Any reform of the admitted evil mnst be
from above downwards. Now, gentle public, at what
great stateman is this aimed P
Christmas has come again once more. At least
. ~u p Yfest, for a certain scribe dashes neatly off
the following gem “On Tuesday last the ordinary
.quiet of our little town was roused by. the fact of two
ofl kh Harper and Jas. Walton, having committed
suicide. Harper shot himself dead, bat Walton only
partly succeeded. Both men were brought before the
Court on Friday, and fully committed for trial.” Can
anyone cure drunkenness in six easy lessons ? It so
send along the paste-board.
On the Narran, when a man is sacked at a
moment’s notice, they say he is “ speared." A station
hand had been having a long drank, but when he showed
up at the station again, the manager was all sweetness.
This was too much like the cannibals who feed a fellow
nice and fat so that ha’ll eat all the better. But the
B.H. wasn t to be had. Going np to the boss, he
observed with an insinuating grin, “ You’d spear me,
eh ? ( No yon don’t. I want a settlement at once;
you’re not going to come the sudden death dodge on me.”
The boss settled.
Sir ’Enry has once more been presented with
the Wolverene, but what his inspired oration was like
this time is not recorded. The case was one of “Much
Ado About Nothing,” and, aa Sir John would say.
Good man, Parkes, my Lords; speaks a little off the
matter, my Lords; and bis wits are not blnnt, as, God
“®lp» I would desire they were, but, in faith, honest as
•he skin between bis brows.” Parkes; “Yes; I thank
am the honestest man in this world—that is, for
an old man, and no honester than myself about.”
'Eeald says that one chief result of Sir
. ar y. B ™ England •• will doubtless be the disse-
mutation of more accurate information concerning
these colonies in oiroles where a knowledge of colonial
affairs may be productive of bo little good to the
colonies.” Sir ’Enry only talked abont the If ego, and
not the colonies. We should say that the chief result
of his visit will he “ the dissemination of inaccurate
information concerning our Premier in circles where a
knowledge of the kind of hairpin he is would be pro-
ductive of , &o.
Some ef the Christchurch Fayre crowd have
arrived. Prom what we can gather of the success of
the speo, yon have only to walk down the street in
Christchurch now, and whisper the words ‘ Olde
Englysshe Fayre ” into the ear of a tradesman, and ho
borrows the jawbone of an ass from his nearest neigh-
bour, and slaughters you out of hand. Herr Heller
has stayed behind, and is occupying his leisure time by
papering his lodgings with local court summonses.
He will stay there, we suppose, till ho is wanted by
Father Mahoney—(or another fayre.
Bead this, from the other day’s Herald ;
‘Wanted, two young lady Helps, to wsdertake all the
domestic duties of a family residing at Nob’s Hill.
•Apply/' etc, “All the domestic duties,” eh? Well,
this will come rather stiff on the lady “helps.” We
sngpose they are called lady helps here because they
Win kelp each ether to wash the kids, cook the dinner,
sornb the washes, and shave the old man. In this
establishment alia maid of-all-work would have to do
would ha to trim her Sunday bonnet and practise on
the planner. The “ lady helps ” would do the rest.
A party by the name of Johnson, intimates
the Shoalhaven Watson, has commenced to practice
as a solicitor in Shoalhaven, and that patriarchial
Valentine considers him to be “a man that will hold his
amongst the community in which he has cast his
lot.” This is good. So long as he is content with
simply holding his own he should thrive. But how
few lawyers are content with that! Not but that many
attorneys we know, besides holding other people’s, hold
their own too with a tenacity of clutch which casts
gloom in the heart of the confiding Chinaman, and
withers up the soul of the small grocer.
At Adelong, according to. the local Times, they
use the surface as well as the strata. The necropolis is
in great demand as a pig-run. The Tumut George
Washington also says that—“ Mr. R. Bear has just
had killed a splendid, pure bred Berkshire sow. twelve-
months old, which weighed 2671 b., and exhibited a
mixture of streaky fat and lean that would charm all
lovers of savory bacon and ham.” We hope it wasn’t
fed on the Dear departed. The Maories assert that
human flesh bears the strongest resemblance to pork
—so much so that they term barbecued pakeha “long
pig.” We’d like to try a Maori with some Adelong
graveyard pork.
The attendants in our Lunatic Asylums are
expected to be men of good average intelligence, with
kindly hearts, strong arms, and a rare command over
their temper—even more than an editor has when a
“ child from the land of song” plants his instrument of
torture under his window, and jerks out “Madame
Angot.” The attendants receive from 30s. to £2 per
week, with board; but as many of them have small
wives and large families to drag up they seldom endow
hospitals, or make such guys of themselves as Sir
Sammy Wilson does. It is said there are men in some
asylums now who, after twenty years’ service, receive
the munificent sum of forty “bob” per week. We will
be much surprised to hear this contradicted.
We read that Sir Horatio Wraxall, Bart., author
of “Wild Oats,” recently died in the Wandsworth panper
Lunatic Asylum, whither he had been removed from
the Southwark Workhouse. Why, what could specu-
lators have been about ? Supposing he was a pauper
what of that ? Nine-tenths of the haw-haws in gaiters
who visit these shores from England are in the same
predicament. And as for being a little “ off his onion,”
why that would have been a point in the baronet’s favour
had he been put up for selection in the Australian matri-
monial market. We wish we had known. We'd have
paid his passage out ourselves, and “ stood in ” with
the Darling Point dowager.
The Queanbeyan Gale saya that Professor
Armand recently mesmerised a magpie there, and
that “it stood on its head, lay on its back, held a
lighted vesta in its month, and was made to do many
other curious things, to the great amusement of the
spectators. The bird was subsequently destroyed, as
from experience the professor has found that small
animals so mesmerised never recover their wonted
health.” We are sorry that bird was destroyed. We
should like to have seen it. We have given the story,
however. It differs only from most of such little
anecdotes in this particular : Most of them lie in a nut-
shell. This one lies in an Armand.
The Australian, a wonderful Roman Catholic
journal published in Brisbane, says that Garibaldi’s
intellectual powers were low, his utterances vile and
coarse, and everything about h'tn—even to his boots—
< f the worst sort. Now, we winder who writes for the
Australian? Probably a gentleman from Connemara
who wears in boots, is 57 inches round the
waist, has hair on his teeth, speaks no languages but
Latin and Irish, and had for his father a man whose
two sons became—one a priest, and the other a police-
man. A gentleman, in short, who bathes too much in
supernatural light and too little in zino-tubs. We hope
shortly to hear his opinions concerning pork sausages
and the comat.
Mr. Milford,'solicitor, (who has a libel action
against Tbadeus O’Kane) said in the local courthouse
the other day that Tbadens was a “ lunatic, and the
only fit place for him was an asylum." The old warrior
replies thus : —“ Mr. Milford, some five years ago, wrote
up from Rockhampton, where he was then on the
■ ahookrawn,' to the ‘lunatic’ O’Kane, on Charters
Towers, asking if there was any opening for him on
Charters Towers; that lunatic stated in reply in the
columns of the Northern Miner that ‘ there were
several good openings, rather deep though—loo feet or
so, and the miners would be likely to drop him into the
first ha met.’ _ Mr. Milford ‘ dropped’ to the deep shaft
lunacy, and did not Charters Towers then."
What a sly prelate Dr. Vaughan is. Bead this
advt., which is from the Daily Northern Argus .
“ For Sale.—A splendid hooded carriage, nearly new ;
built especially for Archbishop Vaughan, at a cost of
one hundred and eighty guineas. The price of the
vehicle, which will arrive by the Keilawarra, is ono
hundred pounds, and a bargain."—
Ye faithful, rally to a faithful man.
And quickly save his Grace’s shandrydan :
To think that car which he has graced—oh, zounds, —
Should be knocked down for just five score of pounds 1
And, perhaps, the seat on which that form has sat.
Will lolled on be by some vile butcher fat.
Or some dull grocer brimming o’er with pelf;
Or, worse—p’haps by the auctioneer himself.
Oh, horror! sacrilege I despair! disgrace I
Quick, faithful, save the chariot of his Grace.
The local brass band at Hay is in the sulks
because the Permanent Artillery earthquake has been
ordered up from Sydney to head the procession at the
opening of the railway. The cornet goes about drink-
ing beer out of the big end of his instrument, with a
gloomy countenance, and when the big drum is at home
in the bosom of his family, he bites savagely at his
bread, and expresses a wish to wring the head off that
blank canary. The trombone is also despondent, and
when he drive* round delivering his bread in the morn-
ing, there is a gleam of latent fury iu his eye. He
washes out the insult upon him and his fellow musi-
cians|in a decoction of alum, daily. When the Per-
manent Artillery boys arrive they had better be ou
their mottle. There will bejcritios and curses in the
crowd.
Where’s the beadle ? There’s a traitor in Bur-
rowa. At a football dinner there, the following pro-
ceedings, according to the Local Burhns, took place :
—“The chairman of the meeting said it was the first
time in his life he had had the pleasure of presiding at
so interesting [very interestingj a meeting of foot-
ballers. He had great pleasure in proposing the health
of the Barrangong . Mr. O’Brien' here interjected
that the Queen should be toasted." We trust, and wo
are sure this feeling will be echoed by every loyal and
right-thinking person in the community, that an ex-
emplary punishment should soon overtake the pro-
pagator of this outrageous suggestion. Such a senti-
ment could only emanate from a parson after drinking
football-dinner sherry or reading a loyal leader in the
Daily T.
The wife of a wealthy Back-Blocks squatter had
vegetated all her life in the bush, and had never seen
what the Evunooze calls a "death-dealing, blood-
drinking Juggernaut ’’—we mean, a train. She recently
determined to visit Sydney, and landed safely from one
of Cobb’s coaches at Orange. She perched herself
comfortably upon a seat in what she thought was tha
train, of which she had heard wonders—and waited.
After an hour or two, the guard looked in, and she
innocently inquired: *• Are we nearing the ‘ big smoke ’
yet ? How smoothly these trains do run, to be sure.”
The guard bolted for a policeman, and it soon took all
the lady’s time to explain that she wasn’t luney, but
had never seen a train before, and so couldn’t be ex-
pected to know a waiting-room from the addendum to a
bullgine. Pact.
During a crowded Orange meeting at Lambton
recently, a fiend in human form—probably a Jesuit—
blew some cayenne pepper through a crack in the door.
The effect that ensued was electrical. One man pnt
his hat on so as to be able to sneeze with both hands
when he gave such a violent “ God bless you,” that his
hat was sent right in the Chairman’s abdomen. A well-
known lady sneezed her bonnet up into the gallery, and
a gentleman who " was high up in the black” went off
with such a bang that the people at Wallsend all gos
out their glasses to look for the Russians. While ono
lady was in a paroxysm, her brother bitterly remarked
that though the meeting had come together to celebrate
William of)Orange, it seemed to partake a good deal
more of the element of Julia Sneezer. After this re-
mark the proceedings broke up in confusion, and the
company.snozed themselves away.
More heard lately from Mannanarie (S.A), con-
cerning the blessings of civilization. Two drunken
white men met a poor black child of the forest and gave
him a bottle of rum and a bottle of biandy. Spirits are
fearfully adulterated in the S.A. bush, and the quantity
of fusel oil which that unfortunate blackfellow must
have imbibed by the time he lay down to sleep before a
large fire would have killed anybody but a nigger or
tha late Mr. I. Boosey. Anyway, when the black-
fellow awoke, he found himself unable to stand, and
noticed that a good part of both legs had been burned
away. By the time a doctor saw him, mortification had
set in, and farther civilization in the shaae of a hos-
pital and medical science were useless to prevent the
employment of that last point of nineteenth century
development—a cheap funeral. They have carven on
his tombstone, "Maybe jump up a white man!" A
most irrational aspiration.
Mr. Purves, the eminent Victorian barrister
holds with Chief. Justice Hale that to be called a fool is
no hbehbecause you may be only as your Maker has made
yon. Prom out the Almighty’s pottery, issue cracked
goods—idiots, born scoundrels with helmet-shaped
skulls and foreheads which begin at the eyebrows and
slope at an angle of 60 to the poll. Now, if a man be a
scoundrel as his Creator made him—and no one can
deny that there are born scoundrels, just as there are
born idiots (sooundrelism being a mitigated form of
idiocy, or with the characteristic cunning strongly de-
veloped, and ferocity occasionally added)—what becomes
of the contention of Mr. Purves and Chief Justice
Hale when wo “libel” some compensation-grabbing
politician, a Town-hall schemer, after having satisfied
ourselves by a study of his physiognomy that he can’t
help being a scoundrel? By parity of reasoning, we
should go free. We can name at least a dozen public
men in Sydney who bear tha word " scoundrel” written
on their foreheads, and endorsed by the.r known, vet
legally improvable, villainies.
A powerful picture of Garibaldi was lately pub-
lished in a New Zealand paper. We have this picture
in our hand now. Prom the front it looks like a fore-
shortened German sausage, with an Evening News man
m the distance. Sideways it seems to be a mixture of a
hungry dog gnawing a bone, and a three-legged frog
wallowing in a pool of gore. Diagonally it is the
dead spit of a blackfellow whose face has been
mashed up in a saw-mill. Upside down it is a happy
blending of bloody battle and the maiden’s prayer Wo
now understand how it was that the Liberator of ’ltaly
was able to strike terror into the hearts of his foes
No man could look upon his face and live it this hob.*
goblin picture is anything like him. But, as we con-
tinned to gaze upon it. a smile of joy ploughed rouiid
our ears and a tear for old times trickled ont of either
eagle eye. We recognised the old familiar block under
its thin disguise. Sixty years ago, whan we were
children, the girls ef that time used to scare us with a
horrible picture of a hanged man’s head. Old block
Then, in later years, it went upon the batter round the
colonies, acting, now as a " aiagram of the head of tha
sea-serpent," now as a “ sketch of the winner of tha
Cup, taken on the spot." The last time we saw it it
represented the face of a small-pox corpse. If they
don’t anchor the remains of old Giuseppe pretty fast
in Caprera he’ll bora right through the earth and
smash up that New Zealand editor.
Hold on to the sunflower, children, and get a
firm grip of the lily, for now we are going to write about
Art Cntios say that tha art of the present day is
pretty, but attenuated as compared with tha erand
breadth and noble purity of the art of the Renaissance
We are going to explain how this is. You see the Old
Masters had faith—which is love—and the sublimest of
all stones to take their subjects from. Hence the noble
ness of their work; hence also, in a great measure, not-'
withstanding any theory of technical progression, their
purity of tone and colouring. Are the painter- of the
present day behind them in genius ? We hardly think
so. In results? If so .it is the fault of the painters
?. f «Sh h | n preS # 0n i t u da ?.- B ? hold * JJor<? paints a
Shadow of the Cross, or Muncacsky a “Christ
before Pilate.” are they far behind Raphael or a
Leonardo di\mci? They are, for one reason only-
want of love, which is faith. If these latter days had
any divine revelation to thrill the hearts of all man
the painter would paint a picture and the poet sine a
song such as the world has not seen or heard. So much
ror art. This is only a curious addendum. Christ was
a Jew. Any Civil servant will tell you what the Jewish
type of face is. And yet all painters represent the
Redeemer with a straight nose, fair complexion
hair approaching to red, and a semi-Yankee beard’
We know there is an old tradition justifying this’
Anyhow, the fact that the Saviour of Mankind would
not even assume a Semitic face is the roughest comment
upon the Jewish World paragraph about the physical
superiority of tha chosen race that we have yet seer
THE GOVERNMENT IS NOW POWERFULLY SUPPORTED BY A NEWSPAPER OF
GREAT VIGOR AND SPLENDID CIRCULATION


RILEY BROTT
386 GEORGE STREET,-)
600 GEORGE STREET, S
165 OXFORD STREET.)
BATHURST,
QOULBURN.
NEWCAS
AND
10 COLEMAN BTREEI
THE CHEAPEST I
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COI
THE ORIGINATOR
NOTED £5 BA
JBS Family Bale.
1 pair Whit# or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
£ yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wineey, Print, or
other Dress material
• yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs W omen's Stockings
8 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
21 yards Qambroon for
scrapping
5 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
S yards strong Osnahurg
1 Linen Da or ask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
J doe. Pooket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons. Buttons, Hooka
and Eyes, &o. 40.
Mo
2 Lad
2 Lad
2 pail
1 Led
1 pair
1 Lad
2 pail
1 Lad
4 Infs
2 Infa
2 Infa
1 Infa
M
2 Infa
1 Infa
i dozi
c,
Puff b
1 Plai
2 Bib!
1 pair
1 Infa
1 In
Sc
Oi
1 Ir
H
£5
1 rai
1 larj
10 ynr
20 yar
12 Str
20 Wi
10 goo
6 yar
A 1
wearir
JO5 Men’s Clothing
Bate.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sere, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 beat Pelt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies' Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies' Camisoles
2 Ladies' Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above arc made of
good longoloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
£5
1 pai:
1 whi
5 yar
10 wh
Ca
6 whi
12 yar
12 yar
4 pall
1 paii
1 Dai
6 strc
6 Bro
4 lar*
3 yar
T i
Th
£5 I
25 yds,
3 yar«
1 dozi
1 Bla<
1 Lad
1 Trir
1 pair
Cai
RILEY BROT
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants' Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Haircord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 I
er
1 Hand
Long
riohl
1 Infan
Squa
silk
1 Infan
Silk]
Can
£2 Stockman’s £2 1
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trc sera 2 Nighi
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chem
Anti-fat —Salomons, Q.C.
Sound the trumpets ! Another country concert-
At Camden, this time, either in aid of the R.O. Presby-
tery or to Lalf-sole the poundkeeper's boots, we forget
which. We learn that “ The opening number, 4 Barney
O’Hea,* was sung by Mrs. Curran." Also that, “in her
second tong, ‘ I have ever a welcome for thee,’ Mrs.
Curran > bowed very great power and depth of expres-
sion. ’* Further, that “ a duet, ‘ The Gipsy Countess,’
with Mrs. Curran, which gained both ladies an enthu-
siastic recall, introduced Miss Handley to her audience."
Et apres que, "Mr. Curran sang two songs in his best
styloa state of things which inclines us somehow to
the idea that the nameof Curran is rather too frequently
00-Cnrran. Subsequently, continues the local rasper,
“In a scene from • Henry the Fifth,’ Mr. Denneen, who
is the JEUHE premiere (sic) of the Picton Amateurs,
spoke the words set down for Prince Hal.” This,
while it is a fair sample of Camden French, is not a
particularly brilliant specimen of thi language. But,
though it is only indifferent Gallic, it might, for all wo
know or eare, he magnificent Carribbee.
The Echo is giving its readers a new tale, en-
titled “ The Knightsbridge Mystery," by Charles
Beade, who, alter a rest from li'erary labours for two
or three years, has re-entered the field of fiotion, and
has contracted “to write good stories such as business
men can read." Further, •• the sole right of publica-
tion in New South Wales has been put chafed by the
proprietors of the Echo." Now, all we want to say is
that this “new novel" of “The Knightsbridge Mys-
tery " is nothing less than “ The Murder at the Swan
Inn, Knightsbridge” hashed up in a different form.
The author of the latter wrote before 1859 under the
pseudonym of “ Waters," and was popularly believed
to be Dr. W. Howard Bussell, the Crimean War corres-
pondent cf the London Times. The story appeared in
“Waters”’ wors of “ Tracicions of London," and,
singularly enough, Charles Beade is writing it as the
first of a collection of “Good Stories" The inference
from these facts is plain. The Echo is selling—
wittingly or unwittingly—second-hand goods as new.
Now for Charles Beade. Heis either "Waters,” or ho
is not If he is, ho is perpetrating the foolery of rob-
bing his own till. If he is not, he is pirating an
anonymous author’s productions Any way, the story
is stale. In “The Knightsbridge Mysterr," the
characters in “The Murderat the Swan Inn, Knights-
bridge’’have only their names changed, while the se-
quence of the nsrrative has been jumbled. Captain
Halkin is called Captain Goner; Mrs. Whitchurch is
dubbed Dame Gust ; Susan Uaiues is transferred into
Barbara; Peter Swartz into Daniel Cox; Dobson
and Co., into Brown, Molyneaux and Co.: and a
" Colonel Barrington ’’ has been invented. If this is
the sort of second-hand slop-work the sole right of pub-
lication of which the proprietor* of the Echo think
proper to purchase, James ought to have been a rag and-
Done dealer or a buyer of left-off wearing apparel.
Mr. John See, M.P.
The portrait we give this week on page 4 will be
recognised as that of a man widely known to the
trading community of these colonies. The firm
of Messrs. Nipper and See have done much to
develope the present great produce trade on the
Northern coast of N.S.W., and their enterprise
has done an equal amount of good in an inter-
colonial sense. With the aid of several first-class
steamers, they have bridged the distance between
the agricultural porta of the three colonies, and
have to a considerable extent thrown open the
markets of the two great capitals to the pro-
ducers of those colonies. Mr. See has been per-
sonally identified with the improved condition of
affairs in this respect whioh exists in our own
colony. He is a man of considerable business
judgment, and has a wide acquaintance with our
wants and capabilities. He is likewise a man of
character and purpose, certain to exercise mnoh
personal influence in whatever circle he moves.
Mr. See is a native of Huntingdonshire,
England, and was born in November, 1845. His
people came to the colony in 1853, and
settled in the Hunter. In 1861, they removed to
the Clarence, where they engaged in agricultural
pursuits till 1865. Throughout those periods,
though fully occupied in the practical work of the
settler, the important work of a sound and useful
education for the family was not overlooked, and
when, in 1865, Mr. See came to Sydney, he was
able, in conjunction with Mr. Nipper, to start the
business which they now conduct. At the time
first mentioned, there was much’ cause for loud
complaints on the part of the producers, and there
was a great call for a firm which would energeti-
cally conduct the local business, and open up
fresh markets for our productions. Messrs.
Nipper and See, with others, supplied this want,
and a great impetus has consequently been given
to Northern settlement. In 1870, Messrs. Nipper
and See opened a branch at Melbourne, Mr. Nipper
taking the management, and the firm now have
branches at the Clarence, the Manning, Warrnam-
bool, Belfast, and Tasmania. They have a line of
theix own steamers running to each of the places
mentioned, 'i he ramifications of the business may
thus be estimated. In 1830 and the following year,
Mr. See was elected Mayor of Rand wick and is still
an alderman. Four years ago he was nominated
to the Commission of the Peace. Last general
election, Mr. See was triumphantly elected for
Grafton, one of the most important constituencies
outside the metropolis. Though but a brief period
in political life, Mr. See has made his influence
felt. He has been an observant and a working
member rather than a demonstrative one. He has
spoken bnt seldom. He was, however, to the front
during the debate on the i reasurer’a financing,
and ably sketched some new departures that
sooner or later must be taken np. as*local man,
Mr. See has done great practical service to his
district, and silenced bitter complaints of maty
years’ standing. For a long time Grafton has been
the northern biverina in respect of Governmental
ignorance and negligence, and frequent have been
the demands for separation Fearless and capable
advocacy of fair representation tor a district so
situated must be a valuable public service. Mr.
See is a free-trader, and favours local self govern-
ment. Political conuption finds in him an im-
placable assailant. Ha favours, locally, the
Grafton railway scheme, and contends that the
work cannot longer be delayed. Mr. See is a
Hrectorof the H. R. N. S. N. Company, whose
line steamer Maitland had a trial trip last Satur-
day. [Photo by Freeman of George-street.}
"'A sister of Mr. Burko, so foully aasasinated in
• ’ cenix Park, Dublin, rrsides in Sydney, and has noth-
-1 a to live on l>u a rsisera ilv small annuity obtained
■i 'Uterly from one or our 1 *cal Lifw Uffl es. Her mur-
■ . red brother was her tola support. Now, Irishmen!
This is shocking We are so glad that we have
n ithine I ke it in New South Wales. Mr hi J. Dixon,
.. aex.M.P. of Victoria, recently told a Frahran audi-
• "ce the following amnsUg reminiscences of his public
life:—“ Sometimes I would hav« to remain in the
louse until 3 o’clock in tbe morning, and when I got
home an went to bed, the bell would violently awake
,ue at about 5, and a constituent would enter with the
ol serration, ‘ I sav, you know you're our member, come
and bail out my wife; she’s in trouble down at tne lock-
up.’ Then every State school teacher in my district
wrote daily to assure me tnat his merits bad been over-
looked by tbe Education Deportment, and that be was
jnstiy entitled to the largest and most lucrative school
iu the country. Also ev».ry charitable institution
from the Munay to the southern ocean kept continu-
ally informing me of its u jfonunate pecuniary position,
and gracefully suggesting that I should set a good and
and generous example to my brother members. At
election time there was not a single public-house in that
thickly-peopUd locality ihat did not consider itself in-
sulted if I, as a candidate, did rot pay a personal
visit and shoot for all the unwashed hands in the
bar,”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondente who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Grenichenx”; Your lively yarn will appear
next issue “Argus”: Will read your letter and go
into the matter “ Woolly-head” : We don’t see the
drift of it “ J.J.” (Tumut): We don t deal in such
things “A.BC.”: Lively and most acceptable
“Nowra” : Glad tohearfromyou “Susie” (Kiama):
The individuals are identical “Snag"; Thank you.
“W.B.T.”: Someof it a deal too lively “Starry
Night”: (1). If suitable we shall he glad to receive
them. (2). No charge, of course “ Lyncseus” : Too
sweeping a generalisation upon, apparently, a particular
case; would hit honest equally with dishonest; no dis-
criminative clauses “ Bells of St. Mary’s” : A good
idea “ B.” : Will publish next week “ Booligal ’’:
We don t print that kind of thing “G.H.”: Many
thank* “ Peter Sham ”: Will consider “ Cooey " :
We’re crowded now, and so must hold over
“W. W.”: It issues from the Government Printing
Office. Perhaps we’ll say something about it
“ d.W.”: A dehcate subject “Baron and Kaight":
Net being lawyers, we can’t understand magisterial
vagaries. Your only remedy is to butt at the law again
—rebut, as it were. It’s poor advice; but we can’t give
better—in N.S. Woles, unless we want to die in gaol
“JS.B.”: Excellent “Susie": The “ succulent
Australian herb" of which the “ grass-eating” million-
aire is said to be so fond is probably hog weed (Hera-
cleum), commonly called “kiesh” in Scotland. Or “Fat-
hen,'* whioh is extensively used by some basbmen as a
substitute for spinach "Thorax": If these six re-
fined and much-educated gentlemen attend the trial, we
suppose it is by leaveof the heads of their departments,
“ J R.” (Ashtteld): Write to the Council; we have
not room for letters about that sort of thing “ J.V.”
(Bandwick): We believe the politician referred to did
go to Dr Simms to have bis face read, and the docter
returned his fee—he coaid find no expression whatever.
•• T.M..” ( iing-streetl ; Undoubtedly, depriving
oue’seelf of nutrition and wearing hair shirts have for
centuries been powerful persuasives with the Almighty
to re-adjust things “Austral”: She is 5688 tons,
and has worked up to 7000 horso-power. The average
speed from Plymouth to Melbourne was 15 knots, bnt
on emergency she can steam 18 knots “Anankee”:
Every paper in this and every other civilised country
has at one time.or other printed that venerable yarn
“Stray Leaves": Thanks “Observer": Thanks,
it’s a pleasure to read your writing; bnt a par. was
already in type." ‘ Phona”: Will look at items
next week “South”: We won’t “split,” old man.
[Our available space being this w«ek unusually taxed,
we are compelled to leave unnoticed a large number of
communications, which, however, will be attended to
in next issue.]
"GALLOWS HUMOUR.”
MRS. SPILLANE’S HENROOST.
The confession of Margaret Spillane, who mur-
dered Michael Irwin at Toowoomba tbe other night,
reads like a mixture of the lamentations of the damned
and the ghastly wheezes of a corpse-corner-man in a
Sheeted Dead Minstrel Show. We have net heard
either, of these things—and don’t want to—but we can
imagine them, and we put oor money upon Mr*. Spil-
lane s confession if it comes to betting whioh is the
more horrible. The humour of it is luridly Irish, and
opens for u* a crevice in the dove-tailed edifice of races,
through whioh we can see the origines of the Green
Isle in the days of their primal simplicity, before they
were debased by contact with the blood-thirsty Saxon,
and had to get behind a hedge to shoot a landlord. The
confession is partly addressed to the court, partly to
the dead man, with au aside to the Almighty thrown in
now and then. “ Oh, God, have mercy !” she cries out
in one place; and immediately alter remarks, with
eav.ige irony, “ I did it and he did not apeak ’’ —meaning
Michael Irwin. We hardly suppose he did—after this
Scythian hag bad done with him. Then the goes on to
say that she mistook Michael for a Chinaman who had
come to rob her fowl-house. It seems almost like a
judgment upon Michael, anyhow, for letting him-
self down to the level of a flat-faced, cholera-com-
plexioned Mongol for the sake of stealing a couple of
roosters. Why didn’t he come boldly down in the day-
light and say that Father M’Clattherdufly was
going to have a little whisky and card-party “for
the glory of Qahd,” and wanted his dearly-be-
loved daughter, Margaret Spillane, to contribute
a pair of pullets Michael Irwin to collect f
Then, it Micky had been killed, he would have been
practising soalt s on an aluminium harp by this time
instead —Mrs. Spillane supplies tl-.e finish of this sen-
tence : “I got up and dragged him by the leg, and the
devil helped me to drag him.” Then this cheerful
murderess apostrophises her victim and abase* him
for his meanness: “Oh, Michael, I didn’t think you
so mean as to go to my fowl-house for the sake of a few
paltry fowls. And the great God have mercy on your
soul ” Mrs Spillane i* a type of the sheer savage From
thought to action was witn her a straight and speedy
track. She saw a man in her fowl-house. She took
him for a thief She got mad. Lord Gussy would
pardon her for this. And straightway she took np a
“ round shtiok ’’ and beat this man’* brains out. Per-
fectly logical—as the logic of Tongataboo goes. The
conclusion of the syllogism was a corpse. The whole
affair is as terribly ludicrous as one can fancy a farce
would be if played upon the edge of the Bottomless
Pit.
MR. ARTHER SIEBER AND HIS BEST GIRL.
This ia a livid paragraph. A young man loved
a young woman. She did not love him. Tne natural
consequence of this difference of temperament was that
he shot her and then stabbed himself. The young man’s
name was Arthur Hieber, the girl s Elizabeth Maher.
Neither is deal yet. Ail t-As you have heard before
But it is only preliminary. Previous to going out with
his little duck-gun Arthur wrote a letter to his brother
living in tome unspellable-namtd town in Hungary It
reads like the Porvioe for the dead. After a pathetic re-
ference to the “ loving lair haired girl in Hungary” tbe
gentle Arthur wanders off to sav that the universe was
hateful to him long a*o, and that he is determined to
end “like a real and thorough savage" his wicked
existence Which proves tbat Arthur, though he m«y
have been a gtx>d snot, knows nothing of savages. In
this country they dia of rum mostly. But there is a
terrible raality auout the following confession, coming,
as it does, from one wbo believed himself to ba on tbe
edge of the grave :—“ The seed that was planted in me
grow apace through
causing the ruin'of my healtlpand mind. I had to go
through some fiendish diseases, which also inflected my
mini and made a wreck of it.” How many unlortnnate
callow-headed fools are matriculating in tbe same school
of vice at the pre-ett timel They Call it “ seeing life.”
But, in the drear watches of tbe night, wheu deadly
disease is sacking tho life-blood from them like a hideous
vampire, and the lamp burning dimly in the sick room
looks lire the brimstone glare that u eets a damned
soul on its entrance to the vestibule of Hell, “ life ”
presents a very diff.rent appearance. Arthur ttieber is
only one of thousands of morbid-minded young men
who curse Creation because the Almighty doesn’t
come down and aak them to “ give it a name.” Many
of them put an end to their existence because it seems
a fine villainous thing to “bluff" their Maker
Pshaw! He makes millions of better men eat of the
same mud that they crumble iuto every day. Once more
this precious cynic: ‘ I havelookod too far and teen too
deep. . . . I never lack in gallows humour Should
ever from my ashes an innocent ee?d grain produce a
splendid cabbage, I wish the gourmand who may eat it
the best of appetites." A fool that cannot sec the
worms waiting for him at tha bottom of a six-foot
grave talks about “seeing too daep." The profundity
of ail of his class is, generally, that of a glass of cheap
brandy. But lit is characteristic of the German tern-
perament—for Sieber, judging by his meretricious
pay oho-philosophical theories, is not. (a Magyar—to
speculate upon a cabbage growing out of one’s grave.
Tbe national love for saner- k rant is strong even in death.
A Frenchman or an Italian, or even a stolid Eeglishmau,
would have fancied flowers springing above his tomb.
If a man of similar mental construction died up at
Parramatta he would fancy that a pumpkin might
sprout out of his remains and that Fergy might wan-
der round there one morning and put a paragraph in
his winding sheet stating that it was the largest ever
grown in those parts.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Clipped from the Adelaide Express : —“ If Mr.
James Richards, who left bis wife, Elizabeth Richards,
twelve mom tbs ago, does not return or write within
one month, I, Elizabeth Richards, hla wife, intend to
marry again. He will find, me at my mother’s.” Dear
children, do you now see how the milk got into that
coooannt ?
Writes a Victorian correspondent:— Some of
the high-bred ladies who were conspicuous counter-
hands at a certain Fancy Fayre down here, learned so
much that, on going home again, they at once started
a grand Art Union, 800 members at 3s. each, chief prize
a sewing machine—other prizes to correspond. The
country yokels eagerly bought tickets from the aristo-
cratic creatures, and when the drawing took place, the
best prize was a Christmas card worth 7d., and the
re?t, pictures from the Australasian Skstche* for
18*0.
We read—in Whitehall—that “among the
newly-presented at the last Drawing Boom was Mr* J.
Henniker Heaton, wife of a very popular Australian
journalist. Mrs. Heaton, for whom Lady Folkestone
stood sponsor, wore a corsage and jape of cream satin,
trimmed in phases and draperies of the same strewed
in bnnches of shaded blush roses and leaves, entirely
veiled in golds potted tulle and trimmed with quantities
of gold braid ; train ef rich oream brocade, lined with
satin, bordered in tulle and trellis work of gold braids
fastened with bunches of the same roses. Head-dress,
tulle veil and choice feathers; ornaments, large dia-
mond (necklet and pendant, diamond half hoops and
diamond star in hair, and on arm a ruby, diamond, and
sapphire and emerald triple ring bracelet ’*
It’s come —no, they’re come ; ladies trou—no,
the divided dress. It gets out of a tram going to
Waverley Here’s what it’s like. Two very tight
dresser, one on each— ea< h limb—with the usual
trimming?, crimpings, shirrings, and other vagaries
dear to the female heart. These join a trifle, say eight
inches above the joint—we mean knee—and continue
upwards as in an ordinary dress. In addition to this
there are two—wall, one of them is a tail; the other
can’t he, because it’s in front. Whether Lady Harber-
ton's divided dress has these or no we can’t say, bnt
anyhow, they are unnecessary and ngly, while the drees
without them looks well Perhaps they were added by
their fair wearer, who feaied to face public opinion in
the divided dress without modifications.
Dods v. Woollett was the same old tale —a fair
lady and a fickle lover. Both are 21 years of age.
Lieutenant Woollett proposed and was accepted in
1877, but next year was orderod to HongKeng, and
absence did not, unfortunately for Alice Dods, make
the heart grow fonder. For some time the usual speci-
mens of fervid composition passed between them.
With a lover’s passion, he writes to his “own darling
old pet, Alice : “ I picture to myself our little home,
and see my duck at -iphwindow, waiting: for her dar-
ling’’—“want to get home to my own girl"—“can’t
stand being away much longer, darling "as you read
this, darling, try and fancy that I have my hands
round your neck, and am telling yon this with kisses,
dear,’’—and so on—from ’* your own loving Charley"—
up to September, 1880. And in October, oh, ye Qodsl
he married “ the other girl." So Mr. Baron Huddleston
told “loving Charley" to hand over to his “own
darling old pet Alice " the solatium of £2OO.
•• • v
Lady Mount-Temple leads the culohawed crowd
of cabb&ge-chewers yclept vegetarians, who allude to
meat-eaters as blood-lappers,” " llood-liekers, "
“ patroaisers of the shambles," and so on “ Bed lace
mittens are to be worn with red straw hats.” It’s
therefore of no use for the love-eiok youth to think of
taking even his second-best girl into the country un-
less he’s & good hand at fighting bulls A sport-
ing rig is coming into fashion with a section of the
West End of London female community. The ladies
appear in close-cropped hair, wear sporting hats and
“ down-the-road ” coats, and are often to be seen
perched upon huge dog-carts...... Once upon a time a
girl had two luxuriantly moustached lovers - one dark
the other fair. Both proposed, and she told Sach that
he must prove his love by shaving ofl his moustache.
However, only one loved the girl more than his
moustache, and, after one or two struggles, shaved it
off. Whereupon, she, of course, married the other
fellow Seven thousand Morwomea are divided
among 3,000 Mormeu Nowadays, when you see a
husband and wife together in public, you can make up
your mind that there are no lapdogs in the family.
If such were the case, the husband would have to re-
main at home with the children while the wife went
out with the dogs. It was at Bega. Ha broke his wife’s
nose, and the P.M had to ask him to find two sureties
to keep the peace for six months. Yet his name was
Reginald De C. Delorme A dismal bachelor says
this world is but a gloomy prison. The girl who has re-
jected him says “Yes, to those in solitary confinement.”
...A society drama was presented at Salt Lake recently,
but, when in the third act, the husband began to rave
and tear around because his wife had run off with
another man, the audience rose from their seats, ex.
claiming, “The idea of making all this fuss about cne
woman !’’ and left the place It was a mean man who,
when the burglar asked for bis money or his life, desired
the robber to take the life of his wife The will of
Madame Rudersdoiff, the artist, who died almost poor,
is a curiosity. To one sou she grants £lO yearly until
1886. To another, her precious stones and bric-a-brac,
and she also gives him this little 1 jar“ He has
ruined, broken, lost so many things of mine, caused me
such unending worry and anxiety, that I feel I am giving
him more than he merits." As to her own burial, she
commands that her coffin is to he of the cheapest, and
to be “ lined with zinc or lead, whichever is cheapest.'*
The coffin to be placed in a stone but, and a rustic fence
to surround it. Her peculiar wishes were not all
obeyed The 400 subscription lists issued on behalf of
the proposed memorial to the brave Mrs. Watson
realised only £l2O Mrs. Peile, a “ society " lady, has
eloped with Mr. Jonas Lindow, the Conservative candi-
date for the Western division of Cumberland. Jonas
was—although himself a married man with a family-
in love with Mrs. Peile before her marriage, which took
place on the 19th of April, and which was “ contracted
to cover the Indiscretion of the guilty pair.” On the
28th et that month, Jonas obtained from his bankers
£lO,OOO in notes, and that evening he and the bride dis-
appeared. America “ Bnt ten short yeahs have
parssed away my friends," said a popular preaeher the
other night, at a bun-worry, “since the style of a
fashionable lady’s dress looked a buggy-nmbrella
hoisted; now the wife of onr bosom looks like an mn-
brella let down and buttoned, and the time perchance
is nigh at band when she will return to the primitive
days and her whole toilet will consist of a knot of Ber-
lin wool, and a bandy-legged little poodle." “ What
is calf-love, mamma ?’’ asked a boy of sixteen. Ma
tamed up her eyes to the roof—Said the, “ my dear
child, it’s when young men are wild and cultivate
opera bonffe" A lady has been nominated at Queens-
town (S.A) for the office of district eonneiilor. The
returning officer is douutlul if she is eligible for elec-
tion. There'll te no end of fnu at Queenstown now.
DAMALA.
The man who sent this in has up to the present time
avoided our little hatchet.
No myst’ry exceeded this cabala, *
Lo 1, sially has married with Damala,
The nuptials it seems, too, ware formala,
’J han most of her light ventures similn.
This strain makes our dismal soul dismala
So we close lest we damala Damala.
No less than 4,890 sons of Belial visited the
musenm on the Sundays of last month, out of a total
attendance of 11,415, During the last half-year 25,687
persoun wilfully broke the Sawbath in the same way,
oat of a total of 65.924 The increased attendance over
that of last year was 10,287, of which the Sunday con-
tingent was 7,102. Average weekly army of perverse
sinners was 981.1.
During 1881, there were posted in N.B. Wales
24,722 100 letter*; 15 478,700 newspapers (chiefly Bol-
lbtiks) ; and 713,600 parcels. The letters 'posted
averaged 31 to each inhabitant. On Deo. 31st, 1881, there
were 14,278 miles 73 links of electric telegraph lines in
use, and 318 telegraph stations. The number of messages
transmitted was 1.607,206; revenue, £98,661 17s. 4d.;
cost of service (inclusive of cable subsidies, but exclu-
£l34 656 lOe^ld 6 ° D CoB *' °* conB tfaction of lines),
* “ Mysteries of the Eabbis.”— Lonsmuib.


THE NEWSLETTER.
1080 doomed sinners at the Museum on Sunday
afternoon.
Over 100 city public-houses, having failed to
comply with the new Act, were closed last week.
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald has in-
creased its price from a penny to twopence per single
copy. Now, we’d not object to our venerable oontem-
porary opening its month if it would first widen Its
forehead—and poll-axe the fellow who writes "Cave
Adnllnm" In its columns,
England deals very illiberally with the Orient
Company. Supposing the postage on a letter carried
from London here to be 205., the British Post Office,
acting under a fossilised Act of 1810, keeps 19s. lid-,
and gives the company no more than ono penny. Ger-
man and French Governments subsidise their own
companies; England in this matter seemingly dis-
courages enterprise. Surely Australia can show her a
lead.
At tha Central Criminal Court, Melbourne, it
has transpired that a forger named Clark, who was a
veteran lady-killer, used te get his paramours to go and
cash cheques he had forced, while he waited outside to
collect the spoil. One girl, who didn't believe in laying
herself open to felony, went into a draper’s shop with a
forged cheque after Clark had threatened to u screw
her neck." She told the draper how things stood, and
Clark was arrested.
9A sub-oontractor at Nyngan has lately paid his
gang and creditors “ at the rate of ten miles an hour ”
(to uso a Nymagee phrase), carrying off some seven or
eight hundred pounds with him. A furious Indignation
meeting was held, and report says that lota were drawn
as to who should take £5 to shoot the defaulter. The
navvy on whom tho lot fell started in pursuit, but, as
his rage cooled down, he thought bettor of it, and stop-
ping at a roadside “ pub.," drank the money.
Mr. Thomas Edwards, manager of the Day
Dawn mine. Charters Towers, has been arrested " under
orders from Brisbane," for "feloniously killing John
Elsbury and Henry Morton on the 4th of March, in the
Day Dawn mine." The unfortunates named were
miner* and were killed by a fall of earth brought about,
according to tho Crown (which has uow appointed
competent inspectors of mines and is at last making a
show of watching over the interests of working
miners) by the careless manner in which the celebrated
claim in question was being worked. However, the
experts appointed to examine the mine after the acci-
dent imputed no blame to the manager.
The threatening letter sent by Albert Young to
the Queen, purported to come from a Boman Catholic
priest, and demanded £4O each for 50 parishioners who
had been ejected by their landlords. The writer threat-
ened to have a bullet put through Prince Leopold on
his wedding day, and a series of attempts made against
the lives of other members of the Eoyal family. The
money was to be in notes and gold, and was to be for-
warded to “ A. Y., M. 8. and L. Office, Doncaster” who
yvas styled the priest’s dupe.
has come ont that the blacks who murdered
Jfack Sfcsat Nigger Creek, N.Q , were deserters from
a boat, and for whose apprehension a
warrant food! be*m issued at Cooktown. They belonged
to Cardwell, ana., jt is presumed, that they were mak-
ing their way thi/hejk phen they fell in with Skene, who
was unarmed. It is farther supposed that the blacks
contemplated robbery fop tobacco, but the deceased
pnqved to be a formidable antagonist, and, after fighting
(pronely with them, received hip death wound.
Tfce D.T. is nothing if not instructive. On
Monday it says:—“ The irrepressible editor of the
Fr£uusif (London), who served a sentence some time
ago for lauding the assassination of the Cpar,' has been
again sent to gaol for eighteen months, on this occasion
for approving of the fonl murder ,pt (Lord
Cavendish and Mr. Burke." Vfp are porry to take the
starch ont of our contemporary, bat, as a of
foot, Herr Most, who was sentenced to three years for
championing the murder of the Czar, is in gap]
The man who has now been convicted ia a German,
the publisher of Die Freiheit, and, consequently, not
an irrepressible editor.
Mr. Pease recently brought a bill into the
Commons to amend the law of murder. He proposed
that two grades of the crime should be recognised:
murder in the first, and murder in the second degree—
fjie former to be punishable by death, the latter by im-
prisonment. The bill was rejeoted, the Home Secretary
paving pointed ont that, in the event of a man being
feub«Tguilty by a jury of murder ia the first degree
/premeditated), It would hardly be possible for the
thrown to the prerogative vested in it. It was
further stated that ont of 28 sentences of death passed
in 1880, only 13 were executed.
Bp North, recently, a pair of miners work-
ing at a tin claim found the metal giving cat. They
left two or three big knobs sticking up and filled up the
cutting. Then Tom went on the spree, while Jack
bewailing the bad fortune which had
provided him with such a dissipated mate, just when he
was striking valuable tin. The oracle worked beauti-
A*a? lt^? la v tic “ ew ‘ co(ner waltzed in with an
offer of £260. The bargain was struck, and the original
proprietors vamoosed. The new owner just got 5 cwt.
of tin-bearing stone out of the deserted catting.
.. T* l ® Victorian Presbyterian Assembly, though
they do talk • Hell and excommunication," are sacking
doves compared with the members of the Paddington
Connell. At the meeting last week, eno alderman
accused another of having, at a former meeting,
j e *, fc ®? ed *° h& ve “a smash” at his nose, and
addeiyihat the Council was becoming “ a little Hell,"
The Mayor was accused of having (also at the former
meeting), flourished a stick in an alderman’s face, and
his Worship retorted that this was “ a deliberate lie."
It was also stated, that an alderman had* on the former
occasion, called his Worship " a liar."
Manrieo O’Brien, the fellow who tried to stick
up the Maryborough (Q) branch of the A J.S. Bank,
has been committed for trial. The revolver he used on
the occasion was stolen from a local storekeeper.
When young Male, the teller, was told to " hand over."
he got the bank revolver and fired three times at Mr.
O Brian, whom, hewever, he did not once hit, though
they were but a yard or two apart. Which only shows
how harmless a weapon a revolver is against any
person at whom it is pointed by a man who knows so
little about pistols as to aim at his enemy's head point
blank at three or four paces. However, yonng Male
showed pluck and will be testimoniahsed.
Count Beaumont committed for trial. Only]for
the ugliness of compounding a felony, it would have
been better for David Syme to have hushed up the
forgery, as the Eussian scare arrangements have been
fully exposed. Beaumont had in his possession the £ol-
lowing letter, signed by Mr. Windsor, editor of the Age :
March 17, 1882. The Proprietors of the An ! agree
to accept the terms of Mr. Henry Bryant for .uforma.
tion relative to the Russian admiral's movements, as
they affect the Australian colonies—namely, £25 down
£25 in weekly instalments of £5. and £5O two days after
the declaration of war between Buasia and England
shall be known with authority in Melbourne." Also
this, of a later date: —*‘ My dear Sir, I was in hopes to
have seen yon yesterday. We published the information,
and of course there is considerable curiosity to know
who Mr. Bryant is. It would be advisable to keep jour-
self in communication with us, as agreed. Your conduct
is generally spoken well of, and if everything turns out
right,, 1 have no doubt you will not lose by the trans-
action. Pleale say by note or in person where I can see
you to-morrow (Friday). lam leaving Melbourne for a
few days upon Saturday. With regards, yonrs faith-
fully, A. Windsor."
Mr. John M'Elhone, M.P., was called as a
witness in the Darling Harbour Compensation ease,
brought against the Government by the Hon. John
Luoae, M.L.C. ! John isn't mealy-mouthed, and gave
his opinion straight. His view of the Compensation
scheme was put in this genuine English :—“ 1 thought
it was a big swindle fromi beginning to end. That was
my opinion, and that is my opinion now—a try bn to
rob the public." He said that the big wharf at Darling
Harbour was constructed in order to “throw public
money away," and was “ another swindle." He added
that the general opinions held regarding the Compensa-
tion claims were that they were a swindle—except by
those who hoped to make “pickings” thereby. His
remedy for the claimants was a “short shrift and a
long rope.”
At a recent up-oountry meeting of the Cooma
Licensing Beneb, a publican was objected to by the
police on the ground that he was “of drunken and dis-
solute habits." His lawyer submitted that the publican
had never been brought before any bench of magistrates
or charged with having been drunk or keeping a dis-
orderly house. The police argued that “ a publican
coaid not be summoned for being drunk in his own
house." One constable swore that he had never seen
the publican sober during 14 months, and that he had
found 15 diggers drunk and helping themselves to liquor
in the house on one occasion. This last was denied, the
publican stating that he was away putting a drunken
man to bed 'and pulling off the inebriate’s boots The
Bench refused the application, gi.ing the publican
three months in which to proye his sobriety. The
publicsm offered to lose £3O if he were ever seen drink-
ing grog again."
■** Isaac Ogle, the levanted Melbourne law clerk,
traced to Manchester, turns ont to be an old swindler.
He highly distinguished himself at Dublin University,
where he won a gold medal. He joined a Dublin legal
firm, embessled and absconded. He was next heard of
ia Loudon, where ke tried to get money by means of a
forged telegram, for which he was sentenced in spite of
his appeal for mercy on the ground of his wife’s ex-
travagance. On the expiration of the sentence prisoner
came to Melbourne, and had been about three years
there when he was suddenly mused last April. Uis
clothes were found on the beaob, and it was presumed
that he had either been accidentally drowned or had
committed suicide. His accounts, however, showed a
deficiency of £2OOO, so his game was suspected and a
warrant issued. Ogle went to Adelaide under an
assumed name, and thence by the Sorata, with the
intention of leaving at Suez and going to Mexico. But
he changed his mind and went to England, whore he
was arrested.
The inquest at the Hawkasbury on the death of
Dr. Pelham Gordon has resulted, at tha direction of
t b # District Coroner, in an open verdict, that the de-
ceased died from the effects of an overdose of choral.
The evidence revealed a condition of domestic nn
happiness. On the Friday (two days) before his decease
4 . L v° ctor had * quarrel In the M’Quade Park Hotel
with his wife, who alleges that he struck her with his
band and tried to choke her. She hit him with her
umbrella, cutting his eye, and, according to the land-
lady of the hotel, she also pulled ont part of his beard,
i threatening to kill each other, nas band and wife
left the hotel, the doctor going first and taking with
him a battle of brandy. On tha Sunday morning (the
date of his decease) he appeared to one witness not to
be sober. Mrs. Gordon says that he took “sixty drops of
chloral as a sleeping draught, that she left him lying
on tha sofa at about 4 p.m., and that when she returned,
an hoar and a half later, hs was dead. No traces of
poison were found in the stomach Deceased and his
wife were mutually insured for j£2oo, the survivor to
receive the money.
At Charters Towers (Q.), Patrick Whelan and
Cornelius O’Keefe stand charged with stealing valuable
quartz specimens from the celebrated Day Dawn claim.
They were both working in the claim, and Whelan used.
It is said, to systematically conceal rich specimens and
bring them home, O’Keefe was a lodger with Whelan,
and helped him to crash the specimens. Owing to some
dimmte—over a monetary obligation, O’Keefe alleges—
U Keefe turned informer against Whelan. On the con-
clnsion of his evidence, the adjudicating magistrate
quietly informed O’Keefe that he had been cautioned
before he gave his evidence that he need not say any-
thing to criminate himself, and he should go into the
dock and be charged with aiding a id abetting Whelan.
, is iu startling contrast to recent procedure in
Adelaide, where Hicks, the arch-conspirator in
the big insurance swindle, was allowed to turn Queen’s
evidence and become a free man. However, it will be
cnr.ons to watch how this case will eventuate, because
the prosecution appear to have no other criminating
testimony besides that of O’Keefe, who is now one of tha
accused. We dare say his evidence is true enough, but it
would not bedifflonlt to discredit his story on the ground
of ill-ooncealed spite. 5
POLITICAL POINTS.
Parliament assembles for the “despatch of
business on 22nd August" say the papers. “For the
happy despatch" pray the dissolution party.
South Australian revenue for past quarter was
£517,150. Bevenue for financial year 1881-2 was £2 242 065:
—Customs £000,993, Crown lands rents £lO2 508 post
and telegraph £155.787, railways £442,764, water-works
£59,413, land sales £635,605.
Victorian revenue for quarter just ended was
£1,381,434. Total revenue for the financial year 1881-2
was £5,588,750, or an excess over the budget estimate
of £347,2l2:—Customs £1,695,466 excise £596 414, terri-
torial £826,197, public works £1 845 907, ports and bar-
hours £26,186, post and telegraphi£297,7oo, fees £116.179.
fines £4552, miscellaneous £180,165.
It is significant that the United Ireland
newspaper, published on the morning of the Friday on
which Sir Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke were
murdered—and which was sold in the streets as the
Viceroy's procession passed—had the following signifi-
cant sentence:—“ The rats in the Castle cellars had
better beware of rat-traps j the vermin are going to
have a bad time of it."
Victorian Supply Bill of £1,033,450 passed
through Legislative Council. Mr. M Bam, m moving
the second reading, said that the Government had tele-
graphed to the Agent-Ueneral instructing him to pur-
chase a large gunboat, to steam 11 knots, at a oosc of
£37,750; alto a gunboat, to steam 9 knots, at a cost of
£27,500; a torpedo boat, to cost £10,600; two smaller
totpedo boats, to cost £3300 each—the total amount of
the order being £82,350.
The article in Dip Fbkxhbit—a London Social-
ist paper—upon the assaepinatjon of Xoid Cavendish
and Mr. Burke, was headed: “Against tyrants all
means are lawful.—The reply of the rebels." It was of
course, printed in German. It extolled the murders as
"this heroically bold act of popular justice," and as a
" courageous deed," while it dubbed Lord Cavendish as
a “ poor simpleton." One of its closing arguments
was: “In politics there is no such thing as murder,
but only a removal of obstacles." William Merten s.
manager of the printing department of the piper, was
arrested in connection with, this article on t‘ie charge
unlawfully printing a scandalous, wicied, and
seditious libel. Martens said he was a compo-itor, and
only an employe.
t Th V? ve S? e of N -S-W. for the quarier ended
Jane 30th, 1882, was T 1.907.952, made up ea follows
Taxation, £541,583; Land revenue, £779,511; Service
receipts, £037,443: Miscellaneous, £49,415. Taxation
receipts are subdivided thus :—Cnstoms, £3BO 001 • Be-
fining and distillatien duties, £20,463; Stamps £59,8.)2 ;
®°L3l7. Land revenue consisted of: —Bales,
45 ’ 728 £209,802): Pastoral. £12,135 ;
M nmg, £4949; Miscellaneous, £6197.
Messrs. Roseby and Kidd, M.’s L. A., were ban-
queted at Shoalhaven the other dav. Mr. To a Garrett
was invited, but sent an apology for non-attendance;
J onn Davies, who was also an invite, “ regretted very
muon his inability to accept your kind invitation to a
banquet to he given in honour of my friend* Messrs.
8fa j y j Kldd * an L d < ? arretfe It would have
afforded a e ere it pleasure to have joined wuhyou in
doing honour co those gentlemen." Ahem I
Queenslind Parliament opened on Tuesday.
Speecu etaced that the border railway syndicate's pro-
poeals had been declined as too hl*h, but that; th ose of
the transcontinental railway syndicate could pr obablv
be arranged. Government increasing immigration, and
considering the coolie labour question. Several railway
for conservation of water, pastoral leases
Bill,Distillation Bill, Divisional Boards Amendment
Bill, and o her legislation promised. Mr. Griffith has
given notice of a Bill to repeal the Coolie Act of 18 -3
The tag of war will probably centra round this ques-
tion. *
A “Separation League,” having for its object
the placing of North Queensland under a separata
Government, is now on foot at Townsville. The papers
at that place and at Cooktown regard the accomplish-
ment of the scheme as such a foregone conciwion that
they are already squabbling as to which town shall b«
the capital of the new colony—Townsville or Cooktown ?
We oan quite imagine, cynically observes t he Towns-
ville editor, that some day Cooktown may become tha
largest entrepet in the North for Chinamai', and very
possibly Coolies, but white men will never, in our
ofinon, be able to livejthere in any numb.ra.
• • •
The Hon. J. G. Francis doesn’t pocket his
Parliamentary screw but distributes It an.oTio-af ♦ i...
harities of bis constituency In New Zealand, Sir
George Grey, sitting in Opposition, has afttr all drawn
the Hall-Whitaker Ministry at his chariot wheels. All
the reforms which they have recently carried ont have
been originated or suggested by him. Triennial Parlia-
ments, manhood suffrage with a residential qualifica-
tion, the adjustment of representation, were all the
outcome of his fertile brain Members of the N Z.
Upper House, during debates, sleep. Ore evening
lately, out of thirty-four, fifteen were indulging in
“ Nature’s sweet restorer," and hud ttcir names
checked by the reporters Three-fourths of rhe
members of the U.B. Congress are lawjers. Which
accounts for the high tone of that chamber Tin
electors of Young mean to ask Mr. W J Watson
(brother of the Colonial Treaturer) not to resign his
seat during hie projected absence in Ear. pe in search
ef health Mr. Murray-Smith, the new A-.,ont.Qener.il
of Victoria, has started hi* London career by attacking
the policy of Protection. When the polit real fortune-
wheel sends Berry to office again, Mnrrnv-Smith will
probably be superseded for this N Z st, rts the new
financial year with a credit balance of £2:5,044. The
expenditure last year was £49,759 less thun, and the
revenue £190,620 over, the estimate. Eeceipts
exceeded the expenditure by £lBB 833 Timor
Timss wants to know the whereabouts of the
local member, Hon. J. Hoskins, who now touring in
Europe with his seat in hie pocket E. A. Biker com-
plains that the Crown Law Department is unfairly de-
tinning documents the property of the Mill urn Greek
Co s Trustees These books, &c., were handed to Mr.
Salomon* at the time of the inquiry, upon the wdtr*
standing they were to be returned The Po»k Office
loss of NS W. last year was over £lOO,OOO Writes
“Wrecker": “The London Times article about the
Burrabogie sale is all very well from the London stand-
point: from the Australian standpoint its suggestions
savour too much of a territorinlism f> be fought against
with all the forces of Democracy ” Queensland
revenue for last quarter was £612,000; f.,r the year
£2,100,000; quarterly expenditure, ±626 000; yearly
expenditure, £1,884.000, loan expenditure for quarter,
£218,000; do for year, £883,000 The Gee:oag Adver-
tiser recently asserted that the great C. E Jones had
borrowed £lOO to enable him to contest Ge<Jeng; libel
action results Kailway to Hay . peneo on Tuesday
by the Governor; usual feed and speechifying. A
departmental report showed that N.S. Wales has nearly
1000 miles of railway opened; gross recehts for 1881
were £1,444.226; working expenses. £738 >34; net earn-
ings, £705,892; capital expended, £l3 301 597 : per-cent-
age, 5 31.
INFLATED-£76,945!
COLLAPSED-£4,500!


'Business Annual
A
USTEALIAN “HT
SEWING MACH
Unprincipled Dealers—to ma
lingi profit—are offering' for si
Machines that will not stand a ye
EXPRESJ
M
A/
THE HOME SHUTTLE
Manufactured for us, has the a
name on the work
PURCHASE NO OTI
We solicit in’oMnation of the a
forfeits of the above Machine,
action in protection of cur rights.
In any district where eur gen
procurab’e, we will forward the
.fost Offise Order.
WE HAVE 2;OW,S(TLD
HAND MACHINE. COMPLET]
TREADLE MACHINE, COMFI
Do., WITH COVER CON
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular po
M. MOSS AN
WYNTAED LANE,
AND
CO
u
NION
MORTGAGE I
COMPANY
Head Office : 760 GEORGE-STRI
To Small FREEHOLD and
PROPRIETOI
This Company is prepared to
saga ef freehold cr leafenold j
noon tV>e deposi* of deeds, on coi
on bonnes in eonrse of erection, i
repayable by the smallest weekl
meet*, taken hv the society in tl
ing table will show
For every £2O borrow*
£SO „
„ £4O „
» 150 „
>. £75
~ £lOO ~
and up to any amonnt at the a ime
For further infer mat ion ap;-lv a
WM F.
Tobacco nil
5^
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS;
AMEKICAN TO]
THE following facts are co
resources, and, therefore,
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty i
All the others paid duty in 1860 01
DIXSON AND SONS paid dnty i
All the others paid duty in 1881 01
Imported manufactured tobacco j
on for the two years was only..
DIXSON AND SON’S BB
YANKEE DOODLE, C
SIR ROGER, GOL
OUT RUST, ORIENT*
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror a
genuine “Tin Tag,” each ph
Round Single Tin Tag, s'
QUEEOR "or YANKEE
ALL TOBACCONIST’ GOC
NOTHING SUCCEEDS L
AND the enormous success of
has not escaped the usual p«
universal popularity has excited tl
of speculators who trade upon the
of a borrowed name. My Tobacc
and counterfeited, and although I
able means to guard the public agt
to punish fraud, both Foreign ani
tions bearing my brand, but Jackin
the ever popular and wcll-knoy
have been imposed upon the publi
AMERICAN WEEK Now, to
numerous Customers in both town
as the Smoking Public from all
arranged with the American Mani
i>lng of my Tobacco be branded
bearing the device thus :
without which none is genuine. 1
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well
comment. But in justice to the
myself, I urgently request my oust
selves that the article they purcl
that each plug bear the above dev;
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B
Heartily thanking the public for i
and determined to deserve a conti
by keeping a first-class article at
price.
MICK SIM
Sole Wholesale Agent in the (
Can’t B Beat To
CORN EXCHANGE 1
CORNER OF GEORGE and CAM’
HAYMARKf/:
N.B —NO BRANCH £
READ THIS! REA
Hotels, dee
gj. U N S L E E’S
NORTH TEEI
ADELAIDE.
R
OBEET BUTC
(Late William D
WINE AND SPIRIT M 3
634 GEORGE STB
OPPOSITE TOWN HALI
COUNTRY ORDERS RECEIVE PR
JpALLON’S PEIZE A 1
J. T. FALLON in asking pnb]
WINES, and to the awards gain
intimate that he bolds very large t
»nd the publie may rely upon gett:
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot
91 PITT STREET, S
Hotels, Sc
JOHN A. WII
COOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STEEE
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, 1
SOUTH WAI
BED WINE
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality
No. 1 Coolalta Bed
No 2 „
Burgundy
Port
Vin Ordinaire
WHITE WIN
Muscat
M
AGNIFICENT IBON-F:
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Bo
Imported by ns direct, and mi
for this climate te the order of on
Every instrument m WAR]
| YEAhSt. They are of very hand
are most sensitive, sweet, and poi
low pßicas for Cash.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAY
Examine and lost them before
All our PIANOS are latest styh
second-hand instruments nor chei
BEALE and COM
1, Oxford-street; 612, George
Buildings, Sydi
Hunter-street, Newcastle; Hi
Howick-streot, Bathurst ;
burn; Church-street, Parra)
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we w
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
P
LATE AND SHI
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS
PAPEEHANGI
(a really splendid
BOOM and PICTUBE-FEAM
KENT’S BEUSI
GOLD LEAF,
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK
w
H A R
PROVISION MEE(
AND GENERAL COMMIE
343 and 345 Kent-street, ne
SOLE AGENT for the undermen
R. Whittingham and Co.’s Lo-
Excelsior Mill’s prize Vicio;
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victori
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria T(
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria C<
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, ne
346 GEORGE STEEE
STUBBS & i
ha
The Nunc of M. MOSS ft CO,
erery Genuine Bottle.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE]
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
mm
1
& 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, DESKS, and SPIRIT*..
aid general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYKN’S
Schnapps an I Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
T LAWLER, 608. George-streat. Bedding Manufac-
• torer, in porter of Brass and Iron Bedheads,
Ameiican »rd Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
and Cotton Flock- Established 1860.


The Rreferee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Hay July 6, 7.
Deniliqnin Jnly 19.
Rockhampton Julv 6, 7.
Clarence B,J C.,„ July 12,13
V.R.C. Grand National joly 22.
Victorian Trotting Club August 12
Tattersall’s, Randwick August 12.
Hawkesbnry Spring August 24, 26,
Geelong. August 5,
A.J.C. Spring Sept. 2,5, 7, 9
S.A J G. Derby Meeting September 23.
V.R.C. Spring ~ Oct. 28, 31, Nov. 2, 4.
Parramatta J.C November 9.
Bendigo November 15, 16,
MnrrumbidgeeTurf Club Nov. 22, 23 24.
V .R.C. New Year Meeting January 1,1883.
Sydney Turf Club January 26,1883.
AQUATICS.
Largan v. Pearce, £lOO, Putney to Mortlake July 10.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta August 28.
Krug Champagne Trophy November 25
Gardiner Cup, Amateur December 16;
PEDBSTRIANISM.
Edwards v. Clifford, six days, at Geelong, £2OO
conclude Jnly 8.
Bathurst Football Club Sports July 29.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports August 19.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. University. Moore Park July 8.
Glenhead y. Arfoma, Moore Park July 8
Geelong v. East Sydney, Association Ground July 8
Geelong v. Sydney July 11.
Geelong v. Petersham July 13.
Gaelong v. Combined Team July 13.
CYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club’s Racs Meeting (Association
Ground) August 26.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Middlesex, Lord's Ground July 10,11,12.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Mr. John Mayo has retired from the turf. Mr.
John Mayo has purchased the racehorse Faust for
£2OO.
According to late accounts, “ Tne” Wilson, a
well-known Englishman, intended proceeding to America
to fight Sullivan.
Mr. W. H. Kelly broke his knee-cap playing
football on Saturday. He is a lucky fellow—it might
have been his neck.
Bush and M'Donald want to row Beach and
Power over the champion course, Faaramatta Kiver, in
light skiffs for £2OO aside.
Mr. Gardiner, who is in London, is to be asked
to which elan his football cup is to be presented. A
Rugby scrimmage is depicted on the trophy, so the
N.B.W. Association cannot surely wipe that out.
At the V.A.T.C. races, on Saturday, Goujago
won the selling Race, Gossip the Selling Hurdles,
Young Deceiver the Victorian Gold Cup, Glad Tidings
the ladies' Trophy, and Celling wood the Open Steeple-
chase.
The race in light skiffs, for ,£lOO, between Power
and Reynolds, resulted in a win for the latter by six
lengths. Power took the lead up to Uhr’s Point, when
Reynolds passed him, and kept his position to the end
in 24min. 15sec.
One of the English papers, announcing that
Mr. W. G. Grace is suffering from the “ mumps," says:
“ We cannot afford to lose his help just now. In all
likelihood we shall want another 152 when the Austra-
lians are to be met.”
According to the published list of fixtures, to-
day (Thursday), Friday, and Saturday, the Australian
Eleven are not engaged for any match. On Monday, a
match will be commenced at Lord’s Ground against
Middlesex, to be continued on Tuesday and Wednesday.
We read that the Hon. Ivo Bligh is in such
delicate health that it is not expected that ho will be
able to play for Kent this season. Mr. Bligh had
intended coming to Australia with an eleven in the
autumn, but it is probable that he will be obliged to
abandon the project.
The Glenhead Football Club did a “ hare and
hounds" on Thursday night week. Messrs. Warren
and Wahlberg were the hares, and, after covering seven
miles, got home before the hounds put in an appear-
ance. W. Shipway was first of the hounds, Rhodes
second, and Godfrey third.
On the Association Ground on Saturday, the
University Football Club defeated the Redfern by one
goal three tries to nil. Raper, the University captain,
whilst tackling an opponent, got inj ured very much and
had to be carried into the pavilion. He soon came
round, and will, wo presume, go through the usual
‘ gruelling ” on Saturday next. He likes it.
At the Eocky Mouth Eaces on June 28, Pitzroy
won the Maiden Plate. Rosemary was not permitted
to start, being only a two-year-old. Lady Vandah won
the Lower Clarence Turf Club Handicap. Booyung,
who is worth watching for the Hawkesbury, fall at the
last turn, but neither rider nor horse was hurt.
Booyung won the Plying Handicap. Risk fell, without
injury.
The second contests for the Chinnery sculling
prizes, which are given to encourage professionals in
England, came off on the 3rd, 4th, and 6th June, and
resulted in a victory for L. Gibson. Largan, who
wen the first heat easily, lost the race through the in-
effective swivel he used and through fouling threo
times with Perkins, who was at last ordered to stop
rowing.
The Morphetville (S.A.) course was recently
graced by the presence of an English bookmaker. He
wagered on every event, laid liberal prices, and found
plenty of patronage. The importation of a few English
bookmakers, who study the doctrine of chances, would
somewhat lengthen the ridiculously short odds which
now rule the market and frighten backers into security
from loss.
Somehow sport seems to thrive better in the
ry ow ? 8 than in Sydney. Cobar rules the roast
with pedestrianiam, but Tumut holds its own in pigeon-
shooting. On Saturday we a a tournament of pigeon-
JJ 4 ™™ took place, and a big match is to come off on
tr 7, between A. Broughton and T. Jones, 10 birds
each, 25 yards rise, and 100 yards boundary. Sweeps will
doubtless follow on that occasion.
The Woodstock meeting of the N.S. Wales
Coursing Club terminated on Saturday with the follow-
jng results:—Woodstock Plate, Handsome Girl, with
uien Oban as runner-up j St. Leger, Teviotdale, with
i 1,1188 runner-up; Great Metropolitan Stakes,
atnleen and Crocus divided; New Flumpton Stakes,
Thebais as runner-up. The ground was in
excellent order, and the coursing good.
The questio vexata of “ place beta ” in regard to
commotion, Pollio, and Belladrum, who ran a dead heat
« "ituation in the Adelaide Birthday Cup, has
een linally settled by the committee of the Victorian
Booms, and will therefore be an established
precedent for the future. The decision is that the
moneys wagered be put together, and the backers of
either horse to receive two-thirds of the total.
a av .i n £ disposed of the English Gentlemen, the
Australian Eleven had a very easy task in " doing" the
United South of England. The Australians went in
.Ta bhe magnificent score of 501 runs. Horan
contributed 112, Bannerman 83, Massie 60. W. Q. Grace,
was disposed of for 4 runs. Mr. Maurice Read made 90,
ahd W. K. Gilbert 38. The innings of the English team
Closed tor 166. They followed on and were disposed of
for the small score of 72 runs. The Australians thus
won the match In one innings by 263 runs.
The 200 yards’ race for =£6o, between W.
Battye and C. Englebardt, came oif at Albury on Satur-
day last, and was won easily by Englebardt. Battye ran
a good race for 120 yards. A five-mile raie came oil the
same day on the cricket ground, between Smith and
Cochran. Tho competitors alternately led till the last
lap, when Cochran put on a spurt and came in 30 yards
ahead. The time was about 31 minutes.
Football fractures on Saturday week :—Arm
dislocated at Parramatta ; collar bone broke at Qoul-
bum; three collar bones injured, leg severely injured,
groin hurt, temple kicked, nose broken, black eyes, and
blood shed in Sydney and suburbs. Now a good scien-
tific fair stand-up fight—well, we suppose N.S.W. is
now too civilized to admit of our saying that there is
something to admire in it. Football is a noble game.
The N.S.W. Football Association hare put their
foot down firmly. A Queensland team wishes to visit
Sydney, and proposes playing matches under both
Rugby and Association rules. The Association resolved
that the movers in the matter be informed that their
proposal could not be entertained unless the matches
are to be played under Association rules only. In that
ease, the committee would give it farther consider-
ation.
English papers are teeming with comments on
the cricket scandal, A writer in the Daily Telegraph
observes that Australia has “{exerted a mostjuntoward
influence over the pastime, and batting exceeds any-
thing that has been dreamed of in England, while party
feeling runs very high, one district being jcalons of the
other." The World thinks the international visits
here caused much unpleasantness and scandal, and
urges the M&rylebone Club to discountenance them for
the future.
The world is visited by a phenomenon, Hanlan
Take him away, and Australia still holds her own in
aquatics. Layoock has defeated Boyd in his own gutter,
the Tees, and he has done it oasily. Boyd is the ac-
knowledged best Englishman, and was the favourite in
the betting for the race. It is inexplicable how Liy-
oock, a week or so ago, could net beat Largan, an
admittedly much inferior man to B«yd. We can see
how the cat jumps, and we go straight for Pearce to
boat Largan next week.
The Norwood team of footballers from South
Australia visited Melbourne. They played the South
Melbourne Club on 29th June, and scoied two goals
five behind* to their opponents’ one goal ten behinds.
The Melbourne umpire appeared to be unfair, and the
captain of the Norwoods was assaulted by one of the
South Melbourne team. When South Australia visits
Sydney, our footballers will do them injury in a more
sesthetio way. WhUk/-sampling, turkey-guzzling, and
harbour picnics constitute our modus operandi.
The match of the Australian F.leven against
Leicestershire was close, on account of the heavy
wickets. The Australians, in their first innings, made
106—Massie 22 and Blackbam (not out) 20 were the
highest scorers. The Leicester team were disposed of
fer 43 runs—Spefforth got five wickets for 24 and Palmer
five wickets for IS. In the second innings, “ our boys ”
made 116, and the home team made 105; leaving the
Australians tho victors by 74—Garrett got seven wickets
for 38 runs, and Spotforth two wickets for 54 runs.
A professional cricketer is one who plays for
wages. A cricketer charging for expenses does not
some under this category—otherwise Grace, Lord
Harris, and the Australian Eleven would be pro-
fessionals. Alick Bannerman is the only paid man in
the team. The rest are in the swim with the exception
of Massie and Jones, who are paid expenses simply.
Whan it is all over and the plunder is divided, the lion’s
share will go to the " fair-haired, affable-mannered,’*
indefatigable well, Mr. Cnarles V. Beal also has a
share in the speculation.
The Nooze says ;—“The Melbourne Evening
Mail speaks of Bonnor as ‘ the Melbourne player.’
Bonner neyer lived long enongh in Melbourne I to find
his way about alone.” Yet Bonnor played for two sea-
sons in Melbourne, was in the Victorian team in the last
intercolonial, and belongs to 'the Victorian contingent
in the present Australian Eleven. We think he is a
very much Melbourne player. To be sure he was once
a N.S.W. man, but so were Cosstick, Wills, and Boyle,
who is a native of Sydney.
Massie’s 45 against Sussex included eight
“ fourahs." The first hundred of the Australians’
score was made in 40 minutes. The Sussex bowler,
Blackman, threw as well as he could, and was protested
against by the Australians. Palmer did the hat trick.
Jones missed an easy catch from Lillywhite. Banner-
man’s 60 included 11 fours. Giffsn, while he was with
Murdoch, scored faster than the captain. Murdoch,
who scored 286, gave a very difficult catch at point when
he was 137, and he had only jnst before been missed by
hia bowler, to whom ho had given a bard return.
The story is short and simple. Mr. Inglis, a
grazier at Ballan, went to the Caulfield Races in April.
Mr. Donald Wallace's horse, Sir Joseph, won the Glen
Huntley Handicap. A week, previously he had been
badly beaten at Wyndham. Immediately after the race,
Inglis went to Heywood, the trainer, and said—“ Hey-
wood, if I were Donald Wallace I would take away all
my horses. You misled him from first to last. Your
horses run for the books. Every time Sir Joseph has
run, he has gone for the books, and the same with
Napper Tandy too.” Heywood “ pulled” Inglis and
the jury gave a verdict for plaintiff for £2OO.
An English sporting writer went to criticise the
practice of the Australian Eleven at Mitcham just
after their arrival. He does not mention Murdoch, but
selects Massie, Jones and Giffen as showing the best
form. He says, “ Massie hits very hard, especially on
the off-side.” All the English bowlers and fleldmen
now know this to be the correct tip. He also speaks
highly of Giffen and Jones, tho latter having “ a capital
style of batting, and he created a most favourable
impression." bo that, notwithstanding his failure to
make heavy scores, Sammy is still in good form.
Analysing the matches he has played, we find that he
has been twice run out, and three times out leg before
wicket, and yet np to latest accounts his average was
doable figures. Five lost innings out of a dozen is
phenomenal bad luck,it is therefore probable that Sammy
will yet assert himself, and justify the Sydney and
Melbourne public for tho agitation they caused to get
him into the team. There is plenty of time for him to
get amongst the leaders.
Murdoch, Massie. and Garrett played with tho
Orleans club against Begley on 6th May. Nona of them
did anything with the bat, Murdoch making 0, Massie
2, and Garrett 1. All three, however, did a little bowl-
ing in the first innings, and Garrett got three wickets,
Massie three, and Murdoch one. In the second innings
of Begley all the wickets, excepting one rnn out, fell to
S. S. Shultz, who was out here with Lord Harris'
team. Six of them were clean bowled. James Lilly,
white was omitted from the Sussex team which played
against the Australians, at his own request. He ron-
sidered he was too much out of practice. Murdoch,
Spofforth, and Massie played with the Orleans Club on
14th May, against the Richmond Club. They made 21,
17, and 22 respectively, in the first innings ; and 23, 6,
and 1 in the second innings. All three towled, Spof-
forth getting four wickets for 76, and Massie and Mur-
dooh one each; Massie’s coating 13, and Murdoch’s
only four. The Orleans Club, however, was beaten by
63 runs on the first innings.
In an interview with “Charon,” Triokett said:
Blackman is a very good rower, but uncert iin in train-
ing, having a weak spot somewhere inside. He has
tried hard to imitate Hanlan, and rows a long slow
stroke, using a very long slide ; he is about six feet in
height, and is well liked. . . . It is perfectly wonder-
ful where Hosmer gets his motive power from. For
his weight there Is not a known rower who conld come
near him. He has a delicate, boyish face, and is most
unlike an athlete ia appearance. He strips well, how-
ever, and ia very muscular while rowing. His style is
moat peculiar. Instead of appearing to sit firmly in
the boat, he has a loose and somewhat slovenly.looking
movement, which, though he reaches out well over bis
toes, yet suggests a want of confidence in his being able
to row at all. In the event .... he rowed a very
quick stroke and made a grand race of it for two miles.
. . . Riley, the baratoga sculler, it appears, has a
peculiar style of hie own, exceedingly stiff in the joints
of his arms, without much freedom of strobe, but very
mnsonlar, tall, and well-built. At the finish of each
stroke he appears to be cramped, and there is not the
display of ohest which wo look for in a clean finish,"
Mr. Boyle, one of the Australian team, had a
letter from Frank Punch to Hanlan, inviting him to
Sydney. He says:—“ I went to thejAlexandra Palace,
where Hanlan was exhibiting his rowing, and was in-
troduced to him. He said be could not talk matters
over there, but if I would write or telegraph time and
place he would most me. I did telegraph him, but he
did not turn up. I also went down to Putney, and
called at his hotel, but he was not in. and I sat down
and wrote him a letter, and enclosed him particulars
of the events in November, but he left England without
either answering or sending me word in any shape or
form of his intentions. Ho certainly might have had
the courtesy to acknowledge mv communications.”
Hanlan had, perhaps, scores of people wanting to see
him on particular business. There is a big regatta at
Winnipeg, in America, and possibly the agents of that
affair wanted to sea him also Thd‘little man bad not
the time to see everybody. We must not imagine that
the champion of the world has Sydney only to think
about. Supposing a man had particular business with
Trickett on his reception day, what chance would he
have had to transact it? Now that Hanlan has wiped
Australia out, we are not going back on him surely.
It’s too English.
Triokett says it ia ridiculous to assert that
Hanlan keeps the way on in his boat, yet the London
Sportsman asserts :—“ How it comes about that ha is
capable of assuming such a telling paoe, and to main-
tain the way on his boot between the strokes. The
chief axiom of sculling hitherto has been that a man,
whilst getting a firm grip of the water to begin with,
should throw the chief portion of his power into the
beginning of his stroke. Hanlan does not do this. . .
At the beginning of tha stroke, the sculls are not, so to
speak, rushing straight against the water; they are not
at precise right angles with the body of the boat; they
are more inclined in the direction of the how, and thus
part of the power imparted tends to crush the boat in-
wards rather than, by meeting with the resistance of
the water, shooting the craft directly forward. . , .
The champion is careful to drop his sculls in a cleanly
and neat style into the water, not dipping too deep, the
blades being well covered ; his chief strength is exerted
when the sonlla are at perfect right angles with the
boat; he pulls his stroke through with an even exertion
of strength, and invariably finishes with a powerful
wrench, if that word is appropriate. He never con-
cludes the slide till he has completed his stroke; when
he has finished, with a vigorous effort he whips his
ssulls out of the water like lightn-ng, and under the
influence of his final ‘thrust* the boat is progressing
till he gets to work again.” Well, this is rather a
laboured wav of making out that Hanlan cannot do more
than any other man in the boat. We simply admit
that he can get in first. That’s quite enough.
“ One of the Team ” (Tommy Horan) writes an
account of the Australian Eleven’s match against Ox-
ford. He was left out of iha team, and he is sore about
it. However, he is a genial soul, and his brilliant per-
formance in the latest matches will have restored him
to good temper and the selection committee's confi-
dence. Ho speaks well of the Oxford ground, but does
not think it comparable to those of Melbourne. The
photos, of D. Cameron ani G. P. Robertson, old Mel-
bourne cricketers, are displayed in the pavilion. “ The
ground was fast, the ball came along true as a die and
never got up heart-high. .., Murdoch was all abroad in
this his first mateh, and retired without scoring
Massie, as is usual with him, scored fremtho start. . . .
M’Donnell was bowled making an agricultural stroke. . .
Giffen shaped in an easy and graceful style. Through
absence of brads in his boots he slipped and fell, and
so did hi* leg stump His cricket may be set down as
the most scientific shown in the match. . . . Blackhatn
shaped very badly.” Nobody in Australia can talk
cricket like Horan, and it is worth while recording
what he says about Massie’s great innings :—“ I shall
never forget Massie’s performance, and I think the
same will be said by those who had the pleasure of
witnessing it. He scored exactly 100 while Jones was
making five. His hitting all through was very hard,
and that it was clean and true may bo gathered from
the fact that during his two hours and 49 minutes at
the wickets he gave only one chance, and that a difficult
one in the slips. His second 100 runs were made in the
short space of 59 minutes, and his hitting during this
time was simply perfect. Concerning Massie’s brilliant
achievement, I had a yarn with a very old Oxford
cricketer, one who has played for 50 years, and who has
seen all the best cricket in England during that long
period, and he assured me that in his career he had
never seen any hitting display equal to Massie’* in the
present match. It is unparalleled, and the more one
contemplates it the more astonishing does it seem 104
out of 145. 200 out of 257, and 205 out of 265. Massie
is certainly the lion of the hour in cricketing circles in
England, and I am sura that all Australians are pleased
that the quiet and unassuming Sydneyite has met with
such wondet ful success in his maiden effort on English
soil. . . . Jones plaved a good and patient innings. . . .
was bowled first ball by a yorker. . . . You can
stroll about the parks in Melbourne and Svduey and
find several bowlers quite as good as any of those op-
posed to us in this match. . . . Shaw, the Oxford top
scorer, carried his bat out. but he gave an easy chance
to Palmer shortly before the close of the innings. . . .
Blackham at the wickets was in fine fettle after the
first few overs. Giffen at long-on was Al, and made
two capital catches, and Murdoch at point deserves a
tribute of praise for the numerous hard hits he stopped.
Jones, too, did very well, but with these exceptions the
fielding <?f our fellows was far below first-class form.
A. Bannerman was specially faulty, and if he had been
in anything like his usual brilliant form, three or four
of the Oxford men might have been run out. He
fumbled every alternate ball, let more than one go clean
through his legs, and returned to Blackham worse than
a second-rater,” A turn like that, occasionally, will
do the little stonewaller a lot of good. “ The attend-
ance was capital, there being about 3000 the first day,
6000 the second, and 2000 the third—perhaps the best
attendance ever seen at a cricket match in Oxford.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
There is a probability of a big coursing pro-
gramme being arranged for Bathurst in August
On June 26, Wm. Blewitt and Joseph Devlin raced 200
yards at Queanbeyan. After a splendid race Blewitt
won by three yards Scratch a Russian aud you find a
Tartar. Scratch a horse and you discover a non-
starter At Herberton, N Q., Messrs. Julian and A.
Munro played billiards, 500 up, for a £lOO wager, Julian
conceding his opponent 1 50 start. At the conclusion
the score stood—Munro, 500 and Julian 318, so that de-
ducting handicap, the former actually scored 32 points
more than his opponent. Munro took the lead
from the breaking of the balls, and was
absolutely only once overtaken by Julian
Artful Joe, a Melbourne Cup favourite one year, was
nearly roasted by fire at Blenheim (N,Z.) Joe refused
to move from his stable until the fire singed his coat...
G. De Safe was committed at Parramatta police-court,
on Juae 28. for having obtained a certain sum of money
from one Charles Gaud, by means of false pretences,
The game was “ Murrumbidgee,’’...Eleven acceptances
far the City Hanuicap at the Clarence River meeting,
and fourteen for the C.R.J C. Handicap Clarendon
won the QoondiwindiJ(Q ) Handicap on June 3u Tha
London Sportsman says—-• Critics are loud in their
praises of the fine batting displayed by Mr. H. H.
Massie, his hitting, at Loid’s, on Wednesday, beingthe
hardest ever seen." This was written before the Oxf jrd
match At the match between the Australians and
the Surrey County Eleven, at (Kensington Oval, the
charge for admission to tbe ground was Is., to the an-
covered stand 2i. 6J., and to the coveted stand 5s
The Norwood football team were defeated at Ballarat
by four goals five behisds to two gaols two behinds
The Queensland Tarf Club are trying to arrange for an
extra race meeting on August 26, just betore tbe
National Association’s Show The prosecutor in a
recent gambling case met one of the defer dints in
Pitt-streat. They had words, which eventuated
in a fight, and the prosecutor performed like a trades-
man on the defendant’s prominent feet urea. The pro-
s cuter is evidently a “saint."......Mr. Frazer has been
elected captain of tha new Balmain Rowing Club, and
Mr. Ainsworth secretary. The Mayor is president, and
Messra. J. Booth, J. Taylor, J. Watson, Perdriau,
Elkiugtou, Hyam, Captains Broomfield and Bowi tree,
Drs Evans and J. Garran, M.P., are vice-presidents.
We can sec a Balmain crew doing the honours in tuture
with such a list of patrons to encourage rowmg
A handicap pigeon match comes off at Carcoar on
Saturday, July 8 Before the Australian Eleven com-
menced their campaign in England, Jones and Giffen
look part in a match between the Ramblers and the
Aaoiscombe Club, and performed very well... The South
Canterbury (N.Z.) Coursing Club's Puppy Stakes was
appropriated by Mr. D. M. Ross* brindle and white dog
Bonnie Flaneur. Hia owner bought him in Melbourne
Waimate (N.Z ) Steeplechase was won by Kosciusko,
Baron second, Little John third. Clarence ran first in
the County Cup The Oamaru (N.Z.) Steeplechase
resulted; Clarence 1, Baron 2, Xrovatore 3. a no ua-
lucky N.Z, horse, Volunteer, has been relegated to the
stud The Townsville (Q-) Jockey Cluo intend to
give a £5OO prize at the next race meeting The
Ipswich and Brisbane (Q.) footballers made a free
fight of their game lately at North Ipswich
South Melbourne defeated Melbourne on (Saturday by
two goals to one Carlton beat Norwood by four
goals nineteen behinds to six behinds The “three-
card ” fraternity did a roaring business at the Power-
Eeynelds race on Saturday At the South Australian
C.C. Meeting on Saturday, Mr. Eosnsevell’s Rhadanthe,
won the principal stake... An Intercolonial meeting of
football clnbs’under Rugby rules is being arranged for
Christchurch (N.Z.) Exhibiton in September. A
team is to be invited from Sydney. If they go, we
hope they’ll be spared to return ..The Coon a Express
of June 28, devotes a leader of a column and a half to
senseless drivel in praise of football. Reading it, we
learn that football is the greatest game’on earth, and,
by; inference, the Queanbayan men are the greatest
players. This was because they licked the
Oooma men. It is called “ one of the most
vigour-acquiring institutions that modern civili-
zation can boast of or be proud of ’’
A big billiard handicap took place lately at Tamwortii!
W. King won the final game by 10 points Clarence,
12st. 111 b , got home first in the N.Z Timaru Steeple-
chase Cup; Katerfelto, list. 121 b., second ; Baron, lost.
121 b., third. Clarence also won the Tally-Ho Handicap..!
Christchurch Tattersall’s annual meeting showed that
club to be the best in New Zealand, financially. Mr. E.
G. Griffith is the secretary, and most of tha big horse
owners and books are members The N.Z. cross-
country horse Ciarcnce will probably comp te for the
Melbourne Grand National. He, is a clinker “ when
sent.’’ W. J. Burk, of Dunedin, will probably be
matched against O'Connor for the one mile champion-
ship of N.Z. Bark’s backers say he can cover the dis-
tance in 4miu. 31sec., and will put their money down...
Professor Miller has been challenged to a wrestling
match by a rimaru (N Z ) man Hearn, who was
challenged to row Reynolds, of Sydney, for £lOO, has
accepted, and will allow him £25 expenses if be goes to
Wellington. Hearn also states that as there are no skiffs
in We lington, Reynolds should bring two wiih him
from Sydney, aud he will t si for choice, or he is wiping
to row him in the best bo it tor any sum ov -r £lOO.
Hearn has sent homo for a new feuding boat !
At Eockhamptsm a sculler got into a part'i'ciil
larly fast boat, and, while putting on a spurt to
show the craft’s capabilities, it went away so fast that it
left him sitting in the water Konngßt. Albans haves
Mr. Wilson and goes to Adelaide...Condon, < f Do wning,
has beaten Bnssil of Warooin a 100 yards flutter for £5
...The Lithoow Mercury says that Mrs. Dal on, a local
resident, trained her husband, who was successful in
the recent go-as-you-please, defeating such a doughty
opponent as young Assenheim. “ What method she pur-
sues in training, it is not for us to inquire, not wishing
to penetrate into such a delicate subject, but that it is
efficacious and economical stands out prominently-. We
shall have all the pedestrians going in for lady trainers
if this system gives such good results, and there will
he more young men runners than can go fast.”
George Pollock will run any known pedestrian of
Charters Towers, 100 yards, for £25 or upwards A
single-scull boat race comes off to-day (Saturday) at
Shoalhaven, between C. W. Hall and J Longbottom.
Carlton F.C beat Liverpool F.C by one try to nil
Heavy and light weights, Liverpool average list 61b,
Carlton, 9st Bib About fifty members of the Glebe
and Mercantile rowing clubs refreshed at Birkenhead
on Saturday last. After luncheon, sports were indulged
in, and, returning home, a Glebe sculler was upset.
• • V
Fred Harman, an American sprinter, is credited
with having done 100 yards in 9) secs. He is ambitior g
to run professionals or amateurs up to 150 yards Ou
the Prince of Wales’ horse Fairpiay winning"tho
Brigade Cup at Sandown Races, both the Prince and
Princess went down from the stand and shook hands
with Luke White, the jockey Walton, the New York
landlord, is said to have lost 40,000 dollars in England
this spring on American horses A big Derby sweep-
stakes was this year being organised on tha London
stock Exchange. The suusoription was £lOO, but any
number of chances could be purchased. The first hors©
took the entire subscription, which was expected to
amount to £lO,OOO /fine day before tha rae for the
Two Thousand Guineas, Mr. Charles J. Foster, of the
New York Sportsman, said that be had information
from Tom Cannon that the fllli s were ten pounds
better than the colts in England for i his year. The fact
that the filly Shotover took the great prize entitles
Gannon to a cop seat among the tips. It is a rare oc.
currence for a filly to beat all the colts for the big
stakes, two only having succeeded since the time of
Crucifix, forty years ago This is the way the Now
York lCn puts it; —“EJwiu Bibby separated thecartiU
age from tno bone of James 0. Daly’s nose in a reoent
wre-tling match which Bibby won with ease Bell si
Life intimates that thi 15 ton yacht Maggie is a
out higher than the Madge, aud that Americans will
and her a skimm ir when sue invades their wit irs ..
Atth-’ Oxford University sports on M>rch 17. T. E,
Wells won the half-mile from scratch iu Imm. 57 2 sih
sec., the fasct.-t, time eveemade by an English amateur
a though beat,m by Myers in Eugland.,,.;,A Coventry
(Eng.) bicycle manufacturing firm have received an
order from the Siates for 25) machines Messrs
I engelly and Day, of Highbridge, Somerset, have
potentad a bicycle that, when planed on floats, the largo
wheel acta as a flywheel, propelling pa idles which
eaaoie it to be driven upon water. A rudder is at
tached, by which it is easily guided tnd turned in an
opposite direction ...a. lady rode a bicycle on ut
Good Friday from Fulham to Ipswich, eighty in
twelve hours
The Divorce Law has at last been voted by the
French Chamber. The law was repeaUd 6 j ears ago.
At Birmingham, twelya months ago, a certain
“J- f? Rogers, Esq , B A “ took magnificent offices B r
Burlington ctixmoera. aud claimed to have established,
in London, Manchester, &,a. (including Mcloournei
branches of his “International Law Agency." Ha
announced that heirs were wanted for the enormous
sum of £27,750,000, and Rodwayed his victims xvimer-
cifully, Particulars of some of the oases evidence
wonderful ignorance and credulity on the part of the
clients of ‘-J. a. Rogers. E?q„ D.A.,*’ who has Ma
hooded.
A Bowery (N.T,) hotel-keeper, who puts to
shame our Australian lambers-down, t>ok a “drunk"
to the hospital oecause he gat frightened, The “drank"
had imbibed three quarts of spirits a day, and the hos-
pital doctor gave him 90 grains <?f bromide of potas-
Binm and 30 grains of chloral hydrate every two hours.
This stupendous do e didn’t make the follow sleep—
not a bit. He followed the doctor around the hospital
and swore he would eternally mash him if h, didn r,
rush up more chloral. The “ drunk ’ was discharged.
“ cured," on the fourth day, having, in 72 bourn, taken
730 grains of bromide of po ’a> siuaj, 412 grains of chloral
hydrate, and five-eighths of a grain of morphia— enough
to kill 40 ordinary people.
The Queen’s Birthday having passed, “ fireworks*
is out " So let’s explode an idea. You’ve all heard r,
lot of Colonel Burnaby’s "Ride to Khiva" TV-\
work, like Lady Brassey’s “ Voyage of the Sunbe-u. ’ ;
has been extolled to the clouds by the English critics,
a id the £icia of the London litqrati have been slavishly
echoed by the reviewers of Sydney. La ly fl’s. book.
as we stated in a former issue du 1 1 twaddle,
written by a dull woman, anent the doings of dull
people, whose yacht was a kind or floatug Litt’e
Bethel Burnaby's “Ride to Khiva,** now 16 ued ii.
sixpenny form, is, despite the glowing encomium
passed upon it, a surprisingly badly-written book, b
a surprisingly salt-sufficient aid paraimonio;: i man - *
The stylo of the book is so bald that Withers himself
might have written it. Here’s a specimen of the superb,
literature of this military paragonThersi is na
emnlry in the world, not even the United States
where so much ot what is commonly termed nipping
goes on as in Russia. Probably the extreme cold to a
certain extent permits the inhabitants to take such
liberties with their stomachs." There is nothing better
so far as literary composition goes, than this, in tha
whole book- Here’s a nit of his satire:—“ I was sur-
prised to find that so few of the party of Russian officers
and their wives coaid speak French ; in fao% there was
hardly a lady present who could converse in this lan-
gua ;e ; indeed, they did not blush when acknowledging
thair ignorance. It was quite a pleasure to meet with
some people who were nor, ashamed of their own lan-
guage." Now, we should like to know what other
people on earth besides the Russians are ashamed of
their mother-tongue. The gallant author of this bosh
went up in a balloon the other day and wasn’t killed
L he will come over here and call round at thi - office,
be won’t require to go up in another balloon. 1


SOCIAL.
On tha 4th July, the Americans of the city
oilebrattil the Day of Independence by a ball at
“ .Vithsd-'le “ Rooms. The attendance was just
■ ffloieiit ; the overflow from the larger room always
Hiding h little spare space in the smaller. Upstair*,
curd, s ■ Oking, and lonnging rooms were all fnrnished
with all necessary comforts ; the coat department was
nndor fpedal care; Chinese lanterns and greenery
decked i lie entry and conservatory, while in the dancing
saloon, vorning's efforts had resulted in profuse and
pleasing ornamentation Gables of leaves, ferns and
flowers drooped from pillar to pillar, and flags and
national emblazonry were on the walls. The name of
one of the United States indicated each rendezvous,
and the American Eagles very rampant, glared defiantly
from o: o end of the room on to George Washington at
the other. Mr. Washington’s picture was, of course,
from a photo by Boyd. Next to the late lamented
Presid. ut, the most important personages were, the
Ladies en masse, then Messrs. Charles Kahlo, U.S.
Consul, T. H. Boyd, Vice-consul, Thomas Richards,
Government Printer, Professor West, two Doctors Sly,
John Davies and his alphabet, the members of the com.
mittec, and the man who played the bassoon. When
the guests had nearly all assembled, “God save the
Q'leeu," was played, foil wed by the “Star Spangled
Banner," and then came the “ Grand March," led off
by Mr Hilliar Needs and Miss Kahlo. Amongst the
many brilliant toilettes (and wearers) may be noticed
thedross of a particularly handsome lady, Mrs. Moaltou,
wbo di-ossed with grace, and wore white broohti satin,
lace garnished, Elizabethan ruff, and pearl-entwined
coiffu o. A piquantly pretty little American lady,Mrs,
Nioh 'lie, iwearing a blended yellow and blue
brooada, trimmed with pale blue, was admired
for her dancing. The lovely face of Miss Kahlo
was seen above a costume of cream skirt
and cardinal bodice; becomingly arranged chaplet
of white blossoms. Another American lady, Mrs.
Wilson, who wore fern wreath, silver-grey satin bodice,
and lavender moire skirt and train, vied in dancing
with htr charming daughter, in creamy satin decorated
with crimson crewel embroidery. Little Miss Brown,
a dairy figure in white satin and silver, did ever so
muohdanomg; and so did a Rosey plump maiden altin d
In white {llama and blue and white tartan scarf. Ex-
ceed ngly handsome was Miss Bennett, whose tall figure
and charming face were set ia a fine ivory satin broche.
The daughter of a übiquitous M.L.A. was nice in pale
blue satin and lace; while mamma was in amber satin
and ruby velvet—a strkingly handsome dress. Miss J.
Bentley's white satin costume and silver hair sprays
were no less picturesque than that young lady’s perfect
pirouetting. Mrs. Te Kloot wore a mast tasteful
toilette of pink broohd and white lace. A well-known
cantati ice’s whits oaahmere, with hand-painted fuchsias
on white satin bands, attracted attention; so did a
married couple whose aggregate height would disturb a
groat deal more than twelve feet of atmosphere A
lady «f tall form, with a face handsome as Cleopatra’s,
wore an admirable setting of cream and crimson roses
in her raven hair, and a costume of maize llama and
satin. The Consul was as busy at fun and enjoyment
as anyone present; he danced —and well. The pro-
gramme was a beautiful design in light green, silver
a d gold—the American and British flags crossed over
u bine shield bearing the Southern Cross, a graceful
nibute to the great mother country and the great
colonies her sons have founded. Six waltzes, five
echottisohes, and six squares were amongst the num-
bers, and four extra dances were played by De Groen’s
string band at three o’clock. Supper, in flrst-olaes
style, including champagne aid choice wines, was pro-
vided by the City Catering Co. Flowers came from
fc’earlc. Messrs. H. and E. Needs were M.’sC., and it is
lair to Mr. William Fleming to say that ha was quite
tireless in his courtesy to the guests.
• • •
O.i the 38th June,'a well-known American book-
man Mr. Coffey, was hooked — no, booked—by tha
daughter of a retired auctioneer, at the Sacred Heart.
The lady wore cream and tatin broohe, trimmed with
point, de Venice lace. A large number of spectators
witnessed the bridegroom’s endeavours to conceal his
ham iaess. When the “ootfey" service was finished,
except tne spoons, the proud pair started for their
honeymocn,
• • •
1 f the Sunflower Ball was one of the smallest, it
wub among the best held, so far, this season. The only
perceptible result of having low-priced tickets seemed
to be that less expense had been incurred in decora-
ti ms, though more attention was paid to matters
that ensure comfort. At any rate, tne management
was good. The ball differed from ordinary affairs
in several respects. By this time, probably, every-
one has seen the peculiar tickets, which were
s icoially designed. The programmes were equally
unique, also designed specially: quite square in ahape
—brown, gold and lavender outside, and sage-green in.
On one side was a sunflower; on the other various
devices of “ nnthunk thoughts." At tea o’clock abont
100 persona were present, many wearing sunflowers,
while other sunflowers (artificial, and about the size of
a target) stood and glared at visitors in an impertinent
way from their pots in the comers. The most pro-
minent figures that arrested the gaze were a pair of
lauoy characters—a Cavalier, wearing a magnificent suit
of maroon silk velvet, with heavy gold lace, a splendid
and costly white-feathered Cavalier hat, and buff yellow
boots; his companion, a theatrical lady with black eyes
and hair, representing Italy, in red, white, and green.
Mr. J. Menton, secretary, wore a black velvet Hamlet
suit, well conceived. Two daughters of a Government
Printimg official went as a Vivandiere and a Farmer's
Daughter. Two young ladies, in gay cardinal costumes,
dancsdldslioiously. A George-strcotlady, in white satin
and sunflowers, was so attractive that it was only by
remembering Bam Weller’s warning one escaped un-
scarred. Miss Pierce was Nancy Lee, in a costume
showing more gaudiness of colour than sailors' sweet-
hearts usually wear. One of the moat simply tasteful
dresses was wern by the wife of a bank official; a dull
bine costume-cloth with bright blue satin sleeves and
trimmings, and a garland of small sunflowers on her
head A trio of sisters from Davonehire-street were
greatly admired: Miss Esther in pink silk broche.
Misses Henrietta and Matilda in blue silk broche and
ecru Miss Henrietta’s dancing was elegance itself.
Other characters were present, who were also at pre-
vious balls; we don’t repeat. There’s just one more,
though to be mentioned among the conspicuous ones
who appeared in the helianthic hall—little " Archibald
Grosveaor." His dress was a good copy from
“Patience,” but there the resemblance ended; he
wasn’t a trustee for beauty—at least, not for any quan-
tity worth speaking of. And it must have been in an
ill-advised moment he decided to wear knickerbockers.
His blue continuations were picturesque, bat they drew
attention to the circumstance that Arohio is, as Mr.
Kiss would say, extremely “ light below the knee."
Wo would also like to mention the Mayor; but can’t,
because he was not present. Which raises the question :
When a man bestows his patronage, what is it he really
gives? Mr. L. De Groen’s string band was the theme
of praise all round j they played pretty and popular
airs in good time. The City Catering Co. did well, and
the sensible plan was adopted of indicating by a gap in
the programme that a special interval was allowed for
refreshments. But, after all, we are tormented with
the conundrum —What are the Sunflowers ?
* • •
Tha upper ten of Hobart are awfully scandalised
that despite a marked activity in the local matrimonial
market, their daughters ore “not in it." Really, it’s
too bad, for Heaven knows they've gone to trouble
eaough to shove 'em off. Ask poor Wallop, the Cover- I
net’s private secretary.
• * *
On the 21st ultimo, a Masonic Ball (English
Constitution; took place in the York-street hall, when
nearly 150 people gathered to chase the hours with
flying feet. Messrs. Shorter and Marshall, sec., did all
they could to stir up joy. The Artillery Band was
engaged, and struck up a loyal tune as the procession
of Msicus entered, in full regalia, carrying drawn
swords. Wo looked on with awe, from behind Shorter,
and whispered: “It’s a fine Marshall eight." He
shudder ad. Among tho handsome costumes was one
worn by a very Venus, of light blue satin and cash-
mere, with a garland of fine flowers, and a wreath
en suite. Mrs. Shorter wore a nice black satin with
with si eel Heading, trimmed with rosea and cardinal.
Miss Birks, in heliotrope and white satin, was thought
by many to be the belle. A Palmer-street maiden was
full of grace, and attired in pale blue plneh; dancing
well moreover. A petite brunette, in heliotrope satin
bodice and white skirt, was a delightful partner. Miss
O’Brien, iu a rich ruby, might have justly disputed tte
title of belle. The programmes were printed on a
lovely material that seemed specially intended not to
receive pencil marks. Mrs. Smith, from Botany, in
pale blue silk, exhibited splendid twisted “ cables ’’ of
brilliant-hood flowers on her skirt. Decorations were
more that usually profuse, and the City Catering Com*
pany furnished the comestibles,
• • •
At last Gwydir P. and A. Show, a private ball
was given by two gentlemen, the invitations including
all the ” silvertailed ’’ section of society. It was a
grand success, notwithstanding heavy rain, and Mies
Hcott, in light blue satin, was belle. Disappointment
seethed in the bosoms of the uninvited ones—the
“coppertailed" ones—and they got up an Indignation
Ball a few days later, which was also a success. But
the seeds of antipathy are sown, and eoppartails and
silvertails can't exist in the same paddock now.
• • •
Louth district comes to the fore with a comical
wedding. At a wayside residence the bridal party
awaited the parson; who didn’t show, The bride grew
especially weary. “He cometh not," she said, as mid-
night drew near. Fact is, weather was frightful, and
the man of piety did not care about leaving home. At
last, the mail coach arrived. The expected man was
not a passenger; but Providence, which tempers the
wind to the shorn lamb, took pity on the bridegroom,
who, under the exasperating circumstances, was
naturally getting, say, impatient. The coach contained
not the parson, but a parson. Would he officiate ? He
would, if the mailman would wait. The mailmnu was
a baked-clay-parallelogram, and consented. So the
parson, half-frosen, hasty, and spotted with mud,
joined the longing lovers, and then went out again into
the darkness and mud.
« • •
The Glen Innea Bachelors gave a three-aoore
"hop" on the 23rd ultimo. Good music, supper, and
floor. Married ladies, who provided the supper, worked
hard. Bslle—between the sister of a Government official,
wife of a banker, and the spouse of a storekeeper.
Twenty-fonr danoea over by 2.30 iu the morning.
• • •
A complimentary ball to ladies of Richmond
and Windsor was given by a coterie of Sydney gentle"
men on Friday week, at the Richmond School of Arts,
which was tastefully decorated with ferns, flowers, new
flags and mottoes. The floor was very good, the music,
supplied by the German Band, was the same ; and the
catering, entrusted to Mrs. Bead, of the Eoyal Hotel,
Richmond, gave complete satisfaction. Amongst the
fair guests, conspicuous were, Miss Peats, in cream
satin, cardinal and sunflowers; Miss Mackenzie, in
green silk of the palest shade and cream lace (these
two ladies being especially belle-like); Miss Richards,
handsomely attired in pale green silk and cream lace;
and Miss Eokford, in white silk, blue sash, and flowers.
Miss Pitt wore black Spanish lace and rod flowers:
Miss Onus, white China silk; Miss Tornaghi, pale green
silk, ruby sash, roses, aud a beautiful wreath of ooral;
Miss T. Jones and Miss Quest were slso charming in
pink and pale blue, respectively. Mr. H. 8. Badgery.
M.P., acted as M.C., and his chronic jocularity added to
the enjoyment. It was very pleasing to see, among
some 80 guests, scarcely a wallflower, whioh u as greatly
due to the efforts of Messrs. A. K. Tornaghi and Q. M.
Pitt, who were attentive and polite, especially to
strangers. This last is a great merit. Twenty-four
dances were on the programme, and,four extras brought
the boll to a close at half-past four on Saturday
morning.
• # •
In a railway suburb, some exquisite people de-
termined toshave a private dancing assembly. Only
people of the bluest blood and yellowest guineas were to
be admitted. Unfortunately, those who have been asked
didn’t think they were quite ” far enough down," and
mostly declined to go. These aspiring exquisites, there-
lore, as the date for their assembly draws near, aro now
very uncomfortable. In fact, between the society they
don’t want, and the society they can’t get, they ssem
doomed—” to hang as even .as doth Mahomet B tomb,
’twixt hell and heaven.”
• * •
A very pretty wedding took place at Hobart
Cathedral on Wednesday afternoon 2lst June, between
Mr. Edwin Mitchell, second son of the late much,
esteemed member for Glamorgan, and Miss Annie Solly,
second daughter of the Assistant-Colonial Secretary of
Tasmania. The bride’s sisters were the chief brides-
maids, very charmingly attired in white with hol*y
berries; the groomsmen ranging all sizes, from tiny
men in knickerbockers upwards. The Dean of Hobart
tied the knot, so escape is hopeless.
• • •
Mrs. P. Wyatt gave a large party on the 28th
ult., at ” Pomona,” to mark her daughter’s (little Miss
Nina’s) birthday. Fancy dresses were worn by many of
the guests. The hostess appeared in a splendid dress
representing Lady Teazle, ’three Masters Wyatt were
all in Elizabethan court costumes. Among the chief
fancy characters were Folly, Yivandiere, Farm Girl,
and Fisher Maid. Dawn appeared to be breaking all
night; breaking hearts. A Court Dame was also court
dame-aging the susceptibilities of smitten youths;
while a handsome blonae lady from a temple of Thespis
deserved to be admired, and was. The rooms were
nicely decorated, and the supper tables boro every
delicacy. The guests also bore —speeches, from orators
whose powers were a good deal latent, but who bravely
did their best to be pathetic and poetic in proposing the
healths of “Host and Hostess," and the “Ladies.”
• • •
On the 23rd, the Woollahra Private Assembly
held its monthly ball in Needs’ Rooms. Good attend-
ance, punctuality, and a few wallflowers were observ-
able. Music did not give satisfaction; refreshments
did. Waltz step much practised in everything, oven in
square dance. Hitherto this latter innovation has
seldom been seen otherwhere than at harbour gaieties.
Several young gentlemen would have been more com-
fortably situated had they hired a small room to them-
selves ; when one performs eight out of sixteen danoes
with the same partner, he can scarcely want any other
company. At one a.m., a special tram took visitors
home.
» • •
The Owl Club’s first annual meeting took place
on 27th June, and elected new officers. During the
year the club has acquired an £BO piano, aud a balance
of nearly £5O.
* * •
There will be a Gala Day at Boggabri on the
opening of the railwas. Great luncheon, athletics,
ball and supper.
# # •
A very fashionable audience of 200 gathered at
Miss Woolley’s ooneert at “Nithsdale" on the 27th
June. It was quite a private affair, all full dress, and
the music of a hish class. Marked ability was fhown
by some of Mias Woolley’s pupils, and that lady, with
Herr Wildohek and Herr Kreitsohmann, assisted in the
programme. A platform was erected, flowers were dis-
posed about, aud, with the rich dresses, helped to give
the bijou concert-room a very brilliant appearance.
Light refreshments were served, and the concert waa
quite a success.
• • •
There was a pleasant garden and evening party
at ” The Lynn," Bondi, on Saturday. Some fifty guests
grew enthusiastic about the flowered parterres, the
shrubs, walks in the rook; the ferns, the waterfall,
and the far sea view. They strolled on the shore of
the tiny, sandy bay, they explored the haunts of the
glen, and they admired everything, ane each other.
And then in the evening there were charades, dancing
and music, till the hour to separate. That was in the
house; what Dian saw in the pretty glen, we may not
say. ,
• * *
St. Michael’s, Wollongong, was the scene of an
interesting marriage last week. Mr. E. P. Allen (of
Abbott and Allen, solicitors), was united to pretty Miss
Amy Ewing, byl her father, the Rev. T. O. Ewing,
pastor of the Church The bride wore oream satin,
lace, Itulle veil and blossoms; and was supported by
five bridesmaids —two in cream with blue trimmings,
two in blue with cream trimmings, and a little girl iu
oream atd cardinal. After the ceremony, the party
went to the rarsonage, and thence the united ones
started for Moss Vale.
* • •
On the 21st June, a double marriage was con-
summated at Newcastle. Two daughters of Mr. James
Bussell, contractor, of that city, were married to two
Civil Servant*. Mr. W. H. Hie**, of the Survey De-
partment, Sydney, secured the elder sister, and Mr. S.
Campbell, of the Colonial Architect's office, Miss :
Maggie. Both brides wore cream silk and brocaded
satin ; and the bridesmaids cream cashmere trimmed
with blue brocaded satin. Mr James Fletcher, M P.,
took the seat of honor at the banquet, and, at 8 p.m.,
the party adjourned to a large hall for a night’s dancing.
Money moon, steamer to Sydney.
• • •
The St. John’s Anniversary Ball held at the
Freemasons’ Mall, Waggs, on the 27th ultimo, was most
snooeuful. upwards ot 250 ladies and gentlemen being
present. The oostnmes were brilliant in the extreme,
and the walls were decorated with festoons of ever-
green and the Masonic s;gns. The stage was prettily
arranged as a drawing-room, ferns and pot-plants being
placed in eosyjoorners. Pale blue, white and pink, are
apparently Wagga’s favourite colours, as they deaidcdly
predominated. The two Mlssee Halliday were hand-
somely dressed —sne in blue satin with brocade and
blue flowers, the other in white satin with brocade and
flowers to matoh. A charming little form and pretty
face, the owner of which excelled in her dancing, were
set off by a tasteful costume of pale green tarletan over
white silk, and a cluster of flowers at the throat. The
Misses Hammond looked well in blue and pink
satin. One young lady in pink watered silk attracted
a great many admirers. Miss Cox, the daughter of a
well-known host, was by a great number considered to
be “ the belle,” and wore a very neat attire of white
oashmere. Mias Hunter, also, in white cashmere and
satin, looked charming. Conspicuous among the mar-
ried ladies was Mrs. Qowland, in cream satin, with dark
blue flowers. Mrs. Arthur X>evlin’s handsome toilette
consisted of cardinal silk trimmed with broobs. Mrs.
Miuchin wore pale cream satin, which was exceedingly
becoming. Like her husband, she dances well. Mrs.
Hayes, in black satin and crimson-striped moir£, was
very much admired. The two M's.F., Messrs. Douglas
and Loughnan, honoured the festivities with their pre-
sence. Neither of them danced, s« they made them-
selves agreeable to the wallflowers. The programmes
were designed with taste, being imitations of Masonic
aprons, and contained twenty dances. The mnsio was
very good. Shortly after 3 a.m., the guests took their
departure. That the ball was a great success was
ohiefly owing to the indefatigable bon. secretaries,
Messrs. Minohin and Daly.
• • •
Glammis Hall, Paddington, wae the scene of
another enjoyable rinklcg and dancing party, last
Thursday, when a largo number gathered there. Pro-
grammes of a dozen dances hung round the reom, and a
violinist and harpist gave the music. At eleven o’olook
the careful maters wrapped up their fair charges in
olonds, and, the air being very cold, told them to keep
their mouths shut on the way home.
see
Professor West’s dancing pupils at Ashfield
closed their first term this season by a semi-ball on
Saturday night, at the School of Arts. Each pupil
was allowed to Introduce two visitors; who, however,
were not supposed to take part in the Professor’s show
danoes, such as the New Waltz, Spanish Dance, etc.,
but had ample entertainment in watching those who
did. One of the handsomest dresses was a cream
sateen, with cardinal satin trimmings and cream lace,
pearl necklet, and deep crimson leaves in the hair.
Two sisters wore pale pink, and pale blue, respectively,
and pearls. A fair visitor wore pale blue satin and
white grenadine, which suited her complexion to a
nicety; and a white oashmere with pink silk trimmings
was set off by a pretty face. A married lady, with fait
wavy hair, looked nice in a dark dress. Affer a little
speech from the Professor, all separated at U p.m.
The Masonic brethren of Milton gave a ball in
the Agricultural Hall there, on the 23th Jane, at which
300 were present, many haring driven in from distances
of several mites. What with travelling in, suffering a
concert, clearing the tables, dancing till 3 am. and
travelling home again, the Miltonic folks folks had
their endurance tested. Dr. Clarke, a Nowra man,
and Miss Ssooomb, were the chief singers at the concert;
after which came refreshments, and then dancing,
tinder the M.C-ship of the schoolmaster. Miss Allen,
wearing pale bine silk, a»d Miss Seocomb, a yonnger
sister of the vocalist mentioned, divided the honours of
belle. Mias Hobbs was noted for, and the doctor not
for, graceful dancing.
• • •
The Sydney Private Assembly Ball was hold
last Friday at Nithsdale. The lovely weather seemed
to entice a larger number of guests than ever. Over
150 were present, and the display of costumes and
charming wearers were brilliant. The usual sixteen
dances, mostly waltzes, was disposed of soon after
midnight, Korff's Band providing excellent music,
while the City Catering Co. provided the more material
delicacies of the supper table.
• • #
Events of more or leas importance:—An English
gentleman well known in mercantile circles has capitu-
lated, to the dark-eyed daughter o£ a Botany-street
resident On the 28th June, Mr. W. P. D« Boos (son
of Mr. Warden De Boos, Temora, an old journalist)
was married to the eldest daughter of Mr. W. H.
Williams, a Lutle Billaboug squatter Mr. M’Laugh-
lin, solicitor, was moored for life on Friday The
rising young lawyer of Braidwood has come to an
understanding with the plump young beauty of Jembai-
oumbene. It’s fortunate that's net ber name, or there’d
bave to be an extra fee for tbe parson An illustrious
wedding at Singleton; Mr. H. C. Millet married Mise
Quinn, tbe Mayor’s daughter. Large company at tbe
banquet, who danced till morning At Lithgow last
week, Mr. Charles Goodwin made a good win ef the
youngest daughter of an old resident,Mr. John Towers.
A man may go from bad to better, bat can’t go to-wsrs,
by doing as happy Charles has dene. If we were asked
by a young man whether he ohght to tie each a knot,
we should promptly say : Of coarse, knot Mateland
is well named. There have been about four marriages a
week so far, and the girls intend to maintain the aver-
age—or go to law A couple who were married in
Walget, recently, drove off in a buggy, and when a few
miles on the plain, it broke down and they had to walk
back.
• » «
The marriage of a daughter of J. B. Watson,
the Viotorian millionaire, to Mr. M'Baoharn, a wealthy
Queensland squatter, is to take place to-day, at Sand-
hurst A Government House Ball at Adelaide last
Thursday The Bowing Club Ball at Newcastle,
eventuates next Thursday Mr. and Mrs. W, H. Webb,
of "Ashgrove," Ashfleld, gave a large evening party
last night Milton Bachelors give a large dance very
soon Abont 120 gathered at a Masonic Ball at
Young last week ; usual Masonic formalities and deco-
rations; a success A hospital ball comes on at Wai-
gett on the 16th instant. Some three weeks ago, a
private ball was held there, the pink ot Walgett fashion
was .represented, no one less high-toned than a soap,
boiler being admitted. Owing to the social standing
of the ballists, the officials lent the court-house for the
purpose A very grand bachelors’ ball at Grafton,
recently, would have been very successful, only there
was too mnch of a good thing; that is, too many
charming ladies A return ball was tendered to the
officers and men of the A.S.N. Co.'s steamer, Fgmont,
bv residents of Bockhampton lately, and about 100
dance i to the strains of the town baud all night
Maryborough girls are all agog. The annual fancy
dress scrimmage is to take place on the 20th instant...
Messrs. Geddes have a nice private skating and dancing
party in the Institute at Botany every Friday evening
Quests only go by invitation. A number ot visitor g,
thanks to the tram, so oonvenisstly from 5ydney.........
Mr. Isaac Doust, of “ Ediston,” Marriokville, gave a
pleasant evening party last week—charades, dancing
music all enjoyable The first semi-ball of New-
town (Monday; Rink took place last Friday, in the Odd.
fellows’ Hall there. Refreshments, musio, and ladies
were all beautiful Annual soiree of Farmer’s
employees (Victoria August.
A very enjoyable “ Small and Early ” occurred
at Montrose, Balmain, on Friday. The clever little
hostess looked pretty in mauvs eilk trimmed with black
satin, with camellias in her tresses. The singing and
dancing of a solicitor’s talented sister-in-law, who wore
black silk, cardinal sash aud silver, weie extremely
good. Noticeable were an Annandale lady in brown
velvet, cashmere and gold buttons, and a slight Darling*
tin damsel in black with white wreath, who played
capital dance musio.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Mercantile 80. Ball (Exhibition) J ul ,y ®-
Petersham Private Assembly ••••••••• Jal y '•
Intercolonial Football Match (Association
Ground) J nl r 8 - H’M*
German Ball (Nithsdale) .*•
Oddfellows’ Ball (Protestant Halil J Ql y Jf-
Hercules Dramatic Club Ball (Nithsdale)...... July J®*
Masonic Pall, I C. (Town Hall) y 27-
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports J 7
University Annual Commemoration .....niiim i/Uiy
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communication from
Clergymen.]
At the “ Peter’* Pence” collection for the Pope,
ia the Victorian churches of •* the faithful” on Sunday
last, the pastoral of the Archbishop of Melbourne,
which was read, stated that these annual appeals
throughout the world had become a necessity, in con-
sequence of the Holy Father being deprived of his
ancient patrimony by fraud and violence.’
Bishop Bromby of Tasmania finds he cannot
resign his See until Parliament shall have passed an
Act providing for the appointment of his successor.
Canon Liddon of St. Paul’s has been mentioned for the
See of Tasmania, as well as for that of Sydney, the
climate of the first-named colony being considered
peculiarly desirable for his somewhat delicate health.
The Eev. Joseph Cook, of Boston, who propose*
to lecture in Sydney, is the ablest man we ate ac-
quainted with to discuss the anti-theological notions of
the day. He knows the modern scientific objections to
current religion, and has the bast reply that a trained
advocate can rake in. To a scholar his writings and
lecturings are the most melancholy spectacle that can
be imagined. At twenty-five be laid himself out on a.
crusade against what he then called “modern infi-
delity," and ever since his callow intellect grabbed
that brief, his learning and money have been lavished
to back up orthodoxy. That is, he judged at twenty-
five, and then takes twenty years to collect
evidence. ——
The Eev. J. Jefferis indicated last Sunday night,
at Pitt-street, the character of some lectures which he
is preparing to deliver on Sunday evenings. Referring
to a series lately delivered, entitled “Other Bibles and
other Beliefs," he said that with a view of rendering
that series more complete, he will, on the 23rd and 30th
July, give two lectures on "Judaism and the Greek
Chur oh.” Then, alluding to the class, so numerous in
this day and in this city, who assume an attitude of
opposition to Christianity, ho announced that he in-
tends to deliver, in contradistinction to the series aboye-
natflSd, (another course of lectures designated " Our
Bible and our Belief." In these, Mr. Jefferis will defend
the Christian Scriptures against unbelievers,
A rev. gentleman at one of the Shoalhaven
townships, the other Sunday went for Darwin straight,
and, apparently to his own satisfaction, succeeded in
knocking the celebrated naturalist’s doctrine of ** evolu-
tion " into a oocked hat. " Don’t tell me,” said he
with frowning brow and bitter emphasis, “ that man’s
origin was a jolly fish, and that climatic influences dur-
ing vast periods of time, elaborated the being, whom
the blessed book says ia a little lower than the angels.
Ton have heard, or read, of the great argument of the
* watch *as put forth by Paley. Now, what would you
+v ilnk, were I to tell you that this watch was not made
n, an intelligent artificer—that it grew; that at one
tiu.o it was only a pises of metal, then it became a
wato-i c’»e, then one wheel appeared inside, then more
wheels d springs, and so on until it became the per-
fect pie*, of mechanism we now find it.. Why, were I
to make su h a statement, none of you w. n’d regard me
as other that, a fool. Equally foolish then i • the theory
of the scienlii- ’, who states that man was n't created
in his present iorm, but that he grew out of the lowest
forms of life into iiis present state ”-—and so on. And
yet snob men wonder why Intelligent people neither
attend church nor discard the teachings of Darwin,
Huxley, and Spencer.
The new incumbent of a N.S.W. church has,
so several papers state, presented each pew-holder with
a six montbs* rent account to be paid in advance ; if
not paid in a fortnight, seats to be declared vacant.
This ia our advice to the congregation
The New Plymouth (N.Z.) Presbyterians are a
scurvy lot. They recently applied to the Auckland
Presbytery to remove their pastor, the Eev. S. Breach.
That gentleman was called before the Presbytery, and
conclusively proved that the only salary he had to live
upon was the amount of the weekly collections, which
totted up about 17s. Both he and his wife were com.
pe1.6(1 to earn money by manual labour during the
week-days. The parishioners bad at first made a charge
of embesElement against the' Rev. 8. Breach, but had
subsequently scratched it out of the petition to the
Presbytery. So disgusted were the members of the
Presbytery with the revelations made, that they offered
to supply Mr. Breach with more remunerative employ,
ment if he would leave New Plymouth.
• « •
Mrs. Hampson, the revivalist, visits Victoria....
Rev. Canon Smith is in a very critical condition of
health ; So is the Rev. Dr. Beg “ Great Paul” is the
new bell just oast for St. Paul’s, London. It weighs
15$ tons, the clapper is over 4 cwt., and the edge of the
bell where it strikes ia 8f inches thick Rev. J. C
Kirby, of Port Adelaide (formerly of Sydney and
Queensland), is about to lecture on the " Social Evil,"
under the auspices of a Conference which has been
formed down there for the purpose of "abating the
amount of disease and vice, and to farther shield the
purity and just liberty of women.” Father William
Kelly, S.J., is to lecture at the Sydney E.C. Bible-hall.
Father Kelly is an eloquent and learned man who
speaks eight or nine languages The Catholic Bishop
or Montreal has served notice " to quit" on all tenants
of Chnroh property who are selling liquor thereon
The QirpsLAND Mebcttet says "that the K.C. clergy in
Sale deliberately walk out of any building in which
‘God save the Queen’is being played." TbeR.C.
choirs are combining with a view to producing some-
taing high-class at the opening of St. Mary's Cathedral,
A Victorian priest, Father O’Callaghan, sued a
butcher whose cow had knocked him (the rev. gentle,
man) down, for £49 damages. The uaoriligious animal
got the better of the law-suit, and, on the whole, came
out victorious "God writss asses e gainst
the men who voted far the Chinese Bill,” says
Henry Ward Beecher. But, if " ass ”be written in
Paradise against the name of a parson every time he
says a foolish thing, the celestial synodical record will
be mistaken for a live-stock journal.
A ieport of the trial trip of the steamer Mait-
land, together with aa illustration, are pressed oat this
issue, late engravings occupying the space.
" On with the dance, let joy be unsoafined I”
So Byron said, and we’ll not be behind.
The giddy “ Mercantile” again is here.
The great ball of the Terpsiohorean year.
Whore everyone meets everyone he knows.
And tireless twinkle fnll ten thousand tees.
The mnsio’s crash vibrates the high-arched root ”
And onrsed be him who first cries “ Hold »loof V*
A thousand dancers “ do” a hundred styles,
And beaux seem made of bows — maids made cf smiles.
The tables bend beneath their luscious " spreads,”
And some have giddy feet—some giddy heads.
Will we be there ? Ahem 1 just watch our smile.
Who won't be, think you, at the “ Mercantile f”
The Mercantile Ball takes place to-night (Thurs-
day), in the Exhibition Building. The City Catering
Company provide refreshments, the Young Australian
Band the music, and D. Murray is shining secretary.
Surely no one wants more—except a ticket. And as the
tickets are liwited, those who don’t bnrry up promptly
will have a chance of airing themselves in the Park.
Jnst ask tba reverend doctor, ere
You pay that small account,
How much Christ charged the Jews to hear
His Sermon on the Mount.
And if the reverend doctor says
Things have been changed since then.
Tell him to linger for his change
Till they .change back again.
"The Word” was once enough to save
Men’s souls from Satan’s clootj
But now you’ve got to have ’’The Word,”
And six months’ rent to boot.


fll H B A T B E
'gab-LesSess Messrs. AUI
jlsnoger for Mr. Eeeve
Treasurer ”m
LAST NIGHT BUT
of
WYBEBT EEEVE’S COMEI
MB. D. HAEKI
... and
Mlm BLANCHE STA
LAST NfGHT of THE PASS]
LAST NIGHT of THE PASS
LAST NIGHT of THE PASS]
FEIDAY EVENING,
__ last night of the i
complimentary be
ME. WYBEET EE
ImL on which occasion will b«
THE CRUSHED TRA(
Box plan open at Elvy’s. Ticket
boose at Lloyd’s, next the Theatre
G
AIE T Y
Lui ees Messrs. L. M, Bayl
gi b-Lessee and Proprietor B
SEVENTH WEEK of SI
BOYAL ENGLISH AND IT
COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT] 10-K
iudETEEY EVENING Daring th
t i ™ T J J ? ooc< l’ s Opera B«
LA FILLE DE MAD AH
La Pille de Madame
La Filie de Madame
SATURDAY next. 8t
tie grandest ot all Operas, Verdi's
UN BALLO IN MAS
Un Ballo in Masc
Un Ballo in Masc
Box Plan at Messrs. Niohelson a
0
FH K A
Lessee and Manager
TENTH WEE.
and continued great si
ME. FREDERICK MA
and his
COMEDY COMPi
EVJ3EY EVENING, TILL FU
GEE AT and DECIDi
of
the great London s'
JEAMBS JEAMBd .
SCENERY B"
GEORGE GOED
NOTICE.—Mr. MARSHALL ha
ight of producing “JEAMES"
lolonies and New Zealand.
D „ , . Fneesas asm
Boa Plan at A. Hnener Dein’s, Ch
toting Manager for Mr. Marshal
Q
UEBN’S THE ATE
UNEABT]
rjIHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
A ZULU WAE
PnHio Hall, Greymonth, 24th M
Wanganui and Napier to follow.
Abbott's New Theatre, Anokla
W9a|»
Houses packed to suflocatio
M
B. AND MRS. JA
(MISS MAEBTON I
Arrangements completed for one
June Ist, 1882, under the ntt
MSSaS. QAENBE, WILLIAMS
[Theatre royai
OPEN POE ENQAGI
!*7 en or «larh* hundr
1
ALBERT HALL. Brisbane, o
IM * ln * i*** people, is now ai
S;/ -^ J p f r,or “ lne9S - The sta
TO THE OPEBATIC AN
PBOPESSIOI
NEW OPERA B
WELLESLEY STREET, AX
Sole Proprietor, H. N.
*’P H SL¥^S2flL oeß * Building ig :
JL. THE M9DEL Opera How
fhe Largest and Most Com modi
Erected oa lastest models, it will
•very Modern Comfort and Luiu
the curtain) appertaining to
Theatres in the Old and Now Wei
* parfeot. AM parte of the Hoi
and egress from bread, light, and
j»eeant4«m hies been taken te sai
ease of ftw, and the Anekland 01 tw
tepseted and Mglflv commended
J? teat and. MagnWUenfty and
lbs Lunwrtoua Private B’wes, B
tepelfcerwitb its
Stalls Aecemodati«», are teatnuos
X h9 °p*™ 1
or the WilHanason Opera Cotap
oommenmn* from 3ML May next,
and Agents* ** Atarß, rt and Oomhii
tßn. y
to the Proprietor lor terms
NEW TOWN HAL
MAIN HALL OPEN POE ]
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, Ql
Applications for engagements
EBESI
J|£eecantile ao’
SEVENTH ANNUA
Under the pa*ronaa
MAYOR and MERCHANT
The M E. C. Seventh ANNUAL
the EXHIBIT! JN B 1
Prince Alfred 1
6th JULY N
DRESS, PLAIN. AN]
Refreshments, City Catei
Decorations, Mrs.
Band, Yoang Ausl
Late Train, 2,30 a. m., to Parian
Stations,
Tickets, doable, 30s; Qontlema
Single 12s 6d, may now be obtain
Warehouses Messrs. Holdaw
Co , P Lassetter and Co., Then
H. Paling, «l T y end Ce., Peapi
street j Parmer and Co., Pitt-stw
Street j J. H. Bllereamp, Hnntcr
and from the Stewards
Stewards
John Harris, Esq. (Mayor J. f
efSydney) Wn
Hon. James Watson C. 1
Hon. J.B. Watt Jan
Sir P. Jennings, K C.M.G, J. 1
Hon. W. M. Alderson. Job
T. E. Allt, Bsq. rjht
Henry Bull,|Bsq. Cht
Thomas Dalfcon, Esq. Car
John Gkrdyne, Esq. j 0 h
J. ®. Hanks, Esq. r. j
John Hardie, Esq, Th<
John Hinohclifi, Esq. J O l
Committee
'Messrs. R. W. Benson, John B 1
Brindley, L. G. Birehal), P. C.
W. A. Blaekstone, W. H. Bros,
W. J. Poster, A. Green, E. Hi
R. A. Keddie, W. Leo, N. Lock'
Y. Nelson, T. Playfair, innr., N. S
E. Wilkinson, C H. Williams.
D. IV
A. P,
TENDERS are" invithd ' for ti
WOOL WAREHOUSES to
and CO., LIMITED, at Pyrmo
namely, one in Horris-street, abo
of 5 stories; and one in Pyrmonl
by 106 feet, also ©f Are stories.
Separate tenders to bo given fo
may be for the whole, or in three
No. X for St»ne work. No. 2 Irouw
Joiners, Pinching, Painting, &o.
Plans and speeifieations can be
26, between the hours of 16 and 4
of the nndersioned, to when t
dressed up to 12 O’CLOCK AT ]
CROSS
indiges
DROP)
Will CUBE Indigestion, Heartbt
Headache, Sour Stomach, and evei
disordered state of the dig
THESE DEOPS WILL CUBE
Sold in bottles, 2s. 6d. and 4a. (
and dealers in medi
Sole Proprietor and P
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viet.
GAWLEtt, SOUTH AU
Sydney Agents
ELLIOTT, BEOTHEBS. Hi
u ndee section
ABT UNION,
PUBCHABE of the BUNGAE
FEBEHOLD EST.
T.fi i-i^** 8 ea«h i
» Ji' IS. I** l ** *4«« Lot *
Lot 8. 2nd prise ( Lo * I
r tJ*ii *? £’ ? ri4W “ «f £1
Let 1A 1 Pnn c f £5O.
L®* O to BS. l# Prices
Lets 81 to lie. 10# p,i„
The management fs compelled »
to the flrst day of Ang
standing this aoneuneement. th«
tively be proceeded with tarw d
are snbsoribed for. All nnsacoe
have their money returned per reti
the grandest opportunity ever of
(or El* 1 PnZe ’ ** not a large and
Address—SETH E. PEESSE 1
European Chambers; Box, Post 0
BEAD PEOSPEC
rjIHE BLACK CUEEA
Acts likea charm in every ]
A Single Dose gives Belief at i
Eefreshing Slee
MADE ONLY BY
Chemist to His Exes
FURNITURE! FU
MAKE YOUE HOMES C(
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOU
w.
H. PA
PIANOFORTE waee:
352 George-stree'
y. ,
M
sis
PIAN OFORTES, PIAN
JUST RECEIVED. JUST :
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE
A aplendid stock to seled
EVERY RENOWNED 1
AMERICAN ORGi
By the celebrated mi
W, BELL AND
Which gained first and sp
TVER ALL OTHI
st the
LATE STDN NTERNATIONi
H A R MON I U
BY
ALEXANDRE and ther KENOW
in all the various mod
A FEW GOOD SECOND.HA
at low prices, now in s
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s,
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hunt
tortea.
W. Bell and Co.'s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and Co
W. H. P A L
352 GEORGE BTRE
OPPOSITE WYNTAR
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. P. DeCOUBCT :
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mil
South Wales).
Authoe of the “ Minbrs’ Handy
MINING EXPERT
ARBITRATOR, ADVISER, A
MINERVA CHAMBI
128 PITT STR
(Near King-atreet.
MINING PROPERTIES REPO
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS U:
BUCKET ANI
119 BATHURST STREET, :
AGENTS POE
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
8 T E
PAETIOULAES ON APPLICA'
THE “PLUME” E
MOLESKIN TR<


James MARTIN & Compy.,
lf r '
389 George Street
SYDNEY,
Late MARTIN & PAIN, '
The Leading Firm in the IMPLEMENT and
MACHINERY Trade.
We invite correspondence from intending
Purchasers of every class of Implements and
Machinery, and will post Illustrated Cata-
logues with description and Price Lists of
everything required.
Our stock is the Largest and Best Selected in
the Colonies, Comprising
Corn Shelters Single, Double, and Power
Corn Huskcrs on best American Pattern
Maize Drills The best pattern in America
Corn Crackers From 255. upwards
Chaff Cutters For Hand, Horse, or Steam
Horse Powers For 1,2, 3,4, or 5 Horses
Steam Engines For 2 to 20 Horse Power
AMD EVBRVTIIINO REQUIRED IN THE
FARM, FIELD,'AND STATION,
Write to us for everything ■- »;i
James MARTIN & Compy,, Sydney
9. II
,0* ;
SILVE R AT WATCHES
FROM X*4.10.
Cr URiNG
HUNTER STREET.
SYDNEY. gold watches
SEND FOR T FROM X&3-10 .
CATALOGUE c
rpHfi GREAT WANT OF THE AOE IS A REAL HOOD BATH.
None better than WIQZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
they are in every way complete.
TRY ONE. FOE
C. E. WIGZELV BATHS,
Oxford-street. f 0 HAIR - CUTTING ,
SYDNEY STAGE AND STREET WIGS;
And Ornamental Hair Work*
See WIGZELL,
189 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Falmlsr Street.
M. OOULSTON,
(ESTABLISHED 28 TEARf)
WELL-KNOWN TAILOR,
53 Market Street.
TRY
GOULSTON’S
£3 3 a. SUITS!
JB4 4s. SUITS!
JE4 10s. SUITS!
F
m
ALL GOODS
Thoroughly
SHRUNK,
and
NO MISFITS!
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL PROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
pUB L T C NOTICE.
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPINQ MIXTURE and
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours to deceive the public by SUBSTITUTING
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The pnblie are CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
bearing
“ THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE.”—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Importers,
thus—
Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PURE
TEA, must be certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the pnblie.
THE TAEPINQ MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ABE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCHEB,
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
TORE STREET, SYDNEY,
JOHN BANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers' Brasswrro, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttinga, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers' Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
110 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
SUITS TO
MEASURE,
JE3 3s.
ALL WOOL
and
THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
TEOUSEES
TO
OEDEE, 16s. Gd.
From the
BEST SCOTCH
TWEEDS.
SUITS TO
MEASUBE, £3 3s.
PERFECT FIT
GUARANTEED.
TEOUSEES
TO
OEDEE, IGa. 6d.
REAL WEST OF
ENGLANDS.
Self-Measurements,
Forms, Patterns, and
rttyles, sent post free
to any port of the
colony on application.
H.
L.
S
u
M
M
E
R
F
I
E
Ij
D.
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOB,
235
PITT STEEET
(Only.)
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOE,
235
PITT STEEET
(Only.)
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOE,
235
PITT STEEET
(Only.)
THE PEOPLE’S
TAILOE,
235
PITT STEEET
(Only.)
H. L.
Summer field,
235
PITT STEEET,
SIDNEY.
PEEMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Mayors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVED to his Elegant and Splendid
SHOP, No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET, one door from
the corner ot Gonlburn-street. where he will be pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom he renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN S DINNERS,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BAJSQUEIS,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
he Turks of subscription for The Bulletin are—in
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly,
Ss. t booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances way
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z.,
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
dated and published by W. H. Traill & Co., at
The Bulletin office, ?4 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.
Wales.
MOST PLEASANT
A
N
D
8
A
F
E
S
T
HOUSEHOLDERS,
TAKE NOTE OF THIS.
WHFN PURCHASING YOUE GEOCEEIES
ask for
RANTER AND PARRY’S
EXm&CT OP SOAP
AND SEIJI THAT TOD GET IT.
SUPSEIOE TO ALL OTHEES.
BE -T Washing and DisinfectaKt Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Croekcry, Paint, Glass, and every Household
purpose. Used and recommended in the
Laundry at Goven ment House, Mr. Key_
mour (Inspector of Nuisances), Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and by all competent
judges to be the best article manufactured.
REMEMBER!
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, wiCi half the Labour.
EreryiVtiC Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant alter using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OP ALL GROCERS.
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
0
I
s
I
N
F
E
C
r
A
N
IN THE WORLD.
THE PURE COCOA,
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Li* lit, Delicious
Beverage.
&
C
&
*
&
»
*
&
V
*
O
Invaluable
for invalids, or
those who cannot
drink the thick, heavy
liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
sar SOLD BY ALL GEOCEES.
BLACK AND COLOURED BROCADED
VELVETEENS, 20 DIFFERENT COLOURS
at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
6CB BRICKFIELD HILL.
varying in price from Is lid to 7a 6d per yard.
"IVrYRA’S JOURNAL" says The *MANCU-
-Iyj NIUM ’ Velveteen (called from the Ancient
name of the City of Manchester when held by the
Eom«nfc) is superb 4 , soft, and brilliant, of pure brack
COLOUR, PULLER and DEEPER than ORDINARY VELVETEENS,
which err on the side of blueness, and therefore match
WITH NO OTHER BLACK MATERIAL.
'“The ‘ MANCUNIUM’ is so rich and full in tone it
CAN BE USED WITH ALL CLASSES OF FABRICS, which Will
be of importance to many."
SEE THEM. EXAMINE THEM.
"LA MODE ILLUBTRE” savs:—" Velours ‘MAN-
CUNIUM’ Une imitation parfaita da plus riche
Velours de Lyonse rencontre duns an nouveau velours
brevetd sous le titre de MANCUNIUM.
"Co Velours est brillant d’aspect; la profondeur ot
la durability de la conleur en sont remarquables, tandis
que par uno combinaison de plusieurs autres qua lit 6s
excelleutes 11 ost sans rival. La teintnre du Mancunium
ast garantie solide ; jamais I’expisition a Pair n'en fera
altdrer la ooulenr; voila uue raison sufflsanto pour qn’oo
lo choialsEO pour remplater le Velours do Lyon."
ASK THE ASSISTANTS TO LET YOU SEE THEM.
“THE LADIES' GAZETTE OF FASHION ” says :
—“ The best recently produced is the • MANCUNIUM,'
which seems to have made immense way among fafh-
ionabie people. It possesses the supp'eness of Lyons
Velvet and power of forming those charming folds
which make tha depth and richness of Velvets a con-
stant delight to the painter’s eve. For those Ladies
who require an evening dre«a of Velvet we recommend
the adoption of the ‘ MANCUNIUM.’"
20 DIFFERENT COLOURS,
ALL PRICES
r at
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
068 BRICKFIELD BILL,
Remember this is the “Brickfield Hill” Hordern.
Furniture, furniture, furniture.
Cheapest House in Sydney for Farms! iog. Prices
not to be equalled anywhere in the city. H. LEVY
and CO., Central Furnishing Arcade, 20, 31, and 33,
Park.street.
Time payment, time payment time
PAYMENT— H. LEVY and CO, Central Fur-
nishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street. Houses
furnished from £lO to £lOOO on weekly and monthly
payments. N.B.—All goods marked in plain figures,
and no deception.
FOR SALE, PIANOFORTES, in handsome walnut
casts, inlaid, by Erard, and other best m akera.
Oricord iron frame, with certificate (guaranteed), to be
uad at English coat, on time payment. H. LEVY and
CO., Central Furnishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-
street.
FOR SALE, Handsome Drawing room SUITES, in
walnut frames, from £lO. H. LEVY and CO.,
eutral Furnishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
ESTABLISHED 1887.
TTI O W L E E’S P O T T E E Y
Jn
AND
BEICK WOEKS,
0 AMPERDOWN, NBAS SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
V .FOR
Business
PROMENADE
Travelling
QUALIT Yyachtin G
DurSiftty Jipificiii6
unsurpassed Cricketing
“Standard" Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto ...
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra Long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality 1
Ditto dittB)*Superior ditfS ...
IFEAPES and SHAW, ~
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Mortality Experience of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society.
The oldest, largest, and wealthiest Life Assurance
Society in the Southern Hemisphere, and, perhaps, the
largest monetary institution in the Austrahas, has lately
completed a laborious task, with most valuable results.
Mr. Morrice Black. F.1.A., Actuary to the Australian
Mutual Provident Society, has, with the assistance of
a competent actuarial staff, including Mr. Biohard
Teeoe and Mr. David Garment, furnished to the Board
of Directors an exhaustive report, accompanied by
analytical tables, on the mortality experience of the
Society for a period of thirty years, or, to speak niore
exactly, from 21st February, 1819, the date upon which
the first life policy was issued, to 31st December, 1878.
when 41,827 persons had insured with this Society
under 46,314 policies. Perhaps no one could have been
selected more capable of successfully carrying out such
a gigantic work than Mr. Morrice Black, who is an
actuary of many years eminent standing. So long ago
as 1861, he published a treatise, which attracted con-
siderable attention in England and elsewhere by reason
of its novel departure from stereotyped ideas, on “the
assurance of diseased and doubtful lives on a new prin-
ciple, more advantageous and equitable to policy-
holders than the system hitherto adopted. At that
time Life Assurance Societies considered it to be the
wildest absurdity to insure any but “select lives,
without heavily “loading" them with years and added
premiums according to the judgment (or want of
judgment) of the advising medical man. Mr. Black s
proposal was to adhere to the ordinary tabular rate, as
the proposer’s real age, and, instead of extorting an
annual extra premium, payable during the whole of
life, to endorse on a policy upon a dubious life a sum
representing the proportional number of yearly pay-
merits equivalent to the present extra risk estimated
by the medioal officer, the amount so endorsed to be
deducted from the sum insured, in the event of the
policy-holder’s death occurring prior to the period
when the accumulated premiums, at 4 per cent, com-
pound interest, would amount to the sum assured. If,
however, the policy-holder outlived this probationary
££iod. this deduction was to be concerted. and the
amount assured paid in full upon death he. of
ooure, continuing to pay
ordinary rate until removed by death, there were
many solid advantages promised by this method—ad-
vantages which intending insurers cannot fail to at
once perceive]: but we have not before us the
means of stating whether Mr. Black’s suggestions were
adopted by any Insurance Societies. Mr. Black was
thei Actuary to the London and Yorkshire Insurance
Company % the unprofessional mind Perhaps the
the term “ actuary ’’ is a le ; * h v e fl^ les SSS:
tainin? to such an office a sphynx-like mystery. Ihe
nf an actuary may be briefly defined as the
application of the doctrine of probabilities to the affairs
o? life He revels in dismal hieroglyphic*, which
ordinary tfpe does not serve to represontandbythe
solution of such abstruse mysteries, would be able to
teU you the average number of years any given num-
ber of persons of a certain age would live, and upon
premiums
We have no doubt that with equal felicity Mr. Black
could Evolve from some uglyVking formula the
exact value of anybody’s chancain hla
union, or a Miller’s sweep. However, Mr. Black has
7^ o’in', Bakins- hi* report lucid to the most un-
professional reader. Discarding technicalities, he has
faid before the Board of Directors the results of a keen
imalvsis of the mortality experience of the Society, and
Wumished food for numberless interesting specula-
tkfns which must be of the greatest value in guiding
fSe insmra“ce operations. He has popularised a
very dryuninteresting subject, and therefore we shall
have less difficulty in reviewing his report and present-
ing it to our readers in an appetising form.
• * *
T , foV. n. lesson from Mr. Black in actuarial
Letinacow take a lesson the public into all
investigation, smo hi* r p The flrat Btep i 8 t 0 acquire
sorts ofnrmation respecting each life insured by
accurate mtaoMtum pSy-the office age at entry
the Society, no g an d age at exit ; and the
01 «*nf exit whether it be dlsoontiuance or death. In
cause of exit, w investigation was needed re-
this instance, s p mor tality of the lives assured
f pe flVff«rlnt coffies. of healthy as compared with
1?, ® live* of lives assured for large as against
• loaded n amo unts, and of lives assured
those assure on i v What is known as the card
fora termo>/ . printed cards, ruled, and other-
system was adopte . „ rd a clear mea ns of noting
wise 0 ( information required, were duly
down every po _ white and pink colours being the
fllled ‘s'“ distinctions to denote male and female lives,
respective distinct #nt ing non-participating
and a of table was
policies. ,A S “ d J„ould be sorted accordingly. This
required. the cards woum the liability to
plan has the ' ad v an “ aK ® 0^ d m tranB oriptions from the
error common to repeatea ofl totals and
registers. ® of bbe results were taken, and the
proving the accuracy , ableg may be regarded as un-
figures submitt a i r eady incidentally mentioned
impeachable. We nave air y Society had issued
that on 31st ’ or abon t 11 poUcies to
JGST3K to the starting point
the investigation.' to the construction of a mortality
in the myeßiigatu course, ignored, and only lives are
sablt’b5 ab lt’b The 41 827 person?, less 117 who hold an-
dealt with. The Uves risked by tbe
Society o are^heref ore! what we are first concerned with.
Thev into three classes s livesi existing at
of the period embraced at the mvestiga-
the,terminamo other means than death;
tl0^! -ir a onn C Xd by death Mr. Black gives us a
teble Jhowing these three classes, and giving details for
tame snowmg u hi b policies were accepted, dis-
every year of mrt which the end of 1878> out
«?tb?4l 710 lives assured, 30,676 were still existing,
9446 discontinued, and 1688 had diedlnseparating
males from females, it became apparent that the males
assured were to the females in the proportion of about
assured we - Ber o( females was, therefore, too
aman to admit of reliable deductions being .made, so
Mr Black pursued his calculation* threughout on
maie and female lives combined. It appears from the
table alluded to that the largest number of persons
have joined the Society at the age of thirty, just when
fhl first strength of manhood has passed away. Is this
of the truth of the poet. Toung-
<i At thirty, man suspects himself a fool ?”
• • •
The tables of comparison with the Results obtained
, "it:* Societies, and to which we shall have to refer
bv and*by, also seem to bear out the fact that insurance
experience the world over is that more people insure at
the age of 30 years than at any ether period of life. At
«nv rite that age tops the list with this Society with
the figures 1692, while the age of 34 years ocmesnext
withl6l4 insurances effected To persons who have
not already an insura.ee, this table will be interesting;
and we will, therefore, digest its principal features. Of
the 41?710 member* of the A M.P. Society. 631 entered
while infants under a year old. The number of child-
nm s lives introdueed by parents and guardians rapidly
decreases with advancing years, dropping at last to 41
of 1Q vears old Then there oemes a sudden revival of
insurances, owing no doubt to the substitution of assur-
ances for endowment poli.es. Apparently as a prepara-
tion for the attainment of majority, 1291 are insured at
age 20 The next age, 81, .hows only 799 insurance*,
w from that ago up to 30 the number progressively
increases to 1692, and keeps up fairly till 40,is reached,
wCtoere is a marked efrep to 1106. From this ago
insurances become yearly fewer. At 40 men have mostly
fixedthe keystone in their careers, for good or iU
fortune. After that age, premiums become heavy, and
most men have reached a stage which either makes
them independent of linsuranoe. or hopless of affording
the premiums. Still, there are a (food Many insurances
at greater ages. At 45, there were 938 entrances to the
AMP Society ;at 50, there were 503. There were
among the 41,710 lives, however, only 62 persons insured
after leaching their 60th year. It were >7 ; and
the oldest insurers were veteran* aged 69,70, 72, and
74. one of each age. In striking an average of the ages
at which policies were issued these results were ob-
tained Male and fem»le combined (all classes), 32 6 :
male aid female combined (excluding children’s en-
dowment*), 346; females (all classes), 21.0; and
females (excluding children’s endowments), 37 6 years.
Putting the totals of the preceding paragraph in an-
other form: —Of the policies effected during the 30
years reviewed, there still remained current on 31st
December 1878, 73 3 per cent., while 22.7 per cent, had
been discontinued, and 4 per cent, had died. The
average duration of the insurances was 5'04 years.
• • *
A keener interest, however, attaches to the next
> ompilation of results, embodied by Mr. Black n a
table. Here we have the Society’s experience of dura-
tion of life among its, in round numbers, 40,000 mem-
bers. We must, however, warn the reader not to apply
these observations to himself without reserve. The
40,000 are, to a certain extent, picked lives. All mem-
bers have passed a medical scrutiny, although it is
admitted that practically after the lapse of a few years
—about five —persons so examined are quite as much
at liberty to develop constitutional diseases as others.
In Life Assurance parlance, the protection (to a society)
afforded by medical inspection, becomes exhausted
after a few years. Still, there is an average superiority,
and readers will not be able to lay te their souls the
flattering nnotion that the figures we are about to give
apply to them, unless they are members of the A.M.P.
Society, or maks haste to qualify as such and so come
under the protection of the Society’s statistics. It is a
very pleasing reflection that, on paying one’s premium
and obtaining admission into the Society, one at once
tacks a few additional years onto one’s life. This charm-
ing expectation is not, certainly, anywhere indicated by
Mr, Black, but is a little suggestion and digression of
onr own. The reader can think out the paradox for his
own entertainment and benefit. Seriously, however,
there is some reason to believe that the sense of haying
made proper provision for one’s widow and family, is so
far from making one hurry to quit this life, that the
ease of mind it gives contributes to longevity. How-
ever, to coma to business. Mr. Black has prepared a
table which supplies information respecting the
number of lives exposed to risk of death at each
age, and then states the number of deaths which
actually occurred amongst such exposed lives. By
dividing these actual deaths by the number of lives
exposed to risk, the quantity representing the
probability of a man dying at any particular age
is obtained, and paves the way to the preparation of
a more elaborate table still. For instance, by the
Society’s experience, there were, during the 30 years,
5649 persons aged 30 exposed to risk during a complete
year, and 28 of these died. The probability, therefore,
taking this experience as a standard of a person aged SO
dying before he reaches the age of 31 years is
il-we.
5649
Probably few of our readers care to ponder the problem
in this form. Fractions drive them mad, perhaps, and
decimals suggest suicide, while algebraic formal®, such
as Mr. Black and hia assistants have for breakfast every
morning, and prefer introduced into the pantomimes
when they take the children to the theatre at Christmas,
may be to less skilled persons merely conducive to
homicidal tendencies. We will, therefore, try and put
the probabilities in a form which, we have a humble
confidence, that every man, woman, or child in the
colonies will comprehend. Take the last quantity
given—•oo496—^which represents the probability of a
man of 3' dying within the year. This is as near as
possible 1000 to 5 against hia death, or, say, 200 to 1.
That would be fair betting, and any bookmaker would
therefore probably feel justified in laying 50 to 1 under
the circumstances. However, reader of 30, there’s
your chance. Yon can reverse it, laying 6 to 1000
that yon will die within the year, or 1000 to 5 that you
won’t.
Every young lady who ever trotted round with a raffle
at a church bazaar will comprehend these figures. Tw<
hundred members at Is. each. The chance a man of 3(
has of winning the prize is precisely equal to his chanoi
of dying within the year. We commend this view o
the case to fair lotterists as calculated to snoouragi
their prey to “ take a ticket ” if coupled with lively
suggestions of this kind.
• • •
To severe persons who spurn the levity of the pre
ceding paragraph, we commend this one, from whicl
a rule may be learned for calculating with accuracy thi
probabilities at any age.
The unadjusted general mortality table (which is oon
strnoted from the quantities representing the proba
bilities of living and dying in a year) exhibits man]
irregularities, especially below the age of 20 and abovi
that of 65. These latter arise chiefly from the paucit]
of the number of members under observation; and
other irregularities are traceable to the errors in the
data themselves, such as mis-statements of age by
members, So. The table, therefore, requires to bo
graduated and amended for accidental disturbances,
according to approved actuarial methods. The method
of ascertaining the expectation of life is lucidly set down
by Mr. Black: —“The total existence enjoyed at the
expiration of a year by those alive at any given age at
the beginning of the year, is equal in years to the
number who survive the year, added to the existence
enjoyed by those who die within the year; and of those
who die within the year, it is probable that as many
die at equal intervals during the first half year as
die at the same intervals during the last half of
the year; or,lin;other words, that of those who die in
any one year, taking one life with another", It may fairly
be assumed that on an average they each enjoy one batf.
year’s existence." Thus, it will be seen that aggregate
human life can be parcelled out into averages like a
marketable commodity, though individual life is, of
course, beyond the prescience of the most mathematical
actuary. An example is given in the sweet little problem
of—Required the number of years that a person aged 90
may expect to live. The tables shew that of 1571 persona
at age 90, 1132 survived one year—they, of coarse,
enjoying an aggregate existence of 1132 years Adding to
this the half of the number of persons whodledduringthe
year, and enjoyed, according to the assumed probability,
a half-year's term of life apiece, wo get 1351% years ns
the total number enjoyed by those living till 91 and
dying during the year 90. Again, 778 survived two
years. Adding to 778 the half of the number who died
during this second year, we get 955 years as the total.
Similar processes are followed for each year until
the last old man has “ pegged out," and these yearly
totals are then added together. In the tables they give
a grand total of 3703 i years enjoyed by these 1571 per-
sons of 90 years and upwards. Clearly, then, the
chance,' based upon these tables, of a uonogonarlan’s
life is
3703 i
= 2-2357.
1571
The heirs of obstinate persons of 90, who have refused-
to die at a reasonable time, may possibly be vivacious
young fellows of 70, fond of the cheerful and active
enjoyments of algebraic formula). Such expectants
can figure out their chances for themselves. But as
the intermediate line may have died out, and the
ordinary *• Peapes and Shaw young man ” may he inter-
ested, wo relapse in frivolity, and put Mr. Mortice
Black’s tip into a cognate form. Briefly, then, accord-
ing to the Society’s experience, a member aged 00 may
be expected to hang on for about two years and five
months longer, for which period post-obits should,
therefore, bo drawn. In determining all questions
having reference to the duration of human life, two
assumptions are fundamental to the theory. These aro
—firstly, that the experience of the future will accord
with that of the past; and, secondly, that all indi-
viduals, the possibility of whose living and dying In
any specified time may be in question, have each the
same prospect of longevity. As we have already
pointed out, the peculiar position the Society held in
its nascent period does not admit of this first assump-
tion, and, therefore, it would not be safe to accept its
exceptionally low death-rate as the basis for future
business calculations,
• « »
Leaving the algebraic cobweb woven by Mr. Black,
we come to the comparisons made between the mortality
experience of the A.M.P. Society, and the results
shown by all the tables ever published by other societies.
The total number of lives assured by this society—
41,710—exceeded, by 20,312, the number of lives brought
under review by the Eouitable Society of London In
1829, which society had the largest number of members
of any English office, and had been then in existence
for 67 years. Again, at the periods of observation,
1878 and 1829 respectively, the A.M.P. Society had
30,576, and the Equitable had 6930 living members—or
an excess in favour of the former of 23,646. The
smallest English society, the Amicable, whose observa-
tions were made in 1841, bad then, ont of 3530 risks
accepted during the 33 years of its previous existence,
only 2227 living members, or less by 28,349 than the
number of the A.M.P. Society. The 1688 deaths re-
corded in this Society, though limited, is yet larger
than those reviewed by any English office, except file
Equitable and the Law Life. Again, with the exception
of these same two offices, the total number of years of
life enjoyed by its members—2lo,4l3 —is in excess of
the total lives enjoyed under any other English society.
The average age at entry into the A.M.P. Society is
34-6 years, and the average duration of membership is
6’04 years. The Scottish Amicable Society, which took
observations in the year 1880, and the New York
Mutual, which deduced its tables in 1873, form two
very handy examples for comparison, owing to the fact
that the periods of observation were closely near to
the term embraced by Mr. Black’s analysis. The
Scottish Amicable tables dealt with a 34 years’ period,
and the New York Mutual had been in existence 31
years when its investigations were undertaken. The
average duration of membership in these two societies
is strikingly near to that of the A.M.P , that of the
Scottish society being 5 49, and that of the New York,
5‘64, A column which it is interesting to scan is that
giving the percentage of policies void from all causes
on the total number of lives assured. Taking these
three societies, then, which had, up to the time of in-
vestigation, almost identical periods of observation,
we find the void percentages show thus:—Scottish
Amicable, 37'36 per cent.; New York Mutual. 32'64per
cent.; A.M.P., 26.69 per cent. This is most encourag-
ing, as indicative of the confidence insurers feel in the
stability of their chosen Society, and as partially illus-
trative of the generally unembarassed position of
policy-holders in these colonies. The mortality per-
centage per annum stands lowest on the list for the
A.M.P. Society, being only 'B, the New York Mutual
being proarima accetsit with '95, while the Eagle is the
highest of all with 2 32, closely followed by the Law
Life, with 2‘29. A oemparative table showing the
number of deaths which occurred in the Society among
persons exposed to risk between the ages of 20 and
79,'and the number which weuld have been expected
according to eaoh of the other standards enumerated,
gives some strikingly favourable results. Summed
up, these are as follows“ Of the number of persona
exposed to risk of death in this Society, between the
ages of 20 and 79, only 1558 died; whereas, bad the
same number of persons been brought under observa-
tion at corresponding ages, from the lives assured
either in the Equitable Law Life, Economic, Gotha,
Eagle, or Mutual Life (N.Y.), the number of death*
would have been, according to their mortality tables,
respectively, 2381, 2177, 2243, 2147, 3125, and 1753. A
similar comparison made with iha Institute of Actu-
aries’ Hm Table, the Seventeen Offices, the Carlisle, tho
English Life, and the Northampton, shows the expected
number of deaths to be 2301, 2377, 2524, 2857, and 4327
respectively." The same favourable difference ia
generally observable, not only as to totals, but as to
quinquennial groupings ©f years. Now, the business
calculations of the Society are based on the Institute of
Actuaries’ Hs Table, which is regarded as the moe’j
complete and reliable extant. Yet the result of the
thirty years’ observation is that the death rate has been
only 677 per cent, of what might have been expected
according to this Table.
w • •
The mortality for tho colony of New South Wales for
the year 1880 was 19 96 per thousand; the average
annual death rate of the Society was 802 per
thousand. But it must be remembered that, for all
practical purposes, the mortality ef children—which
is unusually large compared with that of tho
general population—is excluded from the experi-
ence of a life office, and this advantage must
therefore, be discounted; still, the A.M.P. Society
compares favourably in this particular with other
offices, though the death rate must be read in conjunc-
tion with the ages of the persons under observation.
The average age at death of members of the Society
was 39 64 years, or less than that of any other office.
In this particular again, the experience of the New
York Mutual was similar to that of the A.M.P., tho
average age at death with the former being 40.59. The
tables of the “ expectation of life," under the experi-
ence of the A.M.P., ran very muoh higher than,
those under any other office during the nsnal assuring
ages—is., under 00 years. Above that age, the Carlisle
table shows an advantage. This “ expectation of life 1 '
calculation is chiefly valuable as forming matter for
comparing varying standards, and forming fresh and
more reliable bases for actuarial tables. It does not, as
many might suppose, enter largely into the ordinary-
business operations of an Insurance Society. Accord-
ing to the A.M.P. tables, the prospect of longevity
steadily improves from the age of 20 years to that ot
26* and even at 33 years it is greater than at 20, This
apparent anomaly has been observed in other sets ofi
observations, so that it wonld seem that it is not acci-
dental, bat that the rate of mortality between the ages
of 20 and (say) 24 years is really greater than than
existing between the ages of 25 and 29 years. A curious
fact at first sight is that the mortality rate is largely
influenced by the duration of the insurances. All other
things being equal, the death rate amongst a number of
lives that have bean insured for five years and upwards
is muoh greater than that among lives which have beau
insured for less than five years. This effect is explained
by the fact that the Uvea, when first insured, are bettor
than the lives of the general population, as attested by
the medical certificates, bat that, after a few years, they
deteriorate, and the protection afforded by the medical
examination becomes inappreciable. The mortality par
cent, per annum averaged by tho Society for tho firs';
four years ot insurance is *616 per cent., as against *9*l
by the Hm Table, and 732 in the New York Mutual Lite
MR. HENRY GORMAN (OF HARDIE AND GORMAN).— (See page 3.)
MR. ROBERT BOOTH, MAYOR OF DUBBO.-(See page 5.)


Qfi.ee; while the mortality per cent. ?«r anmimfor the
▼ears of assurance 5 to 29 Is 1*057 as against 1 692 and 1 175
reapeotiTely. The average death rate, therefore, tor the
shorter and earlier period is only 58 per cent, or that
for the latter This must, undoubtedly, be regarded as
a feather in the cap of the medical staff of the Society,
who seen, to have been extremely vigilant in the selec-
tion of sound lives. A cause of fruitful annoyance te
intending insurers is often the practice with Insurance
offices to "load lives,’' i,e., to add extra years on
the true age of the proposer, and to charge accord-
ingly. A keen judgment is required on the part of the
loader, so that, on the one hand, a proposer shall not be
unfairly handicapped, and, on the other, the Society
shall not bo exposed to undue risk. This double-
barrelled difficulty seems to have been fairly met by the
Society, as is evidenced by the experience recorded
respecting these “ loaded” lives. No less than 113,210
lives, aged 15 and upwards, have been exposed to risk
<fcy the Society at an advance upen the true age, and of
these the actual deaths have been 993, or only 68‘7 per
cent, of the expected deaths by Hu Table, which would
have been 1446. Even bad these ** loaded" lives been
accepted as ordinary ones, this mortality would have
only been 79‘8 per cent, of the expectation rate on good
lives according to Hu Table, so that it follows that the
diseased lives of this Society have exhibited 20 per
cent, more vitality than the healthy lives in the twenty
English and Scotch offices on whose experience the Hu
Table is based. The average true age of these loaded
lives is 32 2 years, and the average assumed age 367
years, giving an average loading of years. In the
ages from 25 to 29 the light rateof mortality experienced
shows to the grdftest advantage, being for tins
ing a trifle over one-half of expected death?. P ‘
• • •
In speaking of 113,250 loaded lives as having been
•• exposed to risk,” the unprofessional reader mav be
pome puzzled, seeing that the total number of lives"
insured is only 47.710. The term “ exposed to risk*
embodies an actuarial calculation which reckons tho
number of lives exposed for a complete year, and does
not alone consider the amount of single lives insured
total re™vdred h 6 nStB f ° r e&Ch separata ? Gar gives the
• * *
Thirty-one per cent, of the 41,710 lives assured ware
those of persona born in the Australian colonies • 66 ner
coot, were European born; and 3 per cent, were born
Asia. Africa, America, the Islands, and at sea. The
total number of members born in the colonies is 12,996.
Of these, New South Wales supplied 6425; Tasmania
comes next, with 1667 —a surprising fact for the tight
little island,” with its paucity of population ; Victoria
follows, with 1615; South Australia, with 1599; New
Zealand, with 1299 ; Western Australia, 223 ; and
Queensland last, with only 168, The per-oentage of
actual deaths amongst European policy-holders has
been 67 8, and amongst colonial lives 63 2 ; but. as the
former have been under observation at older ages than
the latter, and as the average duration Of the European
policies has been 5 4 years as against years for
colonial ones, it does not at all follow that the latter
class of members have exhibited a greater vitality than
the former. This point of comparison will be better
determined by some future investigation, for, with the
older growth of the colonies, colonial policies will form
a much larger per-oentage of the business of the Society
than they have hitherto done. It is gratifying to notice
that tradesmen and mechanics, storekeepers, shopmen,
&o., form no less than 36.37 per cent, of the whole num-
ber of entrants—thus proving that the Society has
filled a gaping void for the thrifty portion of the work-
ing community. Professional gentlemen—not including
architects and surveyors, teachers and editors (shame!),
who, for some reason or other, are classed with clerks
and merchants—only amounted to 5.23 per cent, of the
total entrants; while the leisured class were only 1 per
cent. Such an analytical result is in striking contrast
to any English returns, and is illustrative of the
absence of any Australian aristocracy. Farmers and
graziers represent 12 per cent.; clerks, *c. (including,
as above stated, “literary guns”). 22*18 per cent :
miners. 7 0S par cent.; labourers, &c„ 6.86 per cent. •
domestics, 3 99 per cent. ; and mariners and publicans
each H per cent. The longest duration is held by
clergymen; then come lawyers, medical men, and mer-
chants and bankers, proving that the earliest con-
stituency of the Society consisted principally of the
educated classes, who were quick to perceive the
advantages it offered, though now it has become a
source of protection to the poorer working bees of the
®°^“ n ? lt Y* Mariners are the worst lives, their death,
rate being 2*094 per cent. |per annum. Medical men
have second place in the mortality returns, averaging
1 292 per cent, of deaths annually. Then come publi-
“ au 1 A a u y ? r ?* It; i 3 a strange fact revealed by the
tables that butchers are the best lives the Society has
insured, their death-rate only averaging *583 per cent.
Storekeepers oome next, with *6OB per cent. It seems
rather anomalous that the butchering line should be a
healthier occupation than the calm vegetative life of a
clergyman; and it is odd to find that the average publi-
can is a trifle healthier than the average medico. In
most experience-tables clergymen are the best lives,
and it may be that the paucity of the number of
butchers under observation here, together with other
esoteric accidental causes, has given rise to this re-
markable deviation from standard results. Another
table shows that the Society has issued I*3l per cent,
of non-partioipating policies, as against 14'28 per cent,
in the Standard, and 4.5 per cent, in the Scottish
Widows—the two largest kindred institutions in Great
Britain. The endowment assurance policies are 33.43
per cent, of the whole, whereas such policies are fonnd
in very limited number amongst the business of the
two British institutions named.
• • •
Mr. Black does not enter into any discussion of the
relative intensity of various diseases, because this
question will be shortly reported upon by the Society's
Chief Medical Officer, Dr. W. F. Mackenzie. How-
ever, tables and coloured diagrams have been published
with the report. These exhibit the causes of the deaths
of the 1551 persons of 19 years of age and upwards
whose policies have become|claims during the 30 years
dealt with by the investigation. An arresting item will
at once be found in the line relating to violent deaths—
accidents and suicides. There have been no lesss than
198 deaths from accidents alone, and the suicides have
numbered 30; the total of these two causes thus
amounting to 14*7 cer cent, of the whole number of
deaths. And it is a remarkable fact that violent deaths
chiefly occur amongst the youngest lives, and fall in
the earlier years of assurance Of these 238 violent
deaths, 131 occurred during the first 5 years of assu-
rance, and 173 during the first 7 years. Zymotic dia-
eases also appear to have their most fatal effect during
similar periods. The coloured diagrams, representing
the prevalence at various ages of various diseases, form
o? ™ erea t l ng study. Typhoid fever, which carries off
24*58 per cent, between the ages of 19 and 29. drops
down in the next decennium to a fatality of 5*34, and
continues decreasing until it vanishes altogether at the
ago of 69. Consumption, also, carries off the greater
part of its victims between the ages of 19 and 29, when
its quota of deaths bears the percentage of 19.79; in the
next decennium it is 19 65, and in the third 12 92; after
which it decreases rapidly until the threescore years
and ten of the Psalmist are arrived at, when it rallies
back to 13.33 per cent. It is of course chiefly fatal in the
later years of assurance. Apoplexy starts at I*o4 fer 19
to 29, and winds up with 6*67 for the ages of 70 and up-
wards, its maximum, however, being 11.77 between the
ages of 60 and 69. Alcoholism does not appear till the
years of 30 to 39, and it has a short run only of a decade
or two, its highest being its first percentage of 4.49.
Diseases of the heart are more frequently fatal between
60 and 69. while diseases of the Inugs generally rage be-
tween 19 and 29. Diseased digestive organs are a fruit-
ful source of death all along up till 70 years, their
highest percentages being 11*87 for the ages from 50 to
59, and 10*16 for those from 60 to 69. Urinary diseases
are almost imperceptible in the youngest decennium
observed, but after 70 years of ago carry off no less than
23.34 per cent. Accidents and suicides run in the fol-
lowing curious ratio in respect of ages :—From 19 to
29, 23.96 per cent,; 30 to 39, 17.42 ; 40 to 49, 15 32; SO
to 59, 13T9; 60 to 69, 7.49 j and 70 and upwards, 6*67
per cent. Unknown and unclassified diseases, being
largely old age and debility, increase with the years of
the people observed, until, beyond 70, the percentage of
13.33 is reached. The coloured diagram spacing off the
diseases as per years of insurance, instead of as per
years of age, is quite as curious a study. The first,
second, and third, years of insurance are the worst for
typhoid fever, and accidents and offences. Consomp-
tion spreads itself well over the years between the first
and ninth, while nervous diseases prevail pretty gene-
rally throughout, being worst from the fifth to the ninth
years. We have not space to further pursue these
interesting speculations.
• • •
“ Tho one broad fact,” writes Mr. Black, " which will
be found to stand out boldly throughout the whole of
these pages is that tho mortality experience of this
Society has been more favourable than that of any
other Life Assurance Ofiice in any part of the world.”
This, he thinks, should not be attributed exclusively to
climatic influences, but it should be taken into consido.
ration that the Society's clients have been selected
from a population earning good wages, in easy ciroum-
W. EZOLD’S PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE, SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET
(See page 6.)
MESSRS. GORDON AND GOTCH’S HEAD OFFICE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.—(See page 8.)
MR. F. J. RILE Y ' S SUPREME COURT HOTEL, KING AND PHILLIP STREETS.-(See page 4)
MR. W. JERVIS’S, ULTIMO, TEA MART—(See page 8)


dof’r^nitnpBop^,,f>camblo of ataudin/
trame atmospheric changes, Mr. Black thinks the
climate is conducive to longevity, bnt to those troubled
with functional or orsranic disease he believes it to be
most enervating and depressing. However far from or
near to the truth this may be, the fact remains that the
A.M.P. Society has deduced most unexpected results
from its tables—results so favourable as to warrant
almost a revolution in tabulated standards. The
Society knows exactly where it stands now, and the
actuarial knowledge it has obtained will be ef the
greatest value both to itself and to every ether Life
Insurance Society in the world. For that knowledge,
the colony is indebted to the ability and pains dis-
played by Mr. Black and hia assistants, and to the
enterprise of the Australian Mutual Provident Society
Its value can hardly be correctly estimated at the
present time.
Engineering Enterprise In Sydney.
No branch of industry which has taken root in
this country has exhibited such satisfactory de-
velopment as that of mechanical engineering. It
would seem that a class of men has been
attracted to these shores, who by their skill
and patient industry, are slowly but surely
giving to Sydney pre-eminence in the higher
branches of engineering
work, while imparting to
her a character for manu-
facturing stability which no
artificial fiscal arrangement
can ever effect. That the
iron industry is going ahead
rapidly here, a walk round
Darling Harbour will any day
prove. Workshops in the
hands of new firms are
springing up in every direc-
tion, and both the quality and
quantity of the work are
increasing. The very best
description of imported
steam machinery is being
displaced by the work of
our local manufacturers,
specially constructed to meet
local requirements; and if
there is any sort of a sale
for the foreign productions,
it is mainly because the
scarcity of skilled labour
here is unequal to the de-
mand. It is an extraordi-
nary fact—but, nevertheless,
a fact—that about <£200,000
worth of work has been de-
clined by the leading Sydney
engineering firms during the
past three months, the avail-
able labour being already
tested to its utmost. We
give a sketch here of the
kind of work being turned
out by this Sydney firm. It is
a4oh.p. automatic expansion
valve engine, manufactured
by Messrs. G. and C. Hos-
kins, of the Enterprise'lron-
works, Hay-street. This en-
gine is superior to anything
of the kind imported to this
colony; it is a splendid piece
of mechanism, and has many
new poi«ts—the outcome of
lengthy piaotical experience
on the part of the manufac-
turers. The first order was
from Messrs. Whiting and
Co., Gore Hill Steam Brick
Works, North Shore. The
engine now in hand is made,
together with a complete
plant of briokmaking machi-
nery, to the order of Messrs.
Brown, Curlewis and Lloyd,
of the Warren Brickworks,
St. Peters’. The firm have
also in hand a 60 h.p. hori-
zontal engine of similar
pattern, three 40 h. p., two
20 h.p., and several smaller
engines. The works are con-
sequently in full operation,
and present a very busy
scene. In the boiler yard are
some fourteen boilers, up to
40 h. p,, in the course of con-
struction, The principal
work is in boilers and en- 1
gines, bnt general engineer- ‘
ing is carried on, and con-;
stant work is given to about’
sixty-five hands. The en-
S'nes, built by G. and C.
oskins, are mostly on the
automatic expansion princi-
ple, land for all purposes
where great steadiness of
work and economy of fuel
are required, these engines
cannot be equalled. Messrs.
Hoskins were the success-
ful tenderers for the Go-
vernment contract for iron
castings, &0., required for
the extensive sewers now
being built.
Liudan, the Blue Mmntiiu eetite raceim/
ftasjioiisaral b/ M •. Pritehar I, ia It coly stji ti chants
into a tov.iah.ip, chialy foe rsaiisa'ni, tho p irohiaara
hiviaj raae'.yol o i at jjaViro blililuj opontioia.
Mr. Henry Gorman.
Veet few of our recently-established city firms can
lay claim to the prominence which has been rapidly
and legitimately earned by the firm of Messrs.
Hardie and Gorman. It has been associated with
very many of the most extensive transactions
which have characterised, more than any other
period of our history, the last three years of our
prosperity. Doubtless, from Messrs. Hardie and
Gorman’s books as much comld be gathered of the
progress of our metropolis as from any other
private or official sources. Prominently associated
with this very creditable commercial success has
been the gentleman whose portrait is given here-
with Mr. Henry Gorman has won a much larger
share of commercial confidence than is usually
enjoyed by men of his age, and this is doubtless the
result of rare business talents, great energy, and
unswerving integrity. Mr. Gorman is a native of
the colony, and was bom on the Nepean Eiver, in
Sept. 1849. At an early age he was sent to a
local school, and after passing a few years under
a private tutor, entered the Wesleyan College,
Newington, Parramatta River. His course of
studies here lasted three years, and he passed
through them with the highest credit, receiving
frequent special mention in the official reports of
the school. When quitting college he had won its
highest positions. Mercantile pursuits attracted
his talents, and, entering the counting-house of
Messrs. Parmer and Co., Pitt-street, he rapidly rose
to be chief of his department—no sinecure by any
means in a place of such extensive business. In
1872, Mr. Gorman entered into partnership with
Messrs. Hardie Brothers, men of equal energy
and attainments, and from a Mining Agency they
ultimately passed to an Auctioneering and Land
and Estate Ageney, the house of business being
situated in Pitt-street. Mr. Gorman has come
more prominently before the public than his
partners, and he has exhibited talents which fit
him for even a higher position than he has yet
attained. Our portrait is from a photo by Scott.
Mr. G. G. Davidson, Mayor of Mudgee.
The subject of this sketch, Mr. G. G. Davidson,
is Mayor of Mudgee, and one of the most active
of the citizens of that thriving Western capital.
Mr. was born at West Maitland, and
received his education at the High School in that
town. Selecting the law for his profession, he
served his articles with Mr. Joseph Chambers,
one of the oldest solicitors of the district, and
was admitted a solicitor of the Supreme Court in
1866. He commenced practice at Mudgee in
January, 1867, and he has enjoyed a very large
share of business, his professional connection ex-
tending all over the district. In 1871, Mr. David-
son was elected an alderman of the borough, and
each successive year he has been returned to the
Council. In 1874, he was elected Mayor, and for
four years in succession he was similarly honored.
He was recently elected Mayor for the present
year. Mr. Davidson is the first appointed captain
of the Mudgee Rifles. In other ways, Mr. David-
son has exhibited considerable public spirit, and
an active regard for the prosperity of the com-
munity in which he has thrown his lot. In 1880,
Mr. Davidson lost his wife, an estimable lady,-the
daughter of'the late Mr. David Watt, J.P., of
Pine Ridge.
New Style of Baggies.
Mr. William Fleming, to whom the colony is largely
indebted for the introduction of some of the most
modern descriptions of pastoral and agricultural ma-
chinery, and likewise of novelties in the “vehicular”
line, have just imported some new styles of American
buggies which are destined to come into pretty general
use. These buggies were ordered by Mr. Fleming when
recently on a visit to the States and Canada They are
built on the latest-approved principle, but have the addi-
tional feature of being made to suit colonial use. The
importations in these lines formerly made were found
unsuited to the hard and rugged roads of this country.
The change that has now been made has resulted in a
description of vehicle of great finish, yet of extraordinary
durability, the prominent parts being of the eldest
seasoned timber The new patterns jnst introduced are
the Brewster, the Saladee, and the Dexter spring
buggies, all which compete with one another for ele-
gance and comfort. Several of the new buggies are
now running about Sydney. Mr. Fleming likewise re-
cently imported some new descriptions of carriages,
phmtons, &o. He has, it may here be mentioned,
arranged for the introduction of new mechanical
appliances only recently patented In America and
Canada—appliances which, in point of cheapness,
labour-saving, and thorough adaptability, altogether
surpass anything we have ever seen in these colonies.
Messrs. Harris and Ackman’s New
Auction Mart, &c.
Prominent among the great architectural impaore*
ments of Pitt-atreet recently noted by the metropolitan
press are the splendid new Auction Mart show-rooms
and shops of Messrs. Harris and Aokmaa, the well-
known auctioneers of this city. These premises, now
J. fioiu™, lUK
m course of erection, occupy the
site of the old Victoria Theatre,
in the very heart of the busi-
ness centre of Sydney. The
foundations are laid in the solid
rook, deep excavations for the
purpose having been made, and
to the level of the street they
will be of the best stone procure
able for the purpose. The walls,
which are of extraordinary
thickness, will be of brick, and
the various floors will be well
supported by girders and pillars
to give them a corresponding
strength. The premises will be
the largest used for the auc-
tioneering business in the
colonies, and|Messrs. Harris and
Aokman deserve well for their
commendable enterprise and
public spirit in entering upon
such an extensive work. On
the ground floor, facing Pitt-
street, the premises will be
flanked right and left by two
large and handsome shops, each
20 feet'by 80 feet of clear space,
one on either side of the
spacious vestibule 27 feet by 80
feet, which forms the first or
front auction mart, containing
three tiers of suspended gaC
levies, and lighted from the
I dome. Beyond is the principal
or central auction mart, coven-
in g a floor space of nearly 5009
feet, and provided with two ele-
by a lantern covering
central portion of this part of
the building. Not only is excel-
lent ventilation thus secured
but also a rich flood of light,
an essential for the proper dig-
play of goods intended for auc-
tion or inspection. In connec-
tion therewith will be found all
the latest and most modern
ideas, embracing sample rooms,
tea testing rooms, offices of the
firm, &c., &o. From this cen-
tral mart there will be general
telephonic oommu nication
throughout the city for facilitat-
ing business. Leading from this
are three massively built stores
five stories in height, of easy
access from The
centre store is intended for the
occupation of the firm, the
others en either side will be
leased to eligible tenant*—the
whole being fitted with all the
latest labour-saving appliances,
such as travellers,) steam hoist,
&o. The store nearest the
Boyal Hotel is provided with
internal conveniences giving
ample.approach to the large and
commodious cellarage which
occupies the whole of the base-
ment, and is without doubt the
largest in the colony—being so
admirably constructed that large
drays are enabled to enter the
cellars for the purpose of loading
and unloading. The whole of
the cellar floors are paved with
Val de Travers asphalte, which
has been imported for this
special purpose; they form alto-
gather a most desirable locale for
one lof our leading vineyard
proprietors as wine cellars.
Connected with these at the
rear of the premises is a large
store for bulk merchandise,
running back a considerable dis-
tance and having an entrance
from George street,where several
drays at a time can conveniently
load or unload This store has
a floor space of 1554 square feet
and is well lighted throughout.
It will be seen that the utmost
facility will be afforded for re-
ceiving heavy packages, as a
drayroad is made right into the
basement area—no doubt an ob-
ject of considerable importance
for the good oondnot of such
business. There are three floors
over the Fitt-street shops,
and these are to be used as
store or show - rooms with
central well-holes in each.
There are also spacious strong
rooms, thief and fire proof, also well flttodilavatories
and so on, with the latest improvements added.
The exterior of the building is bold in treatment and
rises four storeys without the basement. The style oC
architecture is Italian, with a slight blending of Grecian
throughout,. At each side of the vestibule entrance, or
front auction mart, are spacious shop windows, and over
MESSRS. G. AND C. HOSKINS’ NEW 40 H P. AUTOMATIC EXPANSION VALVE ENGINE.
MESSRS HARRIS AND ACKMAN’S NEW WAREHOUSE AND AUCTION MART, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.


the central porch is shown a pediment with a raised
band on which is inscribed the name of the firm. The
edifice, which will be surmounted by a handsome parapet
and entablature, wffl be grand and lofty, and, taken al-
together, will form a splendid addition to the magnificent
architecture ef Pitt-street. The architect is Mr. Thomas
Eowe, of Vickery’s Chambers, a gentleman who is closely
identified with the recent great architectural improve-
ments of this city. The contractor is Mr James A.
Turnbull, who is faithfully executing his work. Messrs.
Hawde and Ackmen have been established about six
this city, and have been carrying on one of the
most erteasive businesses; and we presume
that it is to meet the growing requirements of (their
connection that the commodious premises here de-
scribed were decided upon. The well-known ability and
spirited energy of this firm furnish a sure guarantee of
future success, and the best wishes of their numerous
friends accompany them in their new undertaking.
Supreme Court Hotel, King-Street.
Another of the improvements recently effected
in the more populous of our thoroughfares, is
the Supreme Court Hotel, now owned and con-
ducted by Mr. Fred Eiley. This well-known
hostelry is situated at the corner of King and
Phillip Streets, and having undergone extensive
and costly alterations may be reckoned as one
among the best and most popular hotels of the
city. The principal additions represent entirely
new work, and the hotel is now replete with con-
venient parlors, sitting and commercial rooms, and
in this respect proves a boon to the neighborhood
of the Supreme Court, where for years the worst
managed hotels only were to be found. Mr.
Eiley’s success demonstrates the fact that a re-
spectably conducted hotel will meet with large
and prompt patronage from the public, and that
this has been secured to the fullest extent, a visit
any day to the hotel will clearly prove. A point
is made of encouraging a good bar trade by sup-
plying the very best liquors procurable, and al-
ready in this respect Mr. Eiley has much to be
satisfied with. The proprietor deserves a con-
tinuance of hia success, for few men in the trade
have exhibited more enterprise or judgment, or
stiven more genuinely to render his house popular
with the public.
The Royal Arcade, Pitt and George
Streets.
THIS splendid architectural enterprise, of which
we produce herewith an effective engraving, must
be credited to the energy and business judgment
of the Messrs. Withers Brothers of this city. It
may be said that the idea of an Arcade for Sydney
was decided upon first by these gentlemen, as they
set about their venture fully five years back.
Their idea was to out through the great block of
buildings extending from Park-street to Market-
street and midway connect George and Pitt Streets,
the great thoroughfares of our metropolis. After
lengthy negotiations, and
innumerable difficulties,
they were enabled to ob-
tain the land in the very
lecalitylthey selected,and,
consequently, the public
of Sydney have not only
an additional handsome
place of business, but
also the convenience of a
new thoroughfare in a
spot where it was most
wanted. The George street
entrance is opposite
the Central Police Court,
and the Pitt-street en-
trance is between Tatter-
sail’s and the School of
Arts. This Arcade is a
pronounced success in a
speculative business
sense. Almost the entire
space has already been
taken, and there is com-
petitionlforiwhat remains.
That it will be a great
popular thoroughfare,
there can be no doubt.
It will form a lofty,
spacious, and haxidsome
avenue, and will moreover
connect the two streets
in one of their busiest
centres. In an architec-
tural sense, it will prove
one of the most attrac-
tive edifices that has yet
been designed for the
city. The credit in this
respect belongs to Mr.
Thomas Eowe, the well-
known architect, whp,
has done much of late in
assisting to construct new
Sydney. The Messrs.
Withers Brothers, who
have undertaken ex-
tensive work, are natives
of the colony, and hail
from Parramatta. The
Eoyal Arcade is the
second venture of the kind
launched in Sydney. It
contains on the ground
floor thirty-one shops,
the average size of
these being 12ft 6in.
frontage by 20ft. deep.
The George-street front,
67 ft. 6 in., has three
shops, the entrance to
Arcade, and an entrance
each end, both leading
to the first floor. The
Pitt-street frontage, 63
ft. 6 in., has two shops,
the entrance 14 ft. wide,
p,nd also an entrance each
end, leading to the first
floor. The first floor con-
tains 36 offices, with a
corridor running at the
rear, each side of the
Arcade, from George-
street to Pitt-street, and
possessing direct stair-
cases on each street.
The corridors are well lit
by skylights and windows,
and are very light and
airy. The second floor
at George-street has five
offices, and a photogra-
phic gallery, 50 ft. x 14 ft.,
with dark, printing, ton-
ing, and solar rooms, two
dressing rooms and a re-
ception room, fitted with
every convenience requi-
sfte. This gallery is situ-
ated on the southern
side of the Arcade, above
th® offices. The second
floor, Pitt-street, con-
tains three large-size offices. The whole of tho
offices and corridors are approached by elegant
easy-going staircases. The style adopted through-
out is a free treatment of Italian, each bay being
well marked by a bold panelled pier, with base and
cap, and angle leaves, the lower panel being filled
in with mirrored glass. The string of second
floorlmitres around these piers which are continued
up to the roof, the principals springing off the
piers above the second floor string. The first
floor string running along the top of the shop
entablature mitres around the first floor window
piers, and dies within the reveal of the main pier ;
the piers of first floor windows are supported by
neat foliated corbels. The shop sashes are filled
in with large sheets of, plate glass, reaching to
within one foot of the floor of the Arcade, with
neat angle columns having cap and base, support-
ing a transom having cast iron gratings for ventila-
tion. The first floor windows are large and seg-
mented in form, divided into three spaces by
turned columns, caps and bases supporting a
transom ; the centre space is filled in with plate
glass six feet square, and is made a fixture, while
the side ones are narrow and filled in with doubly-
hung sashes, the spahdril above transom being
filled in with fretwork in panels. The clear storey
is lofty, having three windows in each bay, so
arranged as to give a permanent ventilation with-
out draught. The roof is boarded, and has a wide
lantern in the centre, covered above with glass
and having the sides filled in with sashes, two
of which in each bay are hung on pivots, and are
made to open to any angle by means of rods run-
ning the entire length of the roof, through the
walla into the passages of the second floor, and
there connected with cog-wheels and handles. The
iron principals are made of T iron, the spandrils
of which are filled in with neat ornamental cast-
iron scroll work, and the apex surmounted by
finiala. The floor of the Arcade and entrances
will be constructed of encaustic tiles laid out in
various elegant designs. The length from street
to street is 296 ft. The Arcade will be brilliantly
lit by gas by means of Sugg’s (150 candles)'
Westminster lamps suspended from every alter-
nate principal; also an elegantly designed bracket-
in wrought iron (made in Sydney), with half-opal,
globe lamps suspended over every shop. The*
character of the interior is light, pleasing, and
attractive in design and treatment. The design,,
as! already stated, is by Mr. Thomas Eowe, and
the execution is im the hands of Mr. Delarue, of
his office ; Mr. Joseph Ontridge superintends the-
brickwork, Mr. E. Doggett the carpenters’ and
joiners’ work, and Mr.IE. Lang and Messrs. Lewis
and Nunn are carrying out the cementing, plaster-
ing, &o. Mr. Withers, as building contractor, has
undertaken the whole work himself. We give in
connection with our sketch, a portrait of Mr.
George Withers, M.L.A., who may be regarded as
the representative member of tho firm. Mr. G.
Withers was born in 1843, so he has obtained
political and mercantile prominence at rather an
early age. His whole career has been one of
resolute work, and he can fairly claim hia success
as the result of his own efforts. He selected the
building trade for hia profession, and he served a
lengthy apprenticeship with the old-established
firm of List Brothers. At the termination of his
apprenticeship, Mr. Withers, being thoroughly
competent and reliable, was taken into the busi-
ness as a partner, the new name of the firm being
List and Withers. Fresh energy having been in-
fused into tho firm, the business rapidly increased
and several important works were carried out*
Eventually, however, Mr. Withers resolved to-
carry on business for himself, and the results i
amply fulfilled hia expectations. He secured a
very large connection, and executed his work
faithfully and expeditiously. Being of a very
active, stirring disposition, Mr. Withers found
ample time, notwithstanding business pressure to -
devote attention to public matters. He actively ’
co-operated in the Volunteer movement, and, as an
artillerist, proved himself one of the most efficient
in that branch of the service; his connection there-
with only ceased when the force assumed the cha- •
raoter of a paid Militia.
Mr. Withers was one of
J the first to practically
I move for the introduction
| *ke eight-hours system
| “ this colony. Turning '
J his attention to the invest- •
1 ment of capital, he be- •
came a promoter and di-
rector of the first land- •
buying society establish- ■
sd in Sydney, and which l
1 has proved a very great ;
mcoess. He was one of
the promoters, and is now'
*tiU a trustee, of the 1
lydney Permanent Free--
cold Land and Building
'ociety—one of the most ;
iroaperous institutions l
n the colony. This So- •
■iety, established in 1875 -
showed a balance sheet,,
a 1881, as follows ;—ln-
vesting shares, .£47,390;;
idvanoed on mortgage,.
1881, £500,000; deposits,.
£128,581. The nett' f
tcoumnlated profits, after-
jaying 8 per cent.-
uterest on shares, was.
last February, £29,677, of’
which sum £25,000 was*
placed to a reserve fundi
she balance going to make'
i total dividend of 15>
per cent. This is a mer-
cantile success that any
one might be proud of be-
ing identified with, Long
before he was chosen
as an Alderman, Mr,
Withers exhibited genu-
ine interest in the im-
provement of the sanitary
'condition of the city, and,
since his election to the-
(Council, he has not dis-
appointed general expec-
tations. One good work
h® was instrumental in as-
sisting to introduce was-
the wood pavement. But
Mr. Withers came more
prominently before the
public in connection with
the Kenny Hill water
scheme than for any'
municipal work,and thero
is a very large and an
increasing section of the*
community who agree
with him that Mr. Gippa'
scheme of water supply
was and is the proper
scheme, for Sydney, it
will not surpi ise many if
the Government is not
eventually compelled to
adopt the scheme so reso-
lutely advocated by Mr-
Withers and his coadju-
tors inthis great work-
Last|general election, M".
Withers was returned
Parliament for Small*
b’ydney, - and has been!
compelled from pressure*
of public work, to foreg®
a splendid business au*
contractor and builder j
he is now conducting’
business as land autr
tioneer and valuator, af»
offering at intervals more*
time for public work,
and, in his new line, he*
has been fairly successful.
Mr. | Withers has earned!
for himself a character
tor straightforwardness-
and independence —a man.
of liberal mind, acting"
only on conviction. Ho*
MR. GEORGE WITHERS, M.L.A.
THE ROYAL ARCADE (MESSRS. WITHERS’ BROTHERS), GEORGE AND PITT STREETS, SYDNEY.


&as not made polities a business, and will not.
The position he occupies is one made by himself ;
the business connection he enjoys is the result of
energy and uprightness. It is but fair to assume
that these traits of character will stand him in
good stead and carry him straight to the front in
the Legislature of the country.
Mr. Robert Booth, Mayor of Dubbo.
Mb. Eobbet Booth, the present Mayor of Dnbbo,
not the least promising of the natives now
forging to the fore-front of public life, was born in
Bathurst on the 24th May, 1851, and is conse-
quently now about 31 years of age. He received
liia education in the city of the plains, and for five
years studied under the Eev. W. H. Savingny,
ALA., now of Tasmania, whose grammar school at
Cook’s Eiver, Sydney, was considered one of the
best of the colony’s intermediate schools. Mr.
Booth was well up in classics and mathematics,
and passed very creditably the University Senior
Public Examination in these and other subjects.
This was in December, 1869, and shortly after
(In 1870) Mr. Booth was articled to Mr.
Henry Price (of M'lntosh, Piowiok. and Price,
the leading attorneys of the West). He was
admitted an attorney of the Supreme Court in
1875. The gentleman to whom he was articled is
perhaps one of the best common law authorities in
New South Wales, and the subject of this sketch
brought away from the office many of those
qualities which have served to gain for Mr. Price
a more than local reputation As a lawyer, Mr.
Booth stands in the first ranks of his profession.
Mr. Booth has taken an active part in all public
affairs. In February, 1879, he was elected, at
almost a moment’s notice, as Alderman of the
Borough of Dubbo. In June, 1880, he resigned,
but on tbej succeeding February, he was again
elected. In February last, he was unanimously
chosen Mayor, and ho has certainly proved his
capacity for the office. Mr. Booth is Vice-Presi-
dent lot the North-Western Pastoral and Agn-
cultural Association, and of the Dubbo Jockey
Club. He has a nice residence outside the town,
and takes some pleasure in agricultural pursuits.
It is seldom the name of a lawyer is connected
with a show-yard ; but Mr. Booth baa been suc-
cessful as au exhibitor, winning the blue ribbon at
the last Dubbo Show, with a pure Shorthorn bull
of his own breeding. It is not improbable that
Mr. Booth will at no distant date have a wider
field for the exercise of his talents. We are ap-
preaching a ttmo when ability and integrity will
be the only passports to political positions.
Messrs. Cowan and Co.’s Paper Ware-
house, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
We give, herewith, an engraving of the splendid ware
house of Messrs. Cowan and Co., Wynyard Square, ir.
this city. The edifice stands on the solid rook, excava-
tions thcreix, to the depth of several feet, having been
made to receive the basement courses. The foundation
stone was laid some years ago by the late Mr. D.
Nichol, then the resident Australian partner, and he
fitly remarked, in the course of the ceremony, that he
wished the foundation of their building to be typical of
the character of their business, which, more than a
century previously, in Scotland, had begun its exist-
ence. And undoubtedly the manner in which the busi-
ness of this branch has been conducted, securing
the confidence of the whole of the Australian public,
has been in harmony with the previous history
of the firm, and in full justification of its lamented
founder. The edifice is of the best Pyrmont stone, and
the style of architecture is a blending of Eoman and
Grecian. It is one of the several splendid buildings which
five to Wynyard Sqs are the premier position as a colossal
usiness centre. The building rises to the height of
four storeys, and has a most extensive available cellar-
age. It has two frontages, York-street being devoted
to the general business, and York-lane to the receiving
and removal of goods. The floors are expansive, and
are so supported as to bo able to carry an enormous
stock —an arrangement absolutely necessary owing to
the great daily output of goods. The offices of the firm
and the clerical staff occupy the front portion of the first
floor. To the left, on entering, is the sale department,
which is furniehod with a very large open stock for
sale or inspection. Directly opposite, is the de-
partment exclusively devoted to the display of all the
descriptions of stationers' goods, into the importation
of which the firm has now, at general solicitation,
largely entered. Here, on view, ore novelties and
reqcdsites imported for the first time. The second
storey is devoted to an extensive display of the open
stock, and there is a variety of writing and printing
I papers that excels anything of the kind elsewhere to
be found in the colonies. Samples of printing types
are here shown, the firm being the solo agents for
Stephenson, Blake, and Co., the extensive English type
founders. The third floor is devoted te the storage
of whole packages of stationers’ goods and writing
papers. The cases are sold as received from the ship,
the packages being broken only by the purchaser.
The fourth floor is occupied with bulk stock of
printing papers in packages, bales, and reels. The
stock here, as on the other floors, is enormous,
and comprises all the varieties of printing papers
manufactured by the firm at their various mills in
England and Scotland. On the several floors are shown
samples of the printing and paper cutting machinery,
&c., for which the firm are agents. One of these
appliances is particularly worthy of note, namely, Daw-
son’s “ Mitre” machine, for the better class of print-
ing. This machine like Dawson's modern ‘‘Wharfe-
dale," also on view, is the perfection of mechanism. The
cellar, or basement floor, is devoted to the storage of
the printing and lithographic coloured inks, now largely
imported by the firm. Lines specially deserving of notice
are—Mather’s eelebrated American inks, which are.
MR. G. G. DAVIDSON, MAYOR OF MUDGEE.-(See page 3)
MESSRS. COWAN & CO’S WAREHOUsE, WYNYARD SQUART, SYDNEY.


for the first time fairly placed in the Australian market;
aud Mason’s celebrated English inks. Whether for
ordinary or block printing, these inks have met with
crowning’ success, being the finest productions yet used
In the printing art. The firm of Messrs Cowan and Co.
do an extensive business all over the colonies m tne
paper line as well a* in the importation on order of the
most modern descriptions of machinery—in which
branch of business they have given signal satisfaction.
The firm sell the papers manufactured by themselves.
The principal mills are situated at Valleyfleld, Penicuick,
and Inveresk, Musselburgh, Scotland, and their pro-
ductions, now before the world for more than a century
have won prizes in all quarters. At our late luter-
national Exhibition, Messrs. Cowan and Co. represented
the following firms, and were awarded prizes on account
of each firmGillott, for steel pens; Qoodall, for
menu and programme cards, playing cards, post paper,
fancy envelopes, &c.; Hamid and Sons, for stereotype
apparatus and Bremner machinery; Ley, Francis, and
Co., for patent blocks; Mason, for black and coloured
printing inks; and Stephens, for steel pens, sealing-
wax, writing inks, Ac. Messrs. Cowan and Co.’s own
prizes werefor newspaper, account book, and book print-
ing paper, machine made paper, and printing machinery
for steam or hand power.
Iron Cove Bay Improvements.
PritCliabb’S Boat Sheds, Ac., at Iron Cove Bay.
Balmain, form a very important feature of the improve-
ments which are rapidly going on all over Balmain—the
oldest and wealthiest of our marine suburbs. The site
Mr. Pritchard has selected is about the cosiest nook in
Port Jackson waters, and is overlooked by the township
of magnificent bnildings forming the new lunatic asylum.
The sheds'are situated a few hundred yards from the
Iron Cove’ Bridge, and are more extensive than any
to bo found in Sydney. They are doubtlessly
better stocked, comprising every variety of craft
known to the aquatic world of Sydney, which have
either been specially selected and bought by the pro-
prietor, or made by himself. The craft, all told, number
about 180, and comprise yachts, sailing and fishing
boats, club and racing skiffs, watermen’s boats, out-
riggers, Ac. The sheds, which are about 100 feet long
and 70 broad, are built partly on piles, and jetties ex.
♦end further into the water, thus ensuring convenience
in launching at the ebb or flow. And to facilitate this
work, and at the same time to save the boats, there are
numerous trollies running the whole length of tho
buildings, by means of which the craft are either
carried or borne from or to the water. These
arrangements are very complete, and have oost a lot of
money; few, if any other, boat-sheds about Sydney
boast such features. The basements of the sheds are
divided off for the sheltering of beats, the storage of
sails, sculls, Ac., and there is a large shop where
boat-building or repairing is continually carried on.
The upper floor of the sheds affords a splendid room for
the purposes of dancing, Ac. The floor is in capital
order, having been specially laid, and at least 200
couples can be accommodated. The room is very fre-
quently availed of. Mr. Pritehard has displayed con-
siderable energy in speculating so largely in aquatic
oonvenianoies, and it is satisfactory to know that his
enterprise has met with every recognition.
New Zealand Insurance Company.
The Sydney offices of the New Zealand Insurance Com-
pany, as shown in tho accompanying engraving, form
one of the handsomest structures in our metropolis.
It is characteristic of this Company that its offices
In all the large cities of the group are strikingly pro-
minent for stability and architectural excellence. This
Company was the first local Insurance Company estab-
listaed in New Zealand, and has had a career of almost
unprecedented success in the whole of the colonies ; in
fact, it Is doubtful whether any colonial insurance com-
pany, excepting the Australian Mutual Provident Assur-
ance Company, has had like success. The New Zealand
Insurance Company commenced business in Auckland
in 1859, and was supported by many of the leading
merchants of New Zealand, who still continue its fore-
most patrons. The Company has at all times_ been
distinguished for its liberality and promptitude in the
settlement of claims. Upwards ef three-quarters of a
million has been naid to the insured for losses. Great
care has been taken throughout its career to provide for
contingencies. In addition to the paid-up capital of
£2OO 000, the reserve and re-insurance furds amount to
£150,000, making a total of £550,000, which proves the
wifdora of the directors in systematically adding to tbo
reserve fund, and thus securing the shareholders against
any unforeseen mischance in the marine or fire depart-
merits. This policy has given stability to the Company,
and has created corresponding confidence in the com-
munity, having placed tho financial character of the
nstiintlon beyond all doubt. Three things have spe-
cially contributed to the success of the Company.
First, the business has been carefully conducted by the
selection of legitimate and safe risks; second, the
finances have been placed on a sound basis; third, the
business has been extended over a wide area. It has
been indisputably proved that the surest way to make
insurance business profitable is to spread it over the
widest possible space, and this the New Zealand In-
surance Company has done, as its operations now
include London, Glasgow, Australasia, China, India,
Cape Town, San Francisco, Oregon, Fiji, and New
Caledonia. The original shareholders have found their
investments in the Company to be a mine of wealth.
The shares are a favourite stock on the Sydney Ex-
change, and are amongst the most profitable invest-
ments. A local register is kept at the Company’s offlee,
81 Pitt-streot. Interest and rents of investment yield up-
wards of 10 per cent on the paid-up capital. The
manager of the Sydney offlee is Mr. S. Hague Smith, a
gentleman who has done justice in this city to the
steady and safe style in which the business of the Com-
pany has from the first been conducted. The principal
feature of this business, and the real secret of the
hold the Company has on the commercial community of
Australasia, is the fact that it deals only in sate trans-
actions, and all claims are consequently settled promptly.
Last half-year’s profits were £24,102 3s, 10d., and after
a sum of £9102 3s. lOd. was carried to the next half-
year’s account, a dividend of 3s. per share, absorbing
£15,000, was declared. The head office of the Company
is at Auckland, and the general manager is Q. P.
Pierce, Esq.
In connection with the N,Z. Insurance Company, or
rather, conducted in the same offices, is the N.Z. Acci-
dent Insurance Company, the capital of which is
£lOO,OOO. This Company has done an incalculable
amount of good, and its very snoceis demonstrates the
steady bnt certain development of the provident habits
of the people of Australaiia. It has met in_ the most
practical way the every-day difficulties of industrial
life. Many thousands of people have been supported
while suffering from the effects of accidents. The record
of payment*—some rising as high as £5O0 —are the re-
cords, as it were, of personal experiences in ev«ry
department of life. A payment of a very small amount
ensures a considerable sum at death from accident,
or compensation, for a certain period, for injury.
The compensation is large and liberal in proportion to
the amount paid for premiums, from the simple fact
that, through the business being conducted in the offices
of the N.Z. Insurance Company, managerial and clerical
expenses are saved.
Employers of labour may cover the risk of accidental
injury to the employed by the payment of 4d. per week,
which would entitle the assnred to receive £1 per week
for 16 weeks in ease of accident.
Table A Class 1 entitles the assured to receive com-
penpation of £2 ss. per (week, and £3OO at death from
accident, on the payment of 60s. per annum—not quite
Is. per week. Ladies and clergymen are allowed 5 per
cent.
Mr. T. Punch’s Albion Hotel.
The sketch we give of Mr. Tom Punch’s Albion Hotel,
corner of Market and Elizabeth streets, gives some
idea of the improved hotel accommodation we are
getting in this city. The name of the Punches, as
proprietors of the best hostelries in Sydney, is known
all over the colonies. The Albion, which Mr. Tom
Punch is now opening, will prove to be a house of first-
class character. It is situated directly opposite Hyde
Park, and alongside the tramways connected with the
railway and the suburbs. The hotel is internally a
congeries of large! and comfortable rooms. No better
design could have been made for a convenient City
hotel. There are private entrances in Castlereagh
and Elizabeth streets, and this part of the house is
cat off from the other portion. On the first floor,
near the main entrance, is a splendid lavatory, fitted
up in capital style, for the convenience «f visitors
arriving by train, or team, &c. A splendid cellar,
twelve feet under ground,(affords a 000 l receptacle for
the choice stock of liquors now being got in. The
hotel will possess first-class, brilliantly-lighted reading
rooms, commercial rooms, and dining halls; and baths
on a new plan are provided in different parts of the
house. The basement of the building is divided into
large culinary departments and steres, laundries,
<tc. The bedrooms are numerous, lefty, and well
lighted, and, together with the parlours aud draw-
ing-rooms, are fitted In a style net surpassed anywhere
in the oity, the object of the proprietor being to provide
a first-class house of aecemmodation tor families.
The bar is about the handsomest in Sydney; of the
liquors supplied, the public have the guarantee of the
great success of Mr. Punch's eld house at the opposite
corner; no hotel in town has secured greater popularity.
Mr. Punch will be assisted in the management of the
hotel by Mrs, Punch, a guarantee for the comfort of
Indies and families visiting Sydney. The bnildings have
been erected by the Hon. John Frazer, the architects
being Messrs. Mansfield Brothers. The contractors
for the stone and brickwork were Messrs. W. Eaton
and Son; and for the finishing trades, Messrs. Usher
and Fisher. The work right through will compare
with anything found in the colonies. By the way, the
site of the Albion is likely soon to become the most
attractive centre in Sydney. The opposite block
has been purchased by the Government, and iu course
of time will arise thereon the new Art Gallery and
Public Library—the finest edifice without exception
in Australia*
Ezold’s Pianoforte Warehouse.
Mb. W. Ezold’b pianoforte warehouse is situated
in the George-etreet front of the new Sydney
Arcade, and it is justly famous as a depot for the
superior description of the world’s manufactures
of pianos. In conducting this business, Mr. Ezold
has the advantage of the experience of a lifetime
in the principal factories of the European conti-
nent. His father was an extensive manufacturer
of pianos at Dresden, Germany, and he thus ob-
THE NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO.’S OFFICES, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MR. T. PUNCH’S ALBION HOTEL, CORNER OF MARKET AND ELIZABETH STREETS.


toned a practical acquaintance with the art; be-
sides, Mr. Ezold visited every year, when in
Europe, the establishments of the principal
makers of France and Germany, and he likewise
visited the United States. He was thus enabled
to select pianos specially suitable for tropical
climates. The principal cities of South Africa
were supplied on a most extensive scale through
Mr. Ezold’s European agency. But he found the
Australian colonies safer and better fields for enter-
prise, and he has now established in Sydney an
agency by which the instrumental treasures of the
old world are placed at the disposal of the new.
It is one of Mr. Ezold’s great aims to exclude the
ordinary, and to introduce the best recognized
makes of pianofortes. The better class of trade
he feels, will pay best in the long run. He does
not trouble the ordinary mercantile importer
to do his import business. Musical in-
struments of a superior description can’t
very well be classed with ordinary merchan-
dize. A selection must be made, not in London
alone, but in all the continental cities as well.
A visit to Mr. Ezold’s show-room will demonstrate
to what extent this has been done by him. The
instruments are of a class Altogether superior to
what we are accustomed to have imported'into this
country. Among the makers represented are
Bechstem, Kaps, Ibaoh and Son, Ivory, Rosen-
kranz, Neufeld, Franoke, Zeitter and Winkleman,
Collard, Anchor Prferes, Schmidt and Son, Kuhse,
I |. ter * , Li PP and Son, and Bliithner.
• r ‘r 1 v 8 ® B tobliehment is likewise the recog-
nised house in Sydney for the renowned makes of
violins and stringed instruments generally. Ho
second-class trade in this line is done—that's a fact
t j W^B^BB have particularly notified.
In Oxford-street, where Mr. Ezold first opened
business, he has a pianoforte factory, in which
several experts are employed. For the work done
here, the proprietor has been awarded first prize.
Mr. Ezold s warehouse in George-street is the
rendezvous of the leading artists of Sydney—a fact
significant in itself. It is well worth a visit. We
have no superior house in any of the colonies as a
repository of musical art treasures.
Messrs. Triggs and Marr’s Foundry.
Clarence Street.
In speaking of the splendid new Steam Engine
illustrated in page 3, it may be mentioned that
the cylinder was oast at the well-known works—
Messrs. Tnggs and Marr’s Foundry. The feature
or the casting which, by the way, was witnessed
Dy a number of citizens—was that it was the
largest in Sydney from a weoden pattern ; and as
the work m tins instance, as in several others,
turned out to be faultless, the efficiency of the
foundry workmen is well proved. The cylinders
oast are for 40 h.p. engines, and at least half-dozen
have been done for various engineering firms in
the city. The metal used in each casting is some-
mg over two tons. For several years now, this
firm has been noted for the expedition and exoel-
lence with which their work is executed. Lately,
they have had in hand some very extensive oast-
ingg tor the Colonial Saggar Company, in the shape
ot pans, condensers, etc.—the latter requiring
as much as four tons of metal. The business of
the works has greatly increased during the last
few years, and Messrs. Triggs and Marr now find
themselves compelled to considerably enlarge
their premises. One portion of their eatab-
lishment runs from Clarenoe-street to Kent-street.
a j? djoln i n ? the Clarenoe-street property an
addition of just double the size has now been
made. These arrangements afford splendid space
tor the increased work. The old portion of the
works is now exclusively devoted to the foundry,
mad huge travellers reach every part of it with
° f “u^n, metal from the furnaces.
The castings exhibited show the highest desorip-
toons of work in pillars, columns, pilasters,
cylinders, &0., &c. The new department of the
works is devotea to the forges, of which there are
nme in constant operation, with steam hammers,
"W description of forging is executed
here, and the manufacture of girders is carried on
T® ry ®. x * enBlvely - . The business is under the
immediate supervision of both proprietors —a I
guarantee of the genuineness of their work. No
better instance of their skill and enterprise and
the capabilities of their establishment can be
Morded than With respect to the important work
mentioned in the first part of this artiole.
Gore Hill Steam Brick Works, North
Shore.
Thanks to,the enterprise of looal capitalists,
there is some probability of onr keeping pace in
the matter of supply of materials, with the prodi-
gious advance in building operations all over the
metropolitan district. It would seem, in fact
only commencing to exhibit her
vitality, and there can be no doubt that the next
• , v y . 6ars wd * see a truly marvellous improvement
9at / apita i of . the Bunny s °nth. On the
Whore (soon to be connected with the city
* ridge) ’ thera “ a e reat field for
W 1« profitable investment of capital, and our
Southern suburbs, having been almost com-
pletely taken up, it is but natural to find
fade of monetary attention setting in across
Building operations are
proceeding on an extensive scale, and
already the manufacturers are beginning to
Bhow themselves. The most recent we have to
notice is the Gore Hill Brick Works, started by
and C°-. These works are
destined to be second to none in the colony, and
the most approved appliances obtainable in Eng-
land or manufactured here, are already arriving on
S* J rOU^ s - ./he property comprises fifteen
if 8 ’ f nd 18 equated contiguous to the waters at
toe entrance ot the Lane Cove Eiver. For some
years work was carried on in the locality, but not
Zff eitenBlV V 04le - Sufficient, however, was
proYe *he existence of an exceptionally
grand stratum of blue shale and a variety of clays
particularly suited for the manufacture of the
u No Btri PP in sr is required, and the
be ® n P/oved workable to a depth of 40
nnrHrm A has bee ? •““•rnoted en the western
over 10ft?f+ the g /° U ? d ’ and at present there are
over obo 0 Btore d available for nee.
inJfuo ‘ "Hit a H, eady stated, include the best
l>n nnnT*' u hl ° h Wlll be , capablB of an output of
bricks per week-the make being the
‘ Piastic, dry-pressed and double-
pressed brick. At present, the ordinary kilns are
m use, but they will be augmented or superseded
a c , apaclon s 18-chamber Hoffman, plans
lor which have been prepared by the well-known
engineer, Mr. Borman Selfe. The splendid 40
mp. steam engine, herewith illustrated, manu-
factured to order by Messrs. Hoskins Brothers,
-Cay-street, is a fair sample of the scale on which
the Gore Hill works will be carried on. We notice
with considerable pleasure that one of the pro-
pnetors ot this promising venture is our friend,
Ja m°B Hobson, who for years was connected
Si-- V lewai i apera of city, and who, on
quitting the profession, took with him the respect
and best wishes of both press and public.
Sydney Tattersall’s Buildings.
The Sydney Tattersall’s Buildings (Messrs.
Hawkes and Co.’s), corner of Castlereagh and Hun-
ter streets, Sydney, row in course of erection, are
the most stylish and the most extensive of their kind
in Australia ; in fact, it might be sate to say that
nothing superior to them is to be found outside of
the big American cities. The elaborate plan on
which these new premises are being built is pretty
clearly indicative of the rapid strides Sydney is
making in these days of her solid prosperity. And
it is a very satisfactory thing that we have in this
instance a man who recognises the requirements
of the future, and has the enterprise and courage
to set about making them. The new buildings of
Messrs. Hawkes and Co. are from a special design
by Mr. Backhouse. They are four storeys high,
and from the basement to the uppermost floor are
tiers of horse-boxes. This style of business
of having livery stables in the loftiest of
our structures, is new, and will probably awaken
other designs to ensure economy of space and con-
venience in architecture. But not only in
this respect does this structure present new
features ; it will have spacious offices and shops
at each frontage, extensive cellarage, and a
first-class lecture Hall, or ball-room, capable
v folding one thousand people. The edifice
has its basement on the solid rock, the excavations
being very deep ; and an enormous tank has like-
wise been sunk, giving exactly 200,000 gallons of
water. The frontage to Castlereagt-street is 100
feet, and to Hunter-street 100 feet; the walls are
very stout, and are supported by large girders
specially made for the purpose. There does not
appear to be a weak point in the whole structure.
Ihe open work at the basement is formed of stout
pillars supporting arches and girders. On the
Hunter-street side there will be a handsome colon-
nade leading to a range of offices, and beneath
them will be additional offices and splendid cellar-
age. In Castlereagh-street will be the main en-
trance, and on either side will bo handsome thops.
Off the Castlereagh-street entrance will bo a
grand stairway leading to the lecture hall or ball
room—with card rooms, refreshment rooms, and the
other apartments connected therewith—on the
uppermost floor. The main entrance will lead to
the principal floor of Mr. Hawkes’ establishment
It will be of asphalte on stone, supported by ex-
tensive iron girders. All round will be horse-
boxes, so constructed as to allow of their being
turned into loose-boxes—for exhibition stock for
training purposes, or for stock to be offered at
sale. Those boxes will have a basement of stone
and one of cube sets; and in this respect the same
plan will be adopted with the tiers of horse-boxes
on the upper floors. Sales of stock will be regu-
larly held on the first floor. The A.J.C Club
will probably have offices adjoining, and there
will be handsomely furnished waiting-rooms
for ladies and gentlemen. In fact the estab-
lishment will be the Tattersall’s of the
colonies. Off this first floor will be store rooms
for harness, &0., and apartments for the superin-
tendent. Altogether there are two main buildings
of about equal size, the second edifice extending
away towards Pitt-street at the rear of the Union
Bank, and connected with the principal building
by a soft passage on every floor, so that this
building has the extraordinary arrangement of
eight tiers of horse-boxes. That the thing will
be a success, is another way of saying that the
work is carried out on an architecturally scientific
plan. The horses will reach each tier by means
of a gradually rising platform, running circuit-
ously from floor to floor, or they will be hoisted
six at a time in a cage by powerful
hoisting appliances driven by 14 h. p. engine. By
the same means the fodder after having been re-
ceived and properly treated on the b «sement floor,
will be raised to the top floor and then conveyed
by shafts to the mangers all over tho two build-
ings. On the roof of the building will be capacious
tanks ; these will be filled by water pumped from
below, and then by enormous gravitating force,
the water will be available for cleansing
purposes. The water, after thus doing;
work will bo run into an enormous filter,
and thus become available for use again.
A system of deodorising, recently patented
in America, comoletes the work of obliterating
everything offensive. In the centre of the build-
ing, moreover, is a ventilator in the form of a
triangular column, which runs from the basement
to the roof. These particulars are but the out-
lines of the features of this splendid nev estab-
lishment. When finished, the edifice will exhibit
points of novelty that are quite striking. Around
the main floor, for instance, where important
stock sales will bo held, there is to be a grand
gallery, admission to which will be by ticket. And
the suites of rooms for the accomodation of ladies
and families, while waiting, show that in every
essential point, the establishment is to be in
advance of our experience. The architect for the
building is Mr. Backhouse, and the contractor,
Mr. W. H. Jennings. The whole work is being
carried out by the Sydney Building and Invest-
ment Society. Messrs. Hawkes and Co.’s estab-
lishment has been in existence about thirty-five
years; the present proprietary succeeded Mr.
Buchan Thompson twelve years ago. The suc-
cessful manner in which the business has been
conducted enables Mr. Hawkes to undertake the
great work he has now in hand. That this new
establishment will prove a boon to the city and a
model for the colonies, there cannot be the
slightest doubt.
A Thriving Sydney Industry.
A walk through the establishment of Messrs.
M'Murtrie and Kellerman (formerly Messrs. J. and
G. M'Murtrie), foot of Kent-street, will afford
ample proof of the peworful strides which one of
our most important industries is making at the
present time. The boot manufacturing industry,
as is generally admitted, has been a success in this
colony for some years past, but it will be news to
many to learn that it has latterly exhibited truly
wonderful development. This establishment,
Buperior in some respoots to others, may be taken
as a sample of the best we have in Sydney. And
there is not the slightest doubt that the way in
which this firm are extending their business is the
true history of the great manufacturing houses of
England, and the true history likewise of her
great national industrial wealth’. Thoroughly
understanding his business, and quick to learn
from abroad, Mr. M'Murtrie has taken each English
importation having a largo sale, and actually re-
produced or improved upon it at his own estab-
lishment. This fact will prepare the reader for
the astonishing announcement that here, at any
rate, this class of colonial work has been lifted
just about fifty per cent. By the selection of the
most recently-invented appliances, and by tho
employment of a few thorough tradesmen
as overseers, we have at last a body of expert
workmen capable of turning out the superior
articles of manufacture which have given England
the premier position in the markets of the world.
Under good instruction, the colonial apprentice,
male and female, exhibits taste and skill, which!
as applied in this establishment, are productive of
the most satisfactory results. Some years have
been, it is true, in this improvement, but it is all
all tho more permanent and satisfactory. Then
again, the manufacture of colonial leather ia im-
proving, though it is a generally acknowledged
fact that the boot manufacturers have completely
run away from the tanners, and are consequently
compelled to import extensively E'nglish, French
and American leathers. The climax of success
has been reached —though perhaps long delayed—
in respect of price ; the goods of equal character
to the higher class of English manufacture are
supplied here at about 5 per cent, under the whole-
sale purchasing price ruling i n England. Last
week, the firm exhibited some ®f their new linos
of work to recognised men in the retail trade, but it
was not till an actual inspection of the factory took
place that the above fact could be credited. These
embrace more particularly the double soled sewn
laced walking boot, light calf shoes, ladies’ light
calf kid, and levant boots, gentlemen’s half-cloth
uppers, American gentlemen's levant bluoher, &c.
—all sewn and executed in this most artistic style.
Merars. M'Murtrie and Kellerman’s factory is
situated off King-street West, an extensive
stone building, in every way suited, being
used for the purpose. The business has
been established about fifteen years. Constant
work is now given to over 300 hands, and at least
full work could be given to 150 additional skilled
workmen, if they were available. The extent of
the work done may be estimated from the fact
that the Colonial sole leather alone used during
last year was 180,000 lbs. The interior of the
factory is truly a hive of industry, but the plan
adopted throughout ensures every facility for
work, and, what is equally important in a public
sense, for the health, good order, and comfort of the
numerous employ ds. For instance, the room in
which the female operatives are employed, is very
large and lofty, and is furnished with dining and
dressing-rooms, lavatories, Ac., in a style equal to
anything mot with in the principal George-street
drapery establishments. And while the men work
eight hours, the females work but seven hours per
day. The various departments are furnished witn
the most approved appliances, some of them being
iu use in this establishment only. Manipulated
by skilful hands, they turn out splendid work.
The clicking, stretching, making, cutting, dress-
ing, finishing, &0., are the various departments
of the factory. There are three sole-cutting
presses, at each of which two men work, and then
there are the new patent dressers, tho Tapley
heel-burnishers (splendid appliances), the Tapley
edge-setters, several buffing machines, sole-sewing
machines, rollers, &o.—all driven by steam—and
kept in constant operation. The men employed
in the several departments are mostly
persons who have served their apprentice-
ship at the works, and whether, in making or
finishing, the pioprietary rank them fully as com-
petent as the best English operatives. In the
finishing branches of the work there has lately
been particular progress, enabling the proprietors
to display their better manufactures side by side
with the most serviceable and artistic productions
imported from abroad. The firm’s house of
business is situated at 65 York - street—
those extensive premises facing Wynyard-
street. At the warehouse are displayed all the
goods manufactured at the works—which goods
by the way, are mostly all sewn work. The firm
are large importers, Mr. Kellerman’s experience
in this line being of great advantage. A very
largo business is done in Sydney and the colony,
the run on the better class of work being extra-
ordinary, and an entensive export business is dona
with Queensland, Tasmania, New Zealand. Fiji
and even New Caledonia. The proprietors *iuvite
inspection of their work, either at the factory or
the warehouse. That they have been able to
place their work in the first rank, do an extensive
and a high-class trade at figures giving them
almost a complete hold of tho Colonial markets is
creditable in the highest degree, and affords’an
illustration of the only true basis upon which tho
prosperity of a people can be laid.
MR. W. BLOUGH’S WINDSOR CASTLE HOTEL, KING AND ELIZABETH STREETS.-(Sea page 8.)
MR. W. FLEMING’S NEW STYLE OF BUGGY.—(See page 3)
MESSRS. HAWKES AND CO.'S NEW SYDNEY TATTERSALL’S BUILDINGS.


Hordern’s in Pitt-Street.
This is a title which has become a household word m
Sydney, and serves to illustrate once more the extra-
ordinary results of sterling enterprise and business j udg-
ment. “ Hordern’s in Pitt-streot," is an accomplished
fact in the form of a pronounced business success; it
is an establishment which has grown like a well-oon-
duoted newspaper, extending itself to almost every
honsehold.and rendering its existence to a considerable
degree a necessity. The magic name of Hordern is
justly of great weight in the trading world of these
quarters, but’no single branch of that family ever ex-
hibited more resolute sticking to business, more energy,
capability and judgment, than the founders of this
house of trade, Hordern’s in Pitt-street. Mr. J. L.
Hordern recognized that, in the centre of the city, in
one of the most populous of our thoroughfares, a
house conducting its business on new principles was
much required. Beginning in a small way, in a shop
but a few feet square, he has gone on enlarging till he has
now an establishment with a catacomb of departments,
quite as extensive almost as any place in Sydney, and,
in several respects, unsurpassed hy any other house in
the colonies lor elegance, light, ventilation, and general
arrangement. The premises, of which onr artist fur-
nishes two engravings, extend pretty well from George-
street to Castlereagh-street, the only intervening space
being Pitt-street, which, however, being paved with
wood in splendid style, is but little obstruction. With
its various departments on each side of the great
thoroughfare, Horden’s, in Pitt-street, is a little city of
its own, which presents without and within a scene of
busy activity all the week round. Viewed from the
street, the show windows and the interior of the prin-
cipal department impress one with the idea that in
an architectural sense it is about) the most respec-
table thing Bydney has got for many years. The show
windows have great capacity in height and depth; they
are, in fact, impressively largo, and the display within
is at all times striking and grand. Entering the estab-
lishment, the feeling of the visitor is one of surprise
and relief—surprise at the brilliantly - lighted,
cheerful aspect, and relief at finding a city
drapery establishment on a scale that admits
of freedom of movement, fullness of display, and
completeness of ventilation. This extensive drapery
department has a floor space of exactly 6000 feet, and
is lighted from the roof in the most approved style,
while the finishings are quite artistic. A rich flood
of light illumines every nook and corner—a very essen-
tial thing for the buying public. The ceiling is very
lofty, and handsome shelves run up in a neat arrange-
ment from the floors. The counters, all in capital
style, are ranged at the side and towards the centre, as
required for the business of the sub-departments, of
which there are fourteen. The arrangement of the
stock is excellent, and an immense business can be done
in the busiest time of the day without the slightest
hitch or delay, and with absolute comfort and con-
venience to the public. Of the three great sections in
this department, the one principally devoted to mil-
linery and fancy goods is really handsome and attrac-
tive The decorations appear to harmonise with the
dosien, and the display is heightened by the thoroughly
effective style in which a rich floodlof light is obtained
from the splendid skyliarhts immediately overhead. It
is not improbable that all first-class new establishments
will take a practical lesson from these significant improve-
ments, and we shall then have this muoh-Qosieed
change in general adoption. The fourteen sub-depart-
ments are: haberdashery, hoisery, gloves, ribbons,
lace and fancy goods, Berlin wool (a speciality!, dress
stuffs, mourning, silk, Manchester, costumes, mil-
linery, trimmed millinery, underclothing &o. some of
the departments require as many as thirty assistants,
and in the millinery sub-brnnehes about twenty-eight
are constantly engaged. Here are displayed all the
novelties in hats, bonnets and dresses, which are re-
oeived fevery fortnight per mail and ocean steamer;
and. in order to meet orders on the spot, in the way 01
trimmings, dresses, and mourning and wedding re-
aulrements, this branch is continually being led by the
work of nearly sixty dressmakers and milliners, work-
<ng in another part of the premises. And now stepping
across Pitt-street, there is ample evidence that
<> Hordern’s in Pitt-street," has aimed at, and succeeded
In creating in one centre a business that supplies all
the requirements of the various conditions of life—the
person and the household. On the eastern side of
Pitt-street, ’are two enormous establishments, which
occupy space extending almost into
One is devoted to clothing, and the other to tie carpet
or furnishing warehouse, both of which have contri-
buted as much as anything else to spread the name of
Hordern’s in Pitt-street. The clothing department
embraces men’s and youths’ clothing and general out-
fitting, and the figures ruling here, as in other ports of
the establishment, are extraordinarily cheap. The
business, of course, is conducted on cash pnn-
doles hence the enormous reductions permis-
mblfi ’bv the system. The main branch is
fs about 70 feet deep with a width of 30 feet, and the
business transacted is very large Overhead, is an encr-
mons hat department, as extensive as the one below,
and with a stock larger than is probably elsewhere to be
found under one r»of. The figures ruling are really an
enigma All the styles are, of course, the latent-a
special line, being got ready for next summer, the
light cork chamber hat, now to be reduced in figure to
a minimum. The adjoining building is devoted entirely
to furnishing requirements. Thedisplayiatheoarpet line
is unique • and when it is remembered that this very
branch has pulled down prices all over the town,
it is not surprising that a great business is done. The
stocks embrace the most valuable Turkey pile, and the
newest and widest patterns in linoleums, oil-cloths,[&o.,
tapestries, curtain-poles, cornices (the handsomest yet
introduced!, the new Venetian blinds, and the new
patent spring roller curtains, fer which latter Hordern’s
in Pitt-street is the sole agency in the colony. The de-
partment for the display and matching of the carpets,
&0., is very extensive and is well lighted frem overhead.
At the rear of this branch is the despatch room, wkjoh
is one of the features of the business: Hordern’s in Pitt-
street, deliver goods the evening of purchase, and, hav-
ing established a first-class country trade, their
arrangements extend to wherever train, steamer, or
coach will carry. After passing from this building,
one comes to a catacomb of other departments, such as
the working milliners’, the clothiers’, the dressmakers’,
the trimmers’, the shirt hands’, the carpet-sewers’, all
which have separate branches. From eighty to a
hundred are here employed, and constant work is given
all the year reund; the working rooms are noticeably
well lighted and ventilated, and they are presided over
hy the best experts obtainable. There are three dif-
ferent offices in these parts of the premises, for the
proprietors and the clerical staff, including one largo
office solely devoted to the English and foreign or im-
porting branch of the business. By this means there is
an effective cheek on the shipments, and the orders are
all well timed to suit every variation of the seasons.
It is in these internal arrangements that a true idea as
to the extent and character of the trade of the house is
obtainable, and to most of the business man in Sydney
this would bo slightly more than surprising. Bear-
most are three capacious stores, each with three
flats, where the wholesale business is done, and
the bnlk and open stock are kept. Powerful hoists
operate on all the floors, and there are other
facilities for the despatch of business. Adjoining
the stores is a six-stall stable, kept in first-class order.
Thus have wo rapidly run through the establishment
so widely known es Hordern’s in Pitt-stroet. Its rami-
fioations are extraordinary, and cannot faithfully be
described with pen or pencil. Personal inspection
alone will convey a fair or adequate Idea of its extent.
Mr. J. L. Hordern, the founder of the house, has
) ecently been joined b.v his two brothers, one of whom
will represent the firm in England, and, with this acoea.
siouof strength, greater developments may be expioted.
Giving constant employment all through the various
seasons to nearly 160 bands, Hordern’s in Pitt-street is
doing its shat e towards the development of trade in this
great metropolis. That it should have a continuance
of its present popularity and success is only but
justice to the enterprise that founded and conducted it.
Messrs Gordon and Gotch’s News, Adver-
tising and Telegraphic Agency.
Thebe is, perhaps, no house in Australia more
widely known than that of Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch. This firm has enjoyed for more than a
quarter of a century almost the entire news-agency
business of the colonies; and it has likewise
represented, almost in the same scale, the Euro-
pean Press as far as its dealings with Australia is
concerned. There have been agencies in the
various colonies which have largely sapped the
prosperity of the provincial press—agencies which
have sucked the life-blood from many a struggling
onrnalistio enterprise. One of the firms
whoso operations have tendered to foster rather
than retard newspaper enterprise throughout
Australia, is that of which a brief notice
is here given, and a wide increasing public con-
fidence is proof of this. Messrs, Gordon and
Gotch do business with all the important news-
papers of the six colonies, and, having branch
houses in the principal cities, the work is done
expeditiously and economically. The advertising
arrangements of the firm are most complete, com-
munication being constantly kept up with the
newspaper press all oyer the world, and papers
are shown as proof of insertion of advertisement.
The arrangements in force edva larpe seouritv to
the provincial newspaper proprietors, and open
up extensively a lino of business which was at one
time very insignificant. The metropolitan impor-
ter or merchant can now roach every populous
inland centre of every colony through the
medium of Gordon and Gotcha agency, and
this lucrative patronage is secured to the dis-
tant newspaper proprietor without the risk
of heavy loss. At no other house do
the provincial papers get so prominent a repre-
sentation as at this establishment. The new
premises (herewith illustrated), which are situated
in George-street, afford a capital opportunity for
the display of almost every colonial newspaper, and
complete files use kept all the year round, to the
great convenience of the trading public of tp®
metropolis, and the manifest advantage of the
several proprietaries. A large and daily increasing
trade is also done in the importation of Euglrah
and American magazines and newspapers, and the
activity which prevails in the establishment on the
arrival of each mail stoamor is iadicattv® of tho
great business of this department. Messrs. Gordon
and Gotoh combine, with the ordinary press
agency, the business of printers’ brokers and
paper importers, supplying office outfits of
types, presses, machinery, and inks. And
for these latter branches there are separate
departments on the upper and excellent
arrangements to facilitate judicious selection.
One-half the front basement floor of Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch’s establishment is devoted to
the retailing of the celebrated Wheeler and
Wilson sewing machines, which are now in use
in the metropolitan and country districts. Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch have from time to time issued
works of considerable public utility, notably the
celebrated Australian Handbook and Gazetteer,
which has won great popularity throughout Great
Britain and the United States.
Slough’s Windsor Castle Hotel.
Among the many improvements being effected id
King-street may be mentioned that of Mr. William
Slough’s Windsor Castle Hotel. As shown in the
engraving, a complete change has been effected la
the hotel, which stood for so many years at the
corner of King and Elizabeth streets, neither of
use nor of ornament. But, by a liberal expendi-
ture of money, Mr. Slough has got a fixst-olasa
house on one of the beat sites in Sydney. A
spacious verandah extends along the whele street-
front of the hotel; internally the alterations and
additions have been very extensive, quite beyond
the requirements of the new Act; and the im-
mensely-increased trade clearly proves that the
proprietor has met a long-felt want. The bars
are roomy, and so arranged as to secure privacjq
there are public and private bars, all furnished is
capital style. The hotel has three private and two
public entrances. Mr. Slough makes the excel-
lence of his liquors the feature of kis business,
and that he has succeeded is proved by the increas-
ing and improved character of the business done
at the house. There are special conveniences at
the hotel for commercial men, fet the transaction
of business. Mr. Slough, who was for 20 years
at Prince, Ogg and Co.’s, is a flrst-olass man of
business, and it is satisfactory to find that hia
enterprise is being duly recognised by the public.
Improvements at Ultimo.
The sketch given herewith of the stores of Mr»
W. Jervis, corner of Quarry-street and Ilarris-ctreet
indicates the improvement that is rapidly going oa
at Ultimo. In every part of this great estate build,
lag operations are proceeding at a very fast rata, and
what was a perfect waste two years ago. is new the
centre of business quite independent at the metro*
polls. The stores of Mr. W Jervis, with which is
also connected the Ultimo Pest Office, are the most
extensive in that thriving suburb, and are as
constructed as to admit of the business of idle
various departments being done on eae floor. The
house has a considerable depth to Quarry-street, and
is a first-class place of business. The populous neigh,
borbood of Ultimo and Fyrmoat are supplied here with
goods at a figure lower in many things than they ean bo
obtained for in the eity. The fact is, Mr. Jervis has
established direct trade connection with the English
houses, and now largely imports for himself. To com.
plate the convenience of the bnsinese. Hr. Jervis ha m
now opened a diet-class dripary store near the premises
here illual rated, and in this respect likewise the trade
with the city will be intereepted. The name *t the
new branch of Mr. Jervis’s business is Wentwerth
Home, and the lines will be cheap cask drapery, men's
clothing, boots, Ac. To ensure success against all oppe-
sltion, extensive direct importations will be made.
Goods are delivered te all parts of the anbnrbs. The
house is situated directly alongside the everway foot-
bridge at the Darling Harbor Bailway, and in this
respect has been well oheeen as a site lor the Peat
Office, the business of which, in the t««ndf of Ms
Jervis and his estimable wits, ha* been conducted wUB
pinblie* 0 * 08 * “ ttoftlol| * od wlhe Dopertmaniand «»
HORDERN’S IN PITT STREET.
HOR.DERM’S IN PITT STREET.
