

THE BULLETIN
Vol. lI.—No. 135
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1882.
Price —3d
% falWtn.
SATURDAY. AUGUST 26, 18S2.
The Gospel of Self
We quoted, in last week’s issue, a frank exposition
of principle, by a Justice of the Peace, in South
Australia, which strikes the keynote of the
harmony of corruption which appears to prevail
in colonial public life. Captain Bickers, J.P.,
is reported to have said: “As to log-rolling, a
man who had not selfishness in his heart was not
fit to live. Ignore himself, and what was the use
of a man?” These propositions were received
with “ loud laughter.” We can recall a similarly
candid utterance, in the same spirit, made in
another of the neighbouring colonies. The Hon,
James Foote, M.L.C., of Queensland, once
declared in the Legislative Assembly of that
colony, that “ a man who voted against his own
interests must be a fool.” There is no occasion
for surprise that persons should bold thfese viefrs.
All experience of life tends to c«nvince an
observer that the principles so expressed furnish
the prime motive and chief guide of life with a
vast number of individuals. But it has been
regarded as somewhat odd that anyone should
have coolly enunciated the theory, with even
complacency, and with an obvious confidence that
the declaration would find an approving echo in
the minds of an average audience. The singularity
of the business is due to the fact that while it is
common for people to guide their proceedings by
the rules laid down so deliberately and definitely
by Captain Bickers and Mr. Foote, it has been
almost an invariable habit to profess, at least
in public declarations, a code of public and
private morality directly opposite. 'The
laughter which rewarded Captain Bickers
candour proved that he had not made
any mistake in reckoning upon a sympathetic hear-
ing. Mr. Foote was, and we believe still is, a
prominent professor of religion —the Christian re-
ligion—and South Australia is regarded, equally
with other British dependencies, as a Christian
community. Yet the principles enunciated in each
case, and which were hailed with smiles, are obvi-
ously and essentially pagan. “ A mau who had
not selfishness in his heart,” quoth Capt. Bickers,
“is not fit to live.” It is strange, indeed, that it
does not seem to occur to anyone that the Man
who eighteen hundred years ago taught the
Gospel of Unselfishness was adjudged exactly in
accordance with Capt. Dickers theory. He was
not fib to live. Barrabas was. “ Ignore him-
self, and what is the use of a m-m ? ” inquires that
shrewd man of the world, Capt. Bickers. _ And
o one from the crowd answered “ Crucify him !”
• • •
If these wore isolated utterances, or if they were
underlaid by no substantial endorsement, tuey
would be too insignificant to justify any large
eductions. But they are isolated only as public
eclarations by representative men, and they are
supported by the whole drift and organization of
modern conditions of life.“ One hears the same theo-
ries, cynically avowed,in private conversation every
day, and—what is more to the purpose—one reoog -
nises their application governing the entire condnc .
of private enterprise, of commercial dealings, and
of public life by men in representative station.
The same theory was in fact avowed a little le-*-
nakedly by Sir Henrt Parkes, when, addrei-s-
-ing a distinguished assemblage in London lie
confessed with an agreeable candour which, li'<-
Captain Bickers’ frankness, elicit ad. app'aus ,
that the public welfare was subordinated ac o i i
Oil periods to Ministerial exigencies. a<’, also,
the man of business has no aqua unis haess aoonn
stating his rule of life. He mus: jostle his iva.i,
and hold his own. Unless he tramples he mu <6
inevitably be trampled upon. It is a hard world.
He is sorry sometimes, but what is ho to do ?
What oan one man do anyhow ? Much 1 Herein
hes the entire secret. Individual unselfishness
Individual rectitude. Suppose every individual
in civilised countries strove at it. What would
be the aggregate result ?
• # *
But in these times a man is nothing if not prac-
tical. And it is eminently unpractical to theorise
on the presumption that mere remonstrance and
philosophizing can convert a community into an
a tgr*gation of Sainti and Martyrs. Men who
would be satisfied to pass through life in the tran-
enjoyment ot domestic comfort and moderate
sutfioieucy, do not generally possess the moral
“Ore which would enable them to submit with re-
signation to the tortures of poverty and the morti-
“oations of insignificance. Now, although wealth
does most certainly not secure happiness, it
squally surely mitigates wretchedness. And
Poverty undoubtedly dees involve suffering,
anxiety, and humiliation. It would be too much
0 expect man, in his present stage of moral
development, to accept tke temporal trouble and
misery which is the certain lot ot any one who
does not fight his way. One requires to possess
the moral and intellectual grandeur of a Christ to
sustain the indignities and sufferings of a disciple.
It is necessary to make allowances for human
frailty. But when the material battle has been
won, when men have climbed beyond the reach of
poverty—surely at that stage they might begin to
practice at least a modified Christianity. “It is
easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a
needle, than for a rich man to enter into the
kingdom of Heaven.” Thus the founder of our
national religion. And out of every 100 men
men among us, 99 are straining every nerve to
become rich, and sacrificing every principle of
their nominal belief to attain their ends.
# # *
But, retorts the casuist of the era, ine-
qualities of fortune must exist and continue.”
The Yankee-invented maxim that “ all men are
created free and equal,” is a fallacy. Men are
( created with very unequal abilities, and were any
arbitrary limitation ot the wealth which indivi-
duals might acquire insisted on, the entire human
race would suffer. The great spring of action, of
progress, and of material development, wxmld be
unbent. The energies of men of constructive
genius, of inventive talent, and of vigour, would be
neutralized, or never called forth. The world would
stagnate. Yes, if the Gospel of selfishness be the
inevitable rule of life. But if you grant that it is,
then Christ came on earth in vain, and Christi-
anity is a dream. But, suppose, merely hypo-
thetically, that Christianity is a living truth, —
something more than a mere Sabbath observance,
a smelling of hat-linings, and a donning of vest-
ments by priest and layman—then the Gospel of
Unselfishness must be true and—practicable.
Granted, that poor weak man must fight and
scramble and clutch at his neighbour to escape
the pains of poverty, it does not follow that after
he has escaped, and is ensconced in the safe
vantage ground of competence he must go on
clutching and grasping still, and kicking and
trampling on all who are striving to follow in his
tracks.
» « *
It is a monstrous theory that a m in’s ability
must from first to last be devoted to the service ot
Self. Why should not a man’s surplus talents be
devoted to helping along his less able comrades?
If the superfluities of the wealthy were spread
among the deserving, to help their industry! tin
world would be far more advanced, even in ma-
terial progress, than it is to-day. The very ablest
of men ia only a little more able than men of the
next grade. But as society is constituted, a vast
machinery is constantly at work to protect what-
ever advantage a has gained, and to prevent
every other man from sharing. Nine-tenths of
human talent is lying latent to-day, because it is
starved. Ideas die with men who can’t afford to
put them in practice. Pour-fifths of the potential
energy of civilized mankind is never called forth,
because four-fifths of civilized men are all their
lives the slaves of the other fifth.
• • •
The Gospel of Self is grinding all the nobility
out of the human race. It has smothered the
Gospel of Unself, and donned the garments of
its victim, so that it grins in pulpits, and grimaces
in Parliaments, pretending to be the thing it has
destroyed. The noblest sentiments flow from the
foulest months, and serve as part of a system of
disguise and imposture. “I will do what my con-
science demands, careless of consequences,”
mouths a latter-day mountebank —and winks at
his confederates picking the pockets of the crowd
listening in vacant credu'ous admiration to such
splendid declarations. No one oan make people
suddenly less stupid. But a little service may be
done by crying “ Beware of pick-pookets.” No
single individual oan purify public life. But each
can contribute something by a simple process—an
absolute repudiation of the Gospel of Self, at
least in public affairs. If those who carry their
practice of this infamous doctrine into public life
were made to comprehend that they oan look for
no sympathy, for no allowances, to the people
at large, they would find it more difficult
than it now is to maintain their pre-
dominance. If every elector were, for example,
to make up his mind to give no support to a
tainted candidate for public station, and on no
account to barter his single vote for his own per-
sonal gain or advantage, whether that took the
shape of a bridge near his farm, a culvert over his
gutter, or a railway to his district, a vast step
towards the purification of onr institutions would
have been achieved. How can it be expected that
high-aonled, lofty, and pure representatives are to
be forthcoming from a community the moat active
individuals of which barter influence for petty
profits, or paltry destinations—when the price of
one man’s vote is a glass of grog, of another’s, a
road ; of another’s, a place on the Magistrate’s
bench; and, of even the least corrupt, a railway
for their town, or a dredge for their river? • Men
of elevated minds and self-respect cannot fairly be
expected to submit to the indignities of a candi-
dature which demands from them compliances
which they feel to ’-e degradations. And, if a
man go through such an ordeal, he commences his
publio functions with the outworks of his self-
respect broken down. Publio institutions cannot
be purified by mere sweeping out. The cure must
commence from below. The constituencies which
wince at the spectacle of a paltry and tainted
Legislature, and would fain remedy it, should take
to heart the exhortation—“ Physician, cure thy-
self.”
A Corrupt Coalition.
Sir -—— ■' prides himself on his political
standing, as a man of ability and political oharac
ter. He had for twelve years expressed his
derision of Sir John Robertson. For twelve
years he had indulged in all kinds of condemnation
of that gentleman, and yet it appears that twelve
months ago with all his strength, with all his
ability, with all his public standing, he could not
form a Government without the assistance of Sir
John. Sir John Robertson —the despised of
twelve years —was necessary, logically necessary,
to cement his own materials together in that new-
fangled Cabinet.
• * *
What was the case between these two gentle-
men ? One was the accepted leader of a number
of men, and the other was the accepted
leader of a number of men who had
followed him, as wo think, with too close a
fidelity for many years. They were standing at
the head of distinct parties. They had been
standing at the head of parties, or struggling to
get to the head of parties, for ten or twelve years.
They had both been in office. T hey had both
carried Bills into law; and in office and out of
office, on the hustings and in public meetings, in
the Executive Council and on the Statute-book of
the country, they had impressed on the very tissue
of their lives their political antipathy to each
other. They could not coalesce. They could not
combine. They wore not in a position to do the
one or the other without betraying their friends.
And yet the combination was formed, and formed
with the avowed object of rendering Parlia-
mentary Opposition impossible in the Legislative
Assembly of the country. Now such a combina-
tion of men as that is unknown daring the present
century;in the political history of England. We
challenge any person to point to any instance in
the history of England since the beginning of this
century which is in any way analogous ; and it is
in this the infamy of the combination consists.
What was its immediate effect? It was to shook
the followers of these gentlemen on both sides,
livery man with the slightest pretension to con-
scientious conviction, every man with the slightest
attachment to principle, who believed ho was
serving under a true chief, felt that he had been
deluded and betrayed, and he became shocked and
disgusted with public life. The consequence was
that the Government gathered round itself the
worst men on both sides —the most dangeious men
that have entered Parliament, and the Govern-
ment party is now made up of the waifs and strays
of all parties—the shifting, disappointed, and
self-seeking men of all sides. The rats came out
of all the holes in the old A ssombly. By degrees
they began to smell the crumbs falling from the
Treasury-table, and the result was that they were
speedily and palpably seen clustering round the
hand that fed them with this corrupt food That
is the state into which the Government ot this
country had descended.
* • •
Bad men may rise to power; bad laws may be
enacted; but the country can sooner or later
eject the bad men from power, and erase the bad
laws from the statute book. But once degrade
your Parliamentary institutions, and a wrong is
done to the country which will not be remedied
during a lifetime. Sir ■■■ deserves
impeachment, if there ware any power of impeach-
ment in this country, for degrading and corrupt-
ing the Parliament of this country for his own
selfish purposes.
We, for our part, are not surprised—not very
much surprised—at Sir John Robertson, be-
cause wo have heard him boast—apparently quite
unconscious of how he was exposing himself—that
he had served in office with more men than any
other person in the country. And we believe he
has served in office with about thirty-nine gentle-
men. The Assembly consisted of seventy-two
members, so that at one lime and another he has
had more than half the members of the Assembly
for his colleagues. When we heard this gentle-
man boast of it, we have looked at him with a sort
of curious amazement, as wo should do at any
newly-found animal—the discovery of a cat witft
thirtj-nine tails, for instance. The ides, that this-
boasting suggested to our mind was that of a
young lady priding herself that she had more-
lovers than any other girl in the country—that
she had brawny men and slight mm, tall men and
short men, men with dark hair and men with yellow'
hair, men of an active temperament, and men of a
slow temperament ; in fe'-t, she had had ten times
more lovers than any girl! But we would like
to know what honest man would take her for a
wife ? To us it was astonishing that Sir John
Robertson could not see the dangerous imfer-
enoe that would bo drawn from unseemly vaunt-
ings. We aretherefore not surprised at Bir John
Robertson now. . . . Some gentlemen say
that he would take offic.o under Mr. John
Davies. Why, does rot everyone know that he
has taken office under Mr. Davies already?
Mr. John Davies takes to himself the credit of
arranging the whole thing. “We did it”! says
Mr. Davies.
• * ♦
Note.—We are indebted to Hon. Sir Henry Parkks
for the above seveie article upon the Coalition
DR. HABMAN-TARRNT, M.P.—(See page 7)


Q[o UG H S AND
The Best Cure for the above is '
and taken at bed-lii
PURE El
Extra Strong,
6s, Per Imperial Qu
C. W. RO£
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPA
MARKET STREI
WHEN YOU VISIT SI
go to
C. W. ROBERT
NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MA
where yon can obtai
6^7
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEAN]
SHERRY, OR BE
of snoh a Quality that cannot b«
other establishment in t
C. W. ROBERT
COLONIAL WINE DEPi
is now open in
MARKET STI
RED OR WHIT
only
3d. per Half-Pir
Quality Superlati
NONE BUT Wl]
the
PRODUCT OF AUSI
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPA
THE MOST WHOLESOME OF J
MADE HOT IF REQ
Please Call and Sai
C. W. ROBEETS'~BPECIA
at 4s. 6d. per bottle, is b
VERDEILHO
lovely White Wine, Is. 6
PORT MACQUARIE El
Is. 6d. per bottl
MUREUMBIDGEE
2s. per bottle.
C. W. KOI
MARKET STRE
FURNITURE! FUR
FURNITURE 1
•• XKTHEEE is the best place i
W This question is being ai
is of as much interest to anyone
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple ” jt
keeping, and who want evorythl
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE PA
FURNISHING El
OXFORD STREET, S
Just opened b;
Gorernment. We hare merely taken the usual editorial
liberty of arranging th> sequence of the paragraphs,
and of substituting for the “I,” which the author
is somewhat too fond of employing, the ordinary
editorial “We ’’ We need scarcely say that we cordi-
ally endorse all the sentiments of the article, which will
be found embodied in the published edition of Sir
Henry’s speeches—pages 326 to 329. The original
companion in crime of Sir John Robertson was not
the writer—but Sir James Martin. In the long run,
however. Sir Henry Parkbs did not impeach him for
degrading and corrupting the Parliament of the country
for his own selfish ends. Sir Henry managed to make
him Chief Justice instead. The reference to Mr. John
Davies is possibly a little out of date. Mr. Davies
no longer says “wo did it ” He is fully engaged in
saying “ I didn’t do it." — Ed. B.
The Ring Trick.
Perhaps the most serious charge yet laid against
Mr. John Davies was that made by Alderman
M'Elhone, when he accused the C.M.G of having
accepted a diamond ring, worth 50 gs., from Messrs.
J. D. Yo UNO and J. M. O’Connell for his services
in securing them the public-house bars within the
Garden Palace during the Exhibition season, and
challenged Mr. Young to deny it if he could.
Mr. J. D. Young, for whom there was a general
call on the part ef his brother-aldermen, said that
in the absence of Mr. Davies, he must reserve
his reply. This succinct remark, coming from the
mouth of the identical alderman who was the means
of bringing the “iron railings” into the light
of day, sounded very ominously to those who
heard it—
" Hoar it not, Davies : for it is a knell
That summons thee to heaven or to hell.”
But, alas! the Pacha of many Tails —or, in other
words, the man with the many additions to his
name—is doomed to hear it —or resign or die.
Nothing but death or resignation can save Aider-
man Davies now from the wrath of his incensed
brethren in the City Council. Has he not run
amuck at them all, like a bull with his head
down, and now the ox-slaying M'Elhone has
put a ring in his nose ? How long that ring
will stop there, depends on the action of
Mr. J. D. Young at the meeting of the Corpora-
tion which takes place to-day. It is in his power
to take it eff, or to rivet it on for ever. To-day’s
meeting, therefore, should bo “big with the
fate of Cato and of Rome.” If this case be
proved, it will go a long way to confirm the charge
in the Bradford scandal. A man who was
capable of accepting a bribe in one particular was
capable of accepting it in any number, oaths and
declarations to the contrary notwithstanding.
• • •
It is well known that Mr. John Davies got his
C.M.G. for his services in connection with the late
Exhibition; but it is only now that the temper-
ance organisations and the public become apprised
of the alleged fact that he also got a valuable
diamond ring for getting two publicans a monopoly
of the drink traffic in the Garden Palace on that
occasion. It is to imagine the look of horror
with which the immaculate leaders of the temper-
ance movement in this city would receive a con-
firmation of the above announcement. Mr. John
Davies has been tor many years the mouth-piece
and the ornament of temperance societies. He
has taken the chair at most of their meetings, and
has championed their cause in Parliament. And
now to hoar that he not only ‘‘touched the
accursed thing” in leaguing himself secretly with
those who sold it to the public, but soiled
his hands with filthy lucre in the glitter-
ing shape <sf a ring ! Bah ! Is this the
Good Templar whom they and their other mouth-
piece, tb r Minister for Justice, placed on the
Licensing Bench of the county of Cumberland ? If
he has sold them in one case, is he to be trusted in
another? The gods, and Holdsworth, Niohol-
son, and Company forbid! This ring business, if
true —and J. D. Young would surely not stand by
without contradicting it.iif it were utterly untrue —
this ring business explains an ambiguous passage
in the C.M.G.’s bellicose speech at Newcastle. On
that occasion he said that the publicans were to
be pitied for their “ ignorance in opposing his ap-
pointment as they were doing, as ho was their
best friend, if they only knew it.” It is a pity that
Messrs. Young and O’Connell did not let them
know it. It might have saved the Bradfords
and Davies much annoyance, and the Govern-
ment a ‘‘ nasty jar ” when the House meets.
• • *
The ring trick would have worked admirablv
in the Licensing Courts if that horrible fel-
low, M'Elhone, had not spoilt it by blabbing.
“Iron railings” in the City Council, and “ dia-
mond rings ’ ’ on the Licensing Bench could work
wonders. Bacon tried presents once, and got
Towered and fined .£40,000 and declared for ever
incapable of holding any office under the Crown —
but Governments now-a-days do not look on these
things with such horror as did our simple fore-
fathers. What we gain in civilization, we lose in
honesty and that fine sense of rectitude which
used to be the pole-star of by-gone worth.
In the midst of Milburn Creek and Day
and Day, and Darling Harbour jobberies
—all tumbling one on top of the other, these latest
“ little games” of ‘‘iron railings,” and ‘‘ diamond
rings,” and “ Coonanbarra grab,” and “ captain’s
oum-mate’s hats,” would lose much of their inter-
est, but for the remarkable character with which
they are connected. The loyal people of New
South Wales do not like to see Her Majesty’s
C.M.G. trailed in the mire, nor the ancient honor
of J.P. degraded, nor the illustrious title of M.P.
humiliated, nor tVe world-renowned prefix of Al-
derman begrimed and made “ The fixed figure for
the time of scorn, to point his slow and moving
finger at.” This is what gives emphasis to the
latest M'Elhonian revelation. People now begin
to perceive the terrible blunder the Government
made in appointing a person like John Davies
to the Licensing Bench. Ten thousand speeches
like G. H. Reid's Masonic Hall address are not
half so damaging as is the “ diamond ring” flash
of light. The Coonanbarra affair sinks out of
sight, and the iron railings pale before it. Even
the wholesale charge of corruption against the
civic fathers is child's play compared to it, for it
is far easier to purify the City Council than our
Courts of Justice, once they get contaminated.
• • •
If nothing else had transpired, this ring busi-
ness would render Mr. Davies unfit to take his
seat on the Bench until he had cleared hia cha-
racter. Ho cannot say as an excuse for not going
to the Supreme Court that whatever an Aider-
man says in the City Council is privileged by
law. It is not so in this case ; for an
alderman is only privileged in what he says as
regards distinctively Corporation matters. But
the Garden Palace ring racket will not come
under this category. If the charge be,unfounded,
Mr. M‘Elhone has exposed himself to an
action for defamation of character ; and it is
utterly impossible for Mr. Davies to retain his
honour and not prosecute his accuser. Mr.
Davies cannot stop now—as in the ‘‘ iron-rail-
ings ” affair, when he flashed hia famous “stamped
receipt,” and his “ four declarations,” each of
which was as true aslthe other. Even if nothing
more crops tip in this diamond-ring matter than
what has already been made public, Mr. Davies
is bound to prosecute Mr. M'Elhone or resign
his position as an alderman. A serious charge
affecting his honour has been made against him,
and whether proved or not, he is now impaled on
the horns of a dilemma, and escape from one or
other he cannot. He must take his choice.
Meanwhile a curious public holds its breath in
suspense.
» • •
It is currently affirmed that daring the interval
which has elapsed since the Council last met, the
most strenuous endeavours have been made to
arrange that the ring and hat charges shall not be 1
farther pressed. Mr. M'Elhone has, we under-
stand, been indirectly approached; and every
influence has been brought to bear upon members
of the Municipal Council to induce them to quash
further enquiry, or to intimidate them from prose-
cuting investigations. It remains to be seen how
far these reports are correct, and in what degree
the intimidation has been effectual. Mr. Davies’
personal indiscretion in threatening that if driven
to bay he would involve all the aldermen, renders
the hashing-up process extremely difficult. The
individual reputation of the aldermen has been
challenged ; and should they collectively shirk the
plain duty which lies before them, nothing on
earth can prevent the public from drawing the
inference that they themselves are conscious of
wrong-doing, and dare not drive Mr. Davies to
extremity lest ho fulfil his threat, and explode
upon his prosecutors and investigators counter
charges which would shatter their own reputa-
tions, as decent men and honourable representa-
tives of the public, into atoms.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tawdry Distinctions.
The theory has been put forward in these columns
that the order of SS. Michael and George—and more
especially the companionship of that order—has been
made the buffer between not merely the high nobility,
but, if such a phrase is allowable, the middle and lower
nobility and parvenus of the colonial dependencies as
well of Great Britain. And the indiscriminate wiy in
which these decorations are distributed confirms onr
surmise; in one case made the reward of long years of
honourable labour as the working head of a great de-
portment of state, and in another case the reward (I)
of a few years’ service of such nature that it must not
be too narrowly scrutinised. Our opinion is confirmed
from a peculiar source, and by no less a person than the
Earl of Beaconsfield. In Mr. Moncurk D. Conway s
“Life of Cahltle ” (XI., page 114) we find the follow-
ing :—“Disraeli's letter to Carlyle was not merely
munificent, offering not only the order (that of Grand
Cross of the Bath), but also that sum of money might bo
desired to support it—but it was expressed with the
finest taste and feeling. The Order was fixed on because
it had been kept more pure than others and ‘since you,
like myself, are childless,’ wrote the Premier, “ the
common baronetcy seemed less appropriate." Carlyle
wrote an equally courteous and noble reply, in declining.
Tennyson, by the way, was offered a decoration (pre-
sumably a similar one) at the same time, which he also
refused. In all probability the three greatest English-
men in their generation—Gladstone the politician,
Carlyle the prophet, and Tennyson the poet—will die
bearing to their graves their splendid renown untarn-
ished by those empty titles which among civilised men
are what cowrie-shells, paint, and tattoo are to savages.
Fancy Sir ThomasJCarltle, Sir Alfred Tennyson, and
Sir William Gladstone I—or,1 —or, still more grotesque,
conceive Mr. John Bribht, C.M.G. 1
The Opening of Parliament.
Thb entire tenor of the proceedings in Parliament, on
its reassembling, point to the conclusion that, despite
the re-organisation of an Opposition, matters will pro-
ceed this session very nearly in the same fashion as
during the last. There is an off-hand “ oare-for-no-
body " flavour about the attitude of the Ministry which
indicates that the preliminary count of noses has
been satisfactory to the Government, and that they
reckon upon being able to “ bluff" all censure and
resistance. They have catalogued, in the Governor's
speech, a list of measures, which, if honestly
carried to completion, would be advantageous
enough in their way. But there is a tone of
airy indifference to all strictures, which affords
evidence that the Government will not feel greatly
concerned although not more than half their pro-
gramme be completed when the session comes to an
end. And at least one of the promised measures is a
sham, on the face of it. The Bill to Consolidate and
Amend the Land-Laws must he a farce, since it must
be so framed as not to hurt the susceptibilities of Sir
John Robertson. It is not mere tinkering up of the
land laws which can really benefit the colony now. The
principle of these laws is radically bad, and what is
needed is a fundamental reversal of policy in this regard.
Mr. Stuart's amendment, although it will meet the
approval of impartial colonists, is not calculated to
arouse any powerful enthusiasm in the country. Had the
loader of the Opposition more boldly grasped the
nettle, and challenged the Government on the laud
policy, a distinct issue, in which every man in the
community feels a strong interest, would have been
raised, and, whatever the result of a first encounter,
an abiding ground for subsequent appeal to the country
would have been prepared. It is evident that the
present Assembly has outlived its usefulness —if it
ever had any—and that nothing is to be hoped from it
except as a mere court of record, to endorse what the
Coalition please to order enact. H m. Members in
Opposition would do well to accept the situation, and
to occupy themselves in educating public feeling in
anticipation of great reforms, growing every day more
necessary.
It would be interesting to have authoritative informa-
tion whether Augustus P. B. Loptus, Esq., A.D.C.,
holds a contract for supplying the colony with the
better class of stationery. The positions of aide-de-
camp to His Excellency, and of paper-dealer, appear
somewhat inconsistent. We make the suggestion be-
cause we are informed that in June last the colonial
storekeeper purchased from Augustus P. B Loptus,
Esq., A.D.C., a parcel of stationery of the most expen-
sive quality—equal in fact to the quality of that fur-
nished to Government House for the use of His Excel-
lency and staff. Mr. Loptus was paid nearly £lOO for
these goods, if we are correctly informed, and it would
be really interesting to learn when Mr. Loptus first
started in the wholesale stationery business, and
whether his transactions with the colonial stores are
conducted on the usual competitive system, the lowest
tenderer getting the business. If not, there will be
fresh interest in ascertaining the name of the strong-
minded official upon whom devolved the duty of checking
Mr. Loftos’s prices. W« would suggest that Mr. John
Davies, C.M.G. be appointed a commissioner to inves-
tigate the transaction. When a Governor’s son and aide-
de-camp is concerned it would be mere ordinary de-
cency to place the matter in the hands of a man of
rank.
*
Intending exhibitors at the proposed Juvenile Indus-
trial Exhibition complain that the right of entree to
attend to their exhibits, usually granted to exhibitors,
is to be withheld in t his instance. Some think it very
rough that they should have to stump-up every time
they want to dust their exhibit. Apprentices and
youthful mechanics don’t usually own a superabund-
ance of cash, especially after spending all they could
scrape together for months to pay for materials or
tools, or cases, to make or embellish their exhibit.
Even a season ticket at half-rates, or a badge entitling
to half-price at all times, would ease matters.
+
The reason stated by Mr. John Davies, C.M.G, as
having induced him to resign his position as a member
of the Licensing Board, is a very comprehensive one.
Mr. Davies allegss that be resigns because “ however
conscientious his motives, his actions on the bench
would be looked upon with suspicion by certain preju-
diced sections of the community.” We take the liberty
of disbelieving that this has been the true reason at
all. If sneh considerations governed Mr. Davies’s
action in one case, they would be equally potent in
others, and Mr. Davies would have simultaneously re-
signed his seat in the Assembly, his position as an
Alderman of the city of Sydney, his place on
the Board of the Rand wick Asylum, and bis Chief-
ship in the Good Templars’ organization. It is notor-
ions that his action in all those capacities, however
conscientious, is “looked upon with suspicion by
certain prejudiced sections of the community.” These
prejudiced sections are so hard set in their notions,
that they even look upon Mr. Davies' alleged reasons
for his recent resignation with suspicion. They do not
hesitate to conclude that he resigned simply to relieve
the Government from an embarrassment which threat-
ened serious consequences on the meeting of Parliament,
and that Mr. Dav ies calculates upon receiving equivalent
recompense for his sacrifice, at the first safe opportunity.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expeact to have their communications noticed .]
“ Champagne It all depends on whether the
bill comes Jew before that date or not " Gilbert and
Burnand”: Thanks, but the story is an old one, and
first appeared, so far as wa know, in one of James
Payn's contributions to the Abods “La Plume":
We have again read your verses and are sorry we can’t
see our way to publish them. Your epigram is exceed-
ingly clever, but not worth JESOOO and costs
“ Hyperion You pntlthe case misleadingly. Yon
forget, that the very same statistics also show that
married men (or boys) aged from 18 to] 20 years
die as fast as men aged from 65 to 70 years
“ Victoria” : We have sent up your communication to
the compositors, who no doubt will glory in
it “Blayney”: We’re not going to advertise
auctions free, nor do wo attach the slightest impor-
tance. to “ illuminated testimonials" presented to bank
clerks “ A Britisher" :;A man may be a true Briton
without being a fool—although you are, perhaps, not
conscious of the fact. Jobs Bright is no alien, there
are certain grand principles which have been the basis
of England’s moral greatness. Every true English-
man mast protest when in the passion of an hour these
are trodden under foot “ West Sydney": Yes, tut
should he get our Postmaster-Generalship, who’ll write
the minutes for him? “A Subscriber" (Cobargo):
Thanks. To describe such a work of art would be im-
possible. To reproduce it would be difficult
" 0.T.8.": Thanks j send us some news “ Barwon":
Yes; should a N.S W. J.P. commit wilful murder he
would probably bo, removed from| the roll of j ustices.
We don’t know whether forgery or horse-stealing
would be regarded as disqualifying him “ New-
castle" : A weekly paper is not literally a journal. The
derivation of the word “journal" implies “daily."
“Tamworth”: Thanks...“ A S.”: Of course we couldn’t
put it straight...“ Jumbo": Very good matter, indeed...
“J.B J.": (1) Sir Garnet Wolseley is an Irishman; (2)
Mr. Frederick Wolsaley, his brother, is a N S.W.
squatter “E.C.G.": Your versification is extremely
good, but the fact that a suggestion prosaic in detail
winds up what has otherwise a poetic ring, causes us
to spare “carping critics” the pleasure of seeiag your
stanzas in print “ P.J.”: There are plenty of “ in-
curable" cancer-coses in Sydney, and if your friend has
a specific the profession will no doubt gladly let him
try 1t..,...8.H.J.": Will decide for next issue. Many
thanks for your suggestions, which wo shall carry into
efleot shortly “John": Wo cannot say whether
Qitfen is a native of South Australia, but he is cer-
tainly an Australian orickeler. He did not come out
with the English team. Both he and his brother have
teen playing in Adelaide for years “ Federal": We
have rehashed them somewhat “Jumbo": The
route pursued by Parkes on his progress through
Sydney on his arrival is of too great State
importance for this flippant journal to touch
“ Bobby" : Thanks. The tale was originally published
in the Boston Transcript “H.W." : Next week,
~....“ A Sympathiser": Will see about it “J. J.
Manning" : Perhaps so, bub Cromwell never sneaked
through the Insolvency Court under such oircum-
stance* " Stray Leaves!" Many thanks “ E. C.
G.": Deal with it in the local paper. We have no
means of verifying your account of such practices
“C.SB" (Grafton): We quote Sir Henry Parkes:
“ Live it down. It you live long enough, you can Jive
anything down." “ Header": Oredat Judaeus Apella,
literally, “lot Apella, the Jew, believe it," is a classical
equivalent to our colloquial “ tell that to the marines."
rith) ; Might suit a local paper; scarcely in our line
“ W.L.": Apart from faulty rhyme and rhythm, it’s
poor " Bobby" (Walbundry) : Te-ms of subscription
on page 16. Some items used “X. K.Z." : Look at it
next week “ L.A.F." : Good ; this week or next
“Baldy”: Won't do “Stumpy": Too petty
“D.DJ. ": We can’t help publishing them. In this
country, when a man’s rich he’s a swell. There are all
sorts of people among our nobility. You meet your
baker at Government House, and why not ?
With characteristic pcnerosity, Mr. Fitzwilliam
Wentworth has given £125 to the Kendall memorial
fund —£100 to the poet's widow and children, and £25
towards InstUuting an annual prize medal at the Uni-
versity.
There|aro now two bellmen at Wagga ; and such
is the unsettled condition of things that it is daliy
expected blood will flow. When one crier gets a job to
ring the sale of some second-hand slabs and old kerosene-
tins, the other one places himself in bis immediate
vicinity and yowls out the latest war news. Let the old-
established ringer start out to announce a stupendous
attraction at the theatre, when his progress will be
immediately impeded by his rival, who is furiously
announcing that there is no performance. Five times
in three weeks have the bells of both performers been
stolen and planted, and it was only the other day that
the portable earthquake of the new man was “ got at ”
during his dinner-hoar, and when he attempted to ring
a butcher’s hand-bell in the main street, the tongue of
his instrument shot out with a force and precisioa’that
no amount of practice could accomplish, and went bang
►through the plate-glass shop-front of the principal
jeweller. Each bellman having his adherents, party-
feeling runs very strong, and the Mayor is at present
undecided whether to iron-olad the town-clerk or call
out the military.


T
TE.ADB jfc&MA
THE C REA"
ONE OF THE WORLD’
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kit
a representative of one of the
the United States, Mr. Edward Tri
oarsman, who is at present open to
viva fV» a fnllAnrino na Vila nnl
ESTABLISHED 1
-.OWLEE’S P<
X AND
BEICK WOEK
nAMPEBDOWN, NBA
Price List on applioa
EUEEKA
moke
THE PARAGON OP PER
FINER THAN THE I
THE tobacco op
destined TO ECLIPSE ANI
ALL OTHER BRA*
THE ONLY TOBACCO COMBINE
OF QUALITY WITH ECONO]
Each Pint; is stamped with the wc
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOB
Take no other.
MANUFACTURE
SAYWELL’S TOBACCO C
AT THE EAGLE 'W
KENT AND CLARENCE
And can be obtained wholesale at i
Park-street, Sydnc
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be
as soon as its merits beoon
EUREKA TOBAC(
Registered according to Act of Pal
the public against spurious and wo
~MADDOCA’S SELECT
381 GEORGE STR£
rftHlS Library is supplied regain
| Steamer with the latest Publ
Travel, Biography, Philosophy, Poi
trL© higher class of Fiction j also* al
zines and Reviews.
To parties resiling near Railway
munioation with Sydney, every faoi.
THU HAHWO
FIBRE CHAIR SI
Possessing all the qualities of a ]
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beau
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made
known fibres and a perfectly
and after fifteen years' constant
positively! as to its merits. It on:
neither will exposure to sun or rain
Awarded Gold Medal at the la !
Massachusetts Charitable Mechani
FOR RE-SEATING, it is un
house, store, and office, are Chairs
Any person can re-seat and ma
a chair that is otherwise worthloi
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE F
AGENTS WANTED IN EVE
From £3 to £5 a week can be mac
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS &
GENERAL AGENTS FOR
■
tr.
T
VIBTUTIS GLORIA MERGE
COALCLIFF O
[HIS NEWEST and NEAREST OOAIj MINE to ST DNEY auppli
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET, delivered with:
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and fears kept well free
and cleaner fire thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky 1
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desk
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a ohar-. o
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome futnos given i
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLES.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W
ALLAN A. MARSHAL:
BON-ACCORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE PLA(
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS,
DIVING GEAR, &o.
PUMPS, HELMETS.
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,:
STOCKINGS. BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &o.
THE
WINDO
THE
MOST I
FASTE
Proves ts all
the windo
No weights,
Celebrated", CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Soles, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS & SPECIAL
Established
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
"VHTHEN building use CALLENDER and SuNS' Pure Bituir
W ° MODE EEmCOTTVE than S
PERRIER'S BAKING BuWDER,
MANUFACTORY:
Gbobgb-strbbt West, Stdnbt.
SELF BAILING FLOUR
YEAST POWDER.
I" Established 30 Yeai
H °D
GSON’B WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Qoulburn-stree
S. H O D a s <
■Wholesale and Rata
WHIP THONG MANUPACT
Every Description of Kangaroo and G
Made to Order.
lOßfiuauE
l-J—J
sssss-


Chemist* and Druggists
J ABRAHAM’S PILLS
• Pegßtersd.
(DANDELION).
THE GREAT LIVER RRMBDY,
*Vo
ST
$
$/6
f/3
\0
S/4
CAUTION.—Owing' to the immeow sale that my
Fills have commanded, it has induced dishonest and
dangerous imitations. Ask for
J. 8. ABRAHAM'S PILLS
and ere that eneh box, by whomsoever sold, bears the
inventor’s name and trade mark.
"NOUGH WHILE YOU CAN I Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Indus, you will not do able to cough. Price Is, at
T ASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
wucVa TtotaL
rfftCKLE TOUR APPETITE with the Ana-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
;v:1?
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY-BTREET, SYDNEY,
F ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
i and Brits Pounders, Cfppessraitbs, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine nnd Stationary
Engines, Hrnlefs, Rtd Girder Work, Quartz- crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep-wishing, Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other description:, of Machinery, wiln latest improve-
ments.
NJi —Castings executed with despatch, and best
pride given for metal.
J
OHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, *O.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
George la
(Formerly of George-street,)
IMPORTER OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that he has RE COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
GROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS!
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Sold In bottles, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee.
Charles Cross, M.P.S. Viot.; M.H P.3.,Qt.8.»
GAWLEE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents i
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNG A CO.
iiiraii
LITER COMPLAINT positively cured b>- MOULTON'S
BRUIT PILLS. Wo mean cured, not merely iclieved, and
wo can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments, MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also etne
irt BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DVS-
jrisPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
R«nrty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
spin Mate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
'vilS BLOOD. The Cheapest and test Family Medicine
toown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract «f Fruit j.
They arc as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill ta be.
hold Everywhere, Price In. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
4ILLS
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
One Ounce of Fact is Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
As is usual, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest Possible Awards.
SINGER’S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zeeland Exhibition. 1838—Singer’s Sewing
Machines.
PlfcST ORDER OF MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS
Public Companies
rpn
E AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. hie serve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors s
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. handle.
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Eedferm,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office : 18 King William-street, E.C,
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Balllna, Balrauald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, CassiUs, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Ooouamble, Copeland North, Cowra, DeuiTisuln,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goal burn, Grafton, Gam-
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill find, nillston, luverefl,
Kempsey, L&mbtoi]» Macleay, Menindi©, Me>i jug,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandero, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, ftockley, llylstoue, single -
ton, South Grafton, 'femora, Tenterfleld, Ulmauo,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wiloannia, Woodbnm, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND,
Brisbane, Alloro, Bowen, Charters Towers, Cloi ment,
Gladstone, Oymnio, Ipswich, Mookay, Mary bon mu b,
K«*euswoul, Iv./rtthamptoa, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
T • wueville, Warwioh.
Agents in all the Australian Oslontes and throughout
the World generally.
| UB ,r KKCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY,
i ESTABLISHED 1869.
incur Purated BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT. 187
Paid-up Capita 1..,.,,.,,,,,., £300,00*
Reserve Fund...... £120,000
DIRECTORS i
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon B«nry Mort, M.L.C,
George S. Caird, Est;,
Hon. Wnj, Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Giddsy King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
’as. Soroggie, Esq
H. E. Co ben, Em,;,
MANACER s
F. A, A W lit on.
BRANCHES:
587 George-strett brickfield Hill Redforn;
Uirilambone; Go«ford ; and NjUgan.
LONDON BANKEES:
The Nat lot al Provincial Bunk ol England.
Loudon 1 >ffloe : 15•* I.endouhall-str> et.
Director: Ldward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: Q H. At x.mdor, Esq.
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the ino.l favourable leims.
wills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
r. J. POixLE’S
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A large and well assorted stock cf Tweeds and CoaMngs
direct from the Manufacturer*, always on band.
All Garments Cut n the Most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT QUAEANTEED.
Note the Address—
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMAAKBT,
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to announce that they have
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOOES and HALLS.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
ail
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, Ivom £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, moat Popular Music in Stock,
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, BYDNKY.
Bnsiuftca Announcements
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY,
WJI, JAMESON & GO’S DUBLIN WHISKY Ta
UNSURPASSED
T >'s bottled in bond for Export at the Distill,.
Dublin, and oon-uners mat, therefore, relv (TI
it has not teen in the hands of “ Whisky Doctor «
When jouark it, «e that yon got it, look fortk
trade maik I in diamond on label, cork, and oap.ai* *
DALY BROTHERS.
Sole A*enl6 for N.H.W. and Queensland.
‘OLD MATURED’ SCOTCH WHISKY
“ Af> we Diihk it in Scotland."
THDM AND CAMERON,
GLASGOW.
To those who npprecia o a ellow OLD SGOTCIT
WUrSK y as they drink it at hume,” this spirit win
bo a welcome boon.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for NSW. and Queensland,
Importers ol IRI«H and SCOTCH WHISKIES and
G ni ral Mer chan dice.
SOu GEORGE STREET.
WINE, BODEGA.
MORT’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W H.
Paling and Co.’s,
Choicest Wines, hr the K i, Bg orbot'le.may behadat
the u (toga. H ■>!. Spiced Wines during Winter.
Open fr ni 9 a.m. til! 6 p m.
Similar wine - , by the d or.™ or in bulk, can ho ordered
at tlie B dog i, at Cellars adj ining, or from H.ad
Cedars, 119 Pi t-stie« t.
READ THIS ?!
THF B AKING' rovy nE R
BY US-ANtf KNOWN
A ' DOC ■on . v , tv> ,
''■HAS A VVIDL TOR
HXUI,’LLi£MM|unLITY
AN LI THE CHEM^al®# o l MU
SYDNEY iNTERN^Ip^HIGIIION'
,H AVI RL AM Y :
BiTV \THi:WORLD
BV; AVif'Av; D rJ'&tC-b , O’s'-iu M E
O N h\: ;:PRIZE* ME D AL
GIVEN IN VHE BAKING POWDER .SECTION
rOR FI R ST DEGREE OF MERIT
<M)i nKVK.Ti WHERE !i\i ..JACKETS
OR SQUAR:fe'I iN §£ ’ '
MANUFACTORY QUEF.NS PLACE
So COY.
w
ILLCOX
MANGLES
WASHING
and
GIBBS
MACHINES,
CHUENB,
Automatic
Oorn-sheUers,
81 ent
TOBACCO
SEWING
CUTTERS,
MACHINE
WaIiTO
Wood,
*o., *o., *O.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10a
hebblewhite,
16 GEORGE STREET.
CO
F.T.
STmEBTYP
-AND- A
a:
Foniiao
ANl>
cJVVJ
/ pRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilt n St., Hunter St.,
'llM »t 70 LITTLX COLLINS STBIXT, KLBOOSN*
THOMAS W< ARNE,
ENGINEER A IRC., t OUNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
HU KGLAB
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOOBdi.
Works« SUSSEX STREET. * GUIDE FOUND® 1,
Office and SHOW ROOMS. 220 PITT STREET.
GIRDERS,
stoves,
COLONIAL
OVENS
DEED
BOIES
To Country or Intorcolouial Jonruall
A GENTLEMAN, educated,
liable, is willing to supply city corre.
Adtlress, “Mecum,” Bulletin Office.
SECTION TiI—SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Manufacturing Company —For their
oeHeotlon of ManufaeVuriag Machine*, a first
order ff merit—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For the Best
Family Sewing Machine, rnolading variety of
work, nroellenee of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of oonsbrnotiou and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For work
executed on Manufactuiiug Machine*.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Wompanr.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work rxsomet
on Family Seeing Machines —Silver Medal.
READ THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWARDS.
Kuy Terms. Weekly 2.6 1 Weekly. Easy Terms.
No Interest. No Addition to the fiioe. No Interest.
Chief Depot In Hew Booth Wales:
No. 1 DARLING STORK*. HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY.
Local Depots t
Bathurst, Willium-slreot
Balrauald,
Dubbo,
Oonlburn, Anbnrn-street
Grafton, Viutoria.gtreet
(31 en tones, Grey-street
Hay, Luohlln-streefc
Ketopsey, Smith-street
Lismoro, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mad gee, Lewis-street
Mas* Vale,
Naramlcra,
Newoa tie, ITnoter-stroot
Parramatta. Cuuroh-st
Sydney, The Sydney
Arcade, George-
Stmt.
Tamworth, Peei-»treet
Wagga, Bayliss-street.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS
and
SAMPLES OF WORK
Free rom any Depot.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ABE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OB THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS t
2a. od. per week —2s. od. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And wo interest charged.
10 per sent, off (or cash.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE SINGER"—
TURNER A COMPANY,
353 Qeorgo-street.
THE ONLY « SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT
HATMARKET.
<&>
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE. ,
New Davit. /
HOWE. / *
N v
T
'b
V
V
O' / ' Th *
A- / / üßh.u B h.
Ac.. Ac. / / Running
/STANDARD.
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Machines.
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath is the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and bone, can be affected
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, Ac., and rids the
system of all impurities; oven mercury is taken oat of
the body.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. M O 0 E E,
Homceopathist,
151 Eli tabu th-street, Sydney.
The effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a burn or soeMin
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
certificates of merit from th« managers of all tbe
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
etttative effect on lung complaint's, when nabbed into
the ohe-t. Every Householder should heap a pot.
There should be a pi t kept in every hence, oven if
the house is empty, it willflo for tho next tenant.
Bold Ly all Chemists and iteroi, ki poke. Is. and 2s. 6d.
saoh.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER,


HOWARD SMITH
S'iRUTH’S WHARF and N
(Foot of Kiug-strei
Offices : 7 SPKING S
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and PE
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
EOCKHAMPTL
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
PATENT PORTABLE 6J)
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, SI
COMPi
P G
ISSUED A J
BE
TEA
TRADE MARK B
The Company is now prepared
suitable for Houfes, Mines, Stores,
quire no trimming, sfford a briHia
coal gas or kerosene, at lees cost, a
the hand.
Samples may be seen, hi d lamps
at the Company's Show Kooms St<
Price lists, Ac , on application to S
A.
CHARLES TWEMLOW-desi
friends and the public that h
centrally-situated premises, next t
entrance Of the Sydney Arcade, wl
and specially selected stock of J
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical 1
fully Invites an early visit, which
goods, which are all marked in plait
moderate In price and of the best qi
An experienced staff of werkmei
Presentation and other jewellery m
Wat shea accurately repaired, a
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmi
E W P R E_
MR. J. CALL/!
CONFEC lONEE ANE
so favourably known to the General
Aldermen of various munlcipalitii
bodies, has REMOVED to his K
SHOP, No. fIOT k 712 GEORGE STI
th» corner of OonlVurn-street, who
to see his eld customers, and to whe
tpr their liberal support, and ho pi
There is a private room and la'
requisite ranch needed in Sydney, a
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS.
ALDERMEN 6 DINN
WEDDING BREAKF
MINISTERIAL BAM
got up in First-olaes Style.
A Visit vs request
FURNITURE!
fu:
MAKE YOUE HOMES C(
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOU
BEFORE commencing the serin
nisbing a Now Honee or a<idi
your present Home, you will do we
WILLIAMSON, M'CRE
who will furnish house
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Pr. Kenwick declines a C.M G.-ship and wants
a Knighthood.
Thompson, a Christchurch solicitor, has done
the Pacific slope with i 30,000.
As Darwin died worth .£150,000 it’s evident he
devoted attention to the origin of tho specie.
Thewifeof Samuel Plitnsoll, M.P., “the Sailor’s
■Friend ” has died at Brisbane, where she arrived some
months ago for the bemfib rf her health. Her funeral
was very numerouily attended.
Two ladles in waiting at the Supreme Court:
First lad t-witness: “What are you going to say,
dear?” Second L.W. : “Don’t know until I hear
what yon are going to swear, love.” Itnocent crea-
tures 1 Fact.
“Insensibly drunk, was he?’’ said the J.P. to
the arresting constables “and what did jcu do to
arouse him, policeman ?” “ I searched his pockets,
sorr,” was the ready reply. Recommended for imme-
diate promotion.
By the way, The Rbfbree partly belongs to
Ashton Di'ke, HP., " Bradlaavh’n Baby" as fa* is
called. He also owns the Weekly Dispatch and the
Examiner. It has been suggested that his brother
Charley should wear him on hie watch-chain—he is so
small.
The Hon. Lordßuthven is insolvent. Liabilities,
£4000; assets, nil. His Lordship got a bow with his
certificate. And he drove away in a phaeton drawn by
a pair of £5OO horses. That’s the way they do things
in Basinghall-street. ‘ Now, if a pore man "—but wo
leave the nst to il'Ulhcne.
At the irgue Club, London, there has been
some giddy eport. A member, who is am ex paymaster
iu the army, ohamgee cb.ques for members l>r twe per
cent. pec transaction. Oua evening, however, he refused
to cash the paper of one of the members lor a small
amount. Thie gentleman then went up to the nrurer’e
room, caught him by the scruff of the neck, and
pitched him'down stairs. On this, the ex p.-ymastor
pickrd himself up, and quickly changed—his resi-
dence.
Carlyle, in his “ Tour through Ireland ” (1849),
gaya At Galway I met a burly, thiok necked, sharp-
eyed man, who was a newspaper editor, and acted as
my guide ’* The vigour and shrewdness of the editor’s
conversation made a great impression on the fastidious
Thomas, but there is nothing surprising in this, as the
«. burly man ” was no other ih. in the late Edward Butler,
one of the ablest Attorneys-General Australia ever
saw, although for some reason Partes suddenly failed
to see it.
The London Figaro, once so lively, has, since
the retirement of Mr. Mortimer, become inexpressibly
dull All the pars, are written in the first person, and
the man who perpetrates them tells you how he dined
at his club, in a s'yle that is nearly (not quite: that
would be impossible!) »• dull aa that of the feeble
rreatutes on the Whitehall Review—the enlightened
organ suppos.d to be subsidised hy Henniker. Evi-
dently tha influence of »n eminent Queen’* Counsel Is
"'ready noticeable. “ Wholesome fun.”
©n the 27th in*t., a big mining action will be
tried at Charters Towers. Plaintiff, a resident of
Thorntorough, well known thronmont Northern
Queenr limd. alleges that the defendani • (three realdemt*
of Charters Towr re) conspired together to wrongfully
depiive him of hie interest in a Toworo mining losso-
held which he declares la now worth JlB,(>eo. Me
pray* to have the r-terest r* stored, and claims £5OOO
damages for the wrong «ha» be alleges ha* been done to
him. Mr. Horace To*' r, the eminent mining lawyer
of Gympie, has toon retained Kr the defence.
It is not generally known, but it is nevertheless
a fact, that Archibald Forbes favours the nse of the
"oat” in the army a» a discipline etifoicer. It seems
Archie has been “thtr* himself. ’ When hr first joined
ha was such a •‘rantin’ to- in’ ladd>o” tfcat. he Had to
be “carpeted,” or brought heroic hie tuperior twice.
On the last occasion the warrior in otiarga of the
"foorce" plainly observed: “ Forli«, you are now
reduced to the ranis, and iherefv re liable to be flogged
for the next offa oe, and if you come h'-n again, by
q I’ll flog yon.” From that moment thorn wae no*
a single report ever made against tha hero of tha pen
ant sword.
Two vile snobs who went to the Japaneee
Officers’ Ball at Hobart— and these Japanese officers,
let us say, are peifect gentleman—had the abomluab y
bid teste to indulge in some Ins lent rtmirks regarding
their generous entertainers “ I wonder what the race
sprang from? * aaid Snob No. Ito Snob No 2 1 Oh,
aw—from a monkey and a Hackman, ’’ leplied Snob
No. 2, “ S r," said a determined voice, sneaking in
very goed biobeu Engii-jb, and tapping him on the
shoulnor, “Sir, your boat is ready for you,” and,
pointing to tbt gangway, a Japanese ifflcer, whohad
overheard the conversation, with great dignity “taw
him eff the pren ises ”
At the time of the trial of poor martyred Queen
Caroline (this isn’t generally known) it was lound
desirable to get one or two very awaward witnesses
“out of the way” One of them, n Hanoverian
officer (a Major d« Qillernj, was given a grant of land in
Tad man a, tben Van Land, and shuffled on
with all speed. D v Gillern was afterwards Serjeant-at-
Arms of the Parliament, and died many years ago.
Another gentleman, with a French name, was one of
the specially selected few* and his sons now own vast
possessions in Victoria. Poor Queen Caroline, she wm
claim those witnesses yet. Oh England, England, tow
about Magna Charta and all the rest of it after that r
Hanley Bennett, who once hoped to become
Premier, has accepted a position as signalman on the
Great Northern line. “Wrecker” says that “Hanley
once managed to dodge into the Viceregal dining-
room, and, * laying back his ears,* lie evidently meant
to have a good square feed. To his surprise, however,
the lackey took his plate away twice before he had
devoured all its contents. Hanley was at a ofl * to
understand this (to him) unusual proceeding, and, when
his third plate had been removed, he convulsed his
Excellency and the other guests by exclaiming to the
butler, ‘ D your impudence llf you touch my plate
again afore I’m done, I’ll chop your d Angers off.
The Marquis of Hastings is dead. So we can
fit this onto Dim without t> ai of consequences. W hoa-
ever he attended Court (which was seldom) he always
went a bit “squiffy,” and, on one occasion—that Ota
Court ball—while wandering about the rooms, he sud-
denly came upon the Royal party. Then, seizing the
Queen by the hand, he cried, with the utmost ooiifiom-
mte: “Mow do —I know your face; but, ’pon my hie,
I can’t remember your name.” It any people
enough to cavil at this anecdote, and say it wasn c the
Marquis of Hastings at all who said the above, but
somebody else, why let them. There’s one thing we
can triumphantly swear—it wasn’t Gaorge Barrington.
No, George. Slumber softly in thy sepulchre. We
will spare thee at least this outrage.
Dr. William Hoar, of Maidstone, cetat 60,
recently proved himself to be a giddy oid boy. He
attended a yonng married lady, and has recently, by
order of the Divorce Court, had to pay tha lady’s
hubby 500 guineas. Dr. H. paid the money cheerfully,
for he is very rich, and furthermore built a splendid
mansion for the respondent; but his happiness is not
complete yet' She wanders about the house all day,
like Dampier used to do about the stage at Right,
shrieking—“ My cheild Imy ohae-ild !" Dr. Hoar now
says that if he has many more patients of this class
he shall begin seriously to think of giving up attend'ng
ladies altogether. If you want to read any more on
such subjects, just look up the Beltris v. Hora case, as
stated ia the S.M. Herald’S Melbourne letter last
week.
Thus last Monday’s Evening News “ The
Melbourne Age with characteristic courtesy, chose
tha morniag of Sir Henry Pukes’ arrival ke inform him
‘ that he is the biggest bladder lett unpticked on the
face of the planet." ’ It may perhaps have escaped the
recollection of the Pitt-etreet people that with
“characteristic courtesy" the Nbws improved Sir
Henry's absence by stating that his mouth reminded
one more of “ a tomahawk gash in a bladder ot lard”
than of anything else. The News' simile may have
been more complimentary than that of the ( Age It
may perhaps console a politician to find that though
the jealous Victorians think his skull a mere store-
house for wind, there is in his own country a daily
newspaper which believes that his cranium is full of
hog’s-fat, and, inferentially, that he uses his brains to
grease his tongue. However, sunk distinctions are, to
say the least ot them, rather fine-drawn.
The other day it was stated in the papers that
E. C. Archbishop Qoold, of Melbourne, was to be charged
with per jory. The grounds of this accusation were not
clearly set forth, but it now appears that the complain-
ant was a man named O’Farrell, formerly the Arch-
bishop's solicitor, who c aimed certain bequests left by
his (O’Farrell’s) father to Melbourne charities 20 years
ago. ©’Farrell having failel in his application for a
warrant for peijary against Dr. Qoold, went to the
Archbishop’s residence, Brighton, on Monday, aa4
asked for the prelate, but was told ho was out. Pre-
sents the Archbishop returned in company with Eev.
Mr. Dily. They were acoosiel by O'Farrell, who knelt
down as it to ask the Archbishop’s blessing. Ho men-
tioned the law case, but Archbishop Qoold motioned
him away. O'Farrell then followed his Grace and
Father Daly up the street, and when distant six feet
from them fired a revolver at the Archbishop. The
shot, took no effect, and as his Grace turned round,
O'Farrell fired another shot, this time with more ac-
curacy, wounding Archbishop Qoold on thafgreflnger
and thumb of the right hand O Farrell thetWied Into
a paddock in which there was a quantity of ti-tr>e
•oiub, but was ultimately capture - *. Ho is a
brother ef the man who w»s hanged for the attempted
murder of H R.H. hrince Alfred, end this present affair
taken in eo' junction with the evidence addnoed at the
trial of H. J. O’Farrell, end with the fact that another
brother attempted, while confined in Sing-Sing ptiron,
to kill a warder, points almost irresistibly to the oonolu-
sion that the O'Farrell executed here was in reality a
maniac and not responsible for hit aote.
One of the most magnificent entertainments of
tho London season was that of Sir Samuel and Lcdy
Wilson, in Grosvenor Square. The noble reception
rooms were ;hung with brocaded satin, and glittered
with glass and gold : candelabra with innumerable wtx
lights swung on long gilt chains in the perfumed sir :
and tha wide hall and stalrca.n were transformed into
n grove ef palm*, thioueh whieh the dietiugnhhed
gueeta walked between rente of liveried servant* up to
the gesgeons drawing-rooms. A tent had been built en
tho baleeny whieh was a marvel of fairy beauty. The
walls and ceiling were of pink silk and fluted net, set
with mirrors, as* stand* wore loaded with the rarest
aos-es, stephanotis and rich red roses. The costly
orchids were talked of for days. While the bantground
represented a tropical forest, with its vistas of plants
and palms, on either s da the tent opened out into great
sea caverns, filled with algoe, marine vegetation, pools
of crystal water and sea flowers. Tho celebrated Hun-
garian band made mndo through it all. Tempera
mutantur / When Sir Samuel mopped the salt sw«at
from his eyes with a spotted handkerchief, at chock
and log fencing he couldn’t have thought of this sort
ot thing. It isn’t likely, while grunting over the heavy
end of a log on Wimmera Plains, that he anticipated
standing at the head ot those noble stairs, while the
groom of the chambers annonncid the dnkos and peers
who passed in at his doors. There doesn’t seem any
connection between the Hungary Band of musicians
and the hungry band of sundowners at Lengetenong
and Yanko—bnt there is: one paid for the other,
It’s all very curious. Sir Samuel must sometimes
wonder whether he wakes or dreams. Altogether the
magnificent evening must have run into hundreds of
bales.
District Court Judge Helv, of Queensland, re-
cently burst a blood-vessel' while on circuit at Charters
Towers. We hope bis Honer will get over I he accident.
Hely is a really good »ort. Sixteen or seventeen years
ago, when pastoral affairs In Qaeenelaad were in a con-
dition of collapse, there waa a «r. Hely down from the
buck wa’klnr about Qoeen-etrect. Brisbane, rather
daapondeut. and sot very clear in hie mind what was to
bicoßte ef him. " Sup r“-ing was at an enl. seemingly
for over. Brimass and Sydney were swrrmmg with
•x snpsrr, froze* out i* oonseqnenoe of bank-fote-
oloenros o* old stations, and absolute abandonment of
new ones. But Mr. Hely wae a University man, and
had taken his B.A degree befere coming out to Aus-
tralia. He noticed that while everybody else was
ruiuvd, and trying to disentangle their affairs, ail
ravelled by the sudden cessation of evtry sort of enter-
prise. she lawrers were, as is usual in such circum-
stances, as brisk as tho devil in a gale of wind, and
coining money. To him as a graduate, tho examination
for the Bar waa robbed of ha'f its terrors. He had only
to the legal oxaminatloß. He determined to do
it, and set himself hard at reading up. It was a tight
pinch to exist, bnt he managed it, and duly passed at
the first possible moment. Mr. Hely’s first case was
at the Ipswich session*. He was very nervous, and
didn’t—sooth to say—cut a resplendent dash. But he
had a genial temperament and perseverance. He made
friends, and kept them when made. And he stuck to
his professional work, so that he In course of time made
np in sound knowledge of law for be laokwl In
rhetorical dash j and when appointed a DisMrlot Court
J idge, be was better placed than as a Crown Prosecutor
or practising counsel. As a judge, a man is not re-
quired to sparkle But he must bs sound New Holy
never was a sparkler, but on the Bench he is as sound
as a roach, and we trust tkat repairs will make him
physically ditto, vtry speedily.
Mr. W. H. Groom, M.L.A. of-Queensland, has
been receiving congratulations on having completed 20
years’ continuous servija as representative of Too-
woomba in the Legislative Assembly. Mr. Groom is a
man who possesses, in a minor degreee, the sorb of
ability which secures political prominence to Sir Henry
Paries and Mr. John Davies. He is an expert at the
minor political arts, always supple, and sometimes for-
midable. He knows exactly how to give his vote the
maximum of value, and his plan may be understood by
the situation of the seat he habitually occupies in the
House—a corner of the cross-benches. At critical
periods, when the fate of a ministry has depended on
one vote, it has more than once happened that the vote
which was latest doubtful has been Mr. Groom’s. He
is thus always an object of solicitude on the part of
political leaders, and manages in that way to wield—
taking one time with another—a very considerable
amount of influence, which his intimate acquaintance
with all parliamentary procedures helps to strengthen,
Mr. Groom is no gabbler. He never speaks for the sake
of hearing bis own voice; but waits till he really has
something to sav ; and as he has a ready and smooth
delivery his utterances rarely fail to be listened to
with attention. He is enormously ambitions, and
intrigued, when tho present Ministry was in course of
formation, for a portfolio, but hitherto no Ministry has
ventured to take him in. Mr. Groom is a very old in-
habitant of Australia, and his experiences would make
an interesting volume During the earlier part of his
career he waa intimately associated with the founders
of some of the wealthiest and most fashionable families
of Sydney. A year or two ago, on the death of an old
member of the Assembly, Mr. Groom took.to himself
the title of tho Father ot the House, whereupon a
young member, who had seen Charles Matthews in the
English adaptation of Dumas fils’ farce, “ Un pere
Prodigue.” ejaculated tho English name of the piece,
to wit, “ Our Awful Dad I”
The leaders of the Temperance party have
offered no remonstrance to the chaff indulged in by the
Premier when, while saying that temperance was a first-
rate thing and so on, “ the grand old man told them
they must really not object to his taking a glass of
champagne. The crowd which assembled at th , station
was a rather ungallant one, for they didn t r Use a single
cheer for Miss Parkes, and they were so far wantiig in
proper reverence for constituted authority—wo don t
say, ot course, how constituted —that they set-op a
hoot for Henry’s jackal, who was, of course, in attend-
ance. If the six old erysipelas selectors had entered
the Premier’s drag at Red fern, after the fashion of the
beasts filing into the ark, they could not have attra ted
less notice than did Sir Henry’s six colleagues when
they took their seats. Half-a-dozen carpet-sags slung
into the vehicle would have attracted just as much
attention. Che Parkes reception demonstration was a
gigantic failure, if success in a matter of that sort is to
Be measured by the amount of real-not aloohoUo-
enthusiasm displayed. A stranger would have thought
that few hut the Premier’s enemies attended it. The
crowd was cold and undemonstrative— merely curious.
Excepting from the CivU servants, members of secret
societies, and the banquet tioket-holders around the
dais, the cheering was faint and indistinct. This was
especially noticeable as the drag drove off. The only
flags seen In the city were those trodden under foofe-
thf flagstones. The daily papers say »?thteg of aU
this. The most extraordinary feature of this faked
ovation was the Mayor of Sydney, in all the
tawdrinoss of his official robes, alone and unattended,
like a head without a trunk. Heaven alone knows
where the aldermen were—they were probably lion-
sick. The bitterest satire on the whole proceedings is
1 that more than one of those who lifted up their voices
[ in praise of the Premier at the banquet, were men who
had made money by methods which would not have
been feasible under any other condition of public
affairs than that which has been indirectly fostered by
the influence and example of Sir Henry Parses. And at
the tables there were Government hangers-on and pro-
fessional land-jobbers galore. Men of substance and in-
dependence, without axes to grind at the Government
stone and the country’s expense, were conspicuous by
their absence. It is almost sufficient to give a stamp to
the affair that amongst the prime movers in it were
fellows who have been insolvent over and over again,
and who wouldn't be trusted for a red cent, by their
best friends, a quack doctor, a publican, who having
made his pile out of a five cent, whisky.mill, now
wants to be high-toned and amongst the nobility
and so on. The banquet wasn’t a bit bigger
success than the Parkes procession, con si sting
of twenty larrikins and a drunken old woman,
which left Bedfern after the Premier and proceeded
down Qeorge-street. The station reception, banquet
and all, was one of the most whipped-up affairs in the
history of slavering and kmfe-and-forkfsm. Only the
other day, Triokett had a welcome which, compared
with that accorded to the much-travelled hero of the
paper boats, was os the repott of an 81 ton gun to that
of a pea-shooter.
• • •
The value of the estate of the lato Mr- Robert
Ramsay, M.L A , in Victoria, was sworn at ln
N.B.W* at £lO,OOO Mr. Francis Ormond, M.L.O. of
Victoria, says he can live “os the interest of his
interest ” A hearty fox-hnnting English squire, Mr.
Francis Arkwright, will shortly take up his residence
in New Zealand ou an estate he has purchased. It is
an interesting ooineidenee that hie country seat,
Overton Hall, in Derbyshire, England, now to be
sold, was the residence of Sir Joseph Banks
after his antipodal tour with Captain Coot-.-..
Lord Abbot Aloook, 0.8.8., died at Auckland, N.Z,
from ibflammstion of the lungs, aged 51. He was in
Sydney and Melbourne some weeks ago »or the benent
of his health. Captain Johnstone, residing in an
Auckland country district, shot himself through the
heart, writing his ewn obituary before doing so. Cause
unknown. His wife Is a daughter of Major Speedy, ef
Abyssinian fame Mr. Twopeny has put £15)0 into
th" Christchurch (N.Z.) Txlbsrapm (evening paper),
and has assumed the editorship. Joubert, who arrived
in Sydney by the Hero, goes to Calcutta for the purpose
of starting another Exhibition Mr. C. Croaker, who
made himself popular as the manager of the Bank of
N.S W , Wagga, was testimonialised to the extent of 215
sovereigns on Thursday night... The Master’s sertifioate
of Capt. Broomfield, of Sydney, is one of the oldest in the
world. It stands No. 22 on the register at Lloyd’s, and
the former holders of the fir,t twenty-one are dead
Mr. W. E Gladstone is called “the grand old man,
and Sir Mtsfford Northcote “the grand old woman. ’......
The Auckland Herald gets off a story to the effect
that a local lawyer wants to be King Tawhiao’a son-in-
law Lewis, the man who bung Hirokl and Winiata,
was formerly a Sydney resident, and is now serving a
sentence in NZ. for forgery. He was fearful of being
recognised, and appeared on the scaffold with his head
in a b*g, having two holes for his eyes There is In
the Middle Island of N Z , a man who has ton daughters,
and promises to give them wedding portions of £40,000
each if they marry in conformity with his wishes
Mr, De Lias, the N,Z. impressario, is in no better
health “Seotcby” Beveridge, of Ya»s. has died at
the age of 102 Judge Hely, of Queensland, Is getting
b«ttrt*, the pulmonary hcß'Borrhage haring ceased
Mr. Johnson, of Miva, Maryborough, who died the
other day in consequence of having fallen into a pan of
boiling sugar, walked 200 yards after sustaining the
terrible shook Archibald Forbes has written to
Croumbie Brovn, at present In Wellington, that nothing
will prevent him from visiting N.Z. shortly Lady
Gordon, family, and suite, wore to leave Wellington
(N.Z), on the 18th in*t.. and will meet Sir Arthur in
Sydney. They then proceed to England Barlow,
Winlata’s oapturer, has received £6OO “ blood-money”
from the N.Z. Government.
HENRY CLARENCE KENDALL.
(FOR THE BELLETIN.)
Oh, Mother Nature, beat thy breasts and weep
For him thine ardent lover gone to sleep I
Embrace in loving arms
Thy hierophant, the chant )f of thy psalms 1
He loved thy daedal forests ; yea, he felt
That they were thloo own temples, so ho dwelt
Within thim, dwelt with then.
Great Mother, thou shoal Ist sing his elegy t
Ye sentinels of earth, ye hills that stand
'tween earth and sky, like giants that command
The slopes to heaven, weep
For him, our Ints-voloed brother gone to sleep 1
Yo winds, whose strong pulsations filled his rhymes
With varied cadences, that swelled to chimes
Or moved with stately tread
Like armies, wall for him, the harper dead !
In tears, ye Austral mothers, teach his name
And songs te all your little ones ; the flame
That burnt within his breast
Should burn in theirs j he loved his country best.
Ye sturdy sons of energy, whose ways
Are oast among the baok woods, in his lays
He sang your hopes, your fears,
Your daring deeds; then weep, he claims your tears.
And thou, sweet Spring, he loved thee, bring soft
showers,
And balmy airs, and amasanthlno flow’rs,
And bursting blossoms throw
Upon his grave—there let them ever blow.
Great Mother Nature, beat thy breasts and weep
For him, thy luto-voioed lover gone to sleep 1
Embrace in loving arms
Thy hierophant, the chanter of thy psalms!
W.S.
Hill End, sth August, 183 d.
Vilanelle.
(FOR THE BELLETIN)
We said good-bye, my youth and I,
When all fair dreams were gene or going
And Love’s red lips were hard and dry.
When white blooma fell Irani tree-topi high—
Our Austral winter’s way of snowing—
We said good-bye, my youth and I,
We did not sigh—what use t® sigh
When Djath passed as a mower mowing.
An! Love’s red lips were hard and dry ?
Bat hearing Life’s stream thunder by
That sing o! oil, thr rah II owers II iwiag,
We said good-bye, my youth and I.
Thcrj was no hope in ths blue f k;,
No music in the low winds blowing,
And Love’s red lips ware hard and dry.
My hair is Hick as yet, then why
So sad ? I know not, only knowing
Wo said good-bye, my youth and I.
All are not buried when they die;
Dead souls there are through live ey es showing
When Love’s red lips are hard and dry.
So, seeing where the dead men lie
Out of their hearts the grave-flowers growing,
We said good-bye, my youth and I,
When Love’s red lips were hard and dry.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


p A P E E H IA
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAP
CEILING
FIGU
Imported by
ALEXANDER BO
281 GEORGE STREET (Oppc
PAINTERS' AND DECOEATO
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints,
Brushes, Gold Leal
UEENSLAND
' QEESLEY LUKIN t
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLAI
Temporary Offices ; 289 G,
HAVE FOR SAI
!A number of lightly stocked STi
class of sheep country, including a
miles downwards, in districts of
W arrego
Gregory, North and
Bourko
Cook
North Kennedy.
A Permanent Steam Mai), and 1
established between Normantor
Thursday Island.
THE RIVER DARLING
COMPANY
To be Incorporated bt A ct <
CAPITAL, £200.000 IN SHARI
Provisional Direct
Edward quin, E?q., m.p.,
TUOS. LUKE, Esq., J.P.. Wiloan
T. J. HAYDON, E.q., J.P., do.
Hon. W A. Brobbibb, M.L
W. C. Palmer, Esq., J.P , V
E. W. Donnallt, Kaq., Qna
C. H. Wrepord. Eiq., Moon
H, C. Armstrong, Esq., Wil
Arthur AVoodfall, Esq,, AV
Waltbrus Brown, Ksq , J.P
Charles G. Lush, Esq,, Mel
J. 8 Reid, Esq., Wiloannia.
J. Suodkn, Esq., Wiloannia,
W. J. Holding, Wentworth
T. W. CHAMBERS, Esq., Wi
THIS Company is proposed t<
purpose of making the Ri
BO usly navigable between Wilcann
<dii tnnee of about 270 miles.
The. total fall in the River bet
mentioned has been ascertained b;
to he only 87 feet 3 inches.
The River is known to possess g:
for Looking, the bed of it being i
Titers along its course by bars i
Xoeks or Weirs could be construct
email outlay.
It has been determined, in order
having a thorough survey of the ;
liable Mtimate of the cost of const:
Docks ,and for the disbursement
expenses, to dispose of 50,000 Shj
upon which one shilling per Shai
snent, with a guarantee that no 1
Bpon the said 50,000 Shares until f
construction purposes.
Discretion is given to the Pro-
. » spend any moneys subscribed tm
j cts of the Company, notwithstai
Bhares proposed to be sold may no
Forms of application for Shares ,
Messrs. Robertson add Fisher, Sol
T. W. CHAM.
Wiloannia, May 2nd, 1882.
SYDNEY BICYCLI
AMATEUR RACE Ml
N.SW. CRICKET ASSOCIAO
SATURDAY, 26th
One Mile Scratch Bioyde Race,
The Australasian d
COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will be undertake!
pany to bore any sized holes, vei
up to
3 INCHES OR LAI
if required, to any depth, at a redt
25 PEE CENT BELOW ANY PJ
The Company in all cases will As
water for drilling purposes, and
for loss of diamonds or wear an
will also provide workmen, engine*
The n«x duplex barrell introduce
Mr. J ._ Coghlan will be used free
searching for minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every ronfldenc
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, t
give general satisfaction, as well
all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices. 283 Qc
JOHN COGJ
General
PRIZE AWARDED, MEL
BITION. 1882
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOL.
company, syd;
„ _ Manufacturers
SCHOOL, OiiiiE E and CHU
and Eduo pliances of
R. C. TROU6HTON
peopeietoe;
Contracts taken, and estimates |
up of Schools, Colleges, Churcl
Museums, &o , to any extent and
Proprietors, laventors, and Manu;
ton’s Reversible Desks, &c. (Regis
AND GENERAL CONX;
Steam Works—DlCK STREET, c
STREET.
Lithographs of Designs and Cate
application.
Upwards of 200 schools ahead;
yiv
/\jusis
ILTING.—FASHIONA
STYLE! READ’S In
jusfiint, 55., at Sewing Mach
u NDER SECTION
ART UNION,
PURCHASE of the BUNGAB
FREEHOLD EST
by Subacrlptioi
IO.ODO SUBSCRIBERS c
120 PRIZES of the full vali
117 lots guaranteed, cash i
Lot I.lst prize £4OOO I Lot 3.
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £1
Let 10, 1 Prize of £5O.
Lots ll to 20,10 Prizes ■
Lots 21 to 120,100 Prize
The management is sonpellcd t<
drawing to the first day of Aug
standing this announcement, the
tively be proceeded with seven d
ore subscribed for. All unsuocei
have their money returned per reti
the grandest opportunity ever oil
stantial prize, if not a large and :
for £l.
Address—SETH R. PERSBE, 1
European Chambers; Box, Post 0
READ PROSPEC
fJIHE BLAC
' I GURRA
Acts lit ea charm irfevary ki
A Single Dose gives Relief c
Refreshing Slee
MADE ONLY BY 1
ANTHONY HOKDEHN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMARKET (ONLY).
p» ft . INGRAM
To Purchasers of Wools. We only ask that thefto prices may be compared with
those charged elsewhere.
Immense preparations are being made in our
Hrt D 81ESS ROOM.
135 CASES OE NEW SPRING GOODS.
FIEST SPRING SHIPMENT
CHIWA, CREPE. PONGEE, AND TASSOUV crmr
DIRECT PEOM CHINA. JUST TO HAND
PtEST SPRING SHIPMENT
BEAUTIFUL; BEOCHE ami PRINTED SATEENS an PRINTS
T .nn™ Will bo on View in a few days. *
LARGEST AND CHOICEST STOCK EVEJR IMPORTED.
SCARVES, THE BALANCE 0F OUK WINTER WOOLS.
CLOUDS,
MANTILLAS,
OPERA CLOAKS.
EARLY SPRING HOSIER Y° W ° ff6red at IOBS than Manufacturor s’ cost.
HAS JUST ARRIVED,
AND ra;WO THY OP INSPECTION.
EVERY DAY:reQUIEEMENTS,
SHEETINGS, CALICOES, FLANNELS LINENS, &o
At Prices most lavourable to all Purchasers.
EARLY SPRING RIBBONS.
LACES, GLOVES, SASHES,
JUST RECEIVED BY MAIL STEAMER.
view of the coming Spring and SurameTseaaons, thTy Sfu*" la<ly patrona that -in
in their Showroom, viz.. MILLINERY, MANTLES, andCOSTUMES FP s Departments
MILLINERY DEPARTMENT.-We are opening 20 #i, fu FEAIHEES . FLOWERS
Hats and Bonnets for the coming season, comprising— ° f aU the newest and most fashionable
THE EVANGELINE, THE PETIT __ i
OURS. SUNKfatvt THIS PATIENCE,
LILLY, YENTNnhf* NETTY.
VENINOK, OLIVETTE.
“COSTUME AND MANTLE DEPARTMENT N n ™u;„. • 0 •
Cases just opened of all the Nt west Styles, made expressly to n Mr Pr A^T, and „ ummer Costumes. 10
leading Costume Manufacturers in English and Continental MarfetV Anthony Hordern ’s order, by the
SEE OUR SHOW CASES FOR ELEGANT NEW STYLES IN MANTLES, Ac.
IMMENSE PALACE EMPORIUM,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
haymarket
(ONLY).
BROOK’S
K
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Bhoulder Reels, in white
and coloam.) ’ *
SEWING
Mark BROOK’S CROCHET and tatting cotton.
OE ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS
London, 1862. Gold MedaL Paris. 1867 The Only Diulortia n f TTnn 688 Medal, Pori*, 1856. Prise Med
>— - si sss'jL&riS&sil ssjjss *
Ask for BROOK’S SEWINO COTTONS.
All Correspondence for be addressed to their Warehous
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
BIACKET AND DAY Y,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS FOR
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has aU the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the Now Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dondt,
68 UNO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFICE.
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED.
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A A
A
A AA
AAAA_
THESE GOODS WILL
CHEAPEST AND BEST
BE FOUND THE
IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AMD ANY FE*» oN
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
T
iHE TAILOR FOR IHE PUBLIC
F. h.Tagon,
late cutter to R. C. Hagpn, of, 127 Ring-street,
hayimitaken . v
COMMODIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
4 at
162 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s.
where every t faoility will be afforded hint for
haviafihia work cade nnderrhis
PERSONAL# (JPBEVISION,
Iww in aj) >sHiqn to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Dosoription of
TAILOEIhG
of a quality and. price that cannot be Excelled.
West of EnglandSTwoodJSaits, to order 635.
Scotch Tweed,.Tweed-Saits to opder, 63 1.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16 s 61.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to order, 16s' 6d.
N.B.—All Garments HAND-MADE.
HAGON. 1
EAGON.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Smith’s Opera Company opened their Sydney
season in the Victoria Hall, on Monday night. The
was filled. “ Pinafore ’’ again, There was a
certain air of novelty about the performance after the
leneth of time that has elapsed since “ Pinafore was
Wnla ved here. We have not heard hurdy-gurdy men
grinding out “For he is an Englishman' for a long
time past, nor have we, when passing through Bhgh-
street in the dreamy eventide, been raked by a deadly
fusillade of “Dear little Buttercup” from the girls
with loaf-sized fists who torture the second-hand fiords
in that home of hash. So that we wont to the Victoria
Hall on Monday night with a feeling that amounted
almost to prospective pleasure. Mr. South has a very
nice compact little compauy. He himself plays Cvptsin
Corcoran, and does it remarkably well. His make-up
causes him to look as charming as a Cupid on a Christ-
mas card. And he has a very expressive face—though,
for the matter of that, Walter Reynolds lays him over
in the matter of real rauge of grimace. Jimmy should
practise expression before a mirror in his spare time.
A cracked mirror is the best for the purpose. Then
there is his voice. He has a good voice. And now,
perhaps, he will pardon us if we leave the subject of
his performance for that of Mrs. South. Here we are
all emiles. Mrs. South’s Josephine, if not one of the
beet sung, was one of the most gracefully acted we have
ever seen. She is a pretty dancer, and has a good clear
voice, though it is not as sympathetic as we could wish.
But her piquancy and charm of manner are ample
recompense for such little defects as even our polished
gallantry will not allow us to look over. Now that we
are in the middle of the most (to us) delightful part of
a “ show" paragraph—that which concerns the ladies—
we may as well finish up that blessed subject, and
drop down to the cellar-floor level of common prose.
Miss Emma Rogers then makes a first-class Little
Buttercup, and dances a hornpipe, the like of which
was never seen since the hornpipes played before Mo-es
Miss E. F«x is a sweet little Cousin Hebe with wicked-
looking black eyes and a mouth like a cherub. This, we
opins, explains why her voice is not greater in volume
—there isn't room for it to come through. Now we
reckon this Is a neat way of combining criticism with
compliment. The other ladies are very pretty and
unspeakably clever. We never saw them except in a
row, with the end one up against the footlishts, hut we
give them the benefit of the doubt. Fact is, when we
wore looking at the stage they were arranged in this
manner, but they might have all been visible to others
whon we were looking at our little book of Melan-
choly Examples," which we always take with us to the
theatre to turn away our eyes from vanity, and keep
our heads from being turned by too much beauty.
• • •
Mr Vernon Reid’s Ralph Rackstraw is a really
fine performance. And we are not putting to fine a
noint on it when we say this. His singing is sweet and
clear, and, ah we.allreliable. You cau bet your winding-
sheet that when he stsrts for a top note he fetches that
note. If we could only fetch notes as easby’by writingas
he can by singing we would write so much that the world
would sink down through space with the weight of our
articles, and be spiked for ever on the icy point of the
unimaginable nadir. But this is a vam boast after
all- no man but a five-bob-a-piece-serraou writer, or ft
Mobniko Herald leader-scrouger could hope to do
this. Which confirms us in our opinion that Vernon
Reid is one of the best professional tenors wo have.
Mr Charles Tyroll's Sir Joseph Porter is a good study.
His song, “ I am the ruler of the Queen’s Navee," was
sung with taste. Mr. Tom Sullivan (Dick Deadeye)
lias a strong voice but he has hardly'enough wind to
weld the notes together. Mr. J. G. Kelly played the
Boatswain. We were somewhat disappointed with this
performance. We have always read of these naval
grandees going round rope-ending little boys, and
kicking refractory mariners into the lee-scuppers. Mr.
Kelly did not do this, neither did he have the sign of a
quid of tobacco iu his jaw, nor made he the slightest
reference to the probable intention of his Maker with
regard to the eyes of any individnal on board that ship.
This was a depressing disillusionment. The chorus is a
geod one, and each man of them looks thoroughly sea-
manlike. We didn’t however admire the construction of
the Pinafore with regard to her mizen mast. This
was, we should reckon, about a foot in diameter—a
constable’s foot—but the shadow it threw on the canvas
(water), was as wide as—never mind, we can’t be always
{flawing the roots of our hair up for similes—but it was
about five yards wider than the law of physics allows
these things to be, The mizen yard hung down within
nice easy distance of the deck, so that a tall sailor
could reef the sail by standing on a slush barrel. But
everything els* was gay and cheerful. We hope to be
able to congratulate Mr. South on the success of his
company in Sydney.
* * * *
Kellar concludes his season at the Opera House
this week. Horace Bent is still backing him. We are
sorry that the season has not been an entirely success-
ful one, for Mr. Kellar is one of the cleverest prestidigi-
tateurs we have ever had out here. A benefit and fare-
well performance will be given on Friday night. This
will afford an opportunity for those who have not
given talent its due to due so before it is too late.
* * * *
There was a mighty aristocratic attendance at
the Royal on Wednesday night. Lord Gussy was there,
and so were we ; but, as we don’t speak now in couse-
ttuence of a disagreement about a bull-pup we lent bun,
we hod not an opportunity to learn whether lie had
brought his favourite shanghai with him, or whether
the bob-tailed bramah was roosting anywhere in the
back of the vice-regal box. Pott’s Point was as stonily
quiet as the valley of dry bones outhe night in ques-
tion All the beauty and chivalry of Ashfleld had like-
wise taken the lordly tram and the imperial dog-eart to
drive in to see the play. The reigning belles of Sydney
were there, but we didn’t take much notice of them.
There were too many young men with potted butter
face* and soaped and split stringy-bark scalps banging
round them for us to feel ourselves peaceably enough
disposed to the human race to he civil even to the
tolreet of the most fair section. But we took it out by
gazing at Goodie, who was a perfect constellation of
smiles and splendour. “Youth" has been a success.
We are glad of this. After making this statement we cam
fairly be allowed to say that we are not sorry Youl h is
going to be taken oil and pitched into the outer darkness
where played-out plays are condemned to linger until
somebody is found courageous enough to revive them.
That lets us out.
* * * *
We went on Tuesday evening to see “ Arrah na
Pogue " at the Gaiety. We have seen worse perform-
ances and we have seen better. This may fairly be
termed a middling one. It fills the heuse anyhow.
Let ns begin with the ladies. Miss Myra Kemble plays
Arrah. The part is not suited to her, but she tries her
level best to be equal to it. In the first place she is
not qualified for the display of so much Irish unpul-
Hiveness and demonstrativeness as are supposed to be
indispensable to the proper rendering of the character.
When these things have to be forced they had better
not he at all. We hope to see Miss Kemble in a part
that will give her a better show for the display of
those talents which all Sydney knows she pos-
sesses. Miss Grace Hathaway is too bloodless for such
a part as Fanny Powor. There is no <!lan —no “ go ’
about her. Miss B. Sutherland (Katty) dances a first-
class Irish jig.
• m •
Mr. Walter Reynolds plays “ Shatm the Post”
in very creditable style. But he can’t sing worth a
cent The manner in which he sines the “ Wearin’ of
the Green" would not rouse the blood of a leech. Mr.
Frank Catos makes a handsome aud spirited Beamish
M’Coul Mr W. H. Leake as Colonel BageualO Grady
is one of the best characters in the play Mr J. Foley
(Michael Feeney) plays his part in villainous style. If
Mr. Tasman (Major Coffin) had only worn a tin plate
with two little pewter angels on each side of it on hie
manly bosom, we should have gone round and traded
with the manager for him to bury our office boy io.
Wa slew this orphan the other day f r seeding
Poetry to the Evening News Mr. Tasman
hss an expression like the mouth of a vault and
when he lets a lugubrious smile spread over his face
a shudder goes through the audience such as might be
firoducod if an erysipelas selector were dumped down
n the middle of the pit. Perhaps this is in keeping
with the part. It certainly is sepulchrally in keeping
with the name. Mr. W. Medus doubles the part of the
Secretary with that of Oiny O’Farrell, taking particular
care to wear the same red waistcoat in both. Now, if
he had worn the red wig of the latter character instead,
he would have displayed more wisdom and less vanity,
for he is certainly a better peasant than aristocrat,
(•ince when, also, did the peasant girls of Ireland take
to wearing low-necked silk dresses and satin petticoats ?
At what particular period did the Irish get the bulge
on the Americans by being the first to name shandra-
da»s “buggies” ? These are things we ache to know
But taking the tootangsahngbl of the play, it is well
worth seeing.
» * * •
A benefit was given to Mr. Charles McCarthy at
the Victoria Hall on Wednesday night, which was so
successful that it was repeated on Saturday night.
Charley deserved this. He has a nice good-humoured
little Irish face which he washes with a care and regu-
larity which do credit alike to his feelings of head and
heart. The house was crowded en Wednesday night.
As, unfortunately, we arrived late owing to an appoint-
ment we had to borrow hslf-a-crown that evening, we
were compelled to go behind the scenes, where we
found almost as many people as there were in front.
We were standing side by side with a nymph in a gauze
garment so deliciously short that it knocked all the
critical acumen out of us for that particular night.
The staple part of the performance was the Irish busi-
ness of Charley and Ned Kennedy, assisted by Harry
Simmons and another gentleman whom we could not
see without dislocating our necks. Johnny O'Niell
sang some Eyetalian cavatinas, Larry Foley and
Meehan sparred with the single sticks, and three little
people dance! delightfully. The performance was a
big success—from behind the scenes and from the
ticket-taker’s box anyhow. Charley galore of
this sort of business.
* * **
The concert given at the Exhibition Building on
Saturday afternoon in aid of the funds of the Society
of St. Vincent de Paul was well patronised. We never
met Vincent to our knowledge, but ho seems to have
been a deuced well-meaning fellow, and we went to his
show accordingly. There was a nice little orchestra
led by Mr. Miller and a nice little pianist, familiarly
called Frank Maxted by the happy few who know him.
Signora Fabris sang a sacred piece, and a song in the
character of a Spanish orange-girl. Miss sherwin, Mr.
D. F. Kelly, and Mr. Blake also sang, but as we can’t
stretch out this notice to the Milky Way, we shall have
to regretfully omit stating what they sang. Anyhow,
whatever it was it was sung well. Mr. F. J. Hallewell s
“ Why do the Nations,” and the “Wolf,” were two of
the finest things in the programme. Miss Moon sang
two soles, and Madame Koaaly Mers two. The singing
of these ladies has been criticised so often that we feel
it would be superfluous to say more just now than that
they were not below their respective standards on
Saturday. Mr. J. Hinchy sang very charmingly “ The
Dell of Dreams," a song composed by Mr. Delaney, who
also conducted on this occasion. Mr. Delaney is a
master-musician and a clever composer. The Artillery
Baud played selections now and then, which we dare
say were very good. Voila tout.
* * * *
To-morrow (Friday), there will be a dramatic
performance at Windsor by amateurs, consisting of
“All that glitters is not gold,” and “ Uncle’s Will."
The loading lady will be a well-known Surry Hills
belle, erst of Parramatta; and the funny business will
be in charge of the inimitable Urquhart, the man who
wouldn’t “move on.” Two leading members of the
Parramatta Club and some locals will appear. Pro-
c»eds to local School of Arts.
* * * de-
Mr. Harry Stanley informs us that he has been
doing splendid business in Newcastle with his Juvenile
Pinafore Company. This includes the original and
principal members of Lewis’s Company. Crowded
houses were drawn at Newcastle, and, so we hear,
money was refused at the door for three nights out of
the six the company played there, which statement, al-
though it seeme too thin for this earth, is corroborated
by the local papers, which we knownever lie.
* * dr *
We are shorn of all that glory which until now
we had thought was our peculiar own. There is
another Goodie. He is the treasure of his theatre
as ours is the treasurer of his. And of course he is
the brother of lours. And of course he is a ravishing
vision of beauty, just as ours is. Such loveliness
makes us weep to think that it also must pass away.
But this is weakness- What we want to say is that
Mr. J. L. Goodman, acting business manager at the
Opera House, Melbourne, has been presented by the
employes there with a handsome silver testimonial card-
case in token of their gratitude for his kindness and
respect for his abilities. This is the sort of thing we
like to hear about. Wo have never received any testi-
monials ourselves, except one with the iasged blade of
a shovel, presented us by the old man, the other night,
when we went out to Eedfern to propose for Mary.
But we how to get a testimonial one of these days,
when we have perfected a new swindle we are in-
venting.
* * * *
An association called the “Great Northern
Variety Club” has been formed in Newcastle, and the
members are to give performances for the benefit of
public charities. Some entire y new and original pieces
will we hear, be embodied in the repertoire of the
society. “ Checkmate," “ Box and Cox,” “ Turn Him
Out," together with some nigger pieces written ex-
pressly for them, entitled “ >locam’s Dog,” “Easy
6-having,” and other novelties The secretary and
principal comedian is Thomas Dover, and as the for-
mation of the club is now complete, we may expect at
an early date to he treated to a specimen of Dover s
powders—we mean powers. The club has our —&o.
When our bottle of Faust’s elixir arrives we will com-
plete the phrase.
* * * *
Mr. Frank Towers and Miss Eosa Towers, well-
known in Sydney some seven years ago, came here last
week from the Cape. They are waiting for an opening.
Their repertoire consists of the following pieces: George
Sims’ “ Member for Slocum," M’Ardle s " Bound the
Clock," Frank Scudamore’s “Fighting Fortune," and
the charming opera “Le Mouaqwetaire.” If Mr.
Towers does not open in Sydney shortly he will take
his company on to Adelaide or Now Zealand W«r-
ner’s Aesthetic Party arrived in Sydney on Fridday
from Qceansland. They proceed overland to Mel-
bourne and will play back to Sydney. , Raphael’s
Opera C-. has gone up to Townsville to play through
the North The Gem Company were playing at Buh.
daberg at the latest dates Billy Barlow, the blue-
tailed fly, is in Gympie doing goodbuzzness. Professor
Pepper is there also Ihere lea phenomenal wire-
walker with Tommy Hudson in the North. He walks
the wire and performs all sorts of tricks without the
aid of a pole. So that he need never pay a poll tax.
* * * *
Mr. Fred Maocabe. when we heard of him last,
was iii Bockhampton. He met with an accident in
Maryborough through riding a horse. So the local
papers say. We certainly shouldn’t have thouaht that
it was through riding a walrus, but Fred had no busi-
ness on the back of one any more than on that of the
other. Maccabe’s hills are out for a new season in
Sydney.
* * * *
A correspondent writes : On Tuesday night the
Alexandria Cricket Club gave a concert at the Odd-
fellows Hall, Paddington It was well ateended. St.
Mark’s Bellringers assisted, which suggests the query
—was St Mark in the muffin line ? Anyhow if the
belles in the audience had been a little more quiet the
others would have had a chance to be heard Why are
not ladies durab-helles in places of public entertainment?
The gentleman who sang the bass solos would hold his
owu with some professionals in the matter of articula-
tion The ladies wore too kind They tried to sing
songs that were above their powers and—and—ante, we
have said enough. One of the reciters would have been
very useful outside of Arabi Bey’s entrenchment just
how His delivery was bomb-astic in the extreme. For
all that the entertainment was as enjoyable os anything
in this vale of tears can be at the price.
* * * *
Writes our correspondent-.—At the Theatre
Koval, Adelaide, “ Michael Strogoff" was played till
Saturday to moderately good houses. Many cruel
jokes have been made concerning Miss Adore s faultless
bronzed boots, and the dainty way in which she must
have picked her Siberian steps. But Michael, like
many another courier, has run his course, ana sowell
do Adelaide folks appreciate him that they think it only
right other people in other countries should now have
a chance of enjoying the transcendent spectacle. This
is to be a busy week. ''Jean Valjean” Monday and
Tuesday; "Eoyal Pardon,” Wednesday; " Belphegor,”
Thursday ; “ Louis XI.” and scenes from “ Midsummer
Night’s Dream," Friday; and "Life of an Actress"
and “Bob Boy," Saturday. Mr. Dampier’s benefit
comes off on Friday, Mr. W. Q. Carey’s on Satur-
day. Such a week's work is much like piling up
the agony and whether more really attractive
to playgoers than one good piece carefully
staged, is quite debatable The Simonsens begin
next Monday and are already well Illustrated in shop
windows. A season of thirty-six nights is announced
and, provided always that the company is properly
effective, should prove remunerative. Otherwise, well
—otherwise I Archibald Forbes has given the Adver-
tiser two cheap columns also on the subject of our
Military Defences. We arc not military and have no
defences, it is true, but a war correspondent of
Archibald’s calibre is not to be deterred by such paltry
considerations, from ssattering blessings broadcast on
Australian editors. He deploys into the country
wherever the crafty E. S. Smythe has obtained satis-
factory guarantees; takes our nearest watering-places
by assault; and has rather outflanked his earlier
triumphant generalship by re-delivering hla lectures on
the former field of battle at lower prices It is re-
ported in Adelaide that an agent on behalf of Messrs.
Williamson and Garner has offered the City Land Com-
pany £40,000 for Farr's old timber yard, as a site for a
now theatre. The Company would benefit by such a
transaction, seeing that the price to them was but
£20,000 a little while ago. Whether Williamson and
Garner would so benefit is another matter, because the
proposed site appears to be a little out of the way.
Dr. Harman-Tarrant, M.P.
WE give on our front page this week a portrait
of Dr. Harman-Tarrant, Member for Kiama, and
a gentleman of high professional reputation in the
metropolis. Dr. Tarrant, who is a descendant of
a French Huguenot family who settled in the
North of Ireland, was born at Belfast in 1844. At
an early age his family removed to London, where
his father oeoame Inland Revenue Officer for the
South of the Great Metropolis, a post he retained
up to the time of his resignation, a few months
ago. Dr. Tarrant began work in London,
but the profession of a military engineer having
been selected tor him, he was put to a course of
studies at the Royal School, King’s County, Ire-
land. Then he entered Trinity College, Dublin,
prior to removal to Woolwich ; but the practice
of medicine for him having greater attractions, he
forsook the military for the medical profession.
Ho became a member of the Duolin College
of Surgeons, and then went to Edinburgh, where
he studied for some time and became L.C.P. of
Edinburgh. During his student career, Dr.
Tarrant availed himself of the opportunities
afforded by his family residing in London to
observe the practice in the London hospitals.
Subsequent to these studies, he attended the
Paris hospitals, with the intention, finally, of
settling down in private practice in Dublin. The
climate, however, of the latter place was too
severe, and in 1868 he came out to this country.
He remained for a brief period in the P. and O.
mail service, in his medical capacity, and with
thoroughly restored health began practice in this
colony, commencing at Kiama. Here he prac-
tised ten years, and on his departure for the
metropolis received from the residents of the
district a testimonial not one ef the
conventional description, but one feelingly and
openly bearing testimony to his professional skill,
his genuine public spirit, and his philanthropy.
Shortly after his arrival in Sydney, Dr. Tarrant
was elected on an unusually large vote and with a
large majority, an honorary surgeon of the Sydney
Hospital, and recently, under the provisions of
the new law, he was re-elected to the same posi-
tion —first on the list. About three years ago, on
the occasion of Captain Charles’ resignation, Dr.
Tarrant was elected for Kiama, being returned
with a large majority over his opponent, and at
the last general election he was returned unop-
posed. Dr. Tarrant is an independent member,
and pledges himself to measures only. [Our
portrait is from a photo by Freeman, or Qeorge-
street.]
“ Whether it islthat our literary men are under
the spell of a system which has given so many subtle
thinkers to Europe, or whether It is that they are
simply doing homage to a master of polished rhetoric,
1 cannot tell, but it is certain that in this city no word
of Koman Catholic eloquence wastes itself unnrinted on
the desert air." Thus Mr. Jeiferis, on Sutdiy, when
comparing the Qreek Church with (the Soman. He
balanced up considerably in favour of the former.
Quite a sensation on Flagstaff Hill, last Sunday.
Just at the time that noontide service closes in ohurob,
two detective officers on the scent for liquor traffic in
contravention Of the Licensing Act made a rush by the
rear gate into an hotel, whither they were followed by
an excited crowd fresh from devotion or pleasure. It
proved a " dead soil,’* for there was nobody “ illegally
on the premises.” Baffled in their object, one of the
detectives lost his temper, and became insolent and
abusive in his conduct to the landlady. He threatened
her with dire penalties whenever she came under his
power, and in an exasperated state he actually thrust
his big fist, then clutching a thumping stick, eight into
the face of the alarmed publicaness. After pacing up
and down stairs and through the house, the officers
quitted the place, amid the derisive smiles of numerous
spectators, leaving the landlady agitated in mind and
likely to suffer illness from the unmanly treatment io
which she bad been subjected. Th e marvellous instinct
of police suspicion justifies this sort of thing, possibly,
but It Is decidedly inconvenient to the victim. However,
on Monday, the aggravated “D." called npon the lady
to apologise for his conduct.
We have just seen No. 4 of the Weekly
Citizen, which (ominous sign I) was once threepence,
but is now a penny. We should indeed have
poor hopes for the future success of the paper (which,
like the King-street organ, is an entirely Melbourne
publication) did we not see in Its columns a serial by
Harold W. H. Stephen I There are also some items
under the heading of ” Klatscberei,'* which is, in all
probability, the name of the editor’s dog, the pars,
themselves being, for all we know, composed by that
animal. Harold’p tala is called "Alma,” a title which
accounts for the hero being So-vast-a phool j and the
journal also boasts a Melbourne •• dramatical cricket,’’
who fays that Sims’ *■ Mother-in-Law ’’ is “simply a
re-hash of the ‘ Colonel,’ which, of course, must be true
for two reasons : first, because tbare is not the faintest
similarity between the two pieces, and second, on
account of “ Mother-in-Law ” having been written
about a year before the " Colonel” was ever thought
of. Tnis genius signs himself “The Whistler ’’—a nam
de plume strangely, and, poruhanoe, truly, suggestive of
nose-cooling against the gallery rail. We piedict for
our contemporary—however , . ,
The following ad. appears in all the London
dailies: —“The Marquis ot Londonderry supplies his
own coals direct from his Durham collieries. —Cash on
delivery.—Vane’s WalUend, 215.; Pittington WaUseud,
21s. Orders to St. Johu’s-wharf, Millbauk-itreet,
Westminster (two doors from the House of Parlia-
ment).” There is no pride, yon see, about the Marquis.
And yet here, in this country, where we are supposed to
be all more or less rads., we never sea in cur papers any
announcements such as the following:—* Law I Law 11
Law 11 Sir Wigram Allen’s guinea police court p.tob
for ever. You can't lick it 1“ Or, “ Try the Hon. J.
Watson’s kerosene, just imported 1“ Or, “ Sheepskins,
sheepskins 1 A choice assortment of the above, all
with their hair on. Apply to the Hon. Sir Patrick
Jennings. Terms C.O.D. N.B. Pat’s tallow is un-
rivalled 1“ Or, “ Land I Land 1 Land 1 Choice Darling
Harbour allotments. Application to be made to the
Hon. John Lucas, Camperdown. N.B —John is visible
to the naked eye." No, nothing of the sort appears,
worse look. Under the cloak of radicalism (alas, we
fear there Inrks, in the persons of our aristocrats, a
vast deal of patrician pride. *Twas ever thus.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The existence of the Parkea Ministry may be
ascribed, in the language of O’Connell, 11 to the fatal
witchery of an unworthy secret influence.”
Thus “ Wrecker” Garrett, Baker, and Lucas
were three chosen vessels of Jack Bobertson’s 75-77
Administration, as were Garrett, Baker, and Davies of
his August to Deo. 77 Cabinet. “ Them threes” will
never be thrown again, you bet I
Gladstone is reported by cable to have stated
his determination to enforce “ British interests " in
Egypt. There has evidently been a. mutilation in
transmission. •• British interest ”is what 11 the grand
old man ” must have mentioned.
Mr. A. Stokes, an intelligent and very wealthy
resident, stands for Forbes at next election. It is
understood that he will effer himself as an independent
candidate. Mr. William Brooke, proprietor of the
Forbes Times, is also likely to stand.
The difficulty of tracking down criminals in
Ireland is, simply, there are no men available fit to do
it. Ordinary detectives are good only for city thieves.
Common constables are not smart enough, and English
men, good in other respects, are betrayed instantly by
their accent in the country districts.
The measures proposed to be brought forward
before Parliament, as stated in the Governor's speech,
are a Local Government Bill, a Consolidated and
Amending Land Act, a Bill to alter the form of Public
Securities, Consolidation of the Criminal Laws, an
Amending Mining Act, a Forest Conservation Act, the
Begistration of Titles to Beal Property, Adulteration
of Food, Inland Navigation, and a Civil Service Act —if
there's time.
Wo are informed that the Government has
issued instructions to the Survey Department to the
effect that a two chain public road be left in future
between all full-sized oouditional purchases. This we
regard as a well-aimed blow at dummying; not, how-
ever, the dummying done by the aid of the dying, but
that other heinous species of the offence perpetrated
by needy men with large families, who cannot, under
the law as it stands, in their own person secure enough
land to live upon.
One of the excuses of the Ministry for the ne-
cessity of the present Licensing Act was that it would
effectually do away with party (action on Licensing
Benches; and the country submitted to many objection-
able clauses on that account. But what is the result P
Mr. John Davies appointed one of the licensing magis-
trates ! It is difficult to conceive a more immoral and
contemptible State trick than this. The unpaid Ju—
tices were kicked aside to make roem (or the very man
who, as much as any other in the colony, had helped to
throw odium on the old Licensing Courts by his extreme
p&rtizan proceedings.
This is the generation of the political priesthood
of N.S. Woles. The devil begat Maohiavel and
Maohiavel begat Gniomardini, who begat Maxim No.
47, which being translated, saith, ” What profit is there
in seeing the downfall of Ser Giovanni (or John) da
Poppi (alias the opium flower) if. In hist stead, oome
Ser Bernardino da Sammiuiata P" (2.) And one Enrico
rose and said: Not a dash cent, for either. Where-
fore, lest some other speak before we can say Jack
Bobinson, go to, let ua coalesce for there be much
shekels therein.” (3 ) And, behold, Enrioo, who was
also Bernardino, took to himself Ser John da Poppy, and
they, too, did drug the political market so that men
slept while the ungodly did rake in specie and wink
much at the ways ef this generation. (4) And the
rest of the ways of our rulers, will they not be spoken
at the great feed so that all men may rejoice that old-
fashioned humbug and trickery still? triumphs in the
land ?
“ Startlers for the next session.” The following
prize conundrums will be put to the House during the
course of its next merry meeting :—Hon. Dan O’Connor
to ask the Minister for Education—l. Who examines
those inspectors who inspect our public school teachers,
and by whose authority are those inspectors allowed to
use a plural verb after a noun singular ? 2. If the
Under Secretary for Education examines the inspectors,
and he, in turn, is examined by the Minister, who
examines the latter gentleman P 3. Is the Minister
aware that a certain teacher in the highest grade spells
“ cart” with a “ k,” and asserts that delirium tremens is
the French name for a country dance very popular iu
the Boulevards, and other country parts of Scotland P
Hon. John M’Elhone to ask the Hon. John Davies (ou
behalf of Captain Adams)—“Where’s that there hat ?’’
Hon. William Forster to ask the Premier to bring in a
bill legalising the payment of compositors by crossed
cheques only. Hon. Thomas Garrett to ask Mr Lackey
—Who owns the “ Blowclear ’’ station, and which way
will the Forbes railroad run ? Hon. Thomas Hlattcry
to ask Hon Burdett Smith —Who paid the cab hire for
himself and Teetotal John for that “ Prince Procession
Day,” and how much did it cost to feed the 4000 young-
sters who sang “an *im” on the same occasion. Hon.
John Luons to ask Hon. John Bobertson—How longnu
erysipelas dummy was supposed to live if he was allowed
two meals a day, and compelled to wash himself on
Sundays. Hon. W. Barton to ask the Minister for
Works —Which will be finished first, the railway to
Narrabri (now completed to within six miles of that
town) or the bridge to the land of Moab. Hon. D.
Buchanan to ask the Premier—When are we going to
have another picnic, and does the Government intend
to compensate him for the loss of his boots at Wagga ?
These and many others of a like kind will tend to make
rather a lively session.
• • •
1 The N.Z. Eight Hours’ Bill, which passed the
House of Bepresentatives, was thrown out, as usual,
by the Legislative Council. The Upper House in
Maoriland is looked upon as nothing more than
a faroe Mr. Laoaey says that the N.S.W,
Government will propose a system of light and
cheap railways, at a cost of from £2OOO to £3OOO per
mile, as feeders to trunk lines Ballarat syndicate is
willing to take over Victorian railways and pay stxr
cent, interest om capital invested.......On the WIA,
Parliament opening, Governor’s speech asked tor supply
of £20,000 for Treasury; £2500 for Northern Territory ;
and £6500 for geological survey of Kimberley district.
...Victorian pensions last year amounted to £38,97«...
Queensland going in for increased immigration this
year The guns which the Egyptians were attempting
to place in the batteries at Alexandria when the bom-
bardment smashed them up, were Ktupp’s. From this
it may be inferred that Arabi’s army is supplied with
modern small arms and artillery of recent pattern
Shortly before hostilities became imminent, Sir Wilfred
Blunt telegraphed to a sheikh in Egypt: “ Unless yo
hold with Arabl and the army, Europe will annex
Egypt.” The Sultan’s secret agent in communica-
tion with Arabi Bey is stated to have been an Afghan
Mabommedan It is affirmed that emissaries have
been sent to India to agitate the Mnsaelmaus there to
resentment against the English for attacking Egypt
Estimated by Victorian Government that loss to
I revenue of about £BOOO will accrue in consequence of
diversion of traffic to Sydney by Hay railway extension.
M. Jultß Joubert passed through Sydney thm
week en route to Calcutta, where he intends organizing
an international exhibition.
In an article (Supplement) on the wool ware-
houses of Messrs. Harrison, Jams, and Devlin, the
cost of the buildings is sot down at £50,000. It should
he £75,000.
The music to the song “ Sixteen,” by Mr.
Victor J. Daley, published in our last issue, is not, as
stated therein, being composed by Mr. Delany, but by
Mr. Packer.
In the Browne-M'Elhone will case. Father Fon-
taine gave incidentally a very interesting account it
the plan adopted in his church to squeeze money out
of the people. Funds for the Presbytery were wanted,
so after service the church doors were looked, and tbe
prisoners— we mean the congregation—were compelled
—we mean invited—to file past the altar, and plank the ir
ooin npon thst sacred substitute for a money-char ger'n
table. Old Mr. Browne, as the richest member 01 tb«
congregation, was expected to act as bell-wether ar d
lead off with a thumping cheque. He gave only £lO,
and tin priest began to raise hell about him at oner.
He w.a invited to increase the amount to £lOO. This in
"a very good way of raising lands, and in a variety it
forms is in general use by the “ perfesh “ of all denomi-
nations. They call it “ the voluntai y offerings of tl e
faithful,” and quote tbe totals in statistical state-
ments, as (practical proof of the earnest ortl odoxy of
the age.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Civilization has, of late, advanced a hole. The
polioe stations are now provided with portable medicine
chests, and in oase of a prisoner being suddenly taken
ill when a doctor is not available, it is at the discre
tion of the officer in charge to administer such remedies
as he may think fit. The other night—or rather early
morning—a rupposed "drunk” was brought in anc
duly locked up. A few minutes later, however, it was
discovered that the prisoner was not intoxicated at all
but in a fit. So he.was brought in to to the Inspector's
room, and the medicine case was brought out. The
sergeant, after carefully smelling all the bottles, callec
for a tablespoon, and administered to the patient
dose of Friar’s balsam, neat. The effect of this on the
sufferer was to maks him squirm considerably ; and
delighted at bis success, the amateur doctor then care-
fully mixed in equal parts some camphorated alcohol
and ammonia, of which, after making hot, he adminis
tered a steaming jorum in a tin pannikin. A mustard
plaster was then placed at the patient’s nerk. and a
blister on his chest; after two hours of which treat-
ment he was given a gill of orot • n oil, flvvoured with a
wine-glass full of pain-killer. The next morning the
charge against him was not pressed. There was no
need to.
tt • •
It was at first intended to send the Wolverene
to Melbourne to bring back the Pet of Princej in State,
but the subject being bruited to the intrepid Simmons—
a thousand pardons, Symonds—he looked doubtful, not
to say gloomy. So far as he was personally concerned,
ha »ald, he could cheerfully brave the fury of the ele-
aaeuts, but since the rest of the navy did uot possess one
tithe of bis patriotism, he was afraid that thuy would
jib upon the order for so protracted a voyage being
Issued. The navy was then piped to quarters, one A.B.
alone appearing, who explained the absence of the
others by stating that they had gone to recruit their
exhausted energies with ice-creams at Smith’s. The
contingent who was present, however, said that he per-
sonally would be only too happy to risk the perils of the
deep, but that he had only been allowed to join by his
wife on promising that he would never go to sea. Under
these circumstances, the Wolverene will continue to do
battle for her bleeding country in Man-of-war Cove
until farther notice.
• • •
Ho was a liberal-minded man, and his views
with regard to Sunday were as follows:—"I see no
good in cooping my boys up on the Day of Rest, but
consider it is a wiser proceeding to let them take their
dinners with them, and have a long day’s scramble in
the bush, gathering ferns, and thus acquiring a taste
for botany and for the beauties of nature.” ... It
was the sweet and balmy time of even, and a dozen of
pattern youths, including the sons of the liberal-minded
gaatleman, came whooping round the corner of a street
after returning from one of these botanical excursions.
Meeting here a few of their friends, they sat down to
compare notes. “ Well, how did you get on ?" enquired
a small hoodlum, whose knee-oap was bound up with a
handkerchief of one of the progeny of the liberal-
minded gentleman. “Oh, prime 1” was the reply.
••Bill Jones shook a bottle of rum from old Flu Sum’s
before we started, and while me and Tim was a settin’
fire to the bush, Billy and the others put a sleeper on
the line. Then Ben, got rnn in for breakin’ a church
winder, and my brother bad a fight with a cove that
punched him awful. Jack broke 'is leg olimbin’ at a old
woman’s door to sling her a bit o' guivor, blamed if
some one didn’t empty a saucepan o’ boilin’ water over
his head; and he was took to the orsepitle in a wan.
Oh, prime times, we 'ad, I can tell you. Wish it was
Sunday ev’ry day.”
• • •
Read, mark, and inwardly digest (if you can)
the following eighteen-penny worth of Ivunooze adver-
tising glory;— “Blank. —ln affectionate remembrance
of my dear mother, Mrs. Blank, whom I, Maria Judith
Smallbones, buried on August 10,1865, after a lingering
illness of nearly ten years. She has gone to her
Saviour. July 26, 1882.”
Well done “thou good and very faithful"—daughter 1
Let glory shine on thee from ev’ry quarter !
Perfection’s paragon I—thou art no other—
To dutifully bury this tby mother.
Well may the world this gen’rous act surprise it,
Well may’st thou, gentle daughter, advertise it I
Before this action—rare, alas 1 as sweet 1—
Doth pale Grace Darling’s most pathetic feat.
Oh, wear this placard you for ever should
“ I’ve buried mother, and I am so good.”
* # «
Tha “ Lady ” Mayoress of a certain city—which no
matter is—
(A city which to “Empress” call, just pleasantly to
flatter is)
Presented to her lord a little baby (sweet and fair it
was);
A “ icklo darling duck "; and we may add a son and
heir it was.
To see the baba (ho ladies floeked till there was left but
scanty room,
And lo they came upon a babe and nurse-girl in the
ante-room.
** The little love 1” they chornssed, and they grew
excited, rather, too ;
“He’s something like his mother, but the image of his
father, too."
Then came an aged dame (to wait upon her child,
whose duty ’tis);
“ Oh, madam I” cried the ladies, “ what a darling little
beauty 'tis 1"
Then answer made that ancient dame—“ Why that is
not my daughter’s kid j
That common little bundle, there, is Mr, Brock the
porter’s kid.”
And then, 'tis said,—perhaps *tis not true, but yet, yon
know, it may be so, —
Those ladies smacked the nurse-girl and then pinched
the little baby so,
That both began to shriek and yell (the papers this are
telling us);
When cried the ladies—“ Serve you right, you little
brntes, for selling us,"
• • •
There was a lark at Newcastle not long ago.
The soft-goods aristocracy gave a fancy-dress ball, and
the landlord of one of the hotels getting a ticket
chipped into a quadrille with bis partner. On this two
of the aristocracy led their partners away to another
part of the ’all, and with indignation on their counten-
anoes began to shuffle on their own account. “ What
in the name’ of Nebuchadnezzar’s the matter ?" en-
qnired the publican of the Master of Ceremonies when
the dance Wi,s done. "They hobieot to the licensed
wltler helement,” was the dignified reply. ‘‘Oh, do
they ?’’ cried the publican. “ Then tell that tall one to
take off my shirt; and let his mate look sharp and ante-
up my son Bill’s bream-lino sinker that keeps his chain
in his watch-pocket.” Of course they “ hadn’t rocog-
nized him.”
10 a.m. Chief (reading letter from subordi-
nate : ‘“S.d news—aunt—long lingered—painful thing
—bowed down with grief—kindly excuse me to-day’—
Humph!” . . . Five hours later. Bereaved nephew
(in saddling paddock, excitedly): “ What d’ye lay
against " Voice (at his elbow) : “ Six to four
your aunt still lingers.” Tableau 1
The Hon. John Lueaa left by the Eingarooma
one dt-y last week for New Zealand. Tha depmturo of
the worthy legislator was oue of the most affecting
ceremonies we have seen since the funeral of our last
kitten. On that part of the stately vessel especially
chartered for the distinguished traveller the Camper-
down brass-band discoursed “ Good bye Darling Harbour
to Thee"; while npon the coach as signed to the honour-
able John, the members of the local Sympathy
Meeting—twenty-five in number—assembled, and pr*.
seated him with a touching valedictory address. It
was headed To the Hon. John Lucas. On His Leaving
Anything for the first time." Shortly after the last
btll was meg, the captain summonsd the steward, and
the two, watch in hand, conversed with anxious coun-
tenances. “ Will they never come?” cried the com-
mander, looking wistfully over on to the wharf: “it is
hard for me, at my age to perish miserably aboard my
own ship. But not a whisper to the crew. ’Twould
not be safe. One word more.- should I succumb, see
that my remains are taken ashore to my relatives,’*
Then witn a sigh. “ ’Twill not be a difficult tisk. Thera
won t be much left of me." And he turned away and
wept on the binnacle. But a moment later the captain
was aroused by a joyous shout from the steward. "It
comes, it comes I" cried the man of basins. “ What!
—impossible!" shrieked the captain. " Saved! thank
Heaven 1” yelled the steward : “ let me take delivery."
And he rushed frantically to the gangway. The extra
provisions had arrived. Fifteen hundred head of oxen,
and forty-two tons cf bread.
* * m
The Protestant Standard is evidently well
np in the show business. It says that Patti’s £450 a
night is a flea-bite to what even lecturers used to get
in the olden time. Why a star pitcher got LBJ.COO
from Herod for three discourses (It says); while “to
another the same enlightened King gave, for a single
oration, ten horses, ten porters, tsn secretaries, twj
beautiful young slaves, and £t),COO in money." Since
this item appeared, the opinions of several loading
lecturers have undergone considerable modifications
with regard to his late Majesty; and, in respect to the
request of the Daughter of Herodius for the phiz of
John the Baptist on a charger, it is rumoured that the
rev. Joseph, in talking over the ciroum-tance with a
brother pitcher, merely characterised the effdr aa
“the girl’s little joke." As for the Domain boys, who
have oaly got hold cf the Hero! part of it. they are all
totting up the cheapest way to get to Palestine, in
order to have a try om with his successor—if only to
the extent of the “ two beautiful young slaves ’’
One of the ghastliest occurrences that it has
been our mournful pleasure to paragraph of late took
place at Newcastle last week. The graveyard where
the rustic fathers of that hamlet sleep caught fire. We
regret that we are not able to do jutllco to this theme.
The ghoul who usad to write up our ohamel-houe
goteip and corpse items has seceded from our sta
aud gone over as loader-writer to the Cumbbblak
Times. So that ws shall bars to gouge the thing a 9
well as we can without him. “It is supposed," eaj
the local paper, "that the Irs originated throug r
children playing with matches is ths graveyard " Thi
is transparent roll. We have private information from
a man who never told a lie that a country editor wh
had come down to Newcastle from the North to tan.
the pledge had gone out—two or three days before th
Are broke out—on a farewell “ burst,” and had diec
gloriously at the pinnacle of his drunk, h nrther, tha
when he was emptied into his little consecrated pit h
had a box of tnadstickor matches in his pocket which he
had borrowed from the last bar te had been in. Th
result was a mathematical certainty. As soon as th
corpse got tired of lying on its back, gnd tried to turn
over on one side, the friction produced set the matchc
on fire, and the rum inside the dead editor began
to blaze up immediately. The subterranean
flame spread from coffin to coffin, aud grave
to grave, at a fearful rate. Nothing stopped
it. Grave and reverend stiffs that were supposed to
have been planted in the odour of sanctity and tota
abstinence fizzed up the moment tho Are reached them
and the smell produced is said to have been very like
that of a Christmas pudding when they burn brandy
around it Only that, ia this case, it smelt like more
brandy. A number of inhabitants of the town, notic-
ing tho flames flickering up out of tho ground all over
the cemetery, tan back and made a public confession of
their sins in the main street. The conclusion to which
our informant came was that there are only fifty resid-
ents of Newcastle who don’t deserve banging—and
these are in tho cemetery, tint tho fire will be pro-
ductive of fun in one way. Tho devil will come around
some day to Newcastle to round up his fl ck. This will
be at the Resurrection. When he gets as far as tbs
cemetery, he will find that there was a generation
living some thousands of years before that bluffed bim.
There won t be any bodies to answer to the names when
be reads them out. Then will ho take an hatchet and
hew off a chunk of flesh from every cadaver lying
handy, and give them to the souls of the bodiless
damned to tote around with them and bo tortured. If
the chunk won’t fit in any other way, it will be tied to
tho soul’s leg and the soul will have to hop round
with it through hell for all eternity. So that there is
not much to bo gained by cadaverous incendiarism at
the best of times. They say that, since this fire, the
Insurance Offices in Newcastle have been doing a big
business insuring deadere. They insure them up to the
Day of Judgment. No tfflee could insure a Newcastle
man any lunger without ruin.
• • •
Cal rejvifc riint hive considerably affected
things j Vurnalistio in Brewarrina. The roads taingso
heavy it seems that the mails have not been delivered
for* considerable time, and, therefore, matters have
been very hard with the editor of the local paper. In
regard to the first issue, the arrival of a dentist and a
testimonial to the poandkeeper pulled him through to
some extent, and though mailless the second number
afr.cr the fl*od, an American medicine almanac and the
clip of a complete article on “ Tho Geographical Situa.
tion of Cirea" “from the Encyclopedia Brittanica,
helped to turn out quite a spicy paper. No exchanges
still coming to baud, three columns of “ moral pre-
cepts, by Attious," were printed in leaded long
primer; the editor for this 1 novelty having laid under
A PRIZE POEM.
The committee of the Grand Internal Jobbing
ladustry offer a prize of five guineas for a poem.
Thb Pome in Question.
Come to our show, both great and small,
The great to see what made them great j
The small to see there’s hope fjr all.
When t’others are in such a state.
You’ll get the value of your bobs
I* viewing works fresh from the file
Of downy youths, and downy jobs.
From many an “ old man " juvenile.
You’ll see how Days and Knights are made.
With something less of day than night;
And muck with solid gold inlaid,
By Lucas non lucendo sleight.
How billets made, how salary grown.
Logs rolled, and larrikins so gay
Are run through moulds of flesh and hone,
And civil servants come away.
How paupers, crippled and deseased,
Straight into lusty yeomen spring;
And God and Mammon both appeased
By grand Cathedral opening.
How turned the very naked truth
To libel false and “ shocking ” too;
And harbour picnic ground.', in sooth,
To convents pure as mountain dew.
(I bis is our greatest miracle.
None may approach it in its high
And Mystic power—'o change, by spe 1,
A Cion tart to a nunnery !;
How bashing children o’er the head,
IE with a batten not toe light.
Is venial, ay, a virtuous deed
To locking juries up all night.
How burgling is a crime more grave
Than murdering—if’tis done by kicks ;
Water; an ounce of civic brain,
A bunyip and the Missing Link.
Come to our show, then, one and all.
You'll get the value of your bobs ;
From morn to eve from hall to hall
Yon’ll roam ’moag jobs and among jobs.
And gather wrinkles as you go ;
We’ve not enumerated half.
Nor half a tithe of what yon’ll know
By entering our Industrial G, ff.
There’s every work beneath the sun.
Big, bold, and mean, and beggarly—
In short, all kinds of jobling done
By Chevaliers of Industry !
“LITTLE BILLY."
AN IDYLL.
little Billy was a scholar
Who made it a frequent rule
To begin to kick and holler.
When they sent him off to school-
Billy often used to brag (it
Seemed to be that kid’s delight)
“ More than half the week I way it;
Hate to learn to read and write—
" Hate the ' Christian Children’s Fables
* Little Mary and her lamb I’
Hate the * multercashun ’ tables ;
Teachers put on too much j iro :
Always looking out and grinniu’
At the coves whab’s in the banks;
If to laugh I'm just beginnin’.
Up they ketches me and spanks."
Very high up lived small Billy,
On a precipice’s brink ;
“ E ecks ” yclept that quarter hilly—
Billy’s dad in gaol thro’ drink ;
HER LITTLE JOKE.
Far judges lardy-dardy have,
Attorneys lardy-Yardy, tricks.
How to sell land the city bounds,
How buy far harbour beach and drift—
Tho land for pence, the sand for pounds,
Ta “ give the poor old man a lift.”
How sohoolmarms may spell o’er so wrong,
Scarce ever do their ABC,
Yet shoulder scholars back, as long
As they can do their C.M.Q.
He, he can swear, with greasy glow,
He ne’er did an illegal swear!
And Ananias dropped, but lo
A greater! he stands brazen there.
Brazen ; yes, but alive and well.
Swears on; he never did a wrong !—
And Heaven was silent all—but Hell
Throbbed with emotion deep and strong.
All things are made, save it bo those
Things that are hatched; the kindly mud
Those kin to its fermenting oezo
Will foster more than warm; h of bleed.
All things are made somehow, and 3 ou
By entering may tho manner see—
But, save sweet Cloaoina, who .
May tell how’s made the C.MQ.f
'Tis engineered far from the sun.
Where slimy crawlers take and give,
Amid corrupting sewers that none
But vermin may invade, and live.
We have all kinds of things in store,
As all things thrive beneath our clime.
From poisonous fumes of copper ore
To slabs of Darling Harbour slime;
From hundred guinea watches to
Tram tickets and asylum fare ;
From guinea rides and tiles all new
To railings only cost a swear.
A publican who never runs
A tramway even thro’ the Act;
A reverend lecturer who shuns
Rabbinical romance for fact.
A dummy never quite “turned dog,”
A bobby that has been to blame,
A pious pastor that can jog
Along without the fiend and flame.
A *’ scamper" by his fraud o’erta’en,
A preesmanlbas been known to drink
Strapping chap, with nose carbuncle
Lived at Billy’s on the rocks ;
Mother said it was his “ uncle” j
“ Uncle” laboured in the docks.
Ten was Billy—that, or older—
Ten in years, tho* sad and true,
Billy each day waxed much bolder,
Soon he “knew a thing or two."
Once a week tho “gaff” he’d go in,
Sell his shoe? to “ part,” you bet!
Soon, he’d do—he god so kuowin’—
His half-pint and cigarette.
One fine day the School-Inspector,
(Godly man whom all sin shocks Ij
Practised truant boy detector.
Came to Billy’s on tho rocks
11 Uncle,” he calls “ Christian brother ’’;
“ Uncle” takes it very ill;
Beads a ohiptvr out to “ Mother” ;
Softly asks for Little Bill.
*' Where’s that cherub erst so bloomin' ?’*
(Here he gave a searching look )
*’ Never he’s teen our schoolroom in.
Blank’s his little copy-book.
Is he with the angels soarin’ ?
On a couch of glory sunk p”
11 No, sir,” “ Mother ” burst out roarin’—
“Billy’s upstairs werry drunk.”
“ What 1 going out at nine o’clock ?
'Tis time to be in bed I”
“ I’m going to practise in the choir,
My little hub," she said.
‘‘To practise in By thunder, no 1"
He snarled out—" that you -don’t I"
“ I will go ‘No you shan’t' »— *• I shall"—
“ Not you!”— 11 1 will ” —" You won i !'*
She had a parasol that ended
In a little curly hook,
And somehow in his ear-hole caught
That sunshade's slender crook.
There was a globe-light in the hall,
That gave a golden glow.
And when he squirmed in agony
That was ths first to go.
Crash I went the china, bang I (he glass j
Down came those curtains fair j
And didn’t just that marble clock
Go hurling through the air 1
And then when ov’rything was smashed.
When all the harm was done ;
“ I never meant to go,” she said,
" I only was in fun "
HIS "REASON” FOR "RESIGNING”


contribution " The Book of Proverbs,” written by Mr.
Solomon, the son of David, whose funeral many years (
a? o was well attended. Unless the mails get in this
wee k, the editor will, in order to supply tho demand
amongst hia constituents for war news, be obliged to
treat them to “ The Situation of Egypt 1 Hostile Atti-
tude of Pharoah Pasha 1” with the last proclamation of
General Moses.
« • •
The date for the coronation of the Czar of
Russia is rapidly drawing nigh; and the condition of
Moscow, even at the present time, is suggestive of the
cordial feeling of the inhabitants, and of the enthusiae.
tic loyalty which will, later, be demonstrated in the
presence of the Emperor of all the Russia*. Seventy-
five thousand picked troops now garrison the city—
merely, of course, to add to the splendour of the
welcoming spectacle; and the detective force has been
bo increased, that even the man who chops your wood
for a square meal and a pannikin of vodki is, in nine
oases out of ten, a member of the very plain clothes
constabulary. The triumphal arches will bo composed
exclusively of chevaux-do.frisc and bayonet-stacks—
which will have a pretty effect in the sunshine; and
while the coronation ceremonial takes place, and the
central figure is bombarded by an enthusiastic popu-
lace, Alexander the Second will be awaiting tbe issue
of events in a friendly suburban coal-oellar. We have
also learned that three months prior to the ooronial
(yes, ooronial’s the word) ceremony, such is the con-
fidence of His Majesty in the affection of his subjects
that he always puts on in the morning a suit of clothe*
laid out foe somebody else, and beforelgoing to bed
sneaks down in the kitchen and bribes the cook with a
kopeck or two to change sleeping-apartments until the
morning. Things, however, are much quieter than
they used to be. A sawdust-stuffed effigy placed
in a chair in what is popularly considered to be the
Emperor’s private garden, was found last week to have
received, after one whole morning’s exhibition, only
five slugs in the region of the heart; whereas a month
ago, after reclining in the Czar’s favourite attitude fer
half an hour, there was a rattle and a crash in the air,
and all that was left of the figure was a helmet spike,
half an eye-glass, and the order of the Iron Crown. And
yet the whole time the misguided Nihilists wore
pounding away at the effigy, the original was adminis-
tering the government of his Empire—in the drain.
» * •
There was a fashionable ball at Orange some
tins since, and, amongst the belles of the room, was
Mrs. Publioonse. On the third set of quadrilles being
formed, Mrs. P. found herself visdvis-ed by her cook.
But, before she could either retreat, or express her
feelings in any way, the culinary lady (blue bombazine
over pink calico) turned to her partner and said “ Let’s
go to the fur bend —I thought this was agoin’ to be
kep select.” That woman is the Madame de Steel of
of the future 1
* • •
It having been announced that “ hospitality to
distinguished visitors” entitles Her Majesty’s colonial
subjects to the honour of the Companionship of SL
Michael and St. George, a question without notice will
be asked of the Colonial Secretary in Parliament why
Mr. John Cecil Read has not long ago received the
honour of the C.M.G. decoration. The unwearying
efforts Mr. R. has made to properly "put up” the many
hundreds of prominent persons who annually visit him
Me well known and widely recognised; and, as the
ramifications of the Land Act will, in all probability,
gain him the addition to his visitors-list of a few names
of even more distinguished people than it is his wont to
entertain, it is nrged that there was never a more fit.
ting time than the present for the investiture of Mr,
Read with the much coveted decoration.
BRIEF MENTION.
John Davies has resigned. We are resigned.
A tool in the Cabbage Garden—Hoe Loghlen.
Terrors to doers of evil (and good) : The police.
The Turco-Irish ultipomatum—Arrah - bhoy
o-Beyi
The meet of ye modern knights—” Blow for
blow.”
A plant that blooms unseen—That D.T. “six-
feeder.”
Sir Henry turned up hia nose at the old-fash-
ioned notions of Great Britain.
The Premier still clings to the personal pronoun.
But whv, Henry, discard your old love, the horrid affix
“O.U?”
At the brass C.M.Q.’s banquet a slobber-chopped
preacher ’ikaned John unto “ David, the man after God's
own heart 1”
The Daily Teeegraph says that 20,000 re-
ceived the Premier at Redforn. But then the D.T.
always see* double.
A new firm of butchers—three in number-
started business in a big Southern towu the other day
with four head of cattle.
At last we know the mystic formula by which
each new arrival is greeted at u Masonic ledge. It is:
" What ore you going to have ?”
In a country bank the manager has taken every
precaution against tho bank being stuck up. He never
takes his eyes off the accountant.
“Hiram” advertises in the Herald:—“Re-
quired the *«rvioe* of a Christian gentleman of business
habits: security required.” Ahem I
The Evsnxrg News spells “opossum” with
two " p’s.” This fact completely upsets tbe popular
idea that tho editor is a blackfellow.
The Debater began at a penny, went up to
threepence, and is now—beyond pi ice. Just as we were
getting interested in tbe thing, too, hang it 1
A black gin recently out off her finger to cure a
headache. On the same principle we shall expect to
hear she has out off her head to cure the linger.
Well-bred people now no longer say “ Go to
you know. They merely simper “Go to Maloga!”
"Go to Wangaresda” is only used in extreme cases.
Now, Billy Bent, here’s a brand-new one for you.
What’s the most musical pie in the world ? D’ye give
it up? Why, the pie-anner, of course. Yuok, ynckl
West Maitland debaters have decided by 56 to 53
that Museums and Schools of Arts should, open on
Sundays. But who could sleep comfortably in them P
“ Sir Henry Parkes is the biggest bladder left
nnprioked on the face of the planet,” says the Age.
Count Beaumont's newspaper is an authority on
bladders.
“ Native,” writing on the Adelaide Gaol, has
twelve I’s in eighteen lines. It is the Sydney Mail
which has has been fortunate enough to hook all
these I’s.
In Adelaide a magistrate may order an editor to
divulge the name of a writer. In Sydney a small police-
man may order a giant to move on. Same result in
both cases.
The Prince Alfred Hospital, according to a
Herald advertisement, wants *■ a female laundress.”
There is one other thing which the hospital seems to
want—a grammar.
Thus the Northern Miner “ ‘ Drunks ’ are
requested not to attend at the f olioe Court until the
alterations now being effected are completed, as they
cannot be accommodated.”
A cable tells us that the Nihilists have put gun-
powder under a big school, and blown the pupils into
the air. This is what in Russia is called " teaching
the’young idea how to shoot.”
A senior-sergeant of police up Tamworth way
is Worthy Grand Boss of the Good Templars, aed an
Inspector under the Licenidng Act. The case is one
parallel to that cf John Davies.
A N.Z. paper shows the credulity of the Maori
by asserting that one of them who had been promised a
shilling waited at a fence until he died of staivation,
and that his skeleton is still to be seen leaning up
against a post and holding out its hand. Which reminds
the present paragraphlst that there is in Sydney a
Hebrew g-ntlenvm who, though he has waited for years
still " grows fat on it.”
It surely cannot be true tha a certain Pitt-
street cirdfauterai. under anspi-- 4 - tbe most holy,
has become tbe uighi.lv resort *. evu >io* to whom ac-
commodation is doaied elsewh re.
The Tenterfiold Star welcomes tha Ten teifield
Chronicle with, ajo 1 Tae Sxas una oa oe lints of
the Loudon Tim s, but tue Chiionicle is mi.'e in the
s‘yle of the Revue des Deux Mondes.
We couldn’t resist it. “ I say,” sid a clean
little pro. to us the oth® day ; *' t. vs got an off*’’ i > g>
up to Bathurst with a Variety *how. What’ll Id' P”
Our reply’came like a flash : •* Walk back."
Up Mudgee way the boss of a Little Bethel in
concluding tbe Thursday evening’s services said —“ I
shall'old forth ntx' Sunday in the Hodd Fellers Awl ”
And then ho wout uway to teach at the night School.
A curious fact. There are arriving at this time
in Sidney, Urge quantities of txbansted toa, and ex-
hausted new chuuis. ‘I he trouble is that though we
cm drink the former, the latter can drink, themselves.
The police are on the alert in Dublin. Since the
murder of Lord C" n. s Cavendish and Mr. Burke an
old man. who ha boon employed In the Pbcenix Paik
for tbiity Las boou arrested by mistake sixteen
times.
A chief of a certain Department has an inveterate
mania for borrownw fl on*. " Come and dine with me,”
said he, tho oth <r d y, lo a subordinate. " Can’t afford
it, dear boy.” was u. ropl/ ; “ wait till the Ist of tha
month.”
John Davies, like tho other old fox, tries to make
a virtue of necessity and takes credit for cutting off
his own tall. However, Parkes kicked him downstairs
with snob infinite gruoo ua . Johu thought ho was
being shown up.
Arabi Bey declares he is the Sultan’s faithful
servant; ready to go a-, nice to Constantinople, or
obey Lis ma-ter in everything possible when he knows
the reason why Arabi ivm.a never do for a Cabinet
Minister uudor Parkt ».
“J. White,” of Ke.oiit-stree‘, appears to be
singularly unfortunate u <>>» . He advertises
thus in a rectnt Evening Commissi ver:— "Lost, the
9tb, bUck and wl ice goat, rope <• . neck. Reward.
J. White, 61 Regent-street.” Poor fellow ! Lost eight
already 1
Goldsmith wrote :
“ But a bold yeomanry, its country's pride.
When once destroyed can never be supplied."
But then there ware no erysipelas hospitals in the days
of poor genial ngly Noll.
O long-suffering public, read this. A case was
heard in the District Court, Sydney, the other day,
involving an amount of £6. The bill presented by the
successful lawyer (for the coats on one side only, mind
you) was £153, and this was, oa taxation, reduced by
the Prothonotary to £7l.
The San Francisco Sunday traders defeated the
Sabbatarians some years ago by allowing themselves to
bo summoned to the number of 900, and each claiming a
jury. An attempt is attain made to enforce an old law,
and 600 have been snmmoned.
A hundred and fifty Chinese were entertained at
a tea-flght in St. Andrew’s schoolroom the other even-
ing, and wero afterwards "addressed” by Dean Cowper.
John didn’t suvca the Dean’s “ pitch,*’ and didn’t like
the tea supplied by the white trash.
Mr. Marsh, S.M., has decided that a sawing
machine is not one cf the "necessaries’* which a wife
may order and her husband bo compelled to pay for.
This is the view we ourselves have always taken. Every
woman should be her husband’s sewing-machine.
The Eov. Gribble couldn't attend a tea-fight the
other day, because he was •* prostrated." What a man
* or praying Grib, is, to be sure. Not even mnfflus
could tempt him away from his devotions. This is
evidently a serious case—a case for “ Sally Lunns.”
This is how the Land Act works out West.
Carpenter, about ereoting dummy improvements, to
squatter: “ A forty-pound house, 1 suppose, sir.”
squatter; "Of course not, a twenty-pound one will do
for me; I’ll square it right with So-and-so”! And he
did.
It wasn’t much. He only lay with his head in
the fender, the lobe of his right ear charred as black as
a coal, his lower Jip split, aal a true wound in his scalp
the length of a pencil. He had musingly announced Id
as his intention, when Parliament sit, tv, support the
Marriage with a Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill. That’s
all.
When it was proposed to “ address ” Sir Henry
Parkes at Wagga, the local Express asked" Shall
we, Caligula-like, throw more gilded oats to the pam-
pered horse, and docilely hand the eagle-crowned ivory
sceptre to one who actually requires the whalebone
and steel of honest criticism to serve him to useful
action ? ”
The ore w of H. M. S. Penelope having been exposed
to severe cold and wet, the captain, on the doctor's ad-
vice, served out extra cocoa, which cost six shillings.
The Admiralty was f truok with consternation at such
txtravagance, and after a roomful of clerks had written
a hundred or two of letters and minutes, the captain
vc s rebuked.
Old Mr. Dease, of the Macleat Herald, is
not «. i( d He is going to lecture at Kempsey for the
ia, a 1) benefit of the Hospital. Title:—Personal
Reminiscences of over 50 years (III). If this pitch is
as long as it promises to be, there will be before the
end of it, a goed many mote “ Dease ” heard in the
hall than the lecturer.
When Lieutenant Rose was in Cooktown he
asked, for the performance of one of his tricks, the loan
of a hat. He was banded up one, and then said—
" From this hat I shall now proceed to draw a num-
ber of useful articles. Then he turned it rim up.
tapped it with a pipe case, and the crown fell
out. It was the hat of a reporter.
Mistress : “ I am at last compelled to speak to
you about your misdemeanour, Bridget.” Bridget«
•* Mister Maynour 1 What do you mane, you black-
hearted woman ? I don’t know anything about a
Mister Maynour, as you call him. The only boy I ever
had in tbe kitchen was the constable, and I brought him
down one evenin’ to settle the gas-mater.”
When an Ipswich solicitor bowled down the
street in his new turn-out, an apple-cart drawn by a
pony, the school children Insisted on reckoning him one
of the oirons visitors, and followed in troops. Charles
has put on an extra coat of war-paint, and the local
schoolmasters are investigating the charges be bos laid
against the ungodly children who chinked him.
This is how they put it :—“ The favor of the com-
pany of is cordially invited to a Complimentary
Tea Banqnet, tendered to John Davies, C.M.G., M L. A.,
by earnest friends of that Gentleman. The Banqnet
will be held oa Tuesday, the 15th instant, at the Tbtn-
peranoe Hall. Several well-known Gentlemen will
address the meeting at the conclusion of the Tea.
Tea on the Table at 7 p.m.”
Owing to the war with Egypt, nothing was heard
for some weeks of either the sea-serpent or the bunyip.
Russian explosive news was for a time mnoh overdue,
and intelligence re Bailey’s wars with the Wizzle-
Wozzle, the D. T’s. " skull-brain-and-mind,” damnable-
tyranny-under-whioh-wo-groan, ” and •• anti-Sweet-
William *' yarns have been a drug in the market.
Thus “Wrecker:”—“ Coin must be aoaroe in
the metropolis when • nearly £2O ’ is spoken of by the
Sydney dailies as * a considerable sum of money.'"
" Wrecker” forgets that the reporters and not the
proprietors write the paragraphs. However, there
does happen to he, in Sydney, one daily whose proprie-
tors would think a lot of £2o made out of their paper.
There are lost in Sydney and advertised for with
the respective awards of £1 and £llos , a girl and a
gold bracelet. Under these significant circumstances
we would take, for choice, the bracelet. That is unless
the lost girl happens to have found the lost bracelet.
If, however—but circumstances of a domestic nature
might render the conclusion of this par—, besides It’s"
time to go out with the perambulator.
The breeze blew, his hat flew, and then the
Botany tram made hash of it. "Never mind, old
man,” called out the guard, " lucky it wasn’t your
head.” " I’d rather it was,” replied the victim. sadly,
as he mopped up his tears with a partly-finished
Morning Boh sub-leader, ” because I could get a head
like this from anyone gratis, but where the deuce
can I get another hat on the same terms P
A Collingwood constable giving evidence res-
pecting tbe capture of two " suspects,” the other day,
opened the presiding worships* eyes as big as two soup
plates by saying, "I arrested the prisoners at the bar,
handcuffed them both together, an' thin walked on
bitween thim .” After that feat, wo don’t think much
of the rope-tying tricks of Kellar. But it’s wonderful
what a policeman can do—whin he throye.
The other day, the Russian Countess Marso-
susewsnoff attended a Drawing-room, and the Lord
Chamberlain announced her as the Countess Mash,
room-toffee. Five hours later ha received a diamond
ring from the Countess with several millions, os a re-
ward for getting so near to it. We have lots of these
little Society items on hand, and are open to supply the
same wholesale, retail, and for exportation.
THROWN TO THE WOLVES!
PAINFUL SACRIFICE OF PAERES’ BABY!


At the Banquet. M.P. to waiter “ clearing np :
•• D jn’t take that plat* of tarts. I want it for Mrs. — j”
she's in the gallery.”
The most serious casualty to any of the vessels
engaged in bombarding Alexmdria seems to have been
the catting away of the Invincible's braces. This would
naturally expose her stern to the enemy.
J. C. Williamson lately declined to engape an
actor who was at one time connected with the Koyal
Morgue theatre on the plea that he generally required
to be so strongly supported. No italics, please, dear
print er.
Some giggling was caused at a suburban church,
the other night, while the soprano was warbling the
solo of ** Where shall I lav my weary head ?*’ A yonng
man in the Pnrte Department was patting his chest
furiously, but the would not see it.
A big dog went to church at Tamworth last
Sunday, and as s >on as the collection commenced, he
sat down by the lectern and commenced a prolonged
bowl. At this moment 350 people stampeded from the
s aored edifice. They mere so afraid of the dog•
There was a “ candle lecture,'*’ the other night,
at a suburban ohuroh, and the speaker, in traversing
from candles to firs, exclaimed “Where would we be
without fireP ” A juvenile in the back seats squeaked
forth, “At home in hell." He was "spotted,” and
lost 4000 marks forthwith.
The editor of the Kiama Independent
pathetically chronicles the gilt to him by the F.M.’s
gardener of a 141b*weight cauliflower. " It was,” he
softly remarks, “a clean closely-packed tender flewer,
and Mr. Cunningham assart us he has quite recently
cat them 181b. and over.” Yes, alas I it "waat“
A rule has been made in England that in a
criminal trial a prisoner may address the Jury after
his counsel. Only, however, the greenhorrs avail
themselves of the privilege. The old hands " nervously
finger their wntoh-ehains,” and "look tearfully at a
female in black who is sobbing in the body of the
court.”
Says the S.M. Heeald’s telegram from Cook-
tawu ;—" Captain Webb, while boohe-da-mer fishing,
shot two natives, on account of others pilfering." This
seems a rather dangerous principle surely. WeTl next
have a 1) T. man going oat with a gun to shoot Mr.
William Forster, on account of others humbugging the
people and plundering the colony.
Daring the great debate at the School of Arts,
Maitland, on the opening of the museums and libraries
on Sunday, Mr. Porter spoke forty minutes in a frothy
way. lienee — «
Colonial Ale is sometimes stale,
And often makes one ill,
But. uncorked Porter would make life shorter,
And is more injurious still.
Mike was a seventy-footer, and his mate Mick
was barely up to the level of the sea. Camping ont
one night. Mink woke up and reached for matches. On
every side of him there were snores. Wondering where
the visitors came from, he crept over the nearest man,
piled up soma bushes on tho smouldering fire, and then
found that it was only Mike who had drawn up his
knees for warmth, and raked him into the circle.
The Noose has surpassed itself. It recently
displayed with jobbing type the headings of a Bangui-
nary Egyptian battle in which three were slaughtered,
but on Saturday it comes out with a par. labelled
" Siibhp-steauno Extraordinary,” when the prisoner
only stole five wethers. Since these staggerers, all the
nervous old ladles in the suburbs have been praying to
goodness there won't bo a oatflght in Pitt street.
Our latest home intelligence says : “ Cetewayo
has produced a favourable impression on the various
public men with whom he has been brought into contact
since his arrival.” This Is precisely what was said of
the 'Ero of a hundred feeds, our Hip 'Eury. 8o soon
forgotten! And bis place supplied by an offensively
smelling “ nigger” with a whitewashed head, snd a
wart on his nose as big as a calabash I Such is fame I
There is nothing like being sanguine. A recent
number of the Tamworth Nbws contains the following
p ar . : —« The Tamworth News reaches the 1000th issue
t<>d ly. We have not fulfilled our aspirations, or nearly
■o; but hope to inaugurate a newer and better state of
things with the first number of our eleventh volume.”
From this we infer that the dreams of both the advance
Variety Show agent and the travelling dentist are
over.
Wehave received a fragment in rhyme, entitled
" Bough, Part I,” which is preceded by an introduction
stating that, the last six verses were rejected contume-
liously by the editor of tho Sydney Mail. All we can
sar is that what the Sydney Mail rejects is, if
Bough” be a sample, even worse than what it pub-
lishes. This is admitting a good deal of course, but
we must be candid. We have filed “ Baugh,” that being
the only appropriate treatment.
A TENTEBFIELD ITEM.
There was a man they call M Gauran,
Whose missis a bouncing girl bore un;
In this vale of tears
He had waited nine years,
Sa he got very tight did M Qauran—
But the Tenterfleld beak,
With his tongue in bis cheek,
Tho father discharged with a (hie) Qauran.
From the Herald Notice : I, Mrs. Johnny
Walker, apologise to Bridget Hooligan for tho unoalied-
fur words that I expressed towards her character, and
us regret much, not being capable at the time of their
meaning. (Signed) Mary Ann Smithjb.”
The former did the latter pay
The grudge that, lo, she owed her;
But what is this apology P
Dire penitence ?—-or soda ?
A writer In the Mail, who recently slept in the
Model Lodging House, makes, in the course of his report,
the following statement: “It was good amusement to
see all the different ways of lying adopted.” Fancy a
man belonging to a Sydney newspaper having to sleep
in a Model Lodging House to become amused with the
d.ffvrent ways of lying adopted. Evidently this gentle-
man's occupations will not permit him the leisure te
study even the cablegrams of some of our contempo-
raries.
“ I say, boas, trust us for a bottle of rum till I
come bags,’’ said a seedy-looking individual, evidently
just over a spree, to the landlord of a wayside pub. ont
vVest. 'Where are yon going on to ‘graft’?" asks
Boniface. *• Oh, I'm one of the itinerant bush parsons,
and I guess I'll be able to knoik a decent pile out of the
shearers down the river, and 1*11 give you a call as I
come back ” He got the rum, and the publican got the
shearers’donations towards " tho good cause *' on his
return.
Prom a N.Z. country paper: “ Old Mr. Sims, of
Newtown, was married the other day, making his third
i latrimonial venture. The wedding cake was made at
G inning’s establishment. Mr. Canning also manufac-
tured the cakes incidental to Mr. Sims' previous con-
noblations.” Our bucolic contemporary forgets to say
what parson usually marries Old Mr. Sims. Also who
U “Old Mr. Sims’” undertaker, and whether he
works for him at ordinary trade prices or by special
uontroct.
A debate arose in the N.Z. Parliament in which
Ir. Bracken, Mr. Pish, and Mr. Dick joined. It sprung
om Mr. Fish quoting from an old Scottish song—
•< Behave yourself afore folk,” &o.,
vlr. Bracken was challenged to back up his professed
. cowlodge by ringing the song, and he complied. This
vows came too late for our Op> ning, or M'Elhone would
■svewired for tho music and hadit sung lungs all round.
I'hsre would at least have been os much in it as in the
•lovernct’s Speech.
A now chum recently called at a Sydney parson-
ge near church time with a letter of introduction, and
■ i ter the conversation had commenced, the bells rang
. nt a merrie peal. "Your father, young man,” said
»e parson, “was one with whom I lived in amity.
Pue fountain of bonevolenoe is one of tho purest
ittributes ” — “Here, hold on old fellow,” oried the
mw arrival, "those belli are making such a of a
vow, I’m hanged if I can hear a word yon say.” "Jane,
st ow the gentleman out.”
The N Z. Government whip is an energetic man.
Oa a recent "off day” ho determined to ascertain, if
poesible, the cause of the offensive smells which per-
vade the buildings. He crept up the ventilat .rs and
ound them cracked and split in many places. These
piss along tho sowers from the water-closets and other
outhouses. The stench gets heated passing along, and
is wafted to the Chamber. The rest can be imagined.
In Sydney also, curiously enough, tho Givemment
whip is "underground engineer ”
It is pleasing to find Tme Express has at last
clutched Dame Fortune’s tail, and is rapidly over,
hauling her, stride by stride. Already a branch office
has been opened in an old kerosene tin in Hay-street,
and this week we read: " Glorious success 1 The good
can so advances I Another subscriber atded ! Brvan
O'Eonrke remits 3s. 2d G>d bless yon, Bryan ” This
will make the editor of the Protestant Pltjgger as
happy as if he had jnst swallowed a pair of rival cats,
or a small spring-bottom mattrass.
Gushes the Armidale Carbuncle : —“ Imme-
diately the Hon Robert Wisdom commenced to speak,
the sun which had previously been obsonrred (sic) by
clouds, shone out in splendour.”
This penad’s worth, it is by gad 1
From Wisdom many a Gov’ment ad.
The style is perfect—and so telling.
That one can quite forgive the spelling!
Ah, how that editor’s heart does throb j
He wonders how he’ll *‘ take it—Bob.”
The members of the Tam worth Local Board of
Education received the following letter in done, 1878,
from a man who thought they bad been trying to shelve
some complaint:—'" Gentlemen,—Thanks for your
interesting and humorous letter. I fully appreciate
your pleasant jest about duty; of course when duty
and interest clash, duty must give way. Venerable
relics of antiquity, write again. lam always delighted
to hear the playful and innocent prattle of second
infancy.—l remain, venerable remnants, very respect-
fully, &3."
Parson Hosken went up to Fountaiasville (Q.),
made a collection of All Os. 61., and was witness to
•thq exodus of Chinese miners." He says the miners
honourably escorted the Chinamen ont of the place. So
did the Egyptians the Jews, bat the latter borrowed
the tin of the former, while John goes ont of the un-
promising land without tin, though—"honourably es-
sorted.’’ But Hosken has his £ll Os 61. The rev gentle-
man evidently had his eye-teeth ont, and knows how to
interpret the Gospel according to the ideas of the white
tin-miners.
At school. Class of small beys around teacher.
Subjeoti The History of Nations. Teacher i "Now,
first boy, can yon tell me the name of a great general—
one who commands, and is obeyed ? ” First boy:
"Porkcs, ma'am” "Next.” “Bignold.” "Next.”
Third boy : " Please ma’am, Sir Garnet Wolseley ”
" Good : to up. Now, fourth boy j another.” Fourth
boy: "Moses, mam.” Teacher (after considering);
Ye-ea j but why Moses ? ” Fourth boy • " ’Cause they
both go in for spoiling the ’Gyptians, mum " Murmur,
and curtain.
The S. M. Herald has anew gore-and-miaery
man who, in describing how one Mary Ann Thompson,
the unfortunate victim of a railway accident, was found
lying on the ground in the back yard of a store at Ash-
field, says that “the injury” was to the knee of one of
her legs, it being severely braised and hurt, though ap-
parently no fracture of the bona had been sustained.”
Wo are Inexpressibly delighted to learn that the knee
of Mary Ann’s arm wasn’t damaged, and we can’t help
reflecting how terrible mignt have been the consequences
had she sustained a compound fracture of the elbow of
her ear.
A carter passed through Gundagai the other day
with two-nnu-a-half tons of Chinamen’s bones whloh
had keen dug up for exportation to the Flow«ry Land.
By the way, it appears that before John sends home a
friend's skelotoa he soaks the bones in gin We ars
told that this is because Confuoius, who was a prophet,
saw what was coming, and wished his people to stand
clear of Jehu Davies’ cold-water crowd at ths general
resurrection. When white men exhume their friends
they don’t soak ths bones in gin. The friends always
take oars to do that thoroughly tor themselves before
they die.
They had no children, and she yearned to adopt
one. Tie never denied his wife anything willingly, no
one morning he brought home a lovely little six-
months-old baby and laid it at her feet. That was on
her birthday. When the next anniversary of her
nativity came round, another little cherub was found
one morning en the dining-room hearth-rug. It was
only when a third was discovered by her husband oa
the doorstep that she cried * a go.” Nothing was said
on either side; but within a week those three cherubs
were all comfortably ooarded —eat. Not that, of
course . .
We should say that the editor of the Tamworth
News is very wicked. Ell Johnson was up there, the
other day, and the News calls him "an American person,
who, under the name of £ll Johnson, has recently ac-
quired considerable notoriety In dydneyj” and concludes
a ten-line par. by saying " Mr. Jehnson’s manner is very
unpleasing, which is all that need be said aoout him and
his peculiar ‘lecture.’” A perusal of this levity leads
us to what we take to be the only possible conclusion
on this subject—that is, if Mr. Eli Johnson goes to
heaven, the Tamwobtk News man will go to hell—
and i nice wersy.
It appears that our paternal Government oon-
tinues to supply defunct darkies with their annual
blanket. Would it not be judicious to add a few
pounds of “ tin tag” and a keg of “ Jamaiky P” Pro-
bably, however, the blanket is specially selected for
transmission to the "happy hunting grounds,” for its
known qualities as a non-conductor ( while it is antici-
pated that "ping ” or " pineapple” would be dissipated
before reaching the dormees. It’s a fact that a supply
of blankets for distribution to aboriginals is forwarded
from Sydney to a place the last blaokfellow belonging
to which was drowned years ago.
This is one of those awkward little stories, so
troublesome to “ toll,” and in which the "gentie reader”
must aid ns by bis lively imagination. A v»ry big alder-
manic functionary down at Hobart wai going home
rather late one Saturday night, when, seeing a charm-
ing •* unprotected,” he gallantly “saw her home.” It
was late when he said “good-bye at the door”—very
late. "What will you say to Mrs. ?’* saith the
syren. " Oh, I'll say I’ve been kept at the Club,”—and
he went. Monday morning, he sat on the bench, when,
lo 1 and behold, she was brought up before him. He
gave her "fourteen days,”—and away she want.
A terrible murder was recently committed
in London, the victim’s throat being cut from ear to
ear. The murderer's name is Alfred Burdett. He is
two years and eight months old. At the inquest he
pleaded the general issue, and cried for a squirt. A big
inkstand was near him, and he wanted to decorate the
ooronor. A verdict of “ wilful murder " was returned,
and he was conducted to the ceils breathing defiance
to the last. A chaplain was soon in attendance on him,
and in answer to the rev. gentleman’s question as to
what ho required, the desperado merely murmured—
well, we won’t say what he murmured. It was quite
natural.
Here’s a wrinkle culled from Archbishop
Vaughan’s organ, the Express, which clearly demon-
strates the baneful effects uf attending two sympathy
banquets during the same week: —" We have received
a tin of Martin and Co.’s Cremation Powder for des-
troying rats, mice, cockroaches, and all household
pests, and can, with safety, assure those who are troubled
with the above that it immediately destroys them, leav-
ing to smell whatever.” Suicide is therefore elevated
at last to a science. We trust the raverand gentleman
who first smooum bs to that presentation tin will find it
a howling suooers, and that when he steps out he will
leave no smell whatever.
The death sentence on Margaret Spillane, for
the murder of Michael Irwin at Toowoomoa, has been
commuted to imprisonment for life. Margaret will now
have an opportunity of learning the commandments,
and arriving at an approximate idea of who made her.
And when at last she pa ses away in the odour of
sanctity and hominy, her ghost will be able to meet
Mike’s upon the other shore and ask for a “ dhraw of
the pipe” without, blushing. And she will evan take
credit to herself and wax proud about her deed when
she sees how the slaughter of Mike has bettered hi*
condition, and that he wears a good white samite over-
shirt instead of the mud-stained moleskins of earth.
There is a man up North who has been married
five times. Cabinet portraits of the four “ dear de-
parteds ” adorn the walls of the sitting-room. Before
his present better-bait ho often dahcants on the various
good qualities of the other late Mrs. Browns Ic. these
terms; “Upon my life I never met anyone who could
make a beef steak pie like Maria ; and, as for idally,
she was a great hand at children’s cletbing, which, by
the way, used to save any amount of expense. Molly
was an fait at the piano; and, as for Rose—well,
’twonld be well for husbands if all wives had her sweet
temper.” This is the style of getting rid of bis help.
mate?. Nothing til's a woman sooner than to praise
ano her of her own sex.
The Plymouth Daily Mercury knows all
about nothing as usual, and in a farewell article to Sir
’Bnry says“ He left Warwickshire for the Antipodes
a poor and almost friendless lad. By the exercise of
his abilities, by unflagging industry and unimpeachable
probity, he has attained the highest position in the
colony ; and, what is more, has maintained it for many
year*." Kimberley’s parting words were, we are told, of
a milder, but far more valuable nature, as he simply
said : “ My friend—never assume airs, or in the idiom
of •* the finest country in the world," never put on
frills, but always remember when there’s trouble about
tint the rat with the shortest tail gets down the hole
first. Ta ta. Bon voyage."
This is a faot. “We are in the place where,”
Ac. Recently an appeal was made by a Parramatta
parson to his congregation to " ante-up ” for the en*
Isrgement fnnd. Several gentlemen gave £IOO, £2O,
£lO, Ac , anonymously, as they didn’t wish their wives
to know it, not caring to argue oat the hat question
sixteen hours out of the twenty-four for the next six
months On going to chnrch the next Sunday, each of
these eentlemen found a circular iu his pew, to the
effect that the price of the sitings had been increased.
The parson had railed the rent on all likely marks—
including, of coarse, the philanthropists. These gentle-
men now go to church at the—it would bo libellous to
say what hotel. They find it comes cheaper.
This is a moral tale. The little boy who stole
twepenoa from his mother’s purse and bought a
cheroot with his 111-gotten gains oame to a sad end. As
he was gradually making himself sick with the bad
smoke, he saw bis grandmother coming along the
street. Not wishing her to recognize him, he stuck the
lighted cheroot into his pocket, where he bad stowed
the gunpowder purloined from hil father’s sheoting
flask. Consequent upon the subsequent flare-up, the
old lady did not recognize the boy, though, when she
put her specs on, she bad an idea that one of the but-
tons rescued from the debris was identical with th*t
which she had sewn on Tommy’s pants that very morn-
ing. Tommy did not go to school that week—he had a
box seat at a funeral.
She wanted an invitation to a certain Dean’s
party, where royalty was to bo present; so she wrote
to the Dean’s wife saying that she had been delighted
on the last Sunday with her husband’s beautiful sermon
at St. Hisdmnmy’s, and wished to know if he intended
to publish it, and if so, where could she procure the
treasure She concluded by asking gushingly for a
card. She received a reply by post from the Dean’s
wife to the effect that the Dean hadn’t preached for a
fortnight, and that the sermon in question had Veen
delivered bv a stammering young curate in an exec ruble
manner. The Daaness further said that sbe would aek
her husband if he intended to publish the sermon in
question, but didn't think it likely. And furthermore,
not another card would the Dsan issue, despite her
fervent entreaties, etc. Crashed 1
Parkes has set about defending himself against
unpatriotic aspersers. During his opening debate Mr.
Stuart said that the country was anxious to get some
work done, whereupon Sir Henry rose and said .—What
I like is;Btraightforwardnes?, and if I have time I shall
go at it. The hon member has nothing but a mass of
confused Ideas. The hon. member is straightforward
and I repeat I like it. I don't think we have delayed
calling Parliament together, and every one knows me,
and John tried to put dewa dummying long ago. The
hon. member’s speech about lead, waterworks, looal
governments, education, and mining "need no reply."
What I want to know is, ” Do you want to put kb
out f That’s what I want to know." We’ve been In
session two thirds of the Parliament. What more do
yon wantP-Aul am I not come back P (Ministerial
cheers.)
In Auckland, a man and his wife, who were
blessed with four children, took in a lodger. Later on.
the lodger took in the husband. The husband
" dropped," and refused to supply any more hash to
the boarder. Next day, boarder, wife, and kids were
missing. Ten days later, the quondam lodger wrote,
making a fall confession of his fault, and offering, as
reparation, t# send back two of the kids. No answer
being sent, be wrote again and agreed to supplement
hia former offer by another child, a silver locket, and a
pair of the wronged man’s wellingtons, taken away by
mistake in the hurry of the flight. This not being
accepted, he wrote agreeing to return the whole of the
s oleu property, giving in three pounds in silver, a eord
of wool (just ordered), five bath tcwels and a box-iron.
This offer was at ooca closed with, and now the once
happy family are again united.
A man named William Smith, living at Clyffe,
Ragland, has the misfortune to ta married. Bis wife
recently presented him with font young Smiths atonoe,
making six of them within eleven months. When the
kids were a few days old, William alouohed round to
the parson and asked it he couldn’t have another wife,
as the one he had was not able to look after the whole
family. The clergyman said he couldn’t, but should
engage a nurse. " Bat the place is so small," urged
William; "if I could marry another It wouldn't
matter." “ Impossible,” cried the clergyman, and
dismissed him. Then poor Smith walked away deep in
gloomy thought. Suddenly, however, a bright idea
seized him. And, with a smile on hia lips as broad as
a oheeeeplate, ha went to the office of the looal paper,
and put in the following ad“ Wanted a plump young
person who has been brought up on strictly Christian
principles. One who has been in the choir preferred."
At Burketown, on the Gulf of Carpentaria, a man
whose leg was to be amputated bargained with the sur-
geon that the latter should receive in consideration for
the operation the sum of £2s—the local batcher to got
two guineas for the loan of his meat-saw; the doctor
and butcher each to have a bottle of rum at the patient’s
expense an hour a'ter the operation—the leg to become
the property of AiUoulaplus. Well, after the operation
had been duly performed, and the rum and leg delivered
according to contract, the medico, with a devotion to
science only to be met in the Gulf country, pat the limb
into a vessel to macerate; but bo managed to get drank
for about two months at a stretch, and forgot all about
the mnoh-prized anatomical specimen, which, after a
while, was thrown cut by his black hoy. When the
patient heard of this occurrence, he sent word to the
doctor that the log was to be found and burled— *' for,”
he remarked, “ a man don't tike t« see bis remains kick-
ing about town like that."
This is what took place at a Lachlan land office,
the other day. An innocent son of Brin, in his anxiety
to secure a coveted piece of land, put in, by advice, in
addition to bis own, two dummy applications. He
handed over his own genuine one, and the money, and
then passed in the dummies. “ Bat, shure," says the
land agent, " they’re not signed, me man." " Oh, be*
dad. I'll soon fix that,” was the reply. In a few
minutes the applications are presented signed. " But,"
again interposes the jolly agent, “ where’s the money,
now ?" •• Money I" roars the applicant, “ faith, didn.t
I pay ye wid me own P'* 11 And so," laughs the agent.
" yo want three lots of land for one lot of money ?’*
“Oh, faix, now," put in the other; "ye know well the
three lots are only just the self-same won ; 'an couldn’t
ye, now, manage it for me P" Poor Patrick, however,
had to hang on his one ohanoe, for he hadn’t the
•■stiff," and, when the billot oame, a rich “ tquattab,”
who had a dozen dummies in, got the block.
The Yass Courier used to be one of the most
sensible of country papers. This doesn't imply much,
but it implies something. Since poor J. J, Brown, the
former editor, died, it has, we regret to say, lost that
little sense, and shown symptoms of tottering down
into the depths of dismal idiocy. In an account it gives
of a gun accident that happened on the Yass River, last
Sunday fortnight, wherein it states that the young man
who was shot “ may loose (sic) the use of one of his Tegs,"
it concludes with the cheerful and charitable remark,
" This (and we say it without any reflection on the un-
fortunate young man) is the result of such sport on a
Sunday. ’’ Now, what wo want to know is whether ihe
flap-eared gnome who wrote this doesn’t himself squirm
oat his literary mash on a Sunday. If he does, tnea he
is liable at any moment to a more
than the “ unfortunate poor man " he speaks of, in that
his sport is of the same kind, only more villainous—
for it is calculated to oause intellectual death to all
snob residents of Yass as may plunge into the miasmatic
muck of sanctimonious nightmare.
Let us again trot out the venerable joke. The
other and ly, at the laying of the foundation stone of Bev.
T. J. Cnrtis’ new church, the bottle buried contained
copies of the Evening News, the Stdnet Morning
Herald, Daily Telegraph, the Presbyterian, the
Kedferh 1 hues, and Protestant Standard. The Rev.
Mr. Curtis explained that there would be no tempta-
tion for any evil-disposed parson to remove the stone,
as no coins would be placed underneath it. This state.
meat should secure for the rev. gentleman the undying
enmity of the proprietors of all the newspaper*
mentioned, which were buried because they were dead
Thh Bulletin is not dead, and were it interred, it
would roil the stone from off its grave in no time. An
ordinary church couldn’t rest on the tomb of this
paper, which would get up and squirm at the bosh
talked by the average parson. lu short, The Bulletin
doesn't go in for rot. By the way, when Miss M’Eihone
deposed in the Supremo Court, the other day, that the
late Mr. Browne used to fall asleep when he read the
newspaper, the Jndge enquired: •’What paper, Misa
M'Elhone?" “The Stdnet Morning Herald, your
Honor," replied the vivacious young lady.
It’s lucky for some people that the world is sin-
ful. In Cincinnati, the •* Boy Harrison" has u ade 1,800
converts in three months, and built himself a brown
stone house on a corner lot. There is no record we
believe as to how many converts Mr. J. Cook has made
since the commencement of his disinterested tour 0 f
the Colonies. There is a slight difference in the modus
epemndi of theae two holy persons. Harrison aaks you
t ) oome to glory as soon as yon can And time, and then
wrestles while the latest convert skips round with the
soup-plate. Joseph doesn’t ask you to go anywhere in
particular, and collects the “sugar" before yon pass
Inte the show. Then Joe, unlike the “ hoy Harrison,"
doesn’t linger. He scoops it in, and is away; his bill,
sticking aid advacea agent being always busily
empleyed in hilling and pitching in the next
town. Even though he knows of a sinner whom he
hasn’t quite yarded, he can’t stay. Nothing less
than a viee-regal command would keep him one day
away from the next place on circuit. So Joseph has no
time either to buy a corner lot or build a house. H e
is hare and ha is gone. Bat pressed though he is in
the business of conversion, Joe has never been known
to go away in such a hurry as to leave the receipts bo.
hind.
If we have a weakness (and we don’t admit to
many), It is for hysterically admiring articles in other
papers. Sometime#— when we can understand it—our
admiration is enslaved by a D. T. leader. At other
times, we ponder lovingly (when we Lave deciphered it)
upon one of Alfred’s poems; but our new idol is out of
Australia entirely. And it ia—we softly simper we,
write—a lady. She calls herself Olive Logan, and if
the London correspondent of the ’Fiasco Cali. She
is writing about what she calls •• The Carriage of the
Emp. ese Queen” ; and this la the delicious nectar she
doles out to her readers i—" It fthe carriage] drove
rapidly, the riders closing up ia serried ranks upon the
cortege as It passed, adding to its imposing character,
until it reached the marble gate with the delicate Cor-
inthian frieze, at Hyde Park corner, where the Queen
left the tunicv hmrerynesa of the park behind her, and
hied h<* straight to Buckingham’s* great pile." The
Princess Beatrice, she emphatically states, won’t
marry Pnnoe Frederick of Hesse. On this point Olive
gives the straightest possible griffin in these terms
” Beatrice marry him I pa rdiou /No, no; Not for Beal”
The sense in which Mias (or mother) Logan uses “par-
dieut‘ is amusing. The expletive, of course, means
"eertainly I" or •' rather I" but Olive in writing “par.
ehett, no, no," evidently wishes to imply politely—' No,
no, by <3 ." Wo wonder whether Olive Logan was
born in Dabbs f
Advance Warwiek, Q.! The magistrates of
that city have fined a circus-band for playing in the
Municipality. Gus. St. Leon entered the town in the
usual manner, the pre eMelon headed by the band, when,
In a crack, all the musicians were brought before the
beak. After being detained some time, while the Bench
conferred as to whether a charge of conspiracy to pro-.
dnee discord could be entertained, the case was called
on. On the big drum being asked what he had to sa;
for himself, that performer, while asking tor mercy on
account of having already broken bis right arm in tbe
service, did not deny that he "slogged in whenever!!
occurred to him it would sound well." The cornet
could not asserc that tbe sounds he produced were
Levi-tical, but he asked the Bench to deal lightly with
him, as tne tentmen were always losing their mallete,
and borrowing hU instrument to hammer in tbe tent-
pegs with. The clarionet having on oath deposed thet
he only “pretended to play," was discharged with a
caution) and the bassoon, on calling their worships'
attention to the fact that no proceedings were taken
against tbe proprietors of the local sawmill, was bourn!
over in his own recognizance to keep the peace towards
all Her Majesty’s deat subjects, in the sum of several
millions, for his natural life. The res*, we believe (oof
message was rather "mutilated in transmission I”),
were sentenced to imprisonment for life—with the
alternative of laughing nightly for a week at the clown’s
jokes. The alternative was indignantly declined.
Avery funny ad. appears in Tuesday’s edition
of tbe Evening Model Printer. A South Australia?
chemist, in advertising a nostrum, quotes two testi-
monials, both from literati (!) .- one being from a scriU
once known to Sydney, and the other from the editor
of the Qawler v tandard, a penny weekly which con-
tains rather leas reading-matter than a circus poster.
The editor’s testimonial commences as follows:-'
*’ Gawler, Mareh 29th, 1881.—Dear Sir,— During »>
extended career os a journalist and Uteratewr (sic) 1 have
frequently suffered trom brain weariness. . . BB<l
stages that his indigestion was cured; a statement
which makes us regret that the panacea had not an
equally beneficial effect upon his spelling. A casual
gianoe at tbe Standard will convince anyone that the
panacea has not, as yet, had any effect on the editor s
brain. Hera is some of what the Sydney scribe saysi—
"Since I got your panacea, however, I am pleased’o
eay that my slight attacks have absolutely gone, while
ia my wife r s case, one or two cases always gives relio'i
and there are no signs of the aothmathical (sic) '
tiou. Your specific is, I feel sure, a great boon, and i
have no doubt that whan it becomes known in M 6 *
booth Woles it will be favourably received as in S jUtß
Australia. With kind regards, believe me, y° BB
sincerely." If it takes as muob as one or two case 9 to
give relief, we are afraid to think what quantity 1
would requite to absolutely cure her! We sincere '/
trust, however, that our friend ia on the free list
the medicine I And, somehow or other, we —ahem \—
think he is.
John Davies’ bun and biscuit gorge was a very
inconsistent affair. The movement nad resolveddtsc
into a teetotal eonoern, and the lock, slock, and burro
was in soma shape or other connected with the reccn
temperance agitation. Most of those present, whetn
as guests, or spectators, were (iood Tempiars: ’
wonder of wonders I the chairman was Mr. Aleerso <
wko is by no means a teetotaller. He, though a too
estimable person and a sober, looked as much out
place as Beelzeebub would havolooked at a oouvoeat
of bishops. But they couldn’t get anyone else, fur
good and holy Ebeuezer Vickery had bached out J
carefully gave the “iron-railings," the "orphans its
tickets,’ 1 tbe “ diamond ring," and the *’ 00ua1 1..., e ,
hats’’ questions the go-by, and droned away ia® .
quentlaliy on every other subject, fastening
io the ooat-tails of the Brenner whenever he gv> ,
slightest opening. Few Orangemen attended tbe
the fraternity having, it is said, for the most pm J-
eluded that "his nibs" ha* been playing a donb -f
with them. Only two of the boasted 28 members
turned to last Parliament by this organization » in .
themselves when “ the friends of the cause «rj,jia
vited to "roll up” and save the drowning rBX - g.
one man was leading "poetry” addressed i- tJia
Beid, someone cried out, " Sing it! rn oui
orator only opened more widely the ot
üby se he uses as a mouth. No music caa i 0 tv , n ., e wio
more than oat of a chimney. One or two of
croaked at the affair prognosticated « Ber “ Sc( i lno y l and.
damnation for the senior member for East y
H. Beid.
RASPBEREY JAM.
PRELUDE
In a London paper wo have read it,
'Tie another pleasant little sham.
For the troth we fear it must have credit.
It is how they mix up raspb’ry jam.
Thb Excise.
Take gooseb’ries that are much decayed
(’Tie most with them that jam is made),
Black currants that have festered long
In boxes that are very strong.
Take (for appearances this needs)
A lot of damaged garden seeds ;
Eotaniline then, you must try
(This is, yon know, the coal-tar dye).
Of ra»pb r ry jnic* don’t take one drachm.
Or it won't look Uk» rasph’ry jam I
The Trade.
This mixture—so the par. does run—
Is daily shipped Oft by the ton;
And has—poor reader, you’ll turn pale f
A very large Colonial sale.


CITY CATERING G
315 GEORGE STEE:
A NEW CATERING C
Comprised of professional workman
tical experience, nearly all from the 1
of Compagnonl and Co., who perse
and carry on the working of the b
general manager.
It is not a public company, and the
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th Ai
gftccesSfelly entered THE LANGES
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE
hare taken place here to the present
The Consular Linnet in our new bai
Hia Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, f<
and Banquets, and all Entortalnmi
His Worship the Major’s Ball, fc
Building, at which his Worship, J
ttuned their R.H.’s PEINCE ALBJ
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officer
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Const!tutior
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.B.W. Constitutu
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.'s PEINCE ALB
to Lithgew Valley Minos and Zi
Russe, for 00, in Government Pala
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen's Statue Demonstration —ui
NOTICE, only receiving the ordo:
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. th
Visit of THEIR E.H.’s PRIN<
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Lai
Botany Bay. Picnio luncheon a:
100, under VEEY SHORT NOT!
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the sp
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress' reception, Tow
The (Union Club) ** Bachelor’s B
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge W
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Russe at St. Paul’s Colie
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Russe to the lutercc
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment
gentlemen, at the turning of the i
Bros.’ Hew Railway Rolling Sto<
villo.
The Luncheons and Refreshment 1
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resrechment
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of 3
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Engly
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of P
Dinners, 1 easts, &0., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMPf
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Q 1
and all requisites for Balls, Picnici
end will bo glad to send out the
i' astry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confine
Civil and attentive waiters alv
services required.
Wo have in our possession letter
high standing in the city, com pi:
manner we have performed the dut
CBAS. K. BM]
(Late of the firm of the original C<
MALT BIT
The great Cure for Indigestion
Complaint, Weakness, Ac.
PRICE 7! ...
A. G. K EBB CiEWHITE, (
i 3 Erskine Btr
AND
W. H. SOUL, Pitt
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET
CUBES
ALL STOMACHIC DiSAES
Consumption
Acidity
Heartburn
(m
Registered Trale 5
f'ULL at the KOUMISS MAN U
Department of lid
Sydney,
LIST of Applications receiv(
merit of Mines, for permisi
roads, &0., <&o., under the Minir
tion 28.
ARTI
Drte of Application, July 21, 18
G. M. Lamach ; Under the Parram
Rivera ; 610 acr»« ; To mine for coa
Date of Application, Jclv 21,1882
M. Larne eh; Under the Parrama
River*: 640 acres; To mine for coal
Data of Application July 21,1882
Larnaoh ; Under the Parramatta an
640 acres; To mins for eoai.
Date of Application, July 21.1831
M. Larnach ; Under the Parrama
Rivers; 640 acres; To mine for co#
Date of Application, July 21,1892
M. Larnach; Under the Parramai
Rivers; 640 acres; To mine for coa
Date of Application, July 21, 188 i
M. Larnaoh; Under the Parrama
Rivers ; 640 acres; To mine for eoi
Date of Application, July 21. 1882
M. Larnaoh ; Under the Parramu
Rivers ; 190 acr*s ; To mine for coa
gT. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL
Under the distinguished Patronae
the Eight Hon. Lord AUGII£
Lady AUGUSTUS Lt
ai-d Suite.
PLAIN AND FANCY
EXHIBITION BU
Prince Alfred Pa
WEDNESDAY, BEPTKM
Tickets :
Gentlemen
Ladies
SIR P, A. JENNINGS, K.(
A. J. BRADY
W. H. M‘CAEI
HIGH PRICE MEAT and Bn
ARISTOCRACY for the
and just serves him right. Wit
nominee branded on his neck, and
farce and delusion.
S TU
Have yo
re-c<
Parasol i
cq
J. S
541
Brickl
Liverpoo
Paras"
tnmes K
AUTIB
ARE THE BE
M3RELLAS
RE-COVERED.
SWISS Cl
TRY THE
TO BE HAD OF ALL TO
w
ATSON AND
NICKEL and SILVER
Ship and Bath Fittings, Sur;
Instruments, Fire Irons, Bi
and metal surfaces, Nick
Best Style.
Old Electroplate ware of ever;
silver-plated equal t
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTR 'P
336 PITT SIREI
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
Importers of
Indian, Ceylon, Java, and China Teas,
Cocoas, Coffee, Spices, and Indian Condiments.
Special attention is drawn to
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY'S PACKET TEAS.
ASIATIC MIXTURE
Packed in One Pound and Half-poand packets; three
qualities, 2a, 2s 6d, 3a per lb.
PRICES MARKED ON ENDS OP PACKETS.
PURE INDIAN TEA,
Packed in Oae Pound and Half-pound Packets,
Two Qualities 2a 6d and 3s per lb.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM,
We were the first in Sydney to Pack PURE INDIAN
TEAS in Packets as above, but seeing the success and
rapid growth of this industry OTHER PERSONS are
COPYING our system of Packing Indian Teas. To
avoid mistakes we would point out that all genuine
packets have ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’S PACKET
TEA 1 marked thereon.
Trade Lists sent to Storekeepers on Application,
WHOLESALE STORES, and ONLY ADDRESS,
678 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
NOTICE—TO THE PROFESSION—TO THEATRI-
CAL OPERA COMPANIES, Ac. Ac.
LET— The newly erected HIBERNIAN HALL.
I, Rod. hempton. on« of the most Spacious Halls in
Queens and, being 75 feet by 40 with ample stage room j
and centrally situated
Application to be made to
The Secretary
Hibernian A.C.B. Society,
Rockhampton.
H ISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.’
As Eve temptc•’ the First Man, so EVE
TEMPTS THE PRESENT MAN; but.luokily,
not the same Eve, but
JAMES EYE,
149 KING-STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance,
With the best brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
D’ARCY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pure, Palatable, and Pleasant.
TRADE
MARK
■
BARRE JOHNSTON AND 03.,
AGENTS,!
22 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PEICE;4ND samples on application
IN BULK AND CASE.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Dozens more dummies “ discovered” and de-
posits forfeited.
We improve. 206 S criminals this year, as
against 2107 last.
Thfl apoGfl'ls against docisions of th© Sydney
r ibiasing Bsnob were heard on Saturday, when four
out of Are appellants were successful.
A well-known publican, now in Forbes, has been
f«entv yearn iu the liquor trade, and never had a single
charge brought against him by the police.
The Melbourne publicans are boycotting the
floral Bank, which is bossed by an aggressive teeto-
taller. Janes Munro, M.L.A., and decline to receive its
U °The Bird-in-hand claim, S.A., in which J. C. F.
Trihnson, late proprietor of Adelaide Punch, is princi-
pal shareholder, has turned out 7000 oz gold iu seven
months.
150 000 old rifles were bought on speo. from the
War Department in England, fur about half a crown
each, aud distributed by an enterprising mayor as no-
huses to his Irish customers.
Forsyth, who got two years for sharing in “ the
Adelaide Insurance fraud, attributed his offence to the
baseness of Frederick Uarvie Llnklater, who had been
the specific cause of his ruin."
Snow fell at Mulwala on the Murray this month
to a depth of two indies; horses have died from the se-
verity of the winter, and no feed to be got nearer than
Albury. Scores of horses died at Corcen.
Constable Chapman for “ gallant conduct”
awarded promotion and a bonus. He captured a bur-
elar in the city the other night, despite the tact that
the man of crape and padded socks fired five revolver
shots at him.
70- refugee miners to Whampoa from Mount
Brown have died of fever. The following harmless at-
tempt at a remedy has proved useful. Salt roasned
brown, and dissolved in a glass full of hot water, taken
on first symptoms or intermittently. Feed up, aud
drink little.
In the Dunedin (N.Z.) “ lambing-down” case
brought by a bnshman against a publican, judgment
, s given in the former’s favour, the magistrate re-
marking' it was a meet disgraceful affair, as those oases
always are. The hotel ke par got dreadfully mixed-up
iu cross examination.
Vive la femme! Mrs. G. A. D. M'Arthur Camp-
bell was on board a vessel coming from Hongkong. Sue
noticed a child fall overboard, and in an instant sbe
darted into the water and seizid it. Then the brave
lady was drawn on ooard, dripping and exhausted,
amidst the cheers of the passengers aud crew.
“ The stabbing man,” mysterious in his move-
ments as the Flying Dutchman, has again appear el and
fled to his grindstone to sharpen up for the next job.
He stabbed Mary Ann Jones near the Haymarkot the
other night, and is quite justified in thinking he won t
be caught while the "foorco” are prowling round the
grog-shops.
Witnesses examined before the Victorian Tariff
Commission have made the very unnecessary statement
that Nobel’s dynamite is far superior to the colonial
article. The Victorian Government contemplate for-
bidding the importation of Nobel’s explosive com-
pounds, which arc the strongest, safest, and best
anown to the miring community.
In Melbourne they are trying to make out that
the police take tips. A sub-iuspector who admitted
having borrowed a pound from a publican mixed up in
a jewellery robbery, has been censured, aud Superinten-
dent Winch is reported to have entered a lioel action
against a newspaper which stated that he had been
presented with a diamond ring by furniture dealers who
supplied goods to houses of ill-fame.
A young girl named Gillespie, at the Clarence
Biver, fell into the fire when iu a lit, and when dis-
covered was almost roasted. Her eyes were burned
out, the muscles of the face and neck burst and reveal
ing the tissues beneath. Her teeth were charred black,
and the general appearance of the neck aud bosom in-
disoribable. Her agony was intolerable, and notwith-
standing medical aid, mounted to such a degree that
she prayed God to take her life. Little chance of re-
. oovery.
The Maori murderer, Winiata, executed at A tick”
land, protested his.ituuooeuce to tberiasr," -and said ha
wasdeliveriug-aiasoal-to Go 1 The rx cui -nor,a N.B. W
man,did bis work inafclumsy aud n 'satisfactory manner,
and the sounds/whio,* met the ears, o£t those tpretout
after the bolc.wis driw.iwe-a horrible. Tue- diop
eight (eetrhigu f uled t. oru e instant menus doa' b, and
through the cr .vices of a.roaglily.bo irdt-d ajartount
under the gall.ws cur'd'to-' seu tin «x.o'tiouer en-
gaged in ai i n (uutat uim n gs»for the
purpose of cooio u< nbe.stiajg i ti »u, wlrl. Winiata
wrlthel aad,tw.6C.«d iiaslcksu u{ in inner There were
signs of life iu the body for eigut m • u es after.
Robert Francis Bams-his after a long-iand in-
erasting tri*', he u io i uto > r • > tue m ..roert t his ate
mita, Cairisi Firon «v i >sa h ad ess b iCy*was fouud
near Stavill worn )•m>u hi ago 'here is iot the
SfiShtast m ora' d»u >1 r.'in Kooeit Fraud's killed Us
M fh 1 1 Hihtii'.ri'i l>j B Vig. ame Uom ■ iitee
ujinl if >7 . B-(t’sh illf > and j r.» ,~rh*- w< uld the
bid hiro t» lit ail on i mob hair on b d;at « he rope
Hal givu h a a ief a- t iwatds H-awn .• Bi rmJdo-
sarv-ji kllui; lUiftr f r ,v.u-ybo y.ho tak« sup with
disisiun, ait jtts-i lor a any ro«iu in* Ibis world for
inch aa ualu dry m .1 There are twO m n charges
iai-lir kuu; a 1, so the hangm.in nay yet have
hiphai ra ofpmiii u the devil with his own.
Thi'A an Qin 11 an I ' Government mail and
m lif ai. ) j.ne £.■. i L• t don, had a* pretty .social
am; i t’l.lti e’> i i , miM takes pa seugers home
ou' i o. i i.i ' or sa r O md c. i. io, and issues
rsVr- 1 li'c c ill t>b it i 1 sses. But wi.eu on tbe out-
**■l7)7 if 1, thi Sill'll Tt carry immigrants, aud have
m denial *J3) aan la; o.i for second class passing ers v
H)ldirs o' sal 'll oUit return tickets Lave eonsos
qisrsly 1 1 b) 1 1 a'tiil o thesaloon. Thisoomplimeot',
d| d )i7j ,c>u> J ■ > I j y olio drawback, whicli* tho
misiUn pusngtM equally share. ✓ Half the pop
dec: ii a I);I > tu single-girl immigrants. This
wai sHiioD A m > a and the snip’s piamvwas hoi ted
on t) th) pm nl placed just amULhips-for gmeral
eijo/iua ii. Fit til > oa passengers proper took a good
dsil of la ir nt ii ca ©single girls, and as some of there
anil Ip e/aul si ig Very nicely, they wi re.CW ith' the
dot ii iito i, as» much at the pianoioite as were
th igil>)i p ii i . 13 rl th) m). oud ch s returns had
pat ot i fa, fit am mat of side on ciisioreritg Ihelr
pron it.) i -. 1,-, i ■ svb) )n an wet« ’aughty'towarda the
• nigraat sli(l) girls Tan mixing at the pianodhey
rasiabid ai a\ outcage' i u 1 ))a-*persous ot their rank and
pontion, un 1‘; e is a ly hiy made tre csptmh at d doc-
tor fail th ll s'hi wjcj u>» pr -pare.! t. m-ly to aubmit
to such indig a. ties. Cm i i, p-r hid i.rv. r uudjia
voyagi of this feud hif ire B unbey aud Cos an Gfclf
with Indian ofil) a's aaud bivwigs'as i» sin s eis, had
been his expirieuce oe 0.-e, and’between nil nali-alcon
passangets, hia re ui-n ticket-sac )cd ola s
ou their promoti >n, his si gle -women o.u'giarrts, and
his general emigrants am d.lii sphe was pro' ty (airly
at his wits-end all the voyage', till he reacted the
Queensland coast, and Nor hern squatters and swell
overlanders began to fill up the saloon, and take all
the starch out ot the ’nughty retnrn-tickstters.
Amongst others who came ah >ard at Townsville was
Arohy Meston—the Sacred Ibis of Queensland. And
among those who tried to get a passage was a lovely
maidan whom, on hints given, the captain couldn’t find
accommodation fOr. The (air one thought the local
agent had lipped the skipper the wink, and went for the
agent with hjr parasol. Tne assailed man managed to
hold the excited b.iauty at arm's length, and to woik
hsr towards the ladder, when the Sacred Ibis, an or-
citable bird, happened to catch a glimpse of the situn-
rion; and hastily quacking that it was a maxim of
Herodotus that ‘‘the man who raised his hand to a
woman," Ac, he hit the agent a clip under the eye.
Upon this, the agent’s young' man, who was standing
hy, let out at. the Sacred Ibis, and dealt that indiscreet
bird a “ oner" on the jaw which sent him flattering into
thesaloon, feeling less disposed lo g > a-Maying than
ever before, and with a lump on his cheek so well de-
fined that when he arrived at Brisbane a suspicious
custom-house officer insisted ou his opening his mouth
to show that he was not attempting to smuggle through
J box of cigars ins.de it. There was a nice young
Qlasgie body " among the passengers, and he "tried
it on" with the single girls to such a degree that the
kkip threatened to send him ‘‘fort’ad." He went
ashore at Townsville, however, in company with a
miner, travelling down the oo?.8t, and with
great expedition got extremely drunk. As none of the
hotel-keepers could be prevailed on to house him, the
digger as a matter of honour felt bound to see him
safely disposed of, and ran him down by the nape of the
neck to the beach, where he laid him on his back. Then
gripping the youth’s back hair, he solemnly sat beside
him to lull him ti soft repose on the warm shingle.
Every time the youth made a gurgling motion to arise,
the watchful Queenslander bumped his head back by
the hair, remarking “Go to sleep, yon tiresome beggar,
will ye ?** And, at last, the tiresome beggar did go to
sleep, and slept till another min coming down from a
pub. to bo ill on the beach stumbled across him,
and, being a good deal confused by his own potations,
went back and borrowed a gimlet, and, returning, began
to work it into the motionless form. Ho explained later
to the principal inhabitants, brought down to the beach
by a succession of shrieks in a Glisgio accent, that he
had mistaken the prostrate body in the dark for a cask
of rum, being misled by the perfume it emitted on the
night air, and had been trying to tap it.
The Kendall Memorial Fund.
The meeting hold in the School of Arts, on Monday, to
inaugurate a Kendall Memorial Fund, was very suc-
cessful —doubtless the most successful in connection
with literature ever held in Sydney. The chair was
occupied by Mr. W. B. Dailey (the Mayor being un-
avoidably absent), who delivered an elegant and
forcible address. The other speakers included Dr.
Badham, Mr. George Reid, Mr. Barton, and Mr. D.
O’Connor. About £l3O was collected at the close of
the meeting, which amount has been increased by a
prompt and generous donation of £l2sfrom Mr. Fitz-
William Wentworth, who added to his gift a few words
that should have a most encouraging effect. Subscrip-
tions may be sent to any member of the committee, the
secretaries, or treasurers.


Hotels, fee.
(Jt U N S L E E’S
HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
U
OBEBT BUTCHER A CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
rotTHTBI OKDIKB RBOXITX PROMPT ATTUTTIOH.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
303 GEORGE STREET.
m i y\
Mr
»»* f’T
OfrfcWlF?
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOM FIELDS
CELEBRATED
OLD PO<»TCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN HITTERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
■y^y.x-T|
NOTICE TO_PUBLICANS.
I >HE Sale over the bar of inferior and adulter
I a ted liquor fraudulently put into genuine
h.'t*lea bearing the registi red labeli of Wolfes
' i.oappo has mdueed legal notion in Vietoria, hi
+iree different instanees, a»d the Pubii- ana have
• «n fiaed up *o £lowith £4 4 < cost a or one month’s
i iKison<«eut as reported in the “ Argus "cf May
ID May 31, and Juno Jsth.
It having been proved that el» ilnr fr ud' are
• t g practiced i» this osl<>nv, KuTT'E IS
K HMALtY «ITKM that L«-«al A«M • w,N le
tainted in all iasteneoa corning fce the Knowledge
o' the Proprietor, w o baa doteimiaed, regardless
' expense, t«* protect the refutation of bis
H-huaops, and p)event the Pnb i. teing “rouged
n d injured. Evidr .ee upon the tul j ?ct 1s iuvi.ed,
addieast d to the Sole Ag uts,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYSYARD LANE, STDNET.
iUST&Jh’b Bugle Brand.
Hotels, Jbo.
JOHN A . WILKINSON'S
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
11 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PiANOS.
Walnut. Bbonyand-gold, Eosewood-and-gold.
Imported by ns direst. And mn fin factored expressly
for this climate to the order sf o«r buyer In Germany.
IB very Instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are sf v-ry handsome appearance, and
are most senslbire, sweet, and powerful.
low pßicfcs far Cash.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and teat them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PlAN'’B are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rtS.bieh.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Ho wick-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goul-
bnrn; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter whore you live we will snpply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
c
ENTRAL TEA AND
HOUSE,
COFFEE WARE-
-671, QEOEQE-BTEEET.
CHARLES J, CHRISTIE.
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER
LEAS. COFFEEA SUGARS, AND UTTER
of|tbv 8.w.1 Quality In 'he Trade.
A Trial respectfully solicited.
Note the Address—
-671. GEORGE-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Gonlbnm Street*.
YTIT H A E I E L L,
VV * PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 asp 545 Kkrt-struet, near King-strbkt.
HOLE AGENT for the tmderraentioned :
R, tVhittkurham and Co.’a Loudon Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late Q.
Beucraft k Co.)
■Swallow a,nd ArieU’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
.’ml Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M Hunt A Co.’s Goutburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
3v3 ~nd .14.5 K ENT-STREET, near Kiug.street.
3K5 QEuRGB STREET. SYNEY.
STUBBS & SMITH,
(Late Joseph Bullard.)
TAILORS, MERCERS, AND GENERAL
OUTFITTERS.
A Large Assortment of
BE&DY-MADE MENS’ AND BOYS’
CLOTHING,
ALWAYS ON HAND.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
346 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
George p murphy.
REGENT HOUSE,
868. GEORGE STREET,
BA'LWAY BRIDGE.
central
OIL, COLOUR,
and
PAPERHANOINOH apd PLATE GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
The most convenient, kteres f..r town and country cus-
tomers, at the junction of the principal tramways.
Trams pass the door every ten minutes.
IMPORTER OF
Q'atß (nil sizes out White and Red Paperhnngers'
to order) Lead Canvas
Plate Rew and Boiled GVd and Silvi
Sheet Ols Leaf
Stained Urnshware Paporhangingi
ornamental Varnishes Wood - proscr
Cathedral Colour* for House ing Oil
Hammer d (flat and Coach pain- Tar
and rolled) tern, Plasterers Resin
Turpentine &c, Black Pish Oi
Neatsfoot Oil Castor oil Csnaant, &o.
Kerosene 1
MIXED PAINT* READY FOB USE,
any shade required.
ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED
by Rail, Steamer, City or Suburbs.
Shop Fronts and Sishaf Glais 1.
AXLE GREASE for B'ggi-s, Carts, Lorries, Ac. SUL-
' PHUR for Vinegrowtuss and Parmerj. GLAMS
for Gardeners, &o.
Warehouse—Bs9 GEORGE STREET.
Side Entrance—Stores and Workshop— HARRIS-ST.
'Bn'.iness Announcements
A
USTEALIAN “HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a few extra shil-
lings profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
EXPRESS^?
1
S
o
M
C
*
d/v
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for us, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit fa*formation of the attempted sale of coun-
forfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where Our genuine Machines are not
procurable, we will forward them direct on receipt of
Post Otßee Order.
tfE KATE SOLD OVER 30,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE „. ... £4 0 f>
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVER COMPLETE ... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND GO,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
-gyp*
AND
sir
AFFECTION
AND
ALL
CHE
fit
m
u
NION MORTGAGE AND DISCOUNT
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEORGE-STREET, HAYMAEKET.
To Small FREEHOLD »*d LEASEHOLD
FRUPRIBTORS.
This Company is prepared to grant loans on mort-
gage of freehold or learehold properties. Advances
u"on deposit* ol deeds, cn completed buildings, or
•n honsrs In course of erection, in the city cr suborbs,
repayable by the smallest weekly or monthly Instal-
ments taken by the society in this city, as fhe follow-
ing table will show:—
and up to any amount at the sime ratio.
For further information apjlv at the <• fflcen.
WM, P. SMAIL, Secretary.
c.
H.
SON,
PER G U
UNDEETAKEE,
Late Manager of W. and H. Kinsela’s principal shop,
George-street, has commenced business on his own ac-
count at
835 GEOEGE STREET,
Opposite Railway Gate, a few doors higher up,
and 195 DEVONSHIRE STREET, Near RILEY-ST.
Is prepared to furnish Funerals CHEAPER than
any other house in the trade, and, having purchased
everythfhg New, hopes by civility and attention to
Business, as he has dene to his late employers, te merit
iMi ' ‘ ‘
a share of pulnic patronage
C. H. FERGUSON,
UNDERTAKER
SOLE AGENT FOR BLACKMER’S PATENT
ELECTRIC SIGNS.
J. W. WILLOUGHBY.
General
96 MARKET STREET, bYDNEY,
and at London,
MANUFACTURER, IMPORTER, and FITTER of
Electric " Ms, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated Wire.
Improv . Patent Fire and iiurglar Alarms, Speaking
Tubes, Lightning Conductors, Medical and other Coils,
Electee-Magnetite Machines, Biectiie Hie Lighting,
Gilding and Plating Material, Electric Light Apparatus
on the latest and most improved principles now fn use
in London, P.ris, &o.
Liberal Discount to the Trade.
Indents of every description of Electrical Apparatus on
the moat favourable terms.
Estimates Submitted Free of Cost.
C. H. GLARKE AND CO.,
ELECTRIC TANS.
CROSBLBY’S TELEPHONE DEPOT.
Manufacturers and import*** *f Lightning
OtaiuMH, •spger Wiw, Reps sad Bauds,
ris Beils, BHiard Markers, Thref and Fire Atanns.
Mining Ngnalj Appasatua and Batteries, Hasting by
Elestedeisy krtimatss given for Basing same.
79 ARCADE, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A** ™LL*DwonpHon"o?^ l !d ,
Replated Equal to new by
J. M'i.EAN AND SON,
Watchmakers and Jewellers
Showrooms : 21 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
-C.
m
n
1 /rV /®
&
3338.341 a€SHS
In6\RJaY OPPOSITE POST Of pit
A** I * 6 ov 295 ®eor»6e STr
Tobacconist!
b^e
*
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDOESIOF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts ore compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
special interest: —
DIXSOb AND HOKS paid duty in 1880 on
All the others paid duty in JBBO on
DIXSON AM) 80S 8 paid duty in 1881 on
All the others paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tohaccu paid duty
on for the two years was only
288,:
59',
lb.
478,955 Hi
080,998 lb.
807,100 lb.
DIXBON AND Sdfrfc BRANDS ARE—
YAN El. 21 DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLVM.
OUT RUBY, OKIVVTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “ n in Tas,” each plug branded a
Round »m«iK Tin Ta«, f,t*mpel “ Com-
q»EitOK " or ■ Yankee 800 due."
ALL TOBACCOKISI-,* GOODS, PIPES, *c.
?OQV
READ THIS! READ THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, Sc-
ale GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES,
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
IE FBESH FOOD AND ICE CO-, Limited, M
to inforin the >nblio that they have np
i arrangement* which will enable them to ke p
OULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
re in a position to take on fresh customer?. Orde
be given to men on carts, or sent to office,
HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR,
'LIGHT -Try Wi LUEKS “
» WATER never we nnv other lotion. {fl ,
U ’S "All healing Loiion’* is a perfect wonflr^ g
all bad son h on man or fjjft C«ft
nil dhu huiin vi a v
mg & Co.. Sjdney. Felton, Grimwaw {9Bli
Bmraans, Laws and Co., Melbourne,
>., Brisbane. W. H. Soul, Sydney
DFSFASF
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS S PALE aLK.
Thef BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
' #
bold by all storekeepers and wine
MERCHANTS.
VTRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
I
SS^TAWARH
14 and 16 Fpring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE Outers only,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHEN WA RE,
WINES. BESRB, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
. Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky,
J, SOEIN and CO.'B
Cognac.
J. T. GATEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
fLAWLBB, 608 George-strgnt, Bedding Manufac-
• turer, in porter of Brass and Iron Bedsteads,
* tnerioan and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok,
ml Cotton Flock. Est&fcliflhecJ 1960.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[ffe shall he glad to have this index posted up hy secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general,]
RACING.
Hawkesbury Spring.- August 24, 26.
Queensland Turf Clsb August. 25.
A. J.C. Spring Sept. 2,5, 7,9,
Narimflera September 6, 7
S.A J.C. Derby Meeting September 16.
Muawellbrcok ....September 20, 21.
Geraldine (N.Z.) Spring September 28, 29.
Melbourne Hunt Club September 30.
Hawkes’ Bay (N Z ) J.C. Spring October 3.
Auckland (N Z.) R.C. Spring November.
V.R C. Spring Oct. 28, 31, Nov. 2, 4.
Canterbury J.C, Spring November 7, 8,10.
Parramatta J.C Navember 9,11.
Bendig® .November 15,16.
Mnrrumbidgee Turf Club Nov. 22, 28. 24.
Adelaide Racing Clnb January 1.1883.
Canterbury (N Z ) Summer Janury 1 1833.
V.B.C. New Year Meeting January I,ISBS.
Sydney Turf Club January 26, 1883.
Auckland (N.Z ) Summar Jan. 26, Fab. 1,2,188 J.
AQUATICS.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta August 26.
Newcastle EC. Regatta August 28,
Glebe B. C. Senior Pair Oar.--, Mr. T. Punch’s
Prize September 16
Mr. Frank Punch’s Prizes October 3. 5, 7
Gardiner Cup, Mercantile October 28.
Glebe R. C. J unior Double Sculls, Mr. P. Punch’s
Prize October 28.
N:SW. Rowing Association Regatta October.
Krug Champagne Trophy November 25.
Gardiner Cup, Amateur December 16.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Sydney Bieycle Club Sports, Association
Ground August 26
B. ‘Williams v. W. Chaplin, 100 yards, £4OO,
Narandera August 26
Walls end Athletic Club Sports November 9.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. Bathurst August 23.
Qlenhead v, Parramatta .....August 28,
BICYCLING.
Sydney Bicycle Club’s Baca Meeting (Association
Ground) ...August 26.
Suburban Bicycle Club Two Mile Race, Military
Road September 16.
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
Gloucestershire August 24, 25, 26.
All England August 28, 29, 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
, Ryan was beaten on Saturday in a 300 yards race
on the Botany Road.
The Hon. Ivo Bligh’a cricketing team is to leave
England ou the 14th September.
M‘Donald and Rush are likely to represent the
Clarence in the contests for the Bunch prizes.
The Parramatta footballers defeated the New-
towus last Saturday by one goal and five tries to nil. A
very fast game, won easily.
The match between the Brisbane footballers and
the University Club resulted in a win for the latter by
one goal four tries to one try.
The man that always puts us on to a good thing
(wa never win, by the bye) says that Piracy will win
both ths Guineas and the Handicap.
A football match came off on Saturday, between
the Our Boys and Bathurst clubs, resulting in a win for
the former by one goal and two tries to nil.
The Brisbane Footballers were defeated by the
Combined Suburban Team by one try to nil. The play
was hard and fast. Blood flowed freely and bones wire
broken.
M‘Darra, the Albury ped., who was recently
defeated by Engelhard!, nas challenged the latter for
another contest for £lOO, and offers to give him 2i yards
start in 150.
A pair-oar race in club skiCs, for a prize pre-
sented by Mr. T. Punch for junior oarsmen in connec-
tion with the Glebe Rowing Club, will take place on
Saturday, 9th September.
A rare number of defaulters are published at
several N Z. Tattersall’s. Australian clubs should get
a list, as there is generally a big crowd about Sydney
aad Melbourne at “ Metrop.” and Cup time.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Jockey Club’s annual meeting
showed the Club to be in a flourishing state. The com-
mittee have drawn up the Soring and Autumn pro-
grammes, and increased the added money £l5OO.
Forty acceptances for the big Christchurch
(N.Z.) J.C. Handicap; Hon. W. Robinson’s Grip,
Salvage, Envy Ally, and Yauguird oeing among the
number. 28 nominations for the Cup, weight for age
On Saturday week on the Parramatta Alfred
Cricket Ground, Messrs. Hopkins and Ormes walked a
mile for £lO. Ormes went to the front, but at the fleish
Hopkins made a desperate spurt, got ahead, and eventu-
ally won easily.
The Oriental Cricket Club played, during last
season, 29 matches, 21 of which were won, 4 lost, and 4
drawn Mr. F. Leland has been elected captain for the
ensuing season, and Messrs. C. J Pitison and Q, A.
Warren joint secretaries and treasurers.
The' races at Rutherford, near Maitland, on
Saturday, ware attended by about 200 spectators.
Seven started for the Ladies’ Purse, which was won by
Ulari jnette. Little Nell won the Rutherford Handi-
cap. Her jockey was fined £4 for jostling.
The Brisbane footballers visited Parramatta on
Wednesday, 16oh August, aud played a team represent-
ing the C«unty of Cumberland, scoring their first win
by one goal to one try. A banquet was given to the
visitors in the evening, Mr. J. M. Toohey presiding.
The Melboure Carlton Club \ as been fined ,£lO
by the Victorian Football Association for playing a man
a second time who did not belong to ths emb The club
intends to secede from the Association —rather a suicidal
aot ; but there is no knowing what football will hi ing a
man to.
Two days’ racing have ’.been arranged to come
off at Mus vullbrook on 20th and2ls - , September. Five
events are set down (or each day's programme. I he
weights for all handicaps are to be declared ou 12th
September, and the general entry closes ou the 16 h
September.
We notice that at the Y. A.T.C. meeting at Caul-
field, on Saturday, a jockey was disqualified for twelve
months tor continuing a race after his hone had missed
a hurdle. The punishment may seem severe, but if
suoh practices are allowed and winked at by racing
authorities there will be no-end of confusion.
Ten thousand spectators witnessed the football
rmateh at Melbourne between the Essendon and Seuth
Melbourne clubs. The game resulted in a draw, Essen-
don obtaining 3 goals 11 behinds to Sonth Melbourne’s
3 goals 5 behinds. A team of footballers representing
the Essendon Club left for Tasmania on Monday.
Coulthard and Tankard, the two footballers who
tried to make a tree fight at the Csrlton-Hotbam foot-
ball match, on Saturday week, at Melbourne, have been
disqualified by the Victorian Association for the re-
mainder of the season. Thi. is very small punishment
considering that the season is now almost at an end.
The Otago Witness gravely states that “The
highest price ever paid for a horse in England is be-
lieved to have been paid by the Duke of Westminster,
the richest peer in that country, who paid the extraor-
dinary sum of £72,000 [III] for an animal he desired to
possess.” It is evident that this item must have been
clipped from the Express. We are glad to see, in one
instance, at least, Nemesis overtaking piracy in
onrnalism. £72,000 for a horse I Scissors I
The Queensland players draw attention to the
fact that, having defeated the Wallaroo Club, they have
proved that they know tomething about Rugby rules,
and are more than a matoh for a second-rate team. We
are converts to their opinion, and are glad to acknow-
ledge that wa have been agreeably disappointed in their
play.
Australians at home made the mistake of reckon-
ing without thoir host over the late boat race. Largan’s
previous illness made it somewhat doubtful if the race
would come off at all, but “Oar Boys” kindly offsred
him a “ tenner" if he would only “ pull himself to-
gether, and make a show." And it oame to pass he made
a show—of ns,
A new turf club has been formed at Tamworth.
The annual meetings are to be held in October and
March. The old club was indebted £l5O, and fifteen
gentlemen contributed £lO each to wipe out the liability
and give the new one an unhampered start. With
sportsmen of that stamp in the district, we expect, to
hear soma good things in future from Tamworth.
The Victorian Coursing Clubs’ final meeting of
the season oamo to a termination on 17th August. The
Tasmanian Plate was won by Mr. W. Paterson’s The
Secret, with Mr. G. Whittingham’s Wild Toddy as
runner-up. H. Gore’s G wendoline won the Vice-Presi-
dent’s Plate, with Mr. J. Cooksou’s Nutlad 111 as
rnnnar-up. The Judge’s decision in the lattsr course
excited a deal of comment.
At a trial over a recent oat-coursing match in
which “puss with a long tail” was turned oat of the
bag instead of puss with the short tail, the defendants
were acquitted on the evidence of one who swore that
the teeth of the victim of sporting proclivities showed
it to ba a cross between a domestic cat and a native cat
(Dasynre). Shades of Owen, Darwin. Hailey, et hoc
genus homo, what would ye say to this? But there, no
wonder mules abound in that locality, considering the
occupants of the Bench.
The Agricultural Ground was the arena for three
events oh Saturday. Tho first was the 200 yards race
for £lOO between E. Hicks and A. Farrell, tho latter re-
ceiving five yards start. Farrell got well awav and won
by his start. The second was a 100 race for £2O between
J. Warren and C. Lamb, Warren winning a good race
by about a yard. Tho third was a 50 yarda race be-
tween L. Pyko and a veteran amateur, tho latter re-
ceiving 10 yards start. After a dead heat, the amateur
got the best of the start, and just scored a win.
Toung Dutchy, who is now located in Sydney,
was to have had a set-to with Professor Meenan at the
VUtoria Hall, on Saturday night. Mr. Meenan did not
turn up, hut Dutchy made his appearance and apolo-
gised to the audience. He is a well-built man for a
light weight, looks active and strong and in good condi-
tion, and he has the appearance of being able to take
a deal of punishment. We recommend him to give a
sparring entertainment, which would certainly be pe-
cuniarily successful, as there are many who are anxious
to see him perform.
At a sale in Melbourne last week of draught
and thoroughbred horses, several old public favourites
were affixed for sale. Caiamia, the winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1878. was passed in at 300 guineas, and
Lapidist at 200. A.T., winner of the 1876 Sydney Cup.
was sold for 50 guineas The Marquis, sire of many
excellent horses, and whoia his prime in England won
the Two Thousand Guineas Stake and the St. Leger,
and was beaten only by a short head in the Decbv, was
sold for 25 guineas; he was foaled in 1859. Mr. S
Gardiner was the purchaser.
The wrestling match, best four in seven of the
Cumberland style, for £lOO aside, between William
Hudson, light-weight champion of New Zealand, and
George Cowan, champion of N.S. Wales, came off on
Saturday at the Hippodrome, and resulted in favour of
Cowan. First round Hndson obtaineO with a clean
buttock. la the second, Hudson badly hurt his
s oulder. In the third, Cowan grassed his man with a
good onttide stroke. After this, although Hudson
worked splendidly with his bad arm, Cowan had aU the
best of it. Hudson intends to tackle Cowan again, or
any man in Sydney, as soon as he gets well
At the annual meeting of the btanmore Cricket
Club the following were eleoted ifflje bearers : Patron,
Rev. C. Baker; president, Mr. A. E. deques: vice-
presidents, Messrs. Anderson, Miller, Murray, Coates,
Newcombe, Shorter, and Baly; treasurer, Mr. A. 8.
Abbott; joint secretaries. Messrs. J. M’Shane and H.
A. Esgar; committee, Messrs. F, Sear), G. F. A. H.
Abbott, H.P. Baly, and J. Williams. The following
received trophies C- M'Kern, first eleven average
bal ting and bowling and aggregate; R. Va'lack. highest
individual score. Second Eleven, P. W. Tibbetts,
average batting and highest individual score; Q. C.
Chalmers, aggregate; A. S. Abbott, bowling.
In hia match f with Lay cock, Boyd led on
sufferance for abont a quarter of a mile. Elias then
spurted, and at the mile had R. W. B. completely done,
and idling in his boat. The rest of tho “race” was a
mere procession. The distance, 3J nilov, is said to
have been done in 17min. 31sec. " An this rate of
travelling,” remarks the Referee “ Haulan would
have been left nowhere ” The first mile was done in
4min. 4tsec! Two or three day a before tbe race a com-
mission to back Laycock for £5OO arrived in England,
but tho money wasn’t to be got on. However, the ’cute
bushmin had no doubt invested his coin at tho right
time—just before or just after tho race lor the Sports-
man Cup.
A largo attendance assembled on the A ssociation
Ground on Saturday, to witness the match between tbe
Brisbane footballers and the Wallaroo Club. It was
anticipated that the match would prove an easy win for
the “Marsupials,” but the Brisbane men seem to have
profited both in style and condition by the matches
they have played, and any ona judging of the play ex-
hibited on S turday, mast admit that the better team
won. The game was well contested throughout, and
resulted in favour of the vi-itors by one goal and two
tries to nothing. The win war popular, and the Bris-
bane men were vociferously cheered by the spectators.
It may bo mentioned that the Wallaroos did not play
their best team.
Miss Phillips, champion walker, has Arrived
from Melbourne, and is pre>ared to walk any
female in New South Wales for a six days’ match.
Now, we have had enough of these fizzles. The first
and last female walk in Sydney was sufficient joy for
one general ion. We deplore the fact that pedesttianism
has reached suoh a low standard in N.S. Wales ; and
whilst we endeavour to raise it to its true position, we
feel it our duty t« ba compelled, figuratively, to sit upon
tho female element. Provisions are so scarce, and
household duties so multifarious, that we are forced,
for the present, to discountenance our wives, sisters,
and aunts fr«un doing the athletic. Therefore, Miss
Phillips, return, please, to Victoria—and the wash-tub.
In the window of Nat Thompson’s shop in
Oxford-street, are displayed the various trophies offered
for competition In the Juniors’ Challenge Cup contests.
Two very handso ie clocks have been prof anted by Mr.
K. E Jones for the highest not-cut innings, and the
highest single innings. The competition is limited to
20 clubs, and the o>der of play is as followslst match.
Mercantile v. Derwent; 2nd Oriental v. Clioe; 3rd,
Victoria v Croydon; 4 h, Rnghy v. Hand wick ; sr,hj
Osborne v. Balmain t>ui rv; 6 h, Carthona v. Carlo ; 7th,
Australian v. Alexandra; 8 h, Cleveland v. Glebe
Strathmore (F); 9th, Saro United v. Riymond; 10th,
Our Uoy s v. St. Peter’s. Ther* is » big testimonial in
the dim distance for Mr. Fred Ironside, who is m anag-
ing these junior contests and getting heaps of presents
from tradespeople for the players.
At the spring meeting of the London Athletic
Clnb, W. P. Phillips has beaten all previous amateur
records, by running the 120 yards in 11 45 sec. Same
day, W. G. George added another to his long list of
brilliant achievements, by coveting seven miles in
35 min. 55 1-5 see. George in this race certainly proved
himself by far and away the best long distance amateur
England has had. A few years ago, when Slade and
Gibb met in their sensational four-mile match, and ran
looked all the way, and then only did 20 min. 25i sec.
for the distance and beat all previous records, it was
regarded as a big performance, while George did his first
four miles 20 min. 21} sec., and then finished the fail
distance in the marvellons time of 35 min. 55 L 5 sec ,
smothering the previous best on record, accomplished
by G. M. Nehan, viz., 37 min. 38 2-5 sec., on April 2.
1831.
The Australians have suffered another defeat at
Portsmouth, at tbe hands of the United Eleven, com-
prising present and past University players. The
weather was fine all through. The home team went to
the wickets first, and scored freely, the total being 196;
Thomson was highest scorer with 45. The Australians
were disposed of for 141—Blaokham 35, Bannetman 26,
Horan 18 being the highest scorers. The English
bowling was dead on, and the fielding excellent. The
Portsmouth team, in their second innings, scored 151,
Lyttleton being top with 61, obtained in excellent style.
The Australians made a good stand in the second
innings, but could not obtain the requisite number, the
score closing for 187, 19 runs short. The principal
scoters were—Bonaor 66. Murdoch 43, and Banneman
30. Tbe fielding of tbe English Eleven was particularly
good, and the play all round of the boat descrip-
tion.
The Australian Eleven match with Derbyshire
resalted in a draw, rather in favour of the colonials.
There was a large attendance cn the three days, though
at times the weather was inclement. The wicket was
not in good order. The home team went in first, and
scored 231 runs. The flalding of the Australians was
not up to their usual standard. Spoff irth got 5 wickets
for 78 runs. The Australians mide 180— Murdoch 70,
Jones SO, Horan 24, being the principal scorers Derby-
shire, in the second innings, wag disposed of for 78—
F. Thurston being the highest scorer, with 18. The
howling was splendid. In the second innings of the
Australians, 5 wickets fell for 91—Murdoch 32, Banner-
man 24, being the highest scorers. The matoh was
drawn, thd Australians having 38 to make with five
wickets to fall. The Derby Eleven included some
players from other counties, aud it was not strictly a
county match.
The Southern Rugby Football Union gave the
Brisbane footballers a banquet, which for jollity and
good fellowship was unprecedented. Mr. E. Carton
took tho chair, and stated in a neat speech that though
he could nut congratulate the visitors upon their suc-
cess, he was forced to admit that they carried away
many “ marks.” The Brisbane men, who alternate
Rugby with the Victorian game, stated that they would
in future cultivate the Rugby game. Mr. Brodie said
that the game played by the visitors against the repre-
sentative team was the best be had ever seen. This is
no doubt correct; tho passing and dodging of the Syd-
ney men was superb, and the Brisbane men played with
great plunk. We recommend our Brisbane friends to
practise Rugby. They are betterjplayers than we gave
them credit for, and wa cannot predict an easy victory
for our men when they play the return match at Bris-
bane. Altogether, the Brisbane men expected to be
thoroughly wiped out, and tl ey have been only moder-
ately beaten.
Tho meeting held at Caulfield (Vic ) on Saturday,
under the auspices of the Victorian Amateur Turf
Club, was the most successful since the inauguration
of the Club. The Governor and suite were present.
There was a good attendance, and the racing was inter-
esting. The Sapling stakes was won comfortably by
Duenna. The Handicap Hnrdle Race was won by
Rhesus, with Dhnrringile second. Merry Maid was
leading, but at the far turn she inn off, and led all the
others except Bhesns and Durringile. Rhesus beat her
a few yards from tho winning post. The jockey who
rode Merry Maid was disqualified for twelve months,
for continuing a race af; er missing a hurdle. Glow-
light won tho Australian Amateur Challenge cup
after a good race with Edith, who was afterwards dis-
qualified for having run inside a post. Four horses fell
at different parts of the Course. Ghost, the favourite
for the selling race, won easily. Lef g |Bower was in the
Caulfield Grand National Steeplechase, and won it ra-
ther easilv from Chrysalis, Jack Scandal being third.
Baronet, Maoiiluke, (Napoleon, and Breechloader fell,
and Stay ran off at tue last <unoe. Din Quixote won
the Amateur Handicap Flat Baca In a canter.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The performances of the N.Z. horses as given in
“ Centaur's Index,” are dreadfully incorrect The
Daily Northern. Anons informs the Rockhampton public
that “the Hon. Ivo tJiigh’s team of cricketers are not
* Amacaws.’ Now, what in thunder is an * Amacaw.’ ”
“ If ever before I rode a race, to-day I ride to win,”
sang a jockey who was just about to mount the
“ favourite” at a country meet. “ Win wkat F” asked
*‘‘lary” pall. “ Well, greed, I reckon," laughed the
other. And the ” favourite ” of course ran
third A workingman’s rowing club, the “Con-
tra! Queensland," which already numbers 80 mem-
bers, has been formed at Rockhampton
Lure, a lister of Lurline’s, from whom great things
were expected, has been relegated to the stud at Cnrist-
church (N Z.) Strong, who is champion of Otago
(N Z ), in the border style of wrestling, at Maze’s
entertainment in Dunedin, threw Slade, of Timaru,
easily. Both men are of abont equal height and build,
but Strong has most soienos The operatives of the
various Adelaide ooacb-bni'ding firms have decided to
form a Coachbuildere’ Cricket Association. The
Sydney coaohbnilders have much to do before they get
up to the Adelaide standard The Bohemian Cricket
Club has been formed by some residents of Forest
Lodge. An excellent ground ha* been secured
At Girilambom , a 100 yards race for £lO t >ok place on
the 25th Jnly, between Martell, of the Bogan, and
‘‘Billy” Wells, of Cobar. The latter, the local cham.
pion, is called “ Greassd Lightning Billy,” and out
of thirteen races has only lost one. This race, which
was won easily by “Billy," was run at 10 a m., and at
3 p.m., tried conclusions with Jack Bennett,
the “ Tank sinker*-i favourite," and won by half a yard
a 100 yards race for the same money A billiard
match, 300 up for £lO, at Warren on Slat July, came
off between Dick Tritchley, “ the horse-ahoe puncher”
of Warren, aud Jack Hamilton, of Qonlbnrn, a
traveller. After a very exciting gamo it was
won by Hamilton. It was a ;great take-in for
Dick, who takes in everybody who comes round
A bicycle club has been formed in Brisbane There
has beau a billiard tournament at Girilambone got up
by W. Heather and the “Red-heart Joker” Ned
Reardon The first prize, £5, was won by Fred. Green.
Despite the Lotteries Bill, sweeps on the Melbourne
Cup are being organised in N.Z, towns The N.Z.
sports. Mason aud Vallance, have leased for the forth-
coming season Siesta and Nonsense, the past year's
two-year-old champions At the annual meeting of
the Dunedin (N.Z ) Bicycle Club, it was stated the
longest ride daring the year wae 90 mi’es in 9\ hours
In the seven-mile walking match for £5O and the cham-
pionship of Auckland, N Z , between H. J. Hnckstep
aad W. J. Walsh, the former proved victorious with
150 yards to spore. Time, 62 minutes 6 45 seconds;
the track was bad, and the ground heavy
Some Cndgellico resiuents had a hit of sport on Satur-
day week with a wild hoar. After firing seventeen
rounds, they brought him down The champion
ploughing match at Bathnrat on 16r,h August was won
by George Whiley with 76 points, John Harris coming
second with 64 points, and M. Power third with 62
points. There were nine competitors Owing to
numerous complaints in Victoria of the damage done
to crops by hares, and of the destruction of fish by
swans, the Commissioner of Customs contemplates
curtailing the close season as regards both species of
game Himx'aya, the well-known Steeplechaser, who
broke down at the last meeting at Fiemmgton, had to
be destroyed on Saturday The Gardiner Football
Trophy is very properly to be handed over to the
Southern Rugby Union The Warehouse Cup will pro
bacly be presented to the A asocial i m Good accept-
ances for the Queensland Turf Club me ting this week
55 eutr es for the Hunter Kiver Grand Pigeon Match
which comes off on Monday and Tuesday...
T. H. Smith’s Juanita, who died lately, was 22 years old.
She was tie earn of Index, Ithaca, Judes, Sunlight,
Jauiior, Japan, and Prairio Bi r d The Kelp e cross
seemed toeick beat with her I he well-know* resident
within a few miles of Wagga who recently backed him-
self te hit a target, four feet iquare—two rifles being
allowed for tne accomplishment of tbe task, and the
distance being 100 yardn—decided the affair on the 14. h
August. It resulted in an easy win for the marksmm,
who aovomplishvd his task in a little under an hour and
a half A grand pigeon-shouting match is to come off
at Maitland on Monday next, tbe 2Sth instant
In a Queensland paper a ten-pound note is offered to
ba r&fiUd for. 1 he winner is to spend two pounds and
the putter-up guarantees to purchase tbenote from the
winner for eix pounds At a Queensland meet-
ing lately, five horses started for a hurdle race, and
all came to grief in the first ronnd. One rider had his
left arm broken just above the wrist; he was assisted
into the saddle, and taking the remaining jumps, he
cantered home an easy winner.
• • •
250,000 spectators watched the race for the
*Grand Prix at Paris, won by the English horse Bounce.
The race was run on Sunday W. Cook, the English ■
bUliardiat, made, in a recent match, a break of 1362
including 451 spot strokes. Tbe time occupied was
Ih. 25min. The headmaster of Epsom Medical
College discovered that one of his pupils had been
making a “ book ” on the Derby and he summarily ex-
pelled him. As the offender was departing, the boys
gave him three cheers, and three groans for the austere
dominie An English paper says that so magnificent
is the Aastralian Eleven’s show of cricket that they
can always count upon crowds of spectators to witnis t
their field performances. The longest bicycle tiao*
in the world is at the Great American Casino, at Boston
(D. 8.) The “ mill " between Wheedon and Maloney,
fought near Smith’s Ferry, Pa. (U.S ), in July, resulted
in a draw after fourteen rounds. Maloney was terribly
punished, while Wheedon was comparatively nnharmei .
At a garden party given recently by the Baroness
Burde*t-Contis, the most observed of the guests was
Lady Jumbo, the pony whioh excited such astonish-
ment at a recent Show. The pony is but 13 in. high,
five years old, and looks like a diminutive racehorse
The wire announcing the result of the English Derly
reached New York in the unparalleled time of 20sec
A London photographer succeeded in getting a perfect
sun picture of the Derby, just at the moment Shotover
drew up to Quicklime. Crowds, stands, and all sur-
roundings are in detail. The picture is said to have
been taken in the 250th part of a second, and while the
horses were going at the rate of about 50ft. a second ...
Foxhill, the last year’s American wonder on British
Tarf, after winning the Ascot Gold Cup on Thursday,
June Bth, was terribly beaten on the following day in
Alexandria Plate by the Duke of Hamilton’s Fiddle •,
by Preakness-Music, at a difference of only stbs , the
winner carrying 9st. and Foxhall 9<t. 51b
Thousands to 500 are being laid in England on the flllii s
v. the oolts for the St, Legor....The value of the Derby
Stakes this year was £4775 Barnes and Midwiste-,
playing for the Marylebone Club against Leiovsti rshin ,
raised the score from 19 for two wickets to 472 for three.
Barnes eventually made 286, Midwinter 187. The Daily
News, speaking of the match, sajs:—“ The pair were
batting within a few raiuntes of lire hours and a half.
They hit more than 80 runs an hour, and put on tho
unprecedented nnmbar of 454 runs while they waie
together. The longest previous English record is—
unless Messrs Q. F. Grace and I. D. Walker made mor >
at Beeston in 1870—the 283 scored for the first wicket
Messrs. W. Q. Grace and B. B. Cooper in 1869."
The Great I Am.
We have not space to publish the speeches deliver’d
by Sir Henry Parkes in reply to tho welcome accorded
him in Sydney on Thursday last. But we feel ic
due to our readers to give in a concrete form tho
leading points of those speeches, as they appeared in
our contemporaries oh August 18. In reply to the
Mayor's address. Sir Henry responded in the most
felicitous manner to the following effect, every quota
tion being verbatim “ Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, |
can hardly—l cannot but—l rendered—My efforts— 1
have been—How far I may—l have certainly—l hat-o
sought (cheers)—What I regarded—l have done-1
have done—l may have done (applause)—lam perfectly
—1 know —I was told —I was told —I had the courage—
I mean—l claimed —I had, if I bad—l had—l intende.i
Ido not believe (confusion) —I should find—l mean .
I have —I have noticed—l say—l shall say—l pass )A
voice: "Euchred") —I may say—l can judge—l cm
say—l could have —I made—l expected—l believe— I
■hall endeavour—l would keep—l shtll endeavour—l b -
lieve —I trust (cries of "u. ’ ) At the banquet, in reply
to the toast of his health, the gifted orator, feeling the
majesty of the occasion, again ia thundering period*,
worthy of the sentiments of a Piit or a Burke, roll, d
forth tbn as; irations of a mighty people He said
M 1 hardly know—l shall cay—l had anticipated—l c u
say—l expected—l have received—l have a high sen a
(A voice: " What are you giving ns?')—l am grato'i.i
—I have livid—l confess (confmion) I think IIJ
—I said—l put—l never pretended (surprise) - I
had -1 did not have—l had—l awoke (emotion) —
I had not- I awoke —I wat —1 had—l do not ku w
I could give —I left to travel —I left the «
—I reached I certainly I should be I w t
infoimvd—l should have—l certainly believed—lshou I
be —I made in December—l concluded—l almost — I
undertook—l spoke—l had been—l fully awoke —I had
opportunities—l have to say—l have to say—l muv
have—l arrived —I had changed—l found myself—l
then awoke—l could—l have been an advocate—l mean
publicity— out of number I have raised—l have poin'< d
(cheers)—l think a waste of money—l tried at once—(
saw a coarse—l possessed—l was—l date say—l saw— I
think—l dwell upon the people (laughter)—l think—l
have assisted—l have arrayed—(cheers)—l have spon
—I could, I think—l’ve done good—l made a speech
—I can say—l said nothing—l spoke—l declined (sur-
prise)—l do not hesitate—l have thought—l have
endeavoured—l considered—l considered—! have tried
I have net singled—l dare to say—l have said—l
pointed (cheers) —I believe—l passed away—l left— L
received—l whs prepared—! confess (contagion) — l may
biv —I met —I think—l may be pardoned—l had no*
been surprised—l ought to have been surprised—l
certainly was surprised (cheers)—l trust (A voice : N ,
no)—I never wag (laughter)—l trust—l never lost—l
owe (prolonged cheers)—! am sure—l should—
I know—l naverdii-graced—l never sought—l took noi a
(surprise)—l declined all (renewed surprise)—l w
determined —I would depend—l have received—l owo
(confusion! —I received (more astonishment) —I tru-*
(loud applause)—l accepted (no surprise)—l hone—l
never lost—l represented—l laboured—l could—l c*,»
I shrink—l delivered—l secured—l confess (• u -
prise). I have no connection (great confusion) —t
merely—l should receive—l have dene—l passed away
I havu opportunities—l mean—l had opportunities—l
received banquets (cheers) —I pursued the same courm
(renewed cheers) —I held up—l pointed—l could polu s
(hear, hear). I pointed (applause)—l had opportm i-
ties —I pursued the same course—l never shrunk—C
employed myself—l have come back (continued grow s;
lam rejoiced—l have no doubt—l shall lay—l ha'a
touched I have come back—l left—l was accompaii .1
—I bad got young—l have come back—l shall
never be able—l would iOj be able—l can •
I think—l should be able—l mean—l u derstood him—
Ido not hesitate—l do not think—l admit—l could not
3°—l was—l could not —I could retire from office— !
told Parliament—l was going to—l would do it—l de-
cided to leave—l believe—l took (cheers) —I do n *
think Ido not think—l was (cheers)—l am glad—l
am likely—l have taken—l trust (surprise)—l shall—t
tuink—l am—l shall—l think—l have—l say—l shall
I live (cheers)—l court [A voice: Which court ?] -I
fear—l do—l think—l do not —I know—l try—l se»—(
am (cheers) —I shall try—l find—l am (load cheers) —I
shall I will—l shall—l shall—l have —I have—l have
(laughter)—l arrived—l received—l delivered—l dwo* •
I hesitate—l do—l thank—l am (load and continut it
applause)—l do—l thank—l can." Sir Henry, on r .
Burning his seat was loudly cheered. Throughout L a
address all I’s were turned upon him.
“You say you were not drunk? Whyyonstraddl. ■)
rtght across the footpath." " No, sir, that's net druo.
That »;a bad fitting pelvis."
The son of a horse dealer, when asked to mount
and paoe a horse in an auction yard, enquired of the 0..
man. Are you buying or selling, father ?"
Sunday School teaoher to pupil—“ Were Pete’
and Paul ever in Rome Smart boy—“ Dtmno’boi
Peter, but Paul was in WattlejFlat t’other night at thv.
tea-meeting 1“
A CHANSON.
Dawn where the ghoul-haunted river twists—
(Soak my head in ice-cold lei)
Where the rro-s-eied ogie urj jints his wrists—
(Plant stuff.d kittens over me)
Kittens are touched with a light divine
Of a mystical chrism and soul-kissed wine.
Out on the edge of the dolorons’sea
(The passionate troe-toad giinds his teeth)
Weirdly the jabber-week waits for thee;
(Qibbtring over a beetle’s sheath ;)
Stones and . nions make worthy bread—
Plant bius croeodiles over my head.
Still doth the ring-dove mourn h’s mate.
In the mildewed orchard all nukt long »
Still doth the serpent bar the gate.
And the gray owl croon a fleshly song.
(And crouohm r low on the amber roof
Three velvet bulldogs mourn aloof.)


RILEY BftOl
886 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, !■
165 OXFORD STREET,)
QOULBURN,
NEWCi
AND
10 COLEMAN STRBE
THE CHEAPEST
IN THB
AUSTRALIAN CO
THB OEIQINATOI
NOTED £5 Bj
BLACK SILKS, BLA
EXTRAOEDINART BIECI,
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NOT
ALL PARCELS SENT B"S
A Black Silk Drees is always fas
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers have pleasure
Country friends that their Paris
•at the CHEAPEST AND BE.
SILKS ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers have determine
and give their sustouaera a turn
Lot 1 A Beautifal Groa Grain Hi
2 Rich Corded Gros de Suez
3 Heavy Corded Gros Royal
4 Rich Drabs. Fawns and Gr
Suitable for Weddings
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in each d
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of these Speoial Silks
for, and we will send full direst
meat to Ladies requiring dresses i
All Parcels Packed Carefully, an
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTH
JBS BALE WAR!
386 GEORGE-STREET, NEAH
and 600 BRICKFIELD Hl]
JES Family Bale. Moi
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
S yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
t yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
8 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
8| yards Gambroon for
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moieskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 doz. Pooket'kerchiefs
I Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, Ac. Ac,
2 Lad
2 Lad
2 pair
1 Lad
1 pair
1 Lad
2 pair
1 Lad
4 Infa
2 Infa
2 Infa
1 Infa
M
2 Infa.
1 Infa
i dozt
8q
Pnff h<
1 Flan
2 Bibs
I pair
1 Infai
1 Ini
Qn
I In
Uc
JES
1 pail
1 larg
10 yarc
20 yarc
12 Strc
20 Wit
10 goo<
6 yarc
All
wearini
£5 Men’s Clothing £5 ]
Bate.
1 Suit Tweed Coat. Troa- 1 pair
SOCIAL.
When the ladies put their pretty heads toge-
ther and decided to give the gentlemen a ball, of course
they knew the Newtown Oddfellows’ Room would not
contain half thuir admirers. So they chose the Peter-
sham Town Hall, and though there were several enter-
tainments on the same night, their guests on Friday
last numbered 230. There are about 55 ladies and 35
gentlemen in the Newtown Private Skating Kink ; but
«s it was needful to equalise the eexes, a few extra
tickets wore issued. Then, many friends who had been
introduced at the rink were anxious to come, so by de-
grees the number grow. As It was, scores of appiiea-
tions had to bo refused, to keep the floor from being
crowded.. Them is room in the hall for 200, if they
have any idea of navigation. If they haven’t, and if
they flick out their elbows like trusted fowls, the case
is different. The Committee consisted of Mrs. M. T.
Despointos (president), Misses Robberds (sec.), Pearce
(treas.), K (Bull, Bone, and Griffiths; and us ladies can
scarcely ne much used to the business of managing a
ball, the fact that this one was managed without a fault
shows what care had been given to it. The 8 5 train
from Sydney convoyed a big party, but even when they
arrived, the hall was well filled, and some of the pro-
grammestoo. Decorating had been going on all day;
MDses Pearce. Davie?, Bone, Griffiths, Wentworth, Rob-
hards, , assisted by Mr. Despolntes and “ Goby,”
produced a result whish exhibited taste and beauty.
All the doorways were draped with flags (lent by Mr.
Korff). and cables of leaves girdled the walls As a re-
lief to the sombre green, sprays of wattle blossom, now
in its fullest glory, were mixed with the leaves Round
about were all manners of ferns, gathered by the fair
ladies’ own hand? in distant nooks ; and pot plants (the
loan of Mr. Searle) edged the dais, whereon an array of
Ma’s and chaperones sat in placid state. Light dresses
were most plentiful on the floor, and there were many
more pretty ones than can possibly find mention. But
there is no difficulty about where to start with those
that can; considering the origin of the whole affair,
surely the tinkers must come first. Two fair ladies
from Staumoro were prominent—Miss Pearoe, in green
sateen, draped with cream lace, was as graceful off the
wheels as on them. Miss Jesse contrasted, her fair
complexion with a black velvet robe, sash of bine
watered moire, and blue wreath on blonde hair. Misses
Brindley were also in black velvet, richly trimmed,
which suited the fair Challis as well as the skilful
skater, Ellen. Very lively was Miss Chrissy Blanche
in cream satin and gauze, with ivy leaves. If
little Miss Cubit had not put a large square
patch of black velvet in front,(her blue crewelled
satin, quaint and nice, would have looked better.
It’s seldom three distinct colours do anything
but clash, especially if one is a big patch of black. The
dress of Mias M’Grea was one of the handsomest;
over a dark garnet skirt, puffed and kitted, slashed
across with pink roses, was a pink satin pannier, very
bouffant, with three large tabs, and puffed on the shoul-
ders. It had an old English picturesque affect, and the
lady was nice looking. Very choice were the delicate
pink sarins of the Misses Maddook, counterparts of
eioh other, without trimming, but worn white small
pearls, and daisies to match the satin. Two other belles
of the rink were the Mieses Wentwerth, both tall, who
wore white and cream dresses, and rose* on (heir
cheeks, and smiles as sweet and annoy as a summer
day. Taller still, and a graceful dancer, was Miss K.
Bill, in warm purple satin, with blue salia skirts, and
white wreath Her sister, Miss Josephine, wore all
white, and macleat least one fortunate being frequently
happy. Just the same step, as if- were. Miss Amy
Davies had one of the prettiest dresses, oream satin
—with about two years* work ou.it, just touched
off with cardinal and small flowers. And there was a
wreath of small flowers, and under the wreath was a
face of soft and dreamiest beauty. Miss Woodhill was
attired in cream oashmete and cardinal, Miss Wakford
in cream satin, trimmed with scarlet hawberrieu, Miss
Lawrence, in pale yellow satin, with pompadour trim-
ming, Miss Long, an exceedingly pleasing little brun-
etitn, in ivory ca J hmere gnd satin appronriafaly gar-
nished, Mrs. A. Patrick wore a handsome bridal satir,
with green gauze and white wreath, and Mrs. C.
Huenerbein, a flounced and shirred oream satin decked
with pearls. Mis. Clarkson in white satin and train,
and her sister. Miss Minnie Patrick, in blue silk,
looked pretty and danced well. The exquisite dancing
of Miss Camming was unsurpassed. Bright amber
satin a chosen by Mies Landers, (rimmed with
yellow flowers to match. They were rather remarkable
flowers, their proper name being eiphocampylos long!-
pedunculatns or something else, very likely something
else. Among nicely dressed guests were Miss Walker,
in white satin and light blue trimmings, Mies Ayres in
blue cashmere and white flowers, Miss Bone in cream
and pink satin and roses, Miss M’Coy in very, very red.
Miss Marryat in pink satin. Misses Graham in white)
and Mies Kagan, niece of the choleric Geoffrey, in pl»k
tartan with silver lines through it. Miss Birks was
tastefully dressed, and vielets in her hair, found a
happy, happy j e ding place. Miss Kennedy was attired
—well, sue was not u-tired dancer, at any rate, but
a very nice one. Miss Thorne, in white salin, was a
lively brunet! e, whose conversation was as pointed ns her
name. Blonde Miss A. Robberds showed painted flowers
on the satin trimmings of her dress; while Miss Annie
Robberds—on whose shoulders, as hon. see., much
work bad rested—wore a very rich inby satin bodice,
trimmed with houiton lace and field flowers, ard lemon
satin skirt, (rimmed with ruby chenille fringe, and al«o
bearing flowers, painted by the lady’s own dexterous
hands. All the committee wore badges, made by the
fair, of silver bows and bells, which were supposed to
jingle!; but the silver bells had only very small tongues,
so they never had a show against the other belles. Of
course, this is merely a badgeoke. The supper was on
the most liberal scale, and the tables were spread by the
City Catering Co. in a recherche manner; but the room
was too small. Do Groan’s band of four played the
whole of the music, including ten waltzes (under the
M.C.-ship of Mesaia. Collman and Despointes) in
splendid time, rnd were generally praised. No. 13 on
the programme was a quadrille danced by 80 ladies,
only. At the end of each figure, ail the enraptured
gentlemen who could tear themselves away from the
supper table, clapped heartily, and indulged in three
good cheers at the conclusion. The dance was very
well done, but it was observed that the ladies did not
circle ono another's waists with the same ready facility
generally displayed by the average youth when per-
forming the operation. Even the clasped ones didn’t
seem to derive that unqualified satisfaction whioh they
they are supposed to experience when enfolded in the
usual way, for one maiden was heard to say of her
partner, afterwards: "She didn’t hold me as nice as
Tom” —a remark which, though ambiguous, expressed
a good deal. Tom, no doubt, had had more practise.
The dear girl’s meaning was clearer than her grammar.
1 1 wu s four and past ore the dancing stopped. Altogether
the influential sex scored a decided win, and the ladies
of the N.P.S. are “grit.”
• * •
Nearly every girl in Redfern was in a state of
flutter last Wednesday week; for fifteen bridesmaids
was an unprecedented number. Fifteen of those beauti-
ful creatures had never stood before the altar rails in
one dazzling bevy, in that old church, within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant. And fifteen cream
cashmeres dresses, all trimmed with plush of
various hues, cream, pink, and blue, threw a brightness
rouud that respectable but dusky old edifice almost as
beautiful and welcome as —a short sermon. And those
fifteen plush hats, all cream alike, and the fifteen Aus-
tralian girls underneath them, were the most over-
whelming spectacle that ever damaged a bachelor’s
heart. The bride, attired in a beautiful white satin
brocade trimmed with lace and orange-blossoms, was
Miss Christina, oldest daughter of Mr. Samuel Poolman,
of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.; and the bridegroom,
Mr. A. C., eldest son of Mr. Adolphe Shadier, of
"Altona," North Shore. The best man was Mr W.
Angus, and the bridesmaids, Misses Cissy, Dolly,
Lizzy, and Rosie P<jolman; Louie, Nellie. Augusta, and
Adela Shadier; Florrie, Katie, and Marion luglu;
Chapman, Australia llenwick, and some little ones.
The Belgian March ushered the party up the aisle, and
the Wedding March helped them down again. Special
steamers then conveyed nearly one hundred down
the river to Five Dock, where breakfast was spread at
Fern Vi lie. Among those present were the Hon. A.
Fenwick M P., in the chair, Mr. Ren wick, senior, Dr.
George Eonwick, His Worship the Mayor, the Hon.
John Sutherland, Captain Cobb, Mrs. Darvall, of Eyde,
the Rev. ri. Campbell (who performed the ceremony),
and three other gentlemen of the cloth. Dr. Keuwick
propostal “ The Bride and Bridegroom,’’ Mr. Suther-
land “The Parents,” and Mr. Tom Hooper fairly
sparkled with fun on “The Ladies.” All sorts of
sports passed the time till 8.30, when visitors left.
Honeymoon to the mountains On Tuesday last.
Mr. and Mfs. Bhadler ( parents of the bridegroom, gave
a gratid ball at Nithsdale Rooms, which were lavishly
decorated, the display of natural flowers being splen-
did. A stately polonaise opened proceedings, led off by
the bridegroom and his pretty bride, the bridesmaids
following in procession, round the room in two move-
ment?, and finishing off with a polka. A band under
Mr. Ernest Needs provided capital music, and a perfect
supper table was spiead. All the bridesmaids wore
their ceremonial dresses, but in addition wreaths of
natural flowers. The fern chaplets, mixed with white
blossoms, were charmingly unique. Most of the
dresses were superior, perhaps the richest was Mrs.
Poolman’s, ruby silk, trimmed wifh ruby plush and
gold passementerie. Mrs. John Harris wore prune
satin, trimmed with velvet and satin, and seaweed fringe
to match, and Mrs. Hardy a dark dress beautifully em-
broidered in crewels, with heavy bullion fringe. Mrs.
Shadier, sear , was costumed in a fine black satin with
flowers and cream cap, and Mr. 8. Senior was about the
merriest dancer in the room. Mrs. Roberts could
not escape notice for her extremely graceful dancing;
her dress was a handsome blue satin, white lace, arm-
less, and out low. Miss Day was fair and pretty in light
pink, Miss Simpson naively nice hi cream cashmers
minutely gathered. A peculiarly pretty costume was
that of Miss Cochrane, blue satin brochd garnished
wish lace, the breast slashed exactly in military fashion
with many rows of small pearls. Mies Ada Tighe's
dress was sumptuously rich, consisting of light bine
silk skirt with earn laoo, and orimson plush bodice,
with elbow sleeves and neck edged with soft white lace,
the erimson being continued in three broad stripes
down the skirt to the hem, a device as quaint as charm-
ing. A white camellia adorned the head. Miss A. Ben-
wisk wore a picturesque wreath of real flowers, which
contrasted well with her dark tresses and light bridal
dress; and the elder Misses Shadier, in cream cash-
mare and plush, also wore white wreaths, nestling in
their nut-brown hair, and danced delightfully. Eigh-
teen dances wore on the programme, but the feature of
interest was the cotillon, which was performed as fol-
lows. The bride walked round with a stick of stream.
ets.And each gentleman she touched rose, and taking
a ribbon followed her, till the retinne was sufficient;
the bridegroom did the tame with tha ladies, and ga-
thered a corresponding number; the parties then
mixed and polka’d off in pairs. Ir w»s repeated seve-
ral times, with different leaders. Toen the bride was
placed on a chair in fhe centre, with a looking gla-s,
and an assortment of gentlemen were passed before its
face, until one was chosen, who led her off in a circular
dance, the others following suit. This was repeated with
a gentleman in the ohair. Next a table covered with
flowers and favours, was wheeled in: gentlemen selected
one oach and affixed it to any lady they chose, who at once
danced with them. Ladies then selected the favours
and conferred them, and the happy recipients rose,
placed their right arm in its proper position, and
joyfully waltzed off. The amount of pretty blushing
which the innocent girls managed to execute in this
part of the cotillon, was the most delicious item of
the evening. Finally, hundreds of (apparently) snow-
balls were launched into the room, and a vigorous
bombardment of those “nearest and dearest” was kept
up for a long time. The balls were masses of
tissue paper in flakes, which burst easily,
and were quite soft; in fact, the harder you
threw, the less effect they had. The air was full of
them for a while, and the floor covered, but they did
not interfere in any way with the dancing. During the
cotillon introductions are dispensed with ; if a bashful
young man wnnts to make the acquaintance of an angel
whom he sighs for, he simply lodges a snowball in her
ear, and they know one another at once. The snowball
breaks the ice, as it were. After this novel “ war ”
dance was over, the programme was resumed, and
closed with a potpourri early in the morning, after a
night’s amusement enjoyed by all.
• • •
The Woollahra Assembly Ball was held at
Need’s Rooms on Friday ; the limited attendance wa«
traceable to strong counter attractions, notably, the
Hunter’s Hill Assembly, and the Rink Ball, which
took the ladies, and the Football Dinner, which
reduced the number of gentlemen. Ladies were
very much in the majority, and the com-
mittee would do well to avoid such predominance
of wall fruit. A silver grey was prominent,
so were two aiithetia beauties from Weol-
lahra, and two sisters from Moore Park, for their
excellent dancing. The rioh appearance of another
Woellabra maid was caused by the shower of gold in
her hair. Most of the ladies and gentlemen danced
well, bnt a few benighted beings mlghtjbe seen, unable
to distinguish ono dance from another, and doing all
alike. Muaio was enly fair; refreshments good and
ample, fcpeeial tram 1 am. Next Assembly will be
the last of the season.
* # •
The annual re-union and soiree dansante of
Lodge Bt. Andrew, 358. S.C., will take place at the
Freemason’s Hall, York-street, on September Ist.
• « s
The St. Mary’s Mutual Improrement Society
West Maitland, sends us a programme of their second
annual celebration which took place at the School of
Arts, Maitland, on 15th instant. The programme is
embellished with pictures of wry-necked storks flying
through nothing, and Chinese junks, »nd gothic
rosettes, and bee-hives, and cornucopias. This is the
sort of design we would call elegant and rekerky, only
that we fancy that we have st en it somewhere before
on twopenny “surprise” packets, we believe. How-
ever, that has nothing to do with the entertainment,
which, a correspondent informs us, was first-class
First there was the tea, supplied by the well-known,
etc., to which, of course, “ample justice” was
done. The “ board, also, is said to have “ groaned
under the good things provided,” Nobody ever
wrote about a tea-rigadoon without using these
phrases. It can t be done. Then there were
eengs and recitations in the School of Arts. “ The
Hills Resound,” sung by St. Mary’s Choir, opened the
programme. After which, two enjoyable items were
contributed by tbe Secretary and the Treasurer of the
Society respectively. These were the yearly reports
When the Ecstatic joy which the reading of these do-
cuments produced in the audience had toned down a
bit, the less exciting part of the entertainment began
The best song of the evening, “Forget," was sung by a
lady amateur with, says our correspondent, such tweet-
ness that the flies were seen swarming down from the
ceiling trying to roost on her notes, as they floated
away to the far end of the Hall. The celebration wm
certainly a great success.
o • •
On Thursday evening, August 17th, there was
rinking and dancing at the Glauimis Hall, Paddington
It is agreed to give another such gathering early next
month. Kinking may be a nice amusement, put we
don't see much in it ourselves ; unless you put a “d”
before it. However tastes differ. We like ours hot.
with the smallest trifle of lemon.
• * •
The plain and fancy dross ball at Orange, lately,
was a snccess; attendance large, refreshments good
music shady, and ladies’ costumes equal to city belles’
Mrs. H. Rotton and Mrs. Wall were admirable brides’
Miss Kite was a good Lorraine Peasant, and pretty
Miss Polly Lakeman a representative of the land of the
stars and stripes. Miss Nelson, Flower Girl, in white
silk and cardinal flowers, white hose with coloured
crewel work. Mrs. M’Lachlan was Albion, Miss
Keenan a Brittany Peasant, Mrs. Edwin a Gitana Miss
M’Evoy, daughter of the regiment in red, white and
blue sateen, black velvet bodice, a coquettish rap with
silver braid. Miss Deighton was charming as Erin-go
hragh. Mrs and Miss Burke, Miss Palmer, Miss
M’Hathe, and Mrs. Jago Smith were among the
choicest buds. Conspicuous were Mrs. Pilcher as a
Grecian Peasant, Mrs. Allworth in blue satin sheathed
in Spanish lace, and Miss Morris u. Miss Fitzgerald
as Punch (in Oberoii) wore green sateen, pink sateen
bodice, gold and silver crown, black and gold shoes
combining to form the prettiest fancy dress in the
room. Miss E Kelly added good dancing to the charm
of a pretty face. Miss Wirl, Mrs. Treweeke, Miss A
Kelly, Mrs. Field as Josephine, all bid high for first
place. Miss Patter, as the Last Rose of Summer was
os lovely as the r»se that caught the poetical eye of
Tom Moore. Miss Bollringer was Winter, in white
sateen and holly. J. C. M Lachlan was
Volunteer Captain ; Mr. Bromilow, Charles
Surface; Mr. Hanrahan, Captain of the Mulligan
Guards; Steve Nolau went—with his clay pipe
Lachlan Morris Esquire, was King Henry VIII f and
is recommended to obtain a ball-room guide. Mr,
Harris, as an Italian Brigand, was overcome by the
heat towards morning; Mr. Burton made a good Blue-
beard. Mr. Isaacs, in evening dress, is leaving good
sized footprints on the sands of time. The pride of
Malong was there, knights of the parchment were
there also.
m * * *
Ten years ago, lawn tennis was looked on with
contempt, as only fit for romping l girls or effeminate
curates It is now played by experienced athletes, and
contests have attracted largo and fashionable crowds.
Prizes given by the London Athletic Club, at an open
tournament, drew some of the best players of the
country together, and the skill exhibited gave an
indication of what th<3 game can be made in good
hands.
** * *
Another skating and dancing party takes place
to-night at Glamrais Hall On Friday, the fourth
assembly of the Newtown bachelors takes place in the
Oddfellows’ Hall there A good private ball occurred
on the 17th, at Carcoar; excellent music. Two Wat-
gnnyah ladies, in short dark dresses, were very nice.
The belle was a lovely little girl in white bride’s
costume, a good dancer. Supper and dancing kept
nearly all employed till five o’clock. At Ducal,
Mr. Best, when marrying Miss Black, was
supported by no less than five of his brothers
Friday, the Ist September, is the day of the Balmain
Bowing Club Ball, and the girls over the water are
energetically preparing the “ outrigger’’ necessaries
Every benujictendsto do a stroke. A steamer|to Sydney
at the finish The German Bazaar, or Fair, or Jahr-
W’arket, opens this Saturday, at h"lf-past 2 p.m His
Excellency is to speak ; a concert is to follow, and the
German Band is engaged right through Last
nisht, tbe Gymnastic sixth sociable was worked off.
Next week, we’ll tell what was done The
Raudwick Bachelors’ Ball was handsomely given ; the
Benedicts would do a graceful act by returning it
One of the most charming of professional lady pianists
is engaged.... ..The Opposut* Club held a sociable on
Friday evening *t Rainford's Cambridge Cmb, 200
visitors and members present. Me-srs Leston and
Mannix good in comic songs, the former’s “ Parson and
Clerk’’ specially so. Mr, Teece, brotherof the “only,"
gave a capital piece, and Mr. W H. Chapman was
highly amusing in describing M’Elhone’s antics in and
out of the House Mr. W Smith sang “ Blue
AlsaMan Mountains." Mr. Sheridan’s agent was
present After all had indulged in a “ wet"
inside they tackled it omtside about midnight
A ball was given to Mr. R. A. Warden on his departure
from Taree. He had tareed long enough there. He goes
to the Commercial Bank at Bombala... Messrs. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb gave their employes a picnic to
Fern Bay on Saturday. Dancing, sporting, racing,
spoutintr, spooning. Walter took the rostrum at din-
ner; ...This ought to be a “ Denominational Drop,”
but you'll drop on it here instead. Mr. George Loo
Hoo Ten, missionary, met his Chinese friends at tea
last Thursday, in St. Andrew’s schoolroom. Mr.
Ten, the Dean, and Canon Stephen all gave ad-
dresses, telling the dusky pagans how much their
white brothers love them. Discussion of the Chinese
Bill, ho wever, is postponed till the next occasion
The Episcopalians of Panmnre, near Warmambool,
wound up a church concert with a ball Some sur-
veyor’s men “up the bush " gave a ball (do supper) at
2s. fid. a double ticket. The lady element was repre-
sented by three domestics, and the red-haired one was
belle. As the p’ice seemed deterrent, they gave the
next one free. Alas ! those identical three were again
the onlio'. But nothing daunted, the theodolite men
are actually giving another, and this time there will be
a display of fireworks, a bullock roasted on the green,
and a pair of No. 10 gloves presented to each guest
The dancing of the period.—Brown (to his partner).—
"May I have the pleasure of taking you in to be
kicked f"
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
! Petersham Private Assembly August 21.
Newtewu Bachelors’Assembly August 25
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithedale) August 25.
Sydney Biovele Club Meeting August 28.
German Pair (Exhibition) August 26.
Liberals’ Social Reunion August 29.
Balmain Rowing Club Ball Pept. 1.
St. Tiaeent’s Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 6.
Private Quadrille Assembly (Liverpool).., Sept 6
Rail and Tramway Picnic and Ball Sept. 14.
Burwood Private Assembly Sapt. 15,
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports Sept. 10.
PToollahra Private Assembly Sept. 22.
Railway Officers’ Pienio (Botany) Sept. 26.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
British prohibited importation of coal and war
material into Egypt Lesseps trying to prevent lay-
ing cable from Said to Suez Hex reinforced, owing
to tbreatenings of Bedouins Monument to Daniel
O'Connell unveiled, Dublin, in presence of 40,0(0
Military system in Zululand abandoned Cetawayo
visited England: has been restored Sir Q. Wolseley
held Council of War; decided approach from Aboukir.
The Forte declines to take any part in occupation.
... .Peaceful manifestoes of Lord Mayor and Mr. Parnell
in Dublin received with execration Toast of the
Queen hissed at Lord Mayor's banquet Religious
riots at Portadown National fund being arranged in
Ireland to pay Irish members of Parliament Re-
bellion in Corea; King and Queen killed The
Japanese Government have sent men-of-war to pro-
tect their Embassy An Irish Tenants’ Fund being
organised by Parnell to oppose Landlords’ Company
formed in England to work boycotted estates Prince
«nd Princess of Wales visiting Germany...Meares, ex-
Mayor of Melbourne, and C. J. Roberts, ex-Mayor of
Sydney, C M.G ’a. British Parliament adjourned to
October and then only meets to deal with Procedure
A-ct Three regiments re ainedin Alexandria, main
body proceeds Aboukir Cherif Pasha entrusted with
formation of new Khedive Ministry.,.Negociations again
opened with Stamboul... Turkish troops remain Crete. .
Fifty Irish suspects released.. .Editor Dublin Freeman's
Journal fined £5OO and three months imprisonment
Severity of rentence criticised Family murdered
at Louth Mask by Land League emissaries
13 arrested on suspicion ;.Baron de Lesseps
protests against Suez Canal being made bafisof opera-
tions and British Press recommend his arrest
British repaired fresh-water canal cut by Arabi...Egyp-
tian As lembly exacting forced loan 80,000,000piastres
Seagull and Mosquito gunboats, with 200 Highlanders,
captured Chalonl!, killing 168 and wounding many.
British loss tr.fling Sir Garnet Wolseley purposes
to occupy Cairo, and take Arabi in the rear Troops
landed at Ismailia Arabi said to be abandoning his 1
position, to cover cairo Sir Garnet ordered re-open.
ing of Canal to traffic Regiments (or second army
corps now ready in England The Indian contingent
sailed from Bombay for Suez The lost Smith
Arctic explorers found by Sir Allen Young’s expedition.
The party had abandoned their ship, and rowed
and siedged 1000 miles to Nova Zembla Parned and
Dillon been presented with freedom of Dublin.. ..Pitts-
burg (U. 8.) colliers starved out of their striae
Another atrocious agrarian murder reported from Kil.
larney Attempt to negotiate treaty with Bnrmah
failed Australian cricketers still successful.
'I ha priac ; pal dignitary ia N.S.W. of aChuich,
whicn need nut be specified, has of late
had occasion to inquire into charges of drunkenness
made agaimt certain of his ecclesiastical subordinates,
several of whom are now sitting on the stool of repent-
ance, ana qcaffing nothing stronger than soda-water.
The Patent Portable Gas Company have suc-
ceeded to such an extent that their orders and con-
tracts require a quadrupling of the appliances and
means of output. lu all probability most of the inland
municipalities will be lit up by the new patent portable
gas. The suburban railway stations are to be thus
supplied.
per cent, of the lower class in Ireland attend
church regularly twice a Sunday. 2 per cent, of the
inhabitants of Berlin do ditto odc6» and very gingerly
at that. The “ outrageous" wickedness of these last,
when compared with the poor Irish, is argument more
potent as to the eitioiency of church-going than all the
sermons ever hoard thereby or otherwise.
The Bicycle Club’s tournament is fixed for
Saturday, at the Association Cricket Ground. The
prizes are valued at over £l5O, and include a very valu-
able trophy presented by Mr. Herbert Bale. This
tournament is about the first genuine affair of the kind
ever hold in the colonies. The events include two
championship races-ouo of all the Australias, and
another of New South Wales. The patronage will-
doubtlese, he large and fashionable.


w.
H. P A I
PIANOFORTE WAREH
358 Georgo-stroet, Sydi
PIANOFORTES, PIANC
Just On packed, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-
MENTB, by
BEARD (Paris and London),
1-LBVEL,
COLLARD and COLLAR!
r boufleto.
> BURDEN and C<
TROST
AUCB
And otter First-class Makers, In
Black and Gold, and Walt
AMERICAN ORG^
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON
SM
And other Renowned I
IiARMONIU:
By Mestrs. & ,EXANDRE PERE <
First-class Manufaok
A Large Assortment of New am
ways on band at _ . _
W. K. T A I»
M 2 QEOBQE
oppositb wtn;fae
SYDNEY.
V L
T
HBA T S E
»• i
Lessee J
Sub-Lessees and Sole mi
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, i
YOUTH, Merrit and Harris
Great Drama,
EVERY EVENIN
Great Cast
BIGNOLD.
YOUTH.
bignold.
youth,
bignold.
youth.
EIGNOUD.
youth,
BIGNOLD.
youth,
bignold.
10UTH,
Box Plan now open d lily from 11
entrance, Castleraagh-strebt. Seat-
days in advenes, and Tieketa obta
the house at Lloyd’s, next the The*
Treasurer •• Mi
Manager Youth Combination...Mi
Stage Manager Mt
SATURDAY, SEPTEM
LIGHTS O’ LOND
of
Characters.
Immense
Success.
Sceaery
John Homings
Curtain rises
at 7,45.
pAIB T T T I
lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
Directress. .Mrs. M. Gladsta*e-B»
LAST NIGHTS of the POPUL
Miss MYEA KBMD
in conjunction wit
Mr. WALTER REYN
THIS WEDNESDAY. AC
and THURSDAY AUGI
with new ssenery and «
BouoicauU’s over popular Ii
THE COLLEEN BA
MTLES NA COPPALEBN,.....Mr. WAI
(With songs, as played hr him al
Eilt O’Connou ....Miss MT
Danny Mann Mr. W. t
Harlress Cregan Mr. F. C«
and the full strength of the
FRIDAY, AUGUST
for thi« night only
OUR BOYS,
The Buttarman. Mr. WAL’
Mary Melrose Miss MY“R
Reserved Seats at Nieholson and
street.
Opera m
Lessee and Manager
Manager for Ketlar’s ...
PSYCHO LAST NIGHT BUTT
ECHO CELLAR'S WOND
THIS EVENING, Wednesday
Ronroduction end Enthusiastlfl
KELLAR’S MARVELLOUS
the FLYING BIRD ANT
A NIGHT IN DREAMI
NEW SPECIALITY
W. HORACE BEN
••WHAT 18 ART?
To conclude with KELLAR’S CAE
Prices as usual.
Box plan at A. Huenerbein’s 1
George-street. Doors open at 7.15
Carriages at 10.
FRIDAY NEXT. COMPLIMENT A
KELLAR. and LAST APPfi
SATURDAY next, Aug'
First time in Sydney of POLLARD’S
in Leoocq’s Celebrated Opera, MA
Box plan now open.
YI C T O R I A
CONTINUED GENUINE I
of
SOUTH’S OPERA COM
in the renowned opera t
H.M S. PINAFORj
ANOTHER CROWDED
ENCORES LOUDLY DEN
Admission—is, 3a, 2s, Is; ootamen
Bjx office at A. Huenerbein’s, Oec
H. J. WHITT]
GIROFLE GIROFI
ASO N I C
A GRAND SOCIAL RE-UNION
will be held as above
TUESDAY, August 29. under tht
LIBERAL ASSOCIAT
The programme will include a stat
to the projected FREETHOUGHT
TIFIC DISPLAY, by W. MAC DOj
very beautiful and interesting ch
Crooke’s Radiant Matter, Geisler't
kc. ; an address by PROFESSOR
tern Display by the same gentlen
Seven Ages of Man; Musical Sel
direction of PROFESSOR HUGH!
by MISS AMY SHERWIN and
HODGE, and some well-known an
to conclude with dancing and refres
Tickets, 2s. 6d., at Turner and H«
and Ce.’s, Peapes and "‘haw’s, W.
Co.’s, B. Mountcastle’s, H. L. Bumn
Brothers’, or any member of the
rooms, 212 Castlereagh-street, thi
IMPORTER 01
WORKS OF A
GERMAN AND SWISS WOl
ARCADE BUILDII
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. a
SOLICITOR, has oon
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Omoi.
BICYCLES AND TRI
SOCIABLEJ[RICI
THE LIGHT RUNNING
The Lightest Sunning and Strong
For Racing, Road, or Tourist, the;
THE BEST INVESTMENT OF TH
The Latest Novelty is the Soci
Cushioned Seats fer two persons,
know what real enjoyment is, shonli
TRICTSLBS FOR E
The Latest Design, •annet Vase
arms or collar hones. Travel with I
No Boy shonld be content till he
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUBS
RENNIOK, KEMBLE'S
38 CLARENCE STB
SYDNEY.
Lydia has
THE POETT I UTERI
THE QUEEN OF ELOCC
This HIGHLY-OIFTED LADY
fcERIE-t OP ENTER • A]
Ou MONDAY, tlie 28th
at the
TEMPERANCE I
(Sydney.
The Art Journal says“ From
taken a position quite distinct f
known as ‘readers.’ Possessing
belonging to genius, she contrives
imagination of her render o , and tl
illusory effects which, on the stage,
by scenic d'splay, costuming, and
mechanical contrivance. She does
she clothes herself with them, crei
a veritable world, in which are re-ei
of the Shakesperiau drama, the vc
parted heroes, or the farcial whir
who make the world laugh."
R’served seats (numbered), 3s
readings, £1; Family tickets, to ad
each of the eight readings, k'2 5s
course, 12s fid; back seats, Is.
Tickets now ready.
THE ORIGINAL JUVENI
COMPANY,
Lessee and Business Manager
Stage Manag5r..,......,.............. Mi
Schoolmaster.. ...
Schoolmistress ....Miss C.
Musical Directress... J
CROWDED ETEEYW
THE AUSTRALIAN W(
H. STANDBY,
Lets Leeturer and Masseur ef the i
msa. sad a wikneaa ef *fca whele el
RUiti the Maori Wee of New
iehelHen, 2551« Lend, As : and travj
Grease, Rseria, Turkey, «onkh Afri
Oeylea, India, Bsrnaah, Java, Siam
the whole of the Australian Col6n»e
Tasmania j now making a visit pr«
well Tear round the World with
THB JUTBNIMi OPERi
and
PANTOMIME COMI
of
40 PERFORMERS
Including the Original and Prim
LEWIS’S JUVENILE PIN AFC
Bbvrhbbrl
THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL
MELBOURNE.
Who will appear in Gilbert and S
Satire,
H.M.S. PINAF*
Having concluded a most race*
Weeks at the BlJea Theatre, M«lb.
the Queen’s Theatre, Sydnuy; 6 1
Theatre, Adelaide j the firm is now
Tour of the Colonies.
DON’T PAIL TO SEE THI
ANTE STAIN MEN
Remember I Over 40, People pai
Melbourne.
„ BATHURST,
„ ORANGE SEPTEE
Melbourne to folio
All Dates filled up to SEPTE
TO THS OPERATIC AND
PBOPHSSION.
NEW OPERA HO
WELLESLEY STREET, AUC
Sele Proprietor, H. N. A
rviHia Mnrpifloent Building is no
I THE MODEL Opera House
the Largest and Meet Com rood km
Erected on laetest models, it will be
every Modern Comfort and Luxury
the esrtein) appertain Ing te tl
? metres tm the Old and New Werld
eeriest. Ail pacts at the Heuet
ns egress hem brood, Ight, said aii
precaution has heeu taken te save 1
ease of fire, and the Auckland Otfer •<
inspected and Mgjklv eooameuded th
to that epd. Magnldeeutlg aad 1
Re Luxurious Private Bogee, Dre
ebeetra StaB«, together with lbs m
Stalls Aeeomodatten, are features h
Colonial Theatres. This Opera 1
by the WlHlmwson Patience Oomp
sommeoefog from 23rd May last,
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror for six
A-_ L. V..A Vwst.Vk motisirPTnonf.fl.
BOOT!
HYDROPATHIC
JbflS I'ABLISHM]
COENEE OF COLLEGE AND OX
HIDE PARK.
J O H
NEW
GARDEN SEEDS,
FOR PRESENT SOWING.
A Collection of Twelve
Leading Varieties of Veget-
able SEEDS, in Twelve
Sealed Packets, sent free to
any address in New South
N G. TEE


MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OF T
WHEN PURCHASING YOUI
ask for
PANT BE AND Pi
A
N
D
8
A
F
E
8
T
NEW EXTRACT O
AND SEE THAT TOD OB
SUPERIOR TO ALL 0
E*T Washing and Disinfe
U tion known, for Clothes,
©rookery, Paint, Glass, and evi
prirpose. Used and reoonam
Laandry at Government Ho
mom (inspector of N ulsanoee
(Orient Laundry), and by
judges to be the best article mi
REMEMBER!
Washing and cleaning don
time, with half the Labour.
EvoryttWng Cleaner, Health
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HA
TO BE HAD OF ALL Q
WOEKS, 700 GEOEQE-ST
IN THE WOR
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces i
Light, Delicious
Beverage
%
*
V
*
•v>
o
C
o
c
drink
liquid yield
ORDINARY
SOLD BY ALL G
OLD AND NEW I
Ee-Printod fror
THE SYDNEY MOENltf
T PERMISSION of the
BT
- - J • ‘ ■
EDWARD HORDERN
Cable Address:
•‘Clifford "
T< m ( fl i e
No. 323
Clifford, Love, & Company,
EASTERN MERCHANTS.
TOO CHOW,
CHINA,
«ind
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AND CHINA,
COFFEE,
RICE,
PEPPERS,
SPICES,
TAPIOCAS.
CHUTNEYS,
INDIAN PRESERVES,
CHINESE PRESERVES,
„ SILKS,
~ MATTING 3,
„ SPECIALITIES and
Give Special Attention to the Purchasing of i
EASTERN PRODUCE.
J
k ;s
N DA
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitarj W*
Gas fittings, Globes, Electric Bolls, Pumpi,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY,
'N!
N
TWEED
I SUITS
t
\\*\
PITT ST
BEAUTIFUL
OR
ALLWOOL
ser
&■
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
5,000 PAT FROi
H-LSUMMERFIEU
PITTSTSYONEt
EVERY COUNTRY RESIDENT
after reading the above advertisement, should write foj
my new guide to self-measurement and illastrn
stylos, with a choice assortment of patterns, sent P O9
free.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR, SYDNEY.
Wear only Smith and mannell’e Shirt*
11 They havo stood the test of public /jbeii
yrarx. and st ll retain (as thousands can tefctiiD
-upaiionty over all others.”
We are now selling onr xf aDE
CELEBRATED MAKE of SHIRTS, BEADY MA
at 305,, 40a., and 50s. the HALF-DOZEN.
MADE TO MEASURE C-R PATTERN (FIT
GUARaNIEED),
505., R3s, and 755. the HALF-DOZEN.
SMITH AM MANNED 1
SHIRT MAKERS. HOSIERS, AND M&
MESCEB3.
293 George Street, Sydney*.
Near Hunter Street.
Established
” ’
The Terms of subscription tor The Bull qu»rt-W>
advane©, per annaim, 125.; half-ye R B mjttancW
3s. ; bobbed, 6d, per quarter extra. K or N* ’
be made by stamps of any Austrian »o<i 0*“
or by money order, payable to ” • “•
94 Fttt-street, Sydney, K.I.W
nd published by W. H. !^ EAl gydß«yi
ru.ETi« office, 24 Pitt-stroct, ay«
James MARTI
—* 389 QEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (opp
THE
PARAGOI
HEAP
FOR 1882 HARVEST.
FARMER 'S,NO THIS /
Our HORSSBY-MARTIN Sellable
MOWER & REAPER
PRICE INCUIDING
2 KNIVES, WHIPPLETREES,
& Supply of WEARING PARTS,
viz., FINGERS, SECTIONS,
BOLTS, RIVETS, Ac., Ac. BOX
OF TOOLS, containing Wrench,
Spanners, File, Oil Can, Ac.
Working Instructions sent with each Machine.
Tils Is tie Cheapest, Best and most Reliable
Reaper and Mower ever offered.
JAMES MARTIN & Sydney.
TVs have give
years to the pei
Machines, 1
provement tlial
Our caste
Machines, 1
also, with or \
cut up to 0 feet
| THE R
w
f
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WAIKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £S ss.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, £3 15s.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. .£4
IT. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£4 4s.
M. GODLSTON’S SUITS, .£1 10s.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOODS EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS!
PEAPES& SHAW
'Mi
CHTLLRRN’S FRF. *CK 1 ID OVFS
, in Blarka, Dark Col ur> i ni F moioa
T.ADTPS' ■■ FIRST ClT r>Tn,: ’" FREMITI KI GLOVCS p "'V > T 7 r >’TY BUTTONS, INCUR
C ITERATED MAKES, ‘FL 'K-V’ ,ui Cl.la i'AlE'.’
THE NEW SWEDE MOUSQUETM RU OLOVES.
NEW' TAFFETV GLOVES, IN TWO, FOUR AXD SIX BUTTON’S.
«sr Note —All tneabcve gods are made to ou' apcia’ cider
NEW FRENCH TTOOLLEMS.
IN THE GENTLEMEN’S DEPARTMENT we shall thaw OUR FIRST SHIPMENT OF FRENCH
MANUFACTURED WOOLLENS.
Onr oast eirsriar.ff has con firm pd us in f>e opinion thf t the’o peculiarly liight. Soft, yet Durable Goods
are the most suitable Baas for this warm tcmi tropical climate during the Summer months.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
