

THE BULLETIN
VoL 9. —No. 109.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1882.
Price—3d
®j[C bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1882.
A Rift in the Lute.
But a very slight outline has yet reached the
colony of the speech delivered by Sir Henry
Parkbs, arid it is just possible that the known
tendency of our Premier to magnify his office may
have betrayed him into a magniloquence not
warranted either by the powers deputed to him,
or by the prospects of practicable action. But,
proceeding on the most sober system of inferences,
it seems probable that the front of the offence
which Sir Henry’s deliverances would appear to
have given to the Imperial authorities, has been
the declaration of the intention to invite closer
commercial relations with America, which was
understood to be his purpose when he started on
his travels. It was especially with respect to
the chief staple of the Australian colonies that
Sir Henry proposed to concern himself,
although it seems more than likely, that once he
commenced to orate, he would throw the reins of
his prudence on the neck of his imagination, and
enlarge his original theme beyond all recognition.
Sir Henry, it may be remarked, is invested with
no authority to commit the colony to anything at
all. Even with respect to negotiating for the
freer introduction, into the United States, of
Australian wool, he has simply the tacit approval
of the colonists, and an Executive minute or two
from the Governments of New South Wales and
the other Australian colonies, with the exception
of Victoria. Parliamentary authority, he has
one.
• • *
But, even on the supposition that he has, in
presence of the New York Chamber of Commerce,
kept strictly within the limits of the proposals
with reference to Australian wool, which were
understood to fill the measure of his intentions,
the uneasiness of the Home officials is perfectly
comprehensible. At the present time, the mother
country occupies, in relation to the Australian
colonies, a position which makes her something
more than “ the most favoured nation.” She may
be said to receive all our exports of raw produce.
Of late, it is true, other nations—Belgians, Ger-
mans, French, and Americans —have cut into the
colonial business ; and among our imports, goods
from all these countries have been figuring in
augmenting quantities. But it is a recognised
economic maxim that the country which receives
rora another the raw material, stands in a position
of infinite advantage over any other, as inter-
change is facilitated, and exporters arc certain to
take the greater amount of the values due to
them, in “ kind.”
* # *
In other words, England has had the assurance
of retaining, in her own hands, the chief share of
the export trade to Australia, because she has
been able to monopolise the export trade from
these colonies. In addition to this, the advan-
tages derived from suoh transactions have been
manlfdM. The mother country has been enabled
to retain its commanding position as the manu-
facturer of woollen good* for the world. Conti-
nental buyers have, indeed, of late years, in-
creasingly haunted the wool sales in London, and
have even pushed their operations into the colonial
markets; but, in the main, the advantage of
dealing at first hand has remained with the
manufacturers of England. She has been the
middleman and manufacturer, while the United
States have been her customers for the finished
article.
* # *
It is quite comprehensible, therefore, that, even
supposing Sir Henry Parkes has not enlarged
upon the design which he had declared before
starting to visit the States, the public announce-
ment of his mission would arouse a sentiment of
resentment in the old country. It is, .perhaps,
odd that the first note of antagonistic feeling
should proceed, as appears to be tbo case, from
official quarters. It might have been expected,
according to the supposition we argue upon, rather
from manufacturing and business coteries. But
this discrepancy may be explained by considering
that officials have their sensibilities also, and that
it may probably appear to the magnates at the
colonial and foreign offices a sort of affront.
strongly seasoned with audacity, that a colonial
dependency should assume to address itself directly
to a foreign nation, instead of being content, as
heretofore, to let its communications be filtered
through, or intercepted by, the recognised repre-
sentatives of the British people. And, moreover,
it must be kept in remembrance that the present
Imperial Ministry is strongly dominated by the
“ Manchester,” or manufacturing element, so that
official and trade susceptibilities vibrato, just now,
to the same jarring touch.
# * *
All this merely servos to indicate the special
character of the entente cordiale subsisting be-
tween the mother country and these colonies.
Much of sentiment enters into their relations, but
the supreme bond is mutuality of material in-
terests. It is an affection of the heart, to a great
extent, but it is also an affection of the breoohes-
pooket. Just as a commercial treaty is, to-day,
the key which looks or releases the Anglo-Gallic
political alliance, so, but in a qualified degree,
trade relations dominate the warmth or coolness
of the connections between our own communities
and the old folks at home.
m m *
It is a singular circumstance that the repug-
nance evinced by our British relatives to the
advances which are being made on our behalf to
our American cousins, indicates the uneradioable
persistence with which “ protective ” inclinations
linger, even in a declaredly Free-trade country
like England. All that Sir Henry Parkbs’
overtures tend to foster is Free-trade between
these colonies and the world at large, as opposed
to the continuance of practicably perferential
dealings with Great Britain. Preferential deal-
ings, no matter how arising, or under what name
they may be disguised, constitute, in fact “ Pro-
tection.” The little jar now perceptible indicates
the nature of the tenure on which the affectionate
relations between these colonies and the mother
country depend. The incident under notice is
but a little cloud, no greater than a man’s hand.
But, from its appearance on the horizon, the
politically weather-wise may, without any absur-
dity, deduce very large portents.
Sir Alfred Stephen, C.B, K.C.M.G.,
Lieutenant Governor.
The distinguished knight whose portrait we give
in this issue, it the fourth son ot the late Mr.
Justice Stephen, of the Supreme Court of New
South Walts, who died in thia colony in 1833. At
the time of Alfred’s birth, his parents were resi-
dent at St. Chriatopher, one of the Leeward
Islands, the date being August 20, 1802, Sir
Alfred is, consequently, in hie 80th year, but bears
his age more lightly than any man of his date
whom we remember to have met. He preserves
still the fullest enjoyment of his mental faculties;
the letters on judicial and other current topics
which he still occasionally publishes bearing the
stamp, not only of the ripe which
might bo expected, but of a vigour of mind and
activity of exegetical faculty which seem to pertain
to a man in the prime of life, rather than to an
octogenarian. Sir Alfred retains, also, a physical
activity which is on a par with the elasticity of
his intellect, and bears the appearance of a well-
preserved man of sixty. His life has been one,
nevertheless, of constant work; albeit, to the
almost uniform prosperity which has attended Sir
Alfred throughout his career, the remarkable
immunity from effects of wear and tear which his
present virility illustrates may, perhaps, be to
some extent attributable. The early education of
Sir Alfred was received at the Charter-house
School, London, and at Honiton Grammar School,
in Devonshire. In his thirteenth year, however, he
re-accompanied his father, then Solicitor-General
of the Leeward Islands, to the West Indies,
and visited many parts of that archipelago. During
his stay in that part of the world, the authorities
having, in 1817, called upon all males over the age
of 16 to enrol themselves in a militia force for the
defence of the Islands, young Alfred Stephen was
appointed a second lieutenant in a Fusilier Com-
pany, but a few years afterwards returned to
England, where he entered on the study of the
law, with such remarkable zeal and mental apti-
tude as to win the admiration of his eminent rela-
tives, Mr. Sergeant, and Sir James, Stephen. He
was called to the bar at Lincoln’s Inn, in Novem
her, 1823; married a daughter of a Mr. Consett
a well-known London merchant, in 1824, and soon
afterwards embarked for Van Diemen’s Land
(Tasmania) where, in 1825, he became Solicitor-
General, and subsequently (1832), Attorney-
General. In that position, he acquired among
the convicts and criminal class a character for
unrelenting severity, which was only intensified
when, in 1839, he was, by Governor Gipps, ap-
pointed to a seat on the bench of N.S.W. In
this position he was a terror to evil-doers, and his
name will go down to posterity as “ a hanging
judge,” owing to the numerous instances in
which it fell to his lot to sentence to the
last penalty of the law, numbers of his
hapless fellow creatures. It must, however,
be borne _ in mind, that at that period
“ hanging judges ” were common on the benches
of every British Criminal Court, and that capital
punishment was much more lightly regarded than
it is at the present day; while the community in
which Judge Stephen discharged his functions
was one exceptionally constituted, and in which
even the sternest judicial severity may
not have been without justification. On the
bench, his patience was inexhaustible. He was
accused, however, of expecting an equal exhibition
of the same quality on the part of the wretched
men who occupied the dock, a situation less
favourable to the complacent virtues than the
bench whereon he himself sat. It was a grievance
that he preluded his sentences, too often, with pro-
longed lay sermons from the bench—judicial
homilies which seemed to irritate prisoners
greatly, a fact comprehensible when it is re-
membered that it had come to be understood that
these moral dissertations were certain to be fol-
lowed by a sentence of which the severity would
in no whit be abated on account of the fine pre-
cepts which had preceded it. Men who knew that
their lecturer meant to send them to the hangman
felt little gratitude to him for first addressing a
homily to them. The secret of the detestation in
which the criminal classes held Sir Alfred
Stephen, as a Judge, seems to have been an utter
absence of sympathetic or humanitarian senti-
ment on his part. The addresses which he, per-
haps, meant to move the oonsoienoes of his hearers
struck them with a chill, as if his utterances were
iced. His life of unbroken prosperity, social ela-
vation, and absence of vulgar temptations,
appear, indeed, in conjunction with the
natural coldly-intellectual bent of his mind, to
have incapacitated Sir Alfred from identifying
himself, even in idea, with the people he had to
sentence. The imaginative faculty appears to have
always been deficient in his mental composition, and
the circumstances of his life had been such
as to afford no chance of it ever being
awakened to the extant of entering into
the feelings of the miserable wretches
born to misfortune and nursed to crime.
To the discharge of his judicial functions, although
Sir Alfred may not have brought a very tender
heart, he certainly brought a keen, cultivated,
and analytical mind. As an exponent of law he
won, perhaps, a higher reputation than most other
judges who have sat on a Colonial bench. The
dispassionate cast of his mind invested him with
peculiar aptitude for discrimination, and for
arriving at a correct judgment on questions cap-
able of being regarded in the abstract. Judge
Stephen’s merits and services on the Bench won
him the distinction of knighthood in 1846, when
that honour was seldom bestowed for politica
success, but nearly always for real public ser-
vices. On the inauguration of Responsible
Government in 1856, he was appointed President
of the Legislative Council, but he resigned the
office in the following year, and in 1858 his seat in
the Council. He was made a C.B. in 1862, and a
K.C.M.G. twelve years later. His diligence,
intelligence, patience, love of order, and great
experience were manifested up to the very last
day he occupied a seat on the Bench of the Sup-
remo Court. It was his good fortune, on the
departure of the Earl of Belmore, 23rd February,
1872, to become the Administrator of the Govern-
ment, and he discharged the duties of the position
with singular tact and urbanity, the even tenor
of his vice-regal way only being disturbed by a
considerable commotion over three proposed
executions—of men who had committed capital
offences, but not murder. Sir Alfred had his way
in respect to one criminal (an aboriginal), the
other two, of whom one was a boy of 17, being
reprieved. It was on this memorable occasion
that Sir Henry Parkes came down to the Assembly
with a cock-and-bull statement to the effect that
as the two condamnis “ had always upheld the
honour of the girl” (in other words, as they
had been considerate enough to apologise)
they would not be hanged. Sir Alfred was ap-
pointed Lieutenant-Governor of New South Wales
in 1875. He has taken an active part in
every great social and philanthropic movement in
the colony during the past forty years, and con-
tributed greatly, as a member of the Council of
Education, to make the Act of ’66 a real success.
He is highly esteemed by the members of the
legal profession. He possesses fine critical taste,
and is not without a racy humour. Sir
Alfred is the father of a numerous family,
his oldest son being the zealous and popular Canon
tephen, of St. Paul’s, Redfern. Sir Alfred is
SIR ALFRED STEPHEN, C.B., K.C.M.G., LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR OE N.S. WALES.


HOP BITTERS!
ARB
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Beat, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Potiifisb, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on a bed of sickness, taka
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Yon.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, .worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore!Yon.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Yon.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Believe You.
It yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting,
Hop Bitters is What Yon Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hep Bitters Will Clive You New Life and
Vigour-
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing tha stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yon will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTEFIOBE, STUART, ft CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR.
FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOB
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
MONTEFIOBE, STUART & CO
E N J A M I N BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Faint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a groat of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE. STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,!
A fight took place at the Association Cricket
Ground on Sunday last. A policeman appearing in the
distance dispersed the assembled mob.
Dr. Stanich desires to announce that poor per-
sons, suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Dis-
eases, will receive his valuable services towards their
cure gratis, every Thursday in the week, at 50 Wyn-
yard-square, Sydney.
The Colonial Sugar Company’s employes held
their third annual picnic, down tho harbour, on Satur-
day. Several hundreds present; all the usual sports,
dancing to the music of No. 2 Eire Brigade band, and
an unceremonious ball in the evening at Pyrmont.
We find the annual picnic of the Booksellers
and Stationers takes place on March 16 next. We’re
there —they fed us up well last time, and they have the
same indefatigable wisehearted secretary, so it’s bound
to be another success; but no more “down the har-
bour,” — it’s too too— so to Botany this time.
A correspondent wishes to obtain further par-
ticulars about Mr. W. Smith, lately on fiuthven Station,
who was found dead in a hut. Our correspondent
desires to ascertain whether the deceased gentleman is
identical with a Mr. Smith, who left Melbourne some
six months ago in charge of an Artesian well-boring
machine, and who would answer to the following de-
scription William Smith, trade engineer; height, sft.
6in. or sft. 7ia.; stout build; age, from 30 to 33. Our
correspondent mentions that he has vainly communi-
cated with the sergeant of police at Blackall respecting
the deceased, and has made other enquiries with no
result. Perhaps some of our Blackall readers will
kindly furnish us with the information required.
Notwithstanding the keen competition existing
in the sewing- machine trade, the “ Singers” are acknow-
ledged to be the sewing-machines of the day. Buyers of
sewing-machines should visit the Sydney Arcade, and
see the numerous first-class prizes (over 160 in number)
awarded them at the leading competitions of the world.
—Adv.
During the past year you have frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good cup of tea.
You have heard that the last season's China crop was*
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
please ask your grooer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas ?—a blend of tho most famousland purest teas in
tho world; kept by all thelleading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place.— Advt.
Bfcill active, takes a lively interest in public
affairs and seems likely to live to the traidtional
advanced age of a well-paid pensioner.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bathurst and Ireland.
Hatred of the Irish people appears to have perfectly
crazed the 8. M. Herald. The other day a resolution
to the effect that members of the Licensed Victuallers*
Society should refrain from dealing with tradespeople
and others belonging to Temperance Societies, was not
brought forward at a meeting of the Bathurst publicans.
It had been included in their draft programme, but was
excised. Now, a resolution whioh has not been taken,
or a proposition whioh has come to nothing, constitutes
Just the sort of affair whioh the S. M. Herald combats
with immense determination aud vigour. Our con-
temporary is unrivalled in the dlan with which it
squares up to adversaries of straw. On this occasion
It demonstrates with remarkable clearness that the
publicans of Bathurst would have been great fools it
they hadn’t been wise. In all this, however, there is
nothing remarkable. The public of New South Wales
has become used to the Herald’s methods. But what
is really striking is the ingenious perversity with which
the leading journal manages to haul in the wicked Irish
and charge that detestable people with the unexpected
responsibility of the sin whioh the publicans at
Bathurst didn’t commit. The argument employed is
diverting. The Bathurst publicans had bean inspired
by the example set by the Irish people. “ Boycotting
seems likely to become a favourite fighting expedient,
and the Irish people have the credit of giving the
world a farther lesson in the art of setting class against
class." But after setting this down the Herald
writer seems to have felt & twinge of remorse.
It went against his grain to give the Irish people credit
for anything, even for setting a bad example. So, in
the very next sentence, he corrects and contradicts
himself, saying: “ Not that bo: rotting is a new idea,
for the invention of which any land-leaguer may claim
the evil credit." So that the Irish have the credit, and,
furthermore, are not entitled to lay claim to it. This
is extremely clear and convincing. Bat the Herald
has still a shot, nearly as good, in its argumentative
locker. “It (boycotting) has been familiar enough
in the Chnroh for centuries as excommunication, and
the Irish people did bat transfer to civil warfare what
they were aooustomed to as an instrument of ecclesi-
astical discipline." This is a tweak at the Papal
Chnreb, of course, accomplished by assuming a fine
oblivion that excommunication is an instrument which
Protestant Churches arrogate to themselves an eqnal
right to employ. Amidst all the confusion of the
article quoted, one thing may be clearly disoerned.
That the Hhbald writers hate Irishmen so much that
the mere thought of that race deprives them of the
faonlty of reason. Boycotting, an Irish invention, or
an ecclesiastical invention either P The conception is
as eld as human nature. If an example be wanting,
did not the first Napoleon institute a boycotting
league of all Europe against Great Britain P The
Herald people would do well to give a little time to
the simple question, “Who is my neighbourP” and
then study whether they could not evolve a few
eesays on that theme, whioh would be more creditable
and more decent than perpetual endeavours to keep
alive animosities of races and sects.
Cheers, Tears, and Laughter.
W*, In New South Wales, have disposed of our abo-
rigines. Broadly speaking, we have wiped them off
the face of the colony, and onr feather-dusters have
been lead, rum, poison, and starvation. We have
tinned sentimental now that the savages trouble ns no
longer, and make ludicrous pretences of coddling the
miserable remnant of our victims in sanctimonious
missions, and of soothing them with Moody and
SanxlY’s hymns, and very tardy prescriptions of
Gospel. It would have been inconvenient in the
highest degree to trot out our Gospel at an earlier
stage, considering that the precepts of that code for-
bid, with considerable distinctness, murder and robbery,
and are somewhat positive on the subject of doing to
others as we would be done by. But, in New Zealand,
onr eotemporariee have not yet reached to onr happy
situation. The aborigines in that country die hard.
Providence has endowed them with some degree of
intelligence—sufficient, at any rate, to enable them to
stave off for a while their own destruction. They have
been gifted with sufficient deductive faculty to compre-
hend, in some degree, cause and effeot; and with a
certain capacity for organisation against the incursions
of the white man. It is interesting, but saddening, to
read the accounts of the recent visit of the Maori King to
Auckland. That poor innocent, with his infantile dignity
bis antiquated phraseology, and his queer, half-timid
pretence of confidence in the fair-dealing of the Euro-
pean invaders of his land, furnishes a touching picture.
His regal state, and his white bell-topner; his simple
address, and his whalebone sceptre; his guileless
acceptance of the greeting of the mob, and the inevit-
able fleecing which awaits him, all [combine to oonsti-
tuto a moving spectacle. The cheers of the multitude he
naively accepted as the voice of their souls. But, to those
who study the spirit of the age, all these cheers wear a
different aspect. They resemble the genial bonhommie
with which the confidence-trick man soothes his in.
tended victim and puts him off his guard. The
white man means to have the king’s country,
but prefers to have it without garotting. It
is easier to fleece the Maori when he cornea bleating
like a lamb, than when he shows his teeth like a wolf.
It averts scandals, and is auctions to the souls of a
Pharisaic people. Now, that the poor savage has
** listened to reason,” it has become so much easier to
swindle him, and yet keep up appearances in the eyes
of the world. The cheers which greeted Tawhiao are
but the prelude of the bitter tears of his people, and
serve to drown the soand of the inextinguishable
laughter of the oheerers.
Brown’s Ukase.
The convenience of the public is undoubtedly the chief
consideration to be regarded by the telegraph authori-
ties. Possibly, It has been found that transmission of
press telegrams has occupied the wires to a degree
whioh interferes inconveniently with tho messages of
private individuals. We may taka it for granted that
the nkaae just issued by his Excellency the Governor,
with the advice of the Executive Council, meaning, iu
his instance, the Governor as advised by the Cabinet
at the instance of the Hon. S. C. Brown, Postmaster-
general, prompted by Mr, Cracknell, is attribu-
table to considerations of this nature. But, it is
assuredly strange that neither Mr. Cracknell, Mr.
Brown, the Cabinet, nor the Governor, have had the
sense to comprehend the true effect of their prepos-
terous regulation. No newspaper is to be permitted to
transmit or receive by telegraph, at press rates, mor e
than 500 words from 9 in the morning to 10 at night.
But,! from 10 at night to 9 in the morning,
there is still to be unrestricted facility of
telegraphic communication. This, in effect, simply
moans that while morning pipers may avail themselves
of telegraphic facilities to an unlimited extent, or to
give the thing local application, the S.M. Herald and
Daily Telegraph are favoured with unlimited use of
the wires, the Evening News is sternly limited
to 500 words. Should Mr. Brown deliver one of those
portentous speeches upon which his great celebrity is
based, at any country place during the day, the Even-
ing News will be debarred from furnishing to its ex-
pectant readers more than a mere synopsis of a poor
500 words. If people are not content, there is a simple
remedy—they can give up the Evening News and sub-
scribe to the Herald or Daily Telegraph. This fine
conception is only paralleled by the differential rates
which railway controllers in America employ to crush
out one set of traders in order to advance the
interests of some other set. The conception
discloses a grand incapacity, on the part of all
the official persona concerned, to comprehend the
spirit and exigencies of the ago in whicn they live.
The rapid diffusion of news at the earliest moment
has become a part of the modern system of existence.
Mr. Cracknell and Mr. Brown might as well try to
emulate Mrs. Partington in her contest with the
Atlantic, as to throw back the journalism of Australia
a decade, as this ukase proposes to do. Restriction of
facilities will not do at this time of day, when all over
the world telegraphists are emulating one another in
endeavours to invent and provide those fuller facilities
whioh the custom and expectations of the public render
necessary. Newspapers are every day becoming more
and more magazines of information received by tele-
graph. The day is approaching when the news con-
tents of the London Times will be little different from
a duplicate of the news given in the chief papers of. the
world, from New York to Ispahan or Australia. More-
over, there are a hundred ways in whioh Hhb absurd
regulation can be eluded. The Evening News need
only arrange with weekly contemporaries to receive
messages on its behalf, and the official foolery is foiled
at once. Our Partingtons had best lay down their
preposterous mop.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A Thames (N.Z.) native rejoices in a patronymic
o£ 34 letters. His name is Whakarongati te Whiriri-
kimanga At a meeting of the Melbourne Salesmen’s
Union, a speaker said he had not even time to read the
newspapers, and his hours of work were breaking him
down. Ho knew a young girl in a fruiterer’s shop, who
had to work from half-past 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. for fire
days in the week, while on Saturdays she was in the
shop from 6 a.m. to midnight! Dates have been
successfully cultivated on the Clarence The local
medico runs both the papers at Herberton (Q.) And,
as Government is going to vote £lOOO for a local hos-
pital, Dr. Myers is “right in it.’’ The charred bones
found recently in the bush at Spring Creek, twenty
miles from Dingo, are those of an elderly white man.
Prom appearances, they had lain exposed to the
weather for a long time, and had then undergone
roasting from a bush fire The persistent Joseph
Bragg Slack is again figuring in the Melbourne law-
courts. He summoned the landlady of a hotel (of
which he is part proprietor) for assault, and lost his
case with costs. He was then bound over in sureties
to keep the peace against the same person for six
months Tremendous rains on the lower Paroo. The
river a banker from the local down-ponr alone. When
the Queensland rainfall brings down the headwaters
there will be more rivals to old Noah, up Wanaaring
way, than there are to-day to the genuine Singer sew-
ing machines A country scribe writes about the
“inattention paid to the local footpaths." Election
of Progress Committee toek place at Cootamundra on
Valentine's Day, and the distinguished position of
lowest on the poll was occupied by A. G. Eagar, son of
our own Hon, Geoffrey William .Bolger, of Carlton
died in the Melbourne Hospital from a gunshot wound!
A letter, most pathetically written, showed he had
committed suicide for a girl he loved, and from whom
parents had parted him Mrs. Creaghe was presented
with an address and a gold locket, at Grafton, a fort-
night ago, by twenty-three members of the police force
in recognition of long kindness The mattock with
which Jerry Worth, the Bundaberg bailiff, was killed
is a fencing tool—adze one side and morticing axe the
other Robert Elliott, a man of weak intellect, has
been found drowned in an open drain, at Botany
Income of the Operatives' Building, Land and Invest!
meat Society, for the year 1881, was £12,58019s 9d •
actual profit, after paying expenses, interest, bonus’
*o.. £743 10s. 6d Three fishermen have beendrowned
in a boat accident outside Hobson’s Bay Hoads Joseph
Aitken and Thomas Owen started out in a rough sea
and in attempting to return, their boat was capsized!
Elias Sanders and John Vautine, in endeavouring to
rescue their comrades, met with a similar misfortune
Only Vantine was saved ...740z. gold obtained from
a tons of stono at the Cotton-tree diggings Wodootra
Corporation baths to be established at Newcastle*
The infant son of Mr. Harry V. Hall, landlord of
the Turon Inn, George-street. while playing with
matches, set his night-dress on fire. He died from the
isjuriea received Clarence River Oyster beds must
not be dredged for a year A passenger per the Leura
from Sydney to Melbourne deliberately jumped over-
board and was drowned, off Ram Head. He is believed
to be a Fitzroy shoemaker. Drink was the cause
John Donohue, a line repairer at Footscray, Victoria
was run over by a passenger train and killed. The same
day, a labourer, named William Collins, met with a
similar fate at the Spencer-streot terminus Water
famine at Yorke’s Peninsula (S.A.); Government
charge farmers Is per hhd. for the precious fluid... .
A VS tr , allan Stock statistics for 1881 show —lmnorta
sheep; 2967 horses; 1166 pigs!
......Pipeclay Club, Melbourne, declines to be snuffed out
by Colonel Mwr A Queensland black, named Harry*
while on a visit to Melbourne, has been arrested for
attempted rape at Northooto Russian sailors desert-
mg. Some have been arrested for theft... Licensed
Victuallers Association inaugurated at Bathurst.
Patrons of the Sydney swimming baths
are complaining of frequent petty larcenies
A Narandera youth or two will be prosecuted for send!
ing obscene valentines The Sydney Mercantile P™
viSent Society ha. at the end of a «serve
fund of £750, and a current income of £3OO per annum
\ Young Australian Fire Brigade, consisting of
members whose ages vary from 18 to 21, is being formed
®y^ ne y The Health Committee of the Adelaide
ef He 0 ?^ 011^ 6 lo Bgerheada with the Central Beard
of Health re the site of a small-pox hospital. City alder
men and councillors forget that the Health Committee
are under the authority of the Central Board, and are
not the hub of all things local Agitation proceeding
m -*£ delal< * e proln kifc Sunday labour in connection
with ocean steamers ; Government action in abeyance
Stilling and Co., Orient agents, protesting against the
agitators........ Fund for distressed farmers i 8 being
started in South Australia Inglewood (Vic.) is nrav
ing for ram. Only six feet of water in the local reser.
voir, and nearest other good water distant 30 miles
The barque Romeo found that Ram Head was not a foe
bank. The usual result followed, since the barque was
not provided with appliances for bush traveling
Contraband spirits and tobacco, valued at £lOOO 3 have
been seized at Chinese Camp, Creswick (V.) A miner
named Loose has been found dead near Ravens-
wood (Q.) Ophthalmia prevalent in Victoria
Throe lads drowned while bathing in Victoria’Park
waterhole, Brisbane There are niuuty-six lodges of
M. U, Oddfellows in South Australia; their aggregate
funds amounting to £140,636 Northern (B.A ) wheat
crops will not average more than a bushel and a half
to the acre. Cause of failure —drought and locusts
The steamer Westport has sunk at Westport (N.Z.)... ..
Diphtheria at Penshurst (Vic.) Alfred Harwood,
master of the steamer Talisman, has been fined £/0 for
attempting to convey thirty-one kanakas from Logan
to Cardwell (Q), without possessing a passenger
licence Projected new Ice Company in Brisbane to
supply ice at |d. per ft 538 tons quartz from the
Tyrconnell claim, Hodgkiuson (Q.). yielded 758 oz. gold
Crushing:* at tho Palmer goldfield for the month of
January, show that 228 tons of stone yielded 565 oz.
gold . . Ford, of tho Railway Department, Victoria,
the pet of Jack Woods, has to answer before a board
eleven distinct charges against his performance of the
duties of the office of construction engineer... Phyllo
xera reported lat Warrayura, near Hamilton (Vic.)
At Terrara, Kiama, while a man was mending a floor, a
seven-foot diamond snake popped out its head, and was
killed On being opened it was found to contain a big
native cat G. H. Watson, manager of the Colonial
Bank, Dankeld (Vie.), ha* been booked on a charge of
embezzling £238 bank funds. He has surrendered......
There are 120 blacks at the Mulgoa Aborigines Mission
Station, and eighty-one at Warangesda......Reported
discovery of payable gold at Indigo Creek
near Bruthen, Gippsland Claud Chegwedden.
arrested at Orange, N.S.W , has been committed for
trial in Victoria, for the embezzlement of £l3O from the
Prahran Wholesale Clothing! Company Victorian
Government is going to purchase several heavy pieces
of ordnance with tho latest appliances and improve-
ments .. ..The Melbourne Co-operative bread and flour
store lost £l5OO last year, and is to be wound up Big
flood at Bulloo (Q ) Robert Roper, steerage passen-
ger per Wakatipu from Sydney to Wellington, dm.
appeared during tho voyage...... Elizabeth Daley, a
married woman, has been committed for trial at band-
hurst, for attempting to extort money from Henry K.
Hall. She actually went so far as prosecuting Hall for
pretended assault, and wanted £2O hush-money.... ..
Railway League formed in Gympie (Q.), to agitate for
extension of Maryborough to Gympie Una to Brisbane.
......Thomas Harper, a young saddler, killed^ in a coach
accident near Armidale ..Browarrinariver risen 26 f....
A wag at a horse-sale c xclaimed to the owner of a sorry
moke “ Why, didn’t you put some lampblack on his
sores i* ’’ Inspector Webber overheard the jest, be
came, saw, and summoned the owner, who was fined £3
Nicholas Synott, formerly a Queensland Govern-
ment surveyor, has been sentenced to twelve mouths
imprisonment for forgery......Mirzapore passengers re-
leased from quarantine in Hobson’s Bay...... Sydney
powder magazines are to be removed to the island in
the Parramatta River, belowNewington......During the
last four weeks the arrears of Victorian selectors pay-
ments have been reduced from £129,600 to £6650, The
total apparent deficiency in the Victorian land revenue
ou Feb. 11 was £16,800 Copper has been found at
Mount Pleasant, near Tamworth........Mr. T. ML.
Palmer, of Tocram, near Warrnambool (Vic ), ha* a
Swiss cheese maker employed in the manufac-
ture of Grajdrd.*f...Victorian rabbits will eat only
New Zealand oats phosphorized; they turn up
their noses, cock their tails, and lop off from the Vic-
torian article, which has bean Vainly placed before them
in abnnnydance, so to speak,.....The family of Mr.
Jensen, jeweller, of Gympie. were nearly poisoned by
tinned preserved meat. Violent vomiting, purging,
and cramps, set in within half an hour of the meal, the
sufferers la their paroxysms turning black in tho face.
Some fowls that ate of the vomit died in a few mo-
ments Cornelius Dwyer, a farmer residing about
eight miles from Rookley, lost his all in a fire, which
suddenly occurred in some loose straw near a man
engaged in thrashing. The fire spread so rapidly that
nothing was saved except a few sheaves of wheat.
Over 1000 bushels of wheat, 16 tons of hay, 100 bushels
of oats, 50 bushels of rye, a waggon, a reaping machine,
and a shed were destroyed Loss, £550 ; Dwyer
ruined At Brisbane, John Newman—probably a mad-
man—has been taken into custody for threatening the
lives ot Ministers of the Crown. To Sir Arthur Palmer,
he wrote “ Sir,—lt is my duty to let you know that
you must die before next May, so prepare yourself.
—John Newman. P.S.—You have been a villain ever
since I knew you.”
# * *
Tho English write more letters than any other
nation in the world. During 1879, they sent 1176
millions through the post, and 814 million post cards.
The daily correspondence posted by the inhabitants of
the globe is reckoned at 13 million letters and cards,
'which gives about 3fc a year to every human being. The
annual averaga in Europe is England 36 par head;
Switzerland 25; Germany 18 ; Holland 17; Belgium 15;
Franca 14; Denmark 13; Austria 11 The S. F.
Examiner has come across an opium eater, who
consumes a pound of the drug per day The London
Standard is havingla special telegraph wire from London
to Paris, at a cost of £2OOO per annum. The Telegraph
and Times have one each A now cuirass of steel, only
three-flftietha of an inch thick, has been tried in Ger-
many. Out of eleven shots, at 175 yards, only two bullets
pierced the steel, and they lodged in the woollen lining,
The horse which the Prince Consort used to ride is
still living, at Windsor, and the Queen often has a look
at the old moke A lynching committee in Mexico,
just after hanging a horse robber, discovered that two
of thoir own party wore riding stolen steeds. An
immediate trial was held, and, on conviction, two other
bodies were promptly suspended. Now, if our judges
but we pass on. It’s not a nice subject
The St. James’s and Pall Mall Gazettes, of London,
are now sold at a penny a copy. And yet they ask you
fourpence for the Presbyterian 1 A prisoner’s
feigned insanity at Hastings was tested by an electric
battery; insanity vanished at once The Faure
system of storing electricity is being applied to the
illumination of railway trains in France A German
manufacturer, having finished one of the largest boilers
in the world, celebrated the event by inviting thirty
friends to a banquet inside it. There was p'enty of
room Local option is being tried in Virginia
(America), and is becoming very popular The
owners of a cotton factory in Durham were lately fined
over £3O, for keeping their hands at work twelve minutes
after the hour for closing prescribed by the Factories
Act,


The medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence in thousands of cases as the most wholesome
beverage. Be sure and get it when asked for, as imita-
tions are often pushed for the sake of extra profit.—Adv
SOCIAL.
Would it work? A new plan to promote mar-
riages is proposed: The youth of both sexes would
assemble, and each write on a the name of the
person he or she would like to marry. If any two were
found to have expressed a mutual regard—why, there’s
the whole thing settled. All papers not doing so, would
he immediately destroyed.
« * «
A jolly party at the “ Meadow,” Cooma, quite
lately, when over a hundred guests accepted invitations
from Mrs. William Blyton. Supper and decorations
were excellent. Dancing was kept up all night; hut
it’s cool up there, and the mosquitos never buzz.
* * *
Mr. Sam Myers, of Tam worth, was married to
Miss Phillis Solomon (Surry Hills), on the 15th Jan.
Breakfast at the residence of the mother of the hride
in Bonrke-street, and the happy twain left per Liguria,
en route to London and Africa, for honeymoon. The
hride was handsomely attired in white "satin and nun’s
doth, trimmed with point lace and orange blossoms,
Houiton lace fall and diamonds; her sisters in slate
nun’s oloth, trimmed with a darker shade. A lady
from Miller’s Point was in a superb black silk, real
Spanish lace, Honiton lace collar a*d diamonds. Sister
of the bride, from Newtown, in white cashmere,
trimmed with white satin and relieved with Cardinal,
silver jewellery en suite, A handsome fawn silk was
worked in crewel fern leaves. A young lady from
Glebe Point charming in light blue silk and white lace,
suiting the fair wearer well. A Crown-street young
lady was in pretty pink satin, trimmed with ivy leaves
in crewel and bead work, and flowers. Her sister, in
two shades of blue satin, with rosebuds and leaves in
crewel and heads. An old gold and white costume
was also extremely nice.
* • #
_ The branch of the Australian 'Natives’ Associa-
tion at Charters Towers celebrated the 93rd anniversary
of the colonies right well, by a ball and supper in the
School of Arts there. Dancing till dawn by over a
hundred guests. Boom decorated with evergreens,
cornstalks, aboriginals’ weapons, and similar appro-
priate things, as well as flags and flowers. A splendid
Australian ooat.of-arms painted on purpose.
* * *
If the All-England match could not boast an
unequalled score, it was remarkable for an unequalled
attendance ; stand, lawn, enclosure and ground, being
all thronged with the crowd. Dresses could not show
to advantage. The display would have been a fine one,
hud there been a chance to exhibit them well, but there
wasn’t. Those people who paraded the lawn, found
locomotion so difficult, that thousands remained seated
all the afternoon, without attempting a walk at all.
So much of the beauty blushed unseen, fair faces
wasted their sweetness beyond the reach of apprecia-
tion, and fashion and loveliness wore alike lost in the
greatness of the assemblage. Light summer dresses
were not so scarce as previously, bnt still the dark hues
predominated. There is evidently some feminine law—
it unwritten, yet understood—that commands a change
of attire whenever an opportunity can possibly be
squeezed in; for very few conspicuous dresses appeared
twice. The same ladies were there, always doing the
same perpetual march up and down, and often with the
same gallant escorts, bnt the habiliments had ehanged
in accordance with this mysterious law. A married
lady was as prominent as any, in a rich figured
maroon, trimmed with golden yellow, flowers and fruit.
A hapoy-looking blonde wore dark brown with several
rows of broad white lace. Three little sisters from
Darling Point were all in pretty short pinks. Miss
Adere’s stately figure was conspicuous in a splendid
pale plum-coloured dress, trimmed with pompadour
silk, long train; while Miss Melrose was piquant in all
black and beads. Heliotropes, light blues, and pinks
were all well represented. Lady Loftns was in a sump-
tuous olive-green satin, and next her was a peculiar
grass green, simply made, yet elegant. A dull yellow
costume, trimmed with similar Madras muslin, attracted
glances on account of its unusual colour, while the hat
could never have attained its marvellous shape through
anything less than a tram collision; the parasol
was angular and flat. The lady was the opposite. A
rich black satin was elaborately worked in large crewel
pattern; and a white cashmere, trimmed with dark
green velvet, was uncommon. Very nice was a combi-
nation of purple and saffron yellow, with same hat,
adorned with large yellow roses. Pompadour and
flowered sateens and silks of all designs, shirred,
flounced, and gathered were multitudinous; dark
browns and bronze greens plentiful. A rich claret, with
steel belt and beads, and a rose pink covered with mus-
lin, were effective dresses. To give a fair idea of many
of the principal costumes would be impossible, as they
were lost in the mass that packed the stand, and when,
as afternoon waned, there seemed a little disposition to
move, rain came on, spoiling both game and garments.
The demand for cabs was immense, and it was long after
6 o’clock before some of the company got clear of the
ground.
* # •
At Richmond School of Arts, on the 15th inst.,
a most enjoyable private ball, given by the ladies of
that healthy little to vn to a select few of their friends,
and, we need scarcely say, admirers. About fifty
present—good music, good refreshments—no one went
till morning, aud few cared to go then. The belle, a
married lady from Darling Point, who wore a white
satin dress, and whose dancing was a treat to look at.
Miss E , from the same favoured locality, and Miss
A , Richmond, were also great favourites amongst
the dancers, and altogether the ladies of Richmond
are to be complimented on the success of their highly
S leasing little “ surprise party.’’ A good word is also
ue to Mr. George Read for his kind assistance.
# # *
Parramatta Football Club picnic to Chowder
comes off Wednesday next The Intercolonial cricket
teams were entertained by Captain Hilkirk at dinner on
board the Garonne Agricultural Society’s Ball at
Moruya, on 2nd March Opossum Club formed, rules
drawn up, fifty members enrolled C. J. Callaway,
hon. sec A small picnic took place on Saturday of
lady and gentlemen contributors to Sydney Punch. Land,
ing at Pigtree Point, fern-gathering, fishing and fun
generally There’s to be a bachelors" ball at Palla-
malawa soon Banquet to be given to Mr. G. M. Pitt
by residents of North Shore at an early date Grand
ffite was given to the officers of the German war steamer
Carola, on Monday night, at Lake Torrens (S,A.) Pro-
cession of boats on the river, illuminations, music,
supper, speeches, and 20,000 spectators A fashion-
able knot was tied by the Bishop of North Queens-
land, at St. James’s Church, Townsville, on the 11th
instant, the parties to the intricate operation being Mr,
E. Cunningham, of Woodhouso station, and Miss
Clements, daughter of the local hydraulic engineer
The couple left by special train the same morning,
bound lor Woodhonsa At a ball given recently to
Miss Julia Jackson, Atalauta (America), guests were
present from every State in the Union. The young
lady is daughter of the late General Stonewall Jackson
The Garden Palace Fayre is being pushed along
vigorously, the Governor s and other distinguished
patronage being accorded to it, while the committee of
ladies and gentlemen is very influential. The building
is excellently fitted for such an affair, and there’s no
doubt it will be well carried out.
* * m
FBA concert was held at Captain Jack’s residence,
Watson’s Bay. last week, in aid of St. Peter’s Church
organ fund. The attendance was not what was autici-
pated, in consequence o£ many of the soldiers stationed
in barracks there labouring under the mistaken im-
pression that the lady vocalists had refused to sing in
the barrack-room, where, it had been supposed, the
concert would have been held. The committee had
made application to Lieutenant Airey for the use of the
barrack-room, but the gallant officer did not reply to
the committee’s letter until the morning of the date of
the concert, and the committee had, in the meantime,
secured Captain Jack’s residence. However, Lieutenant
Airey, at the last moment, engaged eight front seats,
and his carriage and pair duly ornamented the roadway
in front of the temporary concert hall.
* * *
Messrs. D. and W. Robertson, the great Dundee
iron -merchants, who have of late chosen N. S. Wales
ns a field for extensive enterprise, yesterday invited a
lar.e party of gentlemen to a banquet given in honour
of the Hons. T. Bant and J. H. u raves, the Victorian
Ministers at present en a visit to Sydney. The guests
were reoeived on board a steamer and conveyed down
the harbour, skirting the Southern shores, and thence
proceeding 1 down Middle Harbour to Pearl Bay, where
the banquet awaited them. Among the guests wore
Sir John Robertson, the Hon. John Woods (ex-Minister
for Works in Victoria), His Worship the Mayor of
Sydney, the Hon. John Sutherland, M.L.C., Messrs
Angus Cameron and D, O’Connor, M.L A’s, and other
members of the Legislature, and a number of leading
citizens. An excellent banquet inlCompagnoni’s best
style was made liquid with unlimited champagne, and
was served promptly after the arrival of the steamer at
Pearl Bay. A formidable list of toasts appeared on the
programme, and was duly negooiated. The most
noticeable features of the speeches were Mr.
Wood's declaration of his undeviating belief
m Protection, notwithstandi jg that he earnestly
favoured the idea of intercolonial free trade
in indigenous products ; and Mr. Bent’s equally
pronounced declaration of his firm adherence
to Free-trade principles. Sir John Robertson availed
himself of the occasion to ridicule the exaggerated and
distorted significance which had, by a portion of the
Victorian Press, been attached to his jocular reference
to Victoria as a cabbage garden. The other speeches
were of the ordinary character, if we except the viva-
cious and effective style in which the chairman, Mr.
Robertson, senior, moved the loyal toasts which had
precedence. The band of the Permanent Artillery pro-
vided music. A most enjoyable and harmonious day
was spent, and the party regained the Circular Quay
about 7.30;p.m., in a condition of hilarious|good-humour.
VANITY FAIR.
Many suppose that chamois leather (or “ sham-
my") comes from the animal of that name. It is
really sheepskin, specially prepared The most beau-
tiful sealskin comes from Kamschatka. It has the
darkest and longest hair, and occasionally white hairs
scattered through it. Those increase its value
Frogs, lizards, and snakes in miniature are getting to
be fashionable as trimming on hats and bonnets ; and
again the old yarn of Eve and the serpent rushes on
our mind The celebrated English beauty, Mrs.
Cornwallis West, bears the curious name of Eupatoria.
This is a place in the Crimea, about a day’s ride from
Sebastopol. She was born during the Crimean war,
hence the name Castor is a colour in favour with
aesthetes; in plain language, it is simply mud c010ur....
Fashionable girls in 'Frisco wear feather collars; effect
startling A coloured glass window for one end of
the dining-room in W. M. Vanderbilt’s new house in
New York will be the grandest made. The design is
the meeting of the kings of England and Prance (Henry
VIII and Francis I.) on the field of the Cloth of Gold,
the gorgeousness of that moat splendid bivouac re-
corded in history being superbly reproduced in
glass. The side windows will each bear the
coat of-arms of one of the nobles who took part
in the meeting, also worked in coloured glass
A Chicago girl recently died of lockjaw* caused bv wear-
ing boots so tight as to tortnre her terribly London
Truth says, “ Ladies explain then passion for pink by
saying it * washes ’ well. Anyone who likes can believe
this; but the fact is, every woman likes pink at heart.”
Troth means when young: pink won’t “ wash " on nay
old party Rosa Bonheur, the groat animal painter,
works in her studio in male attire, her hair out short
and parted like a man’s. She dons petticoats reluc-
tantly only when going out. Opium-smoking is
becoming very common with white people in America,
even ladies indulging in the habit One of Mias
Pomeroy’s prettiest dresses at Christchurch (N.Z.) was
of the favourite pink, trimmed with cream lace. Hope
she fetched it along The clearest case of blighted
affection was n wedding at Cootamundro, where the
bridegroom, tho bride’s father, her brother-in-law, and
the clergyman all had the blight, and three of ’em wore
goggles Two full-dressed Chinese ladies were in the
Royal dress circle on Monday, with children and hus-
bands en suite. Many showed such bad taste as to
laugh when a “ god ” cried “ me washee washee you,"
The celestials left early; the plot of “ Cymbeline ”
being rather too much for them Tho little girl who
was the original of Millais’ charming picture, “ Cherry
Ripe." was the main attraction of a Brighton Pair. She
is extremely beautiful The World proposes that
the custom of taking one’s hafc into the drawing-room
should be discontinued, as it is absurd, and looks as if
you ware frightened of its being taken A New Ply.
mouth (N.Z.) farmer, formerly an officer of the 20th
Regiment, has eloped with the wife of an Auckland
hotel-keeper. About £BOO worth of property—money
and jewellery—shared in the elopement 11 Taka that
baby off your shoulder," “ take your clothes off your
head," and *• move along with your bazaar stuff," are
among the cries used' in New York theatres to compel
attention to popular dislike for the big Gainsborough
hats H.M.S. Nelson at Hobart.
# * *
The latest pet in dogs is the Spanish dog. It is
a rolypoly thing that looks like a tangled spoof of light
brown silk, out of which the black shiny eyes peer at
you “Pharaoh" is a new yellow-red brick colour.
It is not popular among Hebrews A remarkable
novelty in larisian dress is a bodice made of very fine,
soft kid, scarcely a seam showing, which fits like a
jersey, and moulds the figure in a way that shows
symmetry to its greatest advantage. The kid is in
various colours, but mostly silver-gray and fawn, and
is scantily trimmed—say, a narrow edge of embroidery
at the throat and sleeves. This bodice can be worn
with different skirts—velvet, moire, or plush—tho best
being something rich, yet simple in appearance, not a
mixture In London, the wearing of smell vegetables,
such as artificial radishes, sticks of celery, and the
like, as trimming for hats, is by no means uncommon.
Of course, these can be made so skilfully as to imitate
nature exactly; but, as real butterflies, fireflies, &0.,
are worn, and the main object of these fashions is to
display novelty and extravagance, we may expect any
day to see real vegetables. A bed of green young cress
would be the very thing for a cream lace bonnet ;
radishes would be pleasing in the crown of a dainty rink
hat; while celery would be most harmonious growing in
a sateen mob-cap, or under the cool shelter of a big
Gainsborough brim.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“Olden Fayro”: There’s rather much gush
about your letter. No doubt you mean well, but we are
not likely to tell our readers that the Archbishop’s Fair
“is the all-absorbing subject of thought amongst ladies
of all creeds and classes," or that “it is a sort of
national undertaking." Your enthusiasm has put you
a little oil your base. Both Fnyres will be impartially
treated in our columns... " E H.F.”: Very welcome
“ A. P.": Greatly obliged for the letter and clipping
“Thespian Boy" wants the address of Johnny Moran,
the Irish comed'an “J M.R." : We don’t see the
joke “W. Anderson (Carcoar): We cannot under-
take the dangerous task of deciding between the raspio-
tive statements made by yourself and the other two wit-
nesses in Court. If they are really wrong, and you
know yourself to be right, you should, with a view to
setting the matter at rest, swear an affidavit of the
facts, and tender a copy of it for insertion in the local
journal. In the event of the editor declinine to insert
it, hand it to another paper as an advertisement
“ W.J.H.” (Kodfern): Can’t quite see the point
“ D.D.”: Thanks; somewhat shortened “Sub-
scriber (Cootamundra): We’ve used your item. Send
again ‘E.E.W.": Don’t bother sending us any-
thing you’re not sure of “TK.” (Crown Street) :
Your verse is scarcely in oar style " Emp.” : Lively,
decidedly “ M. 8.” : No doubt the Melbourne speci-
alist will, in the end, recover his foes. We dare not
print such a communication as yours, even did we, of
of our own personal knowledge, know it to be true.
“J.J” (Pyrmont); A paragraph relating to your
queries appears in another column “ Barcoo”:
What you have sent is hardly in our style. You should
have much interesting news and many good stories.
Write again "Stoic": Summon your philosophy:
Declined with thanks “Stoeawhip" (Condobolin) :
First rate. Next week “ Truthful” (Qaeaubeyanl:
Next week “S. J"; You lose. Murdoch was 10J
hours at the wickets for his 321 runs “Theold Jack” ;
Not good enough " Boggahri: ” Hanlan, lOst. 8lb.;
Trickett, 12st. 121 b.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Lumley Hill, M.P. for the Gregory district,
Q., has resigned. Mr. Thomas M'Whannell comes for-
ward in the Government interest.
Hon. Saul Samuel says that the lands of the
colony, at an equitable rental, would bring in £1,400.000
a year, instead of. as at present £300,00J.
Mr. J. Bedggood, boat manufacturer, Richmond,
has testified before the Tariff Commission, Melbourne,
that since the protective duty has been placed upon calf
and kid, the Svdney manufacturers have “ wiped his
trade clean out " °f the Eiverina district.
Mighty curious notion, though, that, while Free
Trade Sir Henry is convincing Marquises nud Proai-
dents in Canada and elsewhere, the Hidalgo Graham
should think of prowling over here. Mighty curious.
Now, Forster, Forster, what’s your notion ?
[Tho withdrawal of Messrs. Lawos and Harper
from the Boroondara election, in favour of Mr. Walker,
is a blow to tho hopes of Mr. C. T. Taylor’s friends.
Mr. Taylor, who is a native Victorian, is equally known
as a successful barrister, and as on aquatic enthusiast.
The Protection and Political Reform League,
haying in view the present degraded state et public
opinion in this colony, held n meeting. They regretted
that no reply had reached N.S.W. as to Mr. Berry's
indentions of visiting this six. million-revenue colony,
nud showing us how it might be made a twenty-million
one, by losing money over a new tariff. He’ll come,
though. That Italian knight never could bear to see
the colonies dragging behind.
Colonial politicians need not ask for a local
application of the following passage from Lord Lytton’s
“England and the English:”—"The present Cabinet is
remodelled from the last. It was an ancient question
with the Sophists whether tho ship In whioh Theseus
sailed to Crete was the same ship as that still called the
ship of Theseus in tho days of Demetrius Phalarens—
so often had it been patched and repaired—now a new
mast, now a new keel, that its identity was a matter of
considerable perplexity, upon which no two metaphy-
could agree. The snip is a parallel to the present
Administration. Is it, or is it not, the same as the last
Administration, tome say it is—some not.” Follow-
ing ant the analogy, the acting. Premier may picture
himself another Lord Althorp, and the veteran con
derive substantial satisfaction from the knowledge that
although his tergiversation may meet the disapproval
of less elevated mind”, ho is happy in having so distin-
tinguished a precedent to point to.
Wanted a pliable, plastic candidate for Par-
liamentary honours He must promise not to meddle
with politics in general. He must combine the quali-
merely of a delegate to the Assembly with
those of a thoroughly pushing " bagman.” He must
button-hole Ministers, ghost the Government offices,
and get all the orders ho can for tram-rails, drain-plpos,
stink-pons, &c , for his constituents at Lithgow. Ho
must consider the business and interests of the colony
m general as notbixg; but those of Lithgow in par-
ticnlar as everything. Now, these are the facts The
wire-pullers at Lithgow have got np a request to Mr.
E. P. Abbott to resign his seat as member for the
Hartley electorate. The head and front of this gentle-
man’s offending may be briefly stated to be that he
doesn't jorca tho interests of Lithgow sufficiently upon
the Ministers at the heads of Departments. Yon must
know that the people at Lithgow have an unbounded
estimate of the importance of their village. It is not
even a municipality yet. Still, the Lithgow people
often styla.it ll the Birmingham of New South Wales.”
If yon live there, you must perpetually glorify the iron-
stone, coal, clay, and pottery. The firms there hunger
and thirst (not after righteousness, but) after
solid Government orders. They don’t want a Member
so much as a sort of 11 bagman” or commercial traveller
to push trade among Ministers at Government offices.
That's the way to train statesmen in largeness of views.
By the way, Lithgow rejoices in two newspapers, tho
MkriicußT find the Southern Cross. It was thought
constellation would eclipse the planet; but both
suicd their mild lustre upon tho village concurrently.
At a public meeting, the other day, at Lithgow, it was
said Mr. Abbott does not answer his constituents*
letters. That was found to be moonehine. He had left
only one letter unanswered, and he had been ill. He
may take no notice of this request as to his resigna-
tion, and then there will be two letters unanswered.
What is it but the old story Little Peddlington as
against all tho world ? “As it was in the beginning, is
now, &o."
LATE SPORTING.
Th Queensland Turf Club have issued a grand
programme for May 24,
Frank Hewitt, the pedestrian, is in hospital,
Frank has had hard lines for a long while past.
Boyle and Scott’s cricket emporium, Melbourne’
was burglariously entered on Sunday, and about £lO
worth of property stolen.
The Eichmond and St. Kilda match, at Mel-
bourne, oh Saturday, brought out some big scoring.
Richmond lost eight wickets for 647, Morris con-
tributing 280, and Smart 118.
The first match in England of the Australian
Eleven will be played against Oxford University on
15th May. They play a match on the Association
Ground with Shaw’s Eleven, commencing next Friday.
Mr. Murphy is about to dispose of his pleasure
boat, Gipsy. She is a splendid specimen of Donnelly's
handiwork, and is one of the fastest crafts of her class
in the harbour. Jim is about to retire from aquatics,
and will seek for honour in the cricket field.
Spins on the Tamworth Cricket Ground, Feb.
17. G. Adams gave T. Giles 5 yards in 159 for £lO.
Adams won by half a yard. Feb. 18, R. Walsh and T.
Giles, 100 yards for £lO, won by Waish by three yards.
A match, 150 yards, is to come off on March 11, between
T. Giles and A. fckeltou, the latter receivings yards.
Cricket. —Cleveland v. Parramatta Albert :
Cleveland, 56—W. Furnecs 15, J. Matterson 12 j Parra-
matta Albert, 53—Tortigtou 11, Beitch 10. Balmain
Orleans v. Watson’s Bay Dreamland: B. Orleans, 51—
Woolnongh 12 ; W. B. Dreamland, 66—A. Siddins (not
out) 24, M’Millan 10, H. Robinson 10.
Mr. Charles W. Boal, the energetic lion, secre-
tary of the Carlton Cricket Club, is to be entertained
by the members at a complimentary banquet, on Wed-
nesday evening, Ist March, at Gompagnoni's, Pitt-street.
This gentleman, as no doubt most of our sporting
readers are aware, is entrusted with the management of
the Australian Eleven, who leave for England next
month, and, as he has a host of friends in cricketing
circles, the banquet is sure to be largely attended.
The match between the English Eleven and the
Combined Team resulted in a victory for the latter by
five wickets. The scores were as followsAll-Eog-
laud, first innings, 133; Barlow 31, Scotton 30, Ulyett
25, Shaw 11, Emmett 10. Second innings, 232; Ulyett
67, Barlow 62, Shaw 30, Shrewsbury 22, Scotton 12
Australia, first innings, 197; Masaie 49, Blaokham 40,
Jones 37, Palmer 16 M’Donnell 14, Evans 11, Murdoch
10. Second innings, five wickets for 169 ; Murdoch 49,
Garrett (not out) 31, M’Donnell 25, Massie 22, Horan
21, Jones (not out) 13.
The Australian Eleven— Spofforth, Massie, A.
Baunerman, Murdoch, Garrett, Jones, Horan, Black-
ham, Palmer, M’Donnell, Boyle. Qiffon, and Bonnor—
play the English Eleven on the Association Ground, on
March 3,4, and 5. A return match will be played in
Melbourne on March 10 and 11. The Australian Team
will leave Melbourne for England in the R.M.S. Assam,
on March 15. The English Team play two daj a’
matches at Dunolly, Ballarat, and Csstieiaiaine, leaving
for England by the Orient liner Chimberazo. These
teams will play a third match in England.
During the last torpedo drill, Sergeant Board
was presented with a handsome gold medal, bearing
appropriate devices, for his skill in rifle shooting. The
medal, which was presented by Major Cracknell, is the
gift of Captain Walker —a gentleman whose presence
and parse are always to the fore when anything worth
recognition needs encouragement, and this presentation
will most assuredly have a beneficial effect on the corps
in general. Sergeant Board has been the champion
shot of his company for two years and if he shoots as
well during the time of war as he does in the “ piping
time of peace” he will make his mark on the head of
many a rash intruder—that’s to say, if any come along.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
-£3OOO subscribed at New York to the Russian
Fun d; the Mansion House fund now tops
~ 50 "lofe rna l machines have been discovered in
two Edinburgh houses; explosions resulted, and eight
persons were injured....... Mahmoud Pasha has taken
steps to abolish all forms of domestic slavery in the
dominions of the Khedive of Egypt Several largo
Wew York firms engaged in the wheat and cotton trade
suspended payment, and a panic has occurred on
the local Stock Exchange Gladstone has further
explained his speech respecting the granting of local
government to Ireland; he would give only the samo
degree as that now possessed by England and Scotland.
temble explosion has occurred at the Trendon
Colliery, Durham; over 70 miners have bsen ki11ed.,,,..
The frozen meat per Orient has arrived at Plymouth
vnSu ( lkif 0n i d i tio ?.‘ is annouß ced that suspected
Nihilistic plots have caused the postponement till
j the coronation of the Czar as Emperor
of All the Russlas. Perhaps this is only a blind, and
the coronation will bo suddenly and unexpectedly per.
formed Sickness among the Panama Canal
labourers. The work is progressing but slowly
naer has been thrown from hie horse and injured
Three members of the Ladies’Hand League have betn
released from imprisonment in Ireland The steamer
Bahama has been wrecked in the Atlantic; 20lives lost.
A constable murdered in Galwav. Ireland ... More
outrages on Jews in Russia; 10 nearly killed at Kisoheneff
......fair Henry Parkes was banqueted by Justice Field at
Washington, and had a long interview on Australian
affairs with President Arthur Lady Baotive’e scheme
to establish a dress association, which shall patronise
articles only of British manufacture, has received the
support of the Marquis of Salisbury Great Britain
and France want all the European Powers to deliberate
re Egypt Mr. Justin M’Carthy’s amendment to the
address in reply to the Queen’s speech rejected: the
address being carried by 87 to 22 Austria says that
there is now no fear of a general Panslavic insurrection,
and that all is quiet except Southern Herzegovina
Commander Selby, of H.M.B. Falcon, now atationedln
the Mediterranean, was set upon by some of the in-
habitants of Aotaki, in the Sea of Marmora, and
seriously wounded before he could effect his escape
Commander Grenfell, of the Cockatrice, was also badly
beaten. Earl Dufferin insisted upon the Turkish
Government punishing the perpetrators of this outrage,
and Artaturipto, the chief assailant, has been arrested
Commander Selby, a late cable states, is dead
......Revolt at Herat is denied Sir Henry addressed
the New York Chamber of Commerce on the commercial
relations of Australia and the U.S, The E.C clergy
of Meath county, Ireland, have invited Patrick Egan
who recently sought refuge in Franco, to become a
candidate for the representation of Meath in Parlia-
ment The Dover to Calais tunnel scheme is to be
reconsidered by the Imperial Government The
statements of the Opposition that George Errington
M.P. for Longford, has been sent to Romo on secret
diplomatic service with the Vatican, has been denied
The cloture proposals of the Gladstone Cabinet are
becoming more popular The negotiations for a com-
niercial treaty between England and France, have so
far proved barren of satisfactory results Unsettled
state of affairs in Porn. Several bauds of Peruvian
marauders made a descent upon the seaport town of
Pisco, captured it after a gallant defence, and massacred
1000 of the inhabitants, including 300 foreigners and
sacked the town Sir Henry Parkes, after doing Now
York, Philadelphia, Washington, Boston and Canada
expects to leave for Europe on March llth. He has
been entertained by the Lotus Club st New York
Skobeloff’s speech received with unfavourable crltil
oisra, by English and Continental press. The fury-
breathing General explains that he desired to avert war
between Eussia and Germanv, and says that this object
can bt achieved only by Austria ceasing to oppress the
Slavs. The Czar apparently hunkers for a foreign war.
to distract the polite attentions of the Nihilists
The Moscow metropolitan urges the Czar to leave his
seclusion at the Gatchina Palace. The Czar evidently
still smells dynamite in the air and has die-
missed the metropolitan A fire at Haverhill
Mass. U.S., has destroyed property valued at 2,000.000
dollars... Respecting the Egyptian question, the
Powers have determined to wait the issue of events
Madame Celeste, the celebrate! sotress, has died in
London, at the age of 66 years Russia is advanc-
ing its military outposts to Merv, in Persia
The well-known dog, Suowflight, has won the Waterloo
Cup Sir Henry has accepted an invitation to stay
for a short time with the Marquis of Lorne, Governor
General of Canada Downing-streat is said to dls.
approve of New South Wales initiating an independent
commercial policy Sir Michael Costa and the Eiaht
Hon. C. Vilfiers, M.P. for Wolverhampton, who were
reported critically ill, ore getting better The U S
Congress has prohibited polygamy in the States *
Hon. Ivo Bligh is organising a “ gentlemen’s ’’ team of
cricketers to visit Australia next year General
Skobelofl, in an address to Servian students in Paris
has prophesied that a Russian war is sooner or later
inevitable, in consequence of the friendly attitude
assumed by Germany towards Austria in connection
with the Panslavic agitation. At Bucharest, the Rus-
sian Consul has sounded a note sympathetic with the
above. He said that Russia would free the down-
trodden Slavs The Irish minority in the House of
Commons, on the occasion of each division in oonnec-
tion with the address in reply, was less than thirty
In the House of Lords, a motion has been carried by
96 against 53 for instituting an inquiry into the working
of the Irish Land Act. This i« an early pili for the
Government to swallow It is believed that the
European Powers will delegate to the British and
French Governments the duty of carrying into execu-
tion any understanding which may be arrived at
respecting the settlement of the Egyptian Ques-
tion Lankoff, Turkish Minister for Foreign
Affairs, and Prince Alexander, have been arrested
by order of the Porte, for fomenting sedition
Lord Hartington has also found it necessary to e»plain
Gladstone’s meaning re the granting of county
autonomy to Ireland. He asserts that the Cabinet
cannot entertain any scheme of Home Rule involving
the setting up of a Parliament in Dublin The
cloture proposals have been modified, The Speaker or
Chairman of Committees must receive the support of
100; or, if there is a minority of 40, or under, then
there mnst he a majority of 200 Increased excite-
ment in Austria and Germany about General Skobelofl**
enunciation of Russia’s attitude. The Emperor Wil-
liam has expressed his indignation and sorrow at the
continuance of wanton provocation likely to lead to
war. The Russian Official Gazette has declared that
the foreign policy of Russia is unpledged by the utter,
nnces of private persons, and that it continues to be of
a pacific character The frozen meat per Carthago
like that per Orient, arrived at Plymouth in excellent
condition H.R.H. the Prince of Wales has said that
the late Exhibitions in Sydney and Melbourne have
given foreign countries an entirely new conception of
the wealth and capabilities of the Australian colonies
have drawn Australian and British commercial interests
more closely together, and strengthened the bonds
of loyalty and affection existing in the colonies towards
the mother country Numerous arrests for treason.
felony still being made in unsettled districts of IreJand,
especially in counties Cork and Clare The French
Press ridicule Sir Garnet WoUe.ey’s fears respecting the
military dangers to be apprehended from the construe-
tion of a tunnel under the Channel from Dover to
Calais Mr. Justin M'Carthy, MP. for Longford
intends to bring forward in the Commons certain pro!
posals for granting Home Rule to Ireland French
troops and Arab insurgents still fighting in Tunis • in
small encounters French havorecontly suffered reverses.
Mrs. Sooville, sister of Quiteau, has written to
Mrs. Garfield begging the latter to use her influence in
obtaining a commutation of the sentenoe of death
against Guiteiu, on the ground that he suffered from
temporary mental aberration Bradlaugh is organit-
ing a protesting demonstration on his own behalf
Servian conspirators, who sought to disthrone Prince
Milan, have been arrested The Royal Colonial Insti-
tute is about to apply for a Royal Charter.. ..
Published reports of British Consuls in Russia confirm
previous statements respecting anti-Jewish outrages
and the apathy of the authorities in dealing with them.
ln the House of Lords, Earl Granville, Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs, has declined, on behalf of the
Government, to take any shore in the formation of the
Select Committee to inquire into the working of the
Irisn Land Act. In the commons, Gladstone has given
notice of his intention to move that any suoh inquiry
would at the present moment be untimely and inoppor-
tune, and that any attempt to defeat the operation of
the Act would be injurious to the cause ot good govern-
ment in Ireland. The Conservatives will oppose tbH
motion hotly,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
On Saturday night last, the final limpid couplet
of the Scott-swept lyre floated upon the nocturnal
breezes. When all was over, we lingered spell-bound
in the vast auditorium, and listened, with bated breath,
to the ghostly whisperings of the departing muses as
tlioV sorrowfully flittod about tb.6 darkonod gsillorios,
prior to winging their flight from the theatre for ever.
It was with a deep and sounding sigh that wo arose to
urge our mad career homeward in a faery car (No, 176);
and as we stooped down to pick np a mystic string
busted from the attire of some fair flatterer, we felt
that the pit bench was wet with our salted tears.
t • •
On Monday night Lewis’s masterly work was
superseded by “Cymbeline,” a tragedy by William
Shakespeare, formerly of Stratford, England,—a piece
which is remarkable amongst tragedies by reason of its
having a happy termination. Tho play was produced
before an audience which embodied in its numbers tbe
rank, genius, and beauty of the city. Besides ourselves
we noticed present Lewis Scott, the now historic white
tie and spectacles of whom were rendered still more
attractive by the addition of a vast expanse of mangled
shirt-front. Lewis sat in the front row of the dress-cir-
cle, and we wore gratified to observe that he appeared to
approve of the performance. Other, but lo*s distinguish-
ed patrons of tho drama, scintillated in the dress-circle,
while in one of the private boxes we noticed the pretty
face of Miss Nelly Playfair, who appeared much
amused at the audacity of Mr. Shakespeare in putting
up his piece immediately after the highly successful
comic coruscation of his rival.
# # #
Tho piece began at eight, and the pit, which
was packed to suffocation, soon commenced to treat the
performers to sundry ebullitions of humour, which is,
invariably, its gentle wont, when sweltering in an
atmosphere registering some 120 degrees Fahrenheit,
For instance, Mr. J. Masker, who played the King in
the tragedy, had only two nights previously enacted
pantaloon in the pantomime, and the gods, hearing in
mind this circumstance, hailed his advent in regal
attire with derision; ono ill-conditioned ruffian (intoxi-
cated, of course', even going so far as to shout out—
“ How’s Bland?" a remark, we regret to say, which
was the occasion of much merriment amongst the un-
combed. Also, when lachimo approached tho lovely
Imogen whilst sleeping, another scoundrel—probably
bribed by some disappointed tragedian—audibly ejacu-
lated—" Hurry up, or the old mau will be ’ome from
the publio-’ouse. Again, in the scene when Imogen
dies beautifully to slow music, in a glow of lime light,
or when Polydore in strewing the flowers over her, hap-
pened, being nervous, to lightly touch Louise’s lovely
form, a man who had been previously munching a
very large apple in tho gallery, cried out in a gruff
voice—Ah,—would yer ?" an interruption which called
forth loud and continuous laughter. Perhaps, how-
ever, the most amusing incident of all was the tremen-
dons reception accorded to Miss Theresa Horan when she
entered to attend upon Imogen in bed. The boys wore
evidently under the impression that the young lady was
going to entertain them vocally, and they received her
speedy retirement (P. first entrance), with audibly ex-
pressed dissatisfaction.
« * *
Miss Pomeroy’s Imogen is a reading, which,
while it exhibits great intelligence and consummate
stage-taot, is to our minds, lacking to some extent in
vigor. But, at tho same time, it is an impersonation
abounding in delicate touches of fancy and pathos. In
“Cymbeline,” Miss Pomeroy is not only the “star,”
she is the play. The fable itself, to modern ideas, is
merely a heap of ludicrous improbabilities clothed in a
garment of delightful poesy. It will thus be seen that
for the proper interpretation of Imogen it requires an
actress of great acquirements, and so gifted by nature
and formed by art as to force the audience into for-
getting the shortcomings of the dramatist in the
enjoyment they derive from the skill of the artiste.
Such a performer, in a great measure, is Miss Pomeroy.
But she can do better things oven than Imogen, and
when she has had the opportunity of imparting a little
very necessary instruction to some of her subordinates,
her impersonation of tho master.poet’s fine creation
will materially gain in attractiveness.
• * •
Mr. Herbert Fleming scored a distinct success
as Posthumous. He played the part with manliness
and pathos, and his delivery of blank verse is worthy
the attention of many star tragedians. We consider
Mr, Fleming a young gentleman of great promise, and
should be by no means surprised to see him a star him-
self one of these days. There is plenty of time, how-
ever, for that. Mr. Fleming needn’t hurry. He is
young and art is long. It is hurrying into large cap.
fame that causes so many star performers to go “ bung
up” now-a-days. Why, even M'Fadyen isn’t a star
now, though we remember him when he was termed by
the press “ a Scotch character-comedian of phenomenal
attainments.’*
• • •
Mr. Theodore Hamilton’s laohimo was a per-
performanoe of which we can speak only in terms of
moderate praise. It was an impersonation in which
there was more noise than novelty, more savageness
than subtlety. His dress was a "study in red and
yellow," a costume strangely—in its colours—sugges-
tive of that worn by Mr. Hasker in Lewis’s musical
tragedy of “ Sinbad.” Perhaps, however, this is the
correct dress worn by Italians in Cymbeline’s time.
And this reminds ns that, for an Italian, laohimo
spoke remarkably good English. It is bat fair to Mr.
Hamilton to state that the dexterous manner in which
he got the ring off Imogen’s arm in her bedroom with-
out having to trespass on the soap-dish was the subject
of much admiration ; and those who respect him will
bo pleased to hear that his conduct—even when placed
in the way of strong temptation—was of a most
docarous nature.
* « •
Mr. Hasker made Cymbeline a monarch of such
extreme feebleness that ho would be out of hia element
in ruling ever any territory more extensive than a lime
kiln. When Miss Merton appeared, the pit seemed
surprised that the old un had got such a “ missis,”
and welcomed that lady with a sincere but unobtrusive
sympathy that spoke volumes. Miss Merton (who
was “a flue lady once ”) now that she has come out
should speak out, and then we should be enabled to
award her that kudos which is, doubtless, her just
meed. We cannot praise a lady, be she ever so charm-
ing, in the dark.
• » *
Mr. Harry Lcaton was amusing as Cloten,
though we think he might, with advantage, make his
reading a little more dogged. We would not have it
thought, however, than we bark at the rendering he
gave us. Mr. J. Tolano (another pantaloon I This is
the first time we ever saw Shakespeare with a pair!)
played Philario well enough to travel the world on, and
Mr. 11. Daly as Cains Lucius, General of the Bomau
Forces, prompted with his usual skill. Mr. H. Jordan in
a ’possum kilt (how about that fraud Captain Cook
now ?) was nice as Siuderins, and strange to say, a
Mowry enacted tho role of hia brother Arrivagno. This
gives the tragedy an Australian flavour, which will he
acceptable to all those who love—and who does not ?
George Darrell.
# • *
The part of Helen was sustained by Miss
Horan, who was Jformerly Tessin, but wbo is now
Theresa. It was an affecting thing—this being the
young lady’s second appearance in Shakespeare, olio
kas made rapid strides in her profession, for
the last time she interpreted the works of the great
poet, she only took the part of Desdemona. This was
at Grafton, and thereby hangs a tale. It appears that
the charming young tragedienne had only a couple of
days to study the “61 sides", or so, of Mrs. 0., and,
therefore, was enabled to “break the back” only of
part of it. In the smothering scene, therefore, she lay
in bed and read it out of the book in the most natural
manner poisible. Well, at one part Othello has to say
to her—” Have you prayed to-night, Desdemona ?” To
which she sweetly replied—“ Filth, thou liest." She
Ivad, turned over two pages at once Mies Horan did all
that any one could do with Helen. She came on, said
“ Please you, madam,” and " almost midnight madam -.”
took the candle up, put it down, and then—went away
to see Ada Ward, at the Queen’s.
* * *
The mounting of the piece was always fair, and
frequently remarkable. It is evident, however, frem
some of the dresses and “props,” that the ancient
Britons must have copied from the people who lived in
the middle ages in a slavish manner. From the rugs in
the cave, too, it is evident that 'possums gambolled in
the Sylvan glades of old England somewhere about 140
years before Christ. On the whole, “ Cymbehue is an
attractive performance, and, if even as a great dramatic
curiosity, should bo seen by everybody. To say, how-
ever, that the first night’s performance was an un-
qualified success would be to tell an untruth. And we
never tell an untruth excepting under certain domestic
circumstances.
# * •
“ Cymbeline” is to be played until Saturday,
when “Antony and Cleopatra” will be produced, with
Miss Pomeroy as the Queen, and with Mr. Hennings s
beautiful scenery.
*# * *
Mr. Arthur Garner must be very fond of Mr.
G. L. Goodman. He gave him on Saturday, the last
night of his present season, a moat magnificent silver-
gilt jug, each side of which, in a splendid satin-lined
case, is a gorgeous cup. Accompanying this really fine
set out, was another gift of still greater value, being
nothing more nor less than an address in verse, written
by the donor. Here it is in the full blaze of its poetic
splendour :
This, to our mind, breathes the true spirit of
poetry, and the metre is far more correct than any of
the Sydney Qas Company’s. If any hypercritic wants
tv better rhyme for “Garner” than “palaver, its no
good comint: to us for it. We haven t the article nntil
we take delivery of the next Pantomime book. It Is
hardly necessary to state that, after being treated to so
much cup. Goodie treated Arthur to a little lip.
Pleasant things were said, and some fizz, was gurgled;
after which. Goodie went home singing a Bacchanalian
ditty, much to the surprise of the third footman, who
was waiting up to serve the aspic jelly and caviare.
** * *
In consequence of tho enormous success of
“Michael Strogotl,” at tho Gaiety, it will bo withdrawn
on Saturday next to make way for “ Jean Valjean,” an
adaptation of “Les Misorables,” in which Alfred is
very great indeed. Oh, and this reminds us that Mr.
I), takes exception to our statement that “ Mother-in-
Law ” was not a success when produced by him at Mr.
Bayless’s pretty little theatre. A niece must either bo
a success, or a failure. If Mr. Dampier will
give us his honest assurance that “ Mother.in-Law ”
was a Puooesß, we shall be happy to say so. We only
want that. Wo have a distinct remembrance, however,
that the comedy was produced under nnexceptionally
favourable circumstances. Tho theatre had been
splendidly and artistically re-decorated; Mr. JDampier
and Miss Addro appeared as “stars” in the piece; it
was well worked up in tho papers, and artistically billed
in the town; —and it played only three weeks to very
“shy” business. When this is taken against the fact
that pieces like “ The Black Flag” and “ The Green
Lanes” have run to good business for double that
period; why, the conclusion to be drawn is, it would
appear to us, tolerably plain. Como, now 1
** * *
Here we have it at last, from tho Cleveland
Press :—“Leon, the Lovely— Tho Great Female
Impersonator and His Life and Wardrobe.—Attendants
on tho performance of Haverly’s Minstrels at the
Opera-house, will remember as a now feature the Only
Lean, the female impersonator. Numerous female
impersonators on the variety stage are travelling under
the name of Leon, and the artist in question, to protect
himself from their infringements, has had the name
“The Only Leon” copyrighted. Leon having risen to
the top of his remarkable profession, a sketch of his
history will be interesting. Leon ran away from
college when fourteen years old. and went upon the
stage in Wood’s Minstrels, New York. Realizing that
nothing but perfection would wiu in the world, he
began studying under Madame Giletti, n dancing
teacher. For eight years he practised the art of Lallet-
dancer, one of his fellow-students being Mrs. M’Kee
Rankin. Six hours a day Leon studied for years. He
also had a musical instructor in tho person of Errani,
Clara Louise Kellogg’s teacher. He finally went on
the stage as a partner of Kelly in Kelly and Leon’s
Minstrals, who won wide popularity in New York and
Chicago, Leon’s female impersonations being the main
attraction. An engagement in London was attended
with such success that the company played to immense
audiences for one hundred nights, ’lire Prince and
Princess of Wales and their children attended one of
their performances, the Prince evincing his delight
with applause. Returning to New York, Kelly and
Leon’s Minstrels played again in New York and Chi-
cago, and then went to Australia, where so many actors
have won success, and where others have failed.
They succeeded to such an extent that they
built what is known as Kelly and Leon’s Opera-
house. About three months ago Leon came over
from Australia and joined Haverly’s Minstrels
ata salary of 300 dols. a week. A Press reporter
visited him in his dressing-room, hung about with
dresses, skirts and hats, this morning. On the dress-
ing-table was powder, paint and perfume—in fact, all
the articles seen on a lady's teilet-case. Leon, a deli-
cate, slender little man, with regular features, the
pearliest of teeth, and handsome dark eyes, with hair
to match, extended a dainty little hand dressed in the
smoothest of kid gloves. He was dressed in sober
black, bis Prince Albert coat being a tailor’s master-
piece. In a flue but pleasing voice he commenced con-
versation on his art and his wardrobe, which he makes
an essential element. With real feminine pride he
showed the dress he wore at the performance last even-
ing. It was not made of stage material, but, like
every article of bis wardrobe, was genuine stuff. The
material was gros-grain silk trimmed with narrow
black velvet running perpendicularly. It cost over
ZOOdols., and. like the rest of the suit, was purchased in
Australia. The hat was trimmed in carefully-blended
colors to match the dress and the rich open-worked
silk stoikings that he wore of the same hue. The
diamonds worn on the same occasion are genuine
stones, costing about 4000 dols. The earrings were a
pair which formerly belonged to Di Murska. The re-
porter blushingly asked Leon if ho wore underskirts,
and in reply the artist produced several of those gar-
ments of spotless white, and trimmed with costly em-
broidery. Another garment worn was a pink-
padded petticoat trimmed to the waist with
real lace. The dress coat cost lOOdols., and
the stockings could not bo duplicated for ISdols.,
and the whole outfit worn by Leon in his per
formance each evening costs no less than $7,000, includ-
ing the jewels. Leon lifted the lid of one of his big
trunks and proudly exhibited some of the 300 dresses,
and draperies that he possesses. There were suits of
pink, a bridal dress of white, a delicate shawl of
Duchess lace, which cost $l5O, No. 2 slippers with
high heels, No. 6 kid gloves, fans innumerable, and all
sorts of feminine trifles, which would have made any
lady in Cleveland turn green with envy. Leon was
obliged to pay ?tOO duty on his wardrobe when he came
to America three months ago. With hats costii g $5O,
dresses at $3OO, rich laces and embroideries and silk
stockings, it is not to be wondered at. As to Leon’s
make-up as a representative of the softer sex, it is in
itself a work of art, for there is not, from the time of
his entrance until he quits the stage, the slightest
suggestiveuesss of a disguised member of the sterner
sex. From the tiny shoe, above which only a small
instep is occasionally allowed to peep forth; the
modishly-cut skirt, the lines and contour of the face
and neck, slope of the shoulders, the feminine ex-
pression of the face, the small ears, and finally the hair
bound tightly round the woll-shaped head, iu a modest
Grecian knot—all combine to form one of the most
perfect illusions possible. Leon's performance can,
without any reservation or qualification, bo placed
under the category of < truly wonderful. *"
Wo arcs requested by Mr. Herbert Flemming to
state that bo is not, as wo said last week, Miss Louise
Pomeroy’s secretary. Wo do this with pleasure, of
course. And we take ihe opportunity of saying that
wo wish Herbert no better luck than that he may, one
day, come to occupy that pleasant position. If, how-
ever. Miss P. is, at the prossnt moment, in want of a
conscientious amanuensis who writes a neat hand, and
turns his paper collar several times weekly, we shall be
happy to supply her, on the shortest notice, with a
thing of beauty, which will be a joy for a considerable
time. A written guarantee given, and patronage re-
spectfully solicited.
** * *
George Coppin’s “show” at the Melbourne
Exhibition has been about the biggest success of the
kind over seen in the South. The worthy “ beaks ’
hayo, however, exhibited so much discrimination in
refusing refreshments to the thirsty sight-seers where
the big-bugs formerly feasted that George has every pro-
spect of a good dose of law before him. The purchaser
of the booths brings an action against George for the
recovery of tho deposit money, and George issues a
summons for the balance unpaid. As if this wore not.
enough, the Chelsea Hun man is also having a “go in’*
because these abominations bavo been permitted to be
retailed by others. Greville and Hennings are likewise
in tho swim. G.R.G. rushes frantically up to the Pair
every night, and finds some relief to his feelings in
gazing upon the ten thousand, after a contemplation of
the comparatively small crowd that Grattan Riggs has
been amusing down at the Royal. Tho firm aro said to
have netted s omo thousands per man,
** * *
South’s Company close at Brisbane this week,
after a big season; and Johnny Hall comes on next,
with Marston Leigh as leading lady. Johnny brings a
company of 14 with him. They play two mouths,
when, to quote Duncan Macau limn himself, “I have
the great Freddy Marshall and his company coming
along. Th-u, one or other of the Grand Opera Com-
panies ; and, after that—the deluge.” Pepper is
lecturing, it appear*, to about fifty people and the care-
taker’s aunt, every night.
** * *
There is a healthy little rustic drama now being
performed in Paris at the Ambigu Theatre. It is by
Messrs. Phillippe, Marat, and Marx, and is called
“ Casse-Musseau." It appears that a woman is literally
battered to pieces with a chair, and after “ the murder
scene there is a realistic picture of the Morgue, with its
slate slabs ready to receive their lifeless occupants, the
garments of former tenants of the grim dead-house
hanging from lines as in tho original; then the corpse
of the murdered courtezan is brought on tho stage, with
a wide red gash in tho bosom—it is enongh to make
one’s flesh creep.’’ An adaptation of this, by Hopkin
the Great, would “take well." We may as well
mention, before we forget it, that the Lynch Family of
Bellringers (will they never die?) have been at Gnn-
dagai, where they have met with the appreciation
which seldom fails to reward their perform-
ances. One of the troupe, a singer, calls him self
Sautley—a piece of ludicrous impertinence which is
very refreshing. The Ventriloquist localized his enter-
tainment, the effect of which was confusion.
** * *
! [“ Joe Ballis,” the world-renowned bill-sticker
and campanologist of Warrnambool (Vic.), writes us to
inauire how he can recover £2 10s. from a gentleman in
the theatrical line residing in Sydney, who is indebted
to him in that amount; and he wishes us to “ use our
influence" in order to get it for him. Well, Joe, we
are afraid we cannot serve you. We do not undertake
the recovery of billstickers* accounts. It is a branch
of literature we have not, as yet, ccme in for. Our ad-
vice is, to eat a heavy oyster supper, then go to bad and
dream you gave the ameunt away in charity.
«m * »
At Adelaide, the Pollard kids are at the Eoyal
doing 11 Pinafore,” and Maocabe is still drawing crowds
at the Academy of Music. The Hewett-Zip Musettes
have returned from India, and have been playing in an
opera called “ Rain." A farce of that name, by the
way, woe recently played in Brisbane. But this pur.
ought to be in " pepper.”
** * *
Madlle. Shea, after being billed, wouldn’t
appear recently at a theatre in Albany. The audience
thereupon Eheased particular sulphur, and the manager
would have lost his Rheason had not he perceived a
Rhea of hope in the arrival of a troupe of Rheal nigger
minstrels. He sent for these performers, who pacified
the audience, and thus prevented the building from
being Rheased to the ground. This is as distressing to
the writer as it must be to the Rheader. Hoo-Rheal
The foregoing burst of humour reminds us that
Johnny Hall’s hen. is to-night (Thursday), when he
will play the Butterman in “ Our Boys.” It would he a
graceful act on the part of the public to show their ap-
preciation of this truly brilliant comedian and genial
gentleman, by letting him see crowds of their smiling
faces on the night of his last appearance for some time
amongst us. And branching off at a tangent, we may
remind all the ladies that Mr. Fred. Mervin’s matined
comes off at the Royal on Saturday afternoon. Amongst
the manifold attractions to be presented will be
Bishop’s song, “Should he upbraid?" which will be
warbled by Miss Marie Trevanion. Fred, will appear
in an English version of Madame de Qirardia’s " La
Joie Fait Penr," called “ Tears, Idle Tears." William-
son plays another version and calls his “ Kerry." The
little piece is of a highly attractive Kerrycter.
** * *
“Ages Ago” has run its course, and the Vic-
toria Hall is, for the present, closed. Now that it is all
over, wo can tell a little joke about that piece. It
wasn’t Gilbert’s at all, but the whole thing was written
by a Bulletin man in twelve hours. It should be a
source of gratification to the author to know that his
dialogue was thought “ characteristic of Gilbert.” and
also “ quaintly humorous." Ahal Jf these critics had
only known !
** * *
I JMr. "Wilson will re-open the Opera House with
W. Horace Bent’s Minstrels. This is the double-dyed
ruffian who perpetrated the horrible Joke about never
being broke, because ho was always Bent. Everybody
is sure to go to see Billy. People like to bo fooled to
the top of their bent. Tab 1
** * *
Madame Pasta Moore goes to Adelaide, shortly,
to train ballet girls for the pantomime, which is to bo
produced there at Easter; and Mr. Coppin has made
his “final appeal" on behalf ot the Dramatic and
Musical Association. Thank evins I
** * *
The Williamsons are doing a tremendous busi-
ness in Christchurch, and have been appearing in
“Kerry,” “The Snowball." and “The Chinese Ques-
tion." They have quite “oruelled" a poor Mr.
Robson, an English elocutionist, who has been playing
against them. Mr. R. considers New Zealand “a
beastly hole.” That’s what Dewhurst said of Brisbane
—et ailhurs.
** * *
We are sorry to have to announce that Mr.
Samuel Lazar is seriously unwell. His condition, in-
deed, is regarded, by his physicians, as critical. Wo
trust Sam will pull round soon, and once more give the
girls the treat he has given them for so many years.
** * *
We are sorely afraid that Ben. A. Green, our
campanological friend at the Towdes, is a giddy old
boy. He writes and asks:—“Did Miss Oliver get the
letter I wrote her, addressed to your ofilce, also the
Mias De Gays ? ” Wo don’t know whether these ladies
got their letters or not. Anyhow, they can have them
either by coming to 24 and smiling on ns. or by sending
an envelope with their addresses “legibly inscribed
thereon. Ben., further, wants ns to send him a photo,
of Maggie Oliver as Sinbad in tights. No, Benjamin/
We sinnot encourage you in this. You may be a family
man, and, besides—this in a whisper—we love Maggie
dearly ourselves. On second thoughts, we won t tan-
talize Ben. Let him be happy. The fair ones got his
billet-doux. , * * *
Nellie Stuart recently got .6200 worth of bou.
queta thrown to her in one night. This is a fack Wo
learn it from one of the family. There is, talking of
this, an Eldorado Burlesque company now at Gympie.
The name’s good. Oh, and here’s a good joke. Jimmy
South was at Rockhampton, and got a wire from the
hall proprietor at the Towers to go up. “ Can t wired
James. “ Why ?” telegraphed the would-be impresario.
•• Too far to walk back,” wired Jimmy. Funny, isA t
it; but not so funny as Prof. Moulton’s idea ot taking
a ventriloquist with him to Newcastle, where ho is
pain-painting.
* * **
Mr. James Carden, and Miss Marston Leigh
have been engaged by Garner. Mangrove and Williamson
to play lead for 53 nights. We really do not know whom
we ought to congratulate most in tills arrangement—
Mr. James Cardcu and Miss Marston Leigh, or Messrs.
Garner, Musgrove, and Williamson, And whispering
of great attractions, wo may mention that, Mrs. Langtry
has been engaged at the London Haym&rkat, at a salary
of £5OO per week, and despite the waspish critique In
the Era, is a great success.
** * *
By-the-way, we published in “ Poor Player,”
a statement to the effect that Miss Jessie Grey was about
to be married to Mr. J J. Wallace. Mr. A, Boothman,
who is married to Jessie’s sister Ruth (and a very nice
sister tool) wishes us. on behalf of Miss Jessie to give
the statement a flat contradiction. Alfred says, that
though Jessie may possibly have, at this time, a “ wbita-
haired boy,” that fortunate youth is a long way from
being the “Man from America.” “Crushed again,"
J. J. 1 Heigho!
** * *
Christchurch Society says“ Mr. Josh
Pickersgill no longer pilots Miss Pomeroy. Mr. Weston
having severed his connection wl'h Mr. R. H. Harkins,
succeeds Josh, and acta as the divine Louise's agent.”
We wonder what our contemporary would think if it
could have seen Josh on Monday night all smiles and
diamond studs, liossmg things generally, and arranging
the interior of Pomeroy’s carriage ? There will be gere
over this!
The Townsville Herald has erected a
pleasant fiction about a naval battle of Townsville.
This romance is based on the discovery o( a cannon-
ball somewhere handy. The circumstance brings up
au old rrmimacance. Hill, the botanist of Dalrymple’s
exploring party, found in 18/3 that the letter C had
been carved upon a growing tree at what la now Cook-
town. From the indications of the bark around the
letter, he conjectured that the cut was 100 years old,
and built up the theory that Captain Cook was respon-
sible for it. A hot dispute arose, during which a
practical joker arranged matters so that shortly after-
wards the party were all astonished at finding, em-
bedded in the moss of years, a veritable Irish dhudeen I
These airy dreams were dispelled next day when the
vessel Leiohardt arrived. Phil Garland was on board,
and he took the party to show them the tree upon
which he had carved the letter C in honour of the
vessel Coquette a short time before.
“DEAR GOODIE,—
“ I have not the genius of Scott,
Nor do I envy Alfred Tennyson's lot.
Or a poem I'd write, which, for rhymo and jwint.
Would put The Bulletin’s nose out of ]omt.
But, failing my power to please you with rhyme,
I pray you accept this small present of mine I
'Tis not for your size or your greatness of mind;
’Tia not for your beauty, which angels would blind,;
'Tis not for your love of cold whisky-and-waterj
'Tia not for your talent for taking ‘ cash a ter;
'Tis not for your brains, or your wit without end;
But is purely and simply the gift of a friend.
Accept it, then Goodie, without more palaver,
And happiness give to your friend—
AnTnun Gahnee.”
“ Theatre Eoyal, Feb. 18, 1882."
PIOUS MAN: “Don’t you know, my good little boy, that it’s wrong to catch fish on Sunday?”
SMALL BOY : “Who’s a Catohin’ fish?”


The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall he glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24,25.
Victorian Trotting Club March 1.
Hawkes Bay (N.Z.).... March 1, 2.
Wentworth March 3, 4.
Carooar... March 8, 9.
V.R.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12.
Orange ....March 16, 17,
Albory March 16,17,
Oamaru (N.Z ) «.... Marchl6, 17.
Gundagai * March 16, 17.
Wagga March 22, 23,
Corowa March 23.
V.A.T.C March 25.
Adelong March 28.
Great Northern R.C. (S.A.) March 29, 30.
bale Tnrf Club (Vic.) March 29, 30.
Taranaki J.C. (N.Z.) March 30, 81.
Hawkeabury ..March 30, April 1.
Canterbury. J.C. (N.Z ) April 10. 11.
Auckland 8.C., Autumn April 10,11.
A.J.C. Autumn April 10, 12,14,15.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
Wilcannia April 20, 21.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Deniliquin April 27, 28.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton May 2, 4.
Lachlan R.C May 4, 5.
Adelaide Racing Club May 6,11,13.
S.A. J.C Mav 24.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... Jane 7, 9.
AQUATICS.
J, C. Laycock v. Edwards February 25.
Beach v. Solomon February 25.
Woolloomooloo Bay Amateur Regatta March 11.
Hanlan ▼. Boyd, on the Tyne Apnl 3
Rooky Mouth Regatta Easter Monday.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race April 29.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May
Grafton Regatta May 24
Hanlan v. Ross, on the Thames June 20.
PEDESTRIANIBM.
J. Assenheim v. W. M’Laren (100 yards
start), 7 mile walk £5O February 25.
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven:—Combined Team at Melbourne, Feb. 24,25, 27 ;
Australian Eleven, Sydney, March 3,4, 6; Australian
Eleven, Melbourne, March 9,10, 11.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Fifty-three acceptances for the Hawkeabury
Handicap.
The welahers were turned off the courae at the
late V.A.T.C. meeting.
General entry day for the Hawkeabury meeting
is fixed for 7th March.
Jno. Roberts, jnnr., has become a severe
sufferer by rheumatism.
Mr. Harry Roberts has been appointed starter
for the Adelaide Racing Club.
Pardon won only the silver cup at Bnrrowa.
Ha did not win two races as stated.
Since Melbourne beat tho bears, its contempt
for Sydney has become greater than over.
Artful Joe, who won three races in succession at
Moama, is a son of The Pearl (John Tail’s horse).
Hearn has challenged Messenger to row for .£lOO
and the championship of New Zealand in five weeks;
distance, 3| miles.
Invoroll Races.—The Town Plate was won by
Shamrock by half a length, after a splendid race.
Recovery, 2; Lemonade, 3.
Honest Jem Lillywhite has made three visits to
the colonies. He says his constant prayer is that
Heaven will grant him three more.
Mr. J. R. Keene, the owner of Foxhall, gave
£5OO to each of the jockeys who rode the horse in the
Cfcsarewitoh aud Cambridgeshire Stakes.
Warwick Races (Q.), on the 15th, were very
successful. Rattletrap won the handicap, and defeated
Silverhair in a private match for £5O a side.
A six days’ walk for ,£3O aside, is going on this
week, at the Melbourne Hippodrome, between C. Swan
and Miss Phillips, the lady getting a start of 30 miles.
Tho first-class yacht race, under the auspices of
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, came off on Satur.
day, and resulted iu a victory for the Oithona by two
minutes.
Somebody told Percy M'Donnell that he gave
four chances in his Intercolonial first iunmgs. Percy
asked : “ Do you count that one I sent into the
tram-car
The aquatic editor of Bell’s Life in London
states that coxswainlass four-oared boats do not travel
so fast as those with coxswains. Wo wonder it he
really believes that ?
A race for 100 yards for .£2O aside came off at
Grafton on Saturday, between Soutton and Noud, the
latter getting live yards’ start, resulting iu a victory
for Noud by two yards.
Could not the following crew be got together to
practice for the Intercolonial Eight-oar Race :-C. Bros,
A. Piulayson, D. Lord, W. G. Brett, Brodie, Gaydou, C.
Williams, and N. Johnson ?
Elias C. Laycock, accompanied by Pearce, will
leave for London, by the Potosi, on 3rd March. What
can bo the little game ? Laycock v. Ross, Laycock v.
Boyd, Laycock v. Hanlan, eh ?
The Invoroll Grand Handicap was won by Rose-
bud, Shamrock second. Lemonade won the Railway
Handicap, Gonnoy the Consolation Stakes, and Young
Chester tho Forced Handicap.
Uiyett’s hit into the Grandstand lawn, on Satur-
day, was the best leg-hit we have seen. An enthusiastic
admirer of the game was heard to remark, “Don’t catch
it, or he’ll be out.” Nobody did.
That well-known and esteemed cross-country
rider, P. Carey, met his death last week at Hobart,
while’ riding Othello in the Hurdle Race. £lOO was
subscribed ou the course for his relatives.
A new rowing club — to be called the South
Adelaide—has been formed in' Adelaide. Tho opening
of the Torrens Dam has awakened a long slumbering
aquatic spirit iu tho “ farinaceous village.”
A Mooroopna cab-horse was purchased for .£9,
and under the name of Artful Joe won three of the
principal events at Moama, last week. He has been
entered for a dozen races, and has won eleven.
The Spirit of the Times, commenting upon
the Hanlan-Boyd match, says : “ Boyd will be afforded
another opportunity to show how loosely he rattles
about iu the shoos of Chambers and Renforth.”
The Victorian sporting writers place Murdoch’s
score fifth highest ever obtained. A reference to our
last issue will show that it is eighth. We ware in-
debted for the scores to Mr. P. J. Ironside’s cricketing
handbook.
A Bathurst Amateur Racing Club was formed
on Saturday evening. Mr. John Lee was elected presi-
dent, and Messrs. J. Rutherford andJ. M’Phillamy,
vice-presidents. Mr Lee offers a fltty-guinoa gold cup
for competition.
E. P. Weston, the pedestrian, has walked
56,000 miles, and is a total abstainer. He reoommeuds
tea, flavoured with lemon, as the most refreshing
drink he knows. Cook, the champion billiard player,
reckons he has played matches, big and little, equiva-
lent to 100 matches of 1000 up. If he walked only ten
miles in a 1000-up game—some experts estimate it at
twenty—he has walked 100,000 miles. He is not a tee-
totaller. He recommends no particular fluid, but
simply savs, ‘'Never mix your liquors." "When
doctors differ," etc.
Both Jem Mace and Jack Thompson are willing
to accept Miller’s challenge to box. Thompson offers
to make a match for £5OO aside, and Mace is prepared
to box Miller for from £2OO to £2OOO, either with skin
gloves or with the naked fists.
A rifle match, at Bathurst, on Saturday, be-
tween ten members of the Sydney Engineer Volunteer
Company and a like number of Bithurst Volunteers,
resulted in a victory for Bathurst by 30 points. Scores :
Bathurst, 447 ; Engineers, 417.
The postponed sailing race in Hobson’s Bay
came off on the 15tb, and resulted as follows: —Naval
Reserve, 1; Custems, 2. The Russian boats were de-
feated easily. The British Lion's tail is again beginning
to wag, and the Bear is commencing to growl.
Mr. James Mitchell, of Tabletop, has given a
silver cup, to be run for at the Albury meeting, March
16 and 17. The race will be a Corinthian Cup, handi-
cap, with a sweep of three sovereigns, distance one
mile, to be run on the second day of the meeting.
Yass Races. Maiden Plate : Testator 1. Sum-
mer Handicap: Woolsorter 1. Plying Handicap:
Gamecock 1. Flutter: Moses 1. Yass Plains
Handicap: Macaroni 1. Town Plate: Coquette 1.
Club Trophy : Testator I. Forced Handicap : Griel 1.
The Stanmore Eighteen obtained only 83 in their
innings against the English Eleven—Cleeve 17, and
Roberts 18 being the only double figure scorers. The
Englishmen, in their second innings, scored 153—Ulyett
35, Bates 30, Minwinter (not out) 23, Shrewsbury 14,
Barlow 11.
The pigeon-shooting match of Dr. Carver v.
Gordon and Hobson, each staking £lO9, Carver standing
at thirty-two yards, and Gordon and Hobson at twenty-
four yards, and each of the latter using only one hand,
came off at Hendon, Eng., Dec. 16. Carver won, killing
64 out of 100, Gordon killed 56 and Hobson 53,
Owner of one of the sailing cracks, after a race
is over, leaves crew at Circular Quay, telling them the
time the Darling Point 'bus starts. If a win is scored,
sends the man who sailed her forward, and leads his
friends at the fashionable Bay to suppose it to have been
an achievement of his own. She is a very dry boat.
Two races took place on Saturday, under the
arispices of the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club. The
race for fifth-class sailing boats resulted in a win for
the Ouida. The Regina and Nereid capsized. The
third and fourth-class race resulted in an easy win for
the Desdemona, with the Lucia second, and Bacchante
third.
J. W. Eaby, on Nov. 26, at the Botanical
Gardens, Hull (Eng.}, undertook to walk, square heel-
and-toe, eight miles in an hour. The new cinder-path
was a little less than a-sixth of a mile around, and rain
and high wind were against success. Baby walked four
miles in 29min. 47sec., but at call of time he was three
hundred yards to the bad.
Over illOO was collected for a testimonial to
Murdoch, and on Saturday, at the pavilion, Mr. 8. C.
Brown presented him with a Nioolle and Niellson gold
watch, with a heavy Maltese cross by Passau, of the
Sydney Arcade, attached. There was about £l5 over,
which Murdoch desired should bo expended in a com-
memorative present to his mother.
A sad accident occurred at the Marong races on
February 15. In the Maiden Stakes, Purves, who rode
Royal Maid, was thrown, and the horses passed over
him. Toung Ebor's rider, Joseph Eados, was also
thrown, and his neck was broken Purves was token to
the hospital unconscious, and has since died. In the next
race Young Bbor broke his leg, and had to be shot.
Entries V.B.C Autumn meeting :— Hurdle Race
13, Port Phillip Stakes 8, Brunswick Stakes 3t, Keilor
Stakes 14, Handicap Hurdle 23, Corinthian Cup 16,
Australian Cup 30, Grandstand stakes 11, First Nursery
Handicap 41, Second Nursery Handicap 34, Newmarkbt
Handicap 48, Town Plate 18, Allnaved Stakes 18, Steeple-
chase 12, Handicap for Four ana Three-year-olds 19.
Victoria Racing Club entries: —Hurdle Race 13,
Port Phillip Stakes 8, Brunswick Stakes 31, Keilor
Stakes 14, Handicap Hurdle Race 23, Corinthian Cup
15, Australian Cup 30, Grand Stand Stakes 11, First
Nursery Handicap 41, Second Nursery Handicap 33,
Newmarket Handicap 48, Town Plate 18, All-Aged
Stakes 18, Steeplechase 12, Throe and Four-year-old
Handicap 19.
The 2000-point billiard match for .£2OO, between
W. Cook and D. Richards, the former giving the odds
of 500, ended on Nov. 29 in a victory for Cook by 283
points. On the first night, Nov. 27, Cook scored 1000
while Richards was making 518, the odds-giver thus
overcoming the heavy concession of 500 points he had
been required to make. The game was played in St.
James' Hall, London.
Mr. P. B. Walker gave £5 sa. for the highest
individual score, and £5 ss. for the highest aggregate
score made by members of the Combined Team in the
match against the English Eleven, Mr. Walker is to
be proposed as Vice-president of the Cricket Associa-
tion at its next meeting. It the cricketers want a man
there who takes an extraordinary interest in the game,
and who will work as well as talk, we would simply re-
mark, “ Walker."
Cobar revels in sport. Veno won three more
spins. Last week there were some pedestrian matches.
Wells, with eight yards’ start, boat G. Best, in 100
yards, £10; W. Loxley, with eighteen inches start,
beat K. Bruce in three standing jumps, covering 33ft.
5 in.; R. Bruce beat B. Chaplain in a running high
jump, 5 ft.; Bruce and Bobby (aboriginal) ran a 100
f yards’ dead heat; W. Loxley and D. Nicholson (Loxley
getting two yards) ran two dead heats in a 50 yards’
race, and Loxley won in the third heat by a yard.
The N.Y. Spirit of the Times of Deo. 24
says “ History presents few such striking instances
of chivalric self-sacrifice as can bo found in a recent
pronunciamento issued by R. W. Boyd, Duke of
Middlesborough, and would-be champion sculler. He
states in substance that if any sport-loving person or
persons will furnivh £3OOO, ho will consent to spend
this snug amount in journeying to Sydney, New South
Wales, and there being beaten in five successive £5OO
sculling matches by the five Australian oarsmen—
Laycock, Rush, Power, Pearce, and Trickeit."
The Hon. Ivo Bligh is carrying out his promise
to the Melbourne ‘'ticketing Association, and is or-
ganizing a team of English gentlemen cricketers to
visit Australia next season. W e hope that they will
make themselves as popular as Shaw’s professional
team, and that they will be as gentlemanly as the pro-
fessionals. That they will be as strong in cricket is a
matter of doubt, for in our opinion Shaw’s eleven is the
best English eleven in or out of England. The gentlemen
cricketers are always great in batting, bnt the real bowl,
ing talent, which has done the trick with our colonial
toams, seams to be confined to the professionals.
Some of the Victorian Cricket writers condemn
the action of substituting Spofforth for Downes, at the
last moment, in the Intercolonial Match. They view
the matter in a dim light, being at a distance. They
forget that Spofforth was selected in the eleven, that
Downes was emergency m>n, that Spolforth declined,
as he usually does for whimsical purposes, to play, that
the Association insisted on his playing for the colony,
and if not, that they would not countenance his inclu-
sion in the combined team. We do not profess to ex-
plain away the demon’s idiosyncrasies, but we maintain
our right to choose our own players.
The cricketers who have taken part in the
Thomson Cup contests are very anxious to test their
mettle against the clubs who are playing for the Holds-
worth-Gardyne trophy. It would be a gracious act
upon the part of the Trustees of the Association
Ground to arrange, at the end of the season, a match
between the eleven best in for the Holdsworth-Gardyne
trophy and fifteen selected from the junior clubs, the
proceeds to be devoted to some of the city charities.
Not only would it benefit those institutions bat it would
also bo the moans of bringing before the Association
new aspirants for intercolonial honours.
It is unfortunate that we could not turn the
tide of victory which has to favoured Victorian cricket
for the past two sexsous, without an unpleasant hitch
occurring. It was somewhat ungracious on Murdoch’s
part to aeouse our opponents of unfair play. The Vic-
torian umpire did not, during the five days* play, evoke
one single exhibition of dissent from the crowd, and
they are never slow to express their opinions, however
erroneous. Murdoch, as a matter of fact, did not come
down to get fair play, lie had to appear for a client at
Cootamnndra on Tneaday, and at the close of that
day's play, a telegram was sent to him to come down for
Wednesday’s play, as the field was demoralized, and
Horan and Blaokham seemed to be fixtures. Catches
were missed wholesale, and Spofforth himself admitted
that the importation of a few blaokfellows would be an
improvement upon the team. Consequently Murdoch
was at his post on Wednesday morning, but did not add
to his laurels by his gratuitously offensive remark. A
Melbourne journal very aptly observes : “ Contact with,
and observation of suoh brilliant batsmen as Mr. W.
G. Grace and Lord Harris, have taught him that to be
a great batsman requires, in addition to cricketing
skill, the possession of a discourteous- temper." So
much for omr popular captain, who will, we are certain,
admit that he did wrong. But the Victorian represen.
tatives have done worse. They have snubbed the high-
est cricketing tribunal in this colony—they have
abused the sacrod rites of hospitality, and they have
destroyed the great reputation which they built up
during the progress of the match by their courageous
fight against long odds ; the impression is left that
they writhed under the humiliation of a decisive and
unexpected defeat, and took the first opportunity of
expressing their chagrin. They say that the Associa-
tion was represented in Murdoch ; yet the Association
is insulted by them, while they frateruize with Mur-
doch as much as ever. The Association, of course, have
not taken much notice of this tea-pot storm.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A good feat in bicycling was lately performed
at Otago (N.Z.) by a Mr. Godwin. He did
SO miles under six hours, including a quarter of
an hour’s stoppage, to repair the small wheel of the
bicycle. Some parts of the read were hilly Hero of
Waterloo v. Alexandria. H.W.C.C. 37, A C.C. 32
Musket, now owned by the Auckland N.Z. Stud Co ,
was, during ’Bl, represented on tho British turf by two
sons and throe daughters, who scored 12 victories, and
totted up between them the respectable sum of £4.265.
Petronel, who won four races worth £2.677, is mainly
responsible for this triumph, Alpha v. Marmora.
Alpha won by seven runs Several members of tho
“ talent ” and thsir friends/ who took part in a little
mill, the other morning, have been arrested [at Under,
dale, a suburb of Adelaide.
* * •
However barbarous ordinary bull-fighting may
be, there is at least something manly about it, as
courage and skill are needed to meet its dangers. But
even that one redeeming point is absent from the
pastime as it is now practised by some of the “ golden
youth ” of Madrid. The proceedings and instruments
of torture are the same, but instead Jof full-grown
savage animals, only young bull calves are used, with
inoffensive horns. They are pricked and goaded, even
scorched, by the cowardly young hidalgos, who, them-
selves, run not the least risk Two sculling races for
£5O aside, took place in December, on tne Thames, over
the usual distance from Putney to Mortlake. Dr, God-
win v. G. Bubear, won by Godwin by six lengths. Q.
Thomas v. G. J. Perkins, Won by Thomas The
Waterloo Cup (England), was won on Feb. 17, by Mr.
Ellis’s Snowilight, with Mr. Haddington’s Hornpipe as
runner-up Old Jem Ward, painter and prize-fighter,
is in the London. Licensed Victuallers’ Asylnm,
Robbins’ Seances.
A Correspondent writes:—l attended Robbins’ stance
in Park-street, Sydney, last Sunday night. It is a hocus
poous of nonsensical flummery. Bobbins, a knowing-
looking Yankee-llke customer, formed his circle, and
made them place hands on the table. It was curious to
note that the first ho selected—and placed at the ends,
not the sides, of the table—were solemn looking men,
with sad yearning eyes, and receding foreheads. Then
he started an evening hymn about shadows departed/or
something or other, “to induce harmony.” Hardly
Sjjiho hymn over when ha fell back in his chair and
omenoejd to " aesthete.” I thought he was in a fit,
t Mrs. Robbins and tho rest ot the company seemed
used to it; so I calmed down my fears. He blew like a
grampus, writhed his arms in agony, and, at last, became
still. He then rose, and with closed eyes, addressed
the circle. " I am the spirit of Dr. Bower, of Phila-
delphia,” he said, in a hard, nasal-twanged voice ;
" and I now possess this medium, giving him the voioe
and utterance I possessed when upon earth." Dr.
Bower, or Mr. Robbins, then delivered a discourse
about the joys of this “blessed new revelation of
spiritualism." The Dr. pronounced “ body " as
" bod-eo,” trilled his r’s, and called " savant," *’ sav-
ann," <fco., &o. I could have written as good a speech
as the Dr. mode, and I think he could not have been
“theright Bower." or he would have told ns some-
thing about the spirit-world we could not guess at.
However, I was consoled to hear there was no heaven
nor hell, though somewhat shocked at Bower quoting
largely from scripture, and winding up with something
from Longfellow. When the Dr. had done, Robbias
“ cestheted" himself back again into life, and com-
menced wiping invisible perspiration from his manly
brow. It appeared also from his action that Dr. Bower
had induced profuse perspiration into Robbins’ Sunday
continuations. Bobbins explained that he had been in
a trance, and that he never knew what he said when “ in
that way. He also announced that the spirits enabled
him to diagnose diseases when he was thus mes-
merised." then tho fun commenced in real earnest.
The table bumped right merrily. We were told the
spirits were “ real powerful" that night, owing to the
presence of an old sea-captain, wao "absorbed rnagnat-
ism ” wonderfully. I was informed by a “ spirit friend ”
that it was doubtful whether I was a medium. A lady
friend who was with me was told that she was a good
medium. Then came the “ test” performance. Names
of dead people were written on pieces of paper and
spirits invoked. Some answered, some didn’t. The
man who played the piano for Mr. Robbins called up
such a strong spirit that ho knocked the little table
clean over. It signifies nothing that I could have done
the same with tho pressure of ono hand. My spirit
friend never turned up; that of my lady friend did, and
she assures me that it answered all her mental quos-
tions quite wrongly. The other people seemed to get
correct answers, so that my friend’s spirit friend must
be a perverse liar. Every now and then Robbins would
“sosthete” and write somothiug, or rather a “spirit
would write, using Robbius baud.” That is under-
stood, of course, but an ordinary spectator would
“take his colonial” that Robbins wrote it. Tho old
s*a captain got a spirit letter from his dead daughter,
and a young man got another from a spirit friend, of
whom he desired information, telling him to attend a
private seance with Robbius next day. Bobbins charges
2s. per head for Sunday night stances, but I shouldn't
wonder that ho lays it on thick for a private one. The
spirits said that the audience was too large to allow
them to do their best tricks—materialisations, Jtc. —
but promised a treat on some future occasion. Of
course, I don’t suppose I have investigated the doc-
trines of spiritualism, but I dare pronounce Robbins’
last Sunday night’s performance an exhibition of arrant
tomfoolery. But then, as he says, “sometimes they
work, and sometimes they don’t.”
When Childe Harold stood in Venice, on the
Bridge of Sighs, ho little thought a day would oome
when the song of the graceful gondolier would be
hushed, and that picturosquoly-atticed gentlemen would
spit tobacco ou the marble steps, and use language that
would send your bio; d the wrong way round. But
it’s a fact. The gondolier’s occupation is gone, aud he
loans moodily against the wall ana swears at everything
in general, but at little screw steamers particularly, for
commerce and science together have run him out of
a job.
The editor of the Camphelltown Herald
should learn to spell, and afterwards to read, aud it
might do him some good if he were to write cut a page
a day from De Quiucey’s books (not Da Quincy as ha
will write it, and not Lcathe, as he will write Lethe.)
Then ho should not have such rot as this in his leaders:
He says “ The Confessions of an opium eater, by Da
Quincy, who described his own experience while under
tne influence of the soothing narcotic, dwell graphi-
cally on the delights afforded, without warning of the
bitter penalties to bo paid for the pleasure.” Look
again, under tho beading “The paius of opium.” No more
terrific warning was ever committed to paper. The lines
writhe with agony. Indeed, so far from his having
failed to “ warn,” the fact is, that he was the first and
ablest who over called public attention to the horrors
of opium eating, and the history of his own emancipa-
tion has been a more terrible deterrent than all the
sermons aud treatises ou opium ever written.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The advance of religion. Pew rents six months
paid in advance.
Rev. Dr. M'Auliffo (R.C.) has been testimo.
nialised at Forbes.
Rev. Canon Moreton and wife have returned
from their European trip.
The Rev. Joseph Rook, Biblo Christian minister,
of Kadiua, S.A., is dead, aged 61.
Goulburn Protestant bodies have bought the
old “ Commercial Building ” there for £4OOO.
Mr. Trigg, founder of the Congregational Ghuroh
in W, Australia, died last week at the advanced age of
91.
Revs. J. Sunderland and Dr. Clay, with fifteen
native teo-chors, procood to New Guinea to open up a
mission.
The ceiling of St. James’ Churoh ia inclined to
follow the loose example recently set by the Town
Hall plaster.
St. David’a parish. Sydney, is to be split up s
the section to be hacked on will bo called the pariah of
SS. Simon and Jnde.
Rev. A. Yarnold, late of St. Bartholomew’s,
Pyrmont, has been appointed incumbent of Christ
Church, St. Leonard’s.
According to Dr. John Hall, the English are
divided into Churchmen and Dissenters; Americana
into Churchmen and Abseuters.
Cardinal Manning and all the British Catbolia
Bishops are dead against diplomatic relations being
established between England and the Vatican.
The Sydney Mariners’ Church Bethel Union ia
£lOOO in debt. Contributions to it have been falling
off. The Union has been existent over 60 years.
Rev. H. B, Macartney, son of the Dean of
Melbourne, says that the R.C. Church is '* backed up
by all the subtleties of Satan and all the energies of
hell."
Dr. Crane, R.C. Bishop of Sandhurst, left by the
Californian mail steamer, en route for Rome He
received addresses and a purse of 1000 sovs. before
quitting Bendigo.
An Argus correspondent asserts that a young
man has been blackballed by the committee of a Mel.
bourne rowing club lor no other ascertainable reason
than that he is a Jew.
' The Rev. Mr. Wilkinson, vioar of St. James’,
Leyland, Lancashire, has beau fined £1 and costs for
taking round the hat during service. The charge was
‘•indecent behaviour."
In Melbourne religious circles, opinions are
divided as to whether Dean Macartney is a 19th cen-
tury angel, pure and unadulterated, or a 19th century
zealot, blind and perverse.
According to the census returns there are eight
female agnostics in Victoria. Pour gentlemen returned
themselves as “ unbelievers," one as a sceptic, one as a
heretic, one as a freetrader and fourteen as infidels.
Orson Pratt, chief Mormon leader, has died,
aged 70. He was one of the original Joe Smith’s col-
leagues, and chief adviser to Brigham Young. Only
three of the first quorum of “ apostles " now remain
alive.
R. C. Bishops Griver and Salvado, of Western
Australia, the founders of the new Noroia Aborigines
Mission, left Perth by the mail en route for Rome. The
Lady Superior of the Perth Convent, and Sister Do-
sales go to Ireland.
Rev. Charles Strong seems to be able to do
what he likes with his Soots Churoh (Melbourne) con-
gregation. Six months’ leave of absence on tall sti-
pend is a stinging baok-handcr for the bigots of the
the Presbyterian Assembly.
The Mahommedans think the Christians have
had a long enough innings, so another star is to rise in
the East, and a new patent Messiah of the Mahom-
rnodan persuasion is to be forthcoming ia November
next. What’s Dr. Camming up to P
The two gentlemen appointed from Pitt-street
Churoh to examine the state ot Snssex-street Mission
School have not been brilliantly successful. So far,
matters are where they were when they started. The
diaoonate are in a very awkward position.
Mr. Thomas Walker, the freethought lecturer
who has come into conflict with the Melbourne author!-
ties, on the subjeot of charging for admission to a theatre
on Sunday, is a young man, and was formerly a boot-
maker. He ascribes the action of the police to Papist
machinations.
The official, and Dean-in ipired-organ of tho
Diocese, the Church of England Recobd, devotes tho
principal article in its last issue to a review of a now
celebrated sermon, delivered by a certain well-known
clergyman in tho Cathedral. The article is both dull
and inaccurate, its only merit consisting in the ingenuity
shown in avoiding the clergyman’s name. The next
number may, perhaps, be wurth reading, as the clergy-
man in question, it is understood, intends to reply.
There are fourteen R. C. archbishops and
bishops in England and Wales; in Scotland, six. The
priests in England and Wales number 2036, for 1190
stations ; thosc.in Scotland number 295 for 286 stations.
There ere thirty-eight Roman Catholic peers, and forty-
seven baronets in the three kingdoms. Six of the
members of the Privy Council, and fifty-six members
of Parliament, belong to the Romish Churoh. Tho
Sacred College of Cardinals at Romo comprises fifty-
nino members* eleven hats being vacant.
A Jew, in London, recently excused himself
from serving on a jnry on religious grounds. He wrote:
—" Being a descendant of Aaron, tho high priest, lam
forbidden by my religion being in the pcesauoe of a
dead body, otherwise than my nearest kindred." Other
Jews on the jury denied that this allegation was true,
as tho absentee's name showed that he was not
descended from Aaron. The excuse did uot avail, tho
judge thinking that no one could be so fitted to serve ou
a Jewry as a full-blooded scion of the High priest.
There is a noticeable improvement in tho choir
music at St. Mark’s, since the new organist has taken
the precentorship, though there is still a want of
unanimity manifest sometimes, when chanting tho
Psalms. One of the most observable features in this
churoh is tho ostentatious bowing to the altar, by
which a few well-known persons make themselves con-
spicuous. These bobbing obeisances, so palpably done
"to bo seen of men," may indicate intense holiness—
but the story of the Pharisee in the temple comes into
the minds, sometimes of those, who look on.
Madame Tusaaud rested from her labours a
good while ago, but her works did not follow her
They remain still one of the sights of London. How-
ever, even her waxwork “ Aggers *’ are not more inter,
osting than is the early history of this well-known lady.
She was born a member ot oeo of the noblest German
families, at Berne; bat went early to Paris, and, under
an uncle's tuition, was, at sixteen, the cleverest wax.
modeller in the world. She taught the art to Princess
Elizabeth, sister of Louis XVI, at Versailles, where she
lived for years in the highest society. She knew
Rousseau, Voltaire, Robespierre, and Dauton in Prance,
as well as she knew the Duke of Wellington in England’
afterwards, with whom she was a great favourite, and
there was no one the Iron Duke better liked a little
gossip with, than Madame Tussaud, who used to nar-
rate vividly the horrors of the great revolution which
she had witnessed.
A young gentleman and lady, aged respectively
six and Avo, having heard their elders discussing the
Lefroy case, got up a private rehearsal of his execu-
tion. An unhappy kitten was “ Lafioy," and having
been duly sentenced, a noose was placed round its neck
and the cord taken over a stick placed across two
chairs, its feet resting on a trap board, which was to be
kicked away at the light moment. The solemn cere-
mony was being strictly carried out, the girl, holding a
Bible, bad just said, “the Lord have mercy on your
soul," when, as the board was kicked away, the father
entered the room. Ho at once assumed the functions
of the Home Secretary, and granted a reprieve. The
half-throttled kitten was out down, and the juvenile
executioners got a severe lecture.


VISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORK
Diagram* tor self-measuring forwardc
the Colony.
MASON BROTB
TEX"
liWAßag
14 Ss 16 Sp:
Syd:
Have always in 8
to the TEADI
SALE BUYER
IRONMONGER!
GENERA
GLASS.
A 1
EAE T H E
WINES, BEER!
and g
BULK MBI
Agon
JOHN WALK
Old Highls
J. SOEIN
Co(
J. T. G
Schnapps
A.MELVU
Edinburg
NEW BUILDINGS. New 1
Buildings, 29, 81, 33 Park-fit
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LE
draw the attention of the Public gem
stock of English Furniture just open
for sale at their large and beantifn
Booms, comprising Drawing and Dir
Plate glass door and other W ardrobei
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of al
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and B'
Glassware, Holloware, and every re
about to furnish. CENTRAL FI
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
A GEEAT Variety of Piano
/\ makers just opened at the
NISHING ARCADE, and are to be
monte. H. LEVI & CO., 29, 31, 35 1
NOW is your time for Bargai
very large shipment of Aust
open, and must clear some of our 1
room for now goods. H. LEVY
Park-street.
HOUSES Furnished on Tim*
£l5 up to £IOJO at the CEN
ING ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Paxk-stret
H. PA
* PIANOFORTE WARE!
Wo beg to draw y<
PARTICULAR ATTE
to tho
ASIATIC TEA 0
PACKET TEA
Packed in pounds and half-
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
23. and 2i
2s. Cd. an
2s. 6d. ai
2s. 6d. ar
Special Quotations given to Wh(
Country Orders promptly t
ASIATIC TEA COB
279 PITT STREET (next S<
SYDNEY.
M
AGNIFICENT lEON-FRj
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rose
Imported by us direct, and man
for this climate to the order of our
Every instrument is WABKJ
YEARS. They are of vary handso
ore most sensitive, sweet, and powe
LOW PRICES for CASH,
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYM
Examine and test them before pr
All our PIANOS are latest styles
second-hand instruments nor cheap
BEALE and COMP.
1. Oxford-street; 612, George-e
Buildings, Sydne
Hunter-streot, Newcastle; Higl
Howiok-street, Bathurst; A
burn; Church-streot, Parromi
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we wil
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
Trade mark, Waltham, M_
Watch Company, of Waltham, I
hereby give notice that their ti
Mass., is now registered in the
Maw South Wales, an
BROOK’S SEWING
MELTHA M
NEAR HUDDERSFIELD,
OS
Trade mark
T“
:B following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is a snffloiont guarai
manufactured by prtz;e MEDAL. LONDON EXU
THE FIRST-CLASS PRIZE MEDAL, PARI
PRIZE MEDAL, LONDON EXHIBITION. 1862. GOLD MBI
IKIAJfi B ONLY DIPLOMA OF HONOUR. VI
MEDAL AND AWARD, PHILADELPI
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA, 1877. GOLD MEDAL
UU ’ ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYD
-*ju
auLUM
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
MANUFACTORY,
BON -ACCORD
WORKS,
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lightning Conn
simple, clean, and durable, and can he made by any iutol'igent lad with
This Q A Sis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, w
all smell and smoko. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity <
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic I
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lightm
and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS
Medalists and Special Prize holdi
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WIN]
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH
Tur II miur D 9 A I SrWII
SOME SMALL PARS.
The expression, “ I am escaped with the skin of
my teeth," is from tho Bible; Job xix, 20.
“ Doubly armed ” Is he who has his girl’s two
arms about his neck.
At the height of tho herring season, no less than
800 boats a day leave Wiok Harbour, in search of fish.
“ rhe dead we. never , “ ou jn.”-Tlio dead of
nif?ht. And, it may be added, the dead boat. Like-
wise, tho dead head.
Mr. Mason, hotelkeeper, has been fined because,
as ho alleges, his front door lamp went out, awing to a
defect in the gas supply.
If “ time” is money, what an heiress that child
murderess of fourteen, who has Just got penal servitude
for lifs, in England, must be.
Telegrams tell us that the Darling Is 18 feet
above the summer level; yet the meteorological reports
of the big daily never vary from the “ summer level.
The words “lawyers” and “liars” are
written pretty well the same in shorthand. We
wonder whether this is merely an accidental coinci-
dence, or a coincident accident ?
To abolish barmaids will not diminish drinking.
In parts of America women are forbidden by Act of
Congress to serve in bars; but no one has ever dis-
covered that tho men drink less.
Guiteau asserts that ho is “ well satisfied with
the Deity’s conduct so far" in the Garfield case. The
ond might bring dissatisfaction, even to Guitoan.
However, if ho is satisfied, every one else will bo.
The other day, while a ’bus was coming up
Collage-street, one of the horses kicked out and broke
the arm of the driver, who was at the time on the
nsual box-seat. Yon can't match that horse as a big
kicker.
An American has casta cannon, which lias a new
principle of propulsion. Along tho bore are four
pockets, each charged with powder. A total charge
of 1301 b. will propel a 1501 b. projectile bang though 2ft
of solid wrought iron.
The very latest is that an Irishman, whose
threshing-machine was to be seized for rent, took the
implement to pieces and then put it together again in
tho kitchen, as a pleasant surprise for the bailiff who
came to make the levy.
The dovecots of Darling Point all in a flutter !
'Twos duly “ given out ” on a recent Sunday evening,
that the (esthetic Spicer would assume his duties as
Curate, on tho following Sunday. Chorus of infatuated
Virgins: “ Twenty love siok maidens we.
“ Among tho new Austrian peers are Count
Maximilian - Monteouoooli - Laderohy, Count Leopold
Podstnlzky-Lieoht,eastern, and Count Maximilian de
Tranttmansdarff-Weinskerg," and yet we do not hear
that Austrian diplomatists suffer much from loek-Jaw
A boarder with a Chicago widow said that if she
would not promise to marry him, he would take poison
with his coffee as he sat at breakfast. She laughed at
his joke. He held thedrug in his hand. “ Once for all,
say ‘Yea,' or I die here." She said ‘No,’ and in on
hour ho was dead.
At a horse sale at Bathurst, Mr. H. 0. Eotton
assisted in displaying some of the features of the animals
aubmitted. To this end ho “ caressed " the rnmp of a
n uiet more. The female eq nine so appreciated the atten-
t\on that with her heel she " caressed Mr. Rotten 8
lig That gentleman sat down suddenly, and now goes
round with an ornamental shin-bone and on Alexandra
limp.
A recent number of the Nihilist journal, pub-
lished at St. Petersburg!!, contains an editorial para-
jrranh. surrounded with a deep black border, condemn-
in g the crime of Guiteau in the strongest language. In
America, the public voice can be hoard freely, and there
can bo no excuse for regicide; but in Russia, where free-
dom of speech and action is stifled, and tortures inflicted
by an irresponsible despot, there is no other course
pen.
In a Canadian church, a preacher waa annoyed
by snoring, and had several members wrested for
interrupting divine worship However, the Judge
acquitted them on the ground that when a man rented
a pew ho could do what he hod a mind to in it. The
new was like a berth in a sleeping ear, and a man could
Bleep in it, or sit up and listen to the mocking hltcl.
The 1 preacher says ho means to apply for a billot as
porter of a sleeping car.
At a loading city restaurant a gentleman who
ordered a “squash" was astonished, directly he com-
menced to stir the delicious mixture, to see the glass
suddenly collapse. His astonishment doubled, how-
over, when, on ordering another, the sweet girl who
did his bidding, presented a ticket for the price of one
tumbler and two squashes I The manager blandly but
firmly insisted that his patrons ought to cheerfully pay
when tho tumblers tumble to pieces with a squash 1
m Throe young ladies entered a saloon carriage
the other day, each wearing n large sunflower. Shortly
after from behind a newspaper, was hoard the well-
known air of “Twenty love-sick maidens wo. and a
smile rippled round. Then another whistler joined,
and a third, tho notes in each case coming from behind
an out-spread newspaper. The maidens coloured a bit
at first, but as tho smile grow broader on every face,
and at last broke into open laughter, they thought
«pH not bn vexed," anti joined heartily in the
amusement they had caused.
At Melbourne, two enterprising Germans have
successfully started tho “ Fitzroy Garden Chib. They
have secured very eligible quarters in Victoria Parade,
and fitted them up quite lavishly, in regard to fiirni-
tare, quite aesthetically iu regard to skittles, and quite
b >autifully with respect to drinks. The social advan-
tages obtained for one's 30s. per annum are very nice,
aud the inducements to expend com. and meander
through oceans of lager far into the wee sma hours,
are deserving of all praise. There is some talk of an
amalgamation with the prosperous Owl Club.
The geographical editor of the ’Ehald is gob-
ting discouraged. Ho informs the world, in an article
headed “ Statistics of the Colony," that New South
Wales contains 310.9371 acres (!) or three tunes the
area of Great Britain. This acreage would make Great
Britain loss than some Australian cattie runs. Later
on. this colossal geographer statos that wehad7o6 498
acres under onltivation-or nearly twice as much laud
as wa have got—is cropped. We suppose the writer
meant “ square miles,” Instead of acres. However,
aoodone without ice is very telling this hot weather.
A Nelson N.Z. girl, crazed with aestheticism, was
walking near a Lunatic Asylum, and was mistaken by a
goutleman for an escaped lunatic. The gentleman went
through some peculiar manceuvres in an attempt to
catch her, and the girl“ twigged” him. Horror seized
her under the idea that he was an escaped lunatic. As
the red-raggod traveller fleeth from the mad bull, so
«ned tho frightened msthete; and even as the mad bull
pursue!h the fleeing traveller, so followed the gentle-
linn when both found their level at the bottom of a
quarry hole, but not till then, was a satisfactory
explanation arrived at.
At the invitation of Messrs Laing and Wylie,
r f Newcastle, a large party recently had a pleasant ex.
ouS to the estate 1 of Rathmines. on the shores of
T ako Macquarie. Starting from the coal city at 6 a.m.,
Lake macqn.ir riche(l Belmont m three hours,
where a Rathmines. Here an-
other banquetowas**iirnished by Mr. and Mrs Soholey
oiner bwi i ©lnnnence was mixed with the
flowing o bowl* 11 Walking round?fishing, aud fan genera 11 v
“ Kt mn and in due course the party returned,
a'Tdelighted with tho trip at d the hospitality of Messrs.
Laing and Wylie.
» How is it the Spiritualists cannot support an
orgau ? inquired a Bulletin man of a spirit-rapping
bookseller. “ Because all tho inspired ones get it tor
nntoiue and tho general public won't have it at any
tho reply. And curiously enough. nearly
nil the spiritualists are authors, and there is not one
amongst tSu too proud to to toke th-
tor doing to. At the latter part of “Shrills
career as a publisher, a member of the “ uiner-brothor-
ho.nl" timidly entered the office, and assert for a com-
“Sintov copy of FitEETHOUHT. He hid a short con-
Srsirion Wiethe proprietor, and in the afternoon
called round with a cart. Fact.
Some funny causes take people to the Divorce
Couib. L iovoly American girl was married to a clever
navy doctor, who. shortly afterward*, "OB scnt abrOad,
and did not return for throe years. His dear wire
asritc-"]-,;--
*• were met with retorts about ola-iasniouoa
fogey ism," and at length the course of tra ®,J° V n
so roughly that a final appeal was made to the Oourt
of Divorce.
Mr Patrick Lynch has a farm not far trom
Casino. A snake took up his abode in the root of
Lynch’s born, where ths youngster one day saw it. He
and informed his pa. wlo proceeded to load the
familv blunderbuss, “ a rale ould relict of .>B. Then
Lnoh. sen , climbed np to the tie-beams of the
born, and when safely perched there said, • Now, sonny,
hand me np the pistol.” Sonny proceeded to do so, but
was so excited watching the snake that he pulled the
trigger, and nearly carried away the hind CnarteTS of
the old man, who. of eourse, made a very rapid descent.
The snake was a good deal frightened, but not so much
hurt a* Mr. Lynch, who says he has been aflhotod wit
heart disease over since.
If there is one reason which should, more than
any other, induce heads of departments, banks, ...d
B&eoured
ably some upstart who has been put over the heads of
deserving people through influential nepoMsm. The
loss of a few hundreds is often a just retribution on
managers, directors, and others who are the slaves or
tools of eliaues. When they are robbed, it is what
they ought to expect, and Just what they deserve.
We set poetry of all sorts, occasionally good,
but generally ranging from bad to “ awful. We publish
a piece of the Isst quality now, just to show the sort of
thing °we don't want, and by doing so.no doubt we ll
save a few struggling intellects much anxiety of mind
and expense in postage stamps. We have looked at
this 1)1000 long and carefully, and tho more we look, the
more*we can’t make out what it’s about. It is sent to
ns hr a youth named Richard, and is said to be a re-
tJ a valeattne. sent to him by his girl, Lucy
Am, who, no doubt, stands one side of the b “ counter
while Richard hangs lovingly over the other, and talks
to Lucy thus —
O, come where the wattle tree catkin blows,
And the trending rivulet b }l th .® l y f °ws,
And on bended knee we will plight our troth
In ster-rong Bohea—or good chicken broth
And when, in regarding a maiden prize.
You ogle intent with those glaucous eyes,
I will give you a taste of colonial wine
If ,o*ll say. I am yours and that you are mine
Oomo on at onoa—for it is not far.
And be my life’s resplendent star;
And should you happen to lose your way.
Perhaps we may meet—some other day I
Richard says this “affecting response” is original 1
We believe him. Now, Richard 1 listen to our
ing response,” also original and wptten at 3.15 a.m.
You’ll observe we have borrowed your rhymes, as the
poet who took oar dictionary has not returned it.
O. come where tho wart conspicuous grows.
And the grog-blossom spreads oe rJ?ur Purpie nose:
Bring Lucy with you, and do not bo loth,
Sweet innocent chickens, we’ll welcome yon| both 1
The maid who’d regard i/ou, dear sir, as a prize.
Would indeed have a chump in her yellow-green eyes,
You love/ No, long beers, sir, are more in your line.
When you’d write bosh like that for a girl's valentine.
Oomo on, then, at onoo—whoever you are.
Wo ‘ will make you resplendent In feathers and tar.
On our dynamite kog for a while you can play
Then start for that happy land, far, tar away


m
T
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGE
COAIiCIiIFF C<
IHIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplif
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming; Coal in the Colony,
18m. PER TOE NET. delivered with!
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well freef
And cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky fl
It splinter and fly oil like the Western, but it affords that domestic desidi
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charooa
Steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given o
steaa none oi LthwIILAT, DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESA
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W 1
. ' ■:
482 ..t,484 GEORGE S'
a \ THF
G \ VS. » TU r
: v THE
MARKET CLOTH H
3 OPPOSITETHE FRUITMARI
ESTABUSHEDIBC4-
A LARGE and WELLSELE
■" - . OP
WOO LLENS, NEW PATT
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFA
fashionable
/\ Ivl D
W'Wm
FASHIONABI E
/\l>l D
FIRST-CLASS CAR
TO ORDER.
ALLWOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
w
■TTEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Biturn
HU.N DUuamg HEApEa morb efeective than S
DAMP RESISTING SOI
DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER
7 dors them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be £
Particular, on Applicator* ba ynES, Bell’. Chan
| JJSf ® A
TRADE
THE GREAT
German rem
FOB
RHEBMT
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lu
Batkaghe, Soreness of the <
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Swe.
Sprains, Burns and S
General Bodily Paii
Tooth, Ear and Headache, F
and Ears, and all othei
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals Sr
a safe, sure, simple and cheap Ex
A trial entails but the comparative!;
of 50 IJentM, and every one Mill!
can have cheap and positive proof c
Directions In Eleven Language*.
BOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AMD
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-
S. HOPFNUNO & Co., Pitt-stro
C. PROSSER k Co., Pitt-street.
MTEKS and SOLOMON, Qrorg<
I. JACOBS & Co„ Hunter-street,
CONSULT ATK
SYDNEY CD
Subscription, 20a.
Ist, £6OO l 2nd. £3OO ; 3rd, £l6O.
Start erf
Non-starters (divided) 1
No. 1 now on.
Early application Invited, with r
£20.000.
LEVIATHAN CONSUL'
on the
MELBOURNE CU
Subscription, 20b.
Ist—£Booo. 2nd—£3ooo. 8r
Starters (divided), £4OOO.
Non-starters (d
Early application invited, with t
BANKERS —CITY BA
Those Consultations are advertised i
California, Honolulu, Fiji, or
Address—“ OCCIDENTAL,"
care of
EDWARD
Royal Exchange
P.S.—All names and results strictl
w.
HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
WHARF and NJ3W WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SEEING STEEET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FEIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BEISB^^^^
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
TEAM TO LONDON —ORIENT LINE.
Steam to londui
1883.
%°S$fNY
H TM^fEDI and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
K COMPAN Y, will leave SYDNEY 0“ ihennder.
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
Ship.
Sorata
Cuzco
Cotopaxi..
Orient
Lusitania.
And the service win no
jteamors at intervals of a fortnight. . lonrnev
Saloon passengers homewards may break the jonrn y
it SuezPort Stud, and Naples, going on by succeeding
lamer within a mouth ; but failing room, then by first
Bubscaueut steamer having room. rmsponirors
These steamers not touching at Aden, paspongora
sau proceed to Suez and the Continent
Ports inotuded) without fear of being detamea uy
’ 8«e. C.nMd»<.
London can ho in,f
PVir tdaua and full particulars, apply to k . GhEhN
and cCand ANDEbsON. ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the lino; or to the
Uouocal Manager in AustraUa,^^
267 Georgc-streot.
o
RIENT line op steamers.
PAECEL EXPRESS.
Special Arrangomonta have been made for the Con-
S of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line of
primers t/O London at reduced rates* vi/ j ,
2w. 6d. per foot, ©r fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d uer pouud* or fraction of a pound. « .
Packages will be received at this office, and
Bued, up to Noon of the dav prior to.advertised date of
illug All freights payable In Sydney. For furthc
Manager of Orient Lino in Australia.
267 Qeorge-street, Sydney.
c
1A9H PRICE LIST OP WINES, ALES, AND
1 SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
BED.
per doz
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
12s 6d
13s Od
WHITE.
per doz
J.T. Fallon’s Port 25s 6d
Adelaide Qrenoohe
(rich Burgundy
Adelaide')
Port
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
15s Od
30s Od
80s Od
15s Od
lloret
Xermltage
Shiraz
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz ..
Relating
Hook
Madeira... ••• •
Bouffler's Pineau,
FOREIGN WINES.
_ . o i a to 36s Od I Good Sherry 24a to 36s Od
KJ£efeo“ French Cla/etfrem 25s Od
SPIRITS.
Imperial •* Scotch
Brown Muscat ... --- a -
Muscat, vintage 75 21s Od
Adelaide Tokay ... 80s Od
Tokay, vintage ’73 80s Od
lennessy’s • Case
Brandy ... •••
lennossy B
Case Brandy ...
lood Pale French
Brandy ... •••
lood Dark French
Brandy •••"•
Valker’s Old
Hlghd. Whisky.,
temp’s Scotch
Whisky ... .»
7aughan Jones
Scotch 8 Whisky 38s 6d
40«0d
59a Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
46s Od
42s Od
42s Od
Irish
"Irish
44s Od
40s Od
ditto
Imperial *** Scotch
Whisky
Burke's
Whisky
D’Arcy’s
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz... 62s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (huge
size) ...
Gin, Key, Casa of
15 Bottles (med.
size) ...
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
38s 6d
48a Od
46s 0d
43s Od
44s Od
all Dog Ale, qts.
all Dog Ale, pints
aster’s Ale, qts...
„ .. **■<■
„ Stout, qts.
„ junta
Soar’s Head Stout,
(0M’’sHaad Stout,
pints >ss ••• •••
lias’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts
Us Od
8s Od
lls Od
8s 0d
10s Od
7s Od
10s Od
7s Od
10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Belles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
7s 6d
10s 6d
7s 6d
10s Od
7s Od
lls 6d
12s 6d
Lager Bier. 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ala, quarts,
Lager we . • t g dozen. Foster’s Ale, quarts,
dozen in a oas , P in caae> Boar’s Head Stout
S’. quS; 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts
Oder's for Ales and Stouts must be for a
atk or Cmo of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
■ of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
rneflint of 15a. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
B A11 Goods delivered carriage free tqany address in
own or to the Wharves or Eedfern Railway Station,
'orms Prompt Nett Cash on givmg order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
G
LER’S hotel,
U N S
NORTH terrace,
ADELAIDE.
w.
L.
K I M B E
e LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHER,
Windsoe-st., Paddington.
r iows and Gents.’ Residences taken on the shortest
notice.


PEPPER AND SALT.
We breathe freely. The nation was nearly
suffering a national loss: —but thank Heaven, it has
been averted I The picture of Visoonnt Sydney which
is now the chief of tha “ Tonorle " (we are
quoting Leon Caron) picture gallery was, on its arrival,
within on aoe of being seized by little Bailey, of The
Temoba Herald, for an electioneering bill whioh has
been owing to him by the benefactor of the Coloay, ever
since that gifted orator contested the electorate of
Young. Bailey's lawyer watched the arrival of the work
of art, and dodged it about in a spring-oart, essaying in
vain to clutch it, all the way from tho wharf to tha
Gallery. The Corporation labourers, however, were too
many for him, so the lawyer had to content himself with
futile endeavours to boot the counterfeit presentment of
his late Excellency Being loyal people on The
Bulletin, we are glad that the picture is where it is, to
perpetuate Heaton’s glory. At the same time, had
tha fates decreed otherwise, wo should have done a
good grin to see It knocked down for the “ price of the
frame ” at Bradley's. Foot.
• • •
Mr. E. Cyril Haviland spins a long “ ouffer,”
In Saturday’s Evening Whoop, about the riggs of one
Spriggs, a Melbourne medium. Spriggs, it appears,
was controlled by an Indian Spirit, named Swiftwater,
iust as “Bam” used to be taken possession of
y the shade of another noble Rod man, called
Awassa." Spriggs goes behind a curtain (wonderful
Isn’t it ?) and manifestations appear. Spriggs's friends
look after (the rapping, and Spriggs himself works the
ghastly oraola, Mr. Haviland (mark this) being the
only stranger present . Forms appear and talk gibberish,
and Mr. Haviland is much astonished. We consider it
miraculous also; but for all that, give us Cyril in a
dark room, and provide ns with a spirit, a pop gun, and
sixpennyworth of phosphorescent paint, and we will
wager a trifle to produce such spiritualistic phenomena
as would convince the most sceptical of the wonders
of the spirit world. A flour-dredger; a fishing-rod (for
the spirit-tonching)—with a few property ruses bor-
rowed from Gamer, and the outfit would be corn-
piste.
• • •
We stated last week, that Mr. Harold Stephen
had, somehow, caught his father's knack of curing."
Well, this is a fact, and he has gous to Melbourne to
“ practise.” A man oame to him last weak who had
consumption, cancer, and a few other diseases, and
having paid his guinea, Harold got his bit of flannel
and commenced the process of curing by the “ laying
on of hands." Tho effect was so satisfactory that the
patient, carried away by gratitude, has been looking for
Harold ever since, his loudly expressed desire being to
do some laying on of hands himself. The gifted healer,
however, hearing that he usually visits a brick-factory
on bis way to the healing-rooms, is always, when in-
quired for by the patient, engaged upon business of an
Important nature—in the cellar.
• * •
Princes! yes, it is easy to distinguish the genuine
article when you see it. So thought George of East
Sydney during the recent ermption of blue blood in our
midst, as two youths evidently of “ noble bearing ”
crossed the lobby of the Assembly under escort of a
messenger from the “ Lords,” intent on making a tour
of inspection through our noble Halls of Legislature.
The hour was 4.80 p m. When George rubbed his eye-
glass with evident glee, and then wiped the beads of
perspiration that gushed from his patriotic brow.
“ Just fancy," said he, " when I raised my hat to them
Prince Albert recognised me in a moment, though he
bod seen me only once before —at the Masonic Ball. It
is really gratifying, you know, to be recognised by a
real prince;" and, continued George, “ he said * how
d’ye do,’ quite familiarly.” The hour was 4.31, when the
two youths approached the Parliamentary smoking
room looking so much like Princes that at a glance any
ordinary persona would have taken them for—ordinary
hoys. But mark the sympathetic effect of royal mag-
netism. “The Princes, bedad," said Dan; and to throw
away his cigar, plant himself in the deorway, and make
a salaam that any son of the Prophet, or even a Japanese
nobleman might be proud to receive, was the work of a
second. Again the Princes were evidently much
gratified by the marked attention paid them by oar
two legislators s “indade," said Dan, “shore theyreoog-
Bleed me immediately, and isn’t there a bond of sym-
pathy betune us, for alnt Ia disoindant of the royal
blood of ould Ireland, and if it wasn’t for the likes of
some of you I'd be living in me royal oastle at this
moment.’ 1 And in that same hour those two princely
youths smiled a tew, and said the elder to the younger;
" I say. Jack, we couldn't get out people to raise their
hats in that fashion. I'll see it I can’t get the old man
to engage one or two of these fellows now we have got
into the new honse and are going in for a little style.”
Gentle readers, those twe youths were Indeed princes—
princes of the royal blood of Adam, and of the parent-
age of old Jim Graizem, of West Doodlembnok. Good
day to yon. # #
From the diary of a peripatetic parson jnat
returned from JimboomberongConverts nine abo-
riginals. Expenditure in the good work: Personal,
£ls; material, four bottles rum and three pounds to-
bacco.” “ Pull for the shore, sailahl”
• • •
Parramatta editor, reading in an English paper:
—“Double-sole boots for gentlemen have gone out of
fashion, and lightly-made shoes, with cloth tops, are
now de rigueur.” " This is good news, indeed 1 ” be
cried. "My pants will lost double the time now."
And, emptying the till with one dip of his thumb and
first finger, he went down the street to celebrate the
joyful occasion. # # ,
“Why, football’s over!” exclaimed a clerk in
the Treasury, on beholding an aesthetic confrere enter
with a large oiroular parcel in his arms. " I know it
Is,” said the other; " this is my lunch."
• • •
Christchurch (N.Z.) has anew paper. It has
superseded the Liberty, and calls itself Society.
There is the usual leader placarded " Ourselves," from
which we extract the following“ We are certain of a
generous response from the large-hearted tribunal to
which we appeal. We enter upon the task of minister-
ing to tho intellectual, hmrourous, and social require-
ments of the community." Let’s hope the editor’s
confident anticipations of success will be realized ; and
lot us also hope that the “intellectual, humourous,
and social requirements of the community, ’* to which
Society appeals, are not of a very formidable descrip-
tion ! There is a ladies’ column by one “ Vera," whioh,
though, perhaps, Vora-cious, is by no mean* Vara
amusing, such items as “Miss Whiteombe, pale blue,
cream hat; Miss £. Lanoe, pink costume; Miss S.
Lance, bine; Miss Thomson, black;” being scarcely
calculated to draw the million. It is satisfactory to
learn, however, that “The charge of purgery (sic)
against constable O’Shea, of Dunedin, was dismissed."
The following puff—lovely in its ingenuousness—of
Lotti, is also worth a lot of money:—" * Beds I Have
Slept in ’ [II I] Is tho title of anew serial, whioh, by
advertisement in another column, is announced to he
n- halted by Madame Lotti Wilmot. Considering the
e of the talented authoress [lll] no doubt it will
be found very interesting reading.” Society ia well
got up. The point is: will it go down. We think it
will go down. No italics.
• * *
Says the Bathurst Record “ Surely no one is
■O foolish as to believe that the Church needs the aid of
Journalism for the diffusion of its doctrine.’’ Perhaps
not, door Record, What the churches appear to want
most, so far as wo can see, is—spondulicks. Wo don’t
mean to say, of course, that the Holy ’Owl and tho
Distress aro not tho pillars, rospaotivoly, of tho
churches they champion, and that they do not “ diffuse,"
in tho course of the year, any amount of “ doctrine."
At the same time, if you want a flood of religion tho
only way is to tap the clerical cask with a golden spigot.
Look at Peter Campbell, for instance. Only wind him
np with a few notes and see how he will “ diffuse
but let on unbelieving public stop tho supplies and
Peter can do no more preaching than a fried sardine.
The moral the Bathurst Record wishes to point there-
fore is—never mind about newspaper controversy, but
come down with the money;—or, to use the words of
the rev. gentleman at a recent Arohiepisoopal ceremony
—“ Fork out the sugar."
There ia a club in Sydney called “ Tho Owls.”
When this mystlo body was formed, we the pleasure
Of noticing tho opening address written and recited by
one of its members. It was a weird and wondrous
effusion, combining in its rhythmic elements the fire or
a Sappho and the patter of a cheap-Jack. On being
published in the newspapers, this ode deterred many
from joining, presumably on account of possessing an
innate fear of being “ unable to beat up agm sich a
reg’lar knock-down o’ talent.” We west tho other
night to a “ hoot ” of these bipeds, and ware much im-
prsased. The meetings are he'd in a room at Jim
Rainford’s, and we disooverel that the president of
this “literary, dramatic, musical, and artistic re-
union was a gentleman in the ironmongery line, while
the secretary was no Its* a person than an auctioneer
of Parramatta. Tho club, therefore, thongh seemingly
a bit short of poetic fire, need never bo so of fire-irons,
and tho profession of the secretary would seem to
account for the “ knock down" of talent previously
hinted at. We hear that a raodioil club will shortly
be formed here, and we should not be surprised, after
our experience of the “ Owls," it the president of this
should turn out to be a pork-and-beans importer, and
the secretary ho ik keeper to a fishmonger.
Just as the morning train was leaving Bathurst,
a man came hastily into the station with a decrepit old
woman, and took her ticket to Sydney. Leaving her iu
the waiting-room, he passed slowly along the train till
he oame to the right man, a young Sydney commercial.
"Are yon going to Sydney?" "Yes." “Alone?"
“Yes.” “Would you mind taking charge of a your- t
lady friend of mine ? I’m taking a groat liberty '-v
“ Not in the least." “ Sure it won’t bother you ?"
«Oh I no, I shall esteem it a privilege." M A thousand
thanks; she is so young and timid," Ac. He oame
back in a moment, and as the train moved off. propelled
the old woman through the door; and there are officials
on the station who positively assert that the man who
was going through to Sydney, and would esteenj it a
privilege, dropped to tha rear out of the carriage
window, bag in hand, just before the train cleared the
end of the platform.
• • •
We are keeping our eye upon the Sydney
Inspector of Nuisances, Mr. Seymour, because we
reckon that he will come to a bad end. He appears to
be thoroughly indiscreet. Quinlan, an ill-advised
buteher, threatened to put a knife into the Inspector,
last week, if he summoned the buteher for slaughtering
lambs. Quinlan was fined £5 and oosts for this error.
He was quite on the wrong tack. He should have
laughed at Seymour, and sent a hiudqoarter of city-
killed lamb to an Alderman, It’s all vary well for Sey-
moor to summon, bat it doesn’t follow that any pro-
secutor need appear when the case is called on. We
don’t think Seymour will be slaughtered ia the oitr,
though. Snob a proceeding would not only be in con-
travention of the by-laws, but might arouse soma little
exhibition of feeling among those who don't know how
to make allowances. It might even evoke a leader
from the S.M. Herald, in whioh the conduct of the
bntober, who slaughtered an inspector in the back
premises, would be characterized as “ inconsiderate,"
or referred to in equally powerful terms. No, we
don’t expect to hear that Mr. Seymour has been mur-
dered. but, unless he changes his system, we live in
daily expectation of learning that he has been dis-
missed. He doesn’t understand his duties. If he only
did, he might build as many terraces as a Town Hall
contractor, and his larder would be in as constant a
condition of meatiness as a butcher’s bask yard.
A Tamworth alderman refused to go to a non-
tomporunce ball the other night. He said what be be-
lieved in was local hop ahon.
• • •
He sent her gifts right back to her,
He pitched her letters in the fire;
And what occasioned all this stir
Was—she had joined the chapel choir.
• * m
The Maitland Post has a leader commencing:
“There is no evil that so urgently needs suppressing
as larrikinism.” Then, in another portion of the paper,
we find these two amongst a shoal of similar items .—
“ I saw the prawn with the little printeress on Saturday
night. Plenty more next time. Look out boys. . . ,
I wonder how the stumpy carpenter is that was seen
carting the girl down Maitland street. He has always
plenty of cheek on his arm.” The “editor" of this
brilliant publication has, therefore, grossly insulted his
constituents—and an insult in print is what no butcher-
boy or barber’s apprentice will tolerate. We foresee
the downfall of the Post from this date. Draggletailed
scullery-maids will spell over it on sinks no more, and
the “ mole" pockets of the Maitland dustman will know
it no longer. The composing staff will have to bo dis-
banded, and once again sally forth on the Hunter with
the spear and the nullah-nullah; while the steam power
will now be enabled to spin his top in the play.gronnd
of the school-house. The machine will be replaced in
the proprietor’s back kitchen, and the family mangling
will once more, on Fridays, bo an accomplished fact.
As for the horse that used to deliver the papers, he can
either be boiled down (it would only take a little boil-
ing) for glue, or else let out a hat-rack for evening
parties. What will become of the intrepid eidtor.
Tipper, wo know not. Unless, indeed, the residents of
Maitland are short of clothes-props.
• • •
A man died the other day in Melbourne, and
no less than six advertisements appeared announcing
his funeral. One was from a gentleman who called
deceased his “ adopted father " —it being the first case
on record of a young man adopting an old one. And
this reminds ns that if there are any old chaps, with
plenty |of coin, knocking round, we will bo glad to
adopt a few of them without delay. The undertaker, in
this instance, must either have been overburdened with
zeal, or else the deceased gentleman’s relatives must
have gone in for a very expensive cherry-case. Why,
we know more than one wealthy man in this city, who,
if his funeral were advertised six times in any paper,
would stop the hearse at the office of that journal, on
the way to the necropolis, and leave an indignant letter
of remonstrance with the editor.
# • •
At a recent magic lantern soiree given in Dr.
Steele’s church, some far fear suddenly turned up the
gas. The Eev. Doctor is now convinced that he has a
most affectionate congregation.
• # •
Said Guiteau: —“ Reed (one of his counsel) is a
good fellow, but I would not give a cent a bushel for
his rubbish. If I could only have a talk with that jury
I would give them the right theory.” This is very
much what David said of oar Eeid. But Quiteau has
been proved not to bo mod, and our Dave is of course
perfectly sane. Now —but finish it; sweet public,
w « «
There was a pro. called M'Fadyen,
Who was always a roarin’ and radyen.
He hit Lynch in the “ lug,"
And got shoved in the “ jug,”
Which was far from his anger asauadyen.
* »
“What’s that?” inquired a visitor to Parra-
matta, on seeing a confused heap of beery clothes and
touzled hair lying in a bar-room corner. “That, sir,”
remarked the Parramatta man, “ is an editor.”
• • •
Tho Newcastle Dispatch announces that
Offenbach is dead. This makes exactly the fourteenth
time he has been killed by newspapers since the Franco-
German war. Jacques is evidently an unquiet spirit.
The mpre they bury him, the more he’s Offenbach.
I • •
Wilson, of tho Opera House, tolls a now story.
Ho was in Melbourne recently, and having seen the
pantomime, was standing in the saloon buying some
drinks. Just on the second gulp, Qreville and a party
of gentlemen oame up, and Q. asked him how he liked
the piece. “ Well put on, but miserably localised,”
was tho reply. “Just my opinion,” said Qreville turn-
ing to a gentleman standing beside him. “ Mr. Wilson,
allow me to introduce you to the author.” Tableau I
• • •
LAY OF THE MISSIONARY.
With rum and tobacco I went.
And the blacks they oame singing to meet me.
Sans tobacco and rum I was sent.
And tho blacks came out singing—to eat me.
* # #
The Telegraph states that twenty contribu-
tors of Sydney Punch recently hod a picnic. When
we ponder over this number ol writers, and think of the
dreary little Joe Miller-deoked handbill they produce,
wo are reminded of Prince Hal’s ejaculation on reading
Falstaff’s tavern bill: “ O monstrous I but one half-
pennyworth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack.”
We understand that when discussing the place at which
the picnic should take place, one contributor suggested
Qladesville. But this proposition was gloomily re-
jected by the other litterateurs.
# • •
In the Parramatta Independent, “ Chiffonier ”
writes as follows-—
“ Empty pockets, blazing eyeballs, with a thirst like
desert sand.
And a month, within wbiob lurks a drought, as dry
as Afric's plains;
ufPWith a nameless, fearful horror, and a nervous tremb-
ling hand.
, See the hapless whisky drinker strive to bolster up
his brains." ■ J"
This is not half bad, but in satirizing that particular local
journalist, he should have remembered that to bolster
up his brains would be an impossibility. When the
post mortem is held, all the coroner will be troubled to
scoop out of -his skull will be pewter pot chips and
“ specimens of road metal."
* • •
Victoria has got back her C. E. Jones, after an
atsenoe of many years. It will be remembered that
C. £. had to retire from the Victorian legislature, the
other members having decided that he was no honour to
the House and that he hod lowered the prestige of the
profession in coming down to £60. If it had been a mat-
ter of £6000, be might all these years have been an orna-
ment to Victorian society.
• • •
The Cooma Express says:--“A ball and re-
freshments will be held at Mr. Thornton’s to-night.”
Mr. Thornton will hold the ball: and we could give a
pretty close guess as to who will hold the refreshments.
We could say more, but instead of dotting down a
Cooma and going on wo will content ourselves with
a full stop.
• • •
“ The Attorney-General will in the
Baker case.” Therefore, whatever difference of opinion
may have hitherto existed in the public mind with
reference to this ease, we may all now come to the
unalterable conclusion that there is no Wisdom whatevar
in the prosecution.
Tram guard (to passenger who is smoking a cigar
with his hack turned): ” Hi, you there—no smoking I”
“ Passenger turns, and guard sees railway-pass en pas-
senger’s watoh-ohain. Guard (with a sickly laugh):
" Beg pardon, sir—really I—.” Sidles off to next ear,
where, to small man with big pipe—"Put ont that
trumpet you’re ablowin’ of, or I’ll summons you.”
Small man (puffing vigorously): “You belong to my
department, and if you aren’t careful you’ll perhaps get
shifted to Singleton.” Collapse of tram-guard. Next
day, in the papers " Smoking on the tram oars is a
great annoyance to passengen, but yet, strange to say
the guards,” Ac. Foot.
• • •
Latest Intelligence.—[By Electric Telegraph.]
Our Special Telegram. [From our own Correspon-
dent.]—Accident to the Queen's outrider. London,
Feb. 16. The Queen’s outrider was thrown from his
horse, near Buckingham Palace, and injured. The
horse bolted. Her Majesty, who was in the carriage,
was greatly alarmed, but was not hurt. The above is
verbatim from S. M. Herald. The science of journal-
ism is certainly getting on. Wo may hope soon to learn
from onr great sensational daily, something of this
blood-curdling sort. Latest intelligence. [By Electric
Telegraph.] Our own Special Telegram, [which we
share with S. A. Register, tho Melbourne Argus, and
the Evening News.] From our very own (with these
trifling exceptions) correspondent. Catastrophe at
Buckingham Palace, London, April Ist. Her Most
Gracious Majesty the Queen’s third cook has burnt his
fingers. Her Majesty was greatly concerned, but not
seriously injured. The Queen was graciously pleased
to approve of the sufferer putting the injured member*
in his mouth. (Later.) —There is no truth in the report
that her Majesty’s cook on receiving the injury which
has occasioned a feeling of deep and loyal thankfulness
throughout the United Kingdom, said ‘‘dammit.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury was not, as rumoured,
sent for. These reports are now attributed to the
machinations of tha Home Eulers. April lit (evening)
her Most Gracious Majesty, immediately on the acci-
dent to her servant being broken to her, despatched an j
Aide-de-Camp to tho sufferer, with a piece of sticking-
plaster bearing her autograph. It is officially an-
nounced that a pension of £250 a year is to be allotted
to the wounded man, out of the civil list, available for
artists and men of letters. London, April Ist. (mid-
night). It has been" ascertained that the accident to
her Majesty’s third Groom of the Kitchen, M. Achilla
Mirobolant, was due to the machinations of the no-rent
milconteuts An Irish scullion spilt the kettle which
scalded her Majesty’s faithful retainer. Loudon. April
2nd. A Bulletin just issued states that M. Mirobolant
was not wound, din the fingers. It was his thumb. He
is to be created a C.M.G.
# * *
“A butcher named Fear, living in Fort-street,
Sydney, has been sent to gaol for tw© months, without
the option of a fine, for cruelly ill-treating three
calves.”
A buteher named Fear, lived in Fort-street, ’tis clear.
An’ he wasn’t cruel by halves;
With apiece of their string, this barbarous "thing
Used to muzzle the poor little calves.
But a watchful young cop, caught the Fear on the hop.
And though, in court, he shed a tear,
And in dire anguish roared and for mercy implored
Mr. Marsh gravely answer’d —" No, Fear.”
• » *
We have received for publication a poom on
"The Sun,” signed “A. Baumn,” which at first sight
appears to be a remarkable production. Caligraphically
speaking, it is a cariosity, as it seems to have been
written with a nullah-nullah while the baby was
dancing on the papor. One verse reads as follows ■
“ With the earth it was created.
By the mighty Godhead,
And its power shall cease when the fated
World and all its creatures are dead.
Another seems to be :
Dripstick, fishtail, rockets, tape, with walnuts.
Mug mullins, shino, chinkin herring,
Stamgog, jeukins, ftps, and plaster;
Melons, moaning mixed with mob caps.
There is undoubted originality in this, nuoique wo don’t
see much about the sun in it. Never mind. Send ns
along a little more out of the same whine cask, only
write it on green and white paper. We want a cheap
ornament for our fire stove.
• # «
There was a cry—a rush —a splash, and ten
seconds later the hero had the drowning man on the
wharf, whence ho was carried by strong arms and
placed on the sofa in the parlour of the nearest pub.
Half an hour was spent in endeavours to restore lifo,
and the case was about to be given up as hopeless when
the patient drew a faint breath and heaved a feeble sigh.
This encouraged his rescuers, and twenty minutes more
were spent, at the end of which time the unfortunate
man sat up, looked dreamily round, and said “ Where
am I?” “ With friends, and in Punch’s old parlour,”
was the glad reply. "Is that so,” continued the somi-
oorpse ; “ well, show us the way to the bar; I want to
get a gill o’ rum in a ginger beer bottle; an’ look 'ere,
that feller what fished mo out ought to stand a booze
all roun’, coz he’ll get a medal, an’ hev his pictchir
stuck in th’ Town an Kunnery Junnil.” The
meeting then adjourned.
• • •
There has come into our hands the prospectus
of the N.S.W. Aborigines Protection Association, and a
rather peculiar document it is. The society has the
usual “ Loftus” for patron, and Sir John for president;
but the curiosity consists in the Board. In this list wo
find the names of John Davies, Esq., M.L.A., John
Eoseby, Esq., M.L A , W. W. Carpenter, Esq., J.P , and
D. M’Beath, Esq., J.P. The respectability of the affair
is, therefore, assured. We rather wonder, however,
that the latter gentlemen, considering their elevated
social statue and world-wide reputation, should deign to
mix even at the board of a philanthropic society with
such men as the Hon. George Thornton, Dr. Benwick,
and Dr. Steel. Both Mr. M'Beath and Mr. Carpenter
have a position to keep up, and a man is known by his
associates I The association is formed to reclaim the
blacks from "drink and other vicious habits contracted
from the whites.” Possibly the other vicious habits
means supervising contracts by day, and preaching by
night, humping round the plate on Sunday, and
seeing that the public aren’t robbed on Monday. If
so, it will be a matter of congratulation to the colony
at large that Mr. M’Beath is on the Board. And what
a comfort this will be to the blacks generally when they
know it. David is just the very man to inspire love in
the heart of a blackfellow.
• • •
The North Shore ia making rapid strides to-
wards that millennium of prosperity and importance
which ultimately awaits it. It has not only a Mayor, a
corporation, and a swimming bath—entirely and ex-
clusively its own—but it produces a paper, before which
the Parramatta Perot must “pale its ineffectual
fire.” It appears to be conducted by intelligent hi-
valves, and we cannot refrain from culling a flower or
two to show what raw oysters can achieve in the literary
line when they open themselves out for it properly :
" A Practical Proof. —Those who have been in
the habit of falsely circulating reports, that first-
class printing of every kind cannot be had at tho
Recorder Office, had a flaring contradiction in the
issue, first of the electioneering double demy bills
printed for Mr. Joe Harding on Thursday, seeing
which we were subsequently rushed with orders,
many of which the public must o’er this have seen
and heard spoken of in the highest terms of admir-
ation a» equal, if not superior to anything ever soon
on the Shore previously in the printing line.”
There is an interlacing here of verbs, nouns, and pro-
nouns, forming a species of literary trellis-work, of
which it is impossible to speak in too high terms.
Again, tho following specimen of tho parenthetical
style of paragraph has filled oar bosoms with envy and
despair. Wo mean to give up trying to model onr style
on Lord Macauley, and shall never know perfect rest and
peace until we can proanoe something like this
" Professor Popper seeing the fix people are in
at Sydney, by reason of the scarcity of water in tho
suburbs, and inability to get their bear, &0..
amongst the poorer classes, when Nature does and
does not desire her thirst assuaged, especially on
Sunday, has set his wits to work, and has estab-
lished a tap of own from above, by means of * flying
a kite,* to tap tho clouds aided principally, the most
efficaciously, by means of electricity, though dyna-
mite was also tried. The first snceessfnl experi-
ment was made on Sunday last.”
Naturally, a journal wherein such gems of composition
as the foregoing are found, cannot tolerate anything
like levity or error in a contemporary. Accordingly,
we do not consider that the satire in the following
rebuke to a leading journal is by any means too keen: —
“ The Herald has taken to puning (sic) in its
leaders. Here’s the latest —'When a bad accident
happens on terra firma it is sometimes supposed, and
even proved, that somebody is responsible ; and the
responsible parties are now and again got at and
convicted and punished as criminal offenders. But,
when an accident happens at sea, everybody is at
sea and that is perhaps accepted &o.” The old
woman is getting funny in her old days, or is it
second childhood? One would think it was tho
latter, judging by the grammatical construction."
When we build our country house, it shall be in tho
neighbourhood of St. Leonards.
• • #
A choice collection of Gongregationaliat devotees
of both sexes and all ages, marshalled by quite a phalanx
of parsons, engaged the Leipora—one of the stupendous
clippers of the well-known Balmain fleet—for a trip
down the Harbour, on Saturday week; and after having
indulged in the usual introductory “ wrestle,” in tho
shape of a preliminary prayer rather longer than the
Sonth Head Eoad, the good ship started, and tho
precious freight, numbering some 150 souls, proceeded
to contemplate the scenery and enjoy itself generally.
At Middle Head, however, the Leipora ran ashore on
the shallows—this, too, at half-past 4, just as tho holy
thoughts of the good pastors were wreathing thorn-
selves about the coming muffin. But they kept up their
spirits as various efforts were made to “ shove her off,”
and facetious comparisons were made iu low tones
between their present position and that of the packet-
boat in which a certain Mr. Jonah once took passage
when journeying from Ephesus to his station on the
Murrumbidgoe. Suddenly a dread whisper began to bo
promulgated, and the elders and their wives (all the
married ones, in fact) gazed into each others’ faces with
blank looks of horror and alarm. The man at the wheel
had uttered the fatal words—” The tide is going out 1”
Hero was martyrdom indeed! Enough godly men to
A SYDNEY FUNERAL.
It was the hotte <t day of all,
The morning was scarce past,
When lo 1 we saw a “ funeral ”
Weird sight I—perspiring past.
Crook-heeled and shambling wai each horse ;
The hearse, ye gods—ah, well —
Pit carriage for the fest’rhtg corse
Jammed in its crazy shell.
Beside the hearse, in sables clad,
A mute toiled on his way,
A red-nosed ghoul, paid to look sad
At four-and-six a day.
And in his hand this soare-orow bore—
(Grief—is thy symbol snob ?)
Bedecked with a torn sable band,
A pauper cripple’s crutch.
Within a coach of ghostly rank
A girl shed many a tear;
While near her a male-*’mourner ” drank
Afla'k of ginger-beer.
As crawled that grizzly cortege on
(A fnn’ral crawl at that),
We saw oneooaohman spit upon
A passing butcher’s hat.
Grieved souls in cabs there wore a lot:
Quoth one, “ I’d like a nip,”—
And then he said the “ thing was rot,"
And called tho corpse “ a rip.”
Oh, what a sense of sweet relief
As off that pageant drew I
And all those sable rags of “ grief “
Went writhing from oar view I
When comes our turn to pass away.
Lot us be put below
Upon the shore of some bright bay
Where oriap salt breezes blew.
And let upon a simple bier
Our lifeless flosh bo borne,
And only those whom we loved here
Be on the spot to mourn I
Let no be-muddlod scoffers dare
To trespass nearthat grave
On whioh shall grow wild ftow’rots fair
Whioh waters green shall lave.
Beside that mound no tomb-stone put.
The place nark with a log;
And weep but those we loved—if hut
A woman and a dog.
WHAT HE SENT HER.
Oh, let me whisper, fay divine.
Each morsel of my heart is thine 1
My love for thee, my darling, may
With my last breath but pass away.
Mv thoughts are all but thoughts of thee,
Which never from my brain can flee 1
Mine ears in but one sound rejoice—
That is the music of thy voice I
The thrill of a magician’s wand
Is in the touch of thy white hand—
More should come from my lute of lates.
Bat—the old men wears such thick-soled boots.
• * •
SONG OF THE MINISTER.
In the Harbours and Rivers I’ve got a son,
In the Post Office, too, I have placed one;
And I have—come now—let me see—
Ah, Yes, I’ve three in the Treasnrie.
And Sally, whom I loved long ago.
Has a Post Office in tho West, you know;—
Oh I what a nice thing it is to be,
A Minister of the Ker-rown like me I


do the pulpit-thumping of a nation condemned to stay
on board tnat boat without food until two in tho morn-
ing 1 . , , The Leipora presented a curious scene by
the time she floated. The cabin had been converted
into a nursery, and there the “ kids ’’ slumbered in the
arms of their parents; on the seats of the lower deck
venerable ministers snored and growled alternately 5
while np above the “ yonng people " studied astronomy
in classes of two; and
Arms round taper waists then stole.
And dull yonng men became all sonl;
And most devoutly-roared young misses
Forgot their prayers in thoughts of kisses.
In short, if what we’re told is true.
There was a pretty “ how d’ye do.”
Bat the worst is to come. When, sometime after 3 a.m.,
the starved excursionists had landed, one portly parson
who was proceeding up Philllp-street, on his way home,
was stopped by a party (mixed sexes) of nocturnal roy-
storers. Then one of these catching sight of his pale
face and white tie, dug him facetiously in the ribs, and
shouted “ Oh, yon giddy old boy. I’ll tell yonr missis ! ”
The Massacre of Bartholomew was the atrocity of the
17th century 1 this outrage is the culminating horror of
the 19th. “ Here we suffer grief and pain; here we
meet to port again." Qadsby. Short measure.
• * •
Queensland Aldermen are not a bit better than
those of N.B.W. A certain Divisional Board (which up
North is equal to a corporation) possessed a venerable
fossil in the shape of a chairman, to whom the board
voted 810 as compensation for his past exertions in the
interests of the hoard, on the private understanding
that the money should bo spent in a general spree. In
other words, of course, the aldermeu dipped their
hands into the Treasury for 810 grog money. That
was all right, so far as good intentiens were concerned,
but the chairman quietly pocketed tho money and
neglected to provide the expected “ fizz.” Tho mem-
bers of the board growled too loud and the affair got
wind. Tho same board recently voted an increase to
the salary of their olerk, and, on being asked their
reasons, replied that the olerk was a decent sort of
fellow who, when shouted for, “always returned the
compliment.” This cost money, and, therefore, the
least that oould be dono was to “ give him a rise.” All
this only goes to show that a man who is wise invari-
ably has Bait a dozen places whereat to get a cheap
drink.
• • • .
He waa a salmon-coloured young man of about
flve-and-tweuty summers. He had the poet’s frenzied
glare in his lustrous eyes, and obnuks of whitewash on
hia boots and trousers ; hia whole appearance was
intensely utter, and ho smelt like tho bar of a public-
house at 11 p.m, on Saturdays. “ I kim all the way on
foot from Balula,” began tho bard, “ an’ I hev brought
some po’fcry that’ll make yonr paper hum like a dam
big windmill." “Tip us a stave,” we replied, “and
aooompany yourself on the dust box.” “ There ’ere
po*m, ho continued, “is called ‘The Nocturnal Filly,*
and here's the style she can tore:—
Ob Boxing Day I saw some girls a romping on the
wharf.
And dance a Jig in Sunday rig, I thought of famed
Clontarf,
That night I dreamt about Clontarf, and Jags of ram
and milk,
And girls in tights and harbour fights, and stockings
made of silk.
When asked if he had anything to say why sentence of
death should not be passed upon him, the poet said no,
he deserved it all; but it waa the cursed drink that
“ druv ” him to it. He made a lovely corpse.
• * •
“ What are you going to bring your son np to P”
said a paterfamilias lately, to a Bulletin man.
Cricket," waa the calm reply.
• • •
A man 'once wrote—“ Hell is paved with good
intentions." According to this, the Town Hall most
be plastered with holy aspirations.
• • •
Christian reader; —wipe the froth off your mouth
and listen. Did yon ever notice that when seme unfor-
tunate wretch of a gospel slingeris cornered and hauled
up to have the usual “address and testimonial” in-
flicted upon him, the agony is always heightened by the
lunatic drivel of a few of the “ most influential citizene.”
Only the other day, a Roman Catholic clergyman was
presented with a pawn-office set of plate, and half a
mile of epistle, by the leading inhabitants of Dead Dog
Oully, and after making a speech as long as a late break-
fast, the presenting orator wound up by saying, he
“felt it an* honor, an a—an a—an a Jooxr to hand over
this lllegint testymonyil to the Bivirind Father
Doolln—the frind av* the poor, an* W father av' half
de counthry, Will ye playze keep eoilinoe down the
rums there."
• * •
What M‘ Death used to say when he met Carpen-
ter :—“My dear friend, oome to-night to our tea meet-
ing at the Hairpin Lodge, and address the meeting
upon the general principles of temperance and honesty.
Good day. The Lord be with yon.” What he says now
—Bah, to you 1”
• # «
“ Soaker.” says he has a grievance also. Ho
gives half of what he earns to the poor, and spends the
rest in whisky. Being anxions to reform, he wishes to
join the Anti-Shouting Gang, bat as the Secretary’s
office happens to be in a back room of a noted loan
office, he is afraid to be seen going in, for fear tho
oharitablh might hint he was Bimply skipping along to
negotiate an advance on the family Bible.
• * •
Ths very latest “ man with a grievance ” is tho
Rev. S. Barjonah, and he puts the case as follows :
w sir—l am a Wesleyan clergyman, comprising also one
wife, and fourteen children. I have been twenty-seven
years in tho ministry, daring which time I have worked
in the vineyard well: spread the gospel to its fullest
spread, and received seventeen testimonials. My trouble
is this; All the testimonials are of exactly the same
pattern, viz.,—Silver (P) tea and coffee services, and the
usual illuminated address by our local artist. These
presentations are, of course, very flattering in their
way, but if my admirers would only pay for the half-
soling and heeling of my tnrn-over boots, or give Mrs.
Barjonah tho price of a hag of flour they could willingly
take the whole of my “ pewter pots,’’ and melt them
down foi bullets. I cannot eat them; I cannot wear
them, and I’m juet ashamed to “ pop ” them. They
simply lumber up my house, and yet, I’m expected to
feel deeply grateful, and to grin like a bake! ’possum
every time I meet one of my flook who donated a
“ sprat ” to the jackass purchase. To look at my
cupboards a person would imagine I bad purloined the
whole of the plate from the Tower of London; to look
at myself he would probably swear I was either a
traveller on commission for a country poor-house, or,
for some insolvent rag-and-bone establishment. Kindly
■ give this lip in the columns of your nonpareil-excelsior
-snraum—honum-widelv-ciroulated-ne-plus-ultra-and-
yuoantlikit journal; (vide Ekven’ Nooze) and let all
the sober churchmen in this land who are not dam-
phoole or aldermea, know that the majority of their
pastors want a square sixpenny feed more than they
want a 30s. silver service; and that many of the
Lord's anointed stand more in need of a clean shirt
and a pair of socks than they do of an illuminated
sheet of rot signed by ‘ yours sincerely.* ” [N.B.—The
above* is so palpably self-evident and true, tnat we can
. scarcely believe a parson wrote it, bnt we insert it now
in the hopes that our religious contemporaries will
give Constantine and Mary Queen of Soots a spell, aud
start a free fight over a matter which certainly inte-
rests us more at the present date,— Ed. B ]
• • «
At Penrith, the other day, in the police court
case, Virtue v. Price, Price won. Price often beats
Virtue in courts of law.
• « •
The present Melbourne correspondent of the
Herald is Dr. Neild, the Tahite of the Australasian.
To say that bis contributions to the Herald are the
host things that appear in it is hot saying mnoh, but to
■ay that they are extremely clever ia saying a good
deal. Wo don’t know who the former correspondent of
the Herald was, hut there was onoe a man. in Sydney
whe used to go about saying it was bis grandmother.
Anyhow, his copy was peculiar. He used to give yon
the fiscal policy of the colony in one letter, and didactic
remarks upon one of the Premier’s utterances in an-
other* If any startling event occurred, for which you
yearned for particulars, he would simply say—“ You will
bare learned by telegram that,” Ac , aud then go on
about—“ Tho attitude taken by Mr. Somebody with
regard to the Ministerial project of erecting a look-up
at Ballyrangergong/* until people wished him carefully
in his bone-bor. He's dead now, of course—be must
be dead—and his species scarce, too. or Dr. Noild
wouldn’t be sparkling in the Morning Missionary,
Christohuroh Society has began well. The
first number of that Journal has brought forth the
following epistle:—
“ Sib,—A friend called my attention to some false
statements in Society No.l. I must ask you to
publish this denial of them. There was no look
on the bedroom door. I could not and did not
look myself in at any time from anyone. There
was no enraged or jealous husband chasing me,
and the man Bob never at any time had a loaded
gun in his hand or his possession while in my
employ or on my premises or in my presence.
J. W. Tbsadwbll. , .
«I have put your paper in the hands of my
lawyer, and must ask you for the name of your
informant, not necessarily for the police.—J. W.T.
We think, now, that this paper will do very wall lndead,
and wo shad take a gentle interest in it from ttiis time
forth. We don’t know how long our interest will last 5
but as long as tho paper does, any way.
• • •
At the top of King-street the stranger, stood, a
melancholy man, and by-and-bye a blue.bobby came and
said. " Vamoose.” The stranger s reply was bitter :
“ So this is Sydney, the city of the murderous tram,
the iron Juggernaut that crushes strong men and
children, and Sorry Hills’busses and banana
Again the voice of tho gentle ;Eobert was beards
“ Vamoose.” But the sad-looking man continued :
“ Where are the mangled corpses ? Lot me see all the
hash. It’s a fraud 1 I’ve waited hero four hours and
the curtain has never rung up on ame We, Show me a
eorv pool and a holocaust. Bend along a massacre; X
say it’s a frost.” Then the sad man drew out a news-
paper, •• printed in new type," glared at it madly, and
struck round the corner for the Pitt-streot Noozh.
« * •
Stdnbt Punch, last week, had a cartoon in
which Murdoch was given 0 pair of wings, made to look
like a frontispiece in one of the old editions of .Para-
dise Lost/* and labelled « Our Vampire Bat.** This is
really hard on our representative cricketer, who has
committed no other crime than making a big score for
his adopted colony. A vampire bat is a bloodsucker.
A lawyer also is a bloodsucker. And Murdoch Is a
lawyer.
At a cricketing dinner last week, the youngest
bachelor was called upon to respond for “ the ladies.
Hie speech was as follows:—“ I’ve been had onoe be-
fore for this here toast, and I know it’s you again. It s
aU very well to talk about your girls, in light blue and
dark blue, but I hope, next match, my girl will be
there.”
A military friend sends ns another version
of the Lady- Corrigan-and-her-eon story, which
wc published a fortnight ago. As it is into-
resting, we give it: ‘‘Young Corrigan was a harum-
scarum fellow, always in debt. While at the Cape with
his regiment, fighting the Kaffirs, he played upon his
mother’s credulity to induce her to send him money, by
writing a hlghly-ooloured account of the campaign,
adding that be had slain so many Kaffirs that their
blood weighed on his conscience; but though willing to
have masses said for their souls, he lacked the funds.
The credulous old lady at once sent a draft, bat at the
same time sent his letter to a newspaper, fondly
believing the heroic deeds therein recorded had actually
occurred. To Corrigan’s horror, the remittance and the
nowsnaners came by tho same mail—the story oozed
out at mess, and he was so unmercifully ohafled that
be had to exchange. Loudon Punch took up the joke
in verse, of which the refrain was
So the churches and chapels with masses were filled,
For the souls of the Kaffirs young Corrigan killed.
Now that Edison is beginning to talk in his
sleep, and wear a bald bead, the respectable portion of
our press have started the usual reliable anecdote
column for his special benefit. Ananias the first, for
instance, says that when Edison was a boy, and his sole
specialties were a dirty “pinny ” and a neglected nose,
he was half-killed by an old goose, who banged the
young electrician’s legs with her wings until they
looked as red as a madman’s nose in spring-time. Tins
tiled young Eddy, and he determined to trounce that
goose on her own*unghxll. Next morning ha was
missed, and after an anxious search the distracted
parents found their son sitting down and holding out
his skirts over a sort of straw nest that he had made
and filled with eggs which he had taken from under an
incubating goose. He wanted to see whether he could
not hatch j ust as well as that bird. Where the truthful
part oomea in is here. Edison afterwards really did
hatch the eggs, and actually brought out a Gospel tent,
four hundred Christmas cards, & meerschaum pipe, and
a cask of Thorley’s food for cattle. That week the
goose died of a broken heart, and Eddy was sent to a
night school. Truth is mighty—scarce.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mrs. Abraham Lincoln ia now utterly blind.
Helena of Waldeok was twenty-one years old
last Friday.
Murdoch is a Victorian, and was born at Sand-
hurst in 1855.
Captain Henry Chevalier, late of the R.M.S.
Zealandia, has been granted leave of absence.
The Empress Eugenie is going to relate how
•he got oat of the Tuilleriee. How the deuce did she
get in ?
Hugh Holt, of Newcastle, has saved another
person from drowning. Mr. Holt has, in all, saved
over twenty lives.
Mr. Delohery, late C.P.S. at Maitland, has been
removed to Sydney, to take the position held by the
late Mr. Thurlow.
Mr. E. H. Hargraves is onoe more pressing for-
ward his claims to a reward ae the discoverer of gold
on February 12th, 1851,
Captain Bower, one of the gallant six hundred,
of Balaclava fame, woe lately at Waiwera N.Z. on r
holiday. He is an old Auoxlauder.
Mr. Dixon, formerly editor of that smartly
written paper, the Barwon Argus, now bosses the
newly-establishod Watchman at Bourke.
“ Sir John O’Shanassy,” we read, “is again ill
with his old complaint.” Wo don’t know what tho
complaint is. All wo know is that it is the old one—
very old.
Judge Haokett, of Melbourne, ia junketfcing in
Sydney, while the business of the Western County
Courts is postponed. Victorian Government demands
the why and wherefore.
General Feilding, the representative of and
surveyor for the celebrated Queensland land grant
syndicate of London, is on his way home. Tho Hon.
John Douglas is the political haoker-np of the syn-
dicate.
Messrs. Nicholson, Hare, and Sadleir, of tho
Viootrian Police Department, have been suspended for
over a year. In the meantime, while they are idle, the
country has to shell out 81200 a year for their main-
tenance.
Mr. James Smith, of Melbourne, a most ac-
complishedjournalist (who, by the way, has a son, Mr.
Teunyson Smith, ou the Sydney press), has been
appointed a commissioner for Victoria at Bordeaux
exhibition.
John Parker, a veteran miner, has left Adelong
for the Gympie goldfields. Although as blind as was
Milton, Parker has taken bis shift regularly in mining
work for the lost six years. He joins his brothers on
tribute work.
Mr. George Kirk, an 1839 Victorian colonist, ia
dead. He was extensively interested in squatting pur-
suits, and was, before he retired from business, some
twelve months ago, member of a leading stock and
station agent's firm.
Dr, Wilkins, of Christohuroh, N.Z., has suc-
ceeded in grafting a rabbit’s eye upon the eye of
another animal. The doctor thinks that the time will
arrive when suoh an operation will be possible with
respect to the human eye.
Our jolly little friend, Captain Webber, who
ha*, for a good many years, been the A S N. Co.’s long,
voyage Captain, commanding tho Ounga (s ) to Fiji,
and tho Ocaan (s.) to China, has transferred his services
to the Pacific Steam Navigation Go., having been ap-
pointed to the command of the Zealandia.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen has fixed July next as the
earliest data for the liberation from gaol of Carroll, the
forger, ox-M.L.A. for Ararat. Sir Bryan was Crown
Froseoator when Carroll was oonvioted, and objects
personally to a commutation. He thinks Parliament
may interfere: hence July is the date fixed. '
Rumour had it that Governor Robinson was to
*•' ’ *Hoaferted from W. Australia to Queensland, and
j. ■, Sir Wn. Jorvois, Governor of S. Australia, would
.ad Sir George Bowen in the Mauritius. However,
Sir Arthur Kennedy, the present Governor of Queens-
land. says ho knows nothing of bis rumoured depar-
tare.
Job Redivivus. A Scaradale gentleman received
a telegram that his father-in-law was dead; shortly
afterwards another that a dear relative of his wife had
expired; and then, a third, that s destructive bush
fire waa destroying valuable property on his run. He
is resigned, and is patiently awaiting for the boils to
oome.
Truth says that the will under which the
Baroness Bnrdett-Coutts waa subjected to a penalty in
the event of her marrying an alien, waa not directed
against Connt D’Orsay, as has been repeatedly stated,
but against the late Louis Napoleon, who was vehe-
mently snspeoted of designs on the golden hoards of
Mr. Contts.
The Marquis of Normanby, Governor of Victoria,
has become a patron of the Melbourne Homoaopathio
Hospital, but is himself attended by an allopathic phy-
sician. This reminds us that Sir W. F. D. Jetvois,
Governor of South Australia, onoe said that he waa an
allopath, Lady Jervois a homoeopath, and the family
a little of both.
With reference to the paragraph which has been
going the round of the papers, to the effect that Fanl-
oonbridge is for sale, we are informed there ia no
foundation for the rumour. It is the intention of Sir
Henry Parkes, permanently to retain bis mountain resi-
dence, which, he hopes, will be his heme after he retires
from public life.
C. E. Jones’ lectures in Melbourne are fall of
American religion. Some of the reminiscences are
quite np to the mark. For instance, the ease of the
Methodist elder whe quarrelled with his ohureh as to
the age of the “kids” who feared pandemonium; also
that of the religious print which headed the account of
the execution of a repentant murderer, “A Jerk to
Jesus.’’
The Rev. E. Q. Hodgson, M.A. Exeter College,
Oxon, is a candidate for one of the new lectureships
about to he established at the University—wa believe,
that of Modern History. Mr. Hodgson’s ability, wide
culture, and fondness for bard work, are established
facts which pre-eminently qualify him for the position
sought, and should ensure a successful result to his
candidature.
Miss Eva Carmichael, whose marvellous escape
from the Loch Ard wreck some years ago, caused & uni-
versal feeling of interest on the part of the people of the
Australian colonies in her welfare, is notmarried. She is
in a very delicate state of health, having suffered from
inflammation of the lungs daring last winter, and her
medical adviser, an eminent physician iu Dublin, has
ordered her to spend the winter ou the Continent, as
he feared consumption.
In 1845, Mr. O’Shea, of Montefiore, tendered
for certain supplies for the Courthouse, Wellington,
N.S.W.. The Bench refused to take as security for the
performance of the contract the guarantee of Mr,
Snllivau, ou the ground that that gentleman’s health
was too precarious. The Bench were not strong on
averages, for old Sullivan is still alive, and “ can cut a
log of wood with any one in his neighbourhood,” while
the “ beaks " are all dead long ago.
Manson paid the natives .£lO, exclusive of guides,
for permission to asoeud Ngaruhoe. He entered the
oone, a feat never before accomplished by any white
man. Mr. Manson, who has mode the ascent of Kilauea
in the Sandwich Islands, says Ngaruhoe far surpasses
anything he has ever seen in its grandeur and weird
formation. In 1878, an American named Conolly tried
to ascend Ngaruhoe, but was captured by the Maoris,
stripped to the skin, and turned adrift,
A grand-daughter of tho great millionaire. Com-
modore Vanderbilt, was married for love last Christmas.
The bridegroom was Dr, Webb, son of one General and
brother of another. The bride’s father, W. H. Vander-
bilt, for a long time opposed her marriage, saying a
young physician could never hope to make enough
money to support his daughter in a fitting style. But
the young man did hope, and made the money, too; he
gave up physio, took to business, wired iu, made a fair
fortune, and persistently followed np Miss Delia, till at
length her obdurate pa yielded. It was a case of mutual
love from childhood up.
01ive Ferguson, wife of Sir James Forgo-
&?° Ve T rilor of died of cholera, at Parell.on
fnn S’ Ja u U , a i ry I,ady Ferguson gave birth to a
stillborn ohdd a few hours before her death, and what
rendered the occasion still more melancholy was the
tnI 0 J Ced abBe ? oa of her husband at Baroda to attend
the accession to a native throne of a new prince. Lady
sfato llB un was bn . r * ed in the Sewree cemetery in great
scare. X lie hunal services were performed by the Bev.
chaplain, and the Van. Archdeacon
Hteau. The Coffin bore the inscription Olive, the
I HIS Elo ® Ue noy. The Eight Honorable Sir
S K.C.M.0., C.1.E., Governor of
Bombay, died Bth January, 1882, aged 31."
tj. The Temora Herald goes straight for the
Eo , sb A na in the following touching but simple
~ Ve 7 people will experience a feeling of
«earning that Mr. Hoskins retires from political
liro,a Parliamentary career of about 25 years, a
considerable part of which was passed in office, tho hon.
gentleman cannot lay claim te having been the author
of one single legislative measure calculated to oonduoo
to the benefit of hia fellow-oolonists. Endowed with
natural gifts of no particular value, which a defective
education had not improved to any appreciable extent,"
Mr. Hoskins also carried into the Ministerial recep-
tion-room the manners of a surly boor.” Jemmy—how
do you feel about tho boots after reading this ?
A public funeral was accorded, at Cooktown, to
the body of Mrs. Watson, who “ died of thirst,"
The funeral service was read in the Town Hall, before
a large audience, and the coffin then conveyed to the
cemetery by the fire brigadiers. Over GOO persons fol-
lowed, all public institutions and every class of society
being represented. On the coffin was a beautiful
wreath, with the Cornish motto, « One for all,” and a
floral cross. The band played the •• Dead March,” the
“ German Hvmn," and the « Portuguese Hymn.” The
remains of the Chinaman, Ah Sam, also received every
respect, a lady placing a white wreath on his bier,
while his countrymen manufactured whnt they cat!
music, fired crackers, burned candles and bits of paper,
and performed all the usual ceremonies.
Bets were being made —at “ level odds,”., as the
billiard-room wags say—that Sir ’Enery Parkos will
come back a real live baronet. Since he has received an
invitation to rest his slippered feet on tho gilded
cushions of a member (by marriage) of tho Royal
Family, the betting market has gone up in his favour.
“ Five to one" is about a fair thing now—takers source.
If some enterprising prophet would only open a book on
the contingency that Sir ’Enery would come hack a
“ dook," really lively business might bo done.—
Time! drop thy larks—
Sir ’Enery Parkes,
A veritable Bart. I
Hold I let us wait.
Lest oruel fate
Upset his apple-cart.
Tho Maori moarns. Kepa te Ahara, a distin-
guished chief of the Urewera tribe, died at Kuatoki,
on the Whakatane river, on January 26th. For bravery,
tho deceased chief had boon awarded tho N.Z. Cross.
In his cups, Kepa to Ahnra was noisy and pugnacious.
In March, 1875, he effected a sensational escape from
tho hands of one 8.M., three inspectors, and a couple
of dozen A.C.’s. The Maoris were wroth because a
“ common bobby ” had been ordered to arrest Kepa,
and said, had a “ chief ’* been sent, they would have
helped, instead of having resisted. The offence was an
assault, Kepa was only 111 for a week before his death,
which is attributed to witchcraft, the head and front
of tho offending being supposed to be tho “ common
bobby” already allnded to, respecting whom they talk
revenge.
B. H. Brewster, the Attorney-General of tho
United States, is an extremely clever lawyer, but
“ homely " —or worse, for, when a hoy, hie face was so
burned in a fire that it is painful to look upon, and
sensitive people are often shocked by it. One day, at a
hotel table, while on oirouit, a lady and gentleman were
so disturbed by his disfigured face that they could not
oat, and asked the landlord it he oould induce 8.8.8. to
move. On the matter being frankly put to him, Mr.
Brewster said; “I am used to suoh incidents; but, it
the lady and gentleman will consent to an introduction,
I am sure, after five minutes’ conversation, they will
regret their request." It was so. Not only they, but
others at the table, became fascinated with hia gifted
conversation, and made most profuse apologies. He i»
married to one ef the moat beautiful and fashionable
women of Philadelphia.
Mr. Herbert Gladstone, M.P., was in the far
western part of Cork eonnty in December last, in con-
nection with evictions taking place there, and he was
brought into personal contact with the representative
of the Ladies’ Land League. Miss Reynolds exorcised
a strong influence over the tenantry, who almost wor-
shipped her, and boldly, iu the presence of Mr. Glad-
stone, the Sheriff, and police, counselled the tenants to
ano more rent. Though repeatedly stopped from
ring the houses while tho process of eviction was
going on, she succeeded by strategy in getting admis-
sion in some oases, and told a bailiff in Mr. H. Glad-
stone’s hearing, “ I have as mnoh right to be hero as
any of the representatives of British misrule in Ire-
land.” Twice, by making short <jut* across tho bog,
she reached the houses before the piloting party, and
incited the holders to pay no rent, promising that tho
Land League would support them. Miss Reynolds is
yonng, stylish, and goodfooking, and as self-possessed
and defiant as Miss Parnell herself. Whether right or
wrong in tbeit actions, these patriotic Irish ladies are
“ gritty."
Colonel Thomas Bruce Hutton, the eon of an
old Indian officer, and nephew of Colonel W. F. Hutton,
of Ksw, has been appointed Commandant of the Vic-
torian Volunteer Forces. Colonel Hutton Joined the
21st Fusiliers, as ensign, in January 7,1855, and in July
was promoted to the rank of lieutenant. He went to
the Crimea, was present at the siege and fall of Sebas-
topol, and took part in the Kinbourn expedition. Ho
received a medal and clasp from the Queen, and a
Turkish medal, for gallantry. He served with the 61st
regiment in India, was wounded in the side by a musket
hall at the siege of Delhi, and again, at the last sortie,
was disabled while mounting a scaling-)adder, by one of
the defenders canting it over. He received anqthor
medal and clasp, and was afterwards appointed Lieute-
nant-Governor of Delhi. In 1861, he received his cap-
taincy ; in 1867, was appointed to the rank of major;
and in 1872, to that of Lieutenant-Colonel. Shortly
after this, he sold his commission and came out to
Victoria. In 1874, he joined the Victorian Volunteer
Force, and commanded the two red battalions until
1879, when he resigned.
We hear that Mr. Charles Bright,late the popular
Freethought leader and lecturer in this city, and now in
America, in search of health, is considerably bettor.
We read in the Alta California of 15th January, that
on the previous evening, at Dashaway Hall, ’Frisco,
“ Mr. Bright delivered a clearly-stated and truly elo-
quent address on ‘ The Freedom of Thought,’ which is
so marked a characteristic of the present century. He
has a good voice and fine delivery, with all the case and
appearance of a cultivated scholar and practised public
speaker. He reviewed its progress through the days
of Copernicus, Galileo, and Puritanism, speaking in
high terms of Dr. Draper’s works, especially his ‘ Con-
flict of Science and|Religion,” which, he said, were bat
tho different expressions of one universal thought, and
no conflict could exist in a universe whose sum, taken
as a whole, is a glorious expression of perfect harmony.
He denied the existence of anything supernatural,
claiming all things that can exist as purely natural,
and only incomprehensible to us because they exist iu
the exercise of some law of which we are yet unin-
formed. Thus, he described death as only an incident
in life, through which we pass by perfectly natural pro-
cesses to another condition of being just as natural,
but more advanced. He thought all the children of a
Divine Fatherhood had received divine assistance and
light in all ages. Ha spoke of the genius of Mozart,
Shakespeare, aud George Stephenson as divine gifts,
and said lightning was beyond man’s comprehension
until Franklin brought it down from Heaven to bo tho
messenger of commerce and furnish power and light to
the world. He spoke of death as tho grandest revela-
tion the world can know, and not that annihilation
which materialists fear. He closed with some remarks
on spiritualism, after which Mrs. Ada Foye gave one
of her remarkable seances. The lecture was largely
attended and gave general satisfaction. Tho course
was to be continued on succeeding Sunday evenings,
the subject of the next lecture to be * Free Thought v.
Mental Slavery.’ ’’ Wo learn that Mr. .Bright intends
to lecture through the Eastern States. He is so much
improved in health that he is at last on a fair way to
perfect ooavalasoenro. He hopes to return to Austra-
lia by the end of tho year, and to resume bis place on
the Freethought Platform.
SOME MILLENNIUM STANZAS.
They say the day ia drawiag near
When sin and strife shall oease—
When lions shall with lambs lie down
In amity and peace.
When little children, clothed in
White pinafores so nice.
Shall play in safety round the den
Where dwells the cockatrice.
When grief and woe shall pass away.
And hate and wrong shall cease.
And none shall hurt, and none destroy.
Or need to call “ police 1 ”
We do not know the cockatrice,
Nor where it makes its deu;
We don’t know what effect its bite
Is wont to have ou men.
But we’ve a notion, spite of kid
And cockatrice, you bet,
That the Millennium morning ia
A long way off us yet.
We think that time has scarce arrived,—
In fact, there’s little doubt,
In spite of the Mlllenniumites,
Auld Clootie’s still about.
This is a fact, and one that Reeds
But mighty little proof.
For oft from breeks of Geelong tweed
Protrudes the cloven hoof.
And horns are oft seen sticking out
Beneath a broad-brimmed tile.
While guile and falsehood lurk beneath
A fat, self-righteous smile.
When Brown shall sell an honest loaf
To truthful Mrs. Jones,
Instead of some vile mixture, made
Of alum-dust and bones.
When In a tradesman’s weights we can
With safety well confide —
When porter bottles cease to have
Suoh awful lumps inside.
When four-horse conches can’t be tooled
Through Legislative Acts—
When Juries bring their verdicts in
Accordance with “ the facts.”
When swell physicians oease to qnaok—
When lawyers oease to lie—
When people mind their own affairs.
Nor into others’ pry.
When libel laws shall be designed
Base falsehood to suppress,
And not to stifle truth, or gag
A patriotic Press.
When milk shall really oome from cows,
Instead of pumps and wells;
And sausages shall oease to be
Such cat-oonoooted " sells.”
When manufacturers shall scorn
To imitate s brand:
Why, then wo may believe that the
Millennium is at hand!


Tobacconists
- up
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO
AMERICAN TOBA'
THE following facts are compi
resources, and, therefore, sho
DIXSON f AND 'sONS paid duty in 1!
All the others paid duty in 1880 on .
DIXSON AND SONS paid doty in li
All the others paid duty in 1881 on ,
Imported manufactured tobacco paid
on for the two years was 0n1y... i
DIXSON AND SON’S BRAI
YANKEE DOODLE, CO
SIR ROGER, GOLD
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are
genuine "Tin Tag," each plug!
Bound Single Tin Tag, stan
querob" or “ Yankee D<
all TOBACCONISTS* GOOD!
TOBACCON
J.EVH
JAMES EV
N 6. 149 KING ST
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambt
149 KING STREI
rNDIA AND CHINA TI
705 GEORGE ST
Hatmarket.
OUR "STAR OP IND
Have been proved t
SUPERIOR TO ANY
FOR
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND E
Sold only at our EstaMi
705 GEORGE S
HAYMARKET
OPPOSITE HORDERN’]
EMPORIUM.
Hotels, fco.
ICE ICE
E
The city ice company,
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TOE
axe prepared to Supply the LUXU
PRO ACHING SUMMER, at a lov
For prices, Ac,,
Apply to
3 WTNTARD STRI
OB TO YABH
R
OBEBT BUTCI
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME:
634 GEORGE STEI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Couwtbt Orders Receive Pro:
AUSTEALIAN “HOM
SEWING MACHIh
Unprincipled Dealers —to make
lings profit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
EXPRESS I
SS4
o
THE HOME SHUTTLE LC
Manufactured for ns, has the abo
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHE
We solicit infounation of the atte
forfeits of the above Machine 1 , whe
action in protection of onr rights.
In any district where our genuii
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE HOW SOLD G
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLE
Do., WITH COVER COMP
No charge for coses or packing.
Circular post
M. MOBS~AND
WYNYABD LANE, S
w
H. A E
PROVISION MERCI
AND GENERAL COMMISSI
343 and 245 Kbnt-street, near
SOLE AGENT for the vmdermenti;
K. Whittingham and Co.'s Lond
Excelsior Mill's prize Victoru
BencraftA Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian
and Cakes . _ „
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toil
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Con
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbnm Bi
Sauce. _
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near
Deafness i—i have an i
for this distressing complaint
• il. „ A .mint ivt P ia 9 r\f
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, *o.
ROBINSON'S PITZB
WILLIAM STB
" -mn/ir mnArnm .i
WOOLLOOMOOL
AT.!, the bestbrands op ai
IB PER BOTTL
18 riliJA. DUAXAJ.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEY
all round.
K.B.—Cookbnrn’B Grape (PORT
Bottle, especially for invalids.
yn g Uah f Intercolonial, and Amer
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table,
fitted rooms in the colony.
UlUiUOi - -- -J
branch of Catering undertaken, au
staff of experienced and polite wait*
Through eontinued misrepresent)
bag to mention that they are not in
with any other person, or persons, 1
OITY OTEEING
815 GEOEQE STR
(1 Harris* CaM, opposite Peaj
A superior CAPE and RESTAURA
refreshment ROOMS f
and for
Gentlemen accompanied I
GUARANTEED that no daugoroi
- . . m S.! .1 inliimAHa (
. -ii a. ininriniiH 1
POOL EVERY EVE
IHE COMPAGNONI CATEI
AW wrrwn i3nr»T>inr r r li nvu mi'
SAMUEL PAG
NOW OPEN*
THE
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE E
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cal
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest d
m
*
=£
ms*
~ ; =.
m
m
ST*
¥
3.4
s
=T-r
0*
m
ffi
£li
m
•r.
.ss
r'
£
■*£ r
Si&
&'A
m
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPE
merchants,
VIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B 1
ORN£
M
and
•tnf/tl
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should ho carefully comparer
are being imported into Now bor
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevera
LOKNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent. In favour of LI
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
MARTIN A
"AUSTRALIAN WINE Ml
AND BEER BOTT
105 PITT STREE
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN I
Prices from 12s to 42s p
ALBURY WINE
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Mai boo
HUNTER RIVER W
Claret
Lambrnsoat
PORT MACQUARIE 1
Burgundy.
COOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
h
Tb« Ham* of M. MOSS * CO,
It on rrery Genuine Bottle.
p.
B. LAI
Wholesale and Be
PEODUCB MBE<
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS
STD NET,
BRANCH STORE
IS Geofge-street West (late Pal
And
Darlinghurst Road, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Peed ani
P. E. LAEK
Waoutsaui a»d Bbtail Win* am
778 and 780 GEORGE BTRI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
■took of the Choicest Brands o£ W:
N.B.—Ordors by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
JIOB POUE WEI
THE SALE OP MANCHBSTEI


SINGER’S SEWING N
See the Medals, Cups, and '
at tho
SYDN EY ARCA
SINGER'S SEWING MA
ABE MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing
Head Offices:
Si UNION SQUARE, NEW YO
Chief Office in Europe
39 FOSTER LANE, LO
Dep6t for New South Wa
No. 1 DAS LIN Q STORES, HAEBC
SYDNEY.
LOCAL DEPOTS i
BOLTON STREET, NEWCi
WILLIAM STREET, BAT]
AUBURN STREET N., GO
PEEL STREET, TAMWOR
VICTORIA STREET, GRA]
NAEANDERA. PAREAJ
227 QUEEN STREET, BEII
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE ST!
gINGEB’S SEWING :
TURNER & CO
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
ON THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUI
TIME PAYMENT)
2s. 6d. per week—2s. Cd. per week-
And NO INTEREST ohfl
10 per oent. off for ot
BEWARE OF IMITi
i Agents for tho ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A (
i
THE ONLY •* SING]
TURNER A (
Opposite <
JOHNSTOf
SEWING MACHES
haymarke:
Singers Sewing t
Public Compan
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with pc
£1,000,000. Reserve Pune
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.;
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walt
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office: 18 King Willif
BRANCHES IN NEW SOL
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Cone
bran, Coouamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulb
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Naruudera, J
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tc
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsond,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbum, 3
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stant
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
The mercantile bani
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Pond.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.G.M
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L,
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY»
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Qoorge-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKS
The National Provincial Ban!
London Office, 30, Great £
Director—Edward Chapi
Agent—Q. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favoir
Bills discounted daily.
-dailla negotiated and advances ma
o'tViet nrodnee shipped to England I
Scottish impeeia
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ... ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEI
NIXON & C(
Chief Agents for N.
7 BRIDGE STREET CB
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
READ THI
THE BAKING F
MANUFACTURED BY UG
AS DOCTOR
WAOG
Chemists and Druj
CAUTION —In our stylo of
sudden changes of temper!
and aunfehine ofteu intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take
lectod colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Boi
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the use
doses For curing Consumptu
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cro
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every to
this continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3a. Wholesale A
brothers.
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
. FOR
INDIGEST]
AND
STOMACH COMPLi
They are also much recomme
tive for Females, being safe, gentl
their operation, leaving no disposi
and being free from any tendenc:
irritation in their action.
Sola Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOP
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEN
OXFORD STREET £
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
* THE GREAT LIVER R
And successful substitute forCa
Podophyllum, and all Nox
Famous as a Restorative to Healt
Famous as an Invigorator of the .
Famous for the Cure of all Disord
Stomach. , _ .
Most famous as the only Tonlo
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either ser, ii
take them.
Be careful not to get Ii
IN BOXES. ONE SI
Invented and Prepared
J. S. AB R A
At the Laborator
434 GEORGE STREET,
COUGH WHILE YOU CA*
taking Dr. Thompson's Ameri
Linotus, you will not bo able to e
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177
Punch’s Hotel,
Tickle your appetitj
troliau Relish, made by W
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
H i I
George
(Formerly of George
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EAR’
Begs to announce that ho has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARC AT
whore every article in the above lim
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVEHEU 1
Business Announc
S
|Lboai>.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEREAGH STKEE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary ]
Legal.— Mr. t. m. i
SOLICITOR, has 001
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite i
News Office.
H ARLES
J (from Messrs. P. N. Russ
Manufacturer of Cooking Stov.
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 Gee
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), S
N
OTI C E OF R :
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUEAC
and
IMPORTERS Of EVERY DESCR
and EARTHENWi
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVE
to
269 GEORGE [STB
Next but One to the Merc
A magnificent selection of Now (
ILLCOX
W
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
S. hebblew
416 GEORGE STRI
F. T. WIMBLE &
STEREOTYPE.
Rlt
P
W
y
Hamilton St
SYX33STI


SATURDAY, 25th FEBRUARY.
THE WARREN ESTATE.
THE WARREN ESTATE.
MAEEICKVILLE TRAMWAYS.
Marrickville Tramways.
SECOND SALE ON THE GEOUND,
SATURDAY, 25 FEBRUARY,
after which will bo offered
THE SILVEE GEOVE
ESTATE, MAEEICKVILLE,
opposite to the Tramway Terminus.
Easy Terms. Torrens* Title.
WAIT FOE THESE SALES I
The WAREEN ESTATE and the
SILVEE GEOVE.
mr The Tramway puts you down at the
SILVEE GROVE ESTATE.
ar The Illawarra Railway Lino runs through the
WAEEEN ESTATE.
The Warren Estate is well-known.
The Silver Grove Estate is at the Tram Terminus.
Both of these valuable estates will be sold by
direction of the Excelsior Land, Investment, and
ing Company and Bank, Limited,
ON THE GEOUND,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, FEBRUARY 25,
BY
HARDIE AND GORMAN.
LITHOS. MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE, BOOMS
u
NDER SECTION V„ AOT 532.
AET-UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGABEB JUNCTION
ESTATE
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PRIZES of the full value of £lO,OOO.
117 lots guaranteed cash if preferred.
Lot I. Ist prize £4OOO I Lot 3. 3rd prize £lB5O
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize £4OO
Xot 5 to 9, 5 Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10, 1 Prize of £56.
Lot 11 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lot 21 to 120,100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management have increased the number of prizes,
and thereby increased the chances to nearly a certainty
to win a substantial prize, it not a large and independent
fortune, for £l. Drawing on the 28th and 29th March.
Unsuccessful applicants will have their money returned
per return post. No commission will be paid to agents
after this date. ..... ,
Address-SETH E. PEESSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
BEAD PROSPECTUS.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Ist February, 1882.
REGULATIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF
THE FISH EIVEE CAVES.
NO person will be allowed to enter the Cares un-
less accompanied by the keeper or his assistant.
Visitors will bo conducted through the Caves by the
keeper or his assistant, who are strictly prohibited
from receiving any fee or gratuity for their services.
Any person found breaking, defacing, or otherwise
injuring the Caves or their improvements, will be
prosecuted.
The charge for accommodation to be provided by the
keeper shall not exceed—
£ s. d.
0 2 0 First-class
0 10 Second-class... jP er me ®l-
-0 2 0 First-class 1 ...
0 10 Second-class... P or
0 10 Per lb sperm candles.
0 2 6 Per party for use of kitchen, when meals
are not provided by the keeper.
0 0 6 Per horse per diem for use of horse
paddock.
10 0 Per ounce of magnesium wire.
The sale of fermented and spirituous liquors is
strictly prohibited.
Any incivility or want of attention on the part of the
keeper or his assistant in regard to the convenience and
accommodation of visitors, should be reported to the
Secretary for Mines.
ARTHUR EENWICK,
Department of Minos,
Sydney, 10th February, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date,
they will be declared void.
ARTHUR EENWICK.
Hunter and Macleay Mining District,
No. 558; E. Marlowe and others; Portion No. gl 42 ;
County of Gloucester, parish of T«pi; 3 acres; Appli.
cation No, Bulladellah 128.
No. 559; Leo Plania; Portion No. g 143; County of
Gloucester, parish of Topi; 4 acres; Application No.
129.
No. 560; A. Gregory; Portion No. gl 41; County of
Gloucester, parish of Topi;'2 acres; Application No.
130.
No. 661; E. Eye and another; Portion No. gl 30;
County of Gloucester, parish of Bootoowaa; 5 acres;
Application No 9.
No. 562; J. F. Clayton and others; Portion No. gl
63; County of Gloucester, parish of Teleraree; 5 acres;
Application No. 48.
No. 563; F. G. Crofton and others; Portion No. gl
02; County of Gloucester, parish of Teleraree ; 3 acres ;
Application No. 70.
No. 564; John Smith and others ; Portion No. gl 31;
County of Gloucester parish of Bootoowaa; 2 acres;
Application No. 127.
Department of Minos,
Sydney, 14th February, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Gold-
mining Lease are hereby called upon to show
cause, within thirty days from this date, why their
lease should not he cancelled, for non-observance of the
conditions thereby imposed.
ARTHUR EENWICK.
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
No. 506; P. Gillies and D. Hart; Portion No. 15;
Marsh's Creek, parish of Jrraleug, county of Glou.
cester; 3 acres; Application No, Duugog6.
ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPORI
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
£ GREAT CLEARING SALI 3 of GOODS comprised in
during the week; and our Cnsi i/omora are reminded that th
chasing SEASONABLE GOODS at d the CHOICEST NOVEL
been hea td of in this city before.
B I >RBHS GOODS. WOETH
Ai.?W/LL BE SOL D FOR 3*<L
® A FRENCH CHALLIB. WORTH Is 2d. WILL BE
SOLD FOR 6d.
“VwSfoH BEIGES, ™ETH
FROM 9d to Is 2d per Y. A-RD.
MILLION YARDS or DRESS GOODS,
BB MLD “o i'AKB ROOM FOE
JTRJESH IMPORTATION.
BA of coloured Silk at Iftl., manufacturer's
price 2a. 4d. per yard.
BA^20 Al pfeces of coloured Qros Grain Silk at 23Jd,
worth 3s.
Ses of Pompadour Velveteen, J3d. and 15d.
yard, worth 3s. 6d. and 4s.
BAJ Thwelled Tarlatans, every colour, 9cL, worth 2s.
BARGAIN.
200 pi6o©B Vlack Gros Grain, 30 per coi>t. undoc
manufacturers’ prices.
BARGAIN.
200 washing Costumes, prices from 18s. 6d. to 30a«
clearing price 10s. each.
* ataro-eloth Dolmans, 14s. 6d. t worth 21s,
and Laoe Capes, 2s, 6d., worth 7s, 6d.
BARGAIN.
10 Cases
BARGAIN.
1000 Geni
BARGAIN.
3000 yard
Is. 9c
BARGAIN.
10 Cases
wort
BARGAIN.
1000 pain
good
BARGAIN.
200 Men’i
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ I
BARGAIN.
Ladies’ &
BARGAIN.
LADIES
4s. 6c
BARGAIN.
LADIES
MEI
BARGAIN.
•FEENCI
BARGAIN.
LONG, <
fld.
BARGAIN.
Two-buti
Swiss En
Plain an<
Lawn Te
CAUTION.—MAKE NO MISTAKE; WE HAVB ONLY 1
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM
11 A Y M A R K
KOHL
I
THE “PLUME”
MOLESKIN TR
WHITE AND PRIN
WANTED, copies of The Bulletin of
following dates : -January Ist, Btb, and 15th,
1881—two each; January 22nd and 29th, February sth,
an« May 21st and 28th, 1881—one copy each. Apply
at this office.
gMIIH AND VEALE,
PEOPEETY SALESMEN, LAND and ESTATE
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Pkovektiks placed in our Lauds for positive sale, we
advertise free.
J GRAHAM NIXON,
• IMPORTER AND GENERAL AGENT.
17 BRIDGE STREET.
Chief Agent for
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBATED GLENLIVET
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBRATED OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
AITCHISON’SJ PALE ALE.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Whore singleness is bliss, ’tis folly t o &»“wives.
Mrs. Hayes, for horse-whipping the edjfc* ® £ tho
Cobab Herald, was fined £2 and costs.
There are twenty-eight marriageable
Norfolk Island. Onfy two marriages during last.
On Hospital Saturday, in London, nearly 10
ladies sat in the streets all day, in charge of collects
boxes.
A voung female patient was denied admission
tothe y Kockhampton(Q) hospital. She died on her
way home. , , .
Twentv-oight divorces were recently granted in
Victoria to wives, on account of tho habitual drunken-
ness of their husbands.
Tho Queen gave .£5O in aid of sufferers by tho
Kinir Theatre (Ire, 120 families have adopted orphans,
and the relief fund is now £lOO,OOO.
Frederick Wagner, storeman, Adelaide, quar-
relled with his better half, out her throat and then
Blit his own. Both alive and doing well.
An abandoned woman, named Margaret Harris,
oli«s Morris, has been committed for trial at Adelaide,
for the manslaughter of a child farmed out to her.
William Bolger, of Melbourne, was separated
from his flapeto by the latter's friends. He leaned over
a gun, and his love-lorn spirit took flight to a bourne
whence there is no parting.
What is life ? A fixed time to make' money.
What is money? The object of life. At man?
machine for making money ? And woman f A
machine for spending it.
It is customary at fashionable weddings for
some one to make the original remark. Two souls with
but a single thought." It wwld often be more true t
say, *• Two souls without a single thought.
An Adelaide barmaid, named Minnie
been committed for trial on a charge of wilfully murder-
ing her illegitimate child by strangulation with a hand-
kerchief. She says the deed was done accidentally.
Mary Scott, at Sandhurst, was injured so
severely by one of the ribs of her corset, in stooping,
that she died from the effects. This comes of young
women steeling their breasts. We know of many agir!
of hardened heart who has suffered severely through it.
Miss Kennedy, daughter of Sir Arthur
Kennedy, Governor of Queensland, presented Master
Barlow, of the Brisbane Grammar School, with a watch,
for having made "the best bowl We never knew
befor» that the Brisbane Grammar School turned out
dancing masters.
Jacob Rhodes, of Lansing, Tomkins county,
jelobrated the 25th anniversary of his marriage by
eloping with the wife of a neighbour. The event
caused a great deal of comment, as he was a leading
temperance man, er-Sunday-school B , u JP erl *te“dont,
Knight Templar, a prominent member of the Methodist
Church, and a well-to-do farmer. Hie wife is a deaf
mute, and her society had become unendurable.
“ Love rules the camp, the court, the grove,
and also the Colliugwood larrikin. His beer-sodden
heart is not impenetrable, as is proved by a recent
instance, where a Colliugwood larrikin, aged 19, got
crossed in a love affair, and sought oblivion by means
of laudanum. He was too tough, however, for any
narcotic, and has since recovered. Whether his Mary
Ann has relented is not recorded in Haytor s Statistics.
With that thoughtful consideration which seems
to All tho sex to their ears, the ladies of Hobart are in-
vitiug contributions from the charitable, of any spare
goods they may have, that would bo suitable for the
poor little heathen down the Soiomon
Amongst tho articles most acceptable in those be-
nighted parts, wo may mention paper collars, Gorman
concertinas, Govebhmknt Gazettes, Soul s sauce,
ladies’ dress rings, godly books and tangle-foot, smelling
salts and rat-traps, hair restorer, castor oil, sowing
machines, and potted missionaries.
•• flush ” of tho above, will please forward whatever
they can’t cat to this offloe.
“ You never can tell,” &o. At Wilkeabarro,
Pa.. James P. Weller, a well-to-do civil engineer, was
to bo married to a charming young lady named Bessie
Nerris; at tho house of tho latter everything was
arranged, guests from all parts of tho State had arrived,
tho numerous woddiug gifts had been duly admired,
wh»n a messenger arrived in hot haste, and placed a
note in the bride’s hand. One piercing shriek, and the
bride was a huddled-up mass of wedding drapery. Tho
note ran ns follows:—" Dear Bessie,-The woddiug can-
not take place to-day. When, you receive this I shall
be on my way to Cincinnati and the West, and shall not
return until spring. Good-bye.— James. It Is said
that another woman, supposed to have claims on James,
had threatened to make the wedding proceedings nu-
pleasant. Miss Norris is in a critical condition.
Chic is not a corruption of the English “ cheek/’
nor of the Swedish » skiok." nor of the Latin ‘ sic.
It Is an abbreviation of the name of the notorious
French dancing master, Jules Chioard, the inventor of
cannau. Fashionable variations of the term are;
voihi du chic; e'ert du chicard ; c cst du chicandor ; o/ito a
la cancan? chic A lanaccan, etc.
Mr Michael Pllliot, the popular manager of the
Melbonrne branch of tho Bank of Australasia, died last
week, at tho age of 55 years, from au apoplectic fit. In
1852 Mr. Elliot first joined the Bank of Australasia at
Geelong: in 1851. ho opened tho first Ballarat branch;
and in 1t69 ho was promoted to the managerial ohair of
the Melbourne branch. In 1875, he accepted the general
managership of the Bank of Now Zealand, but returned
to his Melbourne position in 1876- He leaves a widow
and eight children.
This is tho sort of congratulations London
Truth proffers Ashmead Bartlett on his marriage with
the angelic Frances Angela:—“ A lap-dog, a lod captivo,
a slave to the wrinkled old conqueror ou her gilded car I
Wh it ft position for a man to whom has been given the
sovereignty of life! And what fatal blindness m the
woman who thus buys her living whistle, and pays for
it. iu tho long run, more dearly than she bargained 1
After this no boy could be found in all London who
would pitch Truth down Ashmead’s area.
King Tawhiao was present at the Auckland
regatta held on 29th January last. Thirty years ago,
that very day, tho first Auckland regatta was held.
Then tho copper-skinned Maori competed in his b»gh-
nressure war-cauoe with the Bakeha. The chiefs stood
up in the bow, and with yells encouraged his straining
crew As soon as tho winners passed by the flagship,
they would invariably, with a joyous eheu! of triumph,
nlunge like mermen into the blue waves of Ihe Waite
mata, and cool their fevered blood. Oh 1 for an Aus-
traliau Longfellow to give us a localized Song of
Hiawatha."
The Maori king, Tawhiao, is a Roman Catholic.
Recently, at a religious ceremony, he referred to Father
Garavel one of the French priests in the Waikato
before thewar, as "an old friend" Father Walter
M‘JDonald, Tawhiao’s entertainer on the occasion,
expressed tho determination of the Roman Catholic
Oluirch to re-establish the mission. After the service,
Tawhiao shook hands with the children present, and
told them that Father M‘Donald was a greater man
than he was, though people talked of him as king. He
added: "There is a than both of us
Our Father who is in heaven.”
On the staff of the Mukrumbubbah Signal
is a tobacco-chewing gentleman named “ Waif," and all
he wants, iu a small way, j ust at present, is " the creami-
est of ro le-tiuted paper, perfumed ink, and a gold pen,
in order that ho may sing the praise of Murrumburrah s
belle. He probably wrote that lot sitting on an empty
caudle-box, and bis inspiration was encouraged by the
butt-end of a saveloy and a pint of "wallop. Touch-
ing the belle herself, we are told " sha has a propensity
for striking matches in tho wrong room, at tho wrong
time of nixht, and emitting a yellU ke that of a Shawnee
Indian, on discovering a creature of the male persuasion,
rec iaing clothed iu raiment not made by human hands."
The " male persuasion ” should certainly buy a night-
B k; r a robu-de unit, wo mean—and thereby put the
•• break" ou this inquisitive belle’s propensity."
"Waif" is probably the same young gentleman who,
bfiug asked to recite some pootry at a social party, got
up and said he would favour the company with a iew
lines written “On a beautiful belle"—pronouncing the
latter word as if it rhymed to jelly 1


BRIEF MENTION.
The silent system—The Anti-Shbuting Society.
Adelaide is known as “ the city of churches and
stinks."
Can anyone who dyes be called a “ coloured
person ?”
People can’t properly sympathise with the fate
of polar expeditions this hot weather.
Up North a J.P. recently gave a man a month
for what he termed in all seriousness “ righteous con-
duct."
Mark Antony once said: 0 ! Judgment thou art
fled to brutish beasts, and jurymen have lost their
reason."
Isaac Luck, a wife deserter, has been ordered to
pay his wife 15s. weekly. She said there was no Luck
about the house.
Colonial experience at Maitland. Aestheticism
surely. Two young Americans searching for a lost
horse with a pair of opera glasses.
He had lost his wife, and the medical man, in
ignorance of the fact, called in as usual. “ How is
she ? ” “ She is dead, thank you,"
An Ipswich man who never told a He says that
he found a live centipede in a boiled duck’s egg. This
demands a hen-quiry. (Get thee hens, vile punster).
A Rockhampton paper, in its critique on a con-
cert, the other day, said : “We listened with unalloyed
pleasure to Mr. ’s splendid braytone.” Hallelujah 1
Owners of property facing Goat Island say that
there is nothing like a handy powder magazine for keep,
ing down house rents. This idea ought to be transported
to Ireland.
Jenkins, a recent suburban municipal candidate,
was described in his nomination paper as “ a newspaper
proprietor and conveyancer." That's right, Jenkins,
ink first, lies after.
As no less than three ex-Moderators of the
Victorian Presbyterian Church are now recruiting in
Tasmania, a little moderation may bo expected from
that body for a while.
Municipal eloquence seems infectious. Aider-
man Chapman, at the City Council, playfully alluded
to Alderman Dean as a white-chokerod older of the
church, who fouled his own nest.
David Buchanan must think'that the country is
“ getting on fine.” During the last five weeks he has
made halt a dozen special journeys for the purpose of
defending sheep stealers, And ho got them all off.
Two friends meet in King-street at 11,30 p.m.
Ist F.: " Hullo / how you smell of sulphur. Just arrived
overland, I suppose, and boon fumigated at Wodouga.”
2nd F.: ‘‘No. I’ve been to seo ‘Michael Strogolf.’”
Sir ’Enery Parkes, as we once before intimated,
in responding to the toast of ‘‘Our Quest” at a
Sydney spread, used the word “I ” 150 times. A con-
temporary very justly propounds the query s—“ How
is that for Hi ? "
During a recent trial at the Melbourne Criminal
Court, a youthful witness defined the obligations of an
oath—‘‘lf I don’t tell the truth, I shall go to prison.”
Oh, joy to the civilised world if this wero really the
consequence of lying I
In order to settle the Murray Bridge question,
Tom Bent, the Victorian Minister of Railways, found it
necessary to sacrifice himself to a ronnd-the-harbour
picnic, and a pleasure trip over the Blue Mountains,
and as far as Lithgow.
The D.T. records the fact that the contributor 8
to the Sydney Weekly Hunchback number “ about
twenty gentlemen with several ladies.” We have, un-
successfully. tried this all sorts of ways, with poisons
long, short, hot, and cold.
Mr. Cooper, M.P., Queensland, declares that
the Hon. J. M. Mocrossan ‘‘put his foot on the
Chinese.” The exciting question for Queensland
debating societies to determine is now “ What size
does Mao. take in leather hoot-ooverings T ”
The Lords of the Admiralty have decided that
fogs have no effect upon magnetic needles as regards
dcflaotlon from the magnetic meridian. This should be
consoling to certain of our dailies, who can now start
compasses of their own, although always in a fog.
A “ Modified Shouting Society ” is being formed
in Sydney. Its ruling principle may be gathered from
the following regulation “No member of this society
shall ever partake of any intoxicating liquor—unless
somebody else pays for it.” New members are wanted.
A man who shelled a candidate with eggs was
sent to gaol, up-country, some time since. We believe
Mr Eotton, J.P., was on tho bench, and that the pri-
soner’s defence, like his crime, was epgshellent. This
is a wall-boiled par., having taken fully three minutes
to cook
The Mayor of Glen Innes, who so artistically
“painted” his two assailants the other day, asserts
that he would have been unable to hold his own so well,
wore it not that during his early career as a seafaring
lad. he was forced to fight a few pitched battles every
other hour.
At Melbourne, a poor devil of a somnambulist
walked out of an upper-storey window, and fell a con-
siderable distance on to the pavement below. He sus-
tained very serious injuries, breaking both his knees.
The World generously supplies the information that
he woke up on reaching the ground.
The Camfbelltown Herald, of Saturday
last commences its leader as follows We are told
that for ‘ every evil under the sun there's a cure.” We
are glad to hoar this, for there is probably a cure for tho
Camtkeli.town Herald It now only remains for patient
enterprise and unflagging research to discover it.
The employment of the softer sex in Victorian
■ciootrie Telegraph offices is rather awkward at times.
For instancef the face of the gentle squatter almost
matched tho crimson hue of his hair when he, the other
dav handed to the lovely maiden of 47 summers the
following “wire”—hut we really can’t well give it.
Dan Mayne, of the Sentinel returns from his
four mouths’ trip to tho “ Coutiuong," on Saturday
‘ re will please him to hear that Australia is to be
one of the first powers of the world. Sir ’Fury will
then of course, be the Southern Czar, and that si just
the time for Daniel to waltz up with his £2 16s. hill for
printing.
Up on tho Lower Darling, that pest, the Dar-
liue Boa. so intoxicates horses and other quadrupeds,
that they take to all sorts hf uncouth gymnastics.
There have been several well-authenticated instances of
horses “ under the influence ’’ endeavouring to oli.ub
trees. Whether they succeed or not, it ia generally up
a tree with them.
The S.M. Bullfrog says of the deceased
Madame Celeste that she was an actress of “ consider-
able repute.” Now, Madame Celeste was, as an actress,
what the Bullfrog has never yet been as a newspaper.
If it had fallen to Madame Celeste to describe the
Bullfrog she would probably have stated that it was a
journal of “ inconsiderable repute."
The too dazzling “Endymion ” of the Queens-
t ander in his “Light and Shade’’ says “ A journalist
is noc much affected by panics, for he rarely ever
possesses any property, and generally succeeds in getting
bis “screw." That adverb “generally has a rathor
suspicions and gruesome sound. It certainly looks like
a mean insinuation against his employers,
A high Government official saw the last hit of
the “immortal innings," saw the fiying B P l J er ®
arrested in mid air by the nimble Blackham, and had
iust finished his excited expressions of applause when a
being on the next seat, hearing the semblance of a man.
solemnly and slowly asked, “Has Murdoch gone in
vet P" The head of the Candy Sugar Office gave him
one look, and if that intelligent querist had been a
Government clerk, he would have got promotion in
about 75 years.
Ud North a gal-lant P.M , whose aversion to
the plebeian herd is notorious, has lately stepped from
his lofty social pedestal, and horrified the residents by
inviting to lunch, at his villa residence, a distinguished
member of the demi-monde, who that morning had
been released from an institution supported by a
generous and philanthropic Government, in which she
had for some time been the reigning goddess. The
aristocratic P.M. has done some queer things, but this
is the queerest.
A Cootamundra man cleaned his underground
tank out the other day. Following are a few of the
things found at the bottom : —A glass bottle, dead
mouse, two dead frogs, six jam tins, a cat, two tin
dippers, a barrow load of wood, a dog, a cart wheel, leg
ef a fowl, a bagful of bones, a boot, two old hats, a
pumpkin, a broken handled knife, a goat, two pigs, and
a horce collar.
A law-abiding publican at Forbes has had,
under the new Act, to disoblige one of his beat cus-
tomers, whb twice sent his daughter for a shilliugs-
worth of brandy. The first refusal was on Sunday ; the
second o'n Monday, under the clause prohibiting the
sale of liquor to children under 18 years of age. How
many publicans in the city are conscientious enough
not to serve—say a larrikin of 17 years?
There is an American pastor who runs three
churches, a salmon fishery, a largo farm, a coal office, a
teamster’s route, a stage line, a pualic bath, and a
mineral spring, besides holdiug several public
What au egregious ass that man must bs! Wny
didn’t he run a gas company at the start, and ‘ fake
the meters? This is a bettor Vz. than the whole
caboodle of his fishery, farun, and churches jammed,
together.
The following Official proclamation now graces
the Southern end of Crowu-street Reservoir.
Bill-stickers will bo prosecuted.
What the unfortunate knights of the bucket are to he
prosecuted for, is not made known, but itlsevddentUiat
a bill-sticker in Sydney has no more legal rights tliau
has a Jew in Russia. _
A lawyer who had not made a fortune in New
Zealand, was mot at the Circular Quay by a friend.
Friend noticed on the deck a mighty pile of tm-boxea,
supposed to contain the innumerable documents, draft
briefs, &o„ which the legal intellect finds necessary in
settling onr little affairs. He eaid, on looking at this
heap “By (Jeorge, old fellow, you must have had a
tremendous h»t of clients over there." “By .Jove 1 was
the vigorous reply, there s a confounded sight more or
them who had me 1”
Nothing like leather! The recently-elected Mayor
of a Northern town runs a tanyard, and the smell there-
from is at all times as loud as a whole park of field
artillery. It is thought by some that the new Mayor
will have his aromatic yard removed, and give the city
Rowers a chance ; but tnose who do this kiud of think*
ing are, generally speaking, madmen. The Mayor is a,
Moody and San key company m himself at u .|
odd water apostle also. “Let us dor-ink of the cool
kec-rystal spring,” &o.
There is some excitement in political circles
about Auckland in consequencs of. ft writ having been
issued against an astute politician w ho dabbles largely
in native affairs. “A great chief of the Ngatimama-
poto” entrusted the A.l', with £lOO “to bank some-
where for twelve months only. Tim A.P. t< old the
GC. that the money was thar, the thar in.tms
instance being the Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
Twelve moons passed, but the century wa ® n ?M°^ fc p'
coming; another twelve moons passed, and the G O,
got angry and threatened. Then the A.P. the
& C. a post-dated cheque for £ll2, and the G.C. was
joyful. When the day of presentation came the cheque
was duly—dishonored.
The Rockhampton Jackass remarks, in refer-
ence to a suggestion of ours as to how the paper could
be improved, “There will be no trouble to produce the
donkey, as we deal largely in those animals, and one
always occupies the editorial chair.” We are glad to
hear that the editor of our contemporary is a tame
donkey. From the appearance of the last issue we were
under the impression that it was a mad K anaka.
Tho Nabandeba Abgus naively observes;
—“Near Boro, in the Braidwood district, a large
iguana was seen swallowing a brown snake, last Sunday
week This is a proof that iguanas kill snakes.” We
shouid think so Q.E.D , and all that sort of thing.
Correlatively, if a man were seen swallowing a Nauan-
dkua Augcs, it would be a proof that he could rival a
camel or an ostrich in point of digestive powers.
A brewer in (say) Nova Zembla, found he had a
large quantity of beer on hand which had gone bad.
He couldn’t bear the idea of such a heavy loss, and
asked an analytical chemist whether anything could be
dona with it. The beer was chemically (and cleverly!
treated, at a cost of eightoonpence a hogshead, and
advertised as a peculiar tonic. It is now one of the
most popular drinks for invalids ; and, as it is extremely
nasty, the sick people have implicit faith in it. ,
The Melbourne Bulletin has no less than
twelve rattling good paragraphs in last week’s issue.
Wo know they are iirst-rate, because we wrote them
onrselves, and' published them a week earlier. The
Melbourne rag should get on now. It has learned that
to steal our name is not sufficient. If it steals onr
paragrnphs weekly, it may linger a little longer ; Just
so long, in fact, as one Sydney Bulletin par. will keep
ten Melbourne Bulletin pars, from sinking a paper.
At a reoent municipal election up North, the
late Mayor narrowly escaped defeat at the hands of a
candidate who could neither read nor write, and who
had to be shown which name on the ballot paper to
strike out so as not to deface his own. He told the
ratepayers that if ho were elected ho would put a pick
and shovel in the council clerk’s hands, and make him
do that sort of work in addition to his clerical duties,
as he was jolly well paid for doing it. The council clerk
receives the munificent salary of £5O per annum.
A gentleman went into GLblin’s, the other day,
and called a barmaid there several names by which she
h£d never been christened. The barmaid “pulled ’ the
gentleman, and on Friday last it was to have come on
at the “ Water.” The great Joseph, however, with
that diplomacy for which he has a Kent-btreet and a
Miller’s Point celebrity, consented on the part of the
*■ young lady to a settlement, and—bang it!—whisky-and-
soda ends another cause cSlebre. If things go on like
this, we shall never get a sensation at*.ll. Too bad,
Je-oseph!
A recent arrival from the land of cakes was
engaged by a brother burgooite in a Northern district.
One of his first duties was to hitch a team of working
bullocks to a dray. In arranging matters he very care-
lossly got behind the animals and was warned by
his master that the “beasties" could kick. bandy
did not altogether like the idea of putting the “ coos
into harness, but as for their kicking, the thing seemed
preposterous. Presently one of the beasts did let out
and landed poor Sandy some yards away. When pick-
ing himself up ho was met by the remark, “ Oh, Sandy,
did I nae tell ye ? ” Replied poor Sandy solemnly :
“ Aye mon, bat that’s worth twa tellings.”
In noticing the death of Mr. John Linklatar at
Adelaide, that cheerful rag, the L.V.Q. of that city
says:—“ He took great interest in rifle-shooting, and
made some over £2OOO. [llll At the back of the mill
there is a large stack of wheat ready for grinding of
over 16,000 bushels.”
If you're the bonitacc s’rag,
Their organ, they should mind it.
And get, as soon as e'er they can
A saner man to grind it.
Here is a nioe subject for discussion by a young
men’s debating society. Judge Laughlin, of St. Louis,
says that this rule of law is “ f imply unassailable:”
—“lt Hatch gave Eeilly reasonable cause to believe
that he was going to kill him, Reilly, in law, was justi-
fied in hunting Hatch up and killing him ; because the
law does not require that a man should wait, for his
opponent might meet him in the street with a donble-
barrelled shotgun.” We want to hear this matter
argued out. The bull-and-boat dispute isn’t a circum-
stance beside it.
The Rockhampton “Bath and Wash-House”
architect rejoices in the cognomen of “Sponge.” And
yet there are no public baths, or even spongo
baths provided for a perpetually perspiring popu-
lation. Residents of the “ Sunny South ” -can’t
form even halt an idea of what a sweltering place it is
—a place where garments are a burden, and where
Should the weather become too hot
For clothing, however small,
'Twonld be a treat, to do Denham-street.
Without any clothes at all.
Ecclesiastical. Notices to Contemporaries,-
The Venerable Granny : Dr. Tait is the Archbishop
of Canterbury, not “Archbishop Canterbury.” The dig-
nitary to whom you refer is Canon Liddon, not “ Lyton."
The Evening Lyre: You have sadly blundered over
that borrowed telegram from Adelaide. The bride-
groom’s name is not Puzev-Cust, but Pnroy-Oust; he is
not the “ son of the Very Rev. Dean Yorko and Lady
Emily Gust,” but of Dr. Purey-Cnst, Dean of York, and
Lady Emily Cast. York is an ancient ecclesiastical
city in the North of England, and is not spelt with
an
Australia is soon to bo known as the home of
perambulatory statesmen. There was the Berry-cum-
Pearson embassy, and now our own Parkes is starring it
and attitudinising in the United States and Canada.
On a smaller scale, South Australia has despatched a
Minister and some pleasure loving M.P.’s to the Nor-
thern Territory ; and the oomatary Tom Bent, of Vic-
toria, has been jinking about N.B. Wales. The “pure
delights” of these expeditions are enhanced by tho
fact that the country mostly finds the “sugar.” Oh,
that we might immolate ourselves on the altars of
patriotism 1
Judge Ward, of Dunedin, was lately trying a
very dry case, and three young reporters, weary of its
dull details, started, in an undertone, a discussion on
tho absence of nows, the poor appreciation of literary
genius (as shown by their salaries), and the attractions
of certain belles of tho ballet, when the Judge, in awful
bass, thundered out, “Silence in the reporters’ box;
if yon don’t want to take notes, leave tho Court.”
They didn’t want to take notes that nobody would
road, so, with rasped nerves and terribly rod faces, tho
threo young reporters filed slowly out from tho judicial
presence, and decorum was restored.
A fire insurance story oomoa from a suburb of
Melbourne. A business man was insured for £450; ho
had a fire, and the company offered him £lOO or arbitra-
tion. He declined the £lOO, and then found, by tho con.
ditions of his policy, that arbitration was compulsory.
A representative ©f the insurance company is stated to
have interviewed several gentlemen in the same lino of
business as the victim of the fire, and offered each ten
guineas per day in the event of ono of them being
allowed to aot as arbitrator for either side. It wouldn’t
take the prophet Daniel to forecast the amount of the
award that would be made by such arbitration.
“ The object of this meeting,” said a Northern
clergyman, on Sunday last, “ is to ra’se sufficient funds
to whitewash, and otherwise Improve the oh arch. Sub-
scriptions will now be received.” “I haven't the money
oh me just at present,” said tho local Deacon Skinner,
who was never known to part with a oent for anything;
“ but it'll be all right—put me down for £10." This so
startled the astonished parson that he, at once, hod
seventeen different kinds of fits within the hour. But he
felt better next day when he found Mr. Skinflint
Skinner repudiated the debt, on the ground that it wad
illegal, having been made on the Sawbbath Day
A widow who keeps a roadside shanty on the
Darling has had three husbands. One died after a long
illness, one from exhaustion in the bush, and tha third
banged himself, the other day, to a tree close by the
shanty. As business was brisk at the time, the afflicted
widow had time only to enclose the suspended remains
in a sheet till tha troopers were sent for. Meanwhile,
two travellers called, and wanted to buy some rations,
but were dif appointed on being told they oould get no
meat. "Why, what’s that banging under the tree?”
“Oh! that? Why, didn’t you hear he’d hung himself 1
That’s my Charlie! How much flour did you say ?’’
A man named Murphy was charged in Bungen-
dore Police Court, with calling constable Torpy an
“ old dog trap,” and with the further offence of throw-
ing his arms about regardless of things. But in ovi-
dence, it came out that Mr. Murphy had been too
specific in defining what colour of an ” old dog" and
what colour "trap" he referred to, and when the Bench
was satisfied that he had described them as being very
red, he was fined £5. The prosecution contended that
although a man might, with impunity, be described as a
brindle dog, the Statute did not permit a man to qualify
his nouns, with figures drawn from the colour of tho
vital fluid. Law is law.
Tho burly Bent, Victorian Minister of Railways,
though he is gadding about in special trains himself,
does not forget what is due to tho maxim he has laid
down—to administer tho railways on “ purely commor-
cial principles." The Northern Territory Expedition
party from South Australia tried to get a special carriage
put on, and failed. They were, however, graciously
allowed to have a compartment—which they just filled
—all to themselves. Tho Hon. J. L. Parsons, Minister
of Education for S. A., and head of the party, telegraphed
his gratitude from Sydney to a Victorian M.P. in tho
following terms: —“Convey our thanks to Ministers for
their courtesy in providing ns with a crush this morn-
ing. We hope to be able to reciprocate with cattle
tracks on their visit to South Australia."
The Wilde River (N.Q.) paper says that a man
caught cribbing spoons from a pub. was tied to a tree,
and porter mixed with aperient medicine of a searching
character —jalap, in fact—was poured down his throat
at intervals. A jollification took place during tho
ceremony, which was held in the paddock of the pub-
lican who had been robbed. The miners were delighted
at their foresight in taking tho matter into their own
hands, at first; but subsequently, discovering that the
affair had been “ got up " ns a business speculation by
the publican and the plunderer, whose drink was mixed
with bogus medicine, they came to the conclusion that
there was more wickedness in the world than they had
previously dreamed of. It that publican wants to take
an airing now, with safety, he will have to do it in a
balloon.
Our Government, when seeking to repress
larrikinism, should not forget to make provisions com-
prehensive enough to include the Mayors and corpora-
tions of cities and townships. Last week it was stated
that the Mayor-elect of Bathurst and an alderman had
called each other liars publicly. 'The corporation of
Windsor has followed suit in horseplay. A disorderly
scene took place after Alderman Robert M'Novin had
been elected Mayor. Alderman Primrose accused
Alderman Collins of breaking a promise to vote for him.
Collins retorted, and such gentle epithets as “ sneak”
and “ tinker” fall upon the refined aldermanio at-
mosphere. Alderman Linsley called Collins “a liar.”
The blood of knightly Collins mounted to his brow, and
he challenged Linsley to the arbitrament of what the
French call le hoxe. Friends interposed; and the mill
is still only a future possibility.
One good point about the Sydney poor is, they
seldom, or never forget their self respect, or dignity. A
charitable Surry Hills “ woman," is in the habit of
giving tho “lady” who does the family washing any
left-off clothing that may be knocking round, and on
Tuesday last she handed over a very good straw hat,
which had scarcely borne a months’ wear. Mrs,
Washerwoman took it with icy coolness; turned it
round and round, and then elevating her nose with the
air of a person stepping over an offensive drain, re-
marked that it wasn’t exactly the style, or shape, that
her William cared for, but it would probably
do to " knock about the yard in." William leans up
against public-house walls for a living, and, no doubt
THE LITTLE 'UN: “Shall soon be grown up. I can tell you. I’m as big as Napoleon
Bonaparty, now.”
T HE BIG ’UN: “Wall, if your country’s as tall as your talk, I reckon it's big enough."


10 THE PUBLIC
and
NEW SOUTH Y
We be? to inform you that oui
ANNUAL DRAPERY SALE hi
These REGULAR PERIODIC
become so well and favourably
appear superfluous for us to say s
them ; but seeing that there hi
cession of population both ii
throughout the colony since th
EXCELLENT SYSTEM (now
published fully the details of it'
now to state briefly that these SE
occurring in February and Jul
NOT the ordinary Drapers’" Cl
Sacrifice Sales,” generally of
accumulations, but SPECIAL El
at the close of the Summer ai
reduce a surplusage of BRAN I
ing principally of HOPSEHOLL
GOODS, &0., Ac., which, irom
left on hand in our bulk store
NETS, as an instance : Last ye
sto >k before Christmas, but this
summer pests have been tronb
suburbs, the towns have been cc
them, and very little protection
hence we have a surplus stock of 1
could multiply instances bearing
items, showing how LARGI
GOODS cannot help being ov<
articles. The course usually ad
over to the next summer. WE p
into CASH at once, and order F
to be made for future requiremen
Of course, wo have to submit
SEMI-ANNUAL SALES, but w
not having to pay heavy expenses
(say) six months. As a rule, we
STOCK at these sales a trifleabo\
FACTURERS’ COST PRICE, ji
charges, and have hitherto had ]
ready buyers to clear the whole
night.
RILEY BROTHERS, 386 GI
RILEY BROTHERS, 600 BE
RtuEY BROTHERS, OXFO
RILEY BROTHERS, GOUL
RILEY BROTHERS, NEWC
RILEY BROTHERS, BATH
also LONDON, GLASGOW, and
The Surplus Stock this year
12th GREAT SEMI-ANI
consists prinoipa
12 cases Mosquito Nets, comraeno
23.000 yards Cambric Prints, 2Jd p
480 dozen Linen Huckaback Towe
10 cases flue brown Hollands, com
1215 pieces ladies’ Longcloth, 2}d
11 bales yard-wide grey Calico, 3Jd
A lot of Oddments grey Calico, at
Another lot of Oddments, to go at
14 bales double width grey Sheetin
123 pieces white Twill Sheeting, i
to be sold at per yard
Alotof Horrocks’ Longcloth, ver
A lot of Colonial Tweeds, to be sol
5 oases White Honeycomb Quilts,
ing, 3s lid each, worth 8s 6d.
About 450 Marc dla Quilts, double-
of them worth a guinea
Also a few of the old handmade Ti
ever), to go at 17s 6d each, regi
There are Lana Curtains at 2s lid,
wonderfully cheap
And some hundreds of Curtains, i
about half-price
The remainder of the Summer B 1
pair
Nearly a hundred of the Guinea B
pair
A few real Witney Blankets, 40s go
LOCAL OPTION and the NEY,
will no doubt greatly lessen the
houses, so we must sell out about
140 PIECES BAR TO WELLIN
yard, usual price
But we have largo quantities of <
the bedrooms which will have to 1
the requirements of the new Act, c
Strong Cotton Ticking, at 3Jd pei
Good Linen Ticking, at Hid per ;
China Matting, fancy patterns,'
worth Is
Toilet Table Covers, largest size,
White Towels, for bedrooms, 2s 6
The largest Bath Towels, 9id eacl
White Twill Sheeting, Bid per ya
The largest Honeycomb Quilts, 3i
Really good White Blankets, 3s 11
Felt Carpet, for bedside, Hid per
New Vallance Nets, 6id per yard
Also, |
Unbleached Linen Damask, 10id
White Linen Table Damask, Is 6(3
Crash and Kitchen Towellings,
la DRESS MATERIALS we w
ASTONISHING BARGAINS. W
heavy quantity to sell this time, hi
be found worth while coming to see
T.
THE TWELFTH SEMI-AN
SURPLUS STOCI
A'nTTnq* nnTr.upi'v'j tt
affects guinea tiles, and patent leather crab-shells. He
was much hurt when the present “ arrove," and in
withering 1 tones observed; 11 Hez it come t’ this 1 Me
wear a strawrhat—why it’s on’y fit fur a donkey’s break-
fast."
The Mayor of Sydney’s room, in the Town Hall,
is now plastered. His head will, probably, be plastered
soon.
An American paper alluded to Sir Henry
Parkes as " a man who once gained a precarious living
by picking up sixpences.”
AT MELBOURNE HOSPITAL.
Ho went to see his darling wife.
He longed to kiss her wasted cheek.
“ Oh, wife be blowed," the porter said;
“ Why she’s been buried just a week.”
The proposals of Sir Henry Parkes do not
commend themselves to the “official mind.” Such arc
the cablegrams which are paid for in loud specie.
“ The official which ?” said an old Irish colonist, as he
rooted up a tree, and flourished it a la Donnybrook
around the district.
From the D.T.: —“ Senior-constable Miller has
issued summonses against four young ladies for a
breach Of the Gaming Act in raffling articles at the
recent bazaar in aid of the Roman Catholic Church,
Mudgeo.” Though this is not the Miller of the Dee,
there are not a few R.G.’s in Mudgee who will bo
ready to Dee the Miller.
There was a row at a well-known Sydney Club,
the other day, over a rubber of whist, and, in the course
of the dispute (which, as usual, was about “ leading
trumps”), one hon. gentleman called another hon.
gentleman a something liar. When the row was at
its fiercest, however, the “ genial secretary ” (why are
secretaries always genial?) came and poured Hoyle on
the troubled waters.
Sixty-three cases of beer have been seized on the
premises of the ex-Mayor of Charters Towers. The
information was, that being a store-keeper, be sold
wholesale and retail, fhady O’Kaue now recommends
all his friends to get into the look-up, and drink at the
ex-Mayor's expense. By the tenor of the par. we are
quite sure that Thadeus himself has very seldom drank
at the expense of the ex-Mayor of the Towers.
Those illogical journals will persist in affirming
that Local Option has beon barren of anv significant
result. And yet we have evidence that Qrimley, the
Morpeth mnrderer, took the local option vote—“Kill
her ? yen ; kill her ? no " —while revolving in his mind
whether he would accelerate Ann Pettit’s immortality
with a revolver. The " ayes” had it by a bare majority,
and the temperance people have one more sin to answer
( or.
The Coonamrle Independent reports the
speeches made by the successful candidates at the
official declaration of the poll for aldermen. The most
space is devoted to the eloquent emissions of Alderman
T. A. Jones, aud while "applause" marks what occurred
at the termination of the various other speakers' ad-
dresses, that of Jones’s is marked “ cheers.” The glitter
of the glory is slightly tarnished when wo reflect that
the said Jones is editor of the paper in question.
An np-oountry bonifaco has got on the laughing
Side of a sharp solicitor. Boniface engaged Bnzfuz to
transact some legal business for him, and duly received I
bis bill of costs. He then proposed that Bnzfuz, in
consideration of'immediate payment, should pay for a
bottle of wine. Bnzfuz agreed, aud the wine was
guzzled. Boniface then produced an 18 months’ old
cheque, signed by Buzfuz himself, and marked by the
teller of the local bank, with the direful initials N.S.F.
Bnzfuz is a sad man now.
In relation to the Morpeth tragedy, the
Herald's correspondent says: “ Senior-sergeant Smith
and the police who assisted him are entitled to praise
for their prompt action in bringing the whole facts of
the oase to light in such a short time." Bruise!
Laurels I A man shot a girl, then shot himself. These
were the facts. The perspicacity of tbo Morpeth police
is only equalled by that of their activity. And—but we
won’t make a satirical remark. We don’t want to hurt
the feelings of the Herald correspondent, who, in all
probability, is in the police himself.
Professor Pepper tries to get rain by electricity,
but many righteous believe that a larger quantity can
be got by fasting and stating your meteorological views
to the Almighty. All this has been improved upon.
Last Saturday, the contributors to that cheerful bit of
crape, Punch, went down the harbour and picnicked.
As the frenzied excitement of sandwich and ginger-
beer mounted, they took to joking, and a copious rain,
fall was the immediate result. Opinion is divided as
to whether it was the angels weeping, or whether ’twas
the other fellow who dropped a few tears on finding he
must go back home again to avoid a worse hell.
Moro holy wars. Bishop Marsden and Canon
Smith have been at it, and the Canon has got dis-
mounted, and will shortly go off. The Bishop is alleged
tn) have insinuated that the Canon was "leprous
with ieiquity,” and the Canon retorted “Go to
Dubbo." The Bishop then charged the Canon to go off
as stated, whereupon the Canon exploded. Wa will
now read the Collect of the day. And you can shun the
Collect, dearly beloved brethren, if you like; but shun
not the Collectshun.—[This is poor stuff, indeed. We
merely print it because of the illustrious—we had
almost said reverend—signature it bears. Humph!
Pass the tent wine.—Ed. B.]
Those ultra-loyal personages who vegetate on
the odoriferous shores of Port Jackson were rudely
jarred on Saturday by receipt of a cablegram, wiring
the disastrous intelligence that “the Queen’s outrider
was thrown from his horse, near Buckingham Palace,
and injured.” Davies at once consulted Bnrdett -Smith
as to the propriety of convening a meeting to condole
with the Queen and tho outrider. Bnrdett disclaimed
any sympathy with the movement, alleging that the
woes (and dignities) of Italy at present engross his
undivided attention. The idea was abandoned ; but
Reuter bos been instructed to cable immediately if any-
thing serious is likely to ensue to the outrider, or his
horse, or eq uipage. Intelligence is also ardently yearned
for concerning the inner life of Her Majesty’s cobbler,
ooalheaver, and chiropodist. ’Tis thus one lackey feels
for another’s woes, and “ one touch of nature makes tho
whole world kin."
In the town of Dilga the P.M. notified from the
Bench that as a Mr. Malflam had been gazetted Regis-
trar of Births, Deaths, and Marriages, persons must
now register these events with the said Malflam, and
not with the C.P.S., who had ceased to act. The latter,
who is partially deaf, had requested tho P.M. to notify
that the time for registering dogs was at hand, and
Imagining that this was in compliance with his request,
he broke in with, “Will your Worship be good enough
to warn them to be careful to state the exact breed in
tho column left for that purpose; and also add that
registration will not comply with the law unless they
provide them with steel or leathern collars bearing the
owner’s name. If this is neglected, and no owner can
bo found, the police are authorized to seize them and
cut their throats." It was not until some days after-
wards that mothers ventured ont with their newborn
babes and realized that the days of the old Ilerodian
massacre were not coming on again.
In a rooenfc issue, the Macleay Herald goes
into gashing rapture over the tact that a report of the
Free delectors’ Banquet, which occurred in the after,
noon, was printed in the Sydney Daily Telegraph
next morning. It takes deuced small “ wonders” to
astonish a Macleay editor. But there can’t be the
slightest doubt that he was astonished—or something
else —when he wrote this “wonderful” opening sentence :
—“ Tho wonders of the Telegraph must, to a reflecting
mind, always be a matter of wonder.” No one could
read that sentence without feeling at once convinced
that the writer is a nwn who always speaks when he
says something, probably takes a nap when he goes to
sleep, and invariably swallows fluid when he liquors up.
Ho goes revelling on in a rhapsody of admiration that
an hour and a half’s speeches eould actually be tran-
scribed by a shorthand writer and telegraphed in one
night I and then announces that the reflection of it all
Alls him with wonder a second timfe I The state of mind
of that editor must have been awful by tho time he
finished reflecting. Some idea of his mental conditiot
may be had from tho “ wonderful reflection" with whict
he clews up his article, when, with gaping mouth and
hands full of uprooted hair, he gasps, " Yet what are
these wonders in comparison to others yet unfolded,
though dimly revealed, which are hold humbly in belief
by Christians ?"
THE NEWSLETTER.
Typhoid fever at Adelaide ; diphtheria at Port
Lincoln, B.A,
Professor Cavill ia agitating for the formation
of a N.B.W. Humane Society.
Eight men had a boat accident off Flat Top
Island, Q, ; three drowned.
F. G. Waterhouse has resigned the curator-
ship of the Adelaide Museum.
Over .£70,000 paid to land agent at Bombala,
during lost month, as interest on Selectors’ balances.
From 40,000 to 50,000 tons of rook removed
from the Pyrmont quarries by one blast of 9-cwt.
powder.
Crisp, notary public, Melbourne, has boon con-
victed of embezzling £lBB, from a widow, whose trustee
he was.
A youth, named Herbert Hales ; gun and a
fence. Awkwardness, and the usual result. This from
Beaufort, Victoria.
The Hon. Alex. Campbell, M.L.C., has been
elected a director of the A.M.P, Society, vice the Hon.
John Smith Craig, resigned.
The Sobraon is supposed to have foundered.
Part of her flgHre-head, and the top of a passenger’s
trunk, have been washed ashore.
Dr. M'Crea, of Melbourne, says that in the case j
of a person of dissipated habits he has known death
result from the mere prick of a pin.
A coroner’s jury has censured Dr. Power, “ for
his alleged inhumanity in not going out to see" Mr.
J. Q. Tharlow, when requested to do so.
Money Wigram and Son aro having three
powerful steamers, each of about 4000 tons, built on the
rivers Clide and Tees, for the Australian trade.
At last, the anxiously-lookod-for crashing has
been made at the Bird in-Hand Gold Mining Company
(S.A.) Result from 280 tons of stoue—4l6 oz. gold.
Population of Sydney, by last census, was
103,379; of suburbs, 120 832; of country districts,
527.257 : total, 751,468—ma1es 411,149. females 340,319.
There were 2720 patients, or 114 more, admitted
last year into the Syaney hospital than in the previous
year ; 994 patients were treated at the outdoor ophthal-
mic department.
The Adelaide and Suburban (horse) Tramway
Company, carried 1,740,000 passengers during the last
half-i ear. Dividends declared of ss. on the old, and Is.
on the new shares.
Melbourne Typographical Society wishes the
Victorian Government to interfere legislatively with
the continuous night employment in printing offices of
boys of tender years.
It’s a hard matter to kill N.S.W. minora. At
Carcoar, a minor fell 60ft. His mate below heard him
coming, and, bending down, received him on hi« back.
Nothing was hurt except the fall—which was broken.
The tram-car regulations of Adelaide are pecu-
liar. A passenger has been fined 10s. for smoking after
another person bad objected I By the way, Adelaide is
not far enough civilized for steam motors yet; all horse
power.
A Eoyal Commission in Victoria has decided
that out of twenty-one selectors in the Eohuca district
examined, only two are bai}a fide. In ton oases judg-
ment has been reserved, and in nine forfeiture recom-
mended.
A somewhat fierce discussion is proceeding in
Melbourne on the subject of Bradlaugh and Besant’s
pamphlet, *• Fruits of Philosophy,” which is exposed
for sale at the Pllnders-street railway station. The
Arcus calls the pamphlet "immoral.”
Serious water-famine in tha N.W. distidot f
Victoria. Out of 176 dams between InglewoodTnd
Kerang, only six contain water. Now, then, M’Coll,
the present is the time to hammer away about your
“ oanawl," and to make yonrselt a “ rich non 1"
The work of destroying vines in the infected
districts around Geelong will take several weeks yet to
complete. S. Australia means backing out of the pay-
ment of its portion of the subsidy if the Victorian
Government be not more energetic than it has been.
The Milligan Patent Electric Brake Company
is £250 in deut, while £2500 is required for experiments.
A suggestion that each shareholder hand back halt his
shares, or pay 3a. on each share, was approved by all
the members of a special meeting except Milligan, the
patentee.
A one-third share in the rich Ida p. 0., Maytown,
Palmer River, has changed hands at £36oo—which, says
a N.Q. paper, was a sacrifice induced by the unfortunate
vicissitudes of life that compel men to ground when
they should have their canoes out in the tide which
leads to fortune.
Mr. J. H. Fitzgerald’s first oane-cruahing, on
the Johnstone, has been very successful. The cane
yielded about two tons to the acre, but, next season,
which will commence on Ist June, the ground will, in
the opinion of a sugar-boiling expert from Maokay,
yield between throe and four t»ns per acre.
Ex-Constable Hicks, of Geelong, has been
acquitted of arson in connection with a fire at Horne
Hotel. Detective Kitt swore that Hicks was at the
scene of the fire at 1 a.m. Constables Regan and Glee-
son swore that Hicks was at the watch-house, 2\ miles
distant. An alibi, you see, by numbers av the fooroe.
Hayes, late school master at Kilmore, has been
convicted on one out of four charges of indecent
assault upon girl-pupils whoso ages were under twelve.
The Victorian Government calls for the resignation of
the three justices, who, previously to assisting to try
Hayes in the Police Court, signed a petition in his
favour.
Two Russian deserters, arrested for theft, at
Sale, Victoria, have been handed over to Admiral
Aslanbagoff They wore loaded with heavy irons, and
are to be sent to the Siberian mines for eight years,
the Admiral graciously deciding not to hang them.
Truly, mercy “droppeth like the gentle dew from
Heaven.”
Captain Connolly, of Sydney, has received the
bronze medal of the Royal Humane Society of iSug-
land, for having, about thirteen months ago, rescued
a drowning man off Balmain pier. Mr. William Boyd,
of Lake Macquarie, has received the same distinction
for having saved a woman and boy from drowning, two
years ago.
Tom Bent’s generosity (at Government expense)
knows no limit. He issued to Victoriau M.P.’s free
railway passes for themselves and wives. Now, instances
have occurred where the olive-branches also travel on
dead-beid tickets. This is the business Minister who
delights to manage his department on 11 commercial
principles.”
A twenty-years’ prisoner has been just released
from Peutndge. His crime was the murder of a man
who called his wife au obscene name. He was con-
demncc-1 to death, but the sentence was commuted to
imprisonment for life, and nov his continued go id
conduct has obtained his discharge. He hardly knew
Melbourne again when he was uncaged.
The Shop Employes Commission, now sitting in
Victoria, may bu very advantageously engaged, but
surely it did not require a surgeon to convey to them
the information that “sixteen Pours a day was too
much for anyone to work.” Aud the Commission
would get through its labours much, mure speedily if
it were not so fond of long adjournments.
Michael M‘Mahon, ex-Mayor of Petersham,
charged with having forged a promissory note for
£lO5O, purporting to havo bean signed by the late
1 nilip Andreas, of Petersham, has been found guilty of
Uttering, and sentence! to seven yours’ imprisonment
J.he testimony against accused was almost as strong
as it could be in face of the fact that the evidence of
tho alleged maker of the bill was wanting The defence
consisted in what tho judge called an improbable story
of a land transaction between the parties, in which
sums of £250 wore paid over without witnesses, and in
a paddock, by two shrewd business men. His Honor
also considered memoranda relating to the p n had
been interpolated amongst old-date items in a note
b j is a rloa mau * worth between £20,000
and £30,000. There are some curious circumstances
connected with the case, to which we may refer later.
Mrs. Mary Daro, the wife of a sheep-farmer
near the Burra (S. A.), has died from excessive drinking.
She and her husband “ were both good on the bottle,
and didn’t mind mixing their drinks a few.” Two
gallons of wine, two gallons of brandy, and several
gallons of rum were absorbed by the thirsty pair in a
few days. And yet the great problem—“ Can a man
swallow a barrel of beer ?” —remains unsolved.
The Macquarie Ward teetotallers are mad, at
the result locally, of the local option polling. They
find that others can play with their weapons as skil-
fully as themselves. A Macquarie Ward publican
wants to remove his licensed house, and the temperance
soldiers are defeated on their own ticket. A striking
illustration of narrow-minded politicians not being able
to see more than an inch beyond their own noses.
It is stated by a Townsville paper that on a
recent voyage of the Alexandra between Rockhampton
and the port first named there were twenty lady pas-
sengers on board, and only accommodation for fourteen.
However, the most astounding information is that the
ship ran out of fresh water after leaving Rockhampton,
and as “soft drinks” had run out almost simultaneously,
a number of the passengers were in a very sorry plight.
A temporary wooden bridge, 300 feet long, is to
bo erected at Albury by the Victorian Government, at a
cost of £2OOO, half of the money being paid by this
colony. N.S.W. is to erect a permanent bridge, one
chain wide, to the westward pf the temporary one,
Violoria going halves in the cost. There will be two
stations—one at Albury and the other at Wodonga.
N. S. Wales trains run on to Wodonga, and there trans-
fer; Victorian trains run on to Albury.
One of the New Caledonian escapees, lately
arrested at Bowen, jumped overboard from the Alex-
andra in Moreton Bay. The steamer was stopped, a
boat lowered, and chase given. The Frenchman swam
at least half n. mile before he was re-captured. Ibis
sort ot pluck, if turned to proper use, would be termed
heroic. It will be remembered that, some time since, a
French escapee convict pursued exactly the same course
in Port Jackson, and with an identically similar result.
It was objected against Mr. James Munro, of
Carlton. Victoria, when a candidate for the Presidency
of the Total Abstinence Society, that he had an interest
in the Melbourne Academy of Mnsio, where liquor was
sold. Munro’s friends rallied round him with good
result. This reminds us that not long ago, a licensing
Bench case in Adelaide revealed the startling fact, that
a somewhat notorious or else it was libelled -
’house, belonged- to the Society for tne Propagation off
the Gospel.
HDr. Youl, the Melbourne city coroner, has con-
ferred an inestimable boon on the Victorian public in
drawing attention to the pyoomic condition ot the
Melbourne Hospital. Another terrible case has now
occurred. Charles Cook, a sober, healthy man, hurt
his shoulder. Had his wife attended him at home, he
would have recovered after a lotion or two ; but cruel
fate sent him to the Melbourne Hospital, where erysi-
pelas was prescribed for him, with the usual ellective
results. He leaves nine children.
Another case of “ lambing down” ia reported
from Melbourne. The storv ia stereotyped. Matthews,
a bushmau, arrived at a hotel in Fitzroy, and com-
menced to shout. The lovely lessee, a Mrs. Maflit,
prevailed on him to hand over his cash “ fop safe keep-
ing," and ultimately to sign a blank cheque, which she
cashed, filled up to the tune of £2O, By some terrible
mistake, the magistrate omitted to dismiss the case
with the remark that Matthews seemed tohavebom
supplied with more drink than he ought in one day. In
fact, they committed Mrs. Miffit for trial.
Another tragedy debited to the green-eyed
monster. Charles Grimley, of East Maitland, was
jealous of his sweetheart, Ann Pettit. He drew lots
with paper marked, •* Kill her, yea," and “ Kill her,
no," respectively; thus (riving "luck” a share of his
crime. He drew the affirmative paper, effected au
entrance into her house at three o’clock one morning,
and shot her dead while she was peacefully slumbering
dreaming of him and his love. He returned
nome, and, filled with remorse, shot himself dead. He
does not appear to have drawn lots to decide this latter
point. Grimley he lived, and grimly died.
The S.A. expedition to the Northern Territory
has arrived at Port Darwin. Now for post haste
journayings through the territory, viewing tin and gold
swindles, and coming back fully primed with encyolo-
pmdiao information re pigtails, yellow-bellies, sugar-
growing and the mineral and pastoral resources of the
country. Politicians, like full-fledged angels, do not
require the ordinary slow processes of examination
and study, but arrive at the summit of cosmioal know-
ledge by heaven-born instinct swift as thought itself.
By the way, is it true, as under-currentfy rumoured,'
that the expenses of each member are to be limited to
10s. 6J. per diem, all told ? They say drinks are Is. a
nobbier up that way.
A most painful accident happened at Buckaroon
Station, near Cobar. From a local paper, it seems that
Miss Lucy Cochrane, a young and handsome lady from
Parramatta, had been but a short time there when, in
burning some paper in the open air, her garments
caught fire. Three rough bush hands at once ran to
her help, and succeeded in extinguishing the fire on her
outer dress, but the underclothing had caught, and,
thoagh suffering maddening ayony, the extrema sensi-
tiveness of the poor girl’s modesty caused her to resist
all efforts to remove the burning garments. The rough
bushmeu unfortunately allowed themselves to be de-
tarred by her screams and resistance, but it would have
been better had they used their force, for she never
recovered from the injuries. Her remains wore tram-
mitted to Parramatta. To the saintliness of woman,
hood Miss Cochrane was an ornament, and her death
its loss.
A correspondent, whose letters show he has
mastered his subject, writes to us. strongly condemning
the expensive bungling on the Government works at
Clarence River Heads. Although £lOO,OOO has been
spent, the mouth ot the river is, with the exception ot
one small dyke, no better than when the works were
started. Vessels have to navigate a tortuous course up
the north channel, through strong eddies and breakers
on every side, whioh have already caused the lose of
three ocean steamers, many coasters and numerous
lives ; while all these damages might be obviated by the
removal of a few feet of rocky shelf, which are the only
bar to a straight, safe entrance up the South Channel.
Our correspondent contends that opinion is universal
amongst those acquainted with, and interested in the
matter, that the breakwater schemes are a gigantic
mistake, the only persons who cannot see this being the
officials ot the Harbours and Rivers Department.
Queensland is jealous of the reputation N.S.
Wales has acquired by the slight punishments meted
out to such offenders as M'Douald, at Bathurst who
recently broke his wife’s leg with an iron bar. From
Maryborough comes a tale ot tyranny on the high seas-
Kiohard Johnson was an immigrant by the -Scottish
Wizard. The purser. Sheriff, knocked him down and
kicked him, under encouragement from the captain.
Second mate Barns, with the approbation of first mate
Mowat, thumhscrewed him, and then presented loaded
revolves at his head. Johnson was then placed m
irons, and made to sign a paper—the contents of which
lie now declares to no false—to the effect that certain
sailors broached cargo. He was " shepherded” all the
way to Mi' -borough, and then offered money not to
reveal the above facts. Ho prosecuted Barns and Sheriff
with the magnificent satisfaction cf seeing the former
sent to Brisbane gaol for two months, and the latter
lined £3, with £2 costs. Truly, law is law, and justice
justice A harmless old vagrant would have received
twelve months’ imprisonment.
George Henry Lamson, the son of the American
chaplain at Florence, has been charged, at the Wauds-
worth Police Court, with poisoning ills brother-in-law,
Beroy Malcolm John, a paralysed cripple, who was a
pupil at the establishment of Mr. W. Henry Redbrook.
of Blenheim House, Wimbledon, B tmson visited
John on Saturday, December 3rd, and presented him
with some cake and sweets. Shortly before leaving to
catch the train to Paris, Damson gave John a capsule,
filled, as he then assorted, with sugar, to swallow*
That night John was seized with convulsions and
vomiting and died Toe post-mortem examination
showed that death had beau caused by an irritant
poiion. Lamson appears to have been taken ill at
and some time elapsed before ho saw newspaper
accounts of the death of John. He immediatefy re-
turned to London and delivered himself up to the
Scotland Yard authorities. When refused bail he
cried out wildly, "I shall go mad” His father has
gone over from Florence to his aid. John’s property
which was considerable, reverts to Mrs. Lamson, and‘it
is said that Lamson was impecunious.


T
HEA T R E
I
Losses
Manager Mr. Ja
Stage Manager Mr. T
THIS (Thursday) EVEN
CYMBELINE.
In active preparation, Shakesphere’i
ANTONY AND CLEOP.
Doors open at half-past 7, common
fj HEA T E E I
KINDLY GIVEN POE THE
BY Mr. JAMES ALLI
GRAND COMPLIMENTARY PA
FIT to Mr. FREDERICK MERVI
departure for London), NEXT SAT
NOON, 25th instant, at 2,30.
Under the distinguished pat
EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR,
and tho Vice-regal Party, THE WO
MAYOR and ALDERMEN OF
CHARLES KAHLO, Esq., U.S. Con
The performance will commence wit
from “ BELPHEGOI
In which Mr. ALFRED DAMPIJ
Eainford and Sam Poole, Miss AM
Melville, and Little Rose Dampier, (
of L. M. Bayless, Esq., (Gaiety Then
Followed bv the Balcony S
“ ROMEO and JULII
In which Miss POMEROY and
Flemming will appei
(by kind permission of James
Theatre Royal)
After which the Pathetic Dram
(first time in Sydne
“TEARS, IDLE TEj
In which Messrs. Fred. Merviu, C
Harry Emmett, Miss MARIAN WII
Melrose, and Ettie Sherwood, will
permission of J. F. Keogh, Esq.,) (<;
To Conclude with
MATINEE MUSIC./
In Which Mrs. H. R. Woods, Mrs
H. B. Woods and Charles Huenerb
two Grand Pianos have been kindly
All the ahovementloned Artists,
volunteered their,valuable services.
• Commencing at 2.30; Carriages at
bookiag-up, at Elvy and Go's Georg
GEO. W. THORNTOJ
W. H. JENNINGS
HERBERT ABEOWSMITI
HARRY R. WOODS
VICTORIA
CASTLEREAGH-S 1
(Near King-street; close to Tramw
TO LET NIGHTLY, ON TERM.
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTEi
The above Hall has Seating Acc
people, is WELL VENTILATED
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., wi
WINGS, &0., and is in all respects (
the School of Arts, which it now su]
Half-price charged for Charita
For Terms, apply to
T
J. F. SCHOLER
107 Cos
HEATEE ROYAL
OPEN FOR ENGAGE
Will seat seven er eight hundre
with Gas ; lately patronised by the £
Terms moderate. Apply to
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, c*
dating 1300 people, is now avi
and other performances. The stag
depth, and has a neat proscenium.
DAVID
Lord Lcfliadalc ia dead, at the
Judge Fawcett has been relos
tine at Melbourne, and will resume
Mr. J. M. Lynch, editor of th
Telegraph, being about to leave for
ing othis friends will be held this (J
nt the Eoyal Hotel, to devise ap
bidding him farewell.
Mr. R. H. D. White, who
notice by the litigation at Melb
landed property worth a qunrtei
returned from a voyage round the
of a steamship in the British Chi
worth of superb furniture, selec'
foreign marts and exhibitions; ar
which went down at Gabo Island, n
valuable pianos which were being
board that vessel. An organ, purcl
John’s Church, Mudgee, at a cost o
out in a third vessel. The prays
especially solicited for this ship, in
spiritual hurdy-gurdies are watchec
with a more vigilant eye than sec
meats.
The belief that there’s a wor
of every mischief is distinctly d
Gasden of Eden apple episode, whic
orchard-robbing on record. Man i
taring to bin self how happy all hia
been “ had not Eve stolen that aj
some consolation to Sydneyites to
the first Eve came all our desolatioi
second Eve —whose address, by th
street, opposite the Theatre Eo;
comes sweet reactionary joy to the
weed. Eve, the woman, got us ti
Eve, the tobacconist, lets the desire
Even so.—Anvr.
HABNLEI6H.
THE PICK OP MARE]
TSB WHOLE OF THE Ufl
Frontages to the
LIVINGSTONE STREET,
HA
GREAT CLEAEAI
OF
ILLAWAHEA E
VIEW STEE
and
THE FAINT FOB IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
EXTRAORDINARY COVERING AND COVERING QUALITIES,
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVER
BLISTER, CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED.
STOCKS ALWAYS KEPT ON HAND BY
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLAEENCE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Fred Mervin is great fun. He is afraid, he
gays, that he won’t be able to appear at his benefit His
physicians are of opinion that his voice will hardly
gland the test. Wo suppose when ho goes home, he
will vilify this country by calling it Hoarsetralia. This
joke is the property of this office. Just as Hopkins’
•'Htrogoff ” is the sole property of Mr. Dampier.
• * *
Musgrove’s crowd produced “Olivette,” on
Tuesday night, at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, to a
jammed house. There was a fine attendance of the
clergy ; and the joke of thu season was made by Pean
Russell, who, on being asked what he thought of it,
replied that he considered it to be an undress rehearsal.
The parties then adjourned to the saloon, and drowned
their laughter in tent-wine.
* * *
Miss Pomeroy is said to bo very fascinating.
And we believe it. Even the man who sells prawns
next door to the theatre, is in the meshes, and yearns
to oyster into her chariot. And this reminds us, that
in whatever city Miss Pomeroy is, she lives on prawns
—we moan, of course, en prince.
* * *
Who are you ?” said Goodie, one night, to an
individual who was shoving into the Show, “on the
never." He had a black patch over his eye, no heels to
his boots, and his shirtfront was fastened by a hairpin.
“Who are you ?” enquired G. L. dubiously. “ Daily
Dogfight,” ha ejaculated. “ Commer (Iticj cial statf."
He was passed—out.
# # #
“Carados” of the London Referee, who is
the cleverest writer of theatrical pars, in the world,
abates that “ The Lights o’ London” is in such demaud
In foreign cities that G. E. Simms is now engaged in
translating it into Gum-Arabic. He also mentions that
a piece called “ 82” is to be produced in London, upon
the merits of which (he says) will depend the 82'd of
the public. These jokes are good enough for anything
except Sydney Punch.
• • •
When Miss Pomeroy gets into her carriage,
Goodie holds open the door, Allison tucks in her dress,
Weston hands her her fan, and 2500 admirers stare in
at the window. Josh then gets in beside her, and all
are crashed again.
* # #
“What paper?” said the usher at the Royal
to a party who was belting a piece of cheese as he passed
up. “Evun Nooze,” was the reply. “That makes
twenty-six,” said the usher; “ pass up, aud send for
your friends.”
* * •
Garner is trying to get together his original
Comedy Company, and it is to be hoped he will succeed.
The combination, when it first appeared, was unique.
Freddy is the only hitch at present. Arthur says he
must have a good low comedian ; and he has a delicacy
about offering an engagement to Pastor—Ahem.
• • •
Mr. P. R. C. Hopkins disclaims, in his adapta-
tion of “ Strogoff,” all responsibility for the “locals,”
which have so much tended to enhance the success of
the piece. The man whe congratulated him upon this
pungency is now in the hospital.
# # #
Johnny Moore informs us that he is going to
Adelaide to prepare sm advertising drop-curtain for the
pantomime. The intelligence will be tCOblVed with
breathless interest by Irving, Ris tori, jto., on the other
side of the ferry.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from menvbere of the theatrical
profession.]
There is no troth tn th% report that Grattan
Bigg® is to play Harslet for his benefit at Melbourne.
Alice Kees w-ears a Sydney trophy abdiit bet Showy
'k- It is a charm, in the shape of A little pigv which
was presented to her by sofho infAtUattd Cornstalk.
Alice says the sight of it always reminds her of the
•doner... Miss ffessfft OrVy Writes us a charming note
to say that she is not matrimonially engaged to Mr. J.
<l. Wallace. not=**\d it’s just here that the joy comes
in—to anyone else Hobart is to have a new Bijou
Theatre, ewnbd by a company, with a capital of £BO,OOO.
Mr. Gk R. Johnson, of Melbourne, who designed the
Hotteam Town Hall, is the architect K. B. Wiseman
lis# resigned the position of treasurer to the Theatre
Roys 1, Adelaide, and is about to locate itt Melbourne
Tamworth Oddfellows’ Hall is being remodelled into a
charming little theatre...Eugene Bede, the one-legged
gyumaet, is at Mudgee .Klevitz’s Eldorado Minstrels
nud Burlesque Company (we wonder who they are) have
at been Gympie—...What delicate compliments they do
S»ay to histrionic genius at Newcastle I We read in the
coal Herald that “ At the Gaiety the other night, Mr.
Dampi er played the * boosey ’ so well, that one lady in
the chairs was heard to express regret that * a person in
»wch a state should be allowed to act.*"
• « •
Mrs*. Langtry’s next dramatic essays will be
telatrehe in “ Ours," and Dora in “ Diplomacy.” The
►eKkl amount taken at Patti’s first New York concert
Isays Truth) was £6OO. while Sarah Bernhardt’s dtfbflt
brought in nearly £llOO. Mr. Abbey has engaged to
"run” her for thirty concerts, for which she is to
receive £30,000 and expenses. The first night under
the new management brought in £2lOO. Other specu-
lators offered her £BOO, £9OO, and £950 for each
appearance, and Mr. Abbey’s terms were obtained only
by pertinacious haggling. He has to pay, in addition,
her company (a very bad one), and an orchestra of fifty
performers The OLiri’Eßsays that “ Fritz " Emmett
goes to church now, and therein sets a good example
for others in the theatrical profession. It is said of him
that *he has been known to attend divine service twice
a day. This will balance accounts with those ministers
of the gospel who visit our theatres John Brougham,
the actor, boasted that no member of his profession
hadever been triedfor a capital offence David James
gets £lOO a week, in Loudon, to support Irving in the
“Two Koses" Mrs. Langtry is engaged to play
in “ Youth” in America Edwina, the only
daughter of Edwin Booth, celebrated her twentieth
birthday at Boston on the 9th inst. She received a
number of elegant presents, among them a fur-lined
cloak from her father, and a stand of flowers containing
twenty blush rosebuds, from Mrs. Ole 8u11...." Odette, "
Hanlon’s latest play, is a great hit at Paris, and is ex-
pected to run two years. It is difficult to pass by the Pans
Vaudeville, even as early as eleven o’clock in tho fore-
noon; there is a queue almost as long and almost as
eager as that which waits to take up a national loan.
On the third night of “ Odette " $6,600 had been taken at
thedoora Miss Davenport, makes “Camille" no
Parisian light o’ love, dazzling with beauty and low-
neoked dresses. She delioerately makes herself ugly
with a black wig, and hides her handsome neck and
shoulders, even in the ball room scene, so as to convey
the idea of a prim old maid, more sinned against than
sinning. This view of the character may suit Boston
and Philadelphia; but wicked Now York knows its
Paris, and is bored by a moral" Camille "...“Pinafore”
is to be given in German at Berlin, under the title of
Cupid on Board Ship (Amor au Bord) Joe Emmet
was overcrowding Niblo’s New York, in December, in
“Fritz." The play is utter rot; the company are all
beyond criticism; Emmet himself sings through his
nose worse than ever, and is so fat that he scarcely lifts
his feet from the stage when dancing Arthur
Sullivan has gone to Egypt for the benefit of his
health. It is said that, out there, he will complete the
music of the new comic opera he hopes to see produced
simultaneously in this country and England Paris
has formed what is called a “ Company for Telephonic
Entertainment," and which contemplates conveying
to a hall in Eouen the music of the Grand Opera-house
of Paris Mrs. F. M. Bates was married, in Chicago,
on December 29, to Charles Lord, of San Francisco
It has been calculated that la Patti and Niooliui, at the
S rices paid to them in the United States, get for the
net in the first act of “La Traviata" (101 words for
Violetta, 108 for Alfredo) at the rate of 79f. 20c. per word
for Patti, and If., 60c. por word for Nicolimi. The
orchestra having struck up the refrain, the duo begin#;
Violetta cries Oh I qual pallor (these throe words, 237£,
COo ), A WCffiont’s silence j she perceives Alfredo and
tries: Voiqni (150 fr 40c.). Alfredo replies: Cetsata
el'ansia chevitnrha (32fr. 40o.) F to which Violetta re-
turns : tio meglio (150 fr. 40o.). Towards the end of the
duet comes the Anal “Tell me once more that you love
me I” “ Ah ! do I love you ?’* the words Amo, Amor, pass-
ing lack wards and forwards from Patti to N icolini and
from Nicolini to Patti, at the respective rates of 79 r 20c.
and 4fr. 600. each A Miss Koche, who weighs 3001 b is
to play Lady Jane, in “ Patience” at New York. She
has a voice powerful in proportion to her bulk
Edwin Booth and his tragic company played “ Hamlet"
in their street costumes, at a New England town,
rather than disappoint an audience. Mr. Booth’s
“ trappings and suits of woo" oonsiMed of a nfiat
morning suit of Oxford miSbnfe. Mr§. CalVert, aS the
Queen, tied a handkerchief over her head, to give a
little Danish colour to her pnrf, and seemed as it suffer-
ing from toothache. The Ghost appeared in an ulster
and held out an umbrella instead of a truncheon. At
the sight of him Hamlet visibly shook, but not with
fear. The King confessed his crimes in a spotless light
overcoat The Gravedigger dug in his shirt-sleeves,
and brought up a hat box as the nearest approach to a
sku 1. Hamlet and Horatio fenced with poisoned
canes, and the Queen drank to Hamlet out of a lager-
hser mug. Eosenoranz and Guilderstern were handed
a meerschaum, when Hamlet asked thbiti, “Oan ydu
play upon this pipe r “ The Player Queen assumed an
antique air by wearing a Motlier Hubbard bonnet.
Ophelia let her back hair down over her sealskin
sacque, and stuck feathers in her head instead of straw.
The audience enjoyed the performance heartily.
A real actor, i,s Billy Hill remarks in the Temple of
Vesta, can play Eichnrd the 'I bird in his night-shirt
Captain Jones, a construction engineer, for a groat
many years a resident of St. Louis, holds a daily Jevte
at an office in the Jacoard Building, where he exhibits a
working model of a libretto, which, he proudly declares,
will soon find a place in every theatre in the world,
and which solves a problem that has presented itself in
an unpleasant form to every lover of the drama or of
opera. In brief* it is a device by which every member
of ah operatic or tli.dattioill aiidioncG ha? platted befoto
him, iil bold relief, the text in MS otfn Jduguoge of the
opera or play which ho is hearing, and has the lines
pointed out to him at the instant they are being recited
by the actor or singer. It consists of an illuminated
bulletin, operated like a smill panorama, and located at
whatever point on, or near the stage, may best enable the
audience to consult it without any motion of the head
or body. The scroll is wound off one roller upon
another as the play progresses, and, as it is to be
operated by a pretty little water-power mechanism, the
ditCCtot of the drchbstra, by the slightest movement of
the hhna, edn lo GontrGl itS Movement that the lines
will pass a wire index at exactly the siriifi tlmtf they are
recited. By dividing the bulletin into vertical columns (
and heading each column with the actor’s title, the
inventor has so arranged as to indicate the order of
speaking all the parts, and the different language of the
several singers in duets, trios, quartets, and choruses.
Moreover, the bulletin serves as a silent prompter to
the actors, and thus gives them perfect confidence,
however »a# the p1ay.,...J0 “Foggerty’s Fairy," a
dining-room is suddenly transformed into n drawing,
room in presence Of the spectatofs, the furniture, etc.,
being changed by mCcliamoal appliances operating from
bonedth the stage The adaitoritim and the stage of
the Savdy ThedirS, London* Eilg;, Wefe illuminated by
elCCtflC lights December 28, and the experiment Was
pronounced successful, the lights being pure, soft and
steady. The disagreeable glare of the tootlights was
avoided Her friends are apprehensive that, unless
Sarah Bernhardt ceases work, in accordance with the
recommendation of her physicians, she will break down
entirely. lately she has had several fainting tits
while performing Gounod is endeavoring to give a
musical setting to a poom by Louis Qallat. It is not,
properly speaking, a dramatic work, being a senes of
scenes relating, iu part, to thd loVes or Heloise and Abe-
lard Little Eena, who appeared ill Sydney with F.
Q Maeier, has been ser.ously ill If tho regular
correspondent of the Tbibune is to be credited, Mrs.
Langtry, as an actress, has already provoked professional
jealousy. Other actresses think it unjust that a mere
amateur should have received M much applause on her
first appearance, and do not relish the idea of her being
granted an immediate engagement at the Haymarket,
where, by the way. She is eipsoted to appear ra the
military drama of “ Ours" at the end of January. It is
said that she is to get One hundred pounds a week, or
more than double the salary paid to any other actress
of the edmpahy. People are even flow explaining why
she exhibited no stage-fright. As a mover in fashion-
able society she hfts, tor yeafs.’it is reasoned, been the
host staled-at woman in Great Britain, and therefore
can have had no reason to shrink from the gaze of a
theatrical audience. Eeduced to vulgar fractions, this
means that Mrs. Langtry had become a woman of gall.
The cable records the death of the celebrated
actress, Madame Celeste, or Celeste Elliott, at the age
of 66. Celeste Elliott was born in Pans, August 6,
1815, aud entered the dancing classes of the Eoyal
Academy of Music when quite a child. At the age of
14 she accepted an engagement in the United States,
whore she was married to a Mr. Elliott, who died
shortly afterwards. Her first appearance in England
was at Liverpool, in 1830, when she performed the part
of Fenella, in “ Masanicllo.” She returned in tho same
year to the United States, where the people, in the
excess of their enthusiasm, yoked themselves to her
carriage, and proclaimed her a citizen of the Union,
General Jackson himself presenting her to the Council
of Ministers, In 1837 she returned to England with
considerable wealth, aud appeared as an actress at
Drury Lana, and afterwards at the Haymarket. In
1844 she was associated with Mr. Webster in the direc-
tion of the Adelphi Theatre, and, having dissolved
partnership with him, undertook the management of
the Lyceum, which she held until the close of the
season 1860-61. Madame Celeste returned to the
United States in 1865, and came back to England in
1868 taking a formal farewell of the stage at Adelphi
Theatre, London. October 22, 1870. It will be remem-
tered that she was in Melbourne on the occasion
of the first visit of Prince Alfred, who sent ho
a ring as a mark of his esteem At Philadelphia,
there are two regular German theatres with permauen
stock companies, and one German-opera house occupied
by a resident German-opera company. These are kept
open on Sunday nights, as they have been foryears past.
Mayor King, however, notified the Teutons that they
must suspend their dramatic and musical performances
on Sunday nights; but on Sunday, November 20, tho
crafty lovers of beer and pretzels pulled down their
blinds, admitted none but Germans, informed
the blue coated guardians of the peace that
club-meetings were in progress, and then proceeded
to give their shows as usual to crowded houses
John H. Vinson was found dead in a saloon, No 368
Sixth Avenue, adjoining Booth’s Theatre, New York,
on the morning of November 21. After enter-
ing tho place, about midnight, he was taken
suddenly ill. He was placed upon a lounge, some
remedies were applied, and two of the attendants re-
mained with him until about three o’clock, when he felt
much better. He asked permission to remain there
during the rest of the night, which was accorded, and
he was locked in. When the place was opened at day-
break, ha was found dead. Deceased was 62 years of
age, he had been for many years an actor and stage-
manager, and had pursued his profession for a long
time in San Francisco, Cal., whither he came from Aus-
tralia. On January 17, JBBl, Mr. Vinson assumed the
role of Uncle Tom in G Fawcett Eowe’s version of
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” hitherto played by A. H. Hast-
ings, and acted it until the piece was withdrawn. Since
the close of the season 1880-31 he had been idle. By
the way, th-i daughter of deceased was lately advertised
for. She was for many years the ward of a well-known
Sydney journalist who educated her. She is now in
Melbourne Joaquin Miller, Eankin, ,the actor, and
an obscure "amanuensis." each swears by the ever-
lasting hills that he is the author of “ The Danites."
Joaquin Miller wrote of Eankin that ho was “the most
colossal liar and the most impudent thief that ever
made use of the practice of both without the skill of
either.” A judge decided that this doso of cayennne
was not criminally libellous. Of course, this was a.
judge iu a free country—America Mrs. Langtry’s
engagement at London Haymarket is at the rate of £6O
per week The Tbot Times says that “ Brick
Pomeroy " is broke again, although a few months ago
he was doing business in serip to the tune of £4OOO
daily; having commenced operations on a capital of
two dollars. The same paper gives a glowing account
of his fine social character. He is said to be generous
to a fault. We are not surprised to find, therefore, that
“ Brick ” is his “ morter."
The portrait of Sir Alfred Stephen, which ap-
pears on our front page, is from a x’b°to. by Freeman,
—and one of a collection on sale at Mr, J, W. K.
Clarke’s, George-street.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, Feb. 21, 1882.
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at £3 15s. to £4 per ton; medium samples, £2 15s to
£3 ss. per tou, a good supply arriving, and fair demand.
Maize, sa. to ss. 31.; oats, 3s. to 3s. 3d. per bushel;
Victorian onions, £3 to £3 os. ; do. chaff, £6 per ton,
bags inclusive; Warrnambool potatoes,(£3lo?. to £315?.
per ton; butter, in keg. Is. to Is. 3d. per lb.; eggs.
Is. fid. per dozen; bacon 7d. to fid.. cheese 4d to 81.,
ham lid. to la., honey 4d. tosd., lard sd. to fid., beeswax
fid, to lOd. per lb.; millet brooms 7s. fid. to 10s. per
flowed.
PoufjTßif.—At the various auction marts, poultry was
in moderate supply, and sold fairly. Fowls brought
from 2s. to 4s. 61,; ducks, 3a. fid. to ss.' geese, 4a. fid.
to fis. fid.; turkeys (cocks), from Ba. to 25a.; ditto
(hens), 4a. fid. to Ba.; pigeons, la. to Is. fid. per pair.
Wheat.—This market continues unaltered, with
no great quantity on band. Adelaide wheat,
sa. fid. to sa, Bi.; New South Wales, 6s. 3d. sa. Bd.;
Victorian ss. fid.; Launceston, 5a..4d.; New Zealand,
ss. to ss. 3d. per bushel.
Flour.—The local llonr market this week shows little
or no, alteration. Since our last report the Adelaide
and Victorian markets, however are somewhat eaoier.
Sydney mill flour, superfine, is selling at £l3; seconds,
at £11; N.B. Wales country brands, £l2 10s. to £l3;
Victorian and Adelaide, £l2 to £l3 per ton; bran and
pollard. Is. 4d. per bushel.
Fat Cattle. —At the Homebush fat stock sales, fi.,o
head of cattle were yarded, and for prime quality the
market was firmer. Best beef, up to 225. per 100 lbs.
Fat sheep market unaltered. Merino wethers: Best,
lls. to 11s. fid.
Fresh Meat —kt the Darling Harbour railway, the
dailv sales at auction at the Kiverstone_ Co.'s shed,
continue well supplied, and with a brisk demand.
Prime beef sells at 21. per 11).; medium quality, IJd ;.
and inferior, lid., all round. Prime mutton is also
selling at from lid. to l|d. per lb , all round.


ĥOST PLI
S
A
F
E
8
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO
that, the best olu
TANT and Deodoriser f<
SMALL-POX and all oth
CONTAGIOUS :
can be found 1
PANTER AND PARRY’
OP SOA
whiok not only contains
dienfcs for the greatest <
evor yet introduced bo
composed in its manufac
beet disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FRO
PLANT
known, and admitted in
throughout the globe. Oo
it is free from all injtu
pie ng smelly will not ii
5 u.0 bunds, is the grea
U.ionr, rendering tiny art
with 0 th purest whi
marvellous short, space of
NO HOUSE SHOULD I
ns it cannot bu surpasse
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crc
Paint, Pic
and every Honsebi
DIRECTIONS for wlih
EACH PACKET, which
from all Grecers and St<
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEOR
BYD N :
IN THE W
'Dispense Preen Huttons ot
I other House In Svduev. AI
Medicines at less than English
I Perfumery, Fanny Soaps, Bp
1 aix kinds or dudooisi
Sold for a Prioe List. Conn
I itly attended t*. Ihm’t fori
I ou oannot mistake lb—
Opposite Hordern's Nov
W. KEI
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLO
664 GEORGE STREI
Opposite Sta Andrew
Module of evsfy description, M
floatation Trowels design*
Premises
Diamond se
A malt and Choice Assortmei
Mall and always
Waltham Watches, fr
KING STREET 1
ran ah
MARTIN & Pj
i-’-yr r~
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising onr customers and the
Farmersof N.S.W. generally, thatourPLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete over offered.
In addition to all the welbkno wn ENGrLISIT and AM (SKI-
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGEKTS POE
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
Anil iroQuest all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, os
William Hichio’s I£S2 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANY OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE TDI3 VERY CAREFULLY.—
INFORMA
READ
OUBJB
Before Ordc
send fo
Our Price
AND
All Particu
MARTIN
-*> aho pj
383 Ccor§
SYCME
Intending Pur
Gutters offered t
INE BUNGLE.
John Bnnole, i
his Clialf Gutter!
east on liy-whet
'aoture.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE S
fcXwSKS
m lipM
■ \ ■ . /ICr Ur?iNG
If HUNTF.R SI
;'.IIVFR«, V/ATCHfTS
J .4.10.
SYDNEY
SLM) FOR
CATALOGUE
rjIHE GREAT WANT OP THE AGE IS A REJ
None bettor than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syi
pUB L I 0 N
The IMPOSTERS of the TAEP
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosec
endeavours to deceive the public
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for th
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The public are CAUTIONED t<
bearing
“ THE TAEPING MIXTURE,
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signatu
thus—
Clifford, Love, &
Those who are desirous of havini
TEA, must bo certain that ever
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTER!
to take inferior teas, which for tb<
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE A 1
MIXTURE ARE GUAT
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
p. butch:
WHOLESALE GROCER AN!
YORK STREET, ST;
JOHN D
IMPORTER OB
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
this fittings, Globes, Electric 1
Butchers' Brine Pi
C
E
L
E
B
H
A
T
E
D
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
IX9 LIVERPOOL STREET,
H. L. SUIEERI
ECONOMY IN CLOT
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS FROM
DIRECT IMPORT]
THE PEOPLE’S Ti
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SBLF-MEA6
sent to any part of the o
vr The particular attention of
dents is requested to this
Any style of Garment made to
SU MMERFIELD’
GUIDE TO SELF-MEABU
8
16 [
I 03 Pi PITT STI
■
STAN
U.ITS
MAO
EAO
ss
s
UN
s
E
O
iSI
M
E
P
M
r
in
hV
AiAtfSTV
Dart;»iVt-y y
\
ICI
Cnc
etin|)
UHSUFM"ASt;EU
"Standard” Summer Tweed Suits £, 1 5 O
" Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality 112 6
" Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
“ Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
" Standard ” Superior ditto 115 0
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen's
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
FEAFES and SHAW,
FEAP 3 f i rdSHA
P E A P E 8 & SHA W ,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DRUWK £mneS Cured.
Book free by post.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS
S. FRESHMAN,
359 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
GOLD CURE.
GOLD CURE.
