

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.-No. 125.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 17 ,1882.
Price—3d‘
%\t bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1882.
Inland Navigation and Water Supply.
A month ago the people of Wiloannia met and
proposed to form a company for the improve-
ment of their noble river. We think that the
consideration of snoh a project, even though in
embryo, deserved something better than the snub
it received in The S.M. Herald of 28th April, and
wo cannot for the life of us see anything unbe-
coming in such an idea being promulgated from a
place some distance away from Hunter-street.
There are people with brains among the back-
blockers ; and, as to the other requisite-
capital—that element, Heaven knows, is easily
enough got, in these times, if wanted to
be launched in much less feasible schemes
than the opening of the Darling. In its
first shape, the plan submitted may no doubt
have been crude, as all schemes are at first, but
the germ of a national enterprise of the first
moment was there, and for that reason the move-
ment should have been received with respectful
consideration. The meed of a good word was
fairly due to the men who moved in the matter,
if for no other reason, because their action indicated
the existence of public spirit, an instinct of local
self-help, and independent enterprise, qualities
rarely mot with in Now South Wales, and deserv-
ngof especial encouragement in these days when
the whole colony is becoming manacled with red-
tape, and smothered under the proprietorship of
absentee syndicates.
* • •
There can bo nothing more certain or less
visionary than the substantial results which would
follow the application of experience and science to
the country traversed by the chief river of Aus-
tralia. The drainage of a basin, measuring some-
thing like 200,000 square miles, feeding a thousand
streamlets rising over ten degrees of latitude, from
the icy rill that dances down the Turon ranges, to
the gilgai on the western plains that runs but
onoo a year ; all this water —at least that which
runs above ground —finds an outlet to the sea
only by the stream passing Wilcannia. The vast
area of the country so traversed remains under
ho ban of sterility; at times freshened by an un-
usual rainfall, but generally waterless back from
he river, and every third or fourth year with
rass and water dried up, parched as the Sahara.
It is fit only,” say the umbrella squatters about
Exchange, who never saw it, *‘for pastoral
purposes.” “ It ia fit,” said Sir Thomas Mit-
chell, who knew it well, ‘‘for all purposes of
ivilizedman, —with theneedf ul element supplied.”
To regulate the navigation of the Darling by locks
and embankments ; to disperse the flood-waters by
reservoirs and canals permeating the back country,
are operations quite within the scope of engineer-
ng capacity, Works for storing water and
irrigation are to be aeon in all countries lying
under similar latitudes, except in Australia; in
Egypt and India ; made alike by Lombard and by
Mexican ; by the Boers of the Orange Free State,
and by the Mormons of the Salt Lake ; most of
these operations being carried out, too, by local
enterprise, or, rather, elbow-grease, without the aid
of imported capital, or the advantage of a super-
vising Government like ours.
• ' m •
No country could be better suited for works of
the kind than the Darling basin. The gradual
fall of the ground—just enough to make water
run—with no obstacles to remove, provides all that
could be wished for successful canalisation -while
the deep soil, cracking in red and black rifts in
the sun, but with the first drenching bursting at
once into fertility, affords the sure promise of a
rich result. Much country that is now next to
useless would become highly productive under
this influence, and an opening would be made for
new industries through the opportunities for irri-
gation provided.
* * *
But efforts to conserve and utilise water in the
back country, the one chronic want of Australia,
have, as yet, met with scant appreciation either
from the public, the Government, or the fogies of
the old-fashioned Press. Individual enterprise in
this direction has been subjected to every penalty
that oat-witted officialism and political petti-
fogging could devise. The noted 31st clause,
introduced, some years ago. with the avowed
object of protecting the builders of dams against
the exactions of black-mailers, has a curious
history and a moral in point. It proved so un
popular among the large and influential class who
make their living by land-sharking, that the
Minister who introduced the measure was com-
pelled by the necessities of office to emasculate his
own bantling and then strangle it. Now, there is
no speculation so hazardous as to provide the one
element wanted in our interior. Take the follow-
ing as a sample : —Two years ago, a squatting firm,
occupying a run west of the Darling, succeeded at
length, after boring for some time, in striking two
springs. Having made this valuable discovery at
great cost, these lessees in a straight-forward way
reported the same to the Department, and made
application that the results of their labours should
be secured to them. Jf they had possessed the
larrikin-like enteness that seems to prompt our
administration, they would have anticipated the
difficulty by keeping a stock of Volunteer
Land Orders, Mining Permits, and False De-
clarations, ready to pounce on the ground at
once, as soon as they struck water ; but
instead of showing the usual tipket-of-lewe
smartness they behaved exactly as if they were
addressing a public office presided over by a gentle-
man. To anyone capable ©f understanding common
honesty, this case shpuld hare been plain sailing.
Ihe Minister would, one would think, confirm the
lessees’ rights in their discovery without hesitation,
and, if he had the soul of a man, would compli-
ment them on the example of enterprise they had
set to the colony.
• « •
But, for some reason, the Cabinet postponed a
decision. A store-keeper on the line of road had
applied as soon as the water was struck, that the
land made productive should be withdrawn from
the lease ; in fact, that it should be confiscated
so far as the lessees’ interest was concerned.
After summering and wintering over the question
since June, 1880, the Cabinet has now decided
that the portions of the run so watered shall be
withdrawn from the lease and created pubhe
reserves, bufc that the lessee shall bo allowed a
lease of a few acres at each spring ! _ The farce ot
the strip of ground conceded brings out the
scandal and iniquity of the proceeding all the
more strongly. The leasees may drive their sheep
to a tank supplied by the spring, where they may
have the privilege of scrambling for water with all
and sundry, and they may keep their sheep on
what remains of their lease if they so choose.
And this practical confiscation is their reward for
spending .£3OOO in money, and no small time and
study in giving value to country otherwise
worthless !
« * •
The enormous risk added to the cost of making
dams and wells, is one of the causes, along with
others, that is driving our pastoral industry yearly
out of the hands of individual settlers, and more
and more into the form of huge estates owned by
absentee financiers. In certain districts, nine
electors out of ten will see nothing in such Govern-
ment action more than the legitimate pressure
brought to bear on the unpopular pursuit of
squatting, and daily exercised by individuals under
that profitable form of agriculture called “ black-
mailing.” It is just as equitable to seize upon
the water saved by a squatter’s money as to make
a selection in his paddock and begin the day after
to impound his sheep. 'Both proceedings are
slrictly in the spirit of Sir John Robertson’s
famous law. But those who back such laws, and
those who turn over coin by thus “working the
oiacle,” seem little aware that what they are
d ing, so far from being in favour of popular
interests, or tending to aid the settlement of the
lands, is really working towards the establishment
of a monopoly which is, compared to the squatting
lease, the burden of a millstone to a grassttopper.
Every landshark who selects to sell out, every
blackmailer who forces the squatter to buy land,
is doing his boat to build up the dominion of the
money power—a power which knows no question of
either public policy or humanity, and which, when-
ever paramount, crashes out settlement by the very
rules of *ioS being. From one end bf Riverina to
the other you can sen this blazoned in the history
of the last ten years. In 1861, people feared the
horso-hoofs of the squatter; now, colonisation is
trampled out by the elephantine tread of finance.
But, while our legislation is so much the fruit of
faction, we can hardly expect such considerations
to have weight. The partisan view of every
question ignores all regard for common-sense,
abstract right and wrong, mid general conse-
quences. We fear that, before we see things
better, we must wait till our electors, members,
and ministers, havo made up their minds to try
honest and intelligent government. Perhaps, when
that time comes, wo may have a land law based
on broad interests, drawn up by men who know
what they are doing, and framed, nob in the in-
terest of either squatter or selector, but in the
interest of the people of New South Wales; and
then the improvement of the rivers and the work
of watering the dry country may be carried out.
The Coming Man.
Mb. Thomas Garrett, M.P., is a notable per-
sonage. It would be improper, perhaps, to de-
scribe him as a political adventurer, but there can
be no objection to characterising him as a politician
who has had adventures. Fortune has played
odd pranks with Mr. Garrett, but then he has
constantly tempted Fortune. His mercurial tem-
perament has incapacitated him for the dull ways
of ordinary men. He evinces a determination to
be “ either a man or a mouse,” with an occasional
variation in the way of resembling a drowned rat,
! upon which it is proverbially futile to throw
cold water. Within the last few years Mr.
Garrett has been singularly unlucky. It
has been his misfortune to have been made
a Minister of the Crown—a position for which
his idiosyncrasies eminently disqualify him.
Again, it has been his misfortune to have
Sir John Robertson for a faithful friend 1
who, just at the moment when the agonies of
dissolution seemed over, and the drowning rat
appeared about to sink into perpetual quietude at
the bottom of the political Ducket —plucked him
gasping and biting from the slop-pail, and set him
going again.
* • •
It was Mr. Garrett’s extreme bad fortune,
owing to his follower —Sir John —interfering at a
wrong moment, to have been denied a fair trial
with respect to the Mil burn Creek swindle ; such
a trial as so firmly established the unsullied inno-
cence of Messrs. Baker, and Co. Mr. Garrett
had been as distinctly arraigned, and there is no
doubt that, but for Sir John’s officious and mis
placed interference, he would have enjoyed the
iame opportunities as were afforded to Mr.
Baker of clearing his aspersed character. As
things fell out, Mr. Garrett has had to get
along as best he could without any snoh
clearing up. The singular thing is that he
has shown no resentment against his indiscreet
follower, Sir John, although the injury done to
his reputation by that “presuming, rash, intruding
fool” will undoubtedly pursue him to the day of
his death. Once more Fortune has been in her
most tantalising mood. Owing to Sir John’s
unhappy interference in the affairs of his leader,
Mr. Garrett, that unlucky politician was placed
in a most delicate position, flis good faith as an
honest legislator had been challenged, and the
affair shelved without any better settlement than
an excited vote of a Legislative Assembly in a
moment of supreme perturbation. And while
thus situated, an innocent and legitimate specula
tion is, by an extraordinary, and, in fact, inex-
plicable combination ©f fortuitous circumstances,
made to bear the appearance of a betrayal of trust
and a deliberate plot to plunder the public.
* * *
Mr. Garrett’s own simple story is that he,
being totally uninformed about the design of the
Government to resume certain lands at Darling
Harbour, in June, kept on buying lots in that
vicinity for a considerable period until the latter
part of May. His intentions were simply to build
wool-stores upon the ground—wool-stores, and
public baths at Watson's Bay being apparently
considered as excellent things by Mr. Garrett
and Sir John Robertson respectively. By an
extreme contrariety of circumstances, Mr.
Garrett’s purchases were barely completed
when the Government announced its intention to
resume the land —a declaration which not only
rendered his intention of erecting wool-stores im-
practicable, but threw upon him the dire necessity
of claiming, as compensation for land which Jhad
cost him, including expenses of transfers, alxmt
.£10,133, a modest solatium of .£20,108, being only
about ,£lO,OOO profit on his bargain.
# # #
Mr. Garrett could not but feel that, if the
public became acquainted with these circum-
stances, they might, and probably would, draw
injurious conclusions from them. But,
with the courage which has at all times
distinguished him, he disregarded the pro-
spect of suffering from a contumelious sentiment,
which he had not at any time—according to his
own sense of what is right and fitting—deserved,
and pursued his rights. There are some people
plagued by a morbid sensitiveness which prevents
them from doing aught which would taint their
good name with even the appearance of self-seek-
ing. Mr. Garrett is of a different kidney, and
of a more robust fibre. He will have his rights—
if he can—even though his character—his olitioal
character—-suffer in the process.
• • •
For our own part, so little has the result of the
recent proceedings altered our opinion ot Mr.
Thomas Garrett, M.L.A., that we regard the
honorable gentleman as having displayed quali-
ties which point to him as in every respect emia-
MR. JOSEPH PALMER ABBOTT, M.P.
(See next page.)


WILL SHORTLY RE-OPEN.
THE HYDE PARK
FURNISHING
EXHIBITION!
OXFORD STREET.
MANDELSON
AND
DAVIS,
LATE
v
HARDY BROTHS.
entiy fitted to follow in the footsteps and fill the
Apis of our moat distinguished present Premier,
Sir Hhkbt Pabkbs ; while the close and intimate
relations which subsist betwixt Mr. Garrett and
the present aoting-Premier, Sir John Robbrt-
bon, stamp each of the associates with equal
merit, and place the honour of Mr. Garrett
altogether beyond the reach of calumny.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More “Compensation.”
It might hare been thought that the people of the
eolony, and especially those resident in the capital,
were so thoroughly satiated with and alive to the
“ compensation " dodge that some new plan for getting
grasping lists into public money-bags wonld be Invented.
Bat the ingenuity of hungry public men and their
Mends appear* to be most disproportionately small
When eontrasted with their appetite. Alderman Chat*
ma v, with a courage which seemed to be generated
partly by dulnes# of apprehension, ventured to repeat
the old discredited formula in the Sydney Municipal
Ocnnoil, when he claimed for butchers’ “ compensation”
■for being deprived of the right to slaughter iu the heart
«f the elty. This “right”—roelly a most atrocious
wiong—was notoriously attained by active, though
-underhand, exertion of the butchers’ own influence,
the public being ignorant of the plot laid against its
Sanitary well-being until too late to prevent the mis.
•hief from being legalized. Protest and revolt followed
upon the discovery of the game that had been
*f.put up," and, once the true weight of public opinion
lad aa opportunity of making itself felt, the 44 right ”
mp» rescinded withont unnecessary delay. But now the
ajfjfrosnors eoollyput forward an advocate to demand
“ eompoosatien ”on their behalf !■ This is too thin.
•"Heads, I win ; tails, you lose, ’’ is a dishonest formula
but it is a near enough equivalent for a plan whereby a
plant ” may be sprang upon the citizens, at any time,
to the injury of their well-being, and, upon its deteo-
•ion’and repudiation, “ compensation" be demanded for
all that had bson done towards making the injury
to the community & substantial one.
Tickets and Children.
■'Pirn wretched little squabble among the directors of the
feandwldk Asylum for Orphans would scarcely merit
noMee were it not that one of the wranglers is a
Zionist of so mueh grandeur of character as to have
-tteen selected by the advisers ef H.M. the Queen for
the distinction of a decoration. It was this noble man
yWho was charged by Mr. PaNFOLD|with freezing on to
Mghb-penn’orth of tram-tiekets, paid for from the
funds available for the orphans. And it was the same
• MG. Who attempted to crush his assailant with the
magnificent retort—eo indicative of largeness of mind
And breadth, of apprehension-*that if he (the C.M.G,)
plunged for tram-tiokota, ha (the assailant) harassed the
orphans to the extent of roast ehieken. There was
•sally nothing in the ticket episode, unless indeed Mr,
Jens Daviss deliberately sought the two-penny things
Intending to hand them to his family. This is not
alleged, and certainly if they were sent to him by the
secretary, a man might bo forgiven for pitching them
With a "pish" to the handiest recipient. A great
mind eannot occupy itself about "tuppenny” tickets.
®ut the nature of Mr. Davies' retort showed but too
•snelnsivoly that —C.M.G. though he be—he does not
possess a great mind. Assailed with tram-tickets, he
sheltered himself behind chicken. As the self-dis-
played possessor of a small pattern of intellect, his
responsibility with raspeet to the tickets assumes
augmented significance. One can quite imagine a
C.M.G , who thinks an allegation of ill-gotten chicken
sufficient to crush an opponent, regarding the dis.
position of two-penny tickets as an important matter
Seriously affecting a man’s moral character. In such
case, one has a right to inquire with corresponding
gravity why the Companion of Michael and George
r, «rtuek to” those tickets, and if general adhesiveness
be a part of his ordinary conduct in positions of trust ?
Statistics of Failure at the Public
Examinations.
Y i%t recently the matriculation and the yearly exami-
nations of undergraduates at the Sydney University
have been in progress. In connection with tho matric.
fexam. we desire to call the attention of the governing
authority or authorities of the University to the
advisahleness of furnishing statistics of failure as well
as statistics of success. The request has been urged
before, and with quite as much reason as now, but it
has always been met with that easy contempt with
Which only a Government Department can afford to
treat a reasonable, if not popular, wish. For it eannot
be denied that the people are apathetic about the
University, its method, and its aims. Of tho number
•likely nnder examination in that stately building on
Grose Form about 100 are intending matriculants ; but
ef these few will enter the University as under-gradu-
«toe. Some of tffiem no doubt intend to enter lawyers'
•fljees, others make the Matriculation Examination the
(fcpstene of their educational arch. Hence it follows
that few of the young men who pass will make their
bow to the, oh I so venerable, Chancellor at the coming
commemoration. Bat what is desired, not only in the
fitter ef these matriculation examinations, but also in
the yearly examinations held in November, is that the
examiners should complete their work by furnishing
the public with a statement showing how many went up
lor examination in eaeh subject, how many passed in
each mibjeet, and frem what school or teacher both the
passing and plucked candidates came. This would
serve two purposes. Ist. It would furnish parents
witfh a pood test ef tho relative efficiency of the schools
te whieV they may intend to send their sons ; and 2nd,
tt weald enable a teacher to find out in what subject or
epikfeets hie pupils had failed, and so help him to
«sbm4j the evil before next examination. It maybe
paged that the teacher may do this by taking his pupil
«inen«h the examination papers, but when the infor-
mation could be oo easily furnished by the University
authorities, it is unfair to put a teacher to so much
trouble.
The Larrikins’ Sunday School.
‘Wmms.'b is it? Bounded by the fences of the Domain
Ond the waters of Port Jackson. Tho law is powerless,
authority set at naught, and tho country is being daily
more completely surrendered to the larrikins. A walk
tigrough the Domain last Sunday afternoon was a
jtailtebla one to na, bent on observation. Here
II is that profanity and obscenity are fostered
and encouraged. In the Botanical Gardens were
hundreds of youths, whoso chief employment appeared
to b« to insult every respectable person who igno’
rantly sought to enjoy a walk in the public's pleasure
ground. A female could not pass near the sea wall
without encountering a volley of filthy invective and
indecent observations. She would be talked at
by scores in bestial terms, and her evident
shame would only encourage these young ruffians
to further excesses. la the Outer Domain we came
across a temperance lecturer, who forced re-
finement upon the young by describing the degra-
dations of drunkards, and denouncing all barmaids
as harlots I This character had to announce that
his remarks would be unfit for female oars : if so, surely
they were not suited for the hearing of young boys 1
Further on was another man holding himself up, in
execrable English, provocative of great langhtar, as “ an
awful example,” and inveighing against every man who
dared to drink a glass of beer. Here, boys who had
fathers who were not total abstainers, heard those
fathers called sots, beasts, and murderers ; and all publl-
cans brands las assassins and poisoners ! A few yards
from this man was a group of folks making a burlesque
of religion and singing sacred words to nigger melodies.
But the school was that surrounding poor Cocks. All
the other sponters had protection, either of friends or
officials, but the good Samaritan, whose collections in
aid of our charities have done so much good, was in the
midst of a scoffing brutal crowd, who pushed each
other about in order to get a kick at him 1 When his
legs had become almost too painful for him to stand
upon them, he removed to the steps in front of the
Agricultural Hall, whore, with hie back to the building,
he at any rate had his cowardly assailants in front pf
him. What a scene was here I All round facing Cocks
on the steps, ware scores of well-dressed and seemingly
nespectably-sonneotoA boys, screaming with laughter at
every obscene joke made by the ruffians below. Every
interjection made during the reading of Holy Writ or
the earnest preaching of Cocks was received with
with relish and enthusiasm by those yonng gentlemen.
Hundreds of bearded men stood by, thoroughly enjoy-
ing the spectacle—a sorry one for a father or a brother.
If the parents of boys who are supposed to have gone
to Sunday School were to take a walk through the
Domain during the afternoon, many of them would dis.
cover their young hopefuls learning the sure road to
destruction. We have undoubted faith in the gennlua-
ness ot Cock’s profession and practice; but, taking all
things into consideration, it is advisable that these
scenes should be abolished. They are tending to de-
grade yonng Australia ; they are surely and undeniably
doing so every week. It is safely within the bounds of
probability to say that none of these Pork preachers
are doing goed, whatever their bona /ides may be ; on
the contrary, one thing is certain—a grand school ior
all that can debase the yonng and shame the adult is
(onnd unmolested and flourishing round the man, who,
of all others there, is most earnest and true. We
pointed out some weeks ago, how Cocks was persecuted
by the police—left to brutal maltreatment without pro-
tection ; and now we call upon the authorities to
interfere with what is becoming as great a festering
sore on ear social life as harbour picnics. A sound
whipping of the leaders of profanity and a scattering of
the all too-willing pupils is absolutely and at once
necessary. Surely it is not requisite to wait until Parlia-
ment meets to do this. A constable jealously guards
the entrance to the Gardens against impertinent dogs.
Sorely one oonld be sent to disperse the other hounds.
Thu Nationalist party in Egypt has experienced its first
serious misfortunes. The popular irritation at the
gratuitous aid offensive intermeddling V foreigners
has penetrated evidently to the very lowest classes, and
the irresponsible and unreflecting individuals, who
collectively make up a street mob, have broken out into
violence. Only France and England have thus far
made demonstrations of hostility to the rise of national
aspirations and the development of constitutional ideas
in Egypt. But the ignorant mob, incapable of distin-
guishing between the different Frankish nationalities,
has assailed foreigners indiscriminately, and has
wreaked its rage equally on Greeks and Italians as
upon British and French subjects. Besides this, in
its ignorant passion, it has not hesitated to do violence
to the sacred persons of individuals everywhere re-
garded as invested with the same sanctity which in
Ancient Rome protected a Tuibune. Consuls have been
assailed and mortally wounded. The military—the
real exponents of the will of Arabi Bet, leader of the
national movement —quelled the outbreak; hut as it
occurred without premeditation or warning, were of
course too late to prevent it. It is quite certain that the
Confederate enemies of Egyptian Liberalism will jump
at the oppoutuuity thus afforded of embarrassing Arab:
Bet and the Nationalists; and the other Powers, whose
subjects and Consular representatives have been mal-
treated, will be stimulated by every sort of incitement
to join in breaking the credit and authority of Arabi
Bet— so preparing the way for a suppression of the
national aspirations, under the pretence of asserting
the dignity of the Powers of the West, insisting on the
inviolability of Consuls, and of wiping out an affront.
In short, the Nationalists will be sternly made respon-
sible for acts which they would have almost given their
existence to have averted.
——
Some little time ago in Sydney people read of what
was called the murder of a lieutenant belonging to
H M.S. Cormorant. An armed force had been landed
on one of the Solomon islands, with orders to advance
secretly on a native village, and burn it to the ground.
It was not expected that the natives would allow this
to be done without resistance on their part, the result
of which would be loss of life amongst them. The
British did not reach the village, but were met by the
natives, who fired upon them and killed Mr. Lock raft.
Two of the islanders were captured and taken on board
the Cormorant, where, on trying to make his escape,
one of them was slain by the sailors, being brutally
beaten to death by capstan bars. His fellow prisoner
was, on arrival in Sydney, handed over to the author-
ities on board the Nelson, where the public have lost
sight of him, and still remain ignorant of his fata. Is
this British Justice f Is it common fair playP An
officer leading his men to the attack of a foe is slain in
open fight, yet because the foe is savage, and uses
savage arts of warfare he is to be treated, not as an
open enemy, but as a lurking assassin. In seeking to
take the lives of others, an officer loses his own, and
forsooth he is “ murdered.” On the other hand, an
ignorant savage, a prisoner, makes an attempt to gain
his liberty; unarmed amongst armed men he is struck
down and brutally murdered. It is here the word is in
its proper place, say what you will. No one is brought
to justice for the crime, but a ship of war is despatched
to punish the islanders for having dared In self-dof enoe
to slay one at their aggressors. Such things as these
must fill with disgust the hearts of men, and cannot
fail to bring into contempt the very name of British
Navy,
Mr. Joseph Palmer Abbott.
Mr. Joseph Palmer Abbott, whose portrait
we give this week, represents the electorate of
Gunnedah in the Legislative Assembly. Mr.
Abbott is a Liberal and a working representative,
and one of the few men in public life at the
present [time who will certainly have to do with
the practical legislation of the future. Mr.
Abbott is in favour of a radical reform in the
Land Laws, and approves of the remission of
interest on conditional purchases. Though but a
short period in Parliament, he has proved himself
a thoroughly practical worker. His measure for
the amalgamation of the legal profession
is but temporarily shelved. The coming
session will, probably, see t become law.
The Act Amendment Act, intro-
duced by Mr. Abbott, has done much good;
and, in recognition of his work, he was made
honorary life Governor of several of our principal
institutions. His Act to control summary pro-
ceedings before Justices of the Peace, and his
amendments of the law for the recovery of debts
in District Courts and Courts of Petty Sessions,
have proved useful and practical. It was mainly
owing to his exertions that Parliament appointed
a committee to report on the expediency of open-
ing up communication through the great Imperial
grants in the Northern districts. Mr. Abbott
gives qualified support to the Government, but
is likely to be found in the future a staunch
supporter of Parliamentary Government,
as we have not had in this colony for a“
few years. Eeoently, Mr. Abbott was of-
fered a stipendiary magistracy, and, we be-
lieve, the portfolio of the Mining Department.
Mr. Abbott was born at Musclebrook in 1842, and
is the son of the late Frances Amandra Abbott,
one of the pioneers of settlement in the North.
His mother still survives and resides at Wengen,
a picturesque spot on the Northern railway line.
Mr. Abbott, whose profession is that of a solicitor,
served his articles with Messrs. Milford and Abbott,
and for some years practised in Maitland in con-
junction with Mr. G. Pilcher. In 1866 he removed
to Murrurundi, and there he gained a large and
practical acquaintance with the working of the
land laws. He took an active part in all public
movements. He was defeated in his candidature
for the Williams electorate, but was returned with
a triumphant majority for Gunnedah last election.
In 1874 Mr. Abbott married the daughter of the
late Dr. Macartney, of Maitland, and seven years
later became a widower. He is the senior member
of the firm of Abbott and Allen, solicitors, of
Temple Court, Sydney. Photo ,by Freeman of
George-street.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Judge Dowling says that tramways are the ruin
of young Australia, as the youths and girls slouch into
the oars, lazily lolling the trip, instead of walking thoir
mile or mile and a-haif, and taking necessary exercise.
The next best thing to getting on a Royal
Commission at three guineas a day is to be an
Examiner of Patents at three guineas each
Larrikins stole fruit frem a Lane Cove orchard, so
the owner put up a notloa on the wharf: 44 Beware 1
Traps laid abent here, and a gun set. 4 ’ He stopped at
hpme lor two days to watch the effect thereof, and
found that his visitors landed further up the river and
walked round to the back of the orchard and tho gnn.
This is less surprising than that the visitois were able
to read Mr. Taylor, builder, of Tumut, was i eariy
choked by a large piece of meat, the other day. He had
for a year or two regularly swallowed the statements of
the Tumut Times George Washington; but he must
have been too sanguine m thinking he could swallow
something larger than a hind-quarter Blaokfellow
Bonoy, who is wanted for several murders, was captured
at St. George (Q ), the other day, having on him the
knife with whicn he killed his last victim Wilson,
Hart, and Co , of Maryborough (Q ), have cabled for tho
appliances necessary for electrically lighting up their
huge saw-mills The man who attempted to shoot the
(iovernor of Geelong gaol has been committed tor trial.
In defence, he stated that be had left his wife for
five years, and on his return found that she was
a female warder, and had a child three and a hall
years old, whose father she alleged to be the Governor
of the gaol. Mr, Dwyer says this is aHe
The trustees of the Toowoomba Grammar School have
sent to England for a new staff of masters. This is not
strange considering that the trustees are, aa a rule,
successful Australians, Martha Graves, for having
two husbands at one time, has got three years. She
loved not wisely but too well The Age’s latest sen-
sation is that Melbourne is in imminent danger of being
blown up by the explosives in tho harbour The
Nooze, describing the hanging of a kanaka, says : 44 Tho
man's death was not so instantaneous as it would other-
wise have been.” The culprit evidently didn’t want to
die 41 immediately if not sooner.” An old man-of-
war’s man found drowned at Glenelg, S.A. His wrists
and ankles had been double-reefed with a piece of rope
by himself previous to suicide Mann, a N.Z. miner,
mistook morphia for quinine and dud A woman at a
country town in Otago, N Z , received a kick irom a
vicious cow she had finished milking, and fell down
dead. No one was about the place but her two little
children. When the father returned in the evening he
found them weeping by their mother’s side, thinking
she was askep At Blenheim (N.Z.) William Bliok,
1 while talking to a friend, fell down dead. A minute
before he remarked, ” I think I am going to have a
fit.” A prisoner reoeivitg sentence at Sydney said
his remorse broke into a perspiration which saturated
his clothes I The judge toid him not to talk science....
Heavy consumption of brandy at Dalby (Ql., hospital;
wardsm&n and his wife ordered to leave The Albury
Banker believes that had the exercise of tho 44 royal
clemency" been vested in Her Majesty’s own hands,
instead of in those of our Executive, ex-schoolmaster
Plomer would by this time have been hanged The
D. T. a few days ago published the following state-
ment : — 44 A dense fog overspread the city early yester-
day morning, and had only slightly cleared off when
the sun rose.” This mast have been written by an oat-
alder, for there is always a dense feg in the D, T. offloe.
Colao (V), Meat Preserving Co. purchased 290,000
rabbits in 11 weeks Belly, an ex-convict, went to
Melbourne gaol with a swag of pipes, tobaooo, tea, and
newspapers, intended for friends. Ho climbed to the
top of an adjacent building and actually got inside the
prison. He was caught, but his confederates escaped
Another result of the Clontarf libel—tho Athol
Gardens hotel closed Union Steamship Co„ of N.Z.,
scored a verdict of £5210 against Melbourne Harbour
Trust, for in juries received to Rotorua steamer through
fouling with anchor and eable of dredge Platypus.
Plaintiff* 4 claim was £lO,OOO John Blundell, horse-
thief, captured near Queanbeyan; when he heard
the police [were on his track ho shot a vain-
able stolen mare, and then advertised a reward in
Queanbeyan papers for information leading to discovery
of offender. Now that the police have got him,
is he legally bound to pay this reward ?
The Evening News, an enterprising paper, published in
Sydney, 41 Has received a chicken containing four legs,
four wings, two bodies, and one head," He had eaten
the two sub-oditors, and had taken in the imaginative
flights of Alfred and 44 the commissioner.” The two
bodies is a misprint for no-bodies, and the one head has
been made editor The Temgsa Bailey and Anti.
Bailey are still vigorously 4 ‘ at it." They call one
another 41 The Blowfly ” and •* The Butter-Kog."
A Newcastle constable, who is death on burglars, re-
cently chased a goat seven miles in the dark under the
impression he had a good masked jimmy-slinger
Dingo destroyers kill enough to make wages, but have
always fine litters of pupa coming on for the winter
season In Tasmania they say it doesn't look well
for a weekly paper to print old N.Z. editorials with
Tasmanian names rubbed in Adelaide, which has
- just initiated in the eolouies the old-time eoremonv of
presenting the Mayor ia his third year of office, with a
gold ;mayoral chain, was also the first city in British
to adopt municipal institutions. Its first
Mayor was Mr. (afterwards Kir) James Hurtle Fisher,
who (donned Mayoral robes in 1851 An advertising
barber calls himself a 4 ■ physiognomical hair-cutter
and capillary abrldger and cranium manipukter.” W 0
know a Sydney one who tackled our last week's stubble
and should hang oat the sign a “ eutlomta*
scarifier and jugular Tamerlane.” At Mel.
bourne County Court. Mr. Hood : Did you hear
plaintiff say he wonld smash defendant’s window ? ••
Witness: “ Yes; defendant said he would scatter plain,
tiff's brains upon the floor; plaintiff replied, 4 If yon do
I will smash your windows.* ” The Sugar Planter
(Maryborough, Q.) says.— 44 There are six analytical
chemists, four refiners, twelve planters, eight jour-
nalists, four merchants, three civil engineers, and a host
of reliable agricultural writers now upon the con.
tributing staff of the Sugar Planter—making in all
thirty-seven of a oon'ribating staff, exclusive of the host
of reliable agricultural writers.” Heaven help the
poor editor I Eingsgate bismuth mine, Glen Innes,
sold for £6OOO to a Sydney company (Hoffnung, Vickery
and Co.), who intend erecting smelting works on the
ground The young man who for a 41 lark” passed off
a counterfeit sovereign on the barmaid at Melbourne
Theatre Royal, and was sentenced to six hours’ im-
prifonment, will have a holy horror of practical jokes
in future Two Bnndaberg aldermen signed a petition
against a proposed municipal jorm, said petition being
to the tffict that past cxpsr cnce proved the aldermen
inoapableof judicious expenditure. A v ito o 4 censure en
themselves Australian butter Is. par lb in London ;
2s. Bd. In Sydney A country firm wirei to
Sydney ;— 44 Send a ease of boat - hooka.” The
telegram came out: — 44 Send a case of cockatoos.”
Italian residents of Sydney organising a Garibaldi
memorial movement Thomas Poile, storekeeper, of
Ironbark, attempted to to stuck up by burnt-cork bush,
ranger; Poile escaped, bushranger fired and hit the
mare Poile was riding The Campbblltown Herald
congratulates the “ young ladies " on the arrival in
their city of a 41 fine-looking policeman." The local
bank-clerks and the editor are strangers now Scene;
table d’hdbe. Big swell (eating with knife) to astonished
person across the table: “What are you staring atf
Do you know that I’m the Commissioner of Custom* f"
Astonished, person : 44 Sir, I know nothing of yeur on*.
toms, but I don 4 t admire your manners.” Merten
has the biggest mushroom se far. Elders of the church
vouch for its size. The happv finder uses it os an um-
brella More gore. Michael Irwin, dairyman at
Toowoomba, found with his skull 44 bashed 44 in the new
hospital grounds there. Watch and money untouched.
Mr. and Mrs. Apillane arrested, wife having confessed.
She says she mistook Irwin for a Chinaman robbing
her roost, and killed him with a waddy
Hiroki executed at Taranaki, N.Z., for the murder
of MlLean. Like Lamsou, he confessed his guilt
Melbourne once more bidding for land-carriage of
N.B.W, wool; price for one bale from Eohnoa to Mel.
bourne reduced from ss. 3i. to 4t. 6d The old Mornya
silver mine is being now worked by Mr. Guy, of Bate-
man’s Bay, for free gold. He sees a good prospect of
profitable results New rich gold reef discovered at
the Currajong lease, Adelong; proprietors, Williams
and Lucky, offered It lately for £l5 000. If Williams is
luoky, then, by the rules of logic, Lucky is Williams,...
The so-called 44 Burke and Wills’ ” camels, which lately
formed a portion of the Indian Novelty Company’s
show, were lost seen in Bundaberg The Bundabbbg
Mail threatens its readers with a description of the
Northern coastal towns. Several of the subscribers
have signified their intention of committing suicide..,,.,
Mr. Aherne, barrister, ef Stawell, has been killed by
wifely solicitude. He asked for a dose of chloral; Mrs.
Aherne inadvertently gave him four Harges, the
levanting swindler from N.Z., has received fifteen days’
imprisonment at Adelaide as a foretaste of his N.Z.
joy Thousands of bnffaloes reported to exist on
Melville Island, N.T., which is uninhabited by whites.
At Watson’s Beef, Cunningham Creek, William
Anthony, Thomas Hopkins, and Edward Jackson, while
working at a depth of 178 feet, were suddenly over-
whelmed by water from adjacent abandoned workings and
drewned Merrenda mailboy, aged fnlly 10 years, stuck-
up and robbed 15 miles from Mudgee An Adelaide
man named David Davis, who has just been fined,
among other offences, for healing his wife,
urged as an excuse that 41 she had no celery for
tea." fieddome fined him with celery.ty
An old and Infirm woman, named Theresa Morris, living
at Surry Hills, had her house burgled, and was mal
treated and robbed of £77, by four ruffians. John Clarke,
John Maher, Patrick Eowley, and Biobard M 4 Namaru
stand charged with the offence A woman named Bnr-
nage, who had charged a man with rape, has been com.
milted for trial at Singleton Nipper and See com.
me need libel action against Grafton Argus, damages
£5OOO, for statements in an article hoaded 44 Bill-slick.
ing on private wharves.” Mr. Ford, construction
engineer of Victorian railways, to be censured and
re-mstated. The Board of Enquiry exonerated him
except on throe charges of impropriety ..Sir Arthur
Gordon going to England for six months. Private
business 70 tons stone from the Queen 4 s Co. elalm,
Mayto.vn (Q ), yielded 188 oz.


T
HE FEDERAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA
(Limited).
SYDNEY andMELBOURNE.
Capital, £1,000,000.
Subscribed, £650,000.
Directors:
Hon. J J. Casey, C M.G., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq., Vice-President.
John Robb, feeq.
John Whittingham, Esq.
William MLoan, Esq.. J.P.
Hon. James Muuro, M.P., Manag-
ing Director.
Tenrcorary Banking House, Sydney:
257 Georgo-stroet, North.
Francis S. M&odcrmott, Esq.,
Manager.
John Docker, Esq , Accountant.
Messrs. Robertson and Fisher, Solicitors.
THE FEDERAL BANE OP AUSTRALIA (Limited)
oilers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Require
Banking Accommodation.
Interostwlll be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest current
* rates.
3. Every branch of bonking business transacted.
4. Bills will be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FRANCIS S. MAGDERMOTT, Manager.
Georgs p. murphy.
REGENT HOUSE,
869. GEORGE STREET,
RAILWAY BRIDGE.
CENTRAL
OIL, COLOUR,
and
PAPEEHANGTNQB and PLATE GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
The mast convenient stores for town and country cus-
tomers, at the junction of the principal tramways.
Trams pass the door every ten minutes.
Paperli angers’
Canvas
Gold and Silver
Loaf
Paperhangings
Wood - preserv-
ing Oil
Tar
Resin
Black Pish Oil
Cement, &o.
IMPORTER OP
Glass (all sizes out White and Red
to order) Lead
Plate Raw and Boiled
Sheet Oils
Btolned Brnshware
Ornamental Varnishes
Cithcdral Colours for House
Hammered (flat and Coach pain-
and rolled) tors, Plasterers
Turpentine &a.
Neats foot 0 ! w, Castor oil
tkeroeene
M'tainD PAINTS READY POE USE,
og 1« any shade required.
AL,°hJaDER3 PROMPTLY EXECUTED
na ßail, Steamer, City or Suburbs.
Fronts and Sashes Glased.
AXLE GREASE for Baggies, Carts, Lorries. &3. SUL-
PHUR for Vinegrowers and Farmers. GLA'SS
for Gardeners, &c.
Warehouse—Bs9 GEORGE STREET.
Side Entrance—Stores and Workshop—HAEßlS-ST.
ELECTRICITY IS LIFE.
Ye* 1 When properly applied in the form of
THE MAGNBTOD.
The only Cure for RHEUMATISM GOUT and
All Nervou* Affections.
Requires no Acids, no Attention, and lasts for years.
SEND PARTICULARS OP CASE, OR CALL UPON
JOHN GEE,
If CHANGE ALLEY,
PITT STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
OPPOSITE No. 2 COFFEE PALACE.
DR. G. HARVEY'S
TKADE - Ma ivg
E
THEGREAT
ONE OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
IN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr. Edward Trickett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at preiont open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
“ I have found St, JACOB’S OIL a sure and certain
care, and one unequalled by any medicinq. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex-
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sura
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating tho complaint without further trouble.’*
The writer listened attentively to tho above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who know what he was talking about; and now he sayar
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good athletic training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST’S SELL IT, PRICE UALP-A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-stroet.
S. HOFFNUNQ & Co., Pitt-stroet.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, George-stroet.
I. JACOBS A C. 0,, Hunter-street.
FERRIER’S BAKING POWDER,
:Sfeg|g=£|
E * '
;
VIBTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
CnEAraST ' „ a
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bounds.
This new Goal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
f” cleaner tire tha« any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, inor does
it splinter and fly on like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some binds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a char.eal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
03
fIOUTJI
CO
This is the most effectual substitute far kerosene in lightning Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, anti durable, and can be made by any Intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This QkSis much cleaner and m >re brilliant than coal ga -, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used, and wood for the furnace,;
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas,
TSLLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the GovernmentEailwaya in perference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &o. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which reo*
dors them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD'S OYSTER ROOMS;
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
MACHINERY
FOB
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS,
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, Ac., &c., &c.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other partioulais on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & ro.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Hu all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
M Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Raoe. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 SING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE.
SELF EAU ING FLOUR
»7ti
rr
TRA.DE
MARK
-t
3i
YEAST POWDEE.
MANUFACTORY
Georoe-stbket West,
H
[Established 30 Ykai
ODG SON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Gonlburn-stree
E. H O D G S <
Wholesale and Beta
WHIP THONG MANUPACI
Every Description of Kangaroo and G
Made to Order.
imalmniTimti.nmmiiirin
IH
L
|67O|H. H i L D
0-70
OER
Boar
jrwfJ'fvei,j
FSADFA
OYEE 50 TEAKS.
aansnayisz
LINIMENT.
None Genuine Without the Above Trade Mark.
The GREATESTT CUBE ON EARTH for RHEU-
MATISM, RAW COLDS, SORE THROATS and
LIMBS, ASTHMA, Ac., Ac.
Thle la the eamo Liniment as used by the hardy tin
M ln«re ef Cornwall, who have to work amidst the damp
neaaef the bewels of the earth, and is now extensively
yjuff sgid all over the world, and known as the. Cor-
nlah Cure.
Price, sa. per bottle.
Those who carry out the directions which are on
every label and wrapper, cannot but acknowledge it is
the greatest remedy ever brought before the public.
Bold by the following chemists and druggists in
Sydney: W. H. Douglas Mitchell, 127 King-street,
Bast; J. Abrahams, 434 Qeorge-street; E. B Armstrong,
466 Qeorge-street; W. D. Enmes, 14 Oxford-street.
TRY IT AND JUDGE FOR YOURBELVES. If
your Chemist and Druggist has not got it tell him that
be can have a supply by applying to the
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS I
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a''
disordered state of the digestive organa.
THESE DEOPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION.
Bold to bottles, 2s. od. and 4s. Od., by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee:
Charles Cross. M.P.S. Yict.; M.H.P.5.,Gt.8.,
QAWLEB, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents:
fiLLIOTT* BROTHERS. HOPFNUNG & CO,


Chemists and Dm gf grists
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS. DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Fatuous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach. .
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations,
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
J.
Invented and Prepared only by
S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory*
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not bo able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington U. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
ATLAS FOUNDRY & ENGINEERING
COMPANY,
HAY.STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, and Shipbuilders, Iron
and Brass Founders, Coppersmiths, and Mill-
wrights. The above firm are prepared to undertake
contracts for the manufacture of Marine and Stationary
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-crushing,
Sawmill, Sheep.washing. Mining, Sugar-mills, and all
other descriptions of Machinery, witu latest improve-
ments.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
UMBR
LLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Sullivan’s
541 Georgo-street,
Brickfield-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
OHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH.
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, *o.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-coverod and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
♦
E
George lan
(Formerly of Qeorge-street,)
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that ho has RE-COMMENCED
Begs to
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above lino will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
J.EVB . TOBACCONIST .149.
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stoll Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
NOULTON'S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect os it is possible for a Pill to bo.
Sold Everywhere, lit. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
See the Medals, Cups, and Trophies
at the
SYDNEY ARCADE.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ARB MADE ONLY BT
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head Offices;
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Chief Office in Europe:
89 FOSTER LANE, LONDON.
Depot for New South Wales
NO. 1 DARLING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
BTDHET.
AGENTS IN EVERT TOWN.
Offices in Sydney:
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and No. I DARLING
STORES, HARBOUR STREET.
LOCAL DEPOTS
BOLTON STREET. NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N„ QOULBURN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWORTH.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
NARANDERA. PARRAMATTA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ABE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS;
2s. 6d. per week— 2b. od. per week—2a. 6d. per week.
And ho interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE " SINGER”—
TURNER A COMPANY,
j 953 Qeorge-streot.
THE ONLY •'SINGER"—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HATMARKBT.
O
A
o
<6*
HOME COMPANION,
HOME SHUTTLE. .
Mew Davis. /
HOWE, / r
Ac., Ac. / X
The
O
*
a;
Light
Running
*
T
STANDARD.
o
2s. 6d.
per week.
Cr
V
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Machines.
Electrici t
Administered in a warm bath is the only met!
by which every muscle, nerve, and bone, can be allool
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complain
oongeetion, tumours, rheumatism, &0., and rids 1
system of all impurities; even mercury is taken out
the body.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. M O O R E,
Homceopathist,
151 Elizabeth-street, Hydnoy.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a burn or scald ia
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that bos
certificates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and has a
curative effect on lung complaints, when rubbed into
the chest. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should bo a p<> t kept in every house, oven if
the house is empty, iffcilldo for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pota. Is. and 2s. fid
each.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
If'inest'deecrlption of Carriages and Bnggles-'dßlngto and.
DoubleJa arness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.
Business Announcements
£*D
27STEAM BEDDING MANUFACTORY^?
i^L
IS*
e
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
and
FCRNITUEW WAREHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4 £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £lOO
T. WEIGHT, 529 Qc orgp-street, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced tV«
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the E‘; knins
News Owe*.
11, b
do«i
fou
rocifl
torei
repo*
READ THI
THE BAKING P
manufactured by US a
AS DOC 7 OR
tV/cMiei
HA S A WIDE RE,P U T TI (jS FOR
FX CELLENGE OFO.uALi t\
AND THE CHEMtXifflttes OFTTHE
SYONEjf
HAVE CERTIFIED THyft IT IS REALLY
THE PUREit AND '
BEST IN ThLwGRID
B Y AW A U I ,v| G V. 6 U S T H-E
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECT lON
FOR FIRST DEGREE OF MERIT 1
SOLD EVERYWHERE'IN PARER PACKETS
OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
WILLIAM 3 DAVIES &, COY.
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shelters,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
WAunrr
Wood,
f* *o., *o., *O.
ILLCOX
W
AND
GIJbBS
Antomatio
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Manjrle and
wringer, £4 los
S. HEBBLEWHITB,
416 QEOKGE STREET.
F.T.WIMBLE&CO;
STEREOTYPE'
-AN D-
r
&
&
P
Also
Foundry
YS XUU..UIJ
V * —AND—
IRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
STrjDTsrm-x-.
i At 70 LITTLE COLLINS SHEET. MELBWEtTE.
THOMAS WEAKNE,
ENQINBEE A lEONFOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and BAIL WAY BOLLING STOCK
FIEE GIRDERS,
AND STOVES,
BUEGLAB fcfjqMßElßi COLONIAL
PEOOF OVENS,
safes deed
AND BOXES,
DOORS. Ao„ Ac.
W'" ■
Works i SUSSEX BTEEET, A GLEBE POUNDBT.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
Public Companies
T :
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
Qeheral Manager t
Vincent Wanostrocht Oiblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOEGE STREET, STDNET.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymorket, Redfern,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, CassiHs, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gwm-
fell, Qulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hlllston, luverell,
Kempsey, Lambtou, Mucleay, Menindie, Melon*,
Morpeth, Mudgeo, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rcckley, Itylstoue, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temoro, Touterfield, Ulmuiin,
Uroua, Wagga Wugga, Wallseud, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcaunia, Woodburu, Yasa.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, A flora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Rayenswood, Rockhampton, Btauthorpe, Toowoomba,
Tewnsville, Worwiok.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
JIHE
MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNJKS
ESTABLISHED 1866.
INCORPORATED BT ACT OP PARIIAMENT, 187 T
Paid-np Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon felonry Mort, M.L.C.
Goorge S, Calrd,,Esq.
Hon. Wffl, Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlev King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
U. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A Wilron.
SECRETARY:
Hootor Alien.
BRANCHES:
587 Goorge-stieet. Brickfield Hill Redfern;
Girilatubone; Qosford; Nyugau
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 155 Leadenhall-stnet.
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: G. H. Alexander, Esq.
WThis bonk transacts all usual Banking and Financia
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool am
other produce shipped to England for sale.
F. J. POLLE’S
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coating
direot from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut in the Most Fashionable Styles
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address—
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAT MARKET.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to announce that they hare
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOORS and HALLS.
OOOLALTA WINE BODEGA.
MORK’S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may bo had at
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wines daring Winter.
Open from 9 a.m. till C p m.
Similar wines, by the dozen or in bulk, can be ordered
at the Bodega, at Cellars adjoining, or from Head-
Cellars, 119 Fil t-street.
TWBMLOW desires to inform his
V-/friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the Gsorge-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
< Watches accurately repaired, and hhargos
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLPW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street.


HOWAED SMITH AND SONS,,
STEUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices : 7 SPRING STREET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY at 12 o’clock.
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and
ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
O
I N E
The following Steamships, belonging to the
ORIENT CO„ and the PACIFIC CO., will leave
SYDNEY at noon on the undermentioned dates, for
LONDON, via Melbourne, Adelaide, Diego Garcia (at
steamer's option), the Suez Canal, and Naples:—
and fortnightly thereafter.
SALOON PASSENGERS allowed to break their
journey.
ORIENT PARCELS EXPRESS:—2s. 6d. per foot,
or 6d. per lb.
PASSAGES FROM LONDON can bo granted in
Sydney.
MANAGERS IN LONDONF. GREEN and CO ,
and iANDERSON, ANDERSON and CO., Fonchuroh
Avenue, E.C.
PASSAGE MONEY, 15 to 70 guineas. Full par-
Honiara on application to
G. S. YUILL,
General Manager in Australia.
267 Qeorge-street.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS.
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
CASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES,
AND SPIRITS.
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
COLONIAL WINE.
BED.
per doz.
... 10a Od
... Us Od
... lls Od
... 13s 6d
Sweet Shiraz
J. T. Fallon's Port
Adelaide Port ...
per doz.
15s Od
27a fid
80s Od
WHITE.
Beisling ...
Hook
Madeira
Bouffler’s Pineau..
10s Od
lls Od
l<Ss fid
16a Od
Brown Muscat ...
Adelaide Tokay ...
Tokay, vintage '73
18# Od
30s Od
30s Od
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 21s to 48s Od
Krugs Champagne
qts 90s Od
do. do. pts. 92s 64
Roadster do. qts. 105 s Od
do. do. pts. 110 s Od
Good Sherry 21s to Sis Od
Heidsieok’s Dry
Monopole Cham-
pagne ... qts. 105 s
Julius Lorrame
Champagne pts. 70s
FrenchClarot from 30s
SPIRITS.
Hennessy’s • Case
Brandy 59s Od
Hennessy’s •••
Case Brandy ... 71s Od
D’Orville’s • Case
Brandy 45s Od
Charente *** Case
Brandy 60s Od
Good Dark French
Brandy 45s Od
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 43s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky 42s Od
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky
Imperial •• Scotch
Imperial *•* Scotch
Whisky
Rum, Bed Heart ,
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
40s 0
42s
40s C
48a 0
52s 0
46s
43a
43s
ALES AND STOUTS.
Bull Dog Alo, qts.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Boar's Hoad Stout,
quarts
Boar's Head Stout,
pints
Foster's Ale qts..\
lls Od
8s Od
10s 3d
7s 3d
lls 64
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Holies ITaunover
Lager Bier, qts.
Rainer do. qts. „„ w
Burkes Sfout qts 10s 6d
do do pts 7s 6d
7s 6d
lls fid
I2s fid
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Alo quarts
4 dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Boar’s Head htout*
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen m cane; pints, 7dozen. Boar’s
Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts in case; 7 doz. pints.'
tar Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for a
Cask or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
will be charged.
Asampla dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 17s. 64. by Post Office Order or
Stamps. Country Cheques should have Is added for
exchange.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Redforn Railway Hfntinn
Terms-Prompt Nett Cash ®n giving oeder.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-straet, Sydney.
FOR SOKE EYES.
TRY WILDER’S MAGIC EYE-WATER, and y
will never use any other. For all SORj
Wilder’s “ All Healing Lotion” is a Certain Care
S. HOEFNUNG &5C0., Sydney > , ®
ELLIOTT PROS., Brisbane. 1 Agents
DR. STANICH desires to announce that poor
persona suffering from Eye, Ear, Nose, aod Throat Dis-
eases will receive his valuable services towards their cure
Gratis, every THURSDAY in the week, at 60 Wynyard-
equare, Sydney. To prevent disappointment, however,
applicants must be provided with a letter of recom-
mendation under seal from some Government or
municipal authority, otherwise they will not bo treated.
—Advt.
It ia necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
BUSY'S COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by special appointment
to the Queer.— (Advt.)
U you want a really palatable pleasant cup of
tea, of acknowledged purity, strength, and exoellono'i
ask your grocer for The Calcutta Tea Association's
Pure Indian Tea. Out only Wholesale Warehouse in
New South Wales, is at 28 Charlotte Place. Wejhave
no retail establishment whatever, and employ no
hawkers. All the leading tea dealers and grocers ui
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
“Calcutta Tea Association” on the labels in three
different places. The teas of the Association are ac-
knowledged superior to any packet teas ever sold in the
Colonies.— Advt.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 Qeorge-street,
and though he has not been established since Uannah,
Domini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this upper-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoo-shops. If you want
anything in the boot-lino, from a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call atsB4, and “see what ia the
matter with Hannah.” The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to be ia great demand
now, If only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
The Rockhampton Laughing Jackass, re-
ferring to the widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street. Rockhampton, says“ When visiting
Rockham|.ton don’t fall to see the only sight of tho
town, viz., tho Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel,
East-street. This Hotel has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars in town ; also, the best furnished sitting
rdoms in town. The Billiard Boom contains a table
second to none in the Colonies. In the Club Room,
which is large and well ventilated, will be found a
brilliant-toned piano. lon will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladies.” The lease, etc., of above
flourishing and rapidly improving bar business, to be
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars fro pi the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, 91/ Elizabsth-street, Sydney.
—Advt.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Blow poisoner, Wainwright—the Dr. Lamson
of his day—died in St. Mary’s Hospital, Hobart, many
years ago. He was a wonderfully clever artist, and
Hobartoniana possess many charming water-colour pic-
tures* tin production of his better genius.
The rebellions volunteer officers at Hobart were
had tip before the Governor, and, r ? vl ®? ln *
position, withdrew their resignations. Major Fyshcon.
seanently resumes command tnca Captain bwankoy-
Smith, who returns to his old position—in Coventry.
Apropos to the proposedjooronation of the Czar,
it wss said relative to the procession at the coronation
of his grandfather that The Emperor {Nicholas)
walked along, preceded by the assassins of his fraud,
father, surrounded by those of his father and followed
bylhls own murderers."
Hobart, it is said, is to have its Ashmead-
Bartlett Burdett-Coutts little romance as well as Mel-
bourne, with its Nicholas-Johnson sensation The
lady is a fabulously wealthy widow, the gay but some-
what diminutive youth being chief stamp-lioker at the
General Post Office—So tho story goes I
Archibald Forbes left Sydney “ full of emotion ”
at the “ bright, alert intelligence of Sydney audiences.
Now he has learnt to love Melbourne, because there
has been accorded to mo here more warmth and breadth
of intelligent appreciation than I have ever before met
with in all my life." “ Koment is needles.
Dr. M‘Queen, medical officer at Forbes, is not
to be "had." When asked at an infanticide inquest
the other week whether the blood on an aie produoed
was human or not, ha promptly replied : That is a
point for an expert to deoide; I am prepared to act as
an export; my fee as such is ten guineas. A decidedly
expert reply.
The Hon. John Wallop, private secretary to the
Governor of Tasmania, and a son of the Earl of 1 orts-
mouth, is the great matrimonial prize down at Hobart.
They tried very hard to elevate him to the Bench, but
it wouldn’t wash. "Johnnie” isn’t half such a fool as
ho looks, and can see more than some people think,
though he does wear an eye-glass 1
A returned visitor from Hobart tells ns that,
sleeping in the Cornel m Bay cemetery, Hobart, untomb-
stoned, forgotten, alone, lies Dodder, the great violin-
ist, for some time a resident of Sydney, nephew of the
greater pianist. Theodore Decider, the only rival of
Thalborg. Musicians of Australia, one shilling each
from you would " mark the place where he lies.
Editor Simpson, of the Hobart Mebcurt,
“ shepherds " his reporters. Hobbling into a most nn-
important meeting one evening, and observing his re-
porter resting his head idly on his hands waiting for a
point," ho hurried back to the office, and despatched
another reporter to the meeting with a message to the
elleot that "Mr. M had better go home and go to
bed, instead of sleeping where he was.
Alderman Brownell, one of the Corporation of
Hobart, has tabled a mo lion to reduce the Town Hall
charges to local residents, and increase them to pro-
fessionals visiting tho city 1 This is the °el
proposed to welcome Sir George Strahan with calico
pocket-handkerchiefs for flags. There 11 ba some high-
class entertainments down at Hobart in future, local
talent” being left in undisturbed possession of the Held.
Professor Hearn, M.L.C., Victoria, will have to
re-perforra his laborious work on the Conso idation of
Laws Bill, nearly the whole of his M.S. having been
burned at the recent fire in tho Melbourne Government
Printing Office. The Professor undertook to consoli-
date the laws, and had boiled them down to gelatine.
When Dr. Hearn had finished his work, one had only
to learn off 2030 sections in order to be fully aware of
his duties and rights.
As a painter Dante Gabriel Rossetti never ex-
hibited in any public gallery, all his works being pur.
chased from the easel at high prices. They are dis-
tributed amongst very few, and a rich Newcastle soap-
boiler possesses most of his choicest pictures. A
London writer says: " I spent an hour looking at his
splendid picture, * The Blessed Damozel, and can almost
fancy that the whole of the mithetio school derives its
cult from this picture and Rossetti’s poem of the same
name.”
Dr. Bromby, late Bishop of Tasmania, writes a
most extraordinary hand.and invariably supplies his own
manuscript to tho Press. This latter fact, instead of
being a relief to the weary reporter, is as terrific as a
small-pox scare. Whenever a roll of the doctor s manu-
script entered the H.T. Mercury offloe. the standing
orders were immediately suspended, and the literary
staff resolved itself into a committee of the whole to,
if possible, decipher and transcribe the churchman s
wonderful hieroglyphics.
Sir George Strahan, the Governor of Tasmania,
with all his geniality, is awfully autocratic, and is con-
stantly snubbing ministers and high officials foe ins
slightest non-observance of Vice-Regal prerogatives and
respect. Contrary to custom in Tasmania he held the
Queen’s Birthday Levee at Government House- a mile
and a half from town—saying, and very rightly too,
that it was for the citizens to nay homage to the Queen a
representative and not for Vice-Royalty to come to
them. Mahomet and the mountain again.
A gross and most glaring scandal of a delicate
description is the tala of the whole of Hobart at
present, the parties implicated being wall-known in
high society, tho leaders of which are guilty of great
dereliction of duty.in permitting such a state of things
to be carried on in the faces of their own daughters,
and in broad daylight into the bargain " Down the
Harbour " isn’t the only terra d'amore after all I Unless
there be the most infamous complicity, matters must
inevitably Jesuit in a duel or the Divorce Court ere
long.
Mr. W. J. M'Gauran, of Albnry, undoubtedly
the most expert electrician in the colonies, succeeds
Mr. Dalgarno ai assistaat-manager of the N.S W.
Tslograpfi Department. Sydney. Mr. M’Gauran is a
clover and popular man, who succeeds in everything he
touches, and who had as amiable a reputation in Vic-
t iria as he enjoys in this colony. His appointment will
probably make a great difference to the receiving and
dispatching arrangements of the central offloe, which
would profit greatly by the loss of one or two old fogies
high up in the service.
Ned Longson, the boss shareholder in Adelaide,
not even excepting “the only Allerdale,” is also the
cutest electioneer in that city. He once declared he
would put a lamp-post at the head of tho poll if fur-
nished with money enough. On this last occasion, Ned
was running J. 11.I 1 . Willey, who has tho reputation ot
having beau the only man who ever ou Change got to
windward of the same inscrutable Nod, Longson has
paid him out by having recently implored electors in
placards to give one vote to “ Honest Jim I ** That s
the way Ned heaps coals of fire on an enemy’s head.
The split which has taken place among the
cimmittae ot the Marcus Clarke Memorial Volume has
lid to the discovery of the reason why the antobio-
graphy of genial old John Dunn, actor and boon com-
panion, did not see light, although it was well-known
that he wished it to tie published, and that the work
was supervised for that purpose by poor Marcus. It
now appears that an objection was taken to the appear-
auoe in the book of references to the theatrical career
of o»d John’s eldest daughter. Miss Rosa Dunn, now the
wife of Mr. L. L, Lewis, the well-known broker of
Melbourne, and a leading member of one section of
Victorian society.
The husband of the late Princess Alice is about;
to marry again. His bride will be the sister of the
Duchess of Connaught. It was supposed at one time
that it would bo a sister of the Duke’s. Anyhow,
rumour would have it so ; and even now there may bo
these who will pretend that the non-passage of a certain
Hill through the Lords—a Bill which all the Royal
Princes came down to support—has something to do
with the altered state of things. Tho Princes Beatrice
has celebrated her twenty-fifth birthday, and iha bund
which plays under her window on these occasions still
selects "Don’t take me from my mammy yet" as tho
opening tune.
Poor Garibaldi! He’s dead now, but the old
hero surely deserved some better fat" ihan to be carried
about as a sort of respectable Guy Fawkes at political
celebrations. When one reads that he was dragged
through Palraero in a moribund condition, doubled up t
with his head on his knees, and the crowd was so horror-
stricken at his appearance that their faces flashed white
simultaneously, and the cheers were choked m their
throats and found vent in a hoarse gurgle, such an
exhibition is disgraceful alike to the people who plan it
and the people who turn out to see it. Garibaldi bad
earned the right to die in his bed, and not to be carried
about writhing in agony, with the death-rattle in his
throat, for crowds to gape at.
Pacts about phonographers. Mr. John A.
Fairfax, who lately died after his European trip, was a
good shorthand writer. He loft eight thousand pages
ef phonographic notes, taken during his travels, and
intended for future use. Little Charles Davies, son of
the solicitor, who died two or three weeks back at
Concord, was an enthusiast in the wonderful art, al-
though!never|able to walk and was bedridden fromlbirth.
He was very clever and well informed, a self-taught
writer, had actually started the editing of an everoir-
onlator, and was organising a branch of the Phono-
graphic Association, when he was “ counted out,"
regretted by everyone who knew him. His phono-
graphy, written in bed, was as legible as print. Mr.
Jacob Pitman is now on a visit to Sydney. Ha is a
Swedenborgian, & brother of Mr. Isaac Pitman, the re-
nowned inventor of phonographic shorthand.
One thing puzzles us as far as we can be puzzled.
How did Sir 'Enery manage with his French mr le con-
tinong? Maybe so great a man was only approached
with formal addresses, copies of which were forwarded
to him the day before, so as to give time to cypher
them out and translate a reply. Possibly he groped
abont with a conversation book and a dictionary; and,
like Sterne’s parish ball, looked so solemn about the
| business that people believed it to be all right. French,
however, is a language in which our Premier has al-
ready distinguished himself. Was it not he, who, to
the intense astonishment of everybody, mastered a
document in that language; and was deemed a prodigy
of learning nntii it turned out that the document had
been translated for him by a member of his family, who
was paid for her services in the matter by the Qov> rn-
ment of N S.W. ? If you doubt this, ask Forster.
Mr. E. Govett, one of the JPort Adelaide re-
porters for the S. A.’Advertisee, has invented a stone,
graphic machine capable of recording speeches verba-
tim at the rate of 250 to 300 words per minute. As the
fastest speakers, even at top speed, rarely attain 200
words per minute, the machine, it what is told of it be
true, can far and away eclipse the most mechanical
word-taker among living shorthand-writers, whose
utmost capabilities are to take down for a minute or
two of a rush in a speech from 180 to 200 words par
minute; but no shorthand-writer can be classed Al
who could not keep up for half-an-honr together at a
rate ef 150 words per minute. Mr. E. Govett is a young
man, about 22, (and of rare promise, though of
delicate health. He is the champion chess-
player at Port Adelaide, and a member of the local
Mathematical Society, before whom he has exhibited the
plans of his machines which he has had the fore-
thought to have already patented in England. We hope
he’ll make a pile out of it.
Apropos to the Bateman Memorial Statue, Mel-
bourne cemetery. (We will not enter into the question
of what John Bateman has or has not deserved from
colonists.) The unveiling ceremony, the other day,
afforded an opportunity to some old fossils to air them-
selves. but, beyond this, there was much of the
*'mockery, delusion, and snare ’’ business about it. In
the first place, though certaiu popularity-hunting folk
have disturbed most of the bones which lie in the old
cemetery, they have not been successful in discovering
the identical skeleton of John Bateman ; in the second,
they don’t know whether he was buried there at all,
and, finally, they wouldn’t care if no bones were found,
so long as they could style themselves the “ Batman
Memorial Committee," and pose before the public as
patriots. We shall be having Captain Flinders hoisted
up next, with a glorification of the Individual who has
been writing his biography for the last twenty years.
By the way, J. J. 3, when’s it coming out ?
James Hugh Sinclair, solicitor of Port Adelaide,
has been committed for trial for disturbing the service
of the Salvation Army. He was arraigned under an
old Act, which does not permit of a fine being inflicted.
The Adelaide Salvation Army many months ago ob-
tained a three months’ sentence against a disturber, so
tbit probably ‘ Jim," as he is familiarly known, will
have to don the H.M. clothes, and try how he likes
hominy. It appears that the Adelaide law is that a man
may “ ohiaok" the “ army " as much as he likes in the
Streets, but that if he oncers a building in which they
are carrying on their “ devotions," he can be imprisoned.
“ Jim ” is a young giant of 6 ft. 1 in., and broad in pro-
portion. He is a noted footballer, and renowned for
musole. He graduated with the athletic Charley
Kingston, who can give him two or three inches in
height, Charley has now forsaken the football field for
politics, and is M.P. for West Adelaide as colleague of
the "poetical" Hugh Fraser. Young Sinclair has
plenty of brains, and might make a good practice in
Port Adelaide, but bis animal b.ood is as yet too un-
tamed to submit to the humdrum of continued busi-
ness. His offence in this case was that he shouted
"Let’s have it better." The "Captain" objected,
holding that no one could sbont even ** Hallelujah"
unless he "had the love of God in his heart."
The other night the Echo hinted that Parkes
had been recalled, which hint, when it came under the
attention of Sir John Robertson, greatly incensed that
distinguished statesman. Sir John sent down to the
Echo office and demanded a retractation. It was not
?:iven. Then he sent te the Herald— and got no satis-
aotion. Next morning the servile D. T.—the paper
on which the Acting-Premier has over and over again
metaphorically spat in public, and to which he habitu-
ally alludes as a “ thing”—came out with a long yarn
abusing the Herald people, first for giving prominence
to a " mis-statement, and then for refusing to con-
tradict it. But, gentle public, the fact is that Parkes was
recalled by a resolution passed ac a special meeting of
the Executive, and the cablegram tolling him to return
at onoe bears the signature of Lord Augustus Loftus.
However, now that the great man Is coming back,
we’ll drop it, and do “ ’Ands hall round, ’* in the joyous
reflection that “ hour hown ’Enry returneth to ’is hown
'alls hof dazzling light. By the way, that large section
of the public which never touches the D. T., oven with
tongs, will understand what sort of a paper it is when
we state that it actually sent a " special correspondent"
with the Cupid of the Maoleay, Burdett-Smitb, wben
that immortal statesman recently processed before the
dough-headed yokels whom he so admirably represents.
We are glad to see that the Brisbane corres-
pondent of tna S.M. Herald says a good word fi r our
old friend Thadens O’Kane, editor of the Northern
Mixer, wko, because he writes fairly and squarely, has
been gagged by the Bench : “ Mr. O’Kane has wielded
a very, very trenchant pen; indeed, it should rather be
said that he has slashed around with a tomahawk,
oaring littlelwhcre his blows fell or whom he wounded.
But on the whole he has decidedly wrought for good,
and pnrifted the community in which he has laboured.
No one who has not lived there can form a conception
of the tropical rankness with which abuses flouruh in
the remote districts of the colony; and few journalists
are daring enough to invite ruin by exposing them. I
myself have known, among other things, a Judge to be
in such a condition] that ho was quite unfit
to perform his duties, and oonduet himself with the
grossest indecency in a public place without notice or
rebuke. I hate known other Judges habitually sacrifice
the interests of justice to their desire to hasten away
from a town to catch a steamer, and I have known the
grossest public wrongs to be perpetrated, all without
censure. The reason is on obvious one. The journalists
are poor men. If they ‘ keep in the swim,' and don’t
offend the influential men of the town by dragging their
little ' arrangements’ into uncomfortable publicity, they
may say what they please regarding politics, and are
allowed to show an appearance of independence by
making a little personal fnn of individuals. Now,
O’Kane has known no limitations. Ne one could either
coax or frighten him into ignoring what he believed to
bo a wrong or a scandal, so that he has made hosts of
bitter enemies. Libel actions have been showered on
him, but the miners, admiring his courage, and know-
ing that in the main he is right In his attacks, have
stuck to him manfully, and the Miner is, I should
say, the most widely-circulated Northern journal.”
AU this is quite true North Queensland is the Al-atia
of Australia. The Government officers, many of whom
get more money weekly m the way of bribes than they
receive monthly from the Treasury, are, fifty per cent
of them, chronically drunk. Alooholisation is the nor-
mal state of about half those people who live in the out-
side towns, where an honest woman is rarely seen, and
where the unpaid magistracy (who are usually in league
with the local lawyer), is recruited from the ranks of
low shanty keepers, who, commencing business with
the proceeds of the infamy of their paramours, practi-
cally adjudicate ou their own cases, and openly rob
everyone' they can’t lamb down. It sometimes even
happens, as in our own back settlements, that such
creatures acquire an interest in the newspapers, and
strangle in its inception every attempt to bring the
right side iup. It maddens these peop’e—and they
are powerful and wealthy in the Far North—to see that
a white man, like the game old Thadeus, can live in
spite of them. Thady has just been served with a fresh
writ for libel by Mr. Milford, a solicitor; damages, £5OO.
• • •
The Marauia of Lome and the Princess Louise
will visit Califcwnia in September, en route for British
Co nmbia Longfellow’s will, made by himself, has
bean found to be invalid Sergeant Mason, the soldier
who fired at Quitean. has made a good thing out of the
esoaptde Over 7000 dols. have been collected for him.
Mr. White, the Tamworth builder, is a brother-in-
law of Archibald Forbes Lady Lytton (who has just
died), the divorced wife of the first Lord of that ilk,
described her husband in one of her best works as having
the head of a goat on the body of a grasshopper
Mr. John Happs, chief engineer of H.M.C.S. Wol-
verene, has died of pleurisy. He Joined that vessel in
1876 Much has been said in ridicule of Oscar, his
languor, and his lilies; but an American reporter says:
“There is more in Wilde’s ideas than most people
think. His desire is to introduce a taste for beauty in
an age of trade. His mistake is to imagine he is
original; he is only a follower of brighter men. He is
not ‘the first who ever burst into the silent sea' of
aastheticism." Robert Buchanan, the poet, was re-
cently married to his deceased wife’s sister. Miss
Harriet Jay, the novelist and actress Certain fritnds
of Warden De Boos state that he has gone to Temora
to wind up a few oases after which he will be exchanged
to some other locality for which his services may be avail-
able. The question is as to the situation of the locality.
...Near Eetford, England, is a family of Wilson brothers
aged respectively 62, 78, 82. 92, and 93, the eldest of
whom this year walked a jonmoy of seven miles at a
stretch. The father and mother died at 95 and 96 re-
spectively A barber, happening to see a proof slip of
Longfellow’s Village Blacksmith, with the line “ His
hair is crisp and black and long,” told the poet that
crisp hair was never long. Longfellow made the pub-
lisher substitute “strong." Next day he discovered
that that word occurred in the preceding line. Then
he altered it back to “ long” again, and said he didn’t
believe the barber knew anything about the matter
Major Ecoles, of the Eifle Brigade (Prince Consort’s
Own), who has succeeded Lieutenant Jervols as aide-
da camp to Sir W. F. D. Jervois, Governor of 8.A.,
was, when offered his present appointment, serving
with the Ist Battalion Eifle Brigade at Poouah, India.
Major Eocles is a cricket enthusiast—a first-rate all
round player, and a puzzle at slow bowling
Dr. Tanner is not dead. He means to undertake a 90-
day fast Prince Leopold's illness was attributed by
the Court Journal to his having slipped and hurt his
knee. Another paper said “Just so— a, faux pas."
Mr. W. D. Campbell, of Demondrille, who died the
week before last, was a pioneer squatter and the man
whp shot O’Meally, the bushranger, when the ruffian’s
gang made a raid on deceased’s premises Mr.
William Senior (“ Eed Spinner,” late chief of the Bris-
bane Hansard stall) wrote the article on .Queensland
blacks which lately appeared in the Pall Mall Gazette,
and which has been reprinted by so many Australian
papers .....Dr, J. C. Dempster, one of the oldest
practitioners of the border district died at Albury last
Frid ly Henry Dickens has given a reading from Pick-
wick for a charity. Ho was good, but “he isn’t his
father Captain Raymond, the well-known Victorian
rabbit exterminator, has, we are sorry to hoar, lost his
left eye through an accident When Rossetti painted
a draped figure, he always painted the nude limbs first
from a model, and then the dress afterwards, also from
a model. The result was a lifelike success ; but the
conscientiousness recalls to mind the actor who would
never go on the stage as Othello unless he was blacked
all over It is probable John Gough, the temperance
lecturer, will visit the colonies shortly C. C. Gooden,
after twenty-fire years’ services as publisher of the 8
A Advertiser, has taken the Napoleon Buonaparte
Hotel, Adelaide. The 'Tiber has also lost young Cock-
burn from its reporting staff Mr. John Jennings, a
brother of Sir Patrick, has died at Oakland, California,
aged 60. He was formerly a midshipman in the navy,
had resided in since the gold fever,
and in his later days was a warehouseman
Mr, W. J. Watson, brother of fhe Treasurer, and known
as “ Boxer,” is going to England for the benefit of his
health. He takes his seat in Parliament with him
A big will case, M'Elbone v. Browne, is soon to be tried
in Sydney. The only M ‘Elhone thinks his father-in-1 aw
(the late John Browne, of Singleton) treated him scur-
vily in his will, and is going to try to upset the affair.
LARRIKINS.
See om yon comer a group of them stand.
The curse of the city, the peat of the land I
There is carroty Sal, with Jimmy her 11 fancy)"
There is Charley the bully, along with 11 fly ” Nancy j
There is Billy the “ boozer ” with mulberry nose.
And flash ’Arry, whose heels make him stand on his
toes; '
Thera is Tommy the “ sport,” who can give you the
tip,
With the pride of his life on his long upper lip;
There is brazen-faced Annie, who ne’er could be civil,
She would hocus a parson, or even the devil;
There is Charley the “ pugo,” a cowardly skunk.
Who tackles no man unless he is drunk,
With three or four pals round, all ready to kick ;
And Biddy his “ josser,” who’s armed with a brick;
There is Jerry the “gaffer,” with short rusty oeat,
A flaming red tie around his bare throat,
With on arm round his ‘•fowl.” with foul oaths he will
tell
How, at Clontarf, or half-a-crown balls, she was
belle;
And ” Mike from Tip’rary.” and* ‘ leery-faced Sue,"
A ghoulish, unmanly, unwomanly crew !
If there is no hell, come dear Rabbi, let’s know
When they die—where the blazes such carrion go ?
SALVO.


ANTHONY HORDEHN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
IN order to meet the ever-increasing requirement# of the NEW SOUTH WALES PUBLIC, we
_ have this year Imported
FROM ENGLAND AND THE CONTINENT OP EUROPE,
2422 PACKAGES OF GOODS,
BOUGHT DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS,
And are now prepared to offer our Stock of WINTER GOODS at exceptionally favourable prices to
the Inhabitants of Sydney and surrounding districts. VISITORS FROM OTHER COLONIES are
specially invited to inspect the FINEST DISPLAY of Goods ever exhibited in Australia, and see one
of the VERY LARGEST DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENTS in the World.
Be sure of the Exact Name and Address. We have oily one Place of Business, and no connection
with others of the same name.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (Only),
Where any of the following Goods may bo purchased Under One Roof.
Latest Novelties in Brocaded Velvets.
Brocaded Silks. Broohe Silks and Satins,
Lyons Velvets. Genoa; Velvets.
Louis and Manounium Velveteens.
.Plashes and Flushettes.
For all Shades and Colours,
Cashmeres, Sublime, Brittany, &o.
Reversible French Cashmeres.
Terra Cotta and Beotive Cloths.
Ladies' Kid Gloves, latent Fasteners.
All Light Shades and Colours.
Laces—New Patterns. Evening Dress.
Eibhons—Plnsb, Moire, Satin, &c.
Choicest Delicate Shades.
Millinery—Latest Parisian Fashions.
Ladies and Childrens’ Boots and Shoes for Walking.
Fancy Kid Boots and slippers fjr Evening Wear.
Work boxes, Toys, &0., &o.
Ladies’ Jackets, Dolmans, Ulsters.
Umbrellas and Parachuters.
GENTS, YOUTHS, AND BOYS.
Overcoats, Ulsters, Winter Suits.
Hats and Caps, Sealskin, Felt, &o.
Boots and Shoes. Greit Variety,
Curtains, Table Covers, Napkins, &e.
Table Linen, Damask, Choice Patterns.
White and Grey Sheetings, Flannels.
Blankets, Counterpanes, and Eider Down Quilts, AU
sizes.
Calicoes, Prints, Cretonnes.
Bedsteads all Sizes, and Styles.
Furniture of Every Description.
Drawing and Dining Boom Suites.
Carpets, Hearthrugs, Mats. ,
China, Glass, and Crockeryware.
Stationery, Statuary, Pictures.
The Largest stock in the Colonies, of Fancy, Berlin, and Shetland Wool Goods ever*
shade, Collarettes, Fichus Shawls, Capes, Opera Cloaks. Ladies’ Wool Vests and Skirts* ChiidrSJ?
Wool Skirts. Dresses and Jackets comprising every latest novelty for warmth and comfort.
Every requirement for Dress either for Girls, Boys, Ladies or Gentlemen may be obtained on visitin
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET
(ONLY).
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VEEY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Trade
Mark
A GOOD LIGHT
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
E. LABSETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT POH IRON WORK AND OTHBH USB.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OP HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEVER
BLISTER CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF. "
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
TEMPLE,
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD &
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, in white, bl
and colours.)
SEWING
BROOK’S crochet and tatting cotton.
OF ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
COTTONS.
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES Is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS masofactured by
them Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Only Prize Medal i London, 1851. Only Piret-ciass Prize Medal, Paris, 18.58. Prize Medak
linden, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, South Africa, 1«W.
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, 1898.
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS, , ,
All Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAtND should be addressed to Warehouse,,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales# v
PE A P B S AN
HAVE PURCHASED all
BUGS MANUFACTURED by h
and Co. from.the MERINO WOO
Mr. W. J. DANOAR’S BTATIOI
a ad no F LAT TE EIN G L Y SPOKEN
of THURSDAY, JUNE 8.
EXTRACT: “Messrs J. Vican
manufacturers, of Susscx-atreet, 1
tured six patterns of tweed, which
be done with what is known as the
without having reoonrse to dyes,
known as native brown wool is the
a popular mistake called the blacl
employed in the goods shown to
of some fine merino woolled shesp,
Hangar’s run, Neotsfleld, Singleto:
colours, light and brown wool. C
tweed consisted of [a check forme:
The pattern is an excellen'
material is admirably adapted
ings for the present season,
consisted of the same two c
stripes. This substance is also stoi
winter wear. In another case the
has been used alone, and what is c
colour produced. This tweed was:
ally for making ladies’ dresses, wat<
woollen dress materials are largel
manufacture of ladies’ costumes, i
highly popular. The weight an
material are both light. There ii
coloured tweed, similar to that f:
heavier and intended for gentlom
dark-brown wool has been manufi
corduroy of extra stout substan:
specially for riding pants. The £
has also been used in the :
dark piece of tweed made sp
coating. The material is of a
and although rough finished, the
surface of the piece is left uncut,
native brown wools have also been
of some travelling rugs of very g
case the darker wool is used to pre
and la the other case the two wools
to produce a check which will p
admirers. All these goods will n
by all persons in whose minds a kin
against dyed fabrics, while other
after the native brown tweeds as a i
AS THERE IS ONLY A Lift
OF THESE EXCEEDINGLY
GENTLEMEN BHOULB MAKE
PEAPES and SHAW, PEA
George-street. Gcor
NEXT TUESD
THE GREEN POINT ;
GOSFORD, BRISBANE
WATER FRONTAGES ;WATI
WATER FRONTA
LARGE BLOCKS-ACRES, NO:
Land to suit ALL CLASSES, Wi
BITES, and large FARM
SALE DAT,
TUESDAY NEXT, 20tl
at 11.80 a.m ,
at the ROOMS, 83 PITT
V This LONG and FAVOUEA
TATE, in area upwards of 1000 i
di-ided by Messrs. HAWSO:
licensed Surveyors, in their t
into large blocks, having deep
facing roads all
ONE CHAIN WII
The LOTS, 67 in number, vary i
ACRES each, and there is one
331 acres, which should creai
COMPETITION.
BATT, RODD, and PUEVES hs
tions from the GREEN PG
to sell by public auction, at the LA
88 PITT STREET,
NEXT TUESDAY, 20tl
at 11.30 a.m„
THAT MAGNIFICENT PRC
the GREEN POINT ESTA
bane Water, insides Hawkes
3 MILES of GOSFORD, ai
of the RAILWAY to NEW
«r COAL DEPOSITS have been
EC A N TIL E BOWING CLUB.
SEVENTH ANNUAL BALL.
Under the patronage of the
MAYOR and MERCHANTS o£ SYDNEY.
Tko M R C. Seventh ANNUAL BALL will be held in
the EXHIBIT! >N BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park,
6th JULY NEXT.
DRESS. PLAIN AND FANCY.
Tickets, double, 30s; Gentleman’s Single 20s; Lady’s
B’ngle 12s 64, may now bo obtained from the following
WarehousesMessrs.' Holdsworth. Gardyne, and
fo,F Lassetter and Co., Thotnp'oa and Giles, W.
H Paling, Elvy and Co., Peapes and Shaw, George
street; Parmer and Co., Pitt-street: E. Cantor, King-
btreet; J. Ellercamp. Hunter-streeb,
or from the Stewards and committee.
Stewards :
John Harris, Esq. (Mayor John Hinohcliff, Esq.
of Sydney)
Hon. James Watson
Hon. J. B.Watt
Sir P, Jennings, K C.M.Q,
Win. Aldarson, Esq.
T. E. Allt, Rpq.
Henry, Bull.lEsq
Thomas Dalton. Esq.
John Gardyne. Esq.
J. G. Hanks, Esq.
John Hardie, Esq.
J S Jamieson.
Wm. Laidley, Esq.
C K. Moore, Esq.
John Pope, Eeq.
Charles Pearce, E»q,
Chns. J. Roberts, Esq.
Carl Sahl, Esq.
John See, Esq., M.P,
H. Sands, Esq.
Thomas Thompson, Esq.
John Young, Esq.
' Committee :
Messrs. R. W. Benson, John Blackman, A Byrno, R.
Brindley, L. C. Uirohal), P. C. Boulton, P. J. Bull,
A. Bros, W A. Blaekstone, W. H. Bros, A. Cronll,
D. Dennis. D Fletcher, W. J. Foster. A. Green, K.
Giltinan, E Hanson, P. G Hordern, Fred.R. Isler. R.
A. Koddio, W. Lea. N. Lockver. L. B. Mitchell, J,
Playfair, junr.,N. Shelley, T. G. West, H. E. Wilkinson,
C. H. Williams.
H. MURRAY. Hon. Sec.
A. P. BROS. H°n. Treas.
ICTORIA HALL,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPIRITUALISM,
CYRIL HAVILAND
Will deliver a series of Pour LECTURES on
"SPIRITUALISM,”
ILLUSTRATED BY LIME-LIGHT LANTERN,
SATURDAY, 17th, and MONDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and FRIDAY, the 19th, 21st, and 23rd JUNE.
Course Tickets at Walton’s, 21 Arcade.
SATURDAY, 17th JUNE.
EANDWICK.
CLOSE TO THE TRAM TERMINUS.
ADJACENT to the GOVERNMENT WORKSHOPS.
OCEAN VIEWS.
ICO CHOICE BUILDING LOTS,
ON WONDERFULLY EASY TEEMS
AND ASSISTANCE TO BUILD.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST will sell by pub-
lic auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on SATURDAY, 17th JUNE.
at half-past, 3,
Over 100 CHOICE OCEAN VIEW BUILDING
SITES. EACH HAVING 33 FRET FRONTAGE
to mTREKTS 60 FRET WIDE, by DEPTHS
of 160 FEET and UPWARDS.
EimOS AT THE BOOMS.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST.
Auctioneers.
MODEL LODGING HOUSE. KENT STREET
NORTH.
House will he OPENED on MONDAY, the
,l_ l«th day of JUNE, instant, with one hundred
single beds.
Admission between the hours of 6 and 11 p.m.
Beds, 9d, each per night.
58 Margaret-street, BURTON BRADLEY,
9th June, 1882. Hon. Sec.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Sir Henry Parkoa received by tho Kin? of
Belgium and publicly banquetted; returns by John
E der, 29th lust., to Australia For 2 000 0(0 N S.W.
loan. £4,2'iG,300 was tendeied ; average, £lO2 2s. 11a......
Turkey resists proposed European Conference on Egypt
bolding that Commission despatched i under Dervish
Pasha could settle tho question British army corps
at Malta hold in readiness to proceed to Alexandria,.....
Fanatics at Alexandria attacked European residents;
67 fatalities; British, Greek, and Italian consuls
weunded; engineer of H.M S, Superb, killed;
Egyptian military quelled the riot which was
caused through a Maltese having stabbed an Arab
soldier who insulted and maltreated the Greek Consul.
Michael Davitt in America re-rallying Land
Leaguers, subscriptions having decreased since Pncenix
Park murders Irish judges condemn suspension of
jury system In County Galway, Mr. Boutko, a land-
lord, and a dragoon, his escort, shot dead; in the West
of Ireland, three farmers shot, one killed...... Bishop
O’Reilly about to organise in London svstem of omigra-
tion of Irish farmers to Australia... . 390 agrarian out.
rages in Ireland in May Irish Bishops, by manifesto,
denounce agrarian outrages and secret societies gener-
ally, and urge payment of just debts on the cessation of
evictions Russia is increasing wool duties. ..^
Garibaldi’s funeral at Caprera, on Juno 8. was attended
by many thousands of people; the law precluded crema-
lion '.Portuguese Chamber of Deputies rejected a
motion, regretting Garibaldi’s death and lauding his
career Obituary: Mr. Curwen Boyd, Mr. Robert
B.'ookes, Mr. Scott Russell, and Vice-Admiral Robert
Pall (Naval Secretary of Admiralty) Irish and
French harvest prospects good; American, gloomy;
English hop harvest probably a failure ...... Austra-
Ban meat being sold as English; Lord Carrington
proposes to compel butchers tb certify the kind
of meat they sell Three vessels sailed from
C lifornia for Australia with 131,000 centals of wheat
and 12n0J8of flonr on board Pittsburg (U. 8.)
ironworker 1 -’ strike ftlll on Paris .police on
strike; will resign cn masse unless pay increased
and position ameliorated Skobeloff appointed
military Governor at Vilna Several Russian rail-
wry companies insolvent, Govsrnment taking over the
lines Count Telstov auct cods Ignatielx as Minister
of the Interior House of Lords rejected Deceased
Wife’s Sister Bill by majority of 4 Hanlan down
with feror at Toronto ; match with Posspostponed......
A mot Go'd Cun Race:—Foxtaall 1, Faugh-a-hallaghi 2.
P krone! 3 Australian Eleven Cricket:—Draw with
Y'rkshire—Australians made 128 and 135; Yorkshire,
146 and three wickets down for 30 Dmvy with Notting-
ham —Australians made 142 and 106; Notts. 110 and 12
with one wicket down. Row on between Eleven and
Notts Club, because the former were left out in mvita-
lions to a luncheon; mutual bullyragging.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
“London Assurance” was produced at the
Itoyffl on Saturday and Monday nights. Of course we
do not intend describing the plot of this familiar
comedy, but plough along with a cheerful conscience
to a consideration of the acting. To begin—Lady Gay
Spanker makes a first-class Miss Blanche Stammers.
Every characteristic trait and peculiar mannerism of
the latter is brought out beautifully in this persona-
tion. As Grace Harkaway, Miss Lena Ellis has not
added considerably to her previous fame. In fact we
consider she is too thin to be famous. A graceful thing
now for one of her admirers to do would be to present
her with a sample of Anti-Leana. And in years to come
what a lovely Aunty Lena she would thereby develop
into ! Anyhow it is the only way for her to become a
good all-round actress. Miss Ellis has a lisp,' which
she oarries into all parts, as an Evening News man
carries his inky middle finger. It is not always a nice
lisp, either, such as a charming but ingenuous creature
might be afflicted with and forgiven for, but a sound
which suggests that her under and upper teeth are en-
gaged in a deadly struggle over the body of the word. It
«an hardly, therefore, oe wondered at that the said word
Is n bit mangled when it gets into the air. And further,
now that we are finding fault, Miss Ellis speaks the
most trivial sentences with a tragic empressement, which
is somewhat out of place la a modern comedy. She
seems ever wavering between ter-ragedy and the sickly
burlesqued “ too-tooness" of her part in “ The
Colonel.’* Pert (Miss Playfair) made a nice little
toahretk.
• 9 •
Mr. Wybert Beere’e Sir Haroonrt Courtly is,
if not a splendid study, as good a Horcourt, Courtly as
one eonld reasonably expeet to meet under the cireum-
stanees. Mr. Reeve wa» never, in any part we have vet
soon him play, very successful In disguising his
identity. We have always found him saying "heah”
and ** theah," and “ to be ehooah and, as he says
‘’heah,”* and M theah,” and” to be shooah,” in the present
instance, and as we praised him when he did these
things before, we’ve got to praise him now. Mr. Reeve
kindly supplies his audience with a big burlesque of all
those little peculiarities which in the colonies are popu-
larly supposed to have attached to the old English gen-
tleman of the old school—that is to say what has, during
the past ten or fifteen years, come to be known as such.
He also attempted to graft on to the old English gentle-
man aforesaid ft wicked charm of manner which is
acquired only in Paris. Dazzle (Mr. D. H. Harkins) is a
rood deal like the American Colonel in some things,
hut not distressingly so. Master Courtly (Mr. Frank
Oates) was as near our ideal of a brilliant scapegrace as,
we presume, is possible on this sinful earth. The
possibilities seem to be narrowing in a good deal of late, 1
Dolly Spanker (Mr. G. Forbes) was, we say it "boldly,"
by far the prettiest person on tWk stage hoards His
make-up was one of the most elegant wo have ever seen
on any boards, and what little ho had to do was done
eharminjly. We look forward with much pleasure to
this elever gentleman’s re-appearance as Baron
Stein in that eharming comedy, “ Diplomacy.” Mr.
Harkaway (Mr. Gladstone) was not genuine enough for
a country squire. There was not a sufficiently hearty
ring in his laughter. He, so to speak, bluffed himself
by au attempt at over-hluftuess Mr. Sam Poole made
a very amusing Meddle. Mr. A. J. Byrne, as Cool,
brought down the house—that is to say the tempera-
ture of the house ten degrees lower.
* * * *
Lord Lytton’s excellent comedy of “Money”
was performed at the Royal on Tuesday night. The
performance was almost admirable. The loading cha-
racter, Evelyn, was impersonated by Mr. D. H. Harkins.
Mr. Harkins is, like the Royal Standard, semper eademt
Sut, as there are two or three separate individualities in
«tcry man, and as each of these has innumerahl«jmoods
and phases, It Is possible for a good aetor, who should
he able to ©all up the outward sign of any of these moods
or phases at will, to appear a new man, and yet the same
in every piece. In this particular play, for instance,
Brelyu was the American Colonel, and Dazzle, and,
under all, D. H. Harkins. Still, he was a different man
in mind and tone to any of these. Gestures and tricks
•f speech lust the same throughout. For all this,
Mr. Harkins was far more satisfactory as Evelyn
than in any other character in which we have
yst seen him. As Graves, Mr. Wybert Reeve
sepnlohrally amusing. His allusions to the
“sainted Maria” always sent the “family circle”
into fits. Sir John Vesey (Mr. James Cathcart) was a
very good study. Mr. Prank Cates adds fresh perfume
to the violet, in the part of Sir Frederick Blount. In
fact, he considerably overdoes it. And not so much
that, either, as that he has not caught the ineffable
drawl and half-oriental languor of speech which distin-
guish the swell of the prevent time. Mr. O. Forbes
was an ideal Captain Dudley Smooth. Stout (Mr.
Gladstone) had a voice too much like that of a pre-
maturely-old Evenino News boy, to be pleasant. As
Smart, Mr. Sam. Poole has not much to do, and does it.
Mr. A. J. Byrne is better as Lord Glossmore than as
anything else we have seen so far. But ho seems to
puffer from a chronic unreliability of spine which is
hard to understand. Like a hare on the Windsor cours-
ing grounds, ho is always doubling back on himself.
The ladies, with the exception of Miss Blanche
Stammers, had very subordinate parts in this play.
Mrs. Stammers made a very nice, if somewhat frigid.
Lady Franklin. Miss Playfair is, of course, always a
fair player. As for Miss Stammers, one has only to see
her once to love her. Sha grows monotonous on a
second view.
* * **
“The Professor” has attracted pretty pood
audiences throughout tho week. If there had been
anything like decent weather, the business would pro-
bably have been first-class. As it was, the Opera House
had a fair portion of the total amount of patronage
bestowed on the various theatres, which is one of our
airy ways of saying that there were large attendances
of Indies. Certainly, the company at the Royal will
have to play a higher trnmp than they have done yet
to take A Tho Professor." Fred Marshall’s company,
though a little weak in the subordinate characters, is
specially strong in exponents of light comedy. Daisy
Brown (Miss Emma Fischer) is the only female char-
a Her Of any importance. The others only count for
the confusion they can introduce into tho plot, and
they do manage to confuse things—worse than a mixture
of bush rum and train-oil whisky confuses the brains
ef a country editor. But tbqugh not particularly
sparkling in detail, the Professor’s sweethearts make
up a very bright tout ensemble This is a good phrase.
It is more elegant than “ the whole bilin’,” but it
means pretty much the same thing.
• • •
Fred. Marshall makes what might be called a
handy pocket professor. But it is well that tho play-
bill describes him ao a “veritable giant in intellect.”
Otherwise people would be asking for their money
back. Certainly he does look a very small giant beside
the ” Fine Opportunity,” whose limbs seem to be with-
6ht limit. But one forgets his size in his acting.
B eanrsgard (Mr. Titheradge) is an artist of the Bohe-
mian stamp. He is hardly true to nature, however.
He washes his face. Mr. D’Aroy Stanfield’s Gustavns
is a first-class performance. He has the foelishest face
we ever saw out of a jury-box. Mr W. E. Marshall
makes more of the part of Mr. Tompkins than the play-
wright seems to have intended. This is how you will
know a good actor —sometimes. Mr J. O’B. Grattan
(Henry Marston) is boo funereal altogether. Even it a
young man has happened to mislay his sister he doesn’t
go about looking like a hearse-condnctor. He simply
takes to drink. At this rate, abont,ninety-flve per cent,
of the male population of this city have lost their
sisters. We ourselves usually feel as if we had
lost a gross. Fred. Dark and Frank Forbes, the
juniors from Yale, are amusing and gentlemanly.
Moses Brown (Sterling White) looks and acts as great
a villain as if he had been constructed by Providence
especially for damnation.
* * * *
At the Gaiety, “ Faust,” Paladini in the title
r die. Either the music was too much for him, or ha
was suffering from a cold, as he broke down slightly on
two or three occasions.
“ Alas 1 he is not now tho man
As in the days of good QueenJAnne.”
Rut still good. In the ooncerted pieces he slugs per-
fectly ; in the solos, not as ef old. There comes a time
when each and all of ns have to hang up the fiddle and
the bow. No man who is a philosopher grumbles at
this. But.Paladiui is not played out yet, by many a
goodly measure—Lydian or imperial pint.
• • •
Signor Luisettj was the Mephistopheles. He was a
very dignified looking devil indeed. It is a pity, how
ever, that hie flame-coloured hose did not fit him. This
suggests a new puzzle for theologians to wrestle with—
" Who is the Devil's tailor?” We refer here to the
legs of this man, because these wens all we could see of
him in the latter stages of the opera. The heads of
newspaper critics clustered thick in front of us—almost
thicker than their substance.
• * *
Was Mr. Kitts there or was he not P Has thatfbrigand-
chest forgotten how to plough down amongst the growl
notes, and show how, in basso, a man may speak heroics,
—even with a fourteen-penny meat cover on his ancient
pow ? We only seek information. Kitts was there.
And there was no diminution in his girth, nor in his
crescend i. He was Wagner up to Simonsen s rates—
shill’n a swagger.
• • «
Leonora Simonsen is artiste enough to go
henceforth without being called Mias. The little lady
will sing. If it comes to that, sings already. Not
with the force that embonpoint and age will bring, but
with the voice that a Marguerite should have. Nearly
all the Marguerites wo have seen out here have been
too old or too fat for the part. Leonora looks the very
Marguerite that old screw-jawed Goethe had in his eye
when he licked the Famt legend into shape.
• • •
The orchestra, though far too few for Grand
Opera and somewhat ill-assorted ia the matter of each
man not being pat to play that instrument which (he
is master of, ia a vary good one, and gets through the
music in very decent style.
** * *
They are still unwinding grave-cloths and cere-
ments at the Queen's. A mummy of the days of
Sesostris has been unpacked. They coll it “ Snare."
We shall not fall into it.
** * *
Signor Giovanni Vittorini had a complimentary
concert given him at the Masonic Hall on Monday
evening. We notice that Bob Smith, M.L. A.,
was on the committee. This was more than
enough to secure success. There was a fair attendance.
Just here is about the place to mats some remark
about Jupiter Pluvius, but we refrain. Pact is, old
Jupe is now doing a tour of the columns of the country
papers. The programme was opened by Mr. W. Smith,
who sang Cellier’s pretty but difficult song, “ There
once was a time, my Darling," in a modest though fairly
expressive manner. That charming little lady, Mdlle.
Oharbonnet, followed with a piano solo—Qiorza’s
“ Grand Caprice de Concert," played admirably.f (Signor
Vittorini’s first solo was “ The Heart Bowed Down."
Now, this is the song of all songs which he should noi
have sung, as it abounds in sustained notes, and what-
ever charm there may be in Signor Vittorini's singing,
it does not lie in his prolonged notes, as they not only
lack steadiness, but in a crescendo he invariably
sharpens. This song, though so simple, as far as notes
go, is perhaps, of all Balfe’s, the most difficult to sing
well. The oft repeated notes are apt to become
monotonous unless sung with a voice true and of a sym-
pathetic quality, which, alas I—but, as we have before
said, Signor Vittorini’s voice is very powerful. The
chief interest in the concert was bestowed on Miss
Pedley, a young lady vocalist and violinist, who made
her first public appearance in Sydney at a soiree musical*
given in the Protestant Hall last week. Mias Pedloy’s
violin playing and her singing are alike in this—that,
though her faults are few, her powersjare limited.
With excellent taste she sang Foster’s "For ever and
for ever," and, had her voice justified the careful
training It has received, no more could be wished for.
In her violin playing, she is neither a Jenny Clause nor
a Camilla Urso, for, although her tone is sweet and
true, there is no power —in fact, at times the violin
could scarcely be heard through the pianoforte accom-
paniment j but, as judging by her appearance, Miss
Pedley is young, and, as she has no bad habits to un-
learn, she may yet become a good concert-room soloist.
One thing can be said in favour of Miss Pedley’s good
sense, that she chose solos that were well within her
power —did not go in for harmonies, but kept at a safe
distance from anything which might be dangerous to
her reputation as a violinist. We feel ortaiu that Miss
Pedley will make an excellent teicher of the violin and
voice ( for her style is good, as are likewise her musi-
cal instincts. Mdlle. Oharbennet’s second pianoforte
solo (Fantasia by Liszt) received the appreciation it
deserved, and, for an encore, she played an arrangement
of her own on the popular ballad 1 Some day ”—noth-
ing strikingly original in the transcription, but brill-
iant withal, and played with great feeling.
** * *
South’s Opera Company, after emptying the
pockets of the Queenslanders, has returned to ravish
the ears and purses of the provincials in this colony.
James, who looks almost as lovely as his charming
wife (Miss Edith Pender)—and that is saying a very
great deal—called on us on Tuesday last, anqHßjM
quainted us in the fine bass-baritone-tenor-alto WKce’
which he has developed since he turned his attenfwm
to opera bouilo, that he opens at Bathurst on Monday.'
It goes without saying that James has, as a vocalistjkos
in all other respects, a cultivated stylo and a presence
which is only less imposing than his absence. His
voice has been trained in the most celebrated school—
the school of necessity—-and his company is the best
we know. In fact, he has always been ranch sought
after on account of being good company. After rousing
Bathurst to delirious joy, James and Co. go to Orange
and suck it dry, after which the classic groves of
Mudgee will resound to the melody of The Grand
Duchess, Girofy, Madame Angot, and Maritaua In
Wallace’s opera, James does not personally take a
leading r6le. The music of Don Caesar's part might
have been written for his voice—but it wasn’t. A
sentiment of gallantry precludes him from de-
priving his wife of the role of Maritaua,
and singing it himself; and Don Jose is too low.
James despises anything low, So he divides
his attention between leading the sopranos—when Miss
Fender is not looking—and picking up the nuggets and
jewellery which the audience never fail to fling at the
heroine. Member* of the nobility of Mudgee are hereby
entreated to wrap up their nuggets in cotton wool before
heaving. Miss Pender has become so nervous, owing to
frequent contusions, that now, when a swell
gets up to throw, she involuntarily dodges j
and it was only a fortnight ago that James,
while engaged, in the disguise of |a member
of the chorus, in snavelling a bouquet containing a
diamond bracelet and a sewing-machine, was hit ou the
nose with a lump of silver ore, and that member so
inflamed, that next evening, as General Boom, he
introduced a sneezing song not contemplated by Offen-
bach. The company is piloted by Mr. H. T. Whittington,
who exhibits his celebrated cat between the acts with-
out any extra charge. This feature—the exhibition of
the cat, not Jimmy’s injured nose—is alone worth all
the money charged for admission.
** * *
Thus our Auckland correspondent“ I must
get you down a word about Abbott’s new theatre
(where the Williamson Company are playing), which
seats 1250 persons. It is the best appointed in N.Z.,
and for comfort is not surpassed in Australia. Mac-
donald vouches for this statement. The stage is roomy
and dressing accommodation ample, while the ventila-
tion of the house is perfection. A bowling alley is pro-
vided for the amusement of the perfesh. In case of
fire, it is estimated that the building could be cleared
of a crowded audience in from four or five minutes.
The cost of erection was £BOOO De Lias is slightly
better, the trip from Sydney to Auckland having made
an improvement. It is rumoured he has a number of
companies engaged to play at the Royal. If so, there
will be “war.” The Mendelssohn Quintette Club
played here for six nights to fairly-good Uouses. Their
N.Z. tour, though a big success artistically, was uot
so financially.
* * dr *
We learn that Miss Emilia Melville has made
definite terms with Williamson and Co.
** * *
The lovely Louise has been enthralling the Mel-
bourners in “ East Lynne " Archibald Forbes a suc-
cess at Ballarat Miss Boland Watts-Phillips dotfitsd
at the Melbourne Bijou in her late father s drama, “ On
the Jury.” Miss Phillips is described as a charming,
graceful, intelligent lady, with a clear crisp voice. She
was decidedly successful Dewhurst has been doing
the stern parient biz. at Melbourne Princess ‘ The
Grasshopper,” with Miss Lee in the title rfile, has been
put on the boards, and looks like having a long run
“ Musette " Hewett giving his “ Bain ’’ performance at
St George’s Hall. Hewett s Burmese hautboy is said
to be like "the screech of twenty cats on a windy
night."
From an artistic point of view, writes, our cor-
respondent, Wilhelmj’s farewell concert has been the
event of the week at Adelaide. Wilhelmj seemed to
feel the parting, and played with astonishing force and
grandeur. His own composition, “In memory of
Vieuxtemps," was especially admired, and he was re-
called again and again. It seems as if Australians are
beginning to understand the great violinist just a little
too late. He left the same night by the Orient steamer,
and having to catch the 11.15 train, had not much time
to waste after the concert. He discovered a fine violin
by Nicholas Amati in the possession of an amateur at
Adelaide, and offered a good price, without, however,
securing the instrument. Wilhelmj absolutely yearns
to meet Richard Wagner again, and hopes to fill his old
position as leader of the orchestra and soloist when the
Maestro’s “ Parsifal ”is produced at Bayreuth. It
will be long enough before such a perfect violinist
is again heard in Australia. Miss Oonron and J. 0.
Duff will shortly return to America, via Europe,
while clover Max Vogrich remains for some time in
Victoria. Vogrich will take a testimonial concert in
Melbourne, and then live quietly with some friends
and a good piano at St. Kilda. He says they have one
of the has* cooks in the world—nn Italian woman.
Max ought to know. He boa conducted opera and
furnished concert items everywhere from Southern
Italy to South America, and from South America to
our own big island-Continent. Wilhelmj takes two of
Vogrich’s works with him for publication in Germany,
and intends to play one of thonv—a remarkable concerto
for the violin—in nearly every concert programme.
From Victoria, Vogrich goes for a season to India and
thence to Europe. He will probably, be associated
afre*h with Wilhelmj for a concert-tour through Rus-
sia next Winter. Max speaks Russian and some dozen
other languages, and declares that Russia in Winter is
preferable to Russia in Summer. But then he is not a
Jew
• • *
At the Adelaide Eoyal, crowded houses are ths
rule, “ Youth,” so far, proving a r«cuniary triumph.
The staging is much inferior to its Wctorian dress, and
the people also inferior; nevertheless “ Youth” has
net once been played in Adelaide to less than £2OO.
Rignold nonchalantly turns aside in the middle of a
(Harris-Merritt)'passionate sentence, and addresses re-
marks to thoseabout him or to people behind the scenes.
But how can it matter when spectacle is everything
and acting almost what somebody used to term "a
work of supererogation f" Allison swears he will go in
wholesale for betting—with a patent-safety pencil.
Rignold is booked up to next Christmas with William-
son and Co.-three months at Sydney and three months
at Melbourne. During part of this time Slaughter,
the acting manager, who is in ill-health, proposes to
take a rest. The talented Herbert Flemming
is now stage • manager for Allison and vows
that, if Jim won’t let him cast himself for the lead
before Carey, and spend money in producing dramas, he
“ will uso his influence with Miss Pomeroy. Bent and
Batohelder have finished at the Academy, but Gamer’s
Theatre Is to he opened on the 17th by Georgie Smith-
son’s Dick Whittington combination, assisted by James
Holloway and “ten (10) first-class artists." Wilson’s
circus is about closing hare, and the Irrepressible
Rainer will show his everlasting American War Pano-
rama next week at the Academy.
“THE POOR PLAYER."
[ Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
At latest, Annie Pixley was playing M lisa
in Pennsylvania Stray Leaves Company last heard
of at Boma The very latest is“ Miss Eugenie
Legrande has taken the Union Square Theatre, N.Y.,
for four weeks, commencing May L and will produce
George Darrell's original play, ‘Solange.* This will
bo Mias Legrande's first appearance in Now York.”
We can guess who puts up the money At latest,
Edwin Browne had just managed to reach'Frisco eta
Honolulu. Edwin has had quite a frosty time of it
In Christchurch, Wolfo, of the Mastodons, explained
that a diamond ring he owned recently had gone to one of
the minstrels for an advance. This didn’t get him out
of the alternative of paying a £2O promissory note to one
Bradley, of Hobart, or “ take it out." Johnny
Hydes, of the Mastodons, was put in the box in N.Z.,
and wagged so freely that the genial magistrate sug-
gested a small charge at the door for the entertainment
The Townsville Amateur Dramatic Club is now
properly floated. The rehearsals are going on at pre-
sent. A local gentleman is writing the piece to be
played Lieutenant Bose was advertised to play
at Townsville on Friday night, the 9bh June
Fred. Maooabe says he's half English and half Irish—
he claims to be descended from the Kings of Munster.
Johnny Hall says the cross is a bad one. Frederick
replies that ho knows his faults and is struggling
against them Up North, an aspiring amateur played
Hamlet with an eye-glass. When the Ghost stalked in,
tbe Dane stuck the glass in his dim-sighted orb, and
remarked: “Angels and ministers," etc When it
was announced that his Excellency would make a trip
to the North, the Singleton Amateur Dramatic Club
woke up, and decided to give him an entertainment.
Fortunately, his Excellency was warned. He didn’t
go .. Mace-Miller combination a success at Christ-
church; they endured a slight frost at Wellington
Williamson has secured A. Davis, ene of Harry Towle’s
proteges Mastodons raking in dollars at Dunedin;
Weston rubbing in Wizard Oil at Invercargill Zulu
Thompson netted £3OO in six days at Wanganmi with
bis diorama and gifts show; Jat latest he iwas at
Marton Several jugglers and acrobats seceded from
the Australian Circns at Westland, NZ, and are
running the neighbouring townships under the title
of the “ Australian Surprise Company " names kept
dark Williamson’s Opera iCompany at Auckland;
money raining in till W. has hardly the “ Patience" to
eonnt it None of the competitive poems for the
opening night of the Opera House, Auokland, were
deemed worthy of the prize offered by Abbett; the best
was that of Mr. J. L. Sinclair, and Abbott “ parted."
Williamson read the “ pome." Dwarf and magnetic
lady fascinating the editor of the Gtmpib Minbe
Ten years ago Benhamo, nowin Queensland, astonished
everybody by vaulting over twenty horse# placed along-
side each other. This was at Sayers’ Amphitheatre,
London. Ben. is said to be still pretty lively.
♦ ♦ ♦
The latest London musical-hall ditty is entitled
•• Clara’s Blued Her Liver Pad." Pretty, isn’t it ?
Eosai was a perfect frost in the Baldwin, Frisco
Alice Oates at latest was in New York contemplating a
trip to England J. B. Polk comes to Australia next
year to produce “The Banker’s Daughter When
Bara Bernhardt was married, the clergyman reproved
the verger for dressing his wand out iu drapery. A
warm smack on the ear convinced his reverence that
the wand he se unceremoniously pushed aside was none
other than the bride 1 Jumbo weighs fli tons In
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin," at Haverly's .Theatre in’Frisco,
six immense Biterian bloodhounds (the most savage
dogs in existence) are turned loose on Eliza. Of course,
precautions are taken, hut the spectacle of their furious
efforts to get at the woman is one of the most sensa-
tional and dangerous ever Been on the stage.... The great
Irving is a Somersetshire man, and 44 years of age
Signor Koesi, the Italian tragedian, has brought an
action against a New York photographer for issuing a
picture of him as Borneo with a bald head. This is the
photographer's reveage on the man who wouldn’t give
hi n sittings. Kossi's Borneo sports a lovely brown wig.
...A Bill is before the N Y. Legislature making it a mis-
demeanour to receive more lor a theatre ticket than the
advertised price Going home on the Zealandia (s.s.)
were Pattie Laverue and the wife of a clergyman. The
latter having made some injudicious and slighting re-
marks which hurt the actress, Pattie, at an impromptu
concert, sang one of her very naughtiest French songs,
with such verve that the enemy left her seat in the
middle of it. Strange to say, a certain bishop who was
present applauded moat heartily, to the intense delight
of some of the audience who were not straightiaoed. It
was evident to them that his lordship had forgotten his
French They have on show in New York, Hugh
Murphy, 7ft 4in., and Daniel Whelan, 7ft. Hugh is
ojly 18, and Dan is 20. One day, Hugh wanted to rob
an orchard. The wall was 14 feet high, so he got Dan
one night to give him a leg up. He calls Dan “ Stumpy,
but choors him up by saying ha might grow for two or
throe years jet By last advices, Emmett had been
sober lor six months, was reconciled to his wife, and
doing the biggest business in America—viz., £luoj pet
week) or] thereabouts The Australian songstress,
Emma Howson, a big success in New York, at
Haverly's Fourteenth street theatre. A leading journal
says .she is the most brilliant of Moscottes, and that a
more graceful Patience has net yet been seen.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-ptume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Upper C.”: We can’t take notice of a row
between professional musicians, among whom are soma
of the most quarrelsome and petty-spirited people on
earth. They appear to hate harmony on the same prin-
ciple that the flower-feller hated the smell of violet*
and roses “ Fancy Fayre “ t “ Nantoh girls ” are so
called because a fresh notch appears on their calves
every year “Ere”: See our reply to “Upper 0."
The virtuoso referred to probably wears his hair lonfp
to hide his ears “ Henry 0. 8. : To publish an ** In
Memorlam" of the kind you send ns would but be prais-
ing with faint damns “ K. 9.": Send it to Chamber*’
Journal. We have a bull pup that could lay over that
Newfoundland “Fitnry”) (1) There are no means
of ascertaining. (2) From what we have heard, the
Blayney copper lodes should bo more than payable....A
"Shakespeare’s Ghost.”i We have already criticised
the play. Emotional actresses don’t often really
weep in their plays, excepting the house is bad
”Q. P.” t Spiteful, merely ” Amicus” tTo hand......
"Octopus”: Thanks. Tyu will find some of your items
noticed ** Delta” (Adelong): Thanks George
Reilly”: Seme Sydney members—but not many—wear
sixes. We have previously announced our inability to
get to the size the hon member In question takes, but
have been informed he requires two hides..,,.,** J.D.''
(Dubbo); We have no advice r« curing kicking horses.
Batter sell ’em to somebody who requires kicking
Verbatim”: The lines, whleh were written by a Mel-
bourne presamnn, form part of a satire directed against
a well-known blood-thirsty cleric, and are
" Then second Jndas, with thy bag of pelf.
If fond of hanging, go and hang thyself 1”
•* A.T.Q.”: Excellent story and doubtless true as
Gospel “Reweiti”: Thanks lor the Information.
Always glad to hear from you “ Drummer”: S«wl
it along, but send your name with It " T.L.”t Your
“ Lamentations" are a bit late in the market. Jeremiah
had tbs bulge on yon " G. 8." (Clarence River)* The
habits of servant girls up in your part have no interest
for ns. Ton forget we are not in the Fooroe “Ex’
selsior”: You say “dead,” but you probably mean
“dead drunk.” Anyhow, you must let us have your
name before you can expect ns tot deal with the little
incident “ Gip”: They acted naturally. Send ua
something funny *’ Jagln" (Wagra)« By all means,
and as early as you oan ** Slow Young Man"t Good.
” Subscriber” (Maitland): Thanks, always acceptable,
but not too much mere dress, please ’’T.B.W.
(Madges); It is mere personality, nothing more ; so
not this time...” Verax”: We wait for next post, then...
‘ Quack”: Will see to It “Passepartout”: First-
class “R. 1.": Next week “B.J B."s Shall be glad
to hear from you “ W.R.G.": fVfed is prououi oad as
if spelt “Paited" “Gj.W.’’t A deal too lively.
It's plain Saxon, and in N.S.W., singularly enough,
there’s a strong prejudice against plain Sax or
“Viola”: Welcome “Roberto”: You "just dasttad
it off.” Same here. We have just dashed it off—oar
desk. You think “ there is perhaps something in It.”
Well, there isn’t anything in it at present, bat there
will be by and bye. Our office-boy's mother gets the
contents of our waste-paper basket, and she will probab <§
pat something—blacking, perhaps, or herrings—in
your contribution. Anything labelled “ dashed off*'la
immediately treated accordingly. We don’t want your
doshed contributions, Roberto. Scarcely np to concert
pitch. However, we look for something better from
y0n.......“ Kamos”: Will look it over “Etna”:
Your “Look of Hair” is too tbin for insertion
“Fillip”: Next week, Fil “Triton": Not enough to
go on ** J. T.”: Please leave ** the young and
fascinating belle of Pedlington” alone.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, Juno 14,1882.
On the wharves, to-day. prime green lucerne is selling'
at £8 10s to £9 per ton, other samples £6 to £8 per tan.
The market is well supplied with bay, and there is a
moderate demand. Maize is 5s 4d to 5s 6d per bushel;
oats, seed audjfeed, prime, 4s per bushel; Warrnam-
bool potato#*, £3 10s to £3 15s per ton ; Circular Hoad,
do., £4 10s; New Zealand, do.. £3 5s to £3 10; Tas-
manian, do., £4 per ton; Victorian onions, £4; do.,
chaff, £8 to £9 per ton. For best samples of prime
butter, in keg, 2s to 2s Id per lb. is obtained; Tas-
manian, do., 1* 8d to Is Od ; New Zealand, do.. Is 3d to
la 61 per lb.; eggs, 2s 3d per dozen; bacon, 84 to Od
per lb; cheese, 8d to 10 d; ham, 9d to 10 per lb ; honey.
4d to 4Jd; lard, 84 to 94; beeswax, 9d to 16 per lb. j
millet brooms. 7« 6d to 10s per dozen.
Poultry.—At the various auction marts, poultry was
in moderate supply, and sold fairly. Fowls brought
from 2s to 4s lid per pair; ducks 3s 6d to 4s 9d ; geese
5s to 6s 9d; turkeys—cocks, 6s to 10s 9d, hens 5s to 6s }
pigeons lid to Is 9d per pair; parrots 6d each.
Fresh Meat.—At the Railway Station, Darling Har-
hour, the usual sales of fresh country-killed beef taka
place daily, a good supply arriving and selling freely.
Price* are—For prime bodies of beef, 2d to 3sd per n).
all round; medium quality, lsd to l|d per lb. Prime
mutton also sells at 2d per lb.; medium quality, lid to
Ifd all round.
Fat Cattle.—At the Homebush sales yesterday, a
short supply of fat cattle was yarded, and the market
ruled firm :—Best beef 22s 6d per 100 lb.
Fat SHEEP —A short supply and prices firm. 51-lb.
wethers worth 13s.
Flour.—As usual holders of prime flour are Arm.
Sj dney mill flour is selling—superfine at £l5 per ton j
household, £l4; seconds, £l3; New South Wales, £l4
15s to £l5; Viotoriau, £l4 10s to £l5 ; Adelaide, £l3 to
£l5 ss; New Zealand, £l2 5s to £l3. Bran and Pollard,
It 8d to Is 9d per bushel.
Wheat.— At present, there is a large quantity of in-
ferior New Zealand grain in the market, which millostf
do not eai-e to touch. Good grain ef all devoriptioos Cs
saleable at about our quotations. We expect that tM
shipment e« San Francisco mall steamer will ha oth wad
this week. Adelaide wheat is from 6s 64 te 6* *4 pAr
bushel; New South Wales, 6* 6d to 6s $4; Vi«tos»»h»
6s; Launceston, Ss §d: New Zealand, 5* te 3b 14 per
bushel.
“It seems damp,” said Dobson, as they got
outside. “A ponderous Hebrew, indeed," icm ark < d
Jobson. “What do you mean?" asked Dobson. “A
heavy Jew," replied Jobson. And so it was.
A gentleman who was once a bookseller in this
oity has framed an intt resting collection of documents,
which apeak for themselves respecting 1 tbe eommeroiul
morality of a leading man.
The Chinese vegetable merohant who thought
he was sufficiently Australianised to squeeze the baud
of Bridget Muloaby, the Dariinghurst domestic, on the
sly, as she handed him a threepenny piece in exchange
for a good shjjling’s worth of carrots, has departed for
some quiet pldco down our beautiful harbour, where be
can pull two feet of broom handle out of his opina,
soaked oesophagus.
He came home late, and tried with a burning
match to light the tap over his washstand. “ Jamer,
she said, "that is not the gas burner.” “ I know it
now, my love," he replied, unsteadily; “fact is, I've
been overworked, and tha’s reason made mishtake.**
And she quietly rjmarked. as che sink back on her pil-
low, “ that ha looked as if he had been lifting a good
deal."
Writes a correspondent:—“ Open ‘ Lothair ’ at
page 90, chapter the 21st, and peruse this elegant ex-
tract : ' Hava you any room here, Hugo ?' drawled out
Dord St. Aldegonde. * Plenty; and here is my chair.'
•On no account: half of it, and tome soup, will satisfy
me.’ Behold this lordly aristocrat, with that proud
condescension of his order, ttooping to appease his
delicate appetite with only half a chair washed down
with u little soup. What sublime simplicity 1"
Those traction engines which passed thromgh
Forbes the other day have a great deal te answer Qt.
They resuscitated the dead Bailway League, which fi
now blowing off steam on the two hapless sepresMStfU
tives in a most mescilees style, because they de ptrt;
happen to carry portable toys in the shape of •* mat?
horses ” in their pockets. Still worse, they kanet
started the two local editors on the warpath, and papte
and brains are flying around like shooting stars.
they want down west now is a cheerful JE*nian or
.Nihilist, and & trifle of dynamite to complete tbe
festivities.


PEPPER AND SALT.
At a certain recent race meeting in the Shoal-
haven district, a traveller entered a public-house of the
good old sort, and asked for a glass of P.B., “or,* he
added—the stock in the place being evidently very
limited—" some other kind of spirit.” The landlady
handed him a "nip,” but, on tasting some, ho spat out
he stuff, ejaculating : 11 1) —- it, this is Pain Killer,
you have given me in mistake.” “ Hould yer whist,
yon fool,” replied the angelic hostess; “ they’re dhrick-
ing * Farmer’s Friend ’ in the nexht room.”
• • •
He was un eminent man. The cares of 117
Winters (not counting the other seasons) had furrowed
his lofty brow and dimmed the lustre of his one re-
maining orb. He gazed reflectively into the window
of a large jeweller’s shop, concentrating the brilliancy
of his widowed optic upon an IS-oarat Afghanistan gold
chain, available to the grasping public for the sum of
halt-a-William. A small boy with an abnormal devel-
opment of brain, immediately grasped the situation,
and, fastening a double-barrelled extra strong two-
penny " hunger ” to the sage’s patriarchal coat-tail,
indulged m a preliminary war-dance, ignited the wiok‘
and I . . . . The eagle eye of X 999 had contom-
plated the outrage from round the corner. But the
small boy’s pal had contemplated X 999 from round
another corner, and gave the alarm; the embryo
dynamitist, therefore hurriedly left. X 999, however,
wasn’t goiug to be “ dene.” Seizing the remnant of
hoary dignity, which, by this time, was swearing pro-
foundly, he—but why proceed ? Why inform the
sympathising public that a bald head and one eye
availed not? That while a poor old man was led faint-
ing from the dock, the dread mandate “forty bob”
still ringing in his oars, he (the old warrior) plaintively
tated that 11 he’d take it out.” Alas !
• • •
A Sydney man, a stranger to the habits of bush
race meetings, pulled up at a hotel about eight miles
from the city the morning after a race day, and on an-
tering the bar, found the landlord sweeping up what he
supposed to bo grapes. He said to him: “You have
plenty of large grapes out this way?” “ U rapes 1” ex-
claimed the landlord j “ them’s eyes that was gouged
out hero last night.”
« # #
Mr. M.: “You say you know Mr. Smith?”
Witness : “Yes, sir.” Mr. M.: “ You swear yon kuow
him?” Witness: “Yes, sir.” Mr. M. i "You mean
that you are acquainted with him?” Witness: ”Yas,
sir, acquainted with him.” Mr. M.: " Oh, you don’t
know him; you aro merely acquainted with him. Re-
member that you are on oath, sir. Now, be careful.
You don’t moan to tell the court that you know all
about Mr. Smith—everything that he ever did ?” Wit-
ness : “No, I suppose—” Mr. M.: " Never mind what
you suppose. Please answer my question. Do you, or
doyonuot, know everything that Mr. Smith ever did ?”
Witness: “ No, I—’’ Mr. M.: “ That’ll do, sir. No,
you do not. Very good. So you are acquainted with
alibis acts?” Witness: "Of course—” Mr. M.:
“ Stop there. Are you, or are you not ?” Witness :
“No.” Mr. M.: “ That is to say, you are not so well
acquainted with him as yon thought you were P” Wit-
ness: *• Possibly not?” Mr. M.: “ Just so. Now we
begin to understand each other. If you don’t know
anything about Mr. Smith’s acts when yon are not
with him, you can’t swear that you know him, can
you?” Witness: “If you put it in that way—” Mr.
M.: “ Come sir, don’t seek to evade my question. I’ll
put it to you again. When you say you know Mr.
Smith, you don’t mean to say you know everything he
does ?” Witness : “ No, sir, of course not.’’ Mr. M. ;
*• Just so; of course not. Then you were not quite
correct when you said that you know Mr. Smith?”
Witness: “No, sir.” Mr. M.: “In point of fact, you
don’t know Mr. Smith ?” Witness :“ No, sir.” Mr.M.:
"Ah, I thought so. That’ll do, sir. You can stand
down.”
• • •
Judge Forbes’ son, the barrister, has sold his
wig and taken to the stage. We always thought law-
yers were destined for the Pit.
* * •
THE ADULTERAT1VE MEDIUM.
Don’t ever go " the whole hog ’’ now,
Adopt the medium state;
Extremes are apt to cause a row.
So just—“adulterate.”
Do not, if you’ve important news
To publicly relate.
The law of Truth too much abuse.
But just—“adulterate.”
If on your solemn oath you swear
All that is true you state,
Of Per j ury you must beware ;
Only—“ adulterate.”
Don’t rob, nor cheat, for that would be
A risk by far too great;
With Law you must not make too froe,
Simply—" adulterate."
In social life, profession, trade,
Success will be your mate ;
If you've this potent rulo obeyed.
Wisely—“adulterate.”
Pose, if you will, a holy man—
Pray early, and preach late;
But ne’er neglect tho royal plan—
Always “ adulterate.”
And, when you die, ’twill be as well
To try a feat more great,
And see it these grim pangs of Hell
You can’t “ adulterate 1"
• • •
’ There was a “Bruce Auction” in aid of an
Anglican Church a short time ago. Among other things
two sucking pigs, with blue ribbons round their necks,
were disposed of to tho dearly beloved. A congregation
up North got tho bulge on this, however. A.dog-flght
was the chief feature of their Fancy Fayre. Two of the
leading elders wore discovered drunk in a ditch, chew-
ing each other’s ears otf late in tho evening. That’s tho
way to make the Gospel rip along.
* # m
It was in the North. Poor old Bump the
Phrenologist dropped into the local newspaper office and
asked for a par. to help him along. At tho same time
he handed in an ad. As ho counted the money out ha
noted tho editor’s rum-bleared eyes sparkle with in-
telligence. Bump posed immediately and muttered in
an audible tone, “ veneration largo, intellectual power
vast, wit fall, combntiveness large but cloaked by
caution, amativonesa—a red-haired woman is tho only
limit I General contour Shakespearian." Next mornin g
over the local about a two-headed kitten : “ we learn
from several residents that Professor Bump has proved
his ability by tho most unerring analyses of character.”
What a hollow world this is to be sure !
• • •
The latest feminine fixing advertised in the dailies
is “ a sympathetic blush," price sixpence, which is
evidently something to put on, for it is in the same
catalogue as “ Bine for the Veins” and “Fascination
for the Eyes.” Wo have invested a few half-crowns,
and mean, when the blnsh arrives, to send it along to
John Davies, with some tram tickets and our com-
pliments,
• * *
The other day, an abandonee came before the
Sydney Water Police Court on one of those charges
with which women of her class are so frequently con-
fronted. The wretched creature has for years past been
given up to debauchery, and is known to the police of
most of the colonial capitals. Yet she is the wife of a
man in high position, and here before marriage the
name of Monorieil. She is a sister of the most beauti-
ful of British peeresses, likewise of tho not irious Lady
Mordaunt, oonoerning whom the Prince of Wales was
put on the witness-stand, and who is now confined in a
lunatic asylum. By the way, not long since there was
a man before the W.P.C. who, forty years before, had
had the honour of shooting Bismarck. The man who
is now a Prince and Chancellor of the German Empire
was out shooting; so was tho Australian colonist in
nuestiou, who fired at a bare and hit Otto’s leg.
* # #
In a donkey race, the worst and last moke wins.
Therefore, the Daily Telegraph is the leading daily
newspaper in Sydney.—Q.E.D,
“ Not for Jo” ia the sinful slang in which
Bishop Moorhouso is supposed to have couched his
reply when the trustees of the Sick Children's Hospital
asked him why he didn’t, according to promise, attend
the performance of “ Jo," for the benefit of that insti-
tution, given at the Princess Theatre, Melbourne, a
short time ago. The solid fact is that there are too
many “Holy Joes” in these lands for any others to
have a show.
• • «
’E was a harristicrat, and lived at the P’int. ’ls
sisters and cousins and 'is aunts was a-stayin* with 'An
from the country yer know; so 'e 'ired a 'bus, and tooir
’em all to the thaayter. When it was over, and they
was agoin* 'ome, a fellah (under the impression that it
was la public vehicle) got on board. The harristicrat :
“This ’ere’s a private 'bus, so git orf.” The fellah:
“I beg your pardon; but I’m going your way, won’t
you give me a lift ?” Tho harristicrat: “ Don’t ye ’ear
this ’eris a private 'bus ? git orf; ” and the fellah did.
All this goes to prove that it is nobler to be a wealthy
parvenu, who has made his money God knows how,
than to boa poor devil working for a living.
* « •
The usual monthly meeting of the Spitzbergen
Destitute Devils’ Asylum was held en Friday last in
the wood-shed belonging to the institution. Everything
passed off satisfactorily, and good tempered and most
praiseworthy endeavours were made to facilitate the
business, an! forward the interests of this most deserv-
ing institution. During tho course of the debate Mr.
Brown said his worthy friend Mr. Jones was in the
habit of stealing the Asylum’s ooal, and using it. Mr.
Jones said ’apose he did; he never sent his boys to
milk tho Asylum’s cow, and then hawk that milk round
and sell it. Mr. Robinson observed that these two hon.
gentlemen suokei that institution dry. Mr. Smith re-
plied that if he meant that remark for him it was a
scandalous lie, and he’d shift Mr. Robinson’s ear for
him. A director asked what was the business be-
fore the meeting. Mr. Jones told him to go to Gehenna
and find out; he charged Mr. Brown with milking the
institution’s cow, and afterwards selling that milk.
Mr. Brown, “ It’s false.” Mr. Jones, “ You’re another."
Mr. Smith “Come out in the yard and I’ll wipe the flure
width’lotav ye." The Chairman, “Who slnngthat dead
oat—let the dastard fiend declare himself, and I'll belt
his head in.” Mr. Robinson: “ I submit that all direc-
tors should be the wives of Mr. Crasar." Mr. Smith,
“D Caesar: Why should any director be allowed
into that institution’s cowyard ?” Mr. Brown then
gripped Mr. Jones by the front hair, Mr. Smith bit off
a director’s ear, Mr. Robinson kicked flour off the
secretary's ribs; then the oow charged the lot, and the
Improvement Committee were called on to report on
the plans and specifications of anew woodhouse.
Letters were also read from the parents of some of the
orphans, complaining that the children were sometimes
washed, after which the chairman came down from the
roof, and the meeting ended.
Speaking of a recent wreck, a New Zealand
journal solemnly states that "one of the men found
drowned was a sailor, and the other was a woman and
child.” It is evidently a “native” who runs that hand-
bill, or perhaps it is bossed by the “jintilman” who
observed that all the parties evicted in his parish were
Murphys, except the OToolas, and their name was
Hagerty.
• • •
What we particularly like to see during church
hours is a coachman sitting on a carriage-box at the
front gate quietly smoking a black pipe, and thereby
going to h 1 with that pleased expression on his face
which is peculiar to the man whose turn is “ next ” in
a barber’s shop, whilst coachy’s monied master and
family perch inside the churoh and secure wings and
harps for the Great Hereafter, They say we are grow-
ing more religious every day, but when a coachman
damns himself for 30s. a week it looks * trifle doubt-
ful.
* * * i
Mr. Williams, of the Anglo-Jewish Association
roves that the coronation stone in Westminster Abbey
is tho stone used as a pillow when he dreamed of a
ladder to Heaven. We always advocated that view,
and were the first to announce that the block on which
Charles tho First’s head rested is now fixed at the tep
end of Mr. Williams.
* • •
At a certain Tasmanian town, the other day,
the free and independent electors got so enthusiastic
over the successful candidate that, after nearly drown-
ing him in champagne, they stole his new wig 1 took
out his teeth I and put him to bed with his stays on J
That’s what a man gets for doing the Patriot 1
There is in N.S.W. a registrar, who, when a
couple come to him after office hours for the purpose of
getting married, hands them a slip of paper, tells them
to write their names on it, assures them, when they
have done so, that they may regard themselves as man
and wife, and finally requests them to come to him
some time next day, and he’ll “ enter up the records.”
There is a greviously largo number of mean
persons in this city. Perhaps the bulk of them move
in what are facetiously termed the “upper circles" of
society, A lady, well-known in the Sydney musical
world, writes to ns to inform us that her daughter
“ lost ” a portfolio of music within the grounds of a
certain residence, after leaving a recent music party.
Further, that the portfolio “ contained the name and
address of the owner, and consisted of a great portion
of the repertoire she brought out a few weexs ago from
England, and that none of the copies can be replaced
either in Melbourne or Sydney." Advertisements have
been repeatedly inserted m the Herald c tiering rewards
for the portfolio, but, it is needless to say, thece have
not been answered. Losses of this kind are otherwise
known as larcenies. They occur frequently. Tho
cause is a mixture of feminine envy and meanness.
A “young lady” must have accomplishments
now-a days. Honesty is not always considered one of
those. It is only a vulgar virtue at the best. But the
want of it now and then brings people to the gaol—
So when your Seraphina plays
{(J lover limp ana pale),
Some sweet aria which she says
She got by tho last mail.
From her dear brother, who, she found
By postscripts at Miian,
—Which means, most like, he’s driving round
A soft-goods caravan
Up Nerth—don’t answer yes or no
Till you’ve spread oat the roll it—
The air we mean—is in, and so
Have found out whence she stole it.
Writing respecting the Times and its proprie-
tors the London World remarks Though the Times
has long since lost tuo art of brilliancy, it is still able
occasionally to surprise. It is not that it ever flashes
some great fact of prime historical importance upon an
astonished world, or that it reveals to a tublio sitting
in darkness the true meaning of some apparently com-
monplace event in diplomacy, or in Parliament. The
sensation of amazement is seldom due to any other
cause than some stupendous blunder or ineptitude;
some extraordinary misconception of some current In-
oident, or some unparalleled outburst of complacent
egotism. Middle-aged gentlemen in affluent circum-
stances are naturally terrified by tho very mention of
the word ‘change.’ They argue about it much as
Socrates did, when he remarked that, if the gods
changed, they must change either for better or worse.
Bat, he added, the former ia inconceivable; the latter
is too shocking to be possible. By a similarly exhaus-
tive process of reasoning, Mr. Walter would arrive at
the conclusion that all right-minded persons are pre-
eluded from desiring any alteration in tho existing
regime." Now, for tho Times, read S. M. Herald, and
see how these remarks apply.
PARKESIANA.
Our Henry’s coming home again.
The greatest of all living men,
To open Parliament, and then
To yam about his holiday.
O, when the Speaker takes the chair.
What deafening cheers will rend the air
As Henry backward throws his hair,
And speaks abont his holiday !
He’ll tell of how, in Yankee land,
He played the N.B.W. hand,
Got euchred; yet was not too grand
To utilise his holiday.
And how he trod old England’s shore.
Was shown at Court, got feeds galore,
Made speeches often, and encore,
Throughout his glorious holiday.
And that he told the English how
We’d teach, and not learn from them now,
Which raised a very mighty row,
Enliv’ning up his holiday.
And Temperance, he swore the fact,
Increased was by his Liqnor Act;
In many ways he showed his tact,
Bight thro’ this famous holiday !
Of how he saw the Stouoleigh moat.
Where erst lie swam his paper boat,
Reminding him that papers float
Around him eu his holiday.
Of how to go to Church he tried—
Succeeded once 1 Of how he hied
Unto the Contiaoug, though tied
For time—and on his holiday.
Of how he fed with Belgium’s king.
And helped to bust an iron “ ring"—
A most unusual sort of thing
To do upon a holiday.
And, when returned, h’e takes his seat.
Someone will ask, in accents sweet,
Five thousand pounds or so, to meet
Th* expenses of his holiday I
Portrait of the celebrated physician who advised
Sir Henry Parkes to return without delay to
the Colony.
Dedicated to the artists who congregate round Punch’s
Corner.
(For the Bulletin.)
Tell me not, in idle numbers.
Spieler’s life's an empty dream.
For he must be fly who lumbers
Bullocks—simple as they seem.
Graft Is real, grafting’s earnest.
Often ending in the gaol;
“ Back unto tne jug returnest”
Oft has made the spieler quail.
Not enjoyment, and not sorrow,
la our destined end and way,
But to find—for each to-morrow
Sowkars we can spiel—to-day.
Lumberers are good at greeting.
And their skins are thick and brave.
While the rucky tats are beating
Low mugs' marches to the grave.
On the racecourse—field of battle—
Where the break-point play is rife 5
Bear up bullocks, like dumb cattle,
Spot the swindle in the strife.
Trust no oozzer, howe’er pleasant.
Quickly nit, and smoke your head ;
Graft whenever they’re not present,
Stivers cop out as they’re led.
Lives of bookmakers remind us
Magsmen, too, can bo sublime.
And when guying leave behind us
Debts to pay, some future time.
Debts for which, some day or other.
When we chance to meet again.
We may cop it from a brother,
For diddling that wo can't explain.
Let us then bo up and doing,
With certainties for every meet.
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labour and to cheat.
SCHORUM.
MR. ARTHUR CUBITT.
(See page 10.)
HOW THEY BUCK OUT WEST.
(According to Bobby Byrne.)
A New Psalm of Life.


BRIEF MENTION.
All is not gold that glitters—in a dentist’s.
The man who takes the orphan’s part.—John
Davies, C.M.G.
The metropolitan police are agitating for an
increase of pay. To bo made up ont of the fining of
publicans wo suppose. K 1
The London Times says emigrants can have
a square mile of land for 6s. in the centre of Australia
peg a out 8t land Bydney * Btroll in a thousand milesland
. The S.M. Herald says that the travelling mis-
sionary for teaching tho blind to read has nearly a hun-
dred pupils. We presume he lets these out to tho blind
at so much an hour.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen has just ruled that tobacco
is a luxury, but beer is a “ necessity." Sir Bryan
has collared the Press from this day forward. And
the Press “collars the beer.
A Qawler man stole a bottle of whisky and
toddled not wisely. He fell like Lucifer and the bottle
smashed, cutting his leg. Before arrest though, he
had taken off his boot and drunk what had run in
there.
In a pawnbroker’s window in this city is a case
bearing the inscription “A Highland Minister's com-
plete VodeMeoum." The case contains a very small
Testament, a very large spiritflask, and a corkscrew.
Lot us pray.
On dit that a recent application for a Govern-
ment billet is worded in the peculiar phraseology of a
well-known chief, whose pet has, of course, not been
advised to apply. There will be a row about this when
the 'Ouse meets.
The Wagga Wagga Counoil Connoil (why not—
what’s the second Wagga for?) met the other day. and
carried a resolution to the effect that, having regard to
the autocratic idiosyncraoies of representative institu-
tions, and the present strained relations existing between
Germany and Russia, the Mayor be empowered to pur-
chase for the use of the council, one box of magnum
boanm pens, and one stick of sealing wax-the Town
Clerk to see about gum.
Not for “Jo ” Bishop
Moorhonse.
It is stated that the corona-
tion of the Czar, which had been
fixed for 6th September, has now
been postponed for a year. It
seems by this that the Patriarch
is going to defer putting a crown
on him until the NihiMsta have
first “ put a head ” on him.
“ No gold medals are given,
but certificates to that effect take
their place," solemnly says tho
Canterbury (N.Z.) Times of the
Exposition UniversclU jnst held in
the Cathedral City. It is to be
hoped that the I.O.U's. in ques-
tion will prove as satisfactory to
exhibitors as the medal. We eay
we hope so.
Sir Henry Parkes, in a
speech, said he remembered
perfectly the Moat House where
he was born, and the garden
which he used to run about in.
And yet he was only two years
old when he left them. We are
of opinion that he will havo
good reason to remember this
statement after he’s dead.
The Manning River
Times again gives tho greater
part of a column to a description
of Mr. R. B. Smith’s visit to the
Maoleay, This is the paper that
published the nightman para-
graph. Either item is an oma-
ment to rustic literature, and an
evidence that the able pens of
the editorial staff of tho Times
are not so entirely monopolised
by the description of gigantic
cabbages that they cannot corus-
cate now and then over fashion-
able intelligence.
A well-known medico ont
West had his buggy and horses
seized by the bailiff tho other
day, under one of those painful
operations common to the impe-
oanious. He was terribly wild
about it; and yelled his grie-
vances into a friend’s ear. "I
could have shot the fellow, sir;
I had my revolver in the house,
and I would have done it, only—"
“Only what?" “Only the
—vagabond had a revolver, too."
This is not a fiction; the bailiff
knew his man and was equal to
the occasion.
A new chum swell be-
ringed, be-gloved, and be-de-
viiled, went into a wine store in
Sydney the other day, and asked
if they kept Sostbene Thomas, a
champagne unheard of in these
parts. “ No," replied the clerk,
“ con let you have dry monopole
though, by the case." “ I’d like
to sample a bottle," said the
swell “ fact is, ole fellah, I
thought that you and I might
have a small bottle between ns,
as a kind of piok-me-up you
know.” Five minutes afterwards
he admitted to s passer-by that
a hand-cart would do quite as
well.
A Queensland undertaker in his advertisement
“ begs to thank the clergy, gentry, and inhabitants
generally" for their support. He says nothing about
the doctors. Perhaps this is because; the doctors now
kill for the rival coffin-shop.
Three rent-payers shot dead, and two others had
their legs filled with buckshot. 60,000 troops in Ire-
land, No arrests made—bar those made of the lady
leaguer*. This looks sick for England in case a power-
ful state like Balmain should revolt.
A constable’s calf is valued at *£lo in Mel-
bourne, and the owner of tho dog pays, while the gorged
animal lies down to sleep off tho feed. A cur who tried
the same game on tho leg of an E.N. reporter, broke
bis teeth and went sapperloss to bed.
‘ * Why does that old fellow keep bellowing in the
middle of the street all the evening ?” enquired a late
arrival of a Rockhampton man. “Well,” was tho
answer, “you see most people up here oan’t read, and it
is necessary to have tho performance explained to them
by a prologue—outside.”
An Emerald (Isle) colonist, who had made his
pile, was fond of displaying the “lamin’’’of his little
“bhoy” to every one who came along. “Now; Aliok,
resoite that bit o’ poethry called Cato on tho Immor-
ality of the Soul, by Milting. Ain’t it by Milting,
Aliok ?" “ Yos, father.”
Now, isn’t it just a little peculiar that papers
edited and owned by very straicht-laoed people, who
view Bradlaugh and Beaant’s “ Fruits of Philosophy "
with horror, should allow their columns to be defiled
by the ad’s of Dr. L. L. Smith, and Drs. Botlrell and
Gilbert—to say nothing of Van Heekeren ?
At tho Native Parliament at Alexandra (N.Z ),
17th May, KiugTawhiao came on the ground as “drunk
as an Englishman,” and couldn’t speak until he had
slept for two and a half hoars. The fact that In Aus-
tralian Parliaments drnnken whites often orate by the
hour clearly shows the superiority of the Fakeha.
A man writes under the nom de plume of
“Citizen” to the Hebald, urging the erection of one
of the Frazer fountains in Wynyard Square, to 11 supply
a want that does not exist." This was what Providence
made Hell for. By thunder, we are wrong I We had
forgotten all about . He wonts a C.M.G.-Bhip,
Of a coronial jury out West, the other day, com-
prising some of tho leading aristocrats of the locality.
one had a newly-scarred proboscis, a second had one of
his optica in a sling, a third had a bash or two about
the phiz, and a couple of others were mostly comfort-
ably “ fresh." This is a fact. *• Heavy wet” out there
that week.
Our respect for lawyers increases. When we
reflect that one lawyer cross-examined Mr. Day, and
another lawyer cross-examined that clever dentist, Mr.
Thomas Spencer, we admit that they do good some-
times. They can get truth even out of a well, the
libel law of this judge-ridden land won’t allow ns to say
anything else but—well.
’Enniker ’Eaton, as Parkes calls him, wrote to
tho undertakers of the late Bishop Barker’s funeral,
that, although an Australian Churchman, he really
couldn’t come to the ceremony I but he deeply
sympathised with Mrs. Barker. So do all of us—after
that. To be sympathised with by 'E. ’E. on such
grounds must be something ghastly.
More freedom for these free colonies! The
Hon. J, Colton, a South Australian M.P., is about to
introduce a Bill to prevent boye under 16 from smoking.
We_ suggest to the hon. gentleman—who is always great
in little things, and little in great ones—that he might
embody clauses also to prevent them from teaching
their grandmothers to suck eggs, and from sucking
their own thumbs.
A guard on the Bathurst line has been fined 10s.
for being drunk while on duty. He pleaded exhaustion
from overwork—said he had done 29 hours’ work right
off. The matter needs investigation. If the guard was
drunk, the lives of passengers were endangered, and he
should at once be dismissed the service; but if his
defence was based on truth, then he and his claas are
greatly to be pitied, and reform is urgently needed.
At the trial of Thomas B. West, publican, for
keeping his house open on Sunday, which took place at
the Water Police Court a short time ago, a constable
called Houghton addressed the Bench and said that the
dismissal of the case would cast a slur on the whole of
the force, and he woald not Like to show his face in
court again. The case was dismissed. It is therefore
i to be presumed that tho constable now walks into court
crab fashion, or that he is “ travelling on his face" in
a Freak of Nature Show.
What sort of a country is this N.S. Wales we
live in ? In the Garrett case, Cunningham Archibald
Aitchicon, aturveyor, who was examined as a witness
for the plaintiff, said that he bought some land at Dar'
ling Harbour a few months ago, and added: “I do not
remember from whom Mr. Cope and myself bought the
land; I do not know the name of the man, but I know
he is a builder." Just as one might talk of purchasing
a pen-knife I Are there no title deeds or documents of
; transfer which give a vendor’s name, or oven plain re-
-1 ceipts, in this Arcadia? Or is it only a land where
statesmen's 1.0.U.’s remain unhonoured—though not
unsung ?
A played-out shearer was ordered off the pre-
mises of a shanty-keeper out west, after he had molted
his cheque. “ Not another drop’ll you get, yon drunken
scoundrel," said old Bluestone. Just then along came
King Jaoky Jaoky, an aboriginal, with a shilling, which
he desired to convert into poison. The shearer had his
eye on the publican, so the latter gruffly ordered Jacky
off. The black went; the shearer followed Presently,
the latter returned, called for two drinks, and rung
down a shilling on the nearest rum-barrel. He was
served. He swallowed one drink, and carried off the
other to the expectant nigger, who was waiting under
the nearest gnmtree.
Puff, of the Public Purse Department, visited
his uncle, a squattah of high degree down South, and
was considerably annoyed during his stay on the station
by the unpleasant attitude assumed by one of his
cousins towards him. At dinner, the night before Puff
set out on his return home, the conversation turned on
the trouble caused by the kangaroos, which infested the
neighbourhood, and the question of holding a battue.
Puff enquired of his cousin whether he had ever hunted
the pests. Receiving a rude negative (which was a lie)
in reply, he turned to his uncle and remarked “ Ah,
then, you have a sovereign remedy at hand. Just intro-
duce those kangaroos to your son.”
A short while back, we are told, a competitive
examination was held of candidates for admission to
the Survey office as temporary draftsmen. Several
passed and were appointed to various classes, according
to merit, but one of the candidates who failed to pass
the lowest standard got (by what means it would, of
course, be impossible to to say) a special examination,
and was subsequently appointed to a class actually
higher than that in which were placed some of those
who had been successful in the competitive examina-
tion. Sir John Robinson is requested to look into this
little matter. He is also requested to say how it is
that in the Lauds Department competent officers with
comparatively high salaries are obliged to ask for per-
mission to temporarily absent themselves from dutv,
from -‘brats of boys with £l5O per annum,” merely
because the latter happen to be on the staff. The
Lands Office is evidently in as rotten a state as Sir
John Robertson’s Land Act,
She was an honest girl, 19 years of age, and yet
she was forced to voluntarily sleep in a felon’s cell in
order to save herself from death by cold, wet, and ex-
posure. A benevolent institution had to turn her off
because she bore the odious stain of being “ a young
woman." Then she was sent to Caiaphaa, and from
Caiaphas to Pilate, and from Pilate back, and so on, until
a rtfuga was at last found amongst the destitute.
Monday’s Herald tells us “this is satisfactory," bnt it
is easier to sit by a cozy fire, surrounded by “six
courses," and make such a statement than to stand
out in the pitiless rain and enjoy it. “ The poor we
have always with us,” but—here’s where the hitch comes
in—wejdon’t want them.
The hanging scene in “ Neck and Neck,” at the
Queen’s Theatre, is an exact counterpart of an exeou-
tion in our gaols. It is said that C. H. Burford wouldn’t
play the part on account of the risk. Which reminds
ns. There’s a young man in town who used to play the
part of the Indian spy in “ The Relief of Lucknow."
The spy is hanged. On one occasion, instead of putting
the rope under the victim’s arms, certain of the supers
who “ owed him a grudge ’’ fixed it round his neck. Ha
was just out down in time to be resuscitated.
He can’t wink at a girl now for fear of disjoint-
ing his neck. He has to waggle his cars instead. The
sound produced is like that made by an Irish help beat-
ing carpets with a deal-board.
The new English parcels post will be invaluable.
What a lot of dynamite his Irish friends will be able to
send Mr. Forster for 4dl In Germany, there is no
limit to the size of parcels per post. The authorities
would carry an elephant per post if yon put on him
enough stamps. Tho new parcels post is good, bnt it is
capable of extension. The day ought not to be far
distant when dogs, babies, cats, household removals,
washing, coffins, garden-rollers, permanent artillery-
men, horses, carriages, and eighty-ton guns cowld all be
circulated through the postal system. How blissful
’twould be were we able ro address and post to Spitz-
bergon M’Beath, John Davies, and the rest of the
C.M.G.’s, all the dishonest members of Parliament,
hard-swearing constables, aldermen who don’t wash
themselves, jciesis and parsons who raise religious
rows, the “ stabbing-man,’’ lambers-down, dander,
headed judges, and perjured jurymen I
The artist who weekly horrifies the Adelaide pub-
lic with bis delirums of portrait painting in Adelaide:
Punch has had a terrible revenge on the members of
the 8. A. Government. He has manufactured likenesses
of a eat of as villainous brigands as ever infested the
Alpine passes, and he has labelled ’em in a happy.go-
Incky way with the departmental titles of ministers.
Bray has his right eye bunged up and is rubbing his
sore arm ; Parsons looks like a digger just after a howl.
iug“tear;’’ Glyde is an assassin creeping up to scalp
Parsons ; Ramsay looks like a cross between a polony
sausage and a hardshell Baptist who has “found the
Looard;" Catt is the personification of gaunt Famine;
while Downer has tho appearance of a Bill Sykes who
has been tramcar-ed and comes up smiling. Keep on
labelling your identities, Woodhouso, so as we’ll know
whom you mean.
It seems that a jocular and unmarried citizen
lately met his solicitor, who is a small man but mar-
ried. They fchook hands heartily, and before the grasp
was loosened the citizen said ; “ Ah. many a time, old
man, has that hand stroked tho raven tresses of your
lovely wife." "What?" cried the solicitor, starting
back indignantly astounded; "my wife—what is that
you say?" “ Oh,” replied the citizen smiling, “I did
not mean my hand; I meant your hand." “Oh, ah,
that alters the case completely," and they parted good
friends. Twq days afterwards they met again. The
solicitor’s nose appeared broken, and both his eyes had
been blackened. “What’s the matter?" queried tho
citizen; “ you look ns if you'd been fighting, and got
decidedly the worst, of it.” “ Well," repli«>d the small
solicitor, mournfully, *' I tried to play oil' that little
joke of yours on a friend of mine, and he didn’t give me
time to explain."
Writes a correspondent There still are
scores of alligators hero (Barron River, N.Q.). Tho
alligator is a lazy dog, and instead of hunting ror some-
thing to eat he lets his victuals hunt for him. That is,
he lies with his mouth open, apparently dead, like the
’possum. Boon a beetle settles in it, than several gnats
and a colony of mosquitoes. The alligator don’t close
his mouth yet. He his waiting for a whole drove
of things. He does his eating wholesale. A little later
a lisard will cool himself under the shade of the upper
jaw. Then a few frogs will hop up to catch the mos-
quitoes. Then more mosquitoes ana gnats light on the
frogs. Finally a whole village of injects and reptiles
settle down for an afternoon picnic. Then all at once
1 there is an earthquake. The big jaw falls, tho alligator
slily blinks one eye, gulps down the menagerie, and opens
his great front door again for more visitors.
Here’s a “ command ” Adelaide Punch re-
cently received for a cartoon:—To the Editor of the
Punch —Sir, —l want you to put in your next issue a
small man with rather a thin face and a eandy billy
goat’s beard and a soft felt hat on and put him in tiie
attitude of shapeing up to a girl with one flit nearly in
her face and the other one r»ady to bring tip and make
the girl short and stout with her hair rather short aad
curly and pot underneath in print I’m tho rocks of
Gibberalter and a dinimite cartridge aud he's straight
as the barrel of a gun aad you don’t get over mo I can
read you like a blind man can read his bible put the
girl has a servant girl and plase send one of the issues
to Orroroo, and I will send you the money for
The monthly parade of No. 1 corps of Queens-
land Volunteers, located in Brisbane, was recently
called for a certain eay, when 26 men turned out to re-
present a whole regiment. To superintend these 26
men the following staff is maintained: 1 Lieutenant-
Colonel at £5OO and horse allowance ; Staff Major, £l,OO
and ditto; Infantry Adjutant, £3OO and quadruped
perquisites ; 2 clerks, one at £2OO aud another at £180;
one Drill Instructor, £l2O ; 1 Armourer, £180: Regimen-
tal Majors, Captains, Lieutenants galore, it’s no
wonder the colony had to borrow £2,000,000. Membahs
are now putting on their paint with a view to getting
an explanation from the Minister of War. The military
commission which sat at Brisbane recently to enquire
into the working of the force was of course eompesed
entirely of " the bosses,” who, Solomon-like, recom-
mended an increase in their own salaries, and that the
Lieutenant-Colonel should be promoted to a colonelcy
with an annual salary of £7OO and allowances. This
young man, was, when he left his (infantry) regiment a
few years ago, a lieutenant, and now he evidently
aspires to the rank of field-marshal. Tho aforesaid
commission, we are told, also reported that tue am-
munition in store was : Martini-Henry 20,000 rounds
Snider, 180,000 rounds. However, on applioaton being
made for 500 rounds’ it was discovered that tho com-
mission had mistaken an overdue ship, with the above
amount of ammunition on board, for a store in tho
vicinity of Brisbane. Just imagine an enemy's cruistr
iu the bay and not a round of ammunition in tho
colony I
The I.O.G.T’s. of Wardell
had a ball on the Ist June, aad
danced till daylight. A fiddler
had been engaged, but as he was
only accustomed to Moody and
Sanky melodies he was not suc-
cessful in struggling with waltz
music, so the baud was limited
to a concertina and the festive
whistle. One gentleman took
his coat off to each dance, amt
put it on at the end ; the fantas-
tic toe was no light matter to
him, A sumptuous repast of
beef sandwiches and buns made
the tables groan and tho
guests. Tho gentlemen were all
m full dress (three star moles),
while the ladies were oxoeeu-
iugly elegant in fast prints.
In a fashionable hair-
dresser’s shop not 100 miles
from tho Post Office, there may
be seen hanging on tho wall an
advertisement anent perfumery,
tolling us that a certain person
supplies with toilet requisites
the “ nobility and gentry " of
Sydney. hoiomou has said
“ there is nothing new nnder tke
sun,* but we must differ from the
“ wisest man." W e are old, very
old—but as we seldom tell the
truth, we will not give any num-
ber of years—yet we never before
heard of a Sydney "nobility.”
Poking about witn our lantern,
we have occasionally met with a
Sydney gentleman, but never yet
havo wo got on the track of a
Sydney "Nobleman." Perhaps,
if, under the old form, “Mot N
as the case may be," we make a
substitution and for Nobility
read Mobility, we will get at the
meaning of the advertisement.
Or—ha 1 we have it! John
Davies gets his bears’-greuse
there.
Wo are very glad that we
do not dwell iu tuo Home, for
Women in Hyde PaiK. The
reason is this. A school tor
teaching cooking has Leon os-
tabliahed, and is presided over
by Miss Whiteside, where a
great quantity of good food will
bo spoiled, and where house-
wives, anxious to bo thiifty, will
learn expensive ways of cooking
the simplest dishes. Further, it
has been determined that all tho
productions of the embryo cooks
are to be seat to tho Home in
order to create indigestion and
nausea in the inmates, so that
being disgusted by mundane af-
fairs, they may be the better
fitted to go • Excelsior.' Who
was it that said “Tho gods send
meat, but the devil sends
cooks ?*'
HThe name of the last of the
Glen Tunes aborigines is stated
by the local trnthteller to be
George Brown. We don’t be-
lieve this. It must be John
Smith,
A Rockhampton man kept poultry. Kept, we
say advisedly, for they gradually disappeared until
there were more china eggs than fowls left. Dieap-
peaced, and not a soul knew how or whither. Flans
were concocted, plots were hatched, schemes laid and
traps set. Not a living human ever approached the
roost, and yet the feathered possesions dwindled. At
last the owner thought to get nearer still, so he lay
down behind his horse, which stood close to the heu
house. Soon all tho remaining roosters and egg
factories came ont, roosted on the horse’s back, and tho
animal quietly walked off with them to the other end of
the town, where a disinterested Chinaman gave him a
feed of corn in a manner which betokened that the
drama of “ Foul Play" had been Laving a long run to
his advantage.
The “ Sundry Echoes ” man, of the Express,
gave a swan’s song last as he bade farewell to the
country “previous to resuming ordinary work," which
we take to mean licking gum wrappers and turning the
handle of the machine. Here is a chunk of sentiment
out of the middle of his adieu: —“When tho mind,
which is ever of * gradual grasps,’ seize* the grand
features of the scenery, recognises the richness of the
soil, and dwells on the material means of prosperity—and
other industrial resources—of this Rivorina region, it
swells with an emotion of gratitude to Providence for
giving such a Canaan to an intelligent and energetic
population " Tho most natural tluag for a mind of
this type to do is to “swell," but it cornea pretty
rough upon the innocent reader to have to witness the
"letting out” of it in this fashion. Tho district spoken
of is, by the way, chiefly remarkable for the produc-
tion of pumpkins and R. B. Smith.
The Ballarat Courier tells of a, meteoro-
logical phenomenon seen there. A star darted back-
wards and forwards in tho heavens as if it had lost its
way. The following part of the description g.ven will
probably bo held by many to account for the curiosity ;
—-‘ Starting from its original position, the star would
drop at an angle of about 15', and, rising again, oscillate
backward* and forwards. These motions continued for
nearly half an hour, tut, to mate sure that the sight
was not being deceived, the observers took a fixed
point between them and tho object of tho.r vision, and
by this means observed the declinations and vagaries of
the star. The rising of the moon, however, paled the
light of the smaller body, and no further observations
could then be taken." We havo heard of John Collins,
corpse-reviver, strike-mo-dead, Jacob’s nose, and a lu-
ng Betsy, but wo never heard it called a “ fixed point"
BOOTLESS, BUT ROUGHSHOD.


The beat chef de cuisine. The man who can
cook an aoocoaut.
The name of Captain Armstrong, late resident
magistrate at Lord Boss's Island, has been struck off
the Commission of the Baacs by tbs Executive Council,
la connection with this matter, we have received from
Captain Armstrong a pamphlet concerning which we
may anon have something to say.
BATES’ DANDELION COCOA is destined to beoome
the most favourite of all honaeheld beverages. It eo«-
bines the strengthening qualities of the best cocoa
the well-known curative powers of the Dandelion flower;
consequently is invaluable for biliousness, liver com-
plaints, indigestion, debility, Ac. Ask for a sample
packet from any of the principal grocers, or W. J.
COULTER, Sole Agent, 107 Sussex Street.—A zm.
before. However, now the point is fired, “ what’ll you
Lavs P"
Three curious advertisements from the S.M.
Herald this week:—(l) ‘‘Two women want washing."
£2) “ Wanted a wooden child’s chair) second-hand."
(3) " Hopes —Jane ll (on the anniversary of their wed-
ding), at her residence, Newcastle, the wife of Jor4 T.
Hopes, of a son."
Petition sent to the Department of Public In-
fraction:—‘‘The undersigned resident* cf Ewelamb
Creek respectfully solicit that a married man be ap-
pointed to the school in this district, in place of the
present single teacher, as a largo number of grown-np
girls are in attendance." It’s the os that makes the
petition funny, and ought to delight the snhoolmaster.
Memos, for the Mayor -.—Many flagstones in
George-street being loos®, tho simple act of treading
upon them in wet weather canoes the water to bespatter
the clocked silk stockings of MissMontmorenci da Vere.
Tho gangways la front of building* In course Of erection
not being wide enough for the streams of passengers
(some ot them aro ton narrow for one umbrella), the
strongest go to the wall and th* weakest to the gutter.
The mud was twe inches deep at every street crossing
last woek, and not a single effort waa made to remove it.
Che streets should therefore be stocked with eels at
the Mayor’s earliest eon renience. This would enable
mendicants to get an honest living, and relieve the
pressure on the Soup Kitchen. And, by the way, it
was a remark of Socrates that if tho Sydney Municipal
Council could not find the money to mend pavemeati
so that a man oould prowl home at night without break-
ing a knee-cap, that was no reason why a man's calves
should not have a show of being tested by mangy dogs
io Woolloomooloo. They mast live.
Mr. Arthur Cubitt.
Thbbb is probably no man who is more widely
known in Australia than the subject of this sketch.
Mr. Arthur Cubitt is the founder, proprietor, and
conductor of the S issing Friends’ Agency in this
city, tho ramifications of which are astonishingly
wide-spread, and the operations of which have
been productive ot an incalculable amount of
social good Mr. Cubitt’s career, which exhibits
great perseverance and practical adaptability,
largely fitted him for the work by which ho is
mainly known in these colonies. Mr. Cuhitt was
born at Norwich, England, in 1829; was “ appren-
ticed to the sea,” and came to Bydney as Midship-
man, on the Stratheden, in 1843. After seven
years’ service ho passed a first-class examination
required by the Royal Navy, but, wearying
of delay with respect to an appointment
aa master’s - mate, h« abandoned tho idea
of entering tho service, and, returning to
Sydney in 1851, ho resolved to settle down hero.
Mr. (Jubitt met with prompt engagement at
Nioholls and Williams, au old established firm of
solicitors, whore, with the late Richard Driver, he
had considerable legal experience. 'J he more
active life of a newspaper reporter suited him, and
for seven years he capably filled the position of
shipping reporter four years on the S. M.
Herald, and three years ou tho Fmpibb, during
bir Henry Parkes’ proprietary. On the collapse
of the Empire, Mr. Cubitt resolved on starting a
metropolitan news and advertising agency, and it
was while in this business that Mr. Cubitt con-
ceived the idea of a Missing Friends’ Agency—an
institution urgently required in the colonics. Its
utility aeon began to manifest itself, but it was
not till he was entrusted by tho Ladv Dowager
Tiohborne with tho work of searching for her son
—the Real Sir Roger—that Mr. Cnbitt’s establish-
ment gained wide celebrity. The discovery of the al-
leged Arthur Orton was the result of very persis-
tent enquiries; and, although the claim was not
sustained but proved in reality very disastrous,
there are greatnumbers who still believoin tho ibona
jides of Tom Castro. Mr. Cubitt, himso|f, is by
no means inclined to the belief that he found the
wrong man. Tho Missing Friends' Agenoylhas
now oeen established 25 years, and with r tare
energy and peculiar talent, assisted by aTjoerfeot
net-work lot agencies all over this hemisphere,
and competent representatives in England,
America, and on the Continent, Mr. Cubitt has
done signal service and inspired general confidence.
Recently, he thoroughly exposed the nefarious
practices of fortune-finding imposters, who prac-
tised and profited on the credulity of hundreds of
people. Mr. Cubitt’s success has been testified
to in numerous written testimonials, and hia
offices at the Arcade, Sydney, continue to attract
large business. Mr. Cubitt was recently elected
Alderman for Petersham, the suburb in which he
now resides.
The St. Kilda College Amateur Athletic Club
will hold their second annual meeting at the Associa-
tion Cricket Ground, Moore Park, on Wednesday next,
21st instant.
The American Novelty Company, as usual, are
to the fore with a new cheap and practical st> logtaphie
pen—an adaptation of the celeur ited We
think Joseph Qillott would straight away surrender
now.
Professor Stanioh, the well-known aurist, finds
himself unable to visit Maitlaud as announced, owing
to heavy professional business in Sydney. |Io will
however, take the first opportunity of a tour North-
ward.
At the New Zealand Exhibition, just concluded,
Singer’s Sowing machines have carrion everything be-
fore them, taking first order of merit, two gold medals,
and two silver medals. Tho Now Duvis was awarded a
silver medal.
We are very sorry indeed to hear that Mr. Sam.
Lazar s friendb have had to domicile him at Dr. Vause’s
private lunatic asylum, Cook’s Kivor. Poor Sam suffers
from aoftening of the brain, and has completely lost his
memory. It is feared he will not recover.
Supposed lunatic armed with revolver stuck-up
the Joint Stock bank at Marvb rough (Q ). yesterday
(Wednetday). M»H the teller, though covered, laid
hold of the bank shooting iron. Both parties fired
three times, and hit exactly the same target—nothing.
Man arrested.
The “ new and glorious revelation of Spiritual-
(sm'>_as some of its disciples term it—is to be ox pounded
in a series of four lectures by Mr. Cyril Wavllaud at tho
Victoria Hall on Katurday, 17th insfc , and tho following
Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Too lectures will bo
illustrated by limo-iight lantern, and may be expected
io be intert sting. ,
Dr. J. Dempster, for many years practising at
St Kilda (Mriounrio), died suddenly last Friday, at
Albury, where h« was staying on a visit. The doe.or
was u i liver physician and ajjvial fallow, and wad
well known in cour-ing circles And, last r»uuday, Dr.
Henry Pelham Gordon, of Winds r (N.8.W.), was
found dead on a sria at his residence. Suicide by
j.cison suspected.
Prinoo Leopold’s marriage was postponed be-
cause ho slipped ou or-ugo-poal and uurt his kn«.e.
Hero is au a-peel —Those nasty bits of orange
peel, it's wiong on rends to toss ’em; u-ml our Prince’s
eg shall heal, ihe pjol has stopped tno blossom. It’s
wrong to go loose orange piel on pul) ic pathways
dropping; that orange peel, our Prince dor,n leol his
redding pan! is stopping Xu Louden streets the
nuisance lies, pedestrians oft are renders, the men in
blue should uso iheir eyes and cop the orange peelers.
He poured out the whole of his fervent soul
nsto maiden car, and would no longur b« staved off.
••Dream of myltfa," hn uiged, "thou boaaou of my
‘urtnre wars, keep me no longer in suopeme Oh Imy
idol, tell u e at once—wilt,eet thou or wliter-t thou not I*"
•• Well,” was the calm reply drawled out, 11 you just go
•o Dr. Simms, and bring me a physiognomical chart
certifying to your tendencies and traits of character."
dhe was a cautious girl, and having attended every one
f Dr. Simms’ inter eriing lectures on physiognomy,
leclared that she would “ wilt” to no ‘ ‘ life companion"
save on the Doctor’s recommendation.
THE NEWSLETTER.
1215 candidates for everlasting torment at the
unholy Museum on the attemoon of the sacred Sab-
bath.
The Express speaks of Garibaldi as “ an Italian
renegade, (Seeking to expel the Vioir of Christ from his
inheritance 1 “
It is stated that the Admiralty intend making
Auckland, N.Z , the head quarters of the Australasian
Naval Station.
The police, it is said, have at last obtained a clue
to the Bermagni mystery, and it is expected that
arrests will shortly be made. _ _______
A heavy speculator in suburban property says
that there i# aoS enough money in all Australia to pay
for the land which has been out up and sold in this
colony on terms, during the last two years.
It is proposed that the new Adelaide Houses of
Parliament shall be built of Kapnnda marble. This Is
understood to be a 8 A. suphemlsm for Town Hall
freestone. Candidates for Parllamsnt will now “dream
that they dwelt in marble halls."
The telegraph line between Eubalong and Cobar
has been out. The damage is put down to the newly
formed gang of bushrangers, consisting of Tommy the
Ambler (a recent escapee from Bourke gaol). Wild
Wright, and two other unsavory characters. It is
feared that they will stick-up Nymagee.
The great Adelaida insurance fraud case is now
at an end. Forsyth, who bolted, ka* got eleau away,
and a noli* prosequi has been entered on the third ease
against the prisoners. The aroh-soonndrel, Hloks, is
once more a free man, no bill having been filed against
him on the charge of indecent assault.
Larrikin mob guyvered a Sydney Chinese store-
keeper) Celestial ran out to iafliot condign punish-
ment: little boy named Stark, aged 8 years, rushed in
and *‘ collared " a box containing £5 werth of clothes.
The bey got twenty-four hoars, Sydney not being yet
wicked enough to possess a reformatory school for
budding vice.
The existence of rich lodes at Cannibal Creek
has been known for at least six months to the Mongo-
lian employes of Wood Bros., and these faithful
servants have been doing well out of their knowledge
by breaking up the ore and selling it as stream tin The
lodes extend over about 100 acres, and are likely to last
for years. There’s likely to be a counter rush from
Herfcerton.
Mr. John Harris, who claimed JE117,732, as com-
pensation for land at Darling Harbour resumed by
Government, accepted £BO,OOO In full aatisfaotion of his
demand before the Garrett esse whs settled. On# of
Garrett's witnesses told Salomons, Q.C., that ° Harris
was an old mas, and did it partly for the sake of peace,
and partly for patriotic motives." Harris was simply
wise in his generation.
Two rival steamship companies have arranged
matters amicably together. The one pays the other an
annual premium not to carry pansengsrs. This, of
course, is a legitimate thing for companies to do, but
the public are thus deprived of the benefits that result
from fro* and open competition. Bo it understood,
under the present law of libel, that we refer to two
steamship aompaaiee trading from the coast of Juan
Fernandez to Guam.
Roma (Q). Municipal Council gave a business
•rder to a firm of which one of its Alderman was a
member. Another Alderman, Murphy by name, was a
patriot and objected. Alderman Enright called him
*• another," and the two. ignoring the ml* ot thumb,
started to settle it by rale ot fist. Several rounds took
place before other councillors and a bobby outside
stopped the mill) Murphy get the best ef the *’ paint-
ing," and the worst of the victory.
The Redfern Council voted an extra jg!s bonus
to the contract screw of ite assessors. The boons was
objected %e “on principle" by seme aldermen', but the
assessors got thoir money, on the ground that (heir
efforts had tended to largely inereasc th* borough
revenue. Th* inference (to assessors) is eloar : Increase
the valuation* to the utmost limit, and th*n yon may
expect “ bonce" out of the extra taxations imposed on
poor ratepayers, whether such taxations be just or
unjust.
Our dear old friend the bunyip has bean seen
again in the Bokhara Elver, about four miles below
BundabulU, by Mr E. Manning, licensed surveyor. He
(that’s to say the bunj ip) was *• about four fest long, of a
mouse colour, end a seal’s body and a dog’s head, fur-
nished with large flapping ears. As soon as the creature
saw ns it dived, and in ten seconds at the farthest, it
re-appeared fully ICO yards below the spot from where-
it had dived, thereby showing that It was a very fast
swimmer."
A poor Sydney lunatic named Annie Vernon has
found her way overland to Eookhamptou, Q. She
travelled the thousands of miles between bore and
Walloon, a station near Banana, Q., aocompanied by a
large oat and three dogs. She carried a bundle ot
blankets and two billies, and went regularly “ on the
wallaby.” The Banana police arrested her, and took
her to Bookhampton, where Dr. Salmond pronounced
her insane. She has been four times arrested in Sydney
on charges of lunacy.
The Jolimont experience of the Victorian Rail-
way Department is not to be repeated in re-peot of tbo
Windsor collision on the same grand scale. There was
not much of a smash on the latter do< ario*. a train
slowing down having run into another stationed at the
Windsor platform. However, Mr. Charles J. Lucas,
actuary to the Australian Alliance Assurance, " went
for" the Victorian Board of Land and Works to the
tune of £!000. The defendants paid £2OO into court,
and a verdict of £525 was given by the jury. This out-
Qarretts Garrett’s come-down.
Mr. Fenwick, ex-Lioutonant of H. M. Navy,
obtained a verdict ef £2OO as compensation for breach
of agreement, against Mr. Irby, a squatter reotding near
Tonterfleld An agreement had been entered into be-
tween the two that Fenwick should act. ns schoolmaster
at a stated salary. Defendant broke that agreement,
alleging 1 hat Fenwick had obtained it by misrepresenta-
tions, and that suhstquent revelations had been dis-
creditable to Fenwick's previeuslcharaoter Plaintiff,
on the other hand, alleged that he made a clean breast,
and explained lus past misfortunes.
A public schoolmaster was lately fined only GOa.
for flogging a boy for three-auaxters of an boar.
Another recently caned three smad boys very severely for
speaking to three girl schoolfellows on their way home
from school, it bring a mania on his part that such
conduct is highly improper. We have also heard of a
schoolmaster in a private establishment who, by a
blow with his fist, blacked a boy’s eye* recently during
evening lessons, for a trifling fault. In the first ease,
Government should interfere to protect the scholars ;
in the second, the parents can adopt aa easy remedy.
In Murchison district, W.A., the aborigines are
attacking white settlers, and stealing sheep wholesale.
They have more savee than N.Q. blacks, and instead of
spearing stock, drive them off to their own pasture-
grounds i'eople in W.A. bush are afraid to remon-
strate with a revolver, or “ disperse ” the niggers,
because the law there is slightly stricter than in Queens-
land. One black king whose haunts are at the noad of
the river Murchison ig doing the Abraham patriarch
business with sheep “ acquired " from squattsrs, and
his a flock of some thousands to his own cheek. Tbo
squatters, who mostly hall from Victoria, are abandon-
lug their runs in despair.
Two petitions have been presented to the Chief
Secretary of Houth Australia by Mr. W. K. Simms,
M P., prajlng for the release ot Dr. Morrison, the
Gleuelg doctor inculpated in the recent big insurance
frauds. One petition la signed by 1900 people, the
other hy ten of the jurymen who helped to place Mor-
rison where he now i». This tide of sympathy is
mainly due to commiseration for Morrison’s wife and
family, and to the influence of Mr. Cunningham, ef
Cunningham and Co., one of the wealthiest of fancy-
goods aeronauts in Adelaide, to whom the doctor Is
related by marriage.
Mrs. Beni, who is represented by cynical writers
as " wearing the braoehea " wi»h Victoria's owe Thomas,
Is not at all masculine in appearance. She is of a tall,
thin, frame, and calculated rather to excite comtnia-
seratiou than timidity in the beholder. Bent is a big,
burly, masterful man, who will talk fight with anyone
bis weight and size. Vet these cynics will have it that
Boat is under the moat rigid petticoat government; a-nd
one can never judge from outside aspects .tow these
things go. Certainly Bent himself owned once in the
Victorian Parliament—we think it was when that
*’ sharing the official screw with David Qaunsan"
businetsjwas on—that ho “ never did anything without
first consulting Mrs. Bant ” Ta-ran-tara 1
Far onb in Colorado, there is a town called
Durango, and on the 31st January there was the biggest
bobbery that ever convulsed that town, for unto Du-
rango a child was born. It was the first event of the
kind since Durango itself oame into existence, and
Durango itself rose to the Decision. Knots of ?earded
men meb in the streets, forgot to ask one another to
" give it a name," and talked in whimpers, they knew
not why. They were nnder the shadow 6f an event
that was stranger to them than death itself, and awed
them more. There were frontiersmen who had not seen
an infant for ten years, and miners who would give a
nugget for a glimpse at the fragile bit of humanity.
Since the wise men of the East were boom iful, no babe
ever received uneh queer presents: ft bag cf gold-
dust. a corner allotment, font tons of eoa), a dozsn
bottles of strup, a hair-btuSb and a lot of safetypins,
a dray, a side-saddle, and a box of toothpicks. Never
a babe had such a rousing welcome to this cranky wftrld
as little Una Pearson of Durango.
The Jimbonr Estate, one of the finest stations
on the Darling Downs, eonslsts of 140,000 acres of free-
hold land, one-third lore! plain and the remainder un-
dulating forest. It was boujht by old Tom Bell as a
squatting rue in 1813, from Mr. Soongall, for £lOO, and
was gradually converted into freehold. Under the late
Sir Joshua Peter 801 l it used te turn in over £lOO,OOO a
year. It is not many mouths since Jimbonr was amal-
gamated with other pastoral properties, and vested in
a wealthy company styled the Darling Downs and Wes-
tern Laud Company. Indeed, it was only a few hours
before being seized with apoplexv that the late Sir
Joshua Bell signed the last legal dostuaente necessary
to complete the formation of the oompany.
Trustees of Friendly Societies are entitled by
law to sue, and they may also be sued, but the money
spent in law is illegally expended, as none of the funds
can be appropriated otherwise than as provided by the
rules. Now the Act does not admit of the formation of
a society tot paying law costs, and so the trustees are
personally legally liable for all snob expenditure. It is
sot denied that the societies do pay legal expense l ,
otherwise the trustees of one of our Oddfellows’ Lodges
would be considerably oat of pocket through an indivi-
dual who unceasingly goes to law; the Sons of Tem-
perance, too, have experienced courtly sweets at the
hands of a certain other litigious gentleman. Of course
the trustees ought act to pay, bat then the law says the
Society's funds shall nob be so touched. What's to bo
altered—the Trustees or the Friendly Societies Act?
The Port Angsts. Land Company, S.A., has
gained an unenviable reputation. Column after column
of the Adelaide Press is filled with the accusations of
shareholders and the replies of promoters thereto. It
appears that one or two influential men were taken on
the promoters’ list for no consideration at all, but In
order to make the company " gee.’’ This fact seems to
have induced speculators to regard the company as a
much more solid affair than It really wna. Borne queer
revelations have been made, and big promoters seem to
be plentiful in Adelaide. A certain honourable gentle-
man, and ex-Premier of Houth Australia, has been
reproached by A H, Saw toll, a "bitten” shareholder,
with “ promoierlzing." lie replied in a lofty tone of
indignation and seem, as much cm to say that a colonial
"Honourable’’ must necessarily be eolonlally honour-
able. Thsre is great flurry among the profeesienal pro-
moters in consequence. Parsons, the broker, has
repented in saskoloih and ashes, vews he’ll sell out of
shares at the first favourable opportunity, and never,
no, never, promote again 1
At the Sydney School of Arts a warm contro-
versy is raging amongst the members et the
Debating Olno of that institution, on the question of
Free Trade v. Protection. The subject &a« already
occupied two nights, and b'ds (air te occupy n third.
During the debate last Monday evening, ref»’ enee was
made to the Egyptian imbroglio, when Mr. Griffiths, a
well-known member of the elnb, denounced the joint
action of the British and French Oev*rameat«, as
having (or its ebjeot the maintenanoe of a miserable
despotism and the suppression of the liberal aspirations
of the Bgyptian people. Mr. Griffiths said that ha was
indebted for this opinion to the Sydney Bwllbtin, the
only paper, be added, in this elty which seemed to have
any definite opinions,or which had sufficient courage and
independence to freely express Its opinions. These re-
marks elicited vooiferons cheers from all parts of the
hall, which was crowded.
Next Monday, the now Model Lodging House of
Sydney, Kent-street North, will be opened to nocturnal
patrons. Though this is designed to meet a long-falt
need of a certain class, there is no eleemosynary ele-
ment in the institution, which most stand or fall on a
purely commercial basis. The charge for a bed is 9J
nightly, or just 50 per cent, above that made by the
Melbourne Model Lodging House, which returns a
dividend of something like 10 per cent, annually. It
remains to be seen whether the ninopenny charge can
be lowered. However, It tends to sustain an indepen.
dent feeling, and chokes off any sentiments allied to
panperism. A man pays his money, and, If he considers
that ho doesn’t get his money’s worth, he need not
patronise the institution again. This is the first real
blow struck at the filthy rookeries whose foul nastiness
has recently been exposed to public gaze. But the
beds should be sixpence. Even the man who has only
a shilling usually wants at least two drinks before lie
goes to bed.
At latest, Mr. J. V. Mulligan, the well-known
Queensland explorer, was leaving the Dry Kiver silver
mines on a 200-mile trip in the Wild West to search for
tin. He tells us he has already got good tin in the
locality he proposes visiting, and is going to open it up.
Wo shall be prepared to record his prospective adven-
tures if, as be ears, the niggers let him come back.
Mulligan is an old bird with these gentry, however, and
has often carried his life in his hands with botdi black
and white niggers, A long while ago, at Ookcown, a
lot of incensed fools wanted to hacg him for having
opened up the Palmer and Hodgklnson fields, and even
at Ini Creek (locally called * Mulligan's") he had to
endure the rage of blockheads for opening up a ttnfleld
there. Now, however, popular feeling ha* turned in his
favour, and no one has complained of the veteran ex-
plorer's conduct In opening up the Dry Kiver silver
mines, which are showing grand prospects. Mulli-
gan finds himself as widely respected as he was
formerly abused. He has do doubt that he will succeed
this trip in opening up a new tinfleld.
The Stawell “headless man mystery” remains
yet unsolved. Bobort Francis Burns, the quondam
mate Of the supposed dead man, Forbes, was fast seen
in the latter’s company on a drinking bout twelve
months' ago. Forbes has been missing ever since, and
the clothes on the headless trunk ate believed to have
been those which ho last wore Burns Is ohatgad
with the murder of Forbes, but the head of thedeoeased
can’t be found, and Burns stoutly declares that Forbes
is still alive. Now, however, oireomstanoes point to
the suspicion that this same Bams was implicated in
the murder, two years ago, near Duckeld (Vie.), of
a man named Michael Quirlivan, whose body was
found In th* bneh with Its skull battered in. Quin-
livan, was buried without being identified, and as in
this case, the clothes subsequently led to the revela-
tion of his personality. Like Forces, poor Quinllvan
was a mate of Burns, and at the «nd of a railway job,
left Harrow, with £BO in his possession, in the oom-
pany of Burns. He was never seea again. If Burns
is au innocent man, it seems a mighty unlucky thing
(or anyone to be his mate.
Mr. Martin Shanahan, of the Marnoo Station,
St. Arnaud district, Victoria, died last week of
apoplexy. He was a forty veers’ Victorian colonist,
and enormously wealthy. Me. Shanahan was a very
curious old gentleman indeed—when we say he was
extremely unostentatious, wo put the matter mildly.
Some years ago one of his sons—or his daughters, we
forget which—was about to be married, and Martin
made up big mind to buy him or her a station. Well, a
very big station was to be auctioned at Scott’s Hotel,
and on the day of sole a very ancient mariner, who
looksd remarkably like a sheoherd, and had squatted
himself (u the corner, started the bidding at £60,000
The auctioneer didn't know the bidder and looked
incredulous, but, having had experience of " what may
happen te a man In Ylatwia,’' wont on. The end of
the matter was that the station was knocked dewu for ,
something like £BO,OOO to the old gentleman In the
corner, who was no less a personago than Mr. Martin
Shanahan, and was able to claim the bank discount for
cash when squaring up after the sale, A Sydney man
has the good fortune to be Mr. Shanahan s son-in-law.
A few North Queensland items:—Thornbormigh
is looking up rapidly. Several mining companies have
been floated, and others are in various stages of cm-
bryolio existence.—Mowbray is now Warden at George-
town,—J. J. Byers is at Pert Deuglss, and has been
appointed aJ P. Th» Pioneer P. 0., the best claim in
the field, is bring floated; good stone being raised from
a depth of 200 feet —Barney Smith, the “smiddy."
appends his name to a lot of letters written to the
press re the Local Board chairman; but Barney’s pen—
unlike his sledge-hammer—is believed to bo wielded
▼ioatiouMy, beoanse Barney couldn’t make a B brand
on hospital matters —The Minora’ Association up at
Dry Creek have been snubbed by the Minister for
Lands, Mr. Perkins, whom they wearied with long
speeches and unreasonable demands. After the Inter-
view was over, some of the miners commenced to
quarrel, as to whose was the fault. Words led to
blows, aud they didn't drink ‘* Hands all round” until
some of their number had black eves and sore heads.
It it probable that these events will cause the dissolu-
tion of the Association. These are not the only high
ilnke Dry Creek has been having. There were two big
banquets there lately—quite “ up to the knocker," e’ean
Crimean shirts, and coloured neckerchiefs being the
full dress. One banquet was to Mr. Perkins, and tho
other to Mr. F, H. Stubley, M.P. for the Kennedy.
The latter is buying upaU the good claim sat Mulligan’s
and Return Creek. Fresh discoveries are being made
at both plane*.—T w* new crushing machines are bring
erected at Herberton, and one apiece at tho Great Wes-
tern and Mulligan’s.—The rainy season is now eon-
nitlercd to be over, though there are light shdwers every
day, and the nights are very odd.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Great Western Down* (Q.) J.C. meeting, June
Bth and 9th. First day. Maiaen PUtei Gazer 1. Cor-
inthian Cnp: Nark away L Flying Handicap i Cossack
I. Publicans’ Puree: Oadmasl. Second day. Steeple,
chase c Bed* 1. Welder Handicap: Sea Serpent 1.
Tamho Handicap; Cossack 1. Selling Race: Coromi-
tlon I The ten vaehtlng pictures, presented to tha
South Australian Taoht Cnb by the eommodore, Mr.
W.IH. Bundey, Q C., are to be hung in the Port Adelaide
Art Gallery The Carlton (S.A ) and Hetham f ot-
ball matches are off in consequence of ihe inability cf
some of the Botham players to leaveMelbonrne at pro.
sent The N.B W. Bifle Association matches will bo
held this year In the week ending October Uth A
pigeon match took place at Bourke on June Bth between
Messrs M'lntyre and Bryan for £BO, which waa won bv
the latter, who killed 11 out of 13, tho former 10 out of
14. Bryan was at 25 yards. Mr. M'lntyre at 28
The S.A. Bifle Association matches were commenced
on Jane fiih, when some splendid small-bore shooting
was made by Messrs. Robertson and Roberts, who each
made 180 out of a possible 10S at the throe longest
ranges—scores that have never been equalled In the
oolon'e* Uador tbo auspices ot Mr. 8. H. Hyarn,
over £5O boa bosn subscribed towards starting a rowing
club at Balmain An amateur rowing olnh ban been
successfully started at Grafton, Clarence Elver
A certain N.Z. bookmrker now in Australia Is posted
at Christchurch, Tattersall'a.„...'lhe next race for the
Champagne Trophy takes place on 25th November
The Mercantile Bowing Club annual regatta 1« fixed for
August 28th A match is ponding between Beach and
Clifford, In light skiffs for £2OO, to oome off on tho Illa-
warra Lake Mr. James Arthur, who was second in
tho Champagne Trophy competition, is a native of
Victoria Edward M’Geo and George Smith were
having a prize mill on Thursday last, near tho Military
Barracks. Richmond, a suburb of Melbonrn*. Police
Interfered; men fined £lO each) Coffey, a second, fined
£6; other second escaped... The South Aoelong
Orieket Club played thirteen matches lost season and
won nine. H. Latham gained the trophy for beet
batting average. Three trophies promised next season
by the tradesmen ef Adolong Canterbury (N.Z.)
Jookey Club Is In a satisfactory financial position. The
aneta are valued at £ll,OOO. An attempt, hy soma
members, to do away with tho recently-appointed
handicapping committee failed The first meet for the
seasen ef the Adelaide Hunt Clnh was held on Saturday
week, and was very enjoyable, Sir Thomas Elder enter-
taining the visitors at Blrksgate. The fox-hounds from
the Duke of Grafton’s kennels, imported by tho
club, arrived on the same day at Adelaide
The Ballarat Coursing Club’s meeting concluded on
Saturday. Owing to the scarcity of hares the events
were not satisfactorily eonelndod. Tho Oaks was
divided between five, namely, Gwendoline, Gnnilda,
Fastness, Skipaway, and Buttercup ; and the Derby
between four. Prosperity, Tom Buck, Harkaway, and
Bom The City and Balmain Bawling Clube played a
match on Saturday on the Annandale Green for the
Association Trophy. The former won hy 8 points, the
scores being City, 77 j Balmain. «9. The City Club
become th* holders of tho trophy for this year Bast
and West Maitland Clubs played a football maiQh on
Saturday on tho Albion Groupd, the Utter winrirfj by
5 goal* and seven behinds to three behinds At
Adelaide, on Saturday, the South Adelaide footballers
beat the South Parks by 3 goals to nil. The
Ports beat the Victorians (S.A ) by 4 goals to nil
On May 23 a foot-race for £6O aside, between Rogers
and Eobertson, over 100 yards, came off on the Benrke
cricket ground, and resulted In a win for Eobertson by
about two yards The Auckland (N.Z ) Stud Co.
have nominated a filly, bv Musket out of Sylvia, for
several events of tho A.J.C On Saturday last, the
Parramatta Football Club defeated the Richmond Club,
at Eiohmond, by two goals eight trie* to nil. Parra-
matta played with 13 men Over £5OO paid away in
prizes at the settling meeting of Walgett races. And
yet there are metropolitans who will wonder that £5OO
could be got together in such a seldom-heard-of-nlaoe
as Wal-ett Ned Jones has laid £7O 000 to £lOO at
Adelaide, against Sensation for the Melbourne Cop and
Derby At Dubbo, W. Williams and J. Davidson
made a match of 100 yards for £lO a tide. At the fall
of the bag, Davidson, for some reason or other, did nob
s-art, ano Williams want away and ran over the course.
He claimed tne stakes, and the starter (Mr. J. Lennon)
said it was a start. Davidson’s party denied it was a
start, as their man was not on the scratch when the
flag waa lowered. A fight eventuated.
• • •
As an evidence of the (growing taste for wstheti-
oism ia New York—a love for the soulful and beautiful
—since tho visit of Oscar Wilde, it may be mentioned
that a sparring exhibition for the benefit of a prize-
fighter, a few nights ego, waa attended by four thousand
persons, and preparations are now being made at one
of the theatres to give a season of the ‘‘Black Crook."
Harriman, Krohne and Harrigan finished in the
Order named, a 100-hour walk at Grand Rapid*. Michi-
g&n, on March 27. The winner covered 352 miles,
Krohne 307, and Harrigan 241 Hanlan had the habit
of aaying that the latest man he rowed woe the best
man be ever rowed. Elliott, Trlokett, Layoook, and
Boyd came in for this puff in turns. “ Pendragon"
says "that the name of the best man Hanlan ever
rowed is neither Elliott nor Boyd, Trickett nor hay-
cock. Nor is it Court*ey er Riley, or any other of the
wonders of the United State* who fall so signally to be
wonders directly there is fit opportunity for a display
of their wonderful ability," We presume he reserves
Wallace Ross. We shall see The Duke of West-
minster has retained Archer and Mr. Keene, tho Ameri-
can sportsman, and has engaged Tom Cannon at a hue*
salary In tho Ebfbrbi:. of April 18, *' Pendragon"
writes as fellows “We are as good as w* can hope to
be, unless a second Hanlan ia developed, and unless we
can develop him So far, Hanlan is unique—take him
away, and we might yet make a mining light with the
rest of creation." The “ prize fight in a chapel,” an
account of whloh was cabled to us some time ago, waa
a boxing mat eh with ordinary thiokly-p|dded glove* in
a building which had been formerly used by a local
preacher.


CITY CATERING
315 QEOEGE STB
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional workm
tioal experience, nearly all from th
of Compagnoni and Co., who pei
and carry on the working of the
general manager.
It is not a public company, and t
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th
snccessfelly catered THE LARG)
CULT, and MOST RBBPONBIBL
hare taken place here to the preioi
The Consular l>innor, in ouv new b
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entortainr
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worship,
tained their R.H.’s PRINCE ALJ
Earl Clan william, and the Offici
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitatic
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Constitnt
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.’s PRINCE ALI
to Lithgow Valley Mines and 2
Russe. for 60, in Q iverumeut Pali
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—t
NOTICE, only receiving the ord
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. tl
Visit of THEIR R.H.-S PEHN
GEORGE to Captain Cook's La
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon i
100, under VERY SHORT NOTJ
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the s;
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress' reception, Tov
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s 1
Building, for 500.
The Barristers' Dinner to Judge V
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Room
Dinner d la Russe at St Paul’s Colli
of the Churohof England Synod
Dinner d la Russe to the Interci
Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment
gentlemen, at the taming of the 1
Iros.’ New Railway Rolling Stoi
vlllo.'
The Luncheons and Refreshment 1
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Lnncheous and Besreshment
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments utr, e Fayre of j
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Engly
Falsoe.
Together w th a numerous lot of P:
Dinners, 1 easts, <kc., &o.
The CITY CATERING
Cntlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Q 1
and all requisites for Balls, Piooici
and will be glad to send out the
Pastry, Cakes, Jellies, loee, Confco
Civil and attentive waiters air
services required.
We have in our possession letter
high standing in the city, compll
manner we have performed the dul
CHAS. K. SMI
(Late ef the firm of the original Cc
MALT BIT
jCura for Indigestion
kuess, &o.
The
Comp
CK
GW HITE, C
rskino Stre
>. Pitt I
WOMAN ITEMS.
Mrs. Karris, ot Bucks, was born in 1752, and
two hundred of her descendants kept up the eld lady’s
Bhe " a » married at 18, had 16 children, 77
15 5 srreat SrandohildreH, 4 great nr»b
8n ’ and 7#t p#opla wondw how the world («
wa ? ored would kiss his
tlmes 10 , hoots, With intervals for
They scored 9000 the first hour, 1000 the
and 750 the third; then broke down. Hie lips
St cr^ p#d ’ aad fil'l fainted and had to b» carried
away. Too much of a good thing.
9 1 ®, ne wesfc, or newest but one,
tl * ,or lad ies is to wear beaded stooklngs-
the a ?. kl ? to 4110 knee. These much.
h W. w £ lo , h ftre reT f pretty, but awfully
“2f£* will probably find scant encouragement. Ladled
v^iL!l« U spend twenty-five pounds on the beaded
th o ir stockings, probably intend that
they shall be seen. Does this apply also t» tbs Very
and elaborate garter-bnoklee we have lately
S^7? n °' T ‘ latecru Pt-3tuditd in Sydney shop
At Sinicarto,Mason county, 111., 1T.8., a woman
She wf i J inB L b l rth t 0 V ® hild * apparently died!
bu \ something in her appearance
B fr«r b v. her Woods, and. two or three
?*?6rare was opened, the coffin unscrewed,
SSld R^A K ° V u rei wlth the limb * differently dis-
B '• to v alla PPearanoe, she was as dead as a
Rnd »he was once more buried. Her ease,
*rp««7h’.n° XOlt ' < ? d , oo , mmQllt * an d four days after. So
aSd 4 s l lBpicl ? n ba °om«. her body Waafe-ekhumed,
T aa tak . an home - Shortly afterwards, she ex-
oonpVci? 11 * ° f vit , alfcy * and has recovered. This, we
is a great improvement on the Dubbo dog
v wriliag to Macmillan, on the dress reform
ridiouleB the prudery that ignores
1?v T v e fl * u , ro w htoh dressmakers study to
il ke ? n hour-glass stuck on top ot a bell. It is
fe* “•« ignored that the attention of
?T°“ 0n I L?a b , idl7 d i roo ted to making the holy attrao*
adm a^ lfloi t 1 *f or ,® ,C9noos and curves. VTc men, she
RhmMf), physloally weaker than fflfeh, bub why
°® ld they exaggerate that Weakness by swaddling up
!L a ' to appear scarcely Able to move at all, and
5”? 0 ™ B ®l ros absolutely helpless and useless ?
T,“ f a ?®7 e . r to the objection that rational dress would
b ®- admlr ° d > «a men. Lady Herberbon says i
admired eyerythlng that woman
_ nm e7o L^° fa yo t» however ridiculous, and whatever
women wqp* men will go on admiring it still.
■ Empress of Austria is a remarkable woman
ana It is doubtful whether DlaUa Was a greater hun
f*? B ', , ,i or , splendid riding alld daring lumps are
undeniable; but of course she rides none but the bea'i
*f ar , tailot travels with her and always
”R*“t*nds bet equestrian toilet, which is completed
horseback, the habit being donned after mounting,
one Wears a ViXaillot, which covers her handsome person
iroto neok to heels ; one single underskirt; a corset ©i'
" e * lb “ity, and specially contrived for horseback
u. riding habit, usually of velvet; a hat, and % velL A
plain collar and cuffs of the finest linen, an embroidered
handkerchief in the little breast pocket, faultlaea
gloves and boots complete her attire. Her riding
habits are sumptuous, mostly dark colours, nearly all
velvet, with silver, gold, or Jewelled buttons. This
imperial Huntress is an early riser, still beautiful.
a »d—a grandmother 1
LotenSo Swett was an elderly libertine in ’Frisco
was whipped by a plucky little 95 lb. woman for
JubW Itlng her. She was a handsome blende of 32, and
wnen Swettl found her husband wsß a oripple, he made
Overtures, which she promptly rebuffed. He then re-
solved to persecute her till she would be forced to
listen to him. He tried to blacken her fame by vile
Innuendoes, and slandered her to her employers. At
last the persecuted little wife oonld stand it no longer.
Bhe mat him in a restaurant, and after a few words,
tlrew out a thong and waled him across his sneering,
cowardly face. As he howled for help, she struck him
•Sam and again, and as they dragged him off, she gave
ii grab ft nd tore away one whisker. Breaking frem them,
she dealt the libertine a final whistling blow en hla
scarred face, and walked out. The story was soon
known, and all ’Frisco took the side «f the little blonde
wno defended her fair fame against the slanderer.
Every day new avenues of employment are
opened to women. But when they become burglars, wc
protest. Wo don’t mind female pickpockets ; if a man
must have his pockets picked, it Is much more enjoy-
able to feel the delicate hand of lovely woman flattering
round, than a rough man’s. But as a burglar, woman
enters a sphere for which she is not fitted. If a man
met ono in his house, he oonld never ask her to make
herself scarce on the ground that she was too plenty ;
indeed, few polite men would feel justified in accosting
the female burglar without an introduction. It would
place a man of gallantry in a very embarrassing posi-
tion. If it were a man, you would shoot him, or kick
him down stairs But you wouldn’t shoot a woman ;
yen couldn’t. What with corsets, orinolettes, bustles,
and dress improvers, there’s uo place yon could aim at
except her legs ; and if she’s got anything on, yon
might as well shut your eyes and shoot at a clothes
prop, as expect to hit a woman's legs. Kicking is out
of the question. If the average man woke up at night
and found a female burglar feeling in his pants, or with
a hand under the pillow, he’d be likely to lie still and
lot her burgle, so long as she was quiet about it, and
didn’t wake his wife. Female burgling is not without
its advantages, but still, wo’re afraid there would be
little annoyances connected with the art.
A fair proportion of ladies frequents the reading
room at the School of Arts, Pitt-street, set apart for
the mental improvement and higher culture of the
sex, and there is assuredly much to be leurnt from the
manner in which most studies are conducted there
The table is covered with work* of usefulness and in*
teresk—the Nineteenth OBSTuar, the Contemporary,
Harper’s Wbeklt, ko The ladles have freo access to
the general library with a most obliging and energetic
secretary to attend to their wards. The daily papers
are also to be had; but the literature most loved and
sought after is that found in the thrilling pages of the
Young Ladies’ Journal, the Quebn. and such high-
toned periodicals. The time to see the ladies at their
Seat is when two or more friends enter the room to-
gether, and “sit’’ on a fashion plate. It Is then that
all the shrewdness and sharpness of lovely woman
comes out. It is delightful to observe the Intel*
quickness with which one dear creature
will see and point out to her enthusiastic lis-
saners where an extra fulness might bo infected or
eft out—where an additional bow might be tacked on,
or a few more buttons placed to advantage, and to wit.
less the charming unanimity which reigns whilst the
interesting discussion is going on I This is a very
wealthy sign for the future wives and mothers of Aus-
tralia.
* • •
An American actor has, it is said, a collection
of over six hundred hairpins, which he has picked from
;he heads of different professional ladies. He has
;hem all labelled with names, dates, <fec, This is about
;he pettiest form of petty larceny heard of for a long
lime Sara Bernhardt forty-two or thres; Damala,
»*r husband, is thirty-five, and finds himself with a
ready-made son of twenty.three ! A kiss is called
stenarntguilixtU in Mexico, and travellers there say it
feels just the way it is spelt .....The other day a black
woman went into Farmer's and embarrassed the young
man behind the counter by asking fer a pair of silk
stockings, flesh-color A bit more of it. A medical
authority now comes forward and states that women
who wear high-heeled shoes destroy the shape of their
calve i. Thera I A woman often thinks she
■egrets the lover when she only regrets the love
Elow like a woman ! When she received the news that
ler lover bad killed himself beaeath her window, all
she did was to calmly remark: “ It only bears ont
what I always siid —that Charley showed great want of
tavoir-vivre. Bronson Aloott says that women with
slue or brown eyes, ot fair complexion, sanguine tem-
perament, and with moderately large feet, love deeper,
and make better wives, than any other sort Do not
marry a woman because she is ugly, or because she is
motty. In the former case you won’t love her; In the
atter, someone else will.—Prowvbs a la tn0d0,.....An
American senator has tabled a bill for dealing with
wife-beaters, providing that they shall be flogged by
negroes. Any negro would be glad to do as much
logging as required for a dollar, while the humiliation
lorn a “nigger" would emphasise the punishment.
Again, to prevent the wife’s softening interfering with
at Wo^/ en,raUy » tka be given
sarisfrin^b . h 2 nrry . 6yM - Ibis would be very
over Ms* ’ ?° uld L be ft *»efal terref to, hold
sphere s and m keG P bim In order Woman's
t W Ji l n * ver married..; ..Writing re
Bwuh !f.l dames Gordon Benhett. sen , of the N.T.
rich m»n 3“ ™ b A d P ol >* a my ** n the natural state of
A however, only applies to America.
ilramsiTt nt h "ooutty contrived to get a false adver-
K 0 86t doi f 1!? 1 , * dwtb into the papers, with the
\ tbirty-oiKbt years, and the Miss"
maSufl ! he readar that she was still nn-
isn't savage enough for some folks...
*lderl/ 0 ?”£ woman a witch and she’s pleased; call an
A V* witeh and—sticking plaster
LlhhS 011 barmaid swallowed a pin throunh the
her no.« »M,l? “»“ in » eoent-bottls te
B* “ wWlist the picked her new celluloid set of teeth.
ot "omebody's knuckles he swallowed
511 hi * own **®tb Immediatelv after A Crov-
we.t to shave hlffi.elf, the other day. He
l chin, and then started the razor on Its
destruction, but he fetched the blood in all
gS*™?- & looked at the mutil.ted edge of
“rowfuUy He said nethlag, but he men
~i^ B y ® w «d never again to marry a woman who had
«m.....Bna£ltaw : 1 bad to stand up in the tram
way from Botany." Tabitha i "Did nebody
a 6 S at v?* J ** 4S * one man t but I declined
v I «?," , JT°*? dm « t 0 accept P” T.: » And
d i d “ t ? , e - ! n °. the beast went on reading, and
lo oked up again. Bahl If there's anything
* 5*3? s hosrgißhness in a tramGar.**
At Eoekhampton, one E, 0. Millet found hie wife, from
wb°ni be had been estranged for 10 months. Not being
1. u *? nd * Solomon who would solve the child diffl-
?f lllet donned a pair of false whiskers,
bis wife, and snatched frem her the sweet pledge
0 , a *fe°M*n—whioh, however, she subsequently re-
fluw He * wa . s ® ned f°r assault. "Nice to ho a
father. <5. Aston sentenced to six months' ienprison-
ment for wlfe-beating at Vegetable Creek. He lived at
the Gulf, and some charitable neighbours subscribe! £5
to enable him to convey his rick wife to the Glen Innes
hospital. He got as far as Vegetable Creek, and went
boozy When his wife asked for food and shelter, he
knocked her down, and tried to dig a hole in the ground
with her head. A bystander gave him a dose of hie
own prescription This Is a description of Mrs,
lAagtry, as she emerged from the stage door of the
H&ymarket after a morning rehearsal s—" She was
alone. She wore a tight-fitting, dark blue serge dress,
quite short, and trimmed with broad black braid; a
black straw hat with a wreath of primroses around. it,
yellow gloves, low pateat leather shoes and blue silk
stockings with yellow dots. Mrs. Langtry has very
small feet and ankles and she knows it." Well-
known bishop to lady in * evening dress " t “I see yon
have gome in for the 1 divided * dress." Astonished fair
one! " This is not the divided dress!" His lordship i
'lndeed I I thought It was, and that yon had forgotten
the top half. The rest silence.
POLITICAL POINTS.
It is said on good authority that Messrs Stokes
and Coonan will do battle with Messrs. Cooke and
Bodel at the next election for the honour of represent-
ing the Forbes constituency. If Walter declines,
Raymond is mentioned as a likely starter. The other
two got the “bag" last time, but mean to try their
lack again. The burning question will be the railway.
Stokell Dodds, the Tasmanian Treasurer, has
bean blowing off some awfnl bosh at Hobart election
meetings about “Tasmania for the Tasmanians,” advo-
eating a ‘'native-born" Parliament, and applying the
** yellow agony " prohibition to everybody else. Ths fun
»f ths world is that Stokell isn't a Tasmanian himsslf,
though, ef aourse, he objects to being mads " the first
martyr " ef.
Ths kon. Jim Patterson (Vic), who recently
figured so largely as ths champion ef loyalty as against
the manifoito-lng Long more and Co., has for a long time
been seeking to lead a party, and, with that view, sought
to figure as anti-papal. Jim it a very able man, bnt
knews how to sink his antl-elerieal procliTitles upon oc-
casion. The ether members who signed ewe their sente
or expect to owe them to the Irish Oalkolio rote, and
thslr pre-Irish gush is no more sincere than Jim’s
Ontngeism.
For Onkaparinga election for member of B.A.
Legislative Assembly, the nominations are: -Dr. Dean,
an uosuooeesfnl former advocate j Mr. Thomas King,
chief proprietor of the S.A. Advertiser. ex-M.P. for
Sturt, and ex-Minis‘er of Education; Mr. Rowland Rees,
formerly member for the Burra, and architect by pro-
fession j and J. K. Z. Sellar, a tuft-hunting politician,
retired grocer, and cold-water orator,. The contest
lies between Dean and King. Rees is played ont, and
Sellar hasn’t oome at all yet.
The Grattan Memorial Committee Address
ghost is laid in the Victorian Assembly. Francis
carried his moiisn accepting the assurances of loyalty
of the five signing members. Mr. Berrv made a feeble
attempt to blow up the dead coal, and Patterson posed
d la Marins by condemning both Berry and Francis’
action and theatrically stating that he had evolved his
course of action ont of his own inner consciousness,
and had advised with no one, but had simply relied on
hon. members' loyalty. But the dead donkey couldn’t
kick. Fraser, who seconded the amendment of Berry,
was called by his neighbour, Sbiels, a crimson trai-
tor,” and the Speaker had to interfere.
An anonymous correspondent suggests that the
murders of Cavendish and Burke were effected by
priests in disguise, which, he thinke, explains why
£lO,OOO reward has failed to secure the arrest of the
murderers. He also thinks the other mnrders in Ire-
land are attributable to the same agency; and he is of
opinion that the Roman Catholic religion is the curse
of Ireland, and that “ the priests get ail the money of
the poor which [would pay the landlords and better
their condition." That’s ifc> " Anonymous," beyond a
doubt. We understand now. So like the Irish. They
love the priests because these plunder them, and
they hate their landlords because——let’s see be-
cause well, it doesn’t matter,
A servile adulator is sometimes unconsciously
the severest of satirists. The St. Petersburg oorres.
pendent of the S.M. Hkualp styles the late Czar "the
lamented Liberator of Russia,” and proceeds to show
how the Russians regsrd the matter, to wit that the
Governor of Moscow won’t answer for the Lamented
Liberator’s son getting crowned safely, unless the
Kremlin (the proposed scene of t he coronation) bo sur-
rounded by troops for fire months previous, and no
“liberated” Russian be permitted to pass in or ont
during all that time exeept such as are personally
know to the guards Ths trouble seems to bo that the
Russians have not discovered that they have had a
lamented Liberator at all. Can’t someone send the
Herald regularly to Russia for the information of that
liberated people. Obi we forgot. The censorship
would probably forbid the introduction, even of the
Herald, to the country of the “ Lamented Liberator.”
In reference to Mr. Bryce’s resignation from the
reoent Hall Ministry of N.Z., which eventuated in
the resignation of the whole Government, the following
amusing contretemps occurred. Mr. Bryce’s policy
was beginning to make the Premier nervous, and he
desired 10 give Whitaker, bis confidential colleague, a
hint, so be despatched to that gentleman a telegram in
cypher. Mr. Whitaker was walking along an Auckland
street when he received this wire. He had not the
cypher code with him, and, thinking that the message
was a general one for Ministers, be wired it on in cypher
to the other colleagues who were at Cambridge. Its
tenor was that if Bryce didn't "turn over a new leaf,"
the Ministry would get into trouule. Bryco thought
the telegram came direct from Hal), got mad, and re-
signed. Meanwhile Hall took ill, and throw up office.
Whitaker formed a Ministry, the misunderstanding was
cleared up, and Bryce withdiew his resignation.
Bout, the absolute monarch of Vietorian rail-
ways, has beau completely exonerated by the official
Board of Inquiry from all chargee of maladministra-
tion. Boms gravel bad been supplied to railway con-
tractors from Mrs. Beat's land by Mr. Bent's agent,
but as soon as Tom heard of it be stopped it. Tbs
eommlttee also find that Kladoa did not retire from the
position ef Engineer-in-Ohlef In consequence of corrupt
conduct on the part of Bent. This finding is, to say the
least of it, vaguely worded. Because an official finds it
necessary to resign on account of the conduct of his
superior, must the whole search for the cause bo centred
in the funny word “ corruption ?"—-about as limited,
and at the same time as elastic, a political offence as can
be named. We suppose Bent will now return to bis
railway sheep, and Mrs. Bant will once more shape the
rallWiy policy of Tistoria. What a beneflcent thing
'lovely woman" is in every sphere of life! By-thn-
way. Bent's recent tirade against Patterson and Sir
John O’Shanassy, about this " Prot««tant trap " bust-
ness, created an uproar in the Legislative Assembly.
Bent is described as having frothed at the month, and
he was assailed with cries of, "Turn him omt I" That's
how Colonial Parliaments do their own B radian gh
business.
The latest of “ Kostnos ” “ Letters to Eminent
Persona" in the World is addressed to-Mr. W. E.
Forster, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and contains
the followieg passage“ It is « painful thing to say,
but it mast be said, that the government of Ireland
2\ nl i , L b^ o , ftrrio ' 1 on *° l° n * M 7°° * re primarily iden-
tinea with its conduct. Justice and eratitnde are not
tmflss which we can expect from what is sometimes
Called the Isle of Saints, but which might be styled far
more appropriately the Alsatia of assassins. It is idle
to attempt to blink the harsh and ungenerous fact.
/ ou nave estranged from yonrself, and, as far as any
Individual could, from the Government, from the
Liberal party, and from England, every class of the
Irish people Without meaning, still lees without
wishing, to do 10, yon have outraged their sentiment,
wounded tbeir prejudice, stirred to the lowest founds-
tions their hatred and contempt. To such a pass have
thing’s come that, if murder, rebellion, and anarchy are
not to be permanently domiciled on the other side of
the Channel, Mr, Gladstone must insist upon dispens-
ing with your services. Theoretically Ireland may be
pacified in one of three ways—by repression, by concili-
ation. or by a combination of both. Whichever policy
is selected, you sre equally unfitted to administer it.
The Irish peasantry will be satisfied by no concessions
associated with your name. Eeproesion pnre aad sim-
ple, you are disqualified, by yonr antecedents and yonr
temper, from earning into effect. The real Irish
difficulty, It was the other day observed to me by an
Irish Liberal member of Parliaments—a stanch persons!
friend ef yonr own—is William Edward Forster.
There is too much truth in the compact brevity of tha
epigram. The Cabinet is bound to recognise; first,
that its Irish policy has broken down; secondly, that
no Irish policy it may propound can succeed, so long as
its administration is entrusted to you. Your recall is
therefore, Imperative."
• • •
J. Z. Sellar, who stands for any vacancy on the
slightest provocation and is now up for the Onkapa-
ainga District, 8. A , has most rashly been backed to
beat "Informal." The bookmaker wants to hedge
Sir Charles Dilke showed an intimate acantintano©
with Irish affairs when he declined the Chief Secretary-
®hip -Net profit of 6.31 per cent, on N.S.W. railways
dari«glBBlj Government going to reduce tariff rates.
Sir G. M. O’Korko again elected Speaker N.Z.
House of Bepresentaflvee In the N.Z Parliament
there are taid to be 42 Ministerallsts, 37 Maoandrew
and Montgomery party, and 12 Grey (corner) party
At the Wild Biver, the Queensland Minister of Lands
told a deputation of miners that "the Chinese were
most useful to the European communities as cultivators
of vegetables. Where Chinamen were working dili-
gently in their gardens, he could point out white men
walking about and idling their time. Ho thought if
the Chinese were driven away, the miners and residents
would soon be very glad to have them back. If he were
possessed of such a horror of Chinamen, ho would not
eat their potatoes or vegetables."
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
The Dean of Hobart has been compelled to
admonish the Cathedral congregation—the most aristo-
cratic in Tasmania I—for putting so many " headless”
oeins in the Offertory plate.
At the opening of a Presbyterian Church at
Bundaberg the new clergymen hit the point. Instead
of the usual “much bos been done, but, by Jcve, you’ll
have to squirm more threepences and fewer tin-tacks,”
ho simply said in rhyme : "Go on, go on," 16 times. Ho
oeuldn’t have pnt it mare neatly.
At St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, on Sunday
last, the Bishop of Bathurst ordained the Reve. Joseph
Campbell, B A., Henry Martin, end Thomas Trivett, as
priests, and the Rev. D. Murphy as deacon, of the
Church of England. Mr. Murphy, who has been ap-
pointed curate of St. Thomas’, North Shore, was for-
merly secretary of the Y.M.C.A.
There is nothing particularly humorous, so far
as we know, about the evening services at Bt. John's,
Darlinghnrst. bnt there were, on Sunday last, three fool-
ish virgins who are mnch more attentive to |the trim-
ming of their hate than of their lamps, who bailed the
commencement of the service with a combined snort,
indicative of suppressed laughter, and substituted
titters for responses right through.
Up Dirindi way, a fat female who has plenty of
money was the other day trying to console a young
friend whose trouble was that she couldn't obtain the
services of a Church of England priest to christen her
latest born. Tee fat party said :—“ Why not allow the
Wesleyan minister to do it, my dear ? You know Wes-
leyane are Protestants, and the only difference Is that
one reads prayers out of a prayer b6ok and the other
prays stem^ronely.”
Melbourne spiritualists are clubbing together to
pay the expenses of Mr. Tnomas Walker, spiritualistic
lecturer, in the forthcoming libel action brought by the
Rev. J. A Dowie. The latter gentleman seems fond of
figuring In Courts of Law. Shrewd people retard hie
as a judici ms system of advertising, la Adelaide, he
brought an action for assault against some of the police
in connection wish a salvation Army parade. He con-
ducted hla owa case, and verified to his cost the axiom
about the man who is his own lawyer. Perhaps he'll
profit this time by that experience.
This is the curse against an ex-oommnnicated
Jew, aosordlng to a writer in the Century :— *• May the
Lord’s calamity hasten lo overtake him; Ood tbe
Creator break him, bind him ! May fiends encounter
him ! May he be acourtod wherever he stands 1 May
the Lord visit him with consumption, brain fever, in-
flammation, insanity, ulcers, and jaundice I May he ba
at chaff whicn the wind drives before it, and may the
Angel of God pursue him I May ho encounter direst
despair, and may be fall into the not spread for his feet
by God I He shall be clothed with curses as with a
garment, and God >hail give no forgiveness to this man,
bnt pour his wrath and His vengeance upon him ; and
all tne curses shall enter Into him that are written in
the Law."
• * «
During a performance at St. James’ Hall, Plymouth,
the front of the gallery gave way. and tbe falling and
faiien.npou were many and seriously injured. Next
day tbe Salvation Army was passing this music hall,
when the captain halted his mob, and called for three
ohoers for tbe accident, which were given with Wes-
leyan fervour They me; the parson looking sad and
dejected. “ Only think,” said he, ’■ I’ve married half-
a-dozen innocent fellow creatures this morning."
John Alexander Dowie writes: "Spiritualism in Mel-
bourne has been overthrown. ’’ Henry Carboneii, a
oatechist, found dead on the steps of the Y. M. 0. A.
Rooms; he is stated to have received assistance from
that body. Maybe the assistance killed him The
Aojs has this telegram from Sydney : “ Dr. Cani was
consecrated Catholic Bishop of Rockhampton to-day
at the Protestant Cathedral.” Where was Dean Oowper ?
The Bishop of London has ordered special prayers
for tbe peice of Ireland, so everything will soon be
right Revival in funds of country churches —Ashton's
circus travelling around giving benefits Election of
Bishop of Adelaide will probably take place early in
July At a recent meeting of tho Melbourne Presby-
tery, a resolution was earned to discountenance, by all
means, theatres, racing, and dancing. Of osurse these
things will at once cease to exist Among the com-
pany at a reoeut Quoru bunt meeting was the Rev.
Superior of the Convent of St. Minas, Island of Chios,
who mounted his hunter in full ecclesiastical ooetuir*.
Four hundred were present, bat the rev. hunter carried
off tho brash.
A N.Q. warden recently married a couple as he sat
enthroned in state on the back of a buck jumper, and the
animal for once realised that there was bigger trouble
going on than he could produce, and kept bis bools
still.


[Business Ann jam
Australian “ho
SEWING MACHI
Unprincipled Dealers—to ma>
ling* profit—are offering for sal
Machines that will not stand a yea
express
ss
o
'P
dA/
THE HOME SHUTTLE I
Manufactured for us, has (he ah
name on the work j
PURCHASE NO OTHI
We solicit yi’o r 'raation of the att
terfeits of the above Machine, wh
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our geuui
procurah'e, w« will forward them
Office Order.
HAVE ;;OW SOLD i
f ;tand machine complete
TEt-ADLE MACHINE. COMPLI
Do.. WilH COVEB CoMl
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular posi
M. MOSS ANI
WYNYAED LANE, i
mdF
LL
CH
-jjNDER SECTION
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGARI
FREEHOLD ES Pi
i v Subscription.
10 (DO SUB .'CR FURRS o
120 PhIZW h ot t he full va'n
117 lots guaranteed, c">sh i*
Lot 1 ls f prise £lO 0 I I ot 3
Lot 2 2nd prize 1 I .til 4
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £l5
Lot 10. 1 Pi is* of £5O.
Lots 'I to 2 10 Prizes o
Lots 21 to 00 ROPriz'f
The management is con p lltd 1 1
dr i wing to the flitt dly of A tutu
ttinding this announcement, the
tiv.lv he prnre ded with .even da
are t-nt'to ihed tor. All msuoce*
have their money ret urned p« r ret.n
the gnu duet opportuuity ever off>
stHiitwi prize, if not a large and ii
Tobacconists
TO SMOKERS WHO PEOFESS.TO BE JUDGES OP
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts a>e compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should he read with
special interest: —
DIXBON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on
All the others paid duty in 1880 on
DIXBON AND SONS paid doty in 1881 on
AU the others paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
on for the two years was only
2*8,803 Ibi
478,985 Hr.
620,993 Ih.
307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
TANKED DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER. GOLD PLUM,
CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tik Tas,” each plug branded with a
Bound Single Tin Tag, ftamped “ Con-
Tankke Doodle.”
qUEKOR
ALL TOBACCONIST’’ GOODS, PIPES. Ac.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
A ND the enormous success of the CAN’T B BEAT
J\ has not escaped the nsual penalties of merit. Its
inivcrsnl popularity has excited the envy of that olass
jf speculators who trade upon the discreditable nuriM
)f a borrowed name. My Tobacco has ngm, imitated
md counterfeited, and although I hare H«ed ah avail-
ible means to guard the public against imposition, and
5o pnni-h fraud, both Foreign and Home-made In ittu
bions bearing my brand, but locking ?U *he qtwMfre-. c!
he ever popular and well-known CAN T B BKA|
tiave been impound upon the public as the GISNPINB
AMEBI AN WEK". Now, to further guard mfp
numerous Customer.-, in both town and country, as weß
is the Smoking Pnhlio from all Imitation*. I n»t»
irranged *ith t*e American Manufacturer that
ping of mv Tobaeoo be branded with a Silver Tag,
rearing.tho device thus:
without which none is genuine. The qualities of tho
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well known to need any
comment. But in justice to the public, as well as
my f elf, I urgently request my customers to assure them-
selves that the article they purehase be genuine, ana
that each plug tear the above dtvloe, to bo known as
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B BEAT BRAND
Heartily thanking the public for their liberal support,
and determined to deserve a continuance of the same
by keeping a Ant-class article art tho lowest pjstible
price.
MICK SIMMONS,
Sole Wholesale Agent in the Colonies for the
Can't B Beat Tobacco,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
CORNER OF QEOBGtTand CAMPBELL STREETS,
HAYMAItKLT.
N B—NO BRANCH SHOPS.
READ THIS ! READ iHIS!I
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
677 GEORGE STREET.
BRICKEIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, &c.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO , Limited, beg
to inform the pnblio that they have now com-
pleted arrangements which will enable' them to keep up
a REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
and are in a position to take on fresh customer?. Orders
may bo giveu to men on carts, or sent to office,
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L I),
112 OXFORD STREET.
Hotels, a so.
Gr
UNSLER’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
R
OBERT BUTCHER A
(Late William Lon?),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO..
Country Otonoas Receive Prompt Attention.
PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T, FALLON iu asking public attention to his
WINES, mi'l to ihe awards trained by them, begs to
intimate that he hoids very large stocksof nil varieties
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and iu almost any quantity
Central Dkpot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, mar ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wj.es weie awarded (list-class Prizes at th>
'oilowit g K>Width n
London lui. rbalional 1862
Phi is ~ 1894
Vi. uni ~ 1873
Philadelphia „ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions <( Vic-
loria, New South Wales, Ijueeusland, and 19 FIBsT-
I LAt'S, ami 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
IN IERNATIONAL EXHIBIIION, 1810-80.
WHITE. RED.
Roisliug Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Vrrleiiho Arc wu Muscat Carbinet Mnlbeo
Tokay 1 • Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Hotels, Jko.
JOHN A. WILKINSON’S
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
11» PITT STKEET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
RED WINES.
Cooln.lta Hermitage, extra quality
No. 1 Coolalta Red
No 2
Burgundy ...
Port
Yin Ordinaire ...
WHITE WINES
Muscat ...
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Yin Ordinaire
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
CRN,
ORL'P
tiORWf;
mV**
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should bo carefully compared, as large quantitiet
axe being imported into New South Woles in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should oornpnr*
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY wi'b any of th»
other brands, when they will find a TO-rence of at
len«t 10 per cent, in favour of LORN K HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIIiGOE, sON, AND CMaPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
& I® Spring’ Street
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for BAL>
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA.
AND
EARTHEN WA EE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRIT*
aid general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SOBIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. QAYEN'S
Schnapps an-' Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold.
Imported by us direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our bu<-er in Germany.
Kvn-y instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are of v.ry handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for Cash.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and lest them before purchasing elsewhere.
AllourPlANuS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rubbish.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-street, Bathurst ; Auburn-street, Goul-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live wo will supplv yon with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
jp LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS. OILS, VARNISH.
FAPERHANOINO
(a really splendid stock )
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK. 281. GEORGE-ST.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
843 and 345 Kent-street, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Wliittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G
Ben craft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’a Victorian Biscuits, Treacle
and Cakes ’
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
545 and *>4s KENT-STKEET, near King-street.
The Celebrated
ThePurestStiwuiant
Xnc 13 am* ut a. Aloe»u a it,
I* on every Genuine Bottle.
lOSTER/S Bugle Brand.
h
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINBI
MERCHANTS,
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
RVG .THOMSON
PROPRIETORS
OLAS -G OW
fyiS rn r r vIJ »> coir:l r' ? <?r t t
d!s r ifWti tit'hru. hu VIA ini <X
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOB NEW SOUTH WALES,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[_We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
S.A J.C. Mornhetville June 20.
Hnghendea (Q.) June 25, 26.
Lower Clarence Turf Club June 28
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Steeplechase June 28.
Hay........ July «, 7.
Denilmnin July 19.
Rockhampton July 6, 7.
Clarence R J 0 July 12,13
V.E.C. Grand National July 22.
Hawkesbury Spring August,
* ? 1 2 n &- August 5.
A. J.C. Spring Sent. 2, 5. 7, 9.
V.R.C. Spring Oct. 28. 31, Nov, 2, 4.
Murrumbidgeo Turf Club Nov. 22, 23, 24.
AQUATICS.
Largau y Pearos. £2OO aside, Thames Juno 17.
G.8.C.. Senior Sculls in skiffs June 24.
Lay cook v. Boyd, £2OO aside, Tees July 3.
Mercantile R.C. Regatta August 28.
Gardiner Cup, Amateur.... December 16.
PBDESTRIANISM.
Tamworth Grand Handicap, 150 yards June 17.
Spruce v. Gibson, 125 yards, £5O, Wollsond June 17.
Devlin v. Blevitt, 150 yards, Queanbeyan, £4o...June 26.
Edwards v. Clifford, six days, at Geelong, £200...Ju1y 3.
Wallnre* Football Club’s 5p0rt5.......hfrri.;....... July 29.
FOOTBALL.
Svdney v. Petersham, Association Ground June 17.
Glenhead v. Balmain, Moore Park June 17.
Geelong Club Matches July 8, 11, 13.
Geelong v. Sydney, Association Ground... July 15,
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN.
June 15.16,17.
Sheffield June 19, 20, 21.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The South Melbourne Football Club started for
Adelaide on Saturday.
The entries for the Hunter River Amateur Turf
Club meeting are: —Shorts Handicap 16, Ladies' Mile
7, Turf Club Handicap 13.
A Brisbane bookmaker recently wrote to the
Courier, complaining of being arrested by the police
for having no lawful visible moans of support.
The East Sydney and Waratah Clubs played a
football match on Saturday, resulting In a win for the
former by 3 goals 8 behind* to 1 goal 4 bohinds. *
The Glebe and Newtown Football Clubs played
a match on Moore Park on Saturday, resulting in an
easy win for the former by three goals and five trios to
nil.
In the second innings of the Lancashire team
Spofforth took nine wickets for 109 runs. Crossland,
for the Englishmen, took three of the Australian
wickets for 24 runs.
A black gelding by Panic, named Lord Harry
has (boon showing at the North such ability over the
Sticks that ha is to be nominated for our jumping
events. Blackall, who won all our Jumps, came from
the North.
The Broulee Jockey Club, Moruya, are busily
exerting themselves to improve the running of their
race course by ploughing and levelling it. When this
is done it will be a credit to the district, but certainly
not before.
The Wallaroos gave the Qlehheads a gruelling
on Saturday week, on the Park. It would be well if
those clubs would commence at the advertised time for
the future. Many persons left the ground thinking the
match had been postponed.
Mr. R. Hack, of Parramatta, offers to match
the aboriginal “Combo" agoinst any resident of Parra-
matta in a 100 or 200 yard’s race. •* Combo ’’ la a fair
cricketer, and in days gone by did good service for tha
Cundletown (Manning) cricket dub.
The first hunt of the season took place at
Duokeufleld Park on Saturday. About 30 Joined in &
capital run of seven miles, over about 20 fences. Mr.
H. Lodge acted as master of the field, and brought into
the field nine couple of young dogs, which worked fairly
well. The next run is fixed for to-morrow (Friday).
Toowoomba (Q.) races June Bth and 9th. First
Day.—Maiden Plate, Qoldflnder, 1 ; Selling Stakes,
Calypso,!; Clifford Plata, Proctor,lf Optional Stakes,
Bilverhair, 1. Second Day'—Two and Three year old
St.akes, Gold finder, 1; Hurdle Race. Pastime, 1; Turf
Club Hauddeapv Bkontor, I; Forced Handicap,
Eclipse. 1.
In response to a challenge from J. Rolfe, who
claims to be the champion bicycle rider of Victoria, to
C. A. Booth, an American bicyclist, to run any distance
from one mile to a 1000 for |£so or upwards. Booth
intimates his willingness to stake JEIOO, but imposes a
condition that the contest shall be decided by trick
riding as well as speed.
Several interesting f ootball matches took place
in Melbourne on Saturday. Melbourne against South
Melbourne resulted in a draw, Essendon were d«-
feated by South Yarra. A Junior club of East Mel.
bourne was severely defeated at Geelong, the local
team scoring 13 goals to nil. Carlton against Hothtm,
was won easily by the former.
The Ascot Gold Cup, run for in England on
June Bth, was won by Mr. Keene’s Foxhall, Faugh-a-
ballagh and Petronol, both owned by the Duke of
Beaufort, being second and third respectively. The
■Ascot Cup is valued at £lO9O and a subscription of
20 sovs is added, so that America has gained another
big prize from English racers.
The match between the East Sydney and Sydney
football clubs, which was to have come off on the Asso-
ciation Ground, on Saturday week, was played en the
Park, the turf of the cricket ground being in too moist
a state. The play was close and even in thl* first essay
of the season, and a marked improvement was notice-
able in the players. Sydney won by 2 goals 3 behind* to
1 goal 7 behinds.
A foot-race for <£2o a side, between Ryan and
Jacobs, came off on Saturday week at Carooar. The
latter was the favourite at sto 4 A good start was
effected, the pair ran together for 75 yards, then Ryan
came through smiling and won easily by three yards.
The Carcoarites were jubilant, and the settling passed
off satisfactorily. All wagers were met, and the im-
pression was that the host man won.
According to the list of arrangements of matches
for the Australian Eleven in England, they have no
fixture on to-day (Thursday), Friday, and Saturday. On
next Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday they play
Shefiisld. Doubtless some important match has
been arranged for the open dates since their arrival
in England, and wo may expect to hear of a great
match by cable on Friday and Saturday.
The members of the new Suburban Bicycle
Club hod their first run on Saturday, to Botany j muster-
ing, with the assistance of some of the Sydney Club, a
party of over twenty. The Suburban uniform is grey,
with blue cap and stockings, and, as R. Shut* is cap-
tain, no doubt the club will shute ahead. The occasion
was solemnised by champagne at Smith's palatial pub.
Nevertheless, every member came home steadi[y.
Amateur scullers in mercantile establishments
are getting into training. Mr. Gardiner’s Mercantile
Cup is to be a challenge trophy, to be rowed for an
nually, the competition to go on for all time. The-
seoond rowing trophy is for all amateurs under the
N S.W. Rowing Association rules, and is to become the
property of the olub or crew winning it for the third
time. The date for the latter event is fixed for
December 16th.
The batting averages of the Australian Eleven
up to the end of the Nottingham match are as follow:
—Murdoch 56 1-6, Massie 37 3-13, Blackham 25 1.6,
Horan 23 4-9, Bonnor 22{, Bannerman 21, Giffen 19 1-6,
Jralmer 13, Jones 11 4-11, Boyle 11, M‘Donnell 10 1-6,
Garrett 8 7-9, Spofforth 8 1-9. So far, New South
w ® le ® “kes the two highest and two lowest. Jones
an *~ are not playing up to form, but Beyle
ana Giffen have done batter than was expected.
■n yards foot-race for .£lOO between A.
+», arr * an 4 ran h Hewitt took place on Saturday on
the Agricultural Society’s Grounds, and resulted in an
easy wm by a yard and a-bal( for Farrell. Time, 5 1-5
secs. The usual delay at starling noticeable in pro-
fessional pedestrian contests took place, and it is sur-
prising to note that although the match had been
arranged for some time no starter had been appointed
up to the last moment. There were a large number of
spectators and there was a deal of betting, Hewitt
being the favourite.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Steeplechase Handicap,
3 miles, resulted in a great surprise, as Alario, the
winner, was not supposed to have a a show. He was
bought as a hack three months ago for £2O. Time,
iui 800 - New Year ran second, Gray Mom us
third. The Australian grey, Lone Hand, refused the
jumps in this event, and though he never baulked in
the Consolation, could gat no nearer than third. Mount
J on the Maiden, while Dawn beat his hold in the Grand
Stand Steeple. Several accidents occurred, but none
serious, £lOOO wore put through the totalisator.
In the contest for the Queensberry boxing
championship in London, one of the competitors had
to run a bye, and Professor Donnelly, with whom our
ewn Jack Thompson had a friendly bout when in
London, was called up to assist the competitor in the
bye. Donnelly was not well, but to oblige the manage-
ment he stripped. The competitor wanted to distin-
guish himself, so he, with a crushing cross-counter,
knocked the skin off the professor’s right eyebrow,
raised a big lump, and drew the carmine copiously.
Donnelly gathered himself up, and gave his friend the
most' artistic knock-down blow everseenlina boxing com-
petition. With a beautiful half-arm hit on the point of
the jaw, his opponent went on his back as if struck by
lightning. Donnelly was safe for the rest of the bout.
128 nominations for the Melbourne Cup—66
Melbourne entries, 46 Sydney, and 16 Adelaide. The
Champion Stakes, 59; 33 Melbourne, 21 Sydney, 5 Ade-
laide. Caulfield Cup, 133; 77 Melbourne, 41 Sydney,
15 Adelaide. Hawkesbury Grand Handicap, 85 entries.
Great Metropolitan Stakes, 99 entries, «f which 12 are
from Victoria. This does not compare favourably with
the number of Sydney entries in the Melbourne Cup.
But it is not to be expected that a Melbourne owner
could cuter for both events, as the horse training for the
Melbourne Gup would be knocked up by a journey to
Sydney and back so shortly before the great race. The
nominations may be considered satisfactory. Old
Burwood reappears under the name of Twelve, and
Str&thearn has not yet terminated his racing career, as
he is entered for both Hawkesbury and Metropolitan.
The competitors for the Thomson Junior Chal-
lenge Cap hold high jinks on June 6th, when the cup
and various trophies were handed to the various win-
ners. Mr. Angus Cameron did the presenting. Both
Nat. Thomson, the donor of the cup, and Mr. F. Iron-
side, the manager of the contests, must be congratu-
lated upon their successful efforts in giving a fillip to
cricket, by the encouragement they nave offered to
junior players. Though the Thomson Cup is now a
thing of the past, and has become the property of the
Surrey United Club, the example shown by Mr. Thom-
son has not been thrown away. Mr. Iron-ide reports
that several trophies have been offered for competition
next season, and it is likely he will be able to arrange
a series of interesting contests for eleven valuable tro-
phies for the winning club. A surplus of £2133 61 from
the ground fees against the expenses of the Thomson
Cup Contests has been donated to the City Night Be-
fuge.
The University Cricket Club averages are pub-
lished. In the batting, Jones heads the list with an
average of 52,5, bat not havingplayed in enough matches
Allen, with 28, obtains the trophy for highest average.
Jones obtains the trophy for highest aggregate, and
Allen that for highest score in an innings. The averages
obtained throughout are very fair. Carter, the new
addition to the team, managed in the 7 innings he
played to obtain the decent average of 23.8. Faithfull
wins the trophy for bowling, with an average of 10.6
runs per wicket; Jones, 15.3, and Garrett, 18.1, came
next m order, whilst Powell, Coates, and loeton rest
upon their lanrels with the bad averages of 20.4,21.5,
and 24 8 respectively. Barff, who, as tho U. C. C.
secretary rather ungrammatically puts it “ only played
In one match," managed in that *• only one match" to
make 48 runs, and to obtain a bowling average of 1.6
runs per wioket.
Particulars of the Hanlan-Trickett race are to
hand. 'Hie same old story is to be told. The Thames
was rather rough, but this did not materially affect
either competitor. Triokett got a little ahead during
the first few strokes, but Hanlan soon got to the front,
and gradually drew away to the finish. He played the
usual antics, baling out his boat, waving his hands to
the spectators on the banks, and wiping his face with
his handkerchief; and after winning by about a quarter
of a mile, he returned to Triokett, and a miniature race
ensued, resulting in favour of Hanlan. At one portion
of the •’procession" they got into rough water, and both
had to scull aoross the river for she loer. Haitian's time
was 23 min. 6 sec , Triokett’s 29 mm. 35 see. Hanlan
used a new boat, built purposely for the race by Peters
and Co., of Putney, while Triokett used one by Warin,
re-covered by Claspcr. Hanlan s victory was celelritel
by a salvo of artillery, and great rejoicings by the
assembled crowd.
The match between the Australian Eleven and
the Nottingham Eleven resulted in a draw. The
weather was showery on the first day, and on the
second play was stopped by the rain. On the third
day the weather was tine but the wickets were heavy.
The attendance was, as usual, enormous. The Austro-
Bans went first to the wickets, and scored 142 ; Black,
ham (not out) 56, Palmer 26, Murdoch 13, Bannerman
12, Massie 11, Spofforth 7, Giffen 1, Bonnor 1, Jones,
Garrett, and Boyle, duck-eggs. Horan and M’Donnell
were the absentees. Nottingham made 110, the highest
scorers being Selby 38, Shrewsbury 30, Sheridan 18, and
Gunn (not out) 13. Spofforth got one wioket for 14
runs, Garrett five for 41, and Palmer four for 38. In
their second innings the Australians made 106 ; Bonnor
39, Murdoch 24, Jones 17, Bannerman 7, Palmer 7,
Garrett 3, Massie 1, Blackham, Giffen, and Boyle duok-
eggs, and Spofforth was absent. With 139 runs to win
in the second innings, Nottingham had lost one wicket
—Selby’s—for twelve when time wns called, making the
match a drawn game.
Gambling dens exist in most large towns, not
only undisturbed, but protected, by the police. Sydney
is no exception, and Melbourne has been notorious for
years under a certain regime. But Auckland now comes
nobly to the fore. A pigeon named Lockwood has been
plundered ef £9OOO, and only when he had seen nearly
the last of It did he seem to understand he had been
plucked by sharpers. He reported at length at tho
police station, and the detective watched the play from
a side room, and then arrested one of tho gamblers.
On examining his person were found no less than thir-
teen loaded dice, on five of which only fives and sixes
were printed. He was caught in the act of using some
of these, and yet there was no prosecution ! Lookwood
declined at the last moment to appear. The fact is,
the gambling cliques are so powerful, and so in-
fluentially supported, that it is next to impossible to
bring forward a ease that will not be either hashed up
or squared by the time it goes to court. The swell
blacklegs who parade our streets in broadcloth and
fine linen are excrescences on society, which cannot be
lopped.
Sullivan, since defeating Ryan, has been frantic
in his attempts to make a matoh with somebody or
anybody. Four challenged him, but three had no
existence whatever; the fourth was a fraud, and de-
clined to put on the gloves unless Sullivan promised to
play light with him. An Englishman named George
Hooka seems to have got so far as to promise to meet
him publicly, but when the night of meeting came on,
Booke objected to the size of tho ring, &0., &o. Sulli-
van got into the ring and said: “As far as ho was
concerned, he would rather spar Booke than anyone
else, and to prove it if the latter would face him on tho
stage and stay there four rounds, he would give him
two hundred dollars." Booke did not respond, but
commenced talking about impossible conditions. Wl: on
Sullivan was tired of sitting in the ring, he rose again,
and, “ holding up his hand to enjoin silence, said that
if Booke would consent to spar him, he would give him
a hundred dollars, and would not try to knock him
about." Bat Booke was not to be caught by this
promise of moderation, “I am willing," says Sullivan,
•• to fight any man in this country, in four weeks from
signing articles, for five thousand dollars aside, or any
nan in the old country for the same amount at two
nonths from signing articles." Sullivan will allow his
opponent to use bare knuckles, while he will rest satis-
ied to wear ordinary and thickly-padded boxing-gloves.
'* I will not fight again with bare knuckles, as I do not
wish to put myself in a position amenable to the law,"
Darkly it is hinted in New York and neighbourhood
that this moans nothing more or less than that Sullivan
tears he will, if he nses Nature’s weapons unadorned,
kill and murder anyone who dares oppose him,
“ Pendragon*” of the London Referee, who
is the Oracle on English sporting matters, and who hits
cut straight from the shoulder with the plain unvar-
nished truth, has had the same experience on the Tyne
in the Hanlan-Boyd race, as wo had on the Parramatta
in the race for the Champagne Trophy. He says : —“ In-
vestments of sovereigns for standing room on steamers,
so as to witness big boat-races on the Tyne, have to me
been singularly unfortunate I have seen a good many
races on the Tyne from the umpire’s boat, but in most
of them we have, after half a mile, fallen so far behind
that it wns hard to tell what was being done by the
rowers. When Elliott and Hanlan rowed, the umpire’s
boat was terribly ovt rladen. First, she had a difficulty
in getting under way, and then was quite unable to keep
pace even with Elliott. Had it not been for Hanlan’s
forbearance, we should have lost sight of him altogether
two or three minutes after ha started for Sootswood."
'* Pendragon ’’ doesn’t think much of Triokett. He
says "It would be hard to tell which of the two
losers (Boydand Triokett) would win wore they matched
over a full-longthloourae."
Northern J.C. meeting, Juno G and 7 : —First
day Plying Handicap : Bad start, the favourite,
Dagmar, being left at the post. Roberto beat Bob
Sawyer for first by a head, Gamecock being third.
Comet won the Substitute Handicap by a couple of
lengths. A great race took place for the Jockey Club
Handicap. Queensbarry won by a short neck from
Faust, while Brian Born was a very close third. Garry-
owen was at even betting for the Prince of Wales
Stakes, but he was beaten by a neck by Empress.
Kingsworth won the Epsom Handicap, beating Hy-
patia, Queensberry, Twilight, and Darby the Blast.
Second day—Ninus won the Maitland Handicap by two
lengths from Little Nell. Piracy, the favourite, was
nowhere, and Erin nearly fell when rounding the home
turn. Volunteer won the Grand Stand Handicap by
half a length from Old Gold after a splendid race.
Kingsworth scored a second victory in the Duckenfleld
Park Stakes; Euchre was second, beating the favourite,
Brian Born, ny half a length. Navy Bights won the
Novel Race easily, A great race took place for the
Forced Handicap, Comet winning by half a length
from Hypatia. Faust struck a post coming round the
turn and tell, bringing down Navy Eights, but neither
horses nor jockeys were injnred.
The Hop Bitters Company have followed in the
footsteps of Holloway, of pill renown, and invented a
now style of advertising. Their lead is being generally
followed, and our scullers, cricketers, and footballers of
now-a-days have no cause to complain for want of en-
oouragement in the way of trophies. Seriously speak-
ing, the line will soon have to bo drawn, for though the
trophies up to the present time have been worth win-
ning, the sporting world will shortly be deluged with
pots and pencil-cases for every variety of contest. A
fortunate sculler will bear as many titles as a colonial
governor. Fancy our champion amateur as the winner
of the Bog Destroyer Trophy, the Patent Varnish Cap,
the Preserved Soup Dish, the Indian Tea Cup, and the
Silver Hair-Oil Bottle. We don’t like thi*, and would
advise, in the interests of sport, intending advertising
firms to give a money prize for professionals, as the
Walker Whisky Company did. This would be giving
the pros, a lift, and would be just as agreeable to the
donors. Amateur scullers should have no object be-
yond the glory of victory, but these handsome trophies
introduce a discordant element into their contests.
But don’t give a cup to professionals; it’s not good
enough for them. Boyd rowed over the course last
year for the Sportsman Challenge Cup, valued at £2OO.
The match between the Australian Eleven and
Yorkshire County Eleven resulted, unfortunately, in a
draw. The rain prevented play on the first day, but on
the second, the weather having cleared up, the match
was commenced in the presence of an enormous as-em-
blaze. The Australians were first at the wickets and
made 128; the scorers being, Murdoch 41, Bonnor29,
Boyle (not out) 22, Massio 14, Jones 8, Spofforth 9,
Bannerman 2, Maodonnell, Qitfen, Black ham, and
Palmer getting a duck-egg each. Horan and Garrett
did not play. The Yorkshire team made 146, Spofforth
taking five wickets for 78 runs, Boyle, five wickets for
30 runs. The weather was not favourable on the second
day and the Australians in their second innings made
135; the scorers being Bonnor 35, Murdoch 29, Spof-
forth, not out, 13, Bannerman 13, Palmer 11. Blaokbam
9. Maodonnell 5, Bojle 5, Jones 3, Gitt'an 2, Massie 0,
The Yorkshire Eleven, having 117 to win, scored 30 for
the loss of three wickets when time was up. Spofforth
was credited with three wickets for 10, and it would
have probably been a hard struggle if the match had
been continued. The scores of the Englishmen were,
Ulyett 0 and 4, Sedgwick 16 and 2, Bates 21 and 6,
Hail 2 and (not out) 0, Lockwood 66 and (not out) 14,
Emmett 18, Grirnshaw 4, Watmough 1, Hill 0, Pente 11,
Hunter (not outl 0, The Australians meet the same
team again on July 17,18, and 19,
The University and Ilodfern Football Clubs
played a match on Moore Park on Saturday ; result, a
victory for the 'Varsity by a goal and a try against one
try. The match is said by enthusiastic footballers to
have bean close and exciting, and that a splendid game
was played. There is no doubt that a certain amount
of interest and excitement can be fait in witnessing a
bull-fight, and the crowd who witnessed the match was
most lavish of their applause whenevar Walker sent
his tackier head over heels, or when Eoper brought the
giant to the earth. Phillips got his head out aud his
shirt torn. Admiring and valuing Metcalfe as our
quarter-mile champion, we feared for his limbs in those
terrible scrimmages. Altogether, we were interested
in the match. We wondered who would be the first to
break hia neck, and we were grieved to hear that Q.
Hiddleaton, who has gained some fame as a cricketer,
received severe injuries at this his second football
match. We advise the legion of fond mothers who
read our paper not to send forth their boys donned in
jersey and stockings to kick for their club aud country.
We see no science in football; It is nothing but struggle,
kick, tear, crash, and run from beginning to end. Bull-
fighting was a noble sport compared to it, and the
blackfellows play a hotter game with nullah-nullahs.
However, footballers may be consoled by the assertion
that the msdioal faculty may probably think a great
deal of the game.
The following is a list oE the trophies won in the
contests for the Thomson Junior Challenge Cup, giving
the names of the winners, and exclusive of a handsome
silver Waltham watch and chain, which was presented
to the official scoter, Mr. S. TomlinsFor the greatest
number of catches first round of matches, £3 35., pre-
sented by Mr. C. Wigzell, won by Mr. Chippendale, of
the Perseverance C.C., for a total of 6; for highest?
single innings score all through, handsomoly-bound
volumes of Milton, Shakespeare, Longfellow, Byron,
Tennyson, and Kendall, presented by Mr. F. A. Cnbitt,
president of the Our Boys C.G., won by Mr. C. Brown,
of the Osborne C.C., for 121 (not out); for second
highest single inning's score (not being the winner of
No. 2), £1 Is., presented bv Mr. ti. B. Jones, won by
Mr. ICroker, of the Surry United C.C., for a sooro of
83; for highest batting average (being the cun winner),
Association Ground committee’s prize of £5 55., won
by Mr. J. Searlo, of the Surry United C.C., with an
average of 25 ; for best bowling average (being the Cup
winner). Association Ground Committee’s prize of
£5 55., won by Mr. J. Thomson, of the Surry United
C.C., with an average of 5,53 runs per wicket; for high-
est not-out innings all through, silver goblet, presented
by Lieutenant W. P. Mulholland, won by Mr. C.
Brown, of the Osborne C.C., with a scoro of 121 and not
oat; for first player reaching 100 runs in a single
innings, best suit of clothes, presented by Mr. Summer-
field, won by Mr. C. Brown, of the Osbornes ; for first
player reaching the century, counting all innings to-
gether (not being the winner of the preceding), trophy
presented by Messrs. Lamb and Fairfax, won by Mr.
Saunders, of Our Boys C.C.; for highest score In final
innings of the match, Snrry United against Our Boys,
bat presented by Lieutenant W. I’. Mulholland, won by
Mr. A. Dennis, of Our Boys, with a sooro of 21. In
addition to above, handsome meerschaum pipes were
presented to both Messrs. J. Stacey and Hooker for
special services rendered.
It is hardly wise to offer any remarks concerning
the Nottingham luncheon imbroglio until further par-
ticulars reach us; bat it does seem extraordinary, firstly,
that any set of full-grown white men should bo found
fighting over a dinner, like dogs over a bone; and,
secondly, that the Nottingham Club committee should
give a luncheon, and not invite the visiting eleven, who
were at that time engaged in a match against them.
The committee are self- oonviote d of a breach of etiquette,
for they twice offered an explanation and au apology,
which were declined by Murdoch. It is hardly reason,
able to expect that English cricketers can look with
favour npon the strides which cricket in Australia is
making towards supremacy, and the Australians who
have visited England have in some quarters met with a
degree of “ nastiness" that savoured strongly of cad-
dishnesa and snobbery. If a colonial wished to flndthose
qualities developin g in the highest degree, he would look
for them in certain eminent English amateur cricketers
of his acquaintance; on the other hand, wo have
among onr team one or two shallow-brained idiots
who, without the slightest pretension to birth, breed-
ing, education, loveliness, or anything else, bar cricket,
ing prowess, essay to pose as high-toned gentlemen,
whereas, severally, they in truth and fact are very sorry
creatures, and no better in any respect than the
criokster ;Who is regarded as a professional. Possibly
the honorary and honourable secretary of the Notting-
ham Cricket Club is some howling swell of the first
water who does not care to sit at table with those Aus-
tralian •* fellahe,” and hence the trouble. However,
the Notts have been snubbed ky Murdoch, and Spofforth
gave them the quid pro quo by refusing to play on the
third day. The Australians, as a body, are not over-
sensitive ; Gregory’s Eleven and Murdoch’s previous
team could speak voinmes of the “ proud man's con-
tumely, and the spurns that patient merit of the un-
worthy takes," which were allowed to pass unnoticed.
When it was remonred in town on Monday that
Haulan was dead, few people at first believed the story,
which, however, was subsequently •• confirmed" to
everybody in some mysterious manner. But is was
afterwards found that there was •' no foundation"
for the statement, whereupon all and sundry ascribed
the hoax to that most enterprising and 11 relieable" of
journals, the Age. Perhaps, aftar all. it would bo well
for Hanlan that the gods should take him now. He has
lived long enough to convince the world of his invinci-
bility, and ha cannot add to his present fame after he
has for some years enjoyed the comforts of what is
seemingly the apotheosis of the successful profes-
sional athlete—a pub. James Kenforth, the best,
gamest, and most scientific of all English oarsmen,
died in his boat while still in his prime; he
left behind a name which, aquatieally speaking,
will never die. What a pity that this prosaic
age, which crowns the arenie victor with
five-shilling pieces, and not bays, should often force the
Herculean, athlete into the inglorious obscurity
of a ttve-oont whisky mill—and keep him there
until he becomes, not a tough, grizzly, silver-haired,
fresh comploxiontd old man, but an obese, unwieldy,
short-winded mass of blubber, who, after living a few
years on his own good reputation and bad whisky, if
certified by the surgeons to have died of apoplexy
superinduced by heb-nailed-liver; 'parchment kidney
and fatty degeneration of the heart. We don’t say
Hanlan will do this—we don’t think he will. We hop<
he’ll live to tell the next generation of scullers with hii
own lips what a good man he was. Some time ago
when seeking retirement from aquatics, Hanlan salt
that no man could retain the championship king, anc
that the day must surely come when a better man wonlc
meet him ;he therefore wished’to leave the water whih
still he was unbeaten. It must he his lot to live to hi
defeated —to hear the crowd which cheered him on t<
victory yell and hoot him when he got licked. There ii
no reason to believe that he would be exempt from th(
lot of other champion scullers. Therefore, whilst it
one sense mournfully regretting that our distinguishcc
Melbourne contemporary has again made a mess of it
we are glad to be able to congratulate Hanlan on boinj
a sculler who has still some breath in his body, anc
whose career has been honest and unprecedentedly
brilliant.
Cyril Haviland ia on the war-path again. Ho
announces four lectures on spiritualism, to commence
on Saturday at the Victoria Hall.
P. and O. fleet consists of 50 steamers, with a
groas'toannga of 160,263 tons, and 28,450 horse power j
average tonnage is 3205 tons and 569 h.p.
“ A follow must keep up appearances,” he
murmured, "Something had to to go, so I spouted
my watch and waistcoat, and now wear my chain out-
side my coat."
Grand Intercolonial ploughing match takes
place in the Melbourne district next month; open to
ploughmen from all colonies; single-furrow, double-
furrow, and triple-furrow ploughs in competition;
prizes amounting to £5OO to be distributed.
Genius is like a mule, in that it is not hereditary,
but there the simile ends, A mule is the product of a
horse and an ass : a genius is often a pure-bred donkey.
A mule does’nt pawn its hide, get into debt, and hung
up drinks till the end of the month; a genius always
doe*—when he can.
A ratepayer wants to know if the Canterbury
Aldermen are all asleep P Property is assessed for
taxation at the highest rates in that municipality, and
after nearly three years’ existence the Council has a
couple of shillings to its credit; worse still, several
amounts have b*en paid away for which receipts could
not to produced. New blood badly wanted.
"HANLAN’S DEAD”
However, it appears that the Canadian subsequently
put on a sport, and has not since been overhauled.
ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE BALY’S
LATEST POEM.
SALAD.
Oh, cool in the summer is salad.
And warm ia- tho winter is lovo;
And a poet shall sing you a bal’ad
Delicious thereon and thereof.
A singer am I if no sinner.
My muse has a marvellous wing.
And I willingly worship at dinner
Tho sirens of spring.
Take endive—like love it is bitter.
Take beet—for like love it is is rod.
Crisp leaf of the lettnce shall glitter,
And cress from the rivulet’s bed.
Anchovies, foam-born, like tho lady
Whose beauty has maddened this bard.
And olives from groves that aro shady.
And eggs—boil 'em bard.
NEW BALLAD BY ALFRED TENNYSON PARKES
An auld wifa sat at hor ivied dosr,
Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese —
A thing she haa frequently done before ;
And her knitting repos ad on her bended knees.
Tho piper he piped on the hill-top high
Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese,
Till tho cow said • I die," and the goose said “ Why f”
And the dog said nothing, but searched for fleas.
The farmer’s daughter hath soft brown hair.
Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese —
And I’ve mot a ballad, I can’t tell whore,
Which mainly consisted of lines like thcoo.


RILEY BROT!
886 GEORGE BTEEBT,-)
600 GEORGE STREET, >■
165 OXFORD STREET.)
BATHURST,
QOULBURN,
NEWCi
AND
10 COLEMAN STREE
THE CHEAPEST
IN TH*
AUSTRALIAN CO
THE ORIQINATOI
NOTED £5 B.
<£s Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Drees material
0 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Books
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Gotten Tick
2% yards Qambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
| yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women's,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doe. Poo kef kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Button*, Hooks
and Byes, &o. &«.
£B Men’s Clothing £5
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Tron- Ipa
sere, and Vest
5 Crimean shirts, large alee 6ya
3 best Cotton Shirts, large 10 w
size C
1 heat Felt Hat, any size 0 wl
6 pair strong Cotton Socks 13 ya
6 White Handkerchiefs 12 ya
1 Belt or pair of Braces 4 pa
1 pair Strong Boots, Col- Ipa
krs. Ties, tee. 1 1>
fl et
£5 Ladles’ Bale. e Bi
6 Ladies’ Chemises 3 *
6 pair Drawers £
4 Night-gowns tr
4 Ladies' Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Pettiooats « R
8 Children’s Chemises
8 pairs Drawers 25 yd
8 Night-gowns 3 ya
3 Pettiooats 1 da
The shore are made of 18l
good longoloth and nicely ILi
trimmed. If desired, other ITi
articles may be ordered in- Ipa
stead of any of the above. C
RILEY Biol
£2 Infant's Parcel. £2
4 Infante’ Shirts *
2 Infants’ Night-gowns 1 Hai
2 Infants* Long Flannels Loi
1 Haircord Monthly Gown riel
2 Infants' Boilers 1 Infs
1 dozen Diaper Squares Bar
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infj
2 Bibs Sill
1 Pair of Wool Boots Ca
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s £2
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Tro* sere 2 N?a
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Che
SOCIAL.
Those who did not go to the North Shore Bowing
Club Ball lost, a treat. There was no attempt to make
it a grsnd affair; In fact, it was almost like a private
ball • but every trouble was taken to render it pleas me-
able. Though the clouds hung low in the murky sty,
and anon the rain came down, the spirits of the revel-
lers wem in no way damped in the cosy Town Hall on
WedneKlav week. Bright fires burned in the ante-
rooms and Messrs. Little and Weathenll politely es-
corted the ladies as they arrived to the apartment
allotted for their use, wherein all those mysterious final
adjustments are made which enable a lady to take the
warpath in the full panoply of her indescribable charms.
At nine o’clock, the opening, and only, quadrille was
started. The programme was peculiar, inasmuch as it
contained eight waltzes and seven polkas, out of 21
dances. Some thought the round dance* too plentiful.
At the Petersham ball, the same night, people said they
were too scarce. Which convinces us (though we anew
it already) that the genius who oan build a programme
to satisfy two consecutive dancers, is a being who may
appear some day, but hasn’t dawned on the world yet.
The N S.E C, ball programme was of a style unusual at
public balls, but frequently seen at private assemblies.
Khaptrr’s band of four afforded plenty of music for
the building, and kept excellent time. Few fancy
drosses were displayed. Most noticeable was the
costume of a Norwegian Qazar, in blue trousers and
red coat. Any ordinary person confronted with the
conundrum-what is he ? would at once hare suggested
a eomi-demi demon- The wearer himself hadnta very
clear idea of what a " Gazar” is; but anyhow, the blue
trousers wore remarkable. A neat ** America, was a
red white and blue satin, striped skirt and starry
body. Two sisters from far down Beurke-street were
respectively in white satin, and black satin with thick
gold fringe. Mr. fcmairl was a Spanish Nobleman, and
ilr H. I. Anderson a Knight Templar, in a costume
which seemed to consist chiefly of mosquito curtains
and a tin helmet. Miss Higstrim was a bailor Lame.
A Flosian Shepherdess, in short dress of blue and
and cardinal satin. oarrio I a crook, and entered into a
fair share of dancing. Miss E Mm'oi wss a Scotch
A« La Keiuo Blanche, Miss Fiorne Hind wore
white and pearls. She was extremely charming-to say
morn, would be like trying >p gild. Ac., *o.. Ac.,
words would but poorly describe the beauti-
ful While Queen. The Misses Dalton, b.ondc
ami bruanotte, were in costly dresses of cream satin
and hrochii, cut low and trimmed with lace;
one drees was adorned with edging of aUy*r
sprigs and berries, silver leaves in the uark hair;
while scintillating gleams flashed from the brimtnt
beetles’ wings that decked the neek and sleeves of the
other, and similar ornaments nestled in the fight
brown tresses. Mrs. Dalton, who chaperoned this pair
of North (Shore beauties, was attired in a handsome
white robe, trained and laoa trimmed, and garnished
with largo poppy-like flowers. Mr. S. B. Bailey was in
evening dress, the breast covered with a profusion of
medals, and Mr*. Bailey was a Spanish Lady. The
uniformly eauy dancing of a lady in whit® oaahmer*,
trimmed with bead-fern and Keranlum blooms, eonld
not escape notice. Kather pretty was a small girl all
pink, her headdress of largo chrysanthemums matching
wail with thepiak satin frock. Her charms, however,
will bo enhanced when her terpsiohorean talents are
more fully developed. Two of the most stylish
evening drersos were those worn by Mrs.
Julian and Miss Borlaee. of striped cream satin
trimmed with real I»ce and broch<, elegantly shaped,
with voluminous trains: one ladywore a garland of
blush roses and leaves from the right shoulder down to
the bust, the other a similar garland from the left
Btieulder. Miss Ada Green was a Grecian Lady. As a
(Spanish Girl, in bright cardinal satin, veiled with black
lace, and black lace mantilla over a menry face, a dainty
little brunette danced exquisitely. Smith a City Cater-
Ing Company provided supper and liquors, aid the
spread on the tables was splendid. A sensible plan was
adopted of putting the dances close together, so as to
avoid those weary waits that tire people, and spin out
the whole night without any gain ; consequently, the
programme was finished early, and several extras were
added. Boats were run by the North Shore Ferry
Company alter midnight, and at the close of the ball.
The late Woollahra Flower Show was not a
failure. It was really a “bang-up” affair, reflecting credit
on all concerned, and Mr. Neild’s congratulatory speech
wa» not in the least too thick. Mrs. Newman, Misses
Bettinsrton, Perry and Shetland proved their taste by
splendid exhibits, and what specially sheds Joy on the
universe is the fact that the prize for the Branthemum
gardnori Pandanna varlegata Defffenbaohia Bowmami
oorontegia recurvataDraccona a P;£hutilon Sellowiannm
variegatnm was won by the worthy President. Which
very likely accounts for the rise in tallow.
f‘ Partners,” there is a precipitate charge made by the
gentlemen, and each parades the lady he has captured
Wjjjnd the room. Then the dance is announced, and if
soil? few can’t qo it, there ensues another scramble on
S. smaller scale. pf court e. when a young lady and her
beau understand one another, the
scheme is worked to mqtqal advantage. This primitive
style may stem dreadful to those who dance in metro-
nolitan mansions, vet it is very similar to what Is done
in the French cotillon.
♦ • •
' Mavor Harris is tho Lambert Streyhe of Sydney
•lan Hart, and n Sunflower Ball is to be given under Ins
patronage on the 30th. The ticket is a poem, something
Japanese on the reverse, and the whole affair will be
consummately too too, The secretary, J. Menton,, in-
vites Philistines to unite in adoring the Great Master
at the Hall of Art Plaster and Diaphonovis Foundations,
ai d announces that a confection of dewdrops or lilies
will bo served on cobwebs by Smith s Tart Company.
Tho Basil Giorgiones of Potts Point are robbing the
sn ntlower and lily beds, and the Olives are labouring at
crewels.
• • •
Defiiliqmn was gay on the marriage, recently, of
G L Dickson, only son of the late James Dickson,
HD. with Isabel Gertrude (Ida) second daughter
bf the late J. Archer Broughton, Deuiliqnin.
The bride was given away by her brotber. BUkensy
Broughton. The church was beautifully festooned,
arches wreathed with lilies at the entrance, and over
the Communion table the words “ God be with them
were formed in blue, white, and silver. The bride was
lovely in rich ivory satin and lace, embroidered in seed
pearls, veil, wreath of orange blossoms, jasmine and
clematis fastened with a diamond arrow. Orange
blossom on her neck held by a large go ' d
necklet and cross of pearls given by the bridegroom.
Nine bridesmaids wore picturesque watteau costumes,
each Indian muslin flohu fastened with a gold horse-
shoe brooch studded with pearls, the gift ofthe bride-
irroom. Three were sisters of tho bride, Mabel,
Francos, and Beatrice. Presents and good wishes were
t*,.T»«red on the happy pair as they departed for
Sydney.
• • •
The second Bachelors’ Assembly this Winter
was held at " Nlthsdalo ” last Friday, and was more
largely attended than the first one. the room being
quite full, and ladies and gentlemen in equal numbers.
Fourteen dances were executed before U o clock, and
the programme was well varied, waltzes most numer-
ous. Light refreshments were served during the even-
lug Dresses were mostly short, trains being absent,
and were of dark hues. Perhaps the most tastefully
handsome was a skirt of heliotrope under a polonaise
of black velvet. Gentlemen In evening dress. Music
by Mr. E. Needs assisted by a vielin, was satisfactory,
and all went home pleased.
• • •
On Tuesday, 6th instant, a largo party was
given in the Mechanics’ Institute, East.Maitlandj the
occasion —a young solicitor had passed hi* final. A
soasg widow looked charming in lavender silk, white
face and roses; married lady tasteful in pink silk pink
Bloves. silver leaves; hostess splendid in black slik,
train can. and flohn. A dress worn by a very attractive
Joung lady was much admired, pink Madras muslin,
trimmings of Spanish lac*, black satin body, pink
flowers. Two petite sisters wore pink and white; a
tall fair, and very pretty girl in bine and white was,
and’ always is, admired for her dancing. A stylish
young lady from Sydney was nice in cream sateen and
cashmere, pink roses; while a vivacious little blonde
wearing white, blue silk trimmings, and white roses,
enjoyed herself much. A toll dark girl with glorious
eyes was belle, in cream and pink sateen, flowers and
gloves. Daring the evening, the health of the best was
proposed by one of his old masters. Music was good,
supper grand, and altogether the evening delightful.
• • *
The return ball to Mr. J. Gelding (Mayor) and
Mrs. Gelding took place in the Town Hall, Petersham,
last Thursday night, and was well attended, there being
about sixty couples present. The Mayor, who is very
popular, seemed to enjoy himself immensely, and
danced with that unstudied grace which is so becoming
to him. Gentlemen on the committee also delighted
their lady partners with the perfection they had at-
tained. The room was prettily festooned with flags
and draperies, and the rsally handsome toilettes of the
ladies made a beautiful harmony of colours. Mrs.
Gelding was not present, but was represented by her
daughter, who looked nice iu a costume of black and
mauve. One of the most radiant costumes was worn
by Mies Cubitt: a ereara cashmere, blue bodice em-
broidered in cardinal and handsome Indian work, head-
dress to match, and Olivette fan; for completeness in
detail and general appearance, it was unsurpassed.
Miss Shorter wore a pale pink and blue satin dress,
short sleeves, and flowers. The Department of Eduea-
tion was represented by a galaxy of stars. Two
daughters of a high ollioial were ever so much prettier
than their name; and three sisters from Staumoie were
resplendent, the maiden iu a dark satin and crystal on
the head and throat dancing extra well. One lady was
remarkable (or her red dress and her ’ead-dresi, grand
as that of the Indian corn doctor —illimitable jewellery.
Miss Peoroe looked pensive and handsome in
black velvet and heliotrope, with pansies. A beautiful
blonde, who did not danse much, wore white muslin find
camellias; and two fair sisters in palest blue satin,
gloves and headdress to match, were namesakes of the
celebrated rope-tying brothers—and belles. If the
young ladies desire to start in the same business, we
should be willing to be tied to either of them —by_ a
clergyman. The Misses Kennedy, one in sad sea-green
and white, the other in black and cardinal, looked very
pretty ; so did Mias Deakm, a little brunette, in cash-
mere, hands of seoshellsin her hair ; and a blonde from
Btaumore is white aatin, lace, and awan’a-down. Mias
Butler, a clever reverser, waa becoming in cream plush
and shawl drapery, with pearls in the hair. Mrs Sharp,
of Canterbury, wore a dashing cardinal. Other drosses
—black moire and passementerie trimming, pink sod
blue, gros-de-lyon and cream satin —attrastad notiea.
The refreshments provided by Mr. Moore were first-
olasa ; the music by JCoptfa band waa at times unsteady
and too faet, though pretty, and the guosta ahowet
their appreciation of the Mollie Darling quadrille by ap
plauding. On the programme there waa an enoriuou
preponderance of " square " dances—one would thin t
all the Petersham Ixlies were past middle-age. Tral
to metropolis about 3 a,m.
« # •
Hitherto the Americans of the city havefcele
brated the Day of Independence bv a plonie- This
year they will give a Ball, to be held in Neeis's Roomi,
on the evening of 4*,h July. Not an ordinary bal ,
where a man who oan’t dance wisheu.hu were dead, bu
special provisiou will be made for the enjoyment a
those who do not “sport a toe." As the affair is a natlona
event, and not a speculation to shovel up the sovs , th
pleasure of guests will be the first consideration, anc
the secretary hopes te make the 4th July Ball worth; -
of the country that ia bounded on the east by the ree l
of the world, and on the weat by the setting inn.
• • •
Events of more or less importance. A pretty
brunette of Tnmut will shortly be united to a fair
young Manning gentleman The only daughter o
Mr. J. Q. O'Connor, ex-raemhsr for Mudgce, was
married last week at St. Patrick’s, to Mr, M. J. Fitz
patriot, who, like his late uncle, is a musician An
interesting wedd'ng at Townsville (Q ), recently, wa
that of Mr. Patrick Cnmmings. a young squatter, to
Miss B. Palkner, of that town. A number of oab
and bnggiea ornamented with white satin made tho
town aware of the event Mr. W. Cummings,
Pert Douglas banker) was alee married at Townsville
a couple of weeks ago Ito Miss Birkett, in view of
crowded church. Four little bridesmaids.
• * •
A pretty wedding comes off in All Saints Church
Petersham, this afternoon (Thursday). Bride, Mle
A. Davis, of Petersham; bridegroom, Mr. Henry Rotten
from Bathurst,
• « •
Grey skies, chilly breezes, and general cheerless
ness thinned the audience at Wednesday's promenad
concert in the Botanic Gardens. Though the bandsmen
of the N.B.W. Artillery tuned their swoetast, cold fee i
and noses rendered the audience freeringly indlfferen ;
to even “ La Heine dee Pres ” and the “ Forty Thieves.'
A slow saunter across the lawn, which is delightful in
summer's balmy afternoons, was out of the question
then, so the bulk of listeners contented themselves by
seeking out sheltered corners and dejectedly shivering
in huddled groups. The display of lluery was, under the
circumstance*, on a limited scale. Ulsters, though very
oomf or table, are not remarkable for pictures quenees
and in those sombre coverings many graceful forms
were hidden. Two little sisters, wearing black costumes
with brilliant scarfs of shaded crimson silk, were looked
upon with gratitude for contributing, with one exeep-
tlon, the only colouring visible—the exception wae
young lady who had evidently strayed from the Saddling
Paddock, her toilette r f shaded yellow satin on a brown
velvet foundation, with velvet jockey cap, being deoid
edly turfy ; a ,d, as she passed, an audible whisper waa
watted to our ears iu wjjioh reference was made to
“jockey’s weight.”
9 • 9
Tho Mayor and Mayoress’ invitations to an
Assembly, on Tuesday night, were accepted by upwards
of 300 persons. The Town Hall vestibule, tastefully
decked with festoons of greenery and flowers, and further
ornamented with pot-plants, made a charming, though
small ball-roam. Supper was laid in ante-rooms, and
apartments that on ordinary occasions do duty as
offices were transformed into cloak, dressing, and
retiring rooms. The tiled corridors, laid with carpet,
provided with cane-seated chairs, and dimly lighted,
were largely patronised between the dances. Any
amount of mild flirtation wont on in those snuggeries,
in spite of the imeonvenient interruptions of guests
passing to and from the supper rooms. The dresses
were, as might be expected, very rich and elaborate,
pale blue predominating, and trains being in
as greet favour as of yore, though the effect
of a yard or two of material held in gnp
hand, while the owner gyrates, is far from grace-
ful. Miss Marks looked exceedingly well inruby velvet
bodice, white satin skirt, and ruby velvet scarf j
wreath and breastknot of scarlet blossoms and leaves.
The honour of belle lay between her, a charming little
dancer in white satin costume, forget-me-not wreath
and shoulder knot, and a piquante brunette wearing
cardinal silk bodice, cream skirt flecked with cardinal,
and scarlet wreath coquettishly set on one side of a
ourly dark head The majority of those present were
in tna autumnal period of existence, staid dowagers,
and portly-formed dons. There were—John Davies,
C.M.G /.with a pair of glittering gewgaws adorning his
chest, O'Connor, M L.A , lively in foot and tongue as
ever, G. H. Russel, T. Williamson, emulating the
fascinating Hibernian in agility, C. Read, walkiug
through his programme with utmost nonchalance,
Griffith Russell Jones, with his brother Llewellyn, a pair
of ns pretty masculine dancers as the room qqp,
tained, AR lerman fijpjers, nid lastly, little Froil
Wyatt; who all came under our eagle eye and were
noted accordingly. Mrs. Wyatt’s robe of deep wine-
satin, adorned with old gold bows and head-dress of
gold beads ; and Mrs. Marks, of Darling Point, in ruby
velvet and cream, were about the most noticeable
matrons. The pretty wife of a Darlinghurst medico
wore a tastefal short dress of pale blue eatin, Bliza-
bethian ruff and white camellias resting in her smooth
dark hair. A bride from Petersham wore her wedding
dress of white moire, and bridal wreath—her train some
yards long was very much in the way at times, though
the lady was an energetic |and pretty danttrue. Mrs.
George Russell wore black satin, garnished with scarlet
and deep lace flounces. A fairylike dancer was attired
in pale blue satin trimmed with silver fringe. Miss
Linda Stubbs was equally admired for grace and light-
ness in twirling, and looked (of course) attractive iu
pale pink aatin, lace trimmed, and leaf wepth io
coiffure. Mrs. Birkmyre, from Woollahra in pale blue
satin trimmed, and most becoming wreath of tiny blue
and white blossoms, formed a pretty pleture. Mies
Toung, of Kentville, wore white satin decked with
cream lace, silver ornaments; and her visitor, Miss
Tunbridge (from Ballarat) appeared in an elegant cos-
tume of pale blue satin and white lace. Mrs. T.
Williamson’s dress of silver gray brochd, with rich lace
flounces, and cap brightened with scarlet flowers, was
Terj handsome. The programmes, which were neat
little pictured affairs, contained thirteen items and a
golden verse. A stringed band, with a piano aeqom-
paniment, provided the music ; but the time, especially
in waltzes, was not quite perfect. Carriages rolled up
at 12 to convey the jneased guests home.
• • *
On Tuesday a number of phonographers of the
city met Mr. Jacob Pitman (brother of Mr. Isaac Pit-
man) at his residence, Phiilip-street, and a conversa-
tional evening was spent. It was arranged to hold a
business meeting early next week and form a committee
to initiate a Phonographic or Shorthand Writers' Asso-
ciation.
• I •
A concert was given by Miss Fairfax’s pupils,
assisted by those of Mrs. Chambers, in the School of
Art*, North Shore, on Tuesday last. About 160 ladies
and gentlemen wire present, and were appreciative. A
programme of seventeen numbers was rendered, but
frequent enoorcs extended the entertainment. Miss
Fairfax sang Mndamo Dolby's sweet ballad, *• Out eu
the Bocks," most pleasantly. Miss Lily Fairfax’s solo,
Gantz’s ‘‘Sing, Sweet Bird," was, perhaps the gem of
the evening. It was artistically rendered, and every
note was true. The young lady possesses an agreeable
and carefully cultivated voice. “ Scenes that are
brightest ’’ was her encore piece. The chorus and
glees by the children were very pretty. The duets
Hear me, Norma," and “Trust her not,” sung by the
Misses Fairfax, gained well deserved applause, the
sisters’ voices blundiug beautifully. That sweet little
maiden in black and cardinal. Miss Kthel Fairfax,
played Sivral’s fantasia on Amerioan airs, and a tran-
scription of Aschor > “Alice, where art thou f” as an
eneore, with a Arm, brilliant toueh, whieh young
planistes seldom attain. Other items by pupils deserve
mention, but space forbids.
• • •
The old wall* of Eoslyn Hall, Darlinghnrst
fcoad, rsrerberatei to marry echoes oa 10th inst., that
beißf the wedding daj ef a beautiful kinswoman of the
owner, to Mr. Cyra* Ma*oo« Jun. t in whose fsvsmr the
Goddess fortune has r.eently been very propitious.
Bt. John’s Church was beautifully festooned andsrohed
with flowers by the fairies during the night. Under
the Joint Ministrations ef the Kev. Incumbent, Mr.
Hayden, Kevt. Dr. Bllis, and Mr. Teeey, the knot wan
•ffectoally tisd t« the strains of sease beautiful chant-
ing by the choir, and select stasis on the organ by Mlw
Weolley. The bride was droeeed In Ivory satin, long
embroidered tulle veil, erange blossom and myrtle
wreath. There were six bridesmaids most tastefully
dres.ed—two blooming daughters of Mr. Ebuworlh, of
William-street, oue In pink eashmere and satin eream
lace and wreath, the other in eream with laoe and
wreath j a danghter ef the incumbent, in bine coeh-
tnete, cream lace and wreath. Miss Walsh, ef Looh-
invar, Hunter River, and Miss Moffat, were similarly
dressed. The little daughters of Mr. J. Clark, of
GuUen-daddy, dressed in pink, brought np the rear very
spiritedly. Ths bridefroom** betfc man was his cousin,
Mr. K. Jardine Browning, the recently-arrived English
barrister, nephew to Elisabeth Barrett and Bobsrt
Browning, tke poet and poetess* Mr. Andrew Chirn-
side, from Tletoria, Mr. Layojek, and the bride's
brothers, Messrs Seroggie. The presents were of the
most nch*r»h» description, and very valuable. The
bride’s little Sunday-school scholars, dressed in white
with coloured sashes, strewed her path to the church
with flowers. The travelling dress of the brldo was
moss-green moire, with hat and feathers to match..
Both bride and groom, having the advantage of good
looks, were maoh admired.
** * *
“ I cannot marry her,” ho said ; “ the difference
In our religion makes it impossible." “ But, old man,
why not become a Koman Catholic yourself P" “ Be-
come a Koman Catholie I How could I do such a thing P”
“Well, old fellow, I don’t see the difference between
stopping away from a Eeraan Catholic ehnpel on Sun-
days and stopping away from a Protestant one.”
Queensland Parliament opens 4th July. Trouble ahead
for the Government on the Coolie labour question
A pleasant housewarming was given at, Mr. P F
Richardson’s, Ternon Park, near Gordon, a few days
days ago. Over 50 guests, dancing till nearly daybreak,
a well known politician quite in his element, belle
either a local lady, or from the far north, decorations
and supper capital A very pretty and quiet wedding
was celebrated in Cudgellioo last Wednesday week,
when Mr. T. Pyman, teacher at the public sefaool, led
bo the altar the pretty danghter of a wealthy Sandhurst
(Via) pioneer. The bride was handsomely dressed:
The happy couple reosivrd the usual shower of slippers
and that birthright of every Australian, a tin-kettllng 1
A Londoner, who was engaged to a girl, and jilted her
on the veby day appointed for the marriage, was
actually mean enough to summon her to Court for the
return of the presents he had given. He didn’t get
them A lady aiked a gentleman how bis whiskers,
once grey, came to be black. “Oh 1“ he said, “ I dyed
them to please my wife." “If you had wanted to
please yonr wife," oame the cutting rejoinder, “you’d
long sgo have died yourself.” A splendid ball was
given at Wellington, N Z , last week, to the Commodore
and officers of the Nelson and Miranda. 700 present,
including the Governor The Birthday Ball at Gov-
ernment House, Brisbane, on the Bbh inst., was largely
attended The employes of the Colonial Sugar Com-
pany’s Mill, Harwood, gave a large ball and banquet
recently. Numerous visitors [from Grafton, <JpO. ~
The Oddfellows at Ooouabarabrsp have also boon dissi-
pating in the same way. Bad weather, good attendance,
Baradina belle Owl Ball last night (Wednesday).
We’ll say soipetblng next iesne Bourke Amateurs
rave a concert, spuond part comprising all the gems of
Pinafore. Gilbert ana Sullivan will be quite glad
when they bear of this. Next night a tradesmen’s ball.
Night following, an opera and dramatic troupe com-
menced. A oircas and a church bazaar completed the
olla podrida of bliss at Bourke To-night (Thursday)
there will be another skating and dancing party In
Glammia Hall, similar to that a fortnight sgo
“ Goslings" and ’• Locusts” are the names of two new
clubs in Sydney. Of course, the members know best
what names suit them.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
St. Eilda College A. A. Club Sports. June 2L
Scandinavian Ball June 23.
Bur wood Private Assembly June J 3.
Woollahra Private Assembly..,.., Jane 2?.
Masonic Ball, I C Jane 27.
Masonic Dal), English Constitution June 28
Sunfiower Ball Jane 30.
Hercules Dramatic Club Ball July L
U S. Independence Day Ball July 4.
Mercantile R C. Ball July 6.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports.,July ».
Good rough way of testing the value of gold
specimens is the Archimedean plan of submergence in
water, and then weighing. The specific gravity of gold
averages about 18.2, and of quart* 2.85, and, after allow-
ing for any foreign minerals, the non-professional as-
sayist can get within a decent reach of a correct value
without much trouble.
Mary and Bridget have a long-standing dispute.
They are neighbours, and the trouble ie—fowls. Mary
Kyan has some fourteen-year aoratchers, while Bridget
Murphy grows a patch of her namesakes. They met
lost Sunday juat after mass. Once more Biddy pre-
ferred the oft-repeated complaint. But she was baulked
of her row by the following unexpected retorts —“ To
the divil wid yer garden I Don’t be barneying on me
now, for I’m in a state of grace. An yer don’t lave off,
I'll not bo long so, and thin, plazo Ood, ye’ll hear me.”
And she passed on sweetly towards a newer and purer
life.
One of the Williamses, of Blaek Rock, S.A.,
experienced a funny adventure some time ago. He and
a stock-rider, one Pat O’Brien, left the station with a
mob of fat cattle for the Adelaide market. They made
for a hut, to which was attached a large stockyard, as
oamping ground the first night. It came on to rain
furiously. They travelled on, wet through and miser-
able, till after dark No hut, and what was worse, no
stockyard appeared. Yet both Williams and Pat knew
the but atd stockyard were somewhere near. Sticking
resolutely by the cattle, they trudged forward till it
became imperatively necessary to camp. They did
camp—in a fashion—maxing a miserable fire after many
painful attempts, and each taking his turn to round-up ;
he cattle continuously throughout that damp and
weary night. Judge of their disgust when, in the early
morning, Williams and Pot discovered that they had
done all this within fifty yards of the much-desired
stockyard calls I


(Authorised under Section 6, Art 659 of Victoria.)
NEW SOUTH WALES & VICTORIAN
Investment Company*
Capital, £2,000 at 2s, 6d, per Share.
This Company is being formed for the Purchase of that valuable Property
situate at Windsor, New South Wales, and known as
Everton, aborning Railway Station, Windsor
, ' Also for the Purchase of a
OOTTAQ-B Xj^KSTID
NORTH CARLTON, NEAR MELBOURNE, *
jMpwell as other property, all of whioh Will be distributed
'aiQoug Shareholders on the principle o
Union, trust for the Company.
11 g Shareholders on tho principle of the London
o Company.
702 Lots of the Value of £2OOO.
Lot t. Valuable House A Land at Windsor, N.S.W.
ad jo ning Railway Station, valued at £lOOO
Lot 2. Valuable Qottage 4 Land close to
Melbourne, Valued at £6OO
Lots 3 to 102 inclusive, 100 Premiums
ef £1 each, valued at £lOO
Lots 103 to 702 inclusive. 600
Premiums of 10e,
each, valued at
£3OO
r>-
m
There is
NO LIABILITY,
You simply take One or More Shares, and enclose
MONEY ORDER or STAMPS, or call personally.
TZEIIE IDiE^AWIITQ-
WILL SHORTLY TAKE PLACE, as the Shares are being so rapidly
taken up.
If Stamps are enclosed, please allow One Shilling in every Pound for discount,
and enclose stamp for reply.
Every Shareholder will receive a Photograph for every Share taken up, before the Drawing
takes place.
EARLY APPLICATION IS REQUESTED.
CYRIL HAY I LAND, Agent.
15i-BRIDGE STREET,
H> PALING.
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 Qeorgo-street.
mr.
• /'.
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A spl<widld stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL AND GO.,
Which gained first and special prize
TVER ALL OTHERS
at tbe
LATE STDvV INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
H A E Moi I U M 8,
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the varied* models.
A PEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. PALINO, agent for Erard's, Playel’s, Anchor’s,
Ponfleto’s, Kirimmii's, and Hundt and Sons Piano-
fortoi.
W. 801 l and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company's Organs.
W. H. P A LINO,
852 QEORQE STREET,
OPPOSITE WTNTARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
Mr. T. P. DeCOURCT BROWNE.
(Late Depnty-Chalrman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
AwthO* or the •’ Hikers’ Hakdt Book,” &0., &0.,
MINING EX BERT,
ARBITRATOR. ADVISEE, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
12 8 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, &e., &o.
S'
m
-2
am
P ISIT R. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT. 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagram! for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
‘FURNITURE!
FURNITURE I
MAKE YOUR HOMES COMFORTABLE.
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT TO FURNISH.
BEFORE commencing the serious business of Fur-
nishing n New Home or adding to the comforts 1 1
your present Home, you will do well to consult
WILLIAMSON, M'CEEERY & CO.
who will furnish houses on the
EASIEST TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
IN SYDNEY.
«T Note the Address—
WILLIAMSON, M’CEEERY, & CO.
Exoelsior Furniture Warehouse,
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Central Police Court.
NO CONNECTION WITH MONEY LENDERS
JJIOURTH OF JULY BALL
To be held at NEED’S ROOMS,
187 Liverpool Street.
Sale of Tickets limited and only procurabl j from me • ■
hers ot the General Committee;—
CHAS. KAHLE, U.B. Consul, George-stre it
T. H. BOYD, VUe-0 >nsal, 252 George-street
WM. FLEMING, 22 and 21 Clarence.street
H. SHAW SMITH, 17 Pitt-siroot
E. A. LITTLE, American Novelty Co., Pitt-streot.
Dr, Q. M, SLATE, Wynyaid Squar >.
HBA T B 1
1i68R66
Managers...*. Messrs. Ami
Manager for Mr. Reeve..,
Treasurer.,. i
THIRD WEEK and CONTIS
of WYBERT REEVE’S OOMI
Every Evening, the Celebrated
MR. D. H. HARK
MB. D, H. HARK
and
Miss BLANCHE STAI
THU BSD AT and FRIDAY, tl
Sheridan’s Grand Co
THE SCHOOL FOR S(
SATURDAY, JUN
Grand Production (by desire) of thi
DIPLOMACY
Prices as usual. Tickets fer all \
nelt fctlo Child]
OPERA
Lessee and Manager
PEVENTH WEEK
of
Mr Frederick
marshall
and his
Comedy
Company
Every
Evening
tv >U
fn»»n r
Njiice.
PROFI
PROFBi
PROFB6
PROFESS
PEOFBSt(
PROFES9O
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROFESSOR
PROCESSOR
Acting-Manager
T. L 0 T D • S
XI HOWICK STREET, BA
Oilers Superior Accomodation to
lers. Visitors, and Profeasic
FRANK LLO 1
Comique and Buffo Vi
Proprietor.
HOW DEB I CHOWDER
THE PRETTIEST RESORT IN
GRAND BEACH, MAGNIFK
FIRST-CLASS FIBI
And the
BEST OF WINES, SPII
by
TO THi OPERATIC ANE
PROFESSION
NSW OPERA HC
WBLLBELET STREET, ATT
Sola Proprietor, H. N. i
3MHI9 Ms«mifio«nt Bnildlngis n
L THE MODEL Opera Hon»<
e Largest) sad Host Cornmodio
Erected on lafttest models, it will b
•very Modem #emfert and Lnmr:
the awrteta) appertaining to 1
? entree in the Ola and Now Werii
perfect. AH jwtrt* at the Hem
in ft egress from bread, light, and ai
preoantlea brw been takes to save
•ase of lira, and tha Anakland City (
inspected and highly ««m mended W
to that end. Magnifltently and
its Luxurious Private Bnwes, Dr
•hesbra BtaH», together with lbs i
SMalto Aeoemodatlea, ara featnroft 1
Colonial Theatre*. Tha Opera H
MmmmSKir'tom fcA’ffay
and Agente’ " stars," and Combin
apply to the Proprietor for terms i
woe.
M ]
AND MRS. JAI
(MISS MARSTON l:
Arrangements completed fer ene
Jane Ist, 1833, nnder the mi
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLI AMB(
Theatre royal
OPEN POE ENGAGE
Will seat seven or eight huudrc
with Gas j lately patronised by the i
Terms moderate. Apply to
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, oi
dating 180® people, is now an
and other performances. The
depth, and has a neat proscenium
DAVID
I
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAR.
Pnblio Hal], Gfroymonth, 21th Ma
Wanganui and Napier to fellow.
Abbott's New Theatre, Anoklai
weeks.
Houses pnoked to snffoeatioi
TOWN HAL]
MAIN HALD OPEN FOR El
FIR3T-CL SISS SCENERY, GAS
Applications for engagements tc
EBBNBZ
N
O
WLA N D I
FOR THU MODEL,
GEORGE AND MARKET STREETS,
J. KIDMaN.
N G
Ex Woodburn, from London: 2) cnaas Crosse and
Blackwell's oriental piek'ea; 10 cssea Cr#s«# and
Blackwell's Ceshmer# plck'es; 80 oases Crosse and
Blackwell's mixed picklei; 20 oaaea Crosse and Black-
well’s Chowchow; 20 cases Cross# and Blackwell’s
plcalilli | 10 #aa«s Cross# and Blackwell’s whit# onions ;
8 oases Cross# and Blackwell’s gooseberries; 4 case"
Croo*e aad Blackwell's plums; 2 eases Cross# and
Black wall's cranberries; 8 eases Cr#«se and Blackwell's
famaons j 8 cases Cross# and Blackwell's rsd enrrantsj
eases Croei* and Bl»okw#ll’# cherries; 8 oases
Crosse and Blackwell’s cherries a»d currants;
4 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s gresngages; 8
eases Or#### and Blackwell's black currants;
4 oases Ore’se and Blackwell’s raspberries and
entrants; 2 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s Morelia
cherries i 8 cases Cross# and Blackwell’s raspberries ;
10 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s red eblllis#; 2 c* i es
Crosse and B'sckwall’s imperial sauce ; 10 esse# Cross#
and Blackwell’s Burgess’ essence anchovies; 1* oases
walnut catsup ; 4 oases C*-o«ee aod Blackwell’s Beading
ranee ; 4 oases Croats and Blackwell’s John Bull won* ;
4 oases Crease and Blackwell’s beefsteak sauce; 2 rases
Crossu and Blsokwsll’s Soho sauoc : 2 case* Crrsse
Blao&woll’s Sir Robert Pe#l sauce ; t eases Crosse i*rd
Blackwell’* cold meat sauce ; 2 cases Crosse and Blf ok-
wall’s universal sauce ; 4 cases Crosse and Blackwell’s
Harvey since :2 cases Croiso and Blackwell’# salad
cream ; 2 cases Crosse and Blaokwall’s Frinee of Wales
salad sauce; 2 oases Crocs# and Black wall’s vases CM a
soy; 2 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s vases royal tade
Soho and John Bull sauce; 2 oases Crosse and Blsc'-
well’s vases Athenesum sauce; 2 oases Crosse and
Blackwell’s vases assorted sanees; 6 cases Crosse
and Blackwell’s 'Soyer relish; 2 cases Crosse
and Blackwell's vases Sultana sauce ; 50 os#3B
Lea and Perrins’ Worcestershire rauoe; 2 oases
Crosse and Blackwell's apricots in syrup; 100 oases
herrings: 30 oases Findon haddocks (square tins);
2 oases Crosse and Black well’s black onrrant vinegar;
50 cases Crosse aad Blackwell's Spanish olives ; 10 cases
Crosse and Blackwell’s calf’s-foot lelly, pints; 21 cases
Crosse and Blackwell’s oalfs-foot jallv, quarts ; 4 oases
Crosse and Blackwell’s red currant jelly, jars; 6 oases
Crosse and Blackwell’s black currant ie'ly, jars ; 20 oases
Crosse and Blackwell’s red currant, j > mis ;20 oases
Cross# and Blaokwell’s|black currant jelly. ti.,s; t oises
Crosse and Bliokw-dl’e peaches in syrup ; 2 cases Cr sse
and Blackwell's mixed fruit in syrup; 2 oases Crcsne
and Blackwell’s black currants in ayrup; 4 o: ses
Crosse and Blackwell’s fruits in brandy ; 4 casts
Crosse and Blackwell’s crystallized fruits; 12 casts
Crosse and Blackwell’s bloater paste, earthenware jar« ;
12 cases Crosse and Blackwell’s bloater pm-te,
glass jars; 8 cases Crosse and Blackwell* anohi v
paste, earthenware jars; 8 oases Crosse and Blackwell a
anchovy paste, glass jars; 4 oases Crosse and Black-
well’s shrimp paste, earthenware jars; AoafeeCrosie
a»d Blackwell'e ehrlme paste, glass jars; 19 css s
Crosse and Blaokwsll’* potted ham, earthenware jv* ;
10 case# Crosse and Blackwell’s potted ham, glass jars;
t oases Crosse and Blackwell’s potted beof, eartheuwa’ e
and glass jars ; 19 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s potted
tongue, earthenware jars; 10 cases Crosse and Black-
well’s potted tongue, glass jars; 10 oases Grosso and
Blackwell’s potted ham and chicken, earthenware jars ;
10 oases Cross and Blackwell’s potted ham and chicken,
glass jars; 2 oases Cross and Blackwell’s potted Strata
bonrg meat, earthenware jars; 2 oases Crosse and Black-
well’s potted Strasbourg meat, glass jars; 4 oases
Crosse and Blackwell’s dried sprats; 4t cases Crosse
and Blackwell’s Oxford sausages ; 10 oases Crosse and
Blackwell’s Cambridge sausages ; 10 cases Crosse and
Blackwell’s Bologna sausages ; 4 oases Crosse and
Blackwell’s truffled sassages; 20 oases Crosse and
Blackwell's malt vinegar, pints ; 100 oases Crosse and
Black wall's malt vinegar, quarts ; 10 cases Crosse and
Black well’s white wine vinegar; 10 oases Crosse and
Blaeawell'a Lucca oil, half-pints; 10 cases Crosse and
Blackwell’s Lucca Oil, pints; 51 oases Crosre and
Blackwell’s Lnoca oil. quarts; 5 oases Crosse and
Blaokweli’s pilchards 13 oil; 10 cases Crosse end Black-
well's anchovLs in Oil; 2oases Crosse and Blackwell's
pates of larks ; 2 cases Crosse and Blackwell’s pates
of partridge ; 2 cases Crosse and Blackwell’s truffled
partridges ; 2 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s truffled
■nips; 2 oases Crosse and Blackwell’s truffled wood-
cook ; 2 eases Cross# and Blackwell’s ttnfflid quail.
Full particulars as to prices, Ac., will be published in
a couple of days.
AT THE MODEL,
Walker’s Lome and Royal Blend Whiskies,
425. per casa.
Jaffray’s Edinburgh Ale, quarts, 37*. 63. per case 4 doz.
Boar's Head Stout, 10s. per doz., by the cask.
The Celebrated Krug Champagne—Magnus, 6 for 905.;
quarts, 92s per diz.; pints, 95 •. for 2 doz. ;
half-pints, 975. 63. fer 4 dos.
Deliver ad to any part of the City or Suburbs.
JAMES KIDMAN,
THE MODEL GROCERY EMPORIUM of
AUSTRALASIA,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS,
STfBWBT.
|9/|- ISB NELLIE DAVIS,
LtJL (MRS. STERLING WHITE.)
Late ot the Provincial and London Theatres.
Adlress:
QUEEN'S THEATRE.


pUBLTC NOTICE.
The IMPORTERS of the TABPING MIXTURE and
MOGUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours to deceive the public by SU BSTITUTIN G
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
Thepublie axe CAUTIONED to ask for the packets
bearing
•' TUE TAEPING MIX’! ÜBE.”—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the Impcrttrs,
thus—
Clifford, Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PI RE
TEA, must bo certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ARE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCHER.
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Qnsflttiugs, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUKKEERFIELD,
235 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER, 16 i. 61.
H. I ail M M FRFI E ID!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR
GUARANTEES A PERFECT FIT 1
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL GOOLS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK.
.
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR
Sends Self-measurement terms trie by post!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by pest J
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the; BEST CIIY CUTTERS!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
Speciality Saits to measure, £3 Bj.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
Speciality Trousers to measure, 16s. 6d.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD,
235 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
E W PREMISES.
MR. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Public, Majors and
Aldermen of various municipalities, and other public
bodies, has REMOVED to hie Elepsnt and Splendid
SHOP,No. 607 A 712 GEORGE STREET.oi e door from
the corner of Qoulburn-street, where he will be pleased
to tee his old customers, and to whom he renders thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance.
There is a private room and lavatory for ladies, a
requisite much needed in Sydney, and superintended by
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN’S DINNER '3,
WEDDING BREAKFASTS,
MINISTERIAL BANQUETS,
got up In Fisst-olase Style.
A Visit is requested.
The TSnrms of aabsesiption lor The Bulletin are —in
advanee, per annum, 12a.; half-year, 6«.; quarterly,
35.; bonked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances uay
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z .
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.,
SH Pitt-stoeet, Sydney, N.S.W.
Printed and published by W. H. Traill A Co., at
The Bulletin office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.B.
Woles.
JAMES MARTIN AND COMPANY,
LATE MARTIN and TAIN,
389 GEORGE STREET, OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
IBi
■
THE HORNSBYMARTIN SINGLE FURROW PLOUGH
This series of SINGLE PLOUGHS is now off .red for t.befl’ st tune, and a* they Of rabme alllhe Be. tPoin s
of the muet popular loughs .in Nov South Wales, w* shall he pleased to receive fittest
particular., We fit our ploughs so our cudomers have choice of every »l*e and Model of MOULDBOARD,
ai different distticts demand different j attems, and we are certain of always giving satisfaction.
Our Sizes range from 2 to 4-Hcrse, and Prices are tlio Very Ltweit.
f ■ h - : 'L i f -
iiJK * f - 1 r Cn-r-iL . • ' »a..r-i \ v.V^
m
Jls*
£ 9. g, 11. HUNTED STREET,
SILVE R WAT.C HE S WATCHES
FROM T. 4.10 SEND FOR FROM £.3.10.
CATALOGUE .
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY
ft®
f ft®
V®
fTUIE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE ES A REAL GOOD BATH.
A None batter than WIG ZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
TREY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE. fc
TEY ONE. _— " FOB
BATHS,
HAIR - CUTTING ,
_ STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work.
Sec «/!GZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
M. (iOU LSTON,
(ESTABLISHED 28 YEARS)
WELL-KNOWN TAILOR,
5 i Market Street.
TRY
GOULSTON'S
£3 3a. SUITS!
£4 4s. SUITS!
£4 10s ISUITS!
y>
ALL GOODS
Thoroughly
SHRUNK,
and
NO MISFITS!
NEW GOODS EVERT MAIL FROM FIRST CLASS HOUSES
BLACK BT AND DAVY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
AGENTS FOB
GARRET AND SON’S
COMPOUND PORTABLE
STEAM ENGINES.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
■•• I USH
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE m PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
m
QUALITIES .
A
A
A
A AA
AA AA
THESE C3OQS WILL BE FOUND THE
GHEA?EST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS * REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING It WI*L BE PROSECUTED.
tmi PLEASANT
HOUSEHOLDERS,
TAKE NOTE OF THIS.
WH&N PURCHASING YOUR QROCEEIES
ask for
PANTRR AND PARRY’S
NEY SXTRACT OP SOAP
ASD SES THAT T OV OBT IT.
A
SUPEBIOE TO ALL OTHERS.
BE T Washing and Disinfectant Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hmd.H,
Crockery, Haiat, Glass, and every Household
nurpoae. Used and recommended in the
Laundry at Government House, Mr. Hey-
iMOur (Inspector of Nuisances). Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and by nil competent
jud -ns to ho the best article manufactured.
rememberi
Wash in it and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO HE HAD OP ALL GROCERS,
ft ORES, 700 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
THE PURE COCOA
YV ifch superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Litfht, Delicious
Beverage.
N>
C
<b
&
N>
$
V
o
Invaluable
for invalids, or
those who cannot
drink the thick, heavy
Cv-* liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
esr SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
11 ’Tis cheerful by the cheerful hearth to see
Our daughters nioely clad."
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
663 BRICKFIELD HILL.
PROBABLY in no establishment in the world is all
that pertains to dress and physical adornment
studied with such care and pets oual supervision ns at
EDWARD HORDEEw Aivrr boho. -
Or.e of the most recent examples of material which
modern skill has brought to such perfection, is the
“SELKIRK TWEED,”
which iu texture, appearance, durability, and excc.lence
of value, ha -j never before been attained by any other
material.
TRIMMINGS TO MATCH.
Also, every colourings in the following materials •
CHEVIOT SERGES
ASSYRIAN BEIGE
BLAIR ATHOL HOMESPUNS
JARDINIERE it TOUR
TORBI.JOSO CLOTH.
TRIMMINGS TO MATCH.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
663 BRICKFIELD HILL,
Tickets for the Mercantile Rowing Club Ball to be
had on application to Edward Hordern and Sons.
W. KEBR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
6C4 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Promises,
DIAMOND SETTER!
A how and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
F
ESTABLISHED 1837.
OWLEE’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPEBDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
