

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.-N0. 117.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1882.
Price—3d
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1882.
The Knight and the Lady.
Cubing the past week there has occurred a pas-
sage of arms between Sir John Robertson and
the Sydney Morning Herald on a subject
which has a direct interest for every resident of
the colony. The management and alienation of
the public lands affect every individual colonist.
When, therefore, Free-Selection Jack on the
one hand, and the Herald on the other, charge at
one another in an argument upon this subject,
some sort of instruction should be obtainable from
the disputation. Accordingly, we find something
worth noting, but scarcely what either of the dis-
putants can have intended. Sir John Robert-
son commences in a very vivacious stylo. He
charges the Herald with having assailed him
with a “ violent tirade of misrepresentation and
abuse.” This is obviously an ill-directed blow.
Sir John should have had art enough to appeal to
the probabilities. The idea of a “ violent tirade ”
appearing in the Herald respecting any subject
or any person in creation is inconceivable. If Sir
John bad robbed the Treasury instead of merely
originating a land policy, the Herald would not
have come out with a violent tirade. It might
have alluded to the Act as “ unbecoming,” or
expressed a guarded opinion that such a course
could hardly be regarded as creditable to a pro-
minent statesmen. But a violent tirade! Never!
* • •
The substance ef the Herald’s “ tirade ” was
no more than an allegation that Sir John
Robertson’s famous land law has altogether
missed the mark at which its creator ostensibly
aimed when advocating it. “ W hen the Land
Laws of 1861 were introduced,” quoth the
Herald, “ one of the chief objects of the Aliena-
tion Act was to promote agriculture ; Sir John
Robertson will not deny that.” Sir John
Robertson does not “ deny that,” but he dodges
it. He "will deny”—we are quoting from
his rstort—“that agriculture by the plough
was favoured more than any other class of
production. The law,” he writes, “recognised
that the passage of land in fee from the State
to the individual member thereof was cal-
culated to bring about the greatest possi-
ble amount of production therefrom, upon what
enterprise soever the owner might devote his
efforts.” Sir John adds more to the general effect
that the freeholder was expected to do the best he
could with the land, and that what might be the
direction of his industry was never made a matter
of serious consideration. Had ho stopped here,
and been content with defending himself, Sir John
would have had considerably the worst of the en-
counter ; but he is quite a good enough general to
understand the advantage of converting a defen-
sive into an offensive warfare. Accordingly, he
carries the war into the enemy’s country, and in
turn twits the Herald with sundry unfulfilled
predictions contemporaneous with the inaugura-
tion of the Land system for which he is responsible.
Did not the Herald, he demands, predict the
destruction of the pastoral interest if the law
passed P Did it not prophesy that the land revenue
would be destroyed? And is not the Herald now
daily endeavouring to show that the laud produces
too much revenue ? Has not the Herald for
twenty years predicted that the conditional pur-
chasers would not pay the interest due to the
State ? And haven’t they invariably stumped up
like men, despite prophecies so well calculated to
work their own fulfilment ?
« • •
Assailed thus vigorously, the Herald has made
haste to reply. Sir John’s thrusts were, indeed,
so easy to parry that it might have been expected
that he would have been smashed by the renewed
onset. But what his handling of the argumenta-
tive truncheon lacked in skill was compensated for
by the surprising awkwardness of his antagonist.
No politician ever gave a journal a better chance
of inflicting a broken argumentative head, and no
such chance for a crusher was ever so weakly
frittered away. Just to show that it is not angry,
and that it is quite incapable of a “ violent tirade,”
the Herald commences to deal with Sir John
with some playful flourishes, designed to be
sprightly and gay, but in reality replete with
suggestions of the sort of antics which might be
cut by an elderly female about to inflict chastise-
ment with an umbrella. When Sir John shoved his
head right in the way, it got a thwack, of a sort. But
the combattants might have gone on exchanging
such buffets to the end of time without material
injury to either.
« # •
When a couple of effete adversaries make a
pother by ambling round one another, laboriously
missing each other’s heads, or dealing strokes so
feeble as to effect nothing at all, the best plan for
abating the nuisance is to knock their skulls to-
gether, and put an end to their senile dia+urb-
ancee. Who cares to have his grandmother and
some old fogy scratching and clawing one another
about what they did or did not say in a squabble
twenty years before? The colonists of to-day are
interested in the business of to-day—not in the
wrangles of 1861. Tha Herald and Sir John
Robertson are equally superannuated and out of
date, and their squabbles are just as interesting
and dignified as the domestic contentions of Grand-
father Smallweed and that “brimstonechatterer,”
his spouse. Both parties would be wiser did they
leave memories of 1861 to die ont. Neither has a
great deal to be proud of in connection with that
date. Both blundered stupendously at that time,
and if the results to-day have placed Sir John
Robertson’s mistakes in stronger relief than
those of the Herald, it must at least be admitted
that he can recall the origin of the whole conten-
tion with a better grace. With the Herald, we
believe that Sir John Robertson’s land system
has been a failure—a monumental failure. But
we do not forget that he aimed honestly at a suc-
cess, whereas the Herald at that time wished
nothing better than that it should fail.
• • *
Let ns recall the circumstances. The lands of
the colony were, prior to 1861, practically shut
against the main body of the colonists. Monopoly
was rampant. The squatter was Lord Paramount.
Except by purchasing or leasing from some Crown
grantee, there was no way by which a man could
establish himself upon a hundred acres of land in
the rural parts of the colony. A teamster could
hardly turn his bullocks off the main track to graze
for the night except by gracious sufferance of the
runholder. A yeoman class was an impossibility,
because outside the towns no man could plant his
foot unless he were either a pastoral lessee or a
servant. The progress of the colony had come to
a deadlock, except when the country was regarded
as a mere sheep-walk. N.S. Wales was fast ar-
riving at a condition when it would have exactly
fitted the description of all that a country should
not be, as told in imperishable verse by Oliver
Goldsmith, when he sang—
“ 111 fares the land, to hastening ills a prey.
Where wealth accumulates and men decay.” J
Property had banded together against manhood.
Squatters, merchants, bankers, — capitalists of
every grade—were allied in one tremendous ring
to perpetuate existing conditions. The growing
population of the colony heaved and fretted to
break this potent ring. They panted to break
from their bondage. They gasped for the right to
live their own masters on the land. They chafed
at the narrow prospect of being servants always,
they and their children. It was at this crisis that
Sir John Robertson stood forward —a colonial
Hercules —and boldly undertook to do combat
with the Monopolist Hydra. He proclaimed that
the land should be attainable by all who would
settle upon it. Chief among his opponents was
the Sydney Morning Herald, the champion
and defender, then as well as now, of the moneyed
class. It shrieked at the proposals of Free-
Selection Jack. It derided his plans, it
prophesied failure for them in every aspect; but,
above all, it predicted with a constant insistence
the ruin of its darling—the Pastoral Interest. It
would have been odd indeed if some of its predic-
tions had not come true, considering that it
exhausted the whole gamut of lamentation and
foreboding. But the fact must never be lost sight
of, that it was in the interests of monopoly that
the Herald at that time played the Cassandra,
and that Sir John Robertson was fighting the
battle of the people. “I never yet,” said, but a
few weeks ago, an American Bishop, “ saw a
newspaper owned or influenced by capitalists that
had any sympathy with an oppressed people.”
This was as true applied to the people of N.S.
Wales twenty years ago, as it is applied to the
people of Ireland to-day.
* * •
“ The pastoral interest will be rained,”
shrieked the Herald in 1861. Free-Selec-
tion Jack’s rejoinder was, of course, a
denial, but his secondary reply and the one
which carried him to victory—was that settlement
would more than compensate for any loss which
might accrue from the disturbance of the pastoral
industry. There is no possibility of refuting the
charge that he dwelt extremely upon the benefits
which wore to bo derived from agricultural settle-
ment, and it is mere shuffling for Sir John nowta
pretend that he meant and signified anything else
than agriculture “ with the plough.” That was
his strongest contention —the contrast between tha
comparative unproductiveness of land when merely
used for grazing, and when made by cultivation
to yield harvests. Each of the antagonists in the
disputation has been ridiculously contradicted by
the actual results. The pastoral interest has not
been ruined, as the Herald predicted. The face
of the country has not been made to blossom like
a flower garden, as Sir John Robertson pro-
mised. Time has wrought a ludicrous metamor-
phosis. The Herald to-day plaintively laments
Sir John Robertson’s failure, and Sir John has
no bettor justification to offer than the fact that
his laws proved impotent to harm the pastoral
tenant. He promised a settled population—and
he quotes sheep and cattle statistics. The Herald
predicted ruined squatters—and it taunts Sir
John with the triumph of monopolists despite bis
legislation.
* * #
Although the combatants have not been mutu-
ally destructive, each has pretty conclusively
proved the impotence and blundering of the
other. Sir John has altogether failed to con-
trovert the allegations of the Herald, and
the Herald has been equally incapable
of turning aside the blows of Sir John.
Each has demonstrated that the other was a block-
head twenty years ago, and each has pretty
fairly succeeded in showing that the other is not
greatly changed, even now. Under the circum*
stances, the public will do well to profit by th®
double lesson, and pay no future attention to
either in anything that relates to the land-laws.
It is evident that Sir John Robertson has
arrived at that stage of life when a man’s ideas
are incapable of enlargement or modification. Ho
has delivered himself of a land system once for
all, and has arrived at finality. He can see no
flaw in the principles which seemed good to him
twenty years ago, even if he can perceive
defects in the details, which is doubtful. Hence-
forth, he is an obstructionist. The law which
has enabled men to build up vast estates is a
villainous law. It erects barriers in the way of
national freedom and equality, which if permitted
to get “set,” will require nothing less than
revolutionary violence for their removal. By
virtue of Sir John Robertson’s mistake men
are, in this new country, busily engaged in inau-
gurating institutions which the progress of en-
lightenment and freedom has just commenced
to shake in the old land. Sir John can per-
ceive none of these things. And there are
thousands of speculative men settled over the face
of the country, who, having made money by
trafficking in land under Sir John’s laws, still
swear by him, and say amen to every foolish thing
he utters. Besides these, there are the boni-fide
selectors, really settled, who cannot forget the
broad fact that till Sir John fought the battle
with The Herald and the squatters they could
get no settlement at all. New men and new
measures are wanted. The country must wait
awhile. But there is always a future. And in
that future the Land Reformer of New South
Wales will not be Sir John Robertson, and the
chosen adviser of the people will not be the S.M.
Herald.
Mr. Richard Skuthorpe.
W* have been enabled to present in this issue a por-
trait of the mysterious Skuthorpe, the adventurous
b ashman who claims to have in his possesion the diaries
of Leichhardt and Classan, and other relics of these
explorers. Skuthorpe’s story is so well-known that we
need only outline it. It fits into the narrative of the
convict Hume with so much exactitude that the two
accounts must almost inevitably stand or fall together,
Hume, it will be remembered, while serving a sentence,
told a yarn about having lived with the blacks some-
where to the Hast of the South Australian transconti,
neutal telegraph line. He recounted how he met among
the Aborigines an aged white man—a German—thought
to be Classan, who, after all the years he had been among
the blacks, was a captive, and jealously watched. From
Classan, Hume stated that he had received a budget of
manuscript diary, but that on his way from Northern
Queensland to Sydney to produce the priceless M.S., it
was, he said, stolen from his s wag. Hume’s antecedents
caused this catastrophe to overwhelm his whole story
with doubt. But a few people still credited him, and
ho was equipped to return to the locality where he said
Classan was a captive. Starting out from the most
Western stations of Queensland, Hume and his com-
panions became involved in a tract devoid of w^ter; and
Hume, expert bushman, and associate with the blacks
although he claimed to be, perished miserably from
thirst.
This fate again threw doubt upon his story. If he
were so expert in bushcraft as might be expected of one
who had actually lived among the wild blacks, how
same he to perish from from want of water P This’was
the question everyone asked, and with Hume’s death
faith in his story faded away.
* It was not a little staggering, consequently, when
RICHARD SKUTHORPE, THE RELIC-PINDER.


Richard Skuthorpe, after an exploring trip in the same
neighbourhood as that which Hume made the locality
of Classan’s detention—asserted that he, too, had been
in communication with a tribe of blacks, which included
some half-caste young men, who said Classan was their
father, and was then with a body of their tribe further in-
land. Next came the story of Classan’s death: that the
old man, excited by a knowledge that settlement had ex-
tended near at hand, had made a desperate effort to
escape from the blacks, and, being followed, had been
found by the aboriginal pursuers, stretched out on a
patch of waterless plain, dead. Thirst, age, exhaustion
had combined to kill the unhappy captive, just as liberty
and restoration to people of his own race seemed within
his grasp.
The succession of incidents was certainly dramatic.
When, after a pause, the curtain next rose, it was upon
Eiehard Skuthorpe as the self-proclaimed possessor of
the diaries, not only of Classan, but of his great leader,
Leichhardt, and of other relics—an inscribed telescope
and other sundries—besides. These ho claimed to have
recovered, through information gained from the blacks or
half-castes, hidden away in a hollow boulder, of which
the orifice was turned down to the earth, so that with-
out knowledge of how to search, no living being could
ever have imagined it differed from the solid boulders
which surrounded it. People generally were prepared
to credit Skuthorpo’s story—it fitted so consistently
with what had preceded—when his own unaccountable
conduct exposed him to a torrent of donbt and ridi-
cule. He started to oome to Sydney with his treasure-
trove, and then faltered on the way. The reasons he
gave for notlproeeeding were obviously untenable. He
showed no |man a jot or tittle ef what he claimed to
have. He stood a torrent of obloquy, permitted a libel
suit to be dismissed, and faoed an amount of public
contempt which might have mads the hardiest martyr
flinch—while all the time the display of one single article
—a single written "page from the diaries he claims to
hold—would have put him right with society. Ultimately
Skuthorpe retired to his station on the “ Never-Never,’
and there seemed to sulk like Achilles in his tent. The
next sign of life he gave was an offer to produce and
yield the relics for a reward of £6ooo—an offer which
was declined by Sir Henry Parkes. In this posture the
affair stands just now. Bat it is notable that opinion
in the Far West—at flrat dead against Skuthorpe’s
veracity—has of late been gradually swinging round.
At present,!many of theUpioneers of those parts believe
unacoountably—that’ Skuthorpe’s story is true, and
that he actually has the relics. This view is also sup-
ported by the fact that one of the best German author-
Ities, a professor, who has studied every detail of
Leiohardt’s expeditions, has) pronounced Skuthorpe’s
account of the articles found to be consistent with what i s
known of Leiohardt’s equipment and not irreconeileable
with any’known facts.
Skuthorpe is acknowledged an incomparable bushman.
His solitary expeditions have been frequent and pro-
longed. His familiarity with bush-craft is superlative,
and his communications with the wild blacks are known
to have been more intimate than those of any other
pioneer in his port of the continent. It is said that he
is one of the very few men who stands in no fear of the
natives when out in the wilderness alone. Most ex.
plorers, under suoh circumstances, when night descends,
build a fire land cook their; johnny-cake and
tea, and then, after dark, silently saddle up
and ride a few miles, ultimately unrolling their blankets
in silence and lying down to sleep without any Are to
lead the savages to their lair. In default of such pre-
cautions an explorer may expect that as the grey of
morning steals over the eastern sky, dusky forma will
steal and writhe through the grass till close to the
sleeper, and thou —a shower of spears and eternity,
uthorpe, it is goesipped, if he sees signs of blacks
about takes no such precautions. He follows up the
tracks till he perceives the blacks’ camp, and then he
rides near and lets the blaokfellows reoognise him. It
is the blacks who clear out; not Skuthorpe. Bat
this is a border legend. The fact remains that Sku-
thorpe and his relics are to-day among the most unac-
countable of Aas tralian curiosities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Crowner’s Quest Law.”
b statute book of N. S. Wales contains one enact-
ment which is worthy of a new community, seeking its
own methods and casting aside the slough of prejudices
which lingers in older and less mobile societies. Here,
it is no longer incumbent upon members ©f a coroner’s
jnry either to bringin a verdict of felo de se, or, in order
to avoid all the savage and loathsome consequences of
such a verdict, to quibble with their oaths and con-
sciences by alleging insanity when no evidence of in-
sanity has been adduced. It is a grand thing to be, in
ever so small a matter, in the van of civilisation. The
day will surely come when, all the world over, juries
will no longer, in the case of suicides, deliberately re-
turn verdicts which they know to bo false, choosing to
be humane even at the cost of being perjured. That
law is an evil one which plunges any decent man in a
dilemma of which brutality is one horn and perjury the
other. Some people may really believe that every man
who commits suicido must he insane, but others believe
uo such thing, and yet, liccaiise the custom asks them
to do so, they return a verdict of “ temporary insanity,”
knowing well there is no insanity in the case. Lately,
in one of the colonies, a young mau who had suffered
greatly with consumption for years, and who knew he
had but a lingering death to anticipate, poisoned him-
self, after writing a clear, calm letter saying why he did
so, and putting all his affairs in order. Many women
in the position of Hood’s “ Unfortunate,” in perfect
sanity choose death rather than life. Is there any need
to suppose madness in such cases? Is not “dis-
honored and deserted ” cause enough to drive a helpless,
penniless, hopeless girl out of the world ? The highly,
educated son of a clergyman, reared in refinement and
affluence, recently came out to Queensland, but acquired
a p ission for drink. He sank to degradation, menial
work “humping, his swag,” and finally to destitution.
That mau was sane, but after weighing shame against
death, he sat down and wrote a letter stating that he
chose the latter, and giving his reasons; he left direc-
tions how the end was to be communicated to his family,
and then went to find the great secret. There is no
need to bring in any hypothesis of insanity to account
for deeds like these. It is not surprising that lo*g
yvars of misery in the past and a hopeless future, in
this world, should out weigh the chances of what may
coma In the next. An iron-handed and remorseless fate
Lm crowded woes upon many a man until he has sought
death by deliberate choice. But, some shallow thinker
eays, the verdict of “temporary insanity” is given to
remove a sti ;ma from his name, and out of considera-
tion for the feelings of his relations. Whom can
the [stigma hurt when he dies in a strange land, un-
known and friendless? Go one step further. The
suicide must be buried in unconsecrated ground. Thus,
the stigma is to be removed from a man’s memory by
calling him mad; while his very corpse is considered
unfit to rest beside those of his fellow men ! There is
the stigma, not of insanity, but of superstition black as
that of any heathendom; and it rests, not on the dead,
but on the living. This barbarous custom, be it re-
membered, still abides among ourselves. The secular
law has been brought into harmony with the improved
wholesomeness of humane feeling, but when the coroner
yields up the mortal remains of the unhappy one, a
ghoulish figure starts forth and insists that the body be
treated as carrion. Who is it that thus forbids honour-
able burial to some of earth’s noblest, but unfortunate
ones, and, not content that they have been cursed in
life, bans them in the grave ? The Church. Every
church. And because the Church decreed it, when it
occupied a very different position from what it does
now, it is still held as a custom. One by one, the old
shackles of superstition have been shaken off. The
times are past when those who take “ the leap in the
dark, to the dim world afar,” should he subject at
the hands of the Christian Church to a ban that is only
■wprthy of pagan superstition.
Crowning a Monarch.
In the month of August next, the uncrowned Ozae wifi(
make an attempt to become a king indeed. He will
spend close upon two millions thereby on the prooesi—
the price of a thousand miles of railways, of a score of
magnificent almshouses, of a dozen hospitals, of ten
universities, or tea hundred public schools. It should be
a goodly show. W e people of Australia, familiar only
with the small tea-parties and milk-and-water pomp of
our Vice-Regal Court, can scarcely reach to the feeblest
conception of its splendour and magnificence. We
know nothing, absolutely nothing, of the way kings play
in countries where people pay the taxes and their masters
spend them. We cannot imagine the blare of the
trumpets and the thunder of the drums, aed the majesty
of the worship outpoured as the man-god rides through
the streets to sit upon his father's blood-stained
throne. But we may, if we choose, realize another possi-
bility of the great event. A man may be coming through
Siberia with a purpose and a will. He was of old time
stung by the wrongs of the people, he joined a society
who swore to redress them, he worked at a printing
press, it may be, or himslef forged words of fire,
and he was token in the aet. A monarch’s mercy saved
him from hanging, but sent him out to Siberia to be
worked and flogged and tortured to death. He broke
his bonds, and needs no society to teach him now ; his
duty is “borne and branded in his soul.” Ho has a
single barrel and a single bullet. The wolves menace
him in the forest, but that bullet cannot be wasted on a
wolf ; he is hungry and sees game, but ho can suffer
hunger—he will starve rather than expend that bullet
in rectifying any but the one great craving. By God’s
or the Devil’s aid, or by his own strong will, he pulls
through. He reaches Moscow and finds a place at the
revels. There is a moment when the pomp of the
show has mastered every man’s individuality. The
CzAB-God stands declared to them all. The
marvellously-clad representation of the suffering
Christ uplifts the crown, the gunners stoop to the
fuse, the trumpeters compress their lips for the blast,
the very air seems hushed in suspense, when that haggard
man leans over a tomb, or looks out from behind some
sculptured vault, and sends the bullet to its work . . .
It is not yet—perhaps it would be well that it should never
be but certain it is that as it will take £1,600,000 to put
on the crown, so one single ounce of lead might find the
key to that place where he should make whips and
devils no more.
The Simple Truth.
Thb maxim D« mortuis nil nisi bonum is a wretched plea
for perpetual flattery. Were it made a rule of commen-
tary, history could not be written, examples could not
be quoted—the good would be confused promiscuously
with the bad. Yet when any man, who has, living,
enjoyed a position of distinction and of worldly comfort,
dies, there issues from the Tress nought but a burst of
panegyric. Every statesman has been great and good,
every merchant upright and liberal, every bishop self-
denying and holy. It is time that this mockery ceased,
and that the lesson of a man’s life and death should be
truly told. This is especially necessary in New South
Wales, where the operation of an infamous and barbar-
ous law of libel renders it dangerous for any journalist
to tell the truth of a considerable man while he yet lives.
Bishop Barker is dead. We do not know that this
colony, nominally his special cure, would have been any
the worse off had he never lived. The late Bishop was
only a notable man by accident. Had he not been made
—by what influence, Goodness knows—a Bishop, and
consequently by courtesy one to be addressed ns “ My
Lord,” it is extremely improbable that any living soul
outside of some English parish would ever have heard
of him. He was a bundle of negations. He was n6t bad.
He was not distinctively good He was not stupid. He
was not able. He was not heedless of his position. Ho
was not devoted to his duties. He was not unfeeling.
He was not self-sacrificing. When one tries the positive
method, little satisfaction is to be got out of it. The
late Bishop was a worthy enough, very uninteresting,
common-place, self-indulgent man. He observed the
proprieties, and avoided any scandal. He residedi n his
See just sufliciently to preclude any gravo charges of
carelessness, or neglect, but managed to be absent
quite as often as decency would ponnit.
A Naval Test Act.
What subtle influence was prevalent over the city daily
papers that they entirely ignored a case which occupied
two hours of time at the Water Police Court on Tuesday
week last ? If a poor woman steals a him, the dailies
gush over the details; yet they say nothing about a
case in which a seaman, in sueing a captain for wages,
reveals points of discipline unknown to the general
public. Is it because a fifth engineer was in one scale,
and a captain in the other? John Henry Beery
shipped as fifth engineer with Captain Cargill, of the
s.s. Australia, for six months, and on his return from
San Francisco was duly discharged. But a dispute
arose over wages. Berry claimed £27 12s. Bd., made up
—of wages £23 Gs. 6d., and seven days at 12s. 4d. per
day for compensation. Captain Cargill admitted
£21165. lid., but disputed £5 15s. 9J. It appeared that
Beery had neglected to attend Divine Service for two
Sundays, and was fined according to the ship’s regula-
tions. He objected to this fine, and urged that ho had
been too ill to “go to church” on those occasions.
He got a verdict for £25 13s. Id., including costs. We
have been informed that other engineers were fined
for a similar breach of discipline, and that it has led
to the Chief-Engineer leaving the ship. It seems
both unnecessary and inquisitorial to compel men
under fear of a penalty, to attend courses of
Divine Service, which must necessarily be, more or
less, of a sectarian character. Of course, it there be
a clause in the ship’s articles stipulating for presence
at Divine Service anyone signing those articles must
attend under his contract. He walks into the position
with his eyes open. But, is it thus, or is it only a
regulation of the Pacific service ? We have not had an
opportunity of perusing the articles, and cannot reply to
this question. Captain Cargill, in his evidence, stated
that the fine is “a mere penalty for breach of discip-
line,” and that “ when anything like an excuse is given
the fine is remitted." We wonder whether noncon-
formity of religion would be accepted as “anything like
an excuse.” Even if so, it does appear tryannous
to demand from every seaman employed a confession
os to the particular religions sect to which he belongs.
Is it fair to assume, for instance, that a Mormon
engineer Is a worse hand than a rigid Episcopalian,
Presbyterian, or Wesleyan engineer? And that his
performance of his duties would jeopardise the safety
of the vessel and passengers? The idea is absurd.
Take all sects in turn and put it this way. A man of
any particular sect may be a good engineer; but a good
engineer may bo of no sect at all. And a captain does
sot buy a man's religious predilections, but his profes-
sional skill.
A Word for the Sempstresses.
Ik that magmiieent lyrie which Macaulay greeted
with the superlative euloglnm “ that it was worthy of
Shaxsrhee,” Tom Hood electrified half England by
hymning the eighs and sorrows of the London semp-
stresses. Never was a single fugitive composition
more effective. The Punch which contained it cir-
culated five hundred thousand copies) it attracted a
phenomenal amount of interest to the subject, and the
result sought was speedily gained. Sympathetic
seeieties were formed, and the bitter hardships of
many of the needlewomen were materially ameliorated.
So mneh for the giant city. And now we want a minor
« Song of the Shirt ” here. The Sydney girl does not
Buffer so keenly as her London prototype, but she has
wrongs that ought to be righted, and the greatest of
these is the unnatural length of time she is daily
11 eribbed, cabined, and confined.” Ladies of philan-
thropic tastes might here find a congenial sphere for
action. If Dorcas Societies, and Flower Missiens, and
Female Refuges do not wholly occupy their leisure,
here is a harvest for them ready to bo reaped. They
believe in “moral handkerchiefs” for the benighted
Burmese, and spiritual “ pap ” for the savage Papuans;
and why should they not espouse the cause of girls
with frail and delicate organizations ? Certainly they
might urge the strong objection that these operatives
are white, and that they have not the advantage of
inhabiting an island a couple Of thousand miles away ;
but this difficulty need not prove insuperable. Kind-
hearted ladies, who have been coquetting with charily
in the shape of Flower Missions, will find here a fitting
arena to work in. Their sisters by sex are frequently
ooeped up in unwholesome rooms, slaving for unreason-
able hours, and exposed often to demoralising associa-
tions ; and the marvel is that so few are corrupted by
the contaminating influence of those bedizened night-
prowlers who
“ Should be Women,
But yet whose deeds forbid us to interpret
That they are so.”
A “Ladies’ Association for Needlewomen,” modelled
something upon the British plan, is what is required;
and wisely inaugurated and managed, would richly
repay the founders. But, chiefest consideration of all,
such a eoeiety would incalculably benefit a silent, shy,
and uncomplaining class.
Our School of Medicine.
There was, a few mouths ago, a good deal of talk about
the proposed establishment of a medical school in con-
nection with the Sydney University. Every parent in
the colony heard of the project with approval. Up to
the present time the professions of physician and sur-
geon, towards which persons of the middle class in
Great Britain direct the studies of their youths without
being involved in any serious expense, .have been inac-
cessible to lads belonging to the corresponding class in
this colony. In order to graduate, the youngsters had
to repair to Melbourne or to Europe, and the expenses
of travelling and of separate maintenance exceed the
means of many parents who could manage the mere
college fees conveniently enough by dint of some self-
denial. It is somewhat singular that these great ex-
pectations have been succeeded by an exodus of medical
students to Europe. Since the promise of a medieal
school at the Sydney University was made, two
student* have started for the Old Country, and
some ten other young aspirants are about to follow.
The cause of this is understood to be a resolution
arrived at by the Committee appointed to arrange the
course of studies, that all students of medicine shall be
required to go through the University course of
“ Arts ” for twelve months, as a necessary qualification,
additional to matriculation. Doubtless the Committee
are moved by the worthiest motives. They desire,
probably, that the medical graduates of the Sydney
University shall not only be experts in their profession,
but men of some general culture. This is a very fair
object, but it will have to be waived, if it prove in
practice an obstacle to the establishment of any medical
school at all, at the University. By adding a year to
the course of study it increases the expense sufficiently
to equalize the choice of studying in Sydney, or going
to the old world to graduate. As a matter of pre-
ference every parent would elect to send his young
men to gain the mere current stamp given by a
medical school of world-wide repute—snch as those
of Edinburgh, London, and Paris. And it so happens
that a student who has a matriculation certificate from
the Sydney University can obtain admission into the
leading schools of medicine in Great Britain, including
the Edinburgh University, and the University College,
London, where no art course will be required of him.
Even at Melbourne, where the examinations are very
severe, no art course is demanded of the medical
student; matriculation sufficing to admit him to the
medieal course. It is quite certain, therefore, that the
requirements of our own university authorities will
merely operate to render nugatory all that has been
done, so far, towards establishing a school of medicine
in connection with the institution. No Colonial will
trouble about taking; a degree, to which little prestige
will attach, at Sydney, if he can, almost as cheaply, In
shorter time, and with less effort, obtain a diploma re-
spected throughout the civilized world, at Edinburgh or
London. This is a matter which deeply concerns all
parents in the colony. Our university has thus for been
of small advantage to the majority of the community,
and it would be a thousand pities were It to occur, that,
just as it seemed likely to be made of practical utility,
the chance should be lost, because some pedant has a
hobby.
Delivered into Temptation.
That truly Divine precept, “Thou shall not muz.
zle the ox that treadeth the corn” is utterly set at
naught, at any rate as to the spirit, by modern practice.
As to current wages, let us see; a groom, kitchenman
and sculleryman respectively expect £1 per week, whilst
a good cook has the audacity to require 255. aad
her board, equal to £ll7 per annum—and then considers
her employers have her on the cheap. What a 'contrast
the above is to the salaries paid to the hundreds of
hank officials we have in Sydney. Here, in this city,
youths are daily entrusted with large sums of money
for distribution to the various banks, and their salaries,
as a rule, average from £4O to £65 per annum, out of
which they have to pay a fidelity guarantee. The
average ledger-keeper’s is about £l2O, whilst he who
occupies the responsible post of teller, and passes
thousands through his hands daily, rejoices in
a princely salary of £l6O, an income that, per
haps, it has taken five years to obtain. A
good cook is always In requisition, the demand
being greater than the supply, whilst a banking institu-
tion has only to give out that it requires clerks, and the
place is literally rushed. The reason of this is, that
the present generation all want to he “ gentlemen,” and,
not uufrequeatly, despise their parents on account of
their callings in early life having been of a humble nature.
Bank messengers, as a rule, are better paid than the
junior officials. The average weekly salary of the mes-
senger is, with quarters, about £3 to £3 10s. with
“perks.” Generally, the messengers treat the clerks
with contempt, and look upon them as poor devils.
Many married men are on salaries averaging from £4 to
£5 per week, and have large families to support; whilst
the general managers, sub-managers, and other high"
fledyed officials draw from £BOO to £2OOO per annum.
Should a clerk go wrong the well-paid heads
cannot understand the reason for it. Look, for
example, at the recent case of unfortunate
Charlhs Henry Watson, manager of the Colonial
Bank of Australasia, Dunkeld, Victoria, who was
arrested the other day—defalcations £7OO. Wat-
son’s salary was £2OO, with an allowance o
£25 per annumn; he was supposed to “nob it” with
all the squatting people of the Western District,
and his instructions from the head office wore to be
careful to keep a good social standing amongst the
customers, and to increase his deposits as much ns
possible. To become a favourite in the district, re-
quired him to be generous, and also to entertain. Peo-
ple, of course, all thought that, being a manager, his
salary was at least £4OO per annum. After doing all in
his power for the Bank’* interests, including going to
church twice a day aud attending Sunday School also,
(a dreadful ordeal), ho suddenly goes away from “ the
straight path,” as a reverend would say, and “ collars ”
£7OO. Probably the Church has had a few pounds of
the stolen money. Watson, by being placed in a false
position, at the early age of 27, is tempted to be a thief.
He is now working on Her Majesty’s roads, a convicted
felon; whilst his aged mother, whom he princijmhy
supported, goes to her grave broken-hearted.
This is how an estemed correspoddent puts the the case:
—“ It is just as natural for Sir John to squirm when his
Land law is touched without reverence as it would be
for “Compensation” John to cry aloud if one laid
violent hands upon his stomach, or for “ Bronze-medal”
John to plead “Nay, for God’s sake,” if some villain
should seek to deprive him of his cheek. “ Compensa-
tion” John, minus stomach, would not be much, and
“ Bronze-medal John,” minus cheek, would find
speedy oblivion; aud John Robertson, without his
Land law, would not claim much larger notice than the
meanest John who cries “ cabbagee and lettuces” about
the streets of the town. Hence, when the Herald
poked at the Land law. Sir John girded himself aud
charged at the Herald. The intelligence of the country
will regret that the Herald in reply made a dull but
dignified remonstrance that perhaps fifty people read,
considered, and went to sleep over. I say the
intelligence of the country will regret this, because
upon the question of the land laws the Herald has
been sound all through, and should (if only in pursuance
of its own policy) have spoken right out. It was a
fitting time to have told the tale of the Land Law —that
precious law which has made perjured two-faced knaves
of ten thousand honest men —that has forced every
squatter in the colony either to sink his money and
beggar his family, or to join in partnership with pro-
fessional thieves —dummies, things who swear false at a
given price—that has almost kill 3d out the staunch old
race of heme-making settlers, and peopled the new agri-
cultural areas with speculators or squatters’ tools —that
has been evaded, and mocked, and laughed at by every
man who could see profit in trampling it under foot—
that has made us prosperous as any prodigal may
become prosperous, by selling his freehold aud living
upon the price of it. Those things should be said, and
in unmistakeable terms, by writers who aspire to lead
the thinking minds of the country, as they will be
bitterly realized at a future time —when Sir John is
forgotten, and the Herald remembered as a cloak of
respectability that covered a multitude of aius too
oug.”
♦>
The new Licensing Act punishes a person for being in a
licensed house during prohibited hours. A man was
taken before Mr. Dillon charged with this novel offence
The constable proved his being there, and the pre-
sumption was that he was there for an illegal purpose.
Four respectable persons swore that ho was not on the
premises wrongfully; yet, on a constable’s evidence,
backed by presumption, the oaths of four persons were
labelled “perjury,” and the man was convicted and
fined. It is really time that some authoritative state-
ment were made as to the proportion to be observed in
these instances. Is one to four the limit of prevalence,
or will one constable’s oath outweigh the sworn testi-
mony of more than four civilians ? It would be well to
chalk up the figures on the door of every police ceurt>
so that when decent people had less than the requisite
amount of corroboration they [could let cases go by
default in preference to vainly entering the witness-box
ta swear the truth and be treated as perjurers.
When a man was killed at Randwick in a fair
fist-fight, coroner's j ary said “ wilful murder.” Whtn
at Blayney a farmer and a draper quarrelled In the r
cups, and former viciously staboed latter to the hearc
with a knife, jury said " manslaughter.”


RILEY BROTH
890 GEORGE STREET,)
600 GEORGE STREET, [
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBUBN,
NEWCAST
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET,
the cheapest d:
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COL(
THE OBIQINATOBS
NOTED £5 BA]
JB3 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2J yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
S yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Bracee
i doz. Pootet'kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Byes, &o. &o.
Mot]
2 Ladic
2 Ladic
2 pair 1
1 Ladie
1 pair 1
1 Ladie
2 pairs
1 Ladic
4 Infan
2 Infan
2 Infan
1 Infan
Mo
2 Infan
1 Infan
i dozei
Sqi
Puff bo
1 Flam
2 Bibs
1 pair 1
1 Infan
1 Inf
Sqi
Qui
1 Inf
Ho
£5
1 pair
1 largi
10 yard
20 yard
12 Stro
20 Win
10 good
0 yard
All
wearinf
55 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and V est
Crimean shirts, large size
best Cotton Shirts, large
size
best Pelt Hat, any size
pair strong Cotton Socks
White Handkerchiefs
Belt or pair of Braces
pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
Ladies’ Chemises
pair Drawers
Night-gowns
, Ladies’ Camisoles
1 Ladies’ Petticoats
; Children’s Chemises
I pairs Drawers
1 Night-gowns
1 Petticoats
The above are made of
rood longcloth and nicely
dimmed. If desired, other
ixtioles may be ordered in-
itead of any of the above.
£5 1
1 pair
1 whit
5 yard
10 whi
Cal
6 whit
13 yard
12 yard
4 pain
1 pair
1 Dari
6 stro
6 Bro’
4 larg<
3 yarc
T w
Tin
£5 K
25 yds.
3 yard
1 doze
1 Blac
1 Lad;
1 Trin
1 pair
Car
RILEY BROTI
£2 Infant's Parcel. £2 Ii
eu
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns I Hand
2 Infants’ Long Flannels Long
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown riohl;
2 Infants’ Rollers 1 Infant
i dozen Diaper Squares Sqnai
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Sqnart 1 Infant
2 Bibs Silk 1
1 Pair of Wool Boots Carr
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s £2 I
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Night
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chem
- . n 1 , at-I-A. O 1
am
VIRTUTia GLORIA MERCE,
COALCLIFE C<
• «i«inm a r «i it i.i i.. QVmrmr
ONE OF THE WORLD’
OARSMEN.
JN a recent conversation in Kin]
a representative of one of the to:
the Unit 3d States, Mr. Edward Trie
oarsman, who is at present open to
world, gave the following as his opit
** I have found St. JACOB’S OIL
cure, and one unequalled by any e
me of savere pains in the back, brou
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasa
remedy, penetrating at once to the 8
and eradicating the oomplaint withoi
The writer listened attentively to
pleasant to hear such high words i
who knew what ho was talking about
that St. JACOB’S OIL and good at!
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PI
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pit!
S. HOFPNUNG & Co., Pitt-str
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street,
MYERS and SOLOMON, Georg
I. JACOBS A Co., Hunter-stroei
FEREIER’S BAKING P
•*3
P 3
Pm
W
ca
I,
TRAD
MANUFACTORY
George-strbet West, !
[Established 30 Ybab
ODGSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near Qoulbnru-atreet
H
E. HODGSI
Wholesale and Eetni
WHIP THONG MANUPACT
Every Description of Kangaroo and G
Made to Order.
DFA
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUAEIB PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This Is tho most effectual substitute fer kerosene m lightning Counl
simple, clean, and durable, and canbe made by any intelligent lad with
This Q A Sis much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas anti, wi
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity o
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic f<
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting
and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS,
1 v Medalists and Special Prize holds
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINE
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
w
HEN building usa CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitum
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than SI
DAMP RESISTING SOL
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER
3 ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be a
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Cham
WOODWARD’S OYST
85 CASTLEB.EAGH STREET, NEXT '
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEG
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE F I
■jS'.iVS
DEPOT


SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
See the Medals, Cups, and Trophies
at the
SYDNEY ARCADE.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ABB MADE ONLY BT
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head O flees t
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.B.A.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 POSTER LANE, LONDON.
Depot for New South Wales
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
AGENTS IN EVERT TOWN.
Offices in Sydney:
THE SYDNEY ARCADE; and No. 1 DARLING
STORES, HARBOUR STREET.
LOCAL DEPOTS
BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N„ GOULBUEN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWORTH.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
NARANDERA. PARBAMATTA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
jgINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ASS THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
or THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS;
2a. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2a. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE •• SINGER”—
TURNER A COMPANY,
353 Qeorge-stroet.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Poet Office.
JOHNSTON’S “
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
o
A
o
HOME COMPANION, ,
HOME SHUTTLE. /
WEN THE IM, //'
HOWE. /
u. /J?
£
to
N v
The
o
*
Light
£
Running
STANDARD.
$
<b'
V
*
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Machines.
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath ia the only method
by which every muacle, nerve, and bine, can be affected
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism. An., and rids the
system of all impurities; even mercury is taken out of
the bedy.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt Of 21 stamp to
W. M O O E E,
Homoeopathist,
151 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore's Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a burn or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the enly ointment that has
certificates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, snn-bnrns, corns, bunions, and has a
curative effect on lung complaints, when rnbbed into
the chest. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a pot kept in every house, even if
the house is empty, it will do for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pots, Is. and 2s. 6d.
each.
gMITE AND YBALE
PROPERTY SALESMEN, LAND and ESTATE
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Properties placed in our bands for positive sale, we
advertise free.
Public Companies
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with, power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Rnndle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Eedfern,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office : 18 King Willi am-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gsbu-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, loverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Molong,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Porkes, Raymond Terrace, Hockley, Rylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfleld, Ulmann,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbom, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clcimont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Tewnsvilie, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
JTTR
MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,600
Reserve Fund. £116,884
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hoy, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Hon H«nrv Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wa. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARYi
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 George-“tree t. Brickfield Hill Redfern;
Girilambone; Gosford.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 158 Leadenhall-<treet.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other nroduoe shipped to England for sale.
J GRAHAM NIXON,
• IMPORTER AND GENERAL AGENT.
17 BRIDGE STEEET.
Chief Agent for
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBATED GLEN LI VET
WHISKY,
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBRATED OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
AITCHISON’S PALE ALE.
READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
"'■'i AIM U P •'» CTURED BV J 3 AND KNOWN
AS DOCTOR
WAUGHS
HAS A WIDE. reputation for
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
AND THE CHEMICAUUDGES OF THE
SIDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXMBITiON
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
BEST IN THE WORLD
B v AWARDING TO US The
ONLV PRIZE MEDAL
~ VEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECT IOM
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERY WHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR SQUARE TINS'
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
WILLIAM SY DAV/ V leS So COY.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de Visite, 7s. 6d. per Dozen.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform his
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the George-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges strictly
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street.
Chemists and Druggists
S. ABEAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE QREAJT LIVER REMEDY,
nbsutn
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Lnvigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomaeh.
Host famous as the only Tonio Aperient that never
gives cold, and
Thi
a moat delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratoi
ory 9
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotus, you will not oe able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177 Pith-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
fIHCKLE YOUE APPETITE with the Aus-
JL tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
OP GOOD PUEE TEA
We beg to draw your
PARTICULAR ATTENTION
to the
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’B
PACKET TEAS,
Paeked in pounds and half-pounds
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE OBYLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. and 2s. 6d. per lb.
2a. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 PITT STREET (next School of Arts),
SYDNEY.
O H N EUSBELL,
182 PITT STREET,
from
D. JONES & CO.,
Respectfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CARPETS,
FLOOR CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, *c.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
*
George lan
(Formerly of Qeorge-street,)
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE
Begs ti announce that he baa RE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above lino will be sold at the
lowest possible price
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
EVE . TOBACCONIST .149.
J E YE
JAMES EVE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the beat imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
u
NDSB SECTION V», ACT 532.
ART-UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAREE JUNCTION
FREEHOLD ESTATE
by Subscription.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PRIZES of the full value of £lO,OOO.
117 lots guaranteed cash if preferred.
Be( I. Ist prize £4OOO I Dot 3. 3rd prize £lB5O
£4OO
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4. 4th prize..
Lot 5 to 9, 5 Prizes of £l5O each.
Lot 10,1 Prize of £5O.
Lot 11 to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lot 21 to 120,100 Prizes of £4 each.
The Management is compelled to extend the time of
dfttwing to the Ist of August, 1882. Notwithstanding
kids announcement, the drawing will positively be pro-
ceeded with seven days after the shares are subscribed
for. All unsuccessful applicants will have their money
aotumed per return post. This is the grandest oppor-
tunity ever offered to win a Substantial prize, if not a
large and independent fortune, for £l.
Address—SETH K. PEBS3E, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
READ PROSPECTUS.
TO PERSONS IN DIFFICULTIES. Join
the Mutual Trade Protection Association, to re.
C&Ver your debts or obtain the best solicitors’ advice.
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements
BEDSTEAD
‘'l
ifiHlL
iw
527 STEAM BEDDING MANUF
Ll
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
atd
FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4. £l9, £25, £3O, £5O, and £lOO.
T. WRIGHT, 529 George-street, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
[Legal. J
HOETEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHEE
1 SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattert,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 {late 236)
PITT-STREET, opposite the EvkkinO
News Office.
S
H
AYE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
288 Pitt Street?
w
ILLCOX
AND
GLbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-sheliers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
to., &c.j Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T. WIMBLE & CO,
STEREOTYPE
0
-AN D-
Foundry
V
Also
PRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
s'sriDisriHrx'.
i at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER A IRONFOUNDER.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE GIRDERS,
AND STOYES,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF OVENS,
SAFES DEED
AND BOXES,
DOORS. Ac., Ac.
Works i SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROPMS, 220 PITT STREET.
J3HOTOS. IN PRISON.
BOYD’S LIFE-LIKE PORTRAITS
of
HAYNES AND ARCHIBALD,
THE IMPRISONED JOURNALISTS.
LIFE-LIKE SKETCHES.
BOYD, PHOTOGRAPHER,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY


w.
HOWARD SMITI
STEUTH'S WHARF akd *
(Foot of King-strf
Omara ; 7 SPRING 1
steam to Melbourne,
Every TUESDAY and Fi
steam to BRISBANE,
MABYDOROUGHi
and
ROCKHAMPT
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
S
TEAM
LONDON —(
The following Royal Mail Steam
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIGA
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SYI
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, J
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calli
Ship.
Liguria
Garonne ...
P*tosi
Chim bo-
. ncryiuo will [>6 maiUta
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards in a
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goii
steamer within a month; but failiui
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching al
ean proceed to Suez and the Coi
Ports included) without fear of
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 ruineai
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be gra
For plans and full particulars, i
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANI
Joint Managers of the line; or to t
General Manager in Au
G.
QEIENT LINE OF
PARCEL EXPRE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small packaj
Steamers to London at reduced rati
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a f<
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day priori
taiUng. All freights payable in S'
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON TUILL
„ , Manager of Orient
207 Qeorge-street, Sydney.
CASH PRICE LIST OF 1
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIB
RED.
Claret
Hermitage ...
Shiraz
Burgundy
Rei sling
Hook
Madeira
Bonffler’s Pineau..
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 24s to 48s Od I Good E
Champagne from... 60s 6d | Freud
SPIRITS.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bret Harte now writes for the London Court
jocßNin.
The only daughter of Stonewall Jackson ia to
marry the eldest son of a Baltimore millionaire.
The Tamworth News says there is a proba-
bility of Mr. F. E. Rogers, the barrister, settling in
Tamworth.
It has now come out that Caprera was given to
Garibaldi, not as a reward —but as a means of isolating
himself and his republican principles. Paternal govern-
ment 1
Tennyson is writing a poem on the marriage of
prince Leopold. Before finally rounding off the little
lyric, he will have the advantage of being able to consult
onr laureate. Sir Henry.
A man who once upon a time occupied the posi-
tion of governor of one of the colonies, bow begs about
the streets, and is as ready as an aboriginal to accept
sixpence from any passer-by.
Dr. Jacob Samuel, M.D., LL.D., who died on
April 2, at Now Plymouth, N.Z., aged 82, was a student
at Wilsea. in Poland, and joined in the procession that
greeted Napoleon on his way to Moscow in the famous
campaign of 1812.
Dr. C. F. Cripps, of Rockhampton, saw the
professional beauty, Mrs. Langtry, at her debi it in “ She
Stoops to Conquer,” and he writes to say that she looks
well, speaks and acts fairly, but that she has a great
deal to learn! “ Damned with faint praise,” once
more.
The Queen’s health, it has been hinted, has
suffered censiderably owing to her anxiety as to the
condition of Ireland. It is further said that Her
Majesty does not approve of Mr. Gladstone’s Irish
policy, favouring rather prohibitive or repressive (mea-
sures.
The ex-Lord Mayor of London, Sir Sydney
Waterlow, was, on 28th March, married to Miss Mar-
garet Hamilton, a San Francisco lady. He is one of the
foremost men in the great busy world of the British
metropolis. She has not a shilling, but is accomplished
and beautiful.
Mr. Newton, a Victorian barrister, has returned
to Melbourne County Court practice since Mr. Quinlan
has accepted a Judgeship. Mr, Newten was, many
years ago, the leader in this Court, and a noted politi-
cian, but has long been considered politically and
forensically dead.
Mr. C. E. Bright has retired from the well-
known Melbourne firm of Gibbs, Bright, and Go. He
is going now to spend his pile in England. The Hon.
Mrs. Bright, his wife, is a daughter of the late Vis-
count Canterbury, who, when plain Sir J. H. T. Manners-
Sntton, was Governor of Victoria.
Eev. Mr. Hillier, of Brisbane, who was the
other day thrashed by a Mr. Kerr, under circumstances
narrated by ns at the time, demanded the punishment
of Kerr (who holds an appointment in the Queensland
railways), and asked that the matter be made an official
one. The department declined to interfere.
Princess Helene, of Waldeck, bride elect of
Prince Leopold, arrived in England on February 21st,
and was driven at once to Windsor Castle. Prince Leo-
pold looked very ill, and walked lame. His sister,
Beatrice, met Miss Helen at the railway, and rode with
her in her carriage. The royal wedding is announced
for next Thursday.
Mr. Herbert Gladstone (junior M.P. for Leeds)
spoke to an audience of 5,000 lately in the Manchester
Free Trade Hall, and was exceedingly well received. He
oannet speak so well as his father, but has a good deal
of fluency, and perhaps more tact. He was interrupted
by a few Irishmen, but he took them very good-
temperedly, and did 11 not get vexed."
Mr. J. H. Nixon acted as locum tenens for Mr.
Robison in the editorship of the D. N. Argus, Rock-
hampton. In days of old he edited several Victorian
journals, among them the Melbourne Herald, and the
Hamilton Spectator. Mr. Eobisoo, who has been stay-
ing in Sydaey, has now returned to the North, and is,
we are glad to hear, much improved in health.
Mr. Bent, the resolute Victorian Railway
Minister, was assaulted in the streets of Melbourne,
on Saturday night. The assailant, a new arrival, got
somewhat the worst of the fracas. By the way, Mr.
Bent is a native of Sydney. His father kept a hotel —
the Godolphin—in Bridge-street. We believe Mr. Bent
had the courage, the other day, to refuse a free pass to
his tailor.
Respecting the intention to grant a pension to
•x-President Grant, some of the American papers talk
pretty straight. Says one journal The public have
long since learnt that Gen. Grant will take all that is
given him. Nothing in the shape of a gift, from a bull
E up to a quarter of a million fund, has ever been refused
y the idol of the Stalwarts. He is the Oliver Twist of
American politics—always asking for more.
The much-travelled R. S. Smythe is in Sydney
again. He comes and goes, but always brings some-
thing for us, and takes something away for himself.
He has now got in tow Archibald Forbes, the most
modest pressman ever born, who will lecture on “ Kings
I have met." It’s quite uncertain which has met the more
kings—Archibald or Julian. However, we think that
the Vag. still has the pull, for be knows King Warringa-
billy of the Diamantina.
It is now pretty generally known that Oscar
Wilde was sent to America as an advertisement to work
up "Patience," the satire of that opera not being
thoroughly understood in the States. It is now. The
receipts have been doubled, and, instead of coming out
of the bills, as was arranged, the piece will run the New
York season. The idea was a splendid one, bnt the
aesthete had no notion that he was wanted as a sandwich-
man when he accepted a tempting offer.
The Earl of Shrewsbury, who recently ran away
with Mrs. Miller Mnndy, is Premier Earl of England.
Lord Huntly, who the other day swindled the London
money-lenders, is Premier Marquis of Scotland. So that
leaders of nobility have been going fast lately. He
had a big rent-roll of his own, his wife’s dowry of £BOOO
a year, and a lucrative position under the present Gov-
ernment to live on ; yet in a few years he ran through
£lOO,OOO besides his income, and, (it is said), had re-
course to forgery to keep up the funds.
The Wevewend W. Bedell Standford, late
Head Mastah of St. Petah’s (Anglican) College, Ade-
laide, and who was so celebwated faw his pwogwessive
system of culchah, sami-witualistic and othahwise, has
been appointed Wahden of the Theological College,
Kwistchuoh, N.Z. He fawt his enemies faw a long
pewiod, in spite of theiah assation that he dwove away
many scholahs to the P wince Alfwed College and othah
scholastic institutions, but he wesigned at last. To be
shuah, Adelaide’s loss is Kwistchuch’s gain.
We have received from Professor Proctor, a
copy of his new weekly popular science magazine
Knowledge (price two-pence), which everyone should
read. The article on " smoking," by Dr. Muir-Howe,
is a crusher (or those who consume the weed. By the
way, the gifted editor tells us that “he would esteem
it a favour if those newspapers who have spread the
news ef his supposed prediction, would be good enough
to explain that he believes the world is more likely to
last fifteen millions of years than to be destroyed in
fifteen."
Mr. Stevenson, ex-attorney-general of South
Australia, who is now practising as a solicitor atTemora,
and was refused a hearing by the local bench the other
day, appears to have been very scurvily treated. The
objection raised against him—that he had not signed
the roll of attorneys of the N.S.W. Supreme Court—
was a purely technical one. A big case was on, and no
warning was given to Mr. Stevenson that he would not
be granted audience. He came into court fully pre-
pared with his case and was told he had no locus
standi.
At the meeting held last Thursday evening, at
the Great Synagogue, of persona favorable to the erec-
tion of a Memorial Tombstone over the grave of the late
Mr. George Myers, one of the speakers said of the
lamented gentlemen—" In that large heart of his there
was the most ardent love of perfect toleration—that
universal toleration which springs from the full belief
in the advent of a universal religion,—and he never, for
a single moment, stopped to enquire as to the creed or
sect of sufferiug humanity." Such an epitaph is worth
bring— and dying—for.
Sheepstealing is still the moat heinoua of crimes
in Tasmania, when the wool-kings rule the roast. It
took some trouble to abrogate capital punishment for
the offence some years ago—so tenacious of it were the
holders of land under the old system of so many acres
for so many dollars. But then it should be remem-
bered that Alfred J. Taylor, of anti-capital punishment
celebrity, was only in swaddling clothes at that
time. Mr. Taylor has charge of the Hobart Public
Library, and has published the most argumentative and
convincing book extant on the subject in question.
Mr, Gladstone’s procedure with the photo-
graphers is exceedingly business-like. To an applica-
tion recently made, he replied that he would call on a
particular day at the studio in Eegent-street, and would
give the artist fifteen minuses. The Premier kept his
pledge, and the photographer made the most of it.
With his watch on the table, Mr. Gladstone stood or sat
for the stipulated quarter of au hour, and in that time
Mr. Walker took fifteen different negatives. One of
these, perhaps the beat photograph ever taken of the
most photographed man in the world, has been
engraved for Harper, and will appear in an early
issne.
At the age of 81, Marshal Von Moltke, though
has not resigned, baa virtually retired from the leader-
ship of the Prussian armies. His genins as a strategist
none can deny, hut he occupied a position of infiepend.
ent power which few military commanders ever en-
joyed. His peeuliar self-effacement is unparalleled;
no man ever did so much and showed himself so little
to the world. His political and private opinions are al-
most unknown, he has been indifferent to fame and
wealth; he has led a nation to a foremost place in the
world, and then stood aside to let another rule it. The
only approximate! parallel to Von Moltke in history is
Bell sarins.
It was in 1821 that old John Single, who died
last week, first visited Newcastle. He was then in
command of H.M.S. Sally, coast surveying. Immedi-
ately after Newcastle ceased to be a penal settlement,
Mr. Single fixed on the locality for his residence and
business, and he built the Eclipse, the first vessel
engaged ia the coal tiade. He thus maintained regular
communication between Sydney and Newcastle, until
one night when bis vessel was cut out from her anchor,
age and taken off by a party of convicts, who, with their
prize, were never subsequently heard of, Mr. Single
was a man pre-eminently suited for the arduous work
of the pioneer.
Captain William Fisher, chairman of the Tas-
manian Steam Navigation Company, has set out on his
last voyage. He was universally respected by his fel-
low colonists, notwithstanding his strong Iprejudices
and the dogged determination with which he adhered to
his opinions. The captain was head of the Temperance
party in the island, and was one of the best examples of
what the principles of total abstinence are capable of,
because he readily admitted his indulgence in one ex-
treme, whilst there was no room to doubt the other.
Of lata years he has taken a great deal of interest in
politics, and after two contested elections and disputes
before the Committee of Elections and Qualifications,
he obtained a seat in the Legislative CounciL There is
not much chance of any dispute about his election this
time.
Dr. W. Carr-Boyd is a candidate for election to
the Queeusland Assembly for the Bulimba district,
lately represented cy Mr. F. ft. Swan wick. Dr.
Carr-Boyd is one of the most accomplished classi-
cal scholars in Australia, and in conjunction with his
brother. Dr. Carr-Boyd, of the Glebe, Sydney, was for-
merly Principal of a very successful school in Tasmania.
Since that time, Dr. Boyd has had a career of some
variety. He was Land Commissioner on the Maranoa
for some time, and subsequently Land Agent at War-
wick (Q). This appointment he forfeited while Mr. J.
Malbon Thompson, solicitor, now in business in Syd.
ney, was Minister for Lands in Queensland, and ho has
since struggled, not too successfully, to keep his head
above watsr. When deprived of hie official position, he
naturally reverted to teaching, later to literary pur-
suits, editing the Queensland Times, at Ipswich, for
about a year, during the course of which a very lively
duel was carried on between the Times and the Ob-
server, the latter edited by Meston (“The Sacred
Ibis ”) subsequently member in the Assembly for Rose-
wood, and no contemptible slinger of ink. Dr. Carr-
Boyd’s great accomplishments have not proved always
marketable commodities in the work-a-day world of
colonial journalism, but he has at odd times oontri-
bated to the Australasian, renditions, in English
verse, of poems by Heine, which are of most exquisite
beauty.
The Eev. George Leeming, admittedly the moat
beautiful priest we ever had in Australia, has bean
making his mark in America. It is pretty generally
known that while George was running his people here
on the bottomless pit ticket, he was robbing his sister
of her fortune in that Blue Mountain Hotel project
which eventually landed him in the Insolvency Court.
George’s disappearance frosa N.B.W. was sudden. He
did not wait for writs or warrants; so when he palmed
himself off on Archbishop Williams, of Boston, as a
missionary from Australia, collecting funds for his
parish churoh, he was no doubt working his way ®n
forged credentials. It’s too thin to suppose that the
recreant knave got apostolic passports from the head of
his church hers. Handsome George passed in Boston
sometimes as a priest and sometimes as "Sidney Clif-
ford," and between the two he found time, it appears,
to coqnstte with a dashing widow. In this latter re-
spect George did not, if what we hear is true, learn all
his arts in America. As "The Great Australian
Orator," Father Leeming gulled the American E.C.’s
in true Chiniquy style, and he was soon to return to
his little struggling church at the Antipodes, quite
satisfied. George, we now learn, has taksn to the stage.
He’s a failure—which is rather strange. He has been
an actor all his life, though we never before heard of his
name being coupled with that of a Desdemona. He
stands 6 ft. 2 in., is of massive build, has rosy cheeks,
and wears his dark hair in wavy ourls. He is, in fact,
a very handsome Englishman. He is also a very hand-
some scamp.
The late Lord Lonsdale, while yet Viscount
Lowther, in his 17th year, and in a drunken
freak, married the ssrvant-maid of his tutor. How long
he lived with her nobody seems to know; but, at all
events, he discarded her, as he could legally do, on
coming in for his title, and married a sister of Lord
Pembroke’s, a beauty in her first season, whose tall,
dark, stately style had gained for hsr the name of the
“ gypsy." Hew this girl, then supposed to be in the
first blnsh and bloom of maidenhood, could consent to
sell herself to the titled scape grace was a wonder to
many of her friends. Bat the girl, thongh a beauty,
was a penniless pne. However, he proposed, was
accepted, settled £lO,OOO a year on her, gave her all the
diamonds Hunt and Roskell had on hand, previous to
bestowing the family gems, and they were married.
From the word go, almost, their married life has been
one of separate paths—why, no one seems to knows.
That both did what they liked is, however, certain, and
both have been equally condemned. The fact is, she
is said to have married the young Earl but for the
purpose of securing a dower wherewith, upon her
husband’s death, she would be enabled to marry the
man ef her heart —a handsome young Captain in the
Household Cavalry, who since (as before) her marriage,
has been her constant shadow. The late Lord’s penni-
less brother is now Earl, and the almost penniless
beauty is free. The Lowthers seem to be a bad lot.
The next brother, the Honourable Charles, was recently
" county courted ” by a publican for money lent and
the price and keep of a bull-dog. 7he young man
pleaded infancy, and the publican had to whistle for bis
money.
Charles Bright is doing well in America. His
health is quite restored, and he writes of himself as
having taken a new departure in his lecturing career,
speaking without notes, and with an ease and fluency
that tempts him to believe he is only just now com-
mencing his public career. He writes to a lady
friend in Sydney that Australians have not yet heard
him lecture. At his last discourse in Sau Francisco, the
enthusiasm was very great; and at his first lecture at
Salt Lake City, where he was when the mail left, at
least half of a large audience remained to thank him
and shake hands. Mr. Bright has been contributing
articles to the Boston Index and the Chicago Beligio-
Philosopmical Journal. Writing to the latter, he
compares Melbourne with San Francisco, thus:—“ln
the glorious and soul-expanding art of mnsio, this
American city seems to me not to have touched the
point of excellence reached not only by Melbourne, but
also by Sydney and Adelaide. In any of these cities
the Christmas season would be marked by a really
masterly rendering cf one of the great Oratorios by the
local philharmonic societies. I have passed a Christ-
mas here and have had no opportunity of enjoying
[ anything of the kind. I might extend my list of San
Francisco deficiencies but I have gone far enough. In
all ths public acquisitions which help to promote the
amenities and bienseances of life, I discern a want.
Thera is ample vulgar and ostentatious display of
immense private wealth; there is sufficiency of amuse-
ment not of a very refined description; there is
enormous business energy; and there are numerous
exhibitions of what is called religion—religion which
contents itself with professing to save souls from a
future burning and does nothing to ennoble the present
life. But of the true reliffion, the cultivation of the
higher faculties and emotions of mankind, the edu-
cation of the altruistic qualities, which cause men to
work for the general good apart from private aggran-
dizement, the culture of the soul and spirit which lead
to the real worship—the worship of the beautiful —not
in word but in act; of this, unfortunately, there ate not
many traces here, and such as there are, must be looked
for in solitary boosms. All the organizations are either
mercantile |or essentially sectarian in their nature.
The city as a whole, gives no token that it has a
society soul—a soul soaring above momentary aggran-
dization and coarse sensuous gratifications."
The Commercial Bank of Adelaide, S.A., has
got over its first great misfertnne —the insolvency of
De Young—and pays a dividend of 3». per share on the
old issue, and Is. BJd. per share on the new. De Young
lain gaol yet. His was a case "adjourned sine die,"
which in S.A. signifies imprisonment till the particular
** die ” to which he is " as-sine-d ’’ arrives. De Young
i was a nebody, and started in the “ marine store’’ line—
which means anything, from rags and bottles to wool
and com plasters. He was not an Adonis; indeed, his
was a battered physog. Mr. Woods, the erstwhile ac-
countant of the Insolvency Court, Adelaide, once
offended De Young. It happened in the time of the
insolvency investigation. Da Young came to Woods in
the ordinary course of duty, but perspiriugly convulsive
with wrath. He opened out with : “ What’s this you’ve
been saying about me, Mr. Woodsl? I thought you
were a gentleman." “ I don’t understand you," replied
Mr. Woods, seemingly ambiguously, but rosily referring
to the first part of De Young’s query. "I’ve been
told," continued De Young with wrath in the crescendo,
because his nose has by fate been moved round to a place
under one of his eyes, or one end of his month ter-
minates under an ear—wo forget which—" I’ve been
told that you said that my facial appearance is ac-
counted for because I was once run over by a tramoar I”
“ Well," replied Mr. Woods, inquiringly,, “ and weren’t
you?" “Never, s’belp mo Jimmy Jobuaeu squeeze
me,” answered De Young. " Then,” responded Woods,
innocently opening bis blue eyes, " shake hands, old
fellow; I’m delighted to hear it. I am sorry I ever
entertained the suggestion. And I’ll write a letter to
the Eegister, stating, on your authority, that you
never were run over on a tramoar and mashed." De
Young’s reply is not on record, but his insolvency is.
To the rag-and-bottle business he'added turf-betting.
He bad a branch in Melbourne, and he could never get
the Court to believe in a certain alleged dissolution of
partnership, but was " sin«-di»-ed ” on the count of
concealment of part of his estate. The cute and genial
Charles Mann, Q.C., now Crown Solicitor and then
Treasurer of S.A., couldn’t work any point to get De
Young out. And De Young’s case led to the retire-
ment frem the bank of an official who let him overdraw
considerably. Most people think that O’Halloran
suffered unjustly. We believe his only fault was undue
leniency, and we wish he were our banker.
• • •
Captain Woods, late of the A.S.N. Co., who
has just been appointed Launceston manager for the
T.S.N. Co., has been addressed and 300-sovereignisedat
Melbourne Inspector Brooke Smith’s will sworn
under £2OOO V ictorian Bail way Department changes:
Elsdon, retired; Watson, Engineer-in-Chief; Green,
Engineer in Charge of Existing Lines; Derbyshire,
Engineer of Surveys The Eev. W. S. Green, the
Alpine climber, who ascended Mount Cook, is a talented
artist, and made excellent sketches and water-colour
drawings of the ice scenery of the mount.
Mr. Ridgeway, of Philadelphia, asks for Guiteau a
body immediately after hanging, which he will then
?laoe in a refrigerating apparatus of his ewn invention,
'his will be a case ten feet square, three sides of which
will be formed of plate glass, the fourth of metal,
which will hold the refrigerator. The case will be
carpeted, and made attractive by elegant upholstery,
the apparatus being hid by silken hangings. The body
of the assassin will be placed therein, disposed doubt-
less in some graceful attitude, and perfectly preserved,
being dressed as in life. This beautiful though fear-
ful exhibit will be taken all over the world and shown
at so much per head. The outfit, including a refrigerat-
ing car, will cost some 25,000 dollars, and Mr. Bidgeway,
who will act as showman, proposes to travel around
with his novelty, by which he hopes to net a fortune,
and since variety is the spiee of life, we don’t doubt
but he will. The profits will be divided amongst
Gniteau’s relations, who are poor, and which share Mr.
Bidgeway thinks will amohnt to 50,000 dollars. Good
for them I Mr. Sooville. brother-in-law to Qniteau, and
his counsel, appreves of the plan, and so do the relatives.
Dr. Stanich, Eminent Specialist.—To the
Editor.—Sir, My eyes have been very painful and
much inflamed. The constant watery mucus which was
coming from them was horrid. I suffered with them
for about six years, and during that time consulted
every doctor that I was recommended to, some ten in
number. One of those gentlemen is considered to be
the leading eye doctor in Sydney, but I could not obtain
any relief, even from him. The sympathy was se great
between the eyes and the ears that my hearing became
impaired, and I could scarcely see or hear; in tact 1 was
in a dreadful state. But now, lam pleased to say, after
three weeks of Doctor Stanich’s treatment, that my
hearing and sight are both perfectly restored.—l am,
Mr. Editor, very happy yours, John Larson, 63 George-
street, Sydney. Dr. Stanioh may be consulted at 50
Wynyard-square, Sydney.
Skilful and Successful Operation on
the Eye.— To the Editor.—Bir, In the interest of the
public at large, I trust yon will give insertion to the
following Some time ago a cork from a ginger-beer
bottle lew out, and struck me violently in the eye.
Great inflamation set in; the eye swelled to twice its
natural size, and was so bloodshot as to be quite
horrible to look at. I was nearly totally blind, and so
great was the pain that I could not sleep at night.
While in this miserable state I placed myself under the
care of Dr. Stanioh, and thanks to his care and skill,
my sight is perfectly restored. —Yours, &c., Edward
Hardy. Cede Franc aise, George-street, Sydney,
March 7.
A Grateful Mother.—To the Editor.—Sir,
I have much pleasure in testifying to the skill and
attention of Dr. Stanioh, during his attendance on my
daughter. She suffered acute pain in her ear fer three
years, and Dr. Stanich’s treatment relieved her from
all pain in tour days’ time, and the deafness she felt has
been quite removed.—Yours, &0., P. Griffin, Tam-
worth ; at present at Clarendon Hotel, Manly Bay.
Remarkable cure op Deafness.—To the
Editor.—Sir, Having been advised by a gentleman to
visit Dr. Stanioh, and take his opinion regarding the
deafness with which I was afflicted, I did so, and have
much pleasure in testifying to the great success of bis
treatment, in restoring the great blessing of the sense
of hearing, of which I was deprived. A space in your
valuable columns for this letter will greatly benefit
those similarly afflicted. I am, sir, very gratefully, John
Wilson, Merri Merri. My present address is
Thompson’s Family Hotel, corner Qoulbum and
Qeorge streets, Sydney. March 4, 1882.
Another Cure of Deafness.—To the
Editor.—Sir, I have been a sufferer from great pain in
my ears, and also from deafness, ever since I had the
measles, which is now over fourteen years ago. The
misery I suffered was almost without intermission.
The pains were terrible; they were something like a
sharp knife passing through my head. Some three
months ago I consulted Dr. Stanich, whose skilful treat-
ment relieved me from pains and cured my deafness. I
now feel strong and healthy—better, in fact, than I ever
remember to have been before. A space in your
valuable columns will benefit the public.—Yours, &0.,
William Emrrt. Underwood-street, Paddington,
March 10.
Another Cube of Deafness bt Dr.
Stanich.— Per favour.—Doctor Stanioh, —Sir, I sin-
cerely thank you for curing me of deafness of long
standing. You accomplished in one operation what the
doctors of Sydney Hospital failed to do in 12 months.
I hope Heaven may bless yon, as you did it for charity,
I being a crippled old man. Sir, please publish this for
the public information. Charles Burns, 344 Kent-
street, Sydney, 9th March, 1882. Dr. Stanich’s Consult-
ing Booms are 50 Wynyard-s-qnare, Sydney.


ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WE have now opened onr Principal Shipments of this WINTER SEASON’S GOODS, and have
so placed them that Persons visiting the PALACE EMPORIUM will, we trust, find pleasure
in inspecting the NUMEROUS NOVELTIES we have succeeded in obtaining from the MOST EMI
NENT MANUFACTURERS IN ENGLAND and the Continent, and comprising the NEWEST'
GOODS and LATEST STYLES of London, Paris, Berlin, &o.
Ladies, Maids, and Children’s JACKETS, PALE-
TOTS, and DOLMANS, in Black Mixtures, and all
colours of FRENCH and ROYAL CASHMERE, DIA-
GONALS, JERSEY CLOTH, GERMAN BEAVER,
ENGLISH, CHUDDAH, INDIANA, QUEENSLAND
CAMEL’S-HAIR, and BECTIVE CLOTHS. Also, in
SILK, BATIN and SEALSKIN ; also. PUR-LINED
CIRCULAR SILK CLOAKS, &c.
Choice Dress Materials In PLUSHES, VELVETS,
VELVETEENS, BROCADED SATINS, SILKS, and
VELVETS.
Charming Costume Cloths, Soft In Texture, very Ser
viceuble, and well adapted for the present Style of
Drees.
BEAUTIFUL RIBBONS, plain and shaded. All the
newest Colours and Shades in PLUSH, MOIRE, VEL
VET, and SATIN. SASHES in greatest variety to
match.
LACES: A very Large and Beautiful Stock, com-
prising every known make and Latest Novelty.
KID GLOVES, by the best makers, in all colours
and styles FABRIC GLOVES, Plain and Fleecy,
lined.
For Balls, Fancy Fairs, and Theatricals. A Large
and Varied Assortment, GOLD and SILVER, TWIS-
TED and BULLION FRINGE, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION TASSELS, SPANGLES, SANDAL
LACES, GRANBY LACE, &o. &o. GILT and SIL-
VER BUTTONS, CABLE CORD, RUSSIA BRAIDS,
and SMOKING CAP TASSELS. GILT and SILVER
ORNAMENTS. PRINCE OF WALES FEATHERS
MALTESE CROSSES, STARS, CRESCENTS, AN-
CHORS. &c, &o.
CRETONNES and Furnishing requisites specially
manufactured for our trade.
TABLE COVERS, and TABLE LINEN.
Clothing of every description for Men, Youths, and
Boys. Best Materials, Good Shapes.
HARD and SOFT FELT HATS in all colours and
newest styles.
An immense stock of Ladies, Gent's, and Children’s
BOOTS and SHOES, well-made by eminent firms, from
the very lest materials, and cheaper than any other
House in Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,'
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
a A
A A
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150- TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERY SUP EK IOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
Tor Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning’.
NO SMOKE OE SMELL
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent; Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to thoir order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should be trii id by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Part els.
P. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
off
'/T
■ O'MS .
Trado
Mark
AS A
CURE
DRUNKENNE SS
Thousands permanently Cured. Endorsed by Physic lans.
A Homo Treatment.
Send two stamps for 50 page book (latest edition,) and Colonial f esllmonials.
ADDEESS- S FRESHMAN,
359 GEORGE STREET, ST
American Waltham Watches, awarded two firs,
prizes, Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received
—ADTT.
It is necessary, daring hot weather, to avoid
beverages libaly to heat or stimulate the system.
Coooa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get GAD-
BURI'I COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for'the
sake of extra profit. Makers by speeial appointment
to the Queen, —(Adtt.)
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, USA,
hereby give netiee that their trade mark, Waltham
Mass., is now registered in the Australian oolonie* of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against any person copying or
imitating same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale Watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any
way infringing our rights.—AMEEICAN WATCH
C oMP AN Y, Waltham, Masa.-Anv.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[C orrespondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their commumcatioin noticed.]
“ Cynic ” : Thanks, will read and consider
“Do F.”: Bight you are "W.J.K."; Very good.
Glad to hear from you again “ FF.F.”s The idea is
good, but we had something of the kind before......
“Passe par tout ’’: Thanks "M J.E/'i Will write.
Such matter very acceptable “ Bura ”: Joke hardly
good enough. Try again “Sic itur ad Astra” : Yes,
to people who send ns brief and witty articles, written
on one side. Tour verse is good; prose rather
lengtbv. letter for you at Bulletin office
“Ex Tamo Dare Lucem ”: There is a population of
23,000 north of Cape Palmerston “Stawell”: Per-
haps so. What is known to more than one is no longer
a secret. Three people can keep a secret —when two of
them are dead “ Une Impie”: Very clever; hut
rather warm. VV ill see what we can do with it. Please
send your name “Bing up”: First rate. By all
means write again “ Jobuz ”: Letter for you posted
to Albnry. By the way, all your items are capital;
those with a local colouring are the most acceptable.....
“ Stage-struck": Certainly. But wo fail to see why
female aspirants for the stage should be exhibited to
newspaper men in hotel parlours with_ champagne ac-
companiments “ Jingcoola” : Nothing wonderful
about it. Snake probably tied himself in a knot so as
to remember Bomethiag when he woke “ Bantam :
Don’t write any more about the stars. Give them a
r ist. It’s true they seem to “ look down on you and
the girl.” Surely you don’t expect them to look up to
you “ George-street”: No; the system has not yet
been adopted here. We notice from the papers that two
of the principal N.Z. warehousemen have been heavily
fined for not providing their shop-girls with seats......
“ Gosford”: Doubtless true, but too hot Anchor :
The trick is an old one, successfully practised by the
Evening News “Anon” (Elizabeth-street): Be-
oeived “ W.G.C.": The Vaughan family includes,
among others. Archbishop Vaughan, of Sydney; Dr | W m.
Vaughan. Bishop of Plymouth ; Dr. Herbert Vaughan,
Bishop of Salford; Dr. Vaughan, Prior of the Fort
Augustine Monastery, Scotland; and Father Vaughan,
the eminent Jesuit “Old Country”: We don t
agree with you. For successful imposition, tbe only
necessary qualifications are audacity and perfect faith
in the stupidity of other people. Write agaiu “A C.
Hatton” i Yes, but tbe Echo forgets that Gladstone’s
father and brother received £60,000 compeusttion for
their slaves, paid under an Act Gladstone advocated
“ Sam Jones - ’: (I). The battle was drawn (2). It’s un-
true. Lord Palmerston defended prize-fighting from his
place in Parliament, aud oven Thackeray, as peaceable as
ho was cynical, made the Heenan-Sayers tight the occa-
sion of a rapturous patriotic essay on British muscle,
insisting that it the law must have its course, the
proper thing would be to imprison Sayers for a day, and
next day knight him as Sir Thomas of Farnborough.
A leading paper remarked, the other day, that any
honest man who had attended both prize-fights and
church assemblies would find it hard to say at
which gathering there was most bad blood displayed
“A.J.F.": Yes, acceptable “Chutnee”: Very good,
“W.J.B.": Splendid "Truth”) We don’t see
the point of the par. Write again, about something of
general interest...." Athensßight again...," Coolie”:
The Echo’s statement as to “ thirty-four oases of
typhoid at Forbes ”is denied. A local doctor says that
there may be half-a-dozen “Chorus”: Thank
yon “Snowy”: Kiandra Is the highest town in
N.S.W., being a mile above sea level “ Inoonnu”
(Qoulbnrn): Writeoften... ‘Trophonius”: Thanks. The
“admission" memo, reached na incomplete; you will
find the other embodied in an article. Write again
“ Newcastle”: It is generally conceded that the fastest
English amateurs are Lockton, Phillips, George, and
Elbrough. Lockton is a native of Tasmania. “H. V.”:
Its publication would only cause trouble to your friend.
“Ememld”: Thanks; write again “Mount
M Donald": Beceived. However, it’s only the pro-
ductiou of a pedantic digger.man “C.T.”: Beceived;
hut we don’t understand it “J.F.”: Thanks. We
get it regularly “ J.G.” (Christchurch): Obliged
“Novice”: Thanks for your letter. Such glor/, how-
ever, isn’t worth having. A wit once said: " I like to
soa diamonds, but I don’t like to see a woman earning
her children’s food in one ear and her husband’s honour
in the other.” And Baskin says: “As long as there are
cold and nakedness in the land around you, there can
be no question that splendour of drees is a crime.”
What do the dresses at the Church Fayres costP
“Subscriber" (Port Macquarie): Thanks. Will use
items “ A.H.P." (Port Douglas): Cannot insert
unless sure “ M.L.” (Tamut) : Of little public
interest “Excelsior".- Thanks; right style
“ Quilp " : Noticed in social already “ J.J.8."
(Frogmore): We do not insert pars, for the gratifica-
tion of one or two persons “C.M.G" (Cobir) s
Poetry received. You say you “ dashed it off" ;
when wa found it on our table, we did the same.
“J J. A." (Ta«worth) i Our informant, no
doubt, saw exuberance of spirits, and used too
strong a word. Perhaps he’s very easily shocked
“ T. 8.” (Qoulbnrn): Will look into it ” F.B”: Ee-
ceived—held over “EB”: Thanks, will write
“Auction": Thanks “P. 8.”: Will keep for a week
“ B G-”; Will apply the moral “ P.T." (Surry
Hills): One inserted; we cannot publish the otner, a
mere rumour "Eoberto”: Bight: Send along in
June “ Holy Joe’’: Sankey, we mean Thanky
“ H. Nordman”: Your letter has been forwarded to the
promoters of the scheme “ Fairplay": Next week...
“Fummy”: We touched on one of your themes last
week, not perhaps quite so gracefully. We may use the
other, and shall be always glad to cultivate a Pummy-
liarity with you “B. Clarke”: Next week. “ Eye-
opener”: Correspondents who send “ social” notes
must invariably send name and address. None for yon
at Bulletin office......*’Passepartout": Capital. Next
week ’‘E.H.T." Too polemical in drift....” W.J.E.":
Very long, but will go through it carefully “Moss-
man ” : Call round for your half brick.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
On the Windsor line, known as the 12 mile an
hour railway, the lights are so bad that one gentleman
carries a lantern The ship Samuel Plimsoll has left
for Sydney with 405 immigrants Mr. Laidlaw, of
Wootong Nale, Vic., was bitten in the foot by a snake.
His housekeeper, Mrs. Wordsworth, sucked the wound
and probably saved Mr. Laidtaw’s life Two men
travelling in a covered waggon were burnt to death near
Narandera. The fire was caused by one reading himself
to sleep, and leaving a candle burning; tha fastenings
of the waggon cover prevented escape till suffocation
ensued An arrested thief at Orange recently
wrenched off his handcuffs, and assaulted constable
Ball, who, however, managed to hold him. It was
afterwards found that Ball’s Uniterm had been stabbed
in sevsral places with a sharp instrument. The thief
was fined £5 or two months for the assault In tha
Brogden compensation case against N.Z. Government,
amounting to £lOO,OOO, Judge Gillies in the Supreme
Court has ruled there is no jurisdiction Mr.
Hutchinson, an agent for the Queensland Govt, in the
South Sea labor trade, died on board the Sybil on
March 10th. He was first buried at Santo Island, but
the natives stole the body, which was then recovered
and committed to the deep One Melbourne firm
alone purchased 30,0> 0 gallon < of wine in the Wahgnny ah
district for making champagne this season Mr.
Herbert E. Hodgkinson, of the Customs uepartment,
Melbourne, has had to resign owing to injuries received
at the recent Jolimont railway smash. He is a son of
Mr. Clement Hodgkinson, late Secretary of Lands
L. L. Smith’s creme de “ boosey” company, Melbourne,
talking about a profit of £5 per share; the wine not yet
matured, however Herberton miners are talking
about running the Chinkiee off their local garden areas...
A £16,000 company is being formed to construct a first-
oiass hotel in Brisbane. Not before it’s wanted, as
travellers can testify Queontland Government think
of establishing at Maryborough a special hospital for
kanakas In a N.S.W. country town a man has bsen
■entsneed to fourtsen days’ gaol because bs refused to
give a satisfactory account of a towel found in his
possession! The crime of the district of Mud gee
was this sessions narrowed down to the case of a young
fellow who alleges that he took another man’s horse,
not feloniously, but with a bona fide belief that it was
the custom of the country to take clean skins, and
brand and claim them At Warwick, Q, a man
poisoned his brothers dog, and was fined altogether
£14175. 10d, when brought before the “beak." An
alligator, between 15 and 20 feet in length, has been
seen in the Fitzroy, near Rockhampton. 1c was fired
at, but escaped D, and W. Robertson, of Sydney,
have secured the contract for 1883 for the supply of
galvanized, block, and bar iron, tin (hominy) plates
(redolent of Darlinghurst)—&o., required for the public
service A Dungaree schoolmaster, who was suffer-
ing from paralysis, was choked by hia false teeth ;
I. H. Cooper, aged 23, a Yaloha schoolmaster, was
killed by his horse running him against a tree
An unfortunate swagman who tried to swim across
the Darling sank when half way across. He apparently
had not the money to pay for a boat At Charters
Towers, the diamond drill was, at latest, down SfHft.
At 551 ft. it had passed through 24ft. of formation and
mnndic leaders The Liddleton silver mine has been
sold for £3500, and is to be floated on the English
market. Some of the ore is rich; wa may see an Aus-
tralian Nevada of the Blue mountains Tiiro (Q.) is
going up. The local correspondent of the WB. News
records with manifest satisfaction the establishment of
a second butcher’s shop and the arrival of a deacon
duly qualified to make young men double their expenses.
An iguana brought into Adelong by a Chinese, and
sold lor its oil, measured Bft. 6in Mr. Gibson has
relinquished the Palmer Chronicle to Mr. Hodel, of
Cooktown A third daily newspaper is to be estab-
lished at Rockhampton by a company On the Palmer,
the Ida stone still looks well; Queen shares are firm,
and prospects good. Louisa ditte; Sunburst claim
crushed 18 tons for 90oz A Joint Stock Company in-
tends purchasing the Walmer estate of 30.000 acres with
a view of cutting it up into farms J. P. Cardin is
suing Ktnbton Observer (Vic ) for £lOOO for libel
Recently, in Victoria, a magistrate sentenced two
children of tender years to gaol for stealing fruit from
—his own garden A man named Hitchcock has been
committed for having criminally libelled Mr. Quin,
master of the Dunedin Benevolent Asylum, in charging
him with rape on a girl of 15. No defence offered,..,..
W. H. Clayton, a brother-in-law of Sir Julius Vogel,
has been sentenced to four months' imprisonment at
Napier (N.Z.) for stealing a pair of boots and passing a
valueless cheque Sydney 1.0.Q.T. has a membership
of 8300 Victorian harvest yield was 10,204,518 bus.,
er 04 bushels per acre cropped Savings Bank de-
posits In Victoria amount to £1,478 635 George
vVebb was killed by a boiler explosion at Hart’s
sawmills, Newcastle; his body was forced clean through
a slab wall Victorian vignerons whose vineyards have
bean destroyed to prevent phylloxera spreading get
£21,000 compensation Near Nyngan, Salisbury,
a teamster dropped dead on the road
Australian wine at Bordeaux Exhibition —51 casks and
2520 bottles; there arc 31 exhibitors Dr. Gilbee, of
Melbourne, says that many young persons first learn to
like liquor iu hospital Anthills are used us chimneys
in the Northern Territory A false informer burnt
bis Augers with the new Licensing Act. He laid an
information against one Reynolds, residing in the
Forbes district, for selling spirituous liquors without
a license. But he was bowled out iu fibs, and had to
pay £lO as compensation to defendant At George-
town. N.Q., William Kearney tested with his ear the
velocity or a revolver bullet at close quarters. Queens-
land rum told him to do it. Aged 35 Miss Gregory
was recently drowned in the Spendthriit, at Cotiin’s
Bay, on the S.A. coast. Her father now claims £5OO
from the S.A. Marino Board for allowing that vessel to
go to sea unfurnished with the regulation life-buoys
and boats. The Marine Board disputes his claim
A base ’un wa« Reuben Bason of Wanganui, who after
abusing his wife “either by accident or by design,”
brandrshrd a knife and inflicted a 24 inch wound in her
abdomen. The woman’s depositions say it was inten-
tional, but of course a man is clearly entitled to brandish
round a bit of a knife when he’s annoyed. Roub.
arrested Some dentists’ employees steal their
masters’ gold filings. A big city firm has lost £2,000
thus The 25-ton gun which was let roil into the
water has boon raised. Though none the worse, it’s none
the better At Forbes, the other day, a publican
asked the local postmaster whether ho might post his
letters in the same box at did other people, or whether
the P.O. authorities would like to read them, and take
certified copies. It is said that the point will form a
subject of enquiry, and that the Hon. S. G. Brown
has promised to have a report iu three volumes
tarnished....» Carriage rates between Dubbo and
Cob&r £2O a ton; carriers have to take their
own water supply with them.,; Sinking of wells
in the Winmera district, Viet., proves water to exist
almost everywhere within a few feet of the surface
Lilydale (Vic.) coach capsized; twelve passengers in-
jured Michael O’Conner, of Dandeneng Forest (V.),
accidentally had half of his face blown away by a gun
explosion The Minister for Justice has refused an
application for the remission of fines recently inflicted
on a number of Forbes (N.S.W.) publicans for keeping
open their premises during prohibited hours Exist-
ence of cholera in Western Australia officially denied.
......Mr. James Phillips, a well-known Queensland
colonist drowned in the Copperfleld River At
Ravenswood (N.Q ), Frederick Williams smashed the
skull of Hans Habrel with a beer bottle Not the first
time that a bottle has brought abont a “splitting
headache. *’ Mr. Thomas Watts, of Adelong, N S.W.,
thrown by abu kjumper and killed At Booligal,
N. a ,W., 3J school children are taught in a tent 14ft. by
Ibft Rich patch of gold struck iu the Long Tunnel,
Kilkivan (Q.) Thin s.iam of coal fonnd at Balt Creek,
Coorong (6 A ) Epidemic amongst horses in western
N.S.W,; symptoms, swollen hind legs and staggers
Live stuck dying in hundreds about Parkes (N S.W.)
from drought and want of feed George M. H. Walker
and John Watson died of thirst on Amphitheatre
Station, near Cobar (N.S.W.)
• • •
New American torpedo boat, one gun, 21 knots.
The obscene interpolation coat the Times £13.000.
Bavarian journals express themselves greatly dis-
gusted at the sentence of a private in the army to three
days’ imprisonment because he applied the epithet of
“you villainous beast ” to the bulky horse of one of
the officers. The charge against him was “unbecoming
behaviour towards an officer’s horse.” The Savings
Bank returns in France are £51,000,000. In 1840 it was
£7,000.000 The guests of an English baronet, in three
days, shot 2317 head of game. And yet a coster whose
horse has a sore on his shoulder is punished for cruelty
to animals I American tobacco crop a failure this
season. The Australian growers can yow wade in
America produces 228,000,000 lb. of wool annually, and
imports 128,000,000 tt» The number of persons in
Great Britain engaged in underground employment is
378,151. The number in underhand employment is not
stated Now that Guitean’s execution has been
ordered, his mail will be damped into the Potomac un-
opened Frost and Smith, sentenced to penal servi-
tude for a burglary at Colchester on the false evidence
of the police, were recently turned out of Midbank
Prison at nine o'clock at night with a shilling each, and
have received no further oompensatio i The “Charles
Dickens Birthday Book," to be inom-d shortly, Mrs.
Perngini (Miss Kate Dickens) Westby, the enter-
prising yomh, who at Nottingham murdered hia father
and a fellow-clerk, is not to be hanged; doctors proved
culprit’s insanity A solicitor’s cleik got the £2OO
offered for the arrest and conviction of Lefioy, the
murderor. The British Government awarded Mrs.
Brickers, Lefroy's landlady, £2J for the loss of her
boarders. Mrs. Brickers is, however, again in distress,
for though removed to another tows, she can’t get
patronage The king of London usurers lost £7,000
in one night recently in a gambling club
Population of Japan, on January 1, 1880, was
35,925,313 ; males, 18,210,500; females, 17,714 813
A farm of 224 acres in Berkshire, recently let
at £230. is now let at £6B. The tithe—Bs. per acre—is
now more than the rent 72,250.009 bushels grain
shipped from New Fork last year A new journal,
the Malthusian, has been issued in London.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
iVe have been Bohemianising now for the last —
ne ver mind how many—years. We are about tired of
p In Bohemia, the shandy-gaff of youth has a
supreme sparkle, such as is never found in the Louis
Koederer of Age. The fire has died out of the eyes of
the Bacchanals; the lees of the wine are bitter, and for
us the “ beautiful city of Prague” has come a place of
crooked streets and windy garrets. It was the fantastic
haunt of lustrous-eyed, long-haired geniuses when we
were young. There was some fun in life in the days of
the consul Plancus. There is little now. Where is the
muffled drum ? Bight 1 And now for a roll—
We have seen most of the nomads at one time or
another— actors all over the world sundowners by
many a creek and burning log in the gullies of the
interior (Ugna »uper/uoco large report* ns —we appeal to
the Grammar)—gipsies on the downs and moors of the
West of England, and the great Indian corn-doctor in a
hired waggon going up George-street yesterday. And
they are not happy. They are all looking forward to
the goals of apotlieoslsed humbug or sedentary respect-
ability—a pun. or a C.M.G.-ship. For ourselves, the
desire of our heart is to be made a Judge in some
district where the libel law isn’t hampered by any of
the trammels of common-sense. After a eomplex
calculation, we find that there Is no such district
nearer than the desert of Gobi, and that all tho
intellectual cripples of Western China and the dot-
ards of the Central Asian Benevolent Asylum have
to take their turn upon the Bench first. We
must therefore wait and be content with the Vie de
Bohlmo—the sustenance of which, as an average thing,
consists of three furtive glances per diem in a restaurant
window to one precarious beer. But those are mourn-
ful thoughts. Jenny—the gay guitar. You will find
the pawn-ticket in our vest pocket. Said it was in over
a month, did he ? No matter, wa will wake the strings
to life again i
The Hudson Surprise Party has gone. After
its tour through the interior it will open in Melbourne,
from whence the party sails for 'Frisco. Hudson has
done well in Australia. If we had done half as well we
would have founded an asylum for paralytic pressmen,
and gone to live there ourselves. But the Morning
Herald office answers the same purpose. The taste of
the Australian public is shown by the success of these
variety companies and minstrel troupes. This taste,
though coming from the gods, is a little lower than the
angels. However, being smch as it is, the wonder is
that it is not catered for in better style. Each new
company comes here and dumps down its sack of old
gags and spavined jokes that had got too thin long
before Samson slew a whole Philistine variety troupe
with the jaw-bone of a judge, for passing oil one of
them upon him as an impromptu witticism. We are
tired of topical songs whose application was lost in the
flood, and corner-men gibing in the language of the
cuneiform inscriptions. Give us something that isn’t
more than a century old. And do not give us any more
vulgarities of the “Lah-de-dah” type. They are
utterly and damnably bad. Are there no new songs to
be had for money? Have “near” and “dear” and
“ love ” and “ dove " ceased to rhyme ? Give us some-
thing new, gentlemen, for we are sick unto death of
your brokeu-gummed relics of antiquity.
# # *
All this is, of course, spoken to the general.
We don’t apply it to the Hudson Surprise Party in
particular, but simply use tl at “ show" as a text. Of
uieir kind, they are certainly very good, and a greater
portion of their fun is fresher—to ns, at any rate —than is
usual with such companies. Messrs. Kennedy and
M’Carthy are unrivalled in Irish burlesque. Messrs,
Cottier and Ward are good allies. Mr, T. Hudson is
popular with the pit, as is also Mr. Fred Bark—in the
case of the latter, because inelegant inuendo is relished
more than straightforward fun Of the ladies, Miss
Burton can sing, and Mias Ada Maven cannot. Miss
Vena Beuay will never take the kingdom oi Heaven by
violins. The tears are in our sapphire eyes as we say
this, but
We cannot tell a lie, beaanso
The thing is penal.
Though we should see Da Gay decay.
And Vena venal.
* * * *
Burdett Howe opened at the Queen’s on Tues-
day night with “ Lost in the Pacific." This is a very good
play—after the butoheresque fashion. The leading
character—Haro the Savage—was cast npon a desert
island while a child. Genevieve de Astarte (Miss
Marion Willis) is wrecked there some years after, and
teaches him to speak. Previous to this he seems to
have written the play. As a savage, Mr. Howe beats
anything we have saen outside of Sussex-street. As
General de la Croix, his second character, he is worth
two Napoleona—starling. The aspirations of the wild
man, who has cammuned with Nature in her grandest
moods, ara touchingly expressed by Mr. Howa, when,
as Hero spaaking to Genevieve, he gasps out how he
loves her in his savage similes —“ I love yon better than
life,” “I love you better than" —here he stops for lack
of words. The pathos is conveyed by his mute help-
lessness. He evidently wants to say that he loves her
better than rum. This is a fine hit. But isn’t it just
as well to leave savages to the missionaries? This
would be a fair deal, inasmuch as the savages don’t
leave much of the missionarie* when they have a
chance. Which reminds us that a man who had lived
in the South Sea Islands once told ns that he had been
rewarded by a chief with two wives and a year’s supply
of yams for inventing a new missionary sauce. This
man is now on the Daily Telegraph. We always
thought he was an “ inventor.” To proceed—but a
conundrum—
Why is the stage dragged down to this
Archaic level ?
Are we to ask the devil how.
Or Howe the devil ?
* * *
Of the rest of the male characters we have not
much to say, as they are not much in themselves.
Zillo the Faithful (Mr. C. Burford) is the best among
them. His fidelity seems to consist in wearing sea-
boots that reach up to his elbows, and never changing
his linen for two years. Whes the dialogue is getting
a bit damp, Zillo streams in clad in a crimson cloak.
and looking like a fire-insurance advertisement or one
of the signs in the heavens that are to precede the
general judgment. The audience applaud, and the
interest is carried on till the next dead-wall of dullness
palls it. The Baron de Merique (Mr. J. Stark) is too
alow-spceched and deliberate to please us. For
We are not fond of finding flaws
And yet we’re in the dark
Why this man should be stiff because
He happens to be Stark.
• * •
Rodolphe de Ville (Mr. W. Arrowsmith) is not
as fine an actor as either Irving or Edwin Booth. But
if both of them were dead, he would be the best living
actor of the three. More we will not say; less wo could
not. Tito (Mr. J. P. O’Neill) is—let us see, Mr. O’Neill
is—an irascible Irishman, weighing about 14 st. Tito
is one of the cleverest comic personations, funny with-
out being foolish, foolish without being funny, and any-
thing and everything else that Mr. O’Neil wants us to
say, that we have ever seen. The distinguishing charac-
teristic of Mr. J. Sweeney’s (Captain Hypolite) and
Mr. Walton’a (Lieutenant Ethel) acting is that their
uniforms don’t fit them. Genevieve de Astarte (Miss
Marion Willis) is colourless. Paraqnette (Miss Nellie
Montague) is pretty. A farce, in which Miss Julia Hay-
ward took a prominent part, was played afterwards j
but we don’t pretend to farce-seeing.)
** * *
Miss Kate Thayer was in Qundagai on the 14th
instant. The local paper has discovered that she Is a near
relative of the poet Longfellow, That’s It—jump on a
man when he’s dead. Messrs. W. B. Chapman and
J. A. Delaney are travelling with her, and revel in the
reflected glory of poetic kinship.
** * *
John E. Reid, gasman of an American theatre
for 54 years, when he died left his head to the theatre
to be used as the skull in “ Hamlet.”
** * *
The Hyperion Party—Messrs. Cowan, Horton,
Hall, Bnckley, eto., and Mesdames Carey and Leopold —
were in Penrith on Easter Monday and did good busi-
ness. Harry Cowan’s “ Naughty, Naughty ’’ made —
says the local paper—a grand hit. What sort of a place
must Penrith be ?
** * *
Our friend Ned Thorno was playing in London
when last mail left. The Eeubreb, speaking of one of
his impersonations, says: ‘‘As a tipster he entered
thoroughly into the spirit of his duties.” Shouldn’t
this read, “ as a tapster ?”
** ♦ #
The Royal English Opera took well in New-
castle Mr. Holloway made a good start in the Bal-
larat Academy of Music, last week, with his new com-
pany Hyde’s Butterfly Troupe at Gore (Metaura).
......Muegrove’s Opera Comique has left Adelaide and
disbanded. Harwood goes to England for novelties.
** * *
Burnand’a {esthetic comedy, “ The Colonel,”
was played in the Koyal, Melbourne, to full houses
during the Easter week. Messrs Harkins, Wybert
Eeeve, Hans Phillips, Byrne, Forbes, Haroourt, Glad-
stone, and Foley, with Mesdames Blanche Stammers,
Jenny Brice, Playfair and Brandon constitute the com-
pany The Montague-Turner Company are playing at
the Bijou Mias Deakiuhaa been playing Lararillo. This
is what the Melbourne critics say of her : —” Her Laza-
rillo is the prettiest, but nevertheless most genuinely
boyish boy you may have ever seen on the stage, -t is
the Lazarillo that Wallace would have loved to see and
listen to." " Jeames” has had the Princess, but has
had to say place aux dames, asd 11 The Girls” have it......
Bent and B itohelder are doing good .business at St,
George’s HalL
** * *
There is an amateur dramatic club mKiama.
It was started to “ supply a want.” The death-rate
has been decreasing to an alarming extent, and the
undertaker was going to pull up stakes and quit. But
I since the formation of the new club he has taken two
assistants, and has had a new seat put in his pants.
On the first night of opening the olnb they modestly
contented themselves with playing “ a drama, a comedy
and a farce." The Kiama brass band, which was in full
blast all the time, took the "tragedy" in hand. As
long as wo can see the grave.digging industry encour-
aged in this manner we shall be happy.
** * *
Pollard’s Lilliputian Opera Company are still
1 at the Opera House. They are a little less vigorous and
spirited now than they were at first. It cannot be on
t aooount of the novelty wearing off, as this must have
got very threadbare months ago- Good houses all the
time. But isn’t it rather shortsighted for the Company
to run so long on a single opera. Certainly we
cannot expect as much from juvenile as from adult per-
formers, but they must not play on one perpetual string
all the time. Yet notwithstanding all this, we shall go
to see them again—when they are grown up.
* * *
“ My Partner” is still running at the Gaiety.
Has Mr. Leake also only this one play in his wallet ? It
is getting very watery now, and the sooner he lets it
out, and begins over again the better.
O Mr. Leake—we needs must sing
When sobs won’t lot us speak—
You'd flourish like a leek in Spring
If yon should spring a Leake,
** * *
i The “ World” still moves at the Royal. We
have had the flesh in “ Tambour Major.” We now
wait with the beads of cold sweat upon our brow for
the Devil. But the churches have monopolised him.
Let us pray.
♦* * *
i Miss Jennie Lee is to appear at the Princess’
! Theatre, Melbourne, on the 29th instant. Jennie’s
I season is being announced in the orthodox style. Her
i advance agent has registered a vow under the Dog Act
! that he will not wash his face until he sees the Mel-
i bourne Presbytery split up by internal discord, and the
Gospel according to John Knox rant like the veil of the
Temple, or a front pew at the Eev. Charles Strong s
joss-house. It is said that at one time Jennie
got Professor Blackie—the godliest of mathema-
ticians and the most mathematical of godlies
to urge the whole Edinburgh Presbytery to
stir their holy shanks to witness her delineation of
• •jo”—“a performance as powerful for good as the
grandest sermon ever preached." Some went some
didn’t. Those who did praised her, those who didn’t
damned her—both of which courses were as one to
Jennie. They advertised her, and she snooped the pool.
The Glasgow Bank affair occurred just then, as if by
arrangement, and the Church of the kingdom was saved
from nismembership.
* * *
We have received from Mr. G, E. Ireland a
splendid playbill, the color of which would make a
Bibbonman mad enough to drag the corpse of his
ancestor from the tomb, and run it for a Judgeship in
a rising colony. The play advertised is “ The Orange
Girl.” Mr. Ireland is travelling the country districts of
Victoria, with a combination twenty strong. If his com-
bination is as strong as the whisky sold in hotels on the
Victorian line is not, he ought to start on a theatrical
tour through Siberia—the colonies are not big enough
for him. It struck us, on first reading through the
bill, that our old friend was running a wild beast show,
and we thought of sending him over a few jurymen to
make the thing hum. But he isn’t, he is only conduct-
ing a “ Mammoth Dramatic Attraction.”
* # *
Mr. Stephen J. Byrne left Brisbane a short time
ago to'take the management of Benhomo’s Circus, now
travelling in Queensland. The circus returns to Bris-
bane in about six months, and then comes south. Mr.
Byrue is a smart fellow, and a printer—things that are
os seldom found together as Archbishop Vaughan and
John M’Elhone. During Greeley Lukin’s halcyon reign
Steve printed the Brisbane Courier, and afterwards
went in for hotel-keeping. He was proprietor of the
Brisbane, Queen’s, and Eoyal Hotels.
** * *
Johnny Hydes’ lecture in N.Z. on his “ Sta^e
Experiences" is unique. He should be made a C.M.G.,
for telling the truth. However, this reminds us that 1
people who tell the truth are not generally made
GM.G.’s. Johnny had, therefore, better stay as he is
and enjoy the respect of the community. “ Had my
father, he says, 44 been harsh with me, had he taken
mo by the collar, given me a good thrashing with the
stick he carried, and made me go home and follow the
plough, I might have been a man instead of a strolling
vagabond, as lam now. . . . The profession had, in
fact, simply come to scenery, upholstery, ‘legs,’ and
good-looking women. He was sorry to hare to say so,
but it was true. (Hear, hear.) In these days young
people, after being on the stage for two or three months
usually discovered that they had a * speciality j' they
then rushed- off to a lithographer or a photograher, and
were paraded before the public in half-a-dozen different
characters that they could never assume ; their names
were printed in large letters as those ef so-and-so, the
great specialty actors. So the young men of the present
day became specialty people and stars, and were no longer
actors.’* Then the lecturer told all about Melbourne
in *52, when the dress circle was eight shillings and
the pit five, and the audiences very select—-they drank
champagne and porter, and smoked, with their legs
hanging over the dress circle. When Charles Young
asked them to stop they would say, “ All right, Charley.
ha,ve a drink, old man,” and when ha (Mr. Hydes)
tried his persuasive powers, somebody would lower a
bottle of brandy on to the stage, accompanied by the
advice, “ Help yourself, Johnny.” He went on to show
how Melbourne ticket-takers had built rows of houses
“ with the overcharge got in money-taking;” and how
—but gentle public, vou must wait until Johnny comes
to Sydney. He'll tell you his story, doubtless, for half-
a-crown, and will give you good value for your money.
We don't want to rob Mm of his stock-indrade.
* * **
Beenleigh (Q ) was billed for “East Lynne” on
Bastec Monday by (we’ra sanding a oopy of this to Mrs.
Henry Wood) a party calling themselves the “Royal
Standard Dramatic and Operatic Company." The
troupe consisted of three full-grown males and a lady,
and the orchestra was a gentleman who played solos
first on the guitar and then on the fiddle. The first act of
“ East Lynne” consisted of “an awful funny man," a
very " still" lady, and a fellow dressed like one of tha
Georges, who said ha was a Swiss soldier. The funny
man was got up in a pair of nice tweed trousers,
a loud shirt and straw hat. He and his friends
kept talking for nearly an hour, at tha expira-
tion of which the audience wanted to know
when the first act of " East Lynpe” was going
to clow np. At length it did olaw up, whereupon act
two began with a stump oration by the music man, who
hact blacked up. Then the Thespian who was billed as
Carlyle came on, and gave a solo on the bones; Isabel
sang “I'm a Flirt;” then came the last dying speech
and confession, wMoh consisted of a nigger farce. Lord
Mount Severn forgot his dignity, and became a footman;
Carlyle was “ the man what put the virtusment in tha
paper;" Young Hare was the oomio nigger; and Mrs.
Vine, late Lady Carlyle, wa* the wife of the man “ wot
wanted a boy.” Uy this time the Beeuleighites, one of
whom saw “East Lynuc" played at Tioro, Wide Bay,
some time ago (the heroine died at Tiaro among a lot
of banana-trees), and therefore knew all about it, found
that they were “had," and let the Royal Standard
Dramatic and Operatic Company see very plainly that
Bonhamo's circus was more in their lino,
** * *
An old theatrical friend, writing from New York,
under date 12th February, sends us an interesting
budget of theatrical news. George Darrell, who, as
stated recently in these columns, had, after being
engaged by the eminent and once beautiful Fanny
Davenport to play Clauds and Romeos, had a row with
his manager, was likely to get compensation, the
management having offered to compromise. It was
possible that he and Charles Verner would arrange a busi-
ness partnership to bring stars and companies to
Australia. Our friend eontinues : ** I saw Eugenie La-
grand in Broadway yesterday. She played .Jersey city
some time ago. Her Camille was successful artistically
with Tress and public, bat there it stopped, and she has
not played since. She is struggling for afiew York city
appearance, which, if she has money and pertinacity
enough, she may eventually get. By the way, Mr.
Hector Wilson, the frisky Victorian squatter, was also
in Broadway yesterday. Louis Brabam is singmg on
Broadway, with the B. F. Minstrels, but says he hopes
to go to Australia again in the near future. Fred Lyster
is nere, doing some musical criticism for one of the
papers. He has a new electrical invention, in which he
says there's millions. He intends taking it to Australia
soon. Fred had a very beautiful young lady hanging on
his arm. She would like to see Australia, too. Frederick
is the same old Fred of yore, atm plays in “ Patience."
She is esthetic, and Fred is her sunflower. George
Fawcett Rowe, the irrepressible, talks of returning to
the land of the Southern Cross. He is evidently in the
sere and yellow here, bnt looks remarkably spruce, and,
were it not for hia grey hairs, would pass for a very gay
young man. Al. Haymau is here, business manager of
the Fifth Avenue Theatre. He stands round the door
at night, and sees that the ticket-takers don't steal
much more than 25 per cent, of the gross takings.
Old Charles Wheatloigh is out with a ‘‘Hazel kirke"
company, playing tne hard-hearted parent. The piece
is a great go here. John Jack is playing the same part
in the same piece with company No. 3—for there are
three different “ Hazel Kirke" troupes out under the
same management, doing well everywhere. Annie Fir-
man, John's wile, is idle at present.—William Gill and
Elilnor (sister to Oily) Deeriug, after struggling up-hill
lor years, are at last making money—in a piece called
“ Tha Goblins, or Fun on the Rhine," an effusion of
Billy's, after the stylo of the Troubadours' entertain-
ment. Johnny Gourlay is witn the above-mentioned
Troubadours, and is doing the same business as when
last in Australia with Nellie M'Henry, Saiabury, Web-
ster, &c.—Old Tom and Mrs. Herndon are in Canada
with their own company. I have not heard of them
since last snmmer, when they first arrived here from
South Africa, after various unpleasant experiences.
John Rogers is with Miss Minnie Palmer, aseubrette ef
the Loita type, and is doing fairly.—“ Fritz" Emmett
has kept sober for six months, and is reconciled to his
wife. He is now a very good boy, and is doing the
biggest business in the States this season, bis
share having been about £ UiOo a week all through.—
George Loyal and his wife Zlnla, after making a furore
during the last two years in circus circles, have gone to
'Frisco, en routs for Australia once more. Ho has
some biz. which should sett the country afire.—Onzxlo,
the “ King of ths Air," is, af.et a very successful time
in 'Frisco, playing in Newark, N.J. ilehasoffers from
Barnum for the forthcoming circus season.—Baker and
Farrou are on a travelling tour with their own com-
pany, last heard of In a small town in Pennsylvania,
where papers report Farron as very ill, but still play-
ing.—Sam. Rickey is here, down in his luck very badly,
lam sorry to say. Poor Sam. 1- —'Henry do Belleville,
lately from Australia, is playing at Union Square, and
is evidently much liked....Chizzola, whom you of Aus-
tralia know well, is managing Rossi, who, though a
great artist, is a financial failure here this season;
indeed, the year has been a disastrous one for many
companies. When Joseph Jeffcrron, William Florence,
John Gowens, Haverl/s Strategist Company, and
two hundred others had to come off the
road, it may be styled the worst season that
America has seen for a long time.
• * •
By the way, Charles E. Yemer sends us a line
I had my own company on the road from New England
to New Orleans and back, and under great expenses
managed to keep even, which was a marvel of luck,
considering I was a perfect stranger, running an English
piece unknown to tha masses. I left Austnlia, March
Ist, 1879, went to South Africa, opened with German
comedy, played a very successful star engagement,
giving a round of comedy and sensational drama.
Thence to England with my own Co. through pro-
vinces ; was offered in London a star engagement on
condition I played for next to nothing “to make my
name.” However, seeing that I had made money where
London stars failed, I aeclined. Went to bouth Africa
again, and once more did a big business; thence to
America, where I have played under undoubted artistic
success up to date. I leave next week for England, and
am.offered another good long engagement fer Cape
Town. Should George Darrell and I mature business
relations, we hope to be seen in Australia within a
year.
Hume and Pegrmn’s sparkling Nervine is now
largely used on the San Francisco and Orient mail
steamers. Some thousands of dozens have been
ordered for the several vessels for both the American
and outward trips. Hume and Pegrum have received
the most flattering testimonials as to
and invigorating character of their new champagne
cordial.
“THE POOR PLAYER”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrcal
profession.]
J. C. Williamson went off in a white heat from
Wellington to catch the Express from Christchurch to
Dunedin, intending to do his immortal Bobby in “ The
Pirates." Arrived there in grand time, but found
he had omitted to telegraph to Dunedin That most
wondrous of all terrestial shows, the "Dwarf and
Magnetic Lady Combination," after scooping in tor-
tunes at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Warwick, Stanthorpe,
and Boma, play back to Brisbane, thence North. “ The
Magic Lady,” Ikey informs us, "is the great draw
wherever we go." We don’t wonder at it. We’ve been
that way ourselves J. L. Byers, gave an entertain-
ment at Gnnnedah. “ O’Callaghan on his Last Legs,’’ the
pi&ee de resistance... ..St. Leon’s circus is on the Macleay
....Mr. W. G. Broadhurst assisted Mr. J.A. Delaney at
Miss Kate Thayer’s concert at Wagga, which was finan-
cially and socially a big success Williamson sues £.
W. Carey for playing Patience without permission
Miss Alioe Bees was presented with a rich wreath of
silver flowers at Dunedin Wilson takes his circus to
India, where, it is said, he has a big interest in a jungle
for tho production of wild beasts, such as wheezing
clowns, iron-j&wed women, &o “ Dr." Lynn and his
wife. Miss Amy Blanchard, are on the Hodgkinson
again. The " doctor" has had a crushing from his mine,
which, as it want Boz. Sfiwt. to the ten, pays better
than conjuring- When in Auckland, de Vivo visited
Thompson’s diorama. Tho portly Thompson espied
him among bis audience and with that eourtly manner
for which he is renowned instantly presented him with
a cigar case. The idea of being patronised by a rival
show was too much for de Vivo, who fled
D’Orsay Ogden was at latest lessee and manager of the
Theatre Boyal, Calcutta. Fred Thorne a suooess os
Titus Knob in "Taken frem Life" at the Adelphi,
London A troupe of Blondes being organised in N.Z.
They’re all young and lovely creatures. Four of
them skipped through circus hoops just about the
time dsar old Hargraves discovered gold here
Band contests raging in N.Z, ; another run on "genuine
silver and electro-plated gross.” Williamson adds
“La Mascotte” to his operatic repertoire " Georgia”
Smithson was at Wannimbool on the 10th. A Mr.
Holloway was still one of the troupe H. E. Har-
wood was to retire from the stage at Adelaide. H. B. 11.
should retire from the Melbourne and Sydney stage as
well. That would mean three benefits. Twiggez-voim ?
Full house to see Williams’ “Gems,” atTamworth. The
biggest hall in the town bolds about fifteen respectable
people The “Patienoe" Co. gave a sacred concert at
Dunedin (N.Z,). Well attended and most successful.
The olsrgy there are endeavouring to put down Sunday
entertainments, and have waited upon the Colon hi
Secretary, Mr. T. Dick Gordon Gooch, and a num-
ber of amateurs are to produce " Maritana" at Auckland
ou April 17 Carrie Godfrey proceeds by the outward
'Frisco mail from Aucklauu to her birthplace, Boston.
She was to be the recipient of a benefit before leaving.
Fred Marshall has abandoned his N.Z. trip for the
present, so wo are informed H. H. Vincent
will assume the duties of stage manager for William-
son, Garner, and Go., at the Melbourne Boyal, July Ist...
Gunnedah sent (for the most part) larrikins to patronise
Mr. J. L. Byers. They behaved most extraordinarily.
By the way, Gnnnedah has long had a bad
name from pros. The train leaves there in the
middle of the day ..." Pinafore" was produced
at Dunedin, N.Z., by Williamson, with tho follow-
ing oast: —Alice Bees, Josephine j Maggie Moore,
Buttercup; Bessie Boyal, Hebe; Sir Joseph, Vernon;
Backstraw, Beaumont; Corcoran, Verdi; Boatswain’s
Mate, J. S. Porter; Deadeye, T. W. Holland. Porter,
who made his debut with Towle’s amateur opera class,
has been engaged by Williamson, who intends to have
him thoroughly trained in operatic business J. W.
Marshall, A. J. Campbell, and C. St. Clair have been
performing with a minstrel show formed in Auckland.
...Dick Kohler’s Waxworks still at West Coast towns,
N.Z......The Mastodon Minstrels (Lewis’s) are now
playing at Dunedin, N.Z. They did fair biz. in Wol.
lington, and received some rough criticism from tho
press for their so-called dramatic productions J. C.
Williamson’s "Patienoe” season at Dunedin, N.Z, was
a big success, but be made a mistake, it is said, in with-
drawing the eesthetic ojera and running "Pirates" so
long. The Company opened at Christchurch on March
29, to only a fairly-good house, hue the audiences were
large afterwards Jem Mace, assisted by Arthur
Elliott, Dillon, Welsh, and L. M'Gowau, played at the
Auckland Boyal lor six nights. The houses averaged
about £l6 a night Gaylord, who was in Aus-
tralia with Cole, intends bringing a Circus
and Menagerie over from America in November
The genial Grattan Biggs has been keeping the wolf
from the door as usual in the big Victorian towns
Club to N.Z Frank Towers says he is doing “ a mag.
nificeut business at the Diamond Fields, South Africa."
We like to hear the news, but when he tells us that
" tho diggers frequently stopped his performance by
pelting diamonds at his troupe," we’re inclined to ask
what sort they were—that is, were they blue, and did
the throwists" get three or six months. We’re sorry
to hear that Prank is leaving the diamonds behind him,
and coming to Australia about August. This is Frank’s
postscript. N.B.—Bcsa wai offered three parts of Zulu-
iand to remain, but it appears tho original owners
ora " not agreeaule. so we’ll soon be in Meloourae."
The reason why Williamson’s "Struck Oil" Co. did
not visit Auckland was that Da Lias wanted £IOU a
week for the theatre. Pomeroy Co., ditto Bur-
ton’s circus did fairly at Dunedin. Still the same
old "Dick Turpin’s Bide to York." The show was to
open at Christohuroh on April 15 Charming Emilio
Melville and her company were a great success at New
York Macoabe played to very big houses in Tas-
mania Smith has got the Tasmanians with " Pina.
foro." It’s a little too thin, however. Jamas, to bo
giving farewell performances The Gympio papers
intend to kill all pros, who do not "part"
liberally for printing or advertising. This is
another way of saying that the Gym pie papers intend
to eulogise as usual At latest, Haselmayer was about
opening at Oooktown prior to his departure for Batavia.
Cooktown amateurs put on " Aladdin, tho Wonder-
ful Scamp," in good style for two nights
Miss M. Blank has red hair, and gets very wild when
addressed in the language of Maoneth: "Never shako
your gory looks at me." Stanislaus Bercewvicz, said
to be the beat living violinist, is en route to the colonies.
A Melbourne paper lately mentioned that a certain
singer’s voice was “ as harsh os ever " at a reoeut local
concert. As a matter of fact, the singer didn’t appear
on that evening That prettiest of actresses and old
favourite of the Australian public, Eleanor Carey
(Mrs. Livingstone), has just been engaged by
a very little boy to do cradle-rocking acta
W. H. Thompson benefited at Christohuroh, N.Z., on
23rd March, when he gave away a buggy and hors9...Tha
Austrian Band drew fairiy large audiences at Wellington.
They or* now playing at the Christchurch Exhibition.
At a meeting of B. W. Cary’s creditors in Welling-
ton, a statement was submitted showing that Cary had
taken up " The Pirates," for which he paid £4OO for the
right of production for eight months. The receipts for
tho performance of this in N.Z. were £6031 lls. 6d.;
expenses, including £4OO paid for the right to play, also
salaries and travelling expenses, were £6272 18s. Id.,
which meant a loss of altogether £l9l 6s. 7d. With a
hope of recouping himself, Cary organised a Juvenile
"Pirates” company but again there had been a loss,
the actual receipts being £163 17s. 7d., and the expenses
£707 4d. Besides this, Mr. Ashtou had received 60 per
cent, of the proceeds. The total loss on both ventures
was £643 13s. 7d. Cary had received nothing whatever
except his bare expenses Harry Power's Esthetic
Party were to make their ddbdt at the Gaiety, Christ-
church (N.Z.), on April 10, opening day of the Ex-
hibition. He has issued a pamphlet under the title
“ Harry Power’s Scrap Book," in which a short account
of his own career as an actor is given in humorous
form, together with a number of amusing theatrical
anecdotes..... Max Strakosch, the American impressario,
is now travelling a company, of which Madame Etelka
Gerster is the prima donna, through the larger cities in
the United States. After a season in ’Frisco, he will,
acting on the advics of Signor De Vivo, send Madame
Gerster and a quartette party of first-class vocalists to
Australia, They will proceed to Melbourne, opening in
July or August next, under the management of De
Vivo.
At the Nelson (N.Z.) Eacea there were two
nasty spills, and Handemar, the boy who rode Jones’s
Maid of Honour, had to be brought in, tho horse coming
a crusher into one of the hurdles, and rolling over. The
animal died in a short time. The boy was not much
hart.
Good friends, we know not whence we came.
But guess to where we go,
And know we get there just the same
By running fast or slow.
Therefore, when we are dead, we want
No tears for us to flow,
But on our graves a grape-vine plant
And sing a psalm, and go.
Bury with us a pipe, and sea
Good weed is there also —
Matches you needn’t mind for wo
Can get a light below.
Tho lives of seedy sinners and
White-chokered jokers
Have end. Tho golden bowl is broke.
And wo aro brokers.
Against the wear and tear of Time
What use to struggle f
We cannot now the beer-jug drain,
Howe’er we juggle.
In Life’s game, even at our best,
We’ve been but Ankers,
And one of these flue mornings Death
Gets up and euehres
Us and our little plots and plans.
And stops the revel.
And joins the shaven actor’s play—
To play the devil.
No more in our shirt-fronts the dart
Of Love may rankle.
As easy by an anchor charmed
As by an ankle
Are we. Hallo! There goes a girl
To Number Seven.
Hush. Now she lifts her dross, O joy !
A foot like Heaven.
As we were saying women are
Not worth a penny—
Whose arms are those around us ? Ah!
Delicious Jenny


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Rev. Dr. Hughes, the Freethought lecturer,
who now occupies the boards of the Sydney Theatre
Boyal on Sunday evenings, was formerly a priest of the
Church of England at Maryborough, Queensland. He
had quarrelled with his Bishop, and, fairly starved out
of Maryborough, was starting by steamer to Rock-
hampton, when a big butcher came aboard and loudly
demanded settlement of “ that account.” The little
Dr. remonstrated. He represented his unfortunate
circumstances and situation. He would pay as soon as
he had means. The big butcher was implacable.
“Come ashore, you little beggar,” he said, “andby
blood and bones I’ll take it ent of yoor hide.” The
small ecclesiastic meekly submitted, permitted himself
to be hustled along the gang-way and on to the wharf,
and, when arrived there humbly took off hia coat and
gave that butcher the most scientific display of plain
and fancy boxing ever seen in the Wide Bay district.
The rev. gentleman had studied something besides
theology at Cambridge, and the name of his professor
was Nat. Langham! When the by-standers finally
picked up that big batcher he looked like half-a-side of
his own beef.
Which reminds us that the late George Selwyn, D.D.,
Bishop of Lichfield, knocked down, when a missionary
bishop, the captain of a vessel who insulted him by
swearing disgustingly in his presence, and Dr. Temple,
the present Bishop of Exeter, seems also to be a disciple
of muscular Christianity. At a meeting over which his
lordship recently presided, a row commenced, and he
ordered the ohief-constablo to stop it. Instead of doing
so that gentleman asked how it was to be done, on
which his lordship said that if ha were in the police-
man’s position he would soou show him how to do his
duty. Tho Church scores!
• • •
It is related of a certain prominent Undertaker,
that when on one occasion he had to conduct a funeral,
he proposed, same day, to the widow of the dear de-
parted. She replied that she would have liked him
very well but for the fact that he was too late. “ Too
late 1” echoed the astonished cherry-case proprietor—
“why, how’s that?" “Well, you see, I’m already
engaged to the man that came to measure him.”
# • •
A somewhat curious scone was witnessed the
Other evening, when three exuninisters of religion
(ftllly ordained clerics of dominant denominations,
mind yon), all of them jolly dogs, met by accident at a
lading Sydney hotel, and drank whisky together for
several hours, talking the while of everything but
theology. m
Bishop Barker is dead, and this is how some of
tho newspapers chronicle the fact. One print an-
nounces that the Bishop “ has received the inexorable
summons,” a second that he has been “ called from onr
midst,” a third, that he has been “ beckoned to his
toward," a fourth that ho has “ ceased his work in tho
vineyard.” Some ©f the other expressions are:
“Ceased from his labours,” “called to Paradise,”
“Joined the blessed,” “admitted to the triumphant
Jlowship,” “gone ©ff to his reward, “sighed to bo
Hth his better-half.” Some put the mysterious talis-
man “ E.1.P.” after tho announcement. Hardly one
/published the fact that the respected Prelate is dead.
There is a great deal of difference between this simple
■tatement and the unauthorised announcement made
bv a religions newspaper that he has “ gone to Zion."
1 # * *
Sir John went for the Herald by way of re-
laxation; he tumbled into the; water at Circular Quay
through tea. If tea and relaxation produce such re-
sults, what would exasperation and whisky do t
9 9 •
Order of things. Ist. The Tell prints furious
article on tho Demoniac Destroyer, the Gigantic
Juggernaut, the Savage, Snorting Slaughterer of tho
Siosby Street. 2. Tram once more aausageizes. 3.
Next day, Yell leader commences: “Again has tho
Insatiable Monster slaked his thirst,—this time in the
blood of one who, but yesterday the respectable and
energetic father of 99 children, lies, as we write, in a
gory quivering quagmire, a more mass of palpitating
pulp.” 4. Trams run as usual, and horseflesh hasn't
Superseded steam.
* * *
We regret to hear that no change has taken
place in the oendition of Mr. John Smith, whose state
Of health has for some time past been such as to cause
bonsiderablo anxiety to his friends.
• • •
A jovial publican went into a shaving saloon at
Charters Towers, and the barber being out, shaved
himself. He was just taking a final look in the glass
■then a swell Chinaman entered, and clapping him on
the back with tho graceful ease that can only be at-
tained by a Mongolian of large affluence, said, “ Yon
Shavee me, quick, welly smooth,” and flopped down,
with the air of a man who had ordered an eclipse or an
earthquake, and knew it would come. Boniface had
never shaved a man in his life, but before yon could
say “ Great Thady I” he had the soap slopped on to the
Upturned face, and rubbed in nearly to the bone. Then
he selected a razor—it happened to be one kept by the
barber for his patrons to out their corns with—and lay-
ing this high-olass instrument on the strop with a
pressure of abeut a ton to the square inch, he com-
menced operations. One scrape made John think he’d
been scalped on the jaw, but the second beaded red
spots on him like splashed jam
The suffering Chinee, with a yell of agony, rose from
his chair, spluttering soap and blasphemy. ....
When it was all over, John went home and sharpened a
carving-knife.
• * *
The conjugal condition of the people in Victoria
is the head piece of the latest work by Statistical
Hayter. Things have come to a pretty pass when that
kinp of matter is worried up in the census. What
condition will he in quire into next ?
9 9 9
A person writing to the Daily Telegraph
about tho missing ship, Min-y-don, says Captain Leslie
Would have been all right if he had had a Jury rig to
tarry him into port I Things are so different at sea.
There was a jury rigged for us, and it carried us into
gaol.
Which reminds us that “Two of the staff of the Sydney
toxin Telegraph killed a carpet snake at Balmoral on
* ; Monday." They shared it between them.
* • *
want to kill an afternoon, said Jones'
to Ye Fayre,” said Brown. “ D Ye Fayre,”
Tones. Brown, churchwarden, looked up to
Heaven and down to Hell, and groaned in all his vitals.
Jones said it again however, and this in addition:
“ You want to build a ohnroh, eh ? I want neither fair
nor church. I want a house to eat, and drink, and
sleep in; I build it and pay for it. Yon want a church
to yowl and whine in. Yon build it, and do yon pay for
it, or do you go cadging all round the town, or swind-
ling half the population by the painted darlings of the
fayre ?’’ Jones is simply a blasphemous man, and will
never tread tho pavement of the Cathedral City while
the parsons hold the keys.
* • •
“ Now that is what I call a picture,” muttered a
man who was gloating over the portrait of a semi-nude
soubrette in a George-street photographer’s window
And he was a revered elder of a suburban church and a
subscriber to the Protestant Standard.
• • •
" I'm leaving thee, my mother dear,
Another claims mo now,”
writes a poet in a country paper. But he conceals the
fact that he was leaving for the local look-np under the
vagrancy clause of the LicsnsingjAot.
* • *
Catholic father of sick child: “ Oh, my poor
boy, what will Ido if ye die I ” Protestant mother-lm-
law: “ Oh, John, don’t fret; trust in Providence.”
Father (indignant at the invocation of a Protestant
power): “ Providence be damned 1 I’ll trust in the
Virgin Mary.”
• • •
It is a fashionable thing now to throw open
drawing-room windows in the cool of the evening and
pose domesticity. Old Rig-the-Market sits reading the
Bible, and Mrs. E. reclines comma il faut, The children
sit with their arms around each other's necks, Selina
iEols the zither, oosmetiqned Adolphus lets the sound
of music creep into his ear, and looks out on the dis-
tant staws, yon know —while all the time the French
governess is down in the kitoken roasting an onion or
hunting for a cold potato.
• « »
The way in which the Americana summed up our
great Mokanna is the latest proof of their perceptive
genius. They said Sir Henry had a good colony, “ a
pronounced English accent,” and “ an imposing appear-
ance.” These latter are certainly the two “pints”
which distinguish tho Parkes frog from the ordinary
frog. Tho Yankees have really given onr Hemperor
very little credit.
The old style. Time 1 a.m. “ Drink up lads,
I want to get to bed." The lads drink up, tumble out
and make away for horns and start along; meet six
policemen who say “Fwhat the Devil areyonblasfaming
at? It’s myself will quieten you, me boys. Help me,
Mike. Help me Dinnis, and hit that thafe wid your
baton till he tares your jumper convaniently.” Six con-
victions in the morning of “ drunkenness, and crimes
that may be directly attributed to drunkenness.” Vide
bine-book. Under the new. Time—2 a.m. Forty
people in a back room drinking. “We waat to get home,
publican.” Can’t open the door, the police are watch-
ing.” Result, twenty men hopelessly drunk at six in
the morning; useless all day to God, man, or devil,
but no convictions in the coart, and consequently kudos
to the new Bill.
• • •
Pitt-street, Redfem, is pavsd with banana skin,
the orange peel having given out. Repairs are executed
with portions of the scalps of ratepayers.
* * *
History repeats itself. A puny, hungry imbe-
cile shot at the Queen. He was seized by two stalwart
officials, and while securely held a son of Sir Samuel
pounded him with an umbrella. The toadies of the
world have spoken of the boy’s action as heroism.
We beg to style it cruelty to animals and to suggest
that it wonld have been fitly requited by a little of the
time-honoured Eton birch. That is the present. His-
tory dealeth with the old Sir Samnel. He was measur-
ing out small pints of floor one night, when a traveller
“pinched” a fig of tobacco. Two stalwart boundary,
riders gripped him and Sir Samnel hammered him so
reundly with the pannikin that it never held half as
much again, and is kept on the station as a relio—and a
measure—till this day.
• • *
Some northern settlers keep two or three black
boys, provide them with rifles and ammunition, and
give them a bottle of ram for each aboriginal’s nose
they bring in.
• • •
The Herald is gradually sliding into
“personal” journalism. But our staid old con-
temporary wants a little practice to give her grace.
Last Saturday she abruptly dived into the sacred
privaoy of the King of Siam, and gave the result to her
readers. The royal oriental blackguard is wont, we
learn, to rest his corrupt anatomy en a gigantic four-
poster. “An immense sideboard and the state bed-
stead are special objects of interest, tho latter appear-
ing to be three huge bedsteads combined in one, the
centre being raised several feet above the beds adjoin-
ing on either side.” From this simple yet enthralling
story it will at once be seen that the Herald is a
delightfully domestic little paper. The allusion to
“the beds adjoining on either side” is absolutely
intolerable, and mast have crept in while the editor
was at church, or flirting with the pretty girl at the
opposite comer. No father of a family should now be
without the Herald.
• # •
TTia Grace the Archbishop made a purchase at
each of the stalls in Paddy’s Market last week. This
is the game of solitaire —never let your left hand know
what the right hand doth, but bo everlastingly certain
that yon lose nothing by either.
Rigbye is the name of the secretary of the
Garden Palace Fayre. It is certainly an old English
name, and baa the bulge on the names of the secretaries
of tho St. Mary’s Fayre, Heller and Mahony. These
latter should, at least, be Anglicised into Hellflre and
Mahogany.
• • •
The Mormon question is exciting particular
attention just now, and was descanted on last Sunday
in a fashionable Sydney church. However, a good deal
of inoonsistency marks the attitude of not a few who
condemn the polygamous position. The crime con-
sists, you see, not in a man keeping a lot of women, but
in marrying them. When Joe Smith claims to “act
square,” and binds himself to provide for his mistresses
in their old age. as well as in their lamb and salad
epoch—in their hay-bag day as in their heyday—then it
is that public opinion comes down on him. Now is that
right? Before throwing stones at Utah polygamy,
wouldn’t it be just as well to put up one's own
shatters ?
• • •
Jack Robertson on Parkes: “ Oh, he't not
coming back. He’s going to wait until he’s a widower,
and then marry the Queen !’’
* • *
At Rockhampton, seventeen or eighteen years
ago, there was an Anti-Shouting Society. The penal-
ties of membership were £5 for the first, and £lO for
each subsequent offence against the rules. The chief
promoter and secretary, however, soon became bank-
rupt. He could neither stand the fines nor resist “a
shout.” So it was decided to wind up the concern, and
the accumulated funds of three months were officially
expended in one big drunk. Some of the old members,
however, still partly stick to tho principles of the
society. They never by any means “ shout ’’ fer a
friend, and if they don’t drink at the expense of other
people, it’s because they’re never asked.
# • *
Our Premier visits this week the iron capital of
Warwickshire. Brummagem meets Brummagem.
• • •
A well-known Civil servant went to engage
a domestic at Wise’s Emporium. He catechised one
pretty girl, and her answers were favourable *nd flat-
tering. “ Yon appear to be exactly what I want, but
tell me, did you never kiss the blarney-stone ?” “ No,
sir.” “ That’s a pity.” Afraid this defect would mar
her prospects of engagement, she blurted out, “ Would
it do av I kiss verself instead ?’*
• • •
A lean, lank, and knavish tabernacle of gospel
and peace arrived at a station np North on a skinny nag»
sorefooted and worn out, ia carrying suoh a pile of holi-
ness. No gentle hint could induce him to start in further
search of sin—though, by tho way, an impious station
hand averred that his reverence was prospecting
rather for gilt than guilt. A small boy, tho terrible
infant of the homestead, was, however, master of the
situation. " Why don’t yon git ?’’ asked the youngster.
“ Get what F my little man,” enquired tho missionary.
" Why, git out,” replied Jumbnck, junior—“ my papa
says you’re a loafing old rascal, and mamma says when*
ever she sees you she thinks of the devil.” He gat.
* * •
Unco Orthodox, having put the anathema on
Moorhouse and Co., and declared that prayer is an
answerable commodity, by all means let ns be orthodox,
and set about petitioning for ability to be shed on the
Herald staff, for the right use of the aspirant lon Parkes,
truth on tho constabulary, justice on tho Bench, clean
hands on aldermen, and some soupyon of fun on Sydney
Punch.
In Maryborough (Q.), a fascinating young mili-
tary officer gives the girls a treat by riding on horseback
down the main street every afternoon. It’s a peculiar
fact in optics, that though the angle at which he car-
ries hia nose precludes him from recognising male ac-
quaintances, yet he never misses the girls. One
evening, as the fiery steed oaracolled down Adelaide*
street, two young ladies came out of a fashionable shop,
and the gay militaire commenced to gently tickle his
charger’s offside with one spur, with a view to effect.
It was then that the unsympathetic animile, putting its
head down, “hoisted" behind, and, landing the mili-
tary hero at the ladies* feet, trotted off with the air of
a beast that had done a virtuous action —
He looked so nice, as down the street,
Hia war-horse prancing went 5
His whole get-up was most complete.
He was a handsome gent.
But though in dress so faultless, he
In riding was unskilled;
Lord! how those two girls laughed to see
The gay lieutenant spilled!
• « •
It ia said that the Roy. F. Davis, C.E., and Mr.
E. L. Harvison, of the Moettya Ex wisn are going to
law. We really don’t like to see a minister of God's
church having anything to do with a lawyer. It looks
like a compact between Heaven and Hell.
• • •
In the Herald, the other day, appeared the
following unique notice (price, five shillings, cash, on
the nail)“ BLANK.—February 20, at her residence,
Blank-street, blank town, Mrs. Thomas Blank, of a
daughter, stillborn. “The Lord gave, and the Lord
hath taken away) blessed be the Name of the Lord;’
The fellow who put this in ia evidently thankful for
■mall mercies.
• • •
Baly of Charlecot, who for some incomprohon-
sile breason conceives himself a poet, thus shrieks in
the Nooee :
Take courage then, forget the past,
The follies you deplore :
And to that grand refrain hold fast,
“ Excelsior! excelsior I ”
Oh I poor Baly, unfortunate Baly, we can’t refrain froiil
suggesting to you the propriety of following the suit of
your Halifax kinswoman who (as yon may remember)
hung herself by her garters. Suicido, swift, by strangu-
lation, any day, before the slow torture of evolving
balderdash by the yard. Yet advice is lost on poets !
Who shames a scribbler f Break one cobweb through,
He spins the slight self-pleasing thread anew,
Destroy his wretched verses—all in vain.
The creature’s at his foolish task again:
Throned on the centre of his thin designs.
Proud of a vast extent of flimsy lines.
9 9 •
Czar to get his crown in August. The harp a little
later on. Dynamite.
* • *
He was about to return to his birthplace, to be
received with honours in the town whence he had de-
parted long years ago. For an hour he sat writing in
his pocket-book. Then he ro*e, stared into the mirror,
winked knowingly at it, and strolled out into the air.
The parlour-maid, coming in soon after, glanced at the
carelessly-left-open pocket book and read: —
Mem. To enquire if there’s a Statute of Limitations
in Warwickshire.
Mem, To road aloud every day, “The hot haricot held
highly elevated heats the horny hand.”
Mem. To gradually cool John Davies off, and defy him
to tell all he knows about me.
Mem. To discover whether I really am the offspring
of my parents, or was changed in youth, being
the child of handsome nobility.
M«m. To arrange details for a big recaption on my
return, and to have a testimonial thrust on me.
To study Cromwell’s refusal of the Crown for
effect.
Mem. To watch how they manage to feed from the
fork instead of the knife.
• • •
If he contemplated robbery, or if he thirsted for
revenge, will probably never be known, but this is cer-
tain, that at one of the clock he came beneath the
window of the room wherein sleepeth Dillon, S.M., and
he prized it up an inch and looked in, but made no
attempt to enter. Dillon ia bad enough on the Bench,
but in bedgear, with a lighted candle and a yawning
revolver he is very terrible.
• • •
“ Nobby Hall” of Lithgow, had been sitting in
circle in company with three-quarters of a gallon of
colonial ale, which he had encompassed. He became a
speaking medium, and was under the control of adefunct
member of Parliament who used to reside up Goulburn
way, so his epithets, directed at host Gray’s daughter,
were not within the range of “ wholesome fun." The
sceptical father ejected Nobby, who trod upon his own
fibula, io. his own leg, and broke the small bone. Ho
sued Gray for lotting him off so easly, and Judge Wil-
kinson actually declared Gray justified in protecting
his daughter from Nobby’s filthy garbage.
Judge Wilkinson, by the way, is to have sick-
leave. Had he been a Supreme Court Judge, he might
long since have had “ leave to be sick.*’
• • •
She was fresh and dainty, and cast quite a
gladness around the Mittagong railway platform as she
mincingly tripped from the train towards the refresh- 1
ment saloon. But she came out in a minute as black as
a thundercloud, and her [ravishing nosetip was tilted
up at a barber’s-pole angle of scorn. The lessee of the
refreshment-room held the key to the mystery, which
may be interpreted by relating the following converSSa
tion that had taken place between the pair t— Lady
(with ravishing smile) : “Will you kindly lend me n
plate, a knife, a glass, and direct me to the water-foun.
tain?" Lessee (struck comical): “Fray, why?” Lady
(confidingly): “ You see, I brought up a tin of sardines
from Sydney; we want a knife to open the tin, a plate
to empty its contents upon, and the glass of water to
complete our lunch." Lessee (sarcastically): “Would’nt
you like some hot rolls, or thin bread and butter to
accompany the plate, and a spare waiter or two to carve
the sardines ?” Lady (gratefully): “You are too kind."
Lessee: “ Then, perhaps you’ll tell me how I’m to pay
£lOOO a year for the lease of these rooms.” Lady •
“Well, I’m sure—(sniff) —yon low creature —(snort) —
you horrid, impertinent man—(grunt)—the bare
ide-e-oh!’’ and away she flounced.
• • •
Considering that “ram,” “jam,” “cram,”
and “ damn," all rhyme with “ tram," one wonld think
there ought to be an opening for Meaden,the Victorian
poet laureate —who’ll be over here next week —to indite
an ode to Goodchap.
POSTMASTER BROWN.
The Minister sat in his spring-cushioned chair.
And a shadow of trouble was seen on his brow;
For his wonted quiescence was ruffled by care.
And a cloud hovered o’er tho political prow.
Oh I sad that impertinent people should rise
To question the actions of Postmaster Brown;
Oh 1 monstrous that any bold journalist's cries
Should be raised to pat Cabinet Ministers down.
And as, ill at ease, he reflected and groaned.
His nose was assailed by an odour of rum.
And an army of scarecrows came round him and
moaned—
“ To demand tho recall of your edict, we come.”
Then the Minister started, though outwardly calm,
And his failing heart beaded his forehead with dew,
For while ha smelt symptoms ef raspberry balm.
He sniffed bad tobacco and saveloys too.
His instinct was keen, and he quickly divined
That those journalists wretched had brought him to
bay;
So, before they oonld give him too mnoh of their mind,
Ha mumbled a a promise, and bade them “Good-day.”
Now he wants to back ont of his foolish deoree.
And again bring the price of press telegrams down ;
For he and all others, too plainly can sea
That a certain gay Major tooled Postmaster Brown.
• • •
A done-up swagman who was about to become a
patient of a Northern hospital, asked the nurse—" Do
many die here P ” “ Loads on 'em,” was the consoling
reply.”
Petrarch to Laura.
I love thee, bewitching dear girl,
Biddy Jones;
I love thee, divinest of girls,
For thy hair (auburn tint)
Is like gold from the Mint—
It sets my brain all in a whirl.
Giddy girl.
When thy tresses are out of the curl.
They say thou’st a drunken mamma,
Biddy Jones,
And thy deep cursing father dost rue,
Though thy name’s so prosaic,
And thy dress so archaic.
And thy style “ quite too utterly.too ”
It is true ?
Je t’aime lien, ma petite bijou.
Thy eyes are a soft hazel brown,
Biddy Jonss,
And thou’st put by a deal of bright pelf j
Though the bloom on thy cheek
Like the peach—so to speak—
And thou’lt very soon be on the shelf,
Like Miss Guelph ;*
Yet I love thee, sweet girl, for thyself.
There’s a mole on the tip of thy nose,
Biddy Jones,
There’s a little moustache on thy lip.
I would kneel at thy feet.
For thy love—oh my sweet!
But thy pa’s boots have got a steel tip—
His stockwhip
Can stretch twenty feet at a clip.
So I must say good bye to thee, dear,
Biddy Jones;
An earnest good-bye, love, to the*—
To thy manners so chaste.
To thy thirty-inch waist,
And thy parents’ pretty nice cups of tea,
So they be;
So, my sweet precious girl*—-E.I.P.
* This cannot be treason.


BRIEF MENTION.
The Old Irish Fay re—Paddy’s Market.
Butter ia now used for oart-grease. Also for
press criticisms at Wollongong.
Motto for the Board of Healths “Arma virum-
que oano " (arms and the virus I sing).
The encampment is broken np. Scores of
heroes are returning to the cemetery I
A traveller by ooaoh and rail from Queanbeyan
to Sydney beat a telegram by three hours.
The Charters Towers town clock ia being adver-
tised for sale cheap. Here’s a ohanoe for Sydney.
What Lewis Soott said in the Calcutta Tea
Tent: “ The fair ladies who are dark are in the dark in
the fayre ”
Chesterfield used to say, “Never walk fasti
a gentleman is never in a hurry.” The Lands Office is
full of gentlemen.
David Buchanan says he believes in prayer.
There’s still hope for David. We’re glad to find he’s
not ” past praying."
Victorian constables arc not allowed to join
secret societies. We should like to know the society
onr own Mahood is now secretly enjoying.
In his speech on Monday night, Mr. Berry men-
tioned that rope-yarn was protected in free-trade Now
South Wales. This is for tho benefit of local talent.
He was an old offender, and the beak was an old
stager.” “You’ll grant me bail, of course." said the
prisoner. “ Oh, yes;’’ said the J.P. “ baal gammon 1 ”
Northern papers make very peculiar announce-
ments sometimes. Here is one. “ Mr. still keeps his
room with his leg.” Against what ? Bailiffs per-
baps.
Burglars entered the Sheriff’s office in Mel-
bourne, and stole 20 yards of patent suspension rope.
The hangmau smiled, and wont to see whether his stock
was safe.
Talmage begins a sentence in hia lecture on
Newspapers with the statement, “ a literary man haa
an idea.” But then he never met any of the Howl
staff.
“Travels in Siberia,” now appearing in a cer-
tain Sydney journal, from “our own correspondent,’’
are written on the back of a Pyrmont batcher’s greasy
handbill.
When Mr. Speaker reprimanded an hon. mem-
ber for using unparliamentary language, viz,, “ that
you can’t shoot a pig without slugs," ha clearly meant
that Jack was a boar.
It is high time that tho Touting Commissioners
for affidavits were warned away from the poroh landing
to the Insolvency Court. Their personal appearance is
by no means ornamental.
When last Sir James Martin waa in office hia
colleagues were political cyphers, and mere serfs of
their ohief. Hence the old political ” gag” : — 11 Tea,
Sir James, yos Sir James.”
- A certain looal doctor, amongst other alpha-
betical combinations tacked ou to his name, nath
“L.A.H.D.” This, we presume, intimates that he
practices in lahdedah circles.
Wo wonder what the poor simple-minded fisher-
men would have thought of all this bother about
"Lord Bishops I” Fancy “Lord Paul," "Lord
Peter,” and the “ Right Reverend Judas Iscariot!”
“ There thou art Queen Victoria, the good dis-<
penser of life-giving laws which all tho Maori people
possess,” wrote the Maori Synod as they brandished the
summonses served on them in the Waimate troubles.
“ Now, which of you boys oan do anything; that
1 f cannot P” asked Professor Pepper of a Brisbane
school-boy." I oan, sir," answered a future Queen’s-
assassin-thrasher. “ What is it ?” 11 Fly a kite, sir."
One of tho questions put every month to the
guards on the Victorian Railway is: “Do you aver
notice the trains run unsteadily ?“ Now, isn’t this a
mean way of getting the poor devils to criminate them-
selves P
A country paper tells of a wonderful escape its
reporter had from drowning in the Murrumbidgee the
other day. This is another illustration of the old saw,
“Those who are born to be editors will never be
drowned.”
The Paris correspondent of the Weekly Hier-
archy has changed his place of residence from Woolloo-
mooloo Bay to North Shore. A man’s letters have
more of the right foreign flavour after passing over in
the ferry-boat.
Ballarat keeps to the Major, and the Major
keeps to Ballarat; and therefore the principles of
Protection are suited to Victoria—more so, indeed,
than when he (the Major) was chairman of the Free-
trade League.
When a fellow goes into a Townsville shop for a
suit of clothes, he is shown a flannel shirt and a pair of
moleskin trousers, and gets a hint from the shopman
to the effect that it is now fashionable at Cleveland
Bay to wear boots.
Sinoe the arrival of Governor Kennedy at his
country residence on tho Darling Downs, selectors have
been busily engaged shingling their cows in order to
keep the water out of the milk. “ Sir Arthur is not to
be ‘had’ for chalk.”
A cordial maker in Rockhampton, named
Walker, took sulphuric acid in mistake lor syrup—in
fact poisoned himself syruptitiously. They have no
syrup about the papoers there, or some- body|else’s
name would be Walker.
At Young, a jury in a sheep-stealing ease
couldn’t agree, after deliberating five hours. Judge
said they would be locked up for the night. Then, iu
teu minutes, they found prisoner guilty. “ Wretches
hang, that jurymen may dine."
Mr. F. J. Fowler, Postmaster at Cowra, was
tho recipient of somo nioo presents last Friday ; he is
going to Murrumburrah. We would give nice presents
to every postmaster in the colony, if they would all send
our Bulletins straight through.
There was a man (says the Daily Telegraph)
committed for trial ou Monday morning for ‘ inflicting
grievous bodily harm” on another. THe prisoner had
road the whole of two Telegraph “leaders” to pro-
secutor while the latter was fasting.
Samuel Barns was lately sent to the Lunatic
Asylum by the Queanbeyan Bench as a man of “ un-
sound mind, and incapable of taking care of himself."
It was discovered that he had been for some time a
subscriber to the Queanbeyan Times.
The treatment of the Jews in Russia occupies
many columns of tho Times. “ Our treatment by the
Jews here interests me more,” mutters Brown, as
Isaac's man brings around the furniture van to his door
and oarts away the marital four-poster.
In Logan Village (Q.) resides a padre whose
patronymic is remarkable for its length. “ Soorteohini "
is apparently too much for his parishioners, who have
crushed it down to “ Scotch"—" Father Sootoh”— to
suit their lingo, which isn’t very choice Italian.”
Tho Vag., in tho S.F. Newsletter, re our
Licensing Bill:—“It matters not to ns who have our
clubs, Ac., but to the poor man who cannot obtain a
bottle of ginger-beer on Sunday it is an infamy.” Now
the working-man can get ginger-beer and —colic.
The N.Z. Clipper says that “the elastic-
skinned man” will shortly visit Australia. He’ll be in
great request at the Town Hall. Some of the aldermen
want a lip which will enable them to eat a little more
without getting a “ skinful” so soon as they do
now.
In re fair damo of Calcutta stall: —
There is a fair dame of Calcuttah,
Who puts the men’s hearts in a fluttah
Her dress is intense.
And her bangles immense.
But her nose-rings too ut tahly uttah.
It waa in the suburbs. He was laying the foun-
dation stone of his new bakery. Holding aloft a fizzing
lemonade, he exclaimed in splendid Dutch : “In de
naim of de krate argidekt of de Univairse I broclaim
de fo undash un- shdone of dis baighkery veil und drooly
laid,”
Oscar Wilde declares that dust should never
be removed from objects of vertu, because “it is the
bloom of time.” If Osoar “did" Brickfield Hill while
a southerly buster was doing a blow, he’d be likely to
have such a blooming time of it as to make him change
his mind.
The Qundagai Intelligencer notifies that
“ there is on view in Mr. Watson’s window a very fine
bride-cake made for tbe nuptials of Mr. Jamas Simmers.”
With the eye of faith we behold the bridegroom come at
dusky eve, stand before that cake, and let his mouth
water as it listeth.
John Plomer, the Wagga schoolmaster, will
never again be abroad. He has gone into the show
business, and baa a contract to appear once on an early
date, in " Forget-me-knot." It’s hard, of course, to
joke about a man who’s to be banged. But then, John
will never see this choke.
Four columns of Herald’s report of Berry’s
speech boiled down : —“ I think Protection may under
certain circumstances bo advisable, and that Free-trade
under certain circumstances might nat be less so, and
therefore I came over to make that remark, and wish
you a good evening, gentlemen.”
At country railway station. Passenger from
excursion train after waiting on a siding for 45 minutes :
” Por-tah 1" Porter Yes, sah." Passenger ; “How
long, ah, are we to be, ah, detained here, ah P Porter :
“Till, ah, the mail train, ah, from Sydney arrives, ah,”
This is the civility of our public servants.
Mr. Abigail is alleged to have stated that any
Parliamentary eloquence ha had displayed came from
his practice i* Oddfellows’lodges. G-ntlamendesirous
of Requiring a delivery something between the last
gasp oi a Lasoar drowning in bilge water, and the music
of a saw sharpener's shop, now know where to go.
Tho Herald, a newspaper published and oc-
casionally read in Sydney, has decided that it is in-
judicious, inappropriate, and very nearly erroneous to
advertise anywhere out of its columns. Roll up, ye riffl-
raff advertisers, and be respectable. Now is the day of
Salvation. Advts. prepaid, address Golgotha, Hunter-
street.
His name was Stringy-bark Jumbuok, Laq., and
ho was one of the great unpaid. He wanted a gun from
a Sydney gunsmith, and this is how ho ordered it: —
“ Dear Sir, Pleas send by return oae of them poley guns
as loads from behind. Money sent,—yours, Ac., S.
Jumbuok.” And now he stalks about with a breech-
loading hammerless Greener.
A Dunodin paper speaks of a burial in a local
E.C. cemetery, where, the grave being found too short,
the bereaved friends had to wait while two small boys
tried in vain to lengthen the hole and failed, upon
which one of the relatives had to finish the job. Father
O is not reported as having wielded the spade,
although his baok is a yard wide.
Down South lives a Justice, who makes “soft
stuff” and adjudicates in cases where the interests of
his customers are involved. He’s a thoroughly eon-
seientious man, bnt the other aerated-water people can’t
get a living. Some publicans are unreasonable enough
to entertain the opinion that it’s more advantageous to
deal with a Justice of the Peace.
The 25-ton gun that had been under water for
twelve days is on dry land again. We are glad of this,
because Dave Buchanan was giving himself airs and
swashbuckling about-.in a manner we don’t tolerate in
pop-guns, ever since itleU overboard. Dave is jealous
of this gun. Ho knows that it is the only greater bore
than himself in New South Wales.
It’s quite refreshing now-a-days to see counsel
humping their blue bags from Darliughurst with tbe
indifference of organ-grinders. One eminent barrister
frequently swings his baize down Oxford-stre t, and
seems surrounded by a halo of glory, especially if he
has just succeeded in obtaining the acquittal of somo
old woman charged with stealing a box-iron or a set of
false teeth.
At a Bachelors’ Ball at Bmnaguy (north western
district), a visitor,, struck by the blooming symmetry
of the Big River belles, elegantly suggested that they
were "painted and stuffed." Which drew from a local
young man the equally pleasing rejoinder, “ There’s no
more raddle or sawdust in the girls than there is law
or justice in a Supreme Court Judge!" That settles
the point. Tbe Binnaguy girls are genuine.
A labourer on the wharf got two months for
stealing a cheese the other day. He was seen going off
with it under his arm. Now he says that the cheese
the stronger of the two, and walked off with him,
t 1 v? we are * nc hned to believe, as we have seen a hank
of cheese of average strength carrying a newspaper
man bodily out of a bar. This shows the weakness of
circumstantial evidence and the strength of ohesse.
“ Sir Henry Parkes,” says the Herald, “ went
to churoh on Sunday.” Does it mean that he never
went before, or that he was aoenstomed to attend
daring the week days, or has he bean persuading the
simple English that the edifices in Australia obey his
will, and come to him P Ha should have explained that
in Australia he got on muoh better with the congrega-
tions of the ohapels than with those of the churches.
Sinoe the new Licensing Bill became law, a
quarter of a year has elapsed, and a quarter’s returns
have been made up. It is shown that there have been
800 less convictions than in the corresponding period of
last year. But less convictions don’t always mean less
offences. There have been about fifteen burglaries
within the last month, and not one conviction. Has
the Licensing Bill anything to do with that ?
A certain corpulent and very distinguished
gentleman, at the Unitarian Church, recently, put his
“ bell-topper” on the seat. Shortly after the service
commenced, while all were standing up singing, a lady
entered the pew, and the corpulent gentleman “ moved
up.” When ha sat down, there was a sound like the
9 o’clock gun, and then tho stout party wont down on
his knees and said something very earnestly. But it
was not a prayer.
A citizen was driving along a suburban)road last
week, and when within 100 yards of the tollgate, his
wife asked him to return for their daughter. He turn -
round with that intention, bnt was pounced upon by the
tollbar keeper, and compelled to pay tolls, although he
had not passid through the gate. Ha paid it under pro-
test. It is about as just a demand as if a confec-
tioner asked you to pay the price of some cakes looked
at through the windaw.
A man named James Brown —rightfully or
wrongfully—took money from old Bon. James; he was
took t) the police station, where he took fits, and he
was consequently took to the Infirmary. But after three
days there he took himself off in a night-shirt in the
small hours, and though searched for everywhere, was
not took till he was found in the polioe court yard last
Saturday. What took him there was not known. Of
course he was took again.
In the Cornhill Magazine for last February
is an article entitled “ Oddities of Personal Nomencla-
ture," wherein mention is made of a person who
rejoiced in the possession of the following appellation:
—“ Lyulph Ydwallo Odin Nestor Egbert Lyonel Toed-
mag Hugh Erchenwyna Saxon Eaa Cromwell Neville
Dyaart Plantagenot Tollemache-Toilemache." Fancy
this gentleman having to cancel a duty stamp with his
initials, and find room for the date.
The Witness, a quasi-religious paper, appears
wi'h the following appeal to it® readers Let every
snbsoriber then loot around among his neighbours and
ask, ‘ls there not some one who could be benefited—or
time and eternity by a weekly reception of the Wit-
ness ?’" It would be certainly far more interesting to
know how many civil servants neglect their duties in
publishing such papers, and how many really honest
jeurnalists there arc on the religious publications of
this city.
Magistrate: “Prisoner, seven constables have
sworn that you were blind, speachloss, and paralytic on
Tuesday night. Hava you anything to say for your-
self." Prisoner; “ Miy it please your worship, I was
told early iu the evening that Sir Henry had been
created Poet Laureate." Magistrate You are dis-
charged, and you leave this court without a stain on
your character. Moreover, I have great pleasure in
awarding you a shilling out of the poor box to obtain a
drink with.**
A Miss Hooper, ef Hastings, England, obtained
£4OO damages from a Mr. Stokes, the representative of
a Leicester firm, for breach of promise of marriage.
The defendant had taken a house in Leicester, and, un-
der the pretence of getting her opinion about the fur-
niture, decoyed her to the premise! and seduced her.
The Y.M.C.A. of S.A. is going to erect a new
hall, at a cost of £15,000. Mr. David Murray—who, by
the way, ia not, as the S.M.H. says, an M.P.-has given
£5OO towards this new building fund. Mr. Murray ia
head of the well-known firm of D, a*d W. Murray, and
haa been re-leoted chairman of the Association for the
current year. Ho is the hero of the last Yatala election
fiasco.
In tho Southern district, the other day, a horse-
thief, who had previously been tried fourteen times,
was indicted for the fifteenth time—and acquitted. He
has only served two sentences. After being acquitted
ou a former occasion, be loft the Court and stole a
horse to go home on. In the present instance, it is
alleged—though we don’t attach much importance to
the rumour—the eminent young counsel who got him
oil want out for a ride the same evening on a strange
Bucephalus.
It was in a country town in Queensland. A
Chinaman was charged with selling bad liquor, and hia
stock was seized. A two-gallon keg of whisky was
brought into Court. Several experts tiled it. but none
could swear whether it was whisky or ood-liver oil.
Whan the parson failed, It was thought the case was
hopeless. As a last resource, the looal editor was sent
for. He finished the keg. This wag considered as
oonolmive evidence for the defence, and the Chinaman
was acquitted.
Montmorenoi Jones, Esq., of the Lands, jumped
out of his hansom and swaggered up into tbe Reyal
with—" Have you any change for half-n-sovsreign."
“No sir," meekly replied the officiating damsel, "we
don’t generally keep so muoh money in the house, t< t
we’ll try and raise it for you." And again. ’“I
feel for you deeply,” said Montmorenoi Jones, of the
Lands, to the solitary bivalve he hod for some time
bean pursuing round his bowl of oyster soup at tho shil-
ling restaurant.
There must be something radically wrong with
the Bonrke gaol, for tho majority of the prisoners want
to leave it. A few days ago, one " Tommy the Ambler"
crossed over Into the ladies’ apartment—into "ye
ladye’s bower," as it were—and then was so ungallant as
to pull out a few bricks and escape. A few days after,
one of the Smith family climbed over the garden wall,
and left the premises also. They do things better in
Darlinghurst—the miserable man who would desert his
hominy there would run away from £5OO a year in the
Lands Department.
John Eiokey, of the Somerset Hotel, was
summoned for selling liquor during prohibited hours.
When the polioe went in, a man was standing at the bar
with a glass in front of him. So far, the evidence for
prosecution and defence tallies; as to what was in the
gloss the testimony was oonfiioting. Constable H swore
it was rum, Constable T swore it was brandy, (and they
both swore they were good judges), the customer said
it was water, and Rickey said there was nothing ia the
glass. The S.M, kept the even tenor of their way, and
fined defendant £lO and costs.
Mr. Quack Madras, calling himself a herbalist,
came into a town, hung up his sign, and proceeded to
boil his medicinal turnip peel, and wait for business.
When his melon shavings gave out, and his patients got
sick of his brew, and he couldn’t have the run of any
more kltohen parings, ha judged by Allah that his poc
had boiled over; so he borrowed a horse, rode him to
the next town, swopped him, got £8 to boot, filled up
the turnip bag, and started off for well, that’s whst
people want to know in Broughton Creek.
Mr. Marsh, S.M., has unsettled ns on the dis-
tinction between libel and slander. Blank and wife sued
Westbrook for £lO damages for slander, the latter being
accused of telling Mrs. B. that she hnd so many hug.
bands she didn’t know her legal one. Mr. Marsh non-
suited plaintiffs. We know it is not slander to call a
woman a certain old name unless she oan prove she bos
lost offers of marriage, bnt the distinctions of the law
are too subtle for the wisest human head. In extenua-
tion, it was pleaded that Mrs. B. had called Mr. W. a
" orooked-legged bastard.”
Tho S.M. Herald recently reported a meeting
of persons agitating for a tramway from Canterbury to
Bankstown and Albnry, at the close ef which a vote of
thanks was passed to Mr. Bncklaud for giving the use of
his room at Waterloo Stores. Let’s see—Mr. Bncklaud
is agent for Sir Daniel Cooper, who, peculiarly enough,
owns several hundreds of acres along the line. Votes of
thanks were also passed to Messrs' Lucas, Abigail, and
Mitchell, M’s.L.A. These gentlemen of course don’t
own any land in the locality: they are simply actuated
by a desire to see the 300 residents scattered about the
Bankstown bush able to travel comfortably. It only
remains now to put the matter before Mr. Lackey in a
proper way.
“Jack’s as good as (and a blank sight better
then) his master" in N.B. Wales. A well-known Qoul-
burn medico took his boys to tee the Holloway Troupe
recently. The unambitious medico was content with
the second set of seats, and bis enjoyment would have
been complete but for the fact that the line of vision
was interrupted by a bdltopper rakishly worn by an
exquisite of the very first water, who had engaged one
of the highest-priced front seat*. With studious polite-
ness, the worthy doctor requested the usher to present
his compliments to the fashionable, and beg him "to
be kind enough to remove his hat." The swell lan-
guidly turned bis head round at the usher’s request,
and revealed to the astonished medieo the fact that the
great lardy-dah was—his own groom. It is only just to
the latter to say that he imu ediately removed his tile
from its dizzy position on three hairs.
This is what they give us now in the Morning
Missionary : —"A party of the Torpedo Corps are now
signalling to a piquet by means of flashes from Chatham
lamps. The piquet is stationed in a hollow at no me dis-
tance from the camp, and oi e of the signalling parties
occupies an elevated position at some distance, while the
other was at work in the camp. One of the torpedo
boats i« undergoing alterations. Tho other has oeon
undergoing repairs, and was to have arrived to-day, but
whilst undergoing a trial trip in Berry’s Bay it broke
down. It is hoptd the necessary repairs will be effected
iua day or two. It is probable that the camp will be
stormed some time during the night." Tbe follow who
wrote this must have been signalling all day with tho
tumb erograph. By tho way, the evening papers state
that the volunteers when in camp war? frequently
turned out to meet an " imaginary attack." Is it true
now that this is the sort of attack several officers wont
out to meet ?
The Tasmanian Mail, a sucker of the
Hobart Mercury, says that tho miscalled society
papers of Australia, of which ours is the oldest, are
marked contrasts to the World, Truth, and Vanity
Fair of England. This, so far from making ns feel
ashamed of ourselves, only recalls the circumstance
that the Tasmanian Mail affords ** a marked contrast ”
to the Pall Mall Gazette, and that the Hobart
Mercury is as much like the Times— we don’t mean
“ old times ’’—as an oyster is like a halo. Judged by
the measure wherewith the Mail has been so kind as
to judge us, that journal must have been bankrupt at
its very inception. The Mail should reoolleot that The
Bulletin wasn’t started in the good old days when yon
oould get a convict compositor for nine pounds a year,
and give him 100 lashes if he didn’t behave himself.
This is a hint specially intended for tho editor of the
Mercury.
Tho Sydney Presbyterian’s opinion on Olde
Englyshe Payres“ Has the climax been reached, or
is it possible that the cause of religion is to bo yet more
dishonoured by yet more objectionable methods of
raising money ? It is time wo were retracing our steps.
Can we expect the blessing of God on money raised as
was that in these exhibitions P If it is not the halt, the
maimed, and tho blind being sacrificed, we know not
what ia," And again:—“ Money anyhow, and from
anybody, but get money. What a spirit I We hold it
to be a disgrace to tho two communions which make
so muoh of Easter, that instead of seeking to reach
men’s hearts and purses by the proclamation of the
great fact that ‘ Tho Lord is Risen,’ they should conde-
scend to such worldly schemes and plans. Where ia
the power of Christianity ? Haa the Church become a
clown, a Baruum, a Wombwoll ? We blush for shame,
and we trust the present will be the turning of the tide
towards right motives and methods for maintaining a
preached gospel." Vet the Presbyterian advertises
tho “ valuable truths ’’ of " Hop Bitters,” “ Whisky
I Straights,” &c.
STARVEO-OUT PROTECTIONISTS!
BERET AND THE MAJAH (in unison): “We’re all the way from Melbourne, where we’ve got
no work to do-o-o!"


HOP BITTERS!
ABE
THE PUREST BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buehn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
©r languishing on a bed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing. If you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If yon are a Minister, and have oyer-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties j
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If yon are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fust,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If yen are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system need* Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What You Need.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, Ac., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
aad you will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTEFIORE, METCALFE, A. CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W*
General Agents for Australia.
COLONIAL INDUS
No. 1.
EDWARD HORDERN AI
668 Brickfield Hi
TnAf great genetfd, Napoleon, once
was a nation of shopkeepers,” bnt t
keepers taught even the great Ni
knew something 6f the martial spi
perhaps learnt from the keen yet fi
which they enter so heartily into in
the saying was o trne one, for wher
there Is found the same keen oomp
tkm to business affairs j and we. In
in this respect ore as true Euglishm
lived. Witness our many large anc
establishments. in ©very Eng Hal
and tneroers are aiways to the fra
drapery eetahUshments are hopt
Of these “Edward Hordern cw
oldest. UnWl recently, this 1
conducted by Mr. Alderman Herd
son of the late Mr. Anthony Horc
street, who, we might mention, firs
ness in the year 1823, nearly sixty y
ness is now earried on by hi* two sc
and Percy Hordern, and Mr. H
although they have only had the 1
control since the commencement
made, and are still making, many In
which may be mentioned the Ele
they intend to make use of lor
tabllshment, the first experhnei
with which will take place or
The business Is carried on In
below Liverpool-street, In a largi
throe-storied stone building, whic’
land 40 by 200. The external appear
k good, there are two noble windo
the portico, neatly and tastefully
for dress and personal adornment,
ing to the fashionable world ef the
Here wa see the many kinds 1
arranged in those graceful folds w:
to the eye, and whiok we think mi
of trouble to make, but we sup
everything.” There are Shirts, 1
Braeos, and all the requisites of
themselves i» sueh varied ways as
regular holiday appearance. On o:
most especially the wonderful
everything seems to bo earried
the easterners crowd round
such numbers ait times thai
for all to find accommedatio
seems to proceed like well 1
No clashing—no cumbersome eases
of any of those Objectionable fet
shopping a real bore. Wo notice
the smiling and contented faces of 1
ing how well cored for they are 1
On the right hand side as we enter
appointed n department," special!,
are known as “ Manchester good
makes of Horrock’s, Crewdson’s, a
and Sheetings, sold, we believe, at
rates j a large and varied stock oi
make* In Blankets, looked very te
weather which we have coming on. r .
which we come to is a speciality v,
Hordern and Sons, and for which
brated. “ The dress and silk depo
would be surprised at the wondi
materials of all colours and sha
Edward Horden and Sons have imp
of the ladies. Next to this will be i
Corset Department," in which we 1
SOCIAL.
General Schencb, of the U.S. Embassy, has 8o
forced on the noble game of poker in England, that the
6lite are playing heavily.
# * W
The annual tea and ball at Braid wood in aid of
the convent funds, took place in the Literary Institute
on Easter Monday, and dancing was sept up till 5 a.m.
A young lady in blue and white i another to rose, pink
and white; and two sisters in black and cardinal, were
specially charming. The belle was a tall, handsome
blonde, with a dress of ruby and white lace.
• • •
A very pleasant entertainment, arranged by Mr.
R. C. Beveridge, was held in the Lecture Hall at St.
Stephen’s last Wednesday (12th), to inaugurate a lite-
rary club. Songs, recitations, mild tragedy by ama-
teurs, and refreshments, filled the programme. A
young lady in blue, with an excellent alto voice, was
admired, while a Leichhardt belle caused a flutter,
• * •
A pretty wedding took place at Eydo, on Easter
Monday, the bridegroom being Mr. Pearce* ana
the bride, who was charming in white silk broche ana
cashmere. Miss Eva Pope. Two bridesmaids were In
light pink, and two in light blue, St. Amu ebureh
was decorated, Corapagnoni provided breakfast, and the
happy two spend their honeymoon in Sydney.
When the Nelson left Hobart, the officers
thought “parting was snob sweet sorrow they oonld
Bay good-bye till 'twere to-morrow,' so they took a
whole host ef their friends down the river with them,
and when the white-crested waves ef Storm Bay came
in sight, signalled the Miranda, and e»nt her back to
Hobart with the dear ones, whose faltering voices and
flowing tears wrre not ©tm o«rofortod by assnrascoa
that the big ship would be back in a moath. Oh.
Hobart I how many scenes like this have you ex-
perienced ? Are there any among your mourners to-
day who went through the same sad partings on a
certain morning in ’(33, with gallant fellows whose
bones rest among the timbers of the ill-fated Orpheus,
on the horrid Manakan ? However, Commodore
Erskine, it’e time yon got,up steam again, if the pledge
is to be fulfilled this time.
# * *
There has been sunshine at Tumnt. A crowded
bazaar gave a chance for millinery triumphs in that
mountainous little town, one young lady in grey and
another in black satin .and velvet being triumphant.
Then there was a race week, though the running of the
horses was a mere nothing compared with the running
on four eligible young bachelors from Albnry district,
who harvested ft wealth of love from tke locn.l maideua
and then rode away. A Tumut-uous spectacle I
• • •
On the 12th instant, a pleasant reunion at the
Pyrmont Public Hall wee the result of invitations
issued by Mr. A M'Credie to a number of friends. A
j nvenile party performed the farce of ” Borrowed
Plumes,’’ on the protty little stage. Among the gueets
were Mr. M'Kane, M P. fer Gippsland, and his eldest
daughter, who two visiting Sydney, The party separated
at 4 o’clook.
* * •
A Bachelor’s Ball, which has been an Annual
affair for some yeare past, will be held in the Oddfellow a
Hall, Elizaboth-atreet. on Friday,;2Bth instant.
• * •
A fashionable wedding was solemnised at St.
John's Darlinghurst, on Thursday las*, when that
charming y©ung lady, Miss Ebswortb, eldest daughter of
the manager of the Bank of N 8.W., William-street,
became Mrs. J. Cobb White, of Muswellbrook. The
bride wore a hendaome robe of ivory satin, orange
wreath and tulle ve‘l, and was attended by nine brides-
maids ; the Misees Ebsworth, sisters, and Misses
Walker and Mitchell, cousins of the bride. Font were
in ruby costumes, and five In pink with chapeaux to
harmonize, and carried baskets of flowers. Rev. Stanley
Mitchell, the bride’s uncle, officiated. A dance was
given at the Bank in the evening.
e • •
Masonic Ball at Parramatta, on Friday, 19th
May,
* * •
Since the return of Miss Tonng from Melbourne
the hospitalities of her father’s house at Annandale
have been numerous. On Saturday evening a small
party was invited to meet the members of the Ballarat
Bowling Olnb, and a pleasant danc« was held. The
ladies were quietly attired in walking costumes, as the
affair was not pretentious, bat wore coiffure posies and
pretty bouquets. Chinese lanterns threw a decorous
amount of light among the trees—pair trees, probably.
After singing and music, the patty dispersed before
midnight. * # #
A Hebrew wedding, which is expected to be
spectacularly fine, will be celebrated in Klizaboth-street
this month.
* • •
There was another concert at Broughton Creek
on Friday last, and a large attendanee, for a charitable
purpose. There was a good supply of lady Burners
Misses De Mestro, Byce, Richardson, and M. Pettit all
contributing, besides several gentlemen. The greatest
success of the evening was, we are delighted to bear, a
song, introducing allusions to The Bulletin, mode for
the occasion by a local laureate.
» * *
The Moruya Agricultural Ball on Easter Mon-
day, in the Agricultural Hall, was attended by nearly
200 persons, and some fine dresses were worn. A
Chinese lady attracted attention in lavender satin,
trimmed with rich lace, and -van considered the prettiest
dancer. Tw« daughters of a Vuloan-street merchant
were charming* one in white and pink eatin, and the
other in black sateen. Tho question of bell© rested
between the elder of these sisters and a young lady
from Summer Hill, in white satfn and pink etceteras.
Two young ladies from Mynora, and a married lady
from Summer Hill, were charming. Two sisters from
the Pilot Station were pretty, and good dancers. A
• mid.” in buttons was effective. An excellent suppor
was provided, and an enjoyable night spent.
* * *
Several of the prettiest women at the Palace
Favre are of the type known as “ strong blendes that
is. fair complexion, blue eyes, dark lashes and brown
hair Misa lAzarae, tithe Bine Lion, it one, and looks
superb in a short, dark-brown velvet hunting dress and
saucy highwayman’s hat. Anolher is the beautiful
Marie Stuart, at the Fleur de Lys, with her grey-blue
dreamy eye* and queenly mien, who receives with calm
indifference the homage of the gazing throng.
* * *
Tho Mayoress holds a reception at the Town
Ball on Friday.
* » *
Great preparations are going forward in
fasbionabla circles for the ball to be given shortly at
the Exhibition building. Prince Alfred Pork, as a finale
to the f&v re at St. Mary's Cathedral.
* * *
Notwithstanding counter attractions, the Grand
Stand and Lawn at BaudwicH wero well filled on Satur-
day, though only a moderate number of ladies graced
the scene. From light and airy muslins to heavy
velvets, all kinds of dresses were displayed, and owing
to tho coolne a s of the bright day, neither seemed out of
place Mrs. Cecil Griffith’s trim form was tastefully
set off by a combination of brown velvet and stone-
ooloured olath ; princess bonnet of same hues o« her
fur tresses. The richest and most Btriking toilette
noticed wa. that of a stout (horrid word) lady, and con-
sisted of claret, velvet bodice, claret silk sairt, and
scarl drapery of red and gold brocade, with bonnet to
correspond. Two trained gowns were worn, and looked
graceful on the lawn. One spray of sunflowers in the
whole gathering made the wearer conspicuous. A
pretty girl in black silk, with velvet Jockey cap, and
another in maroon satin and cashmere with peacock’s
feather cap, were garbed appropriately for a race meet-
ing Loth to forget the days of her youth, seemed an
elderly lady in black velvet and satin, with a gay head-
dress over a warm golden wig. Mrs. Roberts wore a
quiet dress of black silk, with black lace flounces, cream
lace bonnet, and myrtle green ribbons, edged with
cardinal. Miss Salomons wore a quiet, yet elegant,
dress, one of tho most admired on the lawn, of black
velvet skirt, prey cloth overdress, velvet cuffs and
pockets, and a charming Rubens hat with grey plume.
Two or three pinks, and several white muslins dis-
played. A curious mixture of dark brown skirt and
pale pink polonaise of oatmeal cloth was worn by a
lady, whose escort was encased m a suit of bottle green.
A navy blue satin, with long velvet bodice, and head-
dress to match, drew attention ; so did a pretty toilette
of dark green worn by Miss Spiers, and a becoming
costume disp’aved by Miss Backhouse, consisting of
brown watered silk and cloth dress, with Charles I. hit
of brown plush.
« • *
The date of the OldeJEnglyshe Fayfe Ball in
the Exhibition is not finally fixed; but will probably be
held on the 3rd May. Fancy dancing with a programme
fall of Queens.
• * *
The first annual picnic of the Shipmasters
and Mercantile Marine Officers’ Association of Austra-
lasia is to be held on May 6th. The proceeds will be
devoted to the Widows’ and Orphans Fund cf the
Society. The Port Jackson Co. will kindly place a
steamer at the disposal of the Association, without
charge.
* # *
A Ball was held at Liverpool, in the Town
Hall, on Tuesday.
• * *
The elder of two well-known sisters residing
in Surry Hills has consented to make a thriving young
auctioneer happy A well-known Sydney man and a
Moruya belle hav* arrived at »n understanding .....So
hay® a risirnf young lawytr at Braidwood ana a plump
baauty from a placo lb at was nam#d (whan tb# blacks
were rather hard pushed for a word) Jeoib-vloumb-.ne.
• •
There was a crowded attendance at the Epis-
copalian Church, Manly, last Sunday evening, wboa the
newly! enlarged church was opened, after beisg closed
for some time. £l2OO have been spent on the additions.
Dr. Collette preached in the morning, and Dr Ellis in
the evening; full choral services were hsid.on each
occasion, Mrs. H. E. Woods presiding at the organ.
• • •
Bandwick will shortly he losing a fair-haired
beauty. An insurance (or assurance?) man is the cause.
* * •
Last Thursday, Denham Court, Macquarie
Plains, was the scene of one of the most fashi mablo
wedding* since New V*ar, many of the lilit* of the
metropolis being visitors, and the dre»»e» mostly mag-
nificent. The bride. Miss Bloomfield, is danghter of
the host of Denham Court, and the bridegroom was Mr.
Dickson, of Sydney. Tho bride’s dress was a rich
cream moiri s . Duchess satin front, with a long sweeping
of meire, and much pearl embroidery; bodice, neck,
and eleovos to match ; wreath of olometie, myrtle and
orange bloseom; also a long veil and beaetifnl jewellery.
Six bridesmaids ehed »un«hine around, all dressed alike
in cream nun’s clotb, richly trimmed with lace, hats to
match, and bouquets. The wedding was performed in
the private church, built on tho estate by the grand-
father of the bride.
* « •
Tho Mayor of Petersham, Mr. J. Gelding, gave
a large ball last night, on the occasion of the new Town
Hail being openod-
• * *
Pretty little wedding at Manly on tho 13th
Instant, when a son aad daughter of two gallant officers
hilling from Queensland agreed to fight the battle of
life together. Hunt tied by the respected incumbent.
Bride very nice and composed, in white silk ; while two
young ladies from the Shoalhaven district and two from
Manly looked charming as bridesmaids, in a combina-
tion of cardinal and cream. Best man, a well-known
amateur athletic in Sydney. And the consequence was,
“ A trip to the Hawkesbnry.”
* • *
The Newtown Private Skating Eink opens the
season early in May, at the local Oddfellows’ Hall.
• • *
In New York, Dr. W. S. Webb has just married
Mies Leila Vanderbilt, daughter of tho great millionaire,
whose fortune is the comfortable little sum of a million
and a quarter sterling. Two thousand persons were
invited to the church, and six thousand to the wedding
breakfast Ushers in pink coats, aad with tufts of lily-
of-the-valley in their bntton-holes, “ fixed” the invited
guests. The bride is young and a brusette. The bride-
groom is a tall, thin, fair young man, with a beard A la
Henri Quatre. The wedding presents were so numer-
ous that they could not be exhibited until a couple of
days had been spoat in arranging and classifying them.
The newly-wedded party had a special train to take their
departure in; and several hundred friends went to the,
station (the “depot,” as it is called in America)
to fling slippers and rice as the train moved off
The latest divorce case in London high life is that of
Captain Mather, late of the 14th Hussars, whose d-:-
serted wife charges him with running away to New
Zealand with a young lady named Roberts.’ There the
erring pair would doubtlei-s have been allowed to enjoy
each other’s society unmolested, but after their depar-
tnre an old aunt of the Captain’s, with a queer wav of
frowning down vice, it seems, died and loft him £26,030.
To lose one’s husband is one thing, bat £26,000 qaite
another. Therefore the suit, in all probability
On the 13ih inst., Mr. C. C. Robinson was entertained
at a public dinner, Braidwood, prior to his leaving for
Sydney. Many cf his friends were present Another
May and December wedding arranged in London. Lady
a widow, close on 70, and (of course) wealthy ; gentle-
man a handsome ex-Laucer captain, 26 or 27, and (of
course) poor. Lucky man: fortunate woman At
Nowra, on Easter Monday, there was a picnic, followed
by a ball in the evening, in aid of the St. Michael’s K.C.
Church. Dancing the church out of debt The Pres-
byterians at Campbelitown had a church bazaar on the
Ist, largely attended. There was no raffling, but goods
were sold by art union. Ordinary people wonder where
the difference is Air. R H. War moll, of Wagga, was
banquotted there recently, on his departure for Bonrke...
Prior to the commencement of an entertainment at
Cowra o« Easter Monday night, some person thickly
dusted the stage with pepper.
When the - Annual Exhibition at H’Harcourt’s
Gymnasium occurred recently, a gentleman who did not
gain the gold medal for lifting heavy dumb-bells,
thought himself a better mau than tha one who did. A
challenge was paised, and a match made. Next Wed-
nesday, Messrs. Cansdell and Clements, therefore, com-
pete for a £5 trophy. The man who puts the greatest
weight above his head with on* arm, without jerking,
wins.
He came into our sanctum foaming with a
grievance, and, as ho was backed np by a six-shooter,
we consented to write as he dictated : “It is a base and
brutal invent ; on of the enemy that the recent floods
drowned all the Woolloomcolo goats.” Then, having
relieved his excited feelings, ho pranced out of the
office, crying, “Saved, saved,” and went to cmsalt
Mr. S. Freshman, of Gaorge-strect, about his gold cure
for drunkenness.
It was up North. They were two hank
managers, and wore discussing a bottle of Eoederer
over the.r first meeting. A woman entered. “I hear,
sir,” she said to the now arrival “ you want your bank
cleaned?” “Yes; but what is the figure ?" bo replied.
•• Well,” said she, “ the lady who d es the other
bank has a pound a week ” Growl from tha other bank
manager: “ Old fellow, don’t get a lady to do out yonr
bank, don’t; get a woman.” Visitor agrees to 15s. a
week. She has since declined, however, because she
was insulted.
Among the passengers who sail to-day (Thurs-
day) by the Amtralia (s.s.) for Europe, via ’Frisco, are
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Finney, of Brisbane. Mr. Finney
is senior partner in the firm of Messrs. Finney, Isle ,
and Co., the leading drapers of Brisbane. When start-
ing from Brisbjne, Mr. Finney had almost the entire
population down at tha steamer to see him off. The
crowd was something terrific, and the purser had to
send all the stewards, the first, second, and third cook,
the loblolly-boy,and,at last,the stokers,)a leg up town
to fetch down more ca es of champagne, the ship’s
supply giving out in 3miu. 40sec. by the chronometer
in the captain’s cabin. Mr. Finney is a genial North of
Ireland man, has been 25 years in business in Brisbane,
and is a universal favourite. Prior to their departure,
Mrs. Finney was presented by the employes of the firm
—some of whom have been 18 years in its service—with
a handsome tea and code ser. ice, as a mark of respect.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Lord Carlingford installed at Dublin as Knight
of ths order of St. Patrick Dr. Baring, Bishop of
Durham, ill with Typhoid fever at Simla, Panjiub.lHin.
dostan Parnell says imprisoned suspects are indig-
nant at continued agrarian and other outrages...... Ma-
rquis of Salisbury and Sir Stafford Northcote beading
Tory demonstrations in Lancashire Russian
Gov. policy semi-offlcially declared to be pacific...
PrinceLeopold to be married on 27th St.
Katharine’s dock refrigerating chambers, for frozen
meat storage, completed Rumored in London
that Mr. J. Russell Lowell, U.S. Minister, is to be re-
called, on account of indecisive attitude respecting
demanding the release of American-Iriah suspects.
Austrian Governments reducing its Herzegovinian
army Parnell testimonialised by Irish ladies resident
at Liverpool Arab tribes submitting to French mili-
tary authorities U.S. screw frigate Richmond, of
2700 tons, and carrying 14 guns, reported as having
foundered in a gale off Chinese coast; all hands, num-
bering 600 persons, lost The Queen returned to Eng-
land, with improved health Catalonian ilots sub-
sided Tenant fanners on Isle of Skye refuse to pay
rent; summonses issued were publicly burned
Lord Salisbury says the Land Act will leave Ireland
without the h >pe of permanent settlement; he advo-
cates a scheme for enabling tenants to become free-
holders 5100 Jews expelled Moscow Land League
convention kitting at Washington, U.S Dailt News
says Sir Arthur Gordon will shortly resign N.Z.Gover-
norship Prince Lobanoff, Russian ambassador in
London, recalled to St. Petersburg to replace General
Ignatieff as Minister of vhe Interior Sir Henry
Parkes being f6tod in London by Cabinet ministers and
metropolitan notabilities Insurrection at Hayti;
martial law proclaimed by President Solomon Lord
Mayor of London appeals to public for funds to settle
200 families in Canada The Czar of Russia is to be
crowned at Moscow in August. Every Russian digni-
tary "ordered” to attend; the coronation will cost ten
millions of roubles. ..Eighteen imprisoned N ikilists have
escaped from Siberia Sir Henry Parkes the guest of
Lord Leigh, at his native town Stoueleigh, Warwiekshire
...Nihilist mine discovered in the Moscow Cathedral; 80
workmen implicated Austria* delegation opened
last Saturday Dr. Lamson, the Wimbledon murderer,
respited The Wochbnblatt, a German paper, con-
demns the Channel Tunnel scheme Dublin police
stoned by rioters General Loris Melikoff has been
entrusted with the task of preserving the Czar of Russia’s
life ..Mexico subsidising line of European steamers
Temple Theatre, at Bolton, Lancashire, destroyed by
U re An unknown ship on fire in the Atlantic A
Paris Society is being .formed to protect aboriginal
races in French colonies Mr, J, R. Lowell, U.S.
Minister at London, demands the immediate trial or
release of American “ suspects;” the latter decline
liberty on the condition that they quit the country
London newspapers want to know whether two members
of Shaw’s Euglish cricketing team “ sold ” the principal
matches in the interests of the betting ring
Ueited leelaud newspaper re-issued; the Editor re-
leased from gaol Intercolonial Loan and Agency C«.,
London, busted; a swindle revealed The Schwerin
Theatre burnt down; the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg.
Schwerin narrowly escaped destruction.... Total amount
of subscriptions to Irish Relief was £lBB,OOO
Cetewayo to be restored to Zulnland Robbery at
Paris P.O. of a million francs Parnell's week’s parole
expired; no surrender; reported shot, but report
discredited.
Melbourne telegram‘ Fifty old soldiers
hare enrolled themselves in the veteran corps, which is
to consist of ex-membars of the English army only."
This recalls the saying—" He who fights," &J.
At the Encampment picket. “ Who goes there ?”
Officer in charge of attacking party—" The enemy.”
Picket: “ Oh, the defense have all turned in an hour
ago " Officer &c., &c.: “ Never mind j blaze away, my
lads! ”
At a sacred concert, at Broughton Creek, the
chairman specially requested that there should be no
clapping, talking, or scuffling among the audience.
That chairman must have been dreadfully ignorant of
what youthful Wesleyans go to concerts for.


CITY CATERING (
Sl5 QEOEGE STE]
A NEW CATERING <
Comprised of professional workme
tical experience, nearly all from the
of Compagnoni and Co., who pen
and carry on the working of the
general manager.
It is not a public company, and th
the expenses appertaining thereto,
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th <
successfully catered THE LA.KOIC
CULT, and MOST EEBPONSIBLI
hare taken place here to the presen
The Consular Dinner, in our new bt
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
and Banquets, and all Entortainn
His Worship the Mayor's Ball, I
Building, at which his Worship,
tainod their E.H.’s PEINCE ALI
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Office
Squadron.
Masonic 8011, English Constitutio
tion Building.
Masonic Bad, N.S.W. Constitnt
Sydney.
Visit of their E.H.'a PEINCE ALT
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Z
Basse, for 60, in Government Pale
travelling.
Government Eefreshmont to 15,000
Queen’s Statue Demonstration —u
NOTICE, only receiving the ord<
ready on th« spot at 12.30 p.m. th
Visit of THEIE E.H.’s PEIN
GEOEQE to Captain Cook's La
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon a
100, under VEEY SHOHT NOTI
at 9.30 p.m., to he ready on the sj
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception, Tov
The (Union Clnb) “ Baohe'or's E
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to J ndge V
Banquet Boom.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Boom.
Dinner d la Basse at St. Paul’s Colli
of the Church of England Synod
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
1006 people at the Museum off Sunday after 4
noon.
Father English, Of G-tmnedah, if On a Visit to
the Old Country.
The explanation of the perishing Condition of
the Wesleyan organisation all orer the world is alleged
by some to be the expenditure of fruitless energy upon
foreign native missions.
A brisk discussion has been kept up for some
weeks in the Noncokformist and Independent on the
discontinuance of the white necktie amd the title “ Rev-
erend ’* among dissenting ministers.
The Melbourne C. of E. Messenger says that
Bishop Moorhouse’s opinions may be conscientiously
held by a man of firm faith, yet they are not compatible
with the teachings of holy Scripture.
“ The law’s delay,” one of the reasons put forth
by Hamlet for contemplating suicide, is illustrated in
the case of Martin v. ‘Maconochie, which after fifteen
years’ litigation, is to be commenced dc novo.
The results of the February elections at Hono-
lulu indicate the complete downfall of the missionary
influence on the island. All the missionaries' candi.
dates were defeated, and only three whites returned.
The Rev. J. L. Rentoul is asking the Melbourne
Presbytery, “Whether, in view of recent hospital revela-
tions, ministers can honestly call on their congregations
to support an institution in which people are murdered
who come to be cured."
Several of theN.Z. clergy have organized a move-
ment for the opening ot libraries and museums on the
Sunday. Their argument is a novel one. The devil,
they say, is most active on tho Sundays, and they wish
to bring out all opposing influences against him.
Says Talmage: ‘‘The people are tired of the
hnmdrnm of religionists. Religious humdrum is the
worst of all humdrum." He advises all ministers and
Christian workers "to tell them (tho people) a story
which will make them oome to Jesus in five minutes."
An English clergyman, who performed a little
marriage ceremony for himself, quotes Abraham to the
Bishops as a fair precedent. However, if clergymen are
quoting the Old Testament worthies as examples for
modern society, the sooner we lock up our wives and
children the better.
Bishop Ryle says that much of the Christianity
of to-day is “ jelly-fish religion," of which the basis is,
so far as it has any, “ no dogma, no distinctive tenet,
no positive doctrine." He holds that, both in the
Church of England and out of it, there are hundreds of
ministers who have not a single bone in their " body of
divinity."
A long list of charges, some of them serious and
sensational, has been preferred against a Kamsohatkan
clergyman. The rev. gentleman is openly accused of
drinking the Coma, union wine, obtaining money from a
parishioner on a valueless cheque, rolling about drunk
in the street; appropriating church moneys and substi-
tuting valueless I O.U.’s.
St. Peter’s Church, Campbelltown, is not doing
good business. The wardens report that the offertories
have decreased fully £5O per year. They attribute this
to the “ Sunday train ” taking so many of the congre-
gation to the rival shows in Sydney. Performance just
the same, doctrine as good as ever. Is there no law in
the land to compel people to pay their threepences be-
fore they start ?
Bishop Murray, of Maitland, a man of resolute
energy, by the way, maintains all his Denominational
Schools by the aid of the teaching orders he has intro-
duced. The par. gives us the chance ot putting the
inevitable of the future. Either these teaching orders,
becoming numerous, will be) driven out of the country
as the Jesuits in France were, or payment by results
with official inspection will be granted.
N.S.W. Presbyterian Sustenation Fund for last
year: Received, £16,197 lls. 3d.; expended, £16,183 4s.
lOd.; balance, £l4 6i. sd. Reserve Fund : Received,
£2613 2s. 6d. j expended, £1570 7s. Bd., of which £llOO
was for importation of ministers ; balance, £1042 14s.
lOd. Guarantee Fond, from April Ist, 1830, to Decern-
her Slat, 1881 1 Received, £1140; expended £1000) bal-
ance, £l4O. Total credit balances, £1197 Is. Sd.
In the course of his Kerang lecture recently, on
•* Irrigation," Bishop Moorhonae said that “ this world
was governed by unvarying natural laws; that the de-
scent of rain was governed by such a lawj and that,
therefore, it was utterly useless for people to be praying
to God for rain when the atmospheric conditions were
not favourable." And as it’s perfectly useless to pray
when the atmospheric conditions are favourable, It's
quite clear that somebody’s doctrine is very shaky
indeed.
The Ladies Anti-Polygamy Society, of Utah,
have, at a mass meeting, petitioned Congress to take
from Mormons all political privileges until they con-
form to the laws. The preaching at the Tabernacle on
the day after the meeting was very belligerent and de-
fiant. It was said that the Mormons were extending
into other Territories ; that no power on earth or in
hell could stop them; that the Gentiles might take
away their votes and be damned, and that they would
be damned anyhow,
Talmage, the mountebank of the American
pulpit, has been dealing characteristically with stock
gambling. “It devoured money and morals," and,
continued the pastor, “it was destructive to life. You
don’t find old stock gamblers, as a lule. Worst of all,
it destroys the soul. See the dying gambler in his
delirium ! He talks of ‘options,’ ‘percentage,’ * buyer
sixty days,’ ‘stocks up,’ ’stocks down.’ He rises at
midnight crying ‘ 1000 shares of Illinois Central at 128 J j
Take It I ’ And he falls back dead. ;No more dividends I
Swindled outof Heaven I Stocks down I Let us pray."
Send round the plate I
Father Henry, a priest in Paris, is embarrassed.
A lady has fallen in love with him. Of course, ha can
give her no hope, as bis vows bind him to celibacy.
She lies in waiting for him on the road to ohnroh, and
walks beside him. When he stays at home to escape,
she camps on the doorstep. He had her arrested in
church, but she sued him and be was flaed for it. He
caused her to be taken up for lunacy, but she was re-
leased and prosecuted him for slander. There’s little
hope for her; much less for him.
The Union GtWirale, whose crash at Paris re-
cently brought a whirlwind of ruin and disaster to many
thousands, had the Pope’s blessing. It was obtained
through the influence of the Mafquis Beauvoir, who be-
ing married to a dashing Jewess became the victim of
the Rothschild ring, and was largely responsible for the
failure of the bank. The Due de Broglie, the representa-
tive R C nobleman, likewise finds himself in a bad fix.
He married the wealthy daughter of a sugar refiner,
who attempted to cut a figure in fashionable life by her
extravagance. In order to regain some of the money
which his wife had spent, the Duo went heart and soul
into the Union GtSnt ( rale speculations. In grasping at
the shadow he lost the substance, and his romantic
.-astlo on the Loire must be sold. The papal authorities
*ave denied that his Holiness had given the Union
slindrale his benediction. Unfortunately for them, the
bUsaing was written by the late Pope’s own hand, and
was duly framed, glazed, and stuck up in the office of
ithe O’Jiiipany. It was the great bait held out to the
’parish priests throughout the country.
Methodist College, Melbourne, to cost .£12,000,
us nearly completed 79 out of 81 teachers of BA. say
ithat religious instruction should not be given in State
schools .Opium smoking is said to be the greatest
.obstacle to missionary operations in China The Rev.
tMr Bonta, of the N.Z. Baptist Church, has written to
vthe papers strongly favouring the confessional...... Mr.
1 Isidore Myers. B A., who a year or two since resided m
■avdnev. is now minister and lecturer to the Bast Mel-
,bourne Hebrew congregation The Rev. W. Weston,
,of Ryde, received an address and parse of filthy lucre
At a farewell meeting on Monday week. He goes to
iieniliquin. _____
There are in Sydney two men so fat that they
can't get sufficiently close to talk to each other. They
converse through a telephone.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Smallpox has broken out in Melbourne. The
patient. Miss Southern, had just arrived from Adelaide,
whore she had been a barmaid.
Mr. Burns, the gentleman sentenced to death at
Brisbane, for rape, is, after all, so the story goes, not
to die < f asphyxiated fnnambnlation.
At Neutral Bay on Easter Monday, two children
narrowly escaped being shot. A ballet from an unseen
sportsman’s gun passed over the back ef sns child who
was stooping down.
Honest Jack M'Elhone once more elected a
member of the Sydney City Connell. Now for a little
municipal fua. Jack will oppose any compromise with
the Town Hall plaster geniuses.
The miners’ strike at Newcastle continues. Mr.
Gregson, manager of the A. A. Co., declines the pro-
posal of arbitration. Meanwhile, the miners are being
liberally supported by the trade societies.
The works connected with the Sydney water
supply are being proceeded with, but unforeseen diffi-
culties crop up at every step. Some of the works will
serve as splendid monuments of the engineer -in-chief.
George Oman Carton, of W.A., has received a
pressing invitation from the Victorian Government to
answer to the charge of bigamy. Miss Florence Hib-
herd will also go to Victoria to look after his domestic
interests.
In November last, the Shipmasters’ and
Officers’ Association, Sydney, passed a resolution that a
Widows’ and Orphans’ Fund be started by extra sub-
scriptions of 6s. per annum per member. Why has not
action been taken on this admirable idea F
The English telephonic system will shortly pass
into the hands of (iovernment. Then, farewell to alt
Improvements in it. By the way, if private enterprise
had kept the telegraph system, we of N.B.W. eheuli
have been 20 years ahead of our present position
The construction ths new railway workshops
at Eveleigh i»>oon to be proceeded with. The designs
of the workshops have been approved.the working draw,
lags are being prepared, and tender* are to be invited.
The running shed will hold Hi engineers; the Parlia-
mentary vote is £250,000.
At the inquiry, at Cobar, on the bodies of George
Walker and John Watson, found on the Amphitheatre
Station, the jury returned a verdict that the deceased
died of thirst, and expressed the opinion that the lives
of both men might have been saved by the police had
they gone out earlier to search.
The Q.ueanbeyan boys had n high old time on
Sunday. In spite of the new Haot the local bobby was
hocussed, and his faoe treated to an artistic process in
burnt cork. It was only because some oi tne beys were
more sober than the rest that the peeler wasn’t tied up
in a sack and pitched into the river.
On the Tate, N.Q., a miner named Moore has
met an awful fate. He had found a rich tin claim, and
had about 130 loads of wash ataoked. In trying to gat
back to the workings he perished in a flood. One of
his legs was discovered in a tree, and It is thought that
the waters body away.
The petition against incorporation received from
Campbeiltown recently presents as usual ths high psr
centago of “ his X marks." Perhaps Campbelltowa date
not know it has lost upwards of £20,000 of Gevernmont
meney through not being incorporated. However it has
ite ditches and quagmires, which may be useful shortly
for steeping old fogies in eternal oblivion.
An Act lately passed in Scotland sets forth that
if any person heir to an estate there is absent from
Scotland for a certain time, and is not hoard ef, his
right* shall be regarded as forfeited. This is ao import-
ant that the Attorney-General of Victoria decided to
publish the fact of the Act ia the Govbrwmbn'P
Gazette. The same should be done! i» blew South
Wales.
Bobert F. Burns stands charged at Melbourne
with the murder, several months ago, of Cbai. F.
Forbes, a mawy employed in the construction of the
Dimboola railway, and whose haadless trank was
discovered at Deep Lead, near Siawsll. The evident#,
which is pnrely circumstantial, has been pieced together
by Detective Forster-u eross-eyed and very Tig i ant
officer.
Daring the practice of the Qneensoliffe (V.)
firarrison artillery on Easter Monday, an accident
occurred to one of the shells of the forty.ponnder*.
Soma of the metal casing flew oft the shell immediately
it left the gun, and wounded two men amongst a
number of persons who were on the beach below, and in
the line of fire. One man died from the injuries re-
ceived.
Ihe committee of the School of Arts requested
the candidates for the secretsryfhip to present them-
se'ves for inspection on Monday evening. The muster
was a kind of Noah’s ark affair. There is keen com-
petition for the billet, which is wdl worth having, and
will probably fall to the lot of a popular University
man who at present holds an appointment in a city
public institution.
The army of attendance-officers under the De-
partment of Public Instruction don’t hunt out those
who never go to school and make them attend. 1 hey
merely wait upon a teacher, get from him a lot of
absentees, and confine themselves to the children the
names of which are thus given. Of course, by this
means, the regularity of attendance may be increased,
but the number of children attending school will hardly
be augmented.
James Fitzgerald, a draper’s assistant at Blay-
nev NSW has been stabbed to the heart by a German
named’Dansell. The two men occupied one bedroom
at Mullally’s Hotel; and were seen fighting m the
street very late at night. Fitzgerald was heard to say,
■‘You’ve got a knife,” and then, in faint accents, to oiy
««Murder.*’ Ho next staggered to hie room and dropped
dead. Dansell has been committed for trial for man-
police authorities have got at Hicks,
one of the defendants in the celebrated consph-acy case.
w nw thtre will be fun. We believe that Mr. Fred*
Harvie Linklater, one of the defendant’s counsel, has
squared his row with the Melbourne Evening Herald.
Is the connecting him unsavourily with the case was a
mere slip Anyway, for a yonng barrister, Fred, has
mlnsged to advertise himself well, and will «cvcm rival
the great VUleneuvo Smith in the Court* I The mild-
eved Barker appears *o have been trying to mizzle, as
he wm found at Strafchalbyn under a disguise. If
Hir*ks ttlls tho whole truth, there should be some
Hicksiting revelations. Forsyth had the foresight to
rive leg-bail. It appears that the four conspirators.
larkM Hieks. Forsyth, and Dr. Horton, were to each
rake in £2OOO if the scheme succeeded, less expenses
for maintaining Weatherhead.
Over Melbourne way, Minnie Cole, a young
woman who had dissipated much and was tired, deter-
mined to end her troubles m tbe Yarra. bhe> was re-
strained, however, and lodged in the local Bastille. A
might of this brought repentance to the gentle Minnie,
and she really looked so nice and sober the next mom-
ing, upon being presented at Court, that the hearts of
the great unpaid went cut to her. And then, as the
City Missionary, Mr. Hill, recommended that Minnie
should be placed at the Carlton Refuge washing-tub,
where she would be ineffably happy, the Bench dis-
charged her. Behold then, the solemn Refuge tan-
vaseer, as he leads the way through the police court
passages with Mies Cele on his arm. Suddenly she
recollects that she has an important letter at her late
residence ; and, in common politeness, her escort ct nn t
rofu«e to accompany her in quest of it. The mis nonary,
however, felt that the eyes of the world were uptn Urn,
and he did not care to trust himself among the i empt w-
tions which the bevy of heads in earl-papers pres.ntbd
at the windows of the estaolishment seemed to piomise.
So he 1 modestly withdrew round the corner and waned
for his fair Magdalene. He waited there for somethmg
less than six hours, and at last saw his guest returning
trem the nearest public-house—whither she had gone by
the back way—with a jug of beer. The controlling
influence is strong in a penitent, even when she happens
to be under the charge of a solemn, worthy old deacon.
When Celestina was asked whether she liked
music, she replied allegorically: •• That Massey Ito
others show, that Massey show to me. All who have
seen the varied stock of pianos and American organs
in the establishment of Massey and Co. will appreciate
this.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A Melbourne mother left her baby to keep house.
Baby npaet hot water and won’t keep house any more.
Mrs. Langtry paints furiously. She was asked
why she did not.follow it up. “ Too many at it" was her
riply.
“ If yon pull out one grey hair, ten will come to
Its funeral" she said. "Never mind,,' wmi the reply.
“ So long as they all come In blaoK."
London Truth Bays, under guise of a parable,
that the Princess Louise fllrte with young officers In the
absence of her husband more than is meet.
For girls only. If you want to rid yourself of a
bore, talk to him about yourself. When you want a
man to stay indefinitely, talk about himself.
On his supposed death-bed, he confessed all his
sins to his wife. Now he is healthy and miserable,
while she is busy and happy having her revenge.
Successful suitor: “Don’t you think Mia*
Brown a very sweet girl ?’’ Unsuccessful rival: "Oh,
yes, very sweet —that’s to say, she’s well preserved.’
Eejeoted one: “No doubt, in the end, you will
be marrying some idiot of a fellow.” ” Excuse me, sir.
If I meant to do that I should have accepted your offer.
Silence.
75 tons false hair was imported to France from
the East last year. The quantity was not so large as
usual, the smallpox in India not having carried od so
many women as previously.
An inventive American is getting out for each of
of the big cities ef the States, a directory, giving the
name, style, whether brunette or blonde, address, and
appropriate age of every girl who ia worth above
£6OO.
“ Knee Breeches, Why Not?” ia the title of an
article frem the pen of Miss Kate Field In the last
number of Ou* Conti bent. Miss Field pleads for trunk
and hose with a trenchant pen, and only “ pauses for
space and the next number of Ou» Cohtinbkt."
A girl named Belle Hordin eloped at Virginia,
111. Her father overtook the couple, and the swain was
about to give up his sweethefrt without a struggle,
when she coolly drew a pistol, and told her parent that
she would shoot him it he interfered. The elopement
proceeded.
At Birkenhead, England, a butcher was sued
for damages for breach of promise of marriage and
seduction, the plaiuliff being his deceased wife s sister.
Ou the relationship being revealed the stopped
the proceeding#, ruling that a man could no more marry
his deceased wife’s sister than his grandmother.
“ All kneel to mo,” said the Pope, to a stately
American lady who visited him; ••&!!_ except the
daughters of sovereigns. ’’ “I am a princess, your
holiness,” she promptly replied. “In my country, the
people are sovsraign, and I am a daughter of tne
people.” The Pope smiled graciously and said, • Then
receive an old man’s blessing.”
It is alleged that a couple who recently went
through the lorm of marriage in a N.S. W. country
church —bridegroom was 40, the bride but 16—through
an oversight on the clergyman's part left the ediace
without signing the register. They quarrelled a week
afterwards, andtho bride senght the home of her parents.
The husband, who sees that he has not b«en legally
married, now refuses to sign the register, saying that ho
considers himself well out of a bad bargain.
The heaviest part of Mrs. Langtry’s ordeal at
her debut was the playing befere se many of her old oom
p anion s-in-arms and rivals. The titled enea, such as
Lady Dudley and Lady Lensdalo, she could put up
with, but it was hard lines to hare to stand and be
quizzed by the never-dropped lorgnette of Mrs. Cora-
wallis-West. However, she bore the ordeal bravely.
Patti has one hundred concert dresses. One of
pale blue satin, embroidered in a Japanese design of
flowers and trimmed with Maltese point laee, cost £6OO.
Another rebe ie of chamois plash, spriakled with silver,
the train being covered with rows of solid silver fringe,
and the tablier with flowers embossed in sllrsr. Most
of her dressM are a mass of geld, silver, and precious
stones.
Perhaps nobody will believe this, but it’s true
all the same. A N,Z. gentleman, now on a visit to Syd-
ney, advertised for a wet-nurse. The advertisement
was answered in person by a dashing young damsel of
sixteen, whose knowledge of the trickery of the trade
was, as might be supposed, extremely vague. Upon
being questioned as to her experience, she admitted
her short-comlng in this respect, but, upon the gentle-
mvn informing his unsophisticated interviewer that she
would not do until she was soinewhat riper in years,
and of more extensive experience, aha testily
‘‘But, if you please, sir, the mistress can tench me.
She evidently wain't reared at the Christchurch Pub-
lic school.
• • •
Some people love widows, some achieve widows,
and some havewidovs thrust up.u them....... Domestic
economy : Buying las. shoes for your wife and sixpenny
cigars for yourself Men like to see themselves in
print: women prefer siik or velvet......At Horsham, in
England, a man who had knocked his mother down and
broken her thigh-bone, was fined £1 10s 6d , including
costs and doctor’s fee ! Lady attired for ball. To her
her little daughter: “Oh, mat what have you done
with your dress f” Short girls should get sphcacL.....
«If I thought I was going to become grey, I’d die.
And when sue became grey shedid dye The members
of the London Anti Crinoline Society " engage them-
selves never to wear that inconvenient and ungraceful
garment whatever attempt is made on the port of mil-
liners to impose this tyranny upon the ladies of Eng-
land.” It is.stated that her Majesty, on the occasion
of the marriage! of her daughters, has always givea
them a sum of £lOO,OOO by way of a marriage portion.
That deserving institution, the Sydney Female
Refuge, Is £232 in debt A man is like an egg; keep
him in hot water, and ho will become hardened
The clergyman 44 united ” them, and an awful silence
ensued. Exclaimed an impatient youth : “ Don’t bo so
unspeakably happy." Give yoar appearance care-
ful and serious thought in your dressing-room, and
forget it elsewhere.” During the height of the gale
encountered by the Lenra, one of the female passengers
gave birth to a child. The first question asked was:
“la it a gale or a boy? ” At any rate, It was a gala
occasion The best curling tongn for the fringe which
adorns Beanty’s brow is Augustus’s forefinger and
j thumb.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The English for “ cl6fcure ” is “ gag.”
Peru has borrowed £45,000,000, and not paid a
farthiug since 1876.
S.A. revenue for past quarter was £52,759;
expenditure, £45.639.
Geelong election: Mr. Connor, 1335; Mr-
C. E. Jones, 719; Mr. Lloyd, 450; and Mr. Meakin, 51-
The Borsyitas didn’tt pull the event off, therefore.
The Victorian Government is undecided in the
matter of the new dredge—whether to have it imported
for £22,000 or built in the colony for £32,t00. Let Berry
apeak 1
The Marquis ot Salisbury and Sir Stafford
Northoote have commenced a tents of Tory demon-
strations in Lancashire. The Marquis has peeled on
I his coat, and Sir Stafford is spitting upon his hands.
Cape Colony and New Zealand are the only
British colonial possessions which t-xcend the franchise
to tile native population. In England, however, itjs
believed that the aboriginals send representatives to the
Victorian Parliament.
Protectionist Victoria has. jnst ordered 70 rail-
way carriages from England, lu Eree-irade N.8.W.,
Mnri.r.rv.Hr,,thcra (Limited), of Sydney, supply all the
OovdrWKnt requirements. However, we do not know
the relative prices of imported and oo.onial carriages.
As soon as John Plomer, the convicted Wagga
district teacher, is hanged, the Education Department
will proceed, it is expected, to answer the petition of
the one hundred Public and Denominational School
teachers who two years ago appealed to the Department
re loss of pay.
At Bergen, Norway, the monopoly of the local
sale of spirits is in the hands of a company which, after
paying 5 per cent, upon capital, devotes Its surplus pro-
fits to educational aad benevolent objects. Among the
organizations which share in the plunder are the tem-
perance societies. Bergen, therefore, presents the old
practical paradox provided by the fact that its habi-
tual drunkards are among the most valuable pecuniar/
supporters of the cause of total abstinence.
Mr. Bence Jones, who had the cheek to publish
in the Cobtbmporart Bbtibw at article f famed to show
hr his own case as a boycotted landlord, how unjusti-
fiable and unreasonable complaints against landlords in
Ireland were, throughout, has come a cropper. The
Land Commissioners have taken his case in baud, and
have decided that In the case of one farm, where Bence
has been exacting a rent o* £126, he has been getting
£4O too much, and have therefore reduced the rent to
£BB. In another case, the rent has been reduced from
£B2 to £59 —a reduction of £23.
Somebody rolled logs and the Victorian Gover i
ment spent £20,000 in a tramway from Stayed t ue
Grampian quarries. The red-hot protectiot ids d d it:
Sydney and Tasmanian stone were tapu, while a higher
price was given for the Stiwell “in order to
keep the money in the colony." Tke jo' * now comes
in : it is found that the Grampian stone is nothing but
compressed sanS, and crumble* to powder under easy
rubbing. The only “consvitutional" course open is
for a Eoyal Commission to sit on the quarries for about
seven years, publish progress reports annually, draw
screw monthly, and then in the dim future record it—
finding that nobody is to blame.
N S.W. trade returns for 1831 show a total of
£33,458,820, or anavsrage per head of mean population
of £46 9s. Sd. Imports were £17,409,526, made up thus
—Food and drink, £4,127 191; raw muter als, £1.651,841;
manufactures, £11610,401!. .Exports were £l6 049,3.3,
made up thus—F*od and drink, £2,027,036; raw
materials, £10,531,387; manufactures, £1,847,438 ; and
coin, £1,643,442. Bullion is placed under “ ruannfac-
tnrss," the reason assigned boieg that it has to bo con-
verted into coin. Judged by that standard it has an
•qnal right to a position under “ raw materials." The
statistics for gold and silver are—lmported as coin,
bullion, or dust, £1,240,0(43 ; exported, do , £1,982,838.
Customs revenue daring 1881 was £1,408,928.
The recall from London of Mr. Lowell, U.S.
Minister at the Court of tit. Jamas, appe irs, judging by
cable advices, to be more than likely in consequence of
his attitude in connection with the arrest and imprison-
ment of American subjects as “ suspects " in Ireland.
The case «f the Irish. Americans is thus nut in tho
NY. Irish World: —“Ihese men have not been shown
to have committed any illegal acts. They have not
even been accused of any. They are imprisoned on
mere suspicion. Now, if the United States is to assume
tho position that an American citizen may bo punished
in any foreign State upon mere suspicion of an illegal
set, the American citizen abroad, no matter what bo
his conduct, is ut tho mercy of any government within
whose domains he may happen to bo. If he may be
imprisoned upon suspicion, without any judicial in-
quiry whatever (without even an opportunity of know-
ing who it is that suspects him), he may be hung on
suspicion. And it upon the mere plea that he is sns-
pected he mav be punished in person, then he may like-
wise be punished by the seizure of his property. That
any government may refuse the privilege of residence
or of sojourn to the citizen of another country whom
it may suspect of acts ar of opinions which it deems
inimical to its policy is an intelligible principle; but
that it may on suspicion punish him at its pleasure is
so ■onstroms a doctrine that stated nakedly no one
would admit it. Yet it is precisely this doctrine that
haa been admitted by Mr. Lowell, acting under the in-
strnotions of the Department of State.’’
The President of the English Land Nationali-
zation Society, is Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, the eminent
naturalist, who spent sereral years in New Guinea, and
is well-knewu in physios as a supporter of the Dar-
winian system, and also as an advocate of reciprocity
in international trade. The following are some of the
resolutions passed at a meeting in London, on January
21st, of the Bo«iety:—That private property in land is
the monopoly by a few of an element essential to human
existence; that it had its origin, to a large extent, in
force or fraud; and that at the present time it is wrong
to all who do not participate in it. That private pro-
perty in land under the present system, by reason
of the divided and often conflicting interests it creates
in the soil, leads to bad cultivation, greatly diminishes
production, and checks permanent Improvement;
while, by depriving the labourer of any rights in the
soil, it is one of the chief causes of pauperism, demora-
lization and crime. The private property in land, by
favoring mono(K)ly and building speculation, has pro-
duoed, and still produces, crowded and unhealthy dwel.
lings, in which the mass of our people aro forced to
live, and pay exhorbitant rents.


Hotels, *o.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ATX THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
la PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cock tram's Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston's Best Billiard Table, is one of the best
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
fjpo PUBLICANS AND STOREKEEPER?.
To Let,
A HOUSE containing 9 Room?, with Elegant Bar and
Bar Fittings, Kitchen and Stable, built for a Public-
house, but at present occupied as a store. Also, a Store.
Apply to the proprietor, ...
FREDERICK TEELOW,
Copper Mines,
Nymagee.
Gr
UNSLER’S HOTEL.
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
PEIZE ALBURY WINE.
J T. FALLON in asking public attention to hi*
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
iutinmte that be bolds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Cvnteal Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MUERAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Tbeao Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibition 1 :
London International
Paris „
Vienna ~
Philadelphia ~
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria, New South Wains, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 2 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Lrowu Muscat Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
1862
1804
1K73
1876
K
OBERT BUTCHER A
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
COTJrTBT OSDKKS RSCEITS PROMPT AtTKKTIOK.
Tobaeeeniflta
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are comri'ed from official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 ort 2*8,303 lb.
All the others paid duty in 1880 on ... ...
DIXSON AND SON* paid d.ty in 1881 on 478,985 lb.
All the others paid d*ty in 1881 oa ... 638,992 lb.
Imported manufaetared tobeseo paid duty
on for the two years was 0n1y... ... 307,1001 b.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
RanVce Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tik Tag,” each ping branded with a
Boukd Single Tin Ta», stamped “ Coar-
qokroe *’ or “ Yankee Doodlb ”
ALL TOBACCONIST*' GOODS, PIPES, 40.
fd«V
Magnificent iron-framed german
PIANOS.
Walnnt. Ehony-and-gold, Roscwood-ard-gold.
Imported by us direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our hnvcr in Germany.
Every instrument i« WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are of vi ry handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICKS for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All onr PIANOS are latest styles only. We havo no
second-hand instruments v or cheap rubbish.
BEALE aad COMPANY,
1, Oxford-stroet; 612 George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-street, Bathurst j Auburn-street, (ionl-
hum ; Church street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where yon live we will supplv yon with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
I
NDIA
705
AND CHINA TEA COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET,
HAtatAEKlf.
OUR “STAR OP INDIA” TEAS
Have been proved to bo
SUPERIOR TO ANY OTHERS
roit
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND EXCELLENCE.
Sold only at our Establishment—
-705 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET,
OPPOSITE HORDERN’S PALACE
EMPORIUM.
LA T E AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, *o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, QEOEGE-ST.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
, perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets, \
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam,
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat;
great saving of fuel; apply several layers
1 The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paper Works, Liver-
pool. Sold by all Iror.-mong
Warehousemen & Storekeeper
v Price, 4Jd& 6d per yd
30 & 40 inches
any length
wide.
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
t&36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,^
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay,
meats to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Cactlereogh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
WASTE PAPER for SALE, apply Bulletin
Office, Pitt-strtet.
Hotels, fee.
T LOYD’S HOTEL,
Ji HO WICK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comiqua and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
FOSTER'S Bugle Br^nd.
‘Business Announcements
USTRALIAN “HOME”
SEWING MACHINES.
SHUTTLE
Unprincipled Dealers—to male a fiw extra shil-
lings profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
c
>
*
</
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for ns, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We solicit in'oranation of tte attempted sale pf coun-
terfeits of the above Machine, when we will take legal
act ion in protection of our rights.
In any district where our genuine Machines are not
procurab’e, we will forward them direst on receipt of
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE HOW SOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE ... ... £4 0 0
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLETE ... 60 0
Do., WITH COYER COMPLETE... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
m. mossTand CO,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
P.
K
N.
E. L A R
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
*B George-street West (lata Parramatta-street).
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats,
P. R. LARKIN,
WHOLBBALE AND RETAIL WINK AND SPIRIT MIBCHANT,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRT
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
w
H ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Kent-btiibet, near King-street,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
R. Whittingliam and Go.’« London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft & Co.)
Cwallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakts
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.'s Qoulbnm Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
DEAFNESS ! —I have an Infallible Remedy
for this distressing complaint, compounded from
the recipe of the Aurist-in-Chief of the London Royal
Ear Infirmary (to which the Queen yearly subscribes
£100), Send six stamps, for particulars and copies of
testimonials, to T. B HANNAFGRD, Auckland, New
Zealand.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES:—I47 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
s
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MUKPHY,
Regent House, 868 George-street South.
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 868 George-street South.
BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street Sonth.
APERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street)South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMI
Ac., Ac.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
J>LATE GLASS, PLATE GLAS
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
fa
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS'S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SONANT) CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
bRIT£
3MS9
Am
hil
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
not ties.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
leapt 10 por cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOEj SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
a
m
14 &16 Sprl g Street.
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHEN WA RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps ana Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON*
Edinburgh Pale Ale
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Publie
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the prin Opal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.B.N. Co.'s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kfrkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
T
HE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING. IMPORTER.
FAF
•o) t bsoh *h I®
every Genuine Bottle.
r T —'v r 7— T-F
-\r\i;r v f.%-.
. pz 1:
i
k w Vir 7
f.C..THOMSON & C? ;■
PF. OPR IC 7OR S
ql/ s r ; ow ,jj
- f i - 7 ,v o’P .T> f 7 Fin.-i ' i
JOHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOK NEW SOUTH WALES,
22 BEIDGE BTKEET, SYDNEY.
B
USINESSES POE SALE.
FEOST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnership
AGENTS,
Offer lor Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and —
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
4610,000. Intending Purchasers, who favour uj with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
-manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in.
-torest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
.Will find P. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Officess 79 Pitt-street.


The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[IVa shall he glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Oberon April 20
South Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C .....’.'.April 20, 21!
Wiloannia April 20, 21.
Edhnoa April 20, 21.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Gunnedah J.C April 25, 26.
Deniliquiu April 27i 28 ;
Lachlan E.C May 5
5.4..J.C .-. May 6. Il 13
Bligh A.T.C .dr* „ .„.May 22
Drmedm (N Z i ./inter May 21.
N Z. Grand N-i onal Steeplechase, Ashburton”!May 24
Melbourne Hunt Club jyi a ' 24
Adelaide E.C. May”2o,’ 24, 25. 27.
• opeland J.C jj aT 24
Murrurundi J.O 24. 2s!
Queensland T.G...,. May 24 25
J,C May 24. 2s!
Manning' River J.C ...May 31 June 1.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... j’une 7, o!
Brewamna J.C June 8, 9.
Reokhampt-n a :. r... July 6, 7.
Clarence E J.O. j a i y jg, IS
AQUATICS.
Watson’s Bay Regatta April 29
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race ........."".April 29!
Glebe K. C. Trial Pours, in Outriggers April 29*
Beach y. Reynold*. £lOO, Parramatta River.... April 29
Trickett v. Hanlan, £5OO wide on the Thames.... May I
M.R.C. Junior Single Sculls (President’s
„ Tr °P h y);v: May 6.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27
Maryborough (Q ) Regatta May 24
Grafton Regatta May 24
Hanlan y. Ross, £2OO aside .............. June 20.
PEDESTEIANIBM.
Newington College Athletic Sports, Stanmore..April 29.
Oarcoar Athletic Sports May 24.
Tam worth Athletie Club ......May 2t!
Narrabri Athletic Sports ".May 2i"
Eiverina (Hay) Athletic Club May 24, 25!
SWIMMING
Port Jackson Swimming Club matches April 29.
FOOTBALL.
Victorian Match (Association Ground)...May 23, 24, 27.
COURSING.
Australian Coursing Club May 4.
Hawkesbury May 12, is!
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Ernest Cavill and Smith swim 1000 yards on
Friday.
It is likely that an athletic club will be shortly
started at Grafton.
The yachts Janet and Taniwha sail a match in
Hobson’s Bay on April 29.
The St. Leger meeting of the Australian Cours-
ing Club has been further postponed till 4th May,
A railway porter at Blayney drew first prize
(£1000) in one of th* big consultations on the Sydney
Colac Races, Easter Monday. Maiden Plate :
Captain Cook, 1. Colac Cup: Mayfly, 1. Hack Race :
Tommy Dodd, 1.
Messrs. Wilkinson, Giltinan, and Williams,
have been selected as match and selection committee
for the Mercantile Rowing Club.
On Monday, the Ballarat bowlers were defeated
by the Balmain Bowling Club by 2 points, the scorers
beingßalmain, 98; Ballarat, 96.
Larry won the big Handicap at New Plymouth
(N.Z.) Races, Eandwiok being second, and Dan third.
The Autumn Handicap fell to Eandwiok.
The N.Z. jockey Mnrtagh, who was disqualified,
ha* been arrested for larceny as a bailee in selling a
racehorse over which there was a bill of sale.
The Ballarat bowlers played a team selected
from Sydney clubs on the Cook Park ground on the
15th instant, and were defeated by 35 points.
The Sweetmeat reported dead last week, was
not Mr. Ivory’s great horse, but a thoroughbred, the
property of Mr. J. Callaghan, of Walloon, Queensland.
The weights for the Dubbo J.C. Handicap were
declared on Monday. Lord Burghley heads the list with
9at.. On paper, Balthazar; iwith 7st. 71b., looks heat
in.
The Ballarat bowlers, who were invited to
Annandale on Satarday last, defeated the local players
by 11 points, the scores being—Ballarat, 92; Annan,
dale, 81.
Balmain Albion y. Carlton Club. A.C.C. 39 •
C.C.C. 53, 86. Albions wicketly withdrew the stumps’
The highest scores of Carltons were, Burt, not out 33 i
Felshie 24, Shultz 20.
J. Pemberton, better known in the Lithgow
wrestling world as “ Muggins,” has laid £5O to £4O
that he will beat E. Burrows. The match comes off
about almonth hence.
A 125 yards’ foot-race for ,£2O came off at
Grafton on Saturday between W. Noud and Devoy. It
was a splendid spin, and retulted in a dead heat. In the
rnnotf Noud won by two yards.
Victorian Trotting Club Meeting, Saturday.
Maiden Plate: Tilda E., 1. Match against Time, 1 mile
in 2 min. 30 sec.: Commodore, 1. The match, Boccaccio
v. Ton Moltke, was won by the former.
J. Ryee, of Lithgow, is to run Thomas Spring
on April 29, 153 yards, for £2O a side, on the Lithgow
ground. Spring runs under an alias for “ family rea-
sons.’’ He ran as C. Byrne at Bowenfels.
Some of the home papers say that Innes, Han-
lan’s backer, offers Trickett three matches, viz , with
Ross for £2OO, with Godwin for £lOO, and with Largan
for £lOO, all to be contested on the Thames.
SheUharbour races, Easter Monday. Hurdles :
Butterfly 1. Maiden Plate; Zoe 1. Peterborough
Handicap: Florrle 1. Hack Race : Maude 1. Flying
Handicap: Lucinda 1. Forced Handicap: Zee 1.
Australian Surrey v. Mechanics on Moore Park
on Saturday, resulted in a draw, greatly in favour of
the former, the scores being: A.S.G.C. 148—Hinohy 35,
Hopkins 23, Hall 18, Miller 17, Kelly 10. M.C,G„ 8
wickets for 9 runs.
Doncaster (Vic.) races, Saturday—Handicap
Hnrdles: Buckshot 1; Galloway Handicap: Cock
Robin 1; Doncaster Handicap: Beadsman 1; Selling
Flat Race : Minnie 1; Trotting Race: Nelly Bly 1;
Maiden Plate: Flying Jim 1.
The six days’ go-as-you-please at Geelong, be-
tween the pedestrian Edwards, and the trotter Con-
quering Hero, for £lOO, resulted in an easy victory for
toe he Tie, who covered 431* miles, while the champion
accomplished only 4231 miles.
The Newington College athletic sports will take
place to-day (Saturday) on the play-ground at Stan-
more. The programme comprises a handicap 150
yards for visitor*, a handicap 150 yards [for old boys,
and a 220 yards race for all schools.
At a recent cricket match in the Auckland
Domain, in which Jem Mace was a participant, the
“ champion of the world ” had to be assisted off the
field, suffering from a severe blow in the abdomen, ad.
ministered by a cricket ball which Jem ought to have
caught—
Alas, poor Jem ! one plainly sees
How strangely Fortune’s blows are dealt.
When thou, at the Antipodes,
Art foully struck " below the belt.”
Everybody disputed the Drummer’s win on
Saturday, but as the judge was in the best place we
adhere to the judge’s decision that the Drummer won
by a short head. We shall not admit even that the
judg 6 ma “ e ft u^riike—we have the greatest respect for
N !;£u’.P’ C ' mnor ' th o ped., offered to wager
£5O or £lOO that O'Brien, the Victorian long-distance
runner, would do eleven miles within the honr. No-
body accepted. By the way, O’Brien is by profession
a schoolmaster. He is certainly one of the fastett mile
runners living.
A.t the Black Hill (Vic.) races, on the 12th
instant, a jockey named Robert White, in the handicap
f ace ’ wa * thrown against a stamp and killed. In
the hack race, Albert Jordan, an amateur, was thrown
near the same spot, falling on hia head. Ho died a few
minutes afterwards.
The match, Warwick v. Fifteen Our BoyaC.C.,
on the Association Ground, on Saturday, resulted in a
draw, the scores being :—0.8.C.C., 96 —Collins 24, Han-
nah 13, Stsadman (not out) 12, Saunders 13. W.C.G ,
five wickets for 58—Ogilvis (not out) 20, Downes 11,
M’Donald (not out) 10.
A good judge of rowing writes to the London
Sportsman stating that in his opinion Hanlan, if pos-
Bible, rows better than over. All the more honour to
Trickett if he can finish in front of the Canadian.
Hanlan thought that Boyd would push him closely, and
took extra pains in his training.
Hutchens, the champien English sprinter, has
been challenged by a young man hitherto unknown to
fame—Tattersall, of Clitheroe—to run 440 yards for
£lOO a side. It is almost universally conceded that
Hutchens is ten yards faster in a quarter of a mile than
any ped. of past or present days.
On Good Friday, a famous sportsman of Wing-
ham made some excellent shots. After wandering for
some miles, and finding no game, he came to a lot of
butterflies, and, giving six shots with bnllets, he killed
five, and then returned home in good humour. As the
poet says, “ Better late than never," He’s fly.
Henley Regatta committee have decided to
prevent any but native college crows from competing
for the Visitors’ Cup. Some of the London and most of
the American papers say that this new regulation was
cansed by fear of the arrival on the Thames of the
doughty and much-vaunted Hillsdale (U.S.) College
(our.
The President of the Mercantile Rowing Club
(Hon. J. B. Watt, M.L.C.),*has presented three prize*
each of the value of ten guinea*, for maiden, junior, and
senior soulltrs in skiffs. The first event i<s fixed for
juniors on May 13 ; the second, for seniors, on June 17;
and the maiden race will be rowed probably in Sep-
tember.
The Toronte Mail says if Trickett and Wallace
Ross oan be indnoed to make a trip to Winnipeg, Man.,
at the time of Hanlan’s visit, it is possible a big
parse will be given for a raoe between the three on the
Bad River, to be rowed apart from Hanlan’s present
engagement to give exhibitions there on June 29, 30,
and July 1.
At Mr. Clibborn’s sale of the Hon. E. King
’ Cox’* yearlings oa the 13th instant, th* principal prices
realised wsr# A brother to Chester, 1255 gs.; brown
colt, from Htbsna, by Maribyrnong, 400 gs.; a brother
to Sweet William, 330 gs.; a bay colt, from Nathalie,
by Ysttendon, 510 gs.; a sister to Habena and Geral-
dine, 700 gs.
Messrs. Swaddle and Winship built a boat for
the Cambridge crew in their race against Oxford. Her
dimension* w»r* : —Length 57ft., breadth 184 in,, height
forward 74in., amid»hip* BJin, aft 6in. She is of
Mexican cedar and fitted with eliding seats, and has all
, the latest improvements in tbe building of racing craft,
except swivel rowlocks.
A match under the auspices of the Sydney
Homing Pigeon Society wa* flown on Saturday from
‘ Douglas Park (45 miles), and resulted in a win for Mr.
Freeman, who also secured second plaoe, as his two
birds Victor and FCP. were homo first in 52 minutes.
S. Hawkin secured third plaoe, his three birds homing
together in 65 minutes.
A ** pick-up” has been raking in the fivers and
tenners at Charters Towers (Q ) lately. He oan jump,
run, play billiards, swallow eggs bj the dozen, and
do lots of little fancy tricks, which people will insist,
with their money to bask their opinion, to be impos-
sible. Whatever he backed himself to do he did. We
know the specimen; so do the Charters Towers boys—
aow.
The name of Myers, the American amateur
championship runner (who is also amateur champion
of England), appears among the English Shrovetide
Handicap entries. Should he run, he will of coarse be
henceforth regarded as a professional. Myers is not at
scratch, and the scratch man gives him no less than
54 yards in 1314- Several men have given him
starts.
Louie, the winner of the Napier (N.Z.) Handi-
cap, was all but scratched for that race. Her trainer
said he thought it was "a thousand to a cigar"
against her, and advised her owner to scratch. How-
ever, Mr. M’Lean decided to have a “ speel for his
money,” and the scrubby-looking daughter of Anteros
cantered home a winner by two lengths, beating all the
great guns.
Rowell withdrew from the pedestrian contest in
New York on the 3rd instant. Hughes pushed the
“ little Englishman,” as he called him, so unmercifully
at the onset as to force him into retirement. Hughes
knew he was destroying his own chance of success, but
sacrificed himself in order to break up Rowell, and suc-
ceeded. He compelled Rowell, on the first day, to
cover 150 miles in a little over 22 hours.
Forbes races, April 13 and 14. First day—
Maiden Plate: Britisher 1; Members’ Cup: Chester 1;
Town Plate: Fireman 1; Sapling Stakes: Master Yat-
tenden 1: Prince of W ales’ Stakes: Alarm Bell 1;
1 Hack Raoe: Homebnsh 1. Second day—Hurdles:
Juggler 1; Forbes J.C. Handicap: Britisher 1; Two-
and-Three-Year-Old Handicap: Master Yattendon 1;
Plying Handicap: Rival 1; Novel Selling Raoe: Em-
blem 1.
The annual general meeting of the Wallaroo
Football Club was held on Friday evening last. Messrs
L. C. Auldjo and H. Fligg were awarded the cups of
honour. Following are the office-bearers:—Treasurer,
M. Arnold; secretaries, G. A. Graham and H. Douglas;
committee, E. A. Arnold, J. A. Brodle, and C. B. Boy-
dell; captain, J. A. Brodie; vice-captain, G. W. Gra-
ham ; delegates to the Union, H. Douglas and T. M.
Thomson.
The return match between Hill End and Pyrmont
Clubs was played on April 8, at Pyrmont, resulting in
a win for Hill End by seven wickets. The scores were
small. Pyrmont, 28 and 14; Hill End, 13 and three
wiekets for 30, For Pyrmont, T. Brown took nine
wickets for 4 runs; and for Hill End, Gustafson got
seven wickets for 6 runs. The principal scorers were—
for Pyrmoat, W. Crooke 15; for Hill End, Chappie 8,
Fairfax 10.
When, any time during the next few months,
yen see a man with a gap in his mouth where four
teeth oqght to be, a bandage over one eye, and the other
closed for repairs, one arm hanging in a sling and the
other banging over the end of a crutch, do not imagine
that you are gazing upon the victim of a dynamite ex-
plosion. It is only a man who has j u*t returned from
a football-match, taking a temporary rest from the
labours of his profession.
Proctor shows that although ten horses can
come in in 3,628,000 different ways, it is not the same as
Baying that ten horses can be placed thus. Ton can
plaoe the marbles in that number of ways, but the
meaning of place in racing limits it to the first three
horses, when the possibilities are 720. A man in N.Z.
lost heaps of money through not seeing this. A similar
trick is to bet on the three first horses in a race meeting.
To be on the first three horses is rather different.
The N.S.W. eight were met, on their arrival at
Melbourne station, by a number of members of the
V.R.A., and were escorted to Young and Jackson's
Hotel, where the usual welcoming toasts were proposed
and responded to. Mr. Simpson, our captain, called
upon his boys to drink to the health of their opponents.
He said that his crew had been designated “ the rats ’’
ia Sydney owing to their light weight, but he trusted
they would make up in pluck for what they lacked in
physical power.
The following amounts were paid over on Mon-
day to the respective winners at tho A.J.C. Meeting:—
P. J. McAlister, £1,579; J, Lloyd, £1,214; E. de Mestre,
£833: Capt. Osborne, £567; W. Branch, £368; F. Went-
worth. £352 ; S. W. Knight, £326; W. B. Brown, £322;
E. Weston. £301; J. Allsop. £274 : J. Abrahams, £270;
T. Ivory, £204 ; J. Cook, £200; A. E. Cornwell, £212;
E. Lee, £2OO ; Hon. James White, £139; J. A. Dallas,
£139: A. K. Finlav, £117; T. Shore, £4O; J. Dargin,
£2O; O. Brown, £2O; G. Fagan, £2o—total, £7,719.
A programme of the Eastern Suburbs’ Amateur
Athletic Club sports, to be held at the Association
Ground on 13th May, has been handed to us by the hon.
sec. It comprises all classes of races, some being
novelties, such as the Quarter Mile Hurdles, and the
1000 yards flat race. The latter is a popular distance in
England and America, but has not been tried here
much, probably on account of the scarcity of long-dis-
taace runners amongst out amateur peds. The meeting
should be a success, several special prizes having al-
ready been siven.
The two best batsmen in Tasmania are Edward
and Charles Butler. Both have played on different
occasions with the Gentlemen of England against the
Players, and left respectable records on th* scoring,
books. Their showy wrist action is ascribed to tennis,
a game very much suited to the tastes of southern Tas-
manians—lndeed, their racket court is considered one of
the best in the world If the Tasmanians could
find another bowler like H. Bayley, who has left for
Western Australia, they ceuld send a team into
the field which would give the greater colonies some
trouble to overmatch.
Mr. Higgins, who weighed but 9st., was to be
stroke of tne Oxford crew, which contained not a single
man not less than two stone heavier than himself, and
toms three and four stone heavier. When, in 1863, Mr.
Stanning, who was under 10st., stroked Cambridge, and
had behind him a very heavy crew, the Light Blues
sustained a disastrous defeat. No matter how pretty
an oar a 9st. man may be, he is hardly fit to stroke a
boat under such circumstances. However, Higgins or
no Higgins—for we haven’t yet received particulars of
the race—Oxford won again this ysar. This is a bad
omen for our representative Eight in Melbourne, for
their stroke is much the lightest man of the crew.
The swimming matches at the Lavender Bay
Baths, on Saturday, did not attract a large attendance,
but the events were keenly contested. Following are
the results:—Boys under 13 : P. Laughlin 1. Boys
under 15: O. Cavill 1. Handicap far girls : M. Cavill 1.
All-comsrs, 500 yards: W. M'lndo* 1, E. Cavill 2, C.
M'lndoe 2. Swimming with clothes on, 50 yards, then
undress in the water, and return to starting point with
clothes; W. M’lndoe wen after a great race with Pro-
fessor Cavill. The Professor with his children and the
M'lndoe Brothers gave a natatory exhibition, and the
afternoon’s sports were brought to a conclusion with
an aquatic polo match which Professor Cavill’* side
won.
The Sydney Eight’s trial in their new boat on
the Tarra wa* considered satisfactory. The Footscray
Club kas given both crews shed accommodation The
boat built for our representatives by Fuller is of cedar
with English aeb fittings, and of the following dimen-
sions :—Length, 56 feet 6 inches over all; beam 1 foot
10 inches ; depth, amidships, 121 inches, aft, 6} inches,
forward, 61 inches. The seats run on 18in. V slides.
The boat is made to carry a crew averaging lOst. 111 b.,
with a Set. coxswain. M Cloanthus,” in the Australa-
sian, forcibly directs attention to the fact that, in the
Victorian boat, the veteran oarsmen are all rowing on
one side, and the comparatively untried men on the
other.
The weights for the different events to be con-
tested at the Sydney Turf Club meeting, on Saturday
next, were published on Monday last. Albyn is top
weight Id the Hurdle Race, with 12st. 71b; Satellite,
lOst. 51b., snd B lac tall, lOst. 31b , are steadied. The
Steeplechase loeks like *. contest between Satellite,
Wrangler, and Hotspur. For the Juvenile Stakes, Mis-
take has the impost of 9st 121 b., and Robert the Devil
8»t. Bib., or Qui Vive, 6st. 111 b , should tnm the tables
on their hitherto invincible competitor. The April
Handicap is very open, and the ultimate winner will
have to get away at the start. Th* Autumn Handicap
promises to be a great race—Cunnamulla, Stella, Rain-
bsw, and Lord Orville appear to have the best of the
weights.
A.J.C. Meeting. Second day—Flying Handi-
cap, } mile: Somerset 1, Larpert 2, Gunild 3; time I
min. Isf secs. Maiden Stakes, 14 mile: Anglesey 1,
Vauolus# 2, Paragraph 3; time, 2 min. 15 secs. Sydney
Cup, 2 miles: Cunnamulla 1, Sweet William 2, Rainbow
3, time, 3 min. 34 secs. Sires’ Produce Stakes, 7 fur-
longs: Jessie 1, Hecla 2, Navigator 3, time 1 min. 31|
secs. Selling Plate, 14 mile : Balthagar 1, Eos man te 2,
Dictator 3, time, 2 min. 15 J secs. Sapling Stakes, 5
furlongs ; Mistake 1, Bell Bird 2, Robert the Devil 3,
time, 1 min, 3|- secs. Mr. A. Cornwell bought the win-
ner for 390 guineas Third day—Two Year Old Plate, 4
mile: Robert the Devil 1, Vestal 2, Qui Vive 3, time
50f secs. The winner was purchased for 200 guineas.
All Aged Stakes, one mile : Wheatear 1, Somerset 2,
Sylvanua 3, time, 1 min. 51 secs. Welter Handicap, l|
mile : Rainbow 1, Kal Kal 2. Euchre 3, time, 2 min, 13f
secs. Great Foal Stakes, 6 furlongs: Jessie 1, Navi-
gator 2, Saionara 3, time, 1 min. 18* secs. Cumberland
Stakes, 2 miles : Lord Burghley 1, The Drummer 2,
Progress 3, time, 3 min. 45 secs. City Handicap, l|
miles; Barber 1, Stella 2, Lord Orville 3, time, 2 min.
404 secs. Fourth day—Rous Handicap, 1 mile, 3 fur-
longs : Paul 1, Somerset 2, Kerolite 3, time 2 min. 36
secs. Band wick Stakes, 14 mile; Cunnamulla 1, Bath-
urst 2, Rainbow 3, time, 2 min. 154 secs Nursery Han-
dicap Mistake 1. Sylvanns 2, Transferred 3, time, 1
min. 16 secs. A. J.C. Plate, 3 miles : The Drummer 1,
Barber 2, Wellington 3, time, 5 min. 44* secs. Great
race; Secundus, Royal Maid, and Lord Burghley fell,
the jockeys Murphy, St. Albans, and Pigott being
severely injured. Secundus broke hia jaw bone.
Steeplechase: Blackall 1, Hotspur 2, time, 7 min. 31
secs. A very close finish ; five horses started, but only
two came in. Free Handicap, 14 mile: Result 1, Sur-
rey 2, Paul 3, time, 2 min. 12| secs.
A welsher was turned out of the saddling*
paddock on the Cup Day. These men are the worst of
all daylight robbers, and it is quite refreshing to leant
that sometimes they find themselves “ bested." Two of
the fraternity got amongst the list-bettors on the out-
side on the second day, and a robust city youth of box-
ing renown took a wager of 4 to I about Jessie for the
Sires’ Produce Stakes. Before the race started he got
the “ office ’’ to look after his money, and, instead of
watching the race, he, with another Herculean friend,
kept his eye on the " jokers.” They adjourned from the
top of their gin-ease to a booth, as if for refreshment,
but, without irrigating, they passed right through, and
made quickly for the gates. Just as they had fixed
themselves in a homeward-bound cab, the two gentle-
men aforesaid interviewed them, and used such con-
vincing arguments that not only was the £1 returned
but the “welsher” had to disgorge the four he laid;
and it was not nntil the backer returned to the course
that he learnt he had not diddle'’ the “welsher,” for
Jessie had won
The Boston Herald has been giving a state*
ment of the reasons for the aquatic champion’s return
to the water. We read a long while ago in the American
papers that an enthusiastic public had presented Han-
lan with a hotel at Toronto, that his fortune was for
ever made, and that on his brow rested glory enough for
forty Caesars. It now turns out that the noble Yankee
and Canadian public are very much like the noble Aus-
tralian public, and that Mr. Edward Hanlan’s aquatic
and hotel expenses closely resemble those of Mr. Eciward
Trickett. The history of the two meu merely serves to
indicate that the apotheosis of an athlete shouldn’t bo
a pub. But read .- —“Connected with Hanlan’s more
recent career is a little of inner history, the publication
of which may be apropos at this time. In the height of
his popularity he took unto himself a wife, and then a
summer hotel iu Toronto Bay, A heavy mortgage
rested on the hotel, and, although his business on the
Island appeared to be very good, he did not make those
rapid strides towards independence that might be
expected. In faot, he is not as well off in this
world’s goods to-day as he was two or three years
ago; and last summer his friends and enemies
alike in Toronto spoke of his business future with a
shake of the head and words of the utmost discourage-
ment. Ho was not assisted or encouraged in his busi-
nsss by those with whom he had dealing as a naan in
hi* position would ordinarily be ; on the contrary, his
experience as a hotel-keeper laid him open to many
sharp transactions, and not a few of his townsmen in-
variabiy ‘looked for the best of it,’ and a little more, in
all their dealings with him. Even meu who had en-
riched themselves through his cleverness in handling a
pair of sculls in a shell-boat, encouraged, if not inveigled
him, into the mysteries of sports in which they were
adepts, while he was a comparative novice, and opened
his eyes to the * wonders * of the game. It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that, beset as he was last summer in
Toronto, he should have felt discouraged and dis-
heartened ; and still less is it surprising that, when it
was represented to him that the success of his hotel
enterprise depended on his continuance in aquatic pur-
suits, he decided to launch his boat again.” Leins
• P*.that, should Trickett win on this occasion, he
will, in view of his previous experience, not retire from
the water merely for the purpose of going into the
whisky line. It s bad enough to be an ex-champion;
still worse to bo an ex-publican if you’ve not made
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The total amount paid over for the Wallsond
Races was £532, of which Mr. Chippendale received
Last week, on the Newcastle Ironclad Cricket
Club a ground, a player named Tribs received a severe
wound between the finger and thumb while catching a
ball. He narrowly escaped lock-jaw 24 entries for
the Macquarie P'ate at the Dubbo J.C. meeting and 18
for the Dubbo J.C. Handicap The Ballarat bowlers
were defeated at Parramatta on (Friday by 15 points
J. Keenan ha* challenged either A. Dillon or M Lang’aii
to play a game of handball for |the championship of
Australia James Connell, aged 22, a member of the
Post and Telegraph Office Rowing Club in Melbourne!
was drowned in the Tarra last week, whilst out nrao.
rising in an outrigger. By an accident the light boat
was overturned,; and Cennell attempted to swim for
the bank, but he sank suddenly The members of the
G.E.C. have gone astray as to the authorship of certain
pungent specimens of verse lately posted in their club-
house When the Alexandra Cricket Club visited the
Hunter, at Easter—getting well licked three times—
they were rash enough to venture on the stage at Mail,
land in an elocutionary show. One hero of the sward
recited “The (Maniac” with tuih roilistie energy that
when he yelled’-1 am not mad, I am not mada voice
from the shilling .eats prompt-y|replied, “ Tee you are
old man.” A Lithgow asan drew second horse in a
Hawkesbury consultation. He had the same luck last
year. We intend to go him halves next year to spoil
his luck. When the Wingham ericketers play the
demons of the 80-B) Creek, the captain is brought to
th* fore with under-armers. But it is only on special
occasions that the secretary of the victorious club tries
to take a somersault on his horse.... The Citv snd
Parramatta Bowling Clubs met on Satarday. at the
King s School green, to play off their trophy
medal match. The City club won by 23 noint*
Scores : City 91; Parramatta 63. The Cook Park
(the City) might have spared their grandfathers
Eedfern Albion v. Arundel at Eveleigh. Eedfem Club
37 —Cornwell 23. Albion club. 31. Lawler for the
winners got five wickets for six runs.,..A cricket match
was played on the Gundagai Plat on Easter Monday,
between teams representing respectively the town and
country, resulting in a victory for the former by eight
wickets. Mr. H Bickford has been elected master of
the Adelaide Hunt Club A football match at Ade.
laide recently between the Norwood and Royal
Park clubs, terminated in a scrimmage, not in accord-
ance with football rules, owing to a throw being dis.
puted as unfair. s
* * #
“ Several ladies ” were present at the Sullivan-
Ryan prize-fight Wm, Elliott, ex-ohampion sculler
is rapidly recovering from his injuries, and looks for-
ward to rowing in several of the chief American regattas
...The London Sportsman says: “ Watt’s bicycle spoke
bnff is one of the handisst and at the same time cheap,
est contrivances for polishing the spokes of bicycles
and tricycles that has yet come under our notice
The following from the English Sporting Times, is an
example of the liberal odds offered :-•• The last eight
dogs left in the Waterloo Cup on the night of the draw
2SF e^ uc i.« prices to one 16.125 66
200, 50, 66, 43, and 200. A bookmaker, with business
enough to get “ round,” would have had £1220 on a
thousand pound book, and supposing the favendto to
have won, be must have been £lOO to the good ” In
England last season no less than £40,000 was given’in
all-aged events under three-ouarttrs of a mile, a large
share of it going to races of four furlongs only.
To cure a biting horse. Roast a leg of mutton
take it hot from the fire, and present it to the offender
after t.asmg him a little. Ho’ll phmge his teeth in it •
they stick firmly in the hot meat, and the pain ha
endures will make him careful never again to bite any.
thing he can’t eat. J
Last week, Mr. T. M'Callum, of the Lower
Clarence, lost a Lincoln stallion, for which he had
lately refused £159. On being opened, the coating of
the animal s stomach was found to be completely eaten
through, and appeared as though it had been parboiled.
This is attributed to feeding the horse constantly on
sugar-cane.
4 “an named Richard Ewer, nicknamed “ Char-
coal .Dick, and who is a slaughterer of worn-out
horses at New Denham, Middlesex (England), has
come into a fortune of about £5OOO, and some 300 oz. of
gold-dust. He was many years ago a pard. of a man
named Benjamin Burrell, lately deceased, who struck a
patch on Ballarat, and who promised, if over he made a
pile, to leave it to his mate when he died. Richard will
now probabJy cease to be a ’Ewer of horses; o-E wer-iom*
isn t it r *
Mr. Purves, Victorian barrister, says that at-
tendance at the Ford Board is making him color-blind
His seat faces two windows of the Board room, in front
of which windows three members of the Board, Messrs
Eede, Payne, and Alley, sit. To Purves* vivid imagina-
tion, the powerful light enveloping these meu suggests
the transfiguration scene, giving, as he puts it. ”eacl
of their countenances in a glorified aspect, with a nim
bus or aureole around them.” Ho identified the gto«'
baize-covered table as Mount Hebron. No attends'
circumstances can p-Alloy-ate such doseorauou. and v
Rede it with much Payne,
THE WAIL OF THE INSPIRED TIPSTER.
Sydney CUP, 1882.
Why didn’t I back thee, Cunnamulla ?
I was an awful fool;
Oh! intellect, thou has grown duller.
Since I was whacked at school.
In dreamy sleep, at lightning pace,
I saw a horse-race run ;
An 8 was on the winner’s face.
And on his stem a 1.
When from my dreamy sleep I woke,
To think I did begin
(If I should bet) upon which moke
’Twere best to place my tin.
’T should bo a nag with number 8
Who for me there should run.
For surely I wa* told by fate
’T was ammber 8 ho won (81.)
But when arrived upon the course,
I found that 8* was scratched.
Like Richard, I might shout, *• A horse I”
But mine was ne’er dispatched.
Now, Wheatear’s name had letters eight.
And if the race he won.
It was, of coarse, a tip first-rate.
For 8 preceded 1.
That tip, alas! has proved a source
Of trouble and deceit;
Though him I backed, that gallant horse
Performed no winning feat.
I knew not what my dream could mean.
When that great race was ran :
But now I know I should have seen
That number 18f wen.
I grimly gnaw my nether lip,
And moan a cruel fate.
That did not let me see the tip
Was 1 before the 8,
I sit and curse that dreamy race,
The cause of all my loss;
Oh I why. Oh 1 why did fato there place
The cart before the hoes ?
♦ Somerset. f Cunaomulla,


THE FANCY FAIRS.
Ye Ryvalls Ryvalls
We wander again through the rival fay res,
liking up the thread of our airy description wher* *e
lost it amid the bewildering mah of hearty las. week,
though the scenes here tro reproduced
Ohow only one phase Of t*4 old days of history, they
(show a *»pre*e»tftUVa one. The ladies have confined
%hemSe!.t«* tO the representation of no particular section
Or grade of social life—to no special country or time. A
glance through either of the Fayrea calls up in review
before the fertile fancy scenes and personages as dis-
tlnco one from the other as were the periods and climes
from which they come. It would, doubtleas, be a better
representation of an “ Eatlie Englysshe Fayre if the
costumes and people represented were strictly those of
the age and class which most delighted in these popular
amusements. The blithesome village maidens, cherry-
cheeked, with gally-ooloured kirtle and reat white cap,
with their trim iflgnrea and merry manners, dancing
round their may-pole or assisting in the procession of
the prettiest of their circle, glorified for the moment as
the “Queen of May"—these are the characteristic
ft-ares of an old-time Fayre, rather than the courtly
1 idles and high-born dames represented by our local
belles. But we question whether the reproduction of a
siene of purely rustic revelry, blithe and gay in it*
attractive simplicity as it may be, could compare fot a
moment in picturesque interest with the display Wo are
privileged to enjoy. The intrusion of one of odr great
dimes with attendant chevalier aniong the simple
village-folk just described, would have much the same
effect as the visit to the early New England Puritans of
Longfellow'* “Knight of the Holy Sepulchre "-he
who first introduced “apples of Sodom and ropes of
sand"—had on that distinctively rustic and homespun
British people. We can imagine the gallant knight as
the poet paints him —
“ His rapier dangling at his feet.
Doublet and hose and boots complete.
Prince .Rupert hat with ostrich plume.
Gloves that exhaled a faint perfume—
Luxuriant earls, and air sublime,
And superior manners, now obsolete
and with this gay figure a lady of the period,
with white arms bate to the elbow, and glossy
ringlets falling over a snowy neck, cenflned
by a bandeau of jewels, or perhaps a golden
circlet enriched by a single pearl. Such a two-fold ap-
pvritlon among the simple peasantry of some retired
country side, in the olden time, could not fail to have a
striking effect, accustomed as they were to receive at
their merry-makings only the lord of the manor and his
lady, who in their retirement affected a simplicity
perhaps as unassuming as the villagers themselves. In
the present instance, meanwhile, the characteristic
figures of the olden time, with the distingnishing
features worked out in detail, and the representative
character clearly aimed at. form the rule, while the
rustic homely beauty is only met with as an exception.
Perhaps the most successful feature of the rival revels
is their graphic reproduction of the character, and
costumes of the age of Queen Anne. Here are maids
of honour, and court ladies, and heUes of fashion
attired in powdered wigs, and quilted cardinal skirts,
and costumes of velvet, and satin, and chints j patches
to display the clearness of the complexion, and ivory-
beaded canes to complete the representation. The age
of Pope is revived again. We glance round for ideals
of the central figures of that opooh-Belinda, the
heroine of Pope's “Rape of the Lock." is surely the
chief of these. It is the poet’s mission to individualise,
in the hero and heroine of his verse, the characteristics
representative of the period he celebrates. In the
poem just referred to. the lady of the period of powder
and patches is specialized for all future time. She
has many worthy representatives in the Fayre. but our
Be inda transcends all her compeers. IHere she is-
On her white breast a sparkling cross she wore.
Which Jews might kiss, and inttdel* adore
the magic folds of these graoefully-worn tissnss might
well have been disposed and arranged by Ariel and hi*
svlphs; all Araby breathes from her per.
fumed presence as she stands, not unnoticed, behind
her*modern stall in the Garden Palace; the gauzy lace
which broiders that hanging sleeve is not more delicate
that fairv hand. 01 for a venturous peer to
spread again “7he glittering forfex wide/’ mid sever a
tress of that sunlit hair that floats so heedlessly, to
be treasured by us—or him
As long as Atalantis shall be read.
Or the small pillow grace a lady’s bed.
a ml here bv the way, we notice the presence of a B.C.
cleric al the Fayre who can claim the closest relation-
ship with the chief actor in Pope s dire tragedy A
Lady of Honour of the same period, in the Cathedral
Fayre. may well share our Belinda s success. The rich
cardinal costume and phasing presence of this lady
fair may well represent these dames whose beauty and
vfv Jdtvlent lustre and brilliancy to the oourt-hfe of
thetr epoch. Here again is a lady in Puritan costume,
—modesty and simplicity itself; reminiscent to ns as
we glance furtively at her, of the Priscilla of Long,
fellow’s pleasant idyll—
“ She, the Puritan girl.
Making the humble home and the modest apparel of
her beauty, and rich with the wealth of
To lowly maiden as this the clerkly John Alden
might well have made his way on his commission from
the martial Milos Standish, determined not to look
hack after having once pul his hand to the plough,
though the share might cleave through the
lowers of life even to its fountain," as the post
gracefully expresses it. The reality of John
AVden’s sacrifice may be estimated if his Pris-
cilia were half so winning as ours. From this
Puritan maiden we pass to the brightly-clad gipsies
and the peasant girls. The gay costumes of the
former lend that dash of colour to the scene
which the artist loves ; while the latter costume is well
represented in the Cathedral Fayie by tha pleasing
face, and costume attractive m colouring and graceful
* ll AnoUier 0 3h aracto re e p*r esauted in the Cathedral Fayre
is one of that period when soft womanly grace most
lent itself to tone the harsher qualities of the rough
lordliugs of those earlier ages. A loose silken vest-
inrnt sashed with a crimson scarf, forms the costume,
rfeturesnue as it is simple. The Udy who wore it
looked the character to the life; she might have.just
stepped forth from an old historic picture, or taken
definite form and semblance from the airy darning of
some minnesinger's verso, so realistic was her repre-
sentation of the fair young maidenpf gentle birth, of
the olden time.
“IHer cap of velvet could not hold
The tresses of her hair of gold ;
As fair and lovely bid she soem
As in a story or a dream
Som* beautiful andjforeign lady.
We thought of the legend of the esquire Lionel, who
kept midnight vigil at St. Michael’s shrine, before his
S on the eve of h.a admission to the honours of
knighthood. As he rested on his unsheathed sword,
setting it upright on its bare point before him, and
alaßidnirlus hands on the cross-hilt, the young esquire
s “denfy f»U a warm hand on his neck. Look ng round,
ha beheld the fairest maiden that bad ever blessed his
*“ht Verv beautiful she was. and had many enticing
wavs for she leaned upon his shoulder as he knelt,
whispering softly in his ear ; and her voice and warm
breath cinotaahim, tor he was very lonely. But the
fanciful old story tolls us how Lionel’s love for his pure
4M faithful Constance preserved him again-i the allot. |
Ing Wiles of the tempter,—and soon her bright colour
faded, the golden tresses fell Invisibly away, and
the emissary of evil spirits stood revealed j but such a
winsome maiden a 6 eur lady of the Payre would prove
a dangerous trial to the fealty of even so stadnch an
<lS A s Tthe k mind’ wander* ahddt among tkese ikates bf
colour Anr ttdstcmb ,A*a, beauty It
u ew Idered with tne emoarras ces nchrssss that afflicts It.
watching these bright forms flitting hither and
thither, like paintsd butterflies in the merry
sunlight, for ever intermingling in every ohangefnl
variety of colouring and effect, the very abundance
of material for fanciful imagining is oppressim We
can, at least, however, cull out a few of the pretty
faces, irrespective of costume altogether. 8l1 *
the task is not a hard o»e. Perhaps the handsomest
personality and most complete ensemble would be found
among the visitors, without any distinctive costume at
all. A fair young vocalist, as celebrated for her personal
g aces as for her musical gifts, has thrown the charm
of her bright presence round both Payrea from time to
time since the opening. This visitor is well known in
Sydney from her artistic portrait, by one of our most
successful photographers. It it well for the mental
peace of the stall-holders of these Payres that the grace-
ful lady and her talent ed sister did not appear incovtume.
And now we group three ladies, choset' fro™ both
Payres. The Chelsea Bun House and Te Bed and W hits
Hoses,” at the Garden Palace, and “Te Lyon Bung,
at the Cathedral, hold these treasures.
The first of this “ trine-set starry band outshines in
beauty any nymph or fay that ever gladdened the fancy
in dreams. The costume is the common one, at the
Payres, of the reign of Queen Anne, but the faCe Is a
species of gentle perfection. Vf• look ®
it as a pioturt 8om «- n “ ter^ a “ a ri . d Ltw I tr.of
second wears the costume df thb period df the Wars of
the Hoses, and earlier. The wearer is the idealisation
of romance. She nlight barb been a bold Baron ■
dhughtet in the elder days of chivalry. m no» hard
to fancy such a face and form as that^ ndad
maidens, and reclining on some tapestried couch beneath
a dim embrasured window, while her father's minstrel
sweeps his rich-toned harp to the measure of some old-
time rhythmic romaunl—
Soma ancient lay of troubadonr,
Of Lancelet and Bedivere,
King Arthur and Queen Guinevere,
Of knight and squire, and helm and spear.
The costume of the third of onr trio is that of Lady
Archibald Campbell, at the Cathedral. A pleasing face,
winsome and attractive in its wealth of
a happy face to meet beneath the mistletoe, when
Christmas mirth and pleasannoe hold merry sway, or te
be seen in repose, when the sunn j smile ceases lor a
moment, seeming then like that of the
“ Maiden with the meek brown eyes,
In whose orb a shadow lies
Like the dusk in evening skies,
whom the poet so gracefully pottrtrays. SB
And so, as we review all the pleasant faces andj weU-
snstained characters of an early time, we 88 ®“"”. a( ?
the old legends and romantic stories of fanciful
dreamers of the period. Each costume has ifcfl tradition,
and each face so illustrated is enriched with a wealth of
legendary associations. Such a scene revives for the
moment the time when wimpled maidsns bold
esquires planned stolen tryst, while mailed moss*
troopers rode the hiU’’—while tho oowied monk paced
his monastic corridors meditatively, and the mitred
abbot “ half warrior and half priest, now sung his
solemn office in the rlohlyappofnted abbey choir, and
anon led armoured legions to battle beneath the conse-
crated oriflamme of his temporal power i-what time
Francesca and her haplesa lover turned the leaves of
that old romauut beneath the painted windows of the
jealous husband’s castle, while the tempered sunlight
stealing through the coloured pane fell upon the illumi-
nated page, dimming the lustre of its magic hues, until,
as Dante's mystic story tells, "in that book they read
no more that day.” But all the romance of those early
times is faded now. The wimpled maiden has lived, and
loved, snd passed away; tho knighted sqmre has retired
from the lists of life ; from the neh old abbey will float
no more at even-tide the solemn sounds of the chaunted
office upon the hushed evening air ( thsmartarf abbot
has sane bi« last antiphon, and fought his last flgnU
The light and colour of the old days have gome out.
But in the shadowy representations of these old-time
fayree, sided by the good taste of the ladles *nd the an-
tique settingof the whole, we can trace again the poetry
of the past, catching fleeting glimpses of the heroines
of the older ages, and assisting the realisation of out
dreams by faint echoes of the minnesinger s verso.
♦
It has been a matter of great difficulty, owing to
the crowd and the ceaseless activity of the ladles, to get
a fair view of the dresses of stall-holders at St. Mary s.
A petite and pretty young lady from George-streot wore
a peacock blue and satin costume, with trimmings ol
hand-painted satin, and hat to match. A Marrickvllle
lady, wife of an architect, looked charming in a ruby satin
skirt, underskirt of black satin, richly worked with
crewel lilies, wheat-ears, and cornflowers; Swiss bodice
laoed with crimson silk, and white wig. Dolly Yarden
came from Darlinghurst, robed in rich crimson satin
with hand-painted overskirt, and cap to match. A young
lady from Pitt-*treet is Maid of Honour to Mane Stuart
in black satin and pearls, with headdress of same. Dame
Quinlan, at the “ Flenr-de-Ljs," wears a 18th century
costume, and has two little boy pages. The pretty
Gipsy (from Glebe Point) at the “ wheel of Fortune
wears a dress of rich colours, suiting her dark com-
plexiou, with rare ornaments. Miss M. Levey, of \Vyn.
yard Square, as Mary Beaton, wore a handsome crime oi
akirt, with very fall overskirt, and bodice of hand-
painted satin, large ruff and fine wig, showing her fine
figure to advantage. Lady Campbell’s blue satin, ana
black velvet toilet, with white coiffure, also shows oil a
charming face and figure admirably. The steeple-
crowned hats of Elizabeth’s time wore seen at Sher-
woode Oake,” with pretty chintz dresses and coloured
petticoats. Miss Hollingdale’s dress, as Anne Bolsyn,
was a handsome yellow satin robe, puffed sleeves,
and diadem of black velvet ornamented with pearls.
The dresses of some of the visitors to the Fayres (es-
specially the Garden Palace, there being more room for
show), have been almost as noticeable at the stall-
keepers. A lady from the leading hotel displayed a
ruby velvet dress of gleaming splendour, and aatin hat
to match. A lovely blaek silk and passementerie, with
skull bonnet: a white Indian muelin surmounted by
large hat and ostrich feathers ; and a tall lady from
Church Hill ia a black silk aad satin costume, richly
trimmed with t,ho peculiar fringe called rat’s-tail, were
prominent. Miss Pomeroy wore light blue and cream.
A few visitors appeared in fancy dress, not always an-
tique, unless Archibald the Allright can be considered
early English. A splendid Gainsborough costume was
seen ; aud some of the saleswomen from each Fayre
visited the other. Mrs. Walker supplied decorations at
the Garden Palace, and Madame Groucher made the
costumes of the Beefeaters and Heralds. Wigzell made
the extraordinary nnm her of 85 wigs, and soma of them,
notably the red white ones, are exceedingly pretty. The
relation of the outside shows, such as Richardson’s
Theatre, Punch and Judy, Hordern and the rest, to the
churches at North Shore is, that they pay rent tor
coming under the ecclesiastical wing, and make what
they can. Then there are the Art Unions.
» » *
A young lady at St. Mary’s put it thus : “ This
is not a raffle, sir; this pretty pincushion is placed on
the market by a company of shareholders, and when all
the shares are floated, the holders arrange who has it.
Take a share? Ah 1 do now.” “Sir” docs, and, of
course, is Milburn-crecked. A pretty Gipsy is Miss
Russell, iu a short skirt of black satin, red plush jacket
( braided with gold, aud jaunty cap of red silk, with
bright fringe of gold sequins. Miss Heathcote has a
conspicuous dress of claret velvet and gold braid, with
velvet Mother Shipton hat. Her method of conducting
financial operations, however, allows her to be destitute
of coßScience. Queen Anne of Denmark, a fascinating
blonde in light blue and psarls. ia personated by Miss
Parker, attached to the Sacred Heart, and judging by
the way she scoops coin froaa her frienda’ pocketa, it’a
the only heart she knows. Ths Gipsy Queen, who tefls
fortunes in the picturesque encampment, was erstwhile
one ol the best actresses of high comedy here, and a
literary lady to boot. Mrs. Akhnrst in the Oourant
Office, wore an admired dress of rich black silk velvet,
handsomely trimmed with psarls, an immense white
aatin ruff and white wig; a young lady assistant being
in ths same style. A pretty Woollahra girl was Marie
Sluprt in black velvet and pink. A lady from York-
strset takes the congenial character of a Charity
ma den, aud her two nice children are Mary Queen of
Hoots, and a prince, in pale blue satin vest and trunks,
crimson silk velvet j»cket aud gold lace and wig. A
regal drees at St. John's stall has a long black velvet
train with ruby satin front and pearl ornamentation.
-fhe secretary's darter, rfiSs better, la a
Queen Elizabeth. The freat number of Mane »toms
shows the feverence In which the beautiful, un ppy
Queen is held by members of the primal Ctotiw
Church. The Cathedral Pay re will, most likely, he
open till the 24th May.
« * *
i’ar more pfirtinadioni than <ho% at
Gipsies, Milkmaids, and Queens at the Md*
knowing this, victims set aii much as pessib e for their
money by saying “ No" and holding ont till theyson-
aider the full five shillings'worth of coaMng hfcs
lavished on them: then they give in. Very pretty
were Mieses Snmmerbell in Wattean dressea of fl vwored
chintz, satin petticoats, and powdered hair. Two Misses
Sempill (daughters of the late official assignee) wore
dresses of yellow brocade with tabhers
sitin muslin cap?, and high ruffs, as ladies of the Eliza
bethan period. Scotch Court. Kobinson was a
splendidly-dressed Gipsy, in rod and yoll°w skirt,
black velvet bodice, and coloured turbun.with jingUng
coins on arms. neck, and dress; sha served oat to
delighted winners tin soldiers, wooden s ,andpen
wipers. Three prstty maidens of the WM* (Mnttury, m
staff gowns, velvet vests, white bodices and black vel et
caps, were the Misses Boyle and Qalbraith. Miss
M'Donald, as a lady of rank in the loth wore a
beautiful pale blue satin gown, white s * tln^® d ph Jl o g
sleeves, and chaplet of pearls in coiffure Mr. :harlles
Benson wore the well-known garb of Gro.venor in
•• Patience," sunflowers included. The display or
worked articles is large and beautiful, and ahowsmore
labour than the Palace exhibits. A glance at the two
Fayres gives the impression that the ladies a,
it. 7 Mary's made most of their articles, *hile those
at the Garden Palace bought ttoatot thelrelWbfca.
We visited the Art Gallery dt St. Mar jr«. Oemg
thteiigh the first dodr, we dame dpon a otrapj*
occupied in discovering tha boldor df on ®
«W There Was nd art in thil, bdt plenty
of nature, so ws withdrew. Entenng anothtf
door, ws saw splendid rings, presents t-he A™*
bishop: challses and salvers g««med with precious
stones, valued at £4OOO. given hy Queen Iwb.Ua of
Spain i handsome pastoral crosses given by his boek to
Roger Bede: wonderfully clear MS. missals by the
monks of old r relics from old St. Mary s =
all countries and agee, engravings, wooden saints and
prophets, and clever needlework by nnvß. At St.
Mary’s, two sisters from Manly, one m pink and
bine satin, and the other la red and black, with
three-cornered hat. were attracting a kood trade^
The Lilliputian Opera Troupe *
dance, in a sort of fisher dress; their mcefully
precise movements were very pretty,
were rewarded for their efforts by and
cake. Mrs. Walsh, of Surry Hills, as Amy Robsart,
wore a handsome robs of ruby velvet and cream plush,
golden coiffure, and coronet Ud««. of «d
velvet looking remarkably well. Anotner Snrry Hills
lady, as Rubens' wife, in rnby velvet, with a beeommg
velvet chapeau on a white curly wig, drew “ an £
to the Sacred Heart. A gaudy man.sll bustleand brogue
edires through the crowd with the request, Make
whay bedad, for the postman, wid is letters, and
bands a young lady of some sixty summers a missive,
« from yttre young man, sure.'
• * •
During the progress of the Fayre we made
various attempts to get some official Ws
went to the office, at a rough guess, about 147 times,
exclusive of 300 times that we peeped in through the
door. On most of these occasions, the Secretary wasn t
in • when he was In, ho was generally engaged. With
doss packing, the office would hold a °? at n P*°P* e '
and that was the average number in the office anytime
between 11 and 6 o'o ock each day. Once we found
him comparatively alone—there were only eleven other
people talking to him on impartant basineße-so wc
edged np and said we wanted some information. Oh I
certainly • most happy And then & messenger
burst in te say*toat one of the herald, had lost the run
of his trumpet, and tho procession was all waiting, and
what would he do. The obliging sec. went to find it
for him. In a quarter of an hoar he came hack and
remarked- "Now, I'll be most ah 1 one moment.
It was a beefeater, who had broken his battle-axe, and
wanted a new weapon, aud one of his false eyebrows
wouldn't stick on. The incomplete warnor had to be
fixed up, and, meanwhile, a dozen honest artisans
storms i the sanctum and shut ns in a corner. We
flfrmrrled bravely against tho overwhelming numbers,
fnd getting to within two rows of the official table, we
said “ Good Sir," bat we had to give way to a respect-
able gentleman in tho paicting line of business, who
wanted his money for doing a signboard, straight
*way; and, after him, came a handy and dirty manto
receive his pay for sweeping the floor, and who took
about ten minutes to sign his name for it. When these
invaders were disposed of. we again approached, and, in
atone in which suaviter and fortiter were judiciously
blended, said: “Now, perhaps, —but
and harassed sec. saw a man passing, and started after
him. No doubt he intended to say Excuse me, but
he didn't say it, and he didn't come back; so we went
out We thought wo would try and do without the
official information: this intermittent rtyieof getting it
was unsatisfactory. We did not seek out the Bov. S.
H- Chllde; we had Interviewed him before. And once
wae enough. m m
Attempts to get information that was not official were
more successful. Most people told ns what we asked-
some didn't. We asked a young My who a PP«a«d
nice-looking what her dress was, and she inquired did
we want to put it in one of those nasty newspapers.
We winced somewhat at the sweet girl s ill-boding tone,
but with that strict adherence to troth which now pre-
vents a portion of us from visiting the gay scenes of
beauty and fashion, we intimated that, as thousands
were waiting in mad suspense to read oar description
of her sweet self and dress, we did want. Then “ ye
maydeana's " Grecian nose went no, up, up—like butter
in a dry season—till it went right out of sight in the
aerial space near the top of the dome, and nothing re-
mained visible but the last patch of plaster on her
dimpled chin, as she twitter jdout, with bread-and-butter
dignity, “ I don’t chooth to be pat in a noothpaper.
That rasped us a bit, but we recovered, and, on taking a
second look, found she was not sc pretty as we thought
at first; while her dress, which was of badly-dyed green
and decidedly dowdy, had been twice turned, and was a
wretched fit about the waist.
• • •
Taken as a quartet's, the four mistresses at the Blue
Lion, each in rich dark velvet of different hue, are not >
surpassed. A costume with no other like it is that of
Miss Stone, as a Roman lady—blue gown loosely draped,
golden zone and filleted coiffure—at the Anchor. Sir
Alfred Stephens’ daughter at tho Round World is habi-
ted in white and red gown, red Bilk vest, white bodice
and Turkish cap, gold tassels. The belle at the Holly
Branch is little Miss Drew, about 12 years old, with
lovely dark eyes, dressed in rose pink underskirt and
chintz tock-up, pretty white wig, hat turned up at side,
and lined with rose pink, scarlet stockings and buckles
on her shoes Master Manning, of Ryde, is page in blue
and black. The dark young ladies at the Golden Palletle
in pink and blue, with their waists under their arms,
and gigantic hats, copied their costumes from a paint-
ing by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and copied them wonder-
fully well. The four Maries (Beaton, Seaton, Car-
michael and Hamilton) who were companions of the
Queen of Scots in her youth, are all in black velvet and
pearls, with Stuart caps, but each having sleeves puffed
and front ef dress quilted in different coloured satin —
Mrs. Mitchell old gold, Miss Florence Moore ruby.
Miss Gertrude Mann pink, and Mies Nellie Manning
pale blue. Which of these; ladies is which Mario, is a
conundrum that puzzles inquisitive admirers, and there
is a probability of its remaining a mystery for all time,
since, on enquiring, we find the ladie. themselves are
ia a state of sweet perplexity in tho matter. At
St. George and the Drsgon (we mentioned tha
belle last week), Miss McFse wore over a hooped
crinoline a pink skirt of large flowered cretonne,
white wig, and devices in court plaster (such as coach
and horses, or ship) on her brow ; gilt heels, long gold-
topped staff, and snuffbox. At the Golden Crown, Miss
Wyatt is in black velvet, shaded scarlet satin froat
amd white laoe, large black velvet hat and pink feathers.
Miss Mary Wyatt in pale blue and black. Miss B.
Wyatt in scarlet and cream, A very pretty girl is Miss
Winton in black velvet and scarlet satin. A Gipsy tent
was erected during the week next the Post Office, and
in it is tho fair daughter of Sir William Manning. She
Bits on a bench in her comfortable camp. Gipsies are 1
seldom blondes, but Miss Manning is very fair. Miss
James (from the Melbourne Fayre), at the Silver Shield,
is in a pretty dress of pink moito skirt, black velvet
overskirt and gold lace. Miss Broomfield wears some
beautiful garnet brooches in her hair. Tha Peacock
stall is remarkable for the costliness of its goods, and
for having the fewest vendors. But there is no other
trio in the Fflyre so sumptuously apparelled as Mia
trssrfw lark, Tancfed, and Bloxsome, in sweeping robes
ruby, peacock blue, and myrtle grtea. Queen Bess's
latest whim is her little son o( tour, who, dressed in a
Japanese costume, acts as train-bearer. His manners
occasionally break the rules of court etiquette, for
eterv flow and then he spoils the queenly dignity by
running round in front with the train, to tell her
Majesty something. The Crusader is a favourite stall,
vtith as many beauties, and bewitchiag, as
dan SrtUeeze into it. At the holder Anchor, the girls
dor?t know what they : indeed, it is one of the most
peculiar featofes of the Fay re, that many maidens have
not the remotest idea of what their clothes are m-
tended to represent They know they are pretty and—
in short: that a all they The Silver Churn does a
large trade : the refreshments are net dear, and they
are nicely served. The youth attached, vfho is dressed
“ a grey quilted smock, makes a good country bumpkin,
nature having assisted him a good deal in the character.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A luy oy any utter name would swell as sweet.
Parliament comes from parler, to speak, and
mentir, to lie.
Shakesperean. To a bad egg : “ Hens horrible
shadow, unreal mockery, hens.”
Tailors were brought into this world by sin. To
pay tailors is to respect their origin.
‘•A pair of black kids I” as the negro said on
finding his family increased by two.
A powder to cure cats and dogs of somnambu-
lism is advertised. Ik is put in a gun.
leaver borrow more than you can repay is good,
fttfrer lend more than yon can borrow is better.
“He has a Florentine fourteenth century
frenzy,” said the aesthete as he beheld the man with
the jlmjams. , , -
“ Sound the loud timberel!” said the Man down
Below, as he put the finishing touch on the head of
another juryman.
Kaiser Wilhelm’s recent illness was caused by
a crayfish supper. Even an Emperor on his throne
isn’t so powerful as the meek and lowly crustacean.
The marriage formula of a Northern r^strar:
“ Them as I joins together let no man pnt asunder: but
suffer little children to come unto you, so help you
God.”
The pedagogue suddenly entered and
saw on the blackboard “ Our teacher is a donkey Ha
added “ driver " to the legend, and opened with prayer
ss usual. , ~
Miok read that ‘ ‘ the bridesmaids were in cream.
•• In crame 1” he exclaimed,—'“ young women in om.
Sure I thought new no fruit was sarved up in crame
but straw! erries."
“ Never milk while the cow is eating, is a bn-
oolioproverb. The general JJJjlk
bas caused the saying to be altered— Never mi
while the cow is drinking.”
Believe a woman’s eyes rather than her lips
In other words, when she says: “My dear, yon are so
poor I will try bo get along without a new bonnet,
look at her eyes. If they flash fire, got the bonnet.
He was bald as a watermelon, and asked the
chemist for hair-restorer. “ What kindof hair-restorer
do you prefer f” “ I reckon I’ll have to take a bott e
of red hair restorer. That was the colour of my hair
when I was a boy.”
“ Bridget,” said a boarding-house keeper to her
new servant, “ when there is any bad news ways let
the gentlemen know of it before dinner. Such little
things make a great difference in the eating in the
course of the year.”
A reporter has discovered that Oscar Wilde
wears a pair of bright ruby satin si spenders, em-
broideied with Marguerites and green loaves. And
now the (esthetes want to know whether he has a stork
or a lily painted on his liver pad.
Father to son : “You took my overcoat instead
of yonr own ; and I regret to say I found the pockets of
your coat full of cigarettes and matches. Hon: i
discovered my mistake, father, directly I got outside,
for I found the pockets of the coat I had pn cciutained
chocolate creams and three pairs of ladies kid gloves.
First larrikin to well-known Hebrew; “ Good
morning, father Abraham 1” Second larrikin : Good
morning, father Isaac ” Third L : “ Good morning,
fither Jacobi” Hebrew: “I am neither Abraham, Isaat,
nor Jaeob, but the son of Kish, sent out to seek his
father’s asses, and lo 1 I have already found three ot
hem.”
It was at a suburban Sunday school, and the
subject was the entry into Jerusalem. The teacher
argued that visitors to a town would first look for
places in which they were interested, and instan-eu the
Bible subject par exemple. Then came the question:
“ Now. supposing a minister entered a strange town,
what places do you think he would first visit ? Omnea
(as if inspired): “ The public-houses. Tho harmonium
then struck up its business.
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, April 18, 1882.
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is selling
at£s 153. to £6 per ton. other samples £5 to £6 per ton.
the market moderately suppliei with hay, and a fair
demand ruling. Maize, prime, 4s 6d; oats, seed and feed,
3), 94. to 4s. per bushel: Victorian onions, £4 to £4
in*.; ditto chaff. £7 10s. to £8 per ton, bags inclusive ;
Warrnambool potatoes, £5 16s. to £6 per ton. Butter,
in keg, Is. to Is. 61. per lb.; eggs, 2s. per dozen;
bacon, 7d. to 9d.; cheeeo, 64 to9d; ham, 124 to 14d.
honey, 4d. to 51; lard, 54. to 6d.; Beeswax, 9d. to 104
per lb ; millet brooms, 7s. 6d. to 10s. per dozen.
Pottltbt.— At the various auction marts poultry was
in good supply. Bowls brought from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 63.;
ducks, 3s. to 4s. 64. ; geese, ss. to 65.; turkeys, 6s. to
lie.; pigeons, 2s. to Si.
Rabbits, 2s. to 2s. 61. per pair; suckers, 2s. 6d. to 55.;
calves, ss. to 155.; hides, 53. to 155.; calfskins, 6d. to
Wheat. —Several vessels from Adelaide are to band
this day, with no less than 13,657 bushels of wheat
together with others since our last report. Prices are
Adelaide wheat 6*. to 6s. 6d„ New South Wales si. to
6s. 6d„ Vietoria 65., New Zealand ss. to ss. 61., Laun-
ceston ss. 94. to 6s. per bushel.
Flour —This market is fairly supplied, and we hear
of higher rates being asked than we quote. Toe
Angerona and Loch Naw bring 6605 sacks besides
other arrivals from Adelaide during tho past
week. We do not hear of any large tran-
sactions during tho past week, even at our quota-
tions. Sydney mill flour sells at £l5; New booth
Wales country brands, £l4 10s. to £l5 per ton; 'Vic-
torian, at £l4 to £l5: Adelaide, £l4 10s. to £l5 10s.
b an and pollard. Is. 7d. to la. Bd. per bushel.
Fbesh Meat. —At the Riverstone Moat Co.’s sheds.
Darling Barbour, the usual sales of fresh country
killed beef take place daily, a good supply arriving at
market and soiling freely. Prices are for prime bodies
of beef 2id. per lb. ; medium quality, par lb. all
round. Mutton scarce, and tells at 24. to 2\4. per lb.
for prime, and l|d, per lb, all round lor medium
quality.
Fat Cattle. —A full supply of fat cattle forward, con-
sitting principally of inferior Quality. Market a shade
better. For prime best beef, 21s, pet cwt. Fat Sheep:
A short supply forward, and market rate firmer. 54 lb.
wethers, worth 12s. to 12s. 6d.
Mr. Hamilton, M.L.A. of Queensland, wishes to
deny the ramour that he is in any way connected with
a weekly publication recently commenced at Brisbane.
The Hawkeebury Glared Stakes, to be run for
by two-year-olds at the Autumn meeting in April, 1883,
closes on Thursday, the 27th April instant; and as all
the yearlings sold during week are eligible, the
entry should be large. One (treat inducement ought to
be that the Hawkesbury Club do not exact a dole ol
claret from the winners, <i la the A.J.C. and its ta
Horse owners who have not entered should wire Mr.
Quest, the secretary at Richmond, before 4 p.m.


Notwithstanding the keen competition existing
jnjße sewing-machine trade, the “ Singers” are acknow.
t» be Uw sewing-machines of the day. Buyers of
JPnßg-maohlnes should visit the Sydney Arrade, and
the numerous first-class prizes (over 160 in number)
swarded them at the.leading competitions of the world.
—Adv.
During the past year you have frequently oom-
?lninad that it was difficult to get a good oup of tia.
on have heard that the last season’s China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulate din bend. Will yon
please ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas ?—'a blend of the most famous and purest teas in
the world; kept by all theileading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place. —Advt.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though be has not been established since Hannah
Domini 4i», he knows about as much ns those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this npper-tusity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If you want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call at 581, and "see what is the
matter with Hannah.” The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to he in great demand
now, if only for the kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Advt.
SATURDAY, 22nd APRIL.
ON THE GROUND.
large and important subdivision.
Cottages and Allotments,
THE CENTRE OP MAEEICKVILLB,
fronting
CHAPEL. STREET,
VICTORIA-STREET,
CRIPPS-3TEEET,
And the Tramway Line.
Close to
The Public School,
The Council Chambers,
Churches and Chapels.
Good Dry Building Sites.
Good Business Positions.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have received
instructions to sell by public auction, on the
Ground, on SATURDAY, 22nd instant, at half-past
Three o’clock.
The above-described property, known as
CRIPPS’ ESTATE,
situate as above, comprising 5 Cottages, ahd
21 splendid Building Sites.
Marriokville is well-known as ono of the most Im-
proving of the Sydney suburbs. Foa a long time it
was only known for its sylvan beauties ; the construc-
tion of the Tramway line from Newtown has rendered
it one of the most accessible. The land now to be
offered for sale is in its best business centre, and is
well adapted for retail establishments.
The terms upon which this property will be offered
are as under
10 per cent, deposit,
baiance in 18 monthly payments bearing 6 per cent,
interest.
Remember the Day of SaIe—SATURDAY, 22nd instant
Remember the Time of Sale—Half-past 3 o’clock.
Remember the Easy Terms—lo per cent, deposit.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST,
Auctioneers.
}J.POL L B • 8
• OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direct from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Garments Cut in ths Most Fashionable Styles,
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address—
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMARKET.
FIREWORKS.
THE ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LONDON
FIREWORKS
as used by the Public of New South Wales for
the past 23 years.
Now on sale 100,600 gross of the Best English
Fireworks, at Is. 91. and 2s. 6d. per gross.
Best Treble Crackers, 3s. per box (40 packets
in box)
Boxes containing a Splendid Assortment, at 7s, 6i,
15s. 30s. and 40s. per box.
Cases containing every variety including
CHINESE FIREWORKS, to form a brilliant
display, A 3, lOs., JSS, £7 10s., .£lO, £ 15,
and ABO, per case.
Serpents,
Bine Lights,
Squibs,
Star Lights,
Trees,
Gulden Fountains,
CRACKERS,
ROMAN CANDLES,
SKY LINE AND SIGNAL ROCKETS,
STREAMERS,
FLOWER POTS
and WHEELS, RED. BLUB, and GREEN LIGHTS,
TRIANGLE, VERTICAL, and CASCADE
WHEELS.
DEVIL AMONG THE TAILORS,
JACK IN THE BOX,
AND 50 DIFFERENT KINDS
MYERS AND SOLOMON,
536 and 533 GEORGE STREET.
Sole Agents for the ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LON-
DON FIREWORKS.
QUEEN’S BITHDAY,
24th DAY OP MAY.
GOD SAVE THE QUJBiEN!
JJ AWKESBURY RACE CLUB.
To be run for about six or eight days previous to the
Sydney Gold Club Meeting of 1883:
CLARET STAKES of 10 sovs. each for starters only,
with 2CO sovs added by the H.R.C.; for two-year-
olds (now yearlings). Colts, Set 21b; fillies, Bst;
geldings, at starting, allowed 51b. Second horse
§0 sovs., and third horse 20 sovs. from the prize.
Five furlongs. Entrance, 2 sovs.
•3* All Entries to be in the hands of the undersigned,or
Secretary V.R.0., Melbourne, before 4p.m. on THUR -
Day, the aoth apeil, issa
C. S. QUEST,
Sec. H.K C., Richmond N.B W.
WANTED a C, CLARIONET, in Good
Order. Apply at Bulletin Office.
rjIHBATEE ROYAL.
£ 68,00 Mr. Earn. Lazar.
Treasurer ... Geo. L. Goodman.
SECOND WEEK
o’ the
MOST SUCCESSFUL DRAMA
ht * n the Southern Hemisphere.
ISLAND HOLT'B Picturesque Spectre ilar Drama.
THE WORCD. THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. THE WORLD.
The Blowing' up of the Steamer. The Beautiful Raft
Scene. The Aquarium Scene. The Hotel Lift in
Operation. The Escape the Madhouse. The
Masquerade Ball. Porming the grandest combination
of scenic effects in the world.
Trices as usual. Box Office at Elvy and Co’s.
Tickets for all parts of the huse at Lloyd’s, next the
Children in arms not admitted. Doors open
at 7 15.
Busines Manager for Bland Holt—Montagu Browne.
JAMES ALLISON. Manager.
E. AND MRS. JAMBS CARDEN.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH )
Arrangements completed for ene year, commencing
June let, 1882, under the management of
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMSON, & MUBGEOYE.
M
rjHEATRK
ROYAL, GRAFTON
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven er eight hundred people ,and lit up
with Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W, ATTWATER.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo-
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has & neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
fIHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of tHO
L ZULU WAR,
ACADEMY OF MUSIC. CHRISTCHURCH,
ONE MONTH.
THEATRE ROYAL, WELLINGTON, EASTER
MONDAY.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 13th April, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Gold-min-
ing Lease are hereby called upon to show
cause, within thirty days from this date, why
their lease should not he cancelled, for non-obser-
vance of the conditions thereby imposed.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Hunter and Macleav Mining District.
Nq. 161; W. Masters, T. James, D. M’Eae, P. V.
Newcomb, J. Armstrong, E. H. Burbidge; Portion No.
10.; Mountain Maid Reef, county of Gloucester, par-
iah of Teleraree; 4a. 3r. 18p.; Application No. Bulla-
dellah 11.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 13th April, 1882.
IT IST of Applications received in the Depart-
•*-* ment of Mines, for permission to mine under
roads, Ac. &0., under the Mining Act, 1871, sec-
tion 28.
ARTHUR RENWICK ;
Date of Application March 21, 1882; A. Armstrong
Portion of reserve No. 19, pariah of Southend, county of
Cumberland; 610 acres; To mine for coal.
Date of Application March 21, 1882; H. J. Withers;
Portion of reserve No. 19, parish of Southend, county of
Cumberland ; 640 acres ; To mine tor coal.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 6th April, 1882.
T IST of Applications received in the Depart-
ment of Mines for permission to mine under
roads, Ac., Ac., under the Mining Act, 1874, sec-
tion 28.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Date of Application, March 22, 1882; Hugh Hill;
Portion of reserve No. 31, National Park, Port Hack-
ing ; 640 acres; To mine for coal end shale.
Date of Application, March 22, 1882; John Halliday ;
Portion of reserve No. 34, National Park, Port Hack-
ing ; 640 acres ; To mine for coal and shale.
Date of Application, March 22,1882; Joseph Halliday
Portion of Riserva No. 34, National Park, Port Hack-
ing; 640 acres; To mine tor coal and shale.
Date of Application, March 24, 1882; W. J. Hamlll;
Portion of reserve iNo. 34, National Park, Port Hacking
610 acres; To mine for coal and shale.
Date of Application, March 28, 1S82; T. H. Hale;
Portion of reserve No. 44, parish of Cowan; 640 acres ;
To mine for coal.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 6th April, 1882.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty days
from this date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
No. 571; E. Buck and others; Portion No. 2 glj
County of Gloucester, parish of W angat; 3a. Sip.; Ap-
plication 80. Dnngog 40.
TO-DAY, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, at 3 o’clock.
DELIGHTFUL SITES,
WENTWORTHVILLE,
close to the New Railway Platform.
THE BALANCE of Sections Nos. 1, 9,10,11, and 12
of
THIS VALUABLE ESTATE
will
BE SOLD POSITIVELY
WITHOUT RESERVE,
on
the GROUND, on above date,
aid
ON THE MOST utBERAL TEEMS,
Viz.:
£5 deposit on each allotment, and the balance by
monthly instalments of £1 per month, bearing
interest at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum. £2
deposit on the small lots, balance at the rate of one
shilling per week, iuteiest 6 per cent.
Since the last sale of this subdivision the Railway
Platform has been completed, and is now open for
traffic. This fact alone has caused an earnest inquiry
as to when the next sale will take place, and already
previous purchasers are preparing to build. This is
not to be wondered at, considering that A MILLION
AND A HALF of money is to bo expended within a
mile and a half of the property for the supply of water
to Sydney and its suburbs.
WPEITCHAED will sell by auction,
• on the ground,
SATURDAY, April 22, at 3 o’clock,
THE BALANCE of Sections 1,9, 10, 11, and 12, of
this Highly-Improving and Valuable WENT-
WOETHVILLE BBTATE, commanding front-
ages to Seoond-street, leading to the railway
platform, First and Third and Smith streets.
Second-avenue, and Third-avenue.
TITLE, FREEHOLD.
GANNON & M'LAUGHLIN, Solicitors for tho Estate.
A FREE SPECIAL TRAIN will leave Bedfern Ter-
minus on Day of Sale to convey purchasers te and from
the sale, calling at the suburban stations.
K
\
ti
ib
■\7ISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILOEING
■ ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STEEET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuringr forwarded to any part of
the CoiOny.
rjIHE PAINLESS COEN EELIEYEE
A Sure Belief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.*
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Gympie (sole
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros. & Co. Syd-
ney and Brisbane; and sold by all patent medicine
vendors.
ASK FOB HANDBILLS.
CLONTAEF LIBEL CASE
POETEAITS OF HAYNES AND ARCHIBALD*.
BEST PHOTOS. YET PRODUCED.
WCOLLINS (LATE NEWMAN), PHOTOGRAPHER
GEORGE STREET, NEXT POST OFFICE.
"Wf' H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
n
*
Hi
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS
MENTS, by
ERABD {Parts and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO,
BEBDEN and
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and CO.,
And other First-claw Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON.
SMITH ORGAN CO„
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNTARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE PAINT POR IRONWORK AND OTHER USE.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT.
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS HE ACTION OP HEAT AND COLD. AND WILL NEV IB
BLISTER CRACK, OR FLARE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVERYTHING CONSIDERED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
MACHINERY
FOB
ENGINEERS,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICFS
and other particulars on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS
l7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
4RV ■ STREU
A l ARCE a., wru ,'S'F'l-ErVpr ,c T -
vOCLkA . )S ..
■ • '■ ’
OIiILCT FROM THE HANOI ACO'UREUS’. ' ;
‘ FASHIONABLE '
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS,
TOORDEf*.
ALL WOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO ORDER
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Heels, in white, b!a (
and colours.)
SEWING
Trade mark BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. qfa
COTTONS,
The following list of EXHIBITION PHIZES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority - of the
them : Gold Medal, Paris, 1878. Onlv Prise Medal; Lon,ion. 1861. Only FimS Prize
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The’Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna 1873 Gold Medal’ Q outh Africa 18"
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1878, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Sydney, 1880. ' 18 ‘ ‘
Ask for BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS.
Aditbrrespomlence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to their Warehoxu
Wynyard Sydney, New South Wales.


i 111 1 cKS* i Mhrfri
SCAD ■
0t//?£
FOR THE FIGURING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be advising onr misnomers and the
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI-
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGE STS FOB
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
(Before Orde
send foi
Our Price I
AND
All Partleul
And request all intending purchasers to favour ns witt
their orders early, as
William Richie’g 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OP ANT OTHEB SYDNEY
HOUSE.
PABMEES NOTE THIS YBBI CABEFULLT.—
MARTIN
-»•*» Pi
389 Georgi
6YDNE
Intending Pure
i Cutters offered t!
INK BUNGLE.
John Bunele, (
his Chaff Cutters
last on |y-whea
fcaoture.
ITHE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE S
A" \c
M
Jb*
Sli WATCHES
FROM J" .4.10.
rTurinc jtwEAt-t-'
II.HUNTER ST
5 SYDNEY
SfcHll FOR
CATALOGUE.
riTHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REA
None better than WlGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syd
P U B 1 I C N <
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPL
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosecul
endeavours te deceive the pablie b;
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thei
BRANDS of PURE TEAS.
The pablie are CAUTIONED to
bearing
*• THE TAEPING MIXTURE,”
MIXTURE,
Every packet bears the signatur
thn»*
x Clifford\ Love, & i
Those who are desirous of having
TEA, most be certain that ever]
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which tor the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE AS
MIXTURE ABE GUAR
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
P. BUTCHl
WHOLESALE GROCER AN1
YORK STREET, ST1
T 0 H N D
** IMPORTER 01
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brassy
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric
Butchers* Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, i
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L SURIIREI
236 Pitt Street, S
THE PEOPLE’S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO
H. L. 8UMMEI
SPECIALITY SUITS TO O
the peopled
Guarantees a perf
H. L. SUM ME
has all goods thoroug:
the PEOPLE'S
Sends Self-measurement form
MOST PLEAS
HOUSEHOLD
TAKE NOTE OF T
WHFN PURCHASING YOUI
ask for
A
N
0
S
A
F
E
8
T
PANTER AND Pi
HEW EXTRACT O!
AND SEE THAT TOD GI
SUPERIOR TO ALL 0
BEST Washing and Disinft
tion known, for Clothes,
Crockery, Paint. Glass, and evi
purpose. Used and recomm
Laundry at Government Ho
mour (Inspector of Nuisances
(Orient Laundry), and by
judges to be the best article m
KEMEMBER1
Washing and cleaning don
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Health
pleasant after using.
HOMES MADE HA
TO BE HAH OP ALL G
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-S1
IN THE WOR
W. KERF
manufacturing J
WATCH AND CLOCK
664 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Ci
Medals of every
gentation Trowels designed an
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT!
A new and Choice Assortment c
Mail and always in s
Waltham Watches, from
THE originai
UNTRAMMELLED ANI
EDWARD HORDERN /
roa
BLANKETS, SHEETINGS, QU
VELVETS, STAYS, HOSIER!
To newly married conples and tho
we would specially recommend our
beauty of these well-known blanket
PLENTY TO TUCB
We would particularly draw tb<
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
JOR
ißusiness
PROMENADE
Trßvelltri^
YACHTING
EaiSS"i
UNSURPASSED
Tt,R
Cricketing
‘‘Standard” Winter Tweed Suits ...
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto ...
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra Long
Tweed Ulsters, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHIN'S NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 EINO ST REST, SYDNEY,
N£XT TO ’BUS OFFOK.
