

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.—No. 131.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1882.
Price—3d
§ulletin.
SATURDAY. MAY 20, 1882.
Egyptian Bonds and Irish Bondage.
If credit may be given to the tenor of the advices
by cable, Great Britain regards the plotting of an
assassination, when a prince is the plotter, as
quite a different matter from similar outrages
when concocted by ignorant peasants. No
language is too severe, no measures too draconian,
for application to the people of Ireland, when
bailiffs are massacred and officials murdered. But
when an ex-ruler of Egypt organizes the assas-
sination of the leader of a popular movement for
constitutional rights on the British model, England
leagues with the other Powers of Europe to take
the part of the chief participant in the scheme,
and of his most prominent abettors. The dis-
covery of the plot devised by the ex-Khedive of
Egypt— lsmael Pacha —to assassinate Arabi
Bey, leader of the Popular Party, is recent enough
to be fresh in people’s memory. A number of
Circassian officers —mercenaries and aliens —were
tried and convicted for participating in the ex-
Khedive’s design. The present Khedive exerted
his authority to shield, and actually to commute
the sentence of, the conspirators against the life of
his Premier. Naturally, his Ministers resent this
course, which is equivalent to an intimation that
anyone may repeat the attempt to murder, without
serious apprehension of consequences. They
threaten to depose the illustrious patron of their
would-be assassins, and at this point England
disengages her attention momentarily from her
efforts to repress assassination in Ireland, in
order to throw her full weight and active
interference into the scale of the Egyptian party
of assassination. In concert with the other
Powers, she declares her intention to support the
Khedive and his murderous Circassian protdgds,
to check national aspirations, and to quell the
resistance of the national leaders to the designs of
the princely conspirators against their lives.
There seems just a trifling inconsistency here. If
political assassinations be detestable in Ireland,
and their authors deserving of the most tre-
mendous rigour, surely they and their participants
must be equally deserving of abhorrence and
repression in Egypt. But, perhaps, whether it be
a monarch who seeks to assassinate representatives
of his people, or a people who seek to assassinate
the representatives of a monarch, makes ail the
difference.
* • •
Looking a little deeper into the matter, how-
ever, and seeking for the hidden causes of so re-
markable a contrariety of policy in the two oases,
leads to the discovery that “ the root of all evil ”
—the love of money—is the prevailing factor.
The people of Ireland are reduced to the condition
of the natives of Russian Poland, not because
some miserable ruffians from America commit an
outrage in Ireland against which the recognised
leaders of the Irish people protest with in-
dignation—an outrage, be it noted, which
wrought more injury to the national as-
pirations in that country than a thousand
Coercion Acts could have effected—but because to
grant them full measure of justice would deprive
a powerful class of income. In this case assassin-
ation which involves loss of money must be put
down at any sacrifice —of other people’s money,
of constitutional principles, and, if necessary, of
more lives. But take the other case. Assassina-
tion of National leaders in Egypt would tend to
prevent a terrible evil—the possible repudiation by
a free Egyptian nation of the Egyptian bonds. In
other words, unless Arabi Bet and his sympathi-
sers be disposed of and quelled, a class influential in
the political coteries of England and France would
be apt to suffer in their pockets !
• • »
Thus we find the apparent problem resolve it-
self into a simple equation, perfectly plain in its
terms. The national aspirations of Ireland and
the national aspirations of Egypt are alike to
bo crushed in the interests of plunder. When this
is comprehended it becomes quite easy to under-
stand why the plutocracy which governs our
mother country is equally resolute to put
down an infamous recourse to assassination in
Ireland and to support the same infamy in
Egypt. It is then Great Britain’s lot to
succeed to the role of that Pharaoh who would
m>t “ let the people go.” That the success of the
National party in Egypt would probably be fol-
lowed by a repudiation of the Egyptian bonds is like-
ly enough, when one considers how these burdens
oame to be imposed upon the industrious classes in
the country. The debauched Ismail Pacha —
exercising the powers of arbitrary rule, and paying
tribute to the Sultan and hush-money to the corrupt
Ministers of the Porte for license to do as he pleased
■“■chose to indulge in enormous extravagance He
had a mania forbuilding palaces; he had an appetite
for buying beautiful women; he required an army
to conquer fresh territory in Upper Egypt; he
fancied a navy and yachts for no particular purpose.
But the ordinary revenue of the country fell far
short of what was requisite to pay for his whims
and indulgences. He issued bonds—the straitest
bonds which ever enslaved a people—and pledged
to the usurers ef Europe the sinews and thews of
his unlucky subjects. He sold their industry and
mortgaged their labours to the third and fourth
generation. England and Prance have been the
Shtlocks of the transaction. The wretched
“ fellahs ” of Egypt are not the Antonio : they
are rather Antonio's wife and children —the
innocent and unfortunate victims of his reckless
and inordinate extravagance.
* • •
To-day the capitalists of England and France
demand a judgment. The present miserable
Khedive — Tjbwfik Pacha —is merely their bai-
liff, their man in possession. If ho be ejected,
there will be a risk that no more money will be
squeezable from the wretched victims of the
atrocious compact. The Powers, SnvLOCK-like,
“ stand upon the bond.” Unfortunately, there is
no earthly tribunal which has power to prevent
the enforcement of their “ lawful rights ” by pro-
cesses involving shedding of blood. It is clear
that the twin Shtlocks are not disposed to be
scrupulous about such a trifle, and that, rather
than forego their lawful plunder, innocent blood
will be caused to flow in torrents, unless squad-
rons of ironclads and the letting loose of Turkish
mercenaries are to be regarded as harmless forms.
The day seems to be at hand when an honest man
who really believes in the principles which chil-
dren used to be taught are the secret of Bri-
tain’s high prestige, must blush to own himself
an Englishman, just as the ferocious murder of
Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke
must make every true son of Erin disposed to
hang his head until it be demonstrated that for
the act transatlantic and not national Irish organ-
izations are responsible.
How do our people live?
Th* problem— How the people of New South
Wales get their living ? —is one upon which Census
returns throw but a partial light. The columns
shewing the professed avocations of the people
are full of delusive matter. There are plenty of
“ miners” who do all their mining in bars and
under verandahs, and there are shoals of “agri-
oulturists” who never turned a sod. Dealings ia
scrip and frontage sections may certainly fill the
pockets of experts, and may pass a good deal of
coin at times across the counter, but such trana-
actions represent real work and production in an
equal degree with the familiar pea-and-thimble
operations of the magsmen at Randwick. More-
over, crowds of people live, wholly or in part,
otherwise than by their registered occupations,
and the Census only contains what they choose to
tell. But, from the returns which separate the
population into two divisions of urban and rural
residents, we may make a good guess at the
resources which, in the aggregate, support our
population. Turning to the columns in question,
we find that the total town population of New
South Wales is 433,391, considerably more than
one-half that of the entire colony, which is re-
turned as 751,468. For our purpose, the urban
population may be divided into three sections,
which we state as follows
Metropolitan, or Sydney and Suburbs ...220‘984
Towns in existence prior to 1871 152‘607
Towns and villages grown since 1871 ... 61‘792
The above figures are taken from Tables 5,6, 7.
These do not quite agree in the total with the
General Abstract in Table 11, but the discrepancy
can no doubt be accounted for, and it is not large
enough to affect our arrangement.
• • •
We have then, in the first place, to deal with
the population of the metropolis, numbering 30 per
of that of the 'C'xole colony. The enormous
public expendirun centred in the metropolis
connected with public works and general govern-
ment, obviously finds bread and a good deal more
for no small number of the Sydney people. We
may safely add that the growing litigation and
increasing official muddle, especially connected
with the Departments of the Lands and Mines,
provide ample pickings for thousands who live by
law, red-tape, and five per cent. The huge land
revenue—the fruit of an agrarian war, begotten
by the Act of 1861—scrambled for by all the
electorates of the colony, is another factor in
metropolitan “prosperity” that cannot be left
unnoticed. We need not look for any other
causes than these, coupled with the trade of Port
Jackson, to keep this human hive in meat and
drink, and build the miles of suburban reidenoes
that are now running up.
• • •
We have then next to consider the towns in
existence before 1871. These have all the appear-
ance of prosperity. They are 164 in number, and
their inhabitants have increased 52,000 in ten
years. One is puzzled to find any tangible basis
for this development, as there is no corresponding
growth of settlement, mining, or agriculture, and
the hands employed on stations are much fewer
than they were before fencing was universally
adopted. We can hardly comprehend how groups
of publicans, storekeepers, saddlers, and black-
smiths get rich by living on each other, and the
only analogy that occurs to us is the fable of the
two Yankee boys who wore looked up together,
with nothing whatever in their pockets. They
began to trade in order to pass the time, and their
acuteness was such that at the end of an hour one
had four dollars and the other a silver pencil-
case!
• • •
As offering a certain solution of the riddle, there
are to be noticed symptoms of —at least—a liberal
public expenditure. One town on the plains
for instance, has a handsome market-place that
cost a sum many figures long. It was paid for out
of the Treasury; and as it has never been used for
any purpose whatever, it is clear that it was not
really wanted—except to put money in circulation
among contractors and workmen. Moreover, it is
said that whenever railways have approached such
townships, instances are as thick as gum-leaves of
people being enriched for life by the handsome
compensation paid for land resumed. The happy
owner of a bare paddock has at times got enough
public money, in lieu of a corner out off, to set him
up for life as a capitalist and J.P. Anecdotes
lihe these are to be heard everywhere, and they
account for “ prosperity,” but of a very unwholo-
some kind.
• • •
But the strange phenomena connected with the
growth of these older townships sink into common-
place when we look at the circumstances under
which the towns and villages comprised in our
third section have grown up since 1871. These
mushroom townships of yesterday contain 61,000
of the people, and are in number 123. Probably
about a dozen of them—such as Cobar, Lithgow,
and Temora, and some ot the colliery villages—
indicate new ground opened, and some work done.
But it is difficult to account for the existence of
the remainder on any economic theory. A glance
at one of the group will serve as a specimen of all.
We take the first on the list, a township of 240
people, right on the crest of the table-land, in the
middle|of what is called an agricultural district.
It is true that the farming carried on is of the
good old sort, consisting of starving cows two
years out of three, and growing a feeble crop
now and then, not by any means yearly. WelJ,
this township has public buildings and public works
quite sufficient for a place of ten times the size.
An expensive staff from the Hoads and Bridges is
settled on the spot, and the talk of the working
men frequenting the two public-houses leaves
no doubt that the spending of public money is
the main source they look to for employment.
The residents, with hands in pockets, look ever
hopefully for the next Treasury grant, and every
post takes a petition or latter to the district
member, urging him to have another shy at the
Ministry for a look-up, a dam, or a bridge—any-
thing to spend money in the town. Expensively
finished roads, macadamised, with culverts and
bridges, load out of this thriving village for a few
miles, in the direction generally of '* nowhere,”
ending in a muddy or dusty track; and the im-
pression which remains on one’s mind, after a fore
noon’s survey, is that large sums have been spent
round the place under political pressure, with little
view to meeting any practical want, but mainly to
appease a craving for local disbursement. This kind
or thing may be seen from the Snowy River to the
Severn, in most of the 123 townships which gradu-
ated under the last census, and also in another
group of some hundred hamlets more, that are
rapidly growing to adolescence under like stimu-
lating influences, and will take their place as full-
blown townships in the census of 1891.
• • •
Now, we may fairly ask, is this kind of thing
merely putting on proud flesh, or is it wholesome
growth? If the people in these hundreds of
townships have any other means of support, they
are not of a kind palpable to the senses. They
no doubt call themselves miners, contractors, and
farmers, but from year’s end to year’s end they
arc to bo seen hanging about on ono
‘‘lay” and another, generally counting on the
next expenditure of Government money to give
the place a start. \et this condition of sloth and
Mioawberism is by no means inseparable from
township life. If we followed the example of the
old world, our village and suburban lands might
be very gems of rural wealth and beauty. The
choicest scenes of English life, and the most pro-
lific soil, are to be found where the hop grounds and
orchards embower the quaint Kentish villages,
and where the pollarded elms and wheat lands of
the midland counties hem in the old cathedral
towns. In rugged Scotland, the village runs back
to the bare hill in a bright fringe of kail-yard,
potato-ground, and gooseberry garden; a glebe of
verdure conquered from the grim mountain, and
savage mowland. In sunny Lombardy, a land
more like Australia in climate, wo can yet sea ‘die
real rus in urbe sung by the bard ot Mantua. You
may look from the picturesque street whore the
glistening gables are half shrouded in the chest-
nuts and vines, through groves of olives, and
down to the meadows where the white cattle feed
knee-deep in the famous Italian rye-grass. But
no such sights are to be seen in the townships of
New Souch Wales, whether they are one year old
ME. FITZ WILLIAM WENTWORTH.-(See next page.)


HOP BITTERS!
ARE
THE PUREST 4EH BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Bops, Buehn, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and.
in addition, contain all the best andi
most effective curative properties of alb
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Reenlator, Blood Purifies, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask year Druggist or Physician-
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bittebs is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should be
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health*
or languishing on a led of sickness, take'
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If you are a Minister, and have over,
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work,
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If yon are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
cvery-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If yon are suffering from over-eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve Yon.
If yen are In the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs Cleansing, Ton.
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting.
Hop Bitters is What You Need.
If yon are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bittebs is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for siok-rcom
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTEFIORB. METCALFE, A CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W„
General Agents (or Australia,
ODIC FORCE IS LIFE FORCE.
H. G. WHITING’S
PATENT PERFORATED
MAGNETOD!
RHEUMATISM can positively be Cured
by the use of the above appliance.
The MAGNETOD can be worn without inconvenience.
The MAGNETOD is manufactured in various forms for
all parts.
The MAGNETOD will for years emit into the body
its recuperating forces, and should be worn for
General Debility.
The MAGNETOD cures complaints of 20 years’ stand-
ing.
The MAGNETOD is the result of 20 years’ inveetiga-
tion by the patentee.
The MAGNETOD Cores RHEUMATICS, Gant, Ner-
vous Diseases, Heart, Liver, and Throat Complaints,
and has been specially made for this climate.
The MAGNETOD requires no acids, no attention, only
to bs worn to cure, gives no shocks, does not
destroy the underclothing, and is always ready.
Can be left off, when not required, without danger.
Can be worn by the most delicate man, woman, or
babe, without risk.
Full particulars can be had by letter, or by applica-
tion on TUESDAYS and FRIDAYS, from 10 to 12 a.m,
at the
SOLE AGENT FOR THE COLONIES:
JOHN GEE,
17 CHANGE ALLEY,
PITT STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
(Opposite No. 2 Coffee Palace.)
|»r twenty. If there are any fruit-trees grown,
frm chances are that the owner is the C.P.S. or
Vomt) enterprising German or Frenchman, while
Jvery vegetable in the place is sure to be grown by
a Chinaman, and the chief features in the land-
scape are the pound with a thicket of Bathurst
burrs, a dead horse, and a pile of empty bottles.
« # •
It looks, from what we can reckon up of the
■urban inhabitants, very like as if two-thirds of
the people of Mew South Wales did not earn their
living by any productive labour whatever; and, it
we consider what current views on politics are, we
can hardly feel surprise that people look at the
public purse for a livelihood. The one lesson
that they have been taught by political leaders
is to sponge on the Treasury, Whatever
work has to be done, whether to clean
out a waterhol© at a township, to make a dray
crossing over a nameless creek, or to nurse a poor
woman taken in labour, the “ Government' is
immediately applied to. It was said son lo time
a"0, with more point than delicacy, that in this
colony, if one wanted anything more than a side
of beef or a pair of breeches it was customary to
apply to the Ministry. The habit ef self-help and
the sense of public duty have almost disappeared
from among the people, while ; stimulated by the
midden-like political corruption of the day, we
have a profligate expenditure covering the colony
like a upas-tree, with the prospect in due season
of an appropriate crop of fruit, in a pauper
proletariat.
"Daughters of Moab" and “Men of
Belial.”
Whether the ladies who took part in the Fair at
the Garden Palace were by that circumstance
justly chargeable with having caused the people
of the Lord to sin, is a very nice question. That
the reverend promoters of the show calculated
upon the personal attractions of these ladies as
likely to help the business to draw, in a
pecuniary sense, no one in his right mind
ean doubt. But the part taken by the ladies
in either instance, the ancient or the modern
one, was undoubtedly innocent as compared with
that for which their masculine leaders were re-
sponsible. Whatever exception may be taken to
the simile as applied to the ladies, there can be no
question that it was extremely apt with reference
to the promoters of the affair. The policy of
Balaam was identical in intention with that of
the persons, reverend and lay, who summoned
feminine attractions to effect what their own
efforts as “ men of God ” had been ineffectual to
accomplish.
• * •
But it is certain that the fair and innocent
offenders have proved to be instrumental in lead-
ing the elect—that is to say, the members of the
Synod themselves—into grievous sin. The solemn
conclave has been disgraced by an exhibition ot
passion, evil-speaking, and malignity which would
discredit a municipal council.
• * •
If the Eev. Mr. Hodgson had been more
exactly acquainted with the Bible, and had trusted
less to his general recollection of specific passages,
it is clear that his famous remark about the
daughters of Moab would never have been made.
The comparison he chanced to institute was
undoubtedly offensive and unwarranted, and it
would have shown more sagacity had he, when his
attention was called, later, to the matter, promptly
and frankly explained that defective memory had
betrayed him into a blunder, and had he
followed up that confession with an apology.
There was never any room for misconception.
That Mr. Hodgson had not properly before him
the precise significance of the passage he quoted,
must have been apparent to every fair-minded
member of the Synod. But his blunder
afforded an opening whereby the clergymen and
other members of the Synod who were responsible
for the Fair at the Garden Palace might wriggle
out of the false position in which theylfound them-
selves, and they were too eager to avail themselves
of it to permit considerations of decency or pro-
priety to restrain them. The Reverend Mr. Garn-
set managed so to comport himself as to convey
to the public an impression that he is much more
greatly concerned about the reputation of the
young ladies of the Fair than about the dignity of
the Synod or the Glory of God.
• • •
As for the laymen who introduced into the
Synod the language appropriate to a court under
the auspices of Judge Lynch, the contrast between
their position and their vaporings is striking in-
deed. Here we Tiave men, who had scarcely
brushed off the knees of their trousers the dust
acquired in kneeling to receive the aac-rament,
foaming out intimations that unless the Reverend
Mr. Hodgson would apologize he might expect a
thrashing. The Reverend Mr. Garnsey indeed
interjected that those throats were only used
“hypothetically.” The public who read the
language in which they were couched may adopt
Mr. Gaknsey’s qualifications, and with equal
propriety express a conviction that both the
persons who made use of such hypothetical
menaces, and the minister of God who counten-
anced them, deserved to have their noses hypothe-
tically pulled.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
”Sesquipedalia Verba.”
The rather remarkable notice published in last Satur-
day’s S M. Herald shows a pretty warm feeling on the
part of our Teutonic fellow-citizens. For it is uni-
versally conceded that when a man loosens his purse
strings on behalf of any notion he may entertain, that
notion, though to others perhaps not very clear and
definite, is an important one to him. And the Teutons
seem to have got to the length of opening their purses.
The advertisement declares the existence in the mixed-
speaking provinces of Austro-Hungary of a state of
things which is simply fatal to the German cause in
those regions. Not alone are the Germans themselves
oppressed, but more than 600 of their schools are
changed into Slav, affecting, as appears on the face of
it, the| German cause most fatally, for, as Archbishop
Vaughan put it in the late Oerchwdrmerei on education,
whoever gets the children rules the next generation.
In the queer and not very well-known empire over
which the Kaiser Franz Josef bears sway there are four
nationalities and many small offshoots—Teutons,
Slavs, Maygars, and Poles, not to speak of the Jews
who are nobodies worth considering. Now, these
national representatives don’t hit it very well amongst
themselves, and in the “ sprachlich germichsen Provin-
aeu,” those who speak German are not in a majority.
Therefore are they oppressed, therefore are their
chillren (eheu!) to be taught to express their feelings
and impressions in Slav instead of the honeyed accents
o! High German. So the Germans at Berlin and
I Vienna hare formed themselves into “ Schulvereiaen”
-school-unions for the fighting out of this righteous
struggle to the end. And the Teutons in America,
Asia, and Africa have heard the summons for help and
obeyed it; the patriotic Teutons in N.S.W. hear it, and
will help. As to the quarrel between the Germans and
the Slavs, we’ve not much to say. But the little
school quarrel is only the outcome of that process
which is driving the Slavs and Germans—the first as
representatives of Eastern Europe, the second of
Western— farther asunder every year. The coming race
is not to be looked for underground, as in Lytton’s
brilliant ieu d’ esprit, hut in that vast territory ruled by
the Nihilists and the Secret Police.
Plomer’s Escape.
ILn identical law obtains in New South Wales and in
Queensland, with respect to assaults upon women. To
dolently deprive a female of her chastity is, in both
colonies, a capital offence. There have occurred
limultaneously two very serious eases. In Queensland,
l youth, just arrived at manhood, has been convicted
>f an assault upon a servant girl. Sentence of death
las been pronounced upon him and the day has been
ixed for his execution. He is cast for death. In our
jwn colony, John Plomeb, a schoolmaster, has, like-
(rise, been convicted and sentenced, for an assault upon
i girl pupil entrusted to his care. In sentencing him,
Mr. Justice Wikdetee emphatically told him to enter-
tain no hope of mercy. Yet his sentence has been
commuted to imprisonment for life. Thus it becomes
apparent that, although in the two colonies the law is
identical, the system of administration differs vitally
in each. Of the two offenders, Plomeb, was infinitely
the more flagrant criminal. It would be difficult to
sum up his iniquities. He was not only a ravisher. He
was a man of evil record. He had been a convict be-
fore this last outrage. He had obtained the position he
held by fraud and forgery. Holding it, he betrayed th«
most sacred trusts, and defiled the innocence he was
charged to strengthen and protect. No more atrocious
instance of that particular crime could be conceived.
Judge Windeter must have recognized this fact when
laying stress so marked upon the hopelessness of look-
ing for aught but due fulfilment of the law. Yet
Plomeb is to bo a burden upon the resources of the
colony for the term of his obscene existence. This is
a striking development of a system which has been
steadily usurping the old plan of trial by jury, and
sentence by judges. These institutions may or may not
be losing their ancient virtues. But at present they
are the constitutional methods. Trial by Executive
appears to be. in N.S. Wales, rapidly superseding them
without any warrant from the people or Parliament _
The solemn impressiveness of a judge is being reduced
to a grim and meaningless grimace, and, if affairs go on
in their present groove, persons charged with serious
crimes will no longer fee counsel and call witnesses,
but will tip members of Parliament and strain every
nerve to get at the ear of the Cabinet!
The Servitude of Boilermakers.
I The evil features of human nature seem Squally to
affect the Prince and the Plebeian. The instincts of
tyranny break out in unexpected quarters. Yesterday
it was a Czar ; to-day it is a boilermaker. The idea of
the right of a majority to rule is being ridden to death.
Wherever two or three are gathered together, the
infatuation crops up in their midst. It appears, from
what the deputies of the boilermakers explained to
Mr. Goodchap the other day, that in this free land,
where every man is supposed to enjoy untrammelled
liberty so long as he respects the laws, there are extra-
ordinary exceptions. A boilermaker may not call his
soul, or his earnings, his own. He must —there is no
compulsion, only he must—throw in his lot with the
Boilermakers’ Society, and must pay the assessment
which the society claims, from his income. He may be
eccentric; may hold views antagonistic to such asso-
ciations ; may consider that they do more harm than
good; may regard them as useless either for good or
harm; may have economic theories which make the
Society repugnant to his ideas; or may hold views as to
individual responsibility and liberty of action and eon-
tract, which cause the bonds of association to be galling
to his self-respect. Still he must join, or cease to work
at his trade. This is tyranny gone mad. How can
working men complain if aristocratic castes, oligar-
chical cliques, and monarchical families league and
conspire to hold the rest of mankind in bondage in
order to bolster up their special advantages, if they
harbour the same devices among themselves. They
would be furious were any dominant class in the colony
to lay down the rule that all working men should
surrender their right of private judgment and personal
independence. Yet they are indignant when one of
I themselves claims the same right in opposition to what
they conceive to be their advantage. Because one of
their number elects to work for his own hand, the
boilermakers as a body seek to chastise his audacity,
quell his rebellious spirit, and deprive him of his daily
bread. This is despotism without disguise—a thing
detestable when assumed by a body of mechanics as
when practised by a Czar, or a Parliamentary majority.
Mr. Fitzwilliam Wentworth.
The subject of our sketch this week is the worthy
son of a man who has been fitly described as the first
of the first-born Australians. To William Charles
Wentworth we are largely indebted for our chief
political institutions, and the immense benefits
connected with them. And if not in the political
world, at least in the field of enterprise and the
circle of social life, Mr. Fit z william Wentworth
fitly represents his great progenitor. Mr. Went-
worth s retiring disposition has led him to decline
offers from more than one Government of a
nomination to the Upper House, and the invita-
tions of several electorates to represent them in
the Assembly. He has likewise declined magis-
terial honours, and numerous social distinc-
tions. At the same time, few men have
exhibited a more genuine public spirit,
or have given more substantial support
to movements or undertakings tending to
the moral or material advancement of the com-
munity. The Sydney University, the heritage
of his father’s work, he has substantially be-
friended. Mr. Wentworth was born at Vaucluse,
and is now forty-nine years of age. He received
I his early education at Cape’s school, and was the
first to take a degree at the Sydney University.
He then, repairing to England, went through a
course of study at Cambridge, and, having taken
his degrees, returned to Australia. He entered
largely into pastoral pursuits in New Zealand,
where he was very successful. Disposing of his
interests there, he invested in N S.W. pastoral
properties, where likewise his judgment and busi-
ness capacity have stood him in good stead. Mr.
Wentworth married a daughter of Mr. George
Hill, and has a family of three sons and a
daughter.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
George Otto Trevalyon, late Secretary to the
Admiralty, accepted Chief Secretaryship of 1re1and......
Land Leaguers of America offering large rewards for
apprehension of Cavendish and Burke assassins......
O'Donovan Eossa denounces murders, bnt justices
Irish nationalist movement Several supposed im-
plicated people arrested; assassins ported to have
drowned themselves Government offer £l2 500 for
apprehension and conviction of murderers, and iliuw
for private information leading thereto...... The cabman
who drove the murderers was discharged for want oi
evidence Leonard Henry Courtenay appointed Poli-
tical Secretary to the Colonial Office...... House of
Commons instructed Attorney-General to defend the
action brought by Bradlangh against the Deputy-
Sergeant-at-Arms for assault......... Count Kalnocky
retires from the office of Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Austria; Count Andrassy succeeds him......
Fenians are furious with Parnell and Davitt for having
avowed their detestation of Dublin murders Da’rit x
charges Forster with bring author of a planwhich
encouraged outrages At Birmingham, Yorkshire,
English attacked Irish residents as retaliatory of the
Pbeenix Park murders Found impossible to charge
Vienna municipal authorities with criminal negligence
respecting the King Theatre disaster......Laycock rows
Boyd on the Tees, 3} miles, for £2OO a side, on July 3rd,
and Pearce, on the Thames, for £lOO a side, on Jane
17th Sir William Harcourt introduced stringent Bin
to provide for the repression of crime in Ireland; m
special cases, a commission of three judges vfithout
jury to try causes; property in inculpated districts
to be levied upon to pay cost of such trials.
afforded police protection in consequence of threatening
letters he has received from Land Leaguers.........
Lord Frederick Cavendish was fanned in the family
mausoleum, Chatsworth, England, on 11th > "“0
funeral was attended by 50.000, moluding the Mimstry
and many M.P.'s Hon. Evelyn Ashley, Parliamentary
Secretary to Board of Trade, appointed
for Colonies Sir Henry and Miss Parkes P««^da
Court InteraationalHygienioExhibi^n^Berhn.haß
been destroyed by fire Sir Samuel WUson m
erecting a memorial window in Hughenden Church to
commemorate the Queen’s recent escape from s .
tion Daily News says Gladstone will shortlyreeign
Chancellorship of Exchequer, and only hold office ot
First Lord of Treasury Crisis in Egypt ; “™rted
rebelling against Khedive, who, however, is snpportea
by Chamber of Notables; Arabi Bey threaten to depose
Khedive with army; European Powers snpport Kbamve,
English and French ironclads ordered to Alexanana
Second attempt to blow np Mansion House, London.
frustrated Governor Salomon quelled Hayti ms
reetion Dr. John Brown, a celebrated writer ana
essayist, has died, aged 72 ..Wrecks off the
Khedive of Egypt recalled Chenf Tasha, .
re-accepted Premiership -Turkey has sig
vention providing for the method of payment
indemnity to Russia Murderers of Lord Cavendmh
supposed to be hiding in Dnblin...Eiots at the Cnrragn,
Kildare, between English and Irish residents Bntisn
Government declines to permit Cetewayo to re
Zululand British Mediterranean and French navan
squadrons at Alexandria ready to assist Khedive,
act in concert with Turkey Gladstone’s Irish Land
Bill proposes that the State shall pay all arrears o
due by Irish tenants; amount to come out of surplus
of Irish Church Fund Parnell, when In gaol, bad
promised cessation of outrages and 00-operat
Government..... Gladstone denied Parnell s negotiations,
bnt Forster Iread letters that passed batwoen Parnell
and Government; sensation in England, it h B_ -
that Parnell has acknowledged responsibility of Dana
League for outrages Australian El . eve ? ‘ aiG
Universitv;—Australians, 361 in first umlng • -
making 206; Oxford, with tho help of Sbaws 78. made
189 in first innings, followed on, and xv V ntian
with the loss of four wickets....Arabi Pasha, gyp
Minister for War, has summoned army reserves ..,
Announced that Khedive is reconciled to foa Ministry.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[ Correspondents who give neither name nor mon-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Balaam's Ass No, we can’t quote the pass-
wire about the daughters of Moab. It's to he in
••The secret of England's greatness, but to reprint it
would render us liable under the Oh;® 6 ” 6 .? lettoM
Ant “ W Collier We as a rule do nut insert letters
to the Editor. The matter you write about
very tersely dealt with. Send something short about
it if von like “ Injured One :We don t understand.
The Daughters of Moab ”: (1.) On the first day of
the' sittings. (2.) Perhaps ro } hut the most mmons
nart of the affair is that any clergyman should have
been solnjudicious as to, in however slight a
degree, asperse womankind, but for " h< ?“ *he
churches wonld be empty. I s o,ll f j e a un
married clergymen who make such blunders^.....
“ Leila''' We’ve noticed the most interesting part of
communication.. ••Select”: Not .rood enough
••J.J G.*': Not np to your last; J B. . (raom
boroneii): don’t want to go to *aol aeain......
C J D ”• Wo suppose that the clnb in nnostion» in
accepting a prize from the qnack referred to. knew
what they were about in selecting a specialist .
, “ Girilambone The price of a retarn^ ticket
1 from Sydney to Melbourne is now £6 ... PhM»«
anderaj: Cannot even alludetoit....... J.H.B.
wrong The Empress of Russia is the Princess Dagmar.
iSr to the Princess of Wales “Watchman’’: If
von exreot ns to tackle such a subject, you must do your
nart by giving us yonjf name, and supplying ns with
the fullest possible data Ton wish us to be courageous
while you cower behind a disguised hand and anony-
mity . ..“Forbes”: The suggestion that the larrikins
• should be handed over to circus lions is old. The king
of beasts wouldn’t soil bis “ ivories’’ with such
carrion . "A Victim”: “Can a gas-director goto
heaven?” We at once reply—of course he can.
1 providing he is allowed to supply his own
meters :-aud Meeks isn’t there to protest...
j •• TJ ”• It’s all right. We mistook your initials
“ Walgett ”: The 25th chapter of Numbers. Every
I member of the Y.M C. A can now stand up on ose leg
i and reneat it backwards “Traveller”: Too stale
now. We know that the police are all eyes and ears on
Sundays to atop boer-aolling; we are, therefore, not
thunderstruck to hear that, on a recent Sunday, a dis.
graceful row occurred in Hyde Park, and never a bobby
within cooey “GIT.": The D.T.’s offence in pub.
lishing the names of the Liedertafel performers wnsn t
so very grave a one, after all Writs again...
“E G.” (Newcastle): Verse not up to the mark. Youap-
narently po“Bcss but a rude faculty for rhyming
“ Wellington Valley”: Thanks for the social par. As
to the other, there’s nothing in it but possible offence
to somebody "Cracker”: Will stand for a day <»r
two . ..“Salvo”: Ton are a good fellow, and an in-
genuons. and you mean well. You adore Emilie Melville,
and so do we. We’re not going to publish your poetry
concerning her. We mean to write some ourselves
“ Lyncams”; Again obliged Please write all words
which are not plain English letter by letter, to avoid
possible errors “ W C.S.” (Melbourne): Next week.
. ~“C.EH.”; Thanks. Excellent “Schornm”:
Bright, clever and sham in parts ; dull and imperfect
in others. Will see what can be done with it “F.
Miller” : The report was no doubt furnished “officially.”
J. j.M ”; Mach obliged “Eot”; Will see to
it"’..“F.J.aW,” &o. (Gympie): Some of it un-
suitable “Outrigger”: Overlooked till too late.
Next week ”Ya Kieke Up” : Received “J M.”:
Wo have already something like it, bnt may use it next
wee fc “Dick Deadeye”: Aren’t you stretching it a
bit, old man? In the name of veracity, how largo in
Broughton Creek, that it contains 15 dressmakers?
Why! we’ve uni" got 12 in Sydney, and not one is bold
enorgb, like the Broughton Creek one, to ma) e trousers'
“Vidi”; We don’t understand the “ illigunt lady”
and “ golden stage properties,” and can’t publish till
wa do. Alwnvs explain “ B”: Your poetry con-
tains good ideas, but mixed with common place
words. Too faulty in its present shape
“J. do Smyth Drinkall” : As poetry, your “medical
adv.” is not good enough. Where’s the point ? Is it a
conundrum? But if. as you say, yon “have much
better verses ” on hand, suppose you send along some
of the superior article ‘J.K.C.” (Elizabeth Bay):
We want some better authority than “ rumour says.”
If yon are not certain enough to tell ns the names, how
do you think we can tell 25,000 other people “T.S.:
“Nellie” (Parramatta): Held over
j«• G.C.P.” : Space short this week “ E G.” ; Scarcely
important enough “Onion’’ and “Telegraph Tevti.
menial”: A little late; bnt next week “Mara”:
ditto “A.S.W.”: Will for the next seven days
employ ourselves in excavating the j0ke.,,,,,“ A Little
Reader”: To hand.


VIBTUTia GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
CHI!APE3T - «“““*,«»
18s. PER TON NET, delivered within City bound*.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and hare kept well free from aeh, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner Are thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, :nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome futnos given off by a breeze or gas lire
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS?
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHAEJF.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO’S.
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
T
XBADE M
S*
THE GREAT
ONE OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST
OARSMEN.
TN a recent conversation in Kingston, Canada, with
a representative of one of the foremost journals of
the United States, Mr, Edward Triokett, the celebrated
oarsman, who is at present open to row any man in the
world, gave the following as his opinion.
I have found St. JACOB’S OIL a sure and certain
cure, and one unequalled by any medicine. It cured
me of severe pains in the back, brought on by over-ex-
ertion in rowing. It is a pleasant, safe, and sure
remedy, penetrating at once to the seat of the disease,
and eradicating the complaint without further trouble.”
The writer listened attentively to the above. It was
pleasant to hear such high words of praise from one
who knew what he was talking about; and now ha says
that St. JACOB'S OIL and good athletio training, ar
what all our young men want.
ALL DRUGGIST'S SELL IT, PRICE HALF-A-
CROWN.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pitt-street.
S. HOFFNUNQ & Co.. Pitt-street.
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-street.
MYERS and SOLOMON, Qeorge-street.
I. JACOBS A Co., Hunter-street.
FEREIER’S BAKING POWDER,
44-
*
MANUFACTORY,
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
SELF RAIDING FLOUR
r
TRAD
MARK 3
YEAST POWDER.
This is thfl most effectual substitute fer kerosene in lightning 1 Country Residences, Churches, Stores, So o. •is
simple, clean, and durable, and oanbe made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. ' ’
This G*Sis mnoh cleaner and mire brilliant than coal ga*, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of tallow need, and wood for the furnace
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. ”
TA.LLOW GA.S made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Qovemmentßailways in perference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Mannfaotnrers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS, &o. Shipments Received monthly
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDEE and SONS' Pure Bitumen Damp Course. ENOEMOTTST.V
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer
Particulars on Application to
FINDLAY & BA7NES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
WOODWARD’S OYSTER ROOMS/
85 CASTLEREAGH STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
137 KING STREET, NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.
197 PITT STREET, 'OPPOSITE FARMER’S.
MACHINERY
FOR
FLOURMILLERS, BOOTMAKERS. TIMBER MERCHANTS, MINERS, ENGINEERS
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR GROWERS, &c., &c., Ac.,
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTINGS for same.
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, and shall be glad to furnish PRICES
and other partioulai a on receipt of your enquiries.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine. J
Sold on easy terxnai Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT TO ’BUS OFPCE.
MANUFACTORY:
Geoege-strekt West, Sydney.
fESTABUSHED 30 YeAUS.]
HODGSON’S WHIP FACTORY,
601, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
near Goulburn-street.
E. HODGSON,
Wholesale and Retail
WHIP THONG MANUFACTURER. &c.
Every Description of Kangaroo and Green Hide Thongs
Made to Order.
m
■i y i
670
D
6 70
C7O
G7O
H,H),U3ER
lltDffl
KtWAftE^
■'
H. HILDER,
BOOT MANUFACTURER AND IMPOETE EL
670 GEORGE STREET, SYDEY.
CENTRAL TEA AND COFFEE WARE-
HOUSE,
571, GEORGE-STREET.
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY GROCER.
TEAS, COFFEES, SUGARS, AND BUTTER
of tfy) Best Quality in the Trade.
A Trpll respectfully solicited.
Note the Addresr
571, GEORGE-STREET,
Between Liverpool and Gonlbnrn
THE NEWSLETTER.
1052 people at the Museum on Sunday after*
soon.
The dozen shareholders in the Sydney Arcade
clear about £2500 a year for seventeen years!
Forty cases of typhoid in Sydney Inflmary.
Typhoid is one of the penalties of the present sewerage
system.
The Court of Queen’s Bench in England has
decided that an omnibus-owner may not have a moveable
flange to the wheels of his vehicle to enable him to use
the tram-groovea in the street.
A New Zealand schoolmaster seduced one
of his pupils, a girl of 15, and then married her. His
first wife was alive in another province at the time.
There seems to be an epidemic of this sort of thing
among the schoolmasters just now.
Messrs. Langley and Ryder, who started to
quack-doc toriee the Melbourne suburbs, have been sent
np to gaol for prescribing drags unlawfully, they being
uncertifloated. Yet Milner Stephen, in the same city,
goes coaxing guineas out of people by giving them red
flannel and flummery, and—well,'he’s coining money,
they say.
Mr. C. Delohery, C.P.S. of the Central Police
Court, Sydney, was testimonialised in a genuine manner
by the magistrates and the legal professions of the two
Maitlands for his twelve years’ labours as C.P.S. of the
district. At the time of Mr. Delohery’s departure he
was Mayor of East Maitland, the best kept town in
New South Wales.
Hudson Bros., of Sydney, have purchased a site
of land in Melbourne suitable for the erection of
workshops for the manufacture of railwav roll-
lag stock and other appliances. Mr. Hudson
interviewed Mr. Bent. Victorian Minister of
Railways, and intimated that his firm was prepared to
establish a branch manufactory in Melbourne, if it
could obtain a sufficiently large contract t» justify its
doing bo.
The prospectus of the Sydney Grand Hotel Co.
(limited) has been issued. The capital is £lOO,OOO, in
one hundred thousand shares of £1 each. This is a proj act
that will, doubtless, meet with general support. The
immense strides which this great metropolis is making
point to the fact that hotel accommodation must be
largely increased. A palace hotel, with 4000r500 rooms,
is wbat Sydney requires. The city ought at least to be
equal in this respect to the cities of the United States—
cities which h&ve but half her stability and half her
prospects.
In the loss of the s.s. Eanelagh, the A.S.N.
Company, and in fact all local oompanies, may see the
necessity for allowing their orews a little more rest.
It is now the practice to start steamers away a few
hours after arrival, and carefully avoid giving men a
Sunday in port. The Melbourne Eveuino Mail in a
recent issue says.—“ There was much rejoicing at the
grospeot on board the City of Adelaide, of having a
anday in Sydney, but, in consequence of delay in reach-
ing Melbourne, she was despatched on Friday, and
gloom came over all hands.”
The Adelaide Reformatory girls have just had
one of tbeir periodical festivals. They barricaded the
kitchen of the establishment, and started to break np
all the furniture they could destroy. They are now
happy with two months’ imprisonment in gaol. These
girls, who appear closely to resemble their sisters of
the old Newcastle Reformatory, tire at intervals of
their monotonous confinement, and start an open re-
bellion in order that they may be sent to prison. In
gaol they enjoy the stirring conversation and lively
company of vice-soaked hags, and are pointed onward
to alluring goals of depravity.
A Working Men’s College is being established
in Melbourne. Mr. Ormond, with his usual generosity,
has given £15,000 towards the scheme, £lO,OOO to be
devoted to a fund for maintenance and repairs. The
college is to be a separate building, and to possess a
coffee room and theatre for woiking men. The trustees
of the Melbourne Public Library are willing to give
the necessary land free, and intend applying to Par-
liament for an endowment; they will also organise
classes and supply the library and museum. The
Trades' Hall committee will be represented in the
Government of the new college.
Marie Laye, the Frenchwoman wuo Paltered out
the brains of her infant, has been condemned to death.
Deserted, helpless, despairing, having been “moved
on ’’ by the nocturnal “ bobby," mania impelled her to
kill the infant she loved in order to save him from the
troubles the world had dealt to her. The woman had
no money and no friends, the Judge assigned her a bar-
rister: but counsel, taking np his brief at the trial it-
self, had no time to collect evidence leading np to
proofs of insanity, which was undoubtedly the correct
line of defence. The accused woman showed no sign at
the trial. She said nothing, and rarely moved. Of
coarse, as they’re not going to hang John Plomer, a
sapient Ministry may take it into their heads to suspend
this mad Frenchwoman.
The Groongal Station, near Hay, Eiverina,
N.S.W., owned by the Messrs. Learmonth, includes
299,950 acres of freehold, and 50,000 acres of leasehold
land. Last season 203,000 sheep were shorn there j
next season the number will probably be about 215,000,
Last year 57,067 surplus (including stud) sheep were
sold, to the value of £11,500; also 1030 fat cattle and
33 herses. Over 2500 bales of wool were shipped to
England. Groongal has a valuation of about £750,030,
and pays £75,000 per annum to its proprietors. The
Bunabogie Station, also in Riverina, and which was
recently sold for £llO,OOO, yields an ineome of £50,000
per annum. Yet English capitalists would most likely
prefer to invest tbeir spare cash in Bnssian er Egyptian
bonds than in Australian pasture lands.
The “ Man-Basher ” is a London animal. Many
have never heard of him, but that he exists is terribly
true. Tbe crime known as “ unprovoked assaults ’ has
enormously increased of late. Victims are picked up,
bruised, bleeding, and insensible from attacks by
strangers, and in every case the utter absence of motive
for such attack has shrouded the affair in mystery.
Now, people are beginning to understand—the aggressor
has been a man-basher. Tbe bravo’s steel is out of
date; the basher is hired instead. If one man wants
to wreak hatred on another, and dare not do it himself,
he pays to get it done. In certain low pot-shops in the
slums of London, patronised by that class of society
known as “ the fancy," are men of herculean build,
scarred, distorted feature?, and enormous strength.
It is only necessary to tell them who is to be “ bashed,"
give time and place, and the price can soon be settled.
An ill-looking scoundrel, broad-shouldered and power-
ful, steps out from the broken-nosed brigade, and laying
on the beer-slopped counter a huge fist, says with a
leer, “ Them’s the tools I work with, and they do their
work proper. How much P Ah! that’s business.
Well, it’s like this. If you take me straight there, to a
good spot, and say : He'll pass this way atwixt this and
12 o’clock. I’ll say done, for three half-crowns ; and
mind yer, it’ll be done to rights But if there's to be
uncertainty, and follerin’, and waitin' about before it
can be done safe, tbe charge’ll be five bob a day, and
half-a-sov, for the finishing.” To prevent any mis-
understanding, the professional basher is asked does
that mean knocking down only, or what ? “It means
what you like —it don’t make no odds to me, once I set
about him." And, looking into the brutal, bulldog face
of the hulking man-basher, it is easy to believe him.
Our Cartoon.
Payment of members in N.S. Wales might as
well be reduced to recognized and legalized limits.
There is too much Milburn Creek business on, as
matters stand ; and, although some, like the stout
party scuttling off with .£30,000, merely make a
scoop for the supposed wants of their constituents,
and would acorn to put money into their own
pockets, facts which leak out from time to time
indicate that there are others not so scrupulous.
Touting for commissi oners’ fees still continues
in the porch of the Insolvency Court. A revision of the
list is necessary.
Loyal subjects desirous of doing houor to Her
Majesty’s birthday, should not forger to call at Messrs.
Meyers and Solomon's, and inspect their splendid
assortment of fireworks, the best and largest selection
ever imported in the colonies, at extremely low rates.


SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
See the Medals, Cups, and Trophies
at the
SYDNEY ABOA D B.
SINGERS SEWING MACHINES
ABB MADE ONLY BT
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head Office*:
84 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 FOSTEE LANE, LONDON.
Depst for New South Wales
No. 1 DARLING STGEES, HAEBODE STREET,
STDKET.
S
I
N
G
E
R
SINQEE’S SEWING MACHINES
HAVE
All the Latest Improvements.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Largest Variety of Work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Strength and Beauty of Stitch.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, and Quilting.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Plaiting, Binding, and Frilling.
SINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Kilting, Cording, and Buffling.
S
I
N
G
E
R
160 FIRST PRIZES.
EAST TEEMS—2«. 6d. WEEKLY.
AGENTS IN. EVERY TOWN.
OfficeB in Sydney :
THE SYDNEY AECADE; and No. 1 DAELING
STOEES, HAEBOUE STREET.
LOCAL DEPOTS
BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N., QOULBUEN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWOETH.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
NAEANDERA. PARRAMATTA.
227 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY AECADE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
S
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ABE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s, 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no intebest charged.
10 per cent, off for oash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER”—
TURNER A COMPANY,
353 George-etreot.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
TURNER A COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
O ..
a
O
HOME COMPANION ,
HOME SHUTTLE, j
New Davis. /
HOWE, / r
4c., 4c. / N
5
The
v*
o
Light
<o
Running
*
T
V
O
'b
Cr
V
A
STANDARD.
2s. 6d.
per week.
Needles, Oils,
end parts for all
Machines.
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath is the only method
by which every muscle, nerve, and bane, can be affected
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, Ac., and rids the
system of all impurities; even mercury is taken out of
the bedy.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. M O O E E.
Homosopathist,
154 Elizabeth, street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore's Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Household Remedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a hum or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
certificates of merit from the mansgers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-burns, corns, bunions, and baa a
curative effect on lung complaints, when rubbed into
the chest. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There should be a pot kept in every house, oven if
the house is empty, it willdo for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pots, Is. and 2a. 6d.
each.
gMITH AND YKALE
PROPERTY SALESMEN, LAND and ESTATE
AGENTS,
69 KING-STREET, SYDNEY.
Properties placed in our hands for positive sale, we
advertise free.
Public Companies
|IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £600,000, with power to increase to
£l,(w0,000. Reserve Fond, £lBO,OOO.
Dibectom s
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; 'William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
General Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOBGB STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Redfem,
Glebe, Boxwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Queu-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillaton, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Melong,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkee, Raymond Terraee, Rockley, Kylstone, Single -
ton. South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfleld, Ulniano,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, \Vcst
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodhurn, Tass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Bavenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoembo,
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents In all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
TTHB MERCANTILE BANK OP BYD NIC L.
X ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARLIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital... £300.000
Reserve Fund. £116,884
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wa, Bushy, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip GicUey King, M.L.C,
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER :
P. A. A. WUson,
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
„ BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield Hill Redfern •
Girilambone; Gostord.
LONDON BANKERS :
National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office: 15S Loadenhall-street.
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
The
This bulk transacts all usual Banking and Financii
Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool an
other produce shipped to England for sale.
J.
GRAHAM NIXON
IMPORTER AND GENERAL AGENT, ’
17 BRIDGE STREET.
Chief Agent for
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSUBANC COMPANY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBATED GLENLIYET
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBRATED OLD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
AITCHISON'S PALE ALE.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
269 GEORGE STREET,
Beg to announce that they have
JUST RECEIVED
a Large Consignment of
MINTON’S
ENCAUSTIC TILES,
for
FLOORS and HALLS.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Castes de Visite, 7s. 6d. pee Dozes.
CHARLES TWEMLOW desires to inform hi B
friends and the public that he has opened those
centrally-situated Premises, next to the George-street
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, with an entirely new
and specially selected stock of Jewellery, Watches,
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical Goods, and respect-
fully invites an early visit, which will prove that the
goods, which are all marked in plain figures, are strictly
moderate in price and of the best quality.
An experienced staff of workmen on the premises.
Presentation and other jewellery made to order.
Watches accurately repaired, and charges
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silversmith, George-street.
Chemists and Druggists
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVE® EEMEDY,
absut
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomaeb.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
J.
Invented and Prepared only by
S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 QEOEQE STEEET, SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Liuotus, you will net be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177 PitUtreet next to
Punch’s Hotel.
miCKLE TOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
_S_ trahan Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
OF GOOD PURE TEA
Wo beg to draw your
PAETICULAE ATTENTION
to the
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’S
PACKET TEAS,
Paeked in pounds and half-pounds i
ASIATIC MIXTUEE,
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA,
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. and 2s. 6d. per lb.
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
2fl. 6d. and Ss. per lb.
2a. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 PITT STEEET (next School of Arts),
SYDNEY.
OHN RUSSELL,
182 PITT STEEET,
from
D. JONES & CO.,
Eospcotfully invites an inspection of his stock of
CAEPETS,
FLOOE CLOTH,
BEDSTEADS,
BEDDING, *o.
All of the best quality, and selected from the MOST
RELIABLE MANUFACTUEEEB.
Furniture re-covered and carpets re-laid at moderate
charges.
George lane
(Formerly of George-street,)
IMPORUEB OF
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Begs to announce that he baa EE-COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will be sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
J.EVB . TOBACCONIST .149
F EVE
'"'iiiiiiMiwr "fas
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STEEET.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c., and
taken internally cures DIARRHOEA, DYSENTERY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
and pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor,
MELBOURNE -A. INTI) SYDNEY.
PAINT
Business Announcements
Lum-c=
\W
CK£h
BSSKAu
m
27STEA
DDI
NU
CTORY
STEAM BEDDING FACTORY,
and
FURNITURE WARE HOUSE.
Houses furnished for £l4, £l9, £25,:£30, £5O, and £ICO
T. WEIGHT, 529 Gcorge-strect, Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
T EQAL-Mr. T. M. SLATTEET,
■*"" SOLICITOE, has eonunenoed the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the EVHTIHO
News Office.
READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
MANUFACTURED BY US AND KNOWN
AS DOCTOR -
WAUGHS
HAS A WIDE REPUTATION fop(
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
AND THE CHEMICAL JUDGES OFTHE
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST AMD
BEST INTHK WORli
by AWARDING TO Us the
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECTION
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
OR SQUARE i IN S
M ANUFAGTORY QUE EN P P LACE
WILLIAM SY DAVIES &, coy.
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and £
wringer, £4 lOg
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wautot
Wood,
ko., &o>, &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
F.T. WIMBLE &Co^
STEREOTYPE.
-AND-
Foundry
Ako
PRINTERS’
WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St,
STiDiisriEnr.
at 70 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER k IRONFOUNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCI
FIEE GIRDERS,
AH£> STOVES,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF OVEN3 >
safes deed
AND boxes.
Works s SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 22Q PITT STREET.


w. HOWARD SMITH AND SONS,
STEUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHAEF
(Foot of King-street).
Offices ; 7 SPKING STEEET.
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FEIDAT at 12 o'clock.
Steam to BEISBANE,
MAEYBOEOUGH,
and
EOCK HAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATUBDAY",
All particulars, apply
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
Spring-street.
O E 1 K N 1 line
SYDNEY at ”n
BONBON- ar^ n the undermentioned dates, for
and fortnightly thereafter.
SALOON PA3SENGEES allowed to break their
journey.
OKJCHNT PARCELS BXPEESS:-2s. 6d, per foot,
or od. per lb.
FROM LONDON can be granted in
IN LONDONF. GREEN and CO .
Avennf E^f S 0W * ANDEKSON «od CO., Fenohurdh
PASSAGE MONEY. 15 to 70 guineas. Full pax-
ttculars on application to v
Q. S. YUILL,
267 George-stroet. Qeneral in Australia.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET,
IMPOETEES
i ° f
PIANOS,
by every maker of
renown, from £25
and upwards.
AMEEICAN OEGANS IN GEEAT VAEIETY.
The Latest, most Popular Music In Stock,
J. MASSEY AND SON,
10 PABK STEEET, SYDNEY.
CASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALE!
AND SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
Claret ...
Hermitage
Shiraz ...
Burgundy
BED.
per doz.
. 10s Od
. 11s Od
. 11s Od
. 13s 6d
a ._ , per d<
Sweet Shiraz ... ifa
J* T : Fallon'aPort 27a
Adelaide Part ... SOs i
Eeisling...
Hook ...
Madeira „„ w
Bouffler’s Pineau.. 16a Od
WHITE.
10s Od I Brown Muscat ... 18«
fill Tokay ... 30s
ifi oh Tokay * vmta d« 73 80s
FOEEIQN WINES.
Geod Port ...248 to 48s Od I Good Sherry 24s to 54s Or
Champagne from... 60s Od | PrenohClaroth-om AOc
Hennessy’s * Casa
Brandy
Hennessy's •••
Cose Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Vaughan Jones’
U squebaugh
Scotch Whisky
Impend * Scotch
Whisly
SPIEITS.
SOs Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
43s Od
42s Od
38s 6d
40s Od
Imperial •• Scotch
, ditto lag n,
Imperial •••Scotch
Whisky (ll aa*, iv
Burke’s ••• Irish
Whisky 4/v-
Bum, Bed Heart.. 4g a (k
Brandy in
Cases of 2 doz... 52s 0t
Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
15 Bottles (med.
size) ... 43, gj
Wolfe's Schnapps 43s 0c
Bull Dog Ale, qts. lls 3d
Bull Dog Ale, pints 8a 3d
Boar's Head Stout,
„ quarts 10g 3d
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints 7 a 3d
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts 10a 9d
ALES AND STOUTS.
id Stout,
Aie,
Pig
pin
Boar'
qu
Boar's Head'Ale,
pints
Holies Hannover
Lager Bier, qts. lls g
ivaiser do. qts. 12s 6
. ■ —“i • uumu in vase. Bull Dos Ain r
4dozen m a cask j pints, 8 dozen. Boar'l sto^'
7s 9d
10s Od
7s 9d
“V* 4*o. ±4O D
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale. ouart*
dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Boar's hLS
quarts, 4 dozen in W, pints. 7 doz" gfiS
4 dozen in case; pints, 7dozen. BW
Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts in case; 7 doz. pints
Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must bo for
cWg&° ne 80rt * ° themiae 6d ' P« r dozen ertr
Asample dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Win
ITamps. Pt ° f 1?S - by Post Order o
i-nti 1 delivered carriage free to any address h
town, or to the Wharves or Eedfem Railway Statinr
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash ®n giving order. * Slatlol
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE A SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney,
FOR SORE EYES.
nr ET WILDER’S MAGIC EYE-WATER, am
, ? 11 . I n «T«L «»? any other. For all St
Wil4 “ vsas oßtttiss? °
ELLIOTT BROS.. Rrisb^e
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A well-known N.Z. pressman, Mr. F. H. Digoy,
has had to be sent to tbo Christchurch Lunatic Asylum.
He was married, two or three years ago, to Mias
Solange Navaro, the actress
The reporter of the New York Tribune who
interviewed Park#s states that his manners are those of
a "pronounced Englishman.'* Pronounced Hinglish-
man would have been more accurate.
It has been stated —with what truth we cannot
say that the real reason for the absence of that
eminent journalist, Mr. Archibald Forbes, from the
Zig-zag picnic was that he’d heard Sir James Martin
was to be present.
The “ Bonnie Native Bine ” is well represented
on the public bodies of Charters Towers. Five out of
nine members of the Divisional Board, the Mayor, and
one other alderman, the president of the Liberal Asso-
ciation, and the president of the Miners' Association,
are natives.
On the information of little Morgan, the solicitor,
the valiant Tbadens O'Kane, of the Northern Miner,
has been bound over to bo of good behaviour for twelve
months. What a pity it is that there is in N.B.W. ne
means of binding over a newspaper to be of good
behaviour that is, of good behaviour iu the opinion of
al who wish to squelch it.
Though it has been stated that Henniker
Heaton will shortly return to the colony—the whieh
may Heaven forfend!—it is a fact that he not long
since told a Queensland gentleman iu London that it
was his intention to buy an estate in the old country,
and “ turn an English country gentleman." We should
say that Henniker would be more likely to turn an
English country gentleman's stomach.
Mr. Thos. King, ex-Minister of Education tor
South Australia, and the chief proprietor of the S.A.
Advertiser, has just been married to Miss Ella Ken-
nedy, a pianiste of note, and a charming and pretty
young lady. Mr. and Mrs. King were staying at
Pfhalert’s Hotel last week, bnt have now lefc Sydney.
Mr. King was a widower. The 'Tiser is whipping the
S.A. Register, hands down, in point of circulation,
and has challenged Thomas & Go. to deny it.
M. Chevreul, tho well-known Paris savant,
aged 93 years, was recently entertained at a dinner by
fifty-nine hosts, whose ages averaged 70 years. M.
Dumas, the eminent chemist, aged 82 years, took the
chair. The brandy served with the coffee was manu-
factured in the year M. Chevreul was born (1783), and
Chateau Margaux of 1811 formed the dessert liqueur.
M. Chevreul, however, did not partake of these luxu.
ries—he has never tasted wine or spirits in his life.
M'Lean, the madman, who tried to shoot tho
Queen, is a son of the first proprietor of Fun. The
elder M'Lean was the proprietor of a large leoking-
?:lass business adjoining the old Fun premises, and
ailed in business. There is a tradition that F. C.
Burnand, the present editor of Punch, once chased
him round the shop with an umbrella in consequence
of a little dispute on literary matters. That was in the
days when Tom Robertson, Arthur Sketchley, W. 8.
Gilbert. H. J. Byron, Tom Hood, and F. C. B. were on
the staff of M Lean's new venture. Fun has been a fine
nursing mother to her literary babies. They’ve all got
on.
When the Prince Imperial’s party had fixed
their camping place, and were having a short rest.
Captain Carey suggested they should return to the
squad. Yonug Nipoleoa said, "Let us wait ten
minutes.” That tan minutes saw him dead, with nine-
teen Zulu assegai wounds in his body Pleading for
ten minutes d«lay was a habit of his life. It was, said
his mother, always ten minutes more to sleep in the
morning, ten minutes before starting on a journey, ten
minutes for everything so much so, that we threatened
to call him Monsieur Dx Minutes. The Empress has a
leaf from the Prince’s pocket-book, on which is written
“ Going with Carey”—the last words he ever wrote.
Mr. William Morgan, ex-Premier of South Aus-
tralia, has been allowed at last by Her Majesty to retdin
the title of " Honorable ” within the eolony. Why the
title was not given before has been for a long time a
source of gossip to Adelaidean tittle-tattlcrs. Rumour
had it that His Excellency Sir W. F. D. Jervois and
Billy Morgan had had a row about it—which way, it was
impossible to arrive at. Some said that Morgan wanted
the title, and His Excellency refused to recommend it;
others that the title came out, and Morgan as Premier
declined to Gazette it, because somebody had threat-
ened But the Libel Act intervenes right here. How-
ever, he is the Hon. W.M. now, and don’t you forget it.
Mr. J. G. Francis, M.P., the leader of part of
the Conservative section of the Victorian Assembly,
has once more given signs of failing health. He ro?e
to speak upon the want-of-confldence motion, but found
himself unable to address the House. His medical
adviser has ordered him absolute rest. It will be re-
membered that four or five years ago Mr. Francis had
retired from public life on account of ill health—abscess
of the lung—but Berry’s Black Wednesday freaks
galvanised him back to the storms of politic!. He was
persuaded to content West Melbourne, but was beaten
by the O'Loghlen, and afterwards was returned for
Warrnambool, when that nice individual, Mr. M. T.
Montgomery was “induced”—to retire from the con-
test.
The N.S.W. Highland Society banqueted
Archibald Forbes at Comoagnoni’s rooms, on Friday
evening last. The hon. Bir John Hay, M L.C., w o
presided, said he remembered Forbes’ father in the
Moray (Scotland) Presbyterian Assembly, that gentle-
man having once been Moderator of that body. Archi-
bald Forbes prided himself upon being a Scotchman,
saying that his countrymen were famous for taking
unto themselves the daughters of tho Amalokites, and
hinting that they wouldn't sneeze at Moabitish women.
Speaking of Scotchmen always coming to the head of
affairs in all parts of the globe, he saw no reason why,
hy-and-bye, tho whole population of the globe should
not be Scotch Forbes evidently doesn't believe in
“ in-and-in breeding,” and would make a bad squatter.
There’s a solicitors’ row on in Melbourne. That
rising attorney, Mr. J. G. Duffv, son of Sir Charles
Qavan Daffy, acted for Mr. C. F. M'Evoy, the squatter,
in his recent divorce proceedings against the barmaid
he married in a drunken fit of aberration, and whom he
is said to have at last diddled out of a promised £IOO.
M'Evoy has applied to the Chief Justice of Victoria
for an order directing Duffy to furnish a bill of costs.
He states that he gave Daffy £2OOO, which the latter
has not in any way accounted for. On the other hand.
Daffy says he never received any such sums, and has
galled two witnesses to prove that he aid furnish
M'Evoy with a bill of costs. The public are aching to
get at the mystery. Has M'Evoy "had ’em again f”
Or has J. Q. D. inherited more from the old man than
bis squeaky voice ?
Boss Syme means, it is said, to made the Ada
lA to an eight-page penny paper shortly, and to com-
plotely take out of the onoa brilliant (and now two-
penny) Argus the little shine now remaining in that
journal. The Age trades on its huge circulation, and
justly so. Like The Bulletin, it affords every facility
to advertisers who wish to personally satisfy themselves
as to the number printed. The Melbourne papers, with
tho exception of the Age, do not adopt this line, for a
very sufficient reason. Tne Age now states, and defies
contradiction, that its daily output is more than three
times that of the other morning dailies put together. A
well-known newspaper proprietor from another colony
recently informed us that the annual profits of the Age
backed up by the Leader, which has two or three times
the circulation of any other Melbourne weekly, almost
those of the S M. Herald.
Tho "Jjordjy” who for twenty.si*
years has alternately di dated to, and h-’en snubbed by,
the Malbonrue City Council, the other day resigned his
£9OO a year, but has since agreed to remain for auo her
half year in the town-olerkuhip of tha Southern
Babylon. The reasons aie said to involve matter! of
high principle Pitz. was (properly enough, it will
eventually be found) obstinate on the point that no
"monopoly of the etree's” should be granted to tram-
way companies—iu fact, that no company should be
permitted to lay down a line on the Corporation’s
thoroughfares. Ba it undsrstood that Pitz. himself
was never seen riding in a more plebeian vehicle than
ft hansom, a waggonette, a fony-iq-haud drag, op a
private buggy. Because Fits, could afford it, for in
addition to enjoying the aforesaid official sorew, he Is,
through a fortunate marriage, privately well off.
Old William Fergusson, one of the earliest
farmers in South Australia, used to remark that the
present Chief Justice Way was perhaps his very best
cow-boy, having evidently special aptitude for the work.
So good a bovinist, indeed, young Way proved, that
Fergnsson did what he seldom ventured on—recom-
mended the promising youth to a friend further away
from Adelaide. It is always a pleasant duty to direct
attention to the efforts of genius which jhavQ overcome
“jThoso twin gaolers of the daring heart.
Low birth and iron fortune.”
It may bo doubted whether any other person in the
colony has risen' from such a low position to such a
height. The Hon. Alexander Hay, it ia true, was
similarly, if unsavourily, employed; but ho, although
owning a mansion which overlooks the Southern Ocean
Port Victor, never attained anything beyond the
influence which successful land-speculation conveys.
The Furneaux-Clinton fraud ia almost un-
paralleled, and there are many people now who do not
believe that Lord Arthur Pelham Clinton is really dead.
At the time of the scandals associated with his name,
a . war rant was issued for his apprehension. He fled to a
little inn in Hampshire, thence to Christobnroh, where
he caught scarlet fever. Frightened at approaching
death, he telegraphed to the family solicitor to coma
dewn, but in a few hours he died, and was immediately
soldered in his coffin, the disease being very infections.
No one doubted who the deceased was until the bold
assumption of his personality by Miss Mary Jane Pur-
neanz drew attention to the possibility of his having
really feigned death to get clear of his troubles. This
woman has been sentenced to seven years' imprison,
nent. for her remarkable frauds, aggregating to about
£10,000. Amongst the names she forged were those of
the Queen, Prince of Wales, and Lord Chief Justice
Coleridge.
One day, one of the masters at Eton saw a boy
scribbling his name on a nice olean wall. After giving
a severe lecture on the enormity of such a crime, he
added, with pedantic humour, “ You have written your
name on the wall, sir I It is the only way it will ever
reach posterity." The don was wrong. For the
naughty boy is now known as Mr. Montagu Williams,
one of the first Esgliah barristers of the day. Edu-
cated where he wrote his name on the wall, he was suc-
cessively a private tutor, an officer in the army, a
dramatist, a writer in one of the earliest "society"
papers (the mauve-covered Drawing Room), and late in
life he commenced to study the law. He is in the front
rank of criminal pleaders, having defended with pro-
found ability, among others, Mrs. Torpey, the Scotland
Yard dete dives, Lefroy, Catherine Wilson, and Dr.
Lamson. His address to the jury in the last case was
a combination of all the arts of rhetoric and the power
of impassioned eloquence. With marked emphasis
and energy he dilateu on all the weak points ef evidence,
and with consummate skill twisted the direct ones;
then as a last device appealed in tones of such solemnity
and pathos as to bring several of the juryman to tears,
as he painted the woes of the wife, and the terrible
inheritance of shame that would be entailed on the
child should a verdict of guilty be returned. But no
sloqnence could outbalance the evidence in Lamaon's
case, and ssntenoe of death was passed, as the prisoner
stood white and trembling, and almost unconscious in
the dock. In mest oases, however, Montagu Williams
has been singularly successful in procuring acquittals,
having restored many atrocious scoundrels to the bosom
of society. Mr. Williams’ practice is making him
rapidly wealthy; and his skill, famous. He is earning
a distinction (which, strange to say, the world calls
honourable) by securing verdicts that pervert justice;
and he grows rich by saving criminals from the fate
they deserve.
Sir George Bowen’s father was a rector in bleak
Donegal, his mother a pocket Venus, and a London-
derry belle, and their son has the North of Ireland
grit. He is a man who could not help getting on in
the world; Incky. The two qualities which have best
served him are self-reliance, and docility in bending to
hard facts; but he has much high spirit and native
energy. He always felt there was a good deal in him-
self, and so there is. Without truckling, he discreetly
kept in the path of men whose patronage might be use-
ful ; from his youth he understood tne shibboleth of
the governing class, and the freemasonry of the Upper
Ten. At Oxford, he was no duffer, either musoilarly
or mentally, aud woa a classical first. He became the
centre of a knot of fellows who were destined to get on,
or were sons of eminent fathers. He took to law ; was
admitted to Lincoln’s Inn, being fine-looking, well-
introduced, and polished, was much sought lor in
society, and earned £1500 a year as a coach. When 26,
Sir Qeorge went to Corfu, as Provost of its Ministry.
Murray the great "Guide" man, got him to write a
book ou Greece for tourists, which resulted in great
advantiges. After four years, be grew tired ot the
lonely island and went to England; but a string held
him and drew him back to the East. In short, he
again departed for the Ionian Isles, in an official posi-
tion, and married the only daughter of a magnate of
Venetian descent Her name was Roma. Then he
came to Queensland as Governor-General. He had to
nnlearn a good deal. Though a man of sense, he had
imbibed the notion that human beings who are not well
"placed" in society are ot no account ia the world.
He had to give up that idea in Queensland, and learn
to value worth with a rough exterior. In Victoria,
afterwards, his manly and scholarly qualities won
esteem He now represents the Queen at Mauritius.
Thus Truth, which evidently doesn't know Sir George.
We have received an American Magazine con-
taining two of Oscar Wilde’s latest poems, which
Osoir calls " Impressions." They are full of peculiar
conceits, but graven with a burin ot gold for all
that—
LE JAEDIN.
The lily’s withered chalice falls
Around its rod of dusty gold,
Aud from the beech-trees on the wold
The last wood-pigeon coos and calls.
The gaudy, leonine sunflower
Hangs black and barren on its stalk.
And from the windy garden-walk
The dead leaves scatter—hour by hour.
Pale privet-petals white as milk
Are blown into a snowy mass;
The roses lie npon the grass.
Like little shreds of crimson silk.
LA MEB.
A white mist drifts across the shrouds,
A wild moon in an angry sky
Gleams, like an angry lion’s eye.
Out of a mane of tawny clouds.
The muffledisteersman at the wheel
Is but a shadow in the gloom
And in the throbbing engine-room
Leap the long rods of polished steel.
The shattered storm has left its trace
Upon this huge and heaving dome.
For the thin threads ef yellow feam
Float on the wares like ravelled lace.
A contributor looking over our shoulder has
offered to do better. Here is his effort" My lines are
graven with a buryin ef bone."
The way in which English newspapers can speak
out honestly, and for the public good, auout the private
lives of those in high places, when private life be-
comes a public disgrace, reminds us that The Bulletin
is published ia New South Wale*). In a recent number
ef the London World, we find a peer of England
spoken of in terms that certainly no newspaper here
could safely adopt, and probably few writers in New
South Wales (with the exception of a journalist of
olden times, a Hr. Martin) have ever dared to «se.
Slightly condensing the language, we find it stated
that Lord Lonsdale was the head of a great feudal
house, his ancestors haring had unrivalled influence,
but he deliberately elected to trample the purple under
his feet, and to besmirch his name and his family with
the mire of worthless associations and coarse practices.
He effaced, as far as he could, his station from the
chronicle of nobility. Boy though he was, his exist-
ence was as much a tragedy as the play of Zola’s which
sent a thrill of horror and disgust through London,
f?n«.f eW mu 60ple oaH . resrret; that the curtain has now
fallen. The eccentricity of his forefathers degenerated
vices. Personal peculiarity
j nb i ldle ?,“^ nl ? e . noe s love of power, a wanton
disregard of public opinion and decency: and so on.
rrln; “® w t^'. e World speaks; and probably every
wMT^ ant ml W l J. En * land - except those to whom the
km!i *5 un P alatal) le, and any judge in the land, would
wit. tb u language thoroughly justified. Again, the
world has something to say about a man who is not
yet even dead—a living peer. The Duke of Hamilton,
a representative of six earldoms, four dukedoms, and a
lineage re traces from Wallace himself, has decided to
disperse the art treasures of his great mansion, and his
library, by auction. The beautiful pictures, oabinets,
ana works of art are to be exiled from the superb home
Which has known them so long, knocked down to the
highest bidder, because their owner wants more cash
to squander. It is not an honourable, or a creditable
step to take. The Duke comes of a wild stock; hut
there was about the follies of his ancestors a certain
air of courtliness and breeding unknown to him. Only
a very lively, as well as a very conventionally -respect-
ful imagination could ever discover, in his present
“race of Hamilton, am ideal Duke. He was, at
eighteen, devoted to rat-killing, dog-flghting, badger,
baiting, and worse things; and he persistently advanced
along the road to ruin in the most cheerful of tempers.
A seed-time of wild oats, extended too long, develops a
harvest of disaster and shame: and so on. This is
how an English newspaper writes of a living peer of
the realm, and though perhaps the paper might be
unable to legally substantiate all its allegations, such
writing no one dreams of regarding as either illegitim-
ate or uncalled-for. But the supreme tribunals of
England have not yet promulgated the theory that
newspapers owe no duty to the public.
Onida, having heard that someone was about to
dramatise her last novel, “ Moths." wrote an indignant
letter to the Times, complaining that her story of
modern society was “to be dragged on the stage, out
and dipt, travestied and dressed up in vulgar and ill-
fitting clothes." Vanity Fair gets great fun out of
Ouida s proclamation of alarm ‘‘When,*’ says the
writer, “we had finished reading • Mothe ’ it never
entered oar minds that anyone would ever try to
Tulgarisa the book. Bat it. seems a seer has found out
how ‘ Moths' can be made more vulgar, and he Is
going to enlighten the public. We will receive a
terrible shock when he has finished bis task, if, as
Omda fears, he 1 dwarfs and degrades ’ ‘Moths.’ We
havt retd in a novel of a gentleman slily watching a
lady bathing, and the taste of such a thing seemed to
ns doubtful. In another novel, of trees growing in a
University quad; in another, that University oarsmen,
when getting pace on, bob their oars up and down
perpendicularly; in another, we leom that excited
ladies of fashion extract fleas from their virtuous
bosoms, drown the animals in ruby wine, and make
lovelorn admirers consume the wine and the insects.
These things seemed to ns like blunders; and the
novels were all written by the artist known as Oulda.
If any dramatist can produce worse blunders or worse
taste, he must be a superior person. Ooida vows that
if the process of dwarfing or degrading (or, in other
words, dramatising ‘ Moths ’) goes on, men and women
of genius will write no more 1 The modesty of the
announcement is touching. Life without Ouidal
Whither will the erotic school-girl go for solace ? In
what other learned novels can the fair virgin find
Majors of such magnitude and ferocity, or artistes of
such morbid purity and sensuality ? When Ouida
retires into the Infinite, the highest cravings of man
and womankind must rest unsatisfied. Bestowing ono
mors mournful glance on her letter, we find that she
wishes dramatic adapters would steal ‘ my roses, or
my grapes, or my horses’ oats, or my cook’s hatter ie da
cuisine,’ rather than ‘my Haas and my creations.’
Studying this sentence accurately, we find that Ouida
is the owner of oats and grapes, and horses, and
a cook, and a haiterie de cuisine and roses, and
other objects of interest, and all these gifts of
Nature have been gained by the sale of infer-
matioH concerning Majors, and fleas, and lewd conrte-
sans, and original gamblers, r.nd yearning maidens.
Ouida has gained everything that tho world can give.
On her own showing she is read by the pensive Calmnck
in his sheepskin tent; the Chippeway assists digestion
by perusing *• Chandos" after he has partaken of baked
dog; the wild Bechuanas have “ Strathmore’’ read to
them (by a medicine-manj while they dine manfully on
deceased foes. We gather the facts from Ouida’s
declaration that “ my books are read by human beings
all over the world.” Considering this fame, considering
that the pious squaw and the British virgin derive equal
delight from tha creations of our gifted being’s brain,
we cannot let her fade, we oannot let this lady, who
describes herself with such simple modesty as a
‘ woman of genius,* leave the world in darkness and
despair. Don’t go, Ouida!”
A certain ex-M.P. is said to be a candidate for
the position of gatekeeper on one of the Government
railways The leader of London Society is the Prince
of Wales, and he leads oB because he thinks it a daty
of high social importance to do so. It a particular
leature is to ho given, a charity helped, fair opened, or
foundation-stone laid, H.B.H. attends personally. His
patronage means his presence. He and Lord Augustus
dißer Mrs. Winter, wile of Mr. S. V. Winter, of the
Melbourne Hkbald, is dead Another Irish member
recently said to Mr. Biggar, M.P., who is a pig-jobber:
—“ Biggar, yon may be a gentleman among pigs, but
you are certainly a pig among gentlemenwhereupon
Mr. Biggar replied, “I never professed to be a gentle-
man." An Auckland (N.ZI paper is "assured by a
gentleman who lately returned, from Bngland that Sir
Julius Vogel is regarded by the colonists in London,
and by a few Conservatives, as the coming leader of the
party, who think the mantle of Lord Beaconsfleld has
descended upon our late Agent-General." Kerris-
tophert Amongst the manuscripts left by the late
Sir Bedmond Barry to the Boyal Society of Victoria
are some valuable historical documents relating to the
early settlement of Port Phillip, including a complete
copy of Oellibrand's journal. The Boyal Society con-
templates publishing these MSS Dr. Brownleee to
be appointed Chancellor of the Melbourne University;
Hon. B. S. Andersen Vice-Chancellor Mr. Norman
B. M'Lcod, a well-known stock and station agent, has
just died at Ballarat, aged6s years. He arrived in Tas-
mania when only Syears of age. In 1838 he was a large
squatter in N. 8. Wales, and subsequently ha held big
stations in Qippaland, V. He had been in his Ballarat
business since 1857.
There ia no public hangman in America—the
I gaol officials perform the duties.
The elephant which the Prince ef Wales pre-
I seated to the Irish Zoological Gardens has died of a
I broken heart. Its first keeper taught it to pick pockets
and hand over to him the proceeds. He was found out
I and “ sacked,” but the elephant never took to anyone
else and gradually pined away.
The Wallaroo F.C. have a splendid list of en-
I gagements lor the coming season, including, besides
matches with the principal metropolitan clubs, tussles
with Bathurst, Newcastle, Campbelltown ani Liverpool.
I The club sports for wuich an attractive programme
will be issued, eventuate on 29 h July.
This season, when eggs are three shillings a dozen,
I is the time when the thrifty Sydney housewife is never
I tired of inveighing against the excessive cost of every
item of housekeeping; but what a seraphic smile
I puckers up her lovely face when the milliner brings
round that last new “duck of a bonnet," and her old
man fumbles around all his vests to see where his
obaooo money is to [come from.
LB BACKYARD.
The dirt-pan pains my poorish sight.
The goats go gladly in to see
What wond’rous eabb&ge leaf there be,
Or turnip parings winking white.
The clothes-prop forces up with fork
Some shining shirts all whity-wove,
As snow-white plumage of plump dore.
Or loafer’s face, when offered work.
Nesr neighbour’s blue-black dog crawls rounds
The fearful hen her eggs bewails
Too late: —for Bory o’er the rails
Has leapt like lion at a bound 1
AN ACROSTIC.
C one up higher I cried the angels to the Science-King
of earth,
D own the airy void of space their summons came,
H ore we give thee recognition of thy labour-gloried
worth,
A nd a statue passing any earthly fame.
Ah 1 the time is scarcely past yet when the bigots down
below,
E ofused thy genius homage, and, forsooth,
E eligiously reviled thee, as Religion's foremost foe,
W hile thy giant soul was soaring into Truth I
L et praters nursa their bigotry—their bitterness, in
peace,
I n their little petty, paltry little spheres,
E nter thou the calm Valhalla whore all workers find
release—
N o longer banned—exalted now—and, prince *mid
noble peers,
Shall thy name be held in honour down the aions of the
years.
A F.
Sydney, May, 1882,


ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
THE NUMEROUS AND WELL STOCKED DEPARTMENTS of onr PALACE EMPORIUM,
contain almost Every Article Required, either by Lady or Gentleman, for Personal Adornmen
or Household Requisites, all under one roof; and are kept up by regular and constant shipments from
England and the European continent, where our Mr A. HORDERN is ever on the look out, deter-
mined to procure, at the Earliest Moment, any of the varied novelties in Styles and Materials con-
stantly being placed on the London, Paris, Berlin, and Continental Markets. Knowing this to be the
case, we say, with confidence, that no other Establishment in Australia can offer their patrons any-
thing like the advantages to be derived in purchasing at THE PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET
(only), where all goods are NE W. because of the quick turn over for CASH, whero all goods are of the
LATEST STY LKS, owing to tne constant supervision in buying, and close communication with the
BEST MANUFACTURERS, and where goods are from 80 to 40 per cent, cheaper than elsewhere, be-
cause of our OLD. and WELL-B6TABLL8HED GASH SYSTEM, in addition tm the above.
BARTLEMY FAIR
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY,
AND
FOLLOWING FORTNIGHT.
OLD EXHIBITION,!
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
A Real Revival of an
ENGLISH FAIR OF LAST CENTURY.
(For the Benefit of the Public, irrespective of Creed.
Four Distinct Entertainments Always Going.
ONE SHILLING ADMITTANCE
Clears everything, excepting
DRINKS.
Fairings at Fair Prices at the Farious Stalls.
RICHARDSON’S SHOW.
ALGER’S
“CROWN AND ANCHOR”
DANCING BOOTH.
THE ASHTON CIRCUS TROUPE,
KENNEDY AND MCAETHt.
MISS TREVANION.
ZABINGA, THE GIPSY
QUEEN OF BOHEMIA.
PROFESSOR BARKER.
SIGNOR BRAME,
THE GREAT WIRE ASCENSIONIST.
MISS MARIE LOUISE.
THE WEST BROTHERS.
PUNCHIAND JUDY.
WIRTH AND GOOSMAN.
AMAZONIAN BALLET.
EUGENE THE BENDER.
MERLIN THE ASTROLOGER
BECKFOED’S MARIONETTES.
THE TALKING HEAD.
All tftre above, cud a hundred others for
ONE SHILLING.
■O’Neil’s Merry-go-Eound, Swings, Cheap Jacks, Peep
Shows, Hobby Horses, Shooting Galleries, Puff Darts,
Aunt SUly, Mechanical Figures, and a thousand and*
one other attraction?.
PRIZES POE HORSE-COLLAR GRINNING, Ac.
GRAND OPENING CEREMONY, by King Henry
1., and Bahere, tho founders of the Fair, with
accompanying attendants, bends, Ac., ut
11 A.M. ON QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY.
Doors Open on that day at 10.
NO EXTRA CHARGE.
All other days open at 12 o’clock till 6, and’ from 7.30
till 11 p.m.
Will be the only real revival of an
ENGLISH FAIR
Yet attempted. No half-crown buttonholes, but every-
thing at popular prices.
Forty-three stalls. All the attendants in
Costumes.
Wines, Spirits, Melt Liquors,&o., of the best quality by
8. P. SCO WAN,
POST OFFICE CAFE
* Q'oorge-street.
BOTANY TEAMS TO THE DOOR, ’
LADIES HATS and BONNETS.—Latest Novelties
and Newest Styles, comprising hats in Flush,
Velvet, and Beaver. Hats and Bonnets in batin
and Plush, Chenille, Beal Sealskin, Imitation
Sealskin, Russian Seal, Ac. Ao.
MILLINERY.—Choicest and Best Selected Assortment
of French and English Millinery in the
Colonies. .Ladies Bonnets, trimmed Plush and
Feathers, from 15s 61, Ladies’ Bonnets, trim-
med Satin and Piush with tips, from 2ls. Also
a large variety of Children's trimmed Hats, from
5s Gd each.
FEATHERS, &c.—A Largo and Well-assorted Stock of
White 0.8. Plate, 2s lid to 30s. Coloured O.S,
Flats, 2s 6d to 25s. Shaded O.S. Flats 3s lid to
25s. Coloured O.S. Flumes, Hackle-Cogue
Ostrich Plumes, Jancer Ends. Aigrette Tufts,
Princess Tufts, Marabout, Coque Chenille,
Birds. &c , Ac.
ORNAMENTS, ic.-Silver, Steel, Gold, Jet, &o. Hat
and Bonnet Ornaments in great variety of the
latest novelties.
PARACHUTES, 4c.—Ladies’ Plack Satin Sunshades,
Trimmed Black Lace, Ladies Lustriue Sun.
shades, and Black Satin Sunshades, frilled,
Twill Silk and Levantine Parachutes.
MANTLES AND JACKETS.—Ladies’ Jackets, Man-
ties, &o., in unequalled variety, from 5s lid to
8 guineas'. Beautiful poods for stylo and quality
—creations of English, French, and German
artists. The beautiful Military Jacket, the
perfect Velvet Brocade Jacket, Silk Brocade
Paletots, Satin de Lyon Mantle, Merveilleux de
Soi Mantle, Rich Corded Silk Mantle.
.CHILDREN’S JACKETS.—In all sizes, materials, and
shapes.
COSTUMES.—The Leading Novelties, as worn in Lon-
don, Paris, and Berlin, in French Cord, Cash-
mere, Bective, Tweed, &o , Ac., trom 21s to 50s.
Also, a splendid stock of choice Costumes,
from li to 16 guineas.
SILKS AND DRESS GOODS.—A really Immense
Stock of these Goods, recently augmented by
large purchases effected during the late mone-
tary panic in France, and now offered to the
public at prices very much to the advantage of
purchasers. Cashmeres, Merinos, Ac., all the
new shades and colours ; Silks, Satins, Velvets'
Ac., in black and every shade of rich colour for
which the French are so noted,
VELVETEENS.—These goods have recently found
great favour with the Ladies of these colonies;
in fact, they recommend themselves for beauty,
style, and durability. About 1000 pieces in
stock to select from.
HOSIEET.—All the now goods and latest novelties in
materials and shades. ladies’ and Children’s
Cashmere Hose, in Navy, Prune, Seal, Marone,
Cardinal, Grenat, Louted, Brown, Ac. Ladies’
Merino, Gauze, and Silk Under Vests, in all
makes. White and Fancy Cotton Hose lor
Children, Girls, and Ladies.
RIBBONS.—The Largest and Most Varied Stock~f
Ribbons in Sydney, Plush, Satin, Moire, Vel-
vet, Terry, and every other novelty in Ribbons.
All the leading colours. Sash Ribbons, 5 to 9
inches wide, as above.
LACES.—Antique Laces, New Designs, in all widths.
Black Beaded Spanish Antique Laces, the only
firm in Sydney showiHgthebvautifultrimmings.
Florence Lace, 3 to 9 inches wide. The new
Bead Collarettes.
GLOVES.—The New Gants de Suede, all colours and
sizes. The Most Reliable Kid Glov<?. 2 buttons,
Is 9d, 4 buttons, 2s 61. Josephine Kid Gloves,
all sizes. Fabric Gloves—Thread, Taffeta, and
Cashmere. Plain and Fancy Lined. Children
and Ladies.
SPLENDID Assortment Ladies’ Wool Goods, Curtains,
Linen, Damask, Table Covers, Sheeting, Cre-
tonnes, Ac. Ac.
PLEASE CAREFULLY NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
m
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN'S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES .
A 2
A AA
AA AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
KEROSENE, 150° TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VEEY SUPEEIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OE SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Heins' refined and packed
expressly to thoir order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should he tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LAS8ETTER ANL CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PAINT FOR IRONWORK AND OTHER USB.
GALLEY’S TORBAY PAINT
(Extraordinary Covering and Preserving Qualities.)
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDSHE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD, AND WILL NEYEE
JSLISTEE CEACK, OE FLAKE OFF.
IT IS THE MOST DUEABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, EVEEYTHING CONSIDEEED
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEMPLE,
32 CLARENCE-STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AU8TEALIAN AGENTS FOE
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DEVON, ENGLAND.
< 'T -
Mark
Trade
If yon wart a really palatable pleasant cup of
tea, of acknowledged purity, strength, and excellence,
» . ■ :;r grocer for Thb Calcutta Tf.a Association's
Peek Indian Tea. Our only Wholesale Warehouse in
XJow oouoh Wales, is at 28 Charlotte Place.
no retail establisnment whatever, and employ no
hawkers. All the leading tea dealers and grocers m
town and country keep the teas, the packets having
•‘Calcutta Tea Association” on the labels in thrr«
different places. The teas of the Association are ao-
V now'cdged superior to any packet teas ever sold in the
Cronies.
“Sred
I nn will be paid for any »
I £ivU case tliat the Double
I Chloride of Gold Cure for )
DRUNKENNESS "
I -will not permanently cure.
•f* It is recommended by the
I leading Physicians. Hope*
A less cases invited. Send
1 stamp for book and testi-
[ inonials from people you
know.
—>s—« —°l|
LESLIE E. KEELEY, M.D.
S. FRESHMAN,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE,
359 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
LLAS
UMBR
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Be-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. Sullivan’s
511 Georpe-street,
Prickfleld-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
7/arasols made to match cos-
tnmes Repairs neatly executed
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergyme n.]
Two thirds of the lay synodical representatives
do not believe in prayer for rain, and four-fifths doubt
the existence of a Hell. It would L-einteresting to know
what re dly constitutes Christian belief uow-a-days.
Tne Presbyterian douhta the sincerity of
Archbishop Vaughan in the matter of the proposed
Bible Hall for the interpretation of the Scriptures by
means of lectures. “Is this a new departure, or is it
ouly a great make-believe ? ” It is very funny to see
dogmatists poking fun at one another. It makes
the triumph of reason easier and nearer.
Dr. Ellis denies ever having stated from a pnlpit
that “that there was not a virtuous woman in Sydney
over 17 years of age." What ho claims to have said
was—“ls it true that in the lower strata of Sydney
society, young girls are allowed to go about the streets
at night unprotected by parents or brothers, and, if so,
can we wonder at the number of unfortunates in our
midst ?”
At the Braidwood Literary Institute an attempt
was made last week, by those in favour of closing the
reading-room on Sunday afternoons, to obtain their
object by a species of plebiscite similar to that used a
year or two ago in the Sydney School of Arts. It was
negatived by a large majority on the ground that the
proposal was contrary to British customs and to the
by-laws of the institutions. This is the fourth time
the subscribers have in general meetings affirmed their
desire to have the room opened on Sunday afternoons.
Archbishop Vaughan is understood to contend
that St. Mary’s Cathedral, in which the Fancy Fajre,
with its attendant Punch and Judy shows, nigger eon-
certs, &0., has just been held, is so far an nnconsecrated
building. But doesn’t portion of it stand on the con-
secrated site of the old cathedral; it is not the case
that the spot where the relics of a sainted martyr were
consumed is just where the gipsy tent stood; and
isn’t it a fact that the laying of the corner stone of
the present building was the occasion of a most im-
posing religious ceremony ?
The late Bishop Barker, during his illness, is
said to have named the Rev. (I. F. Head, vicar of St.
Charles, and the Rev. Sir Emilias Bayloy, Bart, vicar
of St. John’s, Paddington, as being particularly suit-
able to succeed to the See. It is to ha hoped the
Synod—which, by the way, seams to shirk the election,
and to wish to throw it on to a special committee »ho
shall consult with the Bishops of Australia—won't
follow this recommendation. Judging from the
wretched condition into which the Church of England
in N.B W. drifted during the late Bishop’s reign, ciui-
not be worth much.
The Rev. F. W. Davis sent the following letter
to Mr. Bradlaugh :—“ Dear Sir,— They say that oven
the Devil is not so black as he is painted, and, perhaps,
yon are not either. If you don't believe in God, yet
perchance yon may admit that in Church the clergy try
to improve the morals of the people, and that, there-
fore, both churches and clergy are worthy of support.
If so, may I hope for a subscription from you in sup-
port of my church, or for the poor in it ?—I am, dear
sir, yours faithfully, P. W, Davis. The Parsonage,
Blairgowrie, Perthshire, N. 8., March 6, 1882” Mr.
Davis is, probably, going to solicit a subscription from
the Old Gentleman himself, next, as Bradlaugh doesn’t
seem to have taken the hint.
The present available annual income of the See
of Sydney is £1950, together with the residence of
Bishopscourt and 60 acres of land. The sum named is
made us thus: —Bishopthorpe Estate net rental, £2230;
Moore Bulk Estate rental, £2O ); firewood sales, £2O;
total, £2150, from which £5OO yearly has to be deducted
for five years after the late Bishop’s death. Bishop,
thorpe is let in portions for 99 years, dating from 1856
for the earliest and 1878 for the latest portion. A con-
eiderable accumulation of revenue must accrue during
the vacancy of the See, but a large outlay upon Bisbops-
court is required. The only present prospects of in-
crease in the income of the See are those comprised in
the possibility of the Moore Bank estate becoming
more productive, and in the cessation five years hence
of the £5OO deduction.
• * •
A number of Irish people were displeased
because the Queen telegraphed her thanks to Arch-
bishop M’Cabe for his allusion to Her Majesty’s life
having teen preserved from the lunatic M'Lean. “ The
real patriots” had even determined to “Boycott” any
Dublin church or chapel in which the Archbishop
might preach in future, but the feeling was not strongly
taken up The Rev. Mr. Heffernan (C E ), of Coona-
barabran, at a meeting the other night, signified his
wish to resign, as he thought his people were not satisfied
with him. He said “he had a respectable balance in
the bank when he went there, but now he was in debt.”
...It is thought that Bishop Moorhouse, of Melbourne ,if
nominated for the See of Sydney,Jwill decline to stand.
ln the House of Peers, Lord Eedesdale designed,
and had drafted, a bill for ” the better recognition of
the Amighty;” but it is not expected to be further
beard of. It caused much profane joking; one member
of the Commons asserting that he would move an
amendment that all members of Parliament should be
compelled to declare their belief in the Devil, as well.
,.Bishop Stanton has been giving a teaflght at the
Charters Towers (N,Q.) School of Arts. Besides tea,
says Thady, “ beer and * soft tack ’ were in abundance.”
Eov. Mr. Barlow, Mr. Ramm’s successor, made a
“sugary" speech respecting his first impressions of the
Towers Mr. Shepherd King declares that he doesn’t
accept the Dean as an authority on anything.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Life ia a strange thing. It is nearly as strange
as the present whereabouts of Mr. Heller. Yesterday
we were optimists. Yesterday we thought there was
too much joy in the world. The reason of this was
that we had met with unwonted facilities for “ stick-
ing-up” drinks. The attempt at a similar commercial
experiment upon other occasions always ended in scorn-
ful failure. Consequently, when we got home to our
chambahs in the mid-hour of the dewy night, we felt a
glow of generosity running up our vertebral column
as an Irish hodman runs up a sixty-foot ladder. Wo
could have gone out and pardoned our creditors without
a pang. This abnormal state of feeling had to be got
rid of somehow, or we should be doing something rash.
We tried hard to concentrate our thoughts upon the
fact that next morning was rent-day, and that we were
two weeks in arrear. But that failed to depress us. It
seemed, so to speak, even a bit joyful that we should
have such little matters as debts and liabilities to link
us to our fellow-creature*.
• • «
At last we had it. It was a little pamphlet that
' bad been given to us a few days before by a flap-eared
• canvasser of the Young Men’s Christian Association.
“ Hell opened to Sinners ” was its cheerful title. He
had evidently mistaken us for people who had business
•. there and wanted a guide-book. The text consisted of
pleasantly-written and amusing descriptions of the
different sorts of torture that that man may look for-
ward to who shuts his eyes and makes no sign of life
■ when the collection-plate is passed down the pew he
;sits in. This was further enlivened by pictures of the
•damned going through a first-class fire-ting perform,
anoe. We were bothered for some time thinking over
the question whether Hell is insured or not. This
-never seems to hare struck any theologians or insurance
agents. Then we tried to reckon up how much the
company would have to pay that took the risk. But
the figures run out into columns that stretched to the
confines of stellar space, and got mixed up in a hash
that was weirdly suggestive of the statement of ex-
penditure which the special commissioner of the Even-
ing News will submit to his employers when he get*
home again. At last the book fell from our hand. The
lamp had burnt low, and the giant shadows started
from the four corners of the room, and crept closer
and closer to where we were lying. The mosquito
curtains around our bed appeared at one moment as far
off as the walls of the world, and, at the next, so near
that they almost stifled us. So we fell asleep.
• • •
A vision came to ua. Methought a cherub with
a blooming face guided us to the entrance of Gehenna.
We were asked by the fiend on the “ front ” for
the password. “Daily Tel—” wo began in moment-
ary confusion. “ Say no more, my poor fellow,”
he interrupted, “your worst times are over. We’ve
’i had all your men down here up to date, and not oue of
them would go back now if be were offered free drinks
:for the rest of his earthly life. Sail right in, aud make
yourself at homo.” We sailed in, the cherub preceding
ue. Gehenna, as the present world, we found divided
into flats, Thera was the upper region, surrounding
the month of the pit, where the temperature was only
sixty million degrees above boiling-point. Then there
was the pit itself, fuming like the Protestant Standard
or our own incorruptible selves when some Smith or
Brown, who wants his name made a household word,
makes us a present of a packet of cheap cigars. The
yawn of the pit was as great, even greater, than our own
after hearing one of the funny speeches at the Pitt-
street Debating Society. The number of flats or levels
that branched off from the sides of the pit we couldn’t
count. We jumped off the cage, grabbed the skids, and
prowled away into the first chamber. At the edge of it
were standing many shaven-faced souls with pitchforks
and tridents in their hands. “Who are thesef" we
inquired of our guide. “Actors,” ho replied, in a hoarse
whisper, and then muffled up his face. “And what is
that which each of them is catching on his pitchfork
and throwing to a lower level ? ” “ That’s adaily news-
pap« critic."
• • •
Just as we were leaving this group, one of them
started forward with a cry of mingled rage and recogni-
tion, and seized our cherub by a wing. Then we noticed
for the first time that a stubby beard had grown upon
the blooming face while we were coming down. The
wings had changed into coat-tails. It was —it was—
there is no use in trying to keep the thing secret any
longer—it was the only inimitable Spanish comedian
that has ever appeared on these shores—the sole Johnny
O’Neill. They kept him there.
• • •
“ Who are you ?” we asked of a mild-looking
person, who offered to supply the place of the
cherub as guide to us for the rest of the way. “I am
the Devil,” said he. “ The H you are! ”we replied,
with empressement ; “ then what do you call those things
like sootflakes that are continually falling down ?ho
mouth of the pit ? ” “ Those," he answered, “ are the
■ouls of judges and jurymen."
• • •
We must have got a bit mixed in our vision at
the latter end, as, when we were leaving, our friend the
Devil was shaking hands warmly with us, and pressing
us to “ drink up and have another.” At the same time,
in a corner of the fiat, a committee meeting was going
on. It had met to discuss whether oranges or dead-sea
apples were the correct thirst-assauger to present to
the Parkes Ministry when it should arrive. The chair-
man’s face stirred au olden memory in our minds as we
gazed upon its graceful side-whiskers aud retreating
chin. “ A last question," we gasped out to the Devil,
as we stood with one hand upon the cage, and the other
grasping his in a friendly squeeze: “we like your style,
and though we may nevah meet you again, we shall send
you our compliments by every cage-load of the elect
that goes home from our parts; but, as you value your
seul’s salvation, tell us who the chairman of that com-
mittee is?” “ , C.M.G.," he whispered in an
awe-stricken aside. “ There is no rest, even in Hell,”
we groaned, and fled. The maniacal glare of our eyes
was sufficient to light us to upper day. When we woke,
the eold sweat of terror stood out on our foreheads in
beads as big as pimples on the nose of an alderman.
• • •
It was morning. The vision of the night had
gone but the roof of our mouth was as parched as the
pit we had passed through. Boys, never give way to
drink. We solemnly sweah that we shall not, because
—because it is Sunday and we can’t get any.
* * •
What we had gone through enabled us to
grapple with the Sturm und Drang of “ New Babylon."
Here is a play for you, gentleman—Pelion piled upon
Ossa, sensation upon sensation, storm aud shipwreck,
and thunder and lightning, and —see small bills. The
play was produced here before. We shall give an out-
line of the plot. The ocean-liner Antarctic is steaming
from New York to Loudon. On board are Hiram
Maltby, a wealthy shipbuilder, and bis daughter
Eunice, also Jack Randal, Ah Luck, Flotsam, and John
Ramirez. Randal falls in love with Eunice, but says
nothing. Ah Luck falls down the gangway, with
Ramirez’s boot after him, and says much. Ramirez is
a swindler, to whom, unknown to her father, Eunice
was married years before. She had fled from him and
had not been found till he met her on the ship. Then
come the usual collision and the usual desperate
swimming through waves of green cloth. By a strange
providence all the characters of the drama are saved.
But Hiram Maltby thinks his daughter is lost.
• • •
It appears Hiram has another daughter, Madge
- —he has daughters all the time—and she is in London.
She is to bo married to Vincent Vane, a young gentle-
man of means. Vincent goes astray with Bal Lorimer,
■coeotte. Madge has a friend, Dora Spnnes. Dora ia a
food young woman, and is to become the wife of a pain-
ully good young man, John Jeremiah Lamb. Then The
O 'Sligo sails in and mixes things up. So far, we have
«ot the skein right. The “ Long Firm,” consisting of
O Sligo, Ezra Lazareck and M‘Donald, alias Smith,
■alias Ramirez, are in London conducting new devilries
with the process of their New York swindle. Flotsam,
•an American detective, is on their track. Jetsam, a
London detective, is also on their track, though he dis-
creetly says nothing. The O’Sligo introduces Lamb to
■“ life." Lamb stands wondering—and so do we, won-
•dering how in thunder any man would have the con-
science to jumble plots enough fora Nihilist conspiracy
■or a Chinese maraet-garden into one play ana then
■expect anyone to understand it. We give it up while
we are yet sane. The thing is tso labyrinthine for a
single life to unravel.
• • •
To deal, then, with the characters. Mr. Bland
Holt’s Flotsam is the typical Yank—too typical, we
think, to be true. But he is exceedingly alive. Here
and there we caught peculiarities of accent and intona-
tion which Mr. Holt forgot to lay aside when he pigeon-
holed Moss Jewell. This, however, is pardonable after
a long spell at acting one character. As the “ Brum-
nmgem Bullfinch,” he sings a medley song which con-
sists of a combination of the names of all the street
songs in vogue. Here and there they are combined in
a manner that debars the song for ever from being war-
bled in Young Ladies’ Seminaries or High Church
Sunday Schools. We are not austerely virtuous our-
selves, bnt in one or two instances it was only by a
superhuman struggle that wo kept ourselves from
blushing at the double-entendre. While we are on this
point, we may as well finish up our stock of moral
objections—which are as strong as limited, and as
limited as our credit. We object, then, to representa-
tions of openly-professed Plirynes upon the stage; we
object to be introduced (upon the stage) to their haunts.
We object for the sake of the sisters and wives and
daughters who are looking on: for ourselves, although
we wince, we can bear it. But is not all this a picture
of real and everyday life, and true to the letter f Of
course it is; and that is the devil of the thing. It
makes straight the crooked paths, and clears the way
for incipient vice. The gallows and the hospital are
also true to life; bnt we don't take women and children
to witness the dissection of a dead body or the execution
of a living one, for all that. Is it not, however, clearly
shown in the play that wicked ways have a wicked end ?
It is. This is the Spartan fashion of inculcating
morality. But it is too deductive not to be seductive.
Aliens.
• m *
Ezra Lazareck (Mr. J. L. Hall) and John Lamb
(Mr, St. Lawrence) are the two next characters we have
to deal with in the order of merit. Ezra is a different
type of Israelite to that we have seen in “ The World.”
He is not so much of a burlesque. There is quiet,
intense fun in everything he does, but less of the
screaming laughter there was in Bland Holt’s persona-
tion. Perhaps this is because his nose is smaller. In
the course of an intimate and sorrowful acquaintance
with the chosen race, we have come to the conclusion
that the strength of a Jew is in his nose. He has, so
to speak, a wrecker’s beak on. We reckon this—is good.
We shall have to pay through the nose for this remark
one of these days—one of these days when the Greek
kalends come round. As Ezra Lazareck, Mr. Hall is a
conkering hero. Johu Lamb is a pious, tenderly-nurtured
young man, whose sweetheart has to ask him two or three
times to kiss her before ho cau muster up courage
enough to do it. We made a mad clutch at the
cushioued-edge of the parapet when Dora Sparkes (Miss
Lena Kdwiu) hold up her red lips to kiss, We would
not have given a kingdom to have been in his place, but
we would have given half-a-cr iwn, Thou the bashful
Johnny goes to Cremorue. He is led into drinking—
that destruction of young men—and has to be led all
the rest of the time This is a fearful example of the
weakness of human nature. In one night a young man,
the pride of his parents and the cynosure of his Bible
class, throws over the prospect of a x>ermanent engage-
ment at harp-twanging upon the other side of Jawdan,
and gives himself up body and soul and paper-ouffs to
Lucifah. He informs Dorah he is going to a meeting
of the Yoaug Men’s Christian Association. She finds
him later on at Cremorne, swearing and cursing, drunk
and dishevelled, waltzing round with a demirep. But
with a woman’s tenderness—and sweet admiration of
dashing wickedness—she forgives him. Mr. St.
Lawrence was born to take this part. Atoms were
gathered into nebulre, nebula condensed into worlds,
worlds produced com, and corn whisky to make a John
Jeremiah Lamb of him. When Dora reproaches him
with his conduct, and reminds him of his former virtue,
ha replies jauntily, “ Aw, yaas, but I was a muff in those
days.” This is certainly his role.
• • m
Eamirez (Mr. H. H. Vincent) is a very heavy
villain. Indeed, we might say without fear of contra-
diction, that he is as heavy as a supper of rabbit-pie.
Still he is a good Kembrandtosque shadow in the picture.
Jack Kandal (Mr H. Jerdan) is a neutral tint. Hiram
Maltby (Mr. William Seagrave) has a good deal to do
through the play, and, though his Yorkshire accent
would expose him to a considerable amount of chiaking
from the boys in the West Biding, he does it passing
well. His acting is somewhat unwieldy here and there;
this is all the fault we have to find with him. Mr.
Teece as Vincent Vane is a very nice young man indeed.
His style is gentlemanly and prepossessing. In fine, he
acts Many others “ far older than he” over-act. We
are not taking a “ rise” out of this yenng actor when
we say that we believe he will rrie rapidly in his profes-
sion. But he must recollect Goethe’s motto ohne hastaber
ohne rast, which means —which means—dammit, where is
the dictionary? Anyhow, it means “ forward without
hurry, but without pause.” This does not imply that
he must not, if he so pleases, walk upon his hands.
The O’Sligo (Mr. C. Holloway) is a rollicking Irishman,
with the drollest of Free Trade brogues. He is so
devil-may-care that nobody else does. We do not
worship Mr. Holloway in this part, though in former
brilliant personations wc have sat and watched him
with tears of admiration in our eyes, and a meat-pie in
the hand that was not pressed upon our throbbing
heart. Mr. Tolano’s Ah Luck is amusing. On Satur-
day night there was a Chinaman in the dress-circle.
We looked at him closely, when the stage Chinaman
was being kicked and pulled about by the pig-tail, to
see what emotions would appear on his face. We might
as well have tried by staring at the outside of a pot to
find out what was boiling within. There the represen-
tative of the civilization of a hundred centuries, the
scion of the awful years of antiquity, sat patiently and
listened. No feeling was shown in his face any more
than is shown in the face of the Theban sphinx, when
little two-legged tourist things with white puggeries
round their hats run up and down and around it, laugh-
ing at its antique nose. We must finish off the remain-
ing characters of the play somewhat summarily. Tiny
Spurts (Mr. H. Beverley) is nothing much till the last
scene, and then he is dead. The remainder of the male
characters are fair to dambad.
• • •
And now for lovely women. Mias Jenny Watt-
Tanner is a bewitching Bel Lorimer; her Eunice is not
so good. We had borrowed a pair of opera-glasses on
Saturday evening, and had resisted like martyrs the
wild desire to go and pawn them that rose in our manly
bosoms. Consequently, when our bright-eyed Jenny
came upon the stage, we raised the glasses to our eyes.
Powers of evil! what a transformation they made. The
face that from afar looked a duet of lily and rose, now
appeared as brown as the paw of a Gibraltar ape. And
there was hair—actually long black hair—upon it. The
features were somewhat mixed, but in the middle of
them we noticed a large gold ring. Surely the lovely
Jenny did not wear a ring in her nose! Suddenly a
solution flashed upon us. We laid the glasses down,
and there right across our bows, so that we could see
nothing else, was the hand of a retired bullock-puncher
gracefully trifling with the ponderous lobe of his left
ear. This is what we had been looking at for Jenny’s
face. We would have got up and smitten that whilom
bullock-puncher from the rising of the sun even to the
going down of the same, only that we noticed his back
was about a yard wide, and we know our own to be
about the breadth of a mackerel—extending an inch
to east and west of our backbone.
* * *
Madge Maltby (Mias Lena Ellia), we shall say
nothing about just now. Our heart is too full. Miss
Lena Edwin (Dora Sparkes) acts the part with the
necessary naivete and a good deal more than the neces-
sary grace. Aunt Crazy (Miss Julia Merton) is, how-
ever, the gem of the piece. It is a fearful mystery how
she manages to maie-up her face so hideously true to
hideousness. We have seen only one face that sur-
passes it in this respect—the face of an old woman
drawn by Dord in Balzac’s Coutes Drolatiques, a
little book that we used to take with us to church as
an aid to pious reflection while the sermon was going
on. Aunt Crazy is a character that comes out of the
mud, and Mias Merton does it like a brick. This clews
us up. We shall have more to say with regard to the
spectacular part of the play on some fuchaw occasion.
Auf wiedershen.
** * *
A powerful play translated from tbe French,
entitled “ Struck Gold" was put on the boards of the
Queen’s on Saturday night. From the high-flown
language and exalted metaphor of the dialogue wa
almost inferred that the adapter “E. Manuel, Esq.,” is
in the pawnbroking. The opening scene discovers a
conclave of Californian ent-throats. Their chief "Allred
® Rose * Howe), looks like a cross between the
°/.y emce aud an ice-cream man. From what
1 ses a* the conclave it is evident that there is going
to be trouWe somewhere There is trouble. The Head
cailiwag leaves the room for a minute or two, and re-
turns to announce that he is blind ! The explanation he
the cause of this is painfully thin. He said
something that sounded to us like “going to Surry
s blank and blanked trams—eld woman poked me
n one eye with her hiatus and hiatmssed umbrella, and
tnen a dash and dashed engime-smut got in the
otner eye, and I m blind, mee cheeildl’mbe-lindl’* We
could see a cloud of gloom and sorrow gathering over
?/ J llB brother cut-throats as their noble
captain trolled out this touching lie.
* * m
In consequence of his misfortune Alfred de
c ° n L f j d ® a stranger, Don Louis (Mr.
that in a place he mentioned would be
round three million dollars worth of gold, and charges
Don Louis—who, incited thereto, by one Bennisto (Mr.
ri. bteneham), gives a false name-to send the same
i < Fran .®? t 0 a Sir l whom De Eosen has left soma
nme before with a view to raise that identical gold for a
owry for her. Mr. Burford takes down the revelation
in shorthand, in a manner that would put many a
reporter to the blush—if such a thing might be—and
subsequently collars the plant and proceeds to Paris,
wnere in a later act he is found impersonating a Vis-
count and blueing ”De Eosen’s dollars in the society ef
stituted 7 whose dowry they were to have con-
* # #
But the raw beef that the gallant Captain kept
night and day upon his eyes has taken down the swell-
mg, and he sees once more. Of course he goes home
and foils the villain. More blood.
• * *
The whole piece is a string of gory nonsense
from beginning to end. The only hint of higher-class
drama it contains is the turkey-twill trousered super,
this clever and versatile actor is got up in the highest
style of waxwork costumery.
♦ # »
Struck Gold” runs to five acts, but they are
10 30 ty Sllol t ’ Hearses ma y safal y he ordered fer
** * *
tt T, h 0 Mohawk Minstrels opened in the Victoria
■“■ft**, °n Saturday night, in all the glory of war-paint
and wampum. But there was none of the arrogance of
wealth about them for all that; iu fact, it seemed that
most or them had invested their capital iu Digger
Indian debentures, and that a rival tribe had swooped
down and scalped the whole nation. Consequently it
oould not meet its liabilities. This accounts for the
settled look of sorrow that sat upon the faces of the
minstrels. The first part of the business was of the
usual baton d'Ethioue typo—the concluding song—
« a Mine ” —being the best thing iu it.
ihe Old Sexton,' sung by Mr. |J. Angelo, was very
deservedly encored. Some of this gentleman’s low
notes must reach pretty nearly to the centre of the
earth. Judge Lewis's lecture ou the “Progress of
Education’’ was a howl from beginning to end. In the
seat behind us there was a man laughing all the time.
His face was as full of wrinkles as a fellow on Punch’s
corner. Now and then he would have a spasm, and his
mouth and eyes would shut up together like a closed
concertina. Ihen, as the Judge became quieter in his
humour, the man behind would thaw out again, only to
take another double reef in his countenance when the
next shattering joke was made. We took a lining to
that man right away for the unaffected manner in which
he let himself out in grins and guffaws. He has a good
heart, we said to ourselves. We tried to borrow
liaif-a-crown from him during the interval. Hardly
had we got the words out of onr mouths
wnen the wrinkles of his face smoothed out, and his
eyes sank down in their sockets with no more appear-
interest in human things than as if he were a
Buddhist, and had been contemplating his big toe for
two hundred years. Judge Lewis was good. The
Sr F vf "He would be an actor" was produced by the
Mohawks better than we have ever seen it produced
before, although with nearly the same performers.
Dave Gardener is deliciously funny in the port of
“ Circus Dick." George Bell’s female impersonations
are very good, so far as maae-up is concerned—and
good enough in the matter of voice if he would only
choose songs such as do not require him to strain too
much on the low notes. The triple statue clog dance,
by Messrs. Delowry, Greydon, and Mulholland, was one
of the best things ol the evening. There is a vulgarly
inconsiderate practice of encoring performances of this
kind which should be stopped at any cost. The dancers
are exhausted, and, however gratified they may feel by
tha encore, they should not acknowledge it. The pretty
old ballad, “My Sweetheart when a Boy,” was sunlr
very creditably by Mr. G. Leslie. The farce “Miss
Jones Party ’ concluded a well-deserving and well-
patronised performance.
** * *
Hart’s “ Happy Hours ” show opens at the
Victoria Hall, on Saturday night. The pieces to be
playtd on this night are “Diamond cut Diamond”
wherein a young gentleman engaged to a young lady,
finding out that she is a flirt, informs her that he is
ruined, and must go to America. But he isn’t rained—
not by a j ugful. He is trying her. He confides the plot
to another lively young lady. His betrothed hears him
He comes on in several assumed characters to propose
to her. She being an amateur actress, gets the bulge
oh him by meeting him in different disguises every
time. Finally, everything gets so confused that the
lovers almost forget who’s who. But all ends happilv
After this, *• My Wife’s Eolations,” an even more amus-
ing comedietta, is performed. The whole entertain,
ment is interspersed with songs and dances. From
what we know of the programme, this show will be the
best that has bean on the boards of the Victoria Hall
smee it opened.
** * *
There is nothing need to be said about “ The
Gav’nor," because everybody has seen it. or has heard
of it from the next man. We want something that is
not known to criticise, because then we give sufficient
scope to our native mendacity. Lot ns be truthful for
a brief moment. Mr, W. J, Wilson, lessee of the Opera
House, and Mr. Pollard, agent fer Mr. F. Marshall
deserve special mention for the careful attention they
pay to the comfort of their patrons. The next piece to
be produced by Mr. Marshall has not yet been decided
upon, but very likely it will be “ Jeames."
*» * *
The Musical Union are about to repeat their
triumph of Good Friday Night at the Garden Palace on
Saturday afternoon, when Sullivan’s magnificent drama
“The Martyr of Antioch,” will be repeated. Instead
of the selections from “ Ell,” Mr. Moss intends to have
Slinka’s polonaise, “ The Life of the Czar,” performed
so that M. Piddingtonski and his friends are bound to
roll up. Mr. Frederick M'Quade is also announced to
play one of Beethoven’s concertos, and, as a necessary
consequence, a music-stool of extra strength will be
provided for the occasion. The soloists in the
“Martyr” will be the same as when last it was per-
formed—viz., Messrs. Marie and Madeline St. Clair
Messrs. W. Smith, Bushelle, and Holliugdale. ’
** * *
The Sydney Liedertafel’s Social Evening, on
Friday last, fairly maintained the prestige of the
first performance at the Exchange. The programme
w»s in many particulars a repetition of that given on
the earlier occasion. With one exception, the added
items were not improvements. At the Protestant h«ii
the Liedertafel was at a disadvantage in one respect*
The acoustic properties of the hall are abominable!
and seriously interfered with the effect of tha various*
items. The part-songs were consequently not so
entirely delightful as on the previous occasion. Still,
the style in which they were sung was admirable. Mr’
Ashcroft Edwards has firmly established his title to be
regarded as a conductor of the highest merit. Although
the Sydney Liedertafel numbers fewer veci lists than its
Melbourne parent, and the volume of sound is conse-
quently lass, the artistic finish with which it executes
part-songs is even superior to that which caused the per-
formanoae of the older society to be so greatly admired.
Not the faintest suspicion of a demi-semi-quaver is
audible at the finish of a chorus after Mr. Edwards’
baton is dropped, and the crescendos and diminuendos
are noble. Only one hitch occurred daring the evening,
and that was nobody’s fault, in particular, unless it was
the conductor’s pitch-pipes.; However, Mr. Edwards
displayed the greatest coolness throughout, and, after
stopping the chorus for a moment, recommenced as if
nothing had happened; but, unfortunately, the
bass voices allowed themselves to be unnerved
this false start, the result being that
When Evening’s Twilight” was the one bit
or part- inging to which exception could be taken.
Gummona is already a favourite with the
Sydney public, and was emphatically • ncored for his
waltz song, “Amore” (Tasti), to wfcich he responded
with hxsown quaint litHc morceau, “ No Mamma.” Mrs.
“Woods played a nudino by D6hler, in a style
which few professionals can approach. This lidy a
musical abilities are too well known and appreciated to
require comment here; suffice it to say that her play-
ng on Friday night was worthy of the true artiste
that she is. _ Her encore piece was a Fantasia on
»“u Za * s Exhibition March her own arrangement.
Although the audience encored the lady ama-
teur who sang “ Lo, here the gentle lark,” with
flute accompaniment by Signor Fagnotti, the fair
Performer can scarcely be said to have scored more
than un succes d'estime. Her execution was patchy—
occasionally very good, but not with the even or sus-
tained excellence which alone would have justified the
conductor in allotting to her the distinction of being
the first lady soloist to sing with the Liedertafel. Her
intonation was in several passages exceedingly faulty,
in the upper register of the voice far too sharp, and in
the lower occasionally flat. The violin solo was played
with the clever executant’s accustomed ability. This
gentleman stands on the border region between a first-
rate amateur t and .a second-rate professional soloist.
Perhaps a thirteen minutes' performance was of a
duration somewhat too long for merits of this order.
The instrumental quartettes, “ The Declaration ” and
‘‘The Mill," introduced to Sydneyites by the Men-
delssohn Quintette Club, were fitting items for such a
concert. "The Declaration" was well and carefully
played, but some disappointment was felt at “The
Mill, as the crispness and precision which should
characterise it were not so prominent as might have
been expected from the executants. Besides this, the
viola was, to say the least, scrapey. Messrs. Morgan
and Woods were in good voice, and had each a small
solo. The final chorus, “ Seng of the Miner,” with
anvil accompaniment, was a good finish to a very enjoy-
able concert. Notwithstanding that many ladies and
gentlemen gracefully left the hall after partaking of
refreshments during the interval, the crowd was such
on going out that exit was extremely difficult. By-the-
bye, the Liedertafel might, with advantage, at their
next social, have their programmes printed on softer
paper, as the crackle of those the other night made a
discordant accompaniment to what was going on.
** * *
“ Mad" was running at the Gaiety for three or
four nights at the end of last week and the beginning
of this. We take the usual maniacal pleasure in seeing
plays of this kind, but we dared not trust ourselves to
take a last look at Ada. Our absence may have strnoa
remorse to her heart, or it may not. We don't know,
as we never read any papers bnt our own and Pergy’s.
Bayhss's benefit took plaee on Wednesday night.
* * **
The Simonson Co. in “ Satanella,” at the Gaiety,
on Saturday night. An old favourite, Madime, will
have a warm welcome.
** * *
The Western Suburban Musical Society gave
their fourth concert of the season, at the Harwood
School of Arts, last Tuesday, before a goodly crowd.
Mr. McLoau has a good deal of rough material to work
upon, so there is little wonder that the singers and
players go through their parts with cheerful disregard
to light and shade. However, considering the many
difficulties which occur in Dr Sullivan’s Cantata, “ On
Shore and Sea," it was not a bad performance. The
dmet between lady and gentleman amateur being one of
the gems, was loudly encored. Locke’s Macbeth was
not new to the society, so went swimmingly. Mr.
Machen after the interval made a speech, which was
encored. A trio between three ladies was capitally
sung, and made a pleasant variety. Another
item worthy of mention was the song “ Let me love
thee,” also “ I fear no foe," the former being sang with
decided taste and expression. Great things are
promised for this society’s future—" Maritana" being
probably their next attempt, so Mr. McLean has his
work set.
***•*>
The Bartlemy Fair, which opens on May 24th,
a j r, i as * or a fortnight, is going on the popular ticket,
and otters a thousand and one attractions for a simple
shilling, which includes everything—except drinks.
** * *
“ Michael Strogoff, or Russia as it is,” seems to
have oeen a perfect frost at the Melbourne Theatre
Koyal. In criticising it “ Tahite” hits the newspaper
correspondents very hard, at the same time throwing
all the blame on the author:—“ They speak a good deal
of nonsense that is not amusing, but only wearisome,
and straggle against an adverse destiny." Mr. Dampier
did not impress as favourably as of old," and Miss
Adere in the piece is “ an ineffective, inexpressive
actress, quite unfit for any emotional display.” The
World, too, says the piece is “ pointless, dreary, and
ridiculous. This is bad news of our old friend
The Green Lanes of England.” Henry Pettitt’s
drama was put up after six nights. “ Money "at the
Opera House was not a great success, and “ The So-a
of Castille" at the Bijou did not draw like the Montagu
Turner Company’s previous operas. Keller has
created a furore with his automata. Psycho, Clio, Arno
and Phono, at St. George’s Hall Hudson’s Surprise
Party re-appeared at his own theatre on Saturday
The audience at the Wilhelmj Farewell Concert, May
6th, was sufficiently numerous to make a handsome
show, even in so large a plaee as the Melbourne Town
Hall and the enthusiasm was affecting Adelaide
correspondents to Melbourne say, » Wilson’s circus is
full every night."
** * *
Rice has done so well at Garner’s Theatre that
he opened on Saturday (6th) for a short season at tho
Academy of Music, Adelaide. He was invited bv
Messrs. T. D. Smeaton and M. Salom, local magnate?
to give a private demonstration of his powers one even-
ing lately, and being very successful, considerably
puzzled a large number ef the Adelaide Hite.
** • *
Hard work at the T.R., Adelaide. Heavy pieces
put up for two nights only throughout the Pomeroy
season. W. G. Carey missed the steamer, and Prank
Weston excitedly harangued his friends outside the
theatre, stating the duties of leading man could be per
formed vi-Carcy-ously.
** * *
Frank Weston fancies our own Louise will
stand a good chance with English audiences because
she is rapidly losing that Yankee twang, which, on her
arrivai in this country, appealed to audiences as the
accent of a Cousin Jack who had been in Ireland and
then shifted to America. There is, no doubt, a fair
amount of magnetism to the credit of Miss Pomerov
and she plays anything between naughty msdern
comedy and severe classic tragedy, and then her under-
standings are irreproachably fascinating.
** * *
The Gerstinger comic opera company, from the
Germania Theatre. New York, are passengers by next
mail steamer. The pnmajdonna is Madame Gerstinger
a very fair soprano, and a favourite in the States*
Madame is engaged to give 100 performances in the
c010nie5....... Barnam brings his huge show over to
Australia in December.
** * *
No one ia better calculated to describe “ what
may happen to a man in Australia " than Barry O’Neill
Barry flashed across the theatric d firmament soire
score of years ago. as a meteoric star comique— took
Melbourne bv storm, and, as he passed from the
Theatre Eoyal to the Varieties (having engagements at
both houses) dressed in a overcoat witn buttons of
cheese-plate dimensions, and followed by a valet carry
mg his “changes,” was the observed of all observers
and made desolate the heart of many a dame He is
new delivering Bob Ingersoil’s famous lecture “ The
Mistake of Moses,” on the West Coast of New Zea-
land wdh Charley Weightman as agent, and denying
that the beasts went into the ark twi and two and arm
m arm like a ladies’ boarding-school. We are hourly
expecting a cablegram announcing the triumphant
overthrow of revealed religion there Mendeisahon
Quintette Club crushed again—this time in Dunedin,
where one of the audience demanded to know “ how
(For continuation of Sundry Show?, see jnge 10.)


There are 78 methods of adulterating beer, and
only one of drinking it.
“ How did you come in to town? ” “ Quadru-
ped," was the laoonio reply. “ Ah, then, yon walked.
No doubt Australia is coming to the 4; but the
wont of it is America is off on a greased lightning trip
to the 24
What is the price of a pair of legal white
glovet P Does the le<al glover march with the timefi
and make his gloves with two or more buttons, accord-
ing to the tfEjmioate taste of the destined wearer ?
The plasterers picnicked at Botany. The moftar
of friendship is much cemented *‘aud the sealing o*
goodfsllowship will now last till the ‘crack* of doom,
sneered a contractor, who lost over a late descent o
plaster.
Balzac once said of Eeaan<jon : “ No town offers
a mors deaf and dumb resistance to pr* gress *
would take a lot to convince us that Balzac was »o-
born in Sydney and imprisoned for libel at some tune o
another.
Judging by actual results, the branch of th?
A. M. I*. dociety at the arcade is not such a nuej®
after all. The new business of the society is sometnu*
over two millions, and of that amount Mr. Short
office has brought £250,000.
PEPPER AND SALT.
It is the lovely peaceful Sawbath mom. Three
young men, sons of our first families, are looking
anxiously over the back fence of a Glebe pub. Presently
a gentle man, who has lost the greater part of his clothes
apparently at Waterloo, glides softly out of the back
deor; wipes the froth off his chin, and goes on hia way
rejoicing. The three noblemen immediately pounce on
him, and in a melo-dramatio whisper that would do
credit to Bnrford, they observe: " Say, is’t safe; do
ter-ra-turs vile keep watch in ambush near ? ” The
old party merely replies: "Well, damiflno now, but
I’ve gest hed one.” Then the patrician trio slip in
quietly, and surround three long pints of "wallnp,’’
after which they rush off to church, and chase their
sisters round to know who preaehed, and what he took
his text from. This is one of the great blessings which
flow from the Licensing Act.
« * *
Counsel should remember the proverb concern-
ing those who live in glass-houses. An unreported
episode evidencing this occurred at Adelaide the other
day, during the cross-examination of a certain notorious
witness, of whom the barrister cnqiired severely:—
"Do yon know what adultery is, sir ? ” Eeplied the
witness promptly: " You ought to know." The learned
gentleman felt nnwell for two minutes afterwards.
« • *
Ten years ago that rich and eminent Australian^
Coady Buckley, died intestate, leaving no end of money,
to fee divided amongst his next of kin. One of the
seven heirs, however, was of opinion that he ought to
have four-and-sixpence extra, or some other important
trouble crept in, and so the lawyers clutched the case
and hauled it into the Court of Chancery. There it
stuck until a few months ago, when matters were finally
settled, and a fall share sent to each survivor. Old
William Coady, of Burin (Newfoundland), happened to
he one of the claimants, and his “pot" reached him
exactly three days after he was dead and buried. This
shows the sublimity of onr laws, of course; but William
is the maddest ghost in any boneyard north et the
equator.
• • •
At the Old Englysshe Fayre. Lovely sales-
woman, tartly, to " Jack Ashore,” who had stopped to
gaze : “ Well, what are you looking at ? ” Jack Ashors
(laconically): "YouI” Lovely saleswoman (discon-
certed, but with an eye to business): "Ds yon want to
buy anything ? ” Jack: “Yea.” Lovely saleswoman :
*• Well, what P ” Jack Ashore (concisely): " You I ”
• • •
Scene —The Honourable h r. Blank’s station, on
the back blocks. Present —the honourable aforesaid,
his superintendents, jackaroo?, Set, not drunk any of
them, but only " beastly fresh." One of them to sober
overseer " Come ont and have a drink, Mac.” Mac.
(whose bedroom door is barricaded): " No; I’ll see
yo to the bottom of Gehenna first." Jackaroo :“ Oh,
won’t yon, by Jove! We ll denced soon fetch you out.’
So they got a keg of powder from the store, placed it at
his door, put a shovelful of hot a‘hes on the head of it,
and then cat down with the sublime resignation pos-
sessed by none hut drunken Christians in the back
blocks, to await the explosion, which fortunately never
took place. The head of the powder-keg was all but
charred through when removed next morning.
The powder-no an is the fellow who, whenever he goes
to Brisbane, gets the "jim-jams,” and employs a loafer
to "play soldiers" in his bedroom. Playing soldiers
| s thus managed : Two oases of champagne are procured
and opened, and the bottles plaoed on the floor. "Form
square!" shrieks the man with the jim-jams. The
fellow who “ commands " the bottles forms them into a
square accordingly. " Advance!" then yells the
alcoholised one, towards whose bad the deadly goose,
berry, six headaches in every bottle of it, is accordingly
shifted. "Now drink I” exclaims the festive one, “or
I’ll shoot yon. And mind but oh I take that dog
away 1 ”
• • •
Says Naaova’a Knight, and King Street’s glory,
whilst dilating on a recent cise;—" No man should raise
his hand against a woman, save under very exceptional
circumstances,such as that, for instance,of self-defence.”
That’s so. Sir George. It’s always better either to get
her down and sit oh her head, or else stand well away
and pelt the furniture after her. And in another part of
this inspired orationourSolon observed:—"Therewere,
doubtless, some women of a passionate nature whom it
was necessary to quiet, and perhaps, to use a certain
amount of violence to," Now Solomon in all his glory
never gave a straighter tip than that. Bat we wonder
how Sir George managed to acquire this information.
Someone must have told him. The charge in
the above case was " manslanghtering a wife,"
and the unfortunate prisoner received one month’s
Imprisonment. Mr. O’Toole, of Wagga, did a
similar “stretch” for refusing to pay for a "long
shandy.” " Drink” was the extenuating circumstance
pleaded in both oases; hat it only pulled through in
the first.
• • •
Down South a romantic mother wished to have
her infant daughter called lanthe. His Reverence said .
•• What do yon want her to grow up a Pagan, and be a
curse to yon! Coll her Mary Ann after the Blessed
Mother and her aunt.” " And it was so."
» ♦ *
An old Eandwick jockey is now a horse-dealer
on the Hodgkinson. He is looked upon as a very sharp
*ub ia making a deal, but he was lately "had” by a
poor wandering digger. The latter brought a stylish-
looking hack into the dealer’s yard, and the practised
oye was quietly cast over the "lean head and fiery,
strong quarters and wiry, the loin rather light, bat the
shoulder superb,” “ How much do yon want for him ?’’
•• Well, as I’m down on my luck, I’ll take a dozen quid
for him with the pack-saddle." “ Done, lead him into
the stable; ’’ and, as a lamb led to the slaughter, that
horse was led in, and the money was paid, and the wan-
dering digger meandered away, musing on the brevity
of life, and the numerous ways of killing a pig besides
Sticking him The horse he had sold was as blind as a
hat, and is now pensioned off on the hills of the Hodg-
kinson; but the sharp dealer and erstwhile Eandwick
light-weight now looks suspiciously at every horse
offered to him by any man down on his luck.
• • *
Port Douglas, N.Q , is pretty well off for Roman
Catholics, but it possesses a big, brawny Jnstice of
the Peace who rejoices in a Presbyterian training.
On a recent occasion there was a shindy at a Hospital
Committee meeting, the casus belli being the action o
several members of the Ancient Church in ** turning
dog ” on a member of their own communion who had
virtually been promised the appointment of surgeon.
Presbyterian Johnny got disgusted at this sort of thing,
and “ went for ” the other members of Committee. He
very soon cleared the room of all hut ene long son of
Erin, who sheltered himself under the table, and
appealed to Johnny effectively in the words —“ Oh, your
Worship, don’t bate me, an’ I’ll tarn Protestant in the
morning.” # # #
Balaam v. Rev. B. G. Hodgson and Another.—
Slander. Settled ont of court. Defendants pay all
costs, and apologise.
* * »
Amongst the Kings Archibald Forbes has not
known is old King Caeoban —the hero of a thousand
fights, and the eater of twice as many missionaries.
Daring his last visit to Sydney, an attempt was made
to give him *• aulchaw ” by showing him through the
post and telegraph offices. It waa disheartening, how-
over, to find that the only items ho seemed to notice
were the lighting of the telegraph sunlight with the
uanal stick, and a fat little operator who made the old
man-eater’s month water aa if he had been chewing a
case of lemons.
Eatn Timothy, the King’s son—a perfect lampblack
Apollo—was also on a visit; and, so graceful and digni-
fied was his bearing (when sober) that he was actually
asked out to an elegant spread given by ono of onr first
families. It was in the middle of Summer; the ball-
room was crammed with our riile, but Eatn didn t
dance, so he sucked nt a herring for a thirst-provoker,
and then drank about halt a barrel of whisky. As they
had rigged him up for the occasion in European dress,
very few hours passed before he began to feel uncom-
fortable ; so, stepping out on to the balcony, Eatr took
off his trousers and boots, and then "coolly” mingled
with the happy throng aa usual.
• • •
On the Belyando. BUokfollow: “ What name
belongin’to you, whitefellow ?” W. : “Oh, Quart-pot.
What name belongin’ to youP” B : "Oh, Pint-pot,
brother belongin’ to you."
The Herald obsequiously says th&tlSir Samuel
Wilson is about to give “fresh evidence of his loyalty ”
by erecting in Hnghenden Church a window to com-
memorate the recent escape of Her Majesty from
assassination. But read it in this way. It’s not so
pretty, but it’s a deal more true" That parvenu with
the big bank balance and the Uinta-coloured whiskers,
Sir Samuel Wilaen, who, in presenting Melbourne
University with £30,009, thought to get a baronetcy
but only received that played-out bauble a barren-
knightoy, now endeavours to bridge the distance be-
tween himself and the throne by coloured glass and
putty commemorative of the occasion on which Wilson,
junior, gallantly strove to arrest a man already in cus-
tody; and, while the imbecile miscreant was safely
held by two policemen, banged him over the head with
a friend’s umbrella.”
• • •
At a recent meeting of the committee of the
Townsville (N.Q.) Assembly Balls, the P.M, proposed
that the bntoher be allowed to join this year, and on
his motion being negatived, he resigned his position as
a committeeman, saying he would have nothing further
to do with the affair. At the general meeting, on the
suggestion of a lady, a committee of married men was
formed. The reasons were that married men knew how
to out sandwiches better and had cleaner hands than
single fellows. A novelty was inserted in the first part
of the programme in the shape of a ladies’ dance, to
allow the gentlemen time to ont the sandwiches. The
motion that each gentleman bring a pannikin and a
lady was lost, and one in Its place carried—that the
crockery he borrowed from the grocers.
• • •
Hold your breath ! A new and entirely original
snake story. Two prominent citizens of Maryborough,
Queensland, were returning the other day from a visit
to Pialba, the watering-plac* of the locality, when
suddenly a large whip-snake dropped into the buggy
from an overhanging bough. This caused much con-
fusion, but each, if their own story is to bs believed,
displayed considerable valour in ejecting, what country
editors call, "his snakeship.” When this had been
done, both gentlemen felt positively certain that they
ware "bitten,” and had but a short tima to live. For-
tunately, they are in the habit of carrying a good supply
of grog, and after negotiating s bottle and a half of
Walker’s Whisky without any apparent cerebral incon-
venience-each patient, thinking his end was near,
made a confession to the other, and gave sundry loving
messages to hit wife—and others. A few honrs after, a
passer by found them fast asleep by the roadside—each
grasping an empty whisky bottle. On being awakened
they got into their buggy and drove silently and slowly
home—the only ill effects of their snake bite beiag a
severe headache. Bat now comes the carious part of the
yarn. Since that evening these gentlemen have
not spoken to each other, and, altho’ intimate friends,
they now meet as strangers. It is rather a ticklish
matter—a man making a dying confession to a friend,
and then not dying, and having to meet that friend
again.
* * *
It ia understood that Father Mahogany and all
the rest of them, barring the Vicar-General, have now
withdrawn from the management of Archbishop
Vaughan’s brilliant and interesting weekly journal.
The change is calculated seriously to tell against the
recognised influence of several of the departments of
the Express. For instance, we have seen nothing
brilliant in the sporting line since Father Dillon ceased
to contribute—though, of course, we mustn't be under-
stood to say that the rev. gentleman used to write on
sperting matters. We know of more than ono hi* hop
who has dropped a trifls by still relying on the tips.'
Those sparkling observations on the legitimate drams,
and glowing dissertations on flesh-colonred-tights-and-
saw-dnst-calf shows, which a profane public attributed
to a North Shore ecclesiastic, are misssing, and the
perfesh. now throws in its patronage to the Holt Howl.
But the solitary clergyman left on the Express is a
" terror,” and can strike off political stanzas with aa
much dexterity as he can reduce a church-debt or
anathematize Barney O’Hooligan for non-payment of
bis Easter dues.
• • «
The Stage ia admitted to bo the great popular
educator of modern time?, and only a little behind the
Press in imparting enlightenment, so that when the
actor declares that he has "blewed his greed,” or is
"on his Abe Levy,” and the dress circle "takes” it to
a man or woman, it is no wonder that a " pro.” and a
pressman should exchange blows over the question as
to which teacher has rendered explanation unnecessary.
• • •
There is a station in the Far North run entirely
—or almost—by blacks. The overseer is the only white
man there. He relieves his solitude by rum, and pistol
practice. The other day a travelling preacher came
ronnd. He admonished the overseer not to miss such
a chance of salvation. ** There’s no nse, Mister,” said
the latter, in a despairing tons, "luck’s left me. I miss
tverythlng. Only two weeks ago I fired six shots at a
bush missionary who was riding off with the last bottle
of rum in the place, and 1” “And you did not hurt
the bearer of God’s word, I hope ? ” interrupted the
trembling preacher. “ No,” replied the overseer, with
the tremor of humiliation in his manly voice; " I only
broke his log. There’s no nse trying anything with me
boss. I miss everything now.” The mish. left.
* • •
This emotional yarn should be told at the very
next " mothers’ meeting.” Let us go slowly and head
it "A Bride in the Police Court":— A giddy creator*
whose nuptials were celebrated on Tuesday morning,
April 25 at half past 10 o’clock, was brought before the
bench at Carlton next morning, charged with being
drank and disorderly! The bride had her 11 marriage
lines” in her pockets when arrested, and also —more
breath —a pawn ticket for her wedding ring I ! Plea —
intoxicated with joy. Fine ss. And the bridegroom—
where was he ? We can imagine him with his boots on
the pillow and his head gracefully' resting on a neatly,
bound volume of " Pilgrim’s Progress,” or some other
bridal present, enjoying his honeymoon like a philo-
sopher. May he rest in peace.
* * *
From the Dunedin Evening Star of 2nd May ;
—“Apartments (furnished) required for couple, with
provision for future development. Details, ‘ Duplex,’
Star Office.” Future development of what? Can it
be the apartments, or is it the couple ? If the latter,
what a pity Darwin’s dead ; this couple might be worth
watching.
» • •
He had been defending a libel, and had all the
morning been examining the plaintiff, much to the
latter’s discomfiture and op only expressed resentment,
when the Court adjourned. As the sixth bivalve dis-
appeared down the barrister’s throat, the libelled plain,
tiff appeared at his side. He wore a look of suppressed
anger, and he had come to publicly insult the lawyer.
" Mr. Eedsilk,” said he, hoarsely, but loud enough for
the other people to hear, “ is there any blackguard so
lew that you will not defend him, or any cause so bad
that you will not undertake it ?” " I don’t know,”
said the lawyer, putting the seventh bivalve into his
month, and then stooping down confidentially, " what
have yon been doing ?”
Canterburyville is a lively suburb. They had a
land sale out that way last Saturday, and two of the
publicans, who had been in hed for the last six weeks
got up to attend to business. One pub. happened to be
in the mn of customers, and the proprietor raksd in
4s 6d , the heat day’s work he had done for two years
A cruel report was circulated the other day that the
** tramway was coming to Canterburyville,” and the
people all got ont of bad to see it. Several attempts
have been made to wake up the residents, but all to no
purpose. An alderman reformer some time ago tied &
kerosene tin to the boss billy-goat of the place, and he
managed to keep the folks awake for a few hours. But
when the goat got rid of the tin, Canterburyville turned
over again and went to sleep. One man ia amassing a
rapid fortune with a date-box; he charges a penny for
telling people what day in the week it is. One day he
forgot to change the date, and—. At this point, the
telegram stopped coming through. The Sydney office
" called” the Canterburyville operator for two hours,
but oould not get “i. i.,” so the message willbecoa
tinned when he wakes.
• • •
The Western Independent says that “a
fearful punishment" has been awarded to the ruffian
M’Donald, who Wa» recently sent up for three
years for breaking his wife’s leg with a poker and
then hammering her with an axe-handle. Such a sen
timent may he ‘Western Independence, but onr idea
is that the person who got the most “ fearful punish-
ment ” was Mrs. Mac—the " spare rib ” of the prisoner.
Certainly it does seem hard that a man cannot wallop
his own nigger—wo mean, bang his own wife, to jelly,
without the interference of the strong arm of the law ;
and if the editor of the W.I. is a married man, we shed
tears on his account—especially if the "old woman”
read this particular part of his rag.
SAPONE.
Over the high-leaked mountain tops
The clouds looked frowning down,
And promised vigour to the crops
And misery to the town.
The half-grown moon swept hill and glen
With silver spears of light.
Which upward thrust through clondland —then
Dispersed it into night.
It was a time when raptures grew
Like grapes upon the vine:
A moment’s breath ef summer’s glow,
And there come fruits divine!
Swayed by an impulse from the nir,
Or instinct from the spheres,
I turned—and saw a woman, fair
As ever blessed the years.
I walked beside her as she strayed
Along the river’s brim ;
And, O the magio of the maid
There in the moonlight dim!
Affinity of soul was onrs,
I trembled but to hear
Her voice, which wolled through lips like flow’rs.
And answered tear with tear.
The very wind, as though to view
The beauty of her face.
Came whispering down the vale, nor knew
Where dwelt superior grace.
Then ’twas, ineffable and faint
At first, and something miss’d,
Dimm’d past perfection with a taint
E’en love could not resist.
What did she want—this peerless one—
That chill’d my heart’s fond hope ?
Why had the tell-tale breeze began ?
Alas, she wanted soap.
AT THE SYNOD.
" Let dogs delight to bark and bite/’
Say"? Dr. What’s-his-name,
But, don’t you bleeve it’s only dawgs
As likes that little game.
There’s others, more nor dawgs, as stands
In need cl sieh reproof:
When clerics meets, more fur flies than
When cats fights on the roof.
Two Bantams fights a fairish mill;
Malays is pretty fly
At smashin* of a pinion-bone.
Or gougin’ out a eye—
But, if yer’d see a shine beat all
Ter cocks, an’ dawgs, an’ oats.
Just watch a parson peel, and give
Another parson rats I
The Scripture says we ought to loro
Each other, don’t yer know.
An’ them as does ’ll go above.
An’ them as don’t, below.
Just tramp on to a bishop’s toes.
Or shove agin a dean.
An’ what a lot o’ love, an’ sioh,
Will in their mugs be seen 1
Them parsons ought to look at 'ome.
Inside their own front door.
Afore they travels ronnd abroad
A shovin’ in their oar;
An’ should them Bishops in their lawn.
Or priests in " albs ” an’ “ stoics,"
Shy " gibbers,"* they’ll soon have their own
Glass houses full of holes I
• Tipperary for rooks.
“‘WANTED A BISHOP.”
Wanted a Bishop, an orthodox priest.
To preside at a marriage, a christening, or feast;
Not expected to work or start a new project;
To find his own c'othes, and endowment no object I
Not too broad in his views, or too high or too low,
Or too gay or too rash, or too fast or too slow.
Not a Ritualist, Pnseyite, Swedenborg man;
But a dull, sound old prelate, whose intellect’s span
Would embrace a pure sermon, or preside at a meeting,
And read the Commandments like sheep do their bleat-
ing;
An enforcer of views on Hell, judgment and pain,
An undoubted professor of bringing down rain.
Though the wind nay blow west, and no cloud in the
sky
He must bring down water, or need not apply.
So —Wanted a Bishop, to hold back the times,
Who science regards as the worst of all crimes.
• * *
An amusing thing occurred at—never mind
where: it occurred. A magistrate had a “lady”
brought before him for, say, a breach ef etiquette, and
duly sent her up for three months’. Some time after-
wards, walking down the main street, he saw an
attractive figure and pretty face coming towards him.
Noting something familiar in the features, the J.P.
politely raised his hat and made a profound bow to the
fair unknown, who calmly said, *■ Wall, old chap, going
to shout ?” It was the " lady.”
* • •
The great joke at the Liedertafel concert was
the singing of part of the E.C. Benediction service, in
the Chiniquy-cum.Allen-cum-M’Gibhon sanctuary.
The Protestant-hall is now consecrated to the Blessed
Virgin, and St. Mary’s Cathedral to the blessed Punch
and Judy,
“An Australian Subject.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Q.E.D.
How doth the little soldier ant
The holiday beguile ?
He sharpens up his pronged fork.
And peacefully doth smile—
He thinks of all the happy folk
Who, in the Easter tide.
Do lova to spend their holiday
In rambles far and wide.
Who love to pic-nic in the shade
Of some wide-spreading tree;
These are the people whom that ant
Regards with sympathy.
His humble dwelling, scarcely raised
Above the grassy ground.
Invites the happy picnic man
To sit upon the mound.
Observing which, the wily ant
Caressath of his sting.
And smiles to think what fun results
From such a little thing.
While tranquilly that pio-nio man
Absorbeth bread and ham.
He sudden grows as pale as death
And gasps a wicked “ damn 1"
Once on a time, that pic-nic man
Was never known to swear;
But now he does vociferate
Oaths both unique and rare.
The busy ant still quickly plies
This prong<s4 weapon fast.
That pic-nic victim ail the while
Ejaculating “ blast I”'
And other words, so very strong.
So sulphurous in smell,
That e'en the ant suspends his work,
While on his ear comas ** hell I"
Then gliding down that victim’s calf,
He seeks his little hole;
Th.’t guileless ant rests satisfied.
With peace upon his soul.


BRIEF MENTION.
Sir Henry at Court—Which court ?
Archibald Forbes is a teetotaller—now.
Weighed in the balance and found wanting—
A Sydney 4lb. loaf.
The leading clergy are praying for each other's
success in their application for the episcopal crook.
Since Thadeus O’Kane thrashed the man who
tried to "hammer” him, they say in N.Q., "Cave
(PKanem I ”
Now is the time we shake the dust from
the long-stored ulster* and give ear white pants to the
deserving poor.
Victorian telegraph returns show a net increase
on lest year’s business of £28,728. And onra show—bat
let as pass the subject.
To tame lions in Africa, they had a Gordon
Camming; to keep the bears in Byned in order, they
have always a Gordon present/
Sir John Robertson's Xenodochy was consider-
ably disturbed on Saturday. Now then, Forster, Wil-
kins, Badham, and Hexald etymologists t
The Pbbbbttieian says, “ there is small choice
in rotten apples." A brace of larrikiae at tha markets
would soon prove the fallibility of this logic.
Thady O’Kane is in tronhle again. This is
poetry. He was struck upon the nose. This is prose.
He is in for another libel action. This is fact.
The Hebald is giving description* of the city
and suburbs some eighty years age. Suppose it goes in
far a few biographies of the people of that time.
At Fort Cooper (Q.) station. Reverend gentle-
man praying for rain. Beepouse by fuddled fencer—
« That’s right, old man, think ef the post-holee."
Conrt crier for the third time s “ Duncan
Cameron and another," versus iso. Italian coastable at
the door: “ Dhrnnken Cameron and his mother"
It’s not a fact that T. A. Dibbs, who, by the
way, confessed that he had never read the Book ef
Numbers, mistook, for that part of the Bible, the bank
ledgers.
The little girl didn’t think so much of her dell
after it had fallen in the mnd. Who thirsts to follow
Farkes and Henniker Heaton in being presented at
Court P
“It is better to be poor and virtuous than rich
and dishonest,’’ murmured a fat city older, as be dis-
missed a ewagman who had oome to the back gate to
ask for the price of a dinner.
“ Nothing has been heard of Sir Henry Farkes
for the last few days,” said one member of the Beferm
Clnb to another. “That is the beet that oonld be
heard of him,” was the reply.
A man bearing the names of two poete—Henry
Kirke White alias Bloomfield—has been arrested at
Orange on a charge of horse-stealing. This eomes of
trying to take Pegasus out of the pound.
A strict Sabbatarian) residing in one of the
suburbs, throws his windmill out of gear oa Saturday
night so that it shall not work on the Sawbath. The
sacrilegious wind keeps blowing all the saffle.
So they’re going to nominate Bishop Moor-
house for the See of Sydney. Should he be elected,
what are we going to do for rain P His nomination is
evidently in the interests of the diamond-drill men.
On Friday last, Dr. Badham’s lecture at the
University was attended by fully sir students I Who
shall say that onr great educational institution is not
gladly and enthusiastically availed of by the colony P
Cnrrajong, a suburb of Farkes, is to be offi-
cially known as Trelowarren, after tha "Country seat"
ef the senior member for Forbes. The only “seats"
seme hapless members possess are oon-ceit and de-ceit.
The banquet given to Archibald Forbes by the
Highland Society, last week, was a very shy affair.
There was not evsn a smell of broae nor a hint of
haggis. And this is oompatriotism. Shade of
Bnrmns t
“Spasm of the glottis’’ is the new scientific
name for a craving after drink. This is a handy phrase
to have on the tip of your tongus when yonr wife asks
you with a broom-hat die in the dewy dawn what has
kept you out all night.
Since the era of the New Licensing Act, the
Western “peelers ’’ are mostly all "Never-tonoh-its."
Previously they were the best “deadheads” the pubs,
had. “No cross—no stripes;” [or, better still, “No
stars (three), ne stripes I”
Sir John Hay remarked the other day that the
Press has “ many unworthy members hanging upon its
skirts." Too true. But one of those days the Press
will tie its skirts into a string, and then there will be
many unworthy “ members ” hanging by it.
The very latest cable. At a recent Yonng
Men’s Debating Class, held at Ballyoumpoep County,
Ireland, the subject discussed was: “Which is the
most advantageous way to become possessed of yonr
ewn farm P " •* Shoot the landlord, was carried ntm
The Rev. E. G. Hodgson, when alluding to the
Sromoters of, and the lady assistants at, the English
'air, forgot to complete his now celebrated comparison.
There was another important personage who figured in
the Biblical episode, and he was—the Ass who reproved
Balaam.
The Czar, who was first favourite for the Ade-
laida Cap, came in a splendid last. So the Bible is
sound after all —the first shall be last, and the last
behindwards. However, the Adelaide Czar is a nobler
animal than his namssake, who has to go down a 70ft.
well to be crowned.
Archibald Forbes says the aim of all true
Scotchmen is to make the whole world Scotch. With
this view—we presume—the Highland Society In London
devotes a portion of its funds to the "encouragement
of bagpipe music." Tha result is clear. Those who
are not scotched are kilt.
Brevity is all very well, but when the Echo
informs ns in two lines that Mr. C. Hnenerbein was
presented with a silver salver the other night “ for hie
services as an owl," people might reasonably be excused
for wondering in what particular ruins C.H.’s dismal
midnight screeches may be heard.
The Parliamentary representatives and Mayor
out West ate rubbi&g up their old Sunday clothes,
combing their manes, and are deep in "Queen’s Eng-
lish,” is order to welcome the Minister for Mins*. The
“ Doe tor " will, if he ehoosee, be able shortly to take
his matatinal scrub In Meet and Chaudon.
The Japanese man-of-war, Isnknba, is about to
visit Australia and New Zealand. The legation of
Teddo asks that any reasonable assistance may be given
to the vessel on her arrival. There need be no fear of
this—John Davies, C.M.Q., will take the matter in
hand, and be to tke fore with the oranges as usual.
Most athletes of note have immense cars; so
has Hanlan. He possesses one striking peculiarity—
they are adjustable. In every great race, as soon as the
word is given to “ go,” he lets his " lugs ’* out to their
fullest extent to catch the favouring breese which leads
him on to victory and to fortune. This is his secret.
The Newcastle Dispatch informs its drivel-
ling subscribers that " the male cook and Mary are
considering well before they tie the matrimonial knot,"
and that *• Mary will make a dent in anybody if they
say anything about the people belonging to the other
tribe." This journal should be in every house. Every
dead-house.
In Ipswich (Queensland) ft town of 7000 in-
habitants, there are fifteen churches, as many Sunday
schools, a Young Men’s Christian Association, a Bible
society. Ladies’ Christian Benevolent Association, and
Only one Baby Farm, containing thirty juvenile in-
mates. The city of sin, sweat, and sorrow most leok
to its laurels.
When a private citizen leaves half a brick ont-
side his door, he has to either erect a Chinese Feast
of Lanterns round it, or else contribute 40s. to ths
“Central Coffers,” but a corporation contractor can
leave a whole quarry of atones to the watchful cure of a
" farthing dip." A pious old elder of a certain church,
who was straggling home the other night, collided wit h
one of these extensive graveyards, and when he had
-dually untied himself from the knot, he found it the
meet difficult job in this world to know which part of
his body wanted rubbing most, and to esy a kind word
for the aldermanic fiend he "plumped " for,
A new viper has been discovered by Dr. Carl
Helmes. in central Egypt. He has called it Arcmo-
dytes /Egyptica HolmesiL This is playing it very low
down on a dumb reptile Ton would think by its name
it was deadlier than Phillip-street boarding-house hash,
but it isn’t—it’s only about as deadly as a Sydney
Ptnrcu cartoon.
At Waverley teminna, man alights from tram,
by dog. Cendnetor: "What did yon bring
that dog with yon for ? Ton know its against the rules
dontyerf” Dog-owner: "Yes, old eon, I know it’s
•fte the rnlee, but then you eea its your work to see I
didn t bring the dawg along with me, and I 'aint going
be do your work.”
The month of Gehenna is said to be directly un-
der the Town Hall foundations. This canning device of
“• contractor to get paid for the building in this world,
and inherit the materials in the next, was only found
oub ths other day by a brether contractor, who had
business down that way, and sent up word by a new
poHoe magistrate.
A Bathurst mau says that Gladstone can’t claim
the idea of abolition of trial by jury as original, for it
ms been virtually in practice in the Bathurst district
ter years. Twelve men there are either public prosecu-
toes or defenoe advocates, the giving of the verdict
hwng delayed until the trial is over only by the form,
allties of the Court.
Father of Family, hastily, to his wife: “For
goodness sake, Emily, hide that HubAld ; here corns
the girls." Mb tartans ilia*, taken aback : “ Hide it 1
whyr” P. of F.; “Hang it I don’t you know/ It’s
improper. All the Synod proceedings are reported in
it. Quick,-shove It uder the table. Here’s This
Bvturmr instead.”
a The Zoological Necropolis Co. in London has
m started to provide: "a burial plane for pet animals,
dogs, pussy-eats, and birds.’* Of senrse, it ” insets a
want.” All that is needed now is a similar affair i u
Sydney. We’ll send three high-toned dogs for a start.
They are not pete—at least, not ours j they belong to
ear neighbour. Bat we’ll send ’em.
But that Archibald Forbes is a brother
jenrnalist, we wouldn’t venture to impart to him a
Seat antipodean secret. Scotchmen may he beating
s tom-tom before the Banian throne, and ruling
things generally in the eld world, but sometimes the
nee throws back, and predates a bad architect. Mr.
Ferbts will also regret to hear that several Seotehmen
in this eoaatry have became Baptists.
11 And yon mean to say,” observed the solicitor
for the defenoe at the Water Police Court, “that yon
held the kip and threw the nob with the tail grey ruag
in P " and it had to be explained to the wondering P. M.
that the “kip’* is a stick, that “nob” means heads,
and "tail grey” a penny with two reverses; while
"ringing in" is introducing clandestinely. And yet
they say our magistrates are educated meal -
Another dream. A gentleman in Sydney dreamt
on Sunday morning that while under the influence of a
morsel of underdone potato and a blot of mnstard,
that the name of the chief assastiu in the Cavendish
affair was Robert Erwin, and that ho was coun-
selled by a solicitor named Stapleton As the
dreamer never was in Dublin, end knows the name of
no one living there. It will be worth while to watch the
outcome.
A Brisbane gaol-warder, recently sent to Noumea
as extra guard over some returned French escapees,
was received into the best New Caledonian set, and in-
vited to a Government House ball as an " agent of Her
Majesty, the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, and
Empress of India." The warder was a German by
birth. When the hangman visits Noumea, he will re-
ceive as much honour and glory as does Sir Henry at
the Court of St. James.
In the course of the speech made by Mr. Archi-
bald Forbes at the “ Heelan " shivvoo the other night,
the banquette observed'“ln that great army, the press,
there were many grades—there were many unworthy
members banging upon its skirts.” Immediately, three
evening reporters, and a man with a saveloy in his bat.
called out: "Is it I, Forbes—is it I?" Bat the war-
waa a little deaf in that ear, and thus es-
caped utter annihilation.
.. Mase swell: ‘ What a boah ! Been to all
tne theatahs, nothing new; boahed to death with
theah’s nothing left but biUlawds and eoawtA
f£ all u. ° ec °nd hlaii swell:—“Cheeah up, old fellah;
tneaix s a new sensation in Phillip-stwest- Have yon
been to the Anglican Synod ?” And after it was all
vlf 1 declared they were " ntvah so delighted
u- j . mt,s t invite that pawson fellah Hodgson
and his daughtahs of Moab to suppah.”
Prince Leopold tells a capital story in illustra*
tion of the Queen’s coolness. Just after the occurrence
itno attempted assassination), he arrived at the Castle,
ana was much affected He presented his fiancee, the
rnncesß Helene, and, going down on one knee, ex-
claimed, as is usual in royal circles—
your blessing, mother, and afond caress—
ro w hieh the Queen answered with a smile.
My darling boy. I’m of the old no hUste !
It was at .Rockhampton. He had jnst arrived
fresh and green from the old country. Sitting down to
dinner, and espying a dish of rosy chilies in their
natural state, he reached over his hand and took about
naif a dozen, all of which he stuffed into hie mouth.
He ground them for a very little while between his
ponderous jaws, and then with an unearthly howl he
shot the masticated mass into the faces of the other
boarders. There wasn't a dry eye at that table.
The Qotjlburn Herald advocates “ complete
independence for Ireland.” Old man Gladstone s Co.
might paste that on their boots with profit. It may
save a few Lord Lieutenants’ lives, and perhaps enable
William Ewart to keep ail his “bar” on. The same
journal also announces the important fact that a cat
up there has jnst “ kittened ’’ 17 kits, and come off
snccrsvfnlly, but ss they don’t happen to be of the
Kilkenny breed perhaps the Imperial Government will
not teel interested.
Bradlaugh’s latest grievance is that the mystie
tetters “ Eeq " were not inserted in the writ for his last
Northampton election. Th# authorities carefully
pointed out to Charles that he described himself as a
“ journalist and publisher,” thus rendering the title ho
claimed "unnecessary and improper/” In future,
therefore, we will follow suit, and speak of the Pai’fax,
the Bennett, to. Journalists evidently occupy the
same position row that strolling players and “ fiddlers ”
did In W. Shakspeare's time.
A country paper pablished, a week or two tinoe,
the English hangman's statistics an “ instructive read-
ing" lor Ite snbsoribers. The snbsorlbers—fire la
nnmber—took the hint, and came rennd to the editor’s
oilce next day with a green.hlde rope. He was ent—
hiding in an adjacent tan pit. The subscribers, finding
this, marched out of the office again, and, taking pos-
session of the body of a dead bullock that had been
lying by the roadside for some days, poured a tin of
kerosene over it and burnt the editor in effigy.
It is said that when the Corporation labourers,
who earn their "panem” by the perspiration of their
os frontis and levelling roads, observe the Hon. John
Lucas jugging along in his second-hand hearse they
step on one side, give a tug to their hats, and exclaim :
“ Musha, Gad be wid ye, Lookis; but it’s yerself
that’s th’ poor man’s frind indade ; shure we couldn’t
dump that lot as flat in a week as ye do in a minit.”
Then they rest for the day, and improve their minds
pitching pennies at a red rag for “long sleevere.”
Mr. M. J. Shannon, of Wollongong, thus writes
to the local paper:—“Though an unsuccessful candi-
date for the office of ponndkeeper, I derive some
comfort in my rejiction from the fact of having the
confidence of those aldermen who supported me.”
Cei tainly Shannon; any man should be supremely
happy who oonld lay inch a flattering unction to his
soul. We see how it is—some subtle intrigue has
caused you the loss of the responsible office, hut your
trouble is not that so much as the " principle of the
thing."
Oar sapient legislators made it law that the
squatters mustn’t ringbark the timber on their rune.
This was in order that the cockles might have the bark
to build their humpies, in which to fulfil the residence
clause. The recent drought, however, pinched many
i quatters so hard that they had to cut down thousands
of trees to feed their starving stock with. And the
cutting down of trees is found to be beautifully within
the law, but ringbarking f—sacri I And, “ would man
spare the tree under the circumstances ? Hardly ;
especially as barkers isn’t willing. *
Ma . Caul y. wa9 l . BO prophet. That futnre
New Zealander of his who is to do the Jeremiah busi-
ness on London Bridge is a fraud. Macaulay knew
nothing: about Australian land legislation, or he would
have known better how to prophe»y. The last man on
London Bridge will be a free selector, and he won't
bow! cinch. He 11 just stop there and lire on shellfish,
unless there are any stray jnmhucks around. And if
eren the angel Gabriel comes that way, the free selector
will dispute tho passage of the bridge until Gabriel
buys him out at a fancy price. That’s where we hum.
A Civil servant and a draper had a deadly
quarrel in Parramatta the other day. Each had accused
° l , .. bei ! 3 £. a * ub ? crlb er to the Fv*ning Times.
An insult like this had to bo out in blood
appointed preliminaries arranged, and
then the strife of heroes began. Long and sanguinary
was the conflict desperate the blow* .At last t£o
seconds meroifuUy interposed. When the combatants
home, and their injuries examined, it was
o an 8 hair was rnuch disar-
ranged, and that the Civil Servant’s moustache was nil
A storekeeper in a town down South pnt up a
galvanised iron addition to his shop, filled it with
er two balsa of cheap calico, and called it the
Manchester Department.” This grated the sonl of
♦h" r J!J *h* way. He laid awake at night and
thought and thought over the thing till be got as thin
as one of the D.T. paragraphs commencing: “The only
“Ki ‘I 1 * 16 Wlt<!r Po,ioe Court yes-
terday, Ac. At last the happy thought came. Ho
StL* w/dIU. 8^“ml c i rou8 -P°Bter painted and pat
over his door. “ The Metropolitan, Universal, cheap
Crimean Shirt Colosseum," was the way
from that Th th6F man becam9 insolvent in a month
He was a tall imposing-looking “furriner ”
patriarchal beard, and a stovepipe
Jlfv “d as he stalked to the New York
Post Office with a majestic stalk, small boys hung on to
the eels of his boots in the fond hidea that they were
aving a ride on an 'orse ear. Fixing his •• beagle bye "
?“_£• nf l ih+ i w oha a^’.w e aaid A“ Ave - vou benny letters
C SIF , En , erjr P After a diligent
fumble, the derk replied: “Nosir.” “But you’ve
looked bin the wrong box." exclaimed tho irate enquirer
-my name begins with haitch, not with He-you’ra
Imrful slew ( in these parts; you hor ter see my men in
a « th ? £ lork h *°ded over an Even
halr-d* 7 thA- H ‘ 8 letter ' and a couple of bills for
With a sigh of relief we learn that the Prince of
y d ,tl lr ?S all his «ods be taught to
do somethin* with their hands/' It would increase
wL«°rr° rt H wever * if we knew exactly what Mr.
Wales intends his son to do with their hands." That
£^i«m P fw eal the “ Artfnl Dodger," could
do something with his hands, and so could his humour-
ous friend. Master Charley Bates; but their sphere of
hampered by the police, whose
attentions, as the late Mr. E. Kelly remarked, were a
Srifb S^ n . C . 6 -, Ll J rrjr Pol ®y Cin “do something
with his hands also, from putting a head on a long
* p *? PUfc i i y a d l tto on man his weight
fcftf,. Kamaohatka. Bertie and George
rl£S& w““t1
ssf'W^rrtr 10 - ot “k™. ■»* th«a
swell to 7 the P dr° B gg“ e t’ a
toek Gnndmortar aside, and whispered in his ear The
latter turned to Boniface, saying “ It’s all right—walk
in there, pointing to his consulting room. They both
came out in a minute or two, looking savavo
jw 6 7f l ■’ bßfcthe waf tC d » o7i
tho hills, and would soon b© ** far away,"
During the recent triumphal tour of a certain
opera company it became desirable to re-inforce the
female supe. department by employing half-a-dozen
local ladies, well and favourably known to
gentlemen who held season tickets "
The opera was II Trovatore," and all went n«
tb a n il 07 fallin f down a cellar, until the gip«yae“n“
when the recruits were at once “ spotted," and saluted*
with a perfect yell, over which the voice ofthermal
t°b C ° Uld ba heard as he screamed, •• My
oath, Sarah Johnson, your father’ll shift your eal- if he
catcher yer .bowin’ yer shins in that style." From
bb «ti/ ottr ®“ ah P a ®s e d away into private life- and
nHH« 6r JTJV!? nippo( * in tlle b ud by a revengeful
know.’ BlWld Holt ,Woars this is trae » “d he ought is
sras 1 ?F e - zi
m-smmmm
iJXi will be as much in the se«et as
are the evangelists. You don’t require a barn wfth !
thousand strings to try the experiment piano
will do. For purposes of divine worship the Mm a
music should be rendered “sweet and low" in the
CrM^er8 e ~VbutTbp Ame n Can .° rffan fram the factory
tisement from ns). Many* is the B f ad^ er :
set «,r ■wwa atafas
colony, have engaged Jack O’Neill, of the Qubammtln
Times, to coruscate for them in their paper. He heads
his contributions " Sparks." This is how it sZkles!
davV 11 fWd f Wa f n ’v that a floriong downpour on Mon-
day P Good for tanks, good for dirty drainsand gutters
w^th g wbf«V° r thB la / ly Bown seed " Good fo/mixicg
Z h .7 bi ? T™ 8 t 0 aa to be more to the point • buf
the sepulchral humour of this Quean bo jan Eabelnis
skips airily away from that view of the question wl
are not certain, remember, is that he engaged to eon
styl!r t *Ennning H^|) ?b CL *’ v W u gnesa 80 Blm P'y by the
, ann . ln *' through the paragraphs there is a
fb? en * BStlv , lty J ° f Pbrase than can only be compared to
thA enintoZw This confirms ns in
18 BOt the writer ’ then
This is a howl. There is an epic poet in Yonncr
Jpt Un h dkeep v 9r a “ da P oun d there, but the
poet hm noi yet been branded. Poets are
branded en the left ear. This on* has by hm a ™,
lation im verse ef Virgil’s •’Ainsid." It ieZidto
moredeadly than an iuisrnal machine. Anyhow Henry
Kenda l wye it has ebased him howling and ’m'sma-
.to r? o .'- in a P to“he
JTORBES remarks that be is •• forced to say" thai
his translation ha* met with no small degree of
approval from competent judges." One of these
appears to be a local storekeeper. His store stands
?«^«Ti oP f°" te the Principal hotel in Young. Con!
lequantly, be is a good judge of epic poetry. We esn-t
exactly see how this fits in, but it does somehow. After
?tn!te , Af 1 to rUSa !» 0, * t w e back ot the book * and a minute
uf the a ? d *f tak " 8 advertisement thereon, Mr
oallid b° f h * COncluEion that th « poem shouldn’t
tw 4f led ? U bu * epicene—^internal evidence showing
that it must hav« baen written by a horse ®
old Olympus’ laurelled height
The Mines that have sung
Bo long tVereon, have taken flight
And gone—ye gods I—to Young.
A New Zealand contemporary tells a story of
Mr. Twopeny and half-a-orown, wuich we are sad to
nf ln , p . rm :; Jt ar s ues S'eat irreverence for the sane-
tuy cf truth on the part of the writer. Anyhew, the
statement is that Mr Twopeny banded the gold medal
be was going to .end to the Queen through Hir Arthur
tiordon to a newspaper men for safe-keenin* The
newspaperman took it out, ai-d.ubstituted half-a'crown.
The case containing this was just about to be parsed to
His Excellency when the newspaperman remembered
his practical j.ke. And so cn. Now, it is clear on the
face of it that no sane person would trust a pressman
with a gold medal ; secondly, that if Mr. Twopeny
made this mistake in a clouded moment, the newspaper
man raised enough to pay his wash-bill upon the medaL
and the practical joke story was fabricated by his
brother-writers to account for tho thing; and. thirdly
and emphatically, we can tee that this is only a des!
DAYLIGHT I—PAYMENT OF MEMBERS IN N.S.W.


m
m-
DR. J. SIMMS, of New York,, the Unrivalled
Physiognomist and popular Speaker, wUI deliver
t *wm of eleven Illustrated and Amusing LEGTUEES
em Practical and Solentilo Physiognomy, or the Beve-
lakioa of Volltive, Mental, and Moral qualities by the,
peculiar characteristics of the Figure and Face—of the
Gestures, Habit?, and Lines of Facial Expression. The.
course whieh he has the pleasure ef announcing, will
open with a lecture on ” Human Faces and Noses," to
be delivered at the Temperance Hall, Pitt-etreet, MON.
DAY EVENING, next, at 8 o’clock, continuing on
“What Forms the Features of M»nT May 28rd;
“Hand Shaking. Walkisg, Laughing," May 25th;
“ Lips, Month, Teeth, Ears, Music," May, 26th ; “ Skin,
Nsok, Forehead, Memory,” May 39th; “ Hair, Hands,
Hand-writing,” May 30th; Physiognomy, its applica-
tion," May 3I»t; ” ayes. Eyelids, Eyebrows, Bye-
lashes," June Ist; “ Nervous System, and Mind,” June
2nd; ** Physiognomy of the Earth.” June sth; "Love,
Courtship, and Marriage," June 6th; Admission—One
Shilling and Two Shillings ; Last Lecture 2s and 3s ;
Course Tickets 10s and 20r. Each Lecture will com-
menoe at 8 p.m. Buies to promote Beauty will be given
each evening. Entertaining Public Character-readings
at the close of every Lecture.
In this Series of Lectures, Dr. Simms will unfold his
New System of Physiognomy, which is based upon the
closest observation of Nature, and confirmed by the
daily experience of the habits and characteristics of tho
lower animals as well as of man. Thoroughly to under-
stand this System is to know what are our abilities
and disabilities ; what are our faults and those of others,
and what are the means of correcting them. While
Philanthropy teaches us to LOVE our neighbour us
ourselves, Physiognomy a'oneoau show us bow wo may
KNOW them os ourselves, and tho practionl value of
this knowledge of ourselves aud others cannot be over-
estimated. By means of it we are enabled to nmb. tbo
best use of our natural endowments ; to escape vlio
snares set far us by the vicious and designing, and lu,
surround ourselves with friends aud helpers wur-hy
the name.
The Pictorial World, London, Bays:—” r.
is known us the most ski.led practical Physl >gubi
Tho Monetary and Mining Qabeitk, Loidou, suyia
“ Dr, Baums is the must aide ana ibe sv up,, ~
ponent of Physiognomy among living , t , Zah.
ski, London, says;— It cannot be dsniol * b«»ui>-
jeet is of importance. Hbrewd observation on 1 o part
of the author." The Book, a religious paper,
London, says;—“Will amuse, instruct, and eulighteu
the mind, and purify the affections."
PHYSIOGNOMICAL CHAET3—DaIIy, during the
Lecture Course. Dr. Simms will be lu waiting at the
comfortable private ante-room of the Temperance Hall,
la order to supply the public with Written and Oral
Descriptions and his large Physiognomical Cnarrs so-
eurateiy marked to indicate the Intellectual, Moral, and
Social traits of applicants, their state of health, the oc-
cupations for which Nature has adopted them, aud the.
character of person they should choose for a Ute com-
panion. Thousands of men and women is Great Britain
and America are to-day reaping the benefits of a con-
sultation with Dr. Simms. To follow his professional
advice, eemmnnicated orally, and by means of his
Charts, is to pursue the path of virtue, happiness, and
worldly success.
T
HB FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited).
SYDNEY and MELBOUKNB.
Capital, £1 000,000.
Subsciibed, £650,000.
Directors s
Hon. J. J. Casey, C M.G., President.
J. B. Watson, Esq , Vice-President.
John Eobb, fceq.
John Wbiitingtiam, Eeq.
William M'Lean, Eeq., J.P.
Hon. James Munro, M.P., Manng-
ing Director.
Temporary Banking House, Sydney s
267 George-street, North.
Francis S. Macdcrmolt, Esq.,
Manager.
John oocker, Esq , Accountant.
Messrs. Kobortsou aud Fisher, Selicikmn.
THE FEDEEAL BANK OP AUSTEALIA (Limited)),
offers several
Special Facilities
to those
Who Eequire
Banking Accommodation.
Interestwill be allowed on current accounts.
2. Fixed deposits will be received at highest vmreM
rates.
3. Every branch of hanking business transacted.
4. Bills will. be discounted daily upon the most
moderate terms.
5. Every arrangement completed, to facilitate busi-
ness without delay to customers.
FEAN 018 8. MAODBEMOTT, Manager.
It is necessary, during hot weather, to avoid
beverages likely to heat or stimulate the system.
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous oil, and guaranteed
absolutely pure, is a most soothing, sustaining, and
refreshing beverage. Be sure that you get CAD-
BUKY’S COCOA ESSENCE when you ask for it, as
imitations are often pushed by shopkeepers for the
sake of extra profit. Makers by special appointment
to the Queen.—(Adtt.)
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-streat,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 4j, be knows about as much as those that bava.
We trust our readers will not neglect this uppor-tusity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoo-ehope. It you want
anything in the boot-lino, from a patten to a danolng-
pnmp, you hod better call at 581, and “see what is the
matter with Hannah." The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our solo. Boots ought to he in great demand
now, if only for the kicking of llbel-case Jurymen.—
Adtx,
“You’re a clever child man, but you would be.
none the worse for hanging," sail a Judge of the olden,
time to a culprit at the bar, who pleaded a had c unw
t o eloquently ; and when a sowing maohiug man nils U
column of small type with blatant rhetoric, iu itxo vaiu
endeavour to make the wor,e appear the better reason,,
it would be good for those whom bumkum catches,
could the arbitrament of his fate be submitted to the<
practical sagacity of such a one as the old judge.
Singer’s S iwing Machines constitute efi
all the sewii g machines sold throughout the world, and
the yearly increase ou the saios iu suntrulia, is greater-
than the entire output of their puny rivals. Am®
Singoi’s machines are sold without obeatery, chicaner ja
or cheek.—Advt.
The Rockhampton Ladgsino Jackass*
ferriug to the widely and well-known Palace Hotel,
East-street, Eockhampton, says ;—“ When visiting
Eockbampton don’t fail to see the only sight of the
town, viz , the Picture Gallery of the Palace Hotel,
East-street. This Hetsl has one of the handsomest
fitted up bars In town ; als >, the bast furuirbed silting
rooms iu town. The Billiard Boom contains a table
second to none In the Colonies. Ib the Olnb Boom,
which is large and well ventilated, will be found a
brilliant-toned piano. Ton will find cool drinks of
superior quality, manipulated and served by the most
charming of young ladies.” The lease, etc., of above
flourichmg aud rapidly improving bar business, to be
disposed of. A bargain. Particulars from the Inter-
colonial Agency Company, 91 Elizabetb-etreet, Sydney-
—■ Advt.
(Continued from p age 7.)
twa men oould play on sale horns t" At Auckland,
Woodyear’s Royal Australian Circus doesn’t attract the
bald-headed because it has no lady riders, but the
drunken clown does his pirt so well thas temperance
people heave prayers at him. This must bo a flue
specimen of the good old mellow drammer Apropos
to drunkenness aud New Zealand and matters theatri-
c«l, it is evident that Sir Julius Vogel has not lost all
his prestige and influence in England, tor he has induced
an English provincial manager to produce his version
of 44 Ltdy Audley’s Secret," which ho dramatised
twenty years ago, in his young days, before he was
bothered with gout, debts, And titular distinction*.
This was in Dunedin. Julias was editor of the Otago
Dailt Times, and Farjcou, tho novelist, was his
44 mb." Joe Holt aud Joe Wolf, Mrs. Holt, old Shields,
the Ryan, Tom Fawcett, and Casiie Matthews had
parts in the piece. Where are they now ? Some are
dead, some are in America, some in—ah I some have
written the truth in a newspaper—gaols, dungeons ! of
course Kohler commits his mutderoui waxworks
assaults on the public of the West Coast of N.Z Dick
and Barry and the Man Pish. Westland must be a nice
p) ace _t« leave On dH by a very wicked publican
that Kohler has been exhibiting a bad image that has
already done duty as Sullivan. Lara son, and Judas
Isoariot, to the teetotallers of Maori Land a# our own
Dillon.
• • •
“ My daughter Emma ” is in Melbourne, await-
ing developments, but 41 Gui” propheiies that sh * will
soon again bo a pritna donna assoluta,
* # •
Signor Nobili, who does biz. for Simonson, is
the best operatic agent in Australia (no, we have not
forgotten De Vivo). His hat and accent are towers of
strength...... The Archibalds arc coming to the front
like au unbacked horse for a Cup. One has got into
and out of gaol; another mokes hundreds a night at
lecturing, and has a special train gianted him ; and
now a third: Murray, of that ilk, has had a play ac-
cepted by the Queen’s Theatre mauagon-ent. Hands
all round for tho Archibalds. The play is 44 Love, Hate,
and Vengeance," and is to bo produced with plenty of
lu.ee Lots of real griitittoati jd cxpressel at tbe re-
covery aud return to the stage of Hm ry Stoneham, who
waa fired out of the flies of tho Q men's during the
pantomime. Bythe-bye, has anyme seen Haygarth
lively? Tho Williamson scandal has been traced
h me ; its author, a female—a perfect lady—will
Ikc y come right up before the " Binch.
R -yuolda having joined Biylers as partner in tho Gaiety
Theatre, tho firm will be known as Brimstone and
Traacle. Is it Treacle or Arimstone who leaves by the
’Frisco mail The B jonCorned) Company, consisting
of Mr. aud Mrs Boothnmu, Misr Jessie Grey, and
other capable artistes commence a country t >ur at
Bathurst on the 24tk mst. As soon as Jessie is scan at
Bathurst, wo may look for many suicides among the
yokels.
# • •
Williamson’s profits at Christchurch are said to
have been uuaily a century a night. Ha finished there
April 25, then did a fortnight in Wellington, and went
On to Auckland to open Abbott s new Opera House . . ..
Tue rernuns of De Lias’ comoany hive been
joined by Mice, Miller, and Mons. Victor, and at last
dates were doing a big biz. at the Theatre Royal,
Auckland.
• « •
Maooabe is due in Dunedin in Jun , though
Fred HUoooks informed us that he was working bis
way overland towards Sydney Aoriuofrls 1 inN Z.
Said Verdi seemed deeply immersed in a calculation a*
bo whether as the Cap .aln of the Pinafore, ha ought to
hitch up his navy blues ; but sang tho music fairly wall.
George expressed a wish to have the critic out with h.'m
In the wilds of New Jersey, near Milano Hirry
Towle’s next execution will be that of •' La Petite
Mademoiselle," Amy Horton in the title rdle. He
horton to do this sort of thing .Lewis’ minstrels are
in Christchurch (SI Z), but will go south again J.
P. Weit's bright side finds the buq at last. Ha ie
playing Legreo in Uncle Tom.
** * *
The übiquitous Maooabe is announced to appear
at the Victoria Tueatre, Newcastle, on the 23rd mat.
Corados, in tho Referee says: Kyrla
Ballew’s real name Is Higgins. We know better. From
tue same evidently truthful source we learn that in
spite of all attempts to bolster up the comedy "The
Manager," by Buruand, it is a hideous fulure. Isn’t
Geo. R. Sims, author of " The Lights o’ London,"
" Mother-in-Law," counseled wah the Referee?
Mss Augusta Dargon tipped the Temora folks 8 neri-
din’s Riae, by Read, 44 the subject bjiag a personal
friend of hers" The Queanbeyau Amateur Aseasdua
perform in publio on the 2lst proximo. Mr. H. S,
Gannon in command Twelve hundred feet of hose at
the fire that destroyed tho reptiles in the Melbourne
Z >ologioal Gardens, but no plugs available, value of
snaiks, £2oo—no insurance John WiDon secured the
Central Market in Adelaid > for his circus, which he
fitted np comfortably, to the wondermen . of the scribes
there, who had never seen a comfortable circus tent
before. There was a big gathering for the open-
inf A correspondent says Jimmy South with
his company played two nights in Ipswich (Q),
to splendid houses, and had met with "enthusiastic
receptions in Toowoemba and Warwick."
A'midale has had a visit from Miss Lily Marsh's Royal
Pinafore Company (how those companies do spring up),
and a local paper considers it the best that has visited
the city of Armidalo. Bishop, you know. Comnany:
Lily and Annie Marsh, Beatrice Lister, Amy Fraser;
M ssrs. Hagan, Inglis, and Dignam... . At one of his
seances, Rice, the mind reader, said of a subject, a
aawney, yet self-complaisant sort of customer, with a
straw complexion and hur to match—''this man, in
oise of becoming stage-struck, would have boundless
i ifatuation, but, lacking grao and fitness, would only
pe -severe till be had disgusted his b.-st friends ” The
s raw-colored subject explained that ha had been for
t u years the leading oom.o singer of South Australia
Tableau Rockhampton is to have visits from Bin-
hamo and St. Leon’s circuses in one. J. L. Hall
was reported, bnt, wads the Fitzroy soribc— the news
is too good to be true."
• • •
The old Vic. (London), the scene of Bravo
Hijks s triumphs, is now a Cc ffea Music Hall, and as
s.ich was late y patronised by that '‘Calais and Dovery,
alt tho world ovary, knock-about young man" Wales,
and his missus. As they entered, au artist was ringing,
but tbe orchestra abandoned the aootnp.inimaiit to
blast out 44 God Bless the Prince of Wale*," to the dis-
gust of the transpontive audience who pretested with
'‘that be blowed," 44 go on with the song," etc.
When royalty was duly seated, they insisted on
the possts or of the stage finishing his "turn. 4 ’
Anna Dickinson has gt t a London engagement.
Has everybody heard the very lively anecdote
about Anna, and George D. Proutico of the
Chicago Tims? George, who »a the smartest
feuilleton wriior m America, piichel into Aura, who was
a vVoumn’s Right Li-cturo.-w, andiho said that D bo did
it again she’d give him tit for tat. He did write
ugaiu, aud a the end < f iu« i-nifio said—" Now, Anna,
tuere s ” —but, gentle r< nde , make the j-ko for
yourself Now York mtm-jg-ia nr i going in
for uninflammable asbeotoj drop curtails—Uei cost
£4OO a utue. Keovh and S.eele slop forward —
Gooch is doing op jra tie camera with amateuis in Auck-
land, and vciy multy amatmrs, too, report says
A window wii, u three he p ess bairns put in an appear-
ance at Cary’s bankruptcy meeting—caused a sensation
aud made tho court very sultry for Pirate, who squirmed
* # #
Jack Haverly, the OoUossus of the “ peifosh,”
has snapped up •'tho only L e °u”for two years’, aud
Bnlsbury’s Iroubadors hat e disbanded, while Blouuiu
goes on tour with Barnnm next season. Haverly
rarely travels with any show himself, and never even
visited Loudon whoa his Mastodons play ed at Her
Majesty’s. The rumour as to h s insolvency now
appears unfounded
cated old yara, got up by the New Zealand press to
uke us belisve that it# members are rolling in wealth.
What do they mean by their insulting talk about half-
crowns, when Sydney scribes are going about with-
out the iri o of a dinner ? And this is in a Christian
land, where wen kneal down and prey 1
Lively times at Parramatta. Dramatis personw:
Enraged woman, horsewhip, local newspaper man.
Serious defalcations already unearthed by the
Friendly Societies' commission, and more discoveries
likely to follow,
“A pang of burglars are now operating in the
suburbs cf Sydney.’’ W« have been hitherto under
the sweet delusion that they were tunning a paper at
Parramatta.
Blackfellow, after working on a station for seven
years, wauts a settlement with the owner ot 80,000
acres. Dialogue :— 14 Weil, Billy, whai do I owe you ?"
" Don’t know, Boss," says Billy. Boss replies-"I
will tell you. You have had two pairs of blankets, and
two pairs you have never had, that make# four, *o t>ke
seven pounds ten shillings and we are quits." “Give
it here." say# Billy, *' and I ain’t going to work as
stockkeeper any more."
The mean and envious Mcntmorenci Burdett-
Jones, of tho Lands, who live# in Macqnarie-«ti eet, and
is unccniclonsly a poet, send# ua the following des-
cription of a love episode which, he s#ys, Ismalutinally
witnessed hy about twenty fellows of ids acquaintance,
all young, indent in tho pursuit of virtue, and endowed
with unlimited powers of loving. They got up very
early, and, still arrayed in tho snowy robes of night,
stand at their windows looking down on —well, but here
you are :—" At tbe grey dawn of fast approaching day,
whilst milk carts onward plod their wenry way, a gentle
youth, not Jones nor Brown, I ween, fiom upper bed-
room windows may bo seen, with arms encircling &
slight elf-like form, doiug bis best to keep the loved
one warm. His uuols, ia the Senate house bath place,
ami comes of common if not ancient race; whilst he,
the kiddy, is so dobonnair, no wonder he’s a favourite
with tho fair. Adown Macquarie-street wo sea them
pass, this young Adonis aud his pretty lass : She in the
balcony shutting the domain, reclining reads, and
wondjre when again, her lover, fond and true, with kiss
she’ll greet, and chance tiu- ducks if Bn>one should
sce’t. Daily the little game is carried on, the which
with envious eyes we gaze upeu. An hour thus flies,
tho morn is growing late, adtenx are said within the
kissing gttj where ingress to tho garden palace is.
They finish up their frolic with a kiss Such hugging
and such mugging ne’er was seen before, adding fresh
sweets to swtet Port Jackson’s shore. Ah I then they
part, Lord knows with what regret, and promises to
meat again—you bet."
An Echo essayist proves in three columns that
the art ot Epigram is dead. He dishes up for our
delectation, tho waggeries of tho old wags from Sidney
down—
The art of Epigrrtn is dead ;
The Sydney Echo said—
But ours with Sidney’s will be read,
And sound e’en when The Echo’s fled.
A copy of Mr. Tennyson’s song “ Hands all
Rrand" uas been transmuted to the Chief Seeretaiy
of Victoria in order that it should be sung throughout
the colonies on liar Majesty’s birthday. Mr. Tennyson
has written some nice little rhymes at on# time or
another, but in this instance he ha# failed to get a good
grip of the spirit of colonial loyalty. Consequently w«
have gouged out a little lyric of our own upon the same
lines as his, bat which is, we modestly opine, m»ro
calculated to ra-p up the enthusiasm of Australians.
This is how it jogs—
Now if any whisky-firm had had the graceful courtesy
to senl us a frssh sample of tnelr forty-rod wo would
have advertised them in a Sung that would go down to
posterity—and the dust-bin. As it is, the muse won’t
run it.
Ted Jonea, the boss bookmaker, whose last
coup wai A 3500 on Euclid down at the recent Adelaide
race meeting, is a compositor by ttade. lAke
Archibald Forces, ho has fcaud hi# true vocation. He
still considers himself as a ropre...ontaiive of tne lourth
estate, and there is som i talk of the Atheue nn Club
giving him a banquet wnea he returns to dy aney.
“You say you are a landed proprietor, my
man,” askea Algernon de Fitzgoboler of a seedy-
looking man who n&d been drinking well and talking
better; 44 Now, where aboats is your oroperty ?' 4
• 4 Bbo’ me a map, cl’ boy,” was tho thick reply.
This was tho diffi.alty, till Cooper, who canvasses lor
Bayliss' panoramic views ot Sydney, dropped in and
solved the difficulty. 44 My—io—posshessioud-ic— nay
shay my ancestral halls lie just—ro—just ahout tuere,"
and he put down his big thumb in an uncertain way
and covered half of tne bet.t part of George aud
Pitt-str-ets. He was kickel out as u fraud—sarve
4 im right—but Cooper negotiated a dozen or two of
those splendid photographic scroll# oetween that aud
the next drink. —airvr.
In America, seemingly, it is considered comrne
il faut lor men ana women to marry and divorce at
least once in three years. They don’t notner them-
selves about sentimental morality, but go in for straight
dowu affection wnlle it heats, aud when it is a "gone
ooon," they go in equally utraight for a change ef
partners. In short, tueir counubiH arrangements urn
carried out much in quadrille fashion, ana mats why
you find so u any interesting folk in buries society.
They go as naturally to a stranger, and think as litue
of their partner, as would a vm-a-vis in tho Lauetrs.
This creates tomu confusion, doubtless ; still it keeps
things well up in tno Marou of Civilization. Butin
Australia the process ot changes—iu mairimoiml
partnuiship —is a slow and costly one, and rather nasty
in regalu to tho exposure oi the family skeleton. The
resmt of this naturally is that people live togrtuer, wuo
pray daily tor tho demise ot each other, albeit tne
smile conuubiul plays continually over the bypoentiuai
features. Mhi* high talucm prelude lends op to
n little bit of news aneul our Divorce Two
cases are set down f ir heating, and bum ibu petitioning
partite arc 4 ’the questionably Heart broken auddiopiy
injured spouse. " In one case the dreadful creature is
allied to a w. raer-haif enjoying a lat bilut in iho Gov-
eminent s rdoe — a pdrtoi-i, old Lothaiii, who fla.-, so
jt is s-id, 0000 nns b at to outrival wise Belomou of o.d
ju tlie iuu.lt c of female appendages to nts housebo.U.
But the old cuss has btpb fjuud tripping, and his in-
tense oxorioutuets is about to have a cnoos, aud ,4 oUo v
up." Of C nr.-e that undeliuable < lung called socie’j is
awfully shucked. Yet wbat it win no wuen the othe.
and more interesting episode come* uy for pu uic
deleciutton it is dre idiui. to coutomp.ato. Tbe wife L>
pretty, au’d not n-uoh over 30. Her husband i* ul-o
under 40, They have been joined in the holy bo do
ot matnmony .-.onp ton y ais, and are the m solabSc
parents ot five happy children, in tempir mey a.o,
it appear , loth of the Omit stamp— oomequenot, eter-
nal disagreements, and sometimes bur. i. -qo inuia
phorioaby speaking. At last a final eruption Luos
place Vesuvius was as w„to' unto wuie m the
matter of companion Tn >y patted. They
abused one another till people began to uou b,
jf either was tolling the ,er-„wth Suddenly the
gentler one of the pair found that (hough she had
likened h«r partner to ihi Evil One he was nut so had
after all. Curious enough to say, this discovery was
made just about the time that charmer the sec ud hid
found that all women were not neoess.nly even as his
sweet angeho dark one had proved herself to b«
Result —an interview between th# wife and the fair
charmer. Time occupied at this wool-gathering, come
tea minutes. Appearance afterwards —the wife loaded
with golden locks, tne charmer lying in a faint. Finale,
the dark one threatened with proceedings if apoh gy
and hair not forthcoming. In future, the divorce suit
spoken of above—in which the disclosures are to be
especially interesting—proving what folly it is to marry
(or love and fight fer pastime.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Whenever a certain Northern (Q.) basso is in a
hurry to lake a low note, he t urns tho mude sheet down-
side np Gregory, the groom at tho Opera House,
v°ry eft -n forgets that he comes from Yip kshire, aud
a lifts an Irish brjuue occasionally 1 h > Hoi oway
• ronpe ua« performed atFoibes to crowded houses. It
is a painful fact that the local paper# give longer
notices to the company tbnn were awarded to the last
circus Stray Leaves at Teaterflald.
m m •
When small-pox was prevalent at Chicago,
Colonel Mapleson decided to have all hi# opera troupe
vaccinated. It was great fun—to every one but the
troupe. Mrs. Mapleson bared one arm bravely.
Four mademoiselles each s&criflosd a lower limb (we
cannot particularise). A valiant tenor had his eyes
bandaged ( he could not look at the deadly steri.
Galassl prayed during the operation) at least, he said
the word* were a prayer. Novari fainted- Monii in-
elated en his wife reading aloud from the Bible, about
Nebuchadnezzar And the fiery furnace, Rinaldi keeps it
a profound secret what portion of his corporeal frame
suffered. Mdlle. Vachot had to be persuaded for two
honrs before she consented 44 to be done.” Most of the
orchestra were lanced on the calves, because (heir
leader was. The ladies of the ballet were most difficile
to deal with : they positively refused to submit to virus.
Thsy’d chance the small pox, they said. The Irst per*
formauce after the vaccination was intensely ludicrous;
net one performer ventured nearer than two yards to
any other it he eonld help it t and If an accidental
touch occurred, there waa a 4, gag rt ef the strongest
kind heard, quite unconnected with the play
Dickie Llngnrd la abont to star through the States
Fanny Kemble is still alive Sarah Bernhardt floe#
not deny all the dreadful Icings which the newspaper
men aecuao her of—that would be toe great a taokj
but she eays. plaintively, M I don't know when they
think I find time to be eo wicked. I work hard day and
night. 4 ’ A Mle* Roche, weighing 3001 be., la playing
lady Jane in 4 • Patience" at New York. That’s the
weigh te do the part F. de Belleville, some time ago
placing here, shot himself in the hand, while noting in
tho "Lights o 4 London, 4 ’ New York, in Febrnary
When an English manager, who had been anxious to
secure Mrs. Langtry’s services, found that he oould not
succeed, the grapes at once became sour, and he said,
he would have nothing to do with a lady who had
11 an insipid face," and whose picture had been on
public view 44 alongside of celebrated murderers.’ 4
Jumbo has at last been shipped to tho States. Barnnm,
however, had been quite me.ted by sympathy, and cabled
that he would let the bargain go for £15.0001 Fanny
Kemble wrote thus of her profession: 44 A business
which is incessant excitement and fictitious emotion
seems unworthy of a man ; a bu-iness which is public
exhibition unworthy of a woman. 44 A practical joke
played on a popular act w was rude, but extremely suc-
cessful. He was supposed to visit the tomb of his
ancestors, and in tho centre of tbe stage was a veiled
statue of his father. Entering, he addressed the draped
figure : " Once again t« gaze on those loved features 1
Father, thy son comes to pay thee adoration. Let me
remove the veil that shields from the vulgar gsze a
beloved parent’s face.” He lifted the veil, and—his
father stood on his head! Emily Soldene, whose
mouth has been called 44 a cave of harmony," has,
with her company, been slightly injured In a railway
collision * 4 George Barnwell " is the latest at Drury
Lane Bloudin will cross the big Brooklyn bridge
over tho East River (N Y.), when travelling with
Baruum Bailey aud Hutchinson’s Show The " ba-
thetic Quadrille," at the Opera Comiqne. is said to bo
immense. Tue Girards, Alloa Holt, Mdlles. Rosa,
Lanri, and Howard, after putting themselves iu.o all
aorta of queer postures, fall flat on their stomachs...
Miss May Holt, Bland’s sister, owns tbe right of
"Man and Women," Sbe has sold privileges to
her father and brothsrfer the provinces and colonies....
Sims Beeves is now grey as a badger, but sings with ail
his old fire In 44 Mankind ’’ there ie a resent In the
Charnel, and, en the first representation, the boat
plunged through the eanvas billows Int-v the depths of
the stage below, and K»;le Bellew and Marie Litton re-
appeared in slings and sticking-plaster Buda-Pesth
has produced a one-armed pianist. It is predicted that
we shall next have a paralysed Maebeth, who will play
the port of the Illustrious Thane In a Bath-ehair
A Fall River (Mass.) paper says th».t if Mrs. Langtry's
personal charms were on a par with her noting she
wouldn’t draw better than a second-hand mustard
plaster, and on the same reliable authority we learn
that the keeper of Barnnm’s baby elephant calls the
nmoosing cuss her fragile flower, and goes Into a
corner to weep when It is cross and declines te have
two gallons of beer homed Into It Rose Eytinge,
who married a nepkew of General Butler, is suing for n
divorce..,.,.Tilly Andrews Is styled “a thing ef boauty,
and a Joy for the time she Is on tbe stage, 4 ’ by n Yankee
paper. One must, go abroad to learn news Although
reported disbanded the Troubadours were playing " The
Brook," at Chicago, on Feb. 23, while (he Herald
states that Kate Salsbury, Nellie M'Henry, Johnny
Qourlsy. and others of the company were rooming at
the 'barman House —a proof that they held “stamps."...
BUnouett and Locke, tna managers of the late Emllie
Melville company, failed, and were unable to pay np.
The chorus singers ware in distress, aud Miss Melville,
though she too was unpaid, gave them their salaries out
of her own pocket. As stated in our last, sbe will
shortly be in Australia Jumbo Junior, of tho
Referee says that if’old Shylook*had got tho pound of
flesh he would have Portianed it out Jewdiciously for
a week’s dinner, cooked it a Id Venice-on, and washed
it down with a drop of Hebrowed ale. Then he would
have Doged and dreamt of the ills that flesh is heir to,
"Tramps (of troops) without" and " shouts with-
out ’’ get paid a shilling a week each at the London
theatres, and Bancroft docked these invisible actors
two-peuoe each because the Uaymarket was closed on
Ash Wednesday.
The Queen will be 63 next Wednesday.
Owing to the present peace between the Apache
and (Jomancho Indians, t lera baa been a marked
decrease in tbe quantity of hair embedded in Uyduey
restaurant butter.
The full particulars of the frisky proceedings of
the daughters of Moib are to be found in the 37tb
chapter of Numbers in the authorised Torsion. This
paragraph is for elderly people only.
A happy father accosted Alexandre Dumas with
the remark: " W hat do you think ? My little boy, who
is not a year old yet, already calls me papa.” " Very
likely," replied Dumas, " bat he doesn’t believe what
he says."
1 he libel action brought by Mr. Do, Boos against
the Temora teTAit is being settled, defendant's apology
being accepted. Mr. De Boos took proceedings at the
instance of his Department, the imputations .in the
Star having been directed against him in his official
capacity.
J. C., of the Birch and Breeches Department,
who often says a good thing, characterized cur cartoon
of last week representing tbe tipping of tbe Parson as
a decided case of “ Pass-on when reproved he added,
" that even a child* oould not mistake it, for it was the
Tam-tHd."
Captain J. C. Lloyd has been in Wollongong at
the beginning of the wo» k, in the interests of the fchip-
masters* and Shipowners' Association, which has just
been started. The object is to provide a fund for the
wloqws and orphans of distressed seamen. Mr Lloyd
has already received many encouraging assurances of
support.
Two ladies who had been to hear “Carmen”
were seated in the tram-car. Said one : "How do you
like 1 Carmen ?’ ” "I think 4 Carmen * perfectly
lovely I " replied the other. Aud the conductor and
driver, the great silly creatures, swelled out like a pair
of inflated frogs, and they have since taken to hair oh.
dyed moudachej, and patchouli-scented pocket-
handerohiufs, and all sorts of egregious vanities.
An acceptable contribution to tho discussion of
the subject of the materiality of spirit, or the union of
mind with matter, has just been issued in pamphlet
form, under tho title of 44 A New Era and a New
Element," being a scientific demonstration of the
materiality of spirit. The author is Mr. J. L. Hance.
The subject is handled in a very exhaustive manner,
and no doubt the publication will be widely read.
Judkins had an idea that he was a genius
The idea was born with him. He and the idea were
foster brothers ; so he fostered it. A barber phrenolo-
gist ottered to read Judkins 4 bumps. 14 You have great
caution," said the barber, 44 You never take a drink
unless some one pays for it. Yon 44 Judkins got
up, pitched the barber through a minor and wreaked
his shop. As the knight ef the razor extricated him.
salt from his shampoo basin, he was heard to mutter j—
*' Expect I’m too old to read bumps now-a-dav# ; think
I leave it to those professors who can really do the
business slap-up and abide by results." This is
apropos to nothing except the fact that we have now
in Sydney, Dr. Simms, who, a London paper says, 14 is
tbe most able and tbe most popular exponent of
physiognomy among living men.”
DRINKS ALL ROUND.
Drink tip boys 1 Here’s tho Queen —and then
Ourselves 1 No matter for the rest.
The man that’s giiu to shout again.
He loves his native country host.
The gum-tree I May it bravo the blast,
And dam—Time’s flow—from day to day,
And while the rum and whisky last
We’ll slosh this chorus out. Hooray 1
Chorus—Drinks all round. May the skunk in bilge be
drowned,
Who won’t part for the next drink. Here’s
to friends,
A cask of—see our twelfth page—round and
round.


CITY
CATERING COMPANY,
315 QEOBQE STEEET.
„ A. NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of lons' and nrao-
ticaJ experience, nearly all from the OBIQINAL FIBM
£ Compftgnom and Co., who personally superintend
»' lL
4«p"«». p >p^s“Ct ,r “ it °» •“
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th April. ISSI. we have
snooessfeUy catered THE LaBGEST. MOS P DIPPT
CULT and MOST EESPONBIBLE nn
have taken piace here to the present time, viz.
The Consular Dinner, in out new banquet room.
H -7 n r hlp Mayor s Picnic, for 450. at Glontarf.
and Banquets, and all Entertainments,
n .”9 rBlli P th «. Mayor's Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
at which his Worship, John Harris. entor“
tmnod then: E_ H.'s PBINCE ALBEKT and QEOBQE
S^nLDo^ Wlllmm ’ the officera o£ tho Detached
M ttoTßHildig EngliBh ConBtUution * ,or 1252, Exhibi.
3411 * N-S,W * Constitution, at Town Hall,
V S%2£ »'■ P * IN CE ALBERT and GEORGE
t® Lithgew Valley Mines and Zigzig. Dinner <i In
Sfi ’ inGjVernmenfc Pala ' 0 Dining Car while
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children-™
rfm 11 ? 11 Demonstration— under VEBY SHORT
B 0 PICE, only receiving the order at 230 p.m to be
UK *
GEOEGE to Captain Cook's Landtogfwmh lid? ol
iugte/. ‘ ** Feady on lhe apot ftt 1 P-m. follow.
The Lady Mayoress' reception. Town HalL
" B^h^or ’ 8 BaU '" Exhibition
T BaS“m Diim " t 0 Jndge WiDdoyW ' *» o« new
to Jud *° to our new
forls ° Memb -
Han.' BUB<e t 0 **“ lnte » o< >lonial Rig, Teams.
The Luncheon and Eefreshment for 500 ladies nnd
K™* w* n ’ “o e tTV 9 in fr of the first eod o*• Hndsou
Brc«. New Eailway Bolling Stock Works," at Gran.
QraVdttfnd reBhment *“ &t a ‘ wk *»» 7
*»£?£ Q«nd«and eSreShmellt BftM at *“**<*
Marv’g'catbadral * Faj " ° f y ° ° lden St.
E PalaJ 9 nXentS at Ye ° lde En^Bho S'ay re, Garden
ro &ir^Tr£ lotof PriTat * picoicB - b^.
is~=p-SISSs?
Cakp«glTd|ro« gl T d |r 0 B r nd < ?f t the aD3alle ‘“ ; order /ot
1 Oivo’ Ices - Confectionary, &c.
° al ’ rayB on hand
° ur P? 88 ® letters from gentlemen in
h!gh standing m the city, complimenting m th-
Planner we have performed the duties to u£
CHAS. R. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the oiiginal Compagnoni and Co.),
The Boston Daily Globe 1931, has come to
hand. It a spieed with the true American flavour.
Speddns of a rival paper, it says, "the old ra? stil
continue a ta serve up the day before yesterday’s news
with neatness and dispatch/' Bradbury, the St.
Jacob’s Oil man, runs the Globe.
LATE SPORTING.
The Prince Alfred Yacht Club will hold the
closing cruise of the season, on Saturday, May 27.
Redfern Albion v. Atlas. Eedfern 42—Cornwell
16, Purcell 13. Atlas 21—Lawler, for, the winners, got
nine wickets for 11 runs.
Bathurst F.C. adopted a good report of last
season: eight matches, five wins, two lost, one drawn
Also good credit balance.
“Geranium” Races, Saturday last, in City of
the Plains. Speranza won|*H«ndieap, Chance the
Hurdles and Trial, Mystery the Beaton.
The Geelong Football Club hare accepted the
terms offered by the Trustees for the nso of the Associ-
ation Ground for four matches in July next •
On Saturday, the return rifle match took place
between the Naval Brigade tad the Windsor Corns, re-
suiting In a victory for the former, by 44 points.
Mr. E. Da Mestre recently declined to take SOd
guineas for Gudarz. The offer was from an Indian
buyer. Godarz was in one ef the sensational £5O 000
doubles laid by B. E. Jones. This should be good news
for the backers.
The Qlenhead Football Clnb have determined
not to give trophies this season, as it is said to have an
injurious effect. Thev open the season against the
University Club on 27th instant. On the following
Saturday they meet the Wallaroos.
The Rugby and the Association footballers are
likely to come into collision. Mr. W. Gardiner (of
the firm of Gardiner and Ce.). who is now in England,
has several cups to be competed for in various sports.
One is devoted to football—the question is, which foot-
ball game.
The Tamworth Athletic Club Handicap closed on
the 10th, with 52 entries, and the Queen's Ulrthday Gift
with 46, includig a number of llfst-olasa pods The
committee are working actively to have everything in
proper order, and a good day's sport may be looked
forward to.
Football looking up in Bathurst. Six metro-
politan and suburban olnbs to visit the 8.F.0. this
season, it they fulfil engagements. University (June
ii), Carlton from Parramatta (July 8), St. Leonard’s
(July 15). ParrarnattaJ (July .23),,.8wrw00d (Aug. 1),
Wallaroo (Aug. 19.)
After all, the Sydney public are likely to witness
some first-class football during the coming season.
The Carlton and Hotham clubs of Viotoria are to play
three exhibition matches ou the Association Ground,
commencing* on the 10t>h of Jane. Messrs. Gardiner
and Co. would do well to wait until these matches have
been played, before giving the " Cup.”
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club hold
their meeting on the At-sooiatiju Ground on Saturday.
The programme is a very attractive one. J. Perris and
A. H. McArthur start from scratch in the mile race,
giving |D. W. Middleton 16 yards start, C. W. Beat
is put back to scratch in the two miles walking match,
giving W. E. Jack a start of 15 secs. A two mile bicycle
race brings out 14 competitors, including Messrs.
Sharp, Moyse, and Wojd,
Foot-racing is now the popular Saturday after-
noon’s amusement in Dnbbo. More people attend tnen
at the reserve, near the Goods Shed, tham at all the
churches next morning. Last Saturday afternoon two
foot-races took place there, when there was a large
gathering. The first race was between Davidson and
William?, 100 tarda; the latter conceding two yards,
Davidson staking £8 to £5. Davidson won easily. The
“«t was between Flanagan and Wall, 150 yards, for
£lO aside. Flanagan went away .at the start, and won
as ho liked.
Four amateur sports of the A.C. undertook a
trip to Bungelorum a fortnight ago, trusting, while
closing their eyes and pointing their gnns, to bring
down the game. One member, whom good fortune
favoured, was so eiated at shooting a teal from the
shore of Lake George that he had a swim of 200 yards
to secure the prize. Chicory held a war dunes aronad
the body of a dead opossum, and Long Boh the Maori
blamed the barrels of his gun being crooi ed for not
bringing down anything, Grex was landed in a net put
out by the Lady of the Lake. Wanted.—An instructor in
the use of firearms, also a guide, to teach how to avoid
being captured by the bright eyes and sunny smiles of the
°f a small village. Mao. need the sportsmen so
well that they look with disdain on metropolitan life.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Sandhurst (V.) branch of the Irish National
Land League expresses abhorrence of the Cavendish
and Bnrke murders, but hopes Gladstone will pursue a
policy of conciliation. Sandhurst is getting christian-
ized evidently.
The logic of those hyper-Christian members of
Parliament who insist one moment that Bradlaugh
must take the oath, and the next moment that his oath
would be no good if it were taken, reminds us that
Jeremy Bsutham said, there cannot be two measures
of veracity. If a man can be believed on his word, he
cannot be more believed by adding an oath But if he
cannot be believed on his word, then is an oath mockery.
Especially an oath like the Parliamentary one, with no
penalty attached. The climax ot illogical absurdity
however, is to see a man swearing on the Book whio
contains the command : “ Swear not at all.”
“ Scratch a Russian, and you find a Tartar.
Scratch a politician, and you And—God only know
what. For the past three years Thomas Jackson, o
Klngsborough, N.Q , has been a stansoh Ministerialist.
Ho would swear by Macrosson, and worship at th
shrine of M'llwraith—“ world without end. Amen.
But now things are changed. The trouble was caused
thus Jackson was to run for the Cook electorate
the Ministerial interest, but by-and-bye another Minis-
terialist was spoken of as likely to run for the honours
So Mr. Maorossan, who happened to be on the Hodg
kinson, suggested to Mr. Jackson the desirability o
conferring with Mr. Parker, the other candidate, anc
deciding amicably which of the two should go for th
proud title of M.L A. But Mr. Jackson’s ire rose a
high as Mount Everest. The idea ef Mr. Jackson con
ferring with anyone was preposterous, so he at once
informed Maerossan that he had changed his mind—ha
would have nothing to do with the Ministry, but wouk
contest the electorate in the Opposition interest. Thu
were the politics of Mr. Jackson changed in one shor i
quarter-of-an-hour I It is almost unnecessary to state
that, in consequence of Mr. Jackson’s recent resolve
the downfall of the Ministry is only a matter of a few
days.
Parkes is a great orator. Always so ready
IJeeds np preparation. For example, look at the com
bination of elegant diction with concise comprehensive
n,ess which characterized his speech to the reporter o:
the T ill n usk at Now York. When questioned as to the
resources of the colony. Sir Henry is reported by the
to have remarked “The present mainstay 01
Australian prosperity is live stock. This is conspic-
uously trpe of New South \yales, froth the flocks and
fterds of which most of the other colonies niadj their
iisgiguings.” This was neat, but perhaps not so eloquent
§< the faUg vying, delivered after dir Henry had warmed
W‘th his Admirable varied
ih agricultural rssq tiroes. New South Wales also
possesses a world of mineral wgrlth, which assures to it
g great industrial fgtqra. No soougr arq we ofi the car-
boniferous aieas. rich iq cg*l and' its associated
minerals, than wt are in a regum in which arg tracts
Where gold, copper, and lead abound. And passiugon. we
dlioover granites which, however barren externally, are
within frequently charged with tin, so that the three
groat geological divisions ot eur polony are replete
with mineral treasurer that are praodually inex-
haustible.” Fiaally, tired by his glewing thoughts,
our talented Premier perorated“ It is not pos-
sible to contemplate the present condition and
future prospects of New Somh Wales without
a glow of satisfaction.’’ For an impromptu, con-
versational speech, these sentences are first class.
There’s only one thing that galls us about them any.
how. Parkes spoke that sneeon on the 10th February,
1881, and we want George Raid, M.L A , to explain how
ha oame to publish tnaae identical paragrapns in his
sseay on New South Wales, in 1876, pages 41 and 6 k
tabbing passages from a great orator's impromptu
i ueeoh, years before he’d even delivered it I
Produce Report.
Bnitirrur Office, May 19,1882,
Os the wharres of late the stocks of lucerne hay
are gradually becoming Iscarcer, owing Ito tbe dry
weather. We have to note an advance in prices, and
best samples are selling from £7 10a to £8 per ton ;
other qualities, from £6 lOi to £7 10 per ton. Maize
" 8 I 1 ? 6T J? n,h «l! oate, seed, and feed, 4* to 4s 34 per
bushel. Warraambool potatoes £5 1.5 s per ton; Ciren-
k,rH«i.d, ditto, £5 Kss per ton. Victorian onions
£4 15s to £6 per ton j Victorian chaff, £8 to £0 per ton.
For best batt-r, in keg, Is 81 to Is 91 per lb. is obtained;
cheese, 81 to 91 5 ham, 181 i honey, 41 to 51 j lard 8d to
M s beeswax, 91 to 104 per lb. Millet broems, 7s Mto
10s per dozen.
• Ssftl per pair; dnoks, 4s to
4s W) geese, 6s to 7sj turkeys, 9a to 12s per pair.
Fresh Msat.—At the Eirerstono Meat Co.'s sheds,
arbour, the usual sales of fresh country-
kmed beef take place dally, a fair supply arririag and
Sfl 1 ?* ,r * : For prime bediea of beef,
2ft per E. all re mad aaedlam quality, 9|d all
Fax Ca-’TXL».-“At tile Benaekash sales yesterday, a
f? 1 * raled
■rot; best beef, 23* per ifc ifc.
a^or t supply forward, and market
rdaltered) 501 b. wethers, with ieecea, ore worth 12*.
ILOVR.— This market is well supplied ; holders aro
tom for flrst-clats brands of New South Wales flour.
Prices are—for Sydney mill flour, auperflae, £l5 per
ton; seconds, £l3; household, £l4; New South Wales
* lB ’ Victorian. £l4 Ids to
*' £l t ls , t( ? 15 P« r ton. Bran and pollard,
s 8d to Is 9d per bushel.
Wheat-The wheat market is fairly tupplied. and
holders are disposed to be somewhat easier. We hear
ot a lot of Adelaide wheat haring been quitted at about
6s 6d per bushel; Now South Wales, 6s to 6s 6d; Vio
tonan, 63; Launceston, 5s 91 j New Zealand at 6s (Jd
per bushel.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Next subject for discussion by the Pitt-street
Debating Society: “ Which is the bigger bear-garden—
the Meioourue Presbyterian Assembly or the Sydney
Anglican Synod P Te Whiti and Tohu’s trial takes
place at Christchurch, commencing on June sth
ihe Aurora Australis shone very brilliantly all through
, . •■■.Jp to May 1, 63,tw0 persons paid for
admission at the Christchurch (New Zealand;
Exhibition. The arrangements are now perfect.. .
At Smithileld, near F’matta, another camp of (lying
foxes was lately discovered, numbering about 10,000
Uver 500 were counted on one tree. The foxes clean by
day, and visit orchards by night. They will travel 30 or
40 miles, and return to camp by the morning The
captain and mate of the recently-stranded s.s. Ooorong
have had their certificates suspended for six months
for default of duty Railway to Samlgate, the fashion-
able watering-place of Brisbane, opened on 10th
May by Governor Kennedy Day Dawn, Charters
lowers crushed 2*o tons for 683 ozs. of gold
Whole family burnt to death at Maaterton (N.Z). No
one knew of the fire until a person going by noticed the
rums of the building, and on neare- examination, name
across the remains of the man and wife. The body of
lue child was found on the hillside, where dogs had
dragged it...... The staff of the Hareours and Elvers De-
partment at a South eoaet town have lately been en-
vf? , n B ® u *ding the harbour with a fishing-line and a
bit of meat at the end of it It eame ont in Court the
other day that a certain North Shore resident ate, in
one week, 10s. worth of butter while it was se'llng at
104. per lb Henry Kendall describes the inhabitants
of Young as “ slabsided, or with faces a compromise
bitween (Hawthorne’s fann and a jaw-lizard.” Henry
wasntinToßEg when he said this A selector near
the South Australian border has a cross-bred dog—-half
sheep dog half dingo—which he uses to deooy wild d ogs
that infest his selection. The mongrel Is chained in a
paddock, and a piece of poisoned meat placed fust be-
yond his reach. He Invites by his howls native dogs to
visit him, and the work of poisoning goes merrily 0n....
ij e PJ^ e Oolonna—unknown in Sydney—comas
old ihomson again, trying to prove Shakespeare was
Racon. Colonna maintains he was eggs
Blaokfellow Boney, of St. Geer*e Queoasladd,
had a row with his wife, white tubing in
the river at the foot of Grey-street, St. George.
Ho bashed in her skull with a nullah nullah,
and made tracks for the bush. Boney is also
wanted for killing a former wife A news-
paper man sang at a concert in a town up Nonh
It was a duet, “ Love and Pride,** The lady singer was
young and fascinating. Sue was not his wife—his wife
was among the audience. Result: Newspaper man
n ?^t“ ay a PP ear . ed with hia eye in a sling Breakwater
at Moraya Heads Object to deepen channel and faci-
litate navigation. Result: Channel blocked up, steamer
can t enter. £33,000 spent Encouraging news from
Mount Britton goldfield. The Hon. Finch-Hatton has
brought a crushing plant pn to the ground, where 700
tons stone await reduction. Five reefs being
w;rked.......The latest crushing at Mount Wheeler
aave w oz. retorted gold (qr 44 tons stone
The Eangiora (N.Z.) Standard alludes to Sir William
Manning as •• a weak-kneed person.” This is perfectly
scandalous No bill filed against Richard Taylor,
charged with murdering Carl Seliger in N.Q. Two
men have been lately murdered there, one having his
head nearly out off with an axe, yet the police can’t
bring the perpetrators to justice The Palmer
Chronicle has just got a new editor, who informs the
world that “ Her Magisty’s birthday,” which he has
evidently been celebrating in advance, is 24th May
A' man who gave his name as John Burke was com-
mitted for trial for larceny, at Stanthorpe, Q , the
other day. He proved to be an eminent Victorian, Mr.
Michael Gately, the ex-hangmau. who is an old
Tasmanian convict, and is considered to be more
hideous than the biggest anthropoid simian
At Barcaldine Station, near Blaokali, 270,000 sheep will
be shorn this year Martin Biee, a drover on the
Kicker bill run, had a narrow escape from being
mutilated by an old man kangaroo, which attacked him.
Hla horse was severely ripped on the shoulder Dan.
Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel, announces that he
has, during the week, received seven writs for libel,
which claim £7OOO, He has also apologised to a Bath-
urst publican, and paid £5 to, what ns styles “ that
rotten and badly managed institution,” the Bathurst
hospital At a banquet given ,to an old colonist at
Wagga, prior to the usual-trip home, the menu was in
French. Consequently, some of the most prominent
citizens of the “ flash town ** were nearly starving,
until the lucky discovery was made that a waiter knew
French 1 ,The City Council of Forbes have a credit
balance of nearly a couple of “ thou,” but woa’t “ part"
a cent. They sadly want a few metropolitan contract-rs
down (hat way The first road locomotive passed
through Forbes the other day, and the oldest in-
habitants are in the hospital with “steam on the
brain." All the rest have something else on the brain...,
Tet another “ last ” one. The latest survivor of Napol
leon s escort to Elba has died (we hope for the last
time) age 102. He now seeks Elba-room among the
spirits above. Another client for Cyril!
A woman in Melbourne, charged with bigamy," says
that her second husband decoyed her from her first’s
house, made her drunk, and then took her to the
Registrar's offlta, aud got legally assimilated a
Tarae angler shears that ho was nearly bringing to land
ihe sea-serpent; but the monster dragged off the hook,
lina, part of his hand, and ceamed to be about to
swallow the wharf when he let go ....Trio Tenter-
field Independent is to te-appear on tne 19th May as
the rKNTEREiELD'ChronicIe The malicious state-
ment that aub lnspector Douglas, of Herberton, re-
fused when called upon to f allow the black murderers
of Jack oketu , ‘jeoause his sticray-irons weren’t bright,
|s now denied. Nor is it true that the W ild River
people believe “ Black Douglas " has engaged
six Chiu ties tq carry him in a palanquin
on his trip to Mouruyan Harbour, N.Q.........
Mr. Ormond, tbs wealthy Victorian squatter, who is
always surprising ths world with his munificent dona*
tions, is about to add a new wiag to Ormond College
Melbourne. That institution can now accommodate 40
scholarsj with the new wing It will provide for Just
double the number Collins, a settler and repre-
seutstive of the Duke of Manchester, spaared by the
bUtsks, at Gascoyne, W.A Ah Gee a Cummin,
h-.s been nned £25 at Woaonga ror amuggi.ng 114 tins
of opium into Victoria. His defence was, “ New Souf
Walee dutee payee, no eavee payee any more, yah "
ihe opium, together with two horses, saddles, was
confiscated Tht John Harley (Maryborough. Q )
has applied to the Queensland Government for a ten
tbe , P nrrum railway, now under con-
“tJLuc*'°D ' 4J per cent, on the total cost, and 3J
per cent, as a ticking (and contra wear and tear •
t™r a vn r^ m * t 0 k *f p the lin * iQ g°° d repair, and
Ar,T 7 P T e r gerB and B°° ds ftt Government rates
letter-carrier at Armidale for the last 15
thf a Hfi 18 ’ a - lo ? al . Wilberforce P uts i<; * “departed
t nrmJi te, * a *i Tlo « lm i to lon g bonrs and overwork per-
*h# in *tinoe of the Govt.” He only had to
kill Hm h v’i oa k 6 ,°t every 21, and it took 15 years to
nab e discovery of pearlshell near Booby
™ V’* one company gob 50 tons, valned at over
i/Vk-’ Tl e ? 8 ;-;- 35 oaS9S of typhoid fever now
Ri?>,m hospital A correspondent up
««7Lr < t T * . hinti “g re the drvneas ef the
thjt business is (o dull in *• commercial
t,hG Bank Mansgsr at one of the rising town
f turned shipping clerk for the general store--
confidence swindlers, Langley
w ho have just been arrested by the Mel-
-5?£?525» oan > ed °? their games for a long time in
T n * “fd Jfaborbs of Sydney. Perhaps
®fo«bery, will note this at hia
. i nP -""- T he most straggling journalist of our time
About twice a week he struggles in
?j * * "^ b s policeman A very well-known
aey dyseadm eeeleaiaetle has been sent to prison in
Melbegjfe fct two ■onkhs—s«t the first time he's been
Valueless cheques formed the trouble
°nw n M ' ?? waa originally a converted burglar.
the Inspector of Weights has raided
t“® wd found some of them to be 4 oz. short in
t“f j ih. loaf. The champion light-weights are to be
A t * meeting of ‘he Auckland St. Ax-
ar«w g Mutual Improvement Association, one of the
members read an essay on “Percy Bysshe Shelley.”
ine same essay, word for word, appeared in the pre-
iAtory memoir to the Lansdowne edition of Shelley.
This shows how Englishmen plagiarise tho words of
Wow Zealand genius Up at Neliigen, tho other day,
a steam-boiler burst while tho men were away at
onsnor. After doing yeoman’s service at Brisbane
water in the long, long ago, it had stood 15 years at
Welngen, where there is another boiler that may burst
when the men aren't at dinner. Inspector of land
hollers wanted Bob Smith—which his name is
Burdett—iand C. J. Roberts are now en a visit
„ * b ? Manning. C. J. probably going to politically
woo the yekels, whom Bob holds in the hollow of his
hand as it were £249 subscribed at the Hodekinson
and forwarded to the Irish Land League Executive
me niggers at Severn’s cedar camp, Herberton, tore
open a whlie man s grave,denuded tLebody of shirt and
•? k ,?t» and took the lot, body and all, away Active
agitation against Chinkies at Herberton, Q Last
year a aeoidoats discourage whaling off Been, south
coast, this year j a smart little steam yacht with bombs,
which could also act as a pioking-up boat, and tow in
dead flih, is wanted Mr. Campbell Moore, son of
Hon. David Moore, shot himself through the head in
his father s house at St. Klida, Vic., on Monday last
Ho was suffering from melancholia, supeilnduced by
over-study and overtraining. Ho had an athletic
repu'atiou ar Oxford The principal shareholders of
the new G> mpie Gas Company have proved distinctly
the electrici light to be a complete failure There h a
Municipal Board in Townsville. Mr. Halloran was ap-
pointed secretary at £2O a year. The Old Man Kangaroo,
who was I a the ohair, directed the new secretary to be
sure on pay day to put tho money in his pouch . A man
eaught stealing a whip from a Fitzroy (Melo.) saddler
consented to >ake it out in ten outs from the owner, in
preference t*j the gaol alternative. At the sixth he
roared and fled, and the saddler folded np the lash with
a grim smile as he let him go. "Cheated me out of
a juicy four, though, just as I was getting in trim.’*
A Minnesota (U.S.) paper offers 100 dole, reward for a
eat is ted fanner. No use advertising in N.B. Wales—if
on • in « o1 eat 1 ho Goulbuen
hbealb advocates ‘complete independence” for Ire-
land. Tale is * blow for the Times When there
appeared donbt as to whether evidence could fee got to
“? m * the charge of murder to the black who
v^svT-ir 8 *??• f be Brisbane Observer hinted that ho
i t ft ken outside tho town, and ‘ dispersed’
officially. Queensland squatters know what that
mean*—and also what *uc official* * means when sheep ai e
a S5k See * of s 7 dne J. reported as
» a 300-room hotel In Melbourne
A kitten, with two months and one head, was left at
the Monabo Mbbourt office, the other day. It was
adopted into the editor’s fa milv. and
started on copy * with the other children. Four days
deciphering of the editoiial manuscript killed it. The
elogiae poets of Cooma are still at work mourning over
iu “ adde L m °k metres i’reethonght hall.
bnilt by the Freethonght Association, opened at Don-
edm, N.Z. Sotneof the N.Z. Freethinkers have started
h r?s_ * befor ,? tho y know hew to think at ail
Hdhediw Herald—a paper very like our
Daily Teleoeaph—is to be wound up shortly. Causa
reporters refuse to go around in wet without boots
ccvAf^ a tt ß^ InSr *i from i 3l * 3 * o " to New Zealand was
* lm |» during the early part of the
W , lth ol °ndg o( fine dust. This meant,
t( £, S9ame “» ***** the good angels of Ireland
had fled, shaking its dnst from off their feet
hoff up Cooiiamble way apologises for coming out
aBQa l . 81Z0 - Th * ,aot iB *" sa J 8 the journal,
onr compositor—a new hand—got drunk. We rode
i a gra ' ss , l han T d * ‘ n!y to find that he had
been arrested, along with a J.P., for horse-steaiing. To
In T or , 8e i oar P r BMman was taken suddenly
IU, and had to bo taken to bed.” We hope he also had
taken something. It is very strange the provincial
paperB hav «n t learnt the Sydney trick of getting drunk
fh?rZfH ia f ° Ut M usual King Mathews has taken
the Cobar to Louth, his own capital The New
STStSSd h 0 ? 1-1 WiU allow but ou ® more corpse to
d 1 he wT n C3meter y. That one is-CJanon
lo fVn a Mr ‘ MU ? er „“ t ?P he n, it appears from the
m.v Ar ordered by the Sandhurst Court to
ar .L , ? f du l a 8 wages - The looal papers ask
f", “ tr , w here does the miraculous come in Near
iTnTt.’JT bu l braD ? 6rS stuok U P a ’vater-rate collector
« tl6d fonce A Hobart man who poked
Itban old whaling bomb-lanoe, suddenly found
b “J 5f U n k r* baok A. ar «bi, a CODa PAny with his cooking
A'3OO, stolen from underground
°iim 11 ? Bme « im * Sandhurst; bwhman
v a Bookhampton bagnio Lands.ip
j Vic., extending over 45 acres Treer
n fC * Wd & farmhoac * 10ft, above ordinary level
in* * was the other day found
“5 of lemonade a mendicant up at Sunder-
land has just got two months’ imprisonment for false
pretences. He got his wife to play 'possum, laid her
oat as dead, and wanted Mr. Hartley, ex-M.P to give
rV*u money aneugh to bury her. Mr. Hartley's butler
thought tho woman’s forehead was too warm for a
kiCkled h6r ’ She giggkd * aad th e fraud
• • •
*5. editor in Tennessee with an iron “shooting
SJ 1 r thai i a matoh for »wo assailaata
with revolvew, who meant murder. The journalist was
*t£^ r °L hil ol * 0f trad0 ‘ and Punished those wh“
attacked him Almost beyond hope of recovery
............A young Chinaman has just qualified as
a!rflft?o lBter^ at i ParlB, He baa eous lderaole practice
already, and always appears in eoort in his national
oostnme. Hen-stealing cases will probably be hia
speciality When four boys were brought before
Soarboto magistrates and found guilty of stealing a
th were seu tenocd to bo kept in
y U pm., fed on bread and water, and the
pol'oe sergeant was to solemnly show them the birch.
which would be used next time “The iioas am?
spittings of a gouty bench ’is the expression of a reient
French writer when he referred to Press control
il °P ingano w kind of sport, wherein the
stake is about as heavy as can be. Two young men in
quarrelled recently, and, instead of rushing
l°n k ei o a e° Dat, , tle Wlt h swords or pistols, they agreed to
P' a J_ fcbo bes t I two out of three games of dominoes, the
imnteJ? 9dr, n k the deadliest poison procurable. r lhe
contest took place in a cafe, in the presence of sixteen
Stanislaus Ju.iau—the youngest of the two
m ° re lh t l f Blitoen years t>f baffled by
the uoable six. and lost the match. He drank the poi-
contract, and in five minutes was ready
for the undertaker During the progress of the fight
Ryan and Sullivan were photographed, by the mstan-
oeiviiig blowa" 4 *’ TerJ aot ° f ' ieU?uritg re-
WOMAN ITEMS.
At North Shore, Hannah, ere leaving, broke a
of curious design that her mistress valued very
much, and because she dared to ask payment for it,
Hannah relieved her soul of the following impassioned
harangue:*—‘Yon call yourself a lady au’ want me to
pay for that onld thing. Share, the last place I was in
now, I broke three crame jags tar better an’ nicer than
yours, an ten Venetian wine-glasses, when I tumbled
down stairs along wid as lovely a set of china as you
ever clapped eyes on; besides two Greek vases, a pair
of beauties. An’ didn’t I lave Master John to tumble
out o’ mo arms an’ smash his collar-bone? £)o you
think she axel me to pay for all them things ? Divil
resave the fardin, bekase she was a rale lady. An' bo
the same token X had the run of tho safe, where the
whisky and brandy was kept. I could do what I liked
too, bekase the poor thin* wus most of her time drunk.
God be wid ye anyhow, an’ me sweet bad luck to 3ou
into the bargain."
» • •
Queen’s receptions are rapidly managed. At
the last one 80 persons were pretented in K) n mutes .. .
A !ate feature in weddings is for the couple to stand in
a floral bower to recei ra the congratulation, of friends. It
would be healthier for them to stand on a receipted bill
for all their clothes and furniture King Mtessa of
Central Africa has 30. K) wives; but. in Central Africa,
mained ladies have to find themselves in sealskin
jackets and plash hats The Queen will not permit
any lady who has passed through divorce proceedings
at appear at Court. Several innocent women have thus
been excluded, but they don't mind it mno . It is
becoming almost a distinction not to go to oourt in
these days, when hundreds of people are presented
every season who would have been offensively snubbed
by society 50 years ago A lady, l ying without male
protector, half way between Harden and Wombat, re-
cently soared two midnight prowlers off with a revolver,
and burglars np that way have now agreed to avoid her
“ onse Iu Germany, a girl sues her recusant young
man, who is fickle, for either damages or the fulfilment
of his promise. If the verdict is to marry her, it is not
always carried out, but the young man can never marry
any other girl while she is alive and alone. That’s one
ray of sunshine in her desolate life Women who
never believe what their husbands say—L uvyers’ wives)
GAG THE PRESS.
(LINES SUGGESTED BY IN SYDNEY)
When vice and crime stalk through the laud.
And tako a bold determined stand—
To make their throne secure and strong.
To make a deity of wrong,
Gag the Press.
If men of lion-soul be found
Who fain would sea Injustice bound—
Whose cry goes up in face of diu—
Just stay their hands, and “run them in,”
;Oag the Press.
When flaunting harlots, sweeping by.
With shameless mien and brazen eye.
Deft e the air with ribald tone.
Take oare, and let the bawds alone—
Gag the Press,
When vouthfnl bloom walks hand in hand
With Rottenness throughout the land—
When Innocence with Quilt is seen.
For God’s sake, do not step bitween— •
Gag,the Press.
When leprous, cankered spirits brood
O er uasoiled hearts and make them lewd—
When Passion loses self contro'.
And rushes to its native goal—
Gag the Press.
Let men who wield the pen be dumb
Before the roll of Satan’s drum—
Let them not dare to aught condemn
That interferes with God or them—
Gag the Press.
If Parity must live on earth,
Humanity be stamp’d with worth,
Let them be housed in sea girt caves,
Tho earth be fill’d withrogues and knaves—
Gag the Press.
If Press, the Censor, breathe a word
Against the fonl, defiling herd.
Bid Press, the Censor, do his worst:
There is a placs called Darling hurst [
Gag the Press.
GITANO.
Charters 3.1882.


Hotel*, fco.
Q.UNSLER’S HOTEL,
NORTH TERRACE,
ADELAIDE.
R
OBE R T BUTCHER ft CO.,
(Late William Long),
VINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
651 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
CoußxaY Okdkbs Rxoxitx Prompt Ammon.
F
ALTON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON in asking pnblio attention to hie
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that be holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the pnblio may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Cpntral Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibition*: —
London International 1862
Paris „ 1861
Vienna ~ 1873
Philadelphia „ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vie-
toria, New Sonth Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIRST.
CLASS, and 3 SECOND-CLASS at the SYDNSY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1879-80.
WHITE.
Ancarot
Brown Muscat
Keißllng
Verdeilhi
Tokay
Champagne, Medium Dry.
RED.
Shiraz Hermitage
Carbinet Maibeo
Burgundy
Champagne, Dry.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
il
OHNfi
ID
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
& 16 Spring' Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS
aid general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO/8
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
oval Blend
AG:THOMSON&C?
4 PROPRIETORS
Thi-% rate old Scotch Blend
.■ eiitinguislied byhnvinja h'ouqueX
s 'hfi tip. * old m ’d tu.re. il W if, -i j. : «/& .
JCHN GILCHRIST & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels, fcc.
JOHN A . WILKINSON’S
COOLALTA WINE ELL 5
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD—COOLALTA., BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
'Business Announcements
USTEALIAN “HOME” SHUTTLE
SEWING MACHINES.
Unprincipled Dealers—to make a few extra shil-
ling* profit—are offering for sale worthless Sewing
Machines that will not stand a year’s ordinary wear.
9$
s
o
C
*
*
*
dAf
THE HOME SHUTTLE LOCKSTITCH
Manufactured for ns, has the above design, with our
name on the work plate.
PURCHASE NO OTHER KIND.
We sollcitatafownation of the attempted sale of ooun-
tlf i *
terfeits of tUW above Machine, when wo will take legal
action in protection of our rights.
In anv district where oor genuine Machines are not
procurable, we will forward them direet on receipt of
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE EIOW SOLD OVER 20,000.
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE £4 0*
TREADLE MACHINE. COMPLETE ... 6 0 0
Do., WITH COVER COMPLETE... 7 0 0
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post free on application.
M. MOSS AND CO,
WYNTARD LANE, SYDNEY.
B. L A R K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPB STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES—
ftB Qeorge-street West (late Parramatta-scroet),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wxouraau Amd Retail Wins amd Spirit Mmbohamx,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
FIREWORKS.
THE ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LONDON
FIREWORKS
as used by the Public of New South Wales for
the past 26 years.
NOW ON SALE-
-100,000 Efrons of the best English Fire-
works, at Is 9d and 2s 6d per gross.
BEST TREBLE CRACKERS, Sg, TEE BOX
(40 packets in box)
BOXES containing a SPLENDID ASSORTMENT, at
7s. 6d., 15j., 305., and 40e. per box.
Cases containing every variety including
CHINESE FIREWORKS, to form a brilliant
display, £3, I Os., £5, £7 10s„ £lO, £l5,
and £2O, per case.
Serpents,
Bine Lights,
Squibs,
btar Lights,
Trees,
Golden Fountains,
CRACKERS,
HOMAN CANDLES,
SKY LINE AND SIGNAL ROCKETS,
STREAMERS,
FLOWER POTS
and WHEELS, RED, BLUE, and GREEN LIGHTS,
TRIANGLE, VERTICAL, and CASCADE
WHEELS.
DEVIL AMONG THE TAILORS,
JACK IN THE BOX,
AND 50 DIFFERENT KINDS
MYERS AND SOLOMON,
536 and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Solo Agents for the ROYAL ATLAS PRIZE LON-
DON FIREWORKS.
QUKEN’S BITHDAT,
Mth DAYJOP^MAT.
GOD SAVE THE QUjeEN (
S
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 860 George-street South.
s
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BESI
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 869 George-street South.
BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
O. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street South.
JJAPEEHANOINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street'South.
WHITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMEN'
Ac., Ac.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 889 Qeorge-street South,
JJLATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Tobacconist*
Me
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OP
AMEBIC AN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
special interest
DIISON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on
All the others paid duty in 1880 on
DIISON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 on
All the others paid duty in 1881 on
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
Ca fear the two years was only ...
2P8.303 lb.
581,609 lb.
4-78,935 lb.
626,992 lb.
307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE. CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM.
OUT RUBT, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and otily
genuine “Tin Ta.,” each ping branded with a
Bound Single Tin Tag, »tamped “ Con-
queror” or *• Tankeb Doodle.”
ALL TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS, PIPES, &c.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
AND the enormous success of the CAN’T B BEAT
has not escaped the usual penalties of merit. Its
universal popularity has excited the envy of that class
of speculators who trade upon the discreditable capita
of a borrowed name. My Tobacco has been imitated,
md counterfeited, and although I have used all avail*
able means to guard the public against imposition, and
to punish fraud, both Foreign and Home-made Imita-
tions bearing my brand, but lacking all the qualities of
fhe .ver popular and well-known CAN’T B BEAT,
have been imposed upon the public as the GENUINE
AMERICAN WEBI*. Now, to further guard nry
aumerona Customers in both town and country, os wall
is tha Smoking Public from all Imitation*. I have
uranged with the American Manufacturer that each
plug of my Tobacco be branded with a Silver Tag,
Bearing the device thus :
without which none is genuine. The qualities of the
genuine Can’t B Beat are too well known to need any
comment. But in justice to tha public, as well as
myself,l urgently request ray customers to assure them-
selves that the article they purchase bo genuine, and
that each plug bear the above device, to bo known as
the
SILVER TAG CAN’T B BEAT BRAND
Heartily thanking the public for their liberal supporti
and determined to deserve a continuance of tbe same
by keeping a first-class article at the lowest poßtiblo
price.
MICK SIMMONS,
Sole Wholesale Agent in the Colonies for tho
Can’t B Beat Tobacco,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
ORNER OF GEORGE and CAMPBELL STREETS,
HAYMAKKLT.
( N.B.—NO BRANCH SHOPS.
READ THIS! READ THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET.
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OP GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Cheats of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, &c.
ALL GOODS HARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES,
Not. the Address;
577 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., Limited, bag
to inform the public that they have now com-
pleted arrangements which will enable them to keep up
a REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
ahd are in a position to take on fresh custom era. Orders
fittay be given to men on carts, or sent to office,
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLING HARBOUR.
For VENETIAN BLINDsT"
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStiiviuiant
Th* Bunt of M. MOSS k CO.
la on errerj Genuine Bottle
FOSTER’S Bugle Bra.ni).
ADVT
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT,
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE|
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
Magnificent iron-framed german
PIANOS.
Wain Tit. Ebony-and-gold, Rose wood-and-gold.
Imported by ns direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
TEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TERMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rubbish.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, Georgo-skreet; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-etreet, Bathurst; Anbnrn-street, Goal-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
pLATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINQ
(a really splendid stock )
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT'S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK. 281, OEORGE-BT.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
843 and 345 Kent-stheet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned :
R. Wli it tin gharri and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen k Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt k Co.’s Qonlbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
DibAhNESS ! —1 have an Infallible Rented
for this distressing complaint, compounded frot
the recipe of the Aurist-ln-Chief of the London Roys
Eu Inumwy (to which the Queen yearly subscribe
£100). Send six stamps, for particulars and copies o
testimonials, to T. B. HANNAFGRD, Auckland. Net
Zealand,


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall he glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Adelaide RC May 30, 24, 25, 27.
Bligh A.T.C. Mndgee May 22.
Iliawara J C May 24.
Bnnedin (N.Z) Winter MayB4.
N Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Madgee Turf Club '. May 24.
Melbourne Hunt Club May 24.
Wanginui (N.Z.) Steeplechase Meeting May 24.
Copeland J.C May 24,
Orange Jookoy Jlnb May 24
Inverell May 24
Murrnrundi J.C ~..May 24, 26,
Queensland T.C May 24, 85.
Parramatta J.C. May 24, 25.
Balranald May 30, 31.
Manning River J.O May 31, June 1.
Victorian Trotting Club (Elsternwick) ..June 3.
Coonambla J C -....Jane 7, 8.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting.. .Jane 7, 9.
Brewarriaa J.O. ......Juno 8. 9.
Hay July 6, 7.
Rockhampton ...July 6, 7.
Clarence K J.C July 12) 13
V.E.C. Grand National...;., July 22.
AQUATICS.
Krug Champagne Cnp, Amateur# 27.
Maryborough (Q ) Regatta May 24.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlan v. Ross, £2OO aside June 20.
PEDBSTRIANISM.
C. Southion v, Chaplin, £5O, 100 yards May 80.
Hunters Hill A. A C Sports, Association
Ground May 20.
Carcoar Athletic Sports May 24
Taraworth Athletic Club May 24.
Narrabri Athletio Sports May 24.
Kiverina (Hay) Athletio Club May 24, 26.
S -dney Grammar School A. A. Club Sport# May 27.
Stettler v. Penno, at Burrows, £4O May.
Spring v. Ryoe (2 yards), ISO yards, £5O at
LUhgow June 1.
Wallaroo Foothill Club’s Sports July 29.
FOOTBALL.
University v. Redfern, Moore Park May 30.
Victorian Match (Association Ground)...May 30, 21% 27.
HANDBALL.
M. Langan v. J. Keenan, £lOO and tho Champion-
ship of Auitralia .May 18.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Ted Jones won ,£3500 on Euclid at Adelaide.
Hutchens, the winner of the Shrovetide Shef-
field Handicap, ran his 131 i yards in 12i secs.
The London Referee styles Mr. L. E. Myers
a “ promatanr," as being a mixture of professional and
amateur.
C. Southon, tho Grafton sprinter, has been
matched against Chaplin, for £5O, to run £lOO yards,
on Saturday, at Grafton.
A handball match is to take place to-day
(Thursday), between M. Langau and J. Keenan fer £lOO
and the championship of Australia.
Mr. Fittes, the only Victorian sculler entered
fer the raoe for the Krug Challenge Cnp is to take up
his quarters at Ryde, and will be trained by R.
Edwards.
A grand handicap pigeon shooting match is to
take place at Yass on Queen’s Birthday. Thirty-seven
have entered, including some ot the best pigeon shots
in the colony.
Eight out of eleven English judges have decided
that being a spectator at a prize fight does not consti-
tute an offence. How many legally innotent man have
been punished in this colony ?
The Victorian Coursing Club meeting was con-
cluded on May 12. The Berby was won by Pirate 11.
with Stormwater as runner-up. The Oaks was won by
Githa, with Reseda as rnnnar-up.
Mr. L. E. Myers, the American amateur runner,
was fraudulently entered for the Shrovetide Sheffield
Handicap by F. W. Stone, a professional sprinter, for
the alleged purpose of deciding a bet.
Pendragon, referring to Shaw’s team of
cricketers, says that “ several of them went forth from
home to keep home’s name sweet amongst those whe
wonldonly too gladly hail any sign of home'sdeoadence."
This looks like the knife.
Dr. Weir, of Victoria, sustained a heavy loss
by the sudden death of his trotting entire, Primero.
The stomach was analysed, and it was found that death
was caused by arsenic. Br. Weir has placed the matter
in the hands of the detectives.
The first football match of the season takes
puce on Moore Park on Saturday, when the University,
as is its custom, meets Redeem. We expect this
match will re Jiind us of a heavy man “ sitting “ on a
spring couch—and stopping there.
The Waratah Football Club has been re-formed.
This club was originally tho rival to the Wallaroo Club
for pre-eminence in the Rngby game. It Is now formed
play under the N.S.W. Association rules. Mr. John
Portus ha* been elected as honorary secretary,
Walter MMndoe thanks the Sydney press and
public for the great courtesy and kindness he has received
on all occasions at their hands. H* has challenged tho
English champion, Willie Beckwith, to swim a mile for
any stake up to £5OO. He will give or take expenses.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club closed the
season on Saturday last by a series of evolutions in tho
harbour, terminating in a rendezvous in Berry’s Bay,
whe, e the Commodore, Mr. G. C. Elliott, had provided
some refreshment. A very enjoyable afternoon was
spent.
At the Dunedin (N.Z.) Rugby Union meeting,
the question of an intercolonial match with New South
Wales was mooted, and it was resolved to communicate
with the secretary of the Rugby Union here, with a
view to sending over a team of footballers to make a
tour through New Zealand.
Messenger says that if Hearn came to Australia,
he would prove himself superior to any seuller wo have.
We shrmla like to see Hearn row. He defeated Messenger
Mmself, and we know tbs latter to be a good man. If
Hsaru is inclined to visit Sydney wo have no donbt
Beach would mike a match with him.
Mr. John Conway has been compelled through
pressing business engagements in Victoria to relinquish
his idea ot having a sports meeting on the Agricultural
Society’s Grounds on Queen’s Birthday. He had
i sued a very attractive programme. Wa are sorry ha
does not sea his way clear to go on with it.
Thus Bell’s Life in London on the fast
walking of tho daylt seem* rough on the champions
of yore that their records, which were honestly
achieved, should be wiptd out by men who, if they were
compelled to walk in the old-fashioned style, would not
be able to get within minutes of their time.
Mr. Franck, the patentee of the totalisator, is
forming a Sportsman's club in Melbourne for the pur-
pose of working tho instrument. A limited amonnt of
£1 (paid up) shares, without any further liability, will
be disposed of to tho first applicant* at the rate of four
shillings each. This is driving a whole team through
the Act.
The sculling match for J 625 aside, between
Messenger and Solomon, over the champion course,
Parramatta River, took place on Saturday, resulting in
awia for Messenger. Solomon held the load for a mila;
Messenger then closed up and a good raoe ensued,
resulting in Messenger reaching the goal a length ahead
iu 24min. 30seo.
To-day (Thursday) tho Australian Eleven com-
mence a match against the Sussex County Eleven at
Brighton. This match will be continued on Friday and
Saturday. On Monday and Tuesday they play the
Orleans Club at Twickenham, and on Thursday next
they make their first appearanoe on the Oval against
the Sorry Eleven.
“ Sydney” writes to the Herald of the 11th,
and classes himself amongst those who believe that
Hanlan’s success is attributable more to good fortune
than phenomenal powers. This is simple theory.
Practically, Hanlan has defeated all ccmers, and it ia
Impossible that good fortune should follow hiaa so
closely. We believe in him thoroughly—at last.
The football season was opened on Saturday at
Adelaide. The South Adelaide Club beat the Port
Adelaide Club by 3 goals to 1. The Norwoods beat the
South Parks by 3 goals and 8 behlnds to 1 goal and 8
behind*. At Melbourne, the football season was open* d
with a good match between South Melbourne and
Botham Clubs, which was won by South Melbourne by
2 goals 10 behinds to 7 behinds.
Hazael, who finished the unparalleled feat of
going six hundred miles in six days, and could have gone
some miles further if wanted, covered sixty miles the
last day. He is 37 years old, and ha* been a pedestrian
fer sixteen years. At 7 o'clock the following morning
bis landlady found him in the parlour, at the piano,
playing “Then You'll Remember Ms"—doubtless in
compliment to Charley RowolL
Following are the office-bearers for the Parra-
matta J.C. for the ensuing year Patron, Lord
Angnstns Loftns Q.C.8.; president, Mr. Hugh Taylor,
J.P.: vice-president, Mr. W. H. Hillas; judge, Mr. E
J. Elrop, J.P.; h.m. secretary, Mr. J. J. Taylor;
treasurers, the president and judge; committee, Merer*.
A. Gee, S. Sweeney, R. L Bunn, F, Artlett, M. Kin-
chela, and R. Hack; starter, Mr. Bonn.
The new Sportsman Cup, representing the
sculling championship of England, will be rowed for on
the Thames, June 19 and 30. Hanlan will not enter, as
both he and Ross will, at that time, be ia America,
having signed articles for a match to be rowed there
June 20. The probable starters thus fir announced are
Triokett, Liyoock, and Peirce, of Australia ; Boyd,
Largan, and Godwin, of England; and Gandaur, of
Canada.
The renowned Billy Little is now on Charters
Towers. He is as much like L ird Chesterfl ild as ever
in his language, and is a walking onoyclopceiia of spart-
ing data. Of course ho, like many another New South
Wales native, got a “jar" over th» late champion
sculling match, but. Lor' hies* yon, hs doesu’t care.
He has any amount of “ stiff " for sporting purposes,
and goes through it as happily as a weevil through a
bushel of corn.
Burke easily beat Fagan ia the mile run for the
N.Z. championship, doing the last half-mile alone.
Time, 4 min. 36 2-5 sec , on a heavy cinder track.
Burke’s win was unexpected, bnt nevertheless very
popular. He is of unquestioned honesty, and has an
almost unbeaten record locally during many years for
long distances. O’ Urien, the Australian champion, was
able to run clean away from him, but Fagan was alto-
gether out of training at that time.
South Australian J.C. meeting, Saturday.
Jack won the Handicap Hurdle Race by a head. The
Corinthian Cnp was a gift to Mesalliance. The Good-
wood Handicap was a splendid race. Coming down the
straight Spectre appeared to be winning, but Result
eamq up on the inside and won by a head. A protest
was entered against the latter for not carrying a
penalty, bnt it was dismissed. The Steeplechase was
won by Stag by six lengths. Pollio won the 8. A.J.C.
Handicap easily.
Timaru (N.Z.) races were most successful.
The S C J.C Handicap fell to the unlucky Libeller,
7*t. 81b., who was ridden by the Australian horseman,
Irving; Tasman, 6st. 81b., second; Sir Modred, 9at ,
third. Ten started. Splendid race. Lanee and Robinson
won the Cup with the Cassivellanus-Eavy filly, ost; Tas-
man, fist. 101 b., second; Sir Modred, B*t. 11., third.
The “clever party" also secured the Winter Oats
Handicap by the aid ot Vanguard. Lady Emma started
in both big events.
The Caledenian Society at Adelaide has given
100 guineas out ot the proceeds of the late sports to the
different charities in the oity. This is very good of the
Society, bnt it i* rather astounding to us to hear that
sports are so well patronised in Adelaide. Our athletic
sports ventures have always resulted in a beggarly ac-
count ot empty benches. It is only on a pressing
invitation that N.B. Wales John Bull, Esq., and family,
will attend athletic sports. Even “Admission, 6i.,“
keeps hundreds away.
O’Brien, the champion runner, arrived in Sydney
by the mail steamer. Before he left Auckland he at-
tempted to equal Powell’s record—7s miles In 12 hours’
go-as-you-please—but tailed. He oovered 65 miles 17
laps, 9$ miles short of the required distance. O'Brien’s
non-success is attributed to the smallness of the hall
in which he walked, and the frequent tarns. Hs also
had a nasty fall, rendering him insensible tor a time.
At the conclusion of the performance, a geld ring was
presented to tho ped. by his admirers.
Largan, the English scalier, who is matched
against Pearoe, is very hard to train, his health never
being certain. When he was to pull the American
senller, Sylvie Qookln, he, being ill, offered him £3O
to postpone the raoe. Sylvia wouldn’t take the money,
and Largan won the raoe before an eighth ot the dis-
tance had been oovered. Bnt Gookin took the lead in
Largan’s water and Largan fouled him, and Gookin had
to pnll ont to his own water. Although the English-
man was technically correct, there was little enough
credit due to him.
Is Gookin a second Hanlan P Referring to his
raoe with Largan, the London Referee says ;—A
wonderful thing in connection with this raoe is, that all
the while it was going on Gookin was rowing much the
slower stroke. He appeared to be going easily and well
within himself right up to the finish. If it had not
been well known that no sonller would bo fool enough
to let his opponent go on ahead if he could help it,
nobody following conld have believed on the score of
appearances that Gookin was trying bis heart ont to be
first at the winning-post.
The first raoe for one of the silver caps presented
to the M.R.C, by the Hon. J, B. Watt, took place on
Saturday, tho competitors being junior scullers of the
club. The race was rowed in heat*, the final heat being
a contest between Whelan and Pickering. Pickering
took the lead, which he kept, notwithstanding Whel&a
made some gallant spurt*. Coming back from the
Island, Pickering, who was winning easily, lost his
slide, and Whelan thus became the fortunate possessor
of the President's Cup, though Pickering made some
game attempts to recover his lead alter he had refixed
hi* slide.
At Homebnsh, on Saturday afternoon last,
Collins beat Allen 100 yards easily; time, . and
Hiaks defeated Farrell by nine yards in 200. Tim),
from pistolshot to finish, 20f aee.; both,however, started
before she report. About a tuousand spectators as-
sembled, chiefly composed of magsmen, macers, confi-
dence men, and spielers. The monkey game, roulette,
under and over, bllnd-hookey. headin’e-*, three-oard
monte, and ether wild sports flourished like the rreen
bay tros unchecked by the presence of a solitary
“ copper.” The favourite double was Allen and Farrell,
and the knowing ones wore taken down pretty oonside. •
ably.
The following is a condensed account of the
taking*, &0., at the lata six days’ Go-as-you-please in
New York : —Receipts from privileges—Bar, lunch, and
cigars, £1200; shooting gallery, £4l; fruits, £2l;
billiards, £2O; flowers, £l5, newspapers, £10; total,
£1507. Gate money, £9135. The rent of Madison
Gardens was £2OOO. and after other expenses were
added, there was £4OOO for distribution among tko
pedestrians in tho following proportions:—Winter, 50
per cent.; second, 20 per cent.; third, 12 per cent.;
fourth, 8 per cent.; fifth, 6 per cent.; and sixth, 4 per
oent. The winner also got £lBOO ot the sweepatakos
money, and the second, £2OO.
As we anticipated, the second day’s play of the
match for the Tnomseu Junior Challenge Cup betwe* n
the Our IBoys and Surry United Clubs somewhat
changed the aspect ot the game. The Surryt had
seven wickets down for 139 runs, and, upon the resump-
tion of play, the remaining throe wickets fell for 6 runs,
bringing the total to 145 runs. Seorl contributed 49,
not out, in a style that stamps him as an effective bats-
man of the first order. Notwithstanding this long
score, the Our Boys wore still hopeful, knowing that
the Surry s were not a good bowling team; they
Elayed a good up-hill game, and at the call of time they
ad scored 100 for the loss of eight wickets, being still'
45 runs behind with two wickets to fall. Tho per-
formers were Bennie, not out, 35, Moyes 21, Power 14,
Saunders 12. Tho match is to be resumed on Saturday,
and it is likely to be close and exciting at tho finish.
Shonld the match be concluded on Saturday, Mr.
Angus Cameron, M.P., will, during next week, make
the presentation of cup and trophies to the winners at
Rainford’s Cambridge Club Hotel.
S.A.J.C. Meeting, Second day. Maiden Plate :
Tyropean won on the post by a head. Spectre was
coming home an easy winner, but his jockey left eff
riding him, and Tyropean came with a rush. Standard
Bearer won the Nursery Handicap by a length. The
Adelaide Cup was a great race. Commotion lead into
the straight, when Bdladrum and Pollio came up, and
the thres raced together to within a hundred yards of
home, when they swung out; and Euclid came in on the
inside with a rash, and just won it, the other three
running a dead heat for second place. Butcbman won
the Selling Hurdle Race easily A splendid race took
place for the All-agedjStakes, which Bassanio won by a
head.
Mr. David Lord, tho amateur champion sculler
of the oolony, died on Saturday. He had lately been
suffering severely from an affection of the throat, and
visited Tasmania for a change of air. Ha returned to
Sydney, and gradually sank until he breathed his last.
He kas be«n engaged In rowing since 1875, and had been
very successful in his club races. He stroked the
N.S.W. Eight who defeated the Victorian Amateurs in
1879, and was stroke of the defeated Eight in 1881. He
won the Laidley Sculls at the National Regatta, thus
entitling him t* the Amateur Championship. Ha was a
thorough sportsman, and his geniality and gentlemanly
qualities will endear him to the memory of than with
whom he was associated.
Layoock has drawn Boyd from cover, but of
course Boyd has evidently had his own way in the oon-
ditions. They are to row on 3rd July, for £2OO aside,
three miles and a-kalf on the rivsr Tees. L&rgaa and
Pearoe have been matched for a raoe en the Thames, en
June 17, for £2OO aside. Largan is said to be tho
second best man in England. On February he defeated
tho American sculler Sylvie Gookin, and before the
Hanlan-Triokett match was made, Mr. W. J. Lines
offered to back him against Triokett for £lOO aside. So,
probably, Pearoe has some trouble before him. Largan
and Pearoe will row two dajs before the raoe for the
Sportsman Challenge Cap, valae 200 guineas, with
prizes to the amount of £lOO. In this race Boyd, Lar-
gan, Layoock, and Pearoe will probably meat.
Several English pugilists are desirous of accept-
ing Sullivan’s challenge to knock any man in the world
out of time in four rounds. Up to latest files, no match
had been made. Sullivan wrote the following ulti-
matum to the N.Y. Clipper of April I There has
been so much newspaper talk from parties who state
they are desirous of meeting me in the ring that I am
disgusted. Nevertheless, I am willing to fight any man
in this country, in four weeks from signing articles, for
$5,000 a side, or any man in the old country for the
same amount, at two months from signing article*. I to
use the gloves, and he, if he pleases, to fight with the
bare knuckles. I will not fight again with the bare
knuckles, as I do not wish to put myself in a position
amenable to the law. My money is always ready, so I
want these fellows to put up or shat up."
“Pendragon” of the London Refsrkb gays-.
“ Hanlan, aocording to his own words and the words of
his old supporters, when flt.ia an entirely different man
Iroui' what ho is whea untie. The difference between
condition and want of condition in him is far more
marked than it is in the ordinary run of professionals.
Interested readers may remember that among tho.ex-
planations put forth for Haulan’s curious show upon the
Seekonk, whan he and Boyd rowed such a desperate
raoe for last position, this peculiarity of his was insisted
upon. Again, those who had charge of him when he
was training to row Triokett told their friends that
three or four times during his preparation Hanlan
suddenly lost all pace and then just as suddenly re-
gained it. This was given in proof of hew difflsnlt a
man (Hanlon is to get into a thorough state of prepa-
ration.”
The sum of *83523 passed through the totalisa-
tor on the first day of the South Australia* Jockey
Club’s Autumn Masting, all of which, less 2) per cent,
commission, goes back into tho public purse, instead of
into tho pockets of a few bookmakers, thus showing tho
wisdom of legalising the totalizator. Out of the total,
£612, which passed through the " recorder" for the
Hurdle Race, only seven were on the winner, each in-
vestor of a single pound receiving £BO 175., or odds of
over 79 to 1. Again, in the South Australian Stakes,
the machine was patronised to the extent of £877, and
investors received £lO 2i, or odds of over 9 to L which
was more than double the odds to be obtained from the
bookmakers. For tho St. Legor, there was £1057 in the
totalisator, shareholders receiving £ll9s. Of the £977
in the totalisator for the Flying Handicap, backers of
Baron von Mueller, the winner, received £ll3*. for each
pound invested.
At the Rugby Football Union on Friday night,
“ Monte " Arnold convulsed the assembly in describing
another game played h»re. He ludicrously traversed
its “ pleasing " rules, and spoke of tho ma’s and pa’s
of the players coming down at half-time with eake and
candy with which to regale their sons. So nice, yon know.
Tho " Exhibition" match at Maitlsnd was profoundly
amusing. Monte sketched the advertising process from
the “ preliminary meeting was hold," etc., down to the
“ lovers of game will assemble at wharf," etc. He was
a passenger that night. Five players turned up to p’ay
the " Exhibition " match. On arrival at Maitland, the
local team enquired for the men who were to play the
“Exhibition" match. “We're the Exhibition," re-
plied tho Sydney talent, and thereupon some dozen
nondescripts were collected in Maitland and mixed up
with the “ Exhibition" five. Arnold concluded by
humourously describing the long reports of tho match
in the newspapers, amid general laughter—even
*• Leather Stocking " joininglin.
A few months ago it seemed as if the swelling
tide of American sporting supremacy would speedily
engnlph Groat Britain. But in New York, on that
most peculiarly American holiday, Washington's birth,
day, two Englishmen easily beat all their American
opponents in a 24 hours’ run. A week later, in the six-
days' go-as-you-please race, at Madison Square Garden,
an Englishman finished first, an Irishman second, a
Scotchman third, a negro fourth, an Irishman fifth,
and tho American sixth and last. Anothsr week comes,
and at Sheffield an Englishman, Littlowood, wiped out
all tbs old six-daye’ walking rsoords made by O'Leary,
Weston, Vaughan, and Harriman; while on the
Thames, Largan, an English oarsman, beat Gookin,
the pride of Boston, U. S. A. And now P. Lorillard’s
horses. Aranra and Mistake, run unplaced in tho
Lincolnshire Handicap. We perceive, too, that J.
Saunders and W C- Davis, two Englishmen, have iu
America just beaten the American records from 26 to
120 miles, and the English records above 81 miles.
The Eastern Suburban Amateur Athletic Sports
on Saturday were not so well attended as the 8 A.A.C.
Sports a we .k before; though most of the events were
more closely contested, and therefore more interesting
The programme wa* better, a mile bicycle raoe having
been introduced, as also some new races, notably tee
4W yards hurdle race, which n#«d to be a great favourite
with that game runner Aliok. Prb* years ago on the
Albert Ground. The time generally wa* alow, and
proves that onr amateur runnsra and walkers have a
very opsn field for Improvement before them. Wa were
surprised that Shipway, who is really a fine walker,
should allow himself to bo defeated in two miles in
16 min. 31 secs, by C. D. Best, with a start of only 81
seconds, and Farris should be able to beat any one, who
with a start of 115 yards, cannot cover the mile in less
than 4 min. 46 secs. According to this time our be. t
amateurs would be nowhere with the English runners
and walker*. The results were as follows 100 yards
flat raoe, Inglis, 1: Beatty, 2. Time, Hi sees. One
mile walking, was won by C. B. Beet, in 8 min. 11 secs ;
W. C. Rush won the 150 yards flat race, A. C. Logan
being second ; tho 600 yards school flat race. J. Parker,
Sydney Grammar School, 1; D Maokay,2; Hngtaes
won the 120 yards hurdle race, Tallaoh bsing second;
the 200 yards flat race was won by C. C. Beatty, in 22
seconds, M. Fligg, being second; C. T. Metcalfe be«t
J. Ferris in the 1000 yard* flat race; the strangers 150
yards flatraoe was won by A. Gerard. The Bicycle Race,
1 mile, waslwen by E. George, while Moyse by some
excellent riding managed to seaure second place. The
300 yards race was a gift to W. C. Rush, who won
easily in 33i seconds. The 440 yard* flat race was taken
by A. H. Macarthur, in 544 secs, H. Fligg being second.
The mile flat race was won easily by P. P. Podley with
a start 115 yards, in 4 mins. 46 secs. J. Ferric started
from scratch, and succeeded in securing second place,
though Pedley beat him by his start. Had Farris made
his effort sooner, a close race would doubtless have en-
sued, though Pedley ran too well to get such a handi-
cap. Ferris ran gamely, and, like Moyles in the bicycle
raoe, (was loudly applauded by the spectators at the
finish. The 413 yards hurdle race resulted in a close
contest between C. T. Metcalfe and H. B. Hughes,
Metcalfe winning almost on the tape. The 75 y ards
sack race was won by Bayless, Grainger being seeond,
and Blaxton appropriated the Consolation Race, 150
yard*. During an interval between the events, tbe
members of the Sydney Bicycle Club went through
some evolutions on the ground, evoking the admiration
of the spectators. One man said they reminded
him of a lot of long-legged crabs foraging on the sea
shore.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At the Interprovinoial Bicycle contest, held at
Christchurch (N.Z,), the championship, 5 miles, was
won by A. Alison, of Christchurch, (W, H. Cntten, of
Dunedin, close up. The mile Handicap fell to Mount*
fort., and the 10-mile to Searle Mr. G. G. Stead, of
N.Z. who ha* gone heavily into importing (blood stock
from England, has had a bit of luck, seven of the nine
mares having proved in foal In the race for tho Ade-
laide Cup, Rainbow strnck a post and thiew his rider
Graokneil, whe was rendered insensible for a time
An amusing practical joke was played on a number of
cricketer# after a match in one of the Otago (N.Z.)
dis'riot*. Buringtke evening, while enjoying a refresher
in the" pub,” a lot of larrikins painted their horse# so ef-
fectively that they conld not recognise them in the nigh t.
The Hon. J. B. Watt, the President ot the Sydney
Mercantile Rowing Club has presented three beautiful
silver cups for competition by members of the club
during the current year... At the Cobar mooting, Student
won the doable, the Cobar Handicap and Town Plate ...
The Victorian light-weight, George Williams, is making
a name for himself in Auckland by his clover riding
On Easier Monday, the Great Western cricketers
visited Herberton to play a challenge match, and were
provided by the Herberton men with a bucket of not
over clean water by way of refreshment. The Western-
ites are now much exercised how to return the
hospitality in a suitable manner on the occasion
of the match on Queen’s Birthday. One man
suggests burgoo; another, white puddings
Only ten nominations for the N.Z, Grand Nation#!
Steeplechase An Amateur Athletio Club has been
formed at Grafton. ▲ good working committee b*s
been elejted, so we may expect to hear sh rtly from
the Clarenoe At the la»t Wiloannia Races, Mr. J.
O’Loughlan was disqualified fsom ever running, enter-
ing, training, or riding on the Wilcaunia course, for
entering Bulgarin (a horse that had won several events)
as a maiden horse under the name of Andrew At the
last Deniliquin races, the stewards disqualified Phantom
and the owner, Mr. C. Cox, of Urana, (or twe ve months
and tho jookoy, T. Thomson, for three years on
account of the unsatisfactory running of Phantom
in the Consolation Stakes It is likely, however,
that tho club will reconsider this decision
A football tournament is to bo held at Christ-
church, in the middle of June In the list of cricket
centuries for last season, Alex. Bannernian has the
honour of appearing four times; while 8 Jones* name
is down three times ; and Murdoch, M'Donnell, Horan
(both first-class matches), and M’Evoy each appear
twice. Murdoch this year succeeded in making the
highestjindividnal score ever compiled in Australia, and
the performance is almost equal to W. G. Grace's mam-
moth scores. In Victoria, 8 Morris heads the list with
280 to hie credit; Giffen leads South Australia with 158;
W. Sidebettom stands out pre-eminent under the head-
ing of Tasmania; while F. Fenwick’s 170 gives him the
premier position in New Zealand, Last season 23
centuries were made in Victoria, C. Dunne, 233, being
the highest scorer; two in New South Wales, Masaij
135; thirteen in South Australia, T. Lucas, 165 ; ten in
Tasmania, G. Bailey, 227 not out; and nine in New
Zealand, G Watson, 175 A 125-yards' foot raoe took
place at Grafton on Saturday, between Thomas Noud
and Darcey, resulting in a win for Daroey after a good
race The third-class yacht race, on the Port River
(8. A.), on Saturday, was won by Mr. T. Heritage’*
Trio A match for tho trophy, presented by the presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Bowling Association, was played on
King's School Green, on Saturday, between the
Parra natta and Balmain clubs, resulting in a
win for the latter by 13 points, the scores
being:—Balmain, 87; Parramatta, 74 The
final heat for the Public Schools Rowing Match
came off at Melbourne on Saturday, the contestants
being Geelong Grammar School and the Scotch College
who had previously defeated Weeley College and Mel-
bourne Grammar School. Geelong took the lead, and
won by half a length after an excellent contest
Here is how the Echo reports the doings of the Mer-
cantile Rowing Club:—“The final match for the
above, betwean Our Boys and the Surrys, which at-
traoted about 4000 spectators last Saturday, will bo
resumed this afternoon, on the Cnp Ground, Moore
Park. Seven wickets of the Surrys are down for 139
runs, &o." This is what we call untrammelled journal-
ism ...Kelpie, the well-known racing sire, died recently
at Mr. Frank Beynolds’ stud, Tooal, aged 27, leaving an
affectionate—bnt no. Kelpie was a Mormon! Green
v. Nichols, for £3O, at Shoalhaven, in light skiffs to-day
(Saturday).
• « *
The Ryan-Sullivan fight has incited a great deal
of pugilism in America. In all parts of the country
rings are pitched for couples who, for spite or notoriety,
desire to whip eich other according to rule. In several
oises the death of one of the participants has followed
tho encounter.
Our dear old friend John Alexander Dowie
figuring in the law courts again. This time he wants
to milk Mr. Thos. Walker, spiritualist lecturer at Mel-
bourne, iff £250 damages for slander.
It ia feared that the brig Bat, which left Bel-
fast (Victoria), on March 31, with 2500 bags potatoes
and a quantity of bran and barley on board ror (Sydney,
has been lost. The Bat was an iron vessel of 250 ton*,
and was commanded by Captain G. Harrison ; agents,
Nipper and See.
A presentation to the Borough Council of
Parramatta, of a portrait of Mr. C. J. Byrnes, 8 years
mayor of the borough, was made by Mr. J. 8. Par-
nell, M.P., on the 26th nlto., at a special meeting, when
most of the alder * eu and other gentlemen ware present.
Mr Parnell spoke in laudatory words of Mr. Byrnea,
who replied, and several toasts gave the company a
chance to “liquor up." The portrait was hung in the
Town Hall, and was much admired. It is the work of
Mr. W. Macleod.
A curious case happened in London. A Board-
school mistress refused to receive a child with her hair
in curlpapers. Ihe offended father took the case t •
court, but Mr. Paget, the magistrate, decided in the
mistress’s favour, on the ground ihat she was justified
iu enforcing a clean appearance and refusing to allow
B'ovenliness among her pupils. Mr. Paget would not
t no outage careless parents iu bringing down the moral e
of the public school to that of their own slovenly
horns*. Many newspapers cavilled ut the decision t
bnt they ware only those of the class specially suited
for ourlpvpets.
A clever coup was made afc a London party. A
handsome, gentiemanly-loeking man walked boldly in
as one of the guests The hostess thought him u Irion-,
of her husband’s; he thought the gm-sc was brought by
som» club companion, who, owing to the crowd, bad
o nitted to introduce him. After supper, watches and
bnosieta wore missed; s > was the g ntlernanly-lookiug
Man 1 He had annexed in throe hours about, £2OO worth
Ot jewellery, and to riuish his worn neatly, he had, when
going, asked the seiy int iu the hall to go and get him h
drink of brandy, and while the servant was absent be
took his departure, and the spoons.
The S.F Chhoniclk recently accused the S.P.
Eullbtin ot having sold its editorial influence to the
Central Pacific Railway for 6000 dollars. The Bulletin
brought a libel action, but the presiding lodge ruled
that the allegation was not libellous ! His J onor said :
"Is it morally or legally wrong for a person to advocate
a project, matter, or claim, for pecuniary or valuable
consideration f Talent is as much the ca; ital of the
advocate, the lawyer, and the editor, as mer baudiae is
of the merchant, and the editor has as much right to
sell his talent as the merchant his merchandise The
lawyer, the minister, the parliamentary ad . ooate, the
lecturer, the author, each sells his talent, and is not the
less respected for so doing. The greater bis learning,
industry, eloquence, and the esteem in which he is held,
the greater his compensation. It seems to r, o that it is
no more libellous to accuse one of selling for gain the
support and advocacy of his newspaper tl nit would
be to accuse the merchant of selling for g n bis mer-
chandise." What does Sir James Martin think of this
ruling ?


RILEY BROTHERS,
886 GEORGE STREET,-)
600 GEORGE STREET, !■ SYDNEY.
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBtTRN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND" S
AND
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE CHEAPisT DRAPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
the originators of the
NOTED JBB BALES.
10
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
yards White or un-
bleached Calico
6 yards White or Red
Flannel
L 2 yards Wineey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
BbirHng
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Seeks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Gotten Tick
8% yards Gambroon fer
strapping
8 yards Strong Brown
Holland
8 large size Bedroom
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Dautask Table
Coror
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
er Child’s Boots
1 Belt er pair ef Braces
tdos. Pooaet’kerchiefs
Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
And Eyes, &o. &c.
Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladles’ Night-dresses
2 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pair Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Stays
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings
1 Ladies’ Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants* Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
t dozen Infanta* Diaper
Squares
Puff box. Puff ft Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
1 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infant’s Chrisfing Robe
1 I n f a n t’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 Infant’s Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bale.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 largo Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
20 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good rv elsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
All the abore are good
wearing articles.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
else
I best Felt Hat, any size
3 pair strong Cotton Books
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &e.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
8 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies* Camisoles
2 Ladies* Petticoat*
5 Children's Chemises
8 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
8 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longoleth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, ot her
articles may be ordered in-
stead ef any of the above.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
X pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 largo White .ow
8 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons,
Thread, &o.
£’s Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnot
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free
RILEY BROTHERS 1
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
X Haireord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
4 dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box. Puff, ft Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
Or Steamer
JB2 Infants’ Christ-
ening Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Robe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
Carriage free by Ball
or Steamer.
£2 Stochman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Tro» sere
1 Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
S Pairs Strong Socks
3 Fookethankerehiets
I Soft Felt Hat
I Elatsic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
JB2 Ladies’ Parcel.
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
• We wish it to be distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be chan gad for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOR BOYS.
Sohool Suits, 3s 6d
Hussar Suits, 3s lid
Picnic Suits ,3« lid
Sunday Suit* ,7s 6d
Youths* Suits, 12s !>d
Sohool Hats, Is
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakspoare Hate, Is lid
White Shirts, is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s 114
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers. 2s lid
Trousers Tweed, 9id
Linen Collars, 4id
Elastic Braces. 34
Cotton Socks, 3d
Nectiea, 3d
FOR LADIES.
Dolman Mantles. 12s 9d
Satteen Prints, Sid
Dress Materials, 4fd
Black Alpaca, sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hats, Is 6d
Night Dresses, 2s 6d
Trimmed Chemises, Is 6d
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2a 6d
Twill Umbrellas, Is 64
Beet Kid Gloves, 2s 64
Muslin Edging, 2id
Black Crape, Is lid
Sohool Hats, 9d
Infanta’ Goods ,
Baby Linen
FOR MEN.
Working Shirts, Is 6d
White Shirts, 2s 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2s lid
Linen Collars, 454
Seamless Socks, 64
Elastic Braces, 6d
Tweed Saits, 19s 6d
Summer Suits, 19s 64
Trousers and Vest, 9a 6d
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed P-.gets, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s 6d
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakapeare Hats. 2s 6d
Colonial Tweed, 2» 6d
Bilk Umbrellas 7s 64
FOR THE HOUSE.
American Longoloth, 24d
Nightshirt Calico, 44d
Grey Calico, 2Jd
Double width Calico, 7Jd
Pillow Calico. 64d
Bwansdown Calico
White Flannel, 74d
Wide Flannel, Hid
Scarlet Flannel, 74d
Saxony Flannel, 11 |d
Cotton Tick, 3Jd
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, 5Jd
Unbleached Sheeting, 7Jd
White Sheeting, 74d
Twilled Sheeting, 9jd
Mosquito Net, 614
Summer Quilts, 2s lid
THIS PRICE LlST.—Persons who may read this
advertisement must not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods are very
common. They are by no means the commonest goods.
We have lower prises still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
but with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now bo had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
SOCIAL.
Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Browne, of “ Edgeoliff,”
T)oean-stroet, gave a large party on Thursday week, about
100 guests being present. Flags round the verandahs
made cosy retiring places from the active delights of
the dancing floor, and Chine»e lanterns cast their soft
light over the garden walks. A contingent of naval
officers delighted the hearts of the ladies, wno, as their
share, contributed a dazzling display of drees and
beauty. Music was supplied by the Kelson band, and
kirn RM&k-ap was ever so late.
* • #
An attempt is being made in England to stop
'high gambling.between the sexes. Women at cards are
an unmitigate 1 mistake; nine out of ton won’t settle if
they lose, and the tenth hates you for life for taking her
money. As for cheating, the woman has not yet been
been born who wouldn’t eheat her blind mother at
cards. And when you bowl a young lady out in a little
swindle, you can’t treat her as you’d try and treat the
male blackleg.
« • •
"What is this we hear concerning defalcations at
•one of the fayres ? Certain olergman have alleged that
{people who professed to help the “ holy show” along,
helped themselves Instead. Consequence— pecuniary
(results not up to expectations, and Lydia Languish has
languished in vain. It is a fact, deny it who may, that
a big scoop was made by one enterprising person ; it ia
also a fact that the promoters of both fairs are dis-
appointed with the money bag. They looked for a
forty-two inch waist—by the way, one of the ladies had
an 82-inoh waist—and find themselves clasping a skele-
ton.
« • *
Mr. and Mrs. Fleming gave a ball in the Ashfield
(School of Arts, last Thursday. The hall was quite as
(full as It could comfortably be, especially as one notice-
table feature of the handsome dresses w&« the number of
trains displayed. Both host and hostess were indefatig-
able in creating enjoyment for their guests.
• • •
Here are a few fair items, jumbled up. The
Kaval Brigade bandsmen want to Know when they are
going to be paid. Ho far, they have utterly failed either
to get what is owing them, or to learn when it will be
forthcoming. Archbishop Vaughan—and he ought to
know—says that a certain young lady from Woollahra
was the preti last at his show, and His Grace was the win-
ner of a big doll that was raf—we|mean “shared”—at Bt.
Mary’s. And when he visited the gipsy’s tent with a view
to having his fortune told by Mrs. Constable (the charm-
ing Joey Gongenheim, a smile from whom in the long
ago killed our lamented uncle ere his heart bad become
hard, and ere he had made & fortune to leave to us),
Miss Joey told him at first that he’d marry a pretty
•firlj Vat, suddenly recollecting herself, she changed
his fate to the attainment of a Cardinal’s hat, which
was almost as cheering to the prelate. Mrs. Constable
Is said to have told over 2000 fortunes, and as she, on an
average, promised to each client at least £20,000, it’s
dear that she must now have resting on her a
£40,000.000 responsibility. Mr. Heller, the mueh-
monmed secretary to the show, enjoyed the magnificent
salary of exactly two pounds a week. He had a wife to
keep, and two children, one of whom, a little mite of
three summers, rtgularly appeared at the Pay re as
Queen Slir.abeth, costumed in a style which Her
Majesty ef Hheba might well have envied. That be
nhould, in the face of all this, have been so ungrateful
<a* to run away, is a subject of geuoral astonishment.
He gave complimentary tickets for his proposed ball to
Most of the lady stall-holders, and asked them to sell
gentlemen’s tickets for him. They sold tickets
accordingly, but, before leaving, and after collecting the
ticket money. Holier said to a friend that he
had only followed the example of the priests, when he
employed the girls to cozen the boys. Mr. Dailey and
all the other leading Catholics aoaolntelv refnsed to
connect themselves in any way with the Fair, which,
they said, was held on consecrated ground. Dean
Hhvridan, the Vicar-General, had determined that
Si. Francis’ stall should rake in more filthy lucre than
any other stall; so this second-in-command of the local
R.O. Church hoisted the wheel-ot-fortune on to the
steps of the altar, and himself sent it spinning round at
a great rate with his own sacred digits. The ladies
employed are said to oomplain bitterly of the shabby
and cheese-paring policy pursued by the ecclesiastics,
who, to quote the elegant phrase of a Parramatta editor,
never so much as asked them if they had a month."
The Fair used to close at ten promptly every night, with
•• God save the Queen," two minutes alter the conclu-
sion ef which tno gas was put out "by order" of the
olergy, and the ladies—and gentlemen—had to dress or
undress—as the case might be—ln the dark. At first cer-
tain of the attendants, were contracted with for hebdo-
madal salaries of £2, but ail er a week or two had parsed
the aforesaid attendants were tendered at the rate
of thirty shillings in full remuneration for their labors.
It need hardly be stated that such as submitted to the
reduction were next week offered only 20s. We the
other day saw in a country paper—it’s really astonish-
ing how one has to go from home to hear nows—that a
quarrel had occurred, and that some very excellent
people, including a priest, were neally coming to blows.
As we’ve seen excellent people oome to worse things
than blows, we weren’t surprised. However, with our
usual energy and acumen, we’ve looked up the matter,
and find that the trouble arose ia this wise. Mr.
Busheli, at ore of the Archbishop's popular concerts
sang a song—wo’ia not sate whether it was “ The Wind
among the Barley" or “Como into the Domain,
Maud’’—and was encored Thinking to please his
audience, he proceeoed to give, as his second number, a
classical competition from Mozart's Twelfth Mass,
entitled “ The Fine Old Irish Gentleman," which ia
understood to relate to the decease of an ancient Mile-
sian, who, when he had “ pegged out," lay in state, like
Tim Flanigan, with three or tour candle s at his beau,
thieo or four candles at his feet, and as many bottles
of good old Irish Whisky on hia breast. Whereupon a
ponderous Irish ecclesiastic became greatly incensed,
and wanted to pull the singer from the platform, fhe
Into Mr. Michael Fitzpatrick once had a like experience
when be gave the song at Balmain.
« • «
One of the most popular squatters in the Grenfell
district — the sou of a Hydney wharf-owner —has taken
unto himself the charming daughter of a medical man
at Yass,
• • •
Last Friday, the mystic Masons again burst into
gaiety. It was the Zetland Lodge of Free and Ao.
copied Geniuses that broke out, No. 656, 13. C., what-
ever that means. Thera were about three score of th*
brethren and an equal number of the sistren, and they
opened the wild dissipation with a concert, after which
chairs were removed, and the gaudy mystl.-s launched
into the revels of the dance. Hall’s music gave every
satisfaction, and the whirl continued till deep into the
morning, with intervals for refreshment. Two hand-
some drosses woru conspicuous ; one being u polonaise
of brocaded amber satin, with coffee-brown satin under-
skirt; and the other, worn by a favourite lady vocalist,
was of delicate silver-fawn satin, brocaded with coloured
flowers, with a green amber skirt of shirred satin, and
a splendid wreath. Two young sisters, who performed
cleverly in the concert, danced equally well, and a
maxurka lately composed by the younger was played
and admired. A pretty girl was in black velvet and
scarlet satin scarf. At midnight, one of the Masons
endeavoured to make a speech about something, but ne
amount of " dispensations" could make an orator of
him, and when he had finished, the only persons present
not in a state of mental distraction were those who
kept out of hearing. However, the Masonic quadrille,
which he attempted with such honest laborionsness
to announce, wss danced, the ladies donning the regalia
for the time. Several blue silk dresses looked very
nice when the blue and silver trimmed aprons were
attached. A white satin dress, with cardinal shoulder
knots, was gracefully worn by a voluble young lady,
whose partners must have absorbed an immense amount
of Information if they listened to halt of what she
said. It is fair to say, though, that t ie lively little
belle was just as pretty as the was chatty. Two sisters
were an acquisition to the room ; one in black net and
cardinal; the elder, a tall, elegant blonde, in white and
ruby satin, with necklet and armlets of plush, being
decidedly the belle of the evening. Round the walla,
portraits of distinguished persons, including C. J.
Roberts, the Quevn, John Davies, the Prince of Waits,
and others, together with flags, made the scone quite
lively. All the rest of the joy was due to a person
named Callaghan. He catered.
* * *
Mr. Robert J. Sheridan, who after 21 years’
service in the examining branch of the Railways De-
partment, has been promoted to the chief clerkship,
was entertained at dinner by his felb«w-etficers en
Wednesday evening last, at the Angel Hotel, and pre-
sented with an elegant illuminated addrevd, surrounded
by the portraits of his former brother officers.
* # *
Last Saturday, beautiful weather, larffe at-
tendance, German Band, exciting bicycling, and prompt
despatch of runners, combined to make a good day at
the E.B.A.A. sports. Few light costumes were dis-
played; hand-painted parasols, so plentiful recently,
almost absent; •unflowers, sad greens, and other
emblems of “ culture," appeared now and then. One
costume was a sage green, with an “unthinking”
pattern on it of ugly yellow flowers, chopped up
segments of oiroles, bits broken off straight lines,
isolated leaves of unknown plants, and other fantastic
foolery, combining to make a design of that peculiarly
inartistic kind affected by the disciples of the; lily-
loving Oscar. A handsome little lady from Bonrke-
street was in black, with narrow braids of gold Very
neat was the figure of a lady in black broohd velvet,
with Satin underskirt, and a feather hat apparently of
partridge plumage. The younger Miss Mosman’s
maroon satin and cashmere costume graced a pretty
form, and a large Madras mualia-oovered hat nearly
extinguished its little wearer. Miss Kellie Ward, in an
immense white straw Gainsborough hat, lined with
black velvet, black oostume and cardinal sash, looked
quite picturesque. A combination of grey and peacock
blue, with a grey poke bonnet, was quaintly pretty; so
were two small girls in light blue. Black straw sailor
hats were noticed on many fair headv. A trio of young
ladies were all in maroon velvet bodices, same coloured
dresses, and large plash hats; while two Bonrke-street
Bisters displayed nice dark greens and blrds’-feather
hats. Every girl ought to save up her money and buy
a feather hat; life will be hardly worth prolonging
through this winter withent one. The moat con-
spicuous dress on the lawn was a limited success,
though a decided sensation. It was a dork olive green
satin, with velvet bodies, and a pretty small bonnet to
match. A large sunflower, over the centre of the fore-
head, gleamed like a star above a remarkably handsome
face. It will be understood, then, that the lady was
pretty, and her attire was pretty, down to a certain
point, but, unfortunately, before the dress was com-
pleted, material ran short. Between the bottom of the
skirt and the top of the hettines there was a want of
what the Supreme Court calls ** continuity.” Cardinal
was the colour chosen to All the hiatus, and it presented
a pleasing effect; though, as a matter of mere aesthetic
taste, more green and less cardinal might have looked
—different. To compensate for brevity in front, the
dress, which was trio bouffant above and drawn dose
round the limbs below, had a train. The train was its
particular glory. The process of lifting this train from
the ground required much art, and was more fun than a
hurdle race. Its novel construction prompted it to
always whisk out of the way when it was sought for,
and bob up serenely in some totally unexpected place.
To capture it, therefore, required both experience and
skill. Standing quite still, its owner would carefully
reconnoitre over one shoulder, to ascertain its exact
whereabouts, a few gentle movements brought the
frisky fabric Into a neat heap “ convenient ’’ to eae
heel, a sudden dive was then made, and os, with a
sudden flash of oardin&l, a tiny foot dexterously kicked
the astonished satin into the air, the daintily-glared
little hand convulsively clutched at it. Without
allowing time for resistance, the fingers closed on the
imprisoned skirt, and the fair wearer, with all the calm-
ness of conscious power, resumed her walk. And admir-
ing eves followed, fer there were few fairer than this
blonde young lady, in her willowy grace, from the Land
of Moab. A dark-cyed belle appeared in dark heliotrope
satin, and looked captivating to an extreme. The
daughter of an M.L.A., in maroon, displayed a large
quantity of yellow chrysanthemums for a brief interval
on the lawn. From Paddington came, in handsome
claret velvet, a young lady, whose father's sphere is the
Legislative halls t and from Surry Hills, in peacock
blue satin broehe, and etceteras to match, came a
charming girl whose pa is in the Customs. An auburn-
haired young lady wore a nice blaok satin and an enor-
mous white-feathered hat; a pretty brunette was in
blaok satin and cardinal sash; a myrtle-green velvet
hat and dress were tasteful, also a marcon dress with
black velvet hat and shaded yellow feather; while
another auburn-haired Isdy, from Redtern, donned a
oostume of pale blue, relieved with tiny laee flounces,
white hat blue-trimmed with feathers, and looked very
becoming.
• • •
There was great feasting over a Maori wedding
at Greytown (K.Z.), recently, when a giddy boy of some
17 seasons consolidated with a dusky Duloinea about
two years his junior. She had two bridesmaids, atd
was neatly dressed in white. The presents consisted of
and other useful articles, as well os a number
of bank-notes, while the bridegroom received three
horses. The beauteous bride smokes.
• • •
The first social meeting of the Sydney Liedertafel
on Friday last was quite good. It was also quite
fashionable, and quite ohetp; though the facts have no
connection with each other. Pull dress was the rule,
to which there were very few exceptions, and everyone
was there, that is, everyone who is anyone. The pretty
little Protestant Hall was draped with banners on the
walls, festoons of smaller ones were stretched across
the galleries, pot plants were disposed to best advan-
tage, and the multitudes of handsome dresses made a
moat picturesque scene. Pleased faces, encores, and
bursts of applause testified to euocess. Signor Glammona;
our leading ama cur pianists ; a ladv amateur possessing
a voice of remarkable compass, and a favorite amateur
tenor, contributed to the general pleasure. A young lady
who is to assume orange-blossom in a week or two, wore
a handsome blaok dreis, lightened with white lace;
another panose (from Waverley) looked pretty as usual,
iu Preach grey satin ; and her sister’s white toilette
trimmed with milk white beads, which glimmered in
the gaslight like icicles, was much admired. A well-
known belle appeared! a pure white satin, the clinging
texture and exquisite fit showing off its owner’s superb
figure splendidly. A pretty younger sister, wearing pale
pink, bids fair to grow equally attractive. The popular oan-
tatrioe Mrs. M‘Donald (ru'd Slattery), was conspicuous
in a very rich toilette of all gold satin, cluster of scarlet
roses tt the throat, s.nd pale blue knot in her ooiffuro.
A ladv with very florid complexion, who would have
looked well in cream or a coloured tint, appeared in
white satin docked with glittering silver sprays—a
lovely costume; bat the round, ruddy faoe, plump
arms, and shapely shoulders were painfully warm in
hue by contrast. In white laee, with gleams of scarlet-
in the dark hair and on the dress, a pretty Jnlve
was much admixed. Very teoomlng was a toilette ef
maize satin to its fair owner, a Maoquarie-etreet
resident ; and her sister’s mo e bountiful eharms,
framed ia pale bine satin, lace garnished, were net
unnoticed, as pretty as any of the costumes worn was
that of the talented plan Ute, Mrs. ’Woods, consisting of
palest pink with flushes of brightness in the form of
coral pink blossoms, a Grecian chaplet of pearls binding
the fair friz. A graceful form in a robe of deep pink
cashmere, almost severe in its absence ef adornments,
looked remarkably nice; and half a dozen seats from
the owner thereof, a rich dross of ruby velvet, with a
spray of cream roses and headdress of cream lace, came
in for admiration. Simple, but remarkably pretty, was
a black lace costume, filmy lace sleeves, through which
gleamed white arms, and a splendid pair of shoulders
peeped from under dusky coverings of the same becom-
ing material. Knots of pink roses in hair, and on the
V-shaped bodice, imparted the necessary relief. During
an interval, tea, coffee, ices, and light refreshments
were handed round, and amidst the jingle of spoons and
cups, several hundred voices chatted socially. Half,
past 10 saw the garlands dead and the gnests fled. His
Excellency was—not there.
« * #
The “Owl ” ball, on the 14th June, will be a big
euooess. If every festive bird in the club takes a ticket,
there will be no room for outsiders—crows. Between
the dances it is intended to introduce portions of the
usual club performance, so that the ladies can see that
no Olontarty or Moabitish practices are observed.
• * *
Not so numerously attended as the previous
Saturday’s meetiug were the Royston College Sports,
on Wednesday afternoon last week; nevertheless, the
grand-stand and lawn were comfortably filled, and ad-
vantages were offered of admiring pretty faces and
costumes, which, owing to the crowd, could not be so
wall enjoyed at the Amateur Athletic Sports. That’s
a penalty of popularity. The Kelson bandsmen treated
appreciative ears to melodies not quite so hackneyed ns
usual, a beaming sun shone genially down, races fol-
lowed each other with no tiresome intervals, hosts of
fond relatives were present to infuse courage into the
hearts of hopeful peds., and everything contributed to
suseess. After four o eloek, each tram increased the
visitors, as banks, offices, and warehouses sent forth
their hard-worked slaves, furnished, in many instances,
with the Inevitable shiny black bag, From “ Fernhlll,"
North Shore, came a plump little foriri, quaintly Clad
la a Sober bfO#n skirt, bfoWn and gold pompadour
jacket, and bfotfn art a# poke bonnet, tbs brim of
Which extended upward* ana outwards some six inches.
The Misses Cohen, of Lankelly Terrace, Macleay-street,
wore two of the prettiest dresses noticed; wine-
coloured velvet and cashmere, velvet sleeves; bodice
and drapery ornamented with crewel embroidery in
shaded reds; straw princess bonnet, velvet-trimmed,
on one dark head—-picturesque grey fur hat on the
other. Mrs. Levy’s (of “Gabors") costume of gold
broehe and black satin, and bronze beaded bonnet was
Very handsome; and Mrs. Cohen, of " The Hopes,"
Darlinghursb Road, likewise attracted attention in
heliotrope broehe, blaok mantle, and white plush
bonnet. Two pretty sisters from Balmain enhanced
their fresh complexions by wearing-—in one case, a half
necklet of pink rosebuds and leaves, and in the Other,
white and coloured flowers, over navy dresses; cavalier
hats with plumes. Rather novel, but extremely effec-
tive, was a garnet velvet costume studded with small
steel buttons; fur hat decked with garnet velvet.
Judge Cohen acted as escort to a pretty matron in
brown, whose quiet costume served to set-off a neat
little figure and charming countenance. Another dark
lady who accompanied his Honor wore a peacock-blue
pompadour oostume, black fur tippet, and blue toque.
Smiling benignly on the many sheep of his flock, the
portly Rabbi took frequent promenades, with his goodly
lady, whose somplexiou is fairer than many a young
maiden’s. Very charming was a petite lady iu black
velvet robe, trimmed with satin, and peacock feather
cap. A peculiar combination, nevertheless very effec-
tive, consisted of skirt and sleeves of ruby velvet,
bodies and polonaise of greenish-yellow sloth, hat fur-
nished with a green wing. In the sunlight this dress
was particularly pretty. Simple and stylish was an
overskirt ef brown velvet, draped above a fawn-
eelonred pettieeat, worn in conjunction with a straw
hat trimmed with brown velvet and feather.
« * «
All the resources of Mr. Paling’s music ware-
honse were taxed to provide sitting accommodation for
the fashionable audience who aeeepted invitation* to the
entertainment en Siturrtay evening. Amongst the audi-
ence w rt> the Mayor of Woollahra with tw® pretty daugh-
ters, the former enjoying a comfortable forty winks, tbs -
latter all animation and bestowing considerable interest
in the musical items. Then, the Crown Solicitor’*
niece, charming in blaok osstnme, scarlet anemones
set in a curly fringe, and the same flowers mixed with
white adorning the right shoulder; a Darllnghurst
lady in black, with eearlet and silver ornaments; a
musical divine contentedly standing near the
doorway; a gentleman well-known in the (esthetic
world, a spectacled musical enthusast, and
two sisters from the Cathedral Fayre, the
elder and smaller extra pretty in soft failing Madras
muslin. Miss Levy’s dress, of pale bine, glimmering
with white jet, was greatly admirad j her sisters, one in
crimson plush, the ether, eream and cardinal, wers
very attractive specimens of girlish beauty, a beauti-
ful maiden wearing a dark oostume and shaded crim-
son headdress might have served as a model for Queen
Esther, in her majestic bearing; and, for amiable ex-
pression, mixed with a dash of mischief in the full bine ■
eyes, a toll young lady standing at the back of the hall
earned off the palm
• si •
One of the most noticeable features in the
chorni of the Western Suburbs* Mnsioal Society the
other night, was the tasteful way in which some of the
ladies were attired. A piquanto looking brunette wore
a salmon colored satin with flowers and gloves
to match. A conspicuous dress was a pea green
tarlatan, which, however was not so tasteful as uncom-
mon. One alto singer wore a handsome oostame
composed of ruby velvet and pink satin, and another a
delicate cream trimmed with the palest pink imagin-
able; silver flowers in the dark hair. Amongst the
audience was a fair yonng musician in blaok velvet,
and having pearls twisted in her blonde hair. A little
maiden wore a create dress with ruby hood, sash, pose
and gloves, making a very pretty picture.
* * •
Fashionable wedding at Balmain, the other day.
Mr. J. A. Rose, ef Elliott Brothers, and Miss Fligg,
niece of Captain Broomfield, played the most important
part in the affair. Grand breakfast, plenty dancing,
showers of rice. “ Wedding March " played on church
ergon by Mrs. Murdoch, mother of the renowned bats-
man. Bridesmaids very enchanting. A lovely Victorian
bole was, in the fitness of things, assigned to the care
of one of the handsome brothers of the bride.
• • •
The Tamworth Athletic Club intend holding a
ball and supper in the Oddfellows’ Hall on Queen’s
Birthnlght. A large number of tickets have been
issued, and the affair promises to be a grand success.
• * «
A pleasing ceremony took place last Tuesday in
the Camperdewn Public Sohool. The head master, Mr.
T. Blunter, bad been appointed to the charge of the
Kewo&itle Superior Public Sohool, and on the eve of
his departure the tsaebers and pnpils presented him
with an address and a handsome biscuit barrel. Mr.
Blunter acknowledged the kindness by thanking the
donors of so kindly a gift. Although Mr. B. had
been only eleven months in charge of the school, he
left Campotdown with the respect and best wishes of
all. After “ Anld Laog Syne " was sung and hearty cheers
were given for Mr. and Mrs. Blunter, the pupils were
dismissed.
** * *
Very soon a Sydney lawyer, lately from the
country, will eoalesae with the pretty daughter of a
Wollongong rural dean The prizes icon at Bt. Mary’s
Fayre are advertised, and yet ne prosecutions follow
for breaches of the Lotteries Act. L»w has got the
bandage off one eye The "Frisky Frog*," a very
sociable lot In Kewbown, hold their first ainual ball on
the 2nd June, and the applications for a swimlin the
“ Pend ” are coming in fast, to the joyful " croak " of
the Professor Bad news eomes up from the country.
Says a Sydney telegram “ Squabbling has taken
place ever the recent Fancy Fair: the disputants
were almost ooming to blows." So this 1s what it
eemea to. The Arohblsbop lambasting Father
Mahogany, er Canon whacking the Dean On
Tuesday week, the crieketing elevens of Messrs. J. T.
and J. Toohey, and Larah and Fairfax, had a pleasant
reunion at the JBeyal Sovereign, Darllaghmrst. The
principal featnre was "drinks all neaad " The Birth.
day Ball at Government House, Brisbane, takes place
on Bth June Burwood Private Assemblies have
commenced ; first one was a grand success A
Bachelors’ Assembly holds its first gathering in Needs’s
Rooms, Friday, 19th instant Residents of Hay ore to
have a grand demonstration on the opening of the rail-
way, July 4th Mercantile Ball to be held in July;
date not fixed yet Mr. W. H. Maguire of the Tele-
graphs, was ohampagned at Compagnoni’s on Wednes-
day, 10th May, by his friends, prior to entering on
his duties sa Inspector in the Western district
Extra strong master of the Owl Club on the 10th, to
present Mr. Charles Huencrbeiu with a massive salver.
Charles, it will be recollected, recently took unto him-
self a wife Last Wednesday week, the sailors of the
departing Cormorant had a banquet and a pleasant
evening’s jollity, at a Circular Quay hostelry. Aider-
man Playfair was chairman for the jolly tars... ,An
Old English Fair is to be held in Wagga during the
Spring Race Meeting At the military ball in Ade-
laide on Queen’s Birthday, the Mayor has arranged for
" Hands all Round” to be sung. It’s to be hoped our
Mayor woc’t. Tom Bracken eould give Tennyson a
long start and a good beating on that item. As a
national song, “ God Defend Kew Zealand ” ia lots
better.
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Masonic Ball, Parramatta May 19.
Hunter’s Hill A,A.C. Sports.. ; May 20.
Wollahra Assembly May 23.
nymna»tic Sociable, sth quarterly May 25.
Bartlemy Fair May 24.
Governor’s Levde May 25.
Sydney Grammar Sohool A.A.C. Sports,May 27.
Glebe Bowing Club Ball, Town Hall .v-... June 1.
Complimentary Ball to Mrs. Martin June 1.
North Shore Rowing Club Ball June 7.
Return Ball to Mayor of Petersham June 7.
Owl Club Ball June 14.
Wallaroo Football Club’s Sports July 29.


Department of Mines
Sydney, 9th May, 1882,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Les-
sees execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned gold-mining leases within thirty days
from this date they will be declared void.
N*w England Mining District.
No. 176; D. Hsnnert; Portion No. 6l 14; County of
Bailer, parish of Colongon; 2 acres; Application No.
BjoiooV 23.
No 177; L. L. Fontenary and others; Portion No. gl
12; County of Bnller, parish of Colongon; 3 acres; Ap-
plication No. Boorook 26
No 178: W, Goodrich and others ; Portion No, gl 13;
County of Bullet, parish of Colongon; 3 acres; Appli-
cation No. Boorook 27.
JUST PUBLISHED.
THE CROWN LANDS ACTS OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
[EDITION OF 1882 ]
CONTAINING the Alienation and Occupation Acts
of 1861; the Amendment Act of 1875, and the
Further Amendment Act of 188 U, with Regulations
theronnder; and a General Index. Algo the Declaratory
Acts 42 Vic. No. 23 and 43 Vic. No. 3; and the Eing-
barking Act 45 Vio. No. 8.
[Price, Is. 6 d. ; by Post, Is. 10d.]
THOS. RICHARDS,
Government. Printer.
Government Printing Ofiles,
16th Mareb, 1882.
miß PAINLESS CORN RELIEVER,
JL Prick Zi 6d.
A Certain Ballet, and in numberless Instances, a com-
plete cure far eorns.
• Stanley-street, Woeleomooloe.
Ms. Clowee,—Sir, —I was favoured some time ago at
the offlee of the Sydney BnLLnrm, with a bottle of your
Painless Corn Believer, which X beg to state In led
with the following results i—As an applieation I found
it simple, painless, end as far as I know harmless; it
speedily removed the soreness and tenderness, and en-
abled me to walk with perfect ease, which I had not
been able to do for many years. Alto, lam of opinion
that, if I had used another bottle, it would have proved
a complete cure. Sir, 1 have much pleasure, and no
hesitation In stating the above, which you are at liberty
to use aa yon think fit. Tours truly,
(Signed) William Saul Morton.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Qympie.
Queensland. Bole|Proprietor of " Clowes’ Concordia ’
I
CLOWES' UNFAILING BING-WORM CUBE will
completely cure the most obstinate Ring-worm. Abun-
dant personal references. —Price, 2s 6d. The proprietor
will guarantee a oure.
CLOWES’ “BED GUM OINTMENT,** 2a 63, for
Healing Wounds.
CLOWES’ •’COMPOUND LINIMENT of ARNICA
and CAJUPUT," combined with an lodide, prepared
from the formula of the late William Clowes, M.R.C.8.,
fyo. For Sore Throats, Bruises, Sprains, Swellings,
Rheumatism, and Pains in the Joints. —Price 2s. 61.
CLOWES’ •’STYPTIC COLLOID." Most valu-
able for Slopping Bleeding and Protecting and Healing
Small Wounds.—Price 2« 6d.
ELLIOT BEOS. A Co., Sydney Agents.
CH. FERGUSON,
• UNDERTAKER,
Late Manager of W. and H. Kinsela’s principal shop,
George-street, has commenced business on bis own ac-
count at
835 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Railway Gate, a few doors higher up,
and 195 DEVONSHIRE STREET, Near RIL.EY-ST.
And is prepared to fnrnish Funerals CHEAPER than
any ether house in the trade, and, having purchased
everything New, hopes by civility and attention to
Business, a« be has dons to his late employers, to merit
a share e A. public patronage.
C. H. FERGUSON,
UNDERTAKER
IJNDEB SECTION V., ACT
artlTnion.
532.
PURCHASE of the BUNGAEBE JUNCTION
ESTATE
by Subscription.
10.000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 each.
120 PRIZES of the full value of RlO,OOO.
• 117 lets guaranteed, cash if preferred.
Lot I.lst prise £4OOO | Lot 3. 3rd prize........£1350
Lot 2. 2nd prize £3OOO | Lot 4 4th prize £4OO
Lots 5 to 9, Prizes of £l5O each.
Lots 10, 1 Prize of £56.
Lot 11, to 20,10 Prizes of £lO each.
Lots 21 to 110, 100 Prizes of £4 each.
The management have increased the number of prizes,
and thereby increased the chances to nearly a oerraintj
to win a substantial prize, if not a large end indepen-
dent fortune, for £l. Drawing on the 28th and 29th
March. Unsuccessful applicants will have their money
returned per return post. No commission will be paid
to agents after this date.
Address —-vETH R. I’ERSSE, No. 1 Australian and
European Chambers; Box, Post Office, Ballarat.
BEAD PROSPECTUS.
Mr. T. P. DeCOURCT BROWNE.
(Late Deputy-Chairman of the Mining Board of New
South Wales).
Author of the " Miners’ Handt Book,” Ac., Ac.,
MINING EXPERT.
ARBITRATOR, ADVISEE, AND AGENT.
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
128 PITT STREET,
(Near King-street.)
MINING PROPERTIES REPORTED UPON.
LEGAL MANAGERSHIPS UNDERTAKEN,
Also,
ARBITRATIONS IN TOWN OR COUNTRY, Ac., Ac.
VISIT
ja
(Late Newman),
THE POPULAR
F HOTOGRA F HER
374 late 392 George Street,
Next Post Office.
For those ENAMELLED BOUDOIR CABINETS
ud Cords, so much admired at this ESTABLISH-
MENT Especial Attention given to BABIES and
IHTLDEEN. OLD PHOTOGRAPHS copied,enlarged,
nd finished in OIL, WATER COLOUR and INDIAN
N K.
SPECIMENS ON VIEW AT THE DOOE,
PRICES MODERATE.
Note the address
374 late 392 George street.
Next Post Offlc ‘
n
m.
"ISIT E. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
tor
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams tor self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.
F. J. POLLENS
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
28 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and Coatings
direst from the Manufacturers, always on hand.
All Qabments Cut in the Most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-728 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAR HAYMAEKBT.
THE AMERICAN CARRIAGE
REPOSITORY,
CORNER CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Finest description of Carriages and Buggies—Single and
Double Harness.
WILLIAM FLEMING, IMPORTER.
vs f 1
Ingham’s
rtPHOF^BIA^
Queensland Cure:
Asthma, Bronchitis ' 2 5®
Coughs, "
bind all chest affections.
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 Oeorge-street.
i ■ 1
m
■i.i;. 1
mk
PI AN OFOETES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST EECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED,
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE and AMERICA,
A splendid stock 11 select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
By tbe celebrated makers
W, BELL AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
" VEK ALL OTHER'S
at tbe
LATE SYDNEY NTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION.
H A MON lUMB,
BT
ALEXANDRE and ther RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard's, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Soufleto’a, Kirkman's, and Uundt and Sons Piano,
tortes.
W. Bell and Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s. Ckmgh
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
W. H. p~aT lino,
862 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNTARD STREET,
SYDNEY.
JAMES S. BRAY,
(Late Secretary Intercolonial Life and Fire Assocn.)
Beg* to inform his friends and the Public,
that be has commenced business on his
own account as
INSURANCE BROKER, ARBITRATOR
and
ADJUSTER OF FIRE CLAIMS.
House, Estate, and General Agent,
ACCOUNTANT, Ac.
tr OFFIC
KET CHAMBERS,
472 Qeorge-street.
CROSS’S
INDIGESTION
DROPS !
Will CURE Indigestion, Heartburn, Flatulency, Sick
Headache, Sour Stomach, and every evil arising from a
disordered state of the digestive organs.
THESE DROPS WILL CURE INDIGESTION. <
Sold in bottles, 2s. 61. and 4s. 61.. by all chemists
and dealers in medicine.
Sole Proprietor and Patentee ;
Charles Cross. M.P.S. Viet.; M.H.P.S.,Gtt.B.,
GAWLEB, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Sydney Agents;
ELLIOTT, BROTHERS. HOFFNUNG & CO.
fp H B A T R E
ROYAL.
Mr. Bam. Baza*.
Treasurer Geo. L. Goodman,
CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
BLAND HOLT’S NEW BABYLON.
Received nightly with the same enthusiasm which
greeted its firat production in Svdncy, in April, 1880.
TO-NIGHT. THURSDAY,
and for ONLY SEVEN NIGHTS HO BE,
NEW BABYLON
will be repeated, embellished with
MAGNIFICENT SCENERY,
depleting
THE COLLISION in the ATLANTIC,
TATTERSALL’S, CRRMORNE,
with its Ten Thousand Liehts,
THE ELECTRIC WITNESS. SEVEN DIALS, &c.
BLAND HOLT'S NEW SONGS
encored again and aga'n.
THE GREAT STAB CAST,
including all the ORIGINAL CHARACTERS.
Prices as usnal. Tickets for all parts of the house at
Lloyd’s, next the theatre. Children in arms not ad>
jnitted.
Business Manager for Bland Holt— Montagu Browns,
JAMES ALLISON, Manager.
ICTO R I A
HALL,
Lessee ... Mr. E. A. HART.
Musical Director ... Mr. WALTER KERRY.
Properties and Effects by ... Mr. SYDNEY TTE.
“ HAPPY HOURS," and •* MERRY MOMENTS."
Mr. and Mrs B. A. HART'S MUSICAL COMEDY,
OPERETTA and BURLBXTA COMPANY.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT
SATURDAY EVENING, MAT 90th,
in their Refined and Champing Productions
"DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND,"
and
"MY WIFE'S RELATIONS.”
Replete with Beautiful Vocal and Instrumental gems.
Character Songs Dnets, Dances, and Impersonations.
Read *' Opinions of the Press.”
Admission: Chairs, Ss; Second Seats, 2s; Third
Seats. Is.
R. F. ROPER,
Agent,
Return ball to john gelding eb*.,
MAYOR OF PETERSHAM,
and
MRS. GELDING.
The above Ball will take place on the evening of the
7th Jane, at
THE PETERSHAM TOWN HALL;
Tickets ean be obtained on application to the Hono-
rary Secretaries.
A. OUBTTT. Sydney Arcade.
J. WHEELER, Sydney Exchange.
TO THE OPERATIC AND THEATRICAL
PROFESSION.
NEW OPERA HOUSE,
WELLESLEY STREET, AUCKLAND, N.Z,
Sole Proprietor, H. N. ABBOTT.
3PIHTS Mavnifleent Building is now completed. It is
L THE MODEL Opera Houoe of Australasia, and
e Largest and Most Commodious in New Zealand.
Erected on lastest model*, it will be found replete with
every Modern Comfort and Luxury (before and hebind
the curtain) appertaining to the host appointed
Theatres in the Old and New Worlds. The Ventilation
is perfect. All part* of the House are easy of ingress
and egress from broad, light, and airy corridors. Every
precaution has been taken to save life and property in
eaeo of fire, and the Auckland City Council have recently
inspected and highlv commended the measures adopted
to that end. Magnificently and Brilliantly Lighted,
its Luxurious Private Boxes, Dress Circle, and Or-
•hestra Stalls, together with its unsurpassed Pit and
Stalls Aooomodatien, ars features hitherto unknown in
Colonial Theatres. The Opera House will he opened
by the Wllliamaon Opera Companv for on# month,
commencing from 23rd May next. Theatrical Managers
and Agents’ " Stars," and Combinations are Invited to
ply to the Proprietor for terms and further informa-
7,
M
R. AND MRS. JAMES CARDEN.
(MISS MARSTON LEIGH )
An&ngememts completed for ene year, commencing
June Ist, 1882, under the management of
MESSRS. GARNER, WILLIAMSON, & MUSGROVE.
Theatre royal, grapton
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people and lit up
With Gas; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATEB.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capable of accommo-
dating 1800 people, is now available for theatrical
and other perform anoes. Tho stage la over 50 feet in
depth, and has a ueat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
T
IHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR of the
ZULU WAR.
ACADEMY OP MUSIC. CHRISTCHURCH,
ONE MONTH.
THEATRE ROYAL, WELLINGTON, EASTER
MONDAY.
T LOYD’S HOTE ,
JJ HOWIOK STREET, BATHURST.
Oilers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lers. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocalist,
Proprietor.
&
LB B B
BOWING
CLUB.
IRD ANNUAL PLAIN and FANCY DRB9B BALL
will he held in the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
on
THURSDAY, Ist JUNE.
Under the patronage of
Sir G. WIGRAM ALLEN, Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly, President,
W Cary, J.P., T. J. Chapman, J P., John Young, J.P.,
and G. W. Tate, Bsqrs , Vice-Presidents,
and the
Mayor and Aldermen of the Glebe.
Tickets can be obtained from tho following members
of Committee. _
Messrs. Q. W. Tate, W. Cary, J.P., W. Bull, J.P.,
H. Vaughen, G. Paddle, M. Mitchell, 8. A. Lee, O.
Ballhausen, J. Doutty, R. Daly. G. Darrell, G. L.
Maoready, W. J. Brown, F. A. Williams, J, Wal/ord,
E. Haslingden, A. lokerson, J. B. O'Connor. E. Fair-
weather. H. Cox, J. Young, G. M'Diarmid, H. Donald-
son, J. Sullivan, R. N. Bull, 8 J. Bull. B. f*. Mayes. G.
Robertson, F. J. Bull. C. Smith, W. Bull, jun., aud E.
Shuts.
E.P.I MAYES, Hon Seo.
K. SHUTE, Hon. Treas.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 24th April, 1882,
LIST of Applications received in the Depart-
ment of Mines, for permission to mine under
roads, &o, &0., under the Mining Aot, 1874, seo-
' ion “ 8 ‘ ARTHUR RENWICK
Date of Application, April 3,1882 ; Robert Moodie ;
Land fronting Jerusalem Bay, parish of Cowan, county
>t Cumberland, portion of reserve It; 640 acres; To
nine for gold.
tW's 48? t „ e 4 84 GEORGE STREET
/ < w////r\
/' D^V'
X YFT r.\ nTWNAI a
MAR ART CLOTH HALL ,
?T”>s)' tTHK FRVJiT MARK til S,
, '£oT4Bi.liHrniBPA
\ l#C£ .\*ir \A ELL SELECTED ST^M'
:: - ... OI
WO.CL.I RINS, NEW PVTI trii'JS,
r i rA
the mp.ffis.
TASHIONABLI-
F( AS : C LASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
ALLWOOL TWEED TROUSERS, TO ORDtT.
r. \2
BROOK’S
PATENT GLACE THREAD.
NEW SIX-CORD SOFT COTTON
(Specially wound on New Ebony Shoulder Reels, In white, blacl
and colours.)
SEWING
'Trade
mark
BROOK’S CROCHET AND TATTING COTTON.
OP ALL DRAPERS THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. qfa
mgm
The following list of EXHIBITION PRIZES is ft sufficient guarantee of the snperiority of the COTTONS 5 * MVactnred bv
them Gold Medal, Paris,,lB7B. Only Prise Medal;-London, 1861. Only First-class Prize Medal, PgrisrlfiSA Prize' Medal
London, 1862. Gold Medal, Paris, 1867. The’Only Diploma of Honour, Vienna, 1873. Gold Medal, Sout i Africa, 1877
Medal and Award, Philadelphia, 1876, for variety and general excellence. Only Special First Award, Sydney, l«3tf,
TTONS.
Ask for BROOK’S SHEWING
c $
AH Correspondence for AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND should be addressed to thru W arehouse
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales*


MOST PLEASANT
HOUSEHOLDERS,
TAKE NOTE OP THIS.
WHEN PURCHASING TOUR GROCERIES
ask for
PANTRR AND PARRY’S
NEW EXTRACT OP SOAP
AND SES THAT TOD GST IT.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
BE 'T Washing and Disinfectant Prepara-
tion known, for Clothes, Floors, Hands,
Crockery, faint, Gift's, nod every Household
purpose. Uotd snd recommended in the
Laundry at Goverj-mnnt Hoaee, Mr. Pey
inour (lus(.e3t">r of Nuisances), Mrs. Newell
(Orient Laundry), and hy all competent
judges to be the best article manufactured.
REMEMBER 1
Washing and cleaning done in half the
time, with half the Labour.
Everything Cleaner, Healthier, and more
pleas int altar using.
HOMES MADE HAPPY.
TO BE HAD OF ALL GROCERS.
WORKS, 700 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY,
IN THE WORLD.
THE PURE COCOA,
With supeifluous fat
extracted,
producei a
Light, Delicious
Beverage
%
*
£
*
InvJual le
for invalids, or
those who cannot
drink the thick, heavy
liquid yielded by
ORDINARY COCOAS.
SOLD BY ALL GROCERS.
A NEW DEPARTMENT!
HATS.
SLOPS.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
663 BRICKFIELD:HILL,
HATS. SLOPS.
ALL the attention of their patrons, and the public
of New South Wales generally, to the fact that they
have this week OPENED their
NEW HAT AND SLOP
DEPARTMENTS,
SLOPS. HATS.
Which will be found stocked with all New and Fresh
Goods. Everj thing will b 3 FRESH 1 Everything will
be NEW ! Everything will be CHEAP I And every,
body will be pol.tely served by polite assistants.
Remember I SLOPS
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
HATS.
Hatters, Men’s Mercers, Glovers, Hosiers, Haber
dashers, Softgoods-men, Faney Warehousemen
Corset Manufacturers’ Agents, Dressmakers.
Ac , &3.
HATS. SLOPS. HATS. SLOPS. HAT?. SLOPS
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER.
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pro.
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER I
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £2S.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
O W L E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
AMPEB-DO W 2T t NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
1W A WfWAm Twr «•
——— je, .OL JULU 9 Sydney,
S, *»
-
FOR THE PLOUBING SEASON OF 1882.
We are pleased to be aavisirg our oinwinera and the
Farmers of N.S.W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition t* all the well known ENGLISH and AMERI
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGENTS FOB
INFORMATION * CHAFF-DEAIM
1 Owners of Horses, &c.
READ WHAT PRACTICAL «EN «Y ABOUT /
MB BUNGLE S MACHINE B
Before Ordering,
send for
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
op Parramatta,
And request all intending parebasars to favour us with'
their orders early, as
William Richie's IfB2 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANT OTHBE SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CABEFULLY.—
Our Price List
AND
All Particulars.
J
MARTIN^
PAIN,
389 George St. f
SYDNEY.
-~4
lakendiog Purchasers should he encefnl te see that Cfeaff
Cnfefers offered them u Itaaeie's pattern are THE SENT?-
15E BUNGLE —S
John Bnaola, cf Melbonrre, has bees 86 years perfecting
is Chaff Cutters. tad any machines Shat have net his name
his Chaff Gutters. »ad any „„„ mo
east on iy-wheel and ttenth pseee, are Bet ef his maun-
factors.
THE DEPOT FOR BUNGLE’S MACHINES.
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SILVER WATCHES
FROM c£ . 4.10.
Coring
d Sc II HUNTER bTREET.
-chf' SYDNEY. 001;
COLD WATCHES
SEND FOR
CA TALOGUE.
FROM cX.3.10.
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY
rjIHE GREAT WANT OP THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE. FOR
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
HAIR - CUTTING ,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
- , oku And Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
1 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
M. GOULSTON,
(ESTABLISHED 28 TEARS)
WELL-KNOWN TAILOR,
58 Market Street.
TRY
GOULSTON’S
JE3 3b. SUITS!
£4 4s. SUITS!
JB4 10s SUITS!
awarKz:.. :: :
1
ALL GOODS
Thoroughly
SHRUNK,
and
NO MISFITS!
NSW GOODS EVKKY MAIL FROM FIRST CLASS HOUSES.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPING MIXTURE and
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosecute any vendor who
endeavours te deceive the public by SU BSTITUTINQ
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for their WELL-KNOWN
BRANDS at PURE TEAS.
beSn* ttbUC “ e CAUTIUi * EI> t 0 ask foT the packets
“ THE TABBING MIXTURE.”—THE MOGUL
MIXTURE.
Every packet bears the signature of the IncpcrUrs.
thus—
Clifford Love, & Company.
Those who are desirous of having guaranteed PT'RR
TEA, mast be certain that every packet bears the
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS, and not carelessly
to take inferior teas, which for the sake of extra profit
are offered to the public.
TOT TAEPING MIXTURE AND THE MOGUL
MIXTURE ARE GUARANTEED
PURE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
F. BUTCHER.
WHOLESALE GROCER AND IMPORTER,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &o.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET. SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMKERFIELD,
235 Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO ORDER, 1&). 61.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
SPECIALITY SUITS TO ORDER, 13 Se.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
GUARANTEES A PERFECT FIT!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
HAS ALL QOOIS THOROUGHLY SHRUNK,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Sends Self-measurement forms free by post!
H. L. SUMMERFIELD
Sends Selections of Patterns free by post I
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR
Has five of the BEST CITY CUTTERS I
H. L. SUMMERFIELD!
Speciality Suits to measure, £3 3s.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR!
Speciality Trousers to measure, 16s 6d.
L. SUMMERFIELD,
235 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B W PREMISES.
MB. J. CALLAGHAN,
CONFECTIONER AND CATERER,
so favourably known to the General Pub'io, Mayors and
Aldermen of various munitipslities, ard other public
b di<s, has REMOVED to hie El»e»nt and Solenoid
SHOP,No. 607 & 712 GEORGE STREET, oi e door from
the corner ot Goniourn.vtreet, where he will be pleased
to see his old customers, and to whom he render- thanks
for their liberal support, and hopes for a continuance,
there is a private room and lavatory fir ladies, a
Mrs.’CALLAQHAN** Sjdney ’ and su Pe> intended by
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN S DINNERS.
WEDDING BREAKFASTS.
. banquets,
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is requested.
The Tsana of subscription for The Bullitut are—:
advance, per annum. 125.; half-year, 65.; quarter!
38.; boeked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittance# »t
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z
ST £7 aoney order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
* publia^d b y w - H. Tkaill & CO., at
" office « 24 Sydney, fc.S.
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
_ JOK
PROMENADE
Trjjvellin.6
• • •
Durability . _
unsurpassed trickeLincf
“Standard” Winter Tweed daits
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality
“ Standard ” Very Superior ditto
Winter Overcoats, Fashionable Cut
Winter ditto, Extra long
Tweed Ulstare, Extra Quality
Ditto ditto, Superior ditto
PE APES and SHAW,
El 5 0
... 115 O
...2 2 0
...15 0
... 1 10 0
... 1 15 O
... 2 2 0
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
