

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 11.—No. 140
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1882.
Fries—3d
H%e
SATUEDAT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1882.
The Dispensation of Patronage.
The rats have come out of all the holes in the old
Assembly. By degrees they began to smell the
crumbs falling from the Treasury tabic. The
result has been that they are seen clustering round
the hands which feed them with this corrupt food.
The foregoing is merely a paraphrase of a speech
by Sir Henry Paekes. It is painfully true
when applied to the present condition of political
affairs, even in that Assembly which so many
members have been at pains to explain is quite
equal to any which has preceded it. From time
to time little glints of daylight have fallen upon
the dark interior mysteries of the present system
of administration. Now, it has been complained
by some member of the Opposition that hia repre-
sentations are treated with contumely, and an
apparent intention shown of inculcating upon hia
constituents that there is a distinct disadvantage
in returning a member who ia not prepared to be
subservient to the Government. Again, it is a
Minister who drops an incautious word indicating
that he cherishes an opinion that on all occasions
a Government supporter must be preferred to an
. opponent of the Government. Judging by some
hints let fall by Ministers, if an Opposition mem-
ber were pressing for bread to save hia consti-
tuents from starvation, and a Government
supporter were simultaneously demanding bread
to tickle the appetite of the pigs of hia consti-
tuents, the pigs would be first served. The
Minister for Justice, tor example, who seems to
bring to his work as Minister all ttio rancour
which usually characterises a pervert, acted upon
an obvious assumption that when a constituency
was represented by two members —one a Govern-
ment supporter, and the other a member of the
Opposition,— the latter was not to be regarded as
a representative at all. Mr. Peoctoe s recommen-
dations of gentlemen to sit on the Licensing Board
in his district were deferred to, almost slavishly.
To oblige him, the Government even incurred the
risk of insulting the whole body of magistrates in
the district. Mr. Copeland’s representations, on
the other hand, were in the first place not invited,
and in the second place, slighted when pressed
upon the Minister.
• • •
Lessons thus inculcated are not thrown away.
The principle—save the mark!—which underlies
them becomes thoroughly understood. Indeed, it
fa possible that, filtering through appreciative
media, it takes a stronger flavour than Ministers
who originate it would themselves fully relish
Among their followers are some who appreciate
the advantages enjoyed by them a little over
keenly. These put the most liberal and uncom-
promising interpretation upon their patrons’ acts
and preferences. They do not themselves possess
a ny discriminative faculties, and they reckon up
Ministers according to their own lights. No
member of the Opposition ever judged the
Ministry more ungenerously than some of its sup-
porters have judged it. In the estimation of tin
latter, there is positively no length to which the
Ministry is unprepared to go, in the direction oi
questionable preferences. According to their judg-
ment, a member in Opposition is simply a lost soul—
utterly damned, and essentially beyond the scope
°f mercy or justice. They know perfectly wel
what Ministers preach. They have off by heart
the stock explanations that no distinction is made,
and that the Minister looks with a single purpose
and steady eye, direct to the requirements of the
country, unaffected whether his attention be
directed to such requirements by an ardent sup-
porter or by a bitter opponent. But the astute
Ministerialist hugs himself in the conviction that
no is a knowing dog, a budding Mauhiavelli,
and that the estimation in which he personally
holds such expressions is tho true estimation. He
regards them as being merely smooth phrases
designed to hoodwink that veiy gullible creature,
the public. He judges Ministers by his personal
experience of ttn.ic compliances ; and, rookonirg
himself to be behind the scenes, discounts then
declarations of straightforward dealing to an
extent which would, perhaps, be revolting and
alarming to the persons so reckoned up, were they
aware of tho large deductions drawn from their
Complaisance by the men they had been at pains
to oblige.
» « •
A good deal of this is traceable to origins which
are innocent enougn. It is .but natural that, when
granting a request, a Minister, like any othei
snouid magnify the extent of the service he
renders. The spirit is identical with that which
Prompts a storekeeper to humbug a new customer
~~a complete stranger —with tho pretence that a
pecial preference is being given him, “ We’ll
ake it half-a.crown less to you.” So, the
desirous of establishing a sense of obli-
gation, impresses upon tho well-disposed member
and supporter who urges a perfectly just and
reasonable request, that compliance involves a
particular sacrifice or peculiar favour, which
would not have been conceded to anyone less
favourably _ regarded by Ministers. Hints thus
toned are interpreted by the recipient of favour
in accordance with his inward lights. He ia apt
to conceive that the Minister ia acting as he
would act were he in the Minister’s place. If he
be conscious that he would not be scrupulous as to
tbe means he would take to strengthen the hands
of a supporter and weaken the prestige of an
adversary, he ia apt to invest the guarded hints of
the Minister with a broadly corrupt significance.
Stolen kisses are sweetest, and surreptitious
favours are most keenly appreciated. Were a
Minister to plainly inform a member urging this
or that request, that hia demands were perfectly
legitimate and so approved themselves to execu-
tive authority that they would have been granted
to any member—Ministerial or Opposition—who
had submitted them, the applicant would feel no
sense of obligation, and no added bond of fealty.
It is when there is a grant of “ favours secret,
sweet, and precious,” that the idga of reciprocal
engagements arises moat powerfully, and an expert
seldom fails to appreciate that fact.
• v «
There is certainly a degree of degradation in
permitting any man to gather the conviction that,
ia granting what is really a perfectly legitimate
request, one has, for party purposes, been guilty
of an act of quasi-corrupt preference. It is humiliat-
ing for any man or body ot men to barter their re-
putations, even while they preserve their integrity.
Taking a parallel illustration, what would be
thought of a woman who permitted anyone to be-
lieve that her virtue was a saleable commodity, in
order that she might attain some advantage, even
although in reality she preserved her chastity
unimpaired ? The ill effects of such courses are
easily comprehended. They serve to depreciate
the standard of public and political morality, and
to accustom people to regard as customary and
surrounded with the prestige of universal adop-
tion. corrupt practices, the very idea of which
should create sensations of repulsion and indigna-
tion.
• • •
That preferences of the sort referred to have
ceased to be regarded with generous indigna-
tion, and shrinking shame, is patent enough. In-
stances showing that these desirable feelings have
been destroyed, and replaced by a callous indiffer-
ence or levity, might be quoted without end. One
instance of recent occurrence will suffice, however.
On September 7th, Mr. McElhone, the irrepres-
sible, commenting on the fidelity of the Ministerial
majority, remarked that he could quite understand
that docility, by taking into consideration the ideas
which prevailed among honourable members. Mr.
See, he asserted, had told Mr. Feegusson that
he should sit behind the Government if he wanted
the railway fom Grafton to New England con-
structed. Mr. See denied point blank that he
had attempted to influence Mr. Feegusson in
the manner indicated. But Mr. Feegusson, very
awkwardly for Mr. See, admitted that a conversa-
tion of the nature indicated had oocui red. Ho wasn’t
sure whether it was in earnest or in jest. Surely
ugly earnest or sorry jest. It speaks ill for political
morality when it ia possible even to attempt seduc-
tion in jest. What would be thought of a society
in which women saw no occasion for resentment
when proposals destructive to their virtue were
made in any terms, let alone in so ambiguous a
manner as to leave it doubtful whether jest or
earnest were intended ? Surely the political cha-
racter of a representative man should be as dear iu
him as a virtuous woman’s reputation is to her !
Yet our politicians are content to live under sus-
picion, generated by themselves, countenanced by
their actions, and endorsed by the revealed fact
that corrupt solicitations, real or sportive, exoito
in their breasts no repugnance, and are publicly
discussed with the coldest indifference.
A Libelled Library.
In a very remarkable article in the Catholio
Hierarchical organ on two subjects of ancient and
modern interest, the sayings of the Seven Wise
Men of Greece and the secular criticisms of
irreverential Sydney journalists on the brilliant
financial management of ecclesiastical ceremonials
in connection with the opening of St. Mary’s
Cathedral, there is a calumnious reference to a
public institution which ought not in justice to be
permitted to pass without immediate notice and
exposure.
* * #
If there is any one of our educational founda-
tions of which, by reason of the perfection of its
management—the universality of its popular
acceptance—the silent and valuable work which
it is accomplishing—we have reason to be justly
proud, it is unquestionably our Free Public
Library. At the head of its executive is one of
the greatest of European scholass, who, it
is* well known, has always taken the
iveliest interest in the welfare of an insti-
tution which, as Napoleon spoke of the
Public Markets as the Louvre of the masses,
may be not inaptly described as the University
of the working classes. Its librarian is, perhaps,
without any exception, the hardest worked man
in the whole Civil Service of the country. Of the
value of his work it is only necessary to say that
he had years ago anticipated—in the arrangement
of his library, in the invention of means to facili-
tate the distribution and guarantee the security
of his books—the latest devices of the first of
British and Foreign librarians. Of the collection of
books under his care, it is not too much to say that
it is on the whole as perfect and valuable and
judiciously-selected a library as any to be found
out of Europe and the United States of America.
But if it isopen to any exception on the ground
of its entirely cosmopolitan character, such excep-
tion is perhaps to be found rather in its poverty
in the department of free intellectual speculation
on TheologicaLquestions than in any other. It is
consequently with amazement that in the article
on such intimately connected subjects as those
of Solon and the Triduum, to which we have
adverted, we find the following statement:—
“ Against ;the whole tnti-Catholio literature of the
day whebher it be the paltry local, or the pretentious
and costly imported article Australian CathoMca
should be put on their guard. It is very probable that
all who aro best and most sincere amongst them are as
well aware as we are of tho poison thus distilled, and
are equally anxious to find an antidote to that ‘ venom
of asps’—to use an expression of the Psalmist. That
we shall find by substituting a purer, sounder, and
higher literature, for the one we are so temptingly
invited to revel in. There is more sterling worth, and
a brighter beauty, in the works that should adorn a
Catholic library than in the bulky tomes of Scepticism and
Infidelity which encumber the shelves of the public establish-
ment at the corner of Bent and Macquarie-streets. Wher j
snail we find pater or more sublime philosophical
deliverances on tbe Philosophy of History or that of
Life than in the pages of the great Schlegel ? Where
shall we find history itself better written than lyr Dr.
Lijsciaed and the Nun of Kbnmare ? What shall we
say of the varied works of Chateaubriand, Montalem-
beet, Balmez, and M(echi,eb? or of the essavs of
Cardinals Wiseman, Manning and Newman? There
are, too, rich treasures in homantic literature from tha
pens of Manzoni, Db La Motte Kouque, and others,
which would open a perennial fountain of pure delight
*o thousands of young Australian Catholics. It is
needless to enumerate other authors, as we have reached
a conclusion on tho whole subject. One of the banes of
the age is a vicious or mendacious literature; and its
antidote will alone be found in a sound and solid collec-
tion of the works of some of the greatest men who
have edorned human genius and enriched the regions
of ‘Known Truth' with abundant and beautiful iliuo
tratioaa. A Central Catholio Library—even for works
of reference —would be a priceless boon. This idea—so
oovionsly good ia itself—has been developed before in
wdney, and tentative efforts made to give it adequate
.ttaot. But it seems to us the time is riper now than
aeretofore for its due consider.' i n. Our duty stops at
-uggesting what we believe wou o t© a counter-agent
-gainst the immorality and infideii.v of the age; that
others—men of means and influence, and full of tho
grace of Divine Faith and Charity—should come in
Ix6XO wo ceasgive effect to on** suggestion. **
• * «
It is but charitable to suppose that the orthodox
writer of this paragraph was entirely ignorant of
the character of the noble collection of books
which he thus summarily and libeliously dispose a
of. But yet, as grand old Bentley said or
certain pretenders to literature frwm whom he
bitterly suffered in his days, “ they ought to have
made inquiries before they ventured to print—
which is a sword in the hand of a child.” In the
interests of the great institution which is attacked
in these words,! let us see how far it deserves bo
heavy a censure.
THE HON. SIR JULIUS VOGEL, K C.M.G.-(See page 7.)


n :o U G H S AND
The Best Cure for the above is I
and taken at bed-tin
PURE EC
Extra Strong:,
6s, Per Imperial Qui
C. W. 808
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPAI
MARKET steee
WHEN YOU VISIT SY
go to
C. W. ROBERTS
NEW BAE,
GEOEQE STEEET, NEAE MAI
where you can obtaii
(FT
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BEANE
SHEEEY, OE BEE
of such a Quality that cannot be
other establishment in tb
C. W. EOBEETS
COLONIAL WINE DEPA
is now open in
MARKET STB
BED OE WHITI
only
Sd. per Half-Pinl
Quality Superlativ
NONE BUT WIN
the
PEODUCT OP AUST
is
SOLD IN THIS DEPAI
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP A
C. W. EOBEETS’ SPECIAI
4s. 6d. per bottle
clyneliseT WHIS
6s. per bottle.
VEEDEILHO,
lovely White Wine, Is. 6d
POET MACQUAEIE EE
Is. 6d. per bottle
MUEEUMBIDGEE ]
2s. per bottle.
HENNESST’S 3 STAR P,
6s. psr Bottle.
C. W. ROE
MARKET STEEI
FURNITURE! FUR
FURNITURE 11
" Wf HERE is the best place t<
T V This question is being asl
is of as much interest to anyone n
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple ” jui
keeping, and who want everythin
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE FA
FURNISHING EX
OXFORD STEEET, S’
Just onened bv
And without pausing to enquire whether
Frederic yon Schlkgel had any peculiar
«laim as contradistinguished from his equally
illustrious brother Augustus to the title of “the
grant ” (it was the latter, we believe, who, from his
adoption of Catholicism, might have experienced
more courtly usage at the hands of Catholic
journalists), there are to be found on the shelves
«f this sceptical and infidel institution the most
beautiful editions of Frederic ton Schlegeu’s
course of lectures on “ Modern History,” of his
t( Philosophy of History,” “ Philosophy of Life,”
Philosophy of Language,” his [esthetic and mis-
cellaneous works, and his lectures on “ Ancient
and Modern Literature.” While of his brother
there is to be found the best English edition
(translated from the German by John Black) of
the famous lectures on “ Dramatic Art and Litera-
ture There will also be found Dr. Linqabd’b
“ History of England, from the Invasion of the
Romans,” in 14vol. 8vo.; and the ‘‘History and
Antiquities of the Anglo-Saxon Church,” 2 vol.
roy. 8vo.; of Chateaubriand, apart from his
“ Memoirs ” written by himself, and his “ Sketches
of English Literature,” there is a fine edition of
his (Euvres Completes, in 12 vol. Bvo. Besides
many volumes of translations of Montalembebt,
including the ‘‘Monks of the West,” in 5 vol. Bvo.,
there is the Paris edition of his works in 9 vols. Bvo.
Cardinal W iseman is represented by his ‘ ‘ Lectures
on the “ Connection between Science and Revealed
Religion,” by his 4 ‘ Personal Recollections of the
Four Last Popes,” and by his 44 Horse Syriacsa
sen Commentationes et Anecdota res vel Litteras
byriacas Spectantia ;” Cardinal Newman’s book
“On the Office and Work of Universities,” his
4 ‘ Grammar of Assent,” and tho 41 Apologia pro
Vita Sua,” with many others of his works, are to
be found there in common use.
• • •
Cardinal Manning is represented by his work
ou ‘ 4 The Bearing of the Vatican Decrees on Civil
Allegiance.” There is a fine edition of Manzoni’s
complete works —Milan, 1870 ; and, in fine, of all
the best examples of literature directly or indi-
rectly associated with the Catholic Church, there
is as complete a collection, ranging from Cardinal
Bonaventube’s 44 Meditations on the Last
Supper” to Dr. Dollinger’s “ Hyppolytua and
Callistus” and Madame Swetchinb’b ‘‘Corres-
pondence du Lacordaire,” as is to be found in
any purely Catholic library. Of course this is as
it should be. The master-pieces of human
intellect should all find a place in such a national
collection; and, as it has been one of the chief
glories of the Catholic Church to have largely con-
tributed to tho civilization of mankind by means
of letters, the evidences of her splendid achieve-
ments should necessarily be found in a great
library.
• • •
But the peril to onr peace and to our culture is
to be found in warning off a section of our com-
munity from art treasures —in setting up in the
midst of such lovely grounds and pleasant places
notices of spring-guns, man-traps, and savage
dogs, when there are only flowers and perfnmoa
and fountains, peace and love and eternal beauty.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gloria in Bxcelsis.
The news of the British victory in Egypt is a fresh
proof that onr views of the Divine Government of the
world are in no degree advanced beyond the notion of
our God being “a man of war,” as the ancient
prophets sang. Te Deums go up. “We praise Thee O
God,” says Bishop Mooehouse, and all the congrega-
tionsays “Amen.” For what? Because a number of onr
tribes have gone out and once more flouted Egyptians.
Outwitted and robbed in the Mosaic age, the new
usurers smite them hip and thigh, aud come home to
the sound of timbrel, dulcimer, and all kinds of music.
The Loed hath delivered the wicked into our hand.
Can hypocrisy and blasphemy any further go ? Verily,
a further Identification of Britain with The Ten Lost
Tribes. Is it conceivable that Telel-Kebir has more
significance to God than has the spsaring of the
Warrego blacks by those of the Palmer ?
C.M G and D.T.—Again!
The Sydney Daily Telegraph starts a frenzied leading
article, dedicated to John Davies aud his mysteries, by
calling John M'Elhone “ the chartered libertine of the
Legislative Assembly," who, “ under cover of making
serious charges against" the C.M.G., is really “doing
his best to vindicate his (Davies’s) reputation before
the community.” This twisted reflection instantly
suggests [one rather more apropos. The D.T., the
boss liar of the City Press, “under cover” of black-
guarding M'Elhone, "is really doing its best to vindi-
cate his reputation” as a useful scourge and a terror to
evil-doers. Next, we are informed that the result of
M'Elhonh’s action “under cover” is “unmistakably
to create a strong reaction of feeling in this gentleman’s
(fit this noun on to John Davies, dear boys) favour.”
Wo have nothing to say about John Davies as a “ gen-
tleman." An Act of Parliament provides that he is one,
and thers the matter ends. But, about this “ reaction.”
It is just the style of New South Wales politics to cover
up charges of corruption with heaps of counter-abuse;
and the Telegraph only follows servilely a time-hon-
cured custom. Then that twaddler starts reviling its own
John thus“ It is the fact that, for the last two or
three years, insinuations and inuendoes” —(the spelling
is that of the D.T.)-—“have constantly appeared in a
certain portion of the press in reference to Mr. Davies,
which have led many persons to look upon him as a
somewhat doubtful character. We have frequently en-
deavoured to ascertain upon what foundation all this
insinuation and depreciatory language rested, but have
never been able to obtain anything beyond vague hints
or surmises.” Just so. No one ever accused the
Sydney Daily Telegraph of finding out anything
that it “frequently endeavoured to ascertain.” The
only outcome of its endeavours appears to have been a
leader intended to praise the C.M.G., which was after-
wards “ collared " as an advertisement by the latter’s
friend?, and for which ad. the Telegraph was, pr*.
sumedly, pad! The Bulletin can proudly state that,
from the date of its first issue, it has never truckled to,
hut has unsparingly lashed eut at, this very man, whom
the Telegraph parades as a persecuted saint, and who
may bo best described as a political flunkey who,
publicly aud otherwise, is worthy of the rag which has
become his apologist and champion. Wo ganged the
character of John Davies ever so long ago, aud never
thought of regarding him as anything else than a pro-
fessional politician. Wo always felt a conviction that he
was “ cut out ” to be a C.M.G., and—bul the explana-
tion needs no further amplification. Let us tread back
to our sauer-krant. The D.T. has a second fling at the
Uoonaubara scandal. And this is how it dishes up that
Siveury mess of pottage“Tfc’s is really a private
matter between the Mayor and Mr. Davies, and the former
committed a mistake in allowing the Council to interfere in
it. If he thought he had been cheated, he had his remedy in
the courts of justice." (! /) Let us pause to gloat over
tl(( jiatsh’e argument. The reader will perceive
that its logic is not affected whether John Davies was
guilty of cheating, or whether he was as “ innocent as
an unborn baba.” Put into plain English, it amounts
to this Any theft is a “ private matter” between the
thief and the victim, and the latter would commit a
mistake if he allowed outsiders to interfere. This
principle is capable of limitless application. On the
same grounds, the horrible Parramatta Elver murders
of some ten years ago were “private matters” between
Nichols and Lester and their victims, and it was a
mistake for the Law to interfere. The Grafton bank rob.
bery was a “private matter " between Angus M'Bridb
and the bank directors. Or it might, with far greater
facility, be argued that the starting of a daily
paper is a “private matter” between its pro-
prietors and the Soup Kitchen. In the latter case,
outsiders wouldn’t feel disposed to interfere. Last cf
all, the Daily Telegraph mentions, with complacent
servility, that “Mr. Buchanan compared the slan-
derers” of John Davies “to the ghouls that are
supposed to haunt churchyards, and devour the dead
bodies." It ignores the trifling fact that David
Buchanan has been retained by John Davies in the
action far £20,000 damages against Mayor Habeis.
We anticipate with joy David’s indulgence in vitupera-
tive declamation at the trial, but nobody want# him to
speak to his [brief in the House of Assembly. The
poonanbnra scandal should have been allowed to rest in
darkness from the moment of the issue of the writ
until the day of trial. It is a very pretty row. On
one hand John Davies says the yor is a liar; on the
other, Mr. Haeeis says John Davies has committed
what is equal to larceny as a bailee. Let the Law settle
the point between them. It is case in which there
can be no compromise.
The Sawbath-Observance Deputation.
Many a man has been taken from the embrace of
Beelzebub and thrust into the arms of Abeaham by
the timely use of a blue-pill and a black draught. And
many a gushing old hypocrite has gushed himself into
Paradise, presumably, while on the immediate eve of
going somewhere else. This is a critical moment, this
one in articulo mortis. The “ snufflehusters ”of Sydney
know this, as they know most of the big cards which
it is their business to play. It was rather ungrateful,
however, of these sharps to double on ’Eney as they
are reported to have done, just in the moment of his
recovery. It shows a marvellous want of consideration
for the man who played their game so cleverly, to round
him up at such a critical moment, j ust as the country
papers were beginning to spread gruesome reports con-
cerning his mental condition. If the haloed and
aureoled enthusiast failed to pledge himself in that
supreme moment to ensure the better observance of
the “ Sawbath,” what a handicap he would place on
his prospective chances, supposing his case had been
really as desperate as we are told. And supposing he
merely had “the sick man’s sheet” on, what a hideous
and ungodly joke for these playful “ snufflehnsters " to
crack at his expense I Really, wa don’t sea that the
grand old man is getting a fair show.
Post-Office Thieves.
We draw the attention ef the Postmaster-General to
the utter failure of the postal system of this colony,
as evidenced by the following letter, which is a fair
sample of several hundreds we have lately received.
The Postmaster-General must be aware that never
before were complaints so numerous or so frequent os
now of papers stolen and of letters robbed of their
contents. Here is the letter for the perusal of Mr.
Campbell.
“ Albury, 23rd September, 1882.
“ Gentlemen, —
“ Please discontinue sending me The 801 l ETix'as I
find it is of no use yonr doing so. This week’s issue
has gone astray, making the third running which
has not been delivered, and I prefer you to have the
benefit, if any, of the balance of my subscrip-
tion, before the person who is mean enough
to take my copy so regularly. I must say
the postal system has arrived at a pretty pass
when it forces a person to give up a paper. I will
in future take it from an Albury agent. lam sorry I
am compelled to act like this, hut I don’t like any
person to chuckle over the way he has done me in
getting my paper for nothing, without even sending it
on when he has read it.
“ Yours truly,
“ A. Htwel Jones.”
We would like to intimate to the Postmaster-General
that if the machinery of his office fails to detect the
thieves, we are prepared to offer a reward for their
conviction.
The Ministerial Fyre.
Tit* milkman came to us last Friday morning and said
the Garden Palace bad been burnt down, and we figured
it up to a tax of 14k. 9i. on every man, woman, and
child in the colony. Let every voter now count up
what it comes to in his family, and say whether he is
anxious to pay the price. It was apparently built to
obtain C.M.Q.-ships for Davies and others, and for the
beatification of needy glory-grnbbers in general. We got
that retnra—which alone constitutes the memorial of our
departed half-million—and then the Government, find-
ing that the place was inflammable, proceeded to store
in works of art, and nureplaceable documents. Two
unknown men, at a couple of pounds each weekly, were
told off to see that £500.000 worth ot property was not
endangered, and this Imperial Guard, who will now, we
believe, he telegraphed for by the Cur to watch over
the Gatschina, lighted their miserable candle and
prowled round the vast building—ana at night, the
other by day. No supervision over these men—
no tell-tale clock such as would be provided
in any mercantile house—no one to visit the
watchmen, except the bobby on the beat. The
Government determined to be thorough but cautious.
The Public Library was not removed there, though the
Ministry over and over again urged on Mr, Walker
tkat the priceless literary treasures of nigh a hundred
years should be put into the uninsured bandbox. The
Goat Island magazine was not shifted into the cellars.
An application for a match factory inside was post-
poned for further consideration, and until the whole
records of all the departments should be stored in it.
We are made asses of before the world for building it,
we got a few titles for asses on its completion, and wo
lose half a million for our pains. Tbe half million we
can get over, bnt there remains tbe undying regret that
the fools who are responsible tor this miserable fiasco,
were not cremated with their works, A servile mob of
Noses—o 'Enry 'Arry Cooke I—have already decided
that the Ministry is blameless, and we have the autho-
rity of the Morning Rum for stating that Sir 'Enet,
when he heard of the huge incendiarism, smugly ob-
served that “ it was useless indulging in vain regrets.”
To our Readers.
W ith our current issue (of which we print 2.3,000 copies)
we present to the readers of The Bulletin a litho.
sketch of the ruins of the Sydney Garden Palace.
This will be reproduced in our monthly number, which
we are glad to state has proved even as successful as
our weekly edition. The Bulletin monthly, price
one shilling (by post to any part of the colonies. Is. 3d.),
will be published next Thursday, sbh October, in time
for transmission by the San Francises and Suez mails.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ G.H.S.” : A good but inelegant joke.
he’s not the " leading ” dentist b0w......" H.O.V (Yass) :
You should have let ns into the joke. Yon say that
“there’s no particular harm in it.” That’s only a
negative recommendation. We want to see some parti-
cular good “W.J.8.”: No, dear boy. Whenever
you meet such a name as “ Montagnmorenci,” or any-
thing of that sort, yon may wager that it’s the high-
toned alias of some retired pawnbroker “ Mogil ‘:
Sir John O’Sbanasev was formerly a draper in a smsll
way of business in Melbourne. Mount Eden : Not
much better than the Hindoo fashion of getting an
elephant to stamp on a criminal's skull with his fore-
foot “8.P.W.": The fact that you have written for
Punch is no great recommendation. However, call
round ‘'Young Politician": (1). All Socialist
societies necessarily have political aims. First theory
was to abolish competition in labour and wages,
leaving men to work under the influence of pnbho
spirit, and dividing the produce equally. Many new
theories have since been added. (2). A sanguine vision-
ary and theoretic schemer, active, interfering, humane,
and with great faculty for organisation, but following
Impracticable dreams. You should read his biography
by A. J. Booth “C.W.”: We receive hundreds of
letters weekly, and carefully read them all- If one or
two of jour communications have remained utterly
unnoticed —you may depend on it that we didn’t
attach much importance to them “Night Owl
It certainly was very suspicious that the defen-
dant should be closeted with the P.M. before the
hearing of the case. This might, if other facts also look
like corruption, be brought before the Atlorney-
Ganeral. But, as to the evidence-legally, the cast
rested on the interpretation of the phrase, “ properly
strained wire," and we can’t see that yon have much
to go upon. Can't make out how there could be —(1)
no contract at all; (2) a verbal contract; and (3) wora
not done according to contract; all of which appears by
your lengthy account to have been sworn. Tae plain-
tiff should have employed a lawyer to conduct his case
“ M S.": This is the second time yon have sent us
your little joke in pink ink. Thank you. You needn’t
trouble to send it us again unless you are very hard up
for something to do. Can’t you manage to think of
another, eh ? Try. But don’t tackle quite such exalted
personages next time. We find chaffing prelates in the
paper awkward when we meet them at dinner
“Wagga:” He was probably reprieved in order that
our present Education system might shielded from
the scorn of its enemies “Tangent”: Thanks
“XY Z.": We refrained from giving the translation a
few issues ago “Henry C. J.”: Hneer absurdity.
How do you think horses could drag trams up steep lr-
dines on such days as last Sunday ? ‘ Meenm”; No
letters “Crown-Street": You should have sent us
the printed report, which we shall now look up
11 Meta’V Received “Aia”: lb simply means that
the City of Glasgow Bank has paid all claimants in full,
and that a substantial surplus is expected
“ Justice lefore Generosity " : Anyhow,there’s nothing
in it, and the pious ladies evidently mean we 11......
“Name!” : We suppose the reason why some illustri-
ous Good Templars, &o, talk such bunkum is that in
their younger days they drank themselves into idiocy
“Alexandria”: Your bombardment verses are too
late. To borrow a joke, wo aren't a bomb bard
“H.M.” (MuTurundl): We can’t fix up yoar memo.
We are not clever enough. It would take Samson, or a
patent wringer, to squeeze a joke out of it. What is it
about? And if he did say “stealing," instead of
“straying,” what then ? You say “fact.” We dent
doubt you; but, if all your facts are like these, send us
something that’s not a fact, will you ? “ Dry blower"
(Mount Browne) : If your storekeeper says he js a holy
man and advertises to sell goods “ below cost," test bis
Christian feeling by sticking up a pair of moles. Bis
true character will come out then. If he says “ I don't
care if you never pay me,” you can take your oath he s
only new to the church “ Seen and Heard ” : Difficult
to manipulate, especially so soon after after the Ttiduum.
However “Travelling Comp." : Much obliged. We
should, however, appreciate your joke about telling the
old gentleman the wrong name of the station, did we
not entertain a suspicion that it was our uncle. We
know, anyway, that he benpht a new nobby stick the
other day, because we lent him the money to pay for i .
Perhaps when you see him, you will feel what we say to
be the truth •* J.A.M.” : You. put J.A.M. at the end
of your verses. We only read one; we put DAM at tie
end of it “A.H.”: Burrowa people might under-
stand it. It would be Greek to everyone else. Clumsy
imitation of the Old nook. Podge the Demon :
Btyle not at all suitable; we never fill our columns with
reports full of nicknames and aliases “E.V.": Sap-
posing she had, it’s neither one nor your business
••J.W.8.”. Your verses, which will appear in next
issue, are so good that we’re rather surprised we haven’t
heard of you before “Q ” (Melbourne) : Very man
thanks “W.C.K.": Nixt week “C.H.8.”: All
right “Beppo": Held over “J.M.G.”: Will
attend to the matter “ J.R. " : Will duly appear
“ E.J.L.” . Will see what can be done....** Ourmoole " :
Held over “Harris Park": Names and addresses
wanted “Anti-Liar" : But yon must recollect that
M’Elhone, rough and ready though he is, fee ...
“ Warrego "■ Mr. Traill is at present in America.
How high can a lady lift her skirt with pro-
priety ? Just a little over two feet.
It is the father of twins who knows what it is
to be up all night with the boys.
Nothing has ever been devised which turns out
angels more rapidly than the toy pistol.
The only conference which the Sultan never de-
lays nor begs for more time on, is when he meets the
female selected for his last wife. He was never known
to postpone a marriage.
A police court reporter describes a bruise on a
blaoktellow’s head as being “ black as the condor wing
of midnight.” It will be seen that all the able writers
are not exclusively engaged on musical criticisms.
The Burwood concert last week was satisfactory
—to the performers. The audience might have been
better pleased with a little less noise and more finish;
bat considering the rough material ou band, the con-
doctor, Mr. Maclean, deserves praise. “Blue Beard,"
a humorous cantata, was the chief item. The 4oprano
has a sweet voice and uses it well, but the voice could
not be heard to advantage in suoh music. “ Darling I
am going away," the principal bass solo, was well ren-
dered by a member ot tbe society. The conduc ter is
not supposed to teach bis chorus how to pronounce
words, but if the ladies condescend to read up before
next concert, they will learu that the letter *■ r ” need
not necessarily be placed between words to make teem
slip off the tongue. We shall not forget “ Fatima-r-
-ander-sister-rann.” The gen tlemen were little better.
However, this is a trifla. The Kmdergatea symphony
bad the charm ot novaity j nothing more. " I seek (or
Thee in every flower” was given in a fine tenor voice,
and the ouet “ When the wind blows in from the ties,”
was a pleasant surprise—the small lady's sweet and
dear voice evoking an encore. • Orchestra fairly good,
double-bass woefully oat of tune; also some of the wind
instruments; but amateurs and their friends are al-
ways very hardy, and they lived through. Audience
was large and fashionable, and ball decorations in the
hall, and perfumed programmes, gave the place quite a
tone.


ESTABLISHED 1!
0 w L K e“P C
Jj AND
brick work
C iMPEBDQWN, NEA:
pH Wot on anplioii
R5
EU
KA
,moke eureka
5 -be pabagon op pee:
PINEE THAN THE P
tobacco op
DESTINED to ECLIPSE ANT]
DE all othee bean
„ nWLY TOBACCO COMBIN1N
quality with econou
__ . pi og ia stamped with the wo
see that you
Take ko otheb.
manupactube
iiVWELL’S TOBACCO G
m at the eagle w
KENT AND CLARENCE
, „ a be obtained wholesale at t
md oaa park-street, Sydne,
Retail everywhere, and will be
loid BOOn a8 its merits beoom
BUEEKA TOBACC
according to Act of Par
against spurious and woi
q A I E T Y H
COENEE CASTLEEEAGH AN
8TEEETS, SYDNE
JAMES SHAEP,
Lite of the Colonnade Hotel, corn
toraagh Streets, desires to inform
public generally, that ho has remi
hotel, which has been lately known i
Hotel. " and which he has thorough
troets that by his usual strict att«
oombised with the best brands of 1
to merit a fair share of patronage
itate that ho still draws the famous
•' SILYEE CUP BT
THE HiKWOi
FIBRE CHAIR SE
Possessing ail the qualities of a P'
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beaut
Cheapness.
THIS CHAIE SEAT is made f
known fibres and a perfectly 'V
and after fifteen years’ constant
positively! as to ite merits. It can
neither will exposure to sun or rain
Awarded Gold Modal at the lat<
Massachusetts Charitable Meohanie
' POE EE-SEATING, it is unr
house, store, and office, are Chairs v
Any person can re-seat and inak
s oh&ir that is otherwise worthies!
expense.
FOE SALE BY THE TKADE P(
AGENTS WANTED IN EVE!
Prom £3 to £5 a week can be madi
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & C
QENEEAL AGENTS FOE A
82 CLABENCE STB
VIBTUTI8 GLORIA MERGE
COALCLIFF C(
[IS FEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SIDNEY enppU
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
18s. PER TON NET. delivered with:
This new Coni, with a good draught, and range and hara kept well free
and eleaner fire thaa any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky i
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desic
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a oharco:
■teak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fames given (
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLER
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W
ALLAN A. MARSHAL]
BON-ACGORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD,
8 and 9 MACQUAEIE PLAC
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS,
DIVING GEAR, Ac.
/VS?*’
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,;
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, Ac.
;the :
WINDO 1
THE
most i;
PASTE
Proven ts all i
the windo 1
No weighti, i
rt
Celebrated; CHAMPION
and every other make.
Wheels, Solea, Bodies,
Manufacturers of the Port-
Ranges fitted with hot
Circulating Apparatus
MEDALLISTS A SPECIAL
Established
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
W
HEN buildin
a use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Biturr
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
TIU.DK MA&J
v ■/.
THEGREAT
ONE OP THE WORLD'S
OARSMEN.
IN a rsoent conversation in King*
a representative o I me of the foi
the United States, Mr. Edward Trioki
oarsman, who is at present open to ro
world, gave the following as his opinii
•• I have found St. JACOB’S OIL a
SELF RAISING FLOUR
TRADE:
dsgdastergds
MANUFACTORY
GnoRas-STUKST West,
H
[Established 30 Tea]
ODGSON’S WHIP
601, GEORGE STREET,
near QoaTburn-stree
ZE, H O D a s <
Wholesale and Beta
WHIP THONG MANUFAC1
Every Description of Kangaroo and G
Made to Ox-dor.
■ innHnihtrrt
in |m5
wm
L_J
181
*—
rrzr
-
i „.-L l a
m
Czi
#1W Ji?i>
670
D
SVC
NHIloe
BER
aoa T
'I
if*
tawm.


Chemists and Dna
J ABRAHAM’S PILLS
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER B
lif f
ML*
4
e y-
ST
*/>
£/0
CAUTION,—Owing to the itrvi
Pills have commanded, it his in
dangerous imitations. Ask for
J. S. ABRAHAM’!
and see that each box, by whom!
inventor’s name and trade mark.
COUGH WHILE YOU CA
taking Dr. Thompson’s Amei
Xilnotns, you will not be able to
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 171
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetpi
tralian Relish, mode by "V
177 Pitt street, price one shilling.
ATIAS FOUNDRY &
COMPAN'
HAY-STREET, SY:
ENGINEERS, Boilermakers, aj
and Brass Pounders, Cop*
wrighte. The above firm are prt
contracts for the manufacture of M
Engines, Boilers, and Girder Wo;
Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining,
other descriptions of Machinery,
inenta.
N.B.—Castings executed with
price given for metal.
TURKISH B
OPEN DAILY (Sundays excepte
from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; for Ladies,
Bathers not admitted later than one
THESE BATHS have been proi
beneficial to all persons sufferi;
gout, neuralgia, dsypepsia, indigfti
and all complaints of this nature
healthy, invigorating renewing o
persons obliged to lead sedentary li
Try it, and experience its wonder
Prices of Admission—Single bath,
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gontlem
ticket, £5. Family tickers
Bligh-street.
Gr
EOR G E
(Formerly of Georg
IMPORTER OP
CHINA GLASS AND EAR
Begs to announce that he has
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY AECAI
where every article in the above lin
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
One Ounce of Fact is Worth a Ton of Self Praise.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
As is usnal, where ever and whenever exhibited—
Highest Possible Awards.
SIMEE'S TRIUMPH COMPLETE.
New Zealand Exhibition. 1833—Singer’s Sewing
Machines.
FIRST ORDER OF MERIT, TWO GOLD MEDALS,
TWO SILVER MEDALS,
Public Comp&a
[IHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with pc
£•1,000,000. Reserve Pune
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Kaq. i W. A. Long, Esq.; Jt
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Wait*
General Manage
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STJ
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willis
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B:
Bourke, Buodarra, Oasailis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dub bo, Forbes, Glen Inues, Goultw
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kcmpsey, Lambton, Macleay, '
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narauderu, I
Parities, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Te
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodbum, 1
BRANCHES IN QUEE]
Brisbane, A Horn, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Knveuswood, Ri&khamptoa, Stant
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colon
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fuad.
DIRECTORSi
The Hon. Sir John May, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wa. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidlev King, M.L.
AUDITORS
las. Scroggie, Esq
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson
SECRETARY:
Hector Alim.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street, Brickfield I
Girilambone; Gosford; am
LONDON banke:
The National Provincial Ban
London Office: 163 Leaden
Director: Edward Ohapi
Agent: G. H. Ahxandi
This bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the must favuu
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances miu
other produce shipped to England f
F. J. POL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLI3
28 GEORGE STREET,
A large and well assorted stock of 1
direct from the Manufacturers,
All Gabmknts Cut s the Most F.
PERFECT FIT GUARJ
Note the Address
728 GEORGE STREET
NEAR HAYMAT.K
t ii ft ■> * a iii r n n
Business Announcements
D’AECY’S
OLD IRISH WHISKEY,
Pure, Palatable, and Pleasant.
TRADE
MARK,
H
rJUTOJ^A «rx> NAMrrKA ojf
IN BULK AND CASE
SECTION VII—SEWING MACHINES.
First Order of Merit.
Singer Manufacturing Company -»-For their
collection of Manufacturing Machines, & first
order of merit —Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For the Best
Family Sewing Machine, including variety of
work, excellence of workmanship and ma-
terial, simplicity of construction and dura-
bility.—Gold Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company —For work
executed on Manufacturing Machines.—Silver
Medal.
Singer Manufacturing Company.—For speci-
mens of both Plain and Fancy Work executed
on Family Sewing Machines.—Silver Medal.
BEAD THE AWARDS.
BEAD THE AWAEDS.
BARRE JOHN3TON
AGENTS/
22 BRIDGE STREET
COOLALTA WINE,
MWKT’S PASSAGE, back of
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or boi
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wit
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p m.
ERNEST CAR
WARDELL SAW AND PL4b
Richmond Ri
All Timber is thoroughly sca-cned I
Mills, and is very light for carri
and fit for immediate
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FI 00:
MOULDINGS, ABCHII
The Teaie oklt Supi
TO STAND THIS
AT
KOCKWOOD. CaMPBEI
THE IMPORTED FXMD
“*IR THOMAS.
Winner of First Fr'sc, April, 1879,
national, 1879-80. Champion Chalh
Judges Special Prise, 1882.
Teems : 4 Guineas eaol
Every care taken, but no response
Mares met at Campbs'ltown on r<
Season closes January Ist, 1835, w
be paid for and removed.
For further particulars imply to
Ihe MtN
Kookw
Y^II-LCOX
AEB
GIbBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINE
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STB!
F. T. WIMBLE &
Easy Terms. Weekly 2a 6d Wee)
No Interest. No Addition to the
Chief Depot in New Soul
No. 1 DARLING STORES. HAS
SYDNEY.
Local Depots:
Bathurst, William-street
Balranald,
Dubbo,
Qoulburn, Auburn-street
Grafton, Victoria-street
Glen Incee, Grey-street
Hay, Laohlln-etreet
Kempaoy, Smith-street
Lismore, Wood-lark-st.
Maitland, High-street
Mndgi
Mos»
Karan
Newca
Parrai
Sydne;
Tamwi
Waggs
ILLUSTRATED PRIC]
and
SAMPLES OF WC
Free rom any Dei
SINGER'S SEWING l\
S
INGEE’S SEWING
TURNER & C<
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OP THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU!
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 9d. per week—2s. 6d. per week-
And NO INTEREST Ob
10 per cent, of! for c
BEWARE OF IMITj
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER Sc i
THE ONLY " SING!
TURNER & (
Opposite (
JOHNSTOft
SEWING MAOHIN
HAYMAEKEI
O
a:
.?
<0
*
x
ns
HOME COMPANION.
HOME SHUTTLE,
New Davis.
HOWE,
Ac.. Ac.


w. HOWARD SMIT
STRUTH'S WHARF and
(Foot of King-sti
Offices ; 7 SPRING
Steam to MELBOURNE^
Every TUESDAY and F
Steam to BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH
and
ROCK tl AMP!
On TUEBDA
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITI
All the official business of tte firn
this address.
PATENT PORTABLE G,
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, S
COMP
PG
ISSUED A
BE
TRA
TRADE MARK ;i
The Company is now prepared
suitable for Houses, Mines, Stores,
quire no trimming, afford a brillif
coal gas or kerosene, at less cost, i
the hand.
Samples may be seen, and lamps
at the Company's Show Rooms. St
Price lists, 4c., on application to t
A
CHARLES TWEMLOW des
friends and the pnblic that h
oentrally-sitnated Premises, next t
entrance of the Sydney Arcade, wi
and specially selected eioek of J
Clocks, Electroplate and Optical (
fully invites an early visit, which
goods, which are all marked in plain
moderate in price and of the best qt
An experienced staff of workmei
Presentation and other jewellery mi
Watohes accurately repaired, aj
moderate.
CHARLES TWEMLOW.
Jeweller and Silverami
N
EWP R E
MR. J. CALLA
CONFECTIONER AND
so favourably known to the General
Aldermen of various municipalltic
h»di6s, has REMOVED to his El
SH*P, No. 607 * 712 GEORGE STB
the corner dt Goulbum-street, whei
to See his Old customers, and to who
for their liberal support, and hope
There is a private room and la\
requisite much needed in Sydney, ai
Mrs. CALLAGHAN.
SCHOOL FEASTS,
ALDERMEN S DINN]
WEDDING BREAKF4
MINISTERIAL BANQ
got up in First-class Style.
A Visit is request!
FURNITURE!
FUII
MAKE YOUR HOMES CO
ADVICE TO PEOPLE ABOUT
BEFORE commencing the serior
nishing a New Home or addin
your present Homo, you will do weli
WILLIAMSON, M‘CRE]
who will furnish houses
Ih th® Eye, Ear, Nose, and
consult Dr S i ANICH, Aurist to E
Augustas Loftus, Governor of No
will give the benefit of his Service!
every TUESDAY and SATUKDA
square Sydney.
Beware of unscrupulous imi
statements. The Pure Indian Ti
Tea Association, are recognised i
for parity, flavour, economy in ui
lence, despite the attempts to imi
dian Tea in packets was first sold i
the Sydney Exhibition, by Mr. Ingl
and Co., who are the sole agents in
eutta Tea Association. Wbolesale
lotte Place. No hawkers, no reta
genuine teas sold. Ask only for th«
ciation's Pore Indian Teas, dc
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Attorney-General speaks as if he had lollies
in his month.
Mrs. Langtry’s provincial tour is said, by
Figaro, to have resulted iu a net profit of £8753 in
twelve weeks, or at the rate of something like £40.000 a
year.
The very-mueh-travelled has gone to Hobart to
make his big bear dance on a religions platform. In
Sydney, Arohy never drank; in Hobart, he will always
pray.
A whisper from Melbourne. The wife of an
opera-singer is going for a divorce. A lady member of
the same company, etc. Who axe they ? When shall
we know ?
The other day, Tom Bracken, M.P , for
Dunedin, astonished the House of Bepreseatives by
rising in his place and proceeding to sing a stanza of
a quaint Scotch song, the refrain of which was—
“ Behave yersel’ afore folk.*’
The only parallel to this was on an occasion when Mr-
Whiteman (than member for Emerald Hill, and lately
a well-known Melbourne boniface) favoured his brother
legislators with a speech of some three-quarters of an
hour’s duration, in pure hexameters.
It is said that parts of Guiteau's body have been
sent, properly bottled in spirits, to some of the medical
men in New York, as curiosities. If the story is true,
the incident is a fitting terminatien to the Quiteau
proceedings, which were a disgrace to American civili-
sat ion.
Baker Bussell, an old King’s School boy, is one of
Sir Garnet Wolseley’s favourite officers. Baker was a
dashing blade at school, and could hold his own against
all comers even at that early period. His father was
Colonel Bussell of Eavensworth, in the Hunter Eiver
District.
Eumour says that it is not unlikely that the
celebrated case, Smith v. Smith (Sir Francis Smith,
Chief Justice of Tasmania) and others will yet come on
for hearing, defendants having, so far, not completed
the engagements entered into by them when the case
was “settled” some time since,
Hammond, a gardener recently residing at
Napier, N.Z., was crossed in love. So be made his will
and supped in Paradise (or elsewhere) that night,
having first dined off a strychnine and arsenic mixture.
His will directed that all his goods should be sold and
the proceeds handed over to his fickle lady love.
On dit that a certain very distinguished indi
vidual who had a Government billet up country, and
was connected by marriage with no end of Sydney
"aristocrats,” has vanished. He was “in a frightful
hole” pecuniarily. Let us hope that this is not an-
other edition of the Bermagui mystery. If it is, we
ask “ Washup with his washup ?’*
A lot of people have read “ Patricia Kemball,”
and others of E. Lynn Linton’s books, and have been
charmed; and many more have read all Mrs. Henry
Wood’s works, and have wept. Well, then, E. Lynn
Linton is a deaf old woman of 55, and Mrs. H. W. a
snuffy old lady of 69. —
“ Oh, disenchantment, disillusion.
Must each noble aspiration,” etc.
When the Duke of Manchester was at Tambo,
the old landlady who rules that thriving township
politically and otherwise enquired of His Grace “how
the Dukess and the childer were?” There was an
election o" at the time, and one of the candidates, who
knew the Duke, declined to introduce that nobleman to
the hostess aforesaid. His opponent, hearing of the
circumstance, adroitly brought the Duke round to the
pub.—and won the election. Something similar, we
believe, was done at Eatanswill.
Old Harry Woods who has acted the host to many-
many thousands of visitors to Mt. Wellington, Tasmania,
died on September 7th, aged eighty-four years. Harry re-
sided at what is called The Springs, a resting place
near the summit of Mount Wellington, and was known
far and wide as “ The Old Man of the Mountain.”
About six weeks ago ha lost his wife—old "Granny
Woods”—and he was then transferred to the Hobart
hospital in a very feeble condition. A subscrip-
tion was started to provide for his funeral.
Dr. Barker, the Melbourne medico, who is under
a cloud in connection with a quasi-charge of having at-
tempted to procure abortion, is one of the doctors who
assisted sixteen years ago to prosecute Dr. Beaney, on
that well-known occasion when he was tried for mal-
practice. Dr. Barker is one of the University lecturers
and a high surgical authority. He stands well with
the conservative branch of the profession, and is one
of the very last men in the colonies about whom one
might expect to hear anything unpleasant.
A well-informed correspondent of a London
journal writes, on 3rd August, apropos of the Czar’s
proposed coronation in September (this month): —“I
can only make two announcements, both derived from
direct sources. One is that the Czar moans to be sud-
denly crowned, leaving only a few days for the final
preparations: the other, that a palace official was sent
last week to Paris to make a contract for the despatch
in September of several wagon-loads of flowers for the
ceremony.” Immortelles, we suppose.
Writes the correspondent of a London journal:
—" A gentleman who arrived a few days ago from the
Eastern extremity of Siberia tells me that at Yakutsk
he saw two exiles, denominated respectively Number
Two and Number Eleven, He could not discover the
name ef the former, but he recognised Number Eleven
as the Grand Duke Nicholas Constantinovitch. It
seems that the Grand Duke, who was exiled to Oren-
burg in 1875, and declared mad fer stealing his mother’s
diamonds and insulting the late Emperor, has consum-
mated an unluoiy career by plotting with the Nihilists
to assassinate the present Czar.”
The prayer-book teaches us to pray for “ our
betters." Now-a-days, they need praying for. The
immorality of the English “ aristocracy” is becoming
hideous. The other day, just before Cowes Regatta,
Mr. Assheton Smith, formerly Duff, carried off Lady
Llsbume from her disconsolate husband. Smith is a
sly dog, a man of such quiet and retiring habits as
scarcely to be known to the world in general. He poa.
Besses one of the finest houses and estates in North
Wales in the Isle of Anglesea, and is brother to Mrs.
Crespigny Vivian, whose husband is now Minister at
the Court of Copenhagen.
There has been a lot of fuss about “ the gallant
gunner who, during the bombardment of Alexandria,
probably saved many lives by lifting and placing in a
tub of water a ten-inch shell with burning fuse which
had passed through the ship’s side and lodged on the
main deck.” Now, there is no fuse which can be put
out by merely dropping it into water, and that in fact
all the fuses used burn as well under water as
in the air. If this is so, the gunner’s act, gallant as it
was, could hardly have prevented the explosion of the
shell if there was anything in it to explode. But
perhaps there wasn't anything—perhaps the noble army
contractor had filled the shell with sawdust.
Thus a writer in London Figaro :—“ Not long
ago I alluded, ‘more in sorrow than in anger,’ to a
marriage that was brought about solely and wholly by
the force of Eoyal pressure, and in spite of the unmis-
takable disinclination of one at least of the contracting
parties. This wedding, which is now a matter of his-
tory, was duly chronicled in all the newspapers with
the usual amount of gush ; but sensible people, frc m the
very beginning, shook their heads over the union, and I
regret to hear that their woeful prognostications are
being justified all too soon. A cat-and-dog existence,
which began even at the church-door, is fast waxing
intolerable to this most unhappy couple, and there is
good reason for the rumour that it will shortly culmin-
ate in a final separation ” It can't be the Marquis of
Lome, or Leopold, surely ?
The Hon. J. M. Grant, of Victoria, is stopping
at the Royal Hotel. He has brought with him the
ever-memorable Mills, the historic orderly, who went
to Europe with Graham Berry to shed effulgence on the
embassy by the uniform of the Victorian police. Mills
now appears in mufti. Is this Grant’s modesty or does
he wish to steal into the secrets of the N.S W.
Educational system unknown and incog. ? Any wav it’s
rough on Mills, who comes fresh from the back of the
gallant bay so well known to Collins-street. Mr. Grant,
who is a barrister by profession, will be remembered by
old Victorians as the defender of the Eureka Stockade
** rioters," without fee or reward, though now a member
of a “ Peace, Progress, and Prosperity ” Ministry. He
was also regarded as the projector of a Land Act, that
would be the saving of the free selectors, and with the
backing of Sir James M'Cullooh, was the hero of an
hour. Melbourne Punch once gave him an unkind hit as
the projector of a railway line, which Punch depicted
as following up a long line of empty bottles to run to
earth at last on a half-filled one; but time has condoned
all offences, and Mr. Grant is now regarded as s vene-
rable old fossil who, while he does no very great public
good, can at least do no positive harm, and reflects a
halo of bygone respectability upon the P.P.P. crowd.
With Mills, Grant should be a social success in Sydney I
Theophilns Daniels is a New Zealand M.P., who
is commonly known as the New Zealand Flimsoll, and
is regarded as a fair butt for practical jokes. Some
brother members the other day sent him a lady’s card,
to which was attached a note to the effect that the
writer was awaiting Theophilus in the gallery. The
member for Wallace suddenly became active. He dis-
appeared for a few moments in the direction of the
lavatory, and came out looking quite spry and sur-
rounded by an atmosphere of ean de cologne. When
ha got to the gallery oh, but there. We’ll simply
say that directly he returned to the chamber, ho
“ paired ’* and went straight off home to bed.
Thus the Sydney Daily Twaddle graph :
“It may he of interest to onr readers to know that Sir
Garnet Wolseley, the famons general, and the hero of
Egypt, has a brother in Australia. The latter is the
manager of a sheep-station on the Murray. We believe
on the Victorian side.” "On the Victorian side t ”
Good heavens I And "a manager.” As this penny
Victorian paper is still in the same old fog about onr
men and our institutions, we may state for its informa-
tion) that Mr. Frederick Yorke Wolseley has been in
N. S.W. for years, that he doesn’t live “ on the Victorian
side,” that he “ manages " his own station-property,
and that he’s better known and respected in Sydney
than any newspaper published in King-street.
The long and the short of it are to be seen
nightly in juxtaposition in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly. M'Kean, one of the representatives of Nerth
Gippsland, stands six feet three without his stockings,
whilst Mirams of Collingwood wonld not reach four
feet nine on tiptoe. On the principle that induces a
little woman to invariably select a big hosband,
Mirams and M'Kean have become inseparably intimate.
They sit side by side during debates, and, much to the
amusement of ” the block,” they sometimes walk down
Collins-street together, the high bell-tepper of the
pompous little Mirams on a level with the elbow of the
Gippsland giant. M'Kean, who is doing a good business
in the lower courts, does not intend seeking re-eleotion,
Mirams will have to face strong opposition in Colling-
wood, where his desertion of Graham Berry at a critical
juncture has not been forgotten. But he has plenty of
courage In his little carcase and his huge umbrella, and
when the time comes will not be afraid to face tne
Collingwood Radicals.
Oscar Wilde is to be married. The bride ex-
pectant is Miss Howe, daughter of Mrs. Julia M. Howe,
and one of the most beautiful of American belles. The
marriage is not to take place until after the Japanese
tour of the poet of beauty, and will in all probability be
postponed nntil after the next lecturing tour in
America. Apropos, the American newspapers are asking
whether Mr. Wilde learnt his manners trom the Mon-
golian. He strolls into dinner tables in New York now
in a suit of corduroys. " Mr. Wilde (says one journal)
appeared the other evening at Delmonico’s appareled in
a brownish-yellow suit of corduroys, ordered his lily or
other food, and then, nonchalantly sprawling upon the
table, explored his teeth with a toothpick. If such are
the manners which aestheticism teaches, Heaven pre-
serve our youth from the apostle of the beautiful." In
Australia, one rarely sees corduroys, save on the back
and legs of some scion of “ nobility, who has dissipated
his bank-balance, been shorn of bis remittances, ex-
hausted the generosity of his acquaintances, swindled
his landlady and got to the bottom of his trunk. The
next stage after corduroys is a bed in a boiler on the
wharf.
Mr. William Montgomery, M.H.R. for Akaroa,
and the present leader of the N. Z. Opposition, is quite
a recent political notability. His private reputation is
spotless, and he wields an immense deal of private
influence, especially in his own district. But he has no
oratorical talents, and, as an off-hand debater, he is a
failure. Until he became leader of the Oppesition, his
getting up to speak was generally the signal lor a
stampede of members. The Wellington Press nick-
named him “ Mumbo,” and the appellation was so pat
that it “ stuck." The recent failure of the Opposition
(with a certain forty-four votes out of ninety-four, ex-
elusive of the Speaker) to upset the Ministry may be
largely attributed to Mr. Montgomery’s want of calibre.
He is too complaisant to his direct opponents to shine as
a party leader, and is always placing his following in
awkward, it not false, positions. Add to this a weak
voice, a short jerky delivery and common.place ideas,
and one wonders how cironmstanoes have plaoed Mr.
Montgomery where he is. What Mr. Murray Smith, if
stripped of his scholarly erudition and logical faculties,
would be to Victoria, Mr. Montgomery is to. New Zea-
land. He is a political invertebrate.
0n the 28th July, the Edinburgh Australasian
Club gave a complimentary dinner at the Waterloo
Hotel to the Australian Cricket Eleven, to Dr. P. A.
Young (president of the Club), and to the Australian
graduates of the past University session—Messrs. A. S.
Bowman, W. A. Giles, J. B. Nash, J. J, Stapleton, and A.
M. Moore. The chair was occupied by Mr. R. Richardson,
8.A., vice-president of the Club, a well-known literary
man, who, by the way, has contributed to several colonial
papers. Mr. E. Hanson officiated as croupier; and
amongst those present, in addition to the Australian
cricketers, were Messrs. Henry, M'Leod, Da Moulin,
Mitchell, Monro, Colley, Nash, Liddell, Pookley, Ross,
Terrey, Traill, Horsley, and Oases; Dr. Oakes, of
Woollahra, N.S.W.; Messrs. Godfrey, Cameron, Lem-
priere, and Inglis, from Victoria; Messrs. Davenport
and Warnook, trom Tasmania; and Messrs Moorhouse
and Furohas, from New Zealand. The toast of “ The
Queen ” having been loyally received after dinner, the
chairman gave “ The Australian Eleven," remarking,
among other things, that as batsmen they were dis-
tinguiahed for uniform excellence; in fact, the senti-
ment had almost passed into a proverb—a sentiment
that had in it somewhat of an anti-Darwinian smaok—
that the Australians had no 11 tail." (Laughter.) Mr.
Murdoch suitably replied. The remaining toasts were
“ The President and Graduates," given from the chair,
and responded to by Drs. Young, Bowman, Giles, Nap’i,
Stapleton, and Moore respectively; 11 The Scottish
Cricket Union, proposed by Mr. R. P. Horsley, and
acknowledged by Mr. G. L. Crole, advocate; “ Edin-
burgh and other Universities,” “ The Old Country,”
’* The Colonies,” and “ The Press." The rendering of
a number of songs and recitations helped to make up a
very e-’jojablo evening.
Wihj am Townsend, auctioneer and Chairman of
Parliamentary Committees, seems part of South Aus-
tralia, so thoroughly is he identified with that colony.
For long enough it has been an open secret that in-
cessant drafts on an originally vigorous constitution
were gradually weakening Townsend’s mental strength.
Last Sunday week it was said that William Townsend
had been removed to the hospital for the insane; on
Monday it was rumoured that he was dead. Unfor-
tunately, though these rumours were false, the con-
dition of the patient might at least have justified the
first; and by the time these words are in print the
second may wear the character of a fulfilled prophecy.
Originally an ordinary London cobbler, Townsend, by
sheer force of business capacity and untiring energy,
raised himself into a conspicuous position, both as a
private citizen and a public man. He was too free in
his expenditure ever to become wealthy.but he has done
much to aid the charitable institutions of South Aus-
tralia. His lecture, "Lights and shadows of London
life," has been delivered hundreds of times, and always
for benevolent purposes. “Billy Waxend" was the
nick-name bestowed on him by the people who could
never forget Townsend’s original trade. Indeed, like
many shoemakers, he bore on his countenance that
indelible reflection of leather and oobbler’s-wax which
causes professors of the trade to be easily recognised.
Billy put on few airs, though a hobby of his—an idea he
evidently thoroughly believed in himself—was that he
was a pressman, and had been somehow or other con-
nected in a literary capacity with the London Times.
Another old soubriquet of his was that of
“ Sweet William," an appellation given to him
on account of a greasy suavity of manner which was
one of his most striking peculiarities. He had the gift
of the gab, too, in a popular way; and strove hard to
earn the reputation of a humorist and punster. He
was a Working Man’s Champion. He held a seat in
Parliament continuously longer than any other member,
and was proud of his position as “ Father of the
House." For some time Townsend proved a capable
Chairman, but by degrees became unfit for the post.
Painful scenes have lately been enacted when he was
evidently unconscious of the real drift of his words and
actions. And now the end! Erratic, reckless, and
even vulgar in some things, Townsend will be long re-
menabered by his favourite hobby—the Blind, Deaf,
and Dumb Asylum. He worked hard for many years to
establish this noble institution ; neither spared his own
purse nor the pockets of his friends ; took an unceasing
interest in working details ; made frequent visits ;
was loved by the patients; and in this way has raised
a monument which will keep his memory green, and
eventually throw a halo of reverence round the cobbler's
visage of poor “ Billy Waxend.”
Mr, William Redman, the well-known solicitor,
is dead. He had just reached his fifty-ninth year. In
the prime of life Mr. Redman was an active colonist
and did good service ; he was enterprising in business,
a shrewd speculator, and, while a member of the
Legislative Assembly, a consistent liberal in politics.
Mr. Redman married the daughter of Mr. Carrington,
formerly Crown Prosector at Melbourne, to whom he
leaves considerable property.
• • •
Miss Marianne North, the artist who has painted
tho flora of the world, those of N.S.W. included, is now
at the Cape of Good Hope Mr. Maurice O'Keefe.
solicitor, well-known in Maitland and the Hunter die-
triot-has transferred his practice to Sydney Last of
the Tasmanian aboriginals is Mrs. Fanny Smith, the
wife of William Smith. She was formerly known as
Fanny Cochrane. The name of the last white man and
woman will be Smith, too Sir Garnet Wolseley and
Admiral Sir E. B. Seymour to be created Barons Mr.
Hoskins has resigned his seat for Tumut.
The Secret.
Sound the music—'tis the lancers I
Oh, the scene is passing fair.
With the myriads of dancers—
All their colours mingling there.
Oh, such fairy silks ana sashes.
That enrobe such fairy souls j
Oh, the gleaming light which flashes
From the crystal girandoles!
Such light hearts and light feet tripping;
Much bright wines and such lips sipping;
Such soft speeches, such light laughter.
That come rippling, rippling after 1
Not on one of all those races.
Of dark care, a single trace is I
All supremely happy seem.
Like the angels in a dream !
In a bower where some shade is
From the ballroom's glowing light.
Yon can mark two lovely ladies,
Garbed in gleaming robes of white.
None amongst the throng are fairer;
None are richer clad than they j
And but few wear jewels rarer
In the whole of that array I
By the fountain which is lUshiug,
Where the lights prismatic shine,
Mark that woman tall and dashing
With a face and form divine I
Mark the gems with which her tresses
With such fancy are arrayed;
Mark how rich in lace her dress is,
Mark how grandly it is made.
Of these ladies many more are.
Each in rich and flowing robe;
Yet these ladies all as poor are—
Poorer far alas! than Job 1
Now you've all read so far through it.
How you wonder how they do it 1
How to fair brows each fair finger
Does, in pensive pond’ring linger I
Well—we patience sak of each sweet oreechah.
And tell the tale —and change the metre.
‘Twas night—a balmy night divine—
When each star does its brightest shine.
And makes the light bespangled bed
A sea of glory overhead.
When heav’n lets the small world see
The grandeur of her poetry;
A night for lovers—a soft night when—
They never loved so deep as then.
The night on which to her you say
" Suppose we go to Mossman’s Bay,
And if your dada vents his ire.
Why, vow you’re just home from the choir J
And it he don’t believe it’s true
The organist will swear so too.”
On such a night as we’ve set down,
When mystic twelve boomed o’er the town.
High up within an attic bare.
At sewing toiled three maidens fair j
The windows closely shuttered, so
There should escape no truant glow.
Fast looked the door, and masked for fear
The servants should or see or hear.
No “ whirr’’ there was, for understand
The work they wrought was “ done by hand.”
High in a press—this is stern fact—
Their work in bales and bales was pack’d j
Such dainty things—those yon regard
In shops marked at ” so much a card
And also those that up they fix
With “ trimmed with real lace—nine-and-six.”
In short those maidens that you all
Saw bravely glitt’ring at the ball
Make —this your wonder p’raps arouses—
Up soft goods for the wholesale houses;
And by this means they make the cash
To out a caper and a dash.
“Ashes.”
vanished scene of many pleasures over.
Of joys gone starwards on thy fiery wings;
now above thy smonld’ring ashes hover
The memories of a thousand lovely things.
Bright memories of the days when, ’neath thy dome,
The treasures of the earth were spread before ns;
iroixi far lands, o’er strange oceans’ foam—
The World’s voice, swelling in one glorious chorus
Of peace and goodwill to earth’s youngest daughter.
Cnoraa’s music and the fountain’s mingling;
The strains ascending, and the falling water
Uniting to set pleasure’s pulses tingling.
memor^es ot the joyous dance, —the song
Of Boema, resounding thro’ those aisles,
B ? ns Sydney, lingering long,
Iheu hearts all lightness, and their eyes all smiles.
Palace of Dreams, farewell I How oft, like thee,
Alas . those smiles have met a fiery grave I
The diva’s song is o’er! The summer sea
No more reflects thine image in its wave.
Wagga, Sept 24th, 1882.
W.J.B.


ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPORII
HATMAEKET (ONLY).
THE FIRST EARLY SHIPMENTS of SPRING and SUMMER G(
Arrivals of the Latest and Moat Fashionable NOVELTIES, hy M
article of LADIES’ APPAREL. LIGHT CLOTHING for MEN and B
ing together, such a display of SPLENDID NEW STOCK as cannot
tralia. And the prices being based as usual upon the CASH STSTEI
Favourable to PURCHASERS, who receive an Equal Benefit in this Saf
pAPER
H A 1
with
DADOES* BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPi
CEILING (
FIGUI
imported by
ALEXANDER BO
281 GEORGE STREET (Oppoi
PAINTERS’ AND DECOEATOI
Genuine White Load, Oils, Paints,
Broshes, Gold Leaf*
Queen bland
GBESLEY LUKIN a
PASTORAL, MINING, and PLAN
Temporary Offices : 289 Go
Opposite Honter-at
HAYE FOR SAL
Choice SUGAR PLANTATIONfc
SUGAR LANDS on the following
Queensland; —
The Pioneer River (M
Herbert River
Burdekin River
Mary River
Burnett River
Stone River
Logan River
Albert River.
Full particulars on application.
VATJTIE
ARE THE BE:
SWISS Cl
TRY THE
TO BE HAD OF ALL TO]
u
NDEE SECTION
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNGARI
FREEHOLD ESTi
by Subscription
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS ol
120 PRIZES of the full valu
117 lots guaranteed, cash ii
Lot I.lst prise *4OOO I Lot S.
Lot 2. 2nd prise £3OOO 1 Lot 4.
a S fn O. PpiflAfl of £l l
THE A CJSTRALABIAN d:
COMP ANT,
CONTRACTS will he undertaken
pony to bore any sized holes, vei
np to
3 INCHES OR LAI
If required, te any depth, at a redu
85 PER CENT BELOW ANT PM
The Fompiriy in all cases will fln
■water tor nulling purposes, and \
tot loss ol diamonds or wear an(
will also provide workmen, engines
The nex denies bnrrell introduce
Mr. J. Coghlau will be used free i
IMarouiug for minerals.
Mr. Coehltu has every ochfldcno
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, tl
give genet al satisfaction, as well
•a orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 283 Q«
JOHN COQI
General
PRIZE AWARDED, MEL
BITION. 1832
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOL
COMPANY, STD]
Manufacturers i
BOtIOOL, Ox,i.E E and CHH
a. d Ed no pliasces of
R. C. TROUGHTON
PROPRIETOR!
Contracts taken, and estimates i
Up of Schools, Collegoß, Churol
Bi uutitns, <te", to any extent and
pi priolors, luvonfoi'B, and Manu!
ton's Kevorsii ;e Desks, &o. (Regie
AND GENERAL CONI.
Bi cam Worki— DlCK-STREET, c
STREET,
lithographs of Designs and Cats
application.
Upwards c f 200 schools ahead;
%
t
j~K"T~ TL n ING.—FASHION A
/ STYLE I READ’S It
\ ji, 6t out, 5b., at Sewing Mach
ydnbt woo
No THE wnOLGROWEES (
WALES AND QUEEI
Tu netfu eff iriur you our eervii
wool or other produce, we desire
notice the iuoreaesd facilities pr<
1 rans iCLing miy buaintss witli wh
RsnomDlng the fact that the i
rnr Railwajd must divert to this
luy e( WOOL which has hithert
here, wa urn perfecting our
promptly a-td ( ffloieutly meeting tl
,mr i,ti r.v,'o accommodation, and
1 irgo »vi»rebmt,e-* at the CtrouLv:
< xlensivdy to our No. 3 Wareho
Kmr, wV,e o every facility is proi
, forage uud dhplay of wool to t
•flits warehouse adjoins the Ka
vdiob station all wool from the
<m T>l< riots is received; PR'
from tho Railway is thus ensured.
Wo havo an experienced s'.att,
with all th* requirements of the t
jo taken to fully protect the in'
tuonts. Every lot displayed for
tir small, ia closely valued betoi
when r quirt d, owners are comn
disposal.
Wool, or other produce, will
ruy < f the railway stations, or by
and duly forwarded.
Wo hold Put )>c Auction Sales o
and Friday in each week, and of ol
nate dajs. In any case where o
realized at auction, or snbsequei
tract, we arc prepared to ship a
charges, and, if consigned to our I
liberal ca.h advances; when grow*
to their own L mdon Brokers, we v
of Lading as they may direct.
Owners dealing their oonsig
transit from action will require to
tionsto that tff iot. _
We dosiro to point out that 1
greater quantity of wool was sold i
than dniing any previous year, an
which tubstquent results have si
favour of growers. The prospects o
, r o>s in the local market for th
eiuMlv good, and we have no hesit
lug urowots to test values here be
upon shipment. _ _ m
SPRING COSTUMES.
THE NEW FANCY POMPA "XIUR SATEEN
COSTUMES this season are exoopti 'nally pretty, af-
fording ample room for choice in Colo land Design, at
the same time the prices are very reaso «able. A Nice
Ladies Costume of this material, neatly crimmed with
Plain Sateen for 12s. 9d. Children's Costumes from
4s lid.
MANTLES AND DOLMANS.
Specially selected from the foremost houses iu Lon-
don and Paris: THE NEW GRAPHIC, REAL SATIN
DE LEON MANTLE trimmed with Beaded Lace
Fringe, and Splendid Ornaments, for 83s.
LACE FICHUS &o , &0., in great variety.
HATS AND BONNETh.
The Latest and Most Fashionable Shapes In STRAW
HATS and BONNETS for present Season may he seen
in our Show Room, and also in one of our Large Win-
dows in Glpps-street, where every New Style is repre-
sented.
| SPRING FLOWERS. |
For Beauty, Variety, and Completeness, onr Show
Cases present the finest display of Spring and Summer
S’lowers in the City, every Colour, Shade, and Flower,
being found in this collection.
LACES.
By the use of our New Pattern Books, Ladies will
effect a very great saving of time, many hundreds of
New Patterns being so arranged, that they may be seen
almost at a glance. The very latest Now Patterns are
being sold at less than Sydney Wholesale Prices, com-
prising; French Beaded Laces, Fine Cut, iu White,
Ficelle, and Black, Poirt Rufso, Albany and Manolo
Pan La.ee, and Point Roubnise, Cheltenham, and Point
Lorraine. >
m i i
RIBBONS
•For the richest MILLINERY TRIMMINGS ever
introduced our Lace and Moire also Lace ana Satin
Ribbons stand supreme, forming along with the Satin
and Merveilleux, New Moire, and Tissue Royal, the
latest novelties in Ribbons.
SASH RIBBONS all widths and colours.
LADIES,GLOVEB.
The New Shades in great variety are comprised in
first shipment, and Ladies will do well to make choice
early of these BEAUTIFUL KID GLOVES. Lace,
Taffeta, and other Fabric Gloves, form u rare selec-
tion.
Our prepara
Summer Feast;
GENTS’, TOT
description oi
well cut and rr
below Sydney
Gents’ Seas*
Gents’ Fane
Gents' Blac
Gents’ Fane
Gents’ 'iwet
Youths’ Ba<
Little Boys'
STIFF FE
FRENCH ]
DRAB SH]
black pi
AT THE PA
Cheaper thai
the largest S
A wry goot
LADIES’ 1
HENTS’ E
DEEBV S
CALF BA]
CALF E.B
CHTLDRE
GIRLS’ L
girls’ l:
We Have <
Materials se
turers of Bi
years we ha
Warehouse
Trade, the
prices charg
England.
This Seas
Sydney, Cos
First Class 1
Dress Depat
are always
WHEXHEI
CARPETS, FURNITURE, GLASS AN
IMMENSE PALACE
ANTHONY HORDERN
MA¥M A R K
(ONLY).
NO BRANCH HOUSES. ONLY THI
BOOT
HYDROPATHIC
ESTABLISH*
CORNER OF COLLEGE AND C
HIDE FAKE.
fTIHE TAILOE FOE THE PUBLIC.
f. hThagon,
late ontter E. C. Hagon, of 127 King-street,
having4aken
CO MMOUIOUS BUSINESS PREMISES
•' at
162 PITT STREET,
adjoining Compagnoni’s,
where every (ability will be afforded him,for
having bis work cade tinder hia
PERSONAL SUPERVISION,
is npy in a p >sitiQn to
SUPPLY THE PUBLIC
with Every Description of
TA.ILO RING
of a quality and price that cannot bo Excelled.
"West of to order. 63a.
Scotch Tweed, Tweed Suits to order, 63 1.
West of England Trousers, to order, 16s .6d.
Scotch Tweed 'Trousers, to order,'l6s od.
N.B.—All Garments- HAND-MADE.
F. H. HA.GON.
HAGON.
The occidental lev tat:
TATION.
£2O,OOO.—MELBO URN
Subscription, 20
Ist-£BOOO. 2nd—£3ooo.
Starters (divided), £4OOO. Non-sta:
To be run on October £
Applications by letter only, wit
and stamps to cover registration an<
case of this consultation not beini
«rin Via /KafvfKnfoH nrn mf.a finhoi


SUNDRY SHOWS.
AMUSEMENT NOTICES.
Thsatm Kotal —“Lights o’ London." Vide advt. p. 15
i i >TT Theatre.—Clark and Hyman’s Minstrels, ib.
Mignoa" ib.
Masonic Bale.—" Begone Dull Care." b.
We bave received the first two acts of the
libretto of a new opera by Mr. Moser, the music to
which is being composed by Hector JM'Lran. It ia not
M vet decided what the production is to be called, and,
meanwhile, tbs universe hangs in suspense. Probably,
however, the name will be “Populaire"—which is a
jrreat deal more than the opera is likely to be. The
intention iot the author is, so far as we can see,
to be comic. If be find after his magnum opus has been
produced that the Sydney public look coldly u*on its
humour and are not lashed iato hysterical laughter by
its wit, then “ Populaire," in ah likelihood, will be
either salted with a few biblical phrases and sold as a
tract against drunkenness, or sliced up Into speeches
for Dan O Connor. Mr. Myers, we are told, has con-
tributed a song or two. We don't know officiary
which are his, bur, even had we not learnt unofficially
all about it, we'd have had no difficulty in ascribing the
good ones to him. The number of these is about one,
and that is a chorus—“ They are waiting for the gun,"
which has a rush and a ring and a vigour that should
parry an audience away with it if the mu*io is at all
appropriate. Still, we hardly see why Mr. Myers
should have smuggled in an articulation puzzle in the
third line. What man could sing rapidly :
•• As armies wait whils chieftains chances count,”
without tying his tongue in a knot, or becoming lock,
jawed ? The remainder of the libretto —that’s to say
the port of it which the author of “ They’re waiting
for the gun " didn’t write—is chopped up into lengths
correctly enough, as a rule, but is innocent of the
faintest ray of humour. For instance :
“ What means this conversation touching matters
zoological ?
Is a man to be esteemed in a manner bippological T
That man was of the monkey tribe, Darwin surmised,
of course.
But who has e’er suggested his relation to a horse ?
This, even overlooking the bad rhyme in the second
line, is too fiat for even an audience of rock oysters or
conglomerate boulders to listen to. Mabel's speech in
the duet at the end of the second act —
“ ’Tis plainly seen
From my demeanour scorn expressing"—
is evidently an echo of Sir Joseph Porter’s statement
in “ Pinafore ” :
“ My amazement, my surprise.
Ton can tell by the expression of my eyes.”
So much for the verse. If wo did not know that Mr.
Moser was solely responsible for the dialogue of the
libretto, we should have imagined that Lazarus did it
after he had been in the tomb for three days, and while
the mould was still fresh upon him. It is unutterably
dreary and pointless. Here is a sample of it: —
•• Georgs.— (Proceeding to take dumb-bells from his
pocket.) In a double sense, new, ladies, I purpose
taking a ‘turn with the balls.’ The difference between
these and yourselves is simply that they are dumb;
and married men who marry belles often wish that the
latter were so too." Here forty words are employed to
explain a joke—a joke coeval with the cave-men —
where four should have sufficed. Another point
is a very croupy one after it is explained. Keep your
nose well rubbed. Master Moser, and wait till yon grow
older before you try to be funny again. And should
you never try you will have missed being funny, but
you will have succeeded in becoming wise. Hector
M'Lean’s music is said to h« in keeping with the
libretto. We are highly pleased to hear this, as we
have never yet heard a genuine Highland coronach.
In conclusion, we again say, that some of the songs,
with the exception of the few faults we have pointed
out, are fairly written, but the dialogue, clammy as a
dead man's hand, chokes the life out of them. The
libretto as it now stands reads very much like a lyrical
account of the proceedings at an Irish wake, written
by the ohief keener in the intervals of her wirasthrue-
ing and whisky-guzzling, which suggests to us that, as
the author has not yet finally decided upon a title
for the opera, he might do worse than call it “The
Night before Larry was Stretched."
• • •
Talking of the minstrel boys, we certainly think,
judging by what we have read in Californian journals
received by tbe last mail, that they have splendid libel
actions against some of tbe leading papeis of the Pacific
coast. We would reprint some of the pleasant little
good-bye paragraphs which we have noticed if we
happened to be leaving for California during the next
wees. But we have too much property in bond to
leave this country suddenly. And we have been in gaol
ones already for telling the truth. In future, anybody
can “ shame the devil" so far as we are concerned. At
the same time, we can’t help confessing that the par*,-
graphs in question were a great blow to us. It was
hard to find that the illustrious artists who had been
brought out to us “this side up, with care," and at
such enormous expense, should ho spoken of so flip-
pantly by their countrymen. We had pictured Mr
Bayless going from th.ca.tr o to theatre all over th.o
States bribing the pride of each company with immense
sums to fly away with him and sing for fifty-two weeks
in this sunny land. We s\w him, in our mind s eye,
cajoling and wheedling, and sometimes carrying off by
strategy “s'ar “ after “star" from the strongest min-
strel combinations in tbe world, until at jast the
dramatic banner of the States looked Jike a soldier s
coat, fallen upon evil days, from which half the buttons
hod been ;cut. Now —but these tears are vain, ymy
another dream shattered; only another bright vision
squelched. There was such a style, too, about our
dandy entrepreneur —such a stiffness of collar and
haughty gimlet-pointedness of moustache, and such a
delicate nostril melody about his pronunciation since
he came back from “Amurr’ka” that the disillusion-
ment has been all the more cruel to us. Sand out the
jug. It will be a long time before we shall be able to get
over this shook.
* * * *
The Montague-Turner Opera Company are not
an unquestioned success. Nobody who saw them once
would suspect for a moment that It was their sparkling
talent that set the Garden Palace on fire. During the
last week they played “Mignon" and “ Lucrezia
Borgia," and on last Monday night “ Maritana.
“ Mignon" was too much for them, and the music of
“Lucrezia," though they did their best to sing it with
the necessary fire, is somewhat above their ability. But
“ Maritana" they can be judged fairly by. They have
sung this opera in every show in the colonies. Want of
practice, therefore, cannot be held sufficient excuse for
their failure.
» • •
Chorus of gitanas; and then Maritana bounded
on the stage, shaking her soup plate—a custom which
is not peculiar to the gipsies of Spain. Then the
Komaina is danced, and Don “ Yosay,” as he persisted
in pronouncing his name, cavorts into the middle of the
crowd. As we gazed with awe on the proportions of
this noble hidalgo, we couldn’t help thinking what a
great trial it must have been to fat men in those times
to wear such a garb as he had on. Header, have you
ever noticed a show-joint in a restaurant window, and
how it is ornamented with many-coljured tissue paper
and “ vegetable trimmings ?” It you have, j ou need no
further description of the appearance of Don “ Yosay.
If you haven’t, ask an Evening News man. In voive,
Mr. Barrington sometime, seems to be pumping up his
notes from the pit of his stomach. And occasionally
one suspects that a frog has got jammed in the valve.
Miss Montague and he did not pull well together in
their duets. She was like—if the lady will forgive a
spotting simile —a spirited filly wanting to get her head
all the time—he line an undertaker’s moke that had
had dreams for a week. This hut relatively of course.
• • •
Enter Don Cieaar de Bazan Conte de Garofa.
Here again the romance was knocked out of us at one
fell blow. Mr. Turner didn’t look a bit like a dare-
devil Don, flushed with the wine “ whose father-grape
grew fat on Lusitanian summers." He was more like
a very jolly waggoner than anything else we can re-
member just now. And if we said he sang well—mesn-
ing up to anything like his usual standard —wo should
expect the late of Sapphira. “ There is a flower that
bloometh ’’ was left out altogether on Monday night.
This song is the gem of the opera.
• • •
Mias Montague (Maritana) and Miaa Josephine
Deakia (Lizarillo) simply saved the performance
fr >m a breasdowu. The former sang'aelightfally,
the latter, although the putt she played does not suit
her voice in the least, could be listened te with plea-
sure. We are quite willing to give everybody their due
—that is, you know, on paper.
m * m
Mr. England played the King of Spain. We
knew the minute he came in that he was the King of
Spain from bis painful awkwardness of gait. In person,
he is about as thin as the preceding joke. A subdued
simptr was noticeable in tbe circle and a derisive guffaw
was more than audible from the gallery as he placed an
arm lite the fare-leg of n consumptive spider, around
the waist of the lovely hut substantial Maritana, and
walked with her ruund the stage He was dee-sed in
dark and mouldy velvet, so that from a back-view he
looked like the lid of a coffin. From the front he was
more like a phantom. From the side he was
almost invisible. And this is what they give ns
for a King of Spain I Is io any wonder that a republUan
feeling is on the increase in tho colonies, when
managers sap the loyalty of the public by giving
them such representatives of royalty? Wo never
saw o«r gracious Queen, but wo believe her to be a
vision of »tately beauty. One of these days an irrever-
ent manager will Import a play where she will bo intro-
duced presenting John Davies with a tooth-comb, and
the rest of the alphabet, and he will represent her as an
ornery-loskiug fat old lady. Where will our allegi-
ance go thou ? We can say where, only we caa’t print
it. Mr. England, however, sang very fairly, and was
warmly applauded by the audience.
* * * «
Mr. Bonham played tho Marquis. Ho is a
old man in the ohoruj. His colossal warbling sounded
as we should imagine the matin sung of tho Mastodon
sounded as he strolled forth ten thousand years ago in
the early dawn to select a pino tree to pick his tsetb
with. We have never heard a mastodon sing, but wo
have heard the Mastodon Star Minstrels, and still live.
Air. Ramsden played the “ Captain,” and Mr Shannon
the “ Alcalde," Tbe latter ia another lath. We took
him at first sight to bs a caricature of the Kiama
Ghost out out of eur own ooluraus, pasted on card-
board and worked with strings from behind. It is a
curious fact that there are no middle-slz id men in this
company. They are all either ludicrously fat or patheti-
cally thin. ’
# • #
The one thing in the opera that was sung with
real artistic finish and that-.nded as successfully as it
began, wa* tho duet "Sainted Mother," between Miss
Montague and Miss Josephine Doakin. The rest was
all “ bu; leather and prunella."
• • •
We endeavoured for a while to seek solace from
the dismal crooning of tho principals ia gazing at tbe
chorus. As a general thing one can find at least one
pretty girl in a oborns to look at when the other per-
formers are making hash of their parts. Here we could
not find oven one. Then wo turned our eyes wearily to
the other side of the stage. Tho first thing we saw was
a oorpalant chorister at the end who had to keep hitch-
ing hi* hand in his belt, while one oonld see that it was
itching to gat round a pewter. The chorus when first
hero were a success, being apparently under some con-
trol. The soldiers were a funny lot. Wo never knew
before that Chinese-looking people were employed in
the Spanish police of two centuries ago. But we live
aud learn, which some of Mr. Turner’s singers might
also do with advantage.
* * * *
Maooabo’s season at the Masonic Hall ends
shortly. Wo shall be sorry to lose Fred. It 1* so seldom
that we can get an entertainment made np of pure fun
and free from vulgarity, that wo regret his departure
all the more. While on this subject we are reminded
of a peculiar incident that Mr. Maocaba told us of the
other day. Shortly after he came to Sydney this last
time he was im Hodge’s hotel, andthebnrlv Bass signed
to him mysteriously to oomo upstairs. “ I’ve got some-
thing to show you that will surprise yon," said Bass.
Whereupon he took np one of the old hide-bound
volumes of music that are only found in corners now,
and turning to a coitalu page pat his finger on the title
of a song and said "Look." Fred looked. “You’d
hardly belivo it," said ha to ua in his laughing mercu-
rial way when ha was telling the story, " but the song
that Hodge pointed out to me, the song that was bound
up in that old book which had lain in the corner of an
Australian Hotel, for who knows how many years, was
written and composed by me in London over twenty
years ago when I was not ’’ —“ Famous ?’’ we suggested,
“Old," he concluded sadly. Eheu fugaoesl
* * * *
A complimentary concert to Mr. T. A. Delany is
to be given at 3 p.m. on Saturday next, at St. Mary’s
Hall, late pro-Cathedral. The chorus will number 350
voices, and the programme is a very flue one. Air.
Delany’s really brilliant management of the musical
section of the late festival deserves this ackuowledg-
meat. He ia about to leave the colony, after having
successfully goueralled one of the greatest musical
efforts yet made in it. We hope, therefore, that the
acknowledgment will be a substantial one.
* * * *
We have Riven over wondering when the “Lights
o' London ” will be taken off the boards of the Royal.
We don’t deny that, the management acts as almost
everybody else in their position would act, by keeping
plays on as long as they pay. But wo are beginning to
be just slightly tired of Rignoldese melodrama. To put
the matter straight “ Lights o’ London ’’ is melo-
dramatic bosh.
* * * *
The novelties of the Gaiety programme are
Horace Bent aud Tom Sayers. Horace is good
as of yore, which is lavish praise. He mates
a better corner-man than any other they have in
the company, and hie burlesque lecture is very funny,
Tom Sayers is a young man, who sings comic songs
badly. He comes oat dressed in the fashion of the
Music Hall singer, his hat on one side, and what is
delusively supposed to be a wicked smile on his lips.
Now and again, in the emphatic parts of his song, he
pirouettes lound the stage with the grace of a perform-
ing onrang-outang. And at intervals, out of tho rusty
creaking of his chant, a shrill and solitary top note—
" Ta, tu," “ Bye, bye," or some such drivel—rises like
the shriek ot a lost soul out of the bottomless abyss.
We can tolerate anything but such lyrics of lunacy as
Air. Tom Sayers presumed to think wore fit amusement
for a sane public on the night wo wore present.
Finally, Air. Sayers is vulgar in style, and has no voice
to speak about. There are not many now features in-
troduced into the programme of the Minstrels them-
selves.
* * * *•
They call Charlie Burford and Cora M‘lan
“masterly exponents of their art” in—hem I—Gympie.1 —Gympie.
The captivating Clara Stephenson is boss of tho troupe
there, and the bill of fare for a week has been as
follows :-Mouday~“ Peep O’ Day " ; Tuesday-" The
Colleen Bawn" ; Weduesdaj—“ Kip Van Winkle (0 ;
Thursday—“ Formosa ’’; Friday—“ The Octoroon ";
and Saturday—" 1 ho Streets of London ." The Vivians
are also with the company, but which one played Kip
Van Winkle—Arthur or Charlie Burford? But who
ever heard of Jefferson at Gympie ?
** * *
By-the-way Frank Towers and R-r-osa have
taken the Gaiety for six mouths dpartir de Novemhre.
His big card is Sims’s “Member for Slocum," ami wa
trust he will not emulate tec example of the unskilful
moulder aud have it "damned in the casting." He has
also a piece by J. F. M'Ardle—which wiilkeep—and
Frank Green’s "Sinbad," which is d ce gu’Uparait great
f «n And so as to let our readers get their breath after
these blasts of French, we may state that W. H. Lenke
is Wagga way, with “ Aly Partner, Joe Bren a head,
and a “ Air. Albert de Percy," musical conductor. And
Joe Goodman seems to have left tho great triam viiate.
This is news indeed. Wlmt’s up, we wonder r Arabi s
defeat is nothing to this.
** * *
Some mad wag has been poking beautiful fromefc
at the New York Mercury. That journal tells that
“ Dan Barry, an economical Australian actor, began to
post his own bills anuounc ng Charles Wyndham a
‘Fourteen Days’ at Sale, N. S. W. In imitation of
Wyndham’s London * gag,’ he wore a convict’s dress,
but the local police failed to comprehend Barry s joke,
and ‘ran him in’ as an escaped prisoner." Yet there
is no “ Dan Barry"—no “economical Australian actor
—no “Fourteen Days"— no “ Sale, N.S.W." no local
police"—and no “escaped prisoner." We hear next
that “ Carry Nelson and her husband, Mr. McPadyen,
are doing a fine business in Australia with * Hazel
Kirke;’" an item which is certainly news to us. There
is also a gorgeous anecdote about Mrs. South when
playing at the " Theatre Royal, Dubbo, Australia,” and
other theatrical intelligence of an equally bizarre nature.
Altogether, the Mercury seems about as well posted up
in general Australian theatricals as the Rum is on the
people and politics of the colony in which it was to
reform things altogether.
** * *
Now ia the time, ladies and gentlemen of the
fat purse* to better your shows for trumps and halos.
Poor Johnny Hydes, so long known as a comedian, is in
Melbourne, not only penniless, but sick unto death. To
a profession noted for its charity, not only to its own
people but to others, wa know that this appeal is
scarcely necessary, and therefore we are sure the poor
old man will receive immediate relief at the hands of
his brother pros. But we want more than this —
We want the men who ope their sack*
To try and “ civilize the blacks,"
To give a mite.
A pound or two they will not miss
Although the object’s simply this—
To save a white.
Alas, poor'Hydes, there’d be no lack
Of coin for thee—if thou woct black I
** * *
The latest from London. Potitt and Harris’s
Drury Lane drama, which is called “ Pluck: a story of
£50,000," doesn’t seem to have quite "got them"
There are seven tableaux, which include the "everlast-
ing "conflagration" and a.railway accident, of which
"Carados” writes something os follows “ Tho rails
run across the stage, through a tunnel, over which is a
foot-bridge. In tho distance signal-lights ore seen,
changing their colours ever and anon, and village lights
twiukle away down below in tho hollow. Keene (the
returned transport! stealthily fastens a sleeper across
the metals, to wreck the train in which the heiress is
travelling. Jack (the hero, brimming over with virtue
aud always—like Harold Armvtage—down on his luck),
passing over the bridge, sees the sleeper on the lino and
rushes to remove it. Keene springs upon him, an
exciting struggle ensues, and then tho train, laden
with real live passengers, dashes out of the tunnel, and
engine and carriages are smashed into fragments.
Clinton, in custody of the detective, is also In this
train, hut is unhurt, and escapes. Jack, having over-
come Keene, hastens to rescue Mrs. Maitland and the
child, and, as he does so, a down train comes crashing
into tho wreckage, aud the curtain falls amid the
shrieks and groans of injured passengers and general
horror." We suppose this sort of thing has now
reached its utmost limit. We don't see what more in
the way of realism could ho effected unless they dis-
sected a cat or hung a missionary. We should like a
play in which they hung n missionary—it he was a very
bod missionary. Next in importance to “Plnok"—we
den’t mean artistically—is the production of “The
Vioar of Bray," by Solomon and Sydney Qrnndy, the
book of which appears to be good, and the music bosh
—reversing the state of affairs in " Claude Duval ’’ and
11 Billee Taylor," in both of which, d ce quo Von (lit, the
dialogue is very poor aud the score sparkling. Another
new comedy has boon produced at Manchester, by tho
way, called "A Wise Child," which would seem to
know its father in George K. Sims ; and a very sensa-
tional business by a Mr. Calmore, termed " Law, Not
Justice,” has been given at the Surrey. We wouldn’t
give much for tho copyright of this in Sydney.
** * *
You shall have tho Melbourne items in a little verse
that’s nice—
Well, then, “ Fille de Tambour-Major" they won’t have
at any price;
Tho Bambini of Great Vernon (at this with surprise
we're lost 1)
Is something “ Tahite ” infers “ that’s very like a
frost.”
Sheridan, tho critics say, as Richelieu is "all jam,”
But the theatre-going public do not care a —[No matter.
Ed. B ] , 3
At little Neddy’s funny “ Jeames,” with laughter all do
" bust,”
And the next card that he plays would seem to be “ Tho
Upper Crust."
And an item that will interest all talent-loving folk,
‘pou Saturday her dtbut mukeS tho charming Mrs. Polk.
“ Boccaccio's” got all the men —(those leg-piece loving
churls)—
And Woodfleld, the new tenor, has, they say, " got’ all
the girls.—
But, there, wo think we’ll just end hare this rather
hobbling rhyme:
It has a weird suggestive ring of Scott's last panto-
mime.
The Viotorieral is getting its name up. The
fustian smell of the pool-sharp has been succeeded by
the odorous opoponax of advanced respectability. No
longer does the hoodlum sit whooping in the front
seats and spitting in the orchestra, nor are there
"rallies” in the pit and an earthquake in the gallery.
None avone chang 6 tout or (a I 't he once despised “ Sean"
has gradually become high-toned. In a word, it has
bloomed forth as the Academy of Music, and, ».s such,
is the chosen temple of aspiring amateurs. W e went
there last Thursday night to see the Lotus Cl ub per-
form “ Our Boys," and found the place crowded, with a
very large number of young ladies in a high state of
gloves, and a vast assortment of young gentleman in a
corresponding condition of shirt collar. On entering,
we were not only asked for our ticket, but for our lady.
The former we gave up; and on explaining tin it the
latter was busy turning out the last batch of the iiunily
mangling and would he round as soou os she had
" cleaned herself," we were allowed to pass in. There
was hardly a seat vacant, but at length we were accom-
modated with a chair next to a demure young lady in
black, who was accompanied by a full-sized mamma of
austere appearance. Glancing at the programme, wo
saw that no author's name was given to the comedy, so
we said, ‘“Our Boys’—let's see, that’s by Shakespeare,
isn’t it ?" Then the young lady turned to her pro-
gramme and said, "Yes—l think it is it by Shakes-
pearo, mamma ? " On which that good lady replied,
sharply, “ Don’t answer him I ” At that moment the
curtain went up, our shirt cuff came down, and we pre-
pared—not without some feelings of trepidation—to
watch the course of events.
• • •
When the drop had been wound up, we found
that wo were amongst old friends. nob <mlj
were the Lotus boys none other than our famiuar
pall, the Lyttons, but even the
fled to the unmistakable fact that Sir Talbot Cbampsoys
had made a lucky hit at Thempson’s Diorama. (< The
cast, however, did not disclose the gorgeousi mom
niktr” of Mr. Ben Palmer, that gentleman having had
a difference with his comrades, as we understand, on
account of expressing an intention to, in one night,
enact the title roles of Macbeth and Bob Roy, and
do a song-and-danoe between the pieces. Under the
new arrangement, Ben in his own person constitutes the
Lvtton Club, while the Lotus people have secured Mr.
Montague Levey for their president, and Mr. Dan
O Connor for their Vioe; —the latter gentleman sitting,
by virtue of his office, right in the centre of the front
row, doing the amiable to a lady with a portable pun-
kah of »ueh phenomenal dimensions that when she
opened it out to its fall extent, a'l that could be ssen of
the eloquent representative of West Sydney was his
scalp and hia boot,heels. Mr. Montagne Levey we
couldn’t see, but Mr. I. Reginald Coken dropped in and
surveyed the performance with a glance of mingled
pity and amusement, which only a knowledge of superior
histrienie power oonld call forth. When ho entered, no
one ever dreamed of asking him tor either his ticket or
his lady. No jho was obsequiously ushered into a
seat, and a well-aired programme respectfully pressed
on him. All that we are surprised at is, he wasn’t
offered a bouquet of violets—or an air cushion.
« • •
Always an amusing comedy, “Onr Boys,” as
interpreted by the Lotus Clnb, was one of the most
deliriously entertaining performances we remember to
have witnessed sinse the Chinese Opera Company (direct
from Lower George-street) gavo their inaugural per-
formance at the School of Arts. The scenery used had
most of it been prepared for Lewis’s Mastodons, and the
sets, therefore, were so suggestive of the burnt-cork
drama that wo every moment expected to see Talbot
Cbampnoys arrive with a bandbox, and bang Charles
about with a bladder. And we cannot but think that it
would have been largely conducive to the success of the
representation if, when Perkyn had pronounced his
“ ultipomatam," Violet had rushed forward and
whitened him all over with flour. But though they did
neither of these things, they were very funny. Sir
Geoffrey, in the hands of Mr. A. H. Larmartinioro, was
not, as might have been expected (exouse our little
joke), a "negative" performance. On the contrary,
it was full—fearfully full —of originality. Mr. L, made
the worthy baronot speak, not so much like a French-
man who was trying to pass off as an Englishman, bat as
a Dutchman who was trying to pass off as a Frenchman.
All his n’a wore as round as dray-wheels, and ho bad a
way of squaring his elbows like a stage-coaobraan of the
previous century. And what did he look like ? What,
Indeed I When he came on, a whisper rippled through
the hall—“ Is it alive P’’ and when it beckoned to
Violet to retire, wo felt inclined to repeat Maroellus’s
speech to Hamlet —
•• Look with what courteous action
It waves you to a more removed ground :
But do not go with it."
• • •
Mr. P. B. Bourko took upon himself the respon-
sibilities of the Batterman, and be was so conscientious
in his interpretation of the role, that during the whole
of the first act, ho carried his part In his waistcoat
pocket I Mr. 8,, however, is too jerky, and, though ho
may be said to have nine-tenths of the “fat" of the
whole piece all to himself, he managed to demonstrate,
in a painful manner, how far it is possible to spoil, by a
detective delivery and objectionable mannerisms, the
effect of very elever lines. Mr. Bonrke, it is but fair to
add, however, has some talent for low comedy ._ All it
wants is bringing oat. Wo do not say how that is to be
done. We don’t oven suggest wire rope or &u augur.
• • •
Mr. J. Goldie (be careful about the ie, printer ;
dismemberment’s the penalty for substituting the
plebeian “y") Mr. J. Goldie Hunt (hon. sea ) shed the
garish light of his genius o’er the role of Talbot, and
very well he would have played the part, too, if Sir
Geoffrey’s eon had matriculated in a dry goods store.
We might suggest that not oven a boilsr-baronet would
commence n sentence: ‘‘There is one who I hope,"
etc i and wo would advise Mr. Hunt, next time ho
plays, should he find his gloves too much for him, to
oast them off at an early stage of the trouble. This
proceeding will save him and his audience much
anxiety of a painful nature. And we may here mention
that all the gentlemen were more or less oppressed by
being elaborately gan Us, and their struggles with their
gloves were frequently of a very distressing character.
Chawlea was enacted by Mr. Olyne, wnoso initials,
D.G 8., are pleasantly suggesliveof a Umber pipe. Mr.
Olyne has many qnalilioatlons for the position of na
amatenr star, but we consider him ill-advieed in mount-
ing such an intrusive pair of " property " moustaches.
Seme time ago, an actor appeared at a place called
Denver in a pair of “ aggerawators ” of a similar pat-
tern, and, after the performance, he was waited on by a
body of the citizens. Next day he was sat upon.
Verdict: Justifiable homicide. Mr; J. R. Allen played
Kempster in a manner that would commend itself to
the Terra; Del Foegans ; and Mr. Donovan, as Poodles,
by brilliant performance of that character, hat ren-
dered himself eligible for the next cat-fish medal pre-
sented by the Esquimaux.
• •
Miss Myra Kemble was, of course, groat fun as
Mary Melrose, the poor girl; but as she appeared in
£5O costumes and was a blaze of diamonds, it caused
Violet, when she entered in muslin trimmed with bed-
ourtaiu lace, to look less like a rich heiress than if she’d
oomo for the washing. Myra looked splendid and
acted with such spirit, that neither the cheerful dis-
regard she evinced for the unities, nor the professional
manner in whloh she managed to get the male char-
acters jumbled together In the O.P. wing, could te said
to have militated against a performance, whloh was a
hysterical gasp throughout. Miss Gertrude Duke was
so quiet (not to say sad) as Violet, that she appeared as
though she was either bewailing a secret sorrow, or had
swallowed an indifferent oyster Mrs. Lachl&n M'Qowan,
of course, was all right as Clarifsi, and a Miss Sally
Brown (unknown to ns, always excepting that the name
seems familiar) was a sprightly Belinda. Applause was
liberalMdl through the piece, and it culminated in a
shriokWpuithusiasra when an admirer of Myra a threw
her a sixpenny bouquet from the gallery, which, falling
short of‘its destination, nearly killed the man who
played the Addle.
• • •
We might suggest that at the next performance
given by tbe Lotus Clnb, a small price—a very small
price—for admission be charged, and the gross proceeds
handed over to a charity. If these gentlemen can afford
to spend over £25 or £3O in giving a free entertainment,
there seems to be no reason why they should not, in
doing so, besides delighting their audiences, confer
some diraot good with the money upon a deserving
charity. Lots of people would pay—say, a shilling, tw
see the Lotus boys, if they supplemented the attractions
they can offer in their own parsons by engaging—" the
stilts," for instance, for "one consecutive night."
** * *
Joe Goodman got blocked out of the sub-man-
agerial staff of the great Triplets, but has a most flat-
tering letter from them re his general abilities. It- will
bo good nows—to the ladles especially—to hoar that
Joseph U disengaged at present. That won’t be for
long though. He will be quickly snapped up by some
fair star if only for his beauty.
( Continued on Page 11.)
The Hon. Sir Julius Vogel, K.C.M.G.
The Hon. Sir Julius Vogel, of whom an excellent
portrait appears on our first page, was born in
.London in 1835, of Hebrew parents. Sir Julius,
who has been a journalist, and is the statesman
who has pushed New Zealand into the front rank
of the colonies of Great Britain, is at present in
but indifferent health, and is staying for a time in
Sydney, where his name is known far bettor than
his expressive face. His portrait, drawn and en-
graved respectively by Mr. W. Macleod and Mr.
jßldward Mason, The Bulletin artists, will be of
interest throughout Australasia.
We see with regret onr very own campanologist
Mr. Ben Greene, of the Cowers, has a rival. Here’s hia
nd., which is very nearly as funny as one of Ben's letters.
“E. W. Baker, Campanologist, &■?., &a., &s , , &o. I
again come before yon and thanks for the past and
hoping the future works will be more extensive, which 1
think there is no doubt. ‘ God Save the Queen.' " By
George! wo shall have this one asking for Maggie
Oliver’s photo, next. But wo will be true 1 to thee
Benjamin. Oar answer will be—Not to day, Baker.
WELCOME!
“ Mr. George Darrell, the well-known actor,
returned to the oolouy by the Cotopaxi (s.), after a tour
of 20 months in the United States."
Bound the trumpets, twang the lyre,
Don, ye churls, your best apparel.
Light the welcoming bon-flro—
Once agaiu’s returned George Darrell I
Gentle George, what hast thou brought
In the grave-yard line, we wonder P
What’s the last thing thou hast wrought,
Steeped in gore and crammed with thunder ?
Gratify our yearning soul—
(Wo will part our splendid shillin’)
Just to see thee bore a hole
With thy sword, George, through the villain I
Lots of bi*. means lots of larks;
Quiet pieces are a blunder;
What we love is lots of sparks
Lots of “ one, two, three, and under.”
Hail, George, and Defries, again I
Welcome, boys I oomo quick, and wade In ;
One to kill the suff’ring Dane,
One to save the weeping maiden.


PEPPER AND SALT.
IN MEMORIAM.
Peace be with you, Garden Palace 1 Once the pride of the
Domain,
Reared on high by jealousy, a symbol of our ’Enery’s
reign.
Peace be to your smouldering ashes! Pence to yonr
departed towers 1
Some men thought you Sydney’s glory, but that verdict
was not ours.
Some would praise your fine proportions as upon your
minarets
Glinting sunshine daaeed; but [some, whose names cne
luckily forgets.
Criticising this effect, would only corse the blinding
glare;
And abuse the bulky barn for blocking ont the fresher
air.
'Tis not of yonr doubtful beauty now we need make much
ado.
But of all the priceless treasures ruthlessly consigned
to yon—
Pictures, statues, brie d brae, whose loss we cannot
mourn enough;
Though in sooth [esthetic critics have pronounced them
paltry stuff.
Stuff ? impossible I Memorials [of our 'Faery's Eoyaj
taste I
Of our public money surely this cannot be called a
waste.
From the pale of criticism p’raps ’tis lucky they are
gone
'Era the eye of Opposition taste has on them fiercely
shone—
Those ate not our only losses 1 Questions there’ll he in
the Housfe—
Loud voiced McElhone demanding; poor Jack trembling
like a mouse—
H vw are we to know the census P Records of the Lands
and Miaes ?
Amsterdam Commission ? And the new ly-surveyed rail-
way lines ?
All the papers that relate to schemes of Forest Censer*
vation.
To the Harbours and the Rivers and the Lands in
Occupation,
Records of Departments Sanitary, Teohnologioal
Of societies Linnman, Mining, Geological ?
Fisheries' Commission papers, records of the Diamond
Drill
And wh knows what else P Of all the omel fire has had
his fill I
Yet we shall survive our sorrow, as with pleasure we
renew
All our old sensations when we gaze upon the opened
vie »;
We than bury our regaats, too, as we taste the healthy
breeze.
Once again let into Sydney from the sea and
the-^re
Why deplo the Harden Palace ? If they oan’t refi
the shelves.
Sure the Government can make an Exhibition of them-
selves.
• * •
Oue celebrated lecturer from Murker to a ditto
from the same'• “ How’s biz , brother ?” 2nd. C.L.P.M.
“Multy: but with the help ot Divine Ist. C.L.F.M. :
(interrupting) : “You should get abetter agent.”
They were seated disoonso-
ate in the yard at the Central,
when a lawyer came up and bade
them “good morning.” “ Ton have
snmmons, I suppose?” he said.
‘ No, we ain’t," replied the woman
smearing her face with the corner
of her shawl. “ Not a summons,”
said the man, her companion, tak-
ing a semi-circular bite out of a
plug of condemned tobacco; “so
you’re out of it this time. Mister."
“ Ah, well, never mind,” said the
legal gentleman ; “if yon bad, I’d
have appeared for yon. My fee is
” “ But wo got no money,”
chorused the couple, “ and here's
Jim the Nobbier lumbered for a
thimble.” “ Where—hem I—is the
—er—property ? " enquired the
attorney. “ The traps has got it,"
was the reply. “ That’s bad—very
bad,” remarked the legal gentle-
man ; “ but if none of yon have any
money, could you not give an
equivalent?" “Never see one,”
they said : “ what is it—fish ?”
“It is anything,” said the gentle-
man “ jewellery, for instance-
clothing—small articles of iron-
mongery—tinned provisions—urn-
brellas—even crockery ” “What d’yer say, 'Melia ?”
said the man, enquiringly,and beckoning her into a comer
they conversed earnestly together. At the conclusion
their conference, a satisfactory arrangement was
£ rived at. That morning Tommy the Nobbier had a
le. ned advocate, and that afternoon the legal gentle-
man was the richer by a brass candlestick, three soup-
plates, twe tins of sardines, and a sea-boet.
• •
There have been grand doings in Adelaide.
Having in view the critical position of the colony,
owing to European complications, it was resolved the
other day to hold a grand review of the entire forces,
to be followed ty an impressive sham-fight. At 8 a in.,
the infantry was driven from the town hall to the
ground amid much enthusiasm, in a fonr-horse * bus;
and a little later the appearance of the cavalry three
deep, with the staff in front, was the signal renewed
outburst of applause. The staff was much admired,
though the intrepid valour he showed in wearing real
spurs created no inconsidesablo feelings of uneasiness
in the breasts of the fair spectators. But it was only
when the artillery thundered through the streets that
the pride of the Adelaideans in their army reached its 1
height, and the uncalled for remarks of some illl-oon-
ditioned people who pretended to recognize in the
brilliant bombardiers the entire faces and parts of the
accoutrements of the Port Fire Brigade, met with the I
contempt which was their just meed. On Montefiore
Hill being reached, the Irregular Forces, in the person '
of Mr. D. C. F. Moodie, marched up in a dignified
style, and Sir William Jervois having given the wink to
the man-of-war bugler, who had been smuggled over
three days before from the Nelscn, the business began
in earnest. The march-past was a great success, and
when, on the guns getting bogged, a section of the loyal
populace fraternised with the military and dragged the
two seven-pounders whooping np to the Flagstaff, suc>,
a shont rent the air as has not been heard in Adelaide
since Cole’s clown asked the audience to inform him
how they felt tbe day after to-morrow. In the sham.,
fight, severe strategy was the order of the day. Sir
William bellowed to the staff, and the staff bellowed to
the infantry, who let off their rifles with great effect in
such a direction that if they had been loaded' 1
with ball-cartridges, they would have riddled
the Post-office dock. Sometimes the artillery
was in the scrub from whence it belehed forth
destruction upon the cavalry upon the hill, and some-
times it was in the open protected by the gallant in-
fantry. On one occasion the staff, having given the
cavalry commander the order to charge and capture the
artillery, the latter attempted to execute the command,
but had to retire discomfited before the rank and file, and
a warrior unhorsed, a boot, a helmet, and a rum- flask, fell
into the hands of the enemy. At the conclusion of the
manoeuvres. Sir William expressed his admiration at
; the wonderful efficiency of the forces, and especially
t congratulated the staff, who, hy-the-w»y, had so much
riding to do on the day in question that he has been
obliged, ever since, when asked ont to dinner, to take
an India-rnbber air-cushion with him. The report of
the adjutant-general is highly satisfactory, and a depu-
tation of oordial-makers and brewers have since waited
on him to express their entire belief in the valour and
I intrepidity of all branches of the service. The irregular
forces, not being officially recognised on the ground,
gloomily watched the eon fl iot from a distant ‘’public” and
consoled himself with the reflection that every guerilla
must have his day. Altogether, the whole affair was a
genuine triumph, and, though a little shaken in their be-
lief in their defenders recently when the fort was nearly
captured by the day-school—the attacking party being
only routed by the top-boots of the asthmatic trooper
looming in the distance—the South Australian people
now consider themselves in a position to repulse
any enemy that wouldn’t be mean enough to either
bring more men against them than they can send into
the field, or to land after e undown and take them by
surprise.
# • •
At the Pastoral Association at Maitland recently,
a gentleman present, on the Queen’s health being pro-
posed, got up and said he had an amendment to submit.
Then, amidst a storm of loyal yells and true Britannic
hiccups, he said: “I object to drink the Queen’s
health” (bewilderment deepened to consternation) “in
sour colonial wine. We must drink it in champagne.
Bring in a dozen bottles.” This statement was received
with enthusiastic applause by those who had nothing
to pay, and it was not until a gentleman “ volunteer*- ‘
a song" that gloom once more descended upon the
company.
Here’s some food for! reflection Take ten
men, and stand them in a row; let each represent a
million or a hundred millions. Go back a bit, year by
year, until yon arrive at the great progenitor of the lot.
Now, whether this progenitor was a reptile, a monkey,
or a donkey, he must, it may be supposed, have com-
bined all the germs of our happy social characteristics.
Our mutual forefather was a forger, a liar, a burglar, a
minister, a highwayman, an alderman, a bigamist, a
pious fraud, a mule, an assassin, an evening reporter, a
dummy, a boa constrictor, a civic contractor, a land
agent, an incendiary, a fratricide, a compensation-man,
a tram-conductor, a wife-beater, and probably a C.M.G.
Further reflection will reveal the painful fact that we
are all related, and were once probably friends. At this
rate, it is easy to imagine Pastor Allen dancing a horn-
pipe on the Sawbath with Pope Leo, and Father Mahog-
any rushing to a picnic with Bishop Barker. M'Elbone
might be seen at a muffin struggle with the C M G.,
and the Mayor taking Carter’s measure for a suit
of clothes. Andy Lynch may be imagined giving
Gladstone a tnm at bridge-making, and Sir ’Bnry
growling at the Queen for declining to trust him for th«
washing. A colonial judge sits with Bacon, and a libel
juryman is admitted without suspicion to the company
of a highwayman. Ned Kelly and Judge Barry are
running a circus, and Abigail and Dan O’Connor are
missionaries to the heathen of Glebe Island. M'Beath
shakes hands with Angelo, and gives him a wrinkle.
Angus Cameron condescends to speak to a working
man, and Hsnson advises Garibaldi not to battle on the
Sawbath. Parkes confers with Sir Isaac Newton—on
the Monday. The editors of the Rum are on visiting
terms with Thackeray’s oook. Tom Slattery declines
to butter the judges, and Lord Loftus sells Davies some
excellent turkeys. All this results from tracing our
antecedents. The only things that are not likely, any-
how, to be seen, are Christ in a 200-gninea barouche or
with a handsome wife, a minister baking hands with
Lazarus, or a cattle-duffer aoceptin a knighthood.
The Czar’s “ mozzle’a out again.” After going
to Moscow (where there were “great rejoicings ") to
be crowned, he returned post haste to St. Petersburg
without so much as being half-crowned. This is how It
happened : —Prior to the start for Moscow, everything
had been arranged by Ignatiaff, and the plans of that
astute general were thoroughly approved of by the
Autocrat of all the Russia 3. Aleck and his Missis, it
was settled, ware, in order not to excite suspicion, to
travel by the ordinary train—the Emperor to bedis-
gnised as the stoker, and the Czarina, attired as an
Albanian peasant-girl, was 1 1 sell tallow candles (their
favourite refreshment) and vodki to the passengers.
The Imperial train wes to contain a big Cossack, who
was to “make up” av the Emperor, and had been
engaged to personate that monarch at the ceremony,
until the Nihilists had exploded all their firearms. No
sooner had the false Czar bsen blown into the Baltic,
than the real Simoa Pare was to be hoisted up, the
crown clapped on his head; and, at a given signal, 100,000
soldiers were to close in, when, amidst the hnatle, con-
sequent on the moment, the newly-crowned Emperor
was to be smuggled away in a hay-cart. All went u# I
A 1 at first. The Cossack, who was always kept drunk
was “ kidded " into the belief that there was no danger’
and, being allowed an unlimited quantity of railwa ’
grease to spread upon his dog’s biscuit, ha live! untU
the start in a kind of ethereal paradise. Well the
Emperor set off, arrived, and was conducted by the
Grand Chamberlain (garbed as a wood-carter) into the
Police Court coal-hole, when the intelligence suddenly
arrived that the Cossack had jibbed on the arrange,
ment. He had, It appears, bought a sandwich en route at
Nordbloomgowich, and at the first bite it exploded and
blew out all his front teeth, which striking two officers
who were facing him killed them on the spot. A hundred
miles further on be invested, his month being vary
sore, in two melons, for a kopeok. Catting a slice on*-
of oae he gave it to a Colonel who sat next to him to
eat. That officer took a suck at it, and then desired
that his sword might be given to his mother. Seeing
this the Cossack began to feel a bit uneasy. A Uw
minutes later just as he had put his head out of the
window to admire the scenery, something wet and
heavy struck him violently across the face, then, thud !
a round missile took him bang in the chest. He caught
the latter, and on drawing in to examine it discovered
that it was the head of the engine-driver. They hid
given him gun-cotton to clean the locomotive with
On this the Cossack cried “a go,” and creeping under
the seat of the carriage refused to play any more
Millions were offered him but without avail. He said
ho preferred the army to the court, and asked for a free
pass up the line to where his mates were soldiering.
This being the case, the Coronation has had to be
adjourned until they can find another Cossack, or till
the Cxar consents to let the ceremony take place in his
wood-yard.
• • »
“ Sir Henry Parkes has given a tenner to the
Kendall Fund.”
The Congregational Mission
School “ offering.box" was stolen
the other day, and a little boy was
arrested by a battalion of coasts,
hies, on suspicion. He was, how-
ever, acquitted by the magistrates,
and on being taken home by his
mother, he told her that that box
was the biggest fraud he had come
across during the whole of his bur-
gling. It appears there were only
five “tin-tags,” a plate complete
(in pieces), hilf-a-pound of loquat
stones, and a tooth-brush handle,
ia the receptacle. It was worse,
he said, than the Particular Bap-
tist oae —for in that the booty was
three half-pence and a fish-bone.
Putting money in offering-boxes
has gone out of fashion now. The
way to do is by list in the Hebaip,
thus: —“ J. Fitz Adolphus de Moat*
morency Gubbins, J.P., of Cob-
bermere. Tulip Bay, 2s. 61."
• It
He was a Homan Catholic
bishop, and he was down for the
Tridnum. On the day after it w«*
all over, he thought he would ha* 9
a shave prior to returning to his S«e»
so he stepped into the shop of 4
high-toned barber to have six.pen’orth of steel
lat «r. Now, it came to pass that this Bishop was 44
sile-1 as an oyster, rarely opening his mouth except to
spoon something into it, or give some profession 4 *
pitch out of it. The barber, on the other hand, w*s °f
an extremely affable—not to say garrulous—nature*
and, as soon as he had got his lordship imprisoned m
the chair, and securely soaped and napkined, ha com-
menced a conversation on genteel topics—nothin? 10
the bishop’s appeararce immediately suggesting t J
rank or his church, “ Big pot upset over that there
Sting,” said the barber. No answer from his lordship,
‘‘Comfortable pnll in that of Vaughan’s—£lo,ooo, ah«
sir ?’’ said the tonsorial professor, trying another h n ®‘
The bishop granted. “ Pine showman, the Arohbish..
said the barber. The right rev. gentleman meT ' 1 r
moved uneasily in his chair, for the shaver was ]
then scraping over the jugular artery. ‘‘Mighty
of the theatre they say." ‘‘Eh?” ejaculate
bishop; ‘‘what?” ‘‘Pact —little more to the e
that’s the Carolina ticket I Oh, yes, terribly g
the show; they say he drops into the P u „
times a week disguised as a layman out of
‘‘Hold your peace!” splattered the bishop.
piece," said the barber, surprised; " can t say ®
with you. By-the-way, have you sem the two- .
rabbit at ” But at this moment the bishop ] ‘
out of his seat with a low growl of agony, * D
minutes later a pillar of the Church might avo
seen hatless in ahansom, wiping the lather o on ®
of his face with his pocket handkerchief 0 John'*
being rapidly driven in the direction o
College. Fact.
A child without legs has just been boro. the
heaven,” said the weeping 1 father, “ he U ne
champion pedestrian."
THE HOODLUM'S ADVOCATE.
he Larrikin is all a myth.
An ideal scourge, forsooth ;
And all that we are troubled with,
“ Exuberance of Youth I”
Thus David, oracle sublime,
Propounds a wondrous truth ;
This is the hoodlum’s simple crime,
“ Exuberance of Youth I”
That blacken’d eye, that broken beak,
hat swiftly loosen’d tooth.
These little trifles but bespeak
“ Youth 1”
That language foul which shocks the ear
Of some fair modest Enth—
What of if? Don’t yen know it’s mere
“ inherence of Youth ?’*
We’re sick of sentimental trash ;
Grapple the nauseous truth.
And slay, with stern law’s keenest lash,
These “ spirits” vile of youth »
• * .
THE CONNOISSEUR.
He was an aboriginal—
A king the chances are—
And some wag gave him for a drink
A glass of vinegar.
He drank it up, and thought a bit
Before he made a sign,
Then said : “ I know that fellow well —
Him colonial wine."
GRIEF—AT SPECIAL RATES.
Jobson.— ln loving remembrance of Adolphus Mont-
morenci de Cond£ Jobson, brother-in-law of Ebenezer
Stubbs, who died at Ultimo, September 22,1881, aged
4 years 9 months 21 days.—S. M. Heeald.
Beneath the ground—the spirit fled.
Of what avail this “ soulful sob”—
This weeping “ ad.” which costs a head
Per special rate (of course)—" five bob ?’*
A special price for special woe I
Eegrets that in a paper shine I—
“ Remembrances I”—the price is low—
But “ one-and-feur,” ye gods 1 a line 1
The grave’s the tender infant’s cot;
I hen why repeat Grim Death’s sad tale
Upon the butcher’s page, who’s got
A half-starved cow perchance, for sale ?
MODERN CHRISTIANITY—THE SALVATION ARMY.
THE QUEEN’S STATUE IS BURNT.
What we should do with the pedestal.
No more about thy verse we’ll chaff,
O Laureate ot the Teleobaph I
Since thou hast done a graceful thing.
We teo will say that thou canst sing;
And when thon tun’st thy “ half-hnng lyre,”
We, like the Rcm, will never tire.
We would not into this be lured.
But our salvation’s half assured—
We Walker saw the other day.
And joined the great Y.M.C.A.
It you’d be mourning for the lad.
Weep by the grave of him who died !
Why rush in print ?—The circus ad.
Most likely’s on the other side.
let sorrow sacred ever be ;
Seal grief Man’s heart with anguish tears.
Shall we a mourner’s agony.
See faked up by a butcher’s wares ?
The badge of grief—the grief that’s true
A sad soul is, and streaming eyes;
These signs of sorrow have, and yon
Will not require to advertise.


BRIEF MENTION.
O’Farrell wanted his Qoold.
Motto for the D,T.“ Plus on (w)rit, plus on
est foa.”
Lackey’ B place is to be filled, of course, by—«•
another Lackey.
There is a large contractor n Cootamundra
named M'Beath. Sarely . . .
There’s a suburban family so far gone on the
Observance of the Sabbatn that they backbite their
neighbours on the Monday.
A stock report, which appeared in a Rockhamp-
ton paper, contained this bit of information: “ Old
horses do not go off easily.”
Mr. A. H. Jacob says “ that John Davies,
C.M-O-i lB on * of the rQOSt honorable of politicians.”
U this the voice of Jacob, or of Esau P
Tke Town Hall hat and ring revelations are all
the outeome of a squabble over a tin.mining interest.
Some of the aldermen had a lode on their minds.
Tram passenger, No. 1: “ Passing here last
evening the tram run over an unfortunate pup and
killed him.” No. 2: “Indeed I What bank was he
in ?"
Prior to the bombardment of Alexandria the
women were warned to leave the oitv and carry on their
backs whatever they most prized. Each woman took a
fellah.
I iThe spirit of activity is apparent in the country
press. The Gcknkdah Advertiser, under the heading
of “Items of Interest,” testifies to the virtues of Hol-
loway’s Pills.
Now that the Sydney Daily Telegraph is
the recognized Government organ, it would be nothing
more than right that the editor should be duly gazetted
as the monkey attached.
The Lyre announces that a certain cure for
rheumatics is to go without food for seven or eight days.
Will Alfred now explain how it is that several of his
staff suffer from rheumatics frequently ?
Four of the Mastodon Minstrels have offered
the Government the use of their months as powder-
magazines. This is very timely, considering the Goat
Island oriels.
The Waikaia (N.Z.) magistrate was flabbergasted
the other day, by the plaintiff In a case, who, when an
adjournment was proposed, yelled out “ What the
Hell d’yer want to postpone the case for, hey ?"
The Presbyterian makes Mrs. General Booth
say •• The Army had more Scriptural authority in favour
011 shouting than their critics had for keeping silent."
After this, what will you take, reverend brother ?
In England the noble owners of splendid
art galleries not unfreqnently throw them open for a
season to the working and middle classes. Sunday is
the favourite visiting day. Demoralised Britain 1
‘‘l shall sum up this case of breach of promise
of marriage," said an English judge lately, “ in two
words : How mnch P" There are a good many questions
besides breaches of promise that might be summed up
quite as succinctly.
A B.M. Herald man writes to a pill manu-
facturer that he and his wife have been cured of
chronic indigestion by the use of the “ Tragic Indi-
gestion Pill." After this, the manufacturer might try
his pills on au alligator.
“ In my poor judgment,” Horace Greely wrote
m 1846, “ if anything is calculated to make a scoundrel
® I a » honest man, writing to sell is that particular thing."
that s where the Telegraph people get the pull on ns.
Ihey don’t write to sell.
A well-known politician, on hearing of Lackey’s
resignation, confidentially intimated to a friend tnat
r e had not been sent for yet. The friend confidentially
intimated to himself, that when they did send they
would, probably, send the police I
The Holt Howl announces that it is the only
outspoken paper in the city. The way it speaks out,
causes it to be kept out, so there is room for lots more
outspoken ’’ papers of the same nature. The demand
will grow greater as the batchers increase.
A man came down from Dubbo, the other day,
into a shop for a pair of boots. He tried on
the stock and growled out that they were all too
Pf v. “ Look here, mister," said the shopman, “ hadn’t
youbetter get a thinner pair of socks, and then try on
the trunk?"
The Home News says John Chinaman has dis-
the merits of the English policeman and is im
porting him. The Chinese Government had not the
received the report of Ah Chow, of Herberton, no
doing three months for stealing two fowls, and getting
local pathrow 9 m aß< * PifftaU impounded by the
A miscreant stole Mr. Stipendiary Clarke’s
sbees the other day, and got two months. The police
we evidently more vigilant than thoy used to he.
About two-thirds of the old J.P.’a lost their under-
endings at different times, yet nobody was punished
“HIGH SPIRITS.”
Quoth he, “This is no foul protuberance;
'Tis but of youth a slight exuberance !’*
Just then a mighty “ gibber " bunged his eye,
While hoodlum yell’d, 11 How’s that for * spirits
high'?”
Can be true that a certain notorious politician
and two or three other temperance men have banded
together in a crusade to endeavour to oust the Mayor
of Sydney, Mr. John Harris, from a seat in the Loyal
Orange Lodge, because he has given his countenance to
the cause of St. Vincent’s hospital ?
Mrs. Ward Beecher says : “ In the parsonage
in Indianapolis when wo were first married, I have sat
np all night, made a shirt, washed and ironed and sold
it in the morning to get money." Wm. Burgess only
sallied out in Collingwood for one hour, “made” a shirt
and sold it the same night. From Mr. Call, P.M., ho
got—a month,
“ The Duke of Connaught and the Duke of Teck
are both going to Egypt.”—
Away with Doctor Watts’s hymns.
And Lawson’s strong rebukes ;
J.B. mil fight—ho bares his limbs,
And straight putt up his dulcet,
! (Here’s the beginning of a leadsr in the Ex-
peess “ Bane and Antidote.— Seven snpar.eminently
Wise Men flourished centuries ago in Ancient Greece,
and are said to have concentrated the essence of their
philosophy in certain pithy sayings.” There are over
3 (1) lines of this. And fancy I the paper is only 3d.
per copy.
Whoop ! A Rotorua (N.Z.) man, who is an
enthusiastic dog-fanoier, was recently presented by a
favourite slut with a very numerous litter of puppies—
so numerous, in fact, that he didn’t see how the mother
could rear them properly. Ho estimated the value of
each puppy at £2, and was at his wits’ end to keep them
alive. At last a bright idea struck him. He applied to
Ia gentleman who had great influence with the natives
of the district, and commissioned him to sesrtain
whether any Maori women who were 11 nnraiu ’ would
take one each I
The Cooma. Express has an article aded
“ The Pauper Council," and all because the town-clerk,
being out late with the cart, forgot to send it hroe-
and-sixpenny ad. However, it is ail made right this
time; so in the next issue we shall look forward to
seeing a par, “As perhaps an erroneous impression
might have been created," etc.
i Of all the people mixed up in the Sawbath
question, the one most entitled to bo heard, as being
i nearest to heaven, is the Rev. T. J. Curtis. This
gentleman stands about oft. 4in., and is as slim as au
American paling. When warning Sir ’JEnry against the
screech of the railway whistle on the seventh day, his
voice appeared to come from above. We are authorised,
however, to state that it did not.
Several small tradesmen are anxiously awaiting
the return of a certain well-known temperance lecturer
to Sydney. We believe it would be unfair to the holy
one to even hint that ho might not return. At the
same time we may be pardoned if we remit<l him that
intemperance is not the only moral blight 1—..0 affects
communities. Our terms for travelling showmen—are
—in God we trust; all others, cash down.
“NO D-N FEARI”
They have introduced an Abolition of Oaths Bill
into the South Australian Assembly. It wouldn’t work
here, for— . , .
As folks with coppers fiery hot
Must have their morning dram ;
80, rest our knightly Jack could not,
Without his little d—n I
The Queensland people are astonished because
one of their J.P.'s signed a paper upside down. If one
of our J.P.’s had done that, we sheuld have been
astonished too. Astonished at him signing it at all.
' And that reminds ns that when the new list of N.IS.W.
magistrates is published, rubber stamps will go up.
J.P.’s are allowed even now to sign warrants and to
hear cases in which they have no option but to commit.
They may likewise —should they find the time hang
heavily ou their hands —write orders for admission to
the dead-house.
A correspondent writes us a yarn about a Turk-
ish corn doctor having exhibited his skill on a lot of
people np North, and left them worse than they were
before; that the watchhouae-keeper was relieved of his
corn, but rendeied lame ever since; and that other
iownfolk have been lacerated, and ore now steeples b.
Finally, that the say doctor opened a shop, where he
sold tin billies, cigars, and lemon-squash, went bung,
got drunk, had a fight, was fined two pounds, bound
over to keep the peace, and was only prevented from
killing a cook by the fact that he wasn’t able. Now,
this is the sort of thing that undermines faith. Our
Innocent trust in our fellowman is ebbing away. First,
there was Ezekiel, whom we swore by ; then Frank
the fearless; apostle, who was “ sent up;" John; and
now the Turkish corn Doctor 1
Says a Charters Towers telegram: '‘Ah Way,
a Chinaman (we thought Ah was Irish—the etymolo-
gists in Sydney University deduce it from Grumm’s
laso P—Ah—t) hung himself yesterday near Milches-
ter.”
11 Ah-way," he said “ I go. Ah Way-
Ward way of woe."
And if Ah Way must go away
Ah—Way-n will ha go ?
Scene; A Newspaper Office (we needn’t say
which). Clerk (to advertiser): “ Three inches—all
right." Advert.: " And please put it, in a good place "
Clerk (Jubilant over the largo order): "I'll insert it,
sir, right over the leader." Advert, (testily) i “ Oh,
hang it, no I I want it in where somebody will read it.
Pat it ss far away from the leader as you can;—and
stay 1" (struck by a happy thought) " if you can let it
appear as a war cablegram, I’ll stand 15 per eent.
extra."
In a two column article on sewage in the Nooze
we find the unblushing statement laid before confiding
readers that
V=ss li~
C—Xxk.
and the writer, not content with that, gives us extract®
from "Home, Sweet Home." and " Soggarth Aroon
then some more verses and a hymn or two, and oon*
eludes—without the benediction 1
A Sydney barmaid burnt her mouth in applying
a remedy to an aching tooth. Of two men who called
for a drink, while the rosebud feature was disfigured,
only one asked her how the burn was getting on.
Turning to the ether, she simpered :—“ Ton never asked
about my poor mouth." “My dear," replied No. 1
customer. “ he has so many poor mouths to look after.”
No 2 calls at another house now for his 11-o’clock
lunches —a house where they don’t know he’s a married
man.
Fred Lyster ia the theatrical critic of the S. F.
News Letter, and speaking of a comedy played before
the pantomimic farce of the Hanlon-Lees, he says:—
“ It is rubbish, rot, etc. I could call it by all the de-
rogatory adjectives in the language, and yet fail to do
it justice. It is stupid, idiotic, insensate, puerile,
vapid, inane, absurd, vacant, senseless, imbecile, with
more counties to hear from." Evidently jurors are not
allowed to assist the plaintiff's counsel in the State of
California. What an Elysium t
It may not be generally known that London
Punch came very nearly being called “ The Whistling
Oyster " Yet that is the fact. Henry Mayhew, Mark
Lemon, and the other choice spirits whe projected the
then audacious scheme of a comic illustrated paper,
used to meet at a small public-house yolept “ The
Whistling Oyster," in Vinegar Yard, just at the roar of
Drury Lane Theatre, and among the various titles sub-
mitted and considered, the name ,of that public-house
was prominent enough for a time. Supposing that such
an edition were produced in a British colony, would not
a bad season set in for the producer ?
Cava Adullam is not dead,
Hurrah 1
He’s got a sunstroke on the head
Hurrah 1
This news don't cause us tons of pain,
No sunstroke could have pierced his brain, —
Hurrah 1
We tremble now, for soon wo must
Hear more about the " Dame August I”
You dear old Cave, now can’t you try
To one more sunstroke get—and die ?
A Herberton landlord writes, after a ball at his
house, to the papers to thank his guests "for the perfect
order which was maintained during the whole of the
evening and night." Meanwhile, the community silently
wonders where on earth Bob the boundary-rider could
have disappeared to since that night, and how long
Jim Marks, Kit Walker, and Lue Wilson will be in the
hospital through the kerosene-lamp scrimmage. How-
ever, two buckets of teeth and hair are on sale at the
hotel in parcels to suit purchasers.
Sir ’Enry might advantageously send up to
Queensland for a few really pious policemen. In a far
Northern town there is one who is thoroughly holy on
Sundays. He showed his Sabbatarian seal the other
day by preventing a settler irom rigging up his bunk »n
the Sawbath. Next evening, this meddling bobby was
discovered by the settler playing euchre in plain clothes
in a pub. The settler started to moralise on the
peeler's Monday sinfulness, but was interrupted with,
"You go to bell. Landlord, shut the door.” Another
constable in the same town raffled a watoh, collared the
proceeds, but refused to give it to the winner, because
the latter was a blank yellow-bellied Chinaman I lb is
also a notorious fact that at this vary locality, China-
men and owners of quartz-machines are allowed to
“ clean up ’’ on Sundays. If we could only get n few of
this breed of bobbies down in Sydney, the Art Gallery
question might bo considered settled for ever.
At it again. Garden Palace this time. Here it
is—hot from Bily’s Parnassian cart—
" Thrice has this orb gyrated round the sun,
Since first that fragile fabric was begun.’’
This reminds ns of the •* revolving suns” in Sheridan’s
"Critic’’ Now—
Hast thou a heart ? Then, Baly, we implore—
Conjure—entreat—beseech thee—sing no more 1
A bard thou mayst bo—faith we cannot toll —
Bnt when yon sing, old chap, we don’t feel well.
The long-suffering patience of the editor of the
Cooma Express has "given out.” Ho publishes this
awful threat in his paper :—" Interesting.—To all whom
it may concern.—The ‘ straight griffin ’ to clear out will
in future be given to all persona (creed, age, nor colour
exoopted) who are in the habit of loafing their time
away in the office of this Journal. We have been too
long-suffering in the past, and have been literally
driven to adopt this oonrse; and, what is more, we in-
tend carrying ont determination ont — Ed. C.E.’’ We
expect the "loafers’* never asked him it he "had a
month on him.”
Harding’s Opera Company recently produced
“Dor Freiohutr"' (II) in the Hall at Charters Towers
(Q ) with a pianoforte accompaniment. The paper says :
" On Monday evening next the performance is to be for
the benefit of the widow and children of the unfortunate
man Gregory, who was killed on Saturday last.” Poor
fellow ! No wonder it killed him 1 In the " incantation
scene” the serpent Was represented bv an inflated
German sausage-skin, which was drawn on bv n thread.
And just when Rudolpho was going to make his best
effect, and stepped back to make a spring for his high G,
a burly miner sang out, “ Hi! don’t tread on it,Mister,
or it’ll bust.”
Saved by inches! Mr. David Buchanan’s
e nee eh in defence of John Davies. C.M.Q., and the
Telegraph's leader, in the same noble cause, are pub-
lished in the Herald as advertisements —at six hob an
inch. Millions would not get the same stuff in the
Hibald’s leading columns. The Bum says the iron
railings’ affair “ fell to the ground 1" The Bum is a
liar. Who pays for this justification by inches of John
Davies in the Hum and the Hkhai.d ? What, pre-
sumedly, costs “ nix ’’ in the Bum costs six bob au inch
in the Herald. This mixture of Bum and Water;is too
thin.
A now doctor has arrived at the Towers. Ho
describes himself by the yard, and is *' late of the Uci-
veralty of Jena.” He gives advice gratis, and adver-
tises to cure every conceivable complaint, inoluding
consumption and cancer, by homcoopathy. Thady
O’Kano welcomes him, as he will ” break up the
monopoly." Could O'Kane, wo wonder, have really
written “ monotony ? ” There’s a rumpus amongst the
other doctors np there, by the way. Dr. Maxton, of the
hospital, being at law with the committee. The Miner
comes out with a gentle article on the subject, thejjffeot
of which is a foregone conclusion. Thady im (this
time) for the hospital committee.
Said’ Longmore, the “ smiler” of the Victorian
House —of Bishop Moorhouse : —"lmagine that man in
heaven, and an engine-driver beholding him there. Why,
the engine-driver will exclaim ‘ O God, what is that man
doing here ? Send him down to hell at once. And
this because the Bishop approved as a site for the new
Anglican Cathedral of Melbenrrm a locality contiguous
to the Hobson's Bay Railway Station. It is funnier to
imagine Langmore in hoaven, joining m the chorus of
the saints. When he once got np steam with open
month, there wouldn't—unless Majah Smith happened
to be aloft-be a s»iLt with a toot big enough to gag it.
Bettor to reign in hell with a Moorhouse than serve in
heaven with a Longmore.
The “fiend in human form ” is about to some
extent in Brigdeagenyerowndoartown. It weald appear
that an elderly journalist is In the habit of taking—
being desirous of effecting a bunion-cure and general
rejuvenescence—what he terms sulphur baths. That is
to say, he gets two red-hot bricks put on the floor tf
the washus, puts a hap’orth of sulphnr over them,
and sits over the fumes, enveloped in blankets. The
other day, however —we blush with indignation and
other things as we write this—some dastardly mis-
creants played up by smearing the floor wiih tar
mingled with a few grains of an explosive substance ; so
that when the patriarchal scribe poured on his sulphur,
some luminous particles falling caused but tnere !
Joseph never shed his coat (if ever ho did shed it, the
sly dog I) half as quiokly as the old gentleman shed
those blankets, and to see him bounding into the street
we suppose we must draw the veil.
THE SAWBATH QUESTION:
The Crows around the Carrion.


C.M.G. means—Can’t Manage Grog. It also
means Can Manage Grog. Likewise, Chicanery Must
Git.
On Tuesday the Herald spoke of a “ novel
innovation.” Only the other day .it talked about a
" new modem Puritan.”
Dean Sheridan has been raised to the dignity of
D.D. for his work in connection with Ist. Mary's Cathe-
drjl. “ D.D.” is a purely secular title. It means—
Down with the Dumps.
We now want from Arthur Cnbitt, the missing
friend who set fire to the Garden Pulace. If Caoito
i ucceeds in this discovery, it will be a bigger hit than
getting the Tiehborne claimant into quod.
An actor was asked, a few days ago, what he
thought could be sent over to Egypt that would scare
Arabi’s soldiery even more than the Highlanders, and
he promptly responded— 14 Emily Soldene.”
An enthusiastic admirer of our Premier writes
from home that his return here will give so great an
impulse to this capital that hla name ought to be
changed by Royal Warrant to Sir Fillip Sydaey !
The Braidwood people are in ’a rage because a
• 4 young Australian girl” has married a Chinaman.
"Why, what the dickens would they have? In Sydaey
you can’t get John to marry a 41 young Australian girl."
No save i parsoa-man—all litee —ally=atnee.
The Echo says of the fire at the Garden Palace :
— 44 Crimson was the orb of day, as if blushing with
regret at the destruction of so fair a pile. 4 ’ Why, there
was only one pile, aud that was carried off by John
Young and Hudson Brothers.
The Jerilderie correspondent of the Down and
Gumtreb Journal informs his readers that 44 the black
m mile of earthly oblivion has been moving about in our
little community of late." We don’t deal in such mixed
metaphor, but wo may confidentially whisper that,
yesterday morning, while coming to the office, we met a
black deg with pink ears and a green tail.
The Tamworth News (how’s your Sydney
correspondent ?) exclaimed, 44 Tne Pride of Sydney in
Flames." Directly we read that we rushed round to
K B’s. office in alarm. We wore relieved, however, to
find him calmly intent upon the map of Australia We
then paid a guinea to his clerk lor the pleasant spectacle
and breathed again.
The Echo of Friday last remarks that the
Garden Palace was “a thing of beauty." Keats’ idea
of such a 41 thing" is thereby exploded, for
44 A thing of beantv is a joy for ever ;
Its loveliness increases; it will never
Pass into uotninguess."
Not long ago, an eminent lawyer got two briefs,
etch marked 150 guineas, for the Supreme Court sit-
tings in an up-country town, accessible by rail. He
attended the sittings, and got 300 guineas for briefs in
other oasts. He returned to town within three days.
When the Proihonotary taxed the costa, he cut down
the barrister’s fees by about 51 per cent., which propor-
tion of the expense came, as a matter of course, from
out of the pockets of the men who " won " at law.
A well-known N.S.W. member of Parliament
was struck with a cockatoo in a bird-fancier s snop.
Tne member is noted for the guttural peculiarity of his
speech. He edged op to the bird-fancier, and the follow-
ing dialogue ensued :— 44 G what's the pghrice of tghat
bghird?” 44 Thirty bob." 44 Cghan it tgbalk?"
• Well, I gusss it it couldn’t talk better than you
can. Mister. I’d chop its b head off." The member
cleared.
It has been definitely decided by Wazir Beg
that the Art Gallery is not to be opened on Sundays.
Me gives a number of reasons for this decision. You
•ee, in the first place, such a thing as providing the
public with the means of enlightened amusement upon
tne Sabbath Diy would never be thought of in Scot-
land. This is a great point. Further, Dr. Guthrie
doesn’t approve of such goings on. This, of coarse,
settles the question. Still we would like to know, for
oar own private information, who the devil Dr. Guthrie
is, and who in perdition is this poor eld Wazir Beg.
44 Foxer ” is a term well understood at New-
castle. The father of a family, finding insufficient
amusement in his home circle, used to go 44 foxing ” of
an evening. All went well, till one moonlight night a
sportsman, thinking ho saw a 'possum, dischargea his
gun at an object on all-fours, the whole charge lodging
in that part where the 'possum’s tail wauld have grown
i( there had been any 'possum. A few days after-
wards, Mr. Blank’s friends were grieved to hear that he
bad been confined to bad with a serious attack of gout.
Anyhow, whenever a man is now seen going aoout lame,
with his ears fixed on with sticking-plaster, and several
features in a sling, they say that ha has been caught
•’ foxing."
The following advt. appeared m Wednesday s
Daily Telegraph The City Fathers again. Two
more of the above-named gentry and an auctioneer hav-
ing been nabbed in Parliament House last night,
through Sir Patrick Jennings and Daniel O'Connor,
jt,squire, M P.’e, verifying the fact, viz:—That whilst
squatting themselves under the stairs leading to the
refreshment rooms, they were hatching further slanders
against Mr. John Davies, by accusing him ef ob-
taining a large sum of money (£I2JO) by using
his influence in passing contractors’ accounts. We
four own italics) — understand writs will be i»-
auad against them forthwith, to teach them, if
possible, better manners for the future." The D.T.
was it to its supporters to explain who “ We" refers
Can it be that the D.T. wrote this first as a news
. r then got frightened at itß temerity and published
i in its advertising columns as a subterfuge ? If not,
„ l( y in the name of outraged law, is this mysterious
• Ye?"
Joe Cook gets, in Brisbane, <£4o a lecture and
his keep. The speculators don’t so much mind about
vne£4o, but what crushes them is his keep. Like all
godly men, Je-oseph has a prodigeous power—showered
.own on him, doubtless, from on High—of concealing
v ictuals. As a pork punisher he is unrivalled, it being
11 rite a spectacular treat to see him assault a roast leg
~d crackling. There is a legend in Brisbane to the
feet that, wnen going out towards the race course one
lorning to pray unobserved, he met a small mob of
attle led by a very old working bullock. Cook blushed
.pto the eyes when he saw this instalment of the race
~f which he had been such a demoniac demohsher and
i ,-ied to turn off. but the old bullock walked gravely in
I rout of 'he eminent Bostonian, and shook his head
r-oflly three times. This is about the only Bookish
f icident of even comparative general interest ihat
) asn t yet been pab iahed We give it to the world for
•/hat it is worth. We know ourselves exactly what it
I I worth. But, not being vain.-giorioos, we will be mute
„ i the subject.
Balls are kept select at a certain faraway town-
ship m the Aloert district. Objectionable persons
h•« promptly invited to leave. Sometimes they discuss
me point; but the M.C measures seventeen inches
round the forearm, and he generally persuades them to
v .. The blacksmith is a leading man at these aff airs:
1 o has a good eye for dancing, bat no ear. Ihe local
I, ,tcher, however, Is the other way : he has a fine apper-
c ption of time, but lacks style, and whan he lifts his
i ..t he can’t get them down quick enough. About ten
1 dies usually attend. Eight are married, but ouly two
k iow exactly where to find their husbands; and one of
hem always takes the family of six to the ball, " to
am tw dance.” When the belle, who had two admirers,
tiled on one, the other expressed his disapprobation
her conduct by a gentle pressure—on the lady favour-
j corn. She fainted, and he went hurriedly out of the
j ok door. The "other fellow” assisted him. The
~va>s adjusted their little difficulty outside on the
sward. These parties ought always to be kept
POLITICAL POINTS.
“ All that Mr. C. J. Eobertu ever did to entitle
him to a C.M G’ehip, was to spend £5“00 on 1 booze ’
while he was Mavor of the city." This from the lips of
the veracious M’Elhone.
A certain M.P. “ went bung ” some years back.
He subsequently " made a touch," and honourably paid
his erstwhile creditors in full. Which just shows that
he’ll nsver rise to fame as a membah.
Disturbance in the legal dovecot. A meeting of
the legal profession is to be held to petition the Upper
House against the clause in the Criminal Consolidation
Bill, enabling agents to defend aoeused persons iu
criminal trials. It is believed that the Council will not
pass tne clause.
A certain notorious politician will, we bear,
abandon bis metropolitan seat, and contest Mad gee at
the next general election. Should he show his face on
a Sydaey hustings, he’ll probably bo pelted with dead
oats. Mudgee, however, will no longer be led by the
local lodge donkey..
One of M'Elhone’s recommendations for the
distinction of K.C.M.G. is really worthy of considera-
tion. It is that the ohicken-slayer to the Governor
should be honoured in recognition of his scientific
attainments. In his enthusiasm over this worthy indi-
vidual—whoever he may be, (Kippax, probably)—Mac
forgot another man of scientific attainments—that
Jewish butcher.
“ Mr. G. A. Lloyd is already a big shining light
in this dark world, but he would shed infinitely more
lustre on it if he had the K.C.M.G. star planted on bis
manly breast." G A. really looked as though he would
like to perform the feat which would cause M’Eihone
to see myriads of stars in the twinkling of an eye—but,
like the discreet man that he is, he did not say so.
The only man who has ever been heard to ex-
press a doubt as to Dan O’Connor’s honesty of purpose
is—well, there is only one man in the community who
doubts everybody—an M P. noted for his gentility of
man&ers and his mild voice. What a libel on Dan to
say that if Sir Henry Parkes would secure for him the
distinction of K.C.M.G., he would become a silent sup-
patter of his—that the title would be an effectual gag in
his month.
In the claim against the N.S.W. Government,
Christie v. Hoskins (late Minister fer Lands), the plain-
tiff was awarded £44 18s. lOd. Prom a Parliamentary
return, it appears tnat the total cost to the Govern-
ment of these proceedings was £3317 14s, lid., made up
as follows To nine witnesses who gave evidence,
£lB7 10s. 9J ; of eleven parsons who were nod called,
seven received £lOl3 os. 3d. (I) ; while miscellaneous
expenses, counsel’s fees, <fco , amounted to £5117 3s. lid.
Mr. Copeland ; “ All people here were horrified
the other day when they heard that a bomb had been
thrown at the Czar of Russia; but what will be their
feelings when they hear that the Treasurer has stored
near the city, and ean throw at us at any moment,
hundreds of tons of bombs t ” Now, if our readers will
imagine the Lancashire accent which changes the
ordinary sound of the vowel in one of the words, they
will gat the hang of the earthquake of laughter which
shook the wails of the Legislative Chamber when the
remark was made.
A member of Parliament doesn’t necessarily go
to hell when he dies. Speaking on the storage of
immense quantities of explosives—we gave the statistic!
in a recent issue—in close proximity to Sydney, the
other day, Mr. Copeland said :—" If I am to be killed
by an explosion of powder let it happen under circum-
stances which will permit of my having a slash in first.
Let me have an opportunity to show that I am prepared
to fight in my own defence. I object to be hurled to
Heaven without any warning." *• To where ? " asked
Mr. J. P. Abbott. “ To the place where 1 shall be
certain to meet you, if you liae," was the reply.
Tom Garrett, having got ever his third honey-
moon, is again on the political war path. He is
evidently determined to score out a black mark. It
will be remembered that, after the House agreed by a
majority of two that Mr. Garrett’s conduct in the
Milburn Creek affair was not dishonourable. Sir Henry
Parkos said that the vote was "a red-hot brand of
shame on the Parliament of the conntrv, and it would
never be wiped away." The other night Mr. Garrett
said that when the Colonial Secretary was sufficiently
recovered to be able to take part in such a serious fray,
he would challenge him to fair and open fight, so as to
gain an opportunity to wipe out the stain to which
he had referred.
The Egyptians who fled from Alexandria after
the bombardment spread the false tidings through the
interior that seven of the British men-of-war had been
sunk by the fire of the Alexandrian forts. The Tantah
massacre commenced on July 13. An eye-witness
stated “ By midday I counted not less than 85 corpses
carried past in groups of three or four. Each pro-
cession was headed by two women, carrying each a
bludgeon, to which dismembered arms and legs were
tied; then followed other women uttering cries of joy,
the same a* at weddings, and surrounding the bodies,
which were dragged along by ropes tied to the legs
until they became dismembered. Then a rope was
shifted to the other limbs, and the mob with bludgeons
beat the bodies until they were flattened, aud afterwards
caught up the viscerse with sticks, and threw them
against the windows of the houses inhabited by Euro-
peans, the bodies having previously been robbed."
“ I have no wish to boast of my ability, or any-
thing else, but I must say that I have had more practice
in tb« Criminal and other courts than any other mem-
ber of the House ; and I have earned sufficient money
in the practice of my honourable profession to enable
me to retire to-morrow and to live in comfort for the
rest of my days.” This is a remark which the learned
man with the highly aristocratic name of Burdett
Smith made 347 times, more or less, on Thursday Eight
last, and yet he persistently denies that he is an
egotist. We have had as many opportunities as
most people to witness the display of the leirned
gentleman’s remarkable, because unequalled, ability as
a pleader, aud a deep sense of our duty as reliable
journalists forces us to express the opinion that, if a
man of his mental caiibrj, extensive legal knowledge
and suave manner has had to work for over twenty
years to amass a fortune, th ira will be no chance of any
other lawyer in Sydney making a fortune if he lives
three times as long as did Methuselah.
Mr. Henson, the man of piety and pop, thinks
that if the clergymen refused to perform the solemn
farce of preaching to prisoners, plenty of laymen would
be found who would do so. " Heaven save them from
the torture of your rant I” was Dan O’Connor’s re-
joinder, with an addition about men being terrified
into evil doing, the application of which was not quite
clear —probably it was that Mr. Henson’s sermonising
would have this effect. Our advice i o Mr. Henson is
to confine his parsonic efforts to those free goody-
goodies who are so fired with the sanctimonious spirit
that they can sit and listen to “ local” ranters by the
hour without entertaining any thought respecting
annihilation. There would certainly be an open rebel-
lion on the part of the honest men in gaol if these
upper-lip-shaven, ehock-haired, cadaverons-faced gentry
were allowed to go amongst them and harangue them
by the yard on the infinite goodness and mercy of the
Looard. 44 Dearly beloved brethren—let us pray."
The lawyers — we mean the attorneys and
solicitors —have more than once given a remarkable
illustration of the wide divergence between their pro-
fessed and their actual desire to cheapen law. Every
one will remember the fiasco of last session over the
bill which was imtended to confer on attorneys all the
fights of barristers without giving the latter any
corresponding advantage—hovy, when ap amendment
was made which would materially reduce the attorney’s
bill of costs, the bill was thrown overboard. On
Thursday night last, there happened to be only two
attorneys in the House, but they managed to occupy
six or seven hours in an endeavour to give effect to the
desire of their profession, to put justice within the
grasp of the poorest man. Mr. Wudom had moved an
amendment in a clause of the Criminal Law Bill, to
allow a person on trial to employ a non-professional
man to conduct the deienoe ; and against this proposal
Messrs. Slattery and E. B. Smith lought most despe-
rately, hut it was agreed to. The extent to which Mr.
Slattery was willing to go wao to give to attorneys’ clerks
the right to defend prisoners. It is to be hoped
the amendment will form part of the law. There
are plenty of men in the country who have sufficient
keenness of perception and oratorical powers to fit them
as defenders of prisoners in the criminal coarts, and if
prisoners are willing to employ them, there can be no
good reason why they should not act. We can name
one or two men in Sydney who would, in our opinion,
defend prisoners with far greater ability and judgment
than any learned counsel whose services are easily
available.
Here is a choioe effusion from the lips of the
man who has published a pock called " Specimens of
Australian Oratory:—“No character is so hateful as
tne common slanderer. Hob. members have, 1 dare say,
in the course of their experience found that there are
in existence certain savage animals which feed on cor-
ruption, whose richest repast is derived from the offal
of graveyards; who scent the putrid carcase from afar,
and hasten to appease their loathsome appetites with
the fostering filth of the charnel-house. Savage and
revolting as these animals are, there is a two-legged
human animal, of the same species, equally savage and
equally loathsome, whose breath is seisou, and whe
lives only to sully and pollute evertning he touches.
The growth and offspring of ths cesspool, he was reared
amidst every physical and moral contamination; con-
tinually battening on the rsttenness of obscenity;
slander and foul-mouthed calumny are te him the
breath et life; within his ignominious skin no generous
pulse aver beats, but his venomous heart leaps with joy,
an«l gloats over the prospect of stabniug with his loul
and peetilsut tomgue the weak and the defenceless.
The four-legged brute is surely hateful enough, but the
two-iegged mom ;er calls for a deeper and mere in-
veterate detestation." Now, everybody will want to
know what all this means. Mao alone can tell them.
When Gentle Jack next essays to apply the soft
soap to David, members who go to the ’Onse
to enjoy the continual slang-whanging will have
a treat. We guarantee that David will betray the same
uneasiness as is shown by the flsa in the dog’s hair when
the dog is being lathered with soft soap. Will Mr.
Darley’s definition,of "wholesome fun” apply to this
sort of thing P
Tom Slattery, the other day, made a mistake
which must have annoyed him considerably. u.« was
stonewalling the Criminal Law Bill because o. .he
amendment whioh had been made to allow non-profes-
sional men to defend prisoners, and, having only the
assistanee of the Cupid of the Macleay—who professed
to be entirely opposed to Tom’s ideas, but who, out of
brotherly or provisional love, promised to help him to
gain his end —he got tired out very soon. In this
emergency, the happy thought struck him that Dan
O'Connor would be the boy to pull him through, be-
cause a batter stonethrower —we mean, of course, stone-
waller—than the celebrated Dan never existed—so
good-humoured and entertaining is he when he talks
against time or against anything else. A messenger
was sent in a cab to Dan’s residence, and in less time
than it takes a “ mimber av the fooroe ” to slide round
the first corner when there is a row on, so as not to be
there, the to-be-obstructionist (but, as it happened,
destructionist) appeared on tne scene ; but he was not
the “Bate" Dan whom we are so apt to gaze admir-
ingly on when that undertaker’s pony of his crawls
around the street corners and over crossings. A man
with his shoe-laoas dangling, with his coat buttoned up
oue hole too high, without the adornment of a
tie, and with a doury expression aboat the eyes sug-
gestive of a rude withdrawal of the embraces of
"Murphy yes, this was Dan, as he marched into the
presence of the legislators, many of whom ware reclin-
ing on the conches, and were, unconsciously of course,
performing the functions of fly-traps—that is, if flies
were bold enough to venture near them. The situation
was quickly explained to the man of luminous percep-
tion, as he would say, bat, to the dismay of the
attorneys, he could not be induced to defend their
policy. He got up and announced that he had left his
bed at the summons of his friend Mr. Slattery, but he
oould not support him. He thoroughly believed in the
amendment whioh had been made, and, if there were
any nesd for it, ho would remain to assist the Govern-
ment to break down the barrier which bis friend had
thrown in the way of the progress of the Bill. Almost
immediately the attorney succumbed, and members
were set at liberty to have their eats charmed by the
musical chanticleer and the chirping of the early birds
on the look-out for worms, and; they also had aa oppor-
tunity to fix their festive epbics on the oomet. One
metnbar has been heard to declare that it was a pity
that Dan did not join the stonewall brigade, as then
members would have been privileged to enjoy the fun
of the fire.
• # •
During the session just over the New Zealand
Parliament passed 112 Acts Jay Gould has managed
to obtain entire control of How York State during com-
ing elections Basuto chiefs threatening to make
war on the Boers in order to compel England to re-
annex the Transvaal Victorian Associated Banks
negotiating a loan of £4,000,000 for their Gov-
eminent. The banks have each purchased
a £lOO,OOO bill from the Government in anti-
cipation of the loan being floated at par. Banks
will receive ] per cent, commission on the nego-
tiations Mr. William Teeoa, M.P. for Goulburn,
N.8.W., has been presented with an address and a purse
containing 200 sovereigns, “in recognition of his ser-
vices daring the term he has represented the city in
the Assembly." Yet some people want statutory pay-
ment of members. How many roads, bridges " agen
every one’s door," and other public works is this £2OO
commission for ?
A week after marriage he said: —“ I find I have
been bagging a delusion."
Kisses are better enjoyed after dark because
they taste better than they look.
After a man has been hugged nearly to death
by Sin, he generally turns round and embraces religion.
“ Too much absorbed in his business,” was
the comment of a newspaper on the death of a brewer
found drowned in a tana of his own beer.
There is no use trying to make the man who
has eaten two dozen green apples believe that the moat
serious state of affairs exists in Egy pt.
“ Select school for eight boys (gentlemen’s sons
only)." We presume a boy who had the misfortune to
be the son of a woman couldn’t get in there—no, not for
money.
“ What inspires love ?” asks a poet. “ Grub,”
young man. Without “hash" there is very little af-
fection in this world. A hungry kiss is a hollow
mockery.
“ Get hold of a boy’s heart,” says an exchange.
There was never a greater mistake made in the world.
Get out an attachment and levy on the lattice work of
his pants if you wish to get the hang of the boy.
The Sydney Maid says that Emerson “ took
down our idols from their pedestals so tenderly that it
seemed like an act of worship." He could have made
his fortune as a servant girl.
The Hungarians have a national dance, “the
csardas," intended to represent the “ unquiet course
ot true love.” We have never seen the dance, but pre-
sume that the greater part of it consists of an elderly
gentleman kicking a young gentleman out of the front
door.
In the ladies’ cabin of a certain line of ferry-
boatsthe following notice has been posted : " The seats
in this cabin are reserved for the ladies. Gentlemen
will pleasa not occupy them until the ladies are seated."
That strikes ns as reversing the proper position.
We hear that the latest form of ladies’ stays is
the cuirass, made entirely of sheet metal. This is too
dreadful to contemplate. How can you throw poetical
associations around the loveliest woman with the re-
flection that after all she resembles tinned meat ?
She was three years old, and her aunt was ill
vyitk bilious fever and jaundice. A visitor enquired,
f‘ flow is your auntie?" She replied, "Auntie is not
well; she has the brilliant fever and the gingers."
Eminent provincial tragedian ; “ Come hithorr
sweet one. Your mothorr tells me yon shed teorrs
during my solilocuy in exile last night," Sweet one:
“ Yss, sir. Mother kept on pinching me ’canse I was
so sleepy,"
A nice Judge, when asked why he had allowed
a totally unnecessary female witness to take the box
and testify, said: “ I knew that it was not necessary,
but I saw' that she had a new bonnet and was striving
to show it.”
A Melbourne man broke open ’the house where
his divorced wife was residing with her new husband,
and wanted to re-marry her. When he found there
were some trifling impediments in the war of the ac-
complishment of his desire, he threw a brick at her.
Probably he thought that was the next thing to the
ceremony.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A barmaid controversy on in Melbourne. A
Deniliquln publican thus advires the Age, summing up
from nis own experience:—“Don’t Have a barmaid
* with a connection,’ for that generally consists of a few
grinning monkeys, in male form, who stare at a girl and
spend 61.”
Mrs. Fairbrother, the “ morganatic ” wife of
H.E.H. the Dake of Cambridge, and mother of the
Pltzgeorges, was a danseuse, and appeared as Columbine
at the Drury Lane Pantomime in the early ; ears of the
present reign.
The late Princess of Hanan, who died recently
at Prague, was the morganatic wife of the lata Frederics
William, Eleotor of Hesse. She was the daughter of
an artisan, and was bom as Rome in 1806, When the
hereditary Prince of Hesse, then studying at the Un-
iversity, fell In love with her, she was the wife of a
shoemaker. The Prince brought aboat a divorce,
indemnified the shoemaker, and marrisd his pretty
wit’s, Her children bear the titles of Prince and
Princess of Hanau.
The World says, of a ball:—“ Beauty’s war-
paint presented a ghastly appearance under the electric
light; it is a terrible revealer of the secrets of the
toilette. Bongo, blacking, and powder shone out tri-
umphantly. Brunettes had the best of it; blondes were
frightful—in some instances, gown, hair, eyelashes, all
one colour. A lady in red was the envy and admiration
of the room; the light could not kill her. Bine w»s
hurtful to the eyes; a brunette in white gleamed gor-
geously ; a green with gold looked well, and so did some
black."
The stars looked down, each from his ruby
throne, and watchei with never-tiring eyes upon the
earth. And upon the conservatory, opening out from
the ball room, where those two sat. They had been
engaged about ten minutes, and joy reigned supreme.
They sat closely, very closely together, and their heads
almost mat as she whispered : “ What will yon call me,
dear P" His moustache pressed her coral lips as he
answered: “ Birdie, my Birdie, always my Birdie."
And the little turtle dove cooed with rapture, and
nestled closer still, to his monumental shirt collar. As
for him, through the frequent storms and vicissitudes
of after years, he kept his word right royally. For only
yesterday he referred to her as the old Magpie.
When Miss Pomeroy played Hamlet in Sand-
hurst, Polonius was taken by a Mr. Palmer, whose
acting was said by the local paper to be inferior. Mr,
Palmer wrote a vigorous letter, “ denying that he was
weak.” The Bendigo Independent published his
letter, but made him rather sick oy the following
editorial foot-note : —[" The fact that the character of
Polonius does not require * a funny old pantaloon ’ has
caused all the trouble. It is not by any means an
uncommon phenomenon for actors to estimate their
attainments in an inverse ratio to their abilities —
• Best, rest, perturbed spirit.* 1 Give every man thine
ear, but few thy voice. Take each man’s censure, and
reserve thy judgment.’"—Ed.] Mr. Palmer has been
decidedly weak since.
A queer application was made to a London
magistrate a few weeks ago. A clerk married a young
girl of 19, who was "rather nice." Her mother
came to stay with the pair, and after a fortnight eloped
with the husband. The young bride wanted the magis-
trate to make her husband come back and support her,
as she was penniless, while hat mother had money. She
stated that she had noticed familiarities between her
husband and her parent, but she didn’t say anything,
as she thought "Ma mast know best " Ibe magistrate
said she must apply to the parish authorities. The ap-
plicant intimated that she didn’t care to go in for any
Pa-ish authority, as that of a Ma-ish nature had
afforded her so little comfort.
Mrs. Miriam Florence Leslie, the widow of the
well-known publisher has, upon application to the
Conns of New York, had her name changed to Frank
Leslie —the name her husband bore. It was not a mere
whim with her, but a business idea, as she wishes to
perpetuate the name of the Frank Leslie publishing
house, of which she is now the proprietor and manager.
Every morning she is found in her office by half-past
eight o’clock, and remains till five in the afternoon.
She signs all cheques and money orders, makes all con-
tracts for supplies of every sort, looks over the proofs
of all articles before they are published, and mates sng.
gestions concerning the make-up of every periodical
before it is sent to press. In a word, sho is the head of
the whole establishment. In Mrs, Leslie’s employ are
400 people, comprisisg artists, engravers, editors, com-
positors, eto, and thirteen different periodicals are
issued from the establishment.
• • «
Fashion is not entirely ignored, even by the
Salvation Army, for in an official list of uniforms it is
set forth that a “ sister” may exercise her fancy with
regard to quality at any la e—the serge dress ranging
from 17s. to 20j. ; jackets from 12s 61. to 16 j. 6J., and
“ blue diagonal," 18a. 61. Tne quaint, but not becom-
ing bonnets, straw and chip, range from 5s and 6s. 61.
to 10s. 61. The men’s uniforms, from superior blue
cloth down to serge, range from £3 5s down to 28s
Mr. Weller, senior, said, "bevare of viddere;” but
Mr. Baratow, a London police magistrate, has delivered
an ex cathedra opinion that the “boot is on the other
foot, and that widows are constantly falling a prey to
wily schemers and penniless adventures." When the
House of Commons was recently discussing the
contagious Diseases Bill, ladies present were requested
to retire. However twelve stayed in and listened to
the speeches; and some of the London papers published
their names There are about 500 marriageable ladies
in Hobart At Port Adelaide, S.A., a man, the other
day, out his throat, and then gashed his stomach open'
He had not been drinking—in fact, he was a particularly
temperate man—but he was married.
Perhaps the most exasperating question of the
present season is this : " Do fish perspire ? ”
At Trieste, Austria, a Nihilist has been arrested
having in his possession bombs to kill the Emperor
Francis Joseph.
“ Ma, am I all made now ? ” asked a little miss
of three and a half years at the breakfast table. “ Why,
dear ? ” asked the fond mother. “ Because I have had
my ears pierced and was vaccinated yesterday.
The most startling parasols exhibited thus far
are those of vermilion satin, lined with old gold silk
and trimmed with double ruffles of old gold lace. The
females are surrounded by a wreath of brilliant scarlet
roses, mixed with yellow sunflowers. A goat has to
study a long time to decide whether the thing is to be
batted or eaten.
Dryden was so engrossed with his books that he
found little time to devote to his family. Upon one
occasion his wife said to him : “ I wish I ware a book,
and then you’d pay me some attention. ’’ Whereupon,
it is said that the poet ungallantiv replied: " I wish
you were an almanac, my dear; I then could change
you every year."
‘ What is the devil P ” asked a Sunday-school
teacher of the new boy, who was quite small. “ I don’t
know what it is, but it can’t run us fast as my pa can,”
“ How do you know that the devil can’t run fast P"
" Because I heard pa say that he always catches the
devil when he comes homo late at night from the lodge."
Two ladies exchanging notes on the method in
which they spend the day:— ll You see, I always get up
at ten aud ring for my maid aud get dressed." * ‘ How
long does that take ? ” “ Oh, ever so iong. You see.
the girl takes a fud hour to do my hair." "A full
hour ? Mercy 1 What do you do while she is fixing
it F ’ “I go out in the garden and take my morning
walk."
The police have received certain information,
not yet recorded in the city dailie?, respecting the death,
some months ago, of a German na ned Bishop, near the
Yellowai run. Bishop died in convulsions, and was
buried without an iaqutst being held off his remains.
It is considered possible by witnesses of bis death, that
he was poisoned by strychnine—how taken, or adminis-
tered is, of coarse, mere conjecture. His widow has
since mirried a dealer named Nolan. We understand
that an investigation is pending.
A Tiboobnrra (Mount Browne) hotel bill: —“ To
2 ft. peas eaten by horse, 45.; seven quarts water for
horse, 3s. 6d.; cleaning up kitchen after said horse, £1;
soap for Mary’s hands after same, 2s. fid.; total, £110s.”
James Norton, an Invercargill (N.Z.) taxidermist,
mads a note of the fact that he forgave " all people that
on earth do dwell,” and loved his wife and family; then
he took arsenic, and flight to Canaan’s shore. Kami
PRIZE ODE
SUNG AT THE UNDERTAKER’S PICNIC, YESTERDAY.
Of graver things let other songs rehearse—
Embalm the dead in crapy plumes of verse ;
Let their funereal couplets downward surge—
Tne danoeof Death thrills through oar festive dirge
See the gay cortege of the dead around;
Obsequious groans, appalling tears abound.
The mourning-coach—the prestige which it gave :
The merry sexton whistling in his grave.
The screwing down, the brandy nip thrown in.
The trailing crape, the no less crapy pin.
We live. Oar clay is thanktul unto God,
His wisdom managed that man turns te sod.


SATURDAY, 14th OG
ON THE GEOUJ
THE CENTSE~OF QEf
607 CHOICE BUILDING SITI
streets, in the processing i
town, the New Glasgow
trali#,
„ gbanville.
Between Hudson Brothers' Works
No town is progressing at such
promising place. Land sold afe w
acre is now realising £4 per foot;
lowing the footsteps of the OLDEI
now contains half a million of ini
the first oensns was taken the popn
The PROPERTY which the an(
at Public Auction, on the Ground,
SATURDAY, OCTOI
consists of 607 CHOICE BUILD
very centre of GRANVILLE, hav
following streets:—
Blaxcbll-Strebt,
High-Street,
Eve-Strebt,
Lavinia-Si
Ad
and other streets, each 6S 1
BLAXCELL STREET and HIG
MAIN ROADS, laid out in the (
the DR AIN WELL ESTATE (thi
grant), and lead direct towards the
GBANVILLE RAILWAY
This property will be sold on
terms: —lo per cent, deposit, and
Monthly Instalments, bearing 5 pe
Free conveyance to the Ground
LITHOGRAPHS may be obtainc
Pitt-street, or at the Branch 0
Parramatta.
IiTILLS, PILE, anT~GILC
-LU. instructed to sell
The ABOVE SPLENDID S
ON THE GROU
On SATURDAY, UthOGTOBJ
Department of
Sydney,
TO THE PASTORAL TENANTS
IN consequence of the burning o
some difficulty may arise froi
documents in verification of mat
the leases of the Pastoral Tenants
Much assistance will be affords
Agents will forward official com
tions, tracings, or descriptions of
any other documents of a similar
with the Runs t* the Chief Officer,
Department of Mines, Sydney.
Any expenditure which may be c
by this Department, and the var
warded, will be returned as early a
ART
Occupation of Lands,
Department of I
Sydney, Sej
fIpHE Business of this Branch
■ No. 7 Spring.street on and i
farther notice.
ART
MUSEUM—MINES DEI
IN consequence of the destrnoti
this Department by the Fire
and the necessity for its ro-format
sessed of specimens of minerals,
and the like, are invited to contr
lection now being formed. Con
addressed to C a. Wilkinson, G
Charge, and specimens can be 1
Wardens, Mining Registrar*, and
Department, throughout the Colo:
ART
Department of 1
Sydney, 19th f
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given
Lessees execute and tal
undermentioned Mineral Lea
days from this date, they will I
ART
No. 1381; Henry W. K. Hanamoi
County of Gough, parish of Clive
tion No. Tingha 454.
No. 1332; Henry W. K. Hammoi
County of Gough, parish of Cliv«
tion No. Tingha 455.
No. 1333; William Simpson and
3SB; County of Qoneh, parish ol
Application No. Tingha 573.
CITY CATERING COMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET.
A NEW CATERING COMPANY,
Comprised of professional workmen of long' and nrac
tical experience, nearly all from the ORIGINAL FIRM
of Compagnoni and Co., who personally superintend
and carry on the working of the business under one
general manager.
It is not a public company, and therefore free from all
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 22th April, 1881, we have
successfully catered THE MO3 1 DIFFI-
CULT, and Mb St undertakings that
have taken place here to the presens time, viz.:—
The Consular Dinner, in our new banqrfr't room.
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, for 450, at Clontarf,
and Banquets, and all Entertainments.
His Worship the Major’s Ball, for 1600, Exhibition
Building, at which his Worship, Johi HgVr'« Pnter-
tainod their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE,
Earl Clan william, and the Officers of the Detached
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution, for 1253, Exhibi-
tion Building.
Masonic Bail, N.S.W. Constitution, at T6wn Hall,
Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCE ALBERT and GEORGE
to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag. Dinner a la
Basse, for 60, in Government Palace Dining Car while
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 school children—rs
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under VERY SHORT
NOTICE, only receiving the order at 2 30 p.m., to be
ready on the spot at 12.30 p.m. the following day
Visit of THEIR B.H.'s PRINCE ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Landing, south side of
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon andtrefreshmeut, for
100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, receiving order
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 1 p.m. follow-
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress’ reception. Town Hall.
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s Ball,” at Exhibition
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Windayer, in our new
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge Innis, in our new
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Basse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Members
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Busse to the Intercolonial Rifle Teams.
Town Hall.
Ths Luncheon and Refreshment for 500 ladies and
gentlemen, at the turning of the first s-od of “ Hudson
iros.’ New Railway Rolling Stock Works,’’ at Gran-
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment Bara at Hawkeebury
Races, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheons and Resreshmont Bars at Eaadwiek
Races, in Grand Stand.
Refreshments at e Fayre of ye Olden Tymo, St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olde Englyshe Fayre, Garden
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Private Picnics, Balls,
Dinners, 1 easts, &c., &o.
The CITY CATERING COMPANY let ©ut on hire
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, Glassware, Ornaments,
and all requisites for Balls, Picnics, Dinners, Ac. k ~
and will be glad to send out the smallest order for
.f’astry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Confectionary, &c.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hand when
services required.
We have in our possession letters from gentlemen in
high standing in the city, complimenting us on the
manner we have performed the duties entrusted to
CHAS. K. SMITH
(Late of the firm of the original Compagnoni and Cl
Makaskb.
MALT BITTERS!
The great Cure for Indigestion, Biliousness, Liver
Complaint, Weakness, ko.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
A. Q. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, 40.,
43 Erskine Street;
AND
W, H. SOUL, Pitt Street,
KOUMISS! (MILK DIET.) KOUMIS;
CURES
ALL STOMACHIC DISARRANGEMENTS,
Consumption
Debilit
ladigest
Acidity
Wastic
to
Heartburn
D:abete
Registered Trade Mark.
CALL at the KOUMISS MANUFACTURING C
PANY'h Office, 161 Plullip-atreet, where no;
ous TESTIMONIALS from well-known and bit. ■
respected residents may be seen, and Pamphlets’'
taming full particulars. Highest Medical opinio -
favour of KOUMISS as a curative for above due
can be obtained. The following gratifying Te-tico
was kindly sent to us by Mr. G. ISLAUB of P
sham: —
"Wheelwrights’ Arms, Petersham,
„ n _ "June 25 h, 18
, ,Gentlemen,— l desire to express to you m> h
felt thanks for the erreat benefit I have received i b -
the use of your KOUMISS. I had for fou. o'
years been troubled with indigestion in its w.
forms; I tried several doctors, butiou d got n«j i.
A was adviaed by a leading Physician in this oil.
take KOUMISS. 1 took it for some time, in laoc t.
was OuitED. Since then I have had no return oi
old complaint, and am now enjoying the best of heal
You are at liberty to publish this, as all my frieud >
corroborate my statement. Yours truly,
“ O. ISLAUB.
DON’T BUT, LADIES.
UNTIL YOU HAVE INSPECTED THE QUA! T
OF THE GOODS AND THE PRICKS AT
MRS. I. C. HjJNCHCLIFFf
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
OUTFITTING ESTABLISHMENT,
121 and 123 OXFORD STREET
SYDNEY.
BABY LINEN, DRESSMAKING. HOSIERY
UNDERCLOTHING,
DOLMANS, MANTLES. JACKETS
REAL LACES, '
MILLINERY,
MOURNING OUTFITS
WEDDING OUTFITS
v BALL COSTUMES, ftc ,
You can get the very test quality and style fc
same prices as you pay at otter houses for
iEKIOR" goods otherwise called ‘‘CHEaP ’’
Goods always Marked in Plain Figures.
IRAMCAKS pick up and set down passengers I
door.
121 and 123 Oxford-street, Sydney.
CALIFORNIA ART STUDIO.
'’JIHE only AMERICAN PORTRAIT PAINTEB
JL this coast has removed to No. 3 Bridge-street
The Best Style of Painting Guaranteed.
CHARLES MERCK, ARTIST.
To Crown Leasees, Pree-Selectors, Miners, and Othi
A M
L L
ESCA E E O
I AND AGENT, &c ,
WENTWORTH HOUSE,
Church Hill, Stpnrt,
BEVERLEY PARK. BE^
ON THE ROUTE OF THE ILLA
OPPOSITE HIGHBURY BARN
PUBLIC SCHO(
SUBDIVIDED into
134 MAGN
With the ILL AW AURA KAIL W
right through the I
Frontages to Gannon’s I
Frontages to Kogarah Ei
Frontages to Railway Pa
Frontages to Railway Or
Frontages to Roach Stre
Frontages to Mitchell SI
W ALL 66 FEET '
gATT, EODD, AK
Have received instructions to sel
on
SATURDAY, 30th SEI
At 3p m ,
ON THE QBOU
«-The above VALUABLE E
BEVERLEY" PARK, subdivh
son and Stephen into 131 larg
The ILLAWAER A RAILWAY, b<
will BiUN EIGHT THEOUGH T
STATION will be either UN, <
property.
BEVERLEY PARK occupies W
it adjoins Arnclitf Heights, i» oppi
fdoee to Clone’s Hotel and the r
Smythe, Sleuth, Richardson, and c
W The VIEWS from this Ei
Botany Heads, and Sydney in th«
surpassed (if equalled) throughov
Illanrarra Railway Route.
TITLE—GOOD. FEE
TEKMS, Most Liberal, viz.:—2;
the balance by three equal inst
8 years from day of sale. Interei
Plans now in the Printi
A. GOE]
(late of the Telegraph Ho
Begs to inform VISITORS and th«
that he has taken those splendid n
trally situated premises at the cor
and PARK STREETS, and has C
tho NAME oi
“THE CLAHEI
And which he intends to keep as
A. Q. hopes, by strict attention I
fshare of their PATRONAGE. VI
■surpasses moat Of the leading HOT
DaTION and every CONVENIEI
looks HYDE PARK, it must n
VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for :
as per agreemei
HOT and COLD WATE
PORTER in Attendance D
It is not necessary to mentio
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS. &o,
'ways has been, noted throughout
(selling nothing but the very best.
HEALTH and El
THE ORIENT;
BEAUTY, HERB, OB
PRESERVES the BEAUTY a
Youth te an advanced age, c
ion of all blemishes, and giving
and loveliness of the rose. It is
fashionable ladles in Paris, as i
EYES and speedily removes
FRECKLES, TAN, SCALY SI
ROUGHNESS, SCRC
(Shows— continued from Page 7.)
Writes our Adelaide correspondent by Satur-
day's mail:—“There was nothing bat repetition and a
performance of ‘II Trovatore’ at the Theatre Koyal
this last week. Mdme. Simonson and Signor Coy are
always respictable, and occasionally something more.
Given these two in the cast, and it is easier to remem-
ber the venture by its merits than by its defects. • Der
Freischutz ’ is billed for Tuesday and Wednesday, and,
se far as one can judge by the playbill, will be positive
cruelty to Weber. ‘Booaccio* is announced for
Friday with Madame Simonsen as the gayyoung spark.
Spirltual-essenoe-of-Violet-Cameron, wander not nigh
Adelaide during the next fortnight ! Apropos to
• iiocaecio ’ why do Wallace and Donning plume
themselves on owning Australian rights if Mania
Simonsen, the * world renowned violinist,’ also owns
them P It is said that an American edition, strictly
private, also exists."
** * *
The Mastodon Star Minstrels are playing at theViotorlc-
ral and, of course, it was necessary to give the place a
more high-tened title than it had before. We went to see
them on Saturday night. They are worth millions as
ethnological studies. They are worth considerably less
than this as Minstrels. The palm-tree waves mourn-
fully over the graves of the sires of some of them In
the Timbuctoo cemetery. These are tho pure-bred
niggers of the crowd. Others are only mules. This is
the strong point of resemblance between this company
and that at the Gaiety—only there are more males at
the Gaiety. There are several Irish negroes among the
Mastodons. We might be deceived by a wig of kinky
wool, but nobody could ever “have” ns over the
Milesian upper lip. The Mastodons don’t sing very
well, but they are not particularly funny. There is no
misprint in the foregoing sentence though there might
seem to be. Billy Wilson is the best man in the crowd
and Billy sings like a cormorant with a bone m its
throat. But he has a lovely crocodile’s mouth that
opens and shuts like the back door of a prison van.
Sometimes, in pre-occnpied moments, he forgets the
peculiar danger ho is exposed to, and laughs till his lips
curl right over the back of his head which than looks
like a red cabbage or a pumpkin with the peel loose.
Ha is, therefore, obliged to wear elastic fixings inside
his mouth to keep him from smiling more than a yard
at a time. He dances well, and is funny iuatearing-
f un-to-tatters style. Mr. G. Turner has a voice like the
piping of the wind through a keyhole. He does the
female impersonation. And he has a wonderful mouth
in another fashion. It looks like tho mouth of an
oyster just after you have got your knife in and prized
np the shell. There is hardly a man in the company
that hasn’tlgot some eccentricity of feature. There is
one whom we took for a long time to be a corpse. H®
never moved his hands or his lips, and his eyes were
fixed in the glassy stare of the dead. We thought that
very likely he had died on the voyage from Woolloo-
mooloo, and that they kept him on the stage to fill up,
so to speak, and while they were waiting to rake
enough money together to bury him. But, afterwards,
he came out and danced, and then we knew that he was
alive. But he looked better dead. The sand-jig and
smash.np business is the staple of the Mastodon’s
entertainment. On the whole, we would just ae soon
eee them as their high-toned rivals at the Gaiety.
There are more ef them, and they are uglier—so ugly,
in fact, that we could hardly persuade onrselves, after
we had got into the “ Academy,” that we were not
at a meeting of the Diocesan Synod, and we were just
going to sling our shilling into the hat to shake up for
a Bishop when the overture commenced.
** * »
Dion Boucicanlt has been lecturing at the
Lvxeum to actors and others, on deportment, elocution,
effect, and other dramatic unities. A lot of the critics
pwke fan at the author of the “ Shaughraun *’ and
“London Assurance,’’ —especially the Bsfcbee. In
this paper “ Carados ” has a poem on the subject, in
which the stinging sarcasm makes up a good deal for
the poorness of the verse. Here is a quatrain from
it .
*' * I, the great and glorious Dion, dramatist and pro—
(Though in words this was not uttered, ’twas implied,
you know) —
I, from Colleen Bawn, etcetera, much renown have
drawn,
(I always thought poor Gsrald Griffin wrote • Tho Colleen
Bawn.’) ”
And so as not to forget an old friend let us state we got
word soma time ago that Fred, de Belleville was playing
at the Union Square theatre, and drawing weakly
Bcveral millions. Wo haven’t heard about him since.
Probably, he played ia Darrell’s 1 drama, and that
finished him.
* * *
When this paper appears there will be only two
more chances of seeing Fred. Maecabe in Sydney. He
leaves for Melbourne on Monday, to open Fred. His-
cock’s new hall there; from thence to New Zealand j
and so home through America. We faid a few weeks
ago what we thought of Maccabe, and we can now say
in a line that the people of Australia—more especially,
perhaps, the young and the old —have a lot to be thank-
rul for to Mr. Hiscocks for his enterprise in bringing the
little man out. If wo are to believe half we hear—and
we generally believe that much if we don’t read it in
the papers—Mr. H. has a lot of very big things on hand
indeed. It is more than whispered that he is to be
mixed up with the illustrious James (of the Union
Club) in his Pitt-street theatre spec. This house,
according to the plans, is to be a “nummer ” The
architect ought to be good on elevations : for, besides
being high np in his profession, he is Hilly. All Berts
of rumours are current about this new house. A man
called round and told us that there was to be a prismatic
foundation in James’s private apartment, and that
coifee was to be handed round by slaves imported
directly from Circassia. He also said something about
an electrical bootjack for Fred. We killed him, of
course.
** * *
Letters, letters, letters. Let us sort them. So.
Here, now, we hear that Lieutenant Bose has been
“getting ’em” at Herberton (N Q.), and that he nearly
killed a miner with fright—which is very pleasant news;
and we have it also on record from Bertie Willison, who
dates from Belfast (Yio.), that he has travelled over-
land from Adelaide with Professor Bice, who has struck
a soprano that (says Bertie) “licks creation,” and what
a pleasant thing that is I Charley Hngo, from Hay, says
his “Serenoders are doing big biz.”; bat as ho writes
such a shocking bad hand, we must ask him in future,
before corresponding with us, to scrape the dromedary’s
hair out of his magnnm-bonnm. To light on to a rather
mere trifling combination, wo have to record the enor-
mous success of “ The World ” and “ The New Bab.” in
N Z.; and we also smile as we chronicle the fact that
Johnny Hall, at Dnnedin, is observed to be wearing quite
a fistful of sparks, and that Alf. Boothman, the Missis,
and Jessie Grey all fit into “ The Guv’nor ” like the best
Florentine Mosaic. Oh, and from New Zealand we also
glean that J. B. Howe has fcesn having a poor time of it.
His company recently played “ The Bombardment of
Alexandria” (whatever in thunder that is), but some
miscreant brought a goose into the pit, and there was a
shindy. The man was turned out, but we have a sus-
picion that the goose wasn’t. Anyhow, it seemed (so
report says) to be heard a good deal as the piece pro-
ceeded. One sweet little item more, and then the Big 4
Eandolph Arndell, composer and conductor of “ Euth,”
has given the principal lady singers a silver brooch each.
Wasn’t that nice of him, now ?
We read that Dr. John Lipscomb, of Danville,
Virginia, tried to shoot his father-in-law the other dav.
Now, if it had been only his mother-in-law, nobody
would have said a word against him—nobody but
mot hers-in-law. Bat in the other case there were oh.
jections. His father-in-law objected first. He objected
with a revolver. Mrs. John Lipscomb is now to let.
Messrs. Dalm and Oerted, of 37, Bourke-street,
Bedfern, have sent ns a sample of their Seltzer water—a
bright, refreshing beverage, which looks and tastes as
well as the best imported article. But let us sorrow-
fully speak of it in the past tense.
The final meeting re the formation of Harrison,
Jones and Devlin’s business into a £150.000 company
was attended by the leading mercantile men of Sydney
and was the most satisfactory thing of the kind that
has probably taken place in the city for some years.
The New Book. —“ The Economical Home
Varnishing Guide ” ig distributed gratis at the Boyal
Family Arcade, daily, and is sent post-free everywhere.
After the disclosures during Tuesday night’s
debate, 'Bnry Arry Cooke, it must be held, resembles
nothing to much as he does a political pig with a
Ministerial ring through his nose.


Annaancements
M
ONEY ADVANCED TO ANY AMOUNT,
WITHOUT SECURITY,
At moderate interest and easy terms of repayment.
No Delay. All transactions' held strictly private.
ME. G. W. GODWIN,
178 PHILLIP STEEET,
Near King-street.
WOLFF AND
fy s Manufacturers of
Staca Lead Pencils, Drawing
Materials, and f
'takers, by appotnttaenK to!
and the Bask <
Offlte and WtmsJWtme: S 5 QW|t Oseto-street, Lin-
Inn StHWX W O Ftotofy : Falcon Ptnoil Works,
18ft, 8. W A fall set *f SWffpfßa can be
attitalßra ohtaiwd on application to
(Sale A rent ter N. •. W.>, care of
Mewfcs. FfSthelto, Sotthelf and Co., 30 Honter-ctreet,
Sydney.
s o N,
a Government
ohaiku, Oayons, Artists’
Sundries.
NOTICE—TO THE PE 0 F SKION—TO THEATBI-
CAH OPERA COMPINfeS, 40. Ac.
To let.— The newly erected sib Fenian hall,
Rockhampton, One of the n«Wt Spacious Halls In
Qneenslaßd, befog 75 feet by 46 with ample stage room j
and centrally situated
Application to be made to
The Secretary
Hibernian A.C.B. Society,
Sockhamptoa.
OWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND
The Royal Assembly Booms, having been thoroughly
renovated and fitted with New Scenery.are now generally
used by Theatrical and Concert Parties. The Hall is
large and the most centrally situated and '.has been
recently visited by South’s, Pollard’s, and English
Opera Companies, Hudson, Mnccabe, and others. For
terms, 4c , address Agemt, care of Paling & Co., Music
Warehouse, Euthveu-street, Toowoomba.
v
tSBP.ELLAS
S-DOVERSD.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols Re-lined and 1 made
equal to New, at
J. Sn Hi van's
511 Georgo-steceet,
Brickfield-hill, between
Liverpool & Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes Repairs neatly executed
w
ATSON AND CRANE,
NICKEL and SILVER PLATERS.
Ship and Bath Fittings, Surgical and Dental
Instruments, Fire Irons, Bits and Spurs,
and metal surfaces, Nickel Plated in
Best Style.
Old Electroplate ware of every description, re
silver-plated equal to new.
STEAM, BRASS. & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
338 PITT STEEET.
TDNEY PERMANENT FBBEHOLD LAND.
> and BUILDING SOCIETY.
Established 1875. Reserve Fond, £25,000. Money
received on fixed deposit; if for 12 months, 6 per cent,
allowed. Savings Bank Department open daily. No
notice required for withdrawals Advances granted on
the Society’s usual liberal terms.
J. W. BIBBY,
Secretary.
313 Pitt-street.
AND
CHEST AFFECTION
ALL
NO
m
SYDNB* AGENT!
J. MANNING, 130 ELIZABETH STEEET.
■QNION
MORTGAGE AND DISCOUNT
COMPANY.
Head Office: 760 GEOEGE-STREET, HAYMAEKET.
To Small FREEHOLD and LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
This Company is prepared to grant loans on mort-
gage -if freehold or leasehold properties. Advances
upon the deposit of deeds, on completed buildings, or
on houses in course of erection, in the city or suburbs,
repayable by the smallest weekly or monthly instal-
ments, taken by the society in this city, as the follow-
ing table will show:—
For every £2O borrowed, 2s 2d
~ £3O ~ 3s Id
„ £4O „ 4s 4d
„ £5O „ 5s lOd
„ £75 „ 8s 4d
„ £lOO „ Us 8d
and up to any amount at the same ratio.
For further information anj-lv at the p fficea.
WM P. SMAIL, Secretary,
FUNERALS.
JIUNEEALS,
HART AND FfRGUSON,
UNDERTAKERS
To the Inhabitants of Sydney and Suburban districts,
having started business on an extensive scale at
835 GEORGE-#T., OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
195 DEVONSHIRE ST., sUERY HILLS,
AT LIVERPOOL ROAD, CROYDON, AVENUE.
Are prepared to Execute Funerals in a most Respectful
mannner, and cheaper than any other
house in the TRADE.
Funerals on the Time Payment System from £1
upwards.
H. & F. will net extort on the public.
Replated Equal to new by
J, M-LEAN AND SON,
Watchmakers and Jewellers
Showrooms : 21 Hunter-street, Sydney.
J LAWLER, 008, George-street, Bedding Manufac-
a tnrer, ini porter of BrafS and Iron Bedsteads, ,
American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair, Kapok, ’
and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
Easiness Announcements.
CS
i
ATCHjfl m
,R-R J
a
a
3
G
ifv:
J 9
&
m
&
“^^sydnly^^
opposite post office.
g5//^jLfl | reov seoPGG srmr
fr'M
Tobacco nlsts
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGESSOF
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should be read with
special interest: —
HIXSON ANT) SONS paid duty in 1880 on 288,3031 b.
All the others paid duty in 1880 on 589,609>ffb.
DIXSON AN D SONS paid duty in 1881 on 478,935 lb.
All the others paid duty in 1881 on 620,992 lb.
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty
on for the two years was 0n1y.., ... ... 307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUST, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tin Tag,” each plug branded with a
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped “ Con-
queeor" or “ Yankee Doodle."
ALL TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS, PIPES, Ac.
READ THIS! READ THIS!!
A. SALMON & CO.,
FURNISHING DEPOT,
577 GEORGE STREET.
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF GOODS TO SELECT
FROM, Consisting of—
Pianos,
Wardrobes,
Chests of Drawers,
Pier Glasses,
Toilet-ware, &c.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Note the Address:
577 GEORGE SIRE
BRICKFIELD HILL.
NOTICE,
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE FRESH FOOD AND ICE CO., Limited, beg
to inform the public that they have now com-
pleted arrangements which will enable them to keep up
a REGULAR SUPPLY of
PURE COUNTRY MILK,
and are in a position to take on fresh customers. Orders
may be given to men on carts, or sent to office,
21 HARBOUR STREET, DARLINO HARBOUR.
T>LIGHT -Try WILDBHS “ MAGIC BYB-
-U WATERnever use any other lotion. WIN-
DER'S “All-healing Lotion” is a perfect wonder foi
curing all bad sores on man or beast. Agents.—*
Hofinung & Co.. Sydney, Felton, Grimwade, and Co.,
and Hemmana, Laws and Co., Melbourne, Elliot Bros.,
and Co.. Brisbane. W. H. Soul, Sydney.
Hotels, tie.
G
UNSLEE’S HOTEL,
NORTH TEEEACE,
ADELAIDE.
IS
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIEIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STEEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Cotwtet Orders Ekckive Prompt Attertios.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
303 GEORGE SIfEEET.
iSSBt
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE »nd
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELDS
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BITTERS
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTANS COFFEE.
GENUINE IRISH WHISKY.
WM. JAMESON & CO.’b DUBLIN WHISKY IS
UNSURPASSED.
XT is bottled in bond for Export at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that
It had not been in the hands of “ Whisky Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that jou get it, look for the
trade mark J In diamond on label, cork, and capsule.
DALT BROTHERS,
Bole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
‘OLD MATURED’ SCOTCH WHISKY
*• As we Drink it in Scotland.”
THOM AND CAMERON,
GLASGOW.
To those who appreciate a OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY as they drink it at hame,” thit spirit will
bo a welcome boon.
DALT BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S W. and Queensland,
Hmporters of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES and
General Merchandise.
300 GEORGE STREET.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
JOHN A . W 1 N SON’S
COOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
11 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD—COOLALTA, BRANXTON, NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BED WINES.
P«
Coolalta Hermitage, extra quality...
No. 1 Coo&lta Eed
No. 2 ii ii ••• ••• •••
Burgundy
Port
Yin Ordinaire ...
WHITE WINES.
Muscat .m
Do. No. 2
Do. Brown
Sherry
No, 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Via Ordinaire
Magnificent ieon-feamed geeman
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, RosewoOd-and-gold.
Imported by na direct, and manufactured exprasaly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
TEARS. They are of wry handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EAST TERMS of TIME PATMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments nor cheap rff.bish.
BEALE and COMP ANT,
1, Oxford-stree’; 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howick-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goul-
bum; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-Street,
Brisbane.
No matter where you live we will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PATMENT.
“•JJISTOEY EEPEATS ITSELF.’
As Eve temptr-' the First Man, to EVE
TEMPTS THE PRESENT MAN; but, luckily,
not the same Eve, but
JAMES EVE,
149 KING-STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance,
With the best brands cf AM Tobacco and Cigars.
JW. E. CLARKE.
• BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER.
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDING'S,
GEORGE ST KEEP, SYDNEY,
Opposite Market-street.
B. BRAUN,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, AND OPTICIAN,
376, George Street,
Nea- the Post Office.
Jewellery altered or made to order at rers naMe rates
Watches repaired on th? pr<m’s?s by most effi ient
workmen — wobk guaranteed.
▲ LARGE ASSORTMENT of LATEST NOVELTIES
in JEWELLERY.
Agent for Rotkeram’s and Waltham Watches.
£46 GEORGE STREET, SYNET.
STUBBS & SMITH,
(Late Joseph Bullard.)
TAILORS, MERCERS, AND GENERAL
OUTFITTERS.
A Large Assortment of
BEADT-UADE MENS’ AND SOTS’
CLOTHING,
ALWAYS ON HAND.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
346 GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
George p murphy.
REGENT HOUSE,
869. GEORGE STREET,
RA'LWAY BRIDGE.
CENTRAL
OIL, COLOUR,
and
PAPERHANGINOS and PLATE GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
The most convenient stores f<T town and country cus-
tomers, at the junction of the principal tramways.
Trams pass the door every ten minutes.
IMPORTER OF
Glass (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
ornaaental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat
and rolled)
Turpentine
Neatsfoot Oil
Kerosene i
White and Red
Lead
Raw and Boiled
Oils
Brus aware
Varnishes
Colours for House
and Coach pain-
ters, Plasterers
Ac.
Castor oil
Paperhangers*
Canvas
Gold and Silver
Leaf
Paperhangings
Wood - preserv-
ing Oil
Tar
Resin
Black Pish Oil
Cement, Ac.
MIKED PAINTS READY FOR USE,
any shade required.
ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY EXECUTED
by Rail, Steamer, City or Sucurbs.
Shop Fronts and Sashes Glared.
AXLE GREASE for Boggles, Carts, Lorries. Ae. SUL-
PHUR for Vinegrowers and Farmers. GLASS
for Gardeners, Ac.
Warehouse—Bs9 GEORGE STREET.
Side Entrance—Stores and Workshop—HAHßlS-ST
m
s&i
B
ov
m
€
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS'S PALE ALE.
hdfhsgfdsgsdh


SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall he glad to have this iiidea posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of spending events in general.]
RACING.
Geraldine (N.Z.) Spring September 28, 29.
Melbourne Gant Club September 30.
Hyde . September 30.
Hawkes’ Bay (N.Z ) J C. Spring October 3.
Tamworth October 11 12.
Narrabri October 25, 26.
Y.R.C. Soring Oot. 28, 31, Nov. 2, 4,.
Auckland (N Z.) R.G. Spring November 7.
Canterbury J 0. Spring November 7, 8,10.
Parramatta J.C Novembers, 11
Bendigo .November IS, 16.
MarrumbidgeeTarf Club Nov. 22, 23. 21.
Wellington (N Z ) Spring November 30
Dunedin (N.Z.) Spring November 30, December 2.
Temora J.C December 7. 8.
Adelaide Racing Club... Jannary 1.1883.
Canterbury (N Z.) Summer Janury 1.1883.
V.R.C. New Tear Meeting January 1,1883.
Candelo January 1, 5.
Bega January 11.12.
Sydney Turf Club January 26,1883.
Armidale J G January 26, 27.
Auckland (N.Z ) Summer Deo. 26 ; Jan 1,2, 1883.
Dunedin (N.Z ) Autumn February 21, 22, 21,1883.
Tasmanian B. C. Summer Meeting,.,February 20, 22, 23.
AQUATICS.
Mr. Frank Punch’s Prizes October 3,5, 7.
N B.W. Rowing Association Regatta.. October 14
North Shore Rowing Club Annual Regatta... October 21.
Gardiner Cup. Mercantile October 28.
Glebe R. C. junior Double Sculls, Mr. P. Punch’s
Prize October 28.
D üble Biy Annual Regatta November 4.
Bilmain Regatta November 9.
Krug Champagne Trophy November 25.
Gardiner Cup, Anaceur December 16,
Intercolonial Eight-oars, Parramatta
River March, 1883.
PEDE3TRIANISM.
Hunter’s Hill A. A. Club Sports September 30.
Wallsend Athletic Club Sports November 9.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Tam worth, v. Sydney pigeon match was won
by Sydney by two birds.
The Adelaide Hunt Club has been served with a
notice not to pay the Hunters’ Stakes to Taraxacum.
The Australian Eleven were to be entertained at
a banquet on the 21st, by the leading colonists in
England.
A N.Z. paper says that Laycock intends leaving
Sydney, and taking up his abode either in South Aua-
tralia or Victoria.
Th first match in Victoria of the English team
will be played at Melbourne, on 17th November, and
following days.
Pickering, of Auckland, N.Z., is willing to run
any Australian sprinter, bar Applitt. So writes one of
the local papers.
The Australian Eleven played at Glasgow
against an eleven representing the West of Scotland,
and won in one innings.
The Sydney footballers were defeated at Otago,
the local team scoring a goal, two tries, and nine force-
do vns, to Sydney’s nil.
In a match played at Glasgow, between the Aus-
tralian Eleven and a Glasgow team, Spofiorth took
eight wickets for 11 runs.
The match which was arranged between the
racehorses Mistake and Transferred, to take place on
the 20th instant, was declared eff.
The Sydney footballers defeated the Canterbury
team by a goal and a try to a try. The N.Z. team were
forced down seven times, Sydney twice.
Cunammulla is reported to have pulled up lame
after a gallop at the Hawkesbury on Saturday. Sweet
William is now first favourite for the Melbourne Cup.
f The Hon. Ivo Bligh’s team of English cricketers
will come by the overland route instead of by Orient
steamer as was at first intended. Mr. I. D. Walker will
not accompany the team.
Mr. R. B. Hogue, captain of the Newcastle
Ironclad Cricket Club, was last week presented with a
handsome address and a testimonial previous to his
departure to Sydney.
The football match on Saturday between South
Melbourne and Melbourne was won by the former by
five goals to two. Geelong beat Hotham by five goals
thirty behinds to Hotham’s two behinds.
At the Adelaide Hunt Club races, on Saturday,
Esoa won the Maiden Steeplechase. Kory O’More won
the Cup; Eupertswood fell at the last fence when lead-
ing. Albatross won the Flat Race and Hurdles, and
Hotspur won the Stakes.
The “ stabber ” has developed into a new
phrase. Some mysterious personage has been going
through the cricketers’ togs in Moore Park, and he has
reaped a splendid harvest of aluminium guards, brass
alberts, and washed Walthams.
Largan’s trainer has arrived with two boats,
but the last ’Frisco mail brought no Largan. The com-
mittee of the Punch Trophy intend to make some
inquiries as to the ugly rumours in England concerning
Largan before ratifying hia entry.
Mr. William Smythe is to bo umpire for the
contests for the Francis Punch prizes. Mr. J. Myers is
to be starter, and Mr. D. Murray, judge. E. Edwards,
of Malbourne, has withdrawn, the company, he states,
being too hot for him.
Further negotiations have taken place with the
object of arranging a match for the sonlling champion-
ship of the world between Hanlan and Boss ; but tha
parties cannot come to terms as to the date of the
contest. Hanlan declines to row before June next.
> The six days’ bicycle tournament at Melbourne
was concluded at 11 p.m. on Saturday, and was won by
Press, of South Australia, who covered 8511 miles.
Rolfe was seoond, 852| miles ; and Thomas covered 790
miles. The promoters of the contest intend holding a
similar competition in Sydney.
The Tamworth United C.C. held its annual
meeting last week. During last season fifteen matches
were played, of which twelve were won and three lost.
Arrangements are to be made for the Hon. Ivo Bligh’e
team to play twenty-two of New England and Liverpool
Plains.
A cricket match was played on Moore Park on
Saturday, between a team composed of members of the
Baseball Club and the Occident C.C., the representatives
of which are natives of Melbourne. The scores were as
follows : O.C.C. 87, Baseball Club 19. Dew and Barton
played well for the winners, Alpress and Coal did good
service tor the losers.
The Melbourne Cricket Club has received in- I
formation that it is probable the Australian Eleven will
come out by the same vessel as the Hon. Ivo Bligh’s
team, but a later cable informs us that the English
team will travel by the overland route. The Australian
Eleven will play only three matches after their return—
namely, against the Englishman at Adelaide, Melbourne,
and Sydney.
Mr. Frank Weston informs us that he has
received advices from Mr. John Wilson, Calcutta,
announcing hia safe arrival with Jack, Syndicate, and
all the raoe-horses in good condition. We clipped from
some paper a yarn about these horses having been lost
during a gala on the passage. The paper lied, we are
glad to say, and we hope Jaak will yet astonish the
stick jumpers in Calcutta.
Mr. Scale, of Auckland, N.Z., died
suddenly on Sunday, September 10. Ho was about to .
ward on his breast, and ho expired without a groan.
Heart disease. Mr. Beale was a N.Z. colonist of 21
Tears' standing, a teacher of music by profession, and a
cricketer of no mean order. He belonged to the first
Auckland eleven, and took part in all of that team’s
principal matches until his fiftieth Tear of age. Can
this bo the Mr Beale, whose letter, dated 23rd August,
« a JS oonsidered at the last committee meeting of the
N.S.W. Cricket Association ?
A fair attendance at the Ballarat Turf Club
Races on September 21. Two started for the Sailing
Race, won by Hannibal. The Hurdle Race was a dead-
heat between Sportsman and Dundreary; the owners
divided the stakes, and Dandreary was sold for £2OO.
A good race took place for the Ballarat Handicap, won
by Eesoite. Left Bower won easily the Steeplechase,
Euchre being second. The Hawk third.
As we anticipated, the Derwents won the first
match for the Furness Challenge Cap, beating the
Mercantiles in one innings by 75 runs, the sores being:
Dtrwent, 141; James DummettlS, Sparks 29, Butcher
(not out) 24, E vans 14. Mercantile, Ist inning*, 44;
"wine (not out) 11. 2nd innings, 25 ; Kean (not out)
11. The match for Saturday next is between tha Clio
and Oriental Clubs. The latter have lost their matches
so far this season.
At the Ballarat Hunt Club Races, Kathleen won
the Labona Handicap Hurdle Race; Consolation won
the Ladies’ Bracelet; Clansman the Hunt Club Cup.
Spring Baby won the Maiden Handicap Steeple. Out of
a field of seven horses, five fell. Kathleen fell at a
stonewall; Yerlo and Dundas rolled over her. George
Wilson, son of the well-known trainer, rode Kathleen,
and has since died from his injuries. His lungs were
ruptured by the breaking of his breast-bone. The mare
has also succumbed.
On Sept. 22, the Alexandria C.C. held their
annual banquet at M'lnerney's Hotel, Double Bay,
The trophies won during last season were presented,
the recipients being Messrs. James and John Macin-
tosh, T. Ridley, and H. Ellis. The usual toasts were
proposed, and the evening was filled up with songs and
recitations. The proceedings were terminated with
three cheers for the Queen ? ob, no Australian
Eleven.
The wet weather saved the Australian Eleven a
beating at the hands of Shaw’s team. The match was
played at Kennington Oval. The attendances were large,
but the wickets, of course, were heavy and against the
batsmen. Shaw's men went in first and made 129 runs
The Australians made a poor score, 87. Thera was no
play on the second day. At the end of the third day
the home team bad lost six wickets for 193 runs, and
the match was then drawn.
A stranger cams to Georgetown, Q , with a pony
thatioonld gallop. Some Georgetown sportsmen, having
amongst them a weil-tried horse just above pony
weight, made a match for half-a-mue for £l5 a side.
They found on tha quiet that the strange pony could
win, and when the race came oil and the pony had won,
the boy riding the Georgetown Grand Flaneur pro-
tested, alleging that the pony had gone inside a post.
This caused trouble. The stakeholder won’t give up
the money; the Georgetown sportsmen are willing to
run the race over again, but the owner of the pony
won’t. Better they had given the man his money, and
confessed themselves “ done."
Among the latest things in British athletics,
the Hon. lon Keith-Falconer has won the 50-mile
bicycle championship, in 2h. 43 min. 55 1.5 sec.; Mr.
H. L. Cortia has ’cycled 20 miles in 59 min. 20 1.5 lec.;
Hr. W. K. Adam has ’oyoled three miles in 8 min.
411-5 see.; and W. G. George, the English half-mile,
one mile, four miles, and ten miles champion, has just
added another t» his formidable list of bests on record
by covering two miles at Stamford Bridge, in 9 min.
25 3 5 sec. Mr. Cortls was married en the morning
after he performed the above feat. He is a brother of
Dr. Cortis, of Bathurst, and is now on his way to
Australia.
Mr. Wm. Walters, of Auckland, one of New
Zealand’s leading and oldest racing men, is dead. He
was the proprietor of a large stud, and owned some
good racing stock and highly-bred brood mares, among
them being Tatterina and Fanny Fisher, purchased by
deceased at Mr. Fisher’s sale in 1867. One of Mr.
Walters’ mares. Peeress, was only taken home from
Sydney a short time ago, being here for a long period
on a vi-iit to old Yattendon and Maribyinong, the re-
sult being two fine colts by the former, and one by the
latter sire. Mr. Walters was most unlucky in racing
his horses, the public often attributing his non-suooess
oa the course to other causes.
At the annual meeting of the Newcastle Cricket
Club, it was elicited that the club during the past
season had played 48 matches, 29 of which were won, 11
lost, and 8 drawn. Following are the trophy-winners :
—Batting average, Ist Eleven—W. J, Wooden; 2nd
Eleven, S. Sneesby. Bowling average, Ist Eleven—W.
Tracey; 2nd Eleven, S. Sneesby. First 50 obtained in
a single innings—R. Bryant; best fieldsman, J. R.
Hall. Following are the officers elected: —President,
Mr. E. C. Merewether; vice-presidents, Mr. G. F.
Stokes, Mr. S. Keightley; hon. treasurer, Mr. J. W.
Greaves; assistant-treasurer, Mr. J. R. Hall; captain,
Mr. R. Bryant; vice-captain, Mr. J. E. Hall. Commit-
tee : Messrs. Lawrence, Hall, Bryant, H. Stokes, H.
Ash, Wooden, and Clarke.
The Muswellbrook Race Meeting passed off
successfully, the weather being fine and the attendance
large. The monte players were again sat upon by the
local police. Affection won the Maiden Plate, beating
the favourite, Zoe, by a half-a-lengtb. Hypatia won
the Shorts by a length. Queensberry was made a hot
favourite for the Muswellbrook Handicap, which
Godiva won by two lengths ; Queensberry being last.
Lazy Girl won the Prince of Wales’ Stakes, and was
sold for £23. Hypatia easily won the Town Plate.
Exile won the Novel Race by a length. Comec was
made favourite for the Upper Hunter Grand Handicap,
but he was beaten by a neek by Hesitation, who was
ridden splendidly by Nerricker. Hesitation afterwards
won the Ladies' Mile Handicap by half-a-length. Three
started for the Forced Handicap, which was won hands
dawn by Godiva.
There was a good attendance at the Dubbo
Spring Races. Six started for the Trial Stakes.
Wingadee, the favourite, had the race in hand, but he
bolted. A good race ensued between Mail Train and'
Attila, the latter winning by half-a-iengsh. The Hack
Race was won by Roan oak. Norman won the Spring
Handicap rather easily. Attila won the Five Furlongs,
beating Wingadee. On the second day, Wheel of
Fortune won the Flying Handicap. Roanoak won the
Prince of Wales Stakes, Attila being second. The run-
ning of the latter was so suspicious that the horse and
rider (Cornwell) were disqualified for two years, and
the owner was disqualified ror three months. The latter
had sold the horse before the race, but had not notified
the transfer. Six started for the Spring Handicap—
Norman and Kettledrum belonging to the same owner,
Mr. Read; he declared to win with Norman, but Kettle-
drum got the lead and won, and it is said hia jockey
rode against orders. Wheel of Fortune appropriated
another prize, in the Forced Handicap, beating four
others.
The Petersham C.C. held their annual meeting
last weak. From the report it appeared that during
the season the club had played 37 matches, 28 of which
were won, five lost, and four drawn. The club had won
easily every contest for the Gardiner Challenge Cup
presented for competition among the junior clubs re-
presented in the Association. The trophy i* to be held
two seasons consecutively, and the duo is likely to ap-
propriate it this season. Mr. E. H. Seale won the bat-
ting badge with an average of 26-6 runs. He also won
Mr. Fowler’s trophy for highest aggregate, 479, and
Mr. Wheeler’s trophy for highest individual score, 82.
G. Seale won the bowling badge, average 5 76 per wicket.
Mr. Marr was second in batting and bowling avers ga, and
won Mr. T. R. Smith's trophy for best all-rouiM play.
Mr. E. Seale holds Mr. Wheeler’s trophy for highest
aggregate in two seasons consecutively. H. Shortus
and J. Seale won the catching and fielding trophies re-
spectively. Following are the officers elected:
Patron, Mr. R Fowler, J P.; president, air J.
Wheeler; vise-presidents, Messrs T. R. Smith, A
Loveridge, Gough, and Davis,; joint hon seos. A.
I Loveridge, jun , and E. H. Seale; treasurer, J. Ireland ;
I delegate to N.S.W. Cricketing Association, Hugh
M'Lachlan.
Nearly 4000 spectators were present at the foot-
ball match, N.S. Wales v. Auckland. Excitement was
high, and betting was in favour of N.S. Wales. The
Auckland team was a heavy one, and they played splen-
didly together, and showed to immense advantage in
the scrimmages, the N.S. Wales team playing only
-eight*, sopaetimes six, fqrward. Our boys played a
plucky game,’ but’Were of ermatch&l.' Their back play
was good, and their strongest point flaetness of foot.
They were dreadfully knocked about. Baper got a nasty
cut on the cheek, and the mark he will probably carry
through life. He had to retire from play. Walker and
Pligg were severely punished. Jennings put his shoulder
out. Auckland won by a goal and a try to nil. In the
evening, a banquet was given to the N.B. Wales men,
the Mayor of Auckland presiding. Baper made a neat
speech, extolling New Zealand hospitality, and pro-
mising the N.Z. footballers good treatment and close
contests if they come to Sydney. Among the many
amusements provided for the team was a trip to the
far-famed W&iwera hot springs, and Sir George Gipps’
residence at the ilawau Island. A return match is to
take place on the 2nd October.
The N.S. Wales Cricket Association have held
an annual and a committee meeting daring the past
week. At the first the usual business was gone through
of reading and adopting the report, and the election of
officers. The election of vice-presidents was conducted
with some opposition, the result being that two
me» of new blood (good men and true in the cause of
cricket) were elected, and one of the landmarks of the
Association thrown out. The latter will be greatly
missed when there is a Governor to receive or a testi-
monial to be presented. Otherwise, cricketers will not
regard his loss as irreparable. The philanthropic
gentlemen, who devote so much of their time and
energies to cricket, made a dead sat against a well-
known patron who was candidate for the vice-president-
ship. As a proof of the extent of their influence and
popularity with cricketers, it may be added that he
was elected at the top of the poll. At the committee
meeting, a proposal from a New Zealand team to visit
N.S. Wales was shelved, and arrangements were com-
menced for the matches with the Hon. Mr. (we shall
not say Ivo any more) Bligh’s team. A letter, applying
for pecuniary assistance, was read from Mrs. George
Gilbert, and it was resolved to start private subscrip-
tions. _ At the next committee meeting a selection
committee is to be appointed. There is just as much
importance in the election of the latter as in the ap-
pointment of the four vice-presidents.
The Sydney Amateur Athletic Club’s Sports
Meeting on Moore Park on Saturday was not as suc-
cessful as usual, the attendance being smaller than on
any previous occasion, and the racing being anything
bus up to the standard. The Maiden Mile wAlk was
won easily by C. D. Best in 7miu. 46 3-lOsec. J. L.
Gilflllan, the Albert bowler, with 7 yards start, won the
150 yards handicap, E. M. Bowman, 8 yards, and O. J.
Patison, 7 yards, being respectively second and third.
The Three Miles Bicycle Handicap was a gift to iS. H.
M'Bae with 200 yards. A good race for second place
took place between E. W. Barker, 70 yards, and F. W.
Sharp, 125 yards, the former winning on the post. The
scratch men, A. Lee and J. Barnett, were handicapped
oat of the race. A splendid race took place for the
Half-Mile between A. H. Maoarthur and A. P. Phillips.
Maoarthur won on the post, thonga he had apparently
crossed his opponent, who protested, but the protest
was not entertained. The Schools Champion 100 yards
was won by J. Parker (Sydney Grammar School) in
11 l-10sao. In the Two Miles Walking Handicap, A.
James, 45 yards, and F. W. Maddooks, 70 yards, made a
good finish, James winning by a yard and a-half, W.
Hamilton, with 200 yards, won the One Mila Bicycle
Handicap, Barnett, 175 yards being a good second, Lee,
who was scratch, did not persevere, giving many the
impression that he was “ pot-hunting.” The Maiden
Quarter-mile was a boil over, it being considered a gift
for A. H. Maoarthur. H. Phillips forced the pace from
the jump. After a very fast 300 yards had been
covered Maoarthur caved in and Phillips won easily,
A Douohar snatching second honours from Maoarthur.
The redoubtable (alas 1 no longer) W. C, Bash was
beaten in the 150 yards Flat Eace by F. Bussell and T.
W. Thomson, who were first and second respectively.
Bayliss, Thomson, and Logan were put back a yard for
breaking away. E. M. Bowman won the 150 yards
Hurdle Bice, B. A. Vallack being second. The Three-
qnarter-miie Handicap was won easily by A. W. Barnett,
with 40 yards start; C. J. Patison, 55 yards, being
second; and D. W. Middleton, 15 yards, third. Bush
was again beaten in the 100 yards, F. Bussell being first,
half-a-yard ahead of Thomson, who was a foot in front
of Bash. The 440 yards Handicap was cleverly won by
Logan, 12 yards; J Parker, 7 yards, being sesond ; and
E. A. Vallack, 30 yard), third. The One-mile Plat Baoe
was won rather easily by J. Perris, D. W. Middleton
being second. Perris, having won this race twice con-
secutively, now becomes the absolute holder of the
Challenge Cup. The Consolation Baoe 120 yards, was
won by E. A. Grainger, S yards; C. J. Brown, 4 yards,
being second; and H. B. Charles, 5 yards, third.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Christchurch, N.Z., tha other week, for the
V.E.C. Derby and Cap, 400 to 3 was taken aboat Began-
hoe hind Sweet William. Prometheus, Belmont, and
Bassanio also met with backers for tha doable On
Navigator’s victory in the A.J.C. Darby, one of the
Dunedin (N.Z) totalisators paid a dividend of £4 125.,
and on Masquerade's win in the Metrop. £7 14s. In an-
other machine, Masquerade’s victory returned a divi-
dend of £25 4s Dick Mason, an old Australian, and
Bob Vallanoe’s partner, was married at Christchurch,
N Z„ the other week Mr. S. Pranok is again at war
over the totalisator. This time he is bringing an action
against Mr. A. Schinnerling, of Melbourne, for in-
fringing his patent. Several of the N.Z, racing
clubs are using Schinnerling’s machines The
South Wagga Wagga Cricket Club has changed its
name to Newtown C.C The crieket clubs at Tenter-
field have formed an association Joe Thompson had
a special train from Melbourne to Ballarat for the
races on the 21st Australian Surry v. Inconstant,
Moore Park, Haturday. Australian Surry, 71: Dolan
26, Kelly 16; Inconstant,3o: Pike 11 Kelly, the Aus-
tralian Surry bowler, took five wickets for four runs....
American records are generally reliable, and, if so, the
following is a wonderful performance At Coneyland,
in the Cap for three-year-olds and upwards, two miles
and a quarter, Hindoo, by Virgil—Florence, carrying
7st 101 b, ran the distance in 3min. 58sec.; Eole, by
Eolus—War Song, 7st 101 b, got second; and Parole, by
Leamington—Maiden, 7st 101 b, was third. The time
has never been heaten in Australia, but Pollio's last
Australian Cnp is the fastest for the distance south of
the line, viz : 4min. 4geo.; while, in England, Mr. Sykes
and Cberrie each ran the Cffiiarewitch distance, two
miles two furlongs and 28 yards in 3min. .55sec
In the return match for the one-mile championship of
N.Z., between O'Connor and Burk, the former won
easily in 4 min. 29J sec. There was tremendous excite-
ment at the result Progress goes to the stud ; terms,
twenty guineas W. F. Corbett intends to have another
match with M'lndoe 4. match has been arranged be-
tween Messrs. E. H. Williamson and R. Walland, both
ol Deles ate, near Bombala, to run a race of four miles,
for £5 a side, to take place on 2nd Oct. Mr. E. H. Wil-
liamson to ride his bicycle and Mr. B. Vv.uland to ride
his mare Mystery The Pioneer Bicycle Club, Christ-
church, N Z , have resolved “That there be two long
distance races, for 50 miles and 100 miles respectively,
for the amateur championship of Now Zealand; also,
that a road race be held during the season.”
Young Allen, son of our own Daniel, got two prizes at
the E.B.A.A.C. sports— one was a surprise It seems
rather appropriate for the jury at an inquest on a
■jockey to add a rider to their verdict A southern
contemporary states that Mr, E. C. Eamaay, the Cam-
bridge University bowler, is a native of Queensland
The last Australian Eleven played 37 matches, won 21,
lost 4, and drew 12. The present team has, so far,
played 35 matches, won 21, lost four, and drawn 10......
At a kangaroo drive last week at Toryburn, near Arm -
dale, 600 marsupials were killed.... The several attempts
to repeal the N.Z. Gaming and Lotteries Bill were un-
successful, and it still remains law, much to the disgust
of sweep promoters and the sporting public Le Loap
has again changed hands, Mr. W. H. Taggart, of
Dunedin (N.Z.), having purchased him for 5 :1 0 guineas.
At the Otago (N.Z.) Hunt Club races, Eugene,
6st. 101 b., won the Handicap Plat Kate, while the Tally
Ho Steeplechase fell to Canard, l'Lt. 71b .North
Sydney C.C , defeated Argyle C.C-, on 23rd September.
Scores.;—North Sydney first in lings, 34-O’Hara, not
out, 21; second inning.. 9 wicaet* £oi 87—O Haia 34:
Tiem»y, IS; Saunders, 12. Air*via, flr. t innings, 19
At tha annual meeting of tha Victoria Bowing Club at
Melbourne, it was elicited that the m m ers numbered
eiguty-«ix, ami there was a credit bal-neo of £29. The
Club has opened the present sea«-u wltn " cratch
fonts ” which were rowed last weak. The Club also
holds “ trial fours.” on the 14th Oo o er At a recent
race-meeting at Lewes, Eng., Archer, the celebrated
Jockey, had. oa the last day, six mounts and he won
each time. He took the nice little bet of £lO9 to 10s. t
"that he performed this extraordinary feat After the
refusal of entry of the Hillsdale craw, the reading row.
ingjassooiationsof America cabled to them to challenge
any amateur crew for the championship of the world.
The Thames Club accepted tho challenge and won the
race At tho match, Tamworth v. Sydney, far £lOO a
side, 27 yards rise, at the recent meeting of the Tam-
worth Gun Club, the scores were Sydney. 35—Lee Lord,
6; S Fallford, 5; S. Grant, 7: M. Faithful, 9: Y,
T. Gannon, 8. Tamworth, 33—H. T. Gordon, 5; C.
Baldwin, 7; J. Bryant, jun., 6; T. A. Johnston, 8; J.
S. Doyle, 7 Glebe Clifton v. Parramatta 0.C., at
Granville; won by the former by 63 runs. Hawben 33.
and Walker 22, were the highest scorers for the winning
team; and Davis got five wickets for 17; Qnantosfc,
three for 12 Cleveland v. Croydon C.C , Builders'
Ground, Moore Park. Cleveland, 49—IS. Howard, 14
T. Payne, 10. Croydon, 19—P. olattery, for the winning
team, took six wickets for 9 runs, and R. Oonlon, three
for 10, A N.Z football writer says Kaper is a “ whole
team and a jailer dorg under the seat ** at football A La
Rugby Union The Jamberoo C.C. held its annual
meeting on 15th ■’eptomber. The reoort showed a
credit balance of £6 9j. 4d Following are the officers
far the ensuing season:—President, David Hanna, J.P. ;
Vice-president, J, Flamming; Committee, J. Colley,
Crammond, and H. F. Noble; the latter to act ao
practice cantata ; Treasurer, Hawkins ; Hon.
Secretary, W. Evans a. billiard match came off ar.
Hill End, last week, between six man of the Star of
Peace G.M. Co., and six of the town, resulting in a
win for the locals by 25 points. The marker was dry...
Bandalbion, the Australian horse, won a Maiden Plate
lately in Mauritius Walker, the Sydney footballer,
has been nicknamed “Jumbo" in New Zealand Tho
Bathurst Football Club trophies for past season’s play
awarded to F. Yeomans, E. Ashworth, J. H. Ford, and
HL C. Matthews. First trophies the club has presented.
Our Boys v. Stanmore C.C., on Saturday. Ston-
more, 82—Chalmers 38, Burrows 13, Thomas 10; Our
Boys, five wickets for 102—Spears (not out) 56, Sted-
?J an 29 Tho rights of Tattersall’s Cricket Ground at
Cootamuudra for 1882-3 were purchased by Mrs. Angove
tot £4O. Last year they realised £3,—but, then, the
Hon. Ivo Bligh’s team will play at Cootamundra
On the strength of a good gallop at Fiemington, on
Saturday, Frymgpan was backed by the stable for a
considerable sum to win the V.E.C. Derby Little
Tattersall’s C.C. v. Coonanbara G.C., at Botany, ou
Saturday afternoon. The Coonanbara won by 16 runs,
scoring 77 to Little Tatt/s 61. By the way, what kind
of hats do the Coonanbara's wear? iiaoch Taylor
and Co. s Warehouse C.C. played their maiden match
on Saturday against H. H. Groth's Club, and the game
resulted in a draw, the scores being: Taylor C.C., 98—
Silly 32, Bryant 25, Hoolahan 13 ; Groth C.C. lost eight
wickets for 27 runs. Hoolahan took five wickets for 14
runs, and Lahiff three wickets for 13 runs.
•* - «
A ’Frisco coursing club employs three judges
instead of 0ne.......Dr. E. M. Grace made 108 f.r
Gloucester v. Somerset, on 13th July At the Gentle-
men v. Players match, A. P. Lucas played a remarkable
innings. At the close of the first day's play he had.
made 18 runs in an hour and forty minutes, and was still
jj ? oon nex t day he resumed his innings, and
added only two to his over-night score, bat he took an
now and ten minutes to make those two runs. The Players
won tho match by 87 runs Joseph Greaves, the wall-
known English jumper, who held the record for the
greatest standing wide jump ever accomplished in Eng-
land, 13ft. 71n, at Wood Park Grounds, Bardsley, on
September 18, 1875, died at Ashton on July 7. He was
also a capital high jumper, and won over a hundred
prizes in the shape of cups and medals before he joined
the professional ranks. Deceased was thirty years of
age.... Charles Archer,Lord Ellesmere’s private trainer
is reported to have won £20,000 over Wallenstein for
the Manchester Cap, £4OOO over Highland Chief for
the Exeter Stakes at Newmarket, and £lo,uoo over
Lowland Chief for the Stewards’ Cup at Goodwood...
By a singular coincidence, Mr. W. A. Long, the Ant 1
tralian sportsman, has selected to look after his young-
sters in England a trainer named Tom Brown. Tho
owner of Grand Flaneur has good reason to believe in
the name Panl Boyton, the celebrated swimmer, is
likely to accompany Hanlan, the sculler, oa his visit to
Australia The highest recorded score that has ever
been made with the military breechloader at the long
ranges of 800, 900, and 1000 yards, was made at the Mid-
land rifle competition recently, in SandweU Park, by
Corporal H. Bates, Ist Warwickshire Rifles, who scored
99 points out of a possible 105 In a match played
between the Orleans club and Eiekling Green in Ang.,
the former club scored in one innings the unprecedented
number of 920. A. L. Trevor scored 338, and G. F
Vernon 259 In August, at the Olympic Club’s Oak.
land Grounds, San Francisco, Robert Haley attempted
to beat the 109 yards amateur record. He failed to do sc,
but made the distance in the remarkably fast time oi
10 1-5 sec Pigeon shooting is now forbidden in
Holland In the last match against Yorkshire, Percy
M'Donnell hit Bates five times over the boundary with-
out moving from his crease. Bates remarked that be
had never seen such brilliant hitting In the An*.
tralian Eleven's match against Northumberland, tho
Newcastle wickets went down so fast in the second
innings that a spectator oried out, “ Why don’t you send
three in at once, to save time?" An amusing in-
cident took place in the Grand National Steeplechase at
Liverpool. At one of the fences there was a tumble and
a scrimmage, half-a-dozen,horses coming to grief. In
the hurry and confusion, Adams, the jockey, wh >
started from the post upon Liberator, hastily remounted,
and dashed home. When weighing in, he discovered
that the horse he had remounted was Ignition, and the
jockey who started on Ignition came in oa Liberator,
A man in England had a wealthy aunt, who he ex-
pected would leave him all her money. At last she
died and he was bequeathed £lOO. In disgust, he
determined to "bine" it on the tarf, so he wrote to a
bookmaker and commissioned him to put the money oa
the horse that stood at the longest odds for the Cam-
bridgeshire Stakes. The bookmaker took £lO,OOO to
£lOO about See Saw. As the world is aware, See Saw
won.
Mr. H. Slaughter, manager of the Eignold com-
• bination, died on Monday afternoon in Sydney of con-
sumption, from which be bad long suffered.
A Modem Drinking Song.
Pill high the bowl with Fnsel Oil I
With tannin let your cups be crowned !
If strychnine gives relief to Toil,
Let strychnine’s generous juice abound !
Let Oil of Vitriol cool yonr brains.
Or, animated, atoms brew—
And fill your arteries, hearts, and veins
With glee—and infusorial glue I
Vine 1 That died ont in '6B—
fool would have it back ? And how ?
The “ cup that wiU inebriate
And never cheer,” they sell ns now.
“ The conscious water saw its God
And blushed." What of it ? Don’t yon feel
That water knows the Drugger’s rod.
And blushes now—with Cochineal ?
Ah-h ! fragrant fume of Creosote!
Bewitching bowl of Prussian Blue Ij
Who would not soothe his parching throat
With your mild offspring, ll Mountain Dew ?”
Stronger than anght that racked the frame
And shook the mighty brain of Burns,
Surely ye'll set our heads aflame
Whene’er his festal day returns.
Bring on the Baer—fresh Copperas foam.
With Alum mixed, in powder fine ;
How could my foolish fancy roam
In search of whiter froth than thine ?
Thy Indian Berry’s Essence spread
Through amber wavelets, sparkling clear
Beaumbs dull Care—strikes feeling dead ’
And narcotizes Shame and Pear!
Par down thy bubbling depths. Champagne '
Drowned honour. Love, and Beauty lie—
They fought th’ unequal fight in vain—
Shall we, too, merely drink—and die ?
Sweet Acetate of Lead, forbid I
Pill every drink with pangs, and tell
What tortures could—and always did—
Anticipate the stings of Hell!
Then drink boys I drink! We never can
Drink younger 1 And we never will
Be men—or anght resembling man.
While prisoners have the power to kill I
Amen ! Prom Pre»zy*B screech of mirth
To maudlin Sorrow’s drivelling fl»>w
We’ll rave, through scenes unmatched on earth.
And not to bo surpassed below 1


RILEY BROTHE
386 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, [■
165 OXFORD STREET, J
GOULBUEN,
NEWCASI
AND
10 OOLBMAN STREET,
THE CHEAPEST D 3
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLC
THE originators
UOTED £5 BAI
BLACK SILKS, BLACI
EXTRAORDINARY SIECIAI
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS NOW
ALL PARCELS SENT BY 1
A Black Silk Dress Is always faahi
Cheapest in the end.
Riley Brothers have pleasure i
Country friends that their Parisi b
out the CHEAPEST AND BEjT
BILES ever seen in Australia.
Riley Brothers have determined
and give their customers a turn: —
Lot 1 A Beautiful Gros Grain Silk
2 Rich Corded Gros de Sues 6
8 Heavy Oordert Gros Eoyale I
4 Rich Drabs, Fawns and Grej
Suitable for Weddings c
parties.
FIFTEEN YARDS in each dr<
may have any quantity they like.
Patterns of those Special Silks w
for, and we will send full direotit
meat to Lidias requiring dresses m
All Parcels Packed Carefully, and
Free of Charge.
RILEY BROTHI
BALE WARE.
386 GEORQE-STEEET, NEAR
BRICKFIELD HIL
£5 PAt ily Bale.
L pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
0 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
2 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of White or Coloured
Stays _. ,
0 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2| yards Qambroon for
strapping
S yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
8 yards strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Bel to* pair of Braces
idor Poeket’kerohiefs
1 Sa .die Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. Ac.
Mot
2 Ladi
2 Ladi
2 pair
1 Ladi
1 pair
1 Lodi
2 pairi
1 Ladi
4 Infai
2 Infai
2 lutai
1 infai
Mj
2 Infa
1 Infa
4 doze
8q
Puff bi
1 Flan
2 Bibs
1 pair
1 Infa
1 In
So
i s
H
JBE
1 pai
1 lar
10 yai
20 yai
12 Sti
20 Wi
10 go<
6 yai
A
wearb
£5 Men’s Clothing JBS
Bate.
i Q,ii4 Tweed Coat. Trou- 1 pa.:
SOCIAL.
Last Thtiraday, tho Eastern Suburbs Horti-
cultural Society's Spring and Native Piower Show
■opened in the Garden Palace. The exhibits wore not
numerous; there were a couple of tables of wild flowers,
a shop »h >w of glassware, and an infinitesimal atten-
dance of the public VVe hoped it might bo livelier
next day; but that night the flowers withered.
• • •
The last Woollahra Private Assembly of this
season was largely attended on Friday, at Nithsdale,
and most of the drosses ware handsome. Notably so
was the rich brocade, ranging in delicate tints from
fawn to golden, worn by a married lady ; garlands and
buuchrs of flowers with old gold lace were used for
trimming, and for the stately belle’s hair, whioh was
worn iu a Grecian twist. Waltzes and polkas made up
three-f ourths of the programme. And “ lovely woman,”
with that phenomenal consistency Which renders her
so charmingly comical, said in oao breath —“ It’s time
balls stopped, it’s getting too warm for dancing and
iu the next lamented—” Isn’t it a pity there are no
more f ”
• • »
A cheery party was given by the bachelors at
Mr. John X-’diriax's, Darlinghurst Koad, on Friday.
Over three score of young ladies and gentlemen ac-
cepted invitations, and a capital night was spent.
Pretty programmes contained 23 dances, including the
" Koform Club (Quadrille,’’ and It was 3 o’clock ero Auld
Lang Syne and the National Anthem brought proceed-
ings to a close. A harp and violin made sweetly mellow
music, without the dinning noise which so often drowns
nil the tender inanity that he thinks it neoessary to in-
(livt on her, to help through the quadrilles Flags and
flowers were arranged about the rooms, and a plentiful
use was made of the fragrant and graceful drooping
wisteria blooms. Debating societies were wall repre-
sented among-the gentleman, and there were some naval
officers from the harbour. As ladies came from the four
points of tho compass, beauty was a cardinal feature of
the evening : a pretty face and dress 01 me from Pater-
sham, a fascinating pink from Burwood, sweat vivacity
from North Shore, and three bluo-bolles from Watson s
Bay. And when tho guests moved off, they agreed that
a handsome thing had been done by tho bachelors, as
well os by the host of the house.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Lawrence of Rose Villa,
Newtown, gave a party to threescore friends on Mon-
day, to celebrate the birthday of their daughter. Miss
Julia, who is now one year old. A marquee was erected
and a floor laid down in the side garden for the dancers,
where fl igs, foliage, and a zephyr breeze helped to)
make a xdaaeant resort during the watches of the night.
Those gems of utility, the portable gas-burners, were
used for lighting, and answered admirably. If the title
of belle belonged to any lady, it would certainly have to
go to tho spirited little hostess herself, who was the
life of the party, in her pretty blue satin, with ruff
neck, cream lace and pearls. Some six or eight name-
sakes (moreor less) were in pink, blue, and heliotrope,
with large gathered collars. Two anbum-haired young
ladies from Cook’s River dressed and danced with airy
(grace. A magnificent costume was worn by the wife of
•i well-known vocalist—blue striped satin and raoiro,
with bund and edging of block lace. From “just down
the street’’ came two sisters; one was studded with
rosebuds, the other studied by a large number of ad-
mirers. Some songs were rendered by Messrs. Hallo-
well and Lester ; and several young ladies found that
wisdom’s ways—when they led in the direction of the
Harden —w<-re paths of pleasantness. 21 dances were
Included in the festivities, between 8 and 4 o’clock, and
tan adjournment was made at midnight, in order to
struggle with a delightful supper, and to propose the
health, of Mr, and Mrs. Lawrence., and the juvenile
J ulia Host and hostess spared no exertion for their
guests.
More people attended the Sydney Amateur
Athletic Club Sports on Saturday tnan gathered the
previous week, and as a chilly morn turned to a flue
afternoon, and the dust on the lawn was a little less
bad, the promenade was a very fair one. Still, the anst
was thore, and ladies whose skirts were shortest were
tho moat fortunate. A grey cloth overdress, with throe
rows of blue satin kilting below, was genteel. A good
deal of notice was bestowed on an olive green satin,
the long polonaise having square lappols falling away in
(rout, and disclosing akTteu skirt of tho same material;
broad scalloped tSoru laoo was used for edging, and for
tho collarette, while a cherry ripe hat and a loose
necklet of ivy leaves on the bare neck completed the
effect. Taste was shown in a neat brown cloth, bunched
punier, uadorckirt of satin, and bonnet, to match
Equally good, though plainly made, was a slate watered
tun, with pluah. sides, under a black sunshade with
white design. A brocaded fawn satin bodice, and the
same material combined with dust brown satin in the
gathered skirt, was rich and showy, set off with corn
taoi*. A pair of pretty straw hats tempered tbo sun-
fhiue for two Stamuore sisters, fair and dark, who each
wore handsome black velvet. Mrs. Steel wore a fashion-
able cloth costume of dark brown, amply draped at the
back, with bow of stripad black and gold, long white
gloves. Two ring lotted sisters, who sandwiched la
between them, wore nicely dressed in violet silks, with
black satin bodices and beaded collars. A young Pad-
dington fiancee wore cream cashmere tastefully trimmed
with cardinal, and a sugarloat hat. A very pretty
su iUietio sateun, cream coloured ground and cardinal
flowers, and a Patience hat, were worn by a young lady
who walkt d considerably. A married lady from Glen-
more Road wore black velvet, richly crowelied, and sage-
green underskirt. A Mndgee medico pioneered the
wearer of a handsome myrtle green satin, elaborately
’rimmed with velvtt of the sumo colour; bonnet of the
latest style. A nice brocaded satin, of salmon tint, was
worn by Mrs. Griffith Jones, with dark green kiltings
below ; close fitting bonnet. Beside a young doctor,
walked the pretty daughter of one of Pyrmont s oldest
rut i lent-, iu elurat velvet and satin, with very flna
lateral ahirriu-s on the skirt; a snowy collar, shoulder
rosea, and claret plush hat of the Rubens type, com-
pleted an attractive ** it m.” Tho light flowered sateen
polonaise, and maroon si’k underskirt, were as simple
as the face was sweet, of a Petersham beauty. None
was neater than the mourning dress of a little Crown-
street brunette-bodice of black watered moire, sash
and bow of same on black cloth skirt, and all a perfect
lit. Two bonnets were entirely composed of violets;
and two or three hats, worn, it need hardly be said, by
diminutive damsels, were evidently meant to shelter
two in a'shower. Many glances of admiration (ell on
two bandsoms English girls in dark green cashmere
with satin trimmings; the jackets were double-breasted
with antique bronze buttons; grey plush hats with
osirich ftuthirs and humming birds thereon shaded a.
pair of blight faces. Peering under a close black
bonnet, and over a simple black robe, with a scarf of
brioche was a handsome, refined face from Woollahra
The niece of a Minister (of tho Crown, not the kirk)
wore rich garnet silk and velvet, large brunmel hat and
(eath-.r all sweet and on suiic. Evidently just created
wore two fresh, iannty drosses cf the new sateen, one
snowing chit fly maroon, tho other light violet colour;
tho tkiit iu each case being of deep, and ihe panier of
lighter shade. Bquare patches of dark shirring were
let in, tho arms were tight, but shoulders and hips
much puffed. The pair wore extremely l ratty in front,
and positively imposing behind. From Wyryard
H qua re camo k rich navy blue satin, with tartan kilted
under-robe and sa-h, ecru lace collarette. I rom the
sUe locality, a blue and black pair, young, nice.
Altogether, there were some excellent drosses, but
neither so many nor so dazzling as have been on the
awn on other occasions. His Exoe.lenoy walked
round, and viewed the sports for some time from the
.< smoking paddock.” And the German Baud tootled.
* • *
On August 3, at Madehnrst (Kng-.), Mr Oscar
■le SatfftS (sou of the late Yiecomt© de of Castle-
nau France), lately of Queensland, was m«med to
Miss Fletcher, youngest daughter of Mr. J. C Fletcher,
X)a e Park, iu the villaso church. The bride and
h»r four maidens were all in white, and the people of
i he smad village (so small that it only contains four
voters) showed their esteem for the young lady by
duiug the toad with festoons and flags the whole dis-
;,auso from her mother’s house to the little church,
where the ceremony took place. The marriage was in
wary way interesting : the pretty, picturesque old
ilurch the bridal procession—the choir in the van
-inking* “ The voice that breathed o’er Eden’’ —the
lathasiasm of tho villagers, to whom the young bride
111 endeared herself hy many years of kindnesses, the
■ratty drosses, and the impressive service; all com-
ming to make it so. Mr. and Mrs. de Badge went to
hi Continent for the honeymoon.
The rail and tram people have lately had QllitfS
n season of festivities, picnics, and balls following one
another like trams on a race day-only with more cer-
tainty and regularity. The reason of this muchness of
gaiety is that the Department is divided into several
branches, and each has a separate corroboree, It isn’t
likely that the genius who can drive an engine would
care to associate with a nfanwho can only drive a quill ;
while the officers, on the other hand, are rather exclu-
sive, because they consider the engineers such a /nsf
lot, and so fuel-ish. Tuesday was the offleera’ “ day
oat," so they took their wives and other fellows' sisters
to Botany. The dust on the road vtas laid by Mr. Tram-
vtay Eoberts’s new watering machine, and, soon after
arrival at the Sir Joseph Banks, dancing commenced to
music from the Young Australian Band. The dancing
was spirited, also varied. Borne kept to time, some
were “ specials,” who knocked down, but never stopped
to " pick up,” some moles went at express rate, and
others sedately processed at an “ up-Oxford-street-and-
round-the-oorner ” speed. Smith’s refreshments were
good and sufficient; speeches short and happy, but no
one o-mid respond for the “Ladies.” Oae young lady
remarked privately that she had a good mind to respond
for herseit; an-1, though single, she is not singular, for
most young ladies are always willing to do that, it only
asked properly. Many dresses were handsome, parti-
oularly an old gold pompadour sateen, worn by a lady
who is to gladden the heart of a superintendent; in
fact, a 'evan-ly parson. A lady from Bourke-street in a
figured sateen ; two ladles in cream ; and two in gray
pimpadour, looked charming. A coitain parish in
Surry Hills was represented in gray and red; and a
Woollahra belle appeared in cream and light blue.
Country as well as town officers mot at the picnic,
which terminated with the trams home soon after 6
o’clock.
« • •
For the past few weeks Bathurst has been lively
with balls, parties, etc. Every lady has felt it impera-
tive to invito a few friends to spend the evening, even
though the “spree” is followed by cold mutton for a
fortnight. The Volunteer Ball was a success every
way but financially. Sixty couples tripped it, the
majority of costumes being plain, but a few were fancy.
Two Bails were present, but the belle of the ball was a
married lady in pink and gold. Tne Volunteer Band
supplied music, and, at the conclusion of the Ball, the
guests resolved to subscribe and present the member!
of the band with a packet of prussic a«ld each.
• • •
Tamworth Mechanics’ Ball was one of the best
affairs the lownship haa seen. 40 couples danced till
nearly 3 in the morning, the string baud (piano, piccolo,
cornet, two violins) being first rate, as was also Mrs.
Qodbold’s catering. Amongst the ladles, it was thought
the honour of belle was divided between a tall young
lady from Marms-strcet, in black satin and silver
flowers, and a damsel from Pcel-street, in cream sateen,
swausdown, and pale bine flowers. A young lady from
Tamworth West was admired, in black cashmere and
old gold satin; and a cream and cardinal from Manns-
street was charming; also a Peel-street blonde in pink
and b aok lace. Other attractions were: a young wife
in white satin and cashmere, her sister, and a charmer
from the West in wnite and blue. The success of the
Mechanics’ first ball presages good ones in the future.
• • •
The Robert Burns Masonic Lodge will hold a
Garden Party at the fir Joseph Banks to-day, cele-
brating their annual gathering thus, instead of by the
usual ball. Messrs. Jones and Jacob, the bon. secs.,
have arranged for the thorough enjoyment of visitors,
and as the splendid pavilion is quite private and very
commodious, the innovation is sure to be a success.
First tram at 2.30 p.m , and ordinary ones hourly.
** * *
A fashionable marriage at the Synagogue, on
the 10th October, stylish suburban blondo and a gentle-
man from Walgeit The Bachelors Assemblies at
Needs’s, close on Friday. 13th prox. They have been
very popular, pleasant and inexpensive, and a wlns'-up
ball Uon the tapis During Mr. Tarleton s absence
with his daughter in Sydney, Mr. G. A. Kemp acts at
Police Magistrate at Hobart......Nambera of Sydney
and Melbourne ladies are expected to visit Hobart this
season ; and the local belles don't at all like the idea of
the island being overstocked The Swiss Village Fair
at Emerald Hill (Vic.) promises to be a big scoop for
“sugar”; the preparations are elaborate......A nrst-
rate fancy ball was given by the ladies oi Corowa, te
the children at Mrs. Beatty’s, Corowa seminary, lately,
when a pupil of five years’ standing departed. The
juvenile fancy characters were very good, and quite a
novelty for the picturesque little t0wn......0n1y a
limited number of tickets are issued for the ball on the
6th October, which closes the season of the Newtown
Eink ; as comfort is aimed at, not crowd. Oe Green s
band will play, and Mr. J. Coll man .?*
Ceremonies... The Permanent Way Branch of the Bail-
way Department held its annual ball in the Exhibition.
Building on Monday, when a very large number attended
Some of the fancy drosses were made with taste, but
the drosses were chiefly of a simple character. It was
4 o’clock as the hundreds of dancers poured out of the
building Cootamundra bachelors gave a bail last
Thursday, and, as it was show time, visitors were
numerous At Darling Point, the Dramatic Ciub
gave a performance,concert and ball,in aid of the Public
school. The Darling Point amateurs evidently know
what they need most The Mayor’s friends state
that he has decided to give a grand bail
in the Exhibition Building before tne end of
the year. Parties in the - past, and this ball
in the future, stamp Mr. Harris as a ladies man .....
At Dunedin, a grand fancy dress ball was engineered by
the Skating Club, lately. Over 500 attended, mos ly
skaters, who fetched ther own wheels and gilded round
on them till midnight, when dancing proper commenced.
But, before that hour, both round and square dances
were performed on the skates, the combination of skill,
however, being reached when the Maypole dance was
executed by a picked number of ladies and gentlemen.
Kolier-skates were used, and the novel ball was tho-
roughly successful So dull are times in the Hunter
District of late that pawnbrokers arc compelled to
take pledges on Sunday At a ball near New-
castle, several people ware invited as guests, and after-
wards asked to “ ante-up” towards the expenses. Ball-
givers should always let their friends clearly understand
which they are requesting the favourof—their company
or tnair caeh.. v ..Un Wednesday, 20th instant, Pyrmont
Skating Eink closed the season with a ball, when local
and Sydney ladies were present in foree. A damsel in
cream lustre trimmed with pink was pretty and neat.
Some skating evolutions were performed, and rofreeu-
ments were attacked at intervals At a dancing saloon
in a place not far north, there were twenty single
girls present one night, and eight babies, ihe pro-
prietor of the place is, of course, prepared to swear that
nothing improper goes on; and we could, at any moment,
find a Judge quite prepared to believe him,....-Bast
Thursday, Mrs. Alfred Eead’s great variety party filled
the Protestant Hall. Some pretty gins and dresses,
especially fancy characters, made a gay scene viewed
from the comfortable gallery. Dancing and singing
were the ohief amusements, and the refreshments w<ra
not d la Bums, but d la rush—those who were molt active
got biggest share. Wind up at 2 am,...., fhe Criterion
Assembly holds a private bad at Nitnsdale, 3rd Oct.,
and expects to have an enjoyable evening...... The leader
of a suourban church choir invited a number of friends
to a social evening lately, at his palatial residence.
Things went very slow at first, music a failure, and
everyone dull. At last, the pious incumbent took his
departure. In about fifteen seconds, the room was
cleared, and the first set, formed Those who were
suicidal a few hours before wont home in the early
morning as a boy with a new dog. But, Christian fnendf,
where do you think those wicked people will go to at
last ?
FASHIONABLE FIXTURES.
Ivanhoe Quadrille Assembly b Ball, (lowa OQ
Hal’) 4 ' 29>
Warrene Private Assembly Reunion (Hall s
Rooms) o>>pt.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) Bept. 23.
Criterion Assembly Ball (Nithsdale)......... Oct. *•
Kewtown Skating Kink Ball (Nithsdale).... Oct. 6.
Western Suburbs Musical Society’s Ball
(Burwood) o° 4 - «•
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) Oct. 13.
Bowing Club Ball (Parramatta) Oct. Id.
Better Bend the Colonial Architect to report on
the Arc Gallery before 500 people get smothered. This
is a straight tip. _ „ , , .
The Eastern Suburban Brass Band lost all their
insttuim nta at the Garden Palace lire.
The Punch aquatic trophy contests are the great
ar«nt3 of next week.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
Clergymen.]
Up at Dubbo, some uncivilised fellow who
couldn't sleep in church amused himself during 1 the
sermon by carving a name on one of Wnen
the clergyman found this out, he tiradod in a liery way
against the perpetrator of the outrage, and expressed
his wonderment at the fact that the hand of the vile
miscreant didn't wither during the act. The congre-
gation wondered also.
Tho oldest Presbyterian clergyman in Victoria
is the Rev. Thomas Hastie. of Buuinyoug. Daring bis
lifetime he has seen the city of Ballarat nee from the
primeval forest and grow to its present dimensions
He baa described how he was accustomed to ride
through the quiet silent country that in a year#
afterwards became the goal of thousands of red-shirted
miners. Notwithstanding his (city years active
ministerial work, ho has no intention of seeking to be
placed on the retired list.
At a meeting of Roman Catholio clergy and laity
held in Melbourne last week, councillor Anderson, a
plain-spoken energetic member of the City Corporation
gave a tew delicate home-thrusts to the O Shanassys,
Tobins, O'Briens, Shanahans and ether wealthy
sheepists” of that persuasion. He declared that the
slow progress in the building of St. Patrick's Cathedral
was a disgrace to the wealthy men of their denomma-
ti.n when they looked about and saw what was being
dona by the well-in members of other denominations.
Strange that ttie generous donation of £5OOO made by
Mr Francis Ormona to tno building fund of the Angli-
can Cathedral has not suggested a similar graceful act
on the part o I somebody towards St. Patrick s.
The Very Rev. Monsignor Paul Fortini, the
newly-appointed Pro-Vloar Apostolic for Northern
Queensland, is so religious that not a hair exists be-
tween him and Heaven. Paul is desirous that all the
clergy in his Vicariate should be equally devout, to
effect which he has framed and published in the local
papers rules for their temporal guidance. One of the
rules provides for shearing the head closely, but the
priests have kicked against compliance. Tne result is
that three old favourite priests in the Norih kaveffiid to
seek fresh fields and pastures new. Before eaving the
floene of his labours, one Irish cleno wanted to know
whether it was because the Pro-Vioar is barefooted oa
the top of the head that he wants “ us priests to make
ourselves the same." Paul is an Italian, and so the Mile-
sian ecclesiastics aver, threatens to gives the vacant
cures to his countrymen.
Accepting the Rev. T. J. Curtis as the mouth-
piece of the Presbyterian Church, it appears that we
have now a new definition of Sabbath observance-Said
the rev. gent, to Sir 'Enry They did not consider
that there should be a total abolition of trains and
trams, but they thought there should befewer. This
is very accommodating. It is like the old Scotch
parse/declining to pray for rain whae the wind waa in
a certain quarter. Here are the words of Pastor Sir
'Enrv in reply I think it is impossible to regard the
present traffic, as it is going on, with any degree of
satisfaction ; the difficulty is to know what is sufficient.
However, it is fitting that tho great Sawbath question
should have for Its final champion a man in urgent need
of the last consolations of what is now colled religion.
The •' olargy ” hove courted fight on the «nnasy
question; thty must now be prepared to meet defeat
all along their line.
It was only the other day that the oracle in the
Down and CUjhtriw informed an inquirer that if a
father died intestate, the eldest son was by law entitled
to collar •’ his ox. and his ass, and everything that was
his 1" This was rather alarming; but in tae next issue
we are informed that “ clergymen have a claim to say
anything they think proper in their addresses to the -
congregation.” Is that so ? Well. we’ll get “ run in
to thngospel-mill business next week, and rally the
D. and D.'s staff, libel jurymen, and a few other friends,
into onr maiden congregation; and, if we don t say any-
thing and everything “we think proper, ’ |T°P lt
for hick of doing our level best. It don t pay to say
these “proper" things on paper, so hsy 1 for the gown
and surplice 1
One of the chief causes of the petitions against
the Sunday trams and trains is that they aro slowly but
nurelv beggaring the suburban churches, and it is most
certain we shall soon have the rev. gentlemen looking
for work—a most desirable thing in view of our pro-
iected railway extensions. The signatures to the
petitions were, as a fact, obtained is the absence
“masters of the household," and it is now known that
many of the "mothers and daughters were cajoled
into signing. Since the running of the trams and trams,
tho returns from the churches at Bar wood, Croydon,
Ashfleld, Petersham, and Newtown have appreciably
decreased.
Suggested by the absence of a clerical luminary
from the pulpit of St. Andrew’s:
Oh, Mr. Jefferia! Mr. Jefferis. oh! “ Free-
thinkers are the only persons above childhood the
lecturer (who is the Eev. James Jeflens, LL.B.) ever
cares to address.” . To think that that arm should
deliver such an uniaistakeable facer. Tell it not in
Gath publish it not in the streets of Ascalon, lest the
daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters
of the uncircnmoisod triumph.' And oh . tell it not
to the Keverend Joseph Cook (the celebrated Boston
Monday lecturer). The hundreds of good, pions souls,
who never thought freely in their lives, who took their
pastors' words for Gospel and set the Gospel above
human instincts, and human love, and hnmau hopes,
remorselessly grinding out the poetry of their own and
their children's lives, until the name of a Cougre-
nationalist is become the synonym for Pharisee and
Matthew Arnold's “ Philistine,”—that they all should
now he toldfromhim by whom they swear, inferentinlly,
that, unless a man be a Freethinker, he's not worthy
the attention of the preacher 111 Seriously, we are
hannr to agree with Mr. Jeflens, seldom we can, unfor-
knnitelv • a Freethinker, in fact, is a man who is worth
panting; he is one, who, rightly or wrongly has
formed for himself an idea of the world, and of its
Maker and of man in bis relation to the world and to
God ■ he is one who is far from content with hearsays
aud traditions and faiths once delivered to the saints ;
he must stand on a bottom of truth, and not a thin rind
of greater or less approximation to truth. Men, of
this sort we eommend to Mr.; Jeflens s attention ; he
will find them vastly more influential than they seem.
The dominion of the world is passing out of the hands
of men who only pray, into those of men who act aivd
think beside, and pray little in order that their chanty
may abound more.
** * *
Archbiah. Vaughan gave a cool hundred towards
the t aanksgiving memorial for the o cape of Archbishop
Gooid from assassination. This, of course, naturally
fills the E.C. poor of tbe Sydney diocese with admira-
tion, if not with gratitude and bread It will pita e
many to know that the sale of articles last wee* at the
Chncoh Society Ecoms realised £3O for the conversion
of the two er throe hundred millions in India. The
Snssex-stieet heathen have all got their passes to
| Paradise,
The clerk eleepeth soundly.
The gas is gleaming bright.
The Dean droneth darkly
With all his little might.
The draught whistles by me.
Making me vow,
And ejaculate fiercely,
»< Ob, Ellis, where art thou ?
A month back this even
Since last I saw thy stole,
With doctrines full o( comfort
For my msthetic soul.
I thought 1 caught the magic.
And final wish’d “And now,’
Wo all of us are sleepy—
“ Oh, Ellis, where art thou ?”
I've sought thee at Darling-
hurst, Woolloomooloo,
Woollahra, and Waverley
Ay, College-street,* too.
I*vo sought thee ns prelate—
But we’va got another now;
I want thee in the pulpit—
« Ob, Ellis, whore art thou ?”
• St. Mary's.


w.
H. P A I
PIANOFORTE WAEEH
852 George-etroet, Sydi
KBUIM
m
mm
Hli
PIANOFORTES, PIANC
Just unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRBT.(
MENTS, by
ERAKD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL.
COLLARD and COLLAR!)
SOUPLETO.
BURDEN and C(
TEOST
AUCD
And other Plrst-olaes Makers, in
Black and Gold, and Wain
AMERICAN OKGU
by
BELL and CO.,
k WATERS and SON
SM
other Renowned P
H AHMONIU:
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE e
First-class Manufaoti
A Large Assortment ol New an<
ways on hand at
W. H. T A Im
862 GEORGE STRI
OPPOS 111 WTNYAE
BTDNET.
A IB x *
I l *' Messrs. L. M. Baylo«s
Mrs. M. 31ad8tane.Be
reserved seats at Nicho
8419 pfreet. t)oors open at 7.L
a tlo 15 TjAST Week but O
Clark and Btman B JHi
To -Night. Thursday, Sef
~T Mb W Horace Ri
Faurtn rj- 0M g AT iK<
Clark and Btmab’s I
immense Success of the Nev
IMSIE>3 Evekt So kg and A
received with Eathnalaatio
IjAST Week but On
Minstrels' Program
Quite New
Last Week but O
Last Week but 0)
' Lessee ;r:—:Mr
Treasurer n^"r the ma nagem«
-r- a —8 Williamson, Garner, a
poo« o7enilat7.ls; commence a
o « c iock. WEBK OP THE RI
***** and FOURTH WEEK
•dptT LTANTLT BUCCEBSF
BEIL THE LIGHTS O' LOI
written by GBOKQE R. 8;
THIS and EVERY EVENI
. o new and original Ora
wiU be acted a HO LIQHTi} 0 - LOl
. - „ nsual. Box plan open fr
Prl^ 9 gjx days in advance. Ticl
at Lloyd's, next theatre.
th ?, NO FREE LIST.
Hh. Theatre Royal is connected
ErchUe. Subscribers «m book
medians- __
mHEA T R E
X BRISBANE. QUEENS
TO LET,
For open dates appl;
GEO. L. GOOD
THEATRE ROYAL,
Op B R A B
Lessee and Manager ...
THIRD SUCCESSFUL WEI
Grand English Opel
MONTAGUE-TUR
Mr Chas. Turner P ropr
jlr. J. Scanl m !ss ANNISS MONTi
in her most charming role of _
and the Magnificent 1
MB. CHARLES TUR
the greatest DON CiESAR DE BA
“** To-night and a Few Nigh
MAEITaNA.
iriaa Josephine Deakin as Lfttarill
tiSm Jose; Mr. J. Gordon. King
Itn’hnm, The Marquis; Miss Sutherl
mb- Mr. E. Eamsden, The Captain; W
' Conductor, Herr KOTRAi
In active preparatic
THE LILY OP KILLAENEY (tl
Boot office and Bi.aU tickets at
Oeorge-street. Buy yeur tickets 1
Crashing to-night.
MACCABE.— LAST NIGH
MASONIC HALL. YORK
Lessee and Manager
LAST THREE NIG
of
FREDERIC MACCi
in his universally popular i
‘•BEGONE DULL C A
The popular an* artistic success
pending engagement is without I
audiences which, nightly honour his
the greatest and most brilliant evi
Masonic Hall.
The New Characters and 8n
Saturday evening with Unequivoci
repeated at each representation dun
Farewell Night
Revival of the Moral, Melancholy, ‘
entitled.
Vanquished Villant, or Virti
in which Mr. Macoabe sustains tl
Dramatis Person®, and achieves th«
rapidity.
Maocabe will revive many of his o
and vontrlloquial effects, " h
including his Original Pen
Mr. Solemn Sides. Miss Mart
Killer, and The Modern Mins
Remember This Fareweli
No After Performances can
R
A I N E
GREAT DIOEAMAS
AMERICAN
and EUSSO-TUBKIB]
QUEENSLAND TC
Commencing Albert Hall, Brisbar
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL
ZULU WAE,
COUNTRY TOU
OmN
BATHURST. TUBBDaY, 12
ORANGE, WELLINGTON, and
W. H. THOMPSON
LIEUT. HERMAN
TO THE OPERATIC AND
PROFESSION
NEW OPERA HC
WELLESLEY STREET, AU(
Sole Proprietor, H. N. -fl
THIS Magnificent Building is n<
THE MODEL Opera House
the Largest and Most Commodioi
Erected oa lastest models, it will b«
every Modern Comfort and Luxurj
the curtain) appertaining to t
Theatres in the Old and New Work
is perfect. All parts of the Houa
and egress from brood, light, and ai
precaution has bean taken to save
case of fire, and the Auckland City C
inspected and highly commended t l
to that end. Magnificently and
its Luxurious Private Boxes, Dn
chestra Stall*, together with its u
Stalls Accomodation, are features I
Colonial Theatres. This Opera
by the Williamson Patienee Com]
commencing from 23rd May last
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror for six
to be bed fro* both managements,
gars, Agents' “ Stars,” and Combin
aggly to the Proprietor for terms a
M a -
AND MRS. JAi
(MISS MAESTON L]
Arrangements completed for one
June Ist, 1383, under the ma
MESSES. GARNER, WILLIAMS!
VTBW TOWN HAL]
HALL OPEN POE El
FIRST-CLASS SCENERY, GAS
Applications for engagements fc
EBESEZ
s
OUTH'S OPERA
After a moat Successful Seas
will appear in
NAEANDEEA,
HAY,
And Victorian Towns to foil
H. J. WHITT
MISS MYRA
(Late Leading Lady of The
Melbourne, and Adelaide; and
Sydney.)
Is open to LEADING engagem
Theatre.
Can attend Amateur performano
ness, and will direct rehearsals if re
Address.- MANQOPLAH, Napier
street, Paddington.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE is
ladies as to their costumes 1
Ball, and will superintend their
Possesses Lacy’s “Book of Costnm
•* Costumes Historiques " (the only
N B.—To Let for Fancy Ball, a
Arc" armour costume, lately imi
from Paris, and never yet worn (
colonies) For terms, &0., ad
Napier-street, Off Dowiing-street, J
RAND NAVAL PEOMEI
GARDEN PALAC
Under the Patronage of His EXC
and LADY AUGUSTUS LOFTI
STEPHEN and LADY BTBPHB
and MAYORESS. Captain Hixaoi
Naval Brigade.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, OC
IN AID OF TH:
OOODENOUGH HOME,
MT H C
IMPORTER OS
WORKS OP A
GERMAN AND SWISS WO(
ARCADE BUILDII
SYDNEY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOE, has oon
practice of his profession! at
PITT-BTEEET, opposite t
News Oftiox.
BICYCLES AND TRI
SOCIABLE_I RIC '
THE LI CHIT RUNNING
The Lightest Sunning and Strong
For Racing, Eoad, or Tourist, the;
THE BEST INVESTMENT OP TH
The Latest Novelty is the Sooii
Cnshioned Seats for two persons,
know what real enjoyment is, shonh
TEICYCLE3 FOE B
The Latest Design. Cannot Upset
arms or collar bones. Travel with 1:
No Boy should be content till he
LIBERAL DISCOUNT to CLUBS
IEENNICK, KEMBLEY
88 CLARENCE BTE
SYDNEY.
A
%
D*W. CLAEESON, T.
JOHN
NEW
GARDEN SEEDS,
FOB PBBSENT SOWING.
A Collection of Twelve
Leading Varietiei of Veget-
able SEEDS, in Twelve
Sealed Packet*, sent free to
any address in New Sonth
Wales, on receipt of Stamps
for 3s. 01.
tar The quality of my
Seeds cannot be surpassed.
A trial will prave this state-
ment to be correct.
G. TEESBDBE.
NEW]
>r>
m
X
FLOWER SEEDS,
FOE PRESENT SOWING.
Twelve of the most Showy
Kinds for the Flower Qard
sent free by post to any a
dress in the colony on receip
of 2s. 6d. in stamps.
W Address direct to the
S Jed Stores and Nursery—
JOHN G. TEESEDEE, UNDERWOOD NURSERY, ALT STREET, ASHFIELD.
• WOOO W A R D’S OYSTER ROOMS,
85 CASTLEREAGS STREET, NEXT THEATRE ROYAL.
187 KING STREET. NEXT TELEGRAPH OFFICE.;
197 FZTT STREET, OPPOSITE FARMER’S.


Cable Address:
“ Clifford.”
Poi
Clifford Love, & C
EASTEEN MEECHA]
FOO CHOW,
CHIN
and
TOEK STEEET, STD
Execute indents for
TEAS INDIAN AND C
COFFEE,
BICE,
PEPPEES,
SPICES,
TAPIOCAS,
CHUTNETB.
INDIAN PEESEEYES,
CHINESE PEEBEEYE
„ SILKS,
„ MATTINGS,
„ SPECIALIT
Give Special Attention to the I
EASTEEN PEODUi
BIC Y C ]
ON
TIME PAYM
CLUBS SUPPLIED WITH EVI
JOHN DAN
119 LIVEEPOOL SPEKE!
PITT STREtI
BEAUTIFUL
OR
ALLWOOL
Jo TWEED
ft
SOLE AGENT ’FOR BLACI
ELECTRIC BIG*
J. W. WILLO
General 'Electric
95 MARKET STREET, I
and at London,
MANUFACTURER, IMPORTS]
Electric Bells, Batteries, Indicate
Patent Fire and Btftnla
Time a, lAflyfciag <imdncthrs, Mod
EXentto^KMachines, Blpc
Gumng S# PlaS'm? Maf&rial, Elect
on the latest most improved p
in London, Paris, &c.
Literal Discount to’thi
Indents of every description of Ele(
the most favourable 1
Estimates Submitted Frei
C. H. GLARKE Al
ELECTRIC
IFAprUBEES and Imp
ptCrs, Copper Win
llhiard Markers, Tl
Mining •ignals, Electric Bells fei
Apparatus and Batteries, Blast!
Estimates given for fixing same.
79 AECADE, KING STE
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Eolioious
Beverage,
*
£
*
o
y drink
s\\j y^
liquid yield*
ORDINARY
SOLD BY ALL G
OLD AND NEW S
Ee-Pi nted fron
THE SYDNEY MORNIN(
By Permission op the 1
BT
EDWARD HORDERN
MARTI
389 GEORGE (STREET, •¥DNET (opp(
The HOBNSBY-MARTIN
RELIABLE
STEEL STRIPPER
We wish the Farmers of N.S.W. to note that we were
the flfst to introduce
STEEL GEARING ON STRIPPERS,
and that no other firm in the colony can offer this improve-
ment. We state this, as our success has induced our com
petitors to call their Strippers steel, whilst they only c laim
their comb to be steel, a point whifih is given on the cheap-
est and commonest Strippers made. As this
COPYING OF THE NAME OP OUR STRIPPER
might confuse intending purchasers, we explain—
OUR HORNBBY-MARTIN 1882 STEEL STRIPPERS AR
For they are fitted with BEST WROUGHT STEEL OOMBFINGB
WHEELS, BEST WROUGHT STEEL EeA.TbRS, BEST WROU
Parmtrs, do not he misled, for it is just as redicnlous for our oompetitc
flngdrs are steel, as it i* for them to call their Road Wheel Wrosght Ir<
FARMERS, we guarantee to show you that our Horfllby-Moftin Relit
points to this so-called Steel Stripper, ahd all we ask intending purchaser
per with the Strippers of our competitors, and we know how they will <
own merits, not under fke name given by our competitors. Write for Pri
BEST
C° NSW
We shall
samples ol
made of tl
pie ever 1
guarantee
>€cause il
price, it w
of time, and loss of
TAILOR,
x
m
M. GOULSTON’S FIRST-CLASS WALKING SUITS.
M. GOULSTON’S SUPERIOR FROCK SUITS.
M. GOULSTON, FOR FULL DRESS SUITS.
M. GOULSTON FOR
LADIES’ RIDING HABITS.
Established 28 Years in Sydney.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, .£3 ss.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS, <£3 15a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. M
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. ,£4 4a.
M. GOULSTON’S SUITS. .£4 10a.
Warranted Shrunk, and Perfect Fit.
Suits to Measure on Shortest Notice.
58 MARKET STREET.
NEW GOOES EVERY MAIL FROM FIRST-CLASS HOUSES.
M
PEAPES& SHAW
PS ROME and CLYDE.
..T.r’AT.irn a „a RWAW bee to say that as they HAVE NO DESIRE TO DESCEND TO THE VULGAR
PT APTHAP AlfD S pERSONAL ABUSE OF THEIR BRETHREN IN TRADE, NOW (they regret to say)
RO MITCH THE FASHION a certain section of Drapers in this waref?i wl1 *
SiSiS?in theVarious classes of new goods recently opened.”
They are as follows
ALL THE NEW SPRING COLOURS IN OUR FAMOUS FLORA and CLEOPATRA KID GLOVES, from
alu two to twenty buttons.
TT71 - MVW MOTTfiOTIETAlRE SWEDE GLOVES CHILDREN’S KID GLOVE*, IN ALL SIZES rnd
THENEW B MOST FASHIONABLE LACE GOODS. CHARMING FRENCH
COLOURS. R TH? NEWEST ana a BEAUTIFUL VARIETY of DOLMANS,
3 Ini MANTLES, in LAOE, SATINS. and RICH SILKS. An EXQUISITEI ASSORT.
S T ONS^i^L^DR L ES3 ISwoBf^^
mSt
CHILDREN’S COSTUMES.
t fiviaTT FMFN’S DEPARTMENTS full assortments of GENTLEMEN’S SCARFS, TIES, and BOWS*
In our GENTLEMEN a_ DERAKiaiL^ 10 mu SHAPES, and COLOURINGS.
CHRISTY’S HATS, m all sVaP*V GENTLEMEN’S WHITE OXFORD and REGATTA SHIRTS.
Entirely new range* ot patterns In the two latter. >
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
Onr EARLY SPRING SHIPMENTS of the very best ENGLISH, SCOTCH, and FRENCH WOOLLENS are now
open, and onr friends would do well to pay us an early visit.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
PtAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
