

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9.-WO. 115
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1882.
Price—3d
bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1882.
Religions Instruction in Public Schools.
On Thursday night last week the ecclesiastical
section of the Anglican Church held another
utterly ineffectual meeting in reference to the
sectarian instruction which they desire to
imparted to pupils, the children of parents hold-
ing the Anglican faith, now attending Public
schools. The meeting was in its effects merely an
exposition ef impotence. There were present
little more than a dozen of the laity, and even of
that handful about half were ladies. This condi-
tion of affairs would, separately, be sufficient
indication that the movement to forward which
the meeting was held does not recommend itself
to the sympathies of the Anglican laity as a body.
But, in addition to that, there was internal evi-
dence at the meeting that divided counsels dis-
tract the Anglicans and paralyse their efforts. In
fact, it may be inferred from the report of the
speeches made, that even the persons present at
the meeting were, taken all round, of opinion
that while the resolutions submitted might be
tolerable under existing circumstances, they did
not touch the real root of the grievance which
weighed upon their minds.
• • •
Mr. Alexander Stuart, who occupied the
chair, in his opening remarks laid himself open to
a charge of Erastian tendencies. The Member of
Parliament spirit was stronger than the church-
man influence in his breast. His principles as a
sometime member of the Church Defence Associa-
tion remained theoretically unchanged, but with
him the principle of obedience to the temporary
power is supreme. *'Tho fact remained, he
said, “ that the country, by a large majority of
its representatives, had decided that the system
of public instruction which now obtained was to
be the system to be carried out; and, after all,
that was what they had to bow to in every matter
of law and order.” Mr. Stuart appeared to
blink the awkward circumstance that the matter
under discussion was not, properly speaking,
either one of law or of order, but a matter of con-
science. The doctrine of non-resistance revived
by Mr. Stuart could scarcely commend itself to
the ecclesiastics present or to the laymen of the
Church of England. At the same time it pos-
sesses the advantage that none of the supporters
of the existing system of education can con-
veniently turn the argument as a weapon against
those who by their silence seemed not to reject it.
• • •
Until Mr. Shepherd Smith broke the spell,
the speaking was hesitating and half-hearted.
The Bishop of Newcastle seemed to be arguing
against his convictions. There can be no room
for mistake. To any man who sincerely holds
that the particular doctrines of the Church of
England are necessary to salvation, or offer an
easier avenue to eternal happiness than any other
doctrines afford, the Education Act, as at present
administered, cannot be regarded otherwise than
as an accursed thing—an invention of Satan, and
not to be touched, tasted, or handled. The poor
Bishop of Newcastle was plainly in a dilemma,
and succeeded in little besides showing that he
hardly knows his own mind. Ho halted between
tvo opinions. “He was not there rough
or smooth things about the system.’ This is
scarcely the attitude to be expected of a Bishop,
and when the wavering of a clergyman so highly
placed is seen, the impotence of the Anglican body
becomes comprehensible. Sheep without a shep-
herd—except Shepherd Smith.
t • •
Mr. Shepherd Smith, for an unlicensed tender
of the flock, does not handle the crook inexpertly.
He put the subject before his hearers upon a
logical basis directly. He told the meeting, what
the beggarly array of empty benches should have
informed them, that they were trying to accom-
plish an impossibility. Any man of common sense
must agree with Mr. Smith that for the Anglican
organization the idea of giving special religious
instruction in the Public schools of the colony is
a chimera. Consider how numerous these schools
are, how widely distributed throughout the colony,
and how far apart one from another. The An-
glicans, in order to effect appreciable results,
would have to support nearly as large a staff of
visitors as the State now employs teachers. This
is plainly out of the question. And, even were it
possible to provide funds to meet expenses so
enormous, the effect could not be comparable with
that which could be much more cheaply produced
by the maintenance of Denominational schools.
If the authorities of the Church of England in
t.Viia colony be content to admit that the particular
doctrines of their sect are mere inessentials, and
a “ common Christianity ” all that is needful for
salvation, they need never have troubled to have
had separate schools at all. Otherwise, they have
no logical option save to confess their impotence
to rectify what the Education Act has done, and,
so lamenting, admit that they can do nothing to
appreciably remedy the disaster.
• • »
Mr. Smith told an uncomfortable truth when
ho declared that the system of Education at-
tempted to be established in New South Wales
was a system of Protestant education. He might
with equal force have gone further and have stated
that it is a system of Evangelical Protestant
education ? and a proselytising system at that.
The Act is a fraud. Its supporters justify it on
the grounds that it provides unsectarian education ,
and must, therefore, deal equally with all. This
is a shallow pretence. Unsoctarian the educa-
tion under the Act is not. It is distinctly
Christian, and the system of teaching conveys the
Christianity ef certain sects which, in England,
would be termed the Dissenting on Non-conformist
bodies. There is just so much dogma taught in
the schools as satisfies the professors of Evan-
gelicapChristianity, and, in their opinion, suffices,
with a little filling in at Sunday-school, to turn
out a very satisfactory Wesleyan, Congrega-
tionalist, Presbyterian, or Baptist. When it is
borne in mind that the raw material to be
converted into the finished article comprises the
children of Roman Catholic, Anglican, Unitarian,
Jewish, and Rationalistic parents, it is easy to
perceive the force of Mr. Shephekd Smith’s
denunciation of the system as one of “ downright
wrong and injustice.”
• • •
The Present Education Act is the work of a
Parliament which comprises, according to the
statement made at a dinner to Orange delegates,
by brother the Eov. Dr. Gilchrist, twenty
Orangemen, eleven Roman Catholics, and a resi-
duum of Protestants, mainly elected through the
influence of the Orange lodges. The Act_ is
satisfactory to the extreme Protestant majority,
including the twenty Orangemen. Now, it is
quite obvious that any religious arrangement
which is effected to their own satisfaction by
Orange influence must be intrinsically distasteful,
repugnant, and probably unjust, to many
Anglicans and to all Roman Catholics. A purely
secular system would be distasteful likewise,
but it would not bo unjust. All sects
would then be on an equal footing, even the
Rationalists, who would, like the rest, still have
much to teach their young, beyond what the text-
books and ordinary curriculum afford. It un-
fortunately happens that dogma has so long been
regarded as identical with morality that when
dogmatic teaching is eliminated from school text-
books there is no moral system left behind.
* » •
There is but too grave reason for believing that
the dominant sects have in this educational device,
seemingly so successful, overstepped the mark.
The present arc scarcely the times when the incul-
cation of religious precepts can be limited and
narrowed down, without direct and serious con-
sequences. At no previous time has public morality
been more debased, or the force of conscientious
conviction been weaker. Indifferentism and un-
belief have never been more widely spread or more
powerful. The rising generation shows itself
impatient of all control, both parental and moral.
The higher intellectual stratum of society is honey-
combed and pervaded by a supercilious philosophy
which smiles in a superior manner at revelation,
yet produces no fruits comparable to those once
G 'elded by the faiths so lightly superseded. The
wer strata have shaken off the old superstitious
terrors which had so long and so effectually held
their baser natures intanbjeotion. The brutal classes,
who never were competent to appreciate the tender
side of Christianity, or to comprehend what is
signified by the love of God, have east away the
once effective restraints imposed by the fear of the
Devil. This is a dismal strait. It is only now
that the world realizes how useful and beneficent
the Devil has been. So long as the dangerous
classes believed in the Devil and Hell, there was
some safety for society. The man who would not
tell the truth for righteousness’ sake, and who
felt no need to be honest and orderly for the love
of his Maker, or, like the philosophers, from appre-
ciation that virtue brings its own reward, feared
to commit perjury while he believed that Hell
gaped for the forsworn, and hesitated to do wrong
while he imagined that a personal Devil lurked in
the shadow of Death with tortures proportionate
to a man’s offences.
• • •
The triumphant supplanters of denominational
schools may,—we believe will—yet learn that they
have allowed sectarian animosities to carry them
too far. There is assuredly no school system which
can supply the place of religious teaching in the
homo circle. Indeed, if that be competently
attended to, it matters little whether religion is
taught in school to children so bred up at all. But
the whole drift of the prevailing arguments is
that nothing is to bo expected of parents. It may
be observed that respecting domestic religious train-
ing there was not a word in the discussion at St.
James’ school room, and the same omission is per-
petually recurring. One hears a good deal about
the Scripture lessons in the school books, and a
very great deal about the efficiency of Sunday-
school teaching. But of parental teaching very
little. It seems to be taken for granted that
fathers are all too busy to bo able to implant
religions precepts in the minds of their offspring.
Too busy with what ? Adding luxuries to neces-
saries ! Valuing an extra pound a week, or
thousand a year, before their children’s highest
interests!
• • •
But this point—home influence —is really a vital
one, and has special bearing upon the subject of
religious education in public schools. There are
thousands of houses in the colony where religious
or moral training and example are utterly want-
ing- There exists a large class of persons who are
not alone indifferent to all shades of dogma, but
to that more effectual influence —morality. The
children reared in such homes never hear the name
of God used, save in an imprecation. Of principles
of action, rules of living, and distinctions of right
and wrong, they are given no idea. They never
visit Sunday-school, and are outside all decent
influences and teachings, save such as are
brought to bear upon them incidentally in
the public-school curriculum. While denomi-
national schools existed, religion of one kind or
another ran through the whole texture of the
teaching. What is to become of such children
now P We contend that any sort of Christian
teaching is preferable to no moral instruction at
all. It would be better that these unlucky little
ones should be indoctrinated with Wesleyanism,
Anglicanism, Roman Catholicism—any Christian
’ism in fact—than that they should grow up igno-
rant of the very existence of moral responsibili-
ties. As to the argument that it is undesirable
that the rising generation should, while young
and plastic, have their minds prejudiced by being
brought up separately, in sectarian institutions,
there seems slender force in that when every effort
is still made by each denomination to supplement
the Public School tuition with just the very dog-
matic instruction in Sunday school, which is
deprecated as prejudicial if imparted in Public
Schools. And there is a still more potent argu-
ment against the pretence of a desire to obliterate
sectarian distractions. No sooner does a pupil
attain manhood than he is assailed with invita-
tions to join sectarian societies, Orange, Hiber-
nian, or what not, whose sole raison d'etre is the
perpetuance of those very sectarian animosities
and distinctions which members of these societies
profess to be anxious to obliterate, when dealing
with national education.
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie,
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVI,
DENT SOCIETY.
Dr. Walter Fawkes Mackenzie, whose por-
trait we give this week, was born in Lancashire,
England, in 1835, and having adopted the practice
of medicine as his profession, took the degrees of
L.S.A. (London) and M.E.C.S. (England) in 1859,
subsequently graduating as L.E.C.P. (Edinburgh)
in 1861. Shortly after receiving the last mentioned
diploma from the Edinburgh College—then as now
considered one of the best medical schools in the
world, —Dr. Mackenzie decided upon pushing hia
way in Australia. He arrived in N. S. Wales in
the following year, and at once commenced the
practice of his profession at Maitland, where after
some time he became associated in partnership
with Dr. Morson. His health not being satisfactory.
Dr. Mackenzie determined to try what a change
of locality would do for him, and accordingly
removed to Wallerawang, benefiting materially
by the change. With the restoration of physical
vigour came a resolution to try a wider field for
his professional talents, and Dr. Mackenzie re-
moved to the metropolis, where he commenced at
once to build up the extensive practice which hia
abilities entitled him to look for, and which he
now enjoys. The high reputation which Dr.
Mackenzie attained, alike as an able physician
and as a man ef integrity and principle, secured
for him in 1876 the appointment of Chief Medical
DR. W. F. MACKENZIE.


HOP BIT
ABE
THE PUREST 4B
MEDICINE EVER
They are Compound#
Hops, Buchu, mandrake
The Oldest, Best, most B<
Valuable Medicines in the
in addition, contain all i
most effective curative pro
other Bitters, being the g
Regulator, Blood Purifi
and Health Restoring Age
Ask your Druggist 01
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, and
use, Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bittei
drugged, drunken nostm
Purest and Best Medicin
and no person or family sh
out it.
VAZiUABLE TB
If you are suffering froir
®r languishing on abed of i
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will C
If you are simply ailin
Weak and Dispirited, wi
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will B
If you are a Minister, a
taxed yourself with your pi
or a Mother, worn out v
work.
Hop Bitters Will
If you are a man of
labourer, weakened by the
every-day duties, or a m
toiling over your midnigh
Hop Bitters Will Str<
If you are suffering fro:
or drinking, any indiscret
tion, or are young and gre
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will B<
If yeu are in the worl
farm, at the desk, anywl
that your system needs C
ing, or Stimulating, wit]
ting.
Hop Bitters is Whal
If yon are old, and your
impure, pulse feeble, yo
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give Y
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an ele
and refreshing flavouring
drinks, impure water, <S
them harmless, and sw
mouth, and cleansing the
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ER
with
HOP BUT
ftad yo* will have no siokm
MOBTTEFIORE, MBTC
65 PITT STREET, STDI
General Agents for I
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGIN!
MOST DELICIOUS 1
FREE PROM ALL ADL
Officer to the Australian Mutual Provident
Association, a position the duties of which Dr.
Mackenzie has since discharged in addition to his
private practice, with credit to himself, and with
marked advantage to the Society. Of this ad-
vantage no better proof could be adduced than
that lately afforded by the result of the laborious
and searching investigations by Mr. Black, the
Actuary of the Society, and his assistants, into
the mortality experience of the Society. One
fruit of these investigations has been to
demonstrate how remarkable has been the
success of the medical examinations in pro-
tecting the Society from the admittance of
bad—in a medical sense—lives. As chief medical
officer of the Society, Dr. Mackenzie has arduous
and most responsible functions to discharge
Besides personally examining annually about 400
applicants for assurance, he revises the examina-
tions of the travelling and provincial medical
referees, to the extent of about 2500 cases yearly.
Dr. Mackenzie’s extensive experience and his
enthusiasm in the work have developed his natural
fitness, so that he has now become a most pro-
ficient expert in this particular branch of his
profession. He is at present engaged in an
investigation into the causes of death among the
members of the Mutual Provident Society, an
undertaking which promises to be fruitful in most
interesting results. Dr. Mackenzie is a deserved
favourite with all classes of those who pass
through his hands. His businesslike tact and his
genial address put people at their ease at once, and
renders the process either of diagnosis for a
cognate disease or of investigation for life
assurance purposes, easy even to the most nervous
subject.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Chief Justice and the Press.
Sm James Martin lias seized the first available
opportunity of replying to the strictures of the Press.
Being banqueted at Young, the Chief Justice spoke
with obvious reference to the fermentation in the public
mind In consequence of the miscarriage of justice in
The BcLLHTiN-Clontarf case, for which ho, as one of
the Judges who refused the defendants’ appeal, has
been blamed by almost every newspaper not only in
this colony, but in Australia. Sir James consequently
employed the suggestio falsi when ho conveyed to his
bearers at Young that ho had as censors only " one or
two papers.” Equally unfortunate was the Chief
'Justice's complaint that those “ one or two papers ’’ —
really the whole Press of the colonies—had *' desired
to question the impartiality of the Judges, and ani-
madverted upon the law, certainly not with wisdom,"
As a matter of fact, the comments of the newspapers
have been addressed not to the demerits law, but
to a flagrant instance of mal-administration; and
journalists have been so for from having “desired”
to question the impartiality of the Judges,
that, in every case that we can recall, the
necessity for confessing that some recent decisions
Lave been irreconcilable with the idea of judicial im-
partiality has been only admitted accompanied with
expressions of the profouudest regret. His Honor is
reported also to have said that “ unfortunately there
bad Vteen in the colony in recent times men who, in
connection with the Press, sought to under-value the
position of a judge.” Sir James has evidently allowed
some confusion to affect his ideas. No one has at-
tempted to under-value the position of a Judge. On the
contrary, on every hand the Press has evinced the
highest appreciation of the position bv showing that
they do not consider that partial, weak, or vain men
competently fill it, or do it honour. The pettish re-
marks of Sir Jambs Martin display his owu position
beyond mistake. Journalists have been for some time
complaining that, as the Supreme Court is at present
constituted, the liberty of the Press is endangered, and
a Supreme Court tyranny is likely to be substituted for
it. It has been asserted, not by one or two, but by a
great number of journals, that there has been a dan-
gerous disposition on the part of some judges to forget
that theirs is a station, not of power, but of trust.
The highest, the noblest trust, which could be re-
posed in any man, is vested in the judge. He needs no
other distinction than to have worthily fulfilled his
appointed function. But when it so happens that the
grand position is thrust upon a small-souled man, such
a person is almost sure to be blind to the crown of
honor held over his brows, and to take to fumbling for
distinction with the muck-rake of vanity in the slime of
personal power. We have often thought that when
under certain circumstances, evidence of contempt of
court crox>s up, it is not the person who feels contempt,
but the judge who has given occasion for the feeling,
who should bo punished. No true man can help feeling
contempt to a vain, passionate, obstinate, or partial
judge. It would bo a most unhappy thing if any true
man could. No man should bo punishable for feeling
contempt for a contemptible man, or for a contemptible
act of a man not always contemptible. The Chief
Justice, even iwhen complaining that credit has not
given the judges for dispassionateness and impartiality,
has in the same breath proclaimed a duello, and has
even hinted at a vendetta. To the complaints of the
press that there is danger of a Supreme Court tyranny,
and that there has been a deplorable tendency among
the occupants of the bench to “stick to a brother
judge” right or wrong—in short to form an alliance
against press and public. Sir James retorts that there
is great danger lest the press should become a tyrant
instead of an instructor. ' Sir James used to have a
reputation as a debater. Is it an evidence of failing
powers that his best argument takes the paltry form of
a fa quoquef
Mr. Cracknell and the Press.
In the reports which influonceed the Hon. tho Post-
master-General to issue the now notorious ukase affect-
ing Press telegrams, Mr. Cracknell, the Superinten-
dent of Electric Telegraphs, committed himself to some
carious statements. After recounting the concessions
in respect to rates of payment which had been allowed
to the Press, Mr. Cracknell proceeded to report that
it was subsequently discovered that the Press abused
tho concession to such an extent that it became neces-
sary to re-consider the matter. This was a very
serious charge to bring against the Press. Mr. Ceack-
jtbll should have had strong grounds before he
officially reported that the Press had abused a privilege.
The charge is twice repeated, the same term being
employed on each occasion. But, on reading the
statements with which Mr. Cracknell supports his
allegation, one discovers that he adduces no instance
whatever of abuse. What he terms abuse was merely
«so. The Press availed themselves of the concessions
toads to aa extent which altogether exceeded the ex.
pectations of the Department. Therein lay the whole
head and front of the offence which the Snperiutendent
of Telegraphs characterizes as an abuse. Mr. Crack,
sell stands convicted of a perversion of terms. Had
the Press taken any unfair advantage of the special
rates—had they, for instance, transmitted, or attempted
to transmit private messages under the guise of news
despatches, that would have been an abuse. But it
must have been foreseen that the special rates would
encourage the transmission of longer messages than
had been previously customary, and the mere circum-
stance that the extent of the extra business done
exceeded the anticipations of the Department, as-
suredly did not justify Mr. Cracknell in poisoning the
Minister’s ear with unfounded allegations of improper
dealing on the part of the Press. There is another
assumption in a subsequent report by Mr. Cracknell
which partakes of the character of an impertinence.
“ The public will,” he remarks, " complain respecting
the detention of business telegrams, to give way to
* uninteresting matter for the Press.' ” Upon what
does Mr. Cracknell found his pretensions to
be the judge of what is, or is not, interesting
Press news f Does the Superintendent of Elec-
tric Telegraphs design to initiate a system of official
censorship over the contents of Press telegraphic dis-
patches, and to grant or refuse transmission according
as the officers of the department wore pleased to regard
the news as interesting or dry ? This is merely far-
cical, but Mr. Brown appeared quite unconscious of
the absurd figure he caused his subordinates to cut, by
reading these reports. There is, however, more serious
matter in the same reports. If wo are to take Mr.
Cracknell’s statements seriously, it would appear that
the telegraphic system of the colony has almost reached
the limit of possible expansion. Even were Press tele-
grams to be reduced to their pristine proportions,
telegraphic business Is rapidly growing, and private-
business messages must shortly impose upon the De-
partment quite as much work as has of late had to bo
undertaken with the Press business thrown in. It
seems that when such a point is reached, the Depart-
ment must break down. “ The erection of additional
wires,” reports Mr. Cracknell, " will hardly meet the
case, as it will not only bo costly but difficult, as in the
case of the Northern circuits; the poles to Maitland
are already overloaded with wires, and another route
for a separate and distinct line cannot be found." This
Is definite and final. Another route cannot be found I
In this direction, then, (the Department is almost at the
end of its tether. Mr. Cracknell’s ingenuity is ex-
hausted. Progress and expansion of business cannot
be provided for. Surely Mr. Cracknell proves just a
little too much to be good for his own reputation as an
officer of capacity and resource.
“ The Bulletin Libel Fund” committee are systemati-
cally working up the movement to liberate Messrs.
Haynes and Archibald from Darlinghurst Gaol, and
to obtain an amendment of the present oppressive law of
libel. About £2OO have already been received, and
about £lOO are expected from Newcastle. The com-
mittee are confident that the required sum—about £7OO
—will “eventually" be forthcoming. Meanwhile,
however, the prisoners have been about a month in gaol.
♦ -
Som> of the highest authorities in Now Caledonia
favour the idea of laws prohibiting the sale of firearms
and ammunition to the South Sea savages. The con-
ception looks remarkably well at first view. But it
will not stand the test of practice. It is not a novel
idea even as regards Australia. The Government of
Queensland, during the Premiership of the Hon. John
Douglas, actually promulgated a regulation to that
effect. The exportation of firearms and ammunition to
the Islands from Queensland ports was prohibited.
But the gunsmiths and ironmongers of Brisbane raised
such a pother, and were so stoutly backed up by other
tradespeople, that the Government was fain to rescind
the regulation. This they did the more readily because
the complainants were able to show that it would really
be only effectual in hampering Queensland tradesmen,
not in checking the sale. Firearms and ammunition
being in great demand in the Islands, would be supplied
from Sydney, or by German traders in the South Seas.
Or if not by these, then by smugglers. To prevent the
open traffic would require an international compact,
imposing obligations on every flag which flies over the
ocean. To prevent illicit traffic even such a compact
would be insufficient.
♦
It has become a common practice with a class of news-
paper writers to twist language and misapply terms so
as to suit their own pre-conceptions and insidiously
prejudice the minds of their readers. Even in the cable
news-messages which reach the colony from Europe
this is common. Tunisian Arabs maintaining a hope-
less but patriotic struggle against French invaders, are
invariably “insurgents" or “rebels." We lately read in a
Loudon journal circulating among fashionable people
a list of Irish outrages for the week ending so and so
in which the writer had with unconscious irony included,
beside accounts of murdered process-servers, such items
as the seizure of the plant of the Irish Times and the
arrest of two men on suspicion of something. A fresh
instance of this tendency to colour facts by the terms
in which they are stated, is furnished by the correspon-
dent at Noumea of the S.M. Herald, when narrating
the expedition of a detachment from H.M.S Cormorant
against a native village at Espirito Santo. The party
stole upon the village during the night, and attacked it
at the dawn, hoping to surprise the aenizens, who, how-
ever, warned by their dogs, escaped into the thickets.
The officer in command headed his men In a dash after
the fugitives, and was shot. The correspondent thence-
forth refers to him as “ the murdered lieutenant.” This
is a sickening affectation. The plucky officer was killed
with arms in his hands, leading on his men to open fight
Had he or his men shot any of the natives, he would not
have been a murderer. They shot him. It was open
war and a fair fight. To employ the term •• murder "is
absurd. It is by such artifices that national passicn
and party rage too frequently are excited without reason-
able cause. Let the public have their facts wilheut
factitious colouring.
New Victorian P.M.’s—Messrs. Nicholson,
Hare, P. L. Smyth, and G. D, M'Cormack.
Major Geach, who is not satisfied with the .£725
damages awarded him as compensation in re the Joli-
mont railway smash, has been refused a new trial.
Zola, the great French writer, was poor and un-
known till he wrote “ Assommoir .** It was fearfully
disgusting, so he became at once a lion of society, gold
showered on him, and belles of the fashionable drawing
rooms smiled and threw open their doors. His last
Bonilld/* with VadultJre bourgeois for its
edifying subject. It is a misfortune to letters that the
man has the faculty of making language photo-
graphic to an extent never surpassed shoold seem to
have an insatiable appetite for ail that is revolting in
the lowest phases of life.
Daniel O’Connell on the Press.
The following is an extract from Daniel O’Connell’s
speech to the jury at the trial of Mr. Magee. Though
it does not in all parts bear directly on the question
now at issue in this country, there may be found
Points of similarity"
“ Gentlemen, —yon are now to pronounce upon a pub-
lication, the truth of which is not controverted. The
cate is with you, it belongs exclusively to you to decide
it. His Lordship may advise, but he cannot control
your decision; and it belongs to you alone to say,
whether or not, upon the entire matter, you conceive
it to be evidence of guilt, and deserving of punishment.
The Statute-law gives or recognises this your right. No
jury ought to allow itself to be dictated to.
“ If the contrary doctrine were established, see what
oppressive consequences might result. At some future
period, some man may attain the first place on the
bench; through the reputation which is so easily re*
quired—by a certain degree of churchwardoning piety,
added to a great gravity and maidenly decorum of
manners. Such a man may reach the bench—for lam
putting a mare imaginary case:—Ho may be a mau
withont passions, and therefore without vices : he may
be, my lord, • a man superfluously rich, and therefore,
not to be bribed with money; but rendered partial by
corrupted by his prejudices; such a
man # inflated by flattery, and bloated in his dignity, may
hereafter use that character for sanctity which has
served to promote him, as a sword to hew down the
struggling liberties of his country—such a judge
may interfere before trial, and at the trial be a
partisan!
** Gentlemen, should an honest jury—Conld an honest
jnry, (if an honest jury were again found) listen with
tbe dictates of such a judge f I repeat, that
the law does not and cannot require such submission as
has been preached; and at all events, gentlemen, it can-
not be controverted that, in the present instance—that
of an alleged libel, —the decision of law and fact belongs
to you, lam then warranted in directing to you some
observations on the law of libel; and in doing so, my
intention is to lay before you a short and rapid view of
the causes which have introduced into courts the
monstrous assertion— that truth is Crime!
“ 14 I* t 0 be deeply lamented that the Art of Printing
was unknown at the earlier periods of our history. If,
at the time the Barons wrung the simple but sublime
Cwaiter from a timid, perfidious Sovereign—from a
violator of his word—from a man covered with disgrace,
and sunk in infamy if, at the time when that Charter
was confirmed and renewed, the Press had existed, it
would, I think, have been the first care of those friends
of freedom to have established a principle of liberty for
it to rest upon which might resist every future assault.
Their simple and unsophisticated understandings could
never be brought to comprehend the legal subtleties by
which it is now argued that falsehood is useful and iunc-
cent, and truth, the emanation and the typo of Heaven,
ammo They would have cut with their swords the
cobweb links of sophistry in which truth is entangled,
and they would have rendered it impossible to re-estab-
Constitutiou a^'Ce wlthoHt Tiolatln K a principle of the
When the Art oflPrinting was invented, its value to
every sufferer, its terror to every oppressor, was soon
obvious. Therefore, means were speedily adopted to
prevent its salutary effects. The Star Chamber-the
odious Star Chamber—was either created, or, at
least enlarged and brought into activity. Its pre-
036c> ngs were arbitrary, its decisions were oppres-
sive, and injustice and tyranny formed into a
system. To describe it in one sentence, it
was a prematurely packed jury. The Star Chamber
was particularly vigilant over the infant struggles of
the Press. A code of laws became necessary to govern
this new enemy to prejudice and oppression. The Star
Chamber adopted, for this purpose, the Civil law as it
“ law of-Kome-not the law at the periods
of her liberty and her glory, but the law which was
promulgated when she fell into slavery and disgrace,
and recognised this principle-that the will of the
prince was the rule of the land. The Civil law was
adopted by the Star Chamber as its guide in proceed-
ing against and in punishing libellers; but, unfortu-
nately, only part of it was adopted-and that, of course,
was the part least favourable so freedom. So much of
the CivU law us assisted to discover the concealed
libeller, and to punish him when discovered, was care-
fully selected; but the Civil law allowed truth to be a
defence—and that part was carefully rejected ?
item the Star Chamber, gentlemen, the prevention
and punishment of libels descended to the Courts of
Common Law ; and, with the power, they seem to have
inherited much of tht spirit of that tribunal. Servility
at the bar, and profligacy on the bench, have not been
wanting to aid every construction unfavourable to free-
dom; and, at length, it is taken as granted, and as
clear law, that truth or falsehood is quite immaterial
constituting no part of either guilt or innocence ?
. f. would ™ Bh to examine this revolting doctrine; and
“ f 80 » 1 am Proud to tell you that It has no other
foundation than in the oft-repeated assertions of
}® w /® r 8 . aud Judges. One servile writer has
stated this doctrine, from time to time, after another—
and one overbearing judge has re-echoed the asser-
turn of a time-serving predecessor-and the public have
eubmitted. 1 do, therefore, feei not only
gratified in having the occasion, but bound to express
my opinion upon the real law of this subject. I know
that opinion is but of little weight. I have no pro-
fessiODal rank or station to give it importance: but it
is an honest and conscientious opinion, and it is this •
that, in the discussion of public subjects and of the
administration of public men. truth is a duty and not a
crime. u
" I’ ol, P art * l frankly avow that I shudder at the
scenes around me. I cannot, w.thout horror, view this
interfering and intermeddling with judges and juries •
? 8 7"“ to look for safety to person or property
whilst this system is allowed to pervade our Courts!
The vrry fountain of justice may be corrupted at its
source, and those waters which should confer health
and vigour throughout the land, can then diffu««
nought but mephitic and pestilential vaponrs to disgust
and to destroy. If honesty, if justice be silent, “yet
prudence ought to check these practices. We live in a
new era-a melancholy era-in which perfidy and pro-
fligacy are sanctioned by high authority; the base
v olation of plighted faith, the deep stain of dishonour!
infidelity in love, treachery in friendship, the abandon!
ment of every principle, and the adoption of every
frivolity and of every vice that can exoite hatred coni
bined with ridicule-all. all this, and more, may be
around ns; and yet it is believed, it it expected that
thw system is fated to be eternal. GenHemfn. we
shall all weep the insane delusion, and in the terrific
momenta of retaliation, you know not, you cannot
know, how soon or how bitterly *the ingredients* of
yeur poisoned chalice may be commended to your o'w a
Oscar Wilde went to see “ Patience,” and all
•ye. were turned on him as Bunthorne came on to the
■taP*. Thosa wh <? expected to see him either amused
or angry wore mistaken. The apostle of cultu re
? a ', Ded^wa? a \} J a ? d , radiant as a sunflower and
declared i that, in spite of all ridicule, roatheticiam f s a
and joyful thug. He assured the Philktines
X to ttSKoJS »r
The Australian Alliance Insurance Co., Adelaide
is now prosecuting those persons alleged to have Wn
concerned in the celebrated consmnev I
hinted would probably be the case, the prosecntfon C
taken a wider sweep. This time the i ? n “ as
Barker, Hicks, Forsyth, Du Barry and D^W 11 * 8 - Me
Du Barry is a partner of Forsyth in a sort-’ ®£ omson *
business. Dr. Morrison is a Glenelg (S A lmlr e “ Cy
and was long connected with Insurance onei f
home John Landvogt, late clerk in the Mutimfprori
dent Society’s office, was employed by Hicks
“ friend’s report” for the Australian At ,W 0 p te the
although he did not know Weatherhead at aU^Lwd’
vogt is a young man, hardly or just out of his teens and’
the son of an Adelaide publican. He was called as a
witness and frankly owned np about writing the
“friend’s report, to “oblige Hicks” HpTs IT
cautioned by the magistrate that he need
himself. Dr. Morrison seems to have received XX. t<3
signed by Barker for £25, apparently in pay.neut of his
examining services. Barker and Forsvtliwf « L- 5
account in a bank, opened by means of a
Barker negotiated with Conigrave and Coupon-two
old pressmen, who have left the drudgery ofiuksbW
mg, and are now prosperous land ami XmX-
agents, get the cream of all the GovernmenUWthaX
work, and boss the Chamber of Manufactures
♦O'Connell et course referred to the presiding judge.


-t=
-
VIBTUTia GLORIA MERCI
COALCLIFF C
ITTTA VVUfUom a m?am nn»T »«rwn l.
Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Backache, Soreness of ih
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Si
Sprains, Burns and
Genera! Bodily P
Tooth, Ear and Headache,
and Ears, and all oil
and Aches.
No Preparation on earth equals
a safe, sure, simple and cheap ]
A trial entails but the comparatiy
of 50 dents, and every one st
can have cheap and positive proo
Directions In Eleven Languages
BOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS AS
MEDICINE.
WHOLESALE BY-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS 112 Pi
8. HOEFNUNG & Co.. Pitt-st
E. PROSSER & Co., Pitt-stree
MYERS and SOLOMON, Oeoi
I, JACOBS & Co„ Hunter-strei
FEREIER’S BAKING ]
TRAD
MANUFACTOE
•OIEORGE-STREET WEST,
if Established 30 YEi
H
ODGSOW J 8 WHIP
601, GE&R6® STKEEI
near Goulburu-stre
E. H O D G S
Wholesale and Bet
WHIP THONG MANUPAC
Every Description of Kangaroo and (
Made to Order.
MANUFACTORY,
0 N-ACCORD
WOEEB,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Thia is the most effectual substitute fer kerosene in lightning Com
simple, clean, and durable, and oanbe made by any intelligent lad with
This GASia much cleaner and more brilliant than coal ga», and, y
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity <
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic I
TA.LLOW GAS ma.ie with this APPARATUS is used tor lightin
to Coal Qas.
Importers and Mam vfacturera of DIVING GEAR, CHANDLERS
Medalists and Special Prize hold<
Paten tees tor the Celebrated MARSHALL WIN]
DAMP COURSEI DAMP
WHEN building use CA LLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitun
CHEAPEN and MORE EFFECTIVE than £
DAMP RESISTING SOI
If you have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDEE
ders them completely imper vious to DAMPNESS. Can be i
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BATNNS, Sell’s Char
WOODWARD’S OYST
85 CASTLEREAOK STREET, NEXT
137 KINO STREET, NEXT TELEC
197 PITT STREET, OPPOSITE F
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Germany has ordered six new torpedo boats for
Baltic Sea service Catalonians (Spain) kicking
against taxes Mr. Herbert, landlord in County Kerry,
muiWered Floods in Louisiana drowned 120 persons
The Queen’s health improving at Mentone.. ,
Ampheaat College, Mass., U. §., burnt down; loss
£5OOOO Gladstone s Cloture proposals passed by
mujority of forty-seven Mississippi steamer,
Memphis, burnt; thirty five persons perished Prince
Leopold’s marriage postponed through his indisposi-
tion Relations strained between Germany, Prance
and Turkey Jews prohibited from living at Kielf|
Eussia Sir Henry Parkes banqueted by Institute of
Civil Engineers; dined with Lord Sherbrooke, Gladstone
being present Court of Queen’s bench enforced
Bradlaugh'a penalty of £5OOO Germany mobilizing-
its army...... General Strelinkow murdered at Odessa,
after making an harangue at a Nihilist trial; two men
arrested Revenue of; United Kingdom for January,
March, quarter shows an increase over the first anarter
of 1881 of £1,750,000......0xf0rd beat Cambridge by six
lengths in University boat race Conservatives
promotmga scheme to enable Irish peasantry to become J
land owners with state aid Dr. Lamson, the
Murderer, has been respited at the instance of the
American ambassador, on grounds of alleged insanity
......Gladstone’s budget speech to bo delivered on April
21th Mr. Auckland, liberal, returned for East Corn-
wall A sister of Mr. O'Conner, M. P., sentenced to
six months imprisonment for advising Irish tenants
not to pay rent Strenlikow's murderers were
not hanged Egypt required to give better
guarantees toheroreditors....Pawcett, P. M. Q. of Great
Britain, hopes to reduce Colonial Money Order rates
shortly ..Eighteen persona drowned off Cape
Fmisterre, in oollision between the steamer
D0ur0............ Major-General Sir Robert M. Laffan,
K. C. M, G., Governor of Bermuda, is dead...
U - Congress has voted an annual pension
of 5000 dollars to Mrs. Garfield The members
of the Colonial Union are chiefly “Fair-traders:**
Agents-General of New South Wales and South
Australia declined to join the Union, which
meats on June 7th Opium smuggling- at San
Francisco; customs officers in the swindle Chief
executive of Nihilist committee arrested at St. Peters-
.Fenian shot in Dublin; others arrested with
arms and important documents in their possession... .
Colonists in England have presented a testimonial of
plate to ex-Lord Mayor Macarthur Application for
parole, made by imprisoned Irish M.’sP., refused
Boston, Macclesfield and Canterbury, three English
constituencies, disfranchised f©r corruption Mr,
Parry, Liberal, returned for Carnarvon Boroughs...,,’ i
Lords of the Admiralty have censured Captain Lard
Charles Scott and Commander George Hill, of H M S
Bacchante, for harsh descipline U.B. Senate’ has
ordered an enquiry to be instituted respecting
American subjects arrested under the Irish Coercion
Catering firm of Spiers and Pond to be formed
into a company, with a capital of £500,000 Eleven
frozen-meat chambers, to hold 8000 carcases, erected at
KathennelDooks. London Earl Kimberley promises
to assist Sir Henry Parkes with respect to American
wool duties Marquis of Huntley has squared his
prosecutors^.....Pall Mall Gazette recommends the
recall of W. E. Forster, Chief Secretary, and Earl
Cowper, Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland Haulan easily
Eoyd -Mr. Smyth, a Westmeath
tired at; his wife and another relative killed Con-
spiracy to blow np the Manchester Town Hull
di5c0vered......43,000 immigrants landed in New York
during March
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to hove their communications noticed.]
A.B.C. s Greatly obliged for your well-timed
quotation “ Viotrix*': We don’t see it. Bob Inger-
soil, says: "Think of a lawyer beating his child
for avoiding the truth, whan the old man makes
about half his living that way." ■< Passe-par-
tout : Good story " Eye-opener": Thanks. Are
** part” if you can give us plenty
"£•••. J -'■ There is no way to prevent poat-offlce
officials and others from stealing your Bulletin. There
are hundreds who suffer similarly. It’s the only thing
most postal officials road. The utmost consolation we
can give you is to advise yon to tie tightly with crossed
string, and write address on the paper itself; then they
can t say * the wrapper rubbed off." Such postmas-
u * _.7 e af *^ r „ a Bttle conscience, and while they
cheerfully rub off wrappers, they won’t deliberately un-
tie a knot.,,...." Kyathinga Thanks; good "Jack
oneppard : Eeceived “C.C." (Bulli): Thanks, next
: Thanks .“Jack": A little too
straight. Write again "Athens": Very acceptable.
ihargommdah ; According to Barcoo notions, a
man who only spends £3 per day isn’t worth booking,
a station hand’s cheque in three figures often hangs
lor no more than a fortnight’s spree in the Never Never
country..." Grey-gum ": First-rate..." U.C.J." (Black-
all): It a a mistake. The “Bed Eover" was an emi-
grant, nota convict vessel...."Perambulator" (Grafton)-
Very good information. "C.Q.M.G.”: Glad to heir I
from yon once more “(Double Bay": No. 'Mr
Justice Williams, who tried the libel action Williams'
v. the Aaous, is nota relative of plaintiff ... "Mait-
land": You have as much right to assume that everv
clergyman works for a merely "mercenary" object aa
that every journalist writes for unworthy motives
' B-”s Thanks; one par. printed. Will attend
te the other matter in an article shortly M.B G
Pair-oar Bace. " Young Dawson We don’t chronicles
small beer ...." Wager ’’: Some years ago tho
Glen Innes Jockey Club gave £1000 fop a
handicap, and it was won by Erin
“Bushranger" (Armidale); You have lost. Laycock’a
second race on the Thames was a private match with
itiley, whom he defeated easily "C.C." (Bullil-
Will work it in. Wo want people to want us " p e V
ambulator": Beoeived -‘J." (Sydney Club)’ rw
densed Mere children’s verses not suit *
able for The Bulletin. Poetry of the “Winnie"
stamp (vide Echo, April 1) doesn’t satisfy our readers
...... A.G.A.D. : Neither wit nor substance Wh»i
does it mean ?..."J. M‘E." (Forest Lodge) - Eight
“ Boas ” (Balala): Not good enough; we reject better
, hour (Bourke): Yonr progressive
ideas do you credit, but you haven’t any more poetry
in you than a pica quad. Prose is better « Ohan-
dos ’: Good boy "8. Welch”: We are sorry that
none of your matter is suitable "G.F.G.": Thanks
but hardly important enough “ A.B. and L.L.’’- At
cricket, the highest individual score was made last
season in England by Mr. W. M. Bowe, 412. The pre-
vious highest score was made years ago, by Mr. Tyh .
o ite, 415 not out To secretaries of cricket clubs •
Unless we receive reports of Saturday matches by the
Tuesday following, it is impossible to insert them in
the next issue. Amd their insertion a week later
interferes with reports of later matches..
"Onyx": Thanks; Glad to hear from you often .
"Magenta": A man who murders his wife is"an
“uxoricide.’’ “A.D.C.” (Clarence); ” Bigamy and
“ Brighamy” mean about the same thing... “ Cktlon
Observes” : Thanks “L.J.”; The “ Blasphemy
Act,” to which the Echo alludes, is in N.S.W. a dead
letter—as dead as will shortly be the present iniquitous
libel law “Servant”: You want a comic paper
Then get Punch or the Protestant Standard. Every
Bextou takes Punch "T.V.H” (Mitchell): If you
get bitten by a block spider, look out. Far better get
bitten by some snakes than by that particular variety
of dark spider which has two very black spots on its
back “G. P. James"; The brain of Oliver Crom .
well is believed to be the heaviest on record. W q
forget its weight. There is a recent case in whi <h
the brain of a lunatic negro weighed 70oz.
“Spire": We dont know why Sir Henry atten ded
Minroh. IPerhaps to get a good par. for The Eb ald
Nor do we know what he ate at the dinner. Pro’ aably
am, followed by cold ’ash, washed down with some
hadmirable’ook "E.B.F": Your idea is goo- 1 hat
as the subject is now' very stale, we’re afraid i »e can
make nothing of it “A Eeader" : Thanks..,,..." jj.
G.C": First rate "Armidale”: Acoordir.g to a!
M. P. Society’s report, lawyers, medical men, read publ
beans die off soonest in this country “ Deep Cheek ";
Thick and discoloured water may be made quite clear
by slicing a thick aloe or cactus leaf and putting
it in a cask of water “Anna": You say, in
effect, that the paper referred to is dull, in that
of lata it has not chronicled the death of any
of your fashionable friends. The reason may
le that your friends have ceased to read it
3
the Bulletin.
April 8,**1882.


Public Compai
JIHE AUSTEALIAN JOIN'
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with p
£1,000,000. Reserve Fun
Dikectoes :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; 1
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq. ; Wall
Geseeai- Mahag
Vincent Wanostrochi
HEAD OFFICE: OEOBOE ST
City and Suburban Branches: I
Glebe, Burwoo
London Office: 18 King Willi
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albury, Arxnidale, Ballina, I
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Con
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goull
fell, Gnlgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kcmpsey, Lambton, Macleay,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Naraudera,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockl
ton, South Grafton, Temora, T
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn,
BRANCHES IN QUEI
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charte
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mai
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Stan
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Celo
the World genera
The meecantile bas
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip QicUey King, M.I
AUDITORS
Jus. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsi
SECRETARY
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES
587 George-street. Brickfield
Qirilambone; Gos
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 158 Leads
Director—Edward Cha;
Agent—G. H. Aleiant
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the most favot
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances nt
other nrodnoe shipped to England
TGEA H A M
** • IMPORTER AND GENE!
17 BRIDGE STR]
Chief Agent fc
SCOTTISH IMPERIAL INSUR
ANDREW USHER’S CELEBA
WHISKY.
ANDREW USHER’S CELI
scotch whis;
AITCHISON’S PAL
READ TH
the baking f
MANUFACTURED by (JG
AS DOCTOR
WAUG
SINGER’S SEWING
See the Medals, Cups, a
at the
SYDNEY AR
SINGER'S SEWING
ARE MADE ONLI
The Singer Manufactnr
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eui
39 FOSTER LANE,
Depot for New Sonth
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HA
SYDNEY.
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWC
VICTORIA STREET, GR
NARANDERA. PARRj
227 QUEEN STREET, B 1
SYDNEY ARCADE. GEORGE S
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THB
RECOGNISED i
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANB
TIME PAYMEN'
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week
And HO INTEREST cl
10 per oent. off for <
BEWARE OF IMIT
Aqehts for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHKSTOI
SEWING MACHIS
HATMARKE'I
Chemists and Dr
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GEE4T LIVEE
And successful substitute for
Podophyllum, and all N(
Famous as a Restorative to Hei
Famous as an Invigorator of th
Famous for the Cure of all Disc
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Toni
S' yes cold, and
ie most delicate of either sex,
take them.
Be careful not to get
IN BOXES, ONE I
Invented and Prepar
J. S. A B R .
At the Laboral
434 GEOEQE STEEEI
COUGH WHILE YOU C.
taking Dr. Thompson's Am
Linotus, you will not do able tc
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 15
Punch’s Hotel.
miCKLE YOUR APPET]
_l_ tralian Polish, made by
177 Pitt street, price one shilling
OF GO OI
We beg to draw
PAETICULAE ATI
to the
ASIATIC TEA
PACKET TI
Packed in pounds and ha
ASIATIC MIXTUEE,
23. and
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
23. Cd,
PUEE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d.
PUEE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d.
Special Quotations given to W
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEA CC
279 PITT STEEET (next
SYDNEY.
JOHN R U
182 PITT STEI
from
D. JONES &
Respectfully invites on inspect
CAEPETS,
FLOOE CLOTE
BEDSTEA
BE
All of the best quality, and eel<
RELIABLE MANUFACTURER
Furniture re-covered and carpe’
charges.
♦
George
(Formerly of Qeoi
IMPORTER 01
CHINA GLASS AND EA
Begs to announce that he ha
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY AECj
where every article in the above 1
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVEREI
Business Anmonnc
S
[_Legal.J
HOETEE, FITZGERALE
SOLICITOi
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEI
and
MACQUARIE STREET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
Legal.— Mr. t. m.
SOLICITOE, has co
practice of his profession, a
PITT-BTEEET, opposite
News Office.
JJ AYE TOE
TO
R. MORPB
288 Pitt Stb
THOMAS WEBB
269 GEORGE i
Bog to announce that t
JUST EECI
a Large Cons'gmnc
MINTON'S
ENCAUSTIC
for
FLOOBS and HA
ILLCOX
w
AND
GLbiJS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
S. HEBBLE'W
416 GEORGE STR
F.T. WIMBLE ft
STEREOTYPE/^


w.
HOWARD SMIT]
STEUTH’S WHARF and I
(Foot of King-str<
Offices : 7 SEEING
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and PI
Steam to BEISBANE,
MAETBOEOUGH,
and
EOCKHAMPT
On TUESDAY
All particulars, apply
W. HOWARD SMITH
Jp-'V
STEAM TO LONDON—(
1882.
The following Eoyal Mail Steam
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGA
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SYI
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, 1
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, call!
And the service will be mainta
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards ma
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goii
steamer within a month; but failing
subsequent steamer having room.
These steamers not touching al
can proceed to Suez and the Cor
Ports included) without fear of
quarantine regulations.
Fares, to London, 15 te 70 guineas
Bs. in addition.
Passages from London can be grai
For plans and full particulars, i
and CO., and ANDERSON, AND
Joint Managers of the line ; or to t]
General Manager in Au
G.
QRIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPEE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small packag
Steamers to Loudon at reduced rate
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a fc
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior t
sailing. All freights payable in 8j
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient
267 George-street, Sydney.
CASH PRICE LIST OF V
AND SPIRIT
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 24b to 48s Od I Good S
Champagne from... 60s Od 1 French
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Victor Hugo has just passed his eightieth year.
Mr. Edward Lee intends shortly to take a trip
to England.
The Marquis of Normanby used to be great in
light corned...
Captain Holies, of the schooner Annie C. Lynn,
has been murdered by his cook.
Mr. Lucas, “ the lawyer from Sydney,” did not
get drowned in the Brisbane river. He has turned up
alive, and the dead man remains incog, so tar.
Rumour says that Sir G. C. Strahan, Governor
of Tasmania, is to be married to an English young lady,
whose parsnts formerly resided in Launceston.
Colonel Crossman, who is reporting on Victorian
defences, favours the existence of a permanent military
force. But the Colonel is a permanent military officer.
All the officers of the Victorian Exhibition Com-
mission have now been dispensed with, except George
Collins Levey, who hold the Secretaryship until
June 30.
Mr. J. W. Tyas, an old Adelaide pressman, and
Adelaide agent for Eeuter, has been appointed Begistrar
of the Adelaide University, vice Mr. Barlow, recently
resigned.
In his speech at Geelong, Mr. Berry condemned
the scheme of distributing the Kelly reward fund. He
held that Mr. Curnow ought to have received the whole
of the money.
“Factor” Knipe, the illustrious Melbourne
auctioneer, who got hurt in the last Hobson’s Bay
railway casualty, strikes for his injured knee, &0., to
the tune of £5OO.
An individual well known in two capitals has
disappeared, not without giving very " nassy jars”
to Sundrey of his friends—one of whom has parted
to the tune of £5OO.
Mr. Frederick Williams, of the commercial
department of the S. M. Herald, died suddenly last
week from angina pectoris. He had been thirty years in
the office, and was a general favourite.
Mr. John Curnow, 8.A., LL.B., Head-master
East Church Schools, N. Z , has died of congestion of
the brain, at the early age of 33. He greatly dis-
tinguished himself at Melbourne University.
Mr. Richard Colonna-Close, M.A., Oxon., who
was last week admitted to the bar of N.8.W., is the
same gentleman whose signature has appeared under
many able and interesting contributions to Melbourne
magazines.
“He asked for bread land they gave him a
stone.”—lt sometimes does happen that a man denied
a breakfast while living, gets a monument when dead.
However, poor Deniehy so far has got neither break-
fast nor monument.
Richard Brinsley Knowles, only son of Sheridan
Knowles, the playright, died last month, aged 62. The
son inherited the father’s dramatic talents, and wrote
several good plays. His life was chiefly spent in legal
and literary pursuits.
Mr. Longfellow was married twice. His first
wife died early ; his second wife was burned to death.
" He went away upon a day’s journey leaving blossoms
and beauty, and, returning, found nothing but the dust
and ashes of bitterness.”
Mr. Frank Miles, the artist (who does not know
his “ studies” of faces ?) was to have gone in the
*' Saladin” balloon with Mr. Powell, but a change of
day prevented him. It saved his life. Mr, Powell has
never since been heard of.
The late Mayor of Brisbane, Mr. Sinclair, on
his departure home was tbe recipient of an illuminated
address,'a life-size oil painting of his delightful self,
a photo of the Brisbane Aldermen (ot inestimable value)
and £325. Evidently popular.
Mr. E. Barker, who resided, 21 years ago, at
Dapto, N.S. W., and was forced by adverse circumstances
to go insolvent, has just astonished all his creditors in
various parts of the colony by waiting on them per-
sonally aid paying up in full.
Mr. Frodsham, from the office of Messrs. Holds-
worth and Evans, has entered into partnership with
Mr. W, L. Murdoch, at Cootamundra, and will take
charge of the great batsman’s legal practice, while
Murdoch is away in England.
Patrick Connolly, master of one of the Balmain
ferry boats, has received—at the hands of Mr. W.
Tanks, Mayor of St. Leonard’s—the Boyal Humane
Society’s bronze medal for saving life. Mr. Connolly
has saved 38 persons from drowning.
Mr, Quinlan, barrister, Melbourne, appointed
to the vacant County Court Judgeship. The billet
went begging. Mr. Lawe’s wouldn’t have it; Mr.
Worthington wouldn’t have it; neither would Mr,
Molesworth. £1,500 a year isn’t prized by the bar.
Mr. Patrick Real, now a County Court Judge
in Queensland, was, not many years ago, a quiet,
industrious workman in the railway workshops at
Ipswich. He devoted his leisure to study, was ad-
mitted to the bar, and now acts as locum tenens for
Judge Blake.
George Sims, author of the “ Lights o’ London,”
said a smart thing for an impromptu. Pettitt was
“ blowing ” to Dampier that he had made a thousand
pounds “ out of the ‘ World.’ ” “ That’s more than I
ever made in the World,” said George. He can’t
say that now, though.
The Ford Board (Victorian) is dragging its
enquiry along. The evidence shows that the Bailway
Department has been disorganised ever since poor
Thomas Higiubotham, whose awfully sudden demise
will be fresh in everybody’s mind, was Blaok-Wednes-
dayed by the Berry Government.
In a Western town, lives a bank clerk of geo-
logical tastes. Six months ago, owing to certain dis-
coveries made by him in the course of his rambles, he
bought, for £lOO, from the unenquiring owner, fifteen
acres of land. He has now formed a company to work
the ground, and he pockets £30,000.
When the Italian census was taken last year,
two persons named Humbert and Margaret wrote their
“professions” as “ King and Queen of Italy.” Another
gentleman, known by the name of Leo, after some hesi-
tation, wrote his profession as “ Pope,” and his means
of livelihood, “ the offerings of the faithful.”
A well-known actress who some years ago
parted with her husband at the hymeneal altar, has
obtained a divorce in America, and is now the wife of a
Victorian “ young blood ” whose rather complicated
love ; affairs were not long since very nearly forming
the subject of an investigation by the Supreme Court.
Mr. G. H. Barbour, the Beechworth squatter
who died so suddenly the other day, was the gentleman
who first planted willows in Victoria from slips
obtained at Napoleon’s tomb, Longwood, St. Helena.
Longwood, a station on the Victorian North-Eastern
railway line, derives its name from the little island
hamlet.
Mr. Herbert Gladstone, M.P., son of “ the
people's William,” is described as “an uncommonly
plain, undistinguished-looking youth, of low stature,
with a clean-shaven face, save for a little dark mous-
tache, and a countenance somewhat heavy, and cer-
tainly the reverse of bright. He wore a dark suit and a
scarlet tie.”
Mr. P. L. Smyth, the barrister who has just
got a Victorian police magistracy, once looked longingly
to the Supreme Court bench; then he persistently but
unsuccessfully tried the country court; now he con-
tents himself with the Police Court. Mr. Smyth is a
fat, spectacled, good-humoured, thoroughly harmless
old gentleman.
King Jimmy Lambert, the last of the Dabeo
blacks, and his gin, Peggy, have taken up their quarters
at Bylstone, evidently with the intention of camping
fer the winter. Jimmy still struts about, erect and
proud, but the poor queen, who loves fire-water, has,
we are sorry to hoar, lost her complexion and acquired
a very red nose.
In the Townsville Herald there has lately
appeared a stinging article on Buzacott, as a politician
and as a journalist. There is internal evidence that tbe
article is written by A. Meston, lately M.L.A for Bose-
wood, and recently editor of the Brisbane Observer.
Buzacott had commented on Meston’s not having re.
signed his seat in the Assembly prior to his insolvency,
and the Sacred Ibis, as Meston is often called, pats his
bill into Buszy to some purpose in retaliation. All
journalists who know tbe parties, and have kept the
journals under observation, will agree with Meston that
as compared with what they were under Lukin’s man-
agement, tha Courier and Queenslshdek, conducted
by Buzacott, have lamentably fallen o£F.|
The Allpine Tourists successfully'f ascended
Mount Cook, N.Z., and have gone to Eng-
land. The ascent is not very difficult, as far as climbing
is concerned, but is extremely dangerous, on account
of the almost incessant avalanches which roll down the
mountain sides. The weather was unfortunately
cloudy, so that no view was obtained from the summit.
Rumoured in N.Z. that tha uative Minister, Mr.
Bryce, is to be knighted for his recent services on the
west coast. A local paper says that many strange
people have been knighted since Falstaff attacked the
dead Hotspur ? and suggests as a coat of arms for the
Minister, the following:—A white horse curvetting
on a potato field; supporters, volunteer rampant and
special correspondent regardant; motto, ‘ Solitudinem
facinnt pacem appellant. “
Whitelaw Reid, the great editor of the N.T.
Tribune, dictates most of his leading articles three
miles from the office. A telephone connects with his
study in Lexington Avenue. He says, "send steno-
grapher to the instrument," and dictates straight off,
the proof shortly afterwards being read over to him in
the same way. He ran a newspaper when he was 20
years of age, and now, at 43, is regarded as one of the
ablest editors in the world.
Lady Fergusson’s funeral took place at Bombay
on the 12th January. The coffin was borne by members
of the Bombay Volunteers, covered with a rich pall,
and beautifully decorated with flowers, but the hearse
was quite plain. On the coffin, which bore the name
“ Olive —aged 31,” General Hardinge placed a floral
cross, and a wreath was sent by the officers of tho Ist
Battalion Bifle Brigade. Miss Biehmau, Lady Fergus-
son’s sister, has also died of cholera.
A London paper says of Mrs. Langtry aa Blanche
Haye of “Ours,” that she looked far better than on
her first appearance as Miss Hardoastle, as she has
taken the usual artificial means to counteract the effect
of the footlights, which she at first thought she could
disregard. She managed to fall fainting into the lap of
Lady Shendryn with consummate grace, and has be-
come cleverly au fait in stage tricks, such as the quiver-
ing of the lips and the heaving of the bosom.
The Rev. W. S. Green, the great Alpine climber,
was entertained at dinner by the Christchurch Athletic
Club after his ascent of Mount Cook, and he made a
capital speech, advising them to form an Alpine Club.
The N.Z. mountains were well worth the trouble, but
the glaciers would require great care. He concluded
by offering a handsome reward to anyone who would
return him a handkerchief he had lost. The handker-
chief happens to be one he dropped on the top of Mount
Cook.
Arthur Patchett Martin, who, in Melbourne, is
a kind of people’s poet, contemplates a visit to Europe.
Before he leaves, however, he will give us a volume and
his collected works under the title of “ Pernshaw,”
which, besides the undying efforts of his brain, will
contain a portrait of himself, and a full page illustrated
by Buvelot. The price of this souvenir of the future is
a guinea, and Messrs. Walker, Mackillop, and May, of
Melbourne will acknowledge the receipt of subscrip-
tions anted-up.
In commemoration of the Princes’ visit to Botany
in August last, the Hon. Thomas Holt has had made,
and is now sending home, per Shannon, six splendid
presents to Edward and George. Two are blotting pads,
the covers of which are burnished myall wood, with
silver leaves snd flowers of Australian plants; two are
paper knives (boomerang shape) of myall, with the
royal monograms in silver; and there are two malachite
paper weights, one surmounted by a silver emu, and
the other with a silver kangaroo. Articles by Messrs.
Hardy.
In the course of his address to the members of
the Medical Society, the other evening, Dr. Fortesoue,
who, bv the way, is now President, lamented the
absence of scientific effort in the colonies, and said it
was remarkable how little in this way had emanated
from distinctly Australian sources. Three gentlemen
only had come prominently to the front: Dr. Ban-
croft, of Brisbane, who was an original discoverer in
helminthology; Dr. Bird, of Melbourne, a recognized
authority on Australian hydatids; and Dr. Day, of
Geelong, whose physiological researches are known
outside the colonies.
Miss Rhodes, of Wellington (N.Z.), who, we are
informed by cable, has, owing to a decision of the Privy
Council, coma in for all the huge annual income deriv-
able from the estate of the late “Barney” Bhodes, was
his only daughter. The young lady is a very handsome
half-caste, and is the sole issue of her father’s first
marriage. Miss Bhodes, we learn, is “ universally and
highly respected in Wellington,” and now that she’s
worth some £400,000, she'll doubtless be more than
universally respected. She’ll be universally admired.
The decision of the Privy Council must be very satis-
factory to the father of the N.Z. Bar. The judgment
of the Colonial Courts were against him; but, confident
in his opinion, he declined a compromise, and insisted
on his client taking her case to the highest competent
tribunal. Eesult already stated.
De mortuis nil nisi honum. So let poor Deniehy
rest in his obscure corner, and let future generations
know him by his work only. Who wants to knew his
faults, and who wants to know who were his friends ?
His admirers and old friends might certainly erect a
tombstone over his grave and make no noise about it.
But, while they are doing penance for their neglect of
genius, we might direct their attention to the fact that
a great musician is in our midst struggling hard to keep
poverty from his door. When the gifted composer of
•* The Crown of Thorns ” has gone from us, we shall
suddenly recollect how he, too, was neglected. We
shall learn that his attempt to produce his work beg-
gared him, that not more than a dozen singers came to
his assistance to produce it for the Fancy Fair, and
that his gratuitous offer of it for performance on Friday
night was curtly refused by a high-toned musical
society.
Daniel Henry Deniehy on Longfellow :—“ He
for the most part sees Nature through the ‘ spectacles
of books.’ Indeed, were one to judge from Longfel-
low’s poems, one could scarcely say he had ever ob-
served external nature for himself, much less loved it
with a poet’s passion; but there is evidence in his prose
that he had—in some charming passages in ‘Hyperion,’
and, above all, in ‘ Kavanagh,’ our favourite among all
Longfellow’s works. ‘Soaring Brook’ is a sketch
transferred from among the living woods and the living
waters. Longfellow digs, dilettante-wise, into the mines
of the Minnesingers, aa Gray loved to quarry in tha
bardic strata of the Scandinavians and the Welsh.
Beth are never happier than when working up other
men’s gold. Supply them with the metal, and they
bring fancy and artistic finish of their own. The result
is a beauty of design all men can appreciate, and appre-
ciate too at a single glance.”
Few men have ever been wished hon voyage
with such sincere and universal good-will, as was
Inspector Eobert Anderson, on his departure last Fri-
day, in the John Elder, for home. After twenty-eight
years’ service without a day’s holiday, he went away on
leave of absence for six months, on full pay. Magis-
trates, members of Parliament, police officers cf all
grades, and numerous friends thronged to say farewell,
and the Prince of Wales s. escorted him to the
Heads. Mr. Anderson joined the force iu 1854, was
over the Mint eight years, had charge of the northern
division of the city for seven years, and was over the
central division for the rest of the time. He declined
to be entertained at a banqnst or to receive a purse of
gold, which were offered, out accepted a diamond ring
gracefully given to him to present to his mother in
Scotland. In saying good-bye. Inspector Anderson
made a modest, manly speech. Whether in his profes.
sional or private capacity, Mr, Anderson, has been
respected because he deserved to be.
A movement ia afoot for the release of Bertrand.
By the way, that eminent gentleman does not appear in
his imprisonment to have manifested a very fixed
religious belief. He has varied his theology consider-
ably, and has given most of the current creeds a turn,
but none of them have yet managed to get him his
liberty. Outside tha gaol walls matters are altogether
different. You need only be chameleonic, religiously,
politically and otherwise, to well, to get a handle—
or a rudder—to your name.
When in the Augustan days of A. T. Clark’s
boss-ship |of the Victorian Customs, Mr. D. C. F.
Moodie shanked it across from Adelaide to thrash A.
T. on account of anti-res:al sentiments expressed by him,
D.C.F. was primed by the aristocratic weeds of Wil-
liamstown, and when the affair was over the “ curled
darlings,” as Berry dubs them, allowed him to go away
without a cent, in his pocket. Moody tramped it back
to Adelaide, and the writer of this par. met him at a
small hotel in Ballan, thankful for a shake-down from
a dastardly Fenian. Moody seems a flexible patriot,
for he now turns up at an indignation meeting in Ade-
laide, over the recent shot at Her Majesty. They
wouldn't allow Moody to speak; but he had a fearful
revenge. He wrote a poem and distributed it. It com-
menced :
“ But mingling with the dread Orthian strain,
(The diapason of the Nation’s wrath) —
We're rather short of type.
Few young colonials have exhibited such versa-
tile talents as Mr. S. H. Teeoe. Besides being a clever
scholar, he pushed his way to the front in walking,
running, rowing and elocution, winning first honours at
all of them in public contests. His ambitious effort
a year or two back, when he took the complete part of
Hamlet at the Royal for Tricket's benefit (being barely
21 years of age) will be remembered. Indeed, some
people said at the time they would never forgot it.
He recently went with J. L. Hall to Brisbane, and has
been playing there with success. Owing to a disagree-
ment with Carden, Mr. Teeoe took Arch. Carlyle in
“ East Lynne ”at half a day’s notice, and played it
creditably ; ho has since filled leading The re-
sults have been so satisfactory—to himself, anyhow—
that Mr. Teeco has determine! to adopt the stage as a
profession; he has we hear, resigned his appointment
m Sydney, and will shortly go to London with Mr J. L.
There has been a very lively little rumpus at
Breakfast Creek, a suburb of Brisbane. The members
of some six cr seven families of good social standing
have been in the custom of bathing together in the
creek, in the Continental and American fashion, suit-
ably attired, early in the morning, or late in the even-
ing. The bathers found their enjoyments were not to
be without alloy. Night-soil was spread upon the
grassy banks. This was removed. Next, glass from
broken bottles was spread about, which was so far
effectual that several ladies and children had their
feet severely wounded. This was also removed, and
a reward of £lO fruitlessly advertised for convic-
tion of the miscreants who had taken so atrocious
atrocious a means of enforcing their prejudices. Who
the offender was, remains unknown. The next thing
was a letter in the Brisbane Courier from a par-
son then residing at Breakfast Creek with a Wesleyan,
who had made no secret of the shock to his sentiments
which families bathing together occasioned This let-
ter, however, alleged that men, women, and children,
bathed together naked, and caused considerable fermen-
tation. Two of the husbands met the author one even-
ing, after looking for him vainly for some time, and one
had a horsewhip nicely stowed down the leg of his trou-
sers. The gsntleman with the whip explained who he
was, stated that he considered the letter a slander
on his wife and other ladies, and demanded a pub-
lic retractation, with the option of a thrashing. The
parson declined and stepped back, whereupon, as he
looked like fighting, the aggrieved one slipped into him
with his fists till he bellowed murder, and bolted into
an adjoining pub., whither the husband followed, pro-
duced his whip and flogged him. The rev. letter-writer
pleaded that he was a minister, to which the irate
champion retorted that he didn’t care what he was be-
sides a blank liar. Finale: champion summoned, and
fined £5, and a number of other gentleman, including
magistrates, anxious to invest some a ore fivers in the
same way. Of course Buzzy of the Courier sides with
bis correspondent.
The S. A. Advertiser has been very hard on
Chief Justice Way, for the " side ” he puts on, and his
want of punctuality. But Samuel takes hia gruel
angelically. Supposing, now, Sir James got a ladlefnl
of the same mixture, we should expect to hear thunder.
And Samuel Way, C. J., will be yet a greater man than
Sir Jimmy—at least, so S. A. prophets prediet. His
history is something like that of Sir Joseph Porter—
“ When ho was a lad he served a term,” &o.
Then he went into politics. Mr. Bouoaut, the Premiers
snapped up a Judgeship, and young Way was made
Attorney-General. Within a short time the Chief
Justice died, and Samuel, instead of appointing one of
the other Judges C.J., and taking a lower seat, got
inside the ermine of the Chief Justice, and became also
Acting-Governor. His luck was proverbial, so much so
that the next current rumour was that Samuel was
"going home to marry the Queen." He is still a
bachelor, refusing all the fascinations of the fair sex,
and waiting for, at least, a Princess. He has not yet
been knighted, but that time will come. His luck has
followed him |in all his speculations, and be is now
supposedly a wealthier man than his brother-in-law,
Mr. Beach, who has made a pile in the “ restaurong "
line. It may be added that Chief Justice Way is a
clear-headed lawyer, with a comprehensive mental grasp
and keen powers of analysis. He can make a happy
speech appropriate to any occasion, from a penny-
reading entertainment to a political demonstration, and
his bonhomie has never been challenged until the
Adelaide 'Tisee grunted the other day. His Honor’s
statements of reasons for his decuions have frequently
called forth admiration from English judges, and have
rarely, if ever, been upset by the Privy Council. So
that Samuel Way eau stand a lot of newspaper banter,
and his only regret in life, so far, has been that Mr.
Ashmead-Bartlett carried off that matrimonial prize.
Miss Burdett-Coutts. Samuel is a little man, but he
aspires, and he has always been a good friend to the
Press. Injother words, he has given it a fair show,
which is all the press needs or asks for. Chief Justice
Way’s summing-up in a libel case, some years ago, was
quoted by more than one law journal as a masterly
exposition of the principles which should govern
judges in dealing with such matters.
Whenever a man of peculiarly ferocious
appearance bounces into this office with a copy of last
week’s Bulletin in one hand and a knobby stick in the
other, the capable and experienced staff of clerks, after
hastily ringing bells which communicate with the
Editorial room and with the Composing department
upstairs, hurry into the fire-proof iron safe and shut
the door. The compositors, whose domain is exactly
over the Editorial sanctum, jump up on the iron com-
posing-stones and await events. AVhen the trouble
seems over, and all is still, the clerks crawl out, and the
compositors step down, and everyone who is fortunate
enough to be first at a shot-hole through the panels or
flooring, jams his eye there and glares into the
sanctum. After that the office boy is, as a general
thing, sent in with a bucket and shovel, and scrapes up
all the fragments add patches that remain of the Editor
and of his visitor. We have used up so many brilliant
writers in this way that it’s getting expensive, and
besides the street dogs begin to stop and sniff whenever
they pass the cellar flap. When, however, on Thursday
last, an amiable-looking gentleman quietly asked to see
the Editor, he was shewn in without any hesitation,
and the staff went on tranquilly with their occupations.
The quiet gentleman entered the Editorial apartment
with a little slip cut from The Bulletin in his hand.
He was only Larry Foley, champion light weight boxer
of Australia; and the little slip was only a paragraph
containing a reference to himself, which he con-
sidered calculated to do him serious injury. There
are a good many people who can’t fight at all,
who bounce into newspaper offices and comfort them-
selves as if they were perfect Milos, until they dis-
cover that the Editor has grit and a heavy
ruler. Now Mr. Laurence Foley ean fight, and when
out of the ring no one would imagine he had any
conception of the noble art. A bully bruiser would
probably be the hardest man in the world to apologize
to —at any rate until some ten minutes had passed.
Mr. Foley’s good-tempered, reasonable deportment
makes him one of the easiest men in the world to
tender an apology to. The little slip proved on peru-
sal to contain a par. intended to be no more than a
fdeasant little puff of Larry’s prowess. But, by bad
uck, it was susceptible of being read two ways, one not
at all complimentary. Of course some one, who owed
Larry, or us, a grudge, had gone and read it the wrong
way to Foley. When we recognized the fact that the
unlucky thing really could be perverted from the sense
in which it was meant, Mr. Foley had an explanation,
and an expression of regret, which was and is perfectly
genuine, immediately, and a promise that we would
put the matter straight, as we now do Long before
we ever met Larry Foley, we heard of him as a pheno-
menon among boxers—the moat peaceable, modest, and
reputable man who ever stepped out of a ring. When
we did meet him, we agreed cordially with the des
cription. We had no idea of attributing to him any.
thing unworthy of himself, as we knew him. The
little paragraph was meant to be read straight, by the
light of Larry’s reputation, and not twisted to convey
a meaning quite incomparable with his well-known
character.


American Waltham Watches, awarded two firs- >
prizes, Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Advt.
Db. Stanich, Eminent Specialist.—To the
Editor.—Sir, My eyes have been very painful and
much inflamed. The constant watery mucus which was
coming from them was horrid. I suffered with
for about six years, and during that time consulted
every doctor that I was recommended to, some ten m
number. One of those gentlemen is considered to be
the loading eye doctor in Sydney, but I could not obtain
any rel'ef, even from him. The sympathy was so great
between the eyes and the ears that my hearing became
impaired, and I could scarcely see or hear; in fact I was
in a dreadful state. But now, lam pleased to say, after
three we’ka of Doctor Stanieh’s treatment, that my
hearing and sight are both perfectly restored. —I am,
Mr. Editor, very happy yours, John Lahson, 63 George-
street, Sydney. Dr. Stanich may be consulted at 50
Wynvard-square, Sydney.
Skilful and Successful Operation on
thk Eye.— To the Editor.—Sir, In the interest of the
public at large, I trust you will give insertion to the
following:—Some time ago a cork from a ginger-beer
bottle flew out, and struck me violently in the eye.
Great inflamation set in; the eye swelled to twice its
natural size, and was so bloodshot as to be quite
horrible to look at. I was nearly totally blind, and so
great was the pain that I could not sleep at night.
While in this miserable state I placed myself under the
care of Dr. Stanich, and thanks to bis care and skill,
my sight is perfectly restored. —Yonrs, &c., Bdwabd
Hardy. Cafe George-street, Sydney,
March 7.
A Grateful Mother.—To the Editor.—Sir,
I have much pleasure in testifying to the skill and
attention of Dr. Stanich, during his attendance on my
daughter, She suffered acute pain in her ear for throe
years, and Dr. Stanich's treatment relieved her from
all pain in four days* time, and the deafness she felt has
been quite removed —Tours, Ac., P, Griffin, Tam-
worth; at present at Clarendon Hotel, Manly Bay.
Remarkable cure of Deafness. —To the
Editor. —Sir, Having been advised by a gentleman to
visit Dr. Stanich, and take his opinion regarding the
deafness with which I was afflicted, I did so, and have
much pleasure in testifying to the great success of his
treatment, in restoring the great blessing of the sense
of hearing, of which I was deprived. A space in your
valuable columns for this letter will greatly benefit
those similarly afflicted. I am, sir, very gratefully, John
Wilson, Merri Merri. My present address is
Thompson’s Family Hotel, corner Goulbnm and
Qeorge-streets, Sydney. March 4,1882.
Another Cube of Deafness.—To the
Editor.—Sir, I have been a sufferer from great pain in
my ears, and also from deafness, ever since I had the
measles, which is now over fourteen years ago. The
misery I suffered was almost without intermission.
The pains were terrible; they were something like a
sharp knife passing through my head. Some throe
months ago I consulted Dr. Stanich, whose skilful treat-
ment relieved me from pains and cured my deafness. I
now feel strong and healthy—better, in fact, than I ever
remember to have been before. A space in your
valuable columns will benefit the public.—Yours, Ac.,
William Emery. Underwood-street, Paddington,
March 10.
Another Cube of Deafness by Dr.
Stanich. —Per favour.—Doctor Stanich. —Sir, I sin-
cerely thank yon for curing me of deafness of long
standing. Yon accomplished In one operation what the
doctors of Sydney Hospital failed to do in 12 months.
I hope Heaven may bless you, as yon did it for charity,
I being a crippled old man. Sir, please publish this for
the public information. Charles Burns, 344 Kent-
street. Sydney, 9bh March, 1882. Dr. Stanich’s Consult-
ing Rooms are 50 Wynyard-square, Sydney.
P
HOTOS. IN PRISON.
BOYD’S LIFE-LIKE PORTRAITS
of
HAYNES AND AECHIBALD,
THE IMPEISONED JOUENALISTS.
LIFE-LIKE SKETCHES.
BOYD, PHOTOGEAPHEE,
GEOEGE BTEEET, SYDNEY
Electricity
Administered in a warm bath is the only method
by which every mmele, nerve, and bone, can he aifeeted
at the same time. It removes chronic liver complaints,
congestion, tumours, rheumatism, &0., and rids the
system of all impurities; even mercury is taken out of
the body.
Process and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d stamp to
W. M O O E E,
Homoaopathist,
151 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
The immediate effect of Moore’s Electric Bath is
more wonderful than Moore’s Honsehold Eemedy Oint-
ment, which removes all pain from a bum or scald in
three to 15 minutes. It is the only ointment that has
certificates of merit from the managers of all the
foundries in Sydney. It acts magically in wounds,
bruises, sores, sun-bums, corns, banions, and has a
curative effect on lung complaints, when rubbed into
the chest. Every Householder should keep a pot.
There sbonld bo a pot kept in every house, oven if
the house is empty, it will do for the next tenant.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, in pots, Is, and 2s. 6d.
each.
MASON BROTHERS,
WAROAT
14 & 16 Spring; Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
lEONMONGEET, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SOEIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A, MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
NEW BUILDINGS. New Buildings. New
Buildings, 29, 31, 33 Park-street. CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE. H. LEVY & CO. beg to
draw the attention ot the Public generally, to the large
stock of English Furniture just opened, and now ready
for sale, at their large and beavtifully stocked Show
Rooms, comprising Drawing ana Dining Room Suites,
Plate-glass door, and other Wardrobes in Cedar. Walnut,
Mahogany, and Birch. Toilets of all descriptions. Loo
and Square Tables, Bedsteads and Bedding. Crockery,
Glassware, Holloware, and every requisite for parties
about to furnish. CENTRAL FURNISHING AR-
CADE. H. LEVY & CO.
NOW is your time for Bargains, as we have a
very large shipment of Austrian Furniture to
open, and must clear some of our large stock to make
room for new goods, H. LEVY & CO., 29, 81, 33 Park-
street.
HOUSES Furnished on Time Payments from
£l5 up to £lOOO, at the CENTRAL FURNISH.
IKG ARCADE, 29, 31, 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY & CO.
A GREAT Variety of Pianos by the best
makers jnst opened at the CENTRAL FUR-
NISHING ARCADE, and are to be sold on Time Pay-
ments. H. LEVY & CO„ 29,31, 33 Park-street.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
WE have now opened onr Principal Shipments of this WINTER SEASON’S GOODS and have
so placed them that Persons visiting the PALACE EMPORIUM will, we trust, find pleasure
in inspecting the NUMEROUS NOVELTIES we have succeeded in obtaining from the MOST pm
NENT MANUFACTURERS IN ENGLAND and the Continent, and comprising the NEWPVn
GOODS and LATEST STYLES of London, Paris, Berlin, &o. "-awJWa
Ladies. Maids, and Children's JACKETS, PALE-
TOTS, and DOLMANS, in Black Mixtures, and all
colours of FRENCH and ROYAL CASHMEKE, DIA-
GONALS, JERSEY CLOTH, GERMAN BEAVER,
ENGLISH, CHUDDAH. INDIANA, QUEENSLAND
CAMEL’S-HAIR, and BEGTITE CLOTHS. Also, in
SILK, SATIN and SEALSKIN ; also, PUB-LINED
CIRCULAR SILK CLOAKS, Ac.
Choice Dress Materials in PLUSHES, VELVETS,
VELVETEENS, BROCADED SATINS, SILKS, and
VELVETS.
Charming Costume Cloths, Soft in Texture, very Ser
viewable, and well adapted for the present Style of
Dress.
BEAUTIFUL RIBBONS, plain and shaded. All the
newest Colours and Shades in PLUSH, MOIBE, VEL
VET, and SATIN. SASHES in greatest variety to
match.
LACES: A very Large and Beautiful Stock, com-
prising every known make and Latest Novelty.
KID GLOVES, by the best makers, in all colours
and styles FABRIC GLOVES, Plain and Fleecy-
lined.
For Balls, Fancy Fairs, and Theatricals. A. Large
and Varied Assortment, GOLD and SILVER, TWI3.
TED and BULLION FRINGE, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION TASSELS, SPANGLES, SANDAL
LACES, GRANBY LACE, &o, &o. GILT and SIL-
VER BUTTONS, CABLE CORD, RUSSIA BRAIDS,
and SMOKING CAP TAS3ELS. GILT and SILVER
ORNAMENTS. PRINCE OP WALES FEATHERS,
MALTESE CROSSES, STARS, CRESCENTS, AN*
CHORS, Ac. &o.
CRETONNES and Furnishing requisites specially
manufactured for our trade.
TABLE COVERS, and TABLE LINEN.
Clothing of every description for Men, Youths, and
Boys. Best Materials, Good Shapes.
HARD and SOFT FELT HATS in all colours and
newest styles.
r An immense stock of Ladies, Gent’s, and Children’s
BOOTS and SHOES, well-made by eminent firms, from
the very Lest materials, and cheaper than any other
House in Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY.)
THE “PLUME” BRAND
MOLESKIN TROUSERS
WHITE AND PRINTED,
IN STOCKMAN’S OR ORDINARY CUT,
ARE TO BE OBTAINED FROM
ALL RESPECTABLE DRAPERS AND
CLOTHIERS THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
QUALITIES^
& A
A
A
AA
AA
AA
THESE GOODS WILL BE FOUND THE
CHEAPEST AND BEST IN THE MARKET.
THE BRAND IS REGISTERED, AND ANY PERSON
IMITATING IT WILL BE PROSECUTED.
Trade
Mark
KEROSENE, 150» TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERT SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and packed
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed. This oil should bo tried by EVERY-
ONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of the
City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
E. LASBETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
L .V
3
AS A
CXJ2RE
.V.
Thousands permanently Cured. Endorsed by Physicians.
A Home Treatment.
Send two stamps for 50 page book (latest edition) and Colonial testimonials.
address— s FRESHMAN,
259 G-EORG'j STREET, SYDNEY.
D- and W. Robertson’s tender for the supply of
6000 tons of water pipes at £5 18s. 9d. per ton—lowest
prico .vet —has been accepted by the Sydney Corpora-
tion. Victorian Public Works Department pay John
Blyth and Co., of Melbourne, £8 14s. lid. per ton. D.
and W. Bobertson tendered for these at £8 Us. 6d. per
ton, but lost the contract by the fluke that they sent a
cheque as deposit instead of hard‘cash.
Hannah keeps a boot shop at 548 George-street,
and though he has not been established since Hannah
Domini 49, he knows about as much as those that have.
We trust our readers will not neglect this uppor-tuaity
toe visit this heel-dorado of shoe-shops. If you want
anything in the boot-line, from a patten to a dancing-
pump, you had better call at 584, and “see what is the
matter with Hannah.” The foregoing encomiums are
true upon our sole. Boots ought to bo in great demand
now, if only for tho kicking of libel-case jurymen.—
Anvx
During tho past year you hava frequently com-
plained that it was difficult to get a good aup of tea.
You have heard that the last season's China crop was
poor in quality, and that enormous stocks of common
and low grades are accumulated in bond. Will you
ploaaa ask your grocer or storekeeper for a sample
packet of the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure Indian
Teas P—a blend of the most famous and purest teas in
the world; kept by all theiloading storekeepers in town
and country. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place.—Abvx,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Tenterfield will soon have another paper —the
Ikdspendent redivivus. It will be edited by a press-
man from Temora Alexander M'Quirk, a well-to-do
Melbourne larrikin, has been fined £2O or six months’
gaol, for brutally assaulting a constable All N.S.W,
trains to be filled with Mr. Cracknell’s electric appa-
ratus for maintaining communication between passen-
gers, guards and drivers A N.Z. bank manager has
received an annonymons letter from a penitent thief.
A postal package containing £7O had been lost, £l2 of
the amount being in notes. The annonvmous letter
says that the finder was hard up, had kept half the
notes, and had destroyed the cheque. £6 in notes was
returned, and the writer promised to pay the balance
of £6 as soon as possible, with interest added at 10 per
cent, per annum Charles Tubby, labourer, was, some
time ago, sentenced, at Malmsbnry, to a month’s im-
prisonment, and a whipping of twenty-five lashes. But
his lawyer appealed on a legal point. Meanwhile,
Tubby did another sentence of two months, and has
been released. Now, the Full Court has upheld the
other conviction. Will Tubby now get his month and
his “ cat ?” At last someone has profited by the law’s
■delay Diptheria at Armidale Cavanagh, Brothers,
boot importers, of Armidale, charged at Sydney with
fraudulent insolvency There is much difficulty in
keeping the Gonlburn volunteer corps up to regulation
strength Duck Creek brickworks (Western line) for-
mally opened last weak by christening the first kiln of
bricks, containing 56,700 well-baked parallelograms.
Manager showed visitors round, and made a speech,
and a good “feed” rendered the inspection interesting.
Adelaide publicans have raised the price of beer
Victorian Government spending £3OOO per week in
supplying water to Northern selectors The various
Victorian agricultural (societies have decided that an
intercolonial ploughing match should take place in July.
Another case of hospitalism in Melbourne; Lynch,
suffering with pneumonia, contracted erysipelas
The horse on which Constable M’lntyre rode away
from the Kellys is now stated to bo drawing a Mel-
bourne waggonette Mrs. Bird, wife of Dr. S. Dougan
Bird, the eminent Melbourne physician, died on the
24th March, after a short illness, of iuflamation of (he
brain The real name of Ah Sam, Mrs. Watson’s
faithful servant, was Chow Gee Kut, and he has friends
in China and Hong Kong who will assist in erecting a
monument to him in Australia, even although they re-
move his bones to mingle with the dust of his kindred
in a sacred “ temple of the tomb.”...Mr. Wilkinson (late
proprietor of the Thames Advertiser) contemplates
starting a daily newspaper in Auckland.... The Maclkat
Herald has now taken unto itself an additional title,
“The Free Selectors’ Advocate,” and will henceforth
burn with the woes of the struggling free selector A
lady’s nectie, four feet long and three inches broad was
recently found in the maw of a magpie. Not the first
biped a necktie has finished Last Mount M’Donald
issue brought 3280z5, 7dwts. of gold. Mr. M’Kellar (one
of the Mt. M'Donald prospectors) and a mate have
again been lucky. They have struck a rich copper lode
near Wahgoolah Another attempt has been made to
obtain the release of Elton, Melb., who, whilst labour-
ing under a fit of insanity, murdered his child at Sand-
ridge, Melb., about 10 years ago “Toby,” a Towns-
ville black tracker, who was wanted by the police for
rape, escaped into the scrub. His corpse was found
with the skull smashed to pieces. He had been attacked
by a mob of wild blacks.,., A 40-ton crashing at
the M’KinHy River, N.T., gave 140 ozs. gold
Rockhampton is to have a brass band et 20 Hibernian
performers. Horror! Mr. Smyth, a wealthy Vic-
toriad speculator, has bought a big interest in the Ida
reef. Palmer River Michael Callaghan, who is
charged with the murder of John Hughes, at Charters
Towers, has been remanded. He is a goed specimen of
• navy. He said he didn’t know anything about the
matter, and nodded when told he was remanded The
other day the niggers killed thirteen horses on Mount
Mnlgrave station, Palver River The Cairns (N Q )
people are “ monstrous happy ” in the prospect of a
railway. A firm of cedar-getters, Thomas and Garland,
offer a lamp sum of £5OOO, to be taken out in carriage,
and can find cedar sufficient to make the line, sleepers
and all. W. Jack has spare time to make the rails;
Newell and Mulligan have discovered enough silver to
build engine and boiler; Moffat and Denny say that
should antimony be too brittle to build carriages with
they will supply copper, with leaden doors and bismuth
handles An auctioneer courts a brick every sale,
■when he reminds buyers that ho is “ casting pearls.”
Two more words, and up comes the pavement
At Cooktown, the other day, a splendid collection of
the Lepidoptcra of the district was exhibited. There
■were twenty-five cases of 250 each—or in all 6250 speci-
mens of gorgeous and beautifully tinted butterflies
An illustration of the prosperity of Tinaroo, Tate
River (N.Q.) The other day, £2OO was collected to
assist Charley Smith, and old miner, to obtain the best
medical advice ia the South Some of the best
troopers are leaving the N.Q. police in consequence of
the smallness of the pay Out West, recently, a
blacksmith, whose water-bag had given out, was found
delirious, quite naked, and sacking blood from an ugly
/-ash under his arm At Bathurst, an old woman
put her foot in a hole. The Corporation pat their
foot in it too, and have had to pay her £5O
The Southern Cross (N.Z.) Petroleum Co., it is alleged
by a N.Z. paper, have no valid lease of the country
where the petroleum is found. The Melbourne share-
holders are disgusted to find that the native title has
never been extinguished, and workmen have been driven
off the ground by the native chiefs The majority of
the Wanganui Road Board have boycotted a colleague
by appointing a committee consisting of every member
of the Board, except the objectionable one, to transact
all the ordinary business of the Board Divers are
engaged at (the :Blufl (N.Z.), seeking to recover the
silver lost in s.s. Tararua Great sickness and
mortality amongst the children in Forbes. Eight
deaths in one day One firm holds 21,000 miles of
country in the Northern Territory Tho yield of gold
in Victoria for 1881 is given officially as 833,5240 z A
Melbourne man named Anthony, evidently deranged,
astonished people in Christchurch recently by standing
in the streets and handing bank-notes to passers-by.
He gave away over £125, and was then taken in charge...
George Burn, Brisbane, sentenced to death for rape of
a girl of 10 years Sergeant Steele, of Kelly-gang and
Glenrowan celebrity, has been exonerated by a Victori-
an Board of Enquiry from charges of reckless firing at
Qlenrowan, and complimented for his plnck Hoyoe,
■antenced six months ago at Hamilton (N.Z.), to five
years for rape, has been pardoned. Qnoor evidence has
since turned up During a storm at Wellington (N.Z.)
a gust of wind blew a boat into tho water over a stack
of wood 3 ft. high. After this, one can readily under-
stand why a Wellington man always puts his hand on
his hat when he turns a corner Steamer Clyde took
to Melbourne Zoological Society a Royal Bengal tiger,
two 15-ft. pythons, and seme rare birds Adolphus
Duncan, school teacher, Teesdale (Vic ), was mot trained
to arms. A gun in a buggy, and Adolphus trying to
coax it out, led to tho loss of a capable State school
teacher Edward Mullhearn, an old Palmer River
miner, has been killed at tho Ida p. c Copy of
anonymous letter sent to a Warwick (Q.) storekeeper :
“Warwick, March 1, 82. To Mr. Andrew Canning.
This is to warn you that if you do not shut
up next week f I will drink your blood
and eat your liver and Hart. Dynamite.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
It is nigVt, and we are alone in onr haunted
chamber. Onr pomatumed head rests upon our
celluloid shirt-cuffs. We are meditating. We always
meditate in this attitude. A long moonbeam steals
through the window and gropes around for a soft place
to rest upon. We feel it gently settling down upon the
centre parting of our glossy curls. Halo 1 we mutter.
We would have light, and then stretching ont a
jewelled hand we tear an article upon Popery from the
Protestant Standard and hold it over our midnight
dip- So I the brimstone sentences have done their
work. And new our fingers wander over the tom-tom
of our fathers. We beat a bar or two of a spirited death,
song to which the male members of our family have
been hanged from time immemorial. The pride of race
stirs in onr bosom once more as we remember hearing
our old man telling of the boom in the hemp market
the last time Uncle Ban was put upon his trial. But
these thoughts are too joyous. Let ns turn to a
sorrowful theme,
« * *
This is the last (advertised) week of our own
Lonise at the Theatre BoyaL This is the last week of
that brief season of happiness which burst upon our
gloomy existence like the first ray of intelligence upon
the brain of a Supreme Court Judge. We have
definitely refused to smile again under—say two drinks
and a social bite from a journalistic saveloy. And now,
O perfumed winds of night, waft us this little ballad to
the feet of the fair Louise whore she sits before her
mirror in Petty’s gorgeous boudoir, letting down that
blonde back-hair which has driven ns to premature
madness and threepenny drinks.
And must thou leave us like the breeze ,
In last year's trees.
And must thou sail across the seas
O fair Louise ?
Farewell I we swear upon our knees
Most sweet of shes,
Wa would have rather lost Dairies,
Than our Louisa I
Of course, this only holds good if our Lonise is really
going to wreck our career this week. High-toned
sentimental verse of this kind fetches too good a price
in the batter market to be slung about recklessly. If
Louise is not going, we shall hash it up for elegiac
acrostics in Sydney Punch.
• # •
Miss Pomeroy’s last appearance in tragedy was
made in “ Romeo and Juliet,” on Monday night. Miss
Pomeroy is not our ideal Juliet, but then our ideal is
high. We are free to confess that we think it higher
than the cheese at most land sale lunches, which
anyone of those old bidders knows, can vie with
the Himalayas in altitude.; Lonise is not a great ac-
tress. She cannot hold her audience breathless for any
length of time. Few actresses can. There is a presence
that commands attention without the utterance of a
word, or the uplifting of a finger. Such had all the
great queens of tragedy—such we must say fit though
it harrows up our feelings worse than the last chapter
of “John Marmon” —has not Louise. Hercules re-
vealed himself merely by his manner of sitting down.
Juliet should be known at once by her air and mien be-
fore she speaks a syllable. There should be power i* the
very silence. At no time do we find that Miss Pomeroy
attains this level of art. She is very seldom lacking in
force, but is equally seldom thoroughly en rapport with
her audience. Having said this we joyfully admit that
her actions are always graceful, and she speaks the
speech without mouthing. Besides she understands
what she is talking about, and always does her best—
which is never poor. And lastly, and more than any-
thing else, she is our own Lonise.
* * #
And now, with a light and tender touch, we
proceed to sum up the dainty Romeo. Mr. Herbert
Flemming is the best exponent of this character that
has ever appeared on these shores. This is not our
opinion. It was communicated to us in confidence as
the mature conclusion of ore of the million girls who
love him. For onr own part, if we were Romeo’s first
love, and this is what he was like, we should not be
madly jealous of Juliet. We admit with compunction
that we have a crotohetty kind of dislike to listening to
a man who stuffs up his ears with a bale of cotton, and
then tries to talk through them as this Romeo seems to
do. We don’t take any delirious pleasure in hearing
voices that appear to come out of the catacombs.
Tenderness is certainly one requisite of the actor who
would play the lover to Juliet, and Mr. Flemming in
the balcony-scene showed that he conld coo as tenderly
as a turtle—yes, as a mud-turtle. Finally, Mr. Flemming
is good looking enough, and painstaking enough, and
has sufficient ability to make him a very successful
psrformer in many a part, but as a Romeo—alas 1
* * •
The most noticeable thing about Mr. J. B.
Steele’s Mercutio was the hearse-feather he wore in
his cap. Great praise is due to this popular actor for
the delicate discrimination he showed in wearing this
in the back of his cap—instead of at the side, as usual—
so that he should thereby direct the attention of the
audience to the most advantageous view of him. But
he should have taken a hint from the elocution of gal-
lant Romeo and spoken through the back of his head.
And, talking of this, it strikes ns that a good vantrilo-
quial interlude would enliven this performance. It
could be arranged (say) in the vault scene, where time
seems to hang a bit heavy on the hands of the perform,
ers. The corpse of Tybalt might be asking Romeo
what he gave for his boots. We make no charge for
this suggestion.
• • »
Capulet (Mr. J. Mnagrave) is—like the lobster
—chiefly remarkable for his red legs.
* • •
The remaining male actors of the company are
about as spirited as Cyril Haviland when he jostles
round the shades of his sire at an Old-Tom-and-prayer
wanes.
• * •
And now for the ladies. O, musio, music,
breathe despondingly I But no; we would not say a
word against them for worlds.
The tom-tom is silent—its music has fled.
Bo be ye contented with what we have said.
* * **
Pausing in the contemplation of our foreign
correspondence, comprising dainty aud still fragraur,
notos from Sara Bernhardt, earnest queries from
Salvini as to whether we have heard of his suoces»in
Russia, reminders from Edwin Booth that he has
knocked the London public endways, and been more
popular than Mr. Irving, who also reminds us that
there is a theatre called the Lyceum, and one Henry,
mnoh loved of the people—gazing with some anxiety at
the mass, piled Pelion upon Ossa on onr groaning Hnon
pine, we plunge in medias res and find that George
Darrell tells “Tahite” he never saw Shakspeare
idealised until Rossi bowled him over in New York.
George styles the interpretation by the subtle Italian
“colossal,” whatever that may mean, “by reason of its
massive realisation and overpowering intellectuality,”
which clearly shows that G. D. attended no penny-a-
week school.
• • •
Again George. He says Oscar Wilde is feted and
caressed to his heart’s content, but yearns for his
“Carcassonne.” “My Caroassonue,” remarks G.D.,
“is Melbourne.” George evidently knows how to
get on on the soft side of the doctah. By the
bye, “Tahite’a” Sydney correspondent notices our
Theatre Royal, and mentions Miss Pomeroy, Miss
Jessie) Grey, and Mr. Leston only. All the rest of
the white trash, and the three other theatres, get four
lines. Who can the correspondent be ? Once it was a
well-known horsey lady. And this reminds us that the
Young Australian Circus—wo taka oar notes and
receipts as they come—should be by now at Cobar,
The Cobar brats band was to blast—joy I
« * •
Grabbing ont wildly, wo grasp notices of Mr.
G, P. Carey’s benefit at the Bijou (Melbourne), the
continued success of the Professor at the Princess, the
undiminished crowding of Wilson’s Circus, the final
triumphs cf Grattan Riggs at the Royal, a benefit to
Harry Walton at Hudson’s Theatre—Melbourne still.
Professor and Madame Haselmayer we catch glimpses
of in the Par North, where they give away pipes carved
in the effigies of the Herr and lady to audiences some-
times scant, sometimes big. In four yards of solid long
primer the Tumut Times reports a musical and dra-
matio entertainment in Tuohy’s Hall there, and gives
the plot of “ Withered Leaves." Owing to the “cold
and prevalent hoarseness,” the vocal and instrumental
programme was altered. The lege of the piano were in
red flannel. The lecal Catholics had a chivoo, too, and
a large concourse around the Oddfellows* Hall, and “ a
divergence thereto of approaching parties" (sic) inti-
mated that the gathering was opened for “ public grati-
fication " (sic again)...“ Puck,” of Penrith, says Maggie
Oliver is going to that foot hill, sleepy hollow, to take
fresh lessons in the lah-di-dah business—from whom,
he points out pretty clearly. The “ English Circus,”
11 a celebrated star company of acrobats, athletes, jug.
glers, tumblers, and others,” is in Grafton Habbe’s
celebrated scenic and realistic sensation has been re-
vived by G. B. W. (Great Baby Worker) Lewis at the
Bijou.
• * •
Prince, the lion, who feasted on the man’s arm
at Albnry, aims at higher game, and went for Djerlinr,
who cleared, "to the relief of the spectators.” Is
biz. getting bad with General John? The papers spy
that Sydney needs a concert hall mow than better
drains or an ironclad The chief editor of the London
Times is personally credited with the fulsome string of
nonsense anent Mrs. Langtry South’s Opera Com-
pany commence a fresh season in Brisbane at Easter....
Dion Bouoioault says London is too anti-Irish to
tolerate him. " Irish matter,” he swear*, “is a con-
stitutional disease more infectious and virulent than
small-pox." The Cobbys, Professor and Madame,
have assisted the Tenterfleld A.D.C , and raised the Ire
of the leeal " Stab " fish At Adelaide, " Tambour
Major" is a continued success, the Adelaide String
Quartette Company give a benefit to Jules Meilhara,
their conductor, an old Sydney mu»ician, who is leav-
ing the colony; and “The Rose Maiden" is to be pro-
duced by the Philharmonic Society.
« * «
Edwin Booth has been giving away thousands of
dollars to his niece and a widowed mother. The Stray
Leaves Company wo see noticed in our Northern papers
as travelling on the rivers. The Tabke Times says
“ their programme is entirely devoid of the slightest
semblance to vulgarity or anything calculated to offend
the most fastidious." Prunes and prisms, boiled veal
and kissing one’s sister. The Clara Stephenson
Company had internal trouble owing to a local editor
praising the Misses Marsh and their mamma, and omitt-
ing to mention somebody else, who it is alleged—though
we don’t credit the rumor —waited upon the trio and de-
manded an explanation with unsheathed nails. A
gentleman too interviewed the L.E. and offered for the
small price of two pins to wring his nose. The man of
type declined to trade.
# # «
American dramatists are clamoring for Inter-
national Dramatic Copyright. The converted thiefl is
even the most piously inclined. The Liverpool Poacu-
pin* taxes Burnand with,filching the plot of “ The
Colonel." B. owns up, but claims one act to be his
own. Titheradge’s benefit at the Melbourne Princets
is said to have drawn the worst house ever assembled
to see the “ Professor.” The scenery is put down as the
attraction, Robert Heller we learn was the son of a
Canterbury, (Kent), organist, who never spoke to him
after he took to magic. He married a Miss Kiokhcener,
daughter of a Washington banker. Van Amburgh, the
lion man, who has been “ billed" for 61 years, is about
to retire. They tried to bias “The Englishman" at
the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin, but the majority demanded
it three times The Northern Queensland papers
ecstaoise over Mrs. South.
* * *
Walter Eeynolda, in a letter from Hobart, tells
us all about Mr. Flynn, whose wife has been starving
in Sydney. We’ll publish a summary of Walter’s
remarks on this subject when Sir James Martin has
been converted to modern English notions re the law
of libel. Walter adds .-—" Biz. here only middling; my
stars have none of them reached the amount raked in
when I played my own pieces." Ta-ran-ta-ra 1
* * *
Eleanor Cary, (Mrs. Livingstone) is playing, or
was at least date, Hetty Preeme in the Light o' London
at the Union Square Theatre, N.Y. The Lorgnette say s:
” She played well, dressed well, looked perfection, but
is much Istouter than when last seen in Melbourne.
Joe Emmett, now a total abstainer, is pink, and is play-
ing Fritz, and looking as well as ever he was in his
life. Managers have a 5,000 dollar clause in the contrlet
with him to meetjtho “ breaking out” difficulty. Bam
Pickey, who looks throughly broken down, is in New
York!; and Mr Wallen well-known in Melboruno in the
early days, is in New York too, giving readings in
Chiokering Hall. Miss Ethel Adele want on to Mel-
bourne from Sydney, but may return to fulfil an en-
gagement with the Leake company at the Gaiety
offered her by Mr. Bayless. The cause of the row be-
tween James Carden and Johnny Hall was, it said, the
fact that, i n James’ opinion, his name was not suffl-
oienty starred in the bills.
* * «
Mr J. P. Hallewell, the well-known basso, has
organized a small glee club for the performance of
madrigals, glees, and motet*. He has selected good
voices, and is very proud of them.; He says he has two
male altos who can stand on their heads and jerk a top
C with ease ; as for the basses double E flats come as
easily as shelling peas. But the tenors—ah, well, they
are too utter. They are engaged for the Fancy Fair to
do some old English music.
** * *
Yet once more, O. ye minstrels, and once more.
The Bulletin benefit on Friday night did not increase
the Libel Fund to RotsohildUn proportions, but it was
■ well-meant, and the minstrsls will be rewarded —in
heaven. The most pathetic incident in the show was
the selling of Archibald's portrait. A boy offered it to
us for sixpence. As we gazed again upon those noble
iinaments, once flashed with health and beauty, but
now, alas 1 corroded with sufferings and furrowed by
lonely vigils, we wept. Tears, idle tears. Melancholy
had marked him for her own, and we would not dit.
possess her—at the cost of two long beers. But the
subject is sad. Hand us down the harp of our fathers
from yon mouldering wall. We would sigh to music
Ah, woe is me, and eke, alas!
That such a thing should come to pass—
The face as fine as face of sphinx.
Should not fetch more than two poor drinks.
» • •
The performances afc the Opera House during
the week have been varied and amusing. Messrs. Bent
and Bactholor’s repertoire is like the horse we lost our
patrimonial plate over at the Hawkeabury races—it has
no bottom.
** * *
Zulu Thompson, wo hear, is at Christchurch,
at his old game, and making heaps of money. He
usually gives cradles to the nervous-looking youths
who come forward for prizes, and dowales the furniture
to the ladies with the babies.
** * *
“ I’m an actor,” said a witness in the police court
last week. Me subsequently explained that he was a
“ standard-bearer.” Since then the bill-stiekers have
taken to shaving close, and lying in bed till noon, as the
first preliminary to becoming actors.
** * *
All hopes that we had of the treasurer of the
of the Lytton Amateur Dramatic Club rushing up to
Darlinghurst at midnight, summoning the Sheriff and
the Prothonotary, paying the costs of the libel action,
and throwing open the doors of the dread prison with
a wild “ha! ha!” were rudely dispelled by a heavy
downpour of rain which fell just as myriads shou'd have
been rushing to the Opera House to attend The Bulle-
tin Libel Case Fund benefit, on Tuesday. As the poet
says:—“The night was stormy and dark, the town
seemed shut in sleep; none were abroad, save
those ou a lark, or thoso who’d no homes to keep."
Under the circumstances, it is not to be wondered at
that everything wore a funeral aspect. There was a
damp, perspiring air about tho whole affair. There
were no programmes, aud tho money and check-takers
soon tailed off either to Baker’s opposite, or Dixon’s
palatial idimge. The few larrikinly inclined who
i mounted the dais at tho rear of the pit used that
I vantage ground as a pulpit from which to hurl forth
their abuse and merriment unchecked. Wilson glanced
uneasily in tho direction of the treasurer, as if doubtful
of collecting tho balance of rent. Abrahams resembled
Mariana iu the “ Moated Grangeand the only happy
and contented man in the place was a sailor in the pit
with hia Sue's arm round his neck. There was no
genial warmth to foster the budding genius and the
aspiring Lyttons, who naturally partook of the epi-
demical gloom. The prologue, by Mr. H. Cargill,
might have been worthy of Shakespeare or Billy Nutts
for all the intelligible delivery it got, and the piece do
resistance, Byron’s “ Dearer Than Life,” dragged as
“ Pinafore ” might drag under such auspicious cir-
cumstances. Even Miss Willis seemed to draw her
sadness from the “ cirks," instead of her part, and the
usually vivacious Tilly Lake was as lachrymose as if she
had partaken heartily of cold crumpets, ’Twere kind-
ness, n°t to criticise the performance but taka the
“ben.” in the spirit in which it was offered, and hope
for the club and our jugged ones “better luck next
time."
The following is the prologue mutilated on the
occasion :
' 1 " ‘~ulea open on Saturday, at the
Opera House, with he infantile opera business. The
CKiupau,, is, we ue.ieve, a very complete one; nearly 100
kids and big orchestra. They have had gorgeous
notices everywhere. This is the freshest thing for
sometime.
** * *
A good audience assembled at the Gaiety on
Saturday night, to witness “ Maritana. ’’ The cast was
aS follows:—Maritana, Miss Annie Leaf: Don Caesar,
Mr. Charles Harding; Don Jose. Mr T. B Browning;
Lazarillo, Miss E. Beaumont; King, Mr. H. Trevorah ;
Marquis, Mr. G A. Johnson; Marchioness, Miss Pen-
rose. Opera at the Gaiety, and—well, yes. Gaiety at
the opera. •* Maritana" for an opening piece.
• # • ,
Annie, we are pleased with thee——but, stay,—
that only proves that we—even wb—can occasionally be
pleased with what is far from perfection. Miss Leaf
has a sweet voice; bnt, like most sweet things, there
isn’t enough of it. Whan Don Jose promises her speedy
marriage, her ecstoiy on hearing it was far too feebly
expressed. The scale on “ Marriige " was more like a
faint tinkling of pretty bolls than a joyful exclamation
of a delighted gipsy. But this was tho weakest part of
Miss Leaf’s performance, and we’d as leaf get it over
first as not. Her acting throughout was very fair,
indeed, and she made a most bewitching gipsy. Mr.
Harding has plenty of voice of an inferior quality. His
Don Csesar was not a bad piece of acting, bnt he has
disadvantages to cope with for which he himself is not
blameable. “ Lat me like a soldier fall” was one of his
best efforts, and was encored. Miss E. Beaumont has
perhaps the best all-round voice of the company. Her
singing of "Alas, those chimes," quite brought down
the house. In the last verse, she took the final note
down to low A, instead of the octave above, as written
in the score—thereby showing her voice off to the best
advantage. We can imagine Mr. T. B. Browning sing-
ing better before he grew to be so—delicate-looking.
The state of his health seems to interfere with his
b eithing, for his shortness ®f breath frequently spoiled
his singing. “In happy moments ” secured fur him an
encore; bnt he made little ent of “ Now, my courage,’’
and entirely omitted the beautiful—and difficult—intro-
duction. “ This heart by woo o’ertaken." JMr. Trevorah.
as the King, was remarkably weak. The little he had
to sing was so badly sung that it was fortunate for tho
audience there was no more of it. Mr. Johnson, as the
Marquis, was capital. The chorus was perhaps the
smalOot ever put on for Grand Opera.
** * *
“ Camille,” au adaptation of the well-known
“La Dame anx Camellias," was played at the Eoyal on
Tue'day night. Miss Pomeroy certainly makes a bett'r
child of fashion than of passion. She is thrilling enough
for the heroine of a social tragedy of to-day, bnt has
not the grand rage (as the old poets would call it) that
is necessary for the interpretation of a first part in plays
where even the tiu-belmeted “ super." who stands hp
by the wall to give things a mediaeval look, has to stand
up and look like a man. But—the violin, boy 1 the
sweet old Amati I—the cracked ’cello, boy, that we had
cut down for us by the Chinese carpenter. And now to
witch the night with music:—
We’ve seen yen, ladye fair.
Play many parts.
In all of which you were
The queen of hearts;
But when wo ask our heart
What most doth please.
It says, that sweetest part—
Yourself, Louise.
That will do. There is a tune in the old fiddle yet.
* * «
Wo have to crowd you together, ladies and gen-
tlemen. Armand Duval (Mr. Herbert Flemming) was a
fair impersonation. In one scene, however, whore ho has
to look pale, Herbert seems |to have made up on tho
model of tho chief murderer at a waxworks shew. Our
old friend Musgrave.as tho bln II father, was above praise.
We want a fire-escape, and an alpenstock with as many
notches as a circular-saw, to climb up to the level of his
merits. For the haughty father of a French aristocrat,
Mr. Musgrovo looked the reddest faced “jolly waggoner"
wo ever saw off a foot-painted signboard. Maston fiieux
(Mr. H. Jerdau), Count de Varville (Mr. H. A. Douglas),
were very passable; Gustave (Mr. E. D. Mowry) wis—
Gustavo. But then he was a Gustavo got up regatdles r .
He must have carried about at least two pounds of
Kiama butter in his locks. The ladies were, as ever—
lovely.
** * *
Mr. J. Uosford is a recent addition to tho ranks
of the dramatic profession here. He comes from Bris-
bane to join Bayli.ss’ company at tho Gaiety, and though
Mr. Hesford has not appeared in Sydney before, the
notices he has received in Queensland, Victoria, Now
Zealand, and elsewhere should make his fame va sans
dire, as the French say.
** * *
Sir Arthur Sullivan’s oratorical drama, “ The
Martyr of Antioch," will be given at the Theatre Koyal
on Good Friday, the 7th inst., familiarly known as
“ Sullivan’s Martyr.” The oratorio was first produced
at the Leeds Festival, two years ago, and has never been
given in its entirety here. The conductor Mr. Sydney
Moss, has secured talent of the highest local order,
including the St. Clairs (Madelaine and Marie), and Mr.
John Breshelle. The story, originally dramatised bv
Dean Milman, is romantic, and tho piece abounds with
music worthy of the popular maestro.
* * *
Hudson’s Surprise Party are doing well at tho
Queen’s. Their eutertaimont is full of merriment and
variety, and of such a kind as to hit the taste of the
audience. Opening in the usual form of a Christy
affair, a semi-circle of prettily-dressed, flexible-ankled (
ladies are discovered seated. Messrs. Hudson and
Cottier sport their collars and African smiles at the
corners. Miss F. do Gay is ready at a rather faable
piano, and Miss V. de Gay is ready to discourse
symphony or solo as required. Part I.—Chair-
buainess: Comic songs Ichorussed by the stripe-hosed
nymphs ; sentimental ditto, dealing much in tet n, and
mothers deceased. After the budewment, military
evolutions are gone through, with a view to meeting
the bloodthirsty Afghans, and the time we took ever
our late war with those savages makes Mr. Hudson’s
troupe look authentic. Miss V. de Gay’s violin playing
is good enough for an enteric mm on tof this bind. It
is of the tvne of Nick La Ferillade in its collection of
a number of sweetly sliding chords, and no less like
Simonson’s in the manipulation of the high register.
Miss Maven sings the time-honored si rains supposed
to indicate the gaiety of the block. Messis Cottier
and Ward dance a splendid sailor’s hornpipe. Mr.
Warner sings a good song in evening costume, and
takes part in a roaring duet of “ Three-Obadieh’’
hypoc-isy, fringing in localisms that cannot but in-
clude John D of Australasia. The Registry Office
farce (shows up sundry little games played hero every
day; while Jake Hudson and Pete Cottier figure just
on the Champs Elysd?s’ restaurant with two carpet
bigs which they have just bromht over from Baltimore,
atK i,T bicb ’ puts de ftie gras, they would be glad
to fill with a few mouthfuls of bread-poultice and sau-
sage skin. Hudson’s pedestal dance is unique, and ho
should _ therefore be spared the presstissime pelvis-
shattering which an encore to a nigger dance always
brings out. Mr. Kennedy is a good Irishman, and as
such, speaks Hamlet’s soliloquy on death quite as well
as would that ill-fated Prince had he thought of being
born in Leinster.
** * *
Mr. Dampier has presented his faithful manager,
Mr. Thomas Sinclair, with a gold Waltham thus in-
scribed “ From Alfred Dampier to Thomas Sinclair,
with all good wishes, March 28, 1882.” This speaks
volumes for the entente cordials existing between Alfred
and his agent, even after a dramatic season. Stars are
sometimes found hiring some newspaper man to hunt
up terms in which to denounce their representatives
in front of the house. On dit (they say) that the stock
of gold Walthams was too low to admit of one being
inscribed with a tribute to the virtues of L. M. 8., the
entrepreneur, from his dear and devoted friend, A.D.,
1882.
** * *
Without much working or notioo, the benefit
given to that standard old favourite, William Horace
Bout, on Monday night, was a crusher. Billy did his
very funniest act, “ The Musical Conductor, ’* and gave
a lecture written for him by Dick Thatcher, “ What is
i r ' Webster recited a screaming brochure,
“ Only a Pin,’* and then Miss Ada Ward chipped in
with that hyper-sickly hit of bosh, “ The Little Hero,*'
the metre of which, as rendered, would have astonished
Arthur Matthison, the author. William Horace went to
Melbourne on Tuesday, and opens with the company on
Saturday at St. George’s Hall.
** * *
The special concert at the new Town Hall,
Petersham, which took place last Tuesday week, was
fairly successful. Our Hugo was there, making himself
generally useful, as he always does. Herr Alpen is not
proud, and is always willing to do anything to oblige,
from composing a Grand Mass to singing in a chorus.
A nice variety was given to the programme by a
clarionet solo, played by Mr. Sebastian Hodge, in a
manner which secured for him a very pronounced
encore. Mr. Hodge took this opportunity of introduc-
xng to the xniblic one of his very small pupils, who bore
the saine proportion in size to his master as Jack does
to the Giant in the picture books. However, mite as
he is, the boy played the oboe part in a duet with Mr.
Hodge very well indeed, and was evidently capable of
better things. A young lady sang “ I seek for thee in
every flower.” Now, why will young ladies persist in
singing gentlemens’ songs ? How on earth could one
expect to find one of the sterner sex in any flower
unless, indeed, it were the sun-flower ? ’Twas sweetly
sung, but badly chosen. Mr. Hinchy was in splendid
voice, and sang “ Alice, where art thou,” too well to
expect to escape an encore. Mrs. Morris possesses one
of those low rich contralto voices so seldom heard, and
os she sang with great taste, she pleased everybody
The accompanists, Mrs. Jones and Miss Fisher, worked
mu’ ?,V d . , Mis S ris her played a pianoforte sslo.
The Sleigh Race Galop, with bell accomi>ani-
men u bbo a i° He would have made but a poor
solo, but the bell accompaniment was, at least a
novelty. The pianist fastened the bells round her
hands somehow or other, and when she played the bells
rang—very simple, but not uueffective. The choruses
might have been better—but they weren’t.
** * *
Bland Holt’s Company—we commence thus
because by a wise division of responsibility the “ star ’
finds th» piece and its interpreters and the management
the house and trimmings—open at the Theatre Koval
on Saturday, in “ The World.” “ The World ” is the
best of all the new order of pieces instituted by Pettitt
who struck out from his connection with Conquest’
Paul Meritt, and (nominally) Gus. Harris, of Drury
Lane, and went in for more realism and the intro
dnetion of all possible sensation. When taxed with
presenting impossibilities the authors pointed to
occurrences daily happening in support of their plot
incidents and denouement, and proved that they were
merely photographing life. Of these matters we shall
speak when the piece is produced; wo now content our-
selves with drawing attention to the unwonted prepa-
rations for its presentation. The cast can bo gathered
from the millions of bills. We prefer not to run over
the names of the enchantresses secured by Bland and
his indefatigable agent, Monte Brown, because it up-
sets us for the day. In prosaic men, too, the pro-
gramme is very strong. By-the-bye, the old sore
between Monte and the “entrepreneur of the South”
over the Ada Ward squabble in Adelaide has not yet
been healed, but, as the treasury fattens, the difficulty
will be smoothed over, and Jem and Monte will
fraternise in the pub. that has done this journal
the honor of taking it for godfather. In scenic and
mechanical effects and splendour generally “ The
World ” is, we are told, to eclipse anything attempted
hero before. In London it was so successful that but
for the gigantic preparations for tho pantomime, it
would nave held tho boards at Drury Lane during 1 that
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The armless woman and the wonderful pig have
been showing at Chriatehurch “ Orbilias "in Ade
laide complains that actors gag at the Koval. What's
that ?-they choke here That frisky old buffer. Ben
A. Greene, the Charters Towers oompanologiat, rol
iterates his demand for a copy of Maggie Oliver's photo
“ I want yon to send me Maggie as Sinbad," he says’
All right, Benjamin; some of ns are in gaol just now'
bat as soon as we come out, we'll be there with the
glow and consolation. “ Madame Haselmayer.'' con-
tinues 8.A.G., “is very clever; very ladylike, and a
rigiut-down • star,' both on and oil the stage. Everyone
admires her, and now for myself I am not a family man
but I make love to all the pretty actresses. See" Wo
draw a veil over that part of Bern's communication
which goes to show that his affection has not been
reciprocated, but as we're always ready to do the
perfesh a good turn, we append the wind up of his
epistle, m which love and biz. are componologioallv
blended “Let me know where Mips Oliver is - there
is a good show if she would bring a company here now
No more news."
* * *
A J Lo J l , don P a P er says that the Czar is going to
spend 200,100 in reconstructing the Italian Opera
House at St. Petersburg The mob of Odessa was
mistaken in attacking oara Bernhardt as a Jewess.
Not only she is not a Jewess, but she has a dislike for
Hebrews in general. It is on reoord that she was once
courted by a well-known banker, and ever resisted his
protection. “Why are you so cold to mo ? " asked one
day the wealthy Israelite. “ Because yon are a Jew '*
answered the great tragedienne “You are mistaken
Para; my name, like yours, is Jewish, but I am
not " She smiled, and said : “ Dear sir, prove it '*
He sent her a riviere of diamonds. She was satisfied.
William Thomson, who arrived in S.A. from
Sydney about 1831 or 1832, ia dead. At Kangoro Island
be supplied water to tbo Cygnet, which brought Sir
John Morphett and Sir George Kingston,
Dear friends—we greet your presence here to-night
with feelings of peculiar delight.
Though we, by mimic art, aspire to find
A means to brush the cobwebs from the mind,
Yet do our efforts flow from other cause.
And seek redress as well as seek applause;
For, not alone to while away an hour.
Wield we the serio-comic drama’s power.
Creating laughter by depicting pain.
And winding up with “ sunshine after rain."
A nobler cause our feeble efforts sways
Than the mere winning of your passing praise.
The sacred name of Freedom we invoke.
And strive to lessen a tyrannic yoke.
Our Press is gagged ; the glorious art of letters
Is stifled by the law's ignoble fetters.
Which, while they leprous vice and evil nourish.
Forbid a fearless newspaper to flourish.
Those who have dared a cancerous ill assail
Were fined a farthing—then clapped into gaol I
Thus outraged, sad-eyed Freedom clanks her chains
In Oarlinghurst, with Archibald and Haynes.
In Freedom’s cause, then, you and we appear,
We come to act, and you to see and bear.
The public voice is raised ; the public heart
No longer can endnre a passive part.
Blot out this law that hath our Press enthralled.
Meanwhile, unfetter Haynes and Archibild.
Good people I let not your exertions cease
Till honest journalists can write in peace.
’Tie more to nations, than to husband wife,
The Freedom of the Press—" Dearer than Life."


FUNERALS
W No funeral notice of any
inserted in tkese columns unle
orthodox style, and copied out ii
some recognized undertaker.
THE FBI ENDS of Mrs.
M'TUCKER are respectfully
the funeral of her late departed H
M'Tucker, to more from his late
Woolloomooloo-street, at 3, for th
JAMIN CHEERYCASE, underta
street, 394 Sussex-street, 44 Ki
the Dead Meat Market), and 2
next the City Gin-case Mann:
painted 'bus-horses used at 1
Sober mutes at all hours.
The friends of eliza
ERTY are respectfully requ
funeral of her sister’s late dei
William M'Tucker, to more from
No. 980 Woolloomooloo-street, at 3,
BENJAMIN CHEBBYCASE, i
George-street, No. 894 Sussex-str
(opposite the Dead Meat Market
Quay, next the City Oln-oase Mant
dogging the dead for patronage at
THE FRIENDS of Mr. EIC
ERTY, HUSBAND of Eliz!
and BROTHER-IN-LAW of the
William M'Tucker, are re?peetfu
funeral of the said late William
from his late residence. No. 980 W(
at 3, for the Necropolis BEN.
CASE, undertaker. No, 1 George
street. No. 44 King-street (oppos
Market), and 211 Circular Quay, ne
Manufactory. N,B.—The dead trei
respect. No partnership or comm
or doctors at this establishment.
WR. Y. P. 9.O.P.—THE MEW
• SOCIETY are respect:
attend the funeral of our lately di
William M'Tucker. Funeral at 3,
from 980 Woolloomooloo-street. M
in full regalia, with ears washed, an<
MIN CHEREYCASE, undertaker.
No. 394 Sussex-street, 44 King-stree
Meat Market), and 211 Circular C
Gin-case manufactory. N.B.—No
mutes employed at this estahlishn
nished on the time-payment system
T.0.L.Y., No. 9890.—The
PEPPER AND SALT.
Sir James Martin has discoursed on the tyranny
to be dreaded from a licentious press, the implication
being, if wo may humbly copy the audacity of the
Herald, that such papers are in existence, and not far
to seek. If the courage to flog hypocrisy and break it
on a wheel instead of drowsily deodonrising it be called
licentiousness; if the vigorous life of a young com-
munity is to be bridled by the traditions of anoient
imbecility and old-world drivel—if the reverence due
to honour and virtue is to be thus stigmatised when it
lays stripes on transparent villany, and on known
humbngs, political and other, then plunge wo into the
lowest depths of “licentiousness," repenting only
when we have sounded them. Better license with
freedom than servility and mudheadism.
• • •
The cable tells us that a “ suspect ” was last
week released from Kilmainham * for three days * on
parole, in order that he might attend the funeral of his
mother-in-law. And yet we’re eternally hearing that
the Irish suspects are allowed no pleasure.
* • •
In Western Queensland is the paradise of the
worrikin man. Corporation labourers are there paid
ten shillings a day, and when an overseer is wanted,
the man who can produce the most testimonials in the
shape of unsatisfied grog scores gets the billet. But of
course that’s not because the publicans have a majority
of votes.
• • •
Sir Henry will not return to Australia. We
learn by cable that he met Tennyson the day before
yesterday, and read to him for an hour extracts from
“ Murmurs of the Stream.” The Poet Laureate
agonied and died, and Henry is to get his billet.
Apropos, Mr. G. B. Barton once wrote : —“Mr.
Farkes has published two small volumes of poems,
bat they exhibit the feelings of a poet without an ade-
quate power of expression. He has never been able to
master the trifling difficulties of rhyme, and his versi-
fication is consequently as ragged as if it belonged to
the 16th century. We read of great men amusing their
leisure hours with carpenters* tools, and we never
imagine that the results of their handiwork displayed
much skill. Mr. Parkes has amused himself with
iambs and anaptests instead of saws and chisels.”
However, that is not all gospel. When first we
heard a man road a slab from the “ Murmurs," we
thought the Hemperor had been playing with a circular
saw.
• * •
It is not generally known that “ Count Henri de
Beaumont,” when first he arrived in Melbourne,
managed to got his feet under the mahogany of His
Excellency the Governor of Victoria. However, nothing
has been said, so far, even by Phipps, sen., as to anybody
having waited on an eminent pawnbroker just after
the quiet little dinner, with a pocketful of spoons bear-
ing the Nomanby crest.
• • •
The place was Balmain. ’Twas a calm, still
night, and the amber rays of Luna were shed on all
things mundane. Young Jones, of the Lands, seeing
a head (the hair of which was carefully parted down the
centre) in the next yard, waved his handkerchief and
hurried down stairs, giving the while sundry small
coughs to attract “Angela,” who had theretofore
adored him at a distance. But it wasn't Angela,
for “Crasher,” of the G.P.0., met Jones at the
fence, and threatened to leave him “so as his Ma
wouldn’t know him.” Mem.—Never trust to heads :
they may turn up tails.
• • *
There is a town in the “ Cabbage Garden,”
where, after a lotof exertion, two or three were gathered
together to petition for rain. Well, they bnilt up a
special prayer, said it all together, and the choir added
a musical “ Amen.” Then they knocked the dust and
pared the corns off their knees, and went outside to see
how the thing had worked. And behold I their prayer
had been hoard, for the thermometer went up four
degrees, and has stayed there ever since. That’s a true
bill. They don’t pray now there, so perhaps they
turned the handle the wrong way. They talk in
whispers about canonising Bishop Moorhonse.
» • *
So long as be is not convicted of crime in a
public court, a civil servant may diddle half the trades-
men in Australia, still retain his Government billet,
and hold his head as high as an honest man. At
a township some distance east of Sydney, a man in the
service made his appearance a year ago, and after dno
courtship, got leave of absence to marry. He and his
bride put up at the leading hotel, did the grand in
the best suite of rooms, and ran up a heavy bill, till the
landlady told them to pay or go. They went. It was
easier. Of course, they couldn’t be expected to do
both. They then set up house, buying furniture on
bills. When the jeweller sent in his account for wife’s
presents, the “ C.S.” pacified him with a lien on the
unpaid-for chairs. Then, quietly giving the auctioneer
instructions to sell, as ho had been promoted else-
where, he obtained an advance from him on the same
articles, and—cleared. About 40 tradesmen all claim
on the furniture now, and want to know how to get
their money. We can tell them how not to get it. Apply
to head quarters, and after your indignant letters have
been referred to the “ gentleman" who has diddled you,
for report, you will receive a “ communication" with
all the corners full of initials and figures and numbers
and reference marks, thus: “ I have the honor to inform
you that this is not a matter in which the department
feels called upon to interefere. I have, &c.,” and the
“C.S." will still do the grand, and dignify Her
Majesty’s service.
There was a Church of England meeting at a
school-room in Auckland (N.Z.), the other day, to con-
sider the closing of a church by the vestry. On the
company assembling, a Mr. Doonin, who acted as
Warden for the Minister, said that they couldn’t have
the room, as the last meeting had resulted in a dance.
On this a Mr. Oliver said: “ Then whoever told you so
is a mean skunk.” The speaker made a further state-
ment which may be expressed by the words that he
would introduce his shoemaker to the tell-tale’s tailor,
and then apologised to the ladies present [I! I] for
using strong language. It appears that they discharged
their parson because the organist wouldn’t take less
than £lOO, and the funds were not sufficient to keep
the two. On this subject a Mr. Cornish remarked that
“he thought it a great shame that they should
make it a boast of giving £lOO a year to an organist,
while they would not make any provision for a clergy-
man. They appeared to consider it essential to have
an organist, but damn the parson.” And he concluded
by saying that ho ” thought St. Matthew s was the
most sordid and selfish parish in the colony. Their
God seemed to be the Almighty Dollar.” The upshot
of it all is that the church remains closed. Well, dur-
ing the time the “wrestling ” did go on, the congrega-
tion seemed to have imbibed so little of the milk of
human kindness that the cow (we mean the minister)
must have been a phenomenally dry old bellower. We
can, however, venture to disagree with Mr. Cornish on
one point. Wo can heartily sympathise with the
younger adult members of the congregation in their
desire to retain the organist. The Minister, you see,
isn’t wanted for choir-practice.'.
« * «
The Mount M‘Donald Minkr is responsible
for the statement that a snake 2tt. long, which had
been placed in a bottle of spirits, got drunk, emptied
the bottle, and then crawled out and shouted for the
editor. Wo don’t believe it. The only authentic part
of it is that there, was a bottle of whisky in the office
at night, and it was empty in the mbmrng. That might
happen anywhere—even in the Protestant Sr an card
sanctum.
Is this fair ? Touching the assessment tender
of Mr. Coleman, Alderman John Davies, C.M.G.,
1.0.G.T., &a., &0., is reported as having said that Mr,
Coleman was a most incompetent man to make a city
assessment. He was a mattrass-maker and upholsterer,
and could not possibly have the knowledge necessary
to make such an assessment. Now, Alderman Davies
is simply a blacksmith; and, therefore, according to
his own theory, he cannot possibly have the knowledge
to properly fill one-tenth of the billets he holds. For
instance, John was an Art Commissioner, though he
couldn’t tell a Claude Lorraine sunset froja a corpora-
tion wheel-barrow; and yet if he saw a copy of Mozart’s
Jupiter symphony on one plate, and some lodging house
hash on another he couldn’t tell t’other from which uni ess
he smelt them; he never drank anything hotter than
picnic ginger-beer since ’the Deluge, and yet he's
eternally calling on people to “ charge their glasses.”
Therefore, by his own ruling, he cannot possibly have
the knowledge necessary to say whether assessment
is something connected with Magna Charts, or merely
a new style of patent rat-trap. But soberly, this is
John Davies all over.
• • •
This week Punch dedicates two pages of
illustrations, and one page of printed matter to the
congenial topic of " Fools.” Now won’t this be re-
garded as personal by Mr. P.’s subscribers P
» * •
It takes six able-bodied men half-an-hour to
haul away at 30 tons weight of confounded church bells
in order to remind the faithful that service begins at 11
sharp, and yet 20,000 men can be at Baudwiok without
the slightest warning half-an-hour before the first race.
And when it comes to a question of seonring the front
seat at an opera bouffe even a man with a cork leg can
manage te be down at least a day and a night before the
doors are open. Now, will either Religion or Science j
step to the front, and explain why this is thus f
Hereford called on his neighbour, little Short-
horn, the other day, in Queensland, and after dinner,
they took a stroll in the paddock. Hereford, who is
not overburdened with brains, observed, “ I see the
fence isn't calf-proof. I sappose you couple all the
calves in this paddock f ” “ Yes," said little Short-
horn, with a heavenly smile, “ All the milkers’
calves."
• • •
George Adams, a road-labourer of South Aus-
tralia, committed suicide by hanging. He was to have
been married next day.l
“ Which fate is better for a man
To die or to be wed P
«• This question has hung Are so long,
I’ll hang myself," George said.
# • *
There was a man in Banana Land, whose
daughters (charming ones they were), were the only
decent-looking girls for scores of miles round; and the
consequence was, all the young men in the district
used to visit old Woolpack. They were mostly smart
young fellows, and old W., who had a long head,
generally happened to have on hand some
branding, some mustering, and some mending of
fences. His stock throve wonderfully, and he nearly
worked the whole run with his daughters’ beaux.
And then two rich old buffers came along, and the
daughters married them 1 And if you want to see
those young men in an active state of ** let me at ’im ”
you have only to mention old Woolpack’s daughters.
* * •
“ Anyone desiring Fat Fowls, Ducks, or
Poultry of any description, or Eggs, can have the
same by applying at 'Lord Harris’*,’ next the
Police Magistrate’s, Horatio-street. Sir William
Eotnon Harris.”
This is from the Mudoee Independent, and goes to
show “ what may happen to a man in Australia.” Egg-
selling, however, is nothing new for the aristocracy.
Lord Augustus has a mania for fowls, and may, ere
long, become, in truth, “ His Bggs-sellingoy.” Lord
Belmore used to sell cabbages ; Sir Charles Hotham
likewise was of a commercial turn of mind. Up in North
Queensland the holder of one of the most ancient
Scottish baronetcies keeps a shanty at a river crossing,
and disgusts his weary guests by the sang froid with
which he uses his red neckerchief, first to wipe his
brow and then to wipe the pannikins.
• • •
The heathen is rounding on us and sending
missionaries to the pale-face. A big majority of the
Domain open-air ecclesiastics are of so deep a dye that
though they affect the orthodox broadcloth, their attire
looks white. As an open-air preacher, the darkey
has all the best of it in this country. His Caucasian
rival can’t stand bareheaded in the sun, and in Sydney
the hatless ebon cleric, book in hand, looks calmly on
while the white trash get converted sinners to hold
umbrellas over their’, heads. It’s as well the Ethiop
always preaches in the open air; confined in a close
room, he’d stifle the gospel. Mr. Gow Juknfifar, the
Scotch blaokfellow —or black Scotohfellow, we don’t
know which—was, wo notice, holding forth in Auckland
at latest, but we have it on the very best authority
that business was bad and that the refrain sung by the,-
crowd was—
Jnkuflfarl Juknfifar!
You should have come when “ tin ” was nfer;
Our cash has gone
To Mastodon
And other niggers, Juknfifar 1
• • •
In a picturesque nook to the Northward, a
larrikin was, a little while ago, brought before the P.M.
and dealt with very leniently, but promised that,
should he again get into trouble, his allowance would
be three months in Darlinghurst. A few weeks later,
the P.M. being away, the Clontarfy gentleman once
more fell into the hands of the police—and was brought
before the C.P.S., who officiated in the absence of the
senior official, remembered the P.M.’s threat, and
carried it out, prescribing for " Borty Bill ’* a quarter’s
quod. But when the P.M. returned, the prisoner was
again brought before the Court, the sentence rescinded,
and twenty-four hours additional to that which the
“Eorty” one had already served, substituted. And
now the impudent residents actually want to know how
the milk got into that cocoa-nut.
• • •
Our friend, D. C. F. Moodie, of Adelaide, has
been writing some more poetry. The A over,
tiser (which ought to have better sense) prints some-
thing he calls “Adelaide to Victoria,” a familiar style
of ad tress which the Queen would only permit to the
great aud gifted. The piece seems to have been in-
spired by the late attempted assassination, but looking
at the quality of the production it might have been in-
spired by a blow-fly. He says he (D. C. F. M.) is—
“ Distraught—
The strain of anger, horror, and of shame
At craven deed by wretched stripling wrought.
Deeply the namesake of brave William’s dame.
Deplores the horrid act that brands the dastard’s name.
Oh, Queen! while round the roar of nations rang.
Peaceful I sat amid my fleecy sheep ;
But wh«n Alarm the dreadful tidings sang (sic)
I awoke in fear as from a pleasant sleep.
Mr. Duncan Francis Campbell Moodie is apparently
fond of “ dropping into poetry.” If he only came to
Sydney and did it, he might, possibly discover someone
would be fond of dropping into him. If the Adelaide
people like his poems, however, well and good. We are
so good-natured that should they give us notice of their
intention ef crowning him laureate, we shall bo most
happy to send along the pudding-mould.
# # #
At Ipswich (Queensland), the learned aldermen
were discussing a new water scheme for the town,
when one of their number inquired how it was possible
to bring the water in from such a distance. “ Why, by
degradation, of course,” promptly replied an impetuous
hoary-headed city father. He meant gravitation. But
were it only possible to bring in water by “ degrada-
tion,” what a fine high-pressure supply the Sydney
Corporation could get.
* * *
A messenger in the Civil Service addressed the
Minister a few days ago in the following terms (the
quotation is verbatim et literatim) “’Tis of an in-
crease to my salary I would like to speak. I have
known your kolley gues since they were boys, and have
seen them all grow up, but don’t think that I am
I liunnuvering—itß merely that I want you to take me off
the staff and put me on Accidental expenses.”
• • •
It is a fact that the defaulting cashier of a
Tasmanian bank wrote for Sydney to the local Y.M.C. A.,
of which he was a member, asking them to pray for
him,
* « «
The University Medical School is now open and
is a splendid success. So successful is it that all the
students are taking passage to England.
Two Sydney solicitors allege that another attor-
ney “has been to their clients, trying to gat away
their cases.” One of the injured land-sharks oem.
plains that he has been described by the mean offender
as “a thin man with a squeaking voice and a long
beard." All this is very disgraceful indeed. It recalls
an occurrence which once took place at Richmond
(Melb.) police court. A lady who had been summoned
was approached by a needy lawyer with: “Do you want
legal advice, Mrs. Hennessy ?’’ Mrs. H.; " Indade I
do, but I have no money. I suppose you won’t speak
for a poor woman for nothing P” Lawyer: “ Oh, a «i»n
must live, you know. But I ain’t particular about
money.” [Then, eotto coce] : “ Let me have some
fowls; I know you've got a few nice ducks." Mrs. H.
assented. Her case was the last on the list, and, as
there seemed no prospect of its being called, she, in
her innocence, went down the street to get her pro-
fessional adviser his ornithological fee. She appeared
in the witness-box wearing a big plaid shawl, from be-
neath which there suddenly proceeded several loud
“quacks,” to the great disgust of the well-known
doctor of medicine who chanced to occupy the Bench.
“ Silence in the ooort I” yelled the sergeant. “ What’s
that you’ve got under your shawl, Mrs. Hennessy ?”
enquired the dispenser of Justice. “Ducks, yorWor-
chip," replied Mrs. Hennessy. “ You have very little
respect for the court," continued the beak—“why
don’t you leave them outside until you’ve given your
evidence P “ Lave them outside 1" retorted Mrs. Hen-
nessy, with much spirit. “ Lave them outside with the
police about, and that blackguard—(pointing to the
prosecuting attorney)—around the place! No, yer
Worchip, I brought the ducks for me lawyer, Mr. Sam.
son, as I’m a poor woman that’s got no money." The
court roared, and poor flushing Samson has ever since
been known as “ the dux ef the Bar.”
We’ve had something like this before, but we want to
“ rub it in.” There was onoe, in Sydney, a police court
lawyer, who often put the matter thus : “ Have you got
any money?" Prisoner: “No.” “Well, what have
you got—have you got a watch ?” Prisoner (hesita-
tingly): "No.” “Well, then, let’s have the ticket.”
Fact.
The member for Jingo Jingo arrived safely at
that town by the morniag train. He was mot by the
Mayor, the constable, the bush lawyer, and the gaol
contractor. He congratulated them upon the recent
escape of Her Majesty from the ruthless assassin, and
proceeded to inspect the only hotel and other public
buildings. He selected the butcher’s shop as the best
site for the new post and telegraph office, and he ad-
mitted the necessity of a kitchen for the constable.
He was entertained at a banquet in the evening, and a
unanimous vote of confidence in him was passed by
those present. He left for Sydney the next day with
the following commissions:—The batcher’s pipe to be
mended, a gold watch to be bought for the only bobby,
a new Jew’s harp for the baker’s boy, a volume of
Lonson Journals for the lady mayoress, a £5 bale for
the lawyer, the fifteen puzzle for the publican, and
innumerable pieces of music for the Jingo Jingo
vocalists and pianists.
ECCE HOMO.
"I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
(Signed) ALBERT EDWARD. P."
Behold the man I one whom the gods ad>ra I
A dux ’mongst legislators, and—a bore.
I O.G.T.—whatever that may mean—
And S.O.T.* as well he’s often seen;
Than aldermauic honours swell his fame.
And C.M.G. affixes to his name.
“ Them horringes ’* mean evergreen renown.
His rank (and blank) pervade the very town 1
The Heir Apparent now himself subscribes
“ Obedient servant I” This the climax drives.
Who is this paragon ? Why it must be
What “Pinafore” would call “ the great big D.”
»3on of Temperance.
BUSH HOTELS.
Words of warning addressed to yo unsuspecting stock-
man, and ye unsophisticated shearer.
(H)oh I tell me not in lying numbers,
Bush-hotels are what they soem,
That no insects break your slumbers.
Gnawing at yeu while yon dream.
All the publics have, I’m thinking,
Egypt’s plagues in every beam ;
Parasites, your life-blood drinking,;
Make life’s tide a troubled stream.
Though the mocking sign-board prates to
Travellers weary and oppressed.
Travel-stained, fresh travail waits you
If you try " The Traveller’s Best.”
Taste not rashly their potation ;
Stringy-bark is but a snare.
Causing every vile sensation.
Every ill to which we're heir.
All your pleasure will be non est
It you heed the landlord’s charms ;
Take a bushman’s hand, ’tie honest,
But avoid the "Bushman’s Arms.”
Shun the “ White Horse,” bar and stable.
Hoof, and pastern, tail and back,
For the Frinse in garments sable
Owns this most deceitful hack.
Scorn all invitations civil
Eer your peace of mind they rob.
To conduct you to the Devil
He’s a most surprising cob.
Cash departs while glasses jingle.
Evil passions rise of course;
With their orgies do not mingle.
Black's the .tale, though white the Horse.
If, delayed by floods, you’re ever
Minns ford and bridge as well.
Though yon can afford it, never
Patronize the " Bridge Hotel.”
Camp, until the flood subsiding,
Leaves you free to go and tell
How, in stern resolve abiding.
You escaped that bridge to well
Drovers, with " dumb driven cattle,"
May, for me, the danger dare.
Fiercely fight, and grimly battle
With the fleas in millions there.
Spare, oh ! spare me from such combats !
In the forest let me dwell
With the wallabies and wombats
Save me from a Bush Hotel!


THE EPIGRAMATIST.
Far away in the remote wild West of this Con-
ttnemt, another of that unhappy race which the whites
have dispossessed of its hunting grounds, is to pay the
penalty of death for having killed a station-hand who
lured away the partner of his joys and sorrows. 'Twas
ever thus: —
O blaokfellows, you look like men.
And should be, therefore, of our kin •
yre give you rum and faith. What then ?
You II surely spare ns a small gin,
• • •
From 11 p.m. till midnight is the hour of teetotal
darkness.
* * *
They now fine publicans for supplying Jugs of
beer on Sunday. Moral: Jog not, lest you be jagged.
* # #
She was his landlady’s daughter, and helped him
to his ooffeo. His love “ Pocetio " burst with an « Ode
to her tiny hand.” He was silent about the “owed"
to the old woman's greasy palm,
* • •
“Arthur Quack, aged 10, admitted to the Mel-
bourne Hospital suffering from alcoholic poisoning,
through being ‘ shouted for' Dy a man.” This is the
weak-kneed style adopted by Melbourne pressmen, when
they wish to insinuate that one of the Victorian faculty
has been prescribing for himself.
* * #
A practical joker had a good time of it last Sun-
day. On Saturday night I .jfore shutting-up time, he
purchased two bottle of beer (having carefully
borrowed the money from a friend) and he spent a great
portion of the Sawbath mom in parading the streets of
Surry Hills with a bottle in each hand. Of course, the
active and intelligent officer was to the fore, as is al-
ways the case when a publican or a park-sleeper is to
be worried; but as there is no clause in the “ Hast” to
prevent a man from carrying liquor about, and as the
joker took care that he had friends with him who
were ready to swear to the facts of the case. Policeman
X for the while was as non-plussed as a down-the-har-
bour publican who can’t get a music license, and had to
let the joke be carried out for the amusement of the
next constable who chanced to “ surround" the joker.
The wags had the beer for dinner.
* * #
According to “ King-street,” a poor woman of
Waterloo has been found "suffering from inflammation
and gathering, caused by an ulster in her ear." This
complaint, though it may seem a remarkable one, is not
altogether new. Some years ago, a Murrumbidgoo
shearer went to Melbourne, indulged in all the novelties
of the city, and actually visited the Turkish baths-
After three hours in the oalidarium, and a four hours’
shampoo, the attendant succeeded in removing most of
the back-blocker's epidermis, and beneath it found a
fine overcoat of Irish frieze.
* « •
A professional substitute is known as a locum
interns. But in the Far North, the medico who takes
the place of an absent brother, is known as the latter’s
delirium tremens. It means the same thing.
BRIEF MENTION.
Song of the Mount Browne digger.—" The
Camels are coming."
A subject for a debating society. Is the ghost
of a blackfellow white P
“ Crushed again I” said the man who got mixed
up with the tram in Oxford-street.
Was it really a German man-o’-warsman who
stabbed Miss Christie ? If not, who was it ?
A coloured man has a selection near Dubbo.
His neighbours call him the Black Cockatoo.
One of the weeklies recommended some flour
seeds as food for fowl. Yes, for Wilde Fowl.
Considerable perplexity amongst unbelievers as
to which Church is to be credited for the rain.
A private firm in the city undertakes " to renew
publican’s licenses on the most reasonable terms 1”
A Tass girl, on being asked by the guard for
her ticket, handed out—horror 1 a small-tooth-oomb.
In Hyde park, the authorities affect landscape
gardening. Bottles, j am-tins and can die-oases are being
used for borders.
“ Emerson’s Works, please,” said the borrower
to the librarian. *• Let me see, Emerson’s Works—are
they by Emerson ?"
Big Bailey, of Temora, smelt a putrid carcase
one foot beyond the town boundary, and then described
it so well in his paper that we smell it from here.
The popular restaurants of the city have a new
dish. It's always served when you’re ten minutes late
lor lunch, and is known as “ Iced beef and potatoes."
The lightless tram-cars are schools of purity,
morality and decency, such as are unequalled by har-
bour picnics, choir practices, and experience meetings
Alfred informs us that 12,000 bales of coal
have been sent from Wilcannia to Adelaide, and that
21,858 tons of wool have come up from Newcastle to
Sydney.
At Cobar, Frank, a blackfellow, waddied his
mate Jaokey. A woman at the bottom of it. Jaokey
half-dead. Not a man at the N.B. W. bar dare take a brief
for Frank.
The Age still holds the belt. This is its latest:—
"Eighteen hundred weight of pure gold to a ton of
crushing*.’’ The precise locality is not given, but that
is immaterial.
The Campbelltown Herald asks: “Breathes
there a man with soul so dead, who never to himself
hath said, I take the C’town Hkrald ?” We take a
deep breath on the subject.
The mosquitoes are troublesome up at Bourke.
A regiment of them recently looted a clothesline of
sheets, and were noticed afterwards crossing the
river wearing a calico suit apiece.
From Melbourne : Professional Cricketer (pulls
his horse up at a little public house on the Doncaster
road)—" Hi, lan’lord, bring us out a quaaart o’ ale, and
if I loikes it I’ll come in an’ ha soom."
Adelaide T.M.C.A. consists of 268 members,
with 101 lady associates. However, it is in contempla-
tion to treble the number of "lady associates," in
order that every membah may have a girl.
Ned Dowling, of Cobar, wont into the police
court and lay down. Some insinuate undue irrigation
as to the cause, but our impression is it was awe at the
way the police magistrate now parts his hair.
There’s a Northern “Eobert” who has a
hideously sore mouth, and imputes it to the fact of bis
haying kissed the Testament so often as a witness. Is
this a visitation from ? “ The rest is silence."
An official, pretty high up, is said to be next
heir to a peerage He doesn’t look or walk like it, but
those who come into contact with him earnestly pray
that he will be invested with the Order of the Bath,
In a Western town, last week, a day was set
apart for humiliation and prayer. Of course, they
didn’t humiliate and pray for nothing—what they
wanted was rain. But the plate went round as usual.
In the S.M. Herald, of 27th March, “ P.C.L.”
complains about the state of the Pyrmont Bridge Road.
He thinks the Government ought to keep it in order,
Lan't be done. A certain 24-stoue legislator travels
on it.
A horse found his way into the editor’s room ot
the Queanbeyan Timm, and was discovered eating the
exchanges. O’Neill says he turned the animal out, but
leader' 4ll6l6 traces of a hoof “ laBt Saturday's
The Northern Miner was two hours late
the other Saturday, through two apprentices refusing
to turn out at six o’clock. The local Bourse panicked;
and disoount m the Bank of England went np to 3i per
cent, within 12 hours.
The Nepean Times tells of an infant prodigy
two years and six months old, who can drink, swear,
generally conduct himself like a Nepean man. Our
contemporary cunningly supresses the self-evident fact
that the youngster edits the paper.
. ‘Althea O.S. postage stamps are now need
in (Government departments to prevent the possibility
of peculation by the officials to whom they are entrusted.
Stamps to the value of £2O per month used to “ dis-
appear from one department alone.
It is rumoured that the “foremost of colonial
dramatists" intends "touching np” one of Lord
Byron's poems, with a view to patting on the stage in
Banana-land. The title is to be “Mazeppa," or the
‘‘Bang-tailed Bramble of the Back Barooo."
A South Australian road labourer, named
jjteorge Adams, was fixed to be married. This Adams,
however, got the Eves about the affair, and Eved him-
self off a tree with a rope. This is choking off a
marriage with a vengeance. It was evidently a choice
of two Eve ils.
A black man went into a Cobar hotel and
planked specie. Idea, of course, stimulation. The
landlord said, ** Can’t do it—Licensing Act forbids
supplying aboriginate." Whereat the West Indian
Sointed out he was not an aboriginal, and the publican
idn t know his a, b.
Two travelling shanties supply the navvies on
the Dubbo to Nyngan extension with beer. Thev arc
called the "Devil on Wheels," and literally drive a
roanng trade while the police, with their horses tied
n P 111 the bush, are watching the honest publican to
M© and catch him selling after eleven at night.
,£■ ,(® A.), tradesman recently died, and
ifru ln Jj lB £2 each to a number of local charities.
trustees came to administer the
will, they did not find as much available coin as would
jingle on testator’s tombstone. There is very little
humour about practical jokes played on a death-bed.
A Wagga man advertises thus: “We never
sleep. Macbeth hath murdered sleep. Our eye is for
ever open, watching the ebb and flow of the waters of
trade.” This Is good for a country effort; but that it
may be fully appreciated, we may say that the advertiser
is known as the little C. (sea), which accounts for the
ebb and flow.
When somebody was made Inspector of the
Police, “ A citizen and a J.P," who was oranmeating
the bench pompously congratulated the Inspector and
said ‘ I hope you’ll do yer dooty ! ’ Inspector looked
officially at the would-be Slipendiary, and without one
word of thanks, replied. “If I had not done my duty
for 22 years, I’d not have been promoted.”
Dr. Eenwiok, referring to the Grafton-New
England railway project, spoke of it as “the burning
question ”; Mr. Cameron, “ the fiery question; " Mr.
Kidd, "the scalding question"; Mr. Murray, “the
glowing question " ; Mr. Purves, “ the roasting ques-
tion"; Mr. Ferguson, "the blazing question”; and
Mr. See, “ the boiling question." This is self-explana-
tory of public opinion.
A station-hand on the Darling left his mate, to
ship as “ A. 8.” on a wool steamer, and went down the
nvor. Last season ho came up again, when his mate
rushed to greet him; bnt the “A. 8.” drew himself
proudly back. “ What! don’t you know me ? T was
yonr mate last year.” “Ah, yes, perhaps yon were.
But when a sailor comes off a long voyage, he can’t
recollect all the —a—a men—he —-a has met I"
The reading public must be pretty well siok of
the man who drops his “ h’s.” Let some other kind
of dropper have a turn. There’s an individual up
North who cannot for the life of him enunciate the
letter “ b." The other day he told a friend “To take
pare" and not spread his " 'ig feet over his (the
individual's) Tasted 'easily 'unions." Here’s a beauti-
ful alliteration destroyed on account of a mere lingual
defect.
Advt. in an Adelaide paper :
" I hereby give notice that I will prosecute any
clergyman marrying any of my family without my
consent. — Signed E. Malone," &o.
Oohone! This comes of the spread of materialism and
free-thought generally. Malone is not going to have
his oolleens crossed with the white-choker breed. If
they will only get tied up by the Registrar, however,
the threat in the ad. won’t reach them.
An English solicitor, now in Sydney, tells a
story of a man sitting on an omnibus in London, big
band on the roil; a passing omnibus took off his finger;
an action ensued; man said his occupation was a carver;
was asked what ho earned a day; named low screw;
counsel puzzled at the small remuneration of art, bnt
; verdict £5O; then counsel asked,
W hat do you carve P” The low wages were accounted
for in the reply " Joints at a eatin’ 'ouse 1"
There was a house on fire last Sunday morning.
People in the adjoining tenements took oat their fnrni-
tare, and placed it on the street for safety. But one flap,
eared bilious-faced man, Bible in hand, and a look of
holy horror upon his face, rushed out and yelled,
"Desecrators, you would save your perishable goods
from fire on the Sabbath, but how are you going to save
your imperishable souls from eternal Are P” Everybody
passed. But the holy man had a full hand. His furni-
ture was insured up to the handle.
The hat was sent round in Blackall to collect
money for fencing-in the burial ground, which had been
so defiled by sacrilegious bnlloeks, as to make its unen-
closed condition a disgrace to the town. Some of the
publicans gave ten guineas each, and the sinners
subscribed amounts varying from one pound upwards.
But the bank officials and Civil servants gave nothing.
If it had been a proposed testimonial to a brother
slavey—we mean a follow-officer—the guineas would
have been forthcoming readily enough.
A Bonrke aboriginal travelled with his master
to Dubbo, at which place he was left while the boss
paid a visit to Sydney. The aboriginal discovered the
free-pass racket, and visited Sydney, Orange, Welling-
ton, Bathurst, and the Blue Mountains. In an on-
counter with some Sydney roughs who started stoning
him, he retaliated with chunks of blue-metal and drove
the whole mob cowed before him. His verdict was :
‘‘My word, Sydney budgery place; every pfellah show
me everthing; every pfellah gib me money."
At a public entertainment in France, a plat-
form gave way and several ware killed. The carpenter
who built it was condemned to four months’ imprison,
mont, the manager of the atlair to two months, and
the inspector of buildings to one month. Now, our
Town Hall being, as the Herald would say, “ a little
faulty in construction,” what would be a fair equivalent
in imprisonment for (say) £5OOO and expenses ? And if
some truths were not “ toned down" how many people
in Sydney would be imprisoned, under French law ?
Said Sir James Martin, at Young : “ The safety
of our public privileges depends on a Free Press.” By
Jupiter, then, we are in Darlinghnrst Gaol for con-
serving the safety of our public privileges.” We feel
like Desdemona when she was smothered by Othello,
the jealous Moore.
A colonial swell, who is doing the grand in Eng-
land, has been received by the most exclusive set. The
Daks of Manchester introduced him to the Marlborough
Club, where he met the Heir Apparent and other
princes of the blood. The Prince of Wales had the
grace to suppose that colonials were very loyal.
*' Loyal," replied the Antipodean, "why, we all shut
up shop in Sydney on your mother’s birthday." “ Coma
and have a long-sleever," was Albert Edward’s grati-
fied rejoinder. The rest of the night was spent in
euchre.
The mail contract from Blanktown to Amooca-
binds the contractor to run a “two or more horse
coach” every day in the week. But on three days,
and strangely, the three days when a rival lino brings
passengers from the railway, a one-horse spider is put
on, much to the inconvenience of passengers, and in
direct violation of the contract. On one of these days
an Amocka solicitor and his friend had to pay several
pounds each to get from Blanktown ; but, of course, it
wasn’t paid to the contractor to persuade him to put on
the very coach his contract demanded.
The Newcastle Despatch, in common with
the Melbourne Argus and some other leading journals,
opens its first column with that flue ironical statement
of John Knox; " I am in a position where lam de-
manded of conscience to speak the truth; the truth I
therefore speak, impugn it whose list." The “ leading
article” immediately under this is an apology for some
one of those little pieces of foolishness which pass for
“jokes” in uncouth communities. After this we don’t
much wonder that the Newcastle miners are on strike.
One of the many squabbles that have recently
occurred between the doctors of a Northern hospital,
was caused by the Teutonic doctor, who claimed a
patient on the ground that he was a German, and
could not possibly bo understood by the other visiting
Burgeon. On the matter coming before the committee,
the patient was examined as to his nationality. In
reply to the question "Are you a German P" ho ex-
claimed, vehemently, “ German Ibe jabbers! Show me
the man who’d say I was. Bedad, shure, I’m the son
of Paddy O’Flanaghan, County Tippirary, Oiteland."
At a “produce” sale up North, lately, some
sheepskins were “run up” and purchased at a very
high price, by a “ merchant,” etc., well-known for his
intimacy with the Insolvent Court. “ Say, X," said an
unsuccessful bidder, " have yon got your certificate ?”
“ What d’you mean ? Of course I have,” replied X, in-
dignantly. " Oh, I know you’ve got number nine all
right," said the first speaker, “ but if you’re going to
buy sheepskins at that price, you’d better bo looking
out for number ten at once.” Then a smile stole
round, while X stole off.
“ There was a lot of people there at the time,”
said a tall raw-boned digger who was spinning a yarn to
a small crowd of bis kind in a Northern bar; “mor’n
two hnndred|l should say, what with Chinamen, Ger-
mans, white men, and all." “ What 1" thundered
Heinrich,;” you vos not call von German yon vite mans.
How . “ A German a white m an?" said the digger
looking quite surprised, “never heard of it.” The
“ argument" which followed was in the English style,
and resulted as usual; and, as Germany tolled pain-
fully to bis tent, he resolved to write to Bismarek by
the next mail.
At Dunedin, Chum Goon, an insane Chinese,
chose a queer camping ground. A police officer, on
entering the local morgue, observed preparations which
would be entirely unnecessary in the case of a legitl-
mate occupant. A cheerful fire was burning; a
saucepan (the saucepan of Chum Goon) was upon the
fire, containing fish, emitting a most savoury odour,
and Chum Goon himself shortly appeared npon the
scene, evidently disposed for mild conviviality. Chum
refused to leave and showed fight, alleging that the
whole colony, and, consequently, the morgue, belonged
to him. Bo was pat in the asylum.
He had been in the Far Far North for fully six
weeks on a commercial trip, and his accounts of “ hair,
breadth ’scapes” from blacks, etc., were truly start-
ling. Here was a chance to show his Southern friends
his acquaintance with the language of the wild man. So
he made himself spokesman of the party, and addressed
the gentle gin thusly: “ Manny, yo been seelm flour-
bag yarraman sit down here ? That gotem kupper ’long
a mundoee.” But the dusky damsel replied with writb-
ing scorn: “Mundoee be . I saw a white horse
with hobbles on over by the Creek, if that’s what you’re
after.” And his friends smiled, probably at his eager
movement towards the horse.
The comps, in the Parramatta Mercury office
have started a cricket club, and a gentleman well known
lor his endeavours to promote sport has promised bo
present the highest scor«r with a tin of salmon, and
the best bowler with a jew*s-harp. This munifleent
offer has so stimulated the members of the club that,
they have taken to practise on a vacant piece of ground
in the centre of the town; and now there are three dead
people awaiting burial, the Mercury has to be printed
by half the staff, all the houses in thv vicinity keep
their shutters up between 1 and 2, and a deputation
from the Parramatta glaziers is to wait on the generous
" sport.” and thank him for his kindness.
There are several Trade Guilds in London.
Some of them spend as much as £30,000 a year in giving
dinners. These societies use to be called •• Mysteries,"
in the Middle Ages. This was because no man could
understand where they put all Ihe beef and beer. One
of their old rules was that none but workmen should be
eligible for admission. At the present time, the Prince
of Wales is a memberlof the two guilds of Fishmongers
and Haberdashers. The Marquis of Lome is a grocer.
Lord Bencousfield was a merchant.tailor,and an eminent
Anglican clergyman, the P.ev. A. G. hainger, is a
pewter-pot maker. We should like to patronise the
Prince for our red-herrings, and give tl e rev. gentleman
a job at mending our spitt Jon
A Darlinghuret Benedict retired at 1 a.m.,
recently, rather unsteady in his movements. By super!
human care, however, he managed to disrobe, and was
about to take up his share in the four-poster, where the
partner of his joys and sorrows reposed, when, by an
unlucky accident, he upset the spirit-lamp. He caught
up the first article at hand to extinguian the flames •
and a few seconds later his startled wife was roused by
a gush of sacred nouns and verbs from a husky throat.
Her gaze fell on the statuesque figure of her husband,
outlined through his robe de nuit, in the elegant attitude
of “ all-fours,” as, blurting out imprecatory psalms, he
wildly endeavoured, in the intervals between singeing
and swearing, to put out the “ blahsted conflagration ”
with her pincushion.
“ Notice.— lf the person who left four pictures
and a bible in my house in California-street, Nails-
wortb, does not take them away within twenty-four
hours after this notice they will be j-ut in the street
at his own risk. G. Sjoholm.” Adelaide paper.
Pronounce this name Solomon, please, though he is’nt
a wise man, or else he would have found some better
use for his gifts than pitching them out in the street.
Even a bible and four pictures will help to light the
kitchen stove. We can’t fathom Solomon’s discontent,
unless he is one of the Freethought boys. P’raps
he was riled because he didn’t get so many bibles as
pictures, or even four bibles, and only one picture. But
then we can’t go on discussing trivialities while the im-
pending [fate of this ger-rate and ger-loryus country
“Copy."
Christchurch (N.Z.) Society is drawing aside
the sacred veil which usually prevents the outside
world from knowing how N.Z, newspapers are run. It
says that the “ N.Z. correspondent of the Melbourne
Arous” is identical with the “ special correspondent
of the Otago Daily Times,” and that such eulogiums
as these frequently occur in the N.Z. letters of the
Argus:— “The special correspondent of the Otago
Daily Times who has exceptional facilties for know-
ing,” &c. &c. Good. Again, the editor of the Welling,
ton Post is correspondent of the Lyttletou Press,
while one of his reporters is the Wellington scribe for
the Lyttletou Times, so that virtually the Lyttletou
papers are under the bias of the Wellington Post, as
far as political and parliamentary intelligence is eon-
earned. The poor rep. dare not write anything obnox-
ions to his mighty editor, and thus the axle-box keeps
well greased with the matter with which he butters his
boss.
NOLLE PROSEQUI!
BOB . "I' m afraid this is rather thin, Jack.” JACK : “ Never mind, we can give it three coats.”


[Advertisement.]
COLONIAL INDUSTRY.
No. 1.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SONS,
668 Brickfield Hill.
That great general, Napoleon, once said that “England
was a nation of shopkeepers,” but that nation of shop'
keepers taught even the great Napoleon that they
knew something of the martial spirit as well a spirit
perhaps learnt from the keen yet friendly competition
which they enter so heartily into in business. And yet
the saying was a true one, for wherever Englishmen go
there is found the same keen competition and appliea.
tion to business affairs; and we, in New South Wales,
in this respect are as true Englishmen as any that ever
lived. Witness our many large and extensive business
establishments. In every English country, drapers
and mercers are always to the front. The principal
drapery establishments are kept by the Horderns.
Of these “Edward Hordern and Sons" is the
oldest. Until recently, this establishment was
conducted by Mr. Alderman Hordem, only surviving
son of the late Mr. Anthony Hordern, senr., of King-
street, who. we might mention, first commenced busi-
ness in the year 1823, nearly sixty years ago. The busi-
ness is now carried on by his two sons, Messrs. Edward
and Percy Hordem, and Mr. Hugh Kittson, who,
although they have only had the business under their
control since the commencement of the year, have
made, and are still making, many improvements, among
which may be mentioned the Electric Light, which
they intend to make use of for lighting their Es-
tablishment, the first experiments in connection
with which will take place on Saturday night.
The business is carried on in George-street, just
below Liverpool-street, in a large and commodious
three-storied stone building, which covers an area of
land 40 by 200. The external appearance of the building
is good, there are two noble windows on either side of
the portico, neatly and tastefully displaying articles
for dress and personal adqpnment, which are so tempt-
ing to the fashionable world of the nineteenth century.
Here we see the many kinds of dress materials
arranged in those graceful folds which are so pleasing
to the eye, and whick we think must cost a great deal
of trouble to make, but we suppose “ Practice is
everything." There are Shirts, Ties, Collars, Pants,
Braces, and all the requisites of fashion presenting
themselves in such varied ways as to give the place a
regular holiday appearance. On entering we observe
most especially the wonderful order with which
everything seems to be carried on. And although
the customers crowd round the counters in
such numbers at times that it is difficul
for all to find accommodation, yet everything
seems to proceed like well applied machinery.
No clashing—no cumbersome cases in the lady s way
or any of those objectionable features which make
shopping a real bore. We noticed most particularly
the smiling and contented faces of the employes, show-
ing how well cared for they are by their employers.
On the right hand side as we enter, we noticed a well-
appointed “department," specially adapted for what
are known as “Manchester goods;” the well-known
makes of Horrook’s, Crewdson’s, and Finlay’s (Calicos
and Sheetings, sold, we believe, at less than wholesale
rates; a large and varied stock of Witney and other
makes in Blankets, looked very tempting for the cold
weather which we have coming on. The next department
which we come to is a speciality with Messrs. Edward
Hordern and Sons, and for which they are justly cele-
brated. The dress and silk department," a stranger
would be surprised at the wonderful assortment of
materials of all colours and shades which Messrs.
Edward Horden and Sons have imported for the benefit
if the ladies. Next to this will be found the “ Stay and
Dorset Department," in which we are told there are no
ess than 100 different makes. Next to this again is the
Shirt and Collar Department, in which a very large
;rade is done, more especially on a Saturday nigh •
Further on we come to the Lace and Fancy Depart,
nent, in which a very extensive business is done. What
mght to be called the “ very Pink of Perfection” is the
Hosiery Department, in connection with which arrange
nentshave lately been made with all the principal
manufacturers of|;the world to supply Edward Hordern
ind Sons with all the latest makers. Last, but not
[east, is the “ Harberdashery department, in which a
rery largo Wholesale trade is carried on ; the prices in
bins department are guaranteed to lie less than whole-
sale rates. To the rear is a commodious store for
reserve and unopened stock, also a large room in which
i number of assistants are kept very busy in attending
to country orders. To the rear of the store will be
found a kitchen, dining-rooms, cloak-rooms, bath-
rooms, and all the other requisites which it is necessary
to have whereever there is a large number of men em-
ployed. At the rear of all these outbuildings will be
Found a very fine well-turfed paddock (a very novel
feature certainly in George-street). In the Summer
nonths this is made use of by the many assis-
ts of Messrs. Edward Hordern and Sons
'or the purpose of playing cricket, croquet.
Handball, &c., &c, We enquired of one of the members
if the firm (who very kindly showed us round), if he
;ould inform us of the number of customers served
; hroughout the year. Upon reference to the books he
ound that no less than 108,762 had been served during
he last six months ; 9000 parcels had been delivered,
if which not one “ No, not one had gone astray.” It
s estimated by the firm that no loss than £3,000,000 has
passed over the counter of the Emporium during the
ast twenty years, and this alone must prove what a
tremendous trade is carried on. A feature which wa
most particularly observed was the splendid manner in
irhich the Emporium is lighted. The means by which
this light is procured is by one of the handsomest
lomes in the colonies, the glass of which is most
slaborately worked, and the cost of which alone was
61500. There is an outside covering of glass threo-
juartersof an inch in thickness to protect the inside
{lass from hailstone or any other missies which would
lie liable to injure or break the inside glass. We under-
stand it is the intention of Messrs. Edward Hordem
ind Sons to extend their premises, so as to enable them
to branch out into all the various branches of the
trade which at present they have not room to carry
Queensland quarter’s revenue, <£487,641 ; ex-
penditure, £371,656,
Prince Leopold’s wedding has been postponed.
Se has Dr. Lamson’a hanging. Such is life 1
“ The Wit and Wisdom of the Bench and Barr”
is among the latest publications. The English Bench
and Bar, of course 1
“ All these things are ordered,” says a pious
publican. “ Need for ice no sooner ceases that ten bob
a week goes on to the gas bills.”
Presbyterian Balfour, M.L.C., of Melbourne,
says Bishop Moorhouse’s about praying for rain
are “ unchristian and frightful.”
“ Things are still very dull here,” sighed the
boss of the Dailt Ferot. And then ho groped around
In the gin-case to find what t® say next.
Edward Smets, a Sydney waiter, stole three
billiard-balls. Edward found it was a losing hazard.
He was spotted, and is now pocketed for a month.
The Editor of the Parramatta Eekgt has
made a furious attack upon the proprietors of the In-
dependent. We greatly fear these misguided men
have been refusing to shout.
The children of the Parramatta ‘‘ Orphan
asylums have permission to visit their friends at
Easter. What noisy houses some well-known Sydney
men will have during the festive season !
All the Sydney International Commissioners got
letters and bronze baubles from the Prince of Walea-
but only one of them has had a special par. in the
papers. Need we say that that one is John davies ?
Te Reiroa, a N.Z. Chief, has shown how civilised
savages may become, by selUng for £3OO, to a gold
mining company, throe acres of land that did not belong
to him, and then clearing with the money.
' The hangman acquitted of assault. He was
given an excellent character as a good father and a
peaceable man. The faot of the matter is that Robert
never fights until he’s got a fellow’s hands behind his
back.
At Lismore, a shining legal light presided at a
Wesleyan “ public meeting,” and said, in apologising
for the absence of somebody who was to have spoken,
that “he regretted Mr. ’si absence in not being
present.”
Even yet Australasian Christendom hasn’t
recovered from,the effects of the announcement that
Sir Henry Parkes has been to church. How queer that
a Minister of the Crown should go and hear a minister
of God pray for the sovereign !
The Newcastle District Municipalities suggest
that the best site for the Local Contagions Diseases
Hospital is near the General Cemetery, Newcastle.
There’s a world of sarcasm in this suggestion. “Disease
up that way is evidently regarded as a convertible term
with “decease.”
~ A shark was caught at Manly the other day, and
on opening him out a pair of boots, very much up in
the toes and very much down in the heels, were found
inside of him. One of onr ablest lawyers has evidently
mot with an untimely end, but the coroner hasn’t sent
round his name and address up to the present date.
John Plummer, the Yerong Creek (Wagga
district) public-school teacher, sentenced to death
without hope of mercy, for an outrage on one of his
pupils, a little girl of eleven years, has served a number
of sentences, the longest one of two years, in Victoria.
Hew cams this man to be a N.S.W. pubho-sohool
teacher, Mr. Wilkins ? Have you any more like him T
Gonlbnrn agricultural show was a success. It
must have been, considering that there were in full
swing en the ground, at the same time, the snake
charmer, a one-horse circus with band, a marionette
show, the “history of the Kelly Gang,” an itinerant
photographer, three monkey pools, and the local band.
It was simply cloying. Some of the girls
flowers, but did none of the “limp” and “clinging
business in public.
Sheridan used to say : “ Give to Ministers a
corrupt House of Commons ; give them a pliant and
rervile House of Lords; give them the keys of the
Treasury, and the patronage of the Crown; and give me
liberty of the Press, and with this mighty engine I will
overthrow the fabric of corruption, and establish upon
its ruins the right privileges of the people." Luckily
for himself, Richard Brinsley is dead, or he would be in
gaol by this time.
Says Saturday’s Penny Ovid : —“ Hudsons
Surprise Party gives an agreeable entertainment, for
there is always pleasure added to any entertaiment
with which the female element is blended.” This
clearly proves Alfred never attempted to back through
a set of quadrilles with a pair of broken suspenders on,
or was never suddenly called upon to put a three-railed
fence between himself and a red-haired woman armed
with a double-barrelled clothes prop.
There has been general rejoicing at Young,
where the local Circuit Court opened for the first time.
Hitherto the town has had its people tried and hanged
elsewhere. However, now that they own a gallows and
have had a harangue from Sir James Martin on the
beauties of Star Chamber practice as applied to jour-
nalism, the Young people are happy. According to the
Hbbald, they “cheered” the Chief Justice. They
perhaps thought he might be back that way again.
“ Don Juan” has, we see. been criticising “ The
Belles of Emu Plains” in the Nepean Times," which is
quite a frisky little paper. “ Don Juan” will, however,
soon find himself in the dun-geon.
Cheer up, ye Cabbage-heads, and fear no more,
(And if we’re wrong, why jug us).
The Bear has no idea of war.
He’s only come to hug us.
We wers glad to see that the Young Men’s
Sabbath Morning Fellowship Union held its meeting
last Sunday at an hour that did not interfere with the
regular Suaday cmmb-gatheriug of the city. Ihe hoar
was from 9.30 to 10.30, and Satan was so fearfully
worsted that the other reverend gentlemen had it all
their own way. Later in the evening, however, Satan,
we hear, came upon several of the brethren unawares,
and was, as usual, victorious.
When Father English left Gunnedah, there was
00 dictionary to hand, so what they lacked in spelling
and grammar they made up in sovereigns. The writer
of the address (which was sent up to Sydney to be
Illuminated— they’ll do it in the Protestant Standard
office) says: “We were in ignorance—we have been
taught. We were blind—we have been made to see."
And the rev. Father took the coach and chinked the
bullion in his pocket, and said, “ I hope you do
children.” Grand sights about Killarney when a man
has a few so vs. in his pouch. We go by hearsay.
The Adelaide L. Y. Gazette gives as a supple-
ment.portraits of the people in trouble with the i nsurance
soeieties. Mr. Forsyth is drawn as a West Australian
blackfellow about to be hanged for killing the white man
who intrigued with his gin. Mis. Littlewood appears
1 o be attempting a smile, notwithstanding a fish-bone
aas stuck in her throat. William Hicks parts hii hair
well, and as his left ear is placed at the back of his head
ha may be considered fit to tackle any number of
Weatherheads. Dr, Horton is munching a packet of
-in tacks; James Barker is trying to loak as If there’s
nothing in it, and David Weatherhead, deceased—well,
xie’s the only one of the lot who looks happy.
This is how The Presbyterian puts it
“The coining church will glow with zeal of a divine
orthopraxy. She will he apostolic in her preachers,
Pauline in her doctrines, separate from the world and
.dl worldly methods. Slxe will not fly her kite-oreeds
skywards and walk in the mud herself. She will not
• pray cream and live skim-milk.’ ” We rejoice to hear
it. We are Pauline ourselves in our sentiments —Peter-
•laturally so. And, under the present law of libel, wo
are “ separate from the world,” but not from “ all
worldly methods,” from which the “ coming church”
will separate, include subscription plates and sustenta-
tion funds. That’s where we feel weak and worldly.
Thursday is the land sale day for all government
• gents throughout tho cole ny, but no instructions have
var been given to agents not to receive any other than
and monies. Yet one man down south used to refuse
to accept sheep assessment fees on Wednesdays al-
though that was tho cattle sale day for the disti ict,
j j the selectors had either to come into town the day
•ofore, or remain in town un ! ill the day after at great
xppuse to suit his impudence. A gentleman from a
ministerial branch happens! to hoar of this, and
oetermindto upset it; so he took two or three lots o
money on a Weduesday .--id tendered them. Tlu y
were refused, —We never do it? And who instruct* d
T-on not to do it ? who are you that want to know ?
Tile necessary explanations followed, and the money was
accepted, but when chuckling over his success that
night, the visitor found the receipt dated for the
following day.
Reginald Montmorency, of the —■ well,
Lands, flatters himself that he is the living image of
Alfred Dampier, and during that great tragedian’s
stay here, Eeginald kept his chin alone shaven and
sported a moustache that Bandmann in his most in.
sine moments never dreamed of. Strutting in first-
robber-like manner George-street, one afternoon, he
met and accosted a lady friend. Of course, he was
introduced to the little girl who accompanied her,
“ Toll me, me ohe-ild ’* said Dampier’s double,
“knowest thou me? Hast thou evah seen me be-
foah?" “ Yes," was the precocious reply, “ you're
tne man that has the swing down at Paddy’s Market!
I kaowed you by the whiskers under your nose-”
A newspaper man who on Monday morning
read in the B.M. Herald the report of Sir James
Martin’s anti-press speech at Young, made the follow-
ing wagers Ist. That the Evening News of that day
would attack the Chief Justice and talk straight about
the matter. 2nd. That the Daily Telegraph would
next morning print a milk-and-water leader, intimating
that while it differed from the C.J., Sir James was
after all " not snob a bad sort.” 3rd. That the Herald
in pursuance of its hoary policy, would not next day
have a leader—that it would say nothing until everyone
else had spoken. 4th. That the Echo would, as “ a
feeler," have a leader on the morning prior to the
publication of the Herald’s loader.
The row is still raging up at the Macleay about
Mr. Slattery’s reception at the recent Free Selectors’
bpnqnet. Mr. H. W. Gabell, of the Macleay Chron-
icle, has written a letter backing up the Sydney
Evening News, and stating that only six'y seven
persons received Slattery upon landing; that these
were largely composed of “ drunkards and larrikins,”
that they rushed tho hotel on the “ cheap drinks ”
ticket, that Slattery was hustled and hooted. The
opposition rag boils over on the other side of the pot.
It calls Mr. Gabell a quadruple liar straight out, and
asks to be accommodated with Barrahas in bis stead.
It admits that there might have been some drunkards
and larrikins, or “ a lying sneak ’’ present. We should
smile if this Gaboll-ous article turned out also to bo
libellous.
The larrikin was abroad on Saturday night
when he made the welkin of the Victoria Hall ring
with cat calls and foul obscenities, and even induced
the courtly Jos. to tread the hoards of the Theatre
Eoyal in indignant remonstrance at the want of
•ourtesy to Miss Pomeroy. These outrages are invari-
ably committed by a comparatively few most blooming
specimens of the genus larrikin, who could be ejected
by anything in the shape of a man who could get at
them. They manage those things better in Melbourne
(and everywhere else but Sydney) where policemen,
whose services are paid for by the management, are in
attendance to “ chuck out ’’ anyone annoying tho rest
of the audience. The presence of these preservers of
decency is sufficient to suppress the most objectionable
form of restiveness, that curses our theatres, and
flourishes with us.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Bread a halfpenny a loaf higher.
Sydney suburbs are to bo patrolled by mounted
police.
Gonlbum police don't care about enforcing the
Sunday-closing clause.
Victorian railway carriages being lighted with
electric incandescent lamps.
It is proposed to start Co-operative Dining and
Beading Booms in Sydney : meals at 61,, with smoking,
billiard rooms, &0., attached.
Jolimont Eailway accident cost the Victorian
Government £35,000 for cases settled; three more
claims amounting to £lB,OOO still pending.
Law-abiding Grafton. Their first case of breach
of the Licensing Act wai last Friday, when a Mr. Horan
got three weeks for refusing to pay for five drinks.
A sugar-growing company has been formed at
Bockhampton. They have acquired 1,600 acres of very
suitable land, and are olearihg 100 acres right off.
The Brisbane Courier declines to apologise
for the article in respect to which the City Engineer
Mr. W. H. Chambers, is proceeding against it for libel.
A grand aboriginal corroboree is to be held near
Narandera, shortly . The savages from all quarters will
assemble. Corroborees of savages are often held in
Sydney,
William M'Kinley, alias Hill, alias Fitzpatrick,
alias Kenealy, alias Anderson, was charged at the Water
Police with well, we should say that’s enough.
Committed.
The eminent military engineers who tried to
land the 25-ton gun at Balmoral, Middle Head, let her
rip iato ten feet of water. It "cannoned off the
balks," eh!
The Victorian Crown Law Offices have declined
to rescind the rule which prevents the holder of a
publican’s license from occupying the position of a
justice of the peace.
Hon. J. Bowie Wilson appointed by Government
to inquire into the resources and management ol Lord
Howe Island. We drew attention to certain matters
connected with this island a year ago.
The Marquis de Rav’s expedition is still followed
by bad luck. Captain Eobardy, formerly of the G jnil,
died at Moaka, and the “balance of the colony" is on
its way back to Sydney par steamer Genii.
The Munro-Casey institution, the Federal Bank
of Australia, commenced business in Melbourne and
Sydney on Monday last. Mr. Alex. Gray is acting-
manager of the Sydney branch, which is at 257 George-
street.
A West Maitland thief recently led Constable
Aidkins a severe chase across country, and wound up
by swimming the river and getting clear away. Aidkins
also took a plunge, clothes and all, but only had u duck-
ing for his pains.
The case of Hughes v. Gibb, at the Young
Circuit Court, for £5OOO damages for defamation of
character, disappointed local scandalmongers. The
defendant apologised, and tho plaintiff accepted a
verdict of 40s. with costs,
Charles Christie committed for trial for shooting
Emanuel Dew, labourer, at Onion’s Point, Eyde
(N S .W), on March 10th last, £3OO b»il being allowed.
Christie was struck about tho head and shoulders with
stones about a pound in weight.
When the New Guinea niggers take prisoners,
they break their arms and legs, it they’re not wanted
for immediate use at dinner. Fifty-six New Caledonian
escapees who landed upon eno of the islands were
caught, and killed at the rate of about eight a day.
The Campbelltown Police Court had a red-letter
dav recently, when tho case of Hoggie v. Chiuuox—an
affiliation case—was heard. About a mile of love-lettei s,
full of gush, varied tho monotony of the proc< e ling-.
Chinnox now varies his monotony by paying 5 1. a week.
Sydney fruit consumers consider that ;n
anathematising the “codlin moth,” the Central Cumber-
land Fruit Growers’Association are codeiinga “ to o-
t Ktion” maggot of their own, in order that by excluding
from the market Victorian and Tasmanian fruit, they
may raise their prices.
By the capsize of a sailing boat on the New
Eivor, near Invercargill (N Z.), a you»g man named
William Smith, and the two Misses Ackers, aged 14 and
7 respectively, were drowned. Henry Ackers, anoldir
brother, was saved, and nobly exerted himself to pre-
serve his sisters, but failed.
There is a hellish scandal abroad about the
Christchurch (N.Z.) Normal School, and it is asserted
that the education authorities are hushing it up. Boys
are said to be graduating in vice, and girls in infamy,
and the Board of Education is hoMing, or hos held
by this time, a secret investigation wiah closed doors.
A police general order has been issued recom-
mending tho exorcise of “ extreme discretion “ respect-
ing offences under tn* Licensing Act, and Iproiubiting
Robert from entering pubs, “capriciously, or without
being clearly satisfied that the law is being violated,
and that it is their duty to act." More toil for the
missive brainpans of the foorce.
A (S.A) wood-carter has been committed for
trial for starving hia wife and six children. His hut
had no furniture in it, the youngest ba by was cradled
in a horse-collar (I), while the husband and rest o' the
family lay on sacks of straw. The mother had h*on
threatened with poll-axing if she complained. Yet,
£7O was discovered in the father’s possession. Tho
baby has since died.
George Bird, a man aged 63 years, has been
taken in charge by the Warren police in an advanced
stage of starvation. For the previous ten days he had
had nothing to eat. He walked Warren township a
whole day in the hope that someone would notice his
abject condition, and then, disheartened, he returned
to his camp on the bank of the river, determined to die.
And this in out smiling land of plenty.
Two of the killers of lieutenant Lnckraft
were captured and placed under arrest on H.M.a
Cormorant. Near Noumea, they were freed from their
bonds. One of them, a tall, powerful chief, seized a
handspike and was just about to assail a seaman un-
awares, when a sailor brained the savage with * “ a q"
spike. The other darkey is now on board
Nelson in Sydney harbour awaiting his trial.
A recent cablegram told of an
taken place at Galway, Ireland, between the BUh Seg-
ment and the 33th (Connaught Bangers). This is a by-
blow of an old fond, which had birth in a dispute be-
tween soldiers of tho two regiments over a game of
cards played in Dublin in 1839. This fend has become
traditionary, having! been handed down as a sacren
quarrel from soldier to soldier to the present day.
Every boss murderer is now considered insane.
Dr. Lamson poisoned hia brother-in-law, a parlour-
boarder at school, because that youth stood between
his medical relative and a good slice of property. Now,
Mr. J. Bussell Lowell. United States Minister at Lon-
don, acting under instructions, has obtained a reprieve
in order to drove that Lamson is insane. There are a
good many more men in this world streaked with the
same kind of mania.
Metropolitan Dispatch Co., Sydney, bringing
out a band of boy commiasionaries, who are to have
regular street-corner stations, and meSB ®B 6B at
6d a journey. This will supply a long felt want. The
city and suburban telegram system is a complete farce.
Let us hope Sir Henry will send out a telegraph
manager to us from America. The chief trouble
the Dispatch Co. will experience will he in getting
honest boys, who are at a premium in Australia jusc
now.
The Northern blacks, having acquired all the
“white" vioes, are now busy copying tho yellow
ones. Their passion for opium, when once acquired,
takes entire possession of their “ minds. recently, a
gin near Teppoon, filled a pipe with what is known as
charcoal opium, or, in other words, opium that has
been once used in the Chinese pipos, smoked it, and
shortly afterwards died on the beach from the effects.
Charcoal opium is sold by tho Chinese to the blacks at
a very low rate, and even white people are not above
engaging in the same traffic,
BJJA man named John Loughnan died in Melbourne
in January 1874. An intimate associate of his named
Martyn, thon a constable, was examined respecting
Loughan’s estate. Martyn told the Curator that
Lougbon had only loft £5. ss. in cash, which amount
had been absorbed in funeral expenses; but nea'W-
wards admitted that be had m his poesea«on £9OO and
a will, Martyn was dismissed from the police force, bnt
now comes forward and asks to he rehabilitated on the
ground that ho acted »s he did beeauee he was afraid
the executor to the will would have mal-admlnlstcred
the estate. We fully believe his story.
Count Henri de Beaumont, alias Bryant, French
deports and Victorian swindler, still sticks to the gist
of his yarn about Russian designs on the colonies. He
didn’t turn un to his proposed jury d honneur at Guns-
ler’s Caf<s, Melbourne, on Saturday. It would be a very
simple test for Sir Bryan O’Loghlen to got Bryant to
give his facsimile et the alleged cypher telegram, and
compare it with the original. It the two tallied, Sir
Bryan would have committed no breach of international
etiquette, in that he would be as much m rf
over respecting the interpretation of the cypher. If
they didn’t tally, there would be, ones and for all, an
end to Bryant’s brag.
A monstrous instance of justices justice
appears to have occurred, at Wilson s Downfall Police
Court tho other day. A lad named Gardiner, who had
been unjustly suspected of stealing a whip, met the
actual thief with the article m his hand, took it from
him and g*ve him a hearty thrashing with it. T
thief summoned him for the assault, and the magistrates
inflicted a fine of 10s. with costs of court, ma two
guineas professional costs. Immediately a,t s r 7^ rd *
thief was tried for purloining the whip, and the same
bench fined him 20s. and costs of oourt. to that they
actually inflicted a severe punishment on the lad whose
character had been unjustly aspersed, for thrafhmg ihe
mean thief, than they did upon the thief himself.
We hear the late Mr.Bailliere, who was killed in the
Jolimont accident, was insured in the Al.hanco Company
for £9OB, Tho Co. paid that amount to the widow Mrs.
Bailliore obtained a compensation verdict of *4,001)
against the Victorian Board of Land and
this amount of £9OB was deducted, and only £3,092 paid
over to her. The Alliance Company now mjaeats the
Board of Land and Works to hand over £9OB, and the
grounds of this request seem eqmtable enough accord-
ing to the principle adopted by the Board. Should
their request not be complied with, they will sue Gov-
ernment. Suppose the Alliance get the award, will they
pay Mrs. Bailliere ? In the first place, the Government
are grossly overstepping their bonds in attempting to
prevent the executrix of the late gentlemen from re-
ceiving the results of hia own prudence and self-danv-
ing foresight. In the second, the Alliance have certainly
no claim if payments of premiums bave boeu properly
made, and that they were is evidenced by the Govern-
ment retaining tho amount. As between the Govern-
ment and the Society wo have nothing to say.but as
between either and Mr. Bailliuro’s widow wo shall have
more to say anon.
One lover lie was lardy-dab.
And smoked an awful bad cigar,
’I ho other gave her glances sweet.
And sucked a pipe of Can’t 11 Beat.
“ Which will you have ?’’ they cried, “ my own,
Come answer, love, none of your tricks!
Then she replied. “ I’ll love alone
He who is pulling, now, at Mick’s.
Ambrosial weed—it smells so sweet;
I mean Mick Simmons’s Can’t B Beat."
Inspired thus of love the vox
By Simmons’s Tobacco Box.
The Government Analyst’s report on the average
maximum power of the gas supply of the city might be
au interesting subject to Aalanbegoff, because hnssian
tars are said to have a weakness for tallow—light or
heavy. But Messrs. Edward Hordern and Sons, popu-
lar Drap< r», Sydney, discard tallow, and are going in to
do the heavy with electric light. Saturday night next
is the first occasion fixed for displaying the new light,
and lady visitors should not dab on tlje rouge too
injudiciously for the occasion.
“ Where ever was there such a fool? ” enquired
a House of Commons orator, when speaking on the Corn
Laws, years ago. “ 'Ear, ’ear!" interjected a persistent
interrupter, who was never known to make a speech in
the House, and confined his oratory to interjections.
Everything has its mission in this world, and this duff-
ing interjector was evidently gifted with prophecy. His
then prophetic utterance had relevance to the subse-
quent birth and progress of Hr. Stanicb, the eminent
ear and eye doctor, of Sydney. The interjector’s “ 'ear,
'ear ' has for its natural corollary the reply, “ Bye, eye,
sir," of the gallant seaman of H.M.S. Cormorant.
We are happy to be able to state that the allega-
tions published in The Bulletin, upon information
received, r< spec-ting the death in the Sydney Infirmary
of David Fielding, have been completely disproved by
a board of enquiry. Pieldimg was not left alone to die
in a dark cell, as stated by our informants. It is
probable, however, that the enquiry just concluded
will have the very desirable result of admitting repre-
sentatives of the Brels to every meeting of the Hospital
Committee.


RILEY BROI
386 GEORGE STREET, - )
600 GEORGE STREET, £
165 OXFORD STREET, I
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWC^
AND
10 COLEMAN STREE
THE CHEAPEST
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN CC
THE OEIGINATOI
NOTED JES B
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or ua-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or an-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
pairs Women's Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair of Whits or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
yards Gambroon for
strapping
3 yard* Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Coyer
1 pair of Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s,
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
i doz. PocKet’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Fins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &o. &c.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Test
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Skirts, large
size
1 best Felt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pair Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
M
2 La
2 La
JE
i£ a a
ill
4 In
2 Ini
2 Ini
1 Ini
]
2 In
1 In
i do
f
Pnfl
1 Fli
2 Bil
1 pai
1 Ini
1 Ii
£
C
1 1
1
£
1 P »
1 la
10 ya
20 ya
12 St
20 W
10 gc
6 ys
I
wear
£5
1 pt
1 w
5 ya
10 w
(
6 w]
12 ya
12 ya
4 pa
U a
<J st
6 Bi
4 la
3 3
1
1
£5
25 yd
3 ya
1 do
1 Bl
1 Li
1 Ti
1 pa
C
RILEY BROI
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2
4 Infants’ Shirts *
2 Infants' Night-gowns 1 Hai
2 Infants' Long Flannels Lei
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown riel
2 Infants’ Boilers 1 Infs
i dozen Diaper Squares Sqt
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk
1 Flannel Head Square 1 Infi
2 Bibs Sill
1 Pair of Wool Boots Cs
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman’s £2
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nig
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Che
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
[We shall be glad to receive communications from
C[?]en.]
Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney t
942 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
The Eev. George Preston, of Devonahire-street
church, was recently encouraged by a purse of £50 pre-
sented at a social meeting.
Archdeacon Slattery, of tc free and dashing
eword " notoriety, has entered the lists against
Bishop Moorhouso in the prayer for rain controversy.
, The parishiones of St. Peter’s, Woolloomooloo,
intend to give the Eev. E. M’Keown a present. He
was.locum tenens twelve mouths for Canon Moreton. Good
sum raised.
A Geelong clergyman, Eev. Davidson, calls the
Olde Englyshe Fayro a sin j “ And," says he, “ I look
with profound sorrow on such things done in the name
of Christ’s Church.”
Spurgeon does not defend Bradlaugh, but he
aiid that such fearless, ontspoken men as ho are
better than the hypocrites who infest churches and
wear religion as a clcak.
The Jews, as a nation, enjoy a remarkable im-
jnumty from many diseases which scourge other peo-
ple; scrofula and consumption are almost unknown
amongst them. Their dietary laws, especially those
relating to meat, are supposed to account for it.
Christians are, perhaps, the only sect without dietary
laws in their religion, as practised.
Bishop Pearce, of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, South America, says of dancing :—" 1 think it
is the silliest! and most nonsensical amusement that
rational teiuga, so-called, ever engaged in. It is
heathenish in its origin, a pastime of savages; it is
a part of idolatrous worship, lewd, sensual, obscene."
Now, didn’t King David dance with all hia might before
the Lord f
Taking the London newspapers as a guide, it
seems that the debateable points of Christian belief
which formerly sent the denominations at the threat of
one another have entirely dropped out of sight. While
the sects battled, Fresthought took ground. Christi-
anity, weakened by internal diputes, now wages a des-
perate conflict with this new power in the realms of
human thought.
Monsignor Duquesney, Archbishop of Cambrai,
recently said, in the course of a short sermon:— 11 1
honour and respect the lay teacher, as I do the congre-
gational teacher, provided that he understands the
sublimity of his duties, and joins example and practice
to the imparting of the truths of our holy faith. But
if God be driven from the school, I give France ten
years to sink to the lowest plaoe amongst civilized
nations."
The Salvation Army at Sheffield issue a paper
called the " War Cry," with the motto "Blood and
Fire ; " they practice their discordant bowlings at all
hours of the day and night, and they parade around in
uniform. Then they feel aggrieved if any one hints
objection to their proceedings. With the exception of
a regular Bonnybrook challenge : “ Who’ll tread on the
tail o me coat ? " it would be hard to conceive of any
proceedings more certain te raise objections.
Eev. Canon Selwyn was prosecuted at New-
castle, for burying Miss Hannell ia the Christ Church
cemetery, Newcastle, contrary to a rscent by-law
framed by the Newcastle Council, which prohibited all
interments within certain distances of public thorough-
fares, dwellings, &c. The Bench dismissed the infor-
mation, holding that the Council had no power to
close all cemeteries in the municipality.
Ccrnt ° UnCl1 mt6nds t0 4684 the matter in the Supreme
The Pitt-etreet Church diaconate and the
Sussex-street school teachers have not yet come to
terns. The Eev. Mr. Jefferis has taken the matter in
hand, (and it le expected that a reconciliation will be
brought about. At a meeting laet Thursday, the sub-
ject was fully debated, but without any satisfactory
result, ihe teachers want a new superintendent, but
the diaconate can't see it. The disturbance is one
hardly creditable to the principal Church of the
Congregational body.
The S.M. Herald reports the Eev. W. C.
Robinson, a Tasmanian minister, now on a visit to
Sydney, as saying in a lecture on « The Origin and
Antiquity of Man," that there was no " real evidence
to show that man’s origin was from any other creature
than man himself.” W.C.E., as a Christian, has
probably forgiven that reporter, who has not let the
public know whether, in this statement, the lecturer
was .combating the evolution theory of science, or the
Christian account of the creation of man.
In the course of a most eloquent sermon, last
Sunday, the Eev. James Jefferis observed that "we
are inclined to be too harsh and unsparing in our judg-
ment of others ; that what we want is a more generous
interpretation of the efforts of all men to keep their
own truths." It is almost a pity that he also said that
greed, sensuality, and cruelty were the necessary
outcome of the denial of God," for there are thousands
of men whom he would doubtiess consider deniers of
God, but of whom such an imputation would bo a orael
Blander.
A correspondent complains that the principal
seats, the centre stalls, are monopolised every Tues-
day afternoon at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, by well
dressed girls who carry on very animated conversation
before and during service, bat when the plate goes
round, scarcely a “ threepenny" ever jingles in it.
Considering that they take the most conspicuous plaoe
in the building, these young ladies, if they cannot be de-
oorous, might at any rate, be decent enough to con-
tribute a trifling coin. They cannot expect to be
aristocratic for nothing.
Figaro says that Pope Leo has definitely de-
finitely decided to leave Home for Salzburg, which city
is to be neutralized and the Pope subventioned from
the Austrian exchequer. Bismarck, it is alleged
offered to neutralise Frankfort, as in the time of the
German confederation, and give Hia Holiness its tem-
porary sovereignty, with a subsidy of many millions
per annum ; hut Leo declined the offer, as also a simi-
lar one made in respect to Strasburg. By the way
Mozart was born at Salzburg, where his father was
capelmeister at the Cathedral.
The headstone of the new local Anglican cathe-
dral was laid by the Bishop of Goulburn last Wednes-
day. After the ceremony, the workmen were invited
to a luncheon. When the men had each got outside of
a ham, half a chicken, and sundry bottles of bulldog,
not to mention snch trifles as fruit pies, plum pudding,
Ac., the Bishop presented each of them with a book.
The son of on/of the contractors, who was foremost in
the movement for having the reading-room opened on
Sundays, had a book called the "Bible and Modem
Thought," picked out specially for him. Cost of the
edifice to be £16,500 or so.
Last week, at the Primitive Methodist Church
in a Western town, the minister told his congregation
that on Sunday morning he preached to Christians,
and in the evening ;to a “ mixed congregation." This
remark, in view of the fact that the new church and
parsonage were built mainly by contributions from
other denominations, was considered slightly rough.
It is worthy of mention that a previous minister
went over to the Church of England, one of
his reasons he—an educated man—
couldn’t stand baV%g his pulpit occupied from time
to time by an ignorant gardener or farmer.
The Eev. James Jefferis. on Sunday night last
spoke his sentiments upon the Anglo-Israel question
with no uncertain sound. Qnoth he, during the read-
ing lesson: “Thera are in these days many persons
who endeavour, in their interpretation of the Old
Testament Scriptures, to apply the promises made to
Israel exclusively to Great Britain ; as if, forsooth, the
Almighty would limit his blessings to any one particular
race. To my mind, the good things foretold are for a
spiritual Israel—that is, for all the people of God, every,
where. I cannot refrain from expressing my abhorrence
of a doctrine which does such violence to the very
spirit of the Gospel.” This sounds like genuine Chris-
tianity,
The Eev. S. Macfarlane has been lecturing on
New Guinea before the Victorian Auxiliary of the Lon-
don Missionary Society. How does the Eev Mac.
reconcile those two statements, which he is reported to
* have made, the one following closely upon the ocher: —
but the' trea^f™*???v cou “‘ r y {or depasturing cattle,
h*d 8 „ tbe natlveß > w bo were cannibals.
«e a^Mt b / dangers.” Cannibals
Sea* te ?“ T ? 80 far aa tough old mission-
SO natters 3 nd missionaries don't want
squatters poaching on their preserves.
• # «
i1» pul P i<: v - press battle still rages.
rf a rd words and 55-mlnnte sermons on one side • seen.
bo C thside n s other. People amuseda’t
land has lU'iuP 16 Unit ed Presbyterian Church of Scot-
S’K*® y ears raised over £4,000,000 by subscrip-
loff for K b, ®?u tß The Eev - Charles Strong
SSjtaSd to i^2?U or the Melbourne Anglican Cathe-
tulfll the conditions attached to Mr. Or-
tekea h^v been coll <»ted A meeting
to 8 5?' day (Thursday), at Rockhampton,
«**«■ between the local P E.C.
connecUon tb . 9 , bis bop-elect of N.Q. in
connection with a syllabus containing charges
against the late Bishop O’Qninn, which was
be . b j°?t of much discussion some time ago
Wnho b Jl i 1)6011 «ected in the Mariners' Church,
rwvf*' in commemoration of the wreck of H.M.S.
«TPhens......The plo us commandant of the Tasmanian
forces is settingup a mission for the oonveralon of the
6 7* T f e C - Cherbury, believes that the
hoax penetrated upon the Aoa is a warming from God
* of tbl ? °°* on ? Tbe members of the
tTnloM.i are .. m babil of exclaiming simnl-
Udfons J Tht whenever an orator become,
This plan is worth introducing to de-
i£f.ntlr r.tr £ Bondon reli giou a circles
Csfh3!«i a Tr well - k “Own E. 0. priest of the pro-
re«a^ 1 4» K * r,Bm / to ?' i .u W 5? ohar » ed with having
u 6 * ai , 6d the secrets of the Confessional. The charge,
JeT£^T^r "T " Henr7 W » rd Beecher
fnrL year ’ ? 9 a,B ° gets much from lec.
tures and hterary work. Talmage’s sslary is £IOOO.
«.° n w° ot . Wellington, New Zealand,
that tbo Word of God doesn't teach Hell,
«atiw k tv. C^KCb^u Unt u AD ' m didn 't t«aoh it, and
?.^ 7 'i ba ] ; . th ? Church of England doesn't tsaoh it
la.t I. dlg . al^ n advertised for St. Mary’s
70 ou S t ot d thA b 8 ‘V dn * t ? nt in an appearance until
over b It mmutes takon U P by the sermon were
as a pun * Dr. Vaughan said
that the ‘Prodigal." after feeding on husks, had a
husky voice Eev. T. H. Butterly. th. esteemed
d£S 18t ffh f Stl j P * ter ’ 8 (Anglican) Churah, hu
fo‘«; * m r /f* a °, f 3 hom tbe effects of typhoid
Gladstone (Q.), where none of the sects is
to maintain a minister ot its own. an
of U f on hM b6en formed for the purpose
of proourmg a clergyman who will preach to the deuo-
Sp?:^?’" ,CinM u KnOI - Little - a distinguished
S l?b Cb Q rch clergyman, has been invited by Bishop
K 0 *° uk « a mission tear in, Victoria Dr.
S OMr,? 0 in tbe rift of beahng claimed
Q T^“J U>P^" Th * aRe of miracles is
u • J^° ndon Salvation Army have taken the
Thi h ?: M? k m Mi* 8 L' 5n , t Cirous at a rental of £IOOO a year.
olH ldin^. Wll i■ u? ld 3°°o persons, and it is intended
M memhara °/ t f > P hl ° B ." »» <*o shape ef
McSime b d W cnmlnal classes who have been
by th, operations of the army
re£m&Tl B , arnett 8 audience at Narracoote (S.A.)
K • t 0 dl * po s ae * owing to some "evll-disposed"
? laC( £ a foul-smelling chemical in the
Exe . tor * England, a society has been formed,
the admission pledge of whose members la as follows
ini P fn? lß ?i’ by God's help, to avoid carsing and swear-
an * aU swl-speaking, to bear no grudges, and to
discountenance the same in others, to obey all lawful
all - inV > t h °l OUr Q“o«°. to study to do *o£d to
all men, and to show kindness to animals " (including
women.) The London Missionary Society now
mainly depends on the Cougregationalists and Presby-
VjF. 8 : B JPNfts own £36,000 worth of property in
Adelaide and its enbnrbs, and £30,000 worth in the
country districts of South Australia 21,906 Presby.
tenans in New South Wales, exclusive cf the Hurrnm-
bidgee district. Only 1710 of these subscribe to the
Sydney Pkesbttbruk At the Missionary breakfast.
given in the Melbonrne Coffee Palace last week 70
persons were present.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Marriage is like a bag of snakes, in which there
is one eel. iron the fellow who is so lucky as to escape
the snakes and get the eel isn’t, able to hold on to it.
After man came woman. After woman came
Satan. After Satan came Grecian fringe, poodle-dogs,
ten-buttoned gloves, and the wearing out of hat-brims.
“ I wouldn't marry the best man living," she said,
And she kept her vow from the first.
But she didn't live to die an old maid,
For she married one of the worst.
By law, the King of Ashantee must have 3000
wives. At this rate, who can wonder at his occasionally
killing a couple of hundred er so to get blood for mix.
ing the mortar for a new palace f
“Yes,” he said,“she’s a charming girl, but
I've put my loot in it. She’s delicate, you know, and
she's got rather a bad temper." As long as young
people study astronomy in classes of two, tnese things
will happen.
Brides seem to be very weak this year. We
have read at least 4000 times that “ the bride entered
leaning on” somebody’s arm. The bridegroom who
flatters himself that this is going to last, however, will
find himself sold.
The meanest woman on record was the one who
whsn her fourth hnsband died, took the brass plate oft
the front door, had his age added, and then fastened it
on his coffin. She said she thought she'd be wanting a
new name on the door, anyway.
“Where would we be without women?” asks
a writer. It’s hard to determine just which way the
majority would drift, but some men would be out of
debt and out of trouble, and a good many others would
be out at their elbows.
Henpecked Jones,on reading that Parliament had
encouraged Prince Leopold in his matrimonial project
by voting him £lO,OOO a year, shook his head, and said
he had always heard that the loyal gush of the House of
Commons only covered a fell design on the peace of
royalty.
“Brutus Blinkberry!” said that gentleman’s
wife, “rawing a paper from her pocket in the privacy of
her chamber on Sunday morning, “ Brntus Blinkberrv.
1 ve counted, and out of the last thirty days yon have
come home intoxicated twenty-seven nights: what do
you think of yourself P ” Blinkberry groaned. “ Well
What are you groaning about now?" “Them three
nights, replied Biinxberry, with an expression of
suffering.;
Patent husband-destroyer. Combine dynamite
and Irish whisky, in the proportions of one and four
respectively, and place the mixture in the oupbeard.
Next day, hire a pretty housemaid and go on a visit
somewhere, taking all the children, the cat, the canary
and everything else you value. As soon as you’re gone,
the housemaid will find, and drink, the whisky and
dynamite. Tour husband will hug the maid, who will
at once explode, and both parties to the hug will go to
heaven. 8
“E. M‘C.,” Eedfern writes-. —“That para-
graph in last week’s • Pepper and Salt ’ is disgraceful
The way a woman gets out of a tram is nothing com-
pared to the antics of a man when stepping into a aireet
oar. First, as he arrives on the step, no calmly sui-
veys all the girls. After settling in his mind which is
prettiest, he takes the seat where he can obtain the
best view, and stares openly at her until she is quite
uncomfortable. Then, after counting her buttons and
her eyelashes, he, because she won’t bestow a smile on
him, coelly remarks to his next neighbour in an audible
whisper, ‘ Not up to much.’"
Mrs. Langtry’s costumes in “ She Stoops to
Conquer ’’ were too utterly utter in their beauty, but
all wrong for the part. The first had an amber satin
jupe, with panisr corsage and train of the most exqni-
site gold-colored satin, strewn with rosebuds and full-
blown roses. The second, or walking-dress, was of
embroidered Indian muslin, made with a saoque, and
worn with Snide gloves, and shoes and stockings of the
same shade, and a brown velvet hat, with Snide-tinted
feathers, and a brown fan. The third costume was
simplicity itself, being made of gray cashmere, without
"ny trimming, and worn with a white mualm apron,
flcnu, and cap, and a chatelaine hanging on the left
8109.
Qoldwin Smith says, in the Nineteenth Cen-
tubt, that the suffrage movement is, in the United
States at all events, only part ef a movement against
the limitations of sex, against the bondage of matri-
mony, and the burdens of maternity. If it spreads in
America, the consequence will) be that the Anglo-
American race will be supplanted by the Irish and
(Germans, whose women are loyal to sex. true to the
family, and good mothers; while all the Irish and half
the Germans belong to a Church by which the family
has always been upheld. The question is of tremendous
significance, and in dealing with it levity and concession
to vague sentiment are criminal.
Aster” writes: “I have been married two
months, and I write this on the bottom of my lunch
bag at 11 p.m., under the street lamp. lam not happy.
1 enjoy none of those familiar sweets [we here become
Interested] which Hebe is supposed to shower on
those who enter matrimony. The Vallonia whom I
recklessly snatched fiom the yawning verge of spinster-
neod brutally repays my disinterested crucifixion by
refusing to allow me the exhilarating enjoyment which
I coax out of my divine hookah I Please tell me if she
has any legal right to stop my smoking.” Bah I it
seems that it s all about the paltry pipe. Wo don’t
know. Aster, whether VallonLi can stop your smok-
mg, if that s all she denies you, or whether your insist-
enoe in it would justify a divorce; but you should have
hooker ° f th9B ° thmss wben you wera trying to
The Queen of Eoumania, who is a poet, akeepa
,**7 °*, ~ er , thoughts. And as some interest cannot
fail to attach to ” Thoughts from the note book of
a Queen, we give a few extracts in French and
.English : —On pardonne I’adultcro quand son batard est
nn genie. La jalousie de celui qa’on aims est un
hommage ; de votre mari, e’est uno offense. Quand on
yeut affirmer quelque chose, on appello tonjours I>ieu
a temoin, parcequ’il no oontredit jamais. To be witty
you must be surrounded by wits. A nightingale says
nothing to a barn*door fowl. Contradiction produces
argument; therefore the surroundings of a court are
sometimes monotonous. At night everything is fire,
stars, thoughts, and tears. The woman who is “not
understood" is generally a woman wko does not under-
stand others. Cleanliness is like the opal—many think
it insignificant because they do not appreciate its in-
trinsic value. Happiness is a rose with a hundred
leaves. Each has the same colour, the same perfume ;
detach them and the flower exists no longer. White
hairs—Crests on the foam of the storm I "
Flirting is what no woman in the world could
•vet say she was quite innocent of; only some do very
little, and some a great deal. When carried to the
extreme, it is simply the art of sexual tantalisaticn.
Flirting is just like playing with fire, and seeing how
little you can get scorched. Some leave off at the first
scorch, but the boss flirt is covered with scars, and feels
preud of them. She courts the little shooting flames ;
sparks fly round her, and she revels in them She flirts
from the nursery to the cemetery; in her teens, in her
snma; she flirts when single, when married, and flirts
ke the very devil when widowed. She keeps on when
she is an old woman, and flirts with the doctor on her
deathbed. If she could resuscitate for half an hour in
her coma, she’d flirt with the undertaker —
She knows that such arts her charms enhance.
She likes to see spooaeys around her dance.
She d flirt with Old Nick if she had the chance
In that awfully sultry air.
Or if, may be, on the other road.
She travelled off to her last abode.
In heaven she'd learn the celestial mode,
And practise her flirting there.
This is the sort of lively cricket that chirps round tha
hearth till the domestic fire burns bine, that leaves a
man’s heart about as juicy as a lump of scoria, that
makes his head flame like a wax match, that turns
tenderness into tinder, and ruins lives and raises Cain
extensively. This would be a slow old sphere of ours,
without flirts. ’
In Utah, there are no coroners, and when a body
is in death, it is simply buried. Poison does the work
and there are no inquiries. When a man gets tired of
his wife he poisons her. The Mormons hold the doc-
trine si blood atonement," and apply it as a means
of purifying their community from what are decided
by the elders to be communal offences. In 1869, a Mrs.
Maxwell arrived at Salt Lake City. Two yeara after-
wards her husband took another wife, and one year
subsequently he was sealed to a third. Mrs. Maxwell
had two sons, aged respectively 14 and 16 years. Their
father urged them to become Mormons. Mrs. Maxwell
objected, and told them the secrets of the Endowment
House. Mr. Maxwell overheard his wife, and forthwith
informed the elders, who sent for the unfortunate
woman and her two sons. They were taken into what
m called the dark pit,” a blood-atoning room under
Brigham Young s house. The woman was stripped,
and then tied on her back to a largo table. Six mem-
bers of the priesthood then performed their damnable
crime; they first lout out their victim’s tongue, and
then cut her throat, after which her logs and arms
were severed, the sons being compelled to stand by.
Ihey were then released, and given twenty.four hours
to get out of the territory, which was then an impossi-
bility. The sons went directly to the house of a friend,
to whom they related the butchery of their mother, and
Obtaining a package of provisions, they started; but on
the following morning they were beth dead—they had
met the Danites.
• * »
A Bairnadale young woman went mad on the
night of her marriage, and now resides in the Kew
Lunatic Asylum There were three women hanged in
America last year. ...The Whitehall Review cham-
pions Mrs Langtry boldly against her assailant critics,
and points out that one of the worst, the writer in the
Referee, who decried her acting, admitted he had not
seen her, while other papers had condemned heron
equally bad evidence. The Review says that, being a
lady, her acting is simply a reflection of herself, and
that she possesses a natural culture and ease only
obtainable in that circle of whieh she has been such a
brilliant ornament At Washington, the wife of the
Japanese Minister is a curiosity. She is a woman, but
°?. 1 y a f k'f? as a child of 10, very pretty and accom-
plished, and dresses always in a rich and perfect toilet.
......Horsham (Vic.) is not a desirable field of emigre-
tiou for the “ unprotected female.” A leading article
in one of the late issues of the Horsham Times is full
of melancholy reflections upon the immorality and
general ungodliness of the district that journal repre-
sents. And yet the proprietors are still at large
An Ipswich (Q ) lady nearly poisoned through eating
tinned lobster. 8
Out of the entire Parisian press there were, in
FeoriiMT, but five papers which supported Gambetta,
and In three of these he was personally and pecuniarily
interested. The rest liberally bestowed on the idol of
the past ten years such complimentary epithets as
Le Dictateur, “le tyran ,** “le Louis XIV de Cahors"
•le Coupeau de Cahors,“ “le bandit," “le dictateur de-
fjourmi,- “le Gisar de Cahors," “ le'jgross Leon," “ Valeo.
„ le f° u f uneu «>“ “ Heliogahalus," “ Neron," and
the Napoleon of Opportunism." A few months ago
Gambetta was proclaimed to be the Saviour of France I
Cerebral congestion in the evening” is one of the
explanations current in Paris for Gambetta's recent
freaks. It is difficult to say what the phrase really
means; some say it merely refers to aggravated
indigestion, while others interpret it as an accusation
of “chrome alcholism.”
Oscar the iEathete was entertained at a small
but sumptuous banquet immediately he arrived in New
York, by Mr. S. Ward. Seven choice souls were
invited to enjoy his ineffable companionship. The
table was smothered in flowers, lilies being conspicuous
everywhere; two valley lilies, tied with crimson ribbon,
being placed, at Oscar’s plate. The guest drank wine
and enjoyed it, talked glibly on great English poli-
ticians, and was voted an excellent raconteur. In
public, however, his endeavours to rouse the practical
Americans to admiration of mediaeval smudges and
limp lulies, were a failure. They bravely listened, and
certainly did not profit. They said he twaddled : and
he retorted that they had no soul. At Harvard College
lecture, oyer fifty students marched in to the front
seats in silk stockings, and long-haired wigs, carrying
sunflowers. It made Oscar more Wilde than ever
Here are two of his costumes: bottle green short coat.
grey trousers, gaiters of yellow cloth with patent
leather toes, wide open collar and satin necktie: the
other, a long snuff-coloured coat to the feet, with seal-
skin collar and cuffs; frayed linen, largo orange silk
handkerchief, and a drooping daisy in his buttonhole.


Tobacconists
O*
TO SMOKERS WHO PROFESS TO BE JUDGES OP
AMERICAN TOBACCO.
THE following facts are compiled from official
resources, and, therefore, should he read with
special interest: —
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1880 on 288,3031 b.
All the others paid duty in 1880 on 580,60911b'
DIXSON AND SONS paid duty in 1881 on 478,935 lb.
All the others paid duty in 1881 on 620,992 lb".
Imported manufactured tobacco paid duty-
on for the two years was only 307,100 lb.
DIXSON AND SON’S BRANDS ARE—
YANKEE DOODLE, CONQUEROR,
SIR ROGER, GOLD PLUM,
OUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
Yankee Doodle and Conqueror are original and only
genuine “Tin Tag,” each plug branded with a
Round Single Tin Tag, stamped 11 Con.
querob” or “ Yankee Doodle.”
ALL TOBACCONISTS* GOODS, PIPES, &c.
s**2
M
AGNIFICENT IRON-FRAMED GERMAN
PIANOS.
Walnut. Ebony-and-gold, Rosewood-and-gold.
Imported by us direct, and manufactured expressly
for this climate to the order of our buyer in Germany.
Every instrument is WARRANTED for TEN
YEARS. They are of very handsome appearance, and
are most sensitive, sweet, and powerful.
LOW PRICES for CASH.
EASY TEEMS of TIME PAYMENT.
Examine and test them before purchasing elsewhere.
All our PIANOS are latest styles only. We have no
second-hand instruments tor cheap rubbish.
BEALE and COMPANY,
1, Oxford-street; 612, George-street; 12, Market
Buildings, Sydney.
Hunter-street, Newcastle; High-street, Maitland;
Howiok-street, Bathurst; Auburn-street, Goul-
burn; Church-street, Parramatta; Queen-street,
Brisbane.
No matter where yon live we will supply you with a
PIANO upon TIME PAYMENT.
JNDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY.
705 GEORGE STREET,
Hatmabkit.
OUR "STAR OF INDIA" TEAS
Have been proved to ho
SUPERIOR TO ANT OTHERS
FOB
PURITY, FLAVOR, AND EXCELLENCE.
Sold only at onr Establishment—
-705 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET,
OPPOSITE HORDERN’S PALACE
EMPORIUM.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANQINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, *o.
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK, 281, GEOEGE-ST.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twee as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss ot heat;
great saving of fuel; apply several layers
The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paperworks, Liver-
pool. Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Price, 4Jd & 6d per yd.
30 & 40 inches wide,
any length
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
•36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.^
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security.
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Caetlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
w
ASTE PAPER for SALE, apply Bulletin
Office, Pitt-street.
[Business Annonnc
Australian “ho»
SEWING MACHU
Unprincipled Dealers —to mate
lings profit—are offering for sale
Machines that will not stand a year
EXPRESS I
ps>h
OSS cS
fp.
THE HOME SHUTTLE L(
Manufactured for us, has the abo
name on the work pi
PURCHASE NO OTHI
We solicit information of the atte
terfeits of the above Machine, wh<
action in protection of our rights.
In any district where our gennii
procurable, we will forward them
Post Office Order.
WE HAVE NOW SOLD C
HAND MACHINE. COMPLETE
TREADLE MACHINE, COMPLE
Do., WITH COVER COMP
No charge for cases or packing.
Circular post
M. MOSS ANE
WYNTARD LANE, S
p R. LAI
Wholesale and Bel
PRODUCE ME-iiC
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIPPS I
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 Qeorge-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghurst Road, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
778 and 780 GEOEGE STEI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually i
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayi
For VENETIAN
TRY
WOR M A
112 OXFORD STB
H. A E
PROVISION MERC!
AND GENERAL COMMIBS
343 AND 345 Kent-Stkeet, neai
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
E. Whittingham and Co.’s Lone
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victoria
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victoria!
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toil
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Con
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum B
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, neai
w.
Hotels, fco.
LOYD’S HOTEL,
HOWIGK STREET, BATHURST.
Offers Superior Accomodation to Commercial Travel
lors. Visitors, and Professional Friends.
FRANK LLOYD,
Comique and Buffo Vocaliit.
Proprietor.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, fro.
B
OBINSON’S FITZI
WILLIAM ST]
WOOLLOOMOOL
ATT, the best brands or a:
Is PER BOTTL
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEI
all round.
N.B. —Cock burn’s Grape (POET
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Axnei
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table,
ted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVI
T
10 PUBLICANS AND S
To Let,
A HOUSE containing 9 Rooms, v
Bar Fittings, Kitchen and Stable,
house, but at present occupied aa a
Apply totheiroprietor^^^^
U N S L E R’ S
NO RTH TERR
ADELAIDE.
PRIZE AL
T T. FALLON in asking publ:
A INES, and to the awards gain<
i timate that he holds very large s
i d the public may icly upon getti:
a d in almost any quantity.
Central Depot
91 PITT STREET, SI
Vineyard :
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE HE
iORN£|!
RN
AST)
It is of the utmost importance tt
bottle should he carefully comparec
are being imported into New Sot
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevert
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brandSi when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
Jjl MARTIN i
AUSTRALIAN WINE Ml
AND BBEE BOTT
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN I
Prices from 12s to 42s p
ALBUEY WINE
EED.
Petit Yerdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malboo
HUNTEE EIVEE W
Claret
Ore Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStiniuiant
£he WOR'-S
Th* Fun* of M. MOSS & 00,
la on erery Genuine Bottle.
W f H. THC
S 0 .-A
Ul /
7/
ro~?
i,: ; y
tra^e
A/// *0 «.;
®
A'.G .THOMS
PROPRIETO
7/us rare old Scot
is distinoui sized it- /iO-Vi
<?s ’a) old ma r u.rnc
JOHN GILCHRISI
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW


SPOTTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
of racing clubs and managers of sporting events in general.]
RACING.
She’lharbour April 10.
Williamstown (V.) April 10.
Canterbury, J.C. (N.Z ) ..April 10, 11.
Auckland R.C., Autumn..... April 10,11.
A. J.C. Autumn April 10, 12,14, 15.
Forbes J.C April 13, 14.
Boccaccio v. Von Moltke, Trot, Eastern wick
„ TO April 15.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C April 20, 21.
Wileannia • April 20, 21.
Eohuoa April 20, 22.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club April 22.
Sydney Turf Club April 22.
South Canterbury (N.Z.) Autumn April 25, 26.
Gunnedah J.C April 25, 21.
Deniliquin April 27, 28.
Lachlan R.C May 4, 5.
B. May 6, 11, 13.
Dunedin (N.Z ) Winter May 21.
N.Z. Grand National Steeplechase, Ashburton...May 24.
Adelaide R.C May 20, 24, 25, 27.
Bligh A.T.C. Mudgee ...May 22.
Copeland J.C Mar 24.
Murrnrundi J.C May 24, 25.
Queensland T.C May 24, 25.
Parramatta J.C May 24, 25.
Manning River J.C May 31, June 1.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase Meeting... June 7, 9.
Brewarrina J.C June 8, 9.
Rockhampton July 6, 7.
Clarence K.J.C ...!"!!!july 12,13.
AQUATICS.
Rooky Mouth Regatta Easter Monday.
Kompsey Regatta Easter Monday.
Victorian Yacht Club Regatta Easter Monday.
Watson’s Bay Regatta April 22.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race April 29.
Globe R. C. Trial Fours, in Outriggers April 29.
Trickett v. Hanlan, £5OO aside on the Thames.... May I.
M.R.O. Junior Single Sculls (President’s
Trophy) May 6.
Krug Champagne Cup, Amateurs May 27.
Grafton Regatta May 24.
Hanlan v, Ross, £2OO aside Juno 20.
PEDBSTEIANISM.
Garooftr Athletic Sports May 24.
Roma (Q.) Athletic Club April 10.
Tam worth Sports April 10,
SWIMMING
W. M’lndoa v E. Cavill, £4OO and championship
of Australia, 1760 yards April 8.
Port Jackson Swimming Club matches April 29.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Mr. I’ifcbes is the only Victorian sculler likely to
compete ia our Kragisouliing match.
The South Australian Bicycle Club intend to
hold a monster meeting on Easter Monday.
Victoria and South Australia have fixed 3rd,
7th, and 12th August as the dates of the Intercolonial
football match.
Donnon did the hat trick on Saturday in the
Junior Cup match, by bowling throe wickets in three
consecutive balls.
At Henderson’s Mill, Auckland, (N.Z.), on the
17th March, Rand wick appropriated the double. Cup and
Railway Handicap.
Mr. Upward, who selects the Victorian Eight,
tests the various candidates by taking them out in pair-
oar boats with himself.
Donald Nicholson, the light-weight jockey, rode
three consecutive winners and a second horse at
Hawkesbury on Saturday.
The totalisator is very popular with the N.Z.
racing public. On Cup Day, at Wanganui, £4529 was
put through the machines.
On Saturday, at Gootamundra, the Tumnt and
Cootamundra Clubs played for the Cox Challenge Cup,
Tumnt being defeated by 5 wickets.
The Randwick racecourse properties brought
£2lOO. The gates were sold for £1495 to Mr. M’Oill,
the lessee of the Randwick toll-gate.
Tasman, by the English horse St. Alban’s, won
the Oamaru (N.Z.) Handicap, Sir H. Robinson’s Leger-
demain being second, and Adamant third.
John Largan, the English sculler, is coming ont
here to row for Frank Punch’s prize. George Fearn,
the long-distance swimmer, accompanies him.
Victorian Trotting Club meeting, April 1—
Maiden Plate: Fright 1. V.T.C. Trotting Stallions
Stakes t Startle 1. Purse of 100 sovs.: Brown Hawk 1.
The Victorian trotter, Conquering Hero, is the
horse selected to do battle with Edwards in the six
days’ race, commencing on Easter] Monday, ;at Mel-
bourne.
Canvas dingy sweepstakes, March 25 : —Grand
Flaneur, H. Dawns, 1; Olivette, H. Harding, 2; Reso-
lution, D, Smith, 3. Grand Flaneur led all the way,
winning easily.
The proposed match between the University
club and fifteen of the junior players has been aban-
doned for the present. The Association Ground
trustees do not see their way clear.
Navigator first favourite for the Champagne
Stakes, Wheatear for the St. Leger, and Sweet William,
the Cup. Lord Orville, The Barber, and The Drummer
have bean supported for the latter event.
The race between Gascoyne and Edwards, for
£25 a-sido on the Parramatta River, was won by Gas-
coyne, the heavy squall completely spoiling Edwards'
chance. Long odds were laid on Edwards.
The sculling match for .£25 a side between
Beach, in a light skiff, and Gascoigne, ia a wager-boat,
took place on Saturday afternoon on the Parramatta
River. Beach was the favourite, but Gascoigne won
easily.
The annual race between Oxford and Cambridge
Universities was rowed on Saturday on the Thames,
over the usual course from Putney to Mortlake, and
resulted in favour of Oxford, the favourites winning by
Six lengths.
Iroquois and Foxhall are entered for the Gold
Cups at Epsom and Ascot. Their meeting will be the
great event of the spring racing meeting season. The
Epsom Cup is a mile and a half, and that at Ascot a
mile further.
* The outsider,Hailstorm, who won the Wanganui
(N.Z ) Cup of 60 sovs., was by Pacific—Discretion,
Virginia Water, by Treducer, third. Sir Modred,
Libeller, and Wilberforce were the only other horses
that faced the flag.
A race for £2O a side took place on Orange race-
course on 27th March, between T. Hammer's Moon-
light, Bat. 71b., and Claby’s Granuelle, 7st. 71b., distance
li mile; resulting in an easy win for Moonlight by
about eight lengths.
It is proposed, with a view to familiarising the
public of Naw South Wales with the Victorian game of
football, that two leading Victorian clubs should play
three matches oa the Association Ground. The {dates
are May 20, 24, and 27.
A new football club, “ The Carlton,” with fifty
members, is to be started in Parramatta. It is to be
hoped that they will ba less “ clanish ” than the old
club, whose members apparently thought their oppo-
nents never should win.
Following is the Victorian crew for the eight-
oar race :—Senior (bow), lOst. 51b.: Hughes, list. 31b.;
Brown, 12at. j Booth, 12st. 61b.; Ankerson, 12st. lib.;
Tuckott, 12st. 21b.; Beynon, 12st. 41b.; Upward, 12st-
21b, Jeuvoy, emergency. M
Mr. Barnard, the Victorian handioapper, has
incurred the ire of some of the South Australian owners
of racehorses. He had a bettor opinion of their horses
than they had, and the weight was accordingly ” clapped
on." They talk about “ boycotting” him.
The Eivorina Athletic Club hold their first
annual gathering at Hay on 24th and 25th May. The
principal events are: Grand Champion Handicap of 50
sovs,, 150,259,300, and 4000 yards; a Handicap Walking
Match of 25 sovs., two events of 3 and 2 miles.
Sir Thomas Elder has been as yet unsuccessful
in introducing his colours on the English turf; the
youngsters he sent home to be trained are about to be
returned. It is still his intention to emulate our
American cousins by competing for an English . > why.
The Australian grey, Lone Hand, won the
Corinthian Cup at the Hawke’s Bay, (N.Z.), races,
Mischief, Maiden Plate; Te Whetn, Hurdles; Luna,
Tradesmen’s Handicap; and Virginia Water, the Plate.
Lady Emma did not score a single win at the meet-
ing.
A mile race for £lOO, took place at Geelong on
March 25, between J. Martin and J. Seymour, and re-
suited iu a slow race, ending very closely, both com-
petitors breasting the tape together. Disputes ensued,
and after_ a deal of wrangling the stakes were drawn.
Thera is likely to be another mateh.
The Petersham Club have established their
claim to the present holding of the Gardiner Cup,
having defeated all-comers ia one innings, on almost all
occasions. The suburban and second-rate clubs will
have to improve very mnch next season, if they wish to
loosen the Petersham hold on the trophy.
The Warwicks were defeated in one innings by
the Alberts for the Holds worth-Gardyne Cup. The War-
wick first innings alosed for 63 —Rigg 21. Following
on, the second innings' score was 125—Hiddlestone 34,
Rigg 27, Downes 25. The Alberts thus won in one
innings by 37 runs, their first innings’ score being 225.
Adelaide races, March 28. Milo Handicap:
Victor 1. Prince of Wales’ Stakes: Lady Green 1.
Autumn Handicap : First Love 1. Hack Selling Race:
Nelly Gray 1. Stewards’ Purse: Doctor 1. Hurry
Scurry: Lady Angler 1. In this race Keepsake, owned
by Mr. E. Perkins, fell and broke her leg and had to be
killed. Forced Handicap : Alexander 1,
On Saturday week, the last match of a serves of
throe, under the auspices of the Sydney Homing Pigeon
Society, was flown from Springwood, 47 miles. The
winner was Mr. G. Smith’s Little Nell, 80 minntes;
second, Mr. Wright’s Native Companion, 88 minutes.
The points gained in these series are: First, Mr. Wright,
20 points; second, Mr. Smith, 16 points; third,.Mr.
Clive, 6 points.
Wanganui (N.Z.) races. First day. Hurdles :
Clarence. Derby : Odd Trick, by Day Dawn—Fortune.
Sapling Stakes: Gem, by Painter—Sides. Wanganui
Stakes: The Dauphin. Town Plate: Sir Modred.
Flying Handicap, Hippo—Slander filly ; Sqmnus was
third. Second day. Hurdles: Agent. Maiden, Odd
Trick. Railway Plate: Hippo—Slander filly; Sir
Modred second. Consolation: Venture.
The Secretary of the A.J.C. notifies that any
person admitted on ticket to the Grand Stand and
Saddling Paddocks at Randwick, may be "turned
out ’’ should he bo proved to be " a defaulter in stakes
or beta, or been guilty of any malpractice or dishonor-
able conduct in connection with racing.” Mr. Glib-
horn’s notice reads like the placard of a railway
station—“ Any person found smoking will be prose-
outed.”
W. G. George, the best amateur runner in
England from 830 yards up to three or four miles, says
he intends to do genuine training next season, and
expects to run the half-mile in Im. 575., 1000 yards in
2m. 16a, and the mile in 4m. 19s. Should the perform-
ance last-mentioned prove to be within the range of his
powers, ha will most likely be left in undisturbed pos-
session of the amateur record at the distance for..a
ong time to come.
Queer. In two events of the recent Dunedin
(N.Z.) meeting, particularly in the ease of Billingsgate
in the Consolation, the horse named continued on the
hoard to the very last moment; in fact, the start was
delayed, waiting for him to oome to the post. In the
meantime the animal was being well backed by the
public in the totalisators; but he was scratched after
all. The same thing is constantly occurring at N.Z.
race meetings.
Now that the N.S.W. Association Cricket
Ground is becoming of world-wide repute, surely it
would pay the Association to secure the services of
somebody as secretary, who would devote the whole of
his time to the business. As matters now stand, the
paid secretary often refers the inquirer to the hon. see.,
who, in his turn, refers back again to the other, and so
on, until a good-natured committeeman can be found
to put matters straight.
A New York contemporary contains the
following —'* Not content with exporting her {pheno-
menal trotters, her big trees, and her mammoth fruits,
California now sends us a remarkable athlete. He is
21 years old, sft 9in high, and weighs 851 b. (!) Ha can
run 100 yards in Qiseo, 220 yards in 19isac, 4io yards in
47seo, half a mile in Xmin 50sec, a mile in 4mia 9seo, and
his favourite distance, seven miles and a half, in time
which we are pledged not to publish.’’
The three-handed game of the series of Inter-
colonial handball matches was won by Victoria—Han-
nan, Macnamara, and Egan represented Victoria;
Keenan, Walsh, and Heagheney, New South Wales.
The games resulted as follows; First game, Victorians,
21; New South Wales, 0; second game, Victorians, 21;
Naw South Wales, 4; third, Victorians, 21; New South
Wales, 4; fourth, Viotorians, 14; New South Wales,
21; fifth, Victorians, 21; New South Wales, 12; sixth,
Victorians, 21; New South Wales, 6.
Walter MTndoe, the Victorian champion
swimmer, is 23 years of age. 5 ft. 7i in. in height, 10 at.
2 lb. in weight when in condition, and of neat build. As
a youth he won all the principal boys’ races in the
Geelong district. He won the 600 yards swim race at
Geelong in 1877. In 1879, he wont to Adelaide, and
defeated three aspirants for the championship. At St.
Kilda, in April, he defeated F. Kity, 100 yards, and
won the 1000 yards handicap. In Ernest Cavill he will,
perhaps, find a foe worthy of his steel.
The following ia from the Tubf, Field, and
Farm The Vesper Boat Club, of Philadelphia, have
erected a £2OOO boat-house on the SohuyUill River At
the annual meeting the club passed resolutions inviting
all bioyclists to join the club and make use of the
park in future. The members will also form themselves
into humane crews for the saving of lives during the
skating and boating seasons. In fact, the idea is to
make the Vesper Boat Club one of the largest, most
practical, and influential athletic organisations in the
world.
At Warrnambool, recently, that well-known
steeplechase rider, Tommy Corrigan, bought a half-
sister to Lady Kipon for 200 guineas from Mr. Francis
Tozer. She is described as a beauty, and won the local
handicap. She is by Slanderer out of Triumph (an
Angler mare), and is therefore well-bred enough for
anything. She will be sent over hurdles, and is one of
the best-boned animals seen for a long while. Corrigan
has also bought a colt from Mr. S. Gardiner for /00
guineas. He is by Tubal Cain—Coquette, aud is half,
brother to Progress.
The greatest “boil-over” that ever happened
in N.Z , took place at Hawke’s Bay Jockey Club races.
A horse named Louie, by Anteros —Tres-Dcuoe, winning
the big Handicap easily. Time for IJ-aiile, 3 mm.
9 sec., fastest ever done in Maoriland. Louie, who had
previously won the Maiden Plate, was not mentioned
in the betting, the bookmakers just before the race
offering £lOO to an orange that Louie would not win.
Lady Emma ran fifth. There was £574 in the iotalisa-
tor, and only two on the winner, consequently those
two made a “ pot.”
The match for the Thompson Junior Cup
between the Our Boys and Oriental clubs, was com-
menced on Saturday, on Moore Park. The game
stands: —Our Boys, first innings, 85; Oriental, first
innings, 97. Onr Boys, second innings, 4 wickets 55.
The match is so close that we expect to see a groat
crowd of spectators on Saturday afternoon at the finish.
The cricket shown was quite equal to that in our
Senior Cup matches, and the stand made by Thomsom
and Mackay, for the Orientals, showed that either, as a
batsman, is worthy of selection in any team. The play
on both sides was first-class, though mistakes were
made suoh as would not have occurred with older
players. We advise tho young captains to change their
bowling a deal mors. Short-pitched balls ore apt to get
a batsman well set, and we noticed on Saturday that a
bowler delivered several overs of that description before
he was taken off. Placing the field properly is another
desideratum. The match this (Saturday) afternoon
will certainly be exciting, but we think that tho Our
Boys will bo iu front at the finish.
A one-hour match in which H. Thatcher was to
walk fair hoel-and-toe aud allow one mile start to G.
Hood, the latter to make tho best of his way, carrying
a two-gallon stone bottle on his head, neck downwards,
and not to touch it more than three times, nor to drop
it twice, was decided January 9, at the Lambeth Baths
Gymnasium, London, England. At half time Hood
appeared to have the trump-card in hand, bat he be-
came somewhat giddy after his fourth mile, and had to
do a lot of walking, at which game he was not in the
hunt, Thatcher throughout walked fairly, and wall
deserved his victory. He walked 7 miles 340 yards in
the hour, on a twenty-four-lap track.
Great Northern (S.A.) Races. March 29 and
30. First Day—Flying Hadicap : Totalisator, 1. Handi-
cap Hurdles : Tancred, 1. Great Northern Handicap :
Totalisator, 1, Mesalliance, 2, Storm Queen. 3. Won
by two lengths. Great race for second place. Time—
-3 min. 20 sec. Sapling Stakes : Ho ne Rule, 1, Shorts:
Toonketohen, 1, Hack Race : Queen, 1: Second Day-
Maiden Plate: Standard Bearer, 1. Corinthian Cup:
Roebuck, 1. Handicap Steeplechase: Tauored won in
a canter. Roebuck broke hie back, and his rider, Pil-
gate, was much out about the face. Areas’ Handicap :
Totalisator, 1. Amateur Handicap Hurdles: Tancred,
1. Forced Handicap : Souvenir,;!.
A grand flying fox battuo took place near Parra-
matta on the 24th March, The sportsmen gathered at
early morning at the Cornstalk Hotel, and went to
Smithfleld, five miles, arriving at the scone of slaughter
by 8 o’clock. There, suspended from every available
branch of every available tree, over two or three acres
of ground, thousands of the fruit-destroying pests
hung. Carnage was kept up three honrs, then
luncheon; slaughter again; ammunition ran out,
but more was sent for; the foxes migrated half-a-mile,
but the shootists followed, the air was thick with the
flight of the varmints for two hours ; killing went on
till dark, aud at 8 ail the sportsmen returned to
Parramatta.
The Victorian Railway Department adopts
most oppressive “ commercial principles ” when charg-
ing for the race specials arranged for by J. Thompson.
The King of the Ring has to guarantee a certain
amount—if that is exceeded, tho department “collar ”
the surplus; it a loss is made, Mr. Thompson is called
upon to part. Though the Railway Department has
made many thousands out of specials so engaged, it
religiously exacted £5 on an occasion when the takings
were that sum less than guaranteed ! Would a private
firm have bean moan enough to take tho money ? J. T.
might have pleaded a ” set off ’’ with great reason. By
the way, where is tho enterprising speculator who will,
in a similar way, improve our tramway traffic on raoe-
mootings V
Two races, under tho auspices of tho Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club, took place on Saturday after-
noon. The first was for 16-feet boats, and the starters
were Ouida, Mr. Carmichael; Nereid, Mr. T. W. Ray-
mond; Aurea, Me. S. Brackensey; Regina, Mr. S. Wilson.
The Regina won*in sh. 16m. 155., the Ouida being second,
about four minutes astern, Nereid third, and Aurea
fourth. The second race was for 18 and 19-feet boats,
aud the starters wore: Bacchante, Mr. Mann; Lucia,
Mr. Soutar; and Pandora, Dr. J. P. Elliott. The race
was finis bed at sh. 34m. 205., the Pandora being first,
Lucia second, and Bacchante third At the finish, close
under Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, a foul took place between
the Lucia and Pandora, resulting in a protest being
lodged by the owner of Lucia against tho latter boat.
The first race in connection with the Parramatta
Rowing Club took place on March 25, between two four-
oar crews;—D Murray, F. Murray, W. Golledge and J,
Robinson (stroke), and E. Murray, J, Sparks, J. Pol-
lock, aud C. Gaud (stroke), the course being from Bed
Bank to Sheather’s. Gaud’s crew took the lead, but on
their opponents’ approaching, they put on a spurt one
result of which was that Pollock broke his oar. Robin-
son’s crew pulled home, winning easily. “It was
rather singular,” says a correspondent, ‘ that the
eight oarsmen should have all been members of the
•Young Men’s Literary and Theological Institute of
Parramatta.’ It wouldn’t do to let commonplace
young men in to form a third crew—the Institute would
have no show.
Hawkesbury Race Club, Autumn Meeting,
March 30, April 1. First day—Hurdle Race : Satellite
1; Rowley Mile: Brian O'Lynn 1; good start, but all
the riders, with the exception of Williams, wore
fined by the starter for disobeying orders. The race
was very fast, 1 min. 42 8-10 seconds. Claret Stakes ;
Piracy 1; Navigator and Solitude were scratched, but
their stable companion, Sylvanus, went for the pool,
and was never in it. Public Auction Stakes: Baltha-
zar 1; Sold for £135. Railway Handicap: Hawthorn-
den 1. Second day—Shorts Handicap; Piracy 1
Maiden Plate ; Vancluse 1. Hawkesbury Autumn Han-
dicap, 1J mile: The Drummer 1; Sweet William 2;
Hauthorndon 3 ; time 2 min. 28 810 sacs.; won by half
a length. Selling Plate: Gamecock 1. Sportsman's
Handicap: Cntmimulla 1.
This is how Hanlan’s boat got smashed. He
was located with his trainer at Putney, and on January
27, the Canadian started from the shore before noon
with the best of intentions, but an accident brought
his pull to an abrupt termination. Ho embarked at a
period of ebb tide that is dangerous to a sculler un-
acquainted with tho peculiarities of the Surry shore
between the Thames Boat-house and the Soap Works
outfall, and took the usual track of those bound
Hammersmithwards, but failed to pull his right-hand
scull in time to avoid a hill that had a water covering of
not more than a couple of inches. The consequence was
that the centre port of the Jewitt boat became a wreck.
The Champion toppled over into deep water, but ho
was quickly on his legs and ashore with his craft.
Hanlan did a bit of go-as-you-please business along
the bank to his dressing-room, and after a good rub
down felt none the worse for his ducking. After dress-
ing he indulged in a brisk walk, and returned to his
hotel “ fit to eat everyone in tho house,” as he put it.
During the iaterval between morning and afternoon
boating work another boat was rigged up for his use,
and at a quarter to four Hanlan too a ship again before
a large and admiring crowd.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Edward Barlow and W. Aokroyd lately ran 110
yards’ race at Penrith, Barlow winning by six inches.
Another match is arranged Hanlan is known in Eng-
land as “the little Kanuck,” and Trickett, the “big
Cornstalk." Mr, Rathbono, of the Auckland Ob-
server, settled his libel action with Mr. Weston by
paying £75 and costs W. J. Burk, of Dunedin, and
Fagan, of Christchurch, run a mile for £5O a-side and
the championship of New Zealand, at Dunedin, about
20th May At latest, Jem Mace and his agent had
put up at the Royal Mail, Auckland. By the way,
Jem, who was a boniface in Melbourne, “ kept a pub ”
in Norwich, Eng., some years ago.... The yacht Asteroid
and her swell craw are at Auckland. Fiji and Samoa
will be the next ports of call, the yacht thou going Home
by Torres Straits and tha Cape of Good Hope On
Saturday, at Adelaide, the North Adelaide Club defeated
the Norwoods by 124 runs Tho success of tho pro-
lific and versatile Panic family would appear to be
almost universal. At Poverty Bay, N Z , Lone Hand,
by Panic—Bertha, an old Victorian steeplechase iden-
tity, astonished the Maoris by winning two flat races—
the Tauranea Handicap, of 100 sovs., and the Ladies’
Purse, of 43 sovs Tbe third of tho handball matches
was played on Saturday between Keenan and Hoaglevey,
of Sydney, and Eagan and M’Namara, of Melbourne;
resulting in favour of the Sydney men, after a well
coni ested game The Nimrod Fishing Club, at New-
castle, caught 180 schapper on March 30 At Mel-
bourne, last week, Santa Claus was purchased by Mr.
A. Selman for 900 guineas A match for £lOO a side
between the horses Ned Kelly and Wait Awhile, came
off at Yorke’s Town (S.A.), on March 30, the conditions
being weight for age, distance 24 miles. Nad won
easily; time, smin. 2secs A match between the
“ Patience ” Opera Troupe and Otago Daily Times and
Witness employes came off on tho Oval on the 9th
March, and resulted in a victory for the former eleven
by 51 runs on the first innings. J. F. Forde played well
for his 38. W. Ford also showed good form, and con-
tributed 15, The only other player who reached double
figures was the captain, H. Vernon, who, after keeping
up his wicket for a long time, was unfortunately run
out. Several of the “ Patience ’’ players fielded remark,
ably well, aud Ford’s wicket-koepiug was first-class.
We saw him behind the stick? on the Association
Ground here; he is the best wicket-keeper, outside
regular cricketing talent, that we have ever seen A
billiard match, 300 up, for £5 a side, between H. Beecher
and W. Hunger, came off at Narandera on March 23.
The game lasted 1 hour 20 min., Beecher winning by 17
points. The largest break of the evening was 35 by
Hunger... The racehorses. Trout, Greyhound, Valentine,
and Blue Ribbon are to be taken to the Mauritius to
try their fortunes The Victoria Amateur Turf Club
realized £328 by their recent meeting In a match,
played lately at Hobart, between the Wellington and
Break-of-Day Clubs, V. Harris, of the Wellington, went
in first, and carried out his bat for 108. The Wellington
team scored 277 22 nominations lor Timaru (N.Z.)
Cup, and 27 for the S.C.J.C. Handicap Six of the
defendants in the Dunedin (N.Z ) sweep cases were
fined 40s, and costs by the City Bench, The Mayor and
Mr, Fish were among the number. Mr. Thos, Bracken
was not proceeded against, as the police saw no money
pass to him. In all, about 20 persons were fined for
sweeps. There were fifty informations laid Consider-
able interest was taken in Auckland (N.Z.) over the
Australian Cup and Newmarket Handicap, .Ti mmy Forle
having laid a lot of 1000’s to 1 about the handicap,
coupled with the Sydney Gild Cup Mr Ponfol.l is
elected Secretary of the Christchurch NZ ) Jo'd.ey
Club Miss Phillip?, champion walker," uesiros ,to
meet other “ champion lady walkers," in England or
America, for a six days’ Go-as-you-please, for £BO a side.
The Auckland Free Lakce gives a portrait of Jem
Mace, and affirms he is the last and brightest of all the
stars that ever shone In the firmament of—the P.E
A jockey club has been formed at Pioton. The balance
of £47 from last Pictoa races was handed over to the
treasurer At Wagga, a coursing- match between Mr.
Thos. Hart’s black slut. Watch, and Mr. C. Brideson’s
black dog. Darkle, for £lO a side, resulted in a verdict
for Darkioby four points to three At Cobborah, last
Saturday, Gulgong beat Cobborah in one innings. The
return match takes place at Gulgong on Easter Monday.
Larry, by Dead Shot, won the principal event at the
Waverley (N.Z ) races on 17th Maroh The owner of
Verdict was fined £5 for coming late to the scales at
the Hawkosbury races on Saturday Vermont Junior
won the Victoria Stallion’s Trotting prize on Saturday,
bat was disqualified for fouling Startle, and for break-
ing, A Welsh pony died lately near Glen Innes at
the advanced age of 38 years In the second heat for
Woods’s trophy, rowed at Newcastle on Saturday
afternoon, Graham's crew won again, beating Lang-
will’s crow easily It is rumoured that Mr. I). S
Wallace intends to dispose of his entire stud of race-
horses A rifle match took place on Saturday
between the Volunteer Artillery Rifle Club and the
No. 2 Company, Ist Eegiment, resulting in a victory for
the latter by 114 points, the scores being No. 2 Com-
pany, 444 ; Volunteer Artillery Rifle Club, 330. Private
Menzies made five successive bnllseyes at 600 yards
Longlands, with 9»t. 121 b, up, won the Groymouth
(N.Z.) Jockey Club Handicap, against a lot of moder-
ates Sir Modred is top weight, 9st 31b., for the
Christchurch (N.Z.) Groat Autumn Handicap, 1’ miles,
run on Easter Monday. Lady Emma baa 8?t. 10ib., and
Somnus 7st. 71b. Tho Poet, with Cat. 81b., is thought
exceedingly well in. The handicap has produced some
severe criticism in Christchurch. A writer in tho
Times dissects it in the most merciless manner, and
calls it one of tho most extraordinary proceedings over
seen in this or any other country, and hopes tho club
will, in future, try and give sensible handicaps A
gun club is being formed at Charters Towers Seven
cricket clubs in Wagga Wagga A 100-yards race for
£lO, between T. Lord and E Burling, took place on tho
Parramatta Racecourse on Maroh 29, Lord winning
easily by about five yards The Charters Towers J.C.
have fired the dates for tho annual meeting for 27th
and 28th July, £685 added money to be given A
billiard match, SCO up, for £lO, came off lust week at
the Royal Hotel, Caro oar, between a local player and
F. B. Fanner, tho former winning by 62 points
At the Kaiapoi (N.Z ) Regatta, owing to a most deliber-
ate foul on the part of tho Lytteltoa crew (W. and C.
Fitzsimmons, T. Harkins, and G. Grave), in the Senior-
four event, they were disqualified from taking partii
any other event. The Secretary was requested to notify
particulars to all regatta committees in N.Z
Mechanic v. Australian Surry Club, Moore Park, on
Saturday, M.C.C. 49; A.S C.C.,43; Reid, for tho M.C.C.
took 6 wickets for 9 runs, and Blackburn for tho
A.S.C.C., 4 wickets for 17 runs At Townsville, (Q).
Athletic Sports on St. Patrick’s Day, T. Graham, 12
yards, won the AU-oomera’ Handicap; H. Hanran, 180
yards, the walking match; T. Enright, the Members'
Handicap; A. Macdonald won tho Vaultiug-with-a-pole
event, clearing 7ft. 6in. After this event a “ drunken"
man backed himself to clear the same height, and
"had” a bystander for a couple of pounds, as ho
cleared it easily... At the Charters Towers (Q) Sports
on St. Patrick’s Day, tho Members’ Race was won
by P. McQlyn; the St. Patrick’s Gift, 150 and 200
yards, by E. Hilyard, 5 and 7 yards; the Hurdle
Race. 150 yards, by E Hilyard, 6 yards; the Three
Standing Jumps by J. Eagan, 31tt. Bin., who also
won the Hop, Step, and a Jump, clearing 37ft. 16in.
# * m
Most of the Irish hunting packs have been
broken up; the tenants object to any hunting in which
landlords don’t play tho part of the bunteo The
faraons English yacht Madge is to race next season
with a new American yaoht named the Jewell....Hanlan
contributed one hundred dollars to the fund in aid of
the family of the late English rowing trainer, George
Drewett Elliott, the English sculler, is a very dim-
cult man to train, as he makes flesh so fast that it is
only by the hardest of hard work ho can be reduced and
kept to racing weight An American gentleman ac-
cepts, on behalf of nn unknown, Raby’s challenge to
walk anyone in tho world one to eight miles The
unknown will walk him a mile level for £3OO a side
The following are the conditions of the big stokes shot
at Monte Carlo, won by Count de St. Quentin Grand
Prix du Casino, an object of art, and 20,000 fr., added to
200 fr. entrance fee; the second to receive 4000 fr. of tho
prize and 25 per cent, of the entries; the third 2000 fr.
and 25 per cent.; the fourth IOOOfr. and 15 per cent.;
to be shot at 12 pigeons, five at 26 metres, and seven at
27 metres; the winner of the event to stand back one
metre; four pigeons missed to put a competitor out.”
Poachers are unknown on the Prince of Wales’s
Sandringham estate. One arrested for poaching else-
where, said, 11 If a hungry man wanted a rabbit there,
he had only to ask for it, and the keepers had orders to
give him one.” Hence, H.R.H. is much respected by
this particular class. It is very gratifying to hear of
such amicable relations subsisting between Princes and
poachers One of the most famous English amateur
runners is to marry the wealthy daughter of a Lord.
It seems he has run into something good A Loudon
publican had " a best friend” among his many visitors.
He came every evening, spent eighteanpence, and gave
the publican racing tips, which came oil—sometimes.
One day the publican lost £3OO, and his best friend at
tho same time This is sad. Moral, have no . best
friends An English cavalry officer backed himself
for 100 guineas to ride 15 miles within an hour and a
half with his face to his horses tail. No one was to
touch or guide his horse, but ho was allowed tho
services of a friend to steer him. He passed on tho
road 20 vehicles and a flock of sheep, but sailed in an
easy winner with 9m. to spare,
The ancient nostradamua has said that when
Good Friday falls on St, George’s Day, Easter on St.
Mark’s Day, and the Corpus Domini on St. John’s Day,
the worl I is going hung, and tho universe will scatter.
This will occur iu 1886, so Proctor ia out of the running
with his 1879 comet.
A few days ago the S. M. Herald announced
" the Pride of England has been chartered to take
Rockhampton shale to England." The fact is this vessel
is loading shale in Sydney for Rotterdam ! Possibly the
Herald didn’t want to print so naughty a name as tho
last. But it might have resorted to the usual dodge,
thus : Rotter .
Thosel who have made a note of the properties'
of aconite as a poison, in the Wimbledon (Lamsou)
case, to work up in some future story, will be dis-
appointed to learn that the subject was effectively
handled some months ago, in Mr. Aldred’a “ Lost
Cause: a Story of the Polish Revolt of 1863, ’’ a powerful
romance of Russian intrigue, published by W. H. Allen
and Co., which had a very successful run at the libraries.
Indigestion results from a fermentive process
which commences directly tho food is swallowed Th-
hest antiseptic to stop this is, a drachm of glycerine in
half a wineglass of water after each meal. It is qui o
harmless. But a permanent cure can only be enjoyed
by removirg the causes, the chief of which is impbop -
food hastily swallowed and washed down To sip liquid
while food is in the mouth, or to wash it down with i
gulp of liquid, is to Invite indigestion. Avoid those tv
things, choose your food, take exercise, and live happ’..


CITY CATERING
315 GEORGE BTI
A NEW CATERING
Comprised of professional workm
tical experience, nearly all from th
of Compagnoni and Co., who pei
and carry on the working of the
general manager.
It is not a public company, and t
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B,—Since opening, on 27th
snccessfelly catered THE L ARGI
CULT, and MOST EESPONSIBI
have taken plice here to the presei
The Consular Dinner, in our new I
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic,
, and Banquets, and all Entertain!
1 His Worship the Major’s Ball,
Building, at which his Worship,
taiucd their R.fl.’s PRINCE ALI
J Earl Clanwiiliam, and the Offlc
I Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitute
| tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. C'onatitut
Sydney.
Visitof their R.H.’s PRINCE ALI
to Lithgow Valley Mines and i
Basse, for 60, in Government Pali
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen’s Statue Demonstration —u
NOTICE, only receiving the ordt
ready on th« spot at 12.30 p.m. tl
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRIN
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s La;
Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon a
100. under VERY SHORT NOTI
at 9 30 p.m., to be ready on the sj
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress reeeption, Ton
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s B
Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge W
Banquet Room.
The Barristers’ Dinner to Judge
Banquet Boom,
i Dinner d la Basse at St. Paul’s Colle
of the Church of England Synod,
SOCIAL.
Ail officer holding a high position in the head
office of a city bank will shortly marry the daughter of
a wealthy Mudgee resident.
• • •
If gold lace has a charm for the fair, srilt but-
tons and bine cloth are not less effective with the lovely
maidens of Sydney. A naval officer is, in their eyes,
only a little lower than a demigod, and any Barling
Point girl would sooner marry a lieutenant than an
archangel, if the celestial didn't wear buttons. Yetthe
gallant orflcer, as a rule, is not rich. As a midshipman
s gets Is. 6d. a day ; as a sub-lieutenant ss. 61.; and
as full-blown lieutenant, with solid gold fringe and a
telescope, he only receives the same wages as a plas-
terer. 10s. a day.
• « •
Mayor Harris gave one of his liberal civic
luncheons on tne 28th alt., in the Town Hall, and made
a “ spiff " speech on Municipal Conferences. Usual
harangues followed.
* # *
There ia soon to be a largo public ball in the old
Exhibition Building, plain and fancy dress. There is
■apposed to-be an “ Old Englyshe " dash about it, and
no dsubt many of the Fair costumes will be again
used.
• • •
There has just been an Old English Fair at
Adelaide, but it was inferior to the Melbourne •ue, and
incomparable to what ours will be. The anachronisms
were absurd, and the “time" might have been any year
between William I. and William IV. Two thousand
persons attended on the opening day.
• • •
An enterprising young Victorian, who has made
a fortune in the Northern Territory, and is now in this
city, will shortly marry the daughter of a Sydney gen-
tleman, well known in Morpeth.
• • •
We have heard it whispered—but we give it
forth cum grano salis —that a real live marriage is to be
consummated at one of the Fairs. If the real thing
cannot be done, it would add to the attractions of the
Fairs to get up a representation of it, with a wedding
procession through the streets.
* * •
The “ Eiohardson’s Show ” at E.C. Fair will
not be the least of its attractions. A tragedy is to be
played in three minutes and a pantomime in two minutes.
Hurry Emmett bosjoa the •* show” business, and he has
arranged a very picturesque May. pole Dance by the
youngsters. Richardson's Show will be on morning,
afternoon, and night, bnt will not interfere with the big
musical events to take place. On the opening day,
between the speeches, the united choirs will sing some
choice old English madrigal*. Then, daring the week,
Mozart’s Twelfth Mass is to be produced in its entirety,
under the conductorship of Herr Sussmiloh, with the
united choirs (numbering 150 singers) as chorus, a large
orchestra, and ths following artists as principals
Soprano, Mrs. Brewer; contralto, Mrs Banks; tenor,
Mr. James Hinohy; bass, Mr. F. J. Halle well. An old
English madrigal concert is to be given by Hallewell’s
Glee Club, assisted by seme gift ed lady amateurs. In
the oeurse-of the Fair, other flnt-olass concerts will
bs given. There is to be a brilliant pageant on the
opening day, and the “ Queen of England" ia to patro-
nise the different shops.
* • «
On Mr. E. W. Evans, for a long time account-
ant at the Bank of N.S.W., Newcastle, leaving, to take
a branch at Narrabri, he was given a farewell dinner of
a Jovial kind, by his brother bank officers of all grades.
A peculiarity was, that in addition to the ordinary
toasts, " Cricket," “ Football," and “ Rowing," were
all proposed and honoured by the convivial financiers
• • •
The Llthgow Ladies’ Ball last week was a happy
affair —dancing till four o’clock in the School of Arts,
and good supper and decorations. A graceful little lady
in blaok velvet performed the r6le of hostess. A pretty
girl in black silk and silver was much admired, so were
three charming sisters in black, maize, and pink,
respectively. Honours wore divided between a petite
brunette in pink and black caught up with roses, and a
tall handsome girl in white silk, with cardinal trim-
mings over dark green satin.
• * •
A wall-known amateur runner in the Locomo-
tive Engineer’s Office is engaged to the pretty daughter
of a large merchant in Brisbane....r.A well-known Pad-
dington belle is soon to beatify a gentleman connected
with a George-street Assurance Co., and remarkable
for his just-corae-out-of-a-bandbox appearance One
of three charming sisters in Macquarie-street will
shortly be "altared" for better or worser And the
marriage is announced of a wealthy proprietor of a
Journal to the daughter of a respected surveyor.
• • •
Some of the costumes at the Hawkesbnry races
last week were on a very grand scale, all being walking
lengths. A lady of attractive presence was habited in
a black gros grain draped with Spanish lace, embroi-
dered with Jet; a cream plush hat, and gloves to
match. A brown velvet and cashmere, trimmed with
steel passementerie and a very pretty brown plush hat,
gloves to matoh, set off the undeniable cliarms of the
fair wearer. A costume of peacock blue satin and
velvet, with blue satin cap and gold jewellery, was
greatly admired. Another belle was attired in a very
rich black silk richly trimmed with blaca passementerie,
which shone beautifully in the sun, and a very pretty
lace hat i Jewellery gold.
* s *
A wedding was celebrated on Thursday, the 30th
ult, at St. James’s Church, King-street, the uride beiug
the daughter of Mr. Cal an, of Balmain, and the hr .de-
groom, Mr. Charles Huenerbein, the wel,-known pianist
and composer. The bride's tail and graceful figure
ishowed to advantage a magnificent cream satin dr-iss,
trimmed with beautiful lace, with a very long sweeping.
The bodice, sleeves, and neck were richly trimmed wuh
lace and orange blossom. A very long wreath and
veil were also shown, and the bride carried a very
beautiful bouquet. Her jewellery w.s gold. There
were six bridesmaids, two in pale blue and two in pink
satin, wearing wreaths to matoh ; another was in pink
and coraline, and the sixth in a very pretty pale pink
satin, trimmed with same shade of silk Two very tiny
children, dressed in white, with caps of the same, also
attended in the suite of the bride. Some of the visitors’’
drovses were very fine, eevrnl consisting of these new
rich colours now coming into vogue. The oertmony
was conducted by the Rev. Mr. Hogue, and the wedding
march was played by the organist, Mr. Hector M‘Lean.
Amongst the onlookers we noticed a great many ef the
profession to which the bridegroom belcnts. Let us
hope it will prove a bright day in Charles' Callsn-der.
• • •
A very grand and fashionable wedding is to take
plaee at North Shore on or about the 19bh April, the
young lady being the daughter of one of oar most
eminent citizens.
• • o
The Harris-street Baptist Chnrch annual bazaar
took plack last week ; the attendance was large and
fashionable. Some very beantifol hand-made lace was
worthy of notice, also a very beautiful harp, made of
white wax and frosted over.
• • •
A very stylish wedding, where wealth flowed as
water, and the happy couple were as envied as the
habitants of Paradise, recently occured in the Jewish
Synagogue, Melbourne. The bridegroom was Mr.
Magnus Susman, of Tasmania, and the bride Miss Sara,
daughter of that eminent “financier," Mr. Aaron
Waxmau, Melbourne. Long before 3 the building was
packed, and the service was performed by the Rev Mr.
Blaubaum, in English and Hebrew. Miss Waxman s
dress was of pearl white satin, contrasting strongly
with her dark graceful beauty. A long train was wont;
white lilies of the valley trimmed the front and sides of
the skirt. The front of the body was made jacket-
fashion, with pearl hanging buttons; high collar of
Spanish lace ; sleeves puffed at the shoulders and plain
at the wrists, buttoned with the same pearl buttons;
tulle veil and orange wreath, and a fan of white mara-
bout feathers, with looking-glass in the centre. Ten
bridesmaids, three of them mere tiny children, one in
a mite of a cream satin dress, all gathered, and white
plush hat and feather; the two others in cream
cashmere elaborately puffed and gathered, white plush
hats with pale blue feathers and stockings. The other
dresses were composed principally of creamy tints,
though some bodices had warmer colours; and all the
maids wore similar hats, plush turned up at one side.
There wore ten groomsmen, including two tiuy boys.
Mrs. Waxmau wore prune satin, and bonnet of prune
and white plush. Mrs. Susman wore black silk with
real white lace and Marie Stuart hat of black velvet
and lace with pearls. There was a splendid show of
other dresses, including one a mixture of dark green
velvet and pale pink satin, a dark prune satin trimmed
with beads, black satin worked with coloured silk
flowers, peacock green satin and dark crimson, a claret
velvet body over pale lavender satin, a trained satin
skirt of peacock blue and satin moire body of same shade,
richly beaded, and others. There was a sumptuous
dejeuner, a full band playing the while, and a ball in the
evening, after the departure of the twain to Ballarat.
The presents were numerous in number, and marvellous
for wealth, and to mention them would fill a column.
• • •
The Qoulburn Agricultural Show attracted
many visitors last week, among them being a number
of Sydney ladies. The weather being flue gave great
scope for the display of the magnificent dresses. These
were nearly all walking length. There was one rich
black silk trimmed with lace and jet, bodice sleeves and
neck to match, which drew many glances to the fair
wearer, who wore also a very pretty hat, made of same
material, and ornaments of gold. Another lady was
habited in a peacock green. Princess robe style, richly
trimmed with this passementerie, with hat to match,
gold jewellery, and light gloves. The materials most
generally employed were these new rich dark colors
that will be worn these coming seasons.
• • •
The carious circumstance of a ball being given
by a clergyman, lately took plack in London. The
Rev. Mr. Haweis entertained a large party of children
at a “Chaucer Ball," where all were dresaed in the
style of the antique poet's time. The costumes were
taken from the “ Canterbury Pilgrims," and included
Knight Arcite, fair Emelye, Grisefda, Princess Canace,
and others. The tapestries, supper, and all were
medics val.
• • •
There ia to be an Oddfellows’ Ball in the old
Exhibition Building on Easter Monday night; first
pnblio ball of the season.
• • «
Nautch girls, and in full costume! Our ex-
perience of Nautch girls ia limited, especially in con-
nection with ohuroh fairs, but we always had a vague
idea that when Nautch girls were in full costume, they
hadn't very much on. It must have been a mistake.
In this case, it is evident the young persona will be
appropriately attired, and, relying on this, we intend
to take a front seat when the musio starts.
• ft •
At the Jewish Synagogue, on the 22nd March.
Mias Julia, daughter of the late Mr. M. Nelson, of
Alberto Terrace, was married to Mr. L. 8. Benjamin,
of Maida Hill, London. A throng was present to see
the ceremony, after the performance of which the
bridal party went to Alberto Terrace for the festivities.
The German Band was present Honeymoon to Mel-
bourne. The bride was attired in a rich robe of ivory
satin and lace, with veil and wreath. Pour brides-
maids appeared, i n ruby velvet with scarves of pale
pink silk, prettily draped across, ruby velvet bodices,
and toques of silk and velvet to matoh. There were
four groomsmen. Some of the guests' dresses were
very handsome.
« • •
The rank of Prince will make up for many
shortcomings in a husband. Bat it won't compensate
for everything. The cable tells us that the marriage
of Prince Leopold and HfflenS of Waldeck, is post-
poned on account of the royal bridegroom’s health.
Prince Leopold has frequently “ something the
matter" with him, and as this announcement is made
weeks before the date of the ceremony, it is evidently
more than a headache. Abrasions are most unforta-
nate, but frequent accidents to His Royal Highness.
Somehow, princely skin stems more difficult to heal
than peasant's. Newspapers vaguely hint at “an in.
jnred sinew," or “ a sprained knee," and so on, but
strangely enough, all describe •• the something ” by a
different name. Now the Marriage Service has a
clause about “ just cause or impediment," and it the
idea of many people has any verity, there is just cause
why Leopold’s marriage should be more than post-
poned, Unless, indeed, prayer books don’t apply te
Princes.
• • I
Payre Items.—There are to be about 50 stalls
at St. Mary's. There will be some splendid music
given in the olden style, and the little morris dancers
are in good training. Madrigals, glees and catches will
be sung by some 200 voices. Mr. Emmett will read the
opening ode, and then the Payre will be declared open.
Every shop will have a sign board, “ Ye”—something or
other (our spelling gets weak if we venture too far).
The Mayoress of Woollahra will preside over the
Woollhara stall, in the character of Amy Robsart; the
dress, a strikingly handsome one of ruby velvet and
cream satin, studded with pearls and precious stones,
cap and jewels en suite. At the Garden Palace, a dark
gentleman is also to wear a splendid dress, as a court
page of Queen Elizabeth’s reigu. Mrs. Ward, of Double
Bay, will be Postmistress. The stall of Mrs. Moriarty
will be waited on by young ladies dressed as the famous
Red and White Roses of history. There are to be
archery contests, and Nautch girls, (whether from
North Shore or Calcutta is udt announced), the in-
evitable Richardson show, and a novelty in the shape of
Cliinese burglars—no, smugglers, and many other
attractions. Both Fayres are to be ceremonially opened
at 10 a.m., on Easter Monday; one by His Excellency
Lard Loftus, the other by His Grace, Archbishop
Vaughan.
• ft ft
The triangular controversy between the Wagga
Express, the Advertiser, and the local Archdeacon,
has been vigorously carried on, re rain and prayer. The
Archdeacon has dealt exclusively with the subject in a
letter of three columns of small print, the Express has
issued a pamphlet, and the Advertiser regrets to “find
fault with a fellow journalist, but &c., &c. They are
not likely to convince one another, but they all three
seem to hit oneuail in common, viz.:—whatever fetches
the rain when it does come, it’s a clear case, when it
does not come, of wilful waste fetching woful want.
* • ft
A very well-known character, Old Bill Chandler
gatekeeper on the Sydney and Parramatta Road, at-
tained his golden wedding anniversary on Sunday week
Tho first annual pionic of the employs of the
Pidsral Australian (Melbourne) was held on the 25th
March, At Doncaster. The crowd wont lo Connol y a
Doncaiter Hotel in waggonettes, had luncheon, aud
then went in for sports of all kinds. A sumptuous din-
ner was provided, Mr. David Blair, chairman, giving an
address on journals and journalism, and the health of
the Proprietors of the Pbderal Australian ’’ was
toasted. The proposer, Mr. Precker, claimed that the
paper was the best printed and best arranged one in
Austraha. Songs, dancing. &c„ till evening, then home
to Melbourne The popular master of a favourite inter-
colonial steamer, laet week, married an attractive Hebe
Only one medical man in Burke, and when he had to
attend a law case at Dubbo, Bourke was without doctor’s
aid of any kind for a woik Very large fans are still
in vogue in Sydney, At the Royal last week, a charm
ing young Hebrew lady, about whom still clings the
halo of a romantic union, agitated the atmosphere with
a square framed fan larger than the Herald with an
eighteen inch sunflower in the centre Mayor of
at l d Mr «-Ham gave a musical conversazione
1 6UO guests, and the Misses fiosina Carandini Cora
Miller, and Christian sang The marriage of Miss
Moffat, of Hopkin’s Hill, with Mr. Clarke is to come off
soonin Melbourne. Old Bobby Moffat,isoneof the richesj
and most eccentric of squatters At Napier (w 2,1
a cowherd ran away with, and married the daughter
of a wealthy squatter, by whom he was employed.
The young lady is mentally afflicted, and application
iato be made to the court to annul the marriage
on the ground that the bnde wag not capable of
understanding the step she took. The cowherdly cow-
herd got a terrible oowhiding from the girl's father
Another pnvate-pnDlio started at Hobart Mr Ta"
Rudd, in replying to “The Ladies” at’the Grafton
banquet to Dr. Henwiok, spoke of them as “ the dear
httla cherubs.” Of coursTW Eudd ta't aZS
LATE SPORTING.
Hanlan beat Boyd by two lengths,
Alliance v. Marmora clubs. Alliance club, 35 ;
Marmora club, 32.
Eedfern Albion y. Hero of Waterloo clubs.
Albion club, 51—Cornwell (not out) 37. Hero of Water-
loo club, 18.
There was a rumour in town on Tuesday morn-
ins' that Boyd had beaten Hanlan by half-a-length.
“ Another swindle,’' was the exclamation of nine out
of ten of the generous public.
Cleveland y. North Shore United clubs, ai
North Shore, on Saturday. Cleveland club, 68—J
Matterton 14, J. Envers 13, J. Purcell 13. United club,
15. B. Lovelace secured seven wickets for two runs.
Quarterly shooting prizes won by the following
members of the Engineer Corps, SydneySergeanl
Cordingley, 121 points; Sapper B. French, 115 points;
Sapper White. 112 points ; Sapper Harries, 111 points :
and Sapper Qnantock, 110 points.
The Tamworth Hospital committee intend hold-
ing athletic sports on Easter Monday, in aid of the
New Hospital Building Fund. The entries for ths big
events are very satisfaotorj—36 for the Mayor’s Cnp,
and 28 for the Hoapltal Handicap. Lambert with nine
and Parker with fifteen yards are spotted by the know-
ing ones as being let in pretty well.
The principal events of the Tamworth Athletic
Club sports, to come oft on Queen's Birthday, are the
Tamworth Athletic Grand Handicap et 25 sovs., IS
yards, entrance 3«., and the Queen’s Birthday Gift ol
10 sovs., 125 yards, entrance 2a. 6d.—to close on 10th
May. As the distances are well arranged, and the
entrance fee low, a great many entries may be ax.
pectod.
The annual meeting of the Parramatta Football
Club was held on the 28th ult. Fourteen new members
were admitted. The office-bearers are:—Patron, Mr.
S. J. Pears#n; president, Mr. H. Taylor; vice-presi-
dents. Messrs. W. K. F. Burkitt, B. Harper; hon. sec.,
Mr. F. Lovell; hon. treasurer, Mr. G. Coales; com-
mittes: Messrs. G. Griffin, A. Ashley, G. Stettler, W.
Hill, C. Griffin, W. Harvey, G. Coates, F. Lovell, W,
Coates. Delegates to Southern Bugby Football Union:
G. Coates and F. Lovell. The club now numbers
seventy members.
The odds are about 2 to 1 on the Victorian
Eight for the Intercolonial Eight-oar Bace, but when
our boys go to Melbourne, and they see how light a
crew it is compared to that of Victoria, and when they
gaze on the small stroke, the odds will go up to 10 to 1.
Victoria must win, though not so easily as is antici-
pated, but next time on our own waters wo hope to turn
the tide. The obnoxious rule, which allowed the nse of
the sliding-seat to junior and senior oarsmen and
scullers only, has been rescinded, and many promising
colts will thereby have a chance of yet doing valiant
service for their colony.
List of matches arranged for the Australian
Eleven in England;—
May 16, —Oxford University, at Oxford. May 18.—
Sasaez County, at Brighton. May 25—Surrey County,
at Kensington Oral. May 22—Cambridge. University,
at Cambridge.
Jane I—Lancashire County, at Manchester. Junes—
County, at Bradford. Juns B—Nottingham
County, at Nottingham. June 12— Derbyshire, at
Derby. June 15—Oxford University, at Oxford. Jane
19—Yorkshire County, at Sheffield. June 22—Gentle-
men of England, at Oval.
July 6—Leicester County, at Leicester. July 10—
Middlesex County, at Lord’s. July 17—Yorkshire
County, at Broadford. July 20—Yorkshire County, at
Huddersfield.
August B—Gloucester County, at Clifton. August
7—Kent County, at Canterbury. August 10—Players
of England, at Oval. August 14—Derbyshire County,
at Derby. August 21—Sussex County, at Brighton.
August 24—Gloucester County, at Clifton. August
28—All England, at Oval.
September 4—Nottingham County, at Nottingham.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Albury Customs House collection for March,
£1,980 6a. lid : for the quarter, £5,081 oa. Id.
N.S. Wales Parliamentary Police vote for the
current year provides for 1,270 olflaers and clerks at a
cost of £219,680.
Australian revenue receipts for first quarter of
1882: £1,675 281; Victoria, £1,541,773;
S -uth Aus.ralia, £571,525.
Minus the land returns, our revenue last quarter
wo Id be only £992,881. As otherwise flourishingly
stated it is £1,675,284. The game will soon be up,
Mr. Berry, who is to deliver addresses in Sydney
in favour of protection, arrives here on 14th inst, ac-
companied by some of his late colleagues. He returns
to the south on 23rd.
Mr. J. H. Young, M.L.A. for the Manning and
Hastings, was entertained at lunch last week at vVlng-
ham by bis constitmnts, waom he subsequently ad-
dressed, and from be whom obtained a vote of confi-
dence.
The Irish World (N.Y.) alludes to the Duke
Of Leinster as “ Captam-Ctanerai of the Bent-squeezers,
the blasphemous Bent god, , . , this noble burglar,
this converted highwayman, this pick-pocket peer, this
direct peer of a line of insatiable robbers," &0., Arrah
It is significant of the wonderful change which
English opinion and prejudice are undergoing to find
that nineteen-twentieths of the semi-religious debating
societies have voted almost unanimously in favour of
“affirmation." This extraordinary result greatly
strengthens the position taken up by Bradlaugh.
The Daily Telegraph has been singing p®an
on the prosperity of N.S. Wales, while three-fourths
of the colony are parched with severe drought; an<
men who scarcely ever before in their lives recognise<
the existence of the Almighty except to take His nam
in vain, are supplicating God to save them from ruin b r
sending rain. However, a little water has come now.
Within the last half-century more than 2,000,000
men have perished in the wars of Christian countries
which wars have cost at least £3,000,000,000. At the
present time there are 12,000,000 men in Europe trainee
to arms, and existing war armaments have cost at leas ;
£5,000,000,000 extra to these nations, who, between 18-P
and 1879, added |by wars and warlike preparations the
sum of £2,624,000,000 to their national debt.
An English writer says that the great news
papers which devote so much vigorous writing to the
denunciation of ignorant Irish peasants, goaded to
wrong, might do better and nobler work by exposing
the enormous amount of immorality aud dishonour
that reigns among the upper classes in England. Gamb
ling, seduction, adultery, and devilish selfishness are
crimes that work worse evil in England than paying no
rent.
A “ rising” R.C. barrister is carefully nursing
the Argyle constituency in view of next general election.
He’ll go south with “a blessing.” We’ll be there too
with an airy jingle and some posters to collar his blessing.
N B.—(This is a profound secret.): When yon hear
“the abolition of interest" cry raised, say to yourself,
in a low tone, “ Mum I Honld yer whist I It’s the
abolition of the public schools they mane.” We’re the
men on top of the wall; we can see both sides. The
Argyle people can’t say we didn’t tell them in time.
N.S. Wales taxation for last quarter yielded
£402,956; its territorial revenue was £682,403; auction
sales alone bringing in £192,165 Credit balances on
March 31st, 1882, amounted to £5,295,578- less debit
balance on General Loans Account. £2,589,208
£2,705,579. Disbursements from Consolidated Bevsnue
Fund were £1,116,288; from Accumulated Surplus
Revenues, £105,373; to Municipal Council, Sydney,
£562; total £1,322,224. Disbursements from (the Old
Loans Account were £145; from General Loans Account,
£708,756; from Trust Fund, £702,351.
Bradlaugh must be a happy man. They slung
him out when he got into the House of Commons, and
want to flue him several billions for sitting and voting
when he was there. They won’t lot him in again, but
yet his constitntenta are going to prosecute him for not
being there and doing his duty. If he goes in, he’ll be
kicked out again, or else fined more billions for stopping
in and voting : and if he doesn’t go in, his electors will
roast him for staying outside. Wonder whether Charles
still believes there’s no hell t He’s between three pretty
hot fires now I
In Wellington (N.Z.) they have paid .£20,000
as compensation to Civil servants since Parliament
rose. These men pocket their compensation, and then
get higher-paid billets. Auckland paper asks when is
this sort of thing to end ? We reply it will end when
our own pension list is gone through by men who have
the brains and heart to direct public affairs in the
interest of the public, and not in that of the drowsy
dolts who now increase in indolent ease the burden
their imbecile incapacity was so well paid to impose.
Who will draw up a list of eur pensioned nonentities ?
Responding to the toast, “ Our Visitors,” at
the Grafton banquet to Dr. Arthur Benwick, M.P., the
Mayor of Glen Innes said that the doctor had made the
longest speeches ever delivered by any Minister touring
the Northern di striots. He talked at Tenterfield. he
talked at luverell, he talked at Glen Innes, he talked
at Vegetable Creek, and now he had talked at Grafton.
He had talked them dry and nearly dead, and all the
promises he had made for their future welfare could be
put into a nutshell. By the way. Dr, Benwick said he
felt so impressed by the climate and mineralogicol
resources of the tableland, as to be inclined to suggest
that if sufficient subscriptions could be raised to buy
him ten thousand acres of land there, he would retire
from Parliament and use his best endeavours and part
of his influence privately to secure them their railway
to Grafton. Mr. B. Jones satirically remarked that he
would even do more. He would resign his mayoralty,
give up business, everything, and use the united
endeavours of a friend and himself to secure the rail-
way. In return, all he wanted was “ the banks of the
Clarence."
A Dreamer’s Tip.
B.
The numbers all were up, I dreamed,
And Horses’ Coats like silver gleamed
As past the stand they strode and streamed
To take their Anal flutter.
Hot was the sun, the sky was fair.
No breeze, no tiny breath of air
Wafted the gaudy banners, where
They clung quite limp and utter.
The watchful members of the force
Lined on both sides the vacant course:
The strident voice of Joe, the hoarse,
I heard in accents wonted.
The stand was packed, the paddock full.
All seemed excited, no one cool;
And down the straight by every fool
The usual dog was hunted.
On every side arose a shout,
And backers, layers, thin and stout.
Perspiring, twisted in and out
Like turnip-beating setters.
The field now reach the two-mile post.
And stand arrayed, a gallant host,
And silenced soon will be the boast
Of chic sen-counting bettors.
False starts afford a brief delay,
A Jock or two has fines to pay;
Now, marshalled all in close array,
They face the flag and starter.
It’s down, they’re off, with 'whelming rush
Their thundering heels to powder crush
The earth, and blood the temples flush
Of each reluctant “ parter."
They pass the stand, some jocks sit back.
While some thus soon the whalebone crack.
And vainly wale the outpaced hack,
Unfit, out-classed, not wanted.
The “ bookies ” now put by their books.
And some look on with careless looks.
While others on the tenter hooks,
By settling-day are haunted.
They round the turn, they’re in the straight,
On Progress tells the heavy weight;
Sweet-William makes an effort great
To gain the Cup and honour.
As on they come one singles out,
He wins, walks in without a doubt,
And winners, losers, raise a shout
To greet the gallant “ Drummep.’*
Sydney, April 3rd, 1882.


Notwithstanding the keen eoi
la the sewing-maoh ine trade, the “ Si
ledged to be the sewing-machines of
sewing-machines should visit the g
the numerous first-class prizes (
swarded them at the leading compel
—Anv.
It is necessary, during hot v
beverages likely to heat or stim
Cocoa, deprived of the superfluous <
absolutely pure, is a most soothii
refreshing beverage. Be sure th
BURY’S COCOA ESSENCE when
imitations are often pushed by si
gabs of extra profit. Makers by sj
to the Queen.—(Advt.)
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass
Watch Company, of Waltham. Mas
hereby give notice that their tree
Mass., is now registered in the Au
Victoria, New South Wales, and h
ceedings will be taken against anj
imitating same, or any vendors sel
gale Watches hearing colourable ii
wav infrinsing our rights—AMl
COMPANY, Waltham, Mass.—Anv.
T
HBA T E E
Lomoo.
.1
SEVENTH WEEK and LAST '
LOUISE POMEEOY, LOU
LOUISE POMEEOY. LOU
TO-NIGHT. TO-N 1
LOUISE EAST LYNNE
POMEEOY EAST LYNNE
as EAST LYNNE
LADY EAST LYNNE
ISABEL EAST LYNNE
LOUISE POMEEOY in her great (
FAEEWELL. FAREWELL.
FAREWELL. FAEEWELL.
THUESDAT, LAST 1
BENEFIT OF LOUISE I
THE HUNCHBACK. THE
LOUISE POMEROY as
Box office open daily at Elvy and (
where seats can be secured. Tick
the house at Lloyd's, next Theatre,
JAMES al;
A
QRICULTUEAL SO<
of NEW SOUTH W.
The ANNUAL SHOW of the
been POSTPONED till SATUED.
Judging will commence at 10 a.m. si
opening of the Exhibition will take
There will be a parade of horses e
c
HOWDER BAY. CH
ON EASTER MONI
Working Men’s Grand United Es
place of attraction. Two Brass Ban
and National Musicians engaged (oi
Opening of the SELECT PAVILIO:
meat of the lessee, K. FI
ADMISSION SIXPI
A LARGE PROGRAMME JF {
GROUND.
Six Large Steamers from No. 4 J
RETURN TICKETS, Is. 6d. C
QUEEN’S T 1
Pre-eminently the most Popui
for Pleasurable Past
UNPARALLELED SI
of the renowned
HUDSON’S SURPRISE
SATURDAY, APR]
Monster Programme, and DURING
IRISH JUSTIGJ
and a host of other atti
Admission as usual. H. SAI
fjl H E A T E E
GOOD FRIDAY NI
THE MARTYR OF Al
by the
Celebrated English Composer,,
Author of •* Light of the World,” 4
Operas, "Pinafore,” 44 Pal
Admission : Dress Circle 6s„ Bti
Tickets at Principal Music
Box Office, L. MOSS, Hm
QPE E A H
Lessee MR.
Manager MR.
ISIT E. BURGIS’ NE
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 P]
for
CHEAPNESS, PIT, and WC
NEXT SATUEDi
MAEEICKVILLE. MAE
Frontages to the
SYDENHAM-EOAd]
UNWIN'
KING'S-EOAD, and
FEENC
tST Adjoining CEIPPS* I
.. •** A Grand Block of Land, ei
40 CHOICE
VILLA SITES
BUILDING ]
and 1
The property is within 3 minutes
the ILLAWAEKA RAILWAY
EIGHT THEOUQH the land.
BATT, RODD, and PUR
favoured with instrnotiona tc
This exceptionally valuable p:
ON THE GEOUN
on
SATUEDAY, Bth A
at 3 pm,
TITLE FEEEHOLD (UNQUI
TEEMS EEMAEKABLE EAST
DEPOSIT 10 per cent, in three n
INTEREST, and the balance by 3
stalments, WITH 6 PEE CENT. 11
tar THIS IS A EAEE CHANCI
In a few months the Government
the greater portion of this estate tc
way Line, which is surveyed right
then'the FORTUNATE PUECH
obtain large PROFITS on their baj
PLANS NOW EE^
NEXT SATURDj
POSITIVELY WITHOUT
THE ETHELSTONE ]
EANDWICK.
Frontages to
HOWARD STREET,
MEYI
FREDERICK STREET,
ETHEL STREET
TIGEE STREET,
and
pe:
«3T 55 SPLENDID VTT.T,
having average frontages of 40 fe<
feet, commanding Magnificent Vie
the OCEAN, WAVERLY, EA
BOTANY, and within 3 mi
TRAMWAY TEEM]
BATT. RODD, and PURYI
instructions to sell by public
ON THE GEOUh
on
SATURDAY, Bth A
at 3 p.m.,
ABSOLUTELY WITHOUI
•a- The above VALUABLE F
on liberal scale by Mr. L
A. ATCHISON, of Pitt-»1
SALE PLAN and LITHOS.
SOLICITORS for Vendor—Me
WILD, Wenlworth oonrt, Elizabet
w.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WARE]
352 Goorge-streei
• as
mmmzm
PIANOFORTES, PIAN
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST.
MENTS, by
ERABD (Paris and London),
PLETEL,
COLLARD and COLLAI
SODFLETO.
BERDEN and
TROST
THE PAINT POR IRONWORK AN!
CAILET’S TOEBA
(Extraordinary Covering l and Preserving
IN ANY CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDSHE ACTION OF HEAT
BLISTER GRACE, OR FLAKE (
IT IS THE MOST DURABLE PAINT, AND CHEAPEST, I
Stocks always kept on hand, and indents executed by
COWARD & TEH
32 CIAEENCE-STKIiET, STD
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS Fi
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY, DET
FLOUEMILLEES, BOOTMAKERS, TIMBER MERCHA
SQUATTERS, FARMERS, SUGAR QROWE
And all FURNISHINGS and FITTIN(
We have a large stock of the above in our Stores and to arrive, t
and other particulais on receipt of yoni
11. P. GREGORY
ENGINEERS AND MACHINEf
J 7 PITT STREET, SYD
46/ ate 48 4 CEORCE
i THE
V . MARKET CLOTH I
DEPOSIT El HE FRUITMAf
ESTABLISHEDIBC4
A LARGE and WE LL SEL
WOOLLENS, new pat i
15
THE BULLETIN.
April 8. 1882.


ÜBL I C
N (
The IMPORTERS of the TAEPI
MOSUL MIXTURE will prosecul
endeavours to deceive the public b;
UNFAIR IMITATIONS for thei
BRANDS Of PURE TEAS.
The pnhliO are CAUTIONED to
bearing
.. THE TAEPING MIXTURE."
mixture.
Every packet bears the signatni
thus—
Clifford\ Love, &
Those who ate desirous of having
TEA, must bo certain that ever;
SIGNATURE of the IMPORTERS
to take inferior teas, which for the
are offered to the public.
THE TAEPING MIXTURE AI
MIXTURE ABE GUAR
PORE TEAS.
Wholesale Agent—
F. fetJTOH!
WHOLESALE GROCER AN!
YORK STREET, ST
JOHN D
** IMPORTER O
Plumbers' and Engineers’ Brnssi
Gas fittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers* Brine I
Iron, Brass, Copper
and Lead Pipe, i
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
H. L. SUMIKEI
235 Pitt Street, !
THE PEOPLE’S
SPECIALITY TROUSERS TO
H. L. SUMME
SPECIALITY SUITS TO 0
THE PEOPLE’S
GUARANTEES A PERI
H. L. SUMME
HAS ALL GOODS THOROUG
THE PEOPLE’S
Sends Self-measurement font
M ARTIN & Pj
IHFOKM&
READ
OUR B
(^rcSc
FOR THE PLOUGING SEASON OF 1882. »«.<■ to
We ere pleased to be aarising oar customers and tile
Farmers of N.S. W. generally, that our PLOUGH STOCK
for present season is the most complete ever offered.
In addition to all the well-known ENGLISH and AMERI-
CAN Makers we now notify that we are
AGE STS FOR
WILLIAM RITCHIE,
OF PARRAMATTA,
And request all intending purchasers to favour us with
their orders early, as
William Richie’s 1882 Ploughs
CANNOT BE HAD OF ANT OTHER SYDNEY
HOUSE.
FARMERS NOTE THIS VERY CAREFULLY.—
Our Price
AND
All Particu
MARTIN
-Sh ««o Pi
389 Georg
SYDNE
Intending Pur
Cutters offered t
INK BUNGLE.
John Bunela,
his Chaff Cutter:
oast on iy-whe<
'faoture.
THE DEPOT
MARTIN AND PAIN, 389 GEORGE !
Ui c rURIMG
3 8<- 11 HUNTER S 1
SILVER WATC NFS
FROM <£’.4.10.
SYDNEY.
SEND FOR
C AT ALOGUE
riTHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in S]
MOST PLEA)
Wanted to bi
that the best cleansi
TANT and Deodoriser fortl
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DIS]
can he found by w
PANTES AND
which not only contains th«
dients for the greatest clean
ever yet introduced to the
composed in its manufacture
best disinfectants. __
(MADE
known, and admitted in all
throughout the globe. Combi
it is free from all injunom
pie ng smell, will not injur
j a ,9 hands, is the greatest
lauour, rendering any article
with o th purest whitene
marvellous short, space of tun
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE 1
ns it cannot be surpassed 10
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockei
Paint, Floors,
and every Household 1
DIRECTIONS for which u
EACH PACKET, which mi
from all Orecera mid Storeki
out the Oolony, and at the
WORKS. GEORGE
IN’ THE WOP
'Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
M sdioinea at less than English pi
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spon
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’
Bo id for a Price List. Oonntr,
ftly attemlod to. Don t forget
on cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s New I
&
W. KER
MANUFACTURING i
WATCH AND CLOCB
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s <
Medals of every description^Jfast
eentntion Trowels designed a
Premises.
DIAMOND BETI
A sew and Choiee Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, from
KING STREET S
All #*l
STANDARD
READY MADE SUITS
.TO A
Business
PRO ME N A.DE
Travel! iiij
QU ALI TYv acht in G
DufSSufy Jipnicmi
unsurpassed Cricketing
“ Standard 'TSommer Tweed Suits ... .r.JBI 5 O
“ Standard ” ditto ditto, Extra Quality ... ... 112 6
" Standard ” ditto ditto, Superior Quality 2 2 0
" Standard ” Blue Serge Suits 112 6
•• Standard ” Superior ditto 115 0
White Military Drill, and Navy Duck Coats
Silk Coats, White Vests, and every description of Gentlemen’s
Summer Clothing, suitable to the season, extra well cut, and
well made.
FEAFES and SHAW,
PBAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SDN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the DepAt,
68 KIVO STREET, SYDNEY,
