

“THE BULLETIN”
CHRISTMAS NUMBER.
The Special Christmas Number
of The Bulletin will he issued on
Thursday, 20th December.
Guaranteed Circulation- - 40 000.
Agents are requested to send
in their extra orders at once, as
they will be filled in the order
of priority. The Christmas
Number will be a Splendid Pro-
duction, replete with unprece-
dented attractions. Advertise-
ments must be sent in at once,
as the sheets have to go to press
early. Appearing several days
before the holidays, the Christ-
mas Number of The Bulletin
affords a special opportunity for
advertising Christmas Goods.
RATES — ONE-HALF ADDITIONAL TO
ORDINARY SCALE.
Magnificent Coloured Supplement
BY L. HOPKINS.
THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 30.—New Series
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN"
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH ,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1883.
Mixed Motives.
The Trades-representatives of the Victorian
working men have shown an amount of grit
and independence which will be applauded
by all self-respecting members of the labour-
ing brotherhood throughout the world.
They have resisted what they conceived
to be an attempt to make them the
stalking-horse of a miserable ambition.
1 he age ol hypocrisy in which we live has
discredited the open traffic in places and
distinctions which used to be so common in
the days of our grandfathers, and earlier;
and it is no longer possible either fora Sove-
reign to sell baronetcies, as James], did, nor
to lend countenance to favourites who
traded off titles and orders for hard cash, as
was the practice until very lately. The door
to nominal distinction still continues to open
to the golden key, but more dexterity is
required to use that implement. Without
some apparent wealth, it is scarcely possible
for any man to procure anything higher
than a knighthood, even in the shabby order
of Michael and George : an order invented,
with insulting complaisance, expressly for
the better protection of really distinguished
companionships from the irruption of irre-
pressible vulgarians in the colonies—infantile
•creatures, of the greatly-little order, who
hiight be expected to lead these lands into
Qhschief unless they were gratified with
Sew-gaws.
• • •
With respect to that order, the severity of
preliminary requirements has been con-
temptuously relaxed in every respect.
Little concern is apparently felt to ascertain
whether a man is clean in character, or even
—what has hitherto been more especially re-
garded—replete in purse. The only consider-
ations seem to have been that a man had
worked up influence which might be em-
ployed for or against existing connections,
according as he was gratified by favours or
irritated by neglect. At one time an essen-
tial inquiry used to be, has the aspirant
wealth enough to sustain the dignity of the
rank he seeks? Now, that is scarcely re-
garded, and the sole inquiry seems to be,
can any use be made of him, and has he
small vanity sufficient to ensure his capture
with a bit of ribbon or a glitter of paste ?
• •
It sometimes happens, however, that men
who are not endowed with talents that give
them eminence in the political arena or in-
fluence over the minds of considerable num
bers of their fellows, possess abilities of the
sordid kind wnich enable men to accumu-
late great hoards of wealth. Swollen with
this fictitious importance, and inflated by
the mean deference which they receive
from the numerous trucklers to wealth, they
yearn for special distinction, and their souls
know no comfort for lack of the bit of rib-
bon, or the empty style of address, which
will enable them to swagger, in the face of a
world, half-bowing and half-deriding, as
members of a higher order of mankind
than the average of God’s handiwork. To
parody an old saying, we may put the ease
that God sends men and the Devil sends
cooks who turn out such indigestible new-
made bread as Baronets, and Knights, and
C.M.Gr’s. When a mean sort of man fluds
himself rich but obscure, his proud stomach
revolts at the consciousness that in the social
scale, as ordained by Royalty, he is of no
more account than his own groom. In these
colonies, your nouveau riche is frequently of
considerably le.-s social account than his
groom; for a billet connected with horses is
often the resource of a whilorae “ plunger ’»
or a cadet of a “ good family” who has found
his industrial level, or something below it,
poor devil! owing to the fact that he was
bred as if spending, not earning, money
was to be the business of his life. Under
these circumstances, the vain money-grub
casts around for methods by which he can
break out into the gorgeous butterfly con-
dition of guaranteed and stamped aristo-
cracy. Not being, in consequence of his
obscure origin and absorbing long devotion
to the accumulation of money, cognizant of
much concerning the order in which he pants
to be enrolled, it probably escapes his obser-
vation that rank resembles wine and violins—
in that it is despicable when new, and only
esteemed when old.
• •
This is, of course, an anomaly, and a ridicu-
lous one. It is clear that a distinction of
any kind is more to be regarded when held
by the man who won it than when merely
claimed by his descendants. Distinctions
cannot be truly hereditary. The descen-
dants of a great general are not great
generals, any more than the descendants of
a great actor, a great poet, a great inventor,
or a great mathematician are necessarily
talented in the departments in which their
progenitors were gifted. A certain aptitude
for the art or occupation in which the sire
was pre-emineut may indeed be reasonably
expected of the sou, on the ordinary hypo-
thesis which applies to all hereditary trans-
missions of physical anu mental qualities.
But this is not nearly so applicable to man-
kind as it is to the lower animals in a domes-
ticated condition. As regards men, the
negative theory is borne out by experience.
The distinction in this matter of heredity
between the man and the brute is very
readily understood. To perpetuate special
qualities in domestic animals, special atten-
tion is given to mating. The splendid horse,
or bull, or dog, is mated to « female of cor-
responding qualities. But the general is not
wedded to an Amazon, the poet to a poetess,
the inventor to the woman of keenest in-
genuity who can be found for him. Conse-
quently the qualities which are perpetuated
and even intensified and enhanced in the
descendants of a grand animal, are dissi-
pated by chance-breeding in the case of
men and their heirs. It would be inexplicable
how one of the most virtuous and humane of
Roman Emperors, Aurelius, could have
had for son the cruel and bestial Caracalla,
were it not known that Antoninus had for
wife the lewd and infamous Faustina, the
wretch who slunk from the palace to’seek
lovers in the stews, notwithstanding that
she also was daughter to Antoninus Pius
the highest type the world has known of a
benevolent despot.
* * *
Still the fact remains that new rank is less
esteemed than old. The most probable ex-
planation of the anomaly seems to be that
in all ages distinctions have so generally
been bestowed on undeserving objects that
few men so distinguished by the distribu-
tors of temporal honours have escaped the
counter-scorn and contfempt of their con-
temporaries who had cognizance of their
true characters, and knew the secret and
possibly shameful springs which operated
to elevate them to a false eminence. This
supposition is supported by a prodigious
array of facts. The contemptible Lord Bute
received a Garter—a dignity almost royal-
while Nelson, whose gilts as a naval
tactician unquestionably averted the in-
vasion and possible conquest of our
country by Napoleon, was grudgingly
created a Viscount, No inconsiderable con-
tingeut of the British House of Peers derive
their titles from ancestors whose claims
were their infamy. Several Dukes are noble
because their ancestresses were infamous
among women.. It is only since a woman
has occupied the British Throne that to be a
Sovereign’s bastard has ceased to be a sure
claim to a peerage. The Earl of Munster is
a grandson of Her Majesty’s most sacred
predecessor, William IV., by Mrs. Jordan,
the actress. But times have change J. Har-
lequin Time has slapped the scenes with his
wand, and—hey ! presto !—the Bold Bad
Baron is transposed into a most respectable
person in broadcloth, wno angles for a title
with a bribe or bait compounded of piety,
tiunkeyism, and charity. Since Mr. Pea-
rody was tendered—and refused—a baro-
netcy in recognition of his gift of a million
sterling to the poor of London, aspirants for
distinctions have repeatedly tried their luck
with a cheap imitation of his generosity. It
is somewhat lucky that the snobbish disdain
with which high personages regard these
toiling communities of ignoble origin in
this part of Her Majesty’s dominion has
operated to counteract the obvious policy
of creating here an aristocratic order or
body of men, and so opposing to the other-
wise inevitable growth of democratic and
possibly, republican sentiment, some sort of
THE HON. JAMES SERVICE, PREMIER OF VICTORIA.


The Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or Intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
T
Coughs and Colds.
HE Best Cure for the above la Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Buttle Ecpmtr.en
MARKET
T RE E T,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
©cl.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open in
MARKET STREET,
RED or WHITE, only 3d, per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
* 6s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBLDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6a. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
resistance. Otherwise, Australia would, by
this time, probably swarm with bogus baro-
nets, tinsel knights, and lick-spittle ribbon-
Wearers.
* ♦ *
There are still methods, apart from politi-
cal prominence, By which titles of one kind
and another may be won. Dan. Cooper was
awarded a barohetcy because he gave £10,000
to the Patriotic Fund during the Crimean
war. This was a cheap lot. Sir William
Clarke spent a good deal more in splendid
hospitality to the Queen’s grandsons, in-
cluding the heir to the Crown, gave
£10,000 to the Indian Famine Fund, and got
his baronetcy. But founding a college has
been successful in one or two instances, and
it is possible that Mr. Ormond had not only
a heavenly crown, but a mundane decora-
tion, in his holy eye, when proposing to en-
dow a College for Working Men in Mel-
bourne, and to give it the name of Prince
Leopold. It appears that Mr. Ormond will
not consent to benefit the working man
unless he be permitted to simultaneously
curry favour with the regal dispenser of dis-
tinctions. The heads of the representative
organizations of the labouring classes seem
to have suspected Mr. Ormond of being
actuated at least by a mixed motive, and of
having in view “ two for himself and one for
the working man ” in his proposed benevo-
lent coup. Their protest will probably prove
effectual in preventing the consummation
of the quasi-charitable benefactor’s aim ?
if it really was as they suspected. The
distributors of honours will, if such be the
case, have been placed on their guard, and
will most likely feel it requisite to demon-
strate that distinctions are not to be
acquired by a dodge—at least by a dodge
which has been found out.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Attention!
Mr. A. G. Taylor has done well to revert to that
matter of the captaincy in the Permanent
Artillery. If we are to have a fighting force at alj
it is important that it be officered by men selected
for qualities In some essential apposite to the
business of leading men or conducting operations.
If the force is to be regarded merely as orna-
mental, the people of this colony would not belong
In making up their minds, and that military hero,
the Commander-in-Chief, would speedily find his
command reduced to the Volunteer forces and a
couple of orderlies. The present condition of
affairs is fudge, and if the statements relative to
Lord AUGUSTUS Loftus’ meddling be correct, the
sooner the Governor is deprived of the right to
disorganize the force the better. The traditions
of an aristocratic system of military management
cannot be perpetuated here without doing harm
Lord Augustus Loftus, no doubt, feels it very
grievous that objection should be taken to his
pitchforking his dangler over the heads of
everybody in the force, considering that
in so doing he would be but acting in
consonance with a system which gives a
command in India to one of the Queen’s
sons, over the heads of grey-haired veterans and
tried soldiers in the prime of life, and which gives
another the command of the Channel Fleet. The
system is as old as the hills. In Continental
monarchies, Princes of the blood royal are always
treated as born military geniuses, and commanders
of humbler extraction have never been entrusted
with supreme command of an army—in time of
peace. In war time, indeed, anxiety and the in-
stinct of self-preservation has frequently pre-
vailed over pride and caste, and a notoriously
weak-minded Boyal Commander-in-Chief has, on
occasion, been kept at home to strut and caper at
the head of the reserve, while a tried flghting-
General of inferior rank has been despatched to
the actual seat of war. But we are a practical
people in this quarter of the world. We like to
have value for our money, and to make merit the
measure of success. Our complaisance carries us
far enough to provide salary for a young man or
two to grin and simper at Government House, and
to distinguish themselves by their abilities as pro-
fessors of small-talk and the newest waltz-step.
But when it is proposed to shove one of these
pretty young persons over the heads of men who
have been attending to their special business as
soldiers and artillerists, the job is too gross. If we
are to have a defence force, we want it real and
good of its kind, with real officers, not toy-com-
manders. The public should keep their eyes
wide open in this business, as there is every
Indication that Lord Augustus Loftus is
obstinately resolved that if his underpaid
lackey can’t be gratified with the vacant
captaincy, the force may do without a
captain, or go to the deuce. He has nothing to
lose. Even though Sydney were sacked, he
wouldn’t be; and the liberality of the late Ministry
provided him with a retreat near the Blue Moun-
tains, and, therefore, out of the reach of shell.
And the thing wants watching all the more be-
cause, where a Governor’s obstinacy is in-
volved, the condition of Mr. Stuart’s backbone
seems to be sympathetically affected, till his spinal
column threatens to soften into a mere stick of
gristle of the most pliable and supple consistency.
The Annexation Craze.
Mr. Service submits to the Conference (1.) “ That
It is essential to the future well-being of Austial-
asia, that Eastern New Guinea, and the Western
Pacific Islands, from the Equator to the New
Hebrides, should not fall into the hands of any
foreign power.” (2.) “ That in the opinion of this
Conference, it is essential to the safety and wel-
fare of the British dominion in Australasia, that
no portion of.the neighbouring islands ....
should fall into the hands of any foreign power.’*
Let us see. Is there an atlas handy ? So. Turn to
North America. Newfoundland, Prince Edwards’
Island, Bermudas, West India Islands, Vancouver’s
Island, and numbers of others. Does the posses-
sion of these by foreign powers endanger the well-
being-present or future—of the United States?
Yet most of them are much nearer to American
territory than the New Hebrides to Australian.
Pass on to Africa. Does the French claim to
Madagascar endanger the South African colo-
nies ? But that Island is much nearer to
Natal than Erromanga to Australia. If the West
India Islands were vacant to-morrow, it is doubt-
ful whether the States would annex them, and if
they did, it would not be on the miserable plea of
public safety. This desire of annexation is be-
gotten of poltroonery, combined with the absurd
notion that Australia will always remain a pro-
vince and never grow into an empire. The world
has lately seen no more ridiculous sight than a
continent trembling with apprehension lest a few
coral rocks thousands of miles away should pass
under a strange tlag. It is useless to take up the
New Hebrides without going east to South Ame-
rica, and north-east to the Sandwich Islands, seiz-
ing everything on the way. If Australia, owing
to her connection with England, should ever have
to defend heiself, her position would be weakened
and not strengthened by the possession of every
island in the South Pacific. The idea of obtaining
safety by means of spreading rather than concen-
trating your forces, is as sensible as endeavouring
to lift yourself over a brook by the waist-band of
your pantaloons.
Humpty-Dumpty.
Events are moving very swiftly in England.
Much more swiftly than superficial observers per-
ceive. The current is not yet on the surface. It is
portentous, however. “ Deep calleth unto deep.”
There are elements of motion right down at the
bottom of society. When this is the case, the only
question is whether these strata have power
enough to overcome the vis inerlirv of the masses
which press them down from above. If they can
once move, a universal displacement or upheaval
must ensue. The fact is that the starvation classes*
the millions of hopelessly poor, in East London*
have caught hold of an idea. They think they see
their way to help themselves. They have been
ground down by extortionate rents for the most
squalid accommodation in Christendom; and a
summary power of eviction has been ruthlessly
exercised upon them. They have actually plucked
up heart and sense to hold meetings. And, at these
meetings, what d’ye think they have discussed,
these,Englishmen ? “No rent !” That’s just it. Of
course it is un-English—exclusively Irish, with a
taste of Scotch crofter; but Irish, socialistic, revo-
lutionary—and, above all, un-English. Bosh! We
always said it was bosh to pretend that this “ no-
rent” device was essentially peculiar to Irishmen.
We always asserted it was simply natural to
people of any race whose wretchedness exceeded
power of endurance, and who were squeezed
to desperation. At any rate, the “no rent” cry
has begun to echo from court to alley in the
London of the wretchedly poor. Commenting
on the affair, a London newspaper says :—
“ The great feature of this year’s social life is the
way in which, for the first time since 1832, the dis-
content of starving Englishmen has found vent in
words ‘Able politicians,' and the rest of the
humdrum fry who go about with their eyes fixed
on the stars, do not, as yet, perceive what this
means. No more portentous movement has taken
place this century. If the Bast of London, with
its millions of inhabitants, really rouses itself, we
shall be face to face, in the capital of England,
with a movement compared to which Chartism
was child’s play.” This is a pretty serious matter.
The Habeas Corpus Act has been suspended in
England before now, and special legislation for
Ireland has supplied, within the last few years, an
armoury of legislative weapons which may be at
any time turned against the chartered liberties of
the English oppressed classes. We have empha-
sized this when dealing with Irish affairs any time
these last two years. But it will be impossible to
evict a million of starving people in the very heart
of London, and we don’t believe the artisan class
would stand the application of the Cliffurd-
Lloyd system to their poorer brethren in the very
capital of old England. If the “ no rent” idea catches
hold in East London, there will be a tumbling
down of a lot of Humpty-Dumpties in the way of
“ vested rights,” and “ the sacredness of property,”
and such a cracking of the shells of intolerable
social and economical inequalities, that “all the
Queen’s horses and all the Queen’s men” will be
Ineffectual to “put Humpty Dumpty together
again.”
Princely Devotion.
Mr. Ormond— the charitable party who prefers
the text commencing “Let your light so shine
before men,” to that which starts “ Let not thy
right hand know is perfervidly determined that
the working-man’s college he proposes to found
shall be named after Prince Leopold. No one
else in this wide world—no character in history,
ancient or modern—is good enough to be associated
with Ormondes college. There’s no baronetcy
“ sticking out ” of any other association of names.
But, of course, that is not what Ormond Is think-
ing of. Only of the patent fact that, above all
other distinguished characters, living or dead,
Prince Leopold stands pre-eminently famous for
the grand work he has accomplished, and the
enormous sacrifices he has made for the ameliora-
tion of the working classes. As Jimmy Ormond
puts it— Jimmy is right, isn’t it ? or is it to be Sir
Sxndy, or what?—Prince Leopold is “devoting
himself entirely to the promotion of institutions
of this character.” So we have heard. The affect-
ing story of his devotion has reached us. He has
signed his name to several documents dealing with
subjects of the kind; and when people ask him
whether he isn’t intensely interested in the
working man, he invariably says, “ Taas,
he’s my department. Wales does the big
social and Foreign sovereign business; Edin-
burgh shirks mostly, but does the British sea-
man racket when its got to be done; Connaught
works the army ticket—inherited a lot of military
genius from his godfather, old Wellington, at his
baptism; and I’ve got to do the “horny-handed”
and low social ticket. Yaas, my line is the British
workman—jam him.” It is a curious circumstance
that, despite the appalling sacrifices which the de-
voted Leopold has made for the British working
man, that ungrateful party doesn’t enthuse worth
anything about his benefactor. Indeed, he may
be said to regard the devotion which never causes
the Prince to slacken his objurgations if his sweet-
bread is stewed in Madeira instead of in cham-
pagne, as a pretty thin variety of the article. A
working man’s organ in the press goes even so far
as to say that “amongst other platitudes and
parrot-like utterances at Huddersfield of that self-
asserting, self-complacent, pretentious young man,
the Duke of Albany, was one to the effect that
himself and his brothers were all animated by a
desire to promote the best interests of their
country. That may be so when those interests
are identified with their own, but not otherwise.”
A Business Transaction.
The Opposition must be very hard-up for grounds
of cavil when they feel obliged to attack the
Ministry for the purchase of the land adjacent to
the Post Office, from Thompson and Giles and
Paling. Over and over again, Governments have
been railed at for not conducting the business of
the country in a matter-of-fact and practical way,
as ordinary business people would conduct them.
For our own part, we have no hesitation in de-
claring that we are infinitely pleased with the
fashion in which the Ministry have conducted
these purchases. It is a new departure, and no
doubt very exasperating to Mr. Wisdom and Mr.
Thomas Garrett. Resumptions so conducted
have “ nothing in them ” for members of Parlia-
ment. The area occupied by Thompson and Giles
is needed for a street to lead past the main fa9ade
of the Post Office. Paling’s property stretches
immediately behind Thompson and Giles’, and*
as soon as the road is made, will have a long
frontage to what will then be the finest and widest
street in the heart of the city. A little time ago,
we should probably have heard simultaneously
that Thompson and Giles’ had been resumed by
the Government, and that Messrs. Brown, Jones,
and Robinson had just previously bought
Paling’s property, and stood to make £50,000
by the enhancement in value, consequent on the
Government plans for improvement. And a little
later it would have leaked out that Smith, Jones,
and Robinson were really lay-figures, and that
so-and-so and such-another, members of Parlia-
ment or dear friends and associates of this or that
Minister, were the actual purchasers. The purchase
made by the Government has been carried out in
a straightforward way. The purchase from Pal-
ing will go far to recoup the Treasury for the
disbursement for Thompson and Giles’ premises
The price is not excessive, as any dealer in real
estate can testify. The country will reap the
benefit of the rise in values due t o its own invest-
ments and operations; so Mr. Garrett had best
retire to his Darling Harbour estate, and bite the
nails of impotent mortification.
♦
They are at it in Victoria! They are trying the
experiment in a vile body, as the classical Premier
would put it. One of the time-old privileges of
the Civil servant was his right to stay in debt.
Other men could fall into debt, of course. Under
the stimulating influences of the Southern Cross,
it is as easy as sliding off a log. But these other
men have had to lay their dress clothes aside for a
while, or rise in the stilly night, when the one-
horned moon was resting behind a cloud, and
make tracks with their household gods out into
the land of strangers. The Civil servant, however,
did neither. He just stayed there, and let the duns
rip. As a commercial man, the Premier wants to
do away with that privilege. He says he doesn’t
enjoy it himself. He therefore encourages those
who have monetary claims against these officers to
prefer them to him for investigation. Now, two or
three Victorian Civil servants owe us a trifle and we
are glad that the new regulation is in force. But,
unfortunately, our debtors are not schoolmasters,
and equally unfortunately it is only schoolmasters
the regulation affects. The Premier says “these
should set an example of propriety in this respect.”
That is vile humbug. The pedagogue is the worst
paid man under Government, and it is playing
with social virtue to make him pay up his three-
pun-ten on the nail while bigger sinners are left
alone. The regulation should apply to all the de-
partments, or to none.
♦
In the very middle of a session the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council has adjourned for a fortnight. That
body, chosen as the ripe representative of the
maturest wisdom and gravest conscientiousness of
the community, can conceive of its own self no
measure by which it can assist in the amelioration
of existing conditions, no service which its aggre-
gation of experience and sagacity can volunteer to
the community. It has not occurred to a solitary
individual among its numerous and “venerable’*
members that there is a single measure which
might be, with advantage to the people of the
colony, drafted and discussed, pruned or amended,
beaten into shape, and rough-hewn, ready for the
rapid endorsement of the other and busier
chamber. The functions of the Upper House
seem therefore to be regarded by its own members
as exclusively corrective and observative of
what the Assembly may do. Its business is to keep
the representative chamber straight. The Legis-
lative Council did on one occasion render such
unspeakably valuable service to the public by
throwing out Parkes’ outrageous Privileges of
Parliament Bill—a Bill to limit the rights of the
people and to create a legislative tyranny—that we
would be loth to lose it. But its members would
do well to awaken to the fact that its abnegation
of active duty in the middle of a session cannot
fail to create a most injurious impression, and that
its adjournment at such a time for a full fortnight
will not fail to suggest to a multitude of persons
that it might adjourn for forty years without being
seriously missed.
The S. M. Herald has obligingly corrected a mis-
leading statement published by it, which was to
the effect that Sir William de Vceux, Governor
of Fiji, had asked to be permitted to take part in
the Intercolonial Conference. It will be seen at
once that this allegation was equivalent to a gross
outrage. Sir William— a Governor, almost by
the Grace of God —to solicit anything from men
merely elected by the vulgar, instead of chosen by
a Queen! Of course Sir William did not “soli-
cit”—he “intimated.” It would be disrespectful
to put it that he “ hinted.” Anyhow, His Mighti-
ness is duly among the Conferents, and has the
distinction of being about the only man who has
no business there. It is notorious that Sir Wil-
liam, in no sense, represents the colonists of Fiji,
and the Conference is officially apprised of the
fact that the European population of Fiji seeks
certain recognitions at his hands. The admission
of Sir William de V(Eux may facilitate matters
in this particular instance, but under ordinary cir-
cumstances, it would be the surest plan for ad-
mitting a representation of what the Fiji colonists
would not like to be done on their behalf.
The Hon. James Service.
James Service was born at Kilwinning (N.B.), in
1823. When 20 years of age, he left Glasgow for
Melbourne, where he commenced business in a
small way, and prospered greatly. In 1857, he was
returned as one of the representatives for the city
of Melbourne. The political line he then took and
maintained until ’75 was that of a Free Trade Con-
stitutionalist. From ’74 to ’75 he was Treasurer in
the Kerferd Ministry, during which period he
posed as a Freetrader of the Freetraders. It was
this which makes his present coalition with Berry
so flagrant a political mistake —a mistake as bad as
the coalition of Parkes and Robertson, or that of
North with C. J. Fox. Mr. Service is a man of
shrewd business capacity, and of what is vulgarly
called a rugged honesty; but he is essentially a
man of narrow views—his desire for annexation
and federation even being baaed upon that hatred
for Romish propagandism which his Presbyterian
training makes him conceive must be the result of
Protestant England not ruling the roast in Poly-
nesia.
The editor of a Maryborough (Q.) paper
advocates the erection of a gaol in Maryborough.
We should think—judging by his paper—that his
advocacy should be very powerful.
Joined his ancestors this week.—George
Farmer, baronet, many years a resident of Geelong
(Vic.), grandson of an old naval hero, time of Rod-
ney. Deceased leaves a 10-year-old hart, as his suc-
cessor. [Mem. for Sydney mammas with 8-year -old
daughters ]
The result of the Muncipal elections, last
week, show that there is a wakeful interest among
the ratepayers in the work of reform at the Town
Hall. And so long as this is continued, it may be
expected that the city will be free from the bun-
gling and jobbery which characterized municipal
affairs in this city for the past ten years. The new
aldermen will do well to adopt, as it is expected
they will adopt, a straight-going policy, and give
effect to the views of the rate-payers. The
mayoral election follows the aldermanic election,
and this election ought to be further in accord
with the general wish of the rate-payers. Mr.
Alderman Playfair has been nominated for the
position, and his straight and independent con-
duct, apart from his standing as a citizen, ought
to ensure his triumphant election.


That clever and well-known water-colour
artist, Mr. J. 0. Hoyte, is fixing up his triennial
art union: 150 members: 20 admirable pictures of
N.S.W. and N.Z. scenery.
Barry, D.D., Bishop-elect of Sydney, is
shortly to hold a farewell reception at Worcester.
The Agent-General of N.S.W. means to be there.
Saul among the canonical prophets.
In the great military scandal, as in the
railway dons, squabble, countless documents of
the very first importance towards a correct under-
standing of the respective mysteries and compli-
cations are conveniently returned as missing.
Mr. DbCoubct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Shambers, 136 Pitt>street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for Arnold’s ’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometlfx a
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert s HoteL
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name. Adolph "
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahiert's
Hotel.— Advt.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At the recent Circuit Court, Cooktown,
Georgy, a guileless aboriginal, was cautioned by
the Judge that if he told a lie he’d “go a long time
to gaol.” To which the blacking-bottle impersona-
tor of George Washington promptly replied:
“Nob — fear, MassT Judge; baal me tell ’im lie.
Me speak ’im truth; by kripes, you see now.”
Scene: G.P.O.—Chesterfield inside to excited-
looking foreigner in front: “ Won’t do; that letter
is too heavy. You must put another stamp on it.”
Excited foreigner: “Well, now, ol lolkes that.
Whoy, bad luck t’ me sowl, af th’ letther’s too
heavy now, won’t it be heavier shtill af oi sthicks
another sthamp on it ? Oi’U poast it as it is, an’
shtop it thin av y’ dab. D’ye moind me, now ?”
— Up Gympie way, the “child-like and bland”
set fire to the grass all along the roads, and
then ac< identally pass by next day and sell
fodder to the teamsters at famine prices
S.S. Tasman (Captain Evans) struck last Friday on
a reef between the Hippolytes, about 30 miles
from Cape Pillar, and sunk—all hands saved. Un-
insured An ex-quartermaster-sergeant of
the N. S. Wales Artillery committed for trial
for obtaining moneys by false pretences from the
committee of the sergeant’s mess. Had he been a
hossifei, now! — The S.A. Register having, per
affidavit and per counsel, declared that they never
had any intention whatever to impute personal
corruption to the Commissioner for Lands in the
article on which the latter based an action for
libel against that journal, proceedings, with con-
sent of the Supreme Court, have been abandoned
by Mr. Catt. Each side pays its own coats The
Herald, last Saturday, quoted a lengthy screed
re the failings of female clerks. In justice to the
sex, which we adore, we must say that, were our
venerable contemporary to undertake to deal with
the feelings of male clerks, she would re-
quire to issue a double supplement
The Warhnambool (Vic.) Standard, now a tri-
weekly, is to be issued as a daily paper from 1st
January next Micalagoites testimonialiscd
Police-sergeant Carroll last week with a gold
Waltham—symbolical of the good watch he kept
over them during ten eventful years—A Gun-
dagai telegram to the Cootamhndra Herald
announces that “ the Gundaqai Times has a most
extraordinary article in favour of the Land Bill,
abounding in unprecedented tall logic and grossly
absurd reasoning. It is the talk of the town as a
specimen of blunders.” It hardly requires inspec-
tion to detect Bailey as the source of the In-
formation-Bailey, who declares that the fossil
who runs the G.T. is El-worthy Newly
arrived Queensland immigrants are complain-
ing that they can find no employment —The
late Clerk of Petty Sessions, Registrar, 1 ands
Agent, &c., at Urana, screw about £450, sent up
for three years for embezzlement. Well con-
nected: fair screw, no excuse, serve him right—
' Compositors’ room, Argus office, Melb., experi-
mentally lighted by electricity last week: success..
1 One Meadow suicided last week, near East Mait-
1 land, by throwing himself in front of a railway
engine. End, pieces Last week, boy named
byons, who couldn’t swim, entered the Cobar
' reservoir on a man’s back, got frightened, lost his
hold, and was drowned Minister of Justice
' Cohen has decided to release O’Grady, sentenced
& t last Dubbo Circuit Court to three years for
killing a calf for stealing his hay Maxwell and
Wife v. N.S.W. Commissioner for Railways, for
damages arising from tramway collision near
Campbelltown, in ’83, decided in Supreme Court
last week. Verdict, £750 Considering that the
South Australian Fruit Growers Company pays a
dividend of 30 per cent., and not forgetting that
lots of South Australian as weU as of Tasmanian
jam contains more than 75 per cent, of stones,
there should surely be a show for the proposed
Parramatta Fruit Preserving Company The
N.S.W. Government have accepted tenders for
the supply of 50 large iron tanks, 35 feet square*
and 50 iron troughs. These tanks and troughs are
to be fixed in the waterless districts. Bach tank
will hold about 30,000 gallons Deal gently with
the ’erring (especially when kippered and tinned).
Mrs. B. Toll, of Charters Towers, and her four
children were nearly poisoned last week through
eating tinned kippered herrings for tea Chief
Inspector of Accounts, Thomson, has certified
under date Oct. 26 last, that Official Assignee Mac-
nab’s collections from his first appointment to
above date have not only been duly and regularly
banked, but that no improper use has been made
of any part of such collections.
• • •
Nordenskjold is organising an Antarctic
exploration expedition. ..A new British ironclad,
the Protector, to be launched in January The
Whitehall Review is of opinion that the Dublin
Exhibition failed because “God Save the Queen”
was never heard within its walls. And yet a con-
tinual shrieking of “ God Save the Queen ” doesn’t
seem to have prevented the Whitehall Review
from most pronounced failure An exchange
asserts that a Mons. Mosionas has discovered, in
the Hadenooas, a tribe of the Egyptian Soudan,
the descendants of the people from whom the
ancient Egyptians sprang. Isn’t ‘it a deal more
probable that the Hadenooas are descended from
the ancient Egyptians!....A contributor to the
Pall Mall Gazette proposes the oiling of the
straits of Dover. He says: “ A gallon of oil would
be sufficient, say, to cover an acre, and a thousand
gallons ample for a square mile. A passage a mile
broad would cost roughly £300, or, if done daily,
£75,000 a year. Perhaps the oiling would have not
have to be done daily, as probably after a few
weeks the sea would be thoroughly becalmed;
but even if it should cost that sum, it would not
exceed the endless sums that are now spent in
quackeries by intending passengers and advertising
the said quackeries, or the inestimable sums which
passengers would give when half way across—
An old wood-cutter at Junee stacked a lot of fire-
wood on the railway line, about a week ago, and
then set fire to the heap. The blaze was discovered
and put out before many of the sleepers were burnt <
The old man, on being asked what he did it for,
replied that “a lot of people had been getting
wood from him and wouldn’t pay him,
and he wanted satisfaction out of something.”
Mina Jury, Arthur Orton’s sister, arrested in Lon-
don on 1st Inst., charged with obtaining money
from the Duke of Edinburgh by means of the
false pretence that she had been the companion of
Lady Daly (not Daley, dear Granny), wife of Sir
Dominick, Governor of South Australia when
Alfred gave the Adelaide girls a treat An at-
tempt has been made to utilise “ sons of gentle-
men” in Scotland Yard. Six sprigs of nobility
were tried as detectives. Result, “ eminently
unsatisfactory.” So they will still have to come
out and be jackeroos Certain French revolu-
tionists, with that taste for cookery which is cha-
racteristic of their nation, made an unsuccessful
I attempt to introduce a new dish to the public
notice, namely, “ Roast Policeman.” They poured
a bucket of petroleum over a “ bobby ” at Lyons,
and then set him on fire; however, he escaped with
severe burns. Strange to say, the papers describe
this interesting culinary experiment as a “ diabo-
lical outrage.” Newspaper men are seldom epi-
cures.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“O.O.O.”: You are quite right. Paley’s
“ Natural Theology ” is in the main a gross prig
from Nieuwentyt’s “True Use of the Contempla-
tion of the Universe.” “ W.O.J.”: The popula-
tion of British India was at latest given as 354,899,216
—of whom 50,131,585 were Mahomedans “Jim”;
Your lines to Sladen are worse than his. Re what
we said some issues back about “ Mask’s” effusion,
we see no reason to alter the opinion then ex-
pressed “ Lecton” (Vic.): Not strong enough in
one way, though too strong in another. Perhaps, at
least Australian Bishops, as a rule, don’t get drunk.
We’re no admirers of bishops, but truth is truth
“B.T.C.”: Received—“Mackay” (Q.): Thanks.
Always glad to hear from you “C.S” (Ana-
koon): Will read your story, which opens well
“M.O.”: But why not further Hickspashiate on
the Hicks Pasha affair ? You know just as much
about it—“M.S.B,” (Melb.): For years past there
have been rumours of the kind concerning the
postal official you mention “ A.A.C.”: Must de-
fer for a week answering your query
“Vernon B.”; Will read and consider
“ J. J.”: In New York; but Mrs. Lingard, in a pri-
vate letter, says she will soon be back in Australia.
— “M. E. J.”: Thanks “Anti-Cant” (Condo-
bolin): We don’t care to “expose” any school-
master (or anybody else) accused of immoral
practices until we see the evidence ... “ Moree ”;
Thanks. But, while the law stands as at present,
you surely don’t expect us to show up a racing
swindle. We’ll print it if you forward a marked
cheque for £10,000 “O. W.” (1): Alice Dunning
I Lingard was at latest playing the heroine in “Agnes
of Bavaria,” at the London Gaiety. She writes
privately that she will soon be in Australia again.
(3) Paul Bedford is still alive, hale and hearty
“ J.U.” (Forbes-street): You have a soul for
poetry? No, sir. ..“R.C.G.”: Pretty ideas for a
song, but you haven’t made a song by a long step.
— T.P.C.F.”: One item is rhyme, but not poetry;
the other is neither “ J. M‘G.”: We’re afraid we
must refer you back to the journal through which
your earlier gleams of genius burst on a be-
nighted world... “ J.M.” (Cooma): Merely local...
“R.J.C.F.”: We quite agree, but it’s not worth
keeping up “J.D.” (Balmain): Lengthy and
crude—“A.A.”: Thanks, but too long tor such
an affair “John and Jane”: Declined
“ Wingen”: The lines you have sent to us could
hardly have been made for one J. W. who died
eight or ten years ago, since they are over a
quarter of a century old. They were “adapted”
to the occasion. Voila tout! “ Incidents of the
Beresford Family”: What you send us is no news.
The facts are all recorded in Debrett...“ W.T.B.”:
Your cantering canto not good enough —“Jus-
tice”: Thanks. You have probably hit the mark
in saying that the reason why a few priests are
trying to raise the Catholics of Sydney against the
appointment of an Englishman (specially of a
Vaughan) to the vacant see, is the fact that strict
discipline doesn’t suit the go-as-you-please style
“ of some” (as you put it mildly, “ of a good many”
would probaby have been the better phrase) reve-
rend fathers.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
The place where there is “ weeping and
gnashing of teeth.” —A Wynyard-square hash-
house. The landlady weeping, th e boarders gnash-
ing their teeth.
For real thoroughness, give us French law
in preference to any other. A few weeks ago some
convicts were tried at Noumea. Ore of them has
now got sentences which reach to the year 2036,
after which he has to goturough 105 years’ police
surveillance As it is probable he will go on offend-
ing the authorities, and getting sentences, beseems
to have small chance of being liberated in time to
attend the general judgment. So his lot is rather
enviable than otherwise.
The editors of the Cooma and Bombala
papers call each others liars. This alone would
make us think them truthful.
Bella Guerin admitted last week to degree
of B.A. Melbourne Uni. First lady so honoured.
We trust soon to announce Bella's winning the
degree of MA.MA.
Edward Farley, in whom every competent
judge recognises an admirable baritone, is taking
a spell in Sydney, preliminary to making Sydney
spell-bound by the charm of his impressive voice.
The municipal elections last Saturday re-
sulted in the return of Messrs. Burdekln,
MacMahon, and Harris. Mr. John Meeks was re-
turned unopposed. The election of Mr Harris
was of additional significance by reason of the fact
that he was opposed by Farthing Davies.
In November, ’79, Governor Loftus sup-
Eorted the claim for promotion put forward by
ieutenant Nathan, A.D.C., on the ground of his
“ previous military service.” Military service,
quotha! Nay, then, your Excellency, you’re
several degrees out of your latitude on that tack.
“ What I wear,” says a N.S.W. insolvent,
“is purchased for me out of the moneys of the
estate of which I am executor, to keep me decent
to conduct the business. I am of opinion, there-
fore, that what I wear belongs to the estate.” For
the creditors to dispute so unique a dictum would
be to play a game of “ strip-Jack-naked,”
At Mr. Burdekin’s meeting at the Gaiety
Theatre last week, “ there was an interruption by
some one who was stated to be insane.” He was
removed. We wonder who this could have been!
Perhaps it was the man who applauded when Mr.
Burdekln said “the Corporation was entitled to
great credit for the way they had economised.”
A society of persons is about to petition
the Brussels authorities for permission to mum-
mify the dead. Of course, they mean the corpses
of eminent men. If those persons lived here,
they would think differently. They would have
had enough of eminent men in life to want to
look at them after they were dead. The apex of
our ambition out here is to kill the mummies who
are alive.
The Grand Old Man (to the Grand Old Woman) : “ HADN’T YOU BETTER ANNEX THAT FIRST? ”


Christmas Season, 1883-84.
GEO. ROBERTSON
Begs to announce
THAT HIS MAGNIFICENT STOCK
of
CHRISTMAS
AND
NEW YEAR S CARDS
FOR THE COMING SEASON,
IS NOW OPEN FOR SELECTION,
GEORGE WBERTSON,
361 Gcorge-street.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the* NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke'a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK 8TKKKT. HYDNEY
AIR- TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORG Hi STREET WEf IT,
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW f
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
iUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
BEMOYED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
OB. TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD SHO*
(VaJUit^oi
tms
i
38 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE HT.. SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the abeve
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
(R The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
REGISTERED BRAND.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
V\riSH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
▼ ▼ we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
W1 RE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY. BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
CV Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED,
IV. H. Ariel/ and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
JErated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M'KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, In and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
SLEND
[Trade]
mark:
lt’ i
-Si
®?/ST£H^S
COLLIE BLEND WHISKT.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W, Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generally that he has a large assortment of
'rawing. Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Oflice Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-street,
beg to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the apportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
“mHE GUNDAGAI HERALD,
JL Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
With which is incorporated the
“TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L, BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
Faster ’s Bugle Brand.
.»'/&. tv
iui
■
1
mjlU
GtTAHA
NTEED FIVE YEARS OLD.
POTSTILL AND MALT T7HISKY,
GENUINE EXTRA 8M»)L Tr l
BASS PALE ALE.
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEY,
J^J" ADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns
of
Dresses, Manti.es, &c.,
and
Weigel’s Journal of
Fashions,
which contains the latest styles, are sold by the
following agents
George Slater, Stationer, 39 Oxford-st., Sydney
Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, Regent-st., Redfern
Mrs. T. H. Griffiths, Milliner, 335 King-st., Newtown
Mrs. C. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-st.
south, Parramatta
Principal Retail Office:
161 KING-STRKET (near Elizaheth-st.), Sydney.
Schweppe’s Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNERS-STREBT, LONDON;
68 MARGARET-STRhET, SYDNEY.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.;
Morpeth . Brewarrlna
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES,
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald .
Northern Line;
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
f~ Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
I RE-COVERED
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, tretween
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., Loudon.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF PISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla.reELd.orau,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VI8IT0RS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDE PARK, it
must necessarily he WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing hut the very best
W
LCOX
MANGLES
WASHING
AND
MACHINES,
GIBBS
Automatic
CHURNS,
Com shellers
Silent
TOBACCO
SEWING
CUTTERS,
MACHINES.
WALNUT
Wood,
&c. &c. &c
Mangle and
wringer, £410
HEBBIfEWHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
'd ONE
SHILLING.
&
I «
■It I-!
o v c
%
OB
d
» 2
« §
z >
m
» H
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERS ALL’S. G
All Meals One Shllim*.
J. a GREEN FIELD.


Copy of memorial received by the Home
b Henry Rigby, of Trimdon Colliery,
county of Durham, Oft. lin. in my stocking- feet,
thl^’- hve years of a » e - would like
fA® °J lce Of public executioner, in place of the
iate Marwood. deceased. I would hang either
;X er , 8 - or sisters, or anyone else related to me,
without fear or favour.-Signed, Henry Rigby
(X) his mark. Witnessed by John Hogg. Sentem-
ber i, 1883.” It is a pity that Mr. Rif by did not
succeed in getting the appointmenb-a pity from
an artistic point of view, we mean; but, judging
of his relatives by what he seems to be himself
we think it was rather better for them that he has’
been allowed to remain in the obscurity of private
life. As, however, hismemorialshows himto beam-
bitious, we have no doubt he will, sooner or iater
succeed in getting the nearest thing to what he
°, fher words, though not allowed to
hang others, he will, probably, be hanged himself
Don’t Die in the House.—“Rough on Ruts’’
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, arts, insects, moles, jack-rabbit*, gophers!
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agent*.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Evening News article re Archbishops
Folding and Vaughan is attributed, we believe
correctly, to an “ unfrocked ” ecclesiastic, who is
not an Irishman.
Continental exchanges of recen' dale de-
scribes the immense “ shivoo ” that came off at
Madrid on the f£te day of the King of Spain. We
Should much like to know how long it is since
Spain has been quite satisfied on that delicate point
—who was the father of the King of Spain ?
. The inscription on the plate of Chambord’s
coifin, instead of being “ Henri V., by the grace of
God King of France and Navarre,” should have
been Henri V by the grace of God King of
France— uevah I We have all heard of the Mel-
bourne pressman who succeeded in putting six
libels into two lines. It is, however, some time
since we met with two such monstrous lies on one
COfilD.
There is no Earl of Rossmore, dear
Granny. The Eossmore whose name the Irish
Viceroy has so properly removed from the Com-
mission of the Peace for the county of Monaghan
for organising Orange ructions at Rosslea in
October last, is an English (ard Irish) Baron, the
head of the Westeuras-and ’tis proverbial, even
in Ulster, that a Westeura who is not a bad egg is
recreant to the traditions of his race.
At the Chinese camp, Maryborough, Vic.,
resides Mrs. Wi Fook, a lady who may fairly he
descnb d as “crummy ’’-not to say stout-seeing
that she weighs rather more than 26 stone. Sad to
say, Mrs. Wi Fook (plump as she is) possesses
nothing to sit down up< n—no chair, that is, cap-
able of sustaining her weight—so the pretty little
fairy reposes upon “a brick structure.” It is
bricks 8^!6 t0 heIp lee)in^ r a touch of pity—for the
The statement that the Hon. James White
won £70,000 over the Martini double, is just a trifle
too high-coloured; in fact. £10,000 would be much
nearer to the exact total. It is tolerably certain,
however, that three or four times as much was
netted on these events by halt a dozen (chiefly
members of the Union Club), and these worthy
sports, well knowing that discretion is the better
part of valour, carefully cleared for home on the
very night of the day the Cup was won. This sent
some of the chosen people, who were howling for
revenge, so much off their kadm vas that one of
them was actually seen giving a blind man half a
so> . in mistake for sixpence, whilst several others
have never been heard to swear since, except in
private, and then they sit down in a cool spot and
curse all the U.C's back as far as the 57th genera-
How some of our prominent citizens will
arch their necks and paw the earth with pride
when they read this item! Listen. His Highness
ar £ as h of Zanzibar has been made a
R.G.M.G. Our readers will, perhaps, recollect that
this !8 the personage who wanted to make a sUte
Jilx i? E 11 inland a few years ago, and was inf ornled
that he could not be received by the authorities —
was too much of a savage, in other words. This is
a pretty fair indication of what value the English
Government sets on the order of Michael and
George. But, of course, that is not the polnt-lt
is what the recipients think of It. A Solomon
Island chief is as proud of the order of the Brass
Button as an English noble might be of the order
of *5® Bath. It is all a question of latitude. By
and bye, the sacred order of the Footbath will go
bung, and will be attainable by any pettifogging
creature who makes money in a threepenny.
Whisky mill, and lends it out again at 1400 per cent.
Upon the simple fact that. John William
Downer’s face strongly resembles the Mongolian
type, an ingenious idealist has built up a lie which
he seeks to pass off as a strong personal illustration
9,f. Resistible advance of the impassible
Chinky. He, the aforesaid idealist, insists on it
that Downer was born at Canton; that to better
his fortune he crossed the wide sea to Adelaide,
where be worked his way up from a state of
D m «rP°'® ave ® '- d °m t° the highest political status.
He (the idealist) tells us the exact period when
Downer doffed his pigtil, took to eating his food
with a knife and fork, and succeeded in over-
coming his ancient taste for fatted puppy. It is
not improbable that our Idealist may o ve a turn
downer (who was at one time Crown Solicitor
in South Australia). All that we know about it is
that Downer is a jolly good fellow, as merry a
man within the limits of becoming mirth as you’re
likely to meet with anywhere, a shrewd lawyer,
and if, as a politician, rather Jingoistic in his own
views, by no means aggressive. If he be a China-
man by birth, then’twould be no bad thing were
Celestial immigration encouraged.
In the course of a little controversy which
is now agitating the mind of musical Melbourne
an ana using incident in connection with the recent
Musical Festival is brought to light. The Council’s
prize of £21 was gained by a certain eminent
musician, who recently took his departure for
England; however, as the Council had sustained a
heavy loss by this unfestive festival, the success-
ful one offered to return the money to the funds
on certain conditions.” The old-fashioned notion
inat a heaven-born musician is never a man of
business, is entirely dispelled when we read Mr
*L 8 conditions:—I. That in the printed balance-
name should clearly appear as a donator
wVn.h ?n pflicial letter, of
hehrovghta diaft with him, be written to
fe ,8 > E ? D S White ’ the authors of the copy-
ing f . Rapture,” slating that he was u
Prominent musician, that there was a desire to see
8 1 ion S 'tn g i,«o l * 1 h Shed ’ a ,? d requesting- their permJs
®PP to e se the words. 3. That an illuminated
conditions in Vuhlic. As all these
tho traTurtw fulfilled, we venture to assert that
for his money** received b > r no means bad value
The terrible political significance of King
Alfonsos appointment to the Colonelcy of the
len^Th n | QuarterGd at Strasburg, h is at
mnnts wo™ d „ out ,‘ JP* a PP ea rs that as two regi-
i,0?l0r«I ere avaba hje for this distinction, the
annmval Ind ed to tbe Hoynl warrior for
app FPX_I and “ttle Alfonso masher ” that he is
selected the uniform of the Strasburg regiment
of lts , nice bright yellow cuffs. Very
vmlO de wanted to indulge in a “raerrie jest”
with his young Queen, and remind her of the fit of
£ er b P me to Mama by sport-
a little bit of yellow. Anyway, a weakness
0 ff r “ ?, ur is mairdy responsible 7 fo/the “ deadly
v, UD der which our susceptible Gallic
friends have been smarting. '
THE COLONEL’S CUFFS.
When Germany gave him the rank of a Colonel,
And made him a Strasburg Uhlan,
T a,.a r ,fi nc hman gave vent to a howling infernal
And also threw mud at the man;
ThiH^Pnria t ro tha m th€ L ir ang:er < he never expected
w- 11 k , arl8 would cut up so rough)
Will be less when they learn that Alfonso selected
His regiment because of its cuff.
wua r nl 8 r ? 1LS ° l 1 l 1 ‘L for J erkiQ g up her contract
contimjAt?! parted becau8e f would not
continue to bear outrageous expenses, to pay for
mentoffee b( v5p et8j P enalties for broken engage-
ments, Ac. My equipment was not grand enough
aad m y carnage did not suffice. We had violent
r SiTtandpne day, after one of these scenes,
I rushed out of the house without hat or gloves,
telling him he could take everything, for as he
away I would, and should notreturn
remained there. I wandered about
the whole day, and at nightfall sought refuge at
my aunt s. It was after this that he entered^into
at t a e Gymnase, where I had im-
toea fh of rnnfr^ rdS pi i y tbe Penalty for his
breach ot contract in order to enlist in Tunis. He
caid P for® ?!!e q nn PPed im8elf for starting, and I
pain tor the poor voluntary recruit. Oclv the
P« or M°r tar , y recruit never served. That is not
t M -P amala . wished to be lessee of a theatre.
I havehad to bear the consequences of this, too.
M-——i. 3 inquiring whether I am really married
rovalfv anl 'mf iff '? ay > 1 have Paid for the freak
D °* married ’ 011 nt m ' y
Whatever couid have sent Miss Helen
Hart so far into the Victorian bush! We saw and
berspif fh Ce v, Ifc was be f°re the time she spread
herself on the breeze and woke the sleepy hollows
of existence with her thrilling lectures. She was
Miss Hart then, and a sweet-voiced, gentle-
mannered girl she was, as we inspected her bul-
f V a «t S R,u d passed her the Phte of toast at break-
sbe tbat eminent lecturess.”
But why did she go so far off as Scarsdale ? Scars-
dale is about twenty miles to the other side of
a ? d 3,8 8 i? on 1 5 8 we heard she was there, we
felt that if we should ever see her again it would
with her beautiful brow all wrinkled and her
beautiful lips all puckered. And our premoni-
tions were right. The first thing the Scarsdale
nf dl *l t( u P i a boar d over the mouth
of a cellar at the hotel, and as “the eminent
lecturess bounded forward, the substantial re-
pasts of the old days told, and down she went to
the bottom of the Sellar. That Sly shwk he?
best lecture out of her. But we always credited
P luck > an d so when night came she
wended her way to the Scarsdale Town Hall to
furnish that unfortunate little town with a few
But only two people came to listen. What
chv k y p° flim S r ar8dale atall > Miss Hart ? A big
18 tb ® .held for you. There is every kind of
taste in a big city, you know.
The Rev. J. L. Rentoul, of St. Kilda (V.), has
found rest in the smooth chair of a theological
professorship in Ormond College. His friends are
biffing of 80rry ’ an , d tbe
o alan f ce of the human population doesn’t care.
Spontaneously we register ourselves among tbe
friends of the little, bald-headed man. If
been found laughing at him. at any time, it was
owing to the exuberance of our spirits and ‘the
atmosphere of the place in which we were. It was
never the duodecimo Shakespeare that impelled
us. We liked him from the first. Despite ilu
company he kept, and the sterile catechisms h
m p feshj tery, the little angular man
I »fl b n ed by the Grape 8 .- A ud his love is many-
sffied. He possesses delicacy, refinement, and
enthusiasm, rejoices in a vocabulai y of suggestive
Phrases, and is always found leaning towards a
° h obl ® generous interpretation of men and
things. Of course, when he comes face to face
with what ho believes to be a religious humbug
flfe/ 8 n?£ ula / Beelzebub, a crowned king of blow-
flies. Therefore, he has hosts of enemies, who
forget all his graces and remember all his stings
But we believe that the new professor will live
longer than those who assail him; and when we
hope that with the leisure which his new avocation
will afford, he will mature a work that will be
hope widf W ® haVe QOt much £ear that the
The Rev. George Dods comes in for a brief
notice, if not intrinsically merited, yet deserved
bj reason of his being, for the present at all events
the successor of the Rev. Charles Strong in the
pulpit of the Scots Church, Melbourne. The Rev.
Ki? 0 rfn Dod8 i S y?l Bachelor of Divinity. Some of
his fellow- fathers, a few days ago in their
S'y- demurred to bestowing on him the
Tvf r a yiDg P®0Pl e . as he seemed to be an
*? f tbe deposed heretic, not alone scholarly
but theologically. The demurrer was, however
unffl 81 and Mr ’ P od8 ’ 8 coupling will stand good
until, of course, she sees a nicer man, or a more
religious man, or a man who is a bigger fool than
'°, n . e J U8t beside her. Well, Mr. Dods likes to
get« S intn m0n 'Practical turn, and consequently
is JPfu° a certain class of papers, and bis name
ask ®* Who 1 i , ott f n ’ and a good many people
nf.H L-m i a Do P® ? Any relation of Tommy ? ”
and kindred questions, Mr. Dods reads the ne ws-
Papers, and Ws his fancies, of course. he
works his fancies into his sermons. That is part
° £ hl8 Practicability. He is a Bachelor of Divmfty
and a newspaper critic, and he knows where a
newspaper transgresses due bounds just aswell as
he knows where an Apostle is right. Mr. Dods is I
!Pn D ’,f n v d bas Gnae to learn a good deal. If
fi?p^?, r^fi ard ’ he may learn that where he thought
the apostle was right, the apostle was wrong and
that where he thought the newspaper wrong’ the
newspaper was right. Moreauain. g ’
This is a pleasing reminiscence of the his-
toric Black Wednesday. When Berry determined
upon what he called “ Civil Service reform ” he
a??.P e a ted ? at l b Permanent head of the various
departments to furnish him with a list of the
df8pe e n 8 °ed a wi 8 t? b0r T dlnate8 who 5 e services could*!!?
c )8 Pe , ] sed with. In a very short time the lists
were furnished. And amongst these was one sent
Dartmen^w 1, T®’ 11 say the Si >f rlal Failure De-
partment chief, whose name might ha\ e been T
te S J but i£ wasn’t); and this gentleman a
rn? t Hi+ man 7 and a curiously enough, a Catholic
npnii'fP contained about twenty names, and pretty
“early every one of these was that of an Irish
The Cabinet met, and had agreed to the
massacre, when Peter Lalor, then Minister for
late) and asked to see
the lists. After a careful s rutiny, Peter smiled I
p ensive smile, and said “Yes; they’re all right
with one exception. There is one name wanted
J® “ ake Mr. Jones’ list complete.” Th en
hfi. a T P en ’, he wrote Jones’ name on the
to p of his (Jones) own selection, and said ho
, epneern about as near perfectio’ as
suffered with and through him went
M^Tn 80 ' and quietly told their simple story So
Mr. Jones was politely advised to “git.” y ’
Notwithstanding that Labouchere has
Irving Bishop, the “mind-reader ” bv
almost every wo d in the language that is svn n
nym tor impostor; has braved him with bets, 3 and
b *. m to libel action; yet an account of one
or his seances in a reliable paper can hardly be
pooh-poohed aside. It was at Dublin. For three
nights he had gone through a round of successes;
out, on a hot Saturdas' evening, he failed to read
r e +? um a bflnh-note, after several tries,
in the early part he .had exhausted his physical
strength showing the Davenport tricks; and a
medical examination on the stage showed him
weak and gasping, with a pulse at nearly 180. This
was most deleterious to the mental work that was
a few minutes’ interval he came
I*? aud ifpce more like a ghost than a
human being. His voice, usually full, clear, and
ii ! mfiJ V rl® < : a l' ccly a H dit i k 'i his eyes shone bril-
from his pallid face, and his manner be-
a painful restlessness. In his quest of the
hidden pm he was immediately successful; In
wmnff^hiif imaginary pain he was several times
wrong, but finally right. He was growing more
an : ™ ore excited, and, it was evident, was making
when P h^ a raii e H° rt t0 hold on to the end. Then,
lied repeatedly m his attempts to read
hiif ° f tbe - hank-note, everyone saw that
+ l lel u lng '’ auc J cries of “Enough,
c-ivmft.i hi tlPe<1 i he house, A glass of water was
• hl ?.’ aod again he tried, and again failed.
hnm!™ n !f epa om he swooned, was conveyed
home, and for some hours lay between uncon-
wfM U nnt e al a m 1 delirium - Bishop’s doctors say he
m m ab,e to a PP ear again for a long time in
nron ;,r !? any - concei ve that the failure is agreater
form 8ucce88 UmeaeSS than there would be in uni '
The Duke of Albany takes a great interest
in ethnology. In company with the King of the
Netherlands and the Burgomaster, he visited the
New South Wales court of the Amsterdam Exhi-
bition, the other day, and could not be drawn
away from a large photograph of a number of
Australian aboriginals. The King and the Burgo-
master returned after a few hours and found the
Duke still there measuring the natives’ heads with
a compass and putting the result in his note-book.
“ Well, Duke,” said the King, who is famed for his
keen sense of humour, “ have you succeeded in
obtaining an idea from these odd people’s heads ?’*
No, said the Duke with a gravity beyond his
years; “it’s the most unpromising lot I have, so
ar, operated on. The moral qualities seem to be
entirely atrophied. This little chap on the left ap-
pears to have a sort of rudimentary conscience,
but its usefulness is quite overshadowed by the
phenomenal development of his destructive or-
gans. The bumps of (if your Majesty will pardon
the vulgarism) ‘gammon’ are abnormally protu-
berant in all. It must be some wild tribe in the
far interior.” Just then Sir Saul Samuel came up,
when it was found that a careless attendant had
hung the photograph of Sir Saul’s colleagues in
the wrong place, and that His Royal Highness had
been examining the cranial peculiarities of a f ormer
Ministry.
T General Tom Thumb, whose demise, on
July lo, has plunged two hemispheres into mourn-
ing and cast a gloom over the elfin community,
soared aloft on the wings of an apopletic stroke.
He was bor. in 1838, and made his first appearance
before the public in 1843, under engagement to
ttarnum, at 3 dollars a week, increased on his suc-
cess to one dollar a day. A few years later he did
Europe, and was presented before all the Crowned
Heads, a class of fools who have in all ages been
r e<^oio a susceptible to the attractions of dwarfs,
in 1863 the General ” married Lavinia Warren a
minute damsel four years his junior. The couple
then showed together, and were run after to a pro-
digious extent. Her Majesty Queen Victoria
granted them an audience, and was graciously
pleased to say that she was very much
pleased with them —for what, does not appear;
surely not for being deformities? When first
shown, the General—his real name was Charles
Heywood Stretton - was twenty-six inches in
height, and weighed 19 lb. At four-and-twenty
he was but 30 inches high. Latterly, however,
he was as broad as he was long. To those who
knew him, his death was not a surprise. His
irregular habits and occasional excesses had
seriously alarmed his friends. During the tern-
porary absence of his wife he bad entertained
quite a number of jovial fellows, who were always
ready to partake of the hospitality of the little
ma . n - . yhe stroke of apoplexy that so suddenly
ended his career was probably hastened by indis-
creet indulgence. And Oh ! The General was
once prosecuted for wilfully destroying with the
blade of a penknife, the eye of a youngster who
was indulging in a free peep through a canvass en-
closure The company “parted” liberally, and
Tom was free.
Piety, when it’s the pure merino, never
fails to secure our utmost sympathy. We find
Peter Campbell advertising thus in the Age:— “ A
thirteenth annual and final report re Mr. Peter
Ua ™Pheirs Australian, town, village, bush, and
goldfields (Protestant), voluntary and undenomi-
national philanthropic m ission. During the last 13
years, b0,600 miles travelled by land and sea in live
colonies. The Gospel preached nearly every-
where, and to all classes. Nu nerous cases of
genuine financial distress relieved. Homoeopathic
medicines dispensed gratuitously. 57,000 tracts,
.c*, and many copies of the sacred Scriptures,
given away. Temperance and philanthropic lec-
tures delivered. 809 signatures to the total absti-
nence pledge obtained. Many gaols and hospitals
preached in. Missionary has never been con-
nected nor identified with, nor received aid
from, any denomination or society. Highest
references and testimonials. Annual reports
and accounts have been regularly published,
financial : The evangelist has, during the last two
years, disbursed out of his own slender private
funds, say in all about £150, over and above the
donations given by the general public in aid of the
expenses of this work He has never accepted any
salary for his incessant, unwearied, and very
successful labours. • inis; Owing to the mission-
ary s age (53), also numerous falls from horses and
roughing, privations and hardships in the bush,
&c., during past 13 years, Mr. Campbell, acting
under medics! advice, is now very reluctantly
compelled permanently to relinguisli and give up
the grand and noble work in which he has been in
the bush and on the goldfields so loug engaged
He has, therefore, very great pleasure in hereby
returning to the Victorian public, his heartfelt
thanks for all the kindness, courtesy and material
« w , ha Y epo generously and persistently
afforded to him. All’s well that ends well.’ God
SX? o^ e 9, u ® e , r J and People. Peter Campbell, of
i ’ r'vP* 1 he Melbourne Coffee Palace,
Bourke-street, Melbourne, 37th November, 1883.”
Prince Louis of Battenberg, who was out
here with the Princes ” in the Flying Squadron.
?ni Wh„ was8n ? ucl1 impressed with our beauti-
nnrhTnUnUrV a ? d our Zig-Zag, and our Cupid, and
an . d who 80 deeply impressed a
nf* / f„ y n llng 1 , adie8 > 18 going to be married to one
ot the Queen s grandchildren. Which of them
Heaven only knows—we don’t. We don’t know
• l*alt of them, and don’t want to.
But, just think of it. A “scurrilous” London
, P R «.T«i P Wt^ RB V OL ? S ’- osculation 610,000 per
if 8 P e 2 ba8 the effrontery to allude to the happy
pair as two penniless German nobodies.” Prince
Louis of Battenberg a “nobody!” Gracious!
This is a personal affront to all of ourselves in
he 7? ab >K sort of some-
flavo!,, nf d a Crawl roun d him, and praise the
flavour of the grease we heked off his princely
boots. But this dreadful London paper doesn’t
stop at this blasphemy. It wants to know why
?™JPe. Louis and his lovely bride are to be quar-
tered in Hampton Court Palace gratis, free, for
nothing. And it talks like this:—“If distressed
and hard-up royalty wants bod and board, then, in
Heaven s name, let the Queen issue in the London
Gazette a notification of the fact, head a sub-
scription list with a donation of half-a-crown and
an Indian shawl, and let the nation do the rest.
In less than a week—we believe so thoroughly
caste-worshipping instincts ot certain
classes—a very large sum would be subscribed.
Prince Louis of Battenberg, however, is even
fhl ohQnn n tbis happened. Providence in
Court Circular has appointed him
lieutenant to a vessel which, unless a miracle in-
tervenes, cannot float till next sum uer. For
nearly a year, therefore, Prince Louis of Batten-
berg must draw his salary under the painful cir-
cumstances that he has no work to do. We have
not, and no one in England has, any personal ill-
agS, 1D8 J Louis. He is doubtless a well-meaning
young Teuton. In another sphere of life he would
“ a 7e comefoLoudon, and lived on £80 a year, or
acted as a farst-class waiter at the Tivoli: and it is
to saddlea youth with so great a debt
Ration as the drawing of unearned money.
tVhy are we so hard up?’ asked, with a roar, a
meeting of East-enders a few days ago. The
Ra«^n r wo. P i^ n ' + Th i e appointment of Louis of
Battenberg to a twelve months’ sinecure gives
i? h rf ,o 0 y, t°, the whole question. It is nothing to
England that this young man, or twenty more,
should eat the bread of idleness. We are wealthy
enough to bear that burden. But it is this pruA
! *?is creation of useless offices at high sala-
mi 8 ’ reall y pressing hard upon the nation.
The estimates ought to stand at an expenditure of
fifty millions, and no more. Instead of that, we
pay yearly halt a hundred per cent, additional.”
At noon, on the 36th October, Mrs. Col-
borne Fraser passed away, after a painful illness
almost unnoticed. For many years a teacher o f
dancing and music, she was a lady of culture,
whose kindheartedness prompted to take active
part in many a charitable work in Sydney. We
are sorry to say the world did not prosper with
M*? F . ra | er , ln her later days....Police Superin-
tendunt Sanderson goes to Maitland, vice Moris-
who has gone to Goulburn vice Zouch, de-
?u e S oun ™ 8S ot hosebery is sister to
Ihe wife of the Hon. Eliot Vorjce, who came with
M h^ ke0f Edinb l' rg h. When th"CountsTnd
Ml , 88e8 Rothschild, they wrote a
o£ e , Israelites, a copy of which is in the
Melbourne Public Library...,Mr. Hughan, photo-
grapher to the Government of New Caledonia, is
H® was brother to Mr. Oscar Hughan,
o £ Syduey.. and of Mr. F. M. Hughan, of
u. e i. Victorian Education Department
Kichard Hengist Horne—“ Orion” Horne—some
nine Victorian Gold Commissioner, author of
rii inc? D ’H Dea l b oi Marlowe,” etc., is said to be
• H6 was horn in 1803.. The late Alexander
Buchanan,, squatter of Titanga, near Lismore
L' 1C V. ’ tbe bulk of his property (£74,000) to
rwLS rotll £ r ’ Lieut.-Culonel Buchanan, 5th King’s
Guards.. . . The Imperial military officers
who have arrived to boss the Victorian Forces
were sworn in last week by Colonel Hutton. They
°p, their official duties on 1st Dec. Why
they should have been sworn in passes comprehen-
sion... .Julian the Vagabond, Professor Edenfeldt.
Di. Gee, acd Messrs, Currie, Horsley, Guise, Hun-
A e^’ c aad C ’ W ’ Laurie (correspondent of the South
Austrian Register) sailed for tew Guinea
rom Thursday Island last week A French firm
attempted to arrange with Bentley and Co., for the
Fren S eh tl0 ° r f US , clarke ,, 8 great novel into
t ™nch. His Natural Lite, as the most vivid
and terrific picture of convict life ever penned
S Ig ht cause attention to the convict system of
New Caledonia, which is bad... ..Sir Sidney Water-
London stationer), has started from
Frisco for Japan and China, and is expected soon
to visit Australia. Sir Sidney is stated to have a
parochial mind. ’
* • *
“ Dryad” Johnston has been given another
amp, one on the Mediterranean station O’Don-
nefl, the slayer of Carey, expressed the hope that
he would be acquitted, “not so much for his own
2 as , t0 , r ,t he ® ake , of those who have so kindly
subscribed for his defence." The consideration
evinced by O Donnell is as touching as that shown
by those boss cockies who are crying out about
fe?Mte atl °n ! n nd a °J l account of the public in-
terests. ... O Donnell, however, has been convicted
aad M m imminent peril of meeting with the fatal
present of a hempen cravat from the new British
hangman.. J. W. Rogers, Q.C, of Victoria, is about
to accept a judgeship in Tasmania. We can’t con-
tl?e Tasmanians, seeing that Rogers is a
blgb Tory lawyer of the Loughborough type—-
wedded to ancient precedent, which he reverences
as an African does his fetish: crusty in temper—in
a word, a compound of all those qualities which in
several judicial dignitaries on this side of the border
have won for them the character—they deserve,
p o ,L rl£l ? b Cabinet has offered to nominate
Goschen for the t'peakership. Should George
Joachim win the ‘ Irst Commoner ’’ship he will be
a veritable • Jew ,ie mots Miss Fortescue, who is
to marry Lord Garmoyle, is said to be niece to
Tenmel, the cartoonist of Lon* on Punch Mr
Jefferson Lowndes, Amateur Champion of the
Thames, and winner of the Diamond Sculls for
five years m succession, has just taken his M.A.
degree at Oxford. From the time Mr. Lowndes
began his aqm tic career in 1874 to the present
year, he has taken part in 180 races, out of which
he has won no less than 140. ...The informers
Hanlon, Smith, and Kavanagh are, it is said, to go
to India. Carey chose to go to the Cape in pre-
ference to India, where he had been offered the
appointment of clerk of the works to the new
COUr8eo£ erection at Kurrachee.. A
little Melbourne paper speaking of a breakfast
tnl el^?" enry Irvi " g ’ Previous to his departure
™A men ?’ remarks that Swinbourne made a
speech as high-flown as his poetry. It’s a little
10 Vi gh m 0n Akernon Swinburne, to be mixed up
with Tom Swinbourne, the actor, and wo eould
imagine the disgust ot the aesthetic bard if he
knew of such a ridiculous mistake.
Do not Make aoisc or you will
Wake the JPolicemaa He jSit-
tmg on the Door Step asleep. It
is very Hard on him to Have to
Sleep out of Doors these Hot
Nights There is a .Bank Jjeing -
Robbed round the Corner, and a
VVoT-vtart i s being Killed in. the
riexl Street It the T’oliccmap
Waked up he might Find it out
ajid Arrest Somebody peo-
ple Believe this what Polioemcr)
are _for, but the Policemen do not
Think


Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of PAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NE8DAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS k SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane t« Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamship*:
♦ To arrive.
600
900
1500
1500
600
1300
700
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (limited),
43 Bang Street, Sydney.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th November, 1883.
HIS Excellency the Governor, with the
advice of the Executive Council, is
pleased to notify that the following reserved
or boundary road, a tracing of which may
be seen at this office, which has been applied
for to be closed and alienated under the 10th
section of the Crown Lands Alienation Act
of 1861, will be closed at the expiration of
three months after the date of this notice,
if no valid objections be previously lodged,
and a yrant of the site of the road so closed
will issue in accordance with such applica-
tion; and all persons interested are invited
to state, within three months from this date,
their objections, if any, to such road being
closed, or to such grant being made.3
JAMES S. FARNELL.
Schedule of an Unnecessary Road applied
for to be closed and alienated under the 10th
clause of the Crown Lands . > llenation Act of
1861.
No. 19560,1568 ; Hill, Clarke and Co.; St. James,
Cumberland; perch (about) ; Part of the
boundary road separating applicant’s allotments
in section No. 100, being Nos. 34,35,36, 37, and 38, of
534 perches, 5)4 perches, 534 perches, 5)4 perches,
and 5)4 perches respectively, from the western
building line of Macquarle-street, such building-
line being 13 feet back from the existing kerb.
100 GUINEAS. too
Anniversary Sheffield handicap,
to be run at
ORANGE,
On the 36th JANUARY, 1884.
ANNIVERSARY SHEFFIELD HANDICAP, of
100 Guineas, open to all comers ; 150 yards; to
be run in divisions ; each man’s running to be
roped. First prize, 60 guineas ; second prize,
35 guineas ; third prize, 10 guineas; fourth
prize, 5 guineas.
Nominations. 1 guinea each, to be in the hands
of the hon. secretaries on or before Saturday, 83nd
December, 1883 ; handicap to be declared by the
31st December, 1883; acceptance, 1 guinea, c loses
on Monday, 31st January, 1884.
RULES
(which competitors are requested te particularly
notice) :—
No nomination will be received unless accom-
panied by the entrance fee. Competitors must
five their colours at time of entry, also their per-
ormances for the past twelve months. Any com-
petitor giving a false name, address, or wrong
performances, or otherwise misleading the ban di-
cappers, will be at once disqualified. The decision
of the Judges and Stewards to be final and bind-
ing in all cases. The race will be run under the
Sheffield rules.
OTHER EVENTS :
Value, Value,
4610. AMATEUR CUP. 4610,
Distance, 150 yards. Nominations, 5s., to be in the
hon. secretaries’ hands by the 34th December,
1883. Handicap declared on 31st December.
Acceptances, 5s., closes on the 31st January,
1884.
MAIDEN PLATE,
ONE HOUR GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE,
BOYS’ RACE,
&c., Ac.
See local papers.
R. S. NELSON, j Joint
R. H. PALMER, > Honorary
T. F. HOLLANDS,) Secretaries.
ICTORIA RACING CLUB.
NEW YEAR’S DAY MEETING, 1884.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 1.
HURDLE RACE. >
To start at 1 o’clock.
A handicap sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each, £110s. ft.,
with 150 added. About two miles.
THE BAGOT PLATE.
A sweepstakes of 6 sovs. each, h. ft., with 350
added. For three years old and upwards. The
second horse to receive 50 sovs., and the third 3o
sovs. Weight for age. One mile and a quarter.
THE NORMANBY STAKES.
A sweepstakes of 30 sovs. each, 3 ft., with 300 added.
For two year olds. Colts, 8st. 10®.; fillies, 8st.
7®. The second horse to receive 50 sovs., ana
the third 35 sovs. out of the stake. The winner
of the Maribyrnong Plate to carry 7®. extra:
of any other race (not being a handicap) of the
value of 100 sovs. or upwards, 4®. extra. Five
furlongs. Forfeit to be declared and paid totne
V.R.C. secretary before 11 a.m. on the day before
the race, or the nominator will be liable for
whole stake. (94 subs.)
THE STANDISH PLATE.
A handicap sweepstakes of 10 sovs.ieach, 5 ft., wfJj
500 added. For three year olds and upwards, i
second horse to receive 100 sovs. and the t«r
sovs. One mile.
MIDSUMMER HANDICAP. . Hpd .
A sweepstakes of 10 sovs. each, 3 ft., with “third
The second horse to receive 50sovs. and tne Vhc
35 sovs. For three year olds and upwards.
winner of any handicap race of the value "
sovs. alter the declaration of the weigni,
carry 5 lb extra. One mile and a half.
THE CRITERION STAKES. ft
A handicap sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each, * ’ r .
with 150 added. For two years old. Three j
ters of a *kile.
The general entries must be made at the office f, ,
the Secretary of the V.R.C., A.J.C., or • •
before 4 o’clock on the afternoon of* r ,^ lare d
December, 1883. The handicaps will.he. ern ber,
on or before 11a.m. on Thursday, 13th D
or such other date as the committee may
ave where otherwise specified. —
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
PAINING matters of a niedical
ghly interesting to the sex.Pos
cover, for 3s. 6d., money publisher,
;ter. lie be had only from the pu
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 783 G.P.O.,Sy< lney -
P E R A
USE.
lee and Manager W. J. Wilson
Continued Success of
MB. W Y B E R T REEVE
and his Comedy Company.
Brilliant Audiences. Enthusiastic Reception.
EVERY EVENING, until further notice,
Paul Merritt’s Comedy Drama,
STOLEN KISSES 1 STOLEN KISSES 1
Immense Success of COLONEL IKE AUSTIN,
assisted by his Manager, Mr. A. Litherland Cunard,
who will appear each evening in their
MARVELLOUS FEATS of FANCY SHOOTING.
Magnificent Scenery and Stage Appointments.
Stage Manager .. .. Mr. Herbert Flemming
Acting Manager .. .. Mr. J. W. Dodge.
Overture at 8 : carriages, 10.30. . .
Box office at Huenerbein’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained at Roberts’s, next Theatre.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Wtt.t.tamson, Garner, & Musqroyk.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
The Crowning Triumph of the Season 1
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
LA MASCOTTE I LA MASCOTTE I
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
General Business Manager, Mr. H. H. Harwood.
gATURDAY POPULAR CONCERTS
PROTESTANT HALL.
POPULAR ARTISTS I
POPULAR PRICES—2s. and Is.
Conductor Mr. Charles Hukkerbein
M
EDUCATIONAL.
IBS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
- ..-'TjOTTR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
1CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited. _
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
84 HUNTER STREET, opposite Blizabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Newcastle—19th November to December 3.
Maitland—December 6th.
Sydney to follow, with George Gordon’s magni-
ficent
DIORAMA OF THE EGYPTIAN WAR I
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
8YL. RYAN, Agent.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &c.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 200
people; splendid piano, scenery, &o. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
H. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS
at 2.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sung by a
Chorus of 600 Public School Children, assisted by
Miss Marie St. Clair, Mr. J. Moon, Mr. F. Brewer,
and Mr. A. H. Gee.
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Alpin.
Conductor—Herr Hugo Alpin.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations. Spe-
cial concession to children.
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C. E.
Jeannerett to run additional steamers, as well as
trams, to the Park gate, five minutes walk to
Exhibition.
The budding will, by the kind permission of Mr.
E. 8. Cracknell, be lighted in the evening with
electric light.
Admission to the opening ceremony, 2s. 6d.; in
the evening, Is.
CHAS. B. ROWLING.
Hon. Sec.
MUDGEB ATHLETIC CARNIVAL,
will be held on
THE NEW SHOW GROUND, MUDGEE,
ON 26xh JANUARY, 1884.
Patron : C. W. Lawson. Esq., J.P.
Judges : Dr. Swanston and S. A. Blackman,
Esq., J.P.
towards : Messrs. J. Loneragan, J.P.; C. Harper,
W Wilton. J/P.; F. R. Tindall, S. Tuckerman,
and H. J. Collins.
Referees : Messrs. E. Daly and A. McLaughlan.
Starter : C. D. Meares, Esq.
landioappers : Messrs. J. Webster, E. Antill, and
E. Conyngham.
> romoters : Messrs. W. B. Smith, G. H. Cohen, G.
H. Hill, and Edwin Richards.
MUDGEB GRAND SHEFFIELD HANDICAP,
of 100 sovs., open to every ped. in the world:
140 yards ; to be run in squads. Winner, 70
sovs,; second, 15 sovs.; third, 10 sovs.; fourth,
6 sovs. Nomination, 1 sov. only, to reach the
Hon. Secs., Mudgee, before 8 p.m., on Wednes-
day 2nd January Acceptance, 1 sov., closes
at 8 p.m. on Monday, 21st January. Handicap
to be declared on or before Wednesday, 9th
January,
THE CONSOLATION STAKES HANDICAP,
distance, 125 yards ; for all comers, except the
first and second in the Sheffield Handicap.
First prize, £7 ; second, £3. Nomination, 6s.,
to be received on the ground up to 2 o’clock on
the day of the race ; acceptance, 4s. Handicap
to be declared immediately after the running
of the Sheffield Handicap. Winners of the
Sheffield to receive back their nomination fee.
RULES AND REGULATIONS.
No nomination will be received unless accom-
panied by the necessary fee.
Competitors must declare their colours at time
of entry, and give all their performances for the
last two seasons.
Any competitor giving a false name, address,
wrong performance, or otherwise misleading the
handloappers, will be at once disqualified.
G. H. HILL, 1 Joint
W. B. SMITH, f Hon. Secs.
IClxe Bug'g'ies!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
Ton GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERT STYLE OF BEGOT.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Pitt Street,
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
■AMES
r-c:
SU1£
MARTIN * c»
388 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
our’Lawn Mowers
are all GUARANTEED,
and bo confident are we of always being able
to give satisfaction that we will send
our I.awn mowers on approval.
We make the >
lawa Mower Trade
a 1
and hare in Stock all sizes, so the require-
ments of everyone can be met.
| Our Prices range from 30 Shillings,
I and any Purchaser who is dissatisfied after
trial, is at liberty to return the machine at
pur expense.
I We Invite Inspection, and cheerfully
<• furnish every information.
REMEMBER. 1 WE GUARANTEE EVERY LAWN MOWER WE
SEND OUT.
kt
Peapes & Shaw’s
STANDARD " CLOTHING.
We have
now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to he found in any house in the city.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
STANDARD CLOTHING
is
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 33s. 6d., 35s., 42s., 45s., 50s., 55s.
BLUB SERGE SUITS, 35s. and 43s.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6». fid. each, suitable for garden or office.
(WEED SAC COATS, 15s. fid. and 31s
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. fid., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, 10s. fid., 13s. fid., 16s. fid.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 25s. and 30s.
NICHOLLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
LIGHT TWEED OVERCOATS, 42s., 50s., 55s.
“SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. fid. EACH.
CHRISTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
BOYS’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
whistle, complete.
RELIABLE MACINTOSH CLOTH IN G.-All
descriptions made to our special order.
BOATING, CRICKETING, and LAWN-TENNIS
HATS.
WHITE FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
ing, 23s. fid.
FLANNEL TROUSERS, 13s fid. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK
9s. fid. each ; 3 for 27s.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, mi;
or roll collars, fis. fid., 10s. fid,, 12s. fid,, 14s.
18s. fid., 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 13s. fid. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. fid.
18s. fid., 21s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. fid., 13s. fid., 15s. fid
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CO —
COATS, 18s. fid., 21s.
llltary
is. fid.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-streec.
OUR MERCERY DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season.
GENT’S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
stripes, from 12s. per dozen.
GENT’S UNDER SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Baibriggan
Anglo-Indian, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match.
GENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or B.B., 30s., 40s., 50s. half-dozen.
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 30e., 40s., 42s. the half-dozen
NEW LINEN COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patem
side tabs for holding scarf in position.
SCARFS in all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
Albert, Four-in-Hand.
UMBRELLAS, 8,10,12,14,16 ribs. Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. fid. to 35s.
THE NEW TITANIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
THE NEW COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS,
SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 21s., 30s., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-fttreet.


PROSPECTUS
OP THE
New South Wales Pyrites
Patent Company
(limited),
For Extracting Gold, Slver, and other Metals
from Pyritous and other Ores.
Capital £60,000, in 60,000 Shares of
£1 each.
30,000 Shares will be allotted to the Patentee and
Associates, fully paid up. 10,000 Shares will be
held in reserve for future disposal, for the
benefit of the Company, and the remaining
20,000 Shares are now offered to the public on
the following terms, viz.: 2s. 6d. per Share on
Application, 2s. 6d. on Allotment, 2s. on Regis-
tration of Company, and three calls of Is. each
at intervals of not less than one Month there-
after. The Balance will only be called up if
necessary for the operations of the Company,
in calls not exceeding Is. per Share, at inter-
vals of not less than one month.
It is particularly desired to afford working
miners and others of comparatively small means
an opportunity of interesting themselves in this
Company, so that as far as possible this important
movement may assume, as it should do, a national
character. To place it therefore within the reach
of everyone, it has been decided to invite applica-
tions for any number of Shares from twenty-five
upwards.
Provisional Directors:
The Hon. George Richard Birrs, M.L.A., Col,
Treasurer.
James Henry Young, Esq., M.L.A.
Daniel Melhado, Esq., (Messrs. Melhado and
Curtis),
Thos. Robertson, Esq., (Messrs. Robertson,
Fisher, and Ralfe),
Alex. Gray, Esq., (Messrs. Eldred & Co.), Consul
for Chili.
William Ed ye Mort, Esq., (Mort’s Dock and
Engineering Co.)
Solicitors:
Messrs. Allen & Allen, Elizabeth-street.
Bankers:
Oriental Bank Corporation.
Secretary, Pro Tern.;
Joseph Page, 287 George-street.
Broker:
B. C. Davies, 287 George-street.
The whole of the Subscribed Capital (£10,000)
will be placed so the credit of the Company for the
purchase of Plant, its erection, and securing a
suitable site, less One Thousand Pounds to be paid
to the Patentee, to cover all preliminary and other
expenses of floating and forming the Company.
OBJECTS.
I—This Company is being formed for the purpose
of acquiring, by purchase, the entire patent
rights in the Colony of New South Wales taken
out by E. r. Parnell for the effectual treatment
of Auriferous Pyrites and other ores.
II.—To purohase and erect working plant, specially
devised for the above purpose, and to be con-
structed under the immediate supervision of
the Patentee: plans and specifications of which
can be inspected at the Offices of the Broker.
HI.—To secure a convenient site on which to erect
the Works, and to extend operations should
sufficient inducement be offered.
IV.—To purchase for treatment such parcels of
payable pvrltes as may be offered to the Com-
pany ; or to treat the same on account of con-
signors, on Royalty.
The method of extracting the precious and base
metals from pyrites under this process is so simple
and economic, that it is believed the Gold Mining
Industry of the Colony will become thoroughly
revived, and established on a permanent basis.
A perusal of the subjoined statement of trials
will be sufficient to show what can be done under
this system, and it may be observed that in no in-
stance has more than 5 dwts. of gold per ton been
lost, as compared with the results obtained bv fire
assay.
The quantities of ore treated range from a few
lbs. up to 11 cwt.; and though, in many instances
the most refractory ores were submitted the
results in all cases showed the gold to have been
thoroughly extracted.
Appended are certificates from two of the most
eminent Assayers in the Colonies, which will con
vince everyone of tfie value of this process.
The 10,000 shares held in reserve will when
Issued, be first offered to the existing members of
the Company, pro rata, at such price as may be
agreed on, before being placed on the open mar-
ket; or they may be distributed in like manner
wit hout consideration.
The Patentee grants to this Company the exclu-
sive license to use the Patent within the presei
the Colony of New South Wales: tl
bounds of , Taie8 . tD
only reservation being that, should the Compan
cease to use the process for twelve months aftt
the starting of the works, from any cause othe
than the breaking down of machinery or the fai
ure of the supply of Pyrites, then all rights an
titles granted shall lapse to the Patentee.
Dividends will be made payable on all shart
alike, except that the 20,000 contributing share
first placed on the market will carry a preferentia
dividend from profits of 10 per cenLper annm
during the first three years.
The Company proposes to purchase Tailing!
Pyrites, and other ores; but shall be debarred fror
joining in any mining speculations.
The Provisional Directors may declare the Com
pany formed as soon as three-fourths of the share
have been applied for; and shall then, or when th
share list is closed, call a General Meeting of th
Shareholders to consider and adopt the Articles o
Association, to elect Directors, Solicitors, Managei
Auditors, &c., kc , and to consider any other point
connected with the subject which may be nrm» r i
brought before the meeting, proper]
There can be no doubt that large profits will h
realised from working such a Patent as this Th
production of rich Auriferous Pyrites in'larv
quantities, will follow immediately on the fact n
the economic and successful treatment of sue
metals becoming generally known, and the sunnl
of valuable material need only be limited in ouan
tity by the machine capacity for its treatment
The process is so simple that any man of ©rdinar-
intelligence can master the subject in a few dn™
and work it efficiently.
Treating ores of the above average value thi
profits accruing from Royalty to this Company
working one machine only, will, it is confident!
expected, reach 50 per cent, on the capital.
th A B Pa k tiCUlarS CaD be obtained on application lx
CERTIFICATE OF TEST MADE BY MR W A
DIXON, F.I.C., F.C.S. A
I have tested the process of extraction of got
from Pyrites, as patented by E. B. Parnell oi
several samples of Pyrites. The operation wa
carried put with a roughly Improvised apparatus
and I have no doubt apparatus such as tha
described m the patent would have product
better results. As it was, I am able to state tha
the mercury remained bright and showed no sig
of sickening. This is due no doubt to th© extrar
Don of the base metals before amalgamation
believe that E. B. Parnell s process will actua'll
separate gold from pyrites. Subjoined is note o
results
Mixed Pyrites.
, » w Vi 02 ' A S rs - of sold per ton.
1. R.H. 18oz. 17dwts. 15 grs.
2. R.H. 24oz. 17dwts. 4 grs. ”
(Signed] WILL. A. DIXON, F.I.C.,’f.C.S.
PUBLIC LIBRARY, MUSEUMS, and NATION A
1GALLERY OP VICTORIA W
T . , . , Melbourne, 26th June, 1883
I have treated a quantity of Pyritous ore hi
a very refractory character, by the proci
suggested and patented by E. B. Parnell wl
excellent results; treated by the ordinary prom
the gold remained dull and would not amalgam*
without g reat loss of both gold and mercury
B. Parnell’s process is simple and easffy worked
(Signed) J, COSMO NEWBERRY
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer.” Druggists. Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney
General Agents.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ La Mascotte ” p.8.
Opera House—“ Stolen Kieses ” ft.
You’re going to hare some “ Shows ” you’ll
like, this time. Something, as they say in Byron's
“£100,000”—“ light and sparkling.” Before a dis-
criminating public has digested these pars., r any
a pretty pink ear will repose upon this page, and
many a musical voice will cry—“ Oh, Mai—isn’t
it ” and then run away to crack the leg-of-
mutton bone for soup. We like to write in this
playful, simple way, for several reasons. But
principally because our efforts in the dramatic
line, in all their ; oft ingenuousness—in all their
gauzy good nature, give, we are informed, an im-
petus to the club and knuckle-duster trade, which,
prior to our inaugurating these airy notices, was
in a moribund condition. But there I we are
always benefiting humanity in some way; and the
strange part of it is, the more we try to benefit it,
the more it seems to load its little gun.
• • •
We begin, then; “The Mascotte” has
been running all the week at the Royal; but we
are sorry to say that the original Duke, with the
two half-crowns, has been ill, and Mr. John Wal-
lace has had to play the part in his stead. Mr.
Harwood was so queer during one part of the
week, that there were rumours that he was going
to pass ’em in. Hearing this, we ran round
to the theatre to enquire, and were much relieved
to discover the patron of the “Sarsaparilla troupe”
in an adjoining hostelrie, committing an aggra-
vated assault on what bore a suspicious resem-
blance to beef and biscuits, “ Has he been very
bad ?” we inquired in a low tone of the landlord.
“Very,” was the reply; “he has only just found
his appetite.” And, uttering a deep groan, he
ordered the boy to go outside and put up the
shutters. “Another convalescent low comedian,”
he tearfully moaned, “would bring the brokers
in.”
• • •
Mr. John Wallace has formed his own con-
ception of Laurent the General; and when we
saw him in it, we enjoyed ourselves just as much
as if we had been cleaning knives. Mr. W.’s sing-
ing is of a somewhat entertaining description.
We should like to charter him to sing for us all our
lives. And this reminds us that there is another
great warbler whom we’ll charter one day—when
anything happens to our saw-mill. The rest are
as ever—or more so. Each morgeau being given
more so than ever.
# • *
On Saturday, “ Patience,” with Yernon as
Bunthorne. Archibald Forbes said Howard’s
Bunthorne was the best in the world. But we are
sure that Mr. Vernon's Bunthorne, if not the best
iu the world, is by far the best in Woolloomooloo.
And Woolloomooloo takes a lot of beating, let
us tell you.
* * * *
George Darrell is in town. We saw him
the other night, and he struck us as being very
pretty. He wears lovely diamonds in his snowy
shirt and his taper fingers are with rings begirt;
and when he smiles, so beams his sparkling eye,
you yearn to see him smile once more, and die.
Many writers would have “ displayed ” this verse;
but, with an oyster-like modesty, we refrain from
doing so. We have our reasons for this: even an
ovster can have its reasons. We have always been
partial to the oyster, by the way-chiefly, we think,
because he does not sing at popular concerts. To
return to George, however. He tells us t at he is
aoing to make a tremendous splash with the
“Sunny South” at the Opera House, on the 21st;
and though he knows that he will have to play
atrainst the pantomime, and another little opposi-
tion in the form of Chiarini’s Circus, he is sure of
success. As he said this, his face lit up with a glow
of triumph, and determination stood out on every
line of his finely-chiselled eye-brows. And the
people who were there left off chewing cloves as
one man. They stepped back to look at and admire
him All felt that he was great; all felt that he
was more than great. Ho was sublime!
* * *
It is a sweet and beautiful thing to talk to
George There is but one man in the perfesh.
whose conversation is more enthralling. And that
man is one who will tell you glibly of how he used
to “go round” with George R. Sims, and dine at
tho Savage with Gus.—otherwise Mr. Augustus
Harris, who, like Miss Petowker, Is of “the
Theatre Royal, Drmy Lane.” At the expense of
Morritt he is merry, and not centent with patron-
ising Pettit, he calls Wllmott “Charley.” It was
onlv when he called the author of the “ Woman in
White ” “ Old Wilks,” that we staggered out to
breathe and hardly had we time to take more than
one flsh'-like gasp at the moon, than 25 ladles, all in
splendid carriages, drove up and asked us, in an
emotional whisper if George Darrell was inside.
“ Do vou want him ? we said. Only to see him I”
t hev exclaimed in a hysterical chorus—“ only to
see him, before we die.” That’ll tell you 1
* ♦ * *
We went to “a grand dramatic entertain-
ment” on Monday night. The programme set
forth many attractions ; not the least of which
being that the performance was to take place at
tne Academy of Simmons-that gentleman, we
must tell you, being now “ the sole lessee.” After
this it will be acknowledged that there is nothing
now’ wanting to gain for this charming establish-
ment quite a prismatic popularity! The enter-
tainment in question, however, had nothing to do
with Harry. It was by the Gaiety Dramatic Club,
in aid of the Sydney Progressive Lyceum Build-
ing Fund. The audience was a distinguished one
—consisting, chiefly, of friends of the performers,
and Mr E. Greville. The distress was inaugurated
bv “Not Guilty,” which, when we knelt
by our little bed, after the show, we offered
up a thanksgiving was only in one act.
This over, there was a “musical interlude,”
which was extremely diverting. Mr. Henry
Whiting came out and sang “The Old Sexton.
Mr W has a voice that resembles still waters—so
very deep is it. At an early stage of the lyric, it
became palpable to all that the recent racing
season must have affected the pianist, since that
gentleman raced with the vocalist all through.
Sometimes Mr. Whiting was ahead, and sometimes
the piano; but the contest was always exciting,
for the reason it was always a matter of doubt
whether the singer would get a chord even after
his first “ Ga-therud.” We regret to state that
the performance, though it charmed us, did not
find favour with a few hypercritical fanatics
amongst the audience, and on some person hissing,
the singer having (by mi ans of five minutes of
powerful gesticulation) stopped the piano, said:
“ I hear some hissing up there. If the party
thinks he can sing it better than me, let him come
down, and I’ll give him a show for it.” There
being no response, he added, “ I shan’t detain you
above a minute or two,” and then once again
plunged into a contest with the instrumentalist.
Professor Orton then gave, with assistance, a
Negro entertainment. The Professor is appa-
rently a regular pro., and he was diverting; but
his assistant was a gentleman of exceeding feeble-
ness. While the sketch was going on, we sent
round and asked the Professor to kill him. But,
as no mangled corpse was hurled down in the
orchestra, we have a suspicion that the man we
despatched with the message was his brother.
• 9 •
Mr. G. Linden gave an Irish recitation
next, which told of a gentleman who was first
kicked into a bucket and then kicked out of it.
It was very Interesting. On being encored, Mr. L.
ran on and said: “ I’ll see yez later. I’ve got to go
all the way to Bullock Island, and have only got
3d. for a drink”—a witticism our natural dense-
ness precluded our seeing the point of—though it
seemed to be keenly relished by the unperfumed
aloft. Miss Emily Ahern, a fascinating young
thing in a black polonaise, white bed-curtain
skirt and yellow shoes with red rosettes (a truly
charming and artistic combination, for whicfi—a
bow—we thank her), then sang a song with flags—
the first one—the Stars and Stripes—bearing a
somewhat close resemblance to a Hop Bitters’
poster; and at the last verse brought out a Custom
House banner, and gave us something about the
flag that is the greatest, the fairest ever seen—the
emblem of Her Gracious Majesty the Queen—a
loyal sentiment which was, we are delighted to
say, highly relished. We liked Miss A. very much;
but—this being an unselfish age—we might suggest
to Emily the advisability of presenting her little
sister with some of her foot. Mr. Harry Cowan
then gave two impersonations in capital style,
during which there ensued between the pianist
and the piano a struggle of a deadly nature.
Mdlles. Searle and Walker (one in pink and one in
yellow) came on after this, and sang a duet.
Sometimes Miss Searle sang a bit of it, and some-
times Miss Walker wrestled with a slab of it, and
then they would attack it both together. It was
an uncommon performance. We should like to
know where these young ladies reside. If it’s
anywhere near our lane, we shall move. We can't
afford—with boys’ boots at 4s. 9d.- to be charmed
by the song of the Siren.
* * *
There was a lot more of it, and “ Muldoon’s
Christening,” which included the whole strength
of the company. A fulsomely flattering notice of
this has been eliminated by order of the baker.
* * *
Mr. Charles Huenerbein has changed the
night of the Popular Concerts from Saturday to
Wednesday, and has engaged, amongst others,
Earley and Leopold Jordan. A notice not being
practicable this issue, we may merely state that it
is understood that Earley is to sing, and that
Leopold is to do a monologue, with musical in-
terpolations of a startling character. Wo forget,
now, whether Leopold plays the niano by his ear
or with his ear. Some way, anyhow. His style
is similar, it seems, to that of Howard Paul. If it
be only half as good as Howard’s, it is not very
likely to Paul upon the audience. And we must
Wiite that ’Art’s ! Appy ’Ours has arrived,and is in
great trim. As Henry contemplates doing a season
in Sydney, it will be probably some time before
we shall be compelled with tears in our eyes to
ejaculate “Good-bye, sweet Hart.”
* * * *
Harry Simmons, Esq., who may, with some
injustice, be entitled, the Haverley of the Horient
—we mean Orient—had a flutter on Tuesday night
with the Magnet Minstrels. The Magnet Minstrels,
it se ms, c insist of W. Nesbit, George Ainsley, J.
Bremner, Alf. Freeman, T. Scott, and J. Franks.
It would be interesting to know where all these
gentlemen came from; though we have no doubt
all of them are Emersons in their own country.
Well, we hope Harry will attract with his Mag-
nets. It is time, anyhow. And it is always a long
lane (we should say Magnet) that has no Churning.
And, let us tell you that, on Friday, Drs. Ellis and
Kemmis are going to give “a grand musical and
literary entertainment r ’ in aid of (we quote) “SS.
Simon and Jude’s Church.” We have not the
faintest idea what this means; but being (in a
small way) mashers, ourselves, our sympathies are
naturally with Jude’s church. Church war-
dens, Geo. Marshall, M.D., W. T. Toose, and
J. Simmons, announce that reserved seats are
2s., and the gallery Is. They further advertise
that Mr. M. H. Stephen, Q.C., will be in the chair.
The gallery will be our little dart. And let us not
forget. Besides hearing about this, next week,
you shall (if you are temperate in all things—choir
practice included) hear all about The Widow Mag-
gregor’s Ben. at the Protestant Hall; of Jim Rain-
ford in the “Winning Hazard;” of Mr. Buckle
(who is to sing, we suppose, “ Shoe Fly;”) and of
Miss Dernelly, who is e-Dernelly singing “ Sainted
Mothah;” and of the prowess of the Eastern Sub-
urban band. All this—and for sixpence, eh I
Lucky people I
• m
But this is mere leather and prunella to what
is coming. The latest is really out about Searrelle
and Lingard. Little Luscombe had it all his own
way in the American Exchange Lavatory, and
William Horace’s head was all the time amongst
the basins during the light, and over one of them
afterwards. Some time ago Searrelle wrote a
poem called “ The Maniac,” which he inscribed in
a rather tropical manner to Alice Lingard. Well—
but stay! Little S. has brought a libel action-
damages, £1500—against the Referee, for saying
that he had slithered to New York with the
" Estrella” dresses without going through the
form of anteing up. Reading this, the gifted com-
poser at once took steamer to London, and issued
the writ. Under these circumstances, we shall not
say anything about the “Maniac.” And after
all this, it comes natural to tell you
that poor old Coppin came a cropper
over his Adelaide spec., and that Jennie
Lee opened there last Monday; and, further, that
Miss Blanche Reives gave a lecture the other day
at Gundagai, on muffins, or music, or something,
and the navvies during the evening bombarded
the hall with rocks, upon which Miss Alice said to
Gundagai Bailey:— “ It strikes me as curious
that men whose occupation is to make a reservoir
should, when they get a respite, be afflicted with a
sort of hydrophobia for the time being. They dam
water for a fortnight, and then say ‘D—n water!’
I suppose. Rather too bad to quarrel with their
occupation thus!’” Further still, learn that Mrs.
Langtry is in the States playing “ Peril ”; and,
what is more to the purpose, Slind-Reader Rice is
in Charters Towers, doing as much biz. as he can
Rice-onably expect, Etpuis—voiU!
* * ♦ -Ji-
lt is with a feeling almost amounting to
reluctance that we commence this notice. Four
square inches of cerulean sky, which we can see
through a hole in the office window, assures us
that the day is fine; and we don’t care to work on
fine days. On fine days we like to go out fishing,
with a square bottle of shandygaff and a truss of
tripe sandwiches. We never catch any fish, but
then we never have to carry any home. This ad-
vantage would not strike most people; but then
most people are not so clever as we are From
outside, to-day, comes, so taunt us, the sounds of
thoughtless gaiety—the whistle of the man with
the wheelbarrow, and the lilt of the bricklayers’
labourer. Joyous times have they—the one run-
ning up a ladder all day, with a little hod on his
shoulder, full of little brown bricks ; the other
trotting up and down with sand and mortar, which
he has only got to empty in a heap, and then trot
away and fill again, and enjoy himself all the time.
But there you are; some people have the luck
of it.
• • •
Mr. Wybert Reeve has hardly been one of
those people for some little time past, so that we
are all the more pleased now to be able to say that
his luck seems to be on the turn. Since the pro-
duction of “Stolen Kisses,” there have been
good b ouses every night. The pit and boxes are
filled now, and in tae dress-circle there is not such a
distressing glare of red as there used to be—which
will at once convey to the perceptive mind the
fact that the red rep of the seats is covered. And,
indeed, this is so. One can tell, even before enter-
ing, that the house is good, by the gleaming smile
of Mr. Dodge, who sits on a chair in the front, and
div’des with the sumptuous staircloth the admira-
tion of those who pass. It is an enthralling study
to watch the expressions that flit across his mir-
ror-like countenance as his luminous chameleon
eyes rest upon each person who passes him. You
can at once tell when the free-list push in, by the
elevation of his finely-curved, horse-shoe eyes,
and the arctic smile that plays about his gener-
ously measaro pentagonal mouth. Altogether, it
is a liberal education merely to watch him, while
to have heard him tell some of his stories is a
joy known only to ourselves and a favoured few,
of whom we are the sole survivors. The others
either died on the spot, or went home and drowned
themselves in the wash-house copper.
But to the play, and a very nice little play
it is. There is one thing very noticeable about
any production with which Mr. Reeve has to do,
and that is that it is nearly always smooth and
equal—by which we mean that all the members of
the company play well together, and (• eem to know
what they are doing. We fancy we have said
something like this before, but then everyone
repeats himself occasionally—even the milkman.
Mr. Reeve, as Tom Spirit, the old boatman, is even
better than the part. There are very few old
boatmen, we fancy, who could pronounce their
words so clearly, and keep their clothes so clean as
this old boatman. But, indeed, Mr. Reeve is very
good in this character, as he is pleasant in
anything. Miss Maggie Knight (Cherrie Spirit) has
not the chance here that she had in “ Diplomacy.”
Yet she is very nice—though, we think, scarcely
sparkling enough for the part. In fact, we begin
to believe that Miss Knight has found her real forte
in serious parts. There is a tender thoughtfulness
about her rosy ears, and a soft pathos in the folds
of her back-hair, which mark her out at once as
an interpreter of emotion. There is not such
power in Miss Ethel Adele. She is charming, of
course, but lacks firmness when she shuts her little
elliptic mouth. As Jennie Temple, however, she
does not require to be more than gay and airy,
which she is to a degree. Her effectiveness, how-
ever, is—if we may say it, and live—somewhat
spoiled by the uneeolian tones of her voice. We
might hint to her that several people have lost
their voices. If she would act upon this hint, her
path would be over the necks of adoring millions.
Miss Adele was applauded very warmly on two or
three occasions—once especially, after her speech
to Cherrie Spirit, in the second act. In applaud-
ing her, the audience discovered a discrimination
at once novel and pleasing. As a rule, Opera
House audiences are not very demonstrative. This
is not so much because they cannot appreciate the
points of a situation as because they are asleep,
* * *
Perhaps this was why Mr. George Coleman,
who played the part of Viscount Tragmar, was
not buried in bouquets. There was a gruesome
impossibility about his make-up which did not
deceive the most credulous. We do not go so far
as to deny that he was a correct picture of an
English nobleman. We will content ourselves
with saying that the nobleman must have been a
good while dead. Mr. Herbert Flemming is not
more than an histrionic phenomenon as Felix
Freemantle, and Mr. Frank Gerald was within the
bounds of admiration as Fred Gay. Mr. Edwin
Palmer was very good. And—upon our knees we
ask her pardon—but we were almost forgetting
Miss Bessie Palmer, which to say she was first-class
as Mrs. Jorkins, would be mere trifling with the
feelings her impersonation aroused in our bound-
ing bosom. And now we think we have done the
fair thing by everybody, and can with honest
satisfaction go out and kill the cashier.
* * * *
The Majeronis (writes our Melbourne cor-
respondent) closed their season at the Bijou with
“Friendship, or the Two Sergeants,” rounding off
with the comedietta of “ A Kiss,” on the 23rd. In
emotional drama these two artists have main-
tained throughout, during the season which is
now over, the high character achieved by them
on the opening night of “ Jealousy.” The Signora
especially lasted well. Her representations were
invariably the result of careful reading, ennobled
by a capacity for idealisation which lifted many
situations, flat enough in themselves, on to a very
high level. As “Camille” she has given Dumas’
rather hysterical piece of sentiment a new lease,of
life, and life, too, of a kind higher and fuller of
moaning than seemed to have possession of the
Frenchman’s head. It is needless to say that
bouquets and floral tokens were in profusion as
she bowed her adieux.
* • • *
Mr, Fleming Norton, who had been giving
“Picnic Sketches” at the Lyceum, was taken away
from there to give a fillip to “ Sithors to Grind ” at
the Princess’s Theatre. When the curtain falls on
Mr. Leitch’s drama, the new Maccabe comes out
as Miss Sophonisba Swanleigh, and labours to
make us forget all about Joe Stammers and his
people. He very nearly succeeds. “ Boccaccio ”
is drawing good houses, and “ The Silver King ”
has struck quite a patch. Grattan Riggs is run-
ning through his Boucicautean repertory amidst
laughter that pays.
* * * *
The event of the week, in Melbourne,
was the performance, by the Philharmonic
Society, of Gounod’s “ Redemption,” in the
Town Hall, on Tuesday night week. This
work deserves a fuller notice than we
can find room for. Its outline was conceived
by the author sixteen years ago, and was only
completed for the Birmingham, England, Fes-
tival of last year. The Melbourne Society merits
unstinted praise for bringing out this work. It
consists of three parts and a prologue. The Pro-
logue treats of the Creation, the Fall of Man, and
the Promise of a Redeemer. The First Part brings
up Calvary, the Crucifixion, Mary at the foot of
the Cross, and the Two Thieves. The March to Cal-
vary remains on the memory as a marvellous feat
in orchestration. The various choruses worked
into the Crucifixion are solemnly suggestive. The
passers-by, led up to by the bass-narrator (Herr
Elmblad), burst forth: “Ha! Thou that dost de-
clare Thou destroyest the Temple ; Thou that
can’st, in three days, build it up again; hast Thou
not power to save thyself ? Save Thyself! Son of
God, come Thou down from the Cross.” The
closing line of this chorus finds every heart. And
the chaunt of the Priests, which follows a little
after, is well constructed: “ Can He not save Him-
self, He, the Saviour of others! None to help, not
a friend, no disciples.” The third section of this
Sart was not as effective as it might have been, as
[iss Alice Holland, who sang the solo as Mary, and
Mr. Bergin, who rendered the words of Jesus, were
neither of them equal to the demands of so large a
house. In the “Death of Jesus,” Gounod’s great
resources were again displayed. The murmurs in
the air, the rending of the veil, the earthquakes
and opening of the tombs, were all suggested by a
varied movement and combination of sounds that
absorbed interest. The Second Part treated ef the
“ Resurrection and Ascension,” and here and there
passages in our score are marked for praise. A
trio, “The Lord, He is risen again,” was peculiarly
fine, and the following chorus for tenor and bass
voices was perfect. The Third Part, dealing with
“ The Pentecost,” “ The Descent of the Holy
Ghost,” and the “Hymn of the Apostles,” was
full of vigorous work; and a semi-chorus, in
which the beatitudes were sweetly rendered, lin-
gered for a long time in the ear. Mr. William
Walshe was tenor-narrator, and though his voice
has not much expression, he was more powerful
than usual, and was distinct and accurate. The
ladies were not as capable as might be found, Miss
Fannie Simonsen alone acquitting herself in a
superior way. Mr. Moroney was set down as bass-
narrator, but owing to indisposition, Herr Elm-
blad took his place. And this gentleman’s very
powerful voice and great declamatory skill,
added largely to the success of the performance.
Altogether, 350 performers were engaged on the
occasion. Gounod composed both the words and
music of this oratorio, the former of which the
Rev. J. Troutbeck has put into good Engnsh.
SINGULAR LITTLE INSECTS.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
“God and me” is the latest form of Salva-
tion Army blasphemous expression. “ Major ”
Smith was fined at Gravesend for savagely kick-
ing a boy of 14, during a Hallelujah riot, and said
'I refuse to pay. (“ Hear, hear,” and “Alleluia,"
from persons in court.) I wish it to be distinctly
understood that everybody who pays this fine is
no friend of mine or of God’s.”
We are bound to accept the Rev. Cano
Moreton and Dean Cowper ns model typ<-s of ram
pant Eiuscopal Protestantism, and that’s just w
we want to know how it is that they themseive
while going in for the celebration of the annive
sary of the consecration of St. Andrew's, are to
so continuously found inveighing agains! the icol
services of Romanism. Milton was right when ic
wrote “ Presbyter is but Priest writ large.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury has £15,0)0
ayear, besides “perks,” which bring his pover
to the figure of £30,000. The Bishop of Winchest
has only £6500, and not more than £1500 of pe
quisites. The Bishop of Lincoln has £5000;
Oxford, £5000; and of Carlisle, £4500. That mak
£43,500 among the five priests. This would yie
£100 a year to 425 industrious persons.
“ Father ” Tom Kemmis would appear
have a superabundance of the wisdom of the st
pent. He announced for Advent sermons at h
own St. Mark's, a morning sermon by himself am
an evening ditto by his r.octrinal and theol gic
antithesis, the Rev. J. D. Langley—the former de-
liverance to scoop in the shekels of the “ritualistic-
high,” the latter those of the “ evangelistic-low
Rem, d’ye see, quocunque mndo rem.". Thoug
the church is St. Mark’s, the gospel would suit a;
St. Lucre’s.
Lord’s Day! The Government make
profit by carrying hundreds of people to Tivo
(Sydney) on the Lord’s Day in the trams, and the
the proprietor of Tivoli is fined £5 for allowin
the Government's passengers to play at quoins.
Lord’s Day I ! There are a lot of holy frauds
N.S.W., and this is one of them—fining a workma
for playing quoits, while Albert Edward (hats off ),
son of the Defender of the Faith, is giving law
tennis parties on Sunday at the other end of th
world.
Rough on rulers! The United State
Episcopalians were in convention last month, di
cussing proposed alterations in the Book of Com
mon Prayer. “ O Lox-d, save oar rulers,” w
generally condemned—the rulers apparently not;
being deemed prayer-worthy of either a blcssin
or a curse. In lieu thereof, “O Lord, bless anc
preserve these United States!” was substituted
the inference being “/rom their rulers.”
Dr. Strain, Roman Catholic Archbisho j
of Edinburgh and St. Andrew’s, died intestate i i
J uly last. His affairs have since been squared u
and it was found that he died with £311 worth o:’
personal property. When his current liabilitl
and funeral expenses were deducted, his estai e
was £98. He was very generous to the poo
Backhaus, of Sandhurst, was better off than Strai
but very likely Strain is now considerably bette
off than Backhaus, who is probably employed
hell trying to jam camels through the eyes o ’
needles.
This settles it. Moncure Conway says “ th
prevailing idea of the necessity of a devil is tha
it appears necessary to take from God the respon
sibility of all the evil in this world.” Which
plain English means that the devil is simply
scapegoat for the Deity. Another prevailing ide
is that when Moncure D orates out here agai
the much - travelled R-double-S. will have I
scratch the paint off the walls and take the lock
off the doors of the Masonic Hall to accommodat
the millions who will yell for a little more ra
Conway. And yet another prevailing idea is tha ;
Moncure didn’t hum any more than a bag o ’
prawns would. As a serio-comic lecturer, Pete
Campbell can tie up ( ne leg and run rings rounc:
him; as a skittish exaggerator, Archie Forbes
twa hoondur mailes bayoond him; and as a down
right liar, he is nowhere at all when compare
with Cook. We mean Captain James, of course
Captain James is dead.
Robert Towart, of Elizabeth-street, Mel
, bourne, is a man who evidently hasn’t the courag
of his convictions as the following story will prove
He was witness last week in a larceny case, trier
at the Melbourne Quarter Sessions. When the blble
was handed him, he said—“lean tell the trut
without going through this farce.” Bench: “ Don
you wish to be sworn ?” Witness; “I don’t par
ticularly object, but I think it an unnecossar
piece of formality. Bench: “If you have an'*
serious objection, state it lik a man. Don’t ca
it a farce.” Witness; “It is looked on as such b
a great many people;” saying which, he kissed th
book. This sort of conduct strongly resemble
that of Osborne, Strong, and Co„ in so far as i;
implies a willingness to do things which they sa
they believe to be farcical and unnecessary—ti)
condemn yet kiss the chain which links them t
an absurd and unnecessary yet (in an £ s. d. sense
profitable formalism.
It is certainly rather odd that while, in the
old country, the Beresford Hopes, the John Wai
ters, not to mention the ordained high churchmen
are inveighing in a gamut of tones, ranging from
idiotic twaddle to sophistical bigotry, against the
promoters of the Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill, a
designing rascals bent on compassing the decay o '
the Empire, in these colonies, where the principle
of that Bill has for some time been law, th j cleric
who cheerfully act under it should be attributing
the decay of the Empire, and all sorts of trouble
to causes very (Afferent. The fact is, the high
cleric party anywhere can only hold its own, or
hope to hold it, by charging the vice, the infidelity
the luxury, the sensuality, the decay of empire
etc., against something, anything, outside itself
Any stick will do to beat a dog with; and just now
in England, the Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill is the
stick which churchmen are using. Australian
churchmen used it awhile out here, till the Bil
became law. Then, as it didn’t pay any longer
they dropped it. Freethought is their stick now.
The Protestant Hoaryfiam, in the course
of a fierce quarrel which it lately waged with the
Invehell Times, laid great stress on the pre-
eminence in crime attained by Roman Catholicism
in every land on God’s earth. Unfortunately for
the position thus taken up, N.S.W. figures are
against it, since in 1881 (the last year for which
returns are to hand) there were 7518 Protestants
in the gaols of the colony as against 5334 Woman
Catholics. But, stay : Barry will, perhaps, insist
on treating these statistics by some sort "f rule- <f
three to prove that, in proportion to the total
number of the members of ell her persuasion, the
Protestants have the best of it. Well, we’ll leave
the Catholics to fight It out on that line. But, look
here! The same return from which the above
figures were taken gives a total of 78 prisoners
under the head “No religion.” Now, since the
majority of the people of New South Wales arc
really of no religion, the small, the infinitesimally
small, proportion of criminals given by them to
the gaols shows indisputably that the no religion-
ists are out and out the most moral and orderly
people in the colony. Q.E.D.
The Bishop of Adelaide visited one of the
model schools in that town, and (by permission)
gave the children a half holiday. Mr. Parsons, the
Minister of Education, gave him leave. The Ade-
laide Nonconformists can scarely keep their hair
on, and no wonder. In a country where there is
no State church—where all religious persuasions
are on an equal footing, and have to propel their
own canoes—it will be necessary to put a stop to
this sort of thing, if only to avoid compile itions.
If this deference to ecclesiastical dignitaries were
once introduced into N.S. Wales nothing, short of
civil war could be looked for. On Monday we
would have Peter Campbell dodging round Fort-
street to get the pupils a half holiday. Tuesday,
old Westwood might drift in for a similar purpose,
and Tom Walker roll up on Wednesday. Thurs-
day, Conway might call round No less than a
week would satisfy the “ greatest intellect in the
Southern hemisphere.” If Bradlaugh or Inger-
soll landed, there would be nothing left for us but
to put some dynamite under our seminaries and
shift them Into the country—nothing less than a
perpetual holiday would meet their case.
Speaking lately on the chasm which exists
between the working men of England and the
Church, the Bishop of Carlisle saidAs regards
neglect of attendance on the services and obser-
vances of the Church in times past, the blame lay
at least as much with the clergy as with the work-
ing classes of this country; but now the clergy
did their best, and it remained for working people
to examine themselves and discover whether they
fulfilled all God’s requirements of them. There
was at the present time a wave of atheism and in-
fidelity passing over the country, and it behoved
all classes of society to join in resisting it.” An
English writer replies:-“Example, my lord, is
better than precept; for the working man cannot
divest himself of the idea that nothing can be
easier than for a person in the enjoyment of all
the luxuries and comforts of life to preach
patience, resignation, and contentment to those
who have none of them. Is it likely that if Peter
and Paul had lived in luxury, arrayed themselves
ever^daV^W^hi 10611 ’ , ar i (1 feasted sumptuously
tbe Pnople to whom they preached
would have given them credit for conscientious-
aUtheySV*’ 8elf ' 8acriflce in 811 they did and
of Canterbury had a great
P?lkchT. ty tK e8 rh ed >. t0 n him when cal,ed on to
Oet?,w ip.! h w°* ul i ch Congress at Reading in
thin- " be /o. nd telling his audience
what wafi th s1n C f nV ” C L B .k9 uld he secular but
wuai was sinful, and that “the Church in this
day is warned to use the world’s forces and not
suggest! Ria l abl nothi ng but was eminently
SSeffi". 0 /e. b t“'^T%r , (eSi l e y . aW l" K™
tTE** strongly puts It. he left quite alone the
«nch y n«l qUe8 * t 1 ! 0DS^ id not one blessed word on
beheve w^« a f 8t fh« 8e: , Why Can ’ 4 artii!an8 b « got to
oeneve what the clergy preach? Whv do %dn
“ted ?K en - i! th e y «to to church at alifonVfre:
quent the churches of the least orthodox clergy ?
a he a d for the pleasure of beholding one of these
at the “ Harm y” Barracks,
ll °ST? ood . Melbourne, when “Capt.” Phillies
and Lieut Tom Foley went through a most
unctuous ceremony with two of the “lasses.” The
prayers of the brides and bridegrooms were so in-
worded as to send the audience into
k u l?hter t an< j lead to the supposition that
soldiers and lasses”—the latter more particu-
a.re. no ,t too Pure to have a quick ear for a
(touhle-entendre. After the young couples had
beenl egally turned oif” by the Rev. Mr. Horsley,
Major Barker went through a Guy Fawkes sort
of ceremony, concluding by calling the audience
solemnly to witness that in the name of God anil
tbe balvation Army ’ he pronounced each couple
man and wife; and the majority of the audience
appeared astounded that the “Major’ did not re-
verse the order of the names. Short.y after this
terminated, and, as all seemed
satisfied with their six penn’orth, we strongly ad-
vise the Harmy —from a business point of view
to go in for some more of these “ oily’* unions.
Why do the great majority of people never go to
church at all ? Had his Grace even honestly
wrestled with these problems, he might have come
to discover that the artizans won’t listen to par-
sondom because they don’t understand one half of
what parsondora tells them, and don’t believe the
other; that educated men simply prefer heresy
because leaders of heretic thought at least attempt
to bring their religious thinking into harmony
with human experience; and that the majority of
people don’t go to church at all because the ritual
is, as a rule, dull, senseless, and unedifying, and
the preaching, in nine cases out of ten, stupid,
exaggerated, and unreal.
One of the Salvation Army’s trump cards
is a marriage “among the saints.” The astute
General” Booth pulled in the pieces very freely
on the occasion of his son’s marriage in England
(when a shilling a head was charged for admission
to the ceremony), and '.is disciples in Australia are
also keenly alive to the fact that “there’s money
in it.” Last week 1500 people parted with six pence
The Rev. Dr, Barry (an Irish priest) has just
returned from Rome, and describes the Pope.
.. g ave me from my friends ” should be changed to
T fn'vrrr 6 Q from ,being- described by my friends.”
acco . to Dr. Barry, is tall, thin, and
b ° ny - Sl “ ef i nl 8a >' 8 he smiles like Voltaire but
Barry thinks he doesn’t. We will back Barry, for
if Leo could put on a leer like that little beast
Arouet, he would have been chucked into the
0n^+ 8 ®' 0 ' Voltaire’s smile was anything 1
iu k ®v ls pl £ t r U . res represent, no one need wonder at
“Hfo French devolution. Barry says that the Pope
thW® ut« yS a toohsh thing. nor does a foolish
P°°r Pius TX.” This it a trifle rough
?J“. dius, who, like Charles II., never said a silly
f'K 15 never did a wise one. Ashe must keep
h V* sometimes carried in a chair
quilted with white satin.” This shows how
anxious he is to imitate Christ in everything.
“Are you all Irish?” he said; “I am haonv to
fn?nffw fa ‘* hful of that nation.” As the P falth-
P?if LS a i? a uDV r ? generally accompanied by a
4- • e ,^ er 8 pence, ’ the cause of their
re “Tw. tl0n at tbe Vatican begins to dawn
+ho QO T -f e SU ,! 1 J was setting as he looked up to
the sky, as if seeking an inspiration there.” We
are not told whether he found it or not but we
surmise he did not. There was no spare insptta!
tl .°n knocking round that evening. He reads at
St g Tho h maa a ”°w it h 8Ubjectbei u g the “Science of
St Thomas' w!l h r Ve a i,ways bad a great respect
bt : b 5 0n ? a8, , We believe he was a very nice young
Ihoiarri hl8 n da y _ not half so forward or chee- y a8
Abelard. But our opinion is that you might studv
hnnn C1 tu C oon°“ this tiU Queensland next tries her
band at collaring any stray islands wandering
about without an owner, and not discover the
truth. 6 ’ the telephone > the sewing machine,
. James Jefferis, when presiding
last Saturday at the luncheon which convivlallv
and, no doubt, religiously proceeded the laying of
the foundation-stone of the new Congregational
Church at Homebush, after remarking that during
the previous week he had been reading Seelev’s
England and its Expansion,” proceeded to quote
from that work, not without considerable Congre-
gational ingenuity. . Taking Seeley’s recipe for
producing the gi eatest amount of pure happiness
in a community, the Pitt-street pastor thus handled
and interpreted it:— ‘Take a number of men
whose characters have been formed during manv
generations by rational liberty,”-he took that m
be Congregationaiists—(hear, hear, and laughteV)
~ serious religion,”-and he thought that might
be applied to Congregationaiists- "and strenuous
labour and let them think that was applicable
to them as Congregationaiists.-" Place these men
in a wide territory, where no painful pressure shall
fho C !?no h h m ’ + an ?i where Prosperity shall be within
the reach ot all. . . . Characters formed in a
temperate zone by Teutonic liberty and Protest
taut religion; prosperity conferted freely but In
Pf a8ai j®; and oli , tbe condition not only of labour!
but of the use of intelligence and Ingenuity Ihls
recipe will produce happiness.*’ Seeley interpreted
forwards by Buckle might pass. Seeley inter?
wVTtho kw . ard . s „ by Jefferis is intolerable.
s PeH tbe Teutonic and Protestant ” in above
quotation with a small t and a small p, and we
much object to the conclusion; but
with those letters in capitals we feel bound to ex-
K*® the opinion that the recipe isn’t good enough
Phrhstmic respectability it may produce. Nothing
The tide of broad Christian toleration is
sweeping over the world. At a public dinner in
A 0n ??.^u 0n w^ 1 laying a foundation stone, the R C
Archbishop (Dr. Byre) was present among the
clergy of all denominations, and in the list of
nn o aS The Cler f y ‘” A Rev. Mr. Thomson!
en its being proposed, rose up and interjected
The Protestant Church of Scotland,” and “No
Popery, an exclamation which was received with
hisses, tnresponiilng to the toast, the Rev. Mr.
T,dl och (Presbyterian) could not refrain, after
what had been said, from mentioning that from
none did the magistrates of that city receive mo!e
loyal support than the clergy over whom Dr Eyre
R°e WO M hl & preL ’ ided V Then there was a “scene’?™
Rev. Mr. Thomson: I protest, I protest. (Laughter
and hisses. You are wrong, Tulloeh, you are wrong
(Laughter and a voice 44 Silence.*’) ’lam one of the
clergy, and 1 have a right to speak. (Cries of " Rif
d °wn, Hush,” and hissing.) Mr. Tulloeh, after
referring to the efforts of the clergy of all denotnR
nations to elevate the people, and to the principles
of Masonry, said they all desired to see Glasgow
flourish by the preaching of the Word-not the
Word as known by any sect or faction. (Cheers )
Mr. Thomson: Oh] Question, question. (Hisses )
Mr. Tulloeh: Not the rt ord according to this gfnc-
ration r that generation, or as crystallised into any
old dogma or document. (Cheers.) Mr. Thomson •
Protestantism. (Cries of "Hush.” Mr. Tulloeh•
But by the preaching of the Word Mr Thom"
8 ? a: . I ° b ) ec f to your nonsense, and will call atten-
tionto tris elsewhere. (Cnesof “ GetoutI” hiss> s )
V° Ch ooncluded by saying that what they
desired to see Glasgow flourish by was the preach-
ing of the Word in the fullest acceptance of the
term. (Prolonged cheering.) subsequently, as
the company were leaving the hall, the Rev. Mr
K^ mS0 c?’ etrldln » up to the place where Arch-
bishop Byre—the cause of his anger-stood on the
«^ shoated out * • . Thre i ) If roans lor him,
the PapisL and the magistrate/who dared to put
JL 1 ™ % re ’ n groans were, however, forth com--
ing. Mr. D. Hume declared that, as a Protestant,
he gloried in seeing the Archbishop there, and
three cheers, instead of groans were given for the
Archbishop. The incident may, lays Londc n
Figaro, reflect on the Rev. Mr. Thomson, but it Is
an encouraging indication of the growth of reli
gious toleration in Scotland.
• • «
Two hundred Chihamen in Adelaide
Local City Mission want an energetic Christian l a
veneer them with religion. First state of the
Clunky; the best....Dr. Thornton, Bishop of Bal-
larat— SoapV Sam,’ 4 they call him—has just let
the world know that, in his opinion, there is no
clergyman in Victoria sufficiently the gentleman
to fill the post of incumbent of his cathedral
church!
♦ * *
While the Rev. W, Williams was conduct
l n OT ain g. 8erviceat Canterbury Hal), I am
beth, t Twelve praying men se, luded themselves
m a cave in a quiet paitof the building, and
prayed for their pastor while he was preaching,
offering fifteen prayers each quarter of an hour/ 5
This gives a minute to each of the “ praying men •”
wm, W o 6 not , tcdd whether there was an umpire
a stop-watch to cry 4 time” and show fair
P'pv- Ry last accounts the Rev. Williams is still
alive, which shows how efficacious prayer is when
properly carried out At a meeting of the EdU -
iW n r 8|,el Temp f ran co Union a deficiency in
vinn fi w? waa pa . rt i y explained by the fact that
5® en pald to Mr. Francis Murphy, ihe
his hotel mu f ef%w e( l k8 * ork ’ be8ld ® which
his hotel bill of £53 had been paid. One of
wonm e h nb m 8 of the Union said Mr. Murphy
aenili h w d F g0 a °ywhere without a cab. ...
w^J a l Wa i? c ®~we quote from the Evening
News says thaf the result of a long study upon
ri,n?f U ‘‘ 8tl0a .i? f the divinity or non-diviultyof
S oLiT 38 tbe abso ,lute conviction that Jesus of
Nazareth was not only a Christ and the Christ, but
that He was also his Christ, his Saviour, and his
,? a °t settled in his own mind, he
wrote Ben HurJ Now, since 44 Ben Hur ” is an
w^?a?o°ll Eb , y wenk story wretchedly told, the
world is the loser by Wallace’s theological inquisi-
tions to the extent of one more orthodox Trini-
tarian and one more bad book.. . .The Salvation
Army made a terribly sudden “conversion 99 the
otner day, for a married woman had only been a
tew moments at 44 drill” when “ life was found to
be extinct. We are told that there was no undue
excitement at the meeting, and we certainly would
not like to run the risk of being present when
there was, don’t you kmw; for Salvation excite-
ment, in its mildest form, goes a pretty long way.
(( A a New Zealand paper says;
. In Australia the climate is hot, and very hot too
is the licentious disposition of the people.” Yes;
and very hot, too, will be the place where this man
will go to when be is dead. But he will have com-
pany. Hell is full of liars.
THE FAMILY TEMPERANCE PRIMER.
See the Key and the Key-
hole. The Key can-not
find the Key-hole.
But the Boot is on the
Peg.
Is the Watch un-der the
Pil-low? No; it is Lodge-
night.
A man and a Bag. A
Big Bag and a Big
Head.
Is tin* Hat on the Peg ?
No; the Hat is on
the Floor.
See the False Teeth.
They are un-der the
Pil-low.
It is a Clock and a pair
of Scissors. Can you
wind the Clock with
the Scissors?
Can the man write? Well,
I should say so.


BRIEF MENTION.
More treason-felony. The Even Ooze
unblushingly asserts that “spurious sovereigns
are still to be found in London.”
A writer in a late issue of the Holy Howl
professed to have discovered the “ missing link.”
Very probably; but, surely, this is rather a flip-
pant way in which to announce an addition to
one’s family.
Fashionable Intelligence. — Marshal Ser-
rano has been appointed Spanish Ambassador to
the French Republic; and Constable John Barrow,
of Moree, has been promoted to the rank of first-
class constable.
Satire on colonial society.—It is stated that
a Victorian letter-carrier was one of the promoters
of the “ Loco ” sweep. He has been suspended,
and an inquiry is being held. We suppose the
other promoter was a policeman.
A specialist upon this subject, says that
“ none hut men of strong physical constitutions
can become hard drinkers, and expect ever to
reform.” Of course. But the point of the joke is
that no hard-drinker ever wishes to reform. The
only reform men of strong constitutions want
nowadays is reform in the Rum Act.
Events of the week in the Cobar district:
A swagmau cut his throat, and ran into the scrub
•o die. A man wandered into the hush in the hor-
rors, and is expected to be dead, ns the police are
finable to find him. The horses running in the
ooach from Hillston to Cobar shied at a swagman
lying on the road, and, plunging violently, broke
the pole and splintered the bars. It was not known
what ailed the swagman. Probably he was only
dead. Home papers please copy this p iragraph,
for the information of emigrating noblemen.
One of the results of the late Martin
Luther shivvoo, was the discovery that a lineal
descendant of the great Reformer is a humble
postman in a Berlin office. Being so *' well-con-
nected,” it seems strange that he has never yet
been boosted up for lifting letters. In fact, this
throws grave doubts on his claim to relationship
with the “ monk who shook," &c.
Mr. M‘Elhone has got into the habit of
being very severe upon the Press lately. He seems
to consider that some members of the Fourth
Estate are whom a little book-learning
redeems from abysmal ignorance. This is true;
and Mr. M‘Elhone deserves the more credit for
stating it, inasmuch as he himself belong to a
much different class —the class of the unredeemed.
The captain and mate of a steamer which
recently arrived in Sydney, were not very good
friends at sea. One day', when the latter had been
elevating his little finger, and tossing off several
veritable “chief mate’s nips,” the captain, who
prided himself on the completeness of his log,
entered in that sacred tome, “ mate drunk to-day.”
The mate, determined to show that his regard for
the truth was not exceeded by that of the captain,
on the following day made this entry: “Captain
sober tn-day.” Humph!
Curious story from Mackay (Q ) An alli-
gator came out of the river, near which there was
a camp of aborigines, and swallowed a two-year-
old boy. The gins immediately caught the alli-
gator by the tail and legs, and held him there till
the warriors came and split him up with their
hatchets. The boy rolled out crowing, and toddled
back to the camp. This is good. But though we
regret to spoil the story, we must inform our
readers —in order not to mislead them into fooling
with alligators—that the teeth had been previously
taken out of this alligator by Zulu Thompson, who
now wears them round his neck along with other
decorations received for bravery in the Kaffir war.
The law in Western Australia is no respec-
tor of persons. At Geraldton, the Government
Resident and the Resident Medical Officer were
recently brought up in the Police Court—one on a
charge of leaving his horse and carriage in the
street without control, the other on a charge of
a'lowing Ms cow t<> stray in Ike pi; 1 ip - <r. e;s. In
any country town in this colony, if the turn-out of
the medical officer got loose, the mayor would go
and hold the horse’s head; and if a cow belonging
to a civil servant strayed in the streets, it would be
impounded in the Town Hall. If confined in any
neaner place, the poundkeeper would probably
be beheaded. Which shows how much better it is
to live in this country than in W.A.—for those who
are in the swim.
The “ Panmure tragedy” has supplied a
deal of light, readable matter for the Melbourne
Herald, but the most interesting item commu-
nicated by “our special reporter” is to the effect
that as an important sale on one of the Western
district estates clashed with the inquest, “an
effort was made to get a postponement of the
Inquest through the sale.” Unfortunately, this
modest request was not granted, and consequently'
a number of farmers from surrounding districts
were unable to be present, and “ the gathering was
not so numerous as anticipated.” Everyone, we
feel sure, will sympathise with the farmers who
“ were unable to be present,” more especially as—
to quote ti e Herald again—“it was in reality a
memorable day in Panmure, and one that will long
be green in the memory.” Let us trust that there
may soon be another inquest on in Panmure, and
that no awkward business arrangements may
prevent the farmers frem thoroughly enjoying its
details.
Reid this. Plain cooking is to he taught
In our public schools, and the instruction is to be
made compulsory. ’Tis well. For one-half the ills
our flesh endures is brought about by the ignor-
ance of our cooks, and the other half is probably
due to the same eause T)'s; ensia sp> inga from
’ ' <ch n; mil the li e of 1 y ix ptio n; ■> s a
hell upon earth, with all the doors locked. Speak-
mg of this, Kingsley, in his “Westward Ho,” ob-
serves, with all the accuracy of a man who had
been there himself, “ How many serious family
quarrels, marriages out of spite, alterations of
wills, and secessions to the Church of Rome might
have been prevented by a gentle dose of blue pill ?
What awful instances of chronic dyspepsia are pre-
sented to us by the immortal bard in the charac-
ters of Hamlet and Othello I I look with awe on
the digestion of such a man as the present King of
Naples, Banish dyspepsia and spirituous liquors
trom society, and you would have no crime, or at
least so little that you would not consider it worth
mentioning.” As a mau eats so shall he live, and
as a man lives so shall he d t is now midnight
laissup the brandy, cucumbers lobster-salad, and'
cold plum-pudding.
TIMEO DAN AOS ET DONA FE RENTES.
(Free Interpretation): Keep your weather eye open when patronage is thrust on you


C °L/MT
rO*°
RUM
Prepared according to the direetions O. Prof.
B. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Maes.
PARTIOUDABLT RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, ’WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, Ac.
EW No Danger can Attend its Ush.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nerveus
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish eirculation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing onildren require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it kas agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Cajiphvtbr, M.D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tome, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
(Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomaebs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1680.
Hprsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne toy the most sensitive
stomach. Hare prescribed ft with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D,
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,gric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives tke weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Borns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colie,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Threat, and Dyp-
ttaeria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a leng
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers lu
Medioinss.
— —
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported inte this country, and have
gained throughou itke oolonies seek a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say ikbt am thb
bust,
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTASD SQUARE, STDNST.
BARRON .MOXHAM * CO.
tote Agents
Nobody can well dispute the brilliancy of
Karl Wilhelm Siemens’ inventive genius, but yet
we know not a few persons who would be per-
fectly willing to see his effigy burned amid shrieks
of derision, for the simple reason that he is sup-
posed to have had a hand in the invention of that
accursed thing, the gas-meter. He invented the
water-meter—in itself a very mean thing—which
circumstance is alone sufficient to cancel the ser-
vices he rendered to the iron and steel industries;
yet, if it be indeed true that he had also a hand in
turning out the gas-meter, Sydneians, like one
man, should dig, Carlyliely, a hole to his memory,
since the accursed thing is the cause, quarterly, of
more blasphemy than the .cheek of the sewing-
machine canvasser, the disturbance of the Salva-
tion Army, or the blasting effect of the southerly
buster.
John Lyons, Morrison’s saviour, says that
the land in the Goldie basin, New Guinea, is auri-
ferous ; goldie, both by name and nature. The
largest flake he secured weighed three grains.
From the general “ lay ” of the country, he con-
siders (and he is an experienced miner) that there’s
a prospect of good gold being found on the eastern
slopes of the Main Divide.
We had determined to dismiss the subject
once for all, when the following from the Non-
contormist (an English religious paper), quoted
by the Sydney D.T. and Echo, met our eye:—
“The Queen cannot forget John Brown. Not
only has Her Majesty caused the rooms he occu-
pied to be preserved as he left them” [a tribute,
by the way, paid to her late husband], ordered “ an
ode to his memory, and his portrait, and had a
monument placed over his grave, but now she has
decided to have a statue of her servant erected at
Balmoral, on a spot visible from the windows of
the castle. The statue will be placed in position
next week for Her Majesty’s Inspection before
she journeys south.” We long to see the ode, the
portrait, and the statue; but, how inadequate is
.language to express our desire to see his rooms
“as he left them!” And if the further favour
were vouchsafed us of seeing them as he occa-
sionally left them after a wild night and a journey
home on a shutter, the world for us would pos-
sess no further attractions. To be petted by
Royalty when alive, and passed on to posterity by
means of an ode, a portrait, a monument, and a
statue, are enough to tempt us to throw literature
to , and don plush. When John Brown was
alive, he was a brazen flunkey; now he is to be a
bronze one. Just to think of all the fine, noble-
bearted fellows—whether authors or blacksmiths
—who in life know not where to get a meal for
their children, and whose bodies in death go un-
sung to the boneyard, while the'Defender of the
Faith drags down the Poet Laureate to grind out
the glories of this menial-in-metal I How the
foreigners must snigger!
Temperance clergymen, lawyers, ladies,
and doctors use Hop Bitters, as they do not intoxi-
cate, but restore brain and nerve waste.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Middleton murdered Robert Brown Nes-
bitt at Charters Towers for the sake of the few
pounds the poor fellow had about him, in a re-
markably treacherous and brutal way; and yet the
Queensland jury who found him guilty recom-
mended him to mercy. Why, in the face of the
evidence, it is impossible to conceive. We don’t
say that hanging is a good use to which to put
even a murderer, but if ever a fellow did deserve
that process that fellow is Middleton.
Subject to the figures therein contained
being, at least approximately correct, we consider
that there’s a good deal in the idea embodied in
the letter which Messrs. Bennett and Hennlker
Heaton addressed to the Convention re the desira-
bility of a second “Australasian Goverment’s”
cable to England by the route suggested by Vic-
torian Superintendent of Telegraphs, James, i.e.
by W. Australia, the Mauritius, and the Cape. The
alleged “ construction ” advantages are avoidance
of coral reefs and fewer stations. The proposed
charges are at first 2s. 6d. per word.
The judgment of the British Wreck Com-
missioner on the sinking of the Austral, strikes
us as being “rather of the Rotheryest.” The
catastrophe, according to his decision, was the
result of a series of small mistakes. Rothery,
who we believe is a Scotchman, should have
known that many a mickle makes a muckle. The
duty of a captain is to avoid a muckle disaster by
exercising some sort of supervision over the
working of his ship, lest mickle mistakes should
sink her. This, according to Rothery, is what
Murdoch didn’t do, and yet the former declined to
deal with the latter’s certificate. Hum I
In a Sydney slander case, Field v. (Mr.
Justice) Windeyer, Martin (C.J.) nonsuited plaintiff
on the grounds that the letter complained of was a
privileged communication, consistent with bond
fides and inconsistent with anylother motive. How-
ever, Owen’s argument that any document covered
and* that the document in question went beyond
this, was the very point which we should have
thought ought to have been submitted to the jury.
But the case was a trumpery one at best, and
should never have been brought into court.
Social item from Wilcannia: —“Yesterday,
while Constable Fortescue was on duty, he called
at the tent of a woman named Tully, off Woore-
street. He found Mrs. Tully helplessly drunk, and
the whole place in a disgusting state of filth and
stench. The two children, aged about one and a
half and two and a half years, were drunk, and
covered with dirt and filth, which appeared to
have been allowed to accumulate on them for
some time past. Their nostrils and ears were fly-
blown, and on the whole they were in the most
deplorable state.” And yet we send missions to
the heathen! It is no wonder the heathen kills our
missionaries.
At the recent municipal elections, the
polling place for Macquarie Ward was the Sydney
Protestant Hall! Now, why on earth was this
thus? Perhaps, at the next municipal elections,
the polling place will be fixed at St. Mary’s pro-
Cathedral, or at the Convent of the Sacred Some-
thing. Should it he so arranged, we’re game to
bet our variegated socks that a fine row will be
raised about It by the Standard Barry, That
the Roman Catholics, of Macquarie Ward haven’t
kicked up a dust at the ins alt indirectly offered
them, speaks volumes in their favour. The fran-
chise, whether municipal or parliamentary, is too
precious a thing (though thousands of fools don’t
so regard it) to be mixed up with any such terms
as Protestant, Catholic, Congregational, or Mor-
mon.
Some time ago, we chronicled the sorrows
of the Oakleigh (Yic.) Shire Council, and pointed
to its broken wheel-barrow, old well-ropes,
buckets, picks, shovels, and road-metal, piled up
outside a public-house, waiting for the highest
bidder and the Sheriff’s hammer. A man had fallen
down a cutting and injured himself, and by process
of law had secured a judgment of £662 against
that primitive body. Hence, the public sale of all
their shire effects in this world and the next. But
the proceeds didn’t satisfy the damaged man, and
now the Council that prayed to be defunct, and
that lay seemingly defunct since the hammer fell,
has been galvanised into consciousness by finding
the damaged man astride of it again. This is the
unkindest cut of all in connec ion with that cut-
ting. An application was made to the Full Court,
the other day, compelling the Oakleigh Council to
strike a rate of 2s. 6d. in the £ on the people of
the shire, to liquidate the demands of the verdict.
The worst thing that Council did was to cut. Now,
unless everybody in Oakleigh also cuts, that £662
must be paid.
The delicate and difficult adjudication is
now over, in connection with the pupils’ exhibits
in the Melbourne National Gallery, and if a variety
of people are disappointed, a still greater variety
are happy. Some of these latter are glad. Mr.
Folingsby has been working hard for more than a
year, wandering about from easel to easel, and
directing the timid pencils of students a-thlrst for
pictorial fame. About a hundred pounds was de-
voted to prizes for the best exhibits, the trustees
furnishing more than half the total sum, and vari-
ous patrons of Art making up the remainder.
Messrs. James Smith and Thomas Carrington, with
the assistance of Mr. Buvelot, were appointed
judges, and their report came up the other day.
Messrs. M'Cubbin and Longstaff were first and
second. Miss Edeson, Mr. Colquhoun, Miss Walter,
Miss Sutherland, and Mr. Walch followed in order
Mrs. Pirani led the list of honourable mention.
Some of these names will yet be seen in fuller
light. The winner of the second prize is especially
E remising. It is now more than two years since
e set a country village staring at one of his clever
sketches. There is general approval of the decree
of the umpires, and as general an admission that
the adjudication was delicate and difficult.
AN OUNCE OF PREVENTION, &c.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreams.
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of rare and dainty poems I would write;
Love-lyrics delicate as lilac-scent,
Soft idylls wov’n of wind, and flow’r, and
stream,
And songs and sonnets carven in fine gold.
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold;
Out of the skies has gone the opal gleam,
Out of my heart has passed the high intent
Into the shadow of the falling night—
Must all my dreams in darkness pass away ?
I have been dreaming all a summer day:
Shall I go dreaming so until Life’s light
Fades in Death’s dusk, and all my days are
spent ?
Ah, what am I the dreamer but a dream !
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold.
My songs and sonnets carven in fine gold
Have faded from me with the last day-beam
That purple lustre to the sea-line lent,
And flushed the clouds with rose and chrys-
olite ;
So days and dreams in darkness pass away
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of songs and sonnets carven in fine gold;
But all my dreams in darkness pass away;
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold.
V. J. D.
The Castaway.
The fierce sun shone upon the flinty rock
All day, from sunrise until burning noon,
All day the sea beat there—as an old clock
That in an old house beats a weary tune—
With very weariness the air did swoon,
Or seem to swoon; and weary seemed the
waves,
With their long journey from the isles of
palm;
The little crabs sat in their little oaves!
The oyster kept his immemorial calm,
The periwinkle only sang his psalm.
On that sad rook, girt by that grieving sea,
With that sheer sun down-burning pitiless,
There sat a lonely man with head on knee,
And in his hollow eye was dire distress,
And on his lips were scorn and bitterness.
That morn he had been sailing on the foam,
Now on that lone rock a sad castaway,
Never again to see his happy home,
Nor ever hear his children laugh and play,
But only evermore the dash of spray.
And evermore the mournful cry of gulls,
Circling around him with their mocking
wings,
He felt as one within a land of skulls,
Who to himself a weary death-song sings,
Knowing he is the last of human things.
No hermit he by nature, but a man
Full of swift thoughts and deeds, and
formed for strife,
And his quick brain with many a subtle plan
Of action teemed, and all his veins were
rife
With the red blood and quintessence of
life.
What scope had he upon that barren rock
For his great schemes? what field was
there for fame ?
His plans of government the gulls would
mock.
What cared he for the mussel’s praise or
blame ?
Or with the limpet to increase his name ?
He clasped his hands: he beat his burning
head
Upon the cynical, cold-hearted stone.
Like lava-torrents were the tears he shed;
Like Java earthquakes was his every groan,
And to the winds he moaned “Alone,”
“ Alone, alone, beneath a lonely sky,
With speechless oysters to wear out my
life.
I cannot talk with them, although I try,
But only eat them, and, though they are
rife,
Not even that, for ah, I have no knife.”
‘ Alone, alone, and evermore alone!”
So moaned he till the very crabs were sore
At heart to hear him as he lay there prone
Upon the rock down which his tears did
pour,
Then at low tide he rose and walked ashore.
[P.S.—He lived at a Sydney hash-house.]
Enfettered.
Along the stream of life we row
With constant mind,
Still lightly touching as we go
Each port we find.
The dullest spot we carol by.
With laugh and lay,
And be it still with smile or sigh,
Touch and away.
We never dream that sunny hours
Were made to last,
But know like them that storms and showers
Must soon be past.
And thus springs pass and springs return,
Joys come and flee—
And sober mortals laugh and mourn,
We still are free.
Carpe.
Is there a rosebud by you ?
If there is, pluck it!
Is there a sugarstick nigh you ?
If there is, suck it!
For a time will come when your eyes will see
No rosebud by you,
And a time will come when your lips will feel
No sugarstick nigh you.
If the present be glad, drink gladness I
To the dregs, drink it I
Laughing, if others a madness
Call it, or think it;
For a time will come when your eyes will see,
Ah, sadness, not gladness,
And a time will come when your lips will taste
Not gladness, but madness I
My Early Love.
A POEM.
Her eyes were as stars in the Heavens,
So pure and serene was their light;
The gloves that she wore were “ elevens ”
(And even that size was too tight).
Her style, it was queen-like and stately,
Quite classic the turn of her head I
I assure you I grieved very greatly
On learning my darling was dead.
Her teeth, they were even and pearly,
And clear was her voice as a bell ;
Though her temper was sullen and surly
She danced like a graceful gazelle ;
And she dressed herself somewhat ornately
(The shade she affected was red) ;
I assure you I grieved very greatly
On learning my darling was dead.
She blushed when I asked her to marry
(That line I’ve read somewhere before),
And she gave me a nudge, saying—“ Harry,
You needn’t ask that any more ;
I have made up my mind, dearest, lately,
That you are the fellow I’ll wed ”
(Which only just shows, now, how greatly
A girl may, by Hope, be misled).
For her cheek became pale and transparent,
The roses no longer there bloomed :
And at last it was plainly apparent
That poor little Lottie was doomed.
I was smoking my pipe quite sedately
One eve when her young spirit fled—
I assure you I grieved very greatly
On learning my darling was dead.
The above simple little device would put a complete stop to steamer suicides.


The Treasury, New South Wales,
27th November, 1883.
PAYMENT OF RENTS OF RUNS.
HOLDERS of Runs in the 2nd Class Settled and
Unsettled Districts, are reminded that, by
the 9th clause of chapter 2, part 2 of the Regula
tions under the Lands Act Further Amendment
Act of 1880, the rents of all Runs must be paid on
or before the 31st Dece nber next.
Persona tendering payments will be required to
state Lessee’s name. District, and name of Run.
A pamphlet having been published, showing the
rents payable on the various Runs of the Colony,
copies of the same can be obtained at the Govern-
ment Printing Office, at a charge of Is 6d. each.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
NOTICE is hereby given, that a SPECIAL
MEETING of the Metropotitan Licensing
Court will be holdeu at the Central Police Office,
George-street, Sydney, on TUESDAY, the 18th
day of DECEMBER, 1883, at noon, for the purpose
of considering any business that may be legally
brought before the said Court.
C. DELOHERY,
Clerk of Petty Sessions.
Central Police Office,
Sydney, 29th November, 1888.
Political Points
The London Standard (1st December)
asserts that N.Z. is the most debt-ridden spot on
God’s earth. Has not the Standard ever heard,
by any chance, of Turkey, Russia, Mexico, and
Peru ?
Relations of Irish Nationalists and Orange-
men cabled to be la a state of extreme tension.
Why should Reuter wire a chrt nic truism ? Can it
be because people out here are getting tired of the
chronic lies wired to the daily papers ?
Mayor Scrimgour, of Bourke, is also the
Customs officer in that lively Western town—and
between the two positions which he holds, we
don’t say that we see any material incompatibility.
But a big lot of incompatibility came in when the
men of Bourke appointed Scrimgour as their local
delegate re the Land Bill. That simply meant the
Customs officer doing his level best for the “ins.”
The Government, however, had the good sense to
refuse leave of absence to Scrimgour.
Bartholemew Binns, the new hangman,
reminds us of several people we know in New
South Wales. When asked why he sought such a
billet, he replied that “he liked popularity.” Just
so; there are other men so nicely on a level with
the common hangman, that there is no infamy
they would not consent to participate in, provided
they thereby secured a “ distinguished position.
We know lots of men, who would sooner get
elected, even to be Aldermen, by diffuse and
studious lying, and breaking every pledge and
principle, than live in honest and self-respecting
but unconsidered retirement.
The secretaries of the various public
societies in Tenterfleld have been notified by
Edward R. Whereat (the candidate who, at the
last local election, resigned in Sirenry’s favour)
that he would feel particularly obliged if they
would take such steps as would prevent him from
receiving notices of meetings some twenty-four
hours or so after the said meetings had been held.
Teddy apparentlyjdoesn’t saveo that the secretarial
action he animadverts upon may possibly be based
upon experience of his personal idiosyncracies,
and a conscientious regard for expediency.
With reference to the Alfonso incident in
Paris, an English paper sensibly remarks that:
“ It would be better for republics not to receive
kings and princes as such. (Let monarchs go, if
they like, to Paiis, and see the sights. If they pay
their way, all well and good, and then let them go
on to the next pleasure-resort. No notice should
be taken of them, and the President of the French
Republic, like the President of the Swiss Confede-
ration, should be content with leaving a card at
the hotel where a king or a prince happens to be
stopping.”
It is stated that in London a child seven
years old can easily make 10s, 6d. a week by thiev-
ing, while at match-box making he would have to
make the impossible quantity of 56 gross per week
—1296 boxes per day—before he could earn as
much. The rate of pay is 2id. per gross. Women,
for the work of trousers-flnishing (i.s., sewing in
linings, making button-holes, and stitching on the
buttons), receive 3|d. a pair, and have to find their
own thread. For making men’s shirts they are
paid lOd. a dozen; lawn tennis aprons, 3d, a dozen:
babies’ hoods, from Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. a dozen. In one
house were found a widow and her half idiot
daughter making palliasses at TMd. each !
Marquis Tseng was given a great reception
in England. The people who received him so de-
monstratively didn’t care a brass button if he and
all his belongings were in the deepest depression
in the Atlantic; but such a chance of giving
France a slap in the face does not occur every day.
Britons who object to the French giving John
Chinaman a dose of Western civilisation have no
Eerceptlon of the ridiculous. For people who
old India, and who battered down Chinese towns
in order to make Celestials smoke Indian opium,
to deprecate hostilities on the score of “ human-
ity,” can only be paralleled by the pickpocket
who mixes with the pursuing crowd and bawls
“ Stop thief."
The new Canton Viceroy is. according to
the New York Herald, merely a converted
cut-throat. In his youth, he flourished as a leader
of a band of highwaymen. The Government find-
ing it Impossible to capture him, made him a
Mandarin, and gave him a Yiceroyshlp. And these
are the people the French think to conquer! Why,
we down here, who are in the foremost files of
time, have not got any deeper into practical
politics than the Chinese. When a representative
of the people makes himself a kind of political
bushranger, the brightest way our Government
can think of dealing with him is to offer him a
portfolio—which, of course, he invariably refuses.
This is why our Ministries are usually so honest.
Strange that such difference there should
be ’twixt Convention and Conference. Considering
that the delegates to the Intercolonial talkee-
talkee, now holding session in Sydney, all came to
it under terms of commissions issued in the name
of the Sovereign, we don’t see why their gathering
should have been called a “Convention,” since a
Convention, technically, is an extraordinary assem-
bly convened without Royal authority. We cer-
tainly think that “Conference” would have been
the more conventional term; yet. are willing to
admit that, after all, it’s precious little odds what
title be given to a gathering so purely unnecessary
as the Intercolonial Annexation Convention.
Certain rabid British Jingoes propose that
when Duflerin gives up the mission to the ub
lime Porte, the insolvent TecK s ould be ap-
pointed to the vacancy. Thi reasons assigned are
thus put:—“Bound by his connections with the
Royal Families of England, Germany, Russia, and
G reeco, au Austrian subject, one who has served
in the Austrian army, the Duke of Teck appears
to be well eligible for the post at Constantinople
when vacant. As to his religious creed, the Duke
of Teck is believed to be a Liberal Protestant, one
who would be willing, if it were required of him,
to adopt the Greek rite. (Whewl) The time,
therefore, is perhaps not far distant when the
Duke of Teck may be called upon to break up his
establishment at Rumpenheim and proceed to
Constantinople.” Whatever weight may attach
to those reasons, they would be more than coun-
tervailed by the fact that there is too much “ Bac-
sheesh” in Constantinopolitan circles already.
Teck would prove the last straw.
Our friend Mr. John E. Kelly writes us
that in our Boss Cookie cartoon o f last issue we mis-
quoted Farnell. We stated that Farnell said, in
reply to the boss cookie deputation, “Not so;
we’ll save the country, and ruin you.” J. E. K.
says that Farnell said “Not so; we’ll save the
squatter, and ruin you and the country.” We are
not prepared to assert that the words we put in
the mouth of the Secretary for Lands were his
ipsissima verba. All that we are concerned to
know is that they fairly represented his views.
The sentence which .1. B. K. (whose portrait, by
the bye, was not among those pourtrayed in
the cartoon) would have it that Farnell uttered
is one that in that Minister's mouth would have
been so inconsistent—so fatuous-so suicidal—that
we can’t bring ourselves to believe that ho ever
said it; no, not even on the authority of Mr.
J. B. K., whose evidence on the point conflicts,
by the bye, with that of at least some of the re-
porters.
The Toronto correspondent of an Ameri-
can paper says that “ the Marquis of Lome is be-
coming more unpopular than ever. The Princess
Louise has been a political millstone round his
neck. Five years ago he received at the hands of
the Canadian people a generous welcome. Toronto
citizens endeavoured to show their pleasure at
the future residence among them of a daughter
of the Queen of England; and to-day none, except
a few Tories, would, save from curiosity, cross the
street to greet her. The feeling of resentment
and dissatisfaction is universal. She has uniformly
snubbed all advances from Canadian society, has
Invented excuses for first leaving her colonial
home, and then for staying away as long as pos-
sible. She has not made over three trips to this
city while a resident of Canada, and it is said that
she was not over polite or eivil even then to those
who made efforts, at personal sacrifice, to enter-
tain her. It is stated that ex-Mayor Beattie de-
clined to lend the use of his private carriage for
her benefit when she visited Toronto previous to
this occasion.”
The strikes actual and impending in the
engineering and colliery trades in the United
Kingdom are attributed by some democratic
journals to what is, no doubt, one of their
main causes—the snobbish ambition of the trad-
ing capitalists to emulate the extravagance of
the aristocracy, they strive to live like Oriental
grandees, and will spend (Mr. Ormond, please note)
any amount of money to obtain a title. To sup-
porttheir extravagance, employers are everywhere
and in every industry trying to reduce wages.
They must have money to give grand dinners,
dots to their daughters, &c., and the most con-
venient way to get it is to take it out of the sum
that should be paid to the working classes for
wages. The working classes comprise nearly two-
thirds of the population of the United Kingdom,
and it is not to be expected that they will allow
themselves to be plundered by a minority lor ever.
In this matter, as in all international disputes, the
doctrine which the aristocratic and moneyed
classes are now endeavouring to enforce against
the poorer classes, to Wit, “Might is right, ,r may
have to be applied to themselves.
The biggest man in Melbourne, during the
Premier’s absence in Sydney, has been Duncan
Gillies. He was nearly everybody worth looking
at. He had more departments to administer than
he could keep the count of. If a crowd came down
from the country in quest of the Premier, it had
to make a circle round the knees of Duncan. If a
wheel of the Treasury wanted greasing, a mes-
senger was despatched for Duncan. If an axle of
a railway carriage broke, Duncan ran to look at it.
If a schoolmaster refused to lift his hat to a natty
secretary, Duncan was invoked. When beset by
educational querists, he used to catch himself on
the point of replying to them on railways; and
when railways were mooted, he used to feel in-
spired to issue a ukase regulating the issue of
“ H” orders on the Treasury. He was generally
usefu on short notice. But, in real fact, every-
one was as well satisfied as if every department
had its legitimate head—which goes to snow that
the country could do for a long time without those
legitimate heads—which goes to show that a little
retrenchment Well, we’ll set an example, and
stop here.
When “il Re Galant’uomo” visited Vienna
and Berlin, he declined colonelcies in Austrian
and Prussian regiments—yet refused the offers
politely, saying that as there were no honorary
coionelcies in the Italian army, he couldn’t accept
them In the Austrian or German. He thus adroitly
avoided having such an insult offered to him as
was recently offered to Alfonso. Not that we
would compare the two sovereigns together for
an instant. Alfonso got hooted because he was
either a fool or a tool. Sometimes it has occurred
that royalty has been demonstrated against by
mobs, not out of any republican, democratic, or
communistic sentiment, but simply because the
passions of the canaille had been cleverly worked
upon a political claque. Thus the hooting of the
Queen at Ascot was incited by the Tory magnates
who were mad that her bedchamber women were
Whigs; that of Napoleon HI. at Baden, in ’68, by
tne clientele ot the House of Orleans; that of his
Empress Eugenie, at Madrid, in ’66, by the brigands
at the beck of do Montpensier. In Alfonso’s case,
as we’ve said before, he was served quite pro-
perly.
Last Saturday, the Victorian Betting Law
Amendment Act came into operation. Referring
to this historic event, the Melbourne World
remarked;—” ‘ Boz ’ will not now be able to adver-
tise that his consultation on the Champion is open.
It is also doubtful whether newspapers will be
able to publish the betting market odds, which
‘ constitute an inducement to bet.’ ” But what s
to prevent “ Boz ” and “ Aldebaran,” of Mel-
bourne, and their Victorian fellow-consultators,
from advertising in the Sydney papers, which, so
utilised by them, would be bound to have a big
circulation on the other side of the Murray—un-
less, indeed, a rigorous cordon of censors be estab-
lished along the borders to prevent the entrance
of N.S. Wales papers into Victoria ? By the bye,
this raises another question. How about those
Victorian papers that publish reflections on the
N.S. Wales judges of a character that, if they
were published in Sydney, would subject the fool-
hardy journalist to the dead certainty of his having
to expiate his “crime" (as the Queensland Cooper
phrases it) in Darlinghurst. For consistency’s
dear sake, the N.S.W. judges should certainly es-
tablish a cordon of tip-staffs along the border,
with the view of attaching for contempt the cir-
culators of any Victorian journal criminal enough
to dare to reflect upon their Honors’ proceedings.
Unless they do something of the kind, their posi-
tion is daily liable to be raked up by bullets made
in Sydney, though fired from Melbourne!
Everybody in Australia has heard of L.L..
not Dunvllle’s L.L., but the spirit-searching, the
look - into - thy - heart - and - write L.L.; in other
words, the patriarchal L. L. Smith. What he has
done for this island-continent will never be fiuly
told. He will not tell it, and hundreds of others
will never split. But he left his garden residence,
where the green leaves wave and the fountains
spring, and went up to the North-Eastern province
of Victoria to stand for the Council, the other day.
He has come back beaten, and beaten, too, by a
man named Brown. When L.L. started out, we
promised him victory. We were sure that among
the selectors and small graziers in that quarter his
name was a household word, and his influence for
good was among the treasured “finds” of that
industrious community. We knew that Barrister
Webb would be nowhere, but we thought that
local Brown would be near the same place. We
were wrong. Though Webb stayed nowhere,
Brown climbed up to the top. Their objection to
L.L. was that he did not live in the district. Evi-
dently these North-Easterns have mixed notions.
They don’t object to his medicine, but to his legis-
lation. Maybe, they think they keep him busy
enough in the former line, and don't like his atten-
tion to be dlsti acted. In any case, he’s back again
where the green leaves wave and the fountains
spring, and the man named Brown has commis-
sioned the local tailor to make him a dress suit.
So that at last the name of Brown overshadows
the honoured monniker of Smith.
The Radical ideals which comprise ad-
herence to the principles of liberty in lieu of sus-
pension of them at the first promptings of apparent
expediency or national false pride or greed, are
n aking tremendous headway in Great Britain.
The present composite administration, in which
the .Radical Ministers have frequently to accom-
modate themselves to the determinations of the
Whig majority, is scouted as only Liberal in name
A Radical writer challenges inquiry, in trenchant
terms asking “Have our Radical-Liberal or
Liberal-Radical Ministry of all the talents and of
all the virtues, with the Grand uld Man at its head,
inaugurated a democratic millennium ? We trow
not. Open the Hansards of the present parlia-
ment, and you will not be able, with a microscope,
to discover hardly a measure of real national
benefit. Page after page testifies to the anxiety
of the great Liberal majority to arrest patriots on
suspicion; to expelfrom the house by “superior
force” hon. members trying really to represent
their constituents; to violate domicile by day and
by night; to abolish trial by jury; to expel aliens;
to re-establish the Norman curfew ; to suppress
freedom of the press and of the platform; to gag
parliament; to appropriate national funds for the
payment of impossible rents; to illegally extrude
a solitary honest infidel ; to incarcerate a crazy
German refugee; to fire defenceless Alexandria
to gratify Hebrew bondholders and rapacious
officials; to give huge money grants and patents
of nobility to the chief supervisors of the revolt-
ing work; to build royal yachts at shameless
cost; to alienate national land for an old song;
and to collect for creditors their bad debts through
the agency of national officials ; these are among
the chief achievements of ‘ the most Liberal Ad-
ministration of the century.’ ”
• • •
Imperial Cabinet said to be “split” as re-
gards extension of the Irish Franchise. The Whigs
will have to give way Granny says:—“It
would do no harm to have a return of the cost of
printing laid on the Assemble table every session,
as is done in the Council, and it might have a
healthy influence in checking unnecessary expen-
diture.” Quite so Audley Coote, Hawaiian
Consul at Hobart, lodged a protest with the in-
tercolonial Convention or Conference, against the
annexation of the islands of the Pacific Ocean by
any one Power, and in favour of the establish-
ment of a joint protectorate by England, France.
Germany, and the United States, over the various
islands and archipelagoes as yet unannexed or
unprotected. There’s a good deal of reason in the
idea—The Victorian Express (Geraldton W.A.).
asserts that Governor Broome’s policy is to still
further stave off Responsible Government in West
Australia.
• ♦ *
Pious Bill, Kaiser of Germany, has assured
Qod-knows-whose son, Alfonso, King of Spain,
that he may rely on his life-li ng friendship The
gensdari) es sent te reinforce the Southern Egyp-
tian gai rison, have deserted en route, not a Baker’s
dozen having reached their destination... The
Royalist party of France consists of some 3000 soi-
disant nobles, some 3000 would-be styled nobles,
and some 30,000 toadies. The only Bourbon worth
going in for now is a Royal “blend” with ice
fixings. ...60,000 dollars (£11,500) were collected in
America lor O’Donnell’s defence Sixty years
ago it was illegal for working men to unite
for the purpose of improving their wages —
Talk of talking ! The longest talker that we
have ever heard of is Dr. De Cosmos, of the Legis-
lature of Columbia. He talked once for twenty-
six hours on a stretch without once sitting down
or taking a morsel to eat. He was stonewalling a
Bill. When he finished—triumphant, for he had
baulked the Bill—“his voice had sunk to a husky
whisper, his eyes were almost shut and were
bleared and bloodshot, his legs tottered under
him, and his baaed lips were cracked and smeared
with blood.’’ Can anything more ignominious
be conceived than the proposal of the Times, the
London Times, that the island of Massowah should
be offered to the King of Abyssinia upon condi-
tion that he checks the advance of the Soudan
Mohdy? Is this the tone of empire? Would it
not be a deuced sight better, more politic, more
decent to make Wolseley's field marshaiship con-
ditional upon retrieving Hid s’disaster by victory
over either the Prophet or the Loss (Tewlik, to wit)?
.. A recent Nihilist proclamation is said to be to
the follow! gelfect: “The Russian Revolutionary
Executive Committee has unanimously decided to
pronounce sentence of death against Alexander
III. The ten., which we fixed was well known to
the Czar through our organ, the Will, or the
People, the time has expired, and the Govern-
ment has not fatten a single step to alleviate the
misery and sufferings of the people. Despite all
the precautions of our opponents, we are con-
vinced that we shall succeed in carrying out our
design.” France despatching considerable mili-
tary reinforcements to her force in Tonquin A
mob of dyt amiters arrested on charge of conspi-
racy to blow up the Earl of Mayo’s seat at Naas
A French journal says Alexander III. (the present
Czar), in 1875, stopped Prussia, then on the point
of throwing heiself upon our country, of which
the military reorganization had scarcely begun.
Krance has not forgotten this M. Antoine, the
Frenchman who represents the captured city of
Metz in the German Reichstag, and who was re-
cently arrested by Marshal Manteuffel, Governor
of Alsace and Lorraine, on a charge of high
treason, and afterwards liberated, is a veterinary
surgeon. He prepared to start a journal called
Metz, to be devoted to a bold advocacy of the
moral right of the inhabitants of these conquered
provinces to choose their own nationality. Man-
teuffel prohibited the publication. Then M.
Antoine bearded the grim old warrior in a letter,
thus:—“M. le Marechal, before knowing Metz,
you have struck it; that is much honour.
How could the public safely be menaced by a
journal which bad not been issued ? It seems to
me that the safety of 4J millions of people, all
armed aud protected by ramparts and thousands
of cannons, could scarcely be effected by one
journal. I shan’t bow to the yoke. More than
ever, in the fulfilment of the mandate which my
constituents have imposed on me, I shall declare
to all Germany what are our hopes, what our pro-
tests, and shall remind them that nothing in this
world is eternal. . . As for you, I hope that
you will live to see the revenge of right over
might.’’ . . . The German simply retorted by
arresting the bold journalist on a charge of higfi
treason and trafficking with foreigners (i.e. the
French). A story is told about M. Antoine 10 the
effect that having occasion to walk in the public
promenade in Metz, his presence there was soon
made known throughout the garrison, and there-
upon the German officers came out in force, and
made a point of hustling the avowed advocate of
the French revanche. For some time the French-
man bore these insults in silence, but at last the
conduct of a Bavarian officer proved the last
straw, so to speak, and, drawing himself up in the
path of his insulter, M. Antoine, looking him full
in the face, exclaimed, “ Perhaps you can tell me,
Monsieur, what is the usual punishment in Ger-
many for officers who are dastards enough to in-
sult a defenceless man?” The Bavar.an, taken
aback, could only stammer, “Perhaps you can tell
me, Monsieur, how they would punish such officers
in France.” “ No, Monsieur, I caunot,” replied
M. Antoine, emphatically, “ for in France it is
impossible for such a question toarise. Sucha case
could not present itself.” Pending O’Donaell’s
trial, Mrs. Carey was all wed by Government £2 a-
week for herself, and 10s. per week for each of her
spawn England and Germany have arranged to
co-operate for the protection of either Power s
subjects resident in China Canadian Dominion
Government has purchased, at Kensington, a per-
manent residence for their High Commissioner to
England.
G. H. Reid on the sick-list. Influenza.
The Gisborne (N.Z.) Herald, which is now
edited by a Blue Ribbonite, says of Mrs. Hampson:
“ Once, when made an offer of marriage, her reply
proved her to be a woman of mind, for she said:
‘ I’ve no time to attend to the units—
The millions are demanding my care.’ ”
It is rather odd that a statesman, distin-
guish jd at school and university for kleptomaniac
habits, should be so indisposed to annexation
Eh, ?
The hunt is up. We mean that the North-
ern Hunt Club season ended in September last,
and the committee are now in full cry after sub-
scribers. The Matter has been obliged by business
to resign, but the pack is kept together, chiefly
owing to the liberality of Mr. Edward Terry, who
has also won the gratitude of sportsmen by en-
abling the club to build kennels and stabling, and
a residence for the huntsman.
Whitton, wild, unto Goodchap:
“ Is’t at me you would slap ?”
Goodchap, grumpy, to Whitton:
“ Is it me you would sit on ?”
Dr. Simms, who has lectured more than
sixty nights in Sydney with great success, will
lecture on Saturday night, December 8, on Eves
Ei eHcis, Eyebrows, Eyelashes, at Temperance
Hall. Next Monday evening his lecture will be
on Physiognomy, its application; Tuesday evening
his lecture will be on Wrinkles and Passions. He
will give descriptions of health and character
daily at Temperance Hall. His stay here will soo.i
close for ever. We will not likely see him again
until wo meet on the other side of Jordan.
Picton on Conway’s Collapse to a crowded
audience at the Temperance Hall, last Friday
M‘Beath(!) presiding. Conway, according to Picton’.
was a frost because he didn’t attract numbers and
win the suffrages of the self-sufficient godly ”
Will Picton admit the cogency of the same argu-
ment when applied to a scene that occurred in
Jerusalem some nineteen centuries ago ? From
his standpoint was it a case of Christ’s collapse
when the mob clamoured for Barabbas, and
hounded to the cross the Man of Sorrows, whose
sin in their eyes was that he denounced hypocrisy
and consorted with those in misery and affliction ?
CHINA AND FRANCE.
Why does a man dress up his wife for And then have the tradesmen running
other men to run after— after him ?


The Refe
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
t/ i porting events in general.]
RACING INDEX.
Readers will find the column regularly
headed with a list of fixtures to be attended to
within the month; followed by names and dates
of Race-meetings to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Campbeiitown Weights December 6.
Temora Races
Campbeiitown General Entry December 10.
Bega Weights December 10.
Liverpool Weights December 11.
Liverpool General Entry December 11.
Wallsend Weights December 12.
Casino Handicaps close December 12.
Casino Weights SShwW
Hillston Acceptances December 19.
Wallsend non-accept December 19.
Casino Acceptances December 22.
New England Handicaps close December 22.
Hillston Races December *n*
Bega Acceptances • December 31.
S.T.C. Genera jEntry January b, 1884.
Adelong Races January 1, 2.
New England Weights January 7.
New England Acceptances .January 17.
Balonne Handicaps close 1 ebruary i».
Balonne St. George Handicap Weights....March 12.
Balonne St. George Handicap Accept March 31.
Balonne Handicap Weights April ».
FUTURE RACES.
Warialda J.C December 12,13.
Camden and Campbeiitown J.C. Races..... Dec. 15.
Liverpool J.C December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December «6.
Pleasant Creek (V.) December 26.
Clarence TattersaU’s J.C 9R
Casino Races tVI?'
Gunnedah December 26, 27.
W allsend December 26,.27.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1,1884.
Orange J.C January 1.
Y i > n January 1.
Wentworth 2*
Candelo Races ■ .January 2.
Bega J.C. Races January lb, 11.
New England Races Janury 25,26.
SJU nfivTC J anuary 26.
Tasmanian R.C.‘ (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Coonabarabran -January24,25.
Cooma Races February 20, 21.
Braid wood Races F i % 8
V.R.C. Autumn M w Ch I’ n
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
Hunt Prize a'
Glebe R.C. Regatta Decembers.
Deeble and Punch Prize December 15.
Manly Rowing and Sailing ciubRegatta. ...Dec. la.
All Comers Regatta - • December
New castle Regatta
National Regatta January -6.
CRICKET.
Sydney Grammar School v. Melbourne, G.S.
Association Ground December!;, 18.
Melbourne v. N.S.W. at Melbourne Dec. 2b.
ATHLETICS.
Hay Athletic Club Sports De 26*
wSfngMateh,' Cobar. 'I .".'.'.*•'•'•' ’
Highland Society s Gathering January l
BICYCLING.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union Race Meeting Dec. 15.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Victor and Miller have been matched to
wrestle on 15th January, in Sydney or Adelai ie.
£50 aside. Miller has backed himself to throw
Victor five times within the hour.
The demon-bowler has once more ap-
peared upon the scene. He has, it is alleged (as
per usual) already announced his intention of not
taking’ part in the Intercolonial match
The intercolonial cricket list has been cut
down to A. Bannerman, Garrett, Massie, Jonei,
Murdoch. Spoflorth, Evans, J. Cleeve. V Gregory,
Hiddelstone, H. Moses, R. Allen, and Hall.
Jem Mace said that just before starting for
America he sparred with Professor William Miller
at a benefit in Sydney, and * put him through in
two rounds. Miller, of course, says he s another.
Mr W. A. Long’s Condor, ridden by
Archer, started first favourite for the Two-year-
old Great Sapling Plate, at but only ran
fourth. The race was won by Scotfree, a rana
outsider. „ _ , ,
Manning, the celebrated New Zealand
athlete, is at Melbourne on a visit, and it to said
that during his stay he will endeavour to arrange
matches for Robertson (the Maori), the New Zea-
land champion wrestler, who recently beat Strong,
At Melbourne on Saturday last, a yacht
race came off between the Assegai ind the Mmnie-
halia arising out of a challenge at the recent re-
gatta The distance was 30 miles, and the assegai
won after a close race.
T M‘Mahon, a recent arrival from Ireland)
and Robert Ashworth, a native of Bathurst, raced
at Bathurst on Saturday last, for £100aside, ine
race was run in three distances, viz., 120, 200. and
300 yards, over hurdles 42 inches high, at each dis-
tance, and was won by the local man.
Charles Wallace is a wonderful marksman
who has appeared at a Boston theatre. A black
lack is pointed towards him on a white target, and
ion feet he will put a pistol bullet
three times outof four. Mrs. Wallace will hold a
coin in her teeth, and he will knock it out at 100
feet with a revolver. Now then, Ike!
The father of “Young Nimrod,” the
youngster who has done such wonderful shooting
in England, has offered to back the hoy to kill
seventy starlings out of one hundred, from one
21 yards rise, eighty yards boundary, use of
bo& barrlls and tosi for choice of ground; or to
kill seventy pigeons out of 0D ® d^“ dred at 18 yar 8
rise and five traps, usual boundary.
The betting element has reached such a
pitch in connection with amateur rowing, that it
E a common occurrence to hear the remark
mXLt I rXthat So-and-so ought to win ” if he
goes for it ” It is to be hoped the evil has not
® j pH ftkfit-at round. In tbG recent Cup
match Albert v. Carlton, the latter claimed the
Sltch because the Albert men were not Prepared
tn start precisely at the time arranged by the
Ground domnhttee. By far too much betting
takes place on these matches to allow of their
hefng carried on in an amicable and sportsmanlike
B, Tt Narragansett Park U.S., when Jay Bye
See recently trotted a mile in 2.10%, his owner,
J I Case, was so overcome with excitement that
he seized and kissed his wife in the presence of the
assembled thousands. But we have an Australian
parallel for even that. When Don Juan won the
llelhourne Cup, his owner enthusiastically jumped
on hte own beiltopper; while his owner’s wife
rushed down from the grand-stand and bugged
Don Juan with such emprtMemcnl that everybody
on the course envied the veteran Joe.
Hosmer is becoming as popular in America
as Hanlan is unpopular. On Hosmer’s return to
Boston, as soon as he stepped from the car, he was
hoisted up shoulder-high and carried the full
length of the platform, a thousand voices cheer-
ing, while the hand played “ Hail to the Chief. A
procession was formed, and the march taken up
for Revere Hall, where Hosmer addressed the
large gathering, saying in the course of his speech
that he intended taking the very best care of him-
self duringthe coming winter, and hoped to.brmg
the championship to Boston next year.
Backers of “Archer’s mounts” had a fair
turn by his success on Busybody for the Middle
Park Plate the English two-year-old Derby, as it is
called—for the filly started at remunerative odds, a
somewhat rare event when” Archer’s up. ’.By the
bye, his brother Charles’ stable has been in first-
class form throughout the season, and Freddie s
already plethoric pile has, we read, been materially
swelled. Boswell, who just beat Mr. Longs
Tonans for the Liverpool Cup, is trained by
Charles Archer.
The Dreamland, Lottie, Victor, and Adel-
phi started in a spanking south-easter on Saturday
last to race over the Manly course for Mr. J. J.
Richardson's prize, in connection with the S. A.->.C.
The Adelphi received a two-minutes handicap.
At the finish the Lottie passed the flagboat at 5h.
5m. 42s.; Adelphi, 5h. 7ra. 55s.; Dreamland. 5h. 7m.
56s.; Victor 5h. 8m. So the Lottie secured first
prize, and the Adelphi, independent of her time,
appropriated a trophy given ter second boat. The
Victor, by two to one the fastest boat of the tour,
ran a very good last.
The Miller v. Blackburn and Thomas
wrestling match is to come off at the L'neatre
Royal, Melbourne, during the afternoon of Satur-
day, the 8th December. Miller has all his work
cut out, as both his opponents have done some
first-class wrestling in their time. Amongst other
trophies, Blackburn holds a gold cup, value of)
guineas, won by him at Stockton-on-Tees on three
different occasions in 1876, ’77. and ’78, the la t tune
against 170 competitors, the struggle lasting each
day for a week; and a handsome cairngorm medal
in the shape of a Maltese cross. Thomas has two
silver cups, decorated with the figures of vigorous
wrestlers, won in 1874 and 1875; and two belts—tue
one the result of victories in the Cornish style m
1877, ’79, ’80, and in the Cumberland style in 1878,
’79, and ’80.
Here is something for those who hack
jockeys to chew over ;—In England, the First
October meeting was noteworthy from the fact
that Charles Wood rode in 33 races during the
week, and did not score a single vict >ry. His
usual average is about one win in three during the
year, and, when this is considered, it will be seen
what a disastrous run 23 losing mounts is. Many
backers follow Wood and Archer on a doubling
system, or, at any rate, on an increasing stake
system. Wood’s men must have had a terrible
time. Only calculating roughly, it is found that it
a man had started at £1 only, and doubled 1 ns take
each time, he would have lost some £8.' 00.000, as
over £4,000 000 would have had to go on the last
time he rode.
It seemed like old times when Trickett and
Rush drew up on Saturday last to row for £200 a
side over the champion course We saw tnem row
in our youth; they are still rowing in our middle
age; and e en after our death we may hare
chance to sec them row; for should old Charon
have a couple of equal boats, we wouldn t mind
laying odds that the old feud will be strong m
death, and the pair wilboften do a spin over that
historic course, the Styx, for a couple of hundred
aside. On Saturday, Rush jumped away with the
lead, which he held to the mile point, passed in 7
min. 13 sec., when Trickett d.ew up: but Michael
could not see letting him past, and Performed
what appeared to us to be a bit of jockeyi g.
Trickett, however, was not to be denied, tor,
drawing clear, he dasned past his man, aim led
easily over the remainder of the course. Time,
35.10, against wind and ti e.
W. Snook, the English Amateur runner,
wrote to the N.Y. Spibit op the Times, stating
that he was prepared to run George a seme or
races, including half-mile, 1000 yards, three-
quarter mile, one, two, three, four, “^es,
in all nine events, onl George preferred one race,
to run him at tiis acknowledged distance one
mile. Snook added: Candidly speaking, I have
had nearly enough of running for this season,
having taken part in races nearly every week for
the last six months, and at the present
myself 61b. heavier than when I was i ruIll ?! n £*H
mV best, viz, at ihe Civil Service Sports and
Championship imeting. However. 1
worse, and am quite pr< pared to give Mr. George
and his friends the satisfaction ef our meeting.
The only stipulation I wish to make is that the
race or races shall not be run in less than a month
after the date of making the match.
Says a N.Z. weekly“ How many people
wondered if the result of the race for the N.6.
Cup reminded Mr. Robinson of a similar
perience which befel him so long ago as 1864?
Tradition says that in that year he was racing in
England, and had a four-year-old mare
Gratitude engaged in the Cuesarewitch Stakes with
the light weight of 6st. She had been pm
tried, and Mr. Robinson laid out £40,000 on her,
backing her to win something like a quarter of a
million of money. Just before the daj, he sud-
denly discharged the jockey (Orimsbaw) engage
to rifle Gratitude, and engaged
Grimshaw then got the mount.m iin-
other four-year-old, with another nice weight ot
fet e 31b. a/d on Thalestris he had the extreme
satisfaction of winning the race, just »K *
former employer’s mare. Gratitude, on the lost,
exactly as Tasman “did” Nonsense in the New
Zealand Cui>!”
Donald Dinnie, the champion Scottish ath-
lote is to arrive in N Z, from ’Ensco on 10th Dec.
He broke his left leg while essaying a long Jump
years ago. and he says he does not now do much at
leaping and running, but at h am m t r - ro w > n g he
still offers any man in the world three leet bUrt.
Dinnie’s specialities seem to be throw mg the 56 m.
caber heavy or light hammers, and stones, and
border wrestling. In these be has never yet met
his equal. The following are a few of his
aiices during the 37 j ears or so for which he has
been known as an athlete1871 at Coupar, Angus,
1 he threw the 161b. hammer, fair stand, 138ft. 8In.;
! and at Stonehaven, in 1873, he threw a 231b. ham-
I mer, under the same conditions, 104tt. pm.
i Dumferline, in 1874, he put a 16 lb. stone d! ft. 6 in.,
but the ground on which this performance was
effected sloped slightly downwards. At Turriff, m
I860, he obtained a record of 6 ft. 2 in. m the high
leap, and he has several times cleared the distance
! of 20 ft. 1 in. at running long leap, and 44 ft. at hop,
i step, and jump. He has also run 100yards in 10 3-5
sec., and at hurdle-racing he has or had few equals.
But we're afraid the #reat athlete has had his day.
1860 isn’t 1884.
Says Dan O’Leary, in a letter to the Ameri-
i can paper Turf, Field, and Farm “ 1 have en-
gaged in two six-day walks in the city of Sydney
against William Edwards, the champion m these
parts, both times suffering defeat. IwnuJuhave
beaten him in the second race had I not had the
misfortune to be surrounded by treacherous at-
tendants, some of whom were base enough to dose
my water with ether. I never walked better in
any race I ever engaged in up to 1 o clock on
Friday morning. I was ahead of any performance
that 1 ever made up to that time, and i was sure
of beating 531 miles. Friday 1 was taken sick, and
lost a great many hours recovering from the
effects of the ether. When I got in shape to go
again 1 was too far behind, and Edwards beat me
by seven miles, scoring 466 1-6 miles to 4o9 for cor-
respondent.” Dan also said that his visit to the
antipodes was principally on account of his hair,
which was falling out in America:—
’Twas for his hair’s sake he came here,
And his trip was not a failure,
For he certainly received a flrst-
Class “ wigging” in Australia.
Daniel never walked so fast in these parts that he
couldn’t keep his hair on.
We have received some Rolleston (Queens-
land) sporting notes from a correspondent who
styles himself the “ Smasher,” a most appropriate
nom deplume, judging from the way he knocks
the Queen’s English about. Says the ‘‘Smasher :
“There is some rumer of races to be held at Rol-
lestou about Christmas time, but how mutch t ruth
there is in it I cannot say. 1 hope they will be
conducted in a better manner than the last, when
one Pou Lece man was dragged out of bed by the
Larrikins the night before the Races whilst the
other one was busy makeing tires at the grave-
yards. and helpeing his companion to hot punch
who was seriously hill with the feaver. I am
afraid we lost our best sporting man when Mr.
Tom Soa left the district, taking with him an
enormice sum of money, whitch he made fencing m
Wallaby country. Mr. Hie ann, another of our sport-
ing characters, also left us, taking with him some-
thi g over three thousand pounds, Mr. Baur'Bur
ore poses to have races at his station, whitch is thirty
miles from town; but Jay Cub says it is absurd, as
there is no coach to cart the drunkerds home with.
If there is any chance of getting up races, it had
better be left to Mr. Har Pur and Mr. Hann Gove.
The former is all manners and no brames, and the
latter is all talk and no witt, so they ought to do it
if it is to be done. Would any further notes from
Rolleston be acceptible, Mr. Editore ? ” Certainly,
I masher; original sporting notes are always ac-
jptable to The BubLEriN, and yours are nothing
not original.
The following, clipped from a Yankee
aper, appeared under the heading of 1 A Sober
aik with Sullivan,” and embodies a few ideas and
few morals which hold good all the world oyer:—
Well, John, you have whipped the Maori, and
ow you stand at the head of the class. When
ou got away with ityan, we didn’t brag of your
erformance, for the two of you weren t evenly
latched—you had the advantage. On that un-
acky evening when Tug Wilson declined to be
nocked out, we soured on you a little—yes, we
onfess it, we did, John !—and while you were
lippodroming around the country with a gang of
■ariety haras and bar-room bruisers, we lost a deal
if confidence in you. But you have redeemed
'ourself, and we are your friends again—you
lave met the enemy, and we are yours,
<ow, in the heyday of youth, while the evil days
some not when >ou shall say: ‘Ido no slogging
n them,’ there are several things which you
ihould learn and remember. You doubtless think
,hat you have, so to speak, seen the whole show;
jut, bless you, John, you have only been standing
jutside the big tent, hearing the band play and
ooking at the canvas. There are men not con-
rected with your profession who know more than
pou do; and there are men within its ranks whose
Irani urns would show more bumps for aphreno-
lo ist to gloat over than a sand-bag would raise
jn your skull. You may have located some of
bhise bumps on other pugilists’ skulls, John—no
loubt you have often felt for them with your
boxing-gloves—they are there, anyhow, and, m
some cases, there is beneath them brain tissue
which your cerebrum and cerebellum lack, tor
this reason, John, we shall give you some lessons
from the experiences of these gentlemen and our-
selves, and we shall expect you to profit by our
admonitions. In the first place, John, a man must
be something more than a fighting man, if he
would command the respect and affection of the
general public. You may be able to knock seven-
teen kinds of blue blazes out of the ‘ best man
in America; but the physician who patches that
man up, so that his hide will hold water, is a
bigger man than you are. Everybody t eyond
the reach of your fist admits it. The angels
glory in it. Therefore it is not necessary that
you should be able to keep that chip on your
shoulder all through yonrilfe. You are a hand-
some fellow, John, and you will be a good deal
handsomer after it is off. Knock It off yourself,
John, if you want to; we will not meddle with it;
but get it off somehow, and button your wrist-
bands and quit. You will look better presiding
over your saloon than you will standing inacrowd
of shoulder-bitters. We know it, you know it,
and Boston knows it. John, Boston is proud of
you; but Boston’s baked beans build brains, and
brains accompany their owners to ethical discus-
sions, not to scrapping matches, and take more
interest in the Concord lectures than they do in
the Marquis of Queensberry rules. Secondly,
John, be honest—be modest; admit that there are
some persons and some thing’s that you can t
‘lick ’ You can’t get the better of whisky, John;
it will knock you out every time. Joe Coburn
was a good man, in his day; but whisky downed
Joe, and It will do the same hy you. And don t
‘buck the tiger,’ now that you are flush. The
‘ tiger’ will strike below the belt; he will reach for
your pocket, and he will surely break your guard.
Don’t stand up with him at all. Throw up the
sponge at the start, and let his backers take the
stakes, if they will. Let them buy ropes with the
stake-money and hang themselves, while you
sit out one side and hear the ‘ tiger’ howl.
Did you ever know, John, what your muscle was
given you for? Did you imagine that your only
use for it was to take it into a ring and pound
some poor devil until his jaw dropped off and ms
nose tumbled into his mouth? Well, if you did,
you were mistaken. Your muscle will come into
play when you see a corner-loafer insult a woman,
and when half-a-dozen men jump on one, and
when your next-door neighbour beats his wife,
tinder these circumstances, John, roll up your
sleeves and wade in.' Label one fist ‘Six-months-
in-the-hospital,’ and the other ‘ Sure-death,’ and
administer allopathic doses of either, as the case
may warrant. Don’t waste your time with pro-
fessional punchers; take these amateurs that we
have named. The P.R. may not hear of such
battles, John, but the Recording Angel will, and
ten lines on the credit side of his ledger will be
worth more to you than ten pages in the Clipper.
Almanac. Yes, John, the American people hate
a coward ; yet they hate a bully more, it’s im-
possible that you should ever become a coward;
but be careful that you don’t go to the other ex-
tremity. We all know you, John, as a hard-
headed but soft-hearted crcdit-to-your-sex. Now,
don’t put your heart into training, whatever you
do. Your body may grow to be too large, but your
heart never can; and when you fight for grub and
glory at 207, have your heart all ready to fight for
humanity at 2701”
FAMILY TROUBLES.
SPOTTING GLEANINGS.
The Newcastle shoemakers recently “lea-
thered” the ditto saddlers in a cricket match....
Sylvia, the dam of Martini-Henry, has dropped a
fine colt to Anteros.... Scott, the N.Z. ped., refused
to accept Raynor’s challenge to walk for 48 hours
in Adelaide In Melbourne, the proposed boxing
match between Mick Nathan and Allbrook has
been postponed, owing to an injury received‘.by
Nathan to one of his hands With regard to
Hosmer’s alleged three miles with a turn in 20 min.
3 sec., at Price’s Hulton Regatta, in September
last, the fact of Ten Eyck rowing second in 20 min.
7 sec., the second best on record, would seem to
throw doubt on the performance, as Ten Eyck
has never before been able to break 21 min
Welcome Jack has been scratched for all his mid-
summer engagements. ...Kiama easily beat Jam-
beroo in a cricket match on 21st Nov— At Char-
ters Towers (Q), Hillyard defeated Huxley’s
black boy in a 150 yards’ race for £90. The winner
laid £50 to £40....After the recent Wagga pigeon
match, Mr. Harding, of Picton, challenged any
member of the Sydney Gun Club for £100 aside—
The Railway Stores and Railway Audit Depart-
ments played a cricket match at Stanmore on last
Wednesday week. The Auditors made 135 runs,
and the Stores lost one wicket when the rain put a
stop to the game It is cabled that the St.
Andrew’s Handicap at Dunedin was won by
Taiaroa, and the Spring Handicap at Wellington
was won by Poet “Jack” Conway, in his day
the best all round cricketer in Victoria, was last
man in for the Press in the late match against the
Spouters. Alas, poor Yorickl. . M. Levy defeated
J. Li guist in a single wicket cricket match at
Nymagee. It was a match in name only, as Levy
made eight runs, and bowled his opponent out
first ball At Carlton (Vic.), the entertain-
ment in aid of George Couithard’s widow was
largely attended... .The Glebe Rowing Club
regatta comes off on Saturday next. Johnston’s
Bay has been quite lively lately with intending
competitors doing their daily Rows, and Shute
Fairweather favour the Glebeites on the 8th, the
regatta has every appearance of eventuating with
its customary success At Armidale, Bray, a
local man, defeated Campbell in a 150 yards spin for
£50 aside. Campbell conceded five yards... .The
Sydney Grammar school plays its intercolonial
cricket match with Melbourne, on the Association
Cricket Ground, Monday and Tuesday, 17th and
18th December.
•
P.J. Sullivan, another American aspirant
for fistic honours, stands 6ft. in height, is but
24 years old, and weighs 2271b. He is said never to
have boxed with anybody but “Clarkey” until
the night of Sept. 22, when he set-to with John
Keefe, a big-’un from the west, whom he is said to
have handled in an astonishing manner. He is
looked upon as a highly promising heavyweight.
The mile swimming match between C. Beck-
with and W. Beaumont, for £50, took place at the
Lambeth Baths, Westminster, London, England,
on 15th September, and was won by the former,
by 2min. 10 l-5th sec., in 29mln. 44 l-5th sec. The
winner is in his nineteenth year, and on the day of
the race scaled 1461b. Beaumont is 28 years old,
stands 5ft. and weighs 1641b....The highest-
priced yearling of the Doncaster (Eng.) sale
week was a half-brother to Goldfield, named
The Coiner, sent up by Mr. Crowther Harrison,
and knocked down to the bid of Mr. W. Burton
for 2550 guine. s, after some kee competition
with Mr. Walton, the American “plunger.”—
A roller-skating match, ten miles, for £10, was
contested at Leicester, Eng., Sept. 18, Woodford
(50 yards start) beating Satchell by forty yards, in
52 min. 20 2-5 sec The first one hundred-mile
road-race in America, took place on Saturday, Oct.
6. under the auspices of the Boston Bicycle Club.
Midgely won in 9 hours 47 min—A Madame
Englo recently started, at Lynn, to perform the
feat of walking 1500 miles in 1000 hours. At latest
she had covered 1302 miles, and there appeared
e\ ery possibility of her bringing her weary
journey to a successful conclusion... At N.Y., on
Sept. 11, Ed. Connors, of Troy, contracted to stop
or knock out, Tom Allen, of N.Y., in six four-
minute rounds with gloves. Contrary to ex-
pectation, Allen (by 191b. the lighter man)
f >rced the pace from the jump, and knocked
his opponent clean out of time... A one
mile swim for £100 between W. Beckwith
and T. Riley, champion of America, took place in
Hull Bay, Boston, when Beckwith won very easily
in 40min. 55sec. Riley gave up before finishing the
distance... Mr. J. W. M. Brown, of Long Sutton,
England, has ridden the longest distance on a
bicycle in one day—viz., 255J4 miles. He has four
times within two months ridden over 200 miles
within 24 hours, and also won 46 first and second
prizes in different amateur races during the past
three years. He now intends to retire on bis
laurels... Says “Masher” Sullivan:—“Take it all
around, Slade can stand more punishment than
any of the rest of them. I don’t know how scien-
tific some are. I have offered Mace fifty per cent,
of the gate receipts to box with me—scientific
points, and no hard hitting, to win- but he hasn’t
seen fit to accept it. We are good friepds, though,
and will meet again in San Francisco in' the Spring,
when, mebbe, we will get together just to satisfy
ourselves. The Maori and I got weighed to-day,
and I beat him jus 1 a pound. I weighed 220tt>. loz.
2dr., and he weighed 2191b. loz. 2dr. He is the
bigger man, but he has not picked up yet from his
training to meet Mitchell. 1 weighed 228tt>. myself
before I began training to meet Slade.”
An American professional four, consisting of
Wallace Boss, G. Hosmer, G. W. Lee, and Fred.
Plaisted, have challenged any four in the world
for £500 a side. Another American crew, of
Buffalo, N.Y., have accepted the challenge....In
England, Mr. Blew-Jones has swum 220 yards
under 3min George and Snook, says Truth.
“ are training assiduously for their mile race, In
which the record is to be ‘let down with a swing.
The Inter-’Varsity competitions for 1883 re-
sulted as follows: Oxford won the boat-race, the
single-handed billiards, the Rugby football match,
the golf, the bicycling, the tennis (both single
and double), lawn-tennis (single and double!,
the shooting, and the polo. Cambridge was
victorious in the cricket match, the cross-
country racing, the athletic sports, the double
billiards, the Association football match, ana mo
racquets, both ga mes. The chess match was a tie. • •
The recent Mitchell-Sherriff boxing contest was a
very tame affair. Both principals tuanilcstea
wholesome regard for each other, neither caring
“ My dear papa,
Why don’t mamma
Come feed me as she used ter ?”
‘ Hush, Mary Jane”—
[aside]—“ I can’t explain;
She’s with that other rooster.


HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTEB
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY PAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
DOUBLE EVENT.
A.J.O. SUMMER CUP
AND
TATTERS ALL’S CUP.
£50 to 5s.
A.J.C. SUMMER CUP, to be run at Randwick,
26th December. One mile and a half.
TATTERSALL’S GDP, to bo run at Randwick,
1st January. Two Miles.
EDWARD FERRY,
Turf Commission Agent,
Manchester Arms (two doors from Royal Hotel),
George-street, Sydney.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
fimt-claas Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPB
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLBRC .
childe Harold
15
15
'2
12
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price. . , ...
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mareg#
Ail Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
L Y D E 8 D
E 8 .
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
AM Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
' ANDREW TOWN. Richmond.
mO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAVE,
I near WINDSOR, the imported ooadhlng
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows :—Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, gg s Jackson’s
Perfection, gggs Catton, ggggs Bay Becking-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g a
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink's Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 12 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over *2000, including a match for £500, and wa
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. .. 6 „ „
TESTATOR 4 „
UNCLE TOM 3
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE S. YEO.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that d,ate will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN EALKS.
Duckenfleld. September 18th, 1883.
P. R. H0LDSW0RTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET.
The ELDRED'G E®
Correspondence Solicited
WITH KBSPOHSIBLB PASTIES
, FOB THE LEADING
ISEWIMG MACHINE OF THfi WORLD,
trull particulars, catalogue and prices
* jnailed on application.
i
® SEWING MACHINE CO.®
Dr. Marston’s New Work
Describing bow sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, SKBVOC8, AXD IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
MAN
SHOULD
READ
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and’Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co., 1
72 KLIZnBETH BY., SYDNEY
£10,000
To be distributed on the
Normandy Stakes,
To be run on New Tear’s Day, 1884.
Capital, £10,000 In 10,000 Shares op £1 Each.
“THE MELBOURNE TUBE CLUB”
Will hold another Mammoth Sweep on the above
Race.
ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !! I
Will be declared in the event of there being
£5,000, or more in the Sweep, when drawing takes
place (Dec. 28th). One-third of the amount will be
divided amongst unsuccessful subscribers.
Should the whole amount be subscribed, a £3,000
Book will be made on the New Year’s Races,
which, according to our New System, will realize
a profit from £3,000 to £5,000, the whole of which
will be divided amongst those who neither draw
a Horse nor a Prize in the Mammoth Sweep.
Horses and Prizes to be divided as follows, or
pro rata, if not fully subscribed :—
First Horse ..
Second „
Third „
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
£2000
1000
500
250
350
2 Prizes of £500 £1000
2 250 500
5 100 500
10 50 500
20 25 500
Total £7,000
A Representative of the Sportsman will attend
Drawing in the interests of Subscribers at a dis-
tance, who cannot be present.
Send P.O. Order, Notes, or Cheque, with ex-
change added and 3d. for reply and result. Re-
sult posted to every Subscriber and advertised in
Australasian and Town and Country Journal.
Please enclose self-addressed envelope. Address,
THOMAS BENTLEY, Sec., M.T.C., Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
ORMANBY STAKES, 1884.
N
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” company.
CAPITAL, £2,500, in 5000 SHARES of 10s. Each
190 PRIZES, £1225 for HORSES, and £1275 tor
STARS, &c.
of the N.S.)
Second Horse
Third Horse..
Starters divide ,
Five stars of £30 each, £100; 13 stars of £10 each,
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £135; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £200.
“Adamastor” begs most respectfully to inform
his numerous patrons that he thanks them for the
liberal support that he has received, and herewith
submits a programme similar to that of last year's
Champion Meeting.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O
orders, or cheques ; if cheques, exchange must bo
added, and in all cases postage fees.
Registered letters only will be accepted.
Application, by letter only, addressed “ Adamas-
tor, ’ care of L. A. Pereira, 34 Bourke-street west,
Melbourne. P.S.—Results sent to every share-
holder. Notice—Sydney agency has been closed.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long;,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
to pursue offensive tactics. Three six-minute
rounds were fought, and at the conclusion neither
man was ma le the worse. In response to the calls
of the crowd, who were clamorous and dis-
appointed, they had another round, in which Mit-
chell showed to the better advantage. At its con-
clusion, Madden (for Mitchell) demanded a decision,
refusing to allow his man to agree to the proposal
of the opposite party to continue the contest.
Hill, the referee, stated that so far as points were
concerned Mitchell clearly had the best of the
encounter, but as endurance had also to be
into consideration he felt it his duty to declare the
fight (?) a draw. This decision seemed to surprise
Mitchell and his seconds, and did not appear to
please even the Sherriff party (who relying on the
gameness land staying qualities of their man, ex-
pressed a desire to fight to a finish), while it gave
intense dissatisfaction to the crowd, and a scene of
great confusion ensued. Madden could not place
dependence on Mitchell’s bad wrist, and would not,
therefore, if for no other reason, consent to con-
tinuing, and he pulled off his principal’s gloves,
claiming that he had fairly won. This put an end
to the affair just as darkness was beginning to
gather, and the crowd dispersed, though most
reluctantly, and expressing very great dissatisfac-
tion with the whole affair.
An intensely fashionable lady returning
home sooner than expected, discovered her maid
busily engaged at her toilette table. “ What does
this mean, Blise?” cried the mistress, “you are
using my hare’s foot and powder puff.” “Pray
don't apologise, ma’am, I’ve no objection to use
them after you.’’
This is an Adelaide item, and shows how
journalism Is progressing there. The first sentence
is a trifle “ mixed,” but we haven’t time to un-
wind it: -“Rev. J. M. Dat, and Courtesy.—
An advertisement appeared in yesterday’s Even-
ing Journal, offering a reward for a certain list
of names to a requisition to Mr. Sami. Frearson,
and offering a reward for their recovery. We
took the lists alleged to be lost, and asked for the
reward from the Register office. The boy at the
desk said he knew nothing about it, and referred
us to Mr. Day. Mr. Day—the rev., mind- said he
would do nothing until we could prove they had
been found. We left him, agreeing to be back in
a few minutes with the proof, but the dirty sneak
had sloped off in the meantime; the sub., however
(a very decent fellow, by-the-way), said ho would
tell Mr.—the Rev., mind, not gentleman Day, down
stairs, who in reality is the only decent fellow in
the Register crew—that he had seen the copies
referred to. Nothing further occurred except
some cheek from a ghostly cad in the front office,
who informed us the lying advertisement would
appear to-morrow.
THE HALLELUJAH TRANCE.
Brother James and Sister Ruth
Sat one Summer's eve alone;
Spake the maiden to the youth.
In a iow and fervent tone—
“ After we have sung some psalms
(Here she blushed and looked askance)
Take me gently in your arms
And I’ll fall into a ‘ trance.’
“ In the distance I can see
Beauteous figures clad in white.
Saints, no doubt, the same as we
(Oh, my brother, squeeze me tight 1)
“ Now the scene is strangely grand I
Bright as silver now they seem 1
(Oh, my brother, press my hand,
While I’m in this holy dream.)
“ Surely, these are realms of bliss.
Tilled with quite a perfect joy
(James, you gave my cheek a kiss—
Yes, you did, you naughty boy!)
“ Hand in hand the angels roam
Round a clear and sparkling lake
(Mother will expect me home —
Kiss me, James, till I awake.)
It will be interesting to the high-toned
section of our readers to learn that Mr. Robinson,
the “inspector of the Queen’s pictures,” has been
down at Osborne lately for the purpose of making
an examination of the collection there. This is
the first opportunity—we say it with a blush—
which we have had of making the acquaintance of
this official. We are now waiting with anxiety to
hear what the Keeper of the Royal Flat-irons is
doing, and why the Count of the Copperstick has
kept in retirement so long. Perhaps they have
gone off on a visit somewhere with the Lord Trea-
surer of John Brown’s shoes. Perhaps—but what’s
the use of guessing? Our Court news has not
arrived this mail, in consequence of a misunder-
standing which arose between our Court corre-
spondent, the Usher of the Imperial Soup-ladle,
and the Lord High Admiral of the Royal Scullery.
It seems the latter accused the former of carrying
away some of the hereditary electro-pewter of the
house of Guelph, and the former retorted by call-
ing his superior the son of a O.M.G. Our corre-
spondent was, of course, dismissed. This shows
you what it is to have a father who is member of
a fashionable order. In future our Court news
will be furnished by the Groom of the Regal Cats.
Now that we have Australian baronets, we shall in
all probability soon be the happy possessors of
Co ' ptrollers of the Robes and Lord High Marshals
of the Three-Crown Moleskins.
JURY-HUNTING,
It might have been a libel case,
It might have been a murder,
It might have been contempt of Court,
Or anything absurder;
But, anyhow, to try the case,
One thing they had to do, sirs,
Which was to round a jury up
Of twelve good men and true, sirs.
So. forth the bold policeman went,
All to fulfil his mission,
And dived inro a place, a small
Way this side of perdition.
But back he came in triumph to
The Court, and said, *• Sir, see here,
I’ve warned the twelve good men and true,
And all but nine will be here.”
“ Where are these nine ?” the beak cried out;
“ The gaol shall teach them,” said he.
** Yer Honor,” the policeman grinned,
“ They're all in gaol already r
• The Victorian Civil servants are looking
wistfully forward to the time when they shall be
entitled to a little more duty. It is the peculiar
ambition of the Civil servant to spend himself
without grudge or stint in the service of his
■country. Provided the service is clean and can
enable him to exhibit his symmetrical proportions
at stated times, in dignified beauty, the oblation of
himself on the national altar is one of the most
generous spectacles to be met with in civilisation.
Therefore, he is, on principle, a member of the
Volunteer Force. This is a clean business, and
enables him, &c. But the Government has lately
resolved to work that force into a militia, and for
this militia daylight parades are thought beneficial.
That just fits the fancy of the Civil servant. The
hours of labour he has now to spend, pent up over
a c dar table, his eyes wearied with trying to de-
cipher his own signature, his hands wearied with
the weight of sealing wax, and his muscles sprung
with sticking on postage stamps, could be so
sesthetieally varied by an hour in the fresh pure
air with the fleece-like clouds above him, and
sweet female eyes fixed upon his symmetrical, &c.,
that he wants to know, v ou know, will the Govern-
ment allow him to leave his office for these par-
ades He’s wanted in his office, or not. We
actually don’t think he is-much. But If he is,
would it not better to support, outright, a stand-
ing army ? Give them the shilling a day, and let
us have “sojers.”
“Rough on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
Eh ig flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
ks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
St do., Sydney, General Agents. I
I Rumours are afloat that, in one of the
>ranches of the Department of so-called Justice,
iccounts are very crooked. ’Tls a wonder M‘Elhone
lasn’t given notice of several score of questions
inent the matter.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), lately, Hannah Coy
“coy by name,” etc.) sued one George Hyatt, a
strapping full-blooded negro, for the maintenance
>f a child of which (she kissed the Bible on it)
Gleorge was the blooming father. Hyatt is a man
who occupies a salubrious position in Dunedin as
proprietor of the City Swimming Baths, and he
denied the paternity. He said it was a case of
attempted extortion; the woman swore black was
white; “the child warn’t his. whosoever it war.”
The magistrate adjourned the case for medical
evidence. Dr. Davies, who was called when the
case came on again, said that he had examined the
little one, but could find no traces of mixed blood
to swear to; in fact, the child was of European
parentage without a doubt. It would be a stra'nge
freak of nature to find no trace of coloured blood
in the child of a full-blooded negro. Judgment for
defendant.
The father of the two boys who lately shot
a stoker by way of diversion, iu a passing train at
Chuton, N.Z., sent long letter of four closely
written pages of religious exhortation to the
widow of the slaughtered fireman. A correspon-
dent. who was shown the epistle in question,
writes to a N.Z. newspaper to say that he never
read a more Pecksnifflan production in his life;
and any one reading it, and not knowing the cir-
cumstances, would imagine that the writer, and
not the poor bereaved woman to whom it was ad-
dressed, was the injured party. The father afore-
said is a local preacher and a J.P., consequently,
one of the boys got off altogether, and the other,
who is 19, received a sentence of two months,
without hard labour, only. The correspondent
states that the exhortation man took a good stiff
sum from the Government for his expenses as a
witness during the trial, but he forgot to enclose a
draft for this in the letter he was good enough to
send to the unfortunate widow.
Thurlow Tweed, a gentleman who deemed
himseif of such mark that he wrote his own bio-
graphy, estimates that in the fifty-five years
during which he used tobacco he smoked and gave
away at least 80,000 cigars. Should he not have
been called Thurlow Weeds ? But this is beneath
us. If what certain pious purists we know say
about smoking be true, Mr. Thurlow Weed will
not publish a book about what he smokes in the
next world. His time will be too much taken up
with the smoking.
Of late our attention has been so taken up
with John Brown, the libel law, various reli-
gious items of interest to a large number of our
thoughful readers, that we haven’t had much
time to look through the country papers. It
seemed odd that nothing particular was
stirring in Moruya; so we said to the slave, “Bring
in the Moruya Examiner— a ‘par.’ can always
be obtained from it.” It was brought, and we
were rewarded. The leader c unmences with
“Fire! Firel” which is referred to as the “de-
vouring element,” the “ fiery element,” and the
“fell devourer.” The writer draws a gruesome
picture of what might happen any day in Moruya,
should they remain much longer without an en-
gine, and adds: “We have young men in abun-
dance with pluck, energy, and activity, and in
what worthier or more effectual manner could
they exhibit their athletic proficiency than as fire-
men, either as engine-workers, reel and hose men,
or hook and ladder men.” We were firemen our--
selves once, and belonged to the hook-and-eye
branch. We first eyed the fire and then we hooked
it. But it was as a reel and hose man that our talents
got fair play. When not reeling into a “ pub.” we
were reeling out of one. The Examiner thinks
that nothing has such a tendency to keep one cool
as a good fire, and trusts that a brigade will be
established in Moruya “ere many moons have
come and gone.” Yes; we can got a “ par.”
from Moruya.
Melbourne people are complaining that
the picturesque banks of the Yarra have been
rendered, of late, quite too Bden-like, owing to
the number of undrapsd figures that disport
themselves thereon, at all hours of the day.
Ladies, for instance, who delight in a pnll °Q
that pellucid stream, have bashfully hinted that,
much as they admire nature, they prefer it to be
associated with decency. In the interests of the
fair sex we are issuing the following
advice to bathers.
From the banks of Yarra Yarra,
Certain people love to bathe;
Seeing that the stream is narrer,
Decently they should behave.
When a lady, full of vigour,
Takes a little boat and rows
Down the stream, and finds a figure.
Standing close beside her nose—
Recollect, it is de rigueur.
That the figure wears its clothes;
(Now, you lads, you needn’t snigger—
Think it’s funny, we suppose 7— Ed. B.)
Moncure Conway is a long way off being
either a brilliant writer or an eloquent lecturer,
yet he’s a man who’s honest to his convictions,
which is more than we can say of certain clerics,
who were busying themselves mightily with sling-
ing mud at him. Take John Osbone, for instance.
It seems to us he’s not playing the straight game.
Why does he cling to the Wesleyan Church, after
pretending to threaten to leave it, and being
th eatened with being kicked out of it? He should
put himself right in tnis matter before sneering at
tfoncure, or abusing the memory of “George
Eliot.” “George” did live with G. H. Lewes as
his wife, but in so doing acted more conscien-
tiously than the man who continues to live on a
churcn whose tenets he doesn’t concur in, and of
whose narrow tyranny he makes-believe to be a
martyr. Has the Rev. John Osborne ever heard
the lines of the American poet—
And honoured well are charms to sell
If priests the selling do ?
M’Elaone, who won’t trust Stuart about
the Illawarra land, is quite ready to believe him
square on the canteen grog question. This is ter-
ribly inconsistent. Falsns in uno, falsus in omni-
bus is a proverb Mac doesn’t seem to believe in.
He will trust the Colonial Sesre ary to let the
Assembly have all the minutes concerning the
alleged spoliation by artillery officers of poor
soldiers’ canteen money ; but devil a bit will he
believe a word he has to say about those mineral
selections. “ In vino (but not in Illawarra railway
lines) veritas ” is Mac’s rendition of the saw.
“My mother drove the paralysis and
neuralgia all out of her system with Hop Bitters.”
—Ed. Oswego Sun. See.
THE SWELTERING SEASON.
CAT NIGHTS.
TRIPLE ACROSTIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you would reach that happy goal,
When this short life is past.
Avoid these three, which hurt the soul—
The middle, first, and last.*
i.
Whate’er may be said of th’ Established Church,
With its numerous vicars and curate ,
There was one “ honest Moses,” oft left in the
lurch,
Though his stipend was not paid by pew-rates.
11.
This sacred banner, now long furled, once waved,
The light again renewed, and every danger braved,
in.
In Holy Orders, without deviation,
Parsonic title, in abbreviation.
iv.
A Latin phrase they’re very fond of quoting.
Position in the social scale denoting.
v.
How sad and mournful sound the eerie cries!
For this “ the Coronach " just Anglicise.
EPSAC.
♦Read downwards. Answers invited. Solution
in the issue after next.


F v
H
8NITUBB SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring: streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
FURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’ConneU-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking: rooms, Ac.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
, rlass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
! 7EWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
oases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10a6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Foldlqg Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any portion,
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet Ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TARA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
XJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
TAINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
MJ DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FBET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY-
EXTENDING DINING TABLE; with patent
screw and two 1 aves ; LARGE PIER GLASS.
COUCH, GBNT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS,—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
B
EDDING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-strpet.
WASH8TAND8, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, low est prices.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes)
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
CE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
COMMODE CHAIRS, SHAVING STANDS.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 6x8,
7s. 6d.; 8 x 8, lie; 10 x 8, 14s.; 12 x 8, 16s. 6d.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
STEIN WAY NEW y5rK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
T IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LTPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
ET" WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
IT CONQUERS PAIN.-HE ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
“ Glen View, Darllnghurst,
“ August 17,18©.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—It gives me great pleasure to say, in
the most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhematlsm,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
bands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
I suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely left, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had ever used did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modern times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
“ J. R. Dbewbtt,”
NOTE. —Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. S. Hoffnung and Company, Pitt-
street, one of the largest and prominent firms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L.
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 16,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—I have great pleasure in stating I
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June, 1882, and from
that date until July 10th last, I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in writing. I ap-
Elied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments,
ut without any benefit; but 1 had not used St.
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and I can work with my saw or
spade as well as ever I did, and can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any one suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make what use you please of
this letter for the benefit of others.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours, &c,,
“Edward L. GreenT Sheriff,”
St. Jacobs OiL the great German ipmedy, con-
quers pain. SOld by Druggists, CHfemlsts, and
Medicine Deafcre throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown s bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney'
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
SOCIAL.
Another Garden Party wjos given at Gov-
ernment House last Saturday, and proved in every
way as enjoyable as the preceding one. The ab-
sence of stiffness or formality at these entertain-
ments constitutes one of their great charms. As
before, there was a large number of guests, and
elegant costumes were the order of the afternoon.
White, cream, pink, and blue seemed the prevail-
ing and favourite tints. Crushed strawberry is
now almost a colour of the past: when worn in
any quantity, it was only becoming to the minority.
Gloves of this shade were not enchanting; people
wearing them looked at a distance as if their hands
were bare and reddened by chill and wintry blasts.
Tan-coloured gloves of undressed kid, which are
now the rage, are certainly not any prettier: they
divide the honours with silk ones, which last, from
their delightful coolness, will be much in vogue
during the Summer months, both for evening and
{iromenade —they can be obtained in nearly any
ength or hue. Many fashionable ladies are now
having the sleeves of their bodices for day wear
made very short, and the gloves to come up far
beyond the elbow, fitting tightly, and without
creases or wrinkles. To a pretty, plump, round
arm, this style is suitable, and the effect very
good; but the contrary when worn on a thin,
angular one. Not many Henri II. hats were seen
on Saturday; they only look well on certain faces,
and another objection is that their narrow brims
are no shelter from the sun’s rays. The most
Eopular and seasonable shapes are al’. large—the
angtry, Pobre, or Flop; these are varied by the
pretty little Princess bonnet, simply trimmed, and
much patronised by the young folks. Fruit, as
an adornment for head gear, has not superseded
flowers, though such was foretold. Lady Rose-
bery was present during the afternoon, ap-
pearing in a handsome pale blue satin and
corded silk costume; Lady Augustus Loftus
wore black broche; Lady Martin’s dress was dark
green ottoman silk combined with old gold
brocade; Mrs. John Smith wore black satin; and
Mrs. Paul, the same shade; Miss Q. Eagar looked
nice in a becoming white lawn dress with cardinal
sash; Miss Gore was in a pretty muslin skirt with
dark redingote; Miss Dibbs wore a checked zephyr
cloth, and her sister a neat flowered sateen with
large cream hat; Miss Joseph was in a combination
of black and white ; the petite fiancee of the
Minister for Justice wore a brown costume, and
looked happy. The young folks hope for many of
these pleasant re-unions during the Summer
season, when to be out of doors in the fresh and
balmy air is delightful.
♦ * v
A Mechanics’ Ball was held at West Mait-
land, when a well-lighted hall, supper, and good
dancing helped things along, but there was rather
a crowd. The brdinary fancy costumes were
there: Ambulance Nurse very neat and distinctive,
Eugenie royal-looking, Pat Molloy wild, Grand
Duchess, &c. The belle wore a beautiful pale blue
broche, trimmed with pink and lace, silver leaves
on bosom and hair. A young Maitland girl in
flowered pink sateen and scarf of navy blue, with
garland of crimson roses and same at throat, was
charming. A brown silk trimmed with creme
bows was a good costume; and two very striking
ones were —one, black silk skirt, pointed basque
of cardinal satin; the other, black skirt with bodice
of cherry satin. Numerous other dresses were
also admirable.
« •
The pupils of Mrs. H. Wallace, assisted by-
Mr. Sydney Moss, gave a concert in St. Matthias’
Hall on the 28th November, and allowing for a little
nervousness, their music was good. The pro-
gramme was almost entirely pretty ballads, and
contained nothing of the classical nature that Dr.
Simms so inveighs against. Some handsome
dresses were displayed, despite the thunderstorm,
most ladies being in full dress, and all the occu-
pants of reserved seats were presented with bou-
quets and button-holes of flowers.
« * ♦
Last week, at East Melbourne, Mr. Charles
Holloway, the actor, was married to sprightly
Alice Deorwyn, who wore cream cashmere, trim-
med with satin and edelweiss, and was supported
in her part by four sisters—Mrs. Hyman, Mrs.
Dwyer, Miss Constance and Miss Fanny Deorwyn.
Kev. D. Jones Hamer ofliciated, and Mr. and Mrs.
Holloway went to Ballarat, where they will soon
open their Christmas season.
» ♦ *
After a Newtown marriage the other day,
a minister and a municipal official, who were
friends of the fair young wife, were following the
bridal tracks to Sandringham, full of anticipations
of an appetising breakfast, when a sudden jolt
snapped the cab-axle. They got out; the minister
stepped casually over the horse’s head, and the
municipal gentleman, recognising that the emer-
gency was one calling for promptness rather than
grace, made an exit between the spokes of the
wheel, and sat down to examine the character of
the soil. It was fine rich chocolate, of fair depth.
The clerical gentleman observed that he “ had not
on a wedding garment.” The council official con-
fessed that his interest in the hymeneal feast had
diminished. Slowly and hungrily they trudged
back to Cook’s River.
• •
Chowder was selected for the picnic
of the Kilwinning Masonic Lodge (378 S.C.)
on the 28th ult., and about 100 members and lady
friends, went down. At a capital dinner, Mr. J. 0.
Air, R.W.M., presided, and Junior Warden H.O.
Holcombe, was vice-chairman. A few speeches
were given, and then sports and dancing to Bailey’s
capable band continued till dusk. Thebelleof the
picnic was a Redfern young lady in pale blue,
Some young men from a sailing boat intruded on
the party i Q the afternoon, and annexing several
pottles of liquor, rendered themselves even greater
t P an nature had originally made them,
when, however, their boat was impounded, they
were sorry they came.
That consistency is a jewel rare
Is very plainly shown,
Just now, by the sex so sweet and fair,
In a manner that’s quite their own.
Let a fashion be ugly, they’ll wear it, if new,
If it’s nice, but old, they won’t;
As each girl now asks for a Henri Deux,
But they never say—“ Henry, don’t I ”
• » •
Lady Musgrave’s first Drawing-room in
Brisbane, was a rather stiff affair, the ladies simply
walking through with a bow. On dit, however, that
Lady Musgrave intends holding receptions at very
frequent intervals, when there will no doubt be
more freedom and cordiality, and they will bo
quite a boon to Brisbane ladies, who mostly dress
well.
• • •
The Sydney Block has never been even a
decent one, but for ten days it has been abomin-
able. Frequenters have found out that Sands’
picture gallery is a convenient rendezvous, and
some decidedly pretty girls and toilets have been
whisking about among the other works of art.
One costume, striking and fresh, was an olympian
spotted ;gingham, the ground pale pink, and the
spots dark crimson. The skirt was in three deep
flounces, each edged with fine tiny tucks, and a
crimson waistband finished a charming picture.
A peculiar combination was ruty sateen skirt,
kilted to the waist, short jacket of pink flowered
sateen, hat to match skirt.
* ♦ *
The Marquis of Norman by is going to
visit Sir William Robinson at Adelaide....The last
Winter Party at Dubbo was held on 29th Nov., and
went smoothly They are cheerful people up in
N.Q. Sir Anthony Musgrave no sooner promised
to turn the first sod of the Mackay railway than
they decided to give him a ball in the Kanaka
Hospital, Turning the sod, under the circum-
stances, is significant....The usual Highland con-
cert took place in the Protestant Hall on St.
Andrew’s Day, before a good audience.... Gres-
ford ball, in aid of the local cricket club, was
successfully held recently in the old school-house.
— Goulburnites will have a fine thing on for
Boxing Day-a railway excursion to pretty Lake
Bathurst .. Nelson officers gave a most successful
At Home at Melbourne on 29th Nov Maitland
town band discourses to the public very pleasantly.
..On the 28th Nov., Dr. Thomas Fiaschi was presen-
ted with a 50-guinea “ Waltham,” on leaving Wind-
sor after seven years’ residence. There was a large
meeting. The doctor comes to Sydney Divorce
case whispered in Parramatta Rather a novelty
to-night will be a public elocution contest at
Woollahra, for prizes. Six debating societies re-
presented — Another organ recital was given at
the University on Saturday Annual concert for
Fort-street School Prize Fund on Tuesday
Social matters have had a fresh start in Noumea,
of late, and there are to be subscription balls
every month, over 200 members having joined the
list. Lawn tennis, also, is regularly practised in
the afternoons, though there is not much lawn
yet —The building for the Juvenile Exhibition at
Parramatta is completed, and the fittings nearly
so. There will be a guard of honour at the open-
ing, and a cantata sung by 600 children, assisted by
professionals, under Herr Alpen. The place will
be lighted by electricity at night. Special steamers,
trams, and trains, will run. It has been found
impossible to give “The Messiah” on Christmas
eve, as was intended. The competitions Include
solo singing, duets, quartets, schools, instrumen-
tal music, essays, recitation struggles, &c The
Italian man-of-war, Caracclolo, will be thrown
open for the public to visit on the 8th, 9th, and
10th December, from noon to 5 o’clock The new
Metropolitan Liedertafel, under Herr Alpen, holds
its first Smoke-night Concert in the Masonic Hall,
on the 12th inst On the 14th and 15th Dec., there
is to be a Conversazione in the Randwick Town
Hall, and the local people are bestirring themselves
greatly to make it a good one.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Public Dinner to Lord Rosebery Dee. 8.
Congregational Bazaar (Prot. Hall) Dec. 11.
Juvenile Ball (Nithsdale) Dee. 11.
Mrs. F. A. Smith’s Soiree (Fort-st. School) Dec. 14.
S relists’ Union Races Dec. 15.
anly Regatta Dec. 15.
Intercolonial Cricket Match Dec. 17.
Liedertafel Ladies’ Night (Prot. Hall) ... Dee. 19.
Juvenile Exhibition opens, Parramatta.. Dec. 19.
Metropolitan Smoke Night (Masonic Hall). Dec. 31.
Messrs. Needs’ Annual Ball Dec. 81.
Modern High School Athletic Club Con-
cert and Ball (Tattersall’s). Dec. 31.
Mdme. Kellermann’s Matinee (Prot. Hall) Dec. 22.
At Orange, the Sheffield Handicap of 100
sov. (60, 20, 10, and 5) will be contested on the 36th
January. Various other events, including an
Amateur Cup and a Maiden Plate, will also take
place. Judging by the names of those who are
working up the matter, the affair promises to be
what reporters call an “unqualified success.”
The Crown of Sorrow—"Drunk, fined 5s.'
The 26th of January is to be a great day
■ °r that date, an “ Athletic Carnival”
is to be held on the new show ground in that pros-
perous town. All the prominent men of the dis-
trict appear to be mixed up in it as promoters,
judges, patrons, and referees. For the principal
race (140 yards), 70 sov., 15 sov., 10 sov., and 5 sov.
will reward the first four who “ negotiate ” the
distance.
A school teacher, not far from Croa jingo-
long, read that when a horse has colic you’d
better give him turpentine. With that sublime
faith in the truth of whatever exists in print
which ought to be Inherent with every right-
thinking person, he gave his horse turpentine. It
worked fine. Friskiness promptly set in, straw
flew around, the partition went bung, and a hen
setting placidly in a corner, minding her own busi-
ness, was last seen going through toe roof. Then
the colicky horse got out, ran through the house,
climbed verandah poles, kicked a respectable cow,
jumped four fences, and then lay down to think.
It is not known for certain whether the horse
was cured of colic: but the school teacher wants
to meet the man who wrote that turpentine was
good. He wants to speak to him.
Now, there is Mr. Joseph Brown. We all
know how much lustre helentto Signor Majeroni’s
gifted company. Next to the Signora’s impres-
siveness we found ourselves captivated with Joe’s
sweetness and amiability. But when we devoted
ourselves to him in the Melbourne County Court,
the other day, we couldn’t get him to reach any
length worth measuring. Meta Pelham pointed
to ever so much spare room between Joe’s head
and the sky, and she so pressed her courageous
countenance into the space that our vision of Joe
became very mixed. A good deal of it was Meta.
She said she could never play up to Joe—he was
so small. Then Joe sat down and looked at her,
and all before us was Meta. We started to write
this paragraph about Mr. Joseph Brown; but, as
we feared, he has slipped away. It is now Meta.
Not before it was wanted, the Camden
Times speaks out. It is, naturally enough, indig-
nant at the money spent in beautifying Sydney,
while poor Camden is not even provided with a
turnpike oran aquarium. It lays mournful empha-
sis on the fact that Sydney parks and gardens
“are even nourished with a fostering caie, and
watered with the sweat from brows of labouring
3ountrymen, to whom the existence of these
beauty spots are but as fairy tales,” that means of
transit are brought to every one’s door “all paid
for out of the public Treasury,” and ( eheu!) ”we
have nothing but stones.” Allegory—it will be
seen—is the Times’ strong point. During an ex-
tensive course of reading, we have met many ex-
pressions instinct with the tenderest wail; but, for
joncentrated sorrow —for utter loneliness and
ruined hopes—we do not remember anything to
jompare with “ we have nothing but stones.”
Barry, Bishop-designate of Sydney, speak-
ng of the Colonial churches, says:—“ With almost
3omplete self-government, there was, especially
n the laity, a strong desire to maintain unity with
;he Church at home, to pay deference to the
Patriarchal See of Canterbury, to allow appeal in
:aith and doctrine to some supreme court at home
vhich might command the confidence of the laity
is well as the clergy. The Lambeth conference
ihowed that in things ecclesiastical the legislative
federation was accomplished, which in things
political was still a dream.” Dr. Barry, when he
iaid that, was evidently drawing upon hisimagina-
donjor his facts. Recent ecclesiastical incidents
n South Africa, New Zealand, the Dominion of
Canada, and Australia, go to show that legislative
federation is a very long way, Indeed, off accom-
plishment, and that the Anglican laity have not
;he least inclination to remit questions of either
iiscipline or doctrine to a supreme court at home
from the synods in which they have a potential
roice.
A work now being published in successive
volumes, “ Court Life Below Stairs,” adds a good
uany interesting details to what is already known
respecting the third and fourth Georges and
William IV, When George III. was mad, he was
.rented in accordance with the ordinary brutal
methods of dealing with the insane which were in
vogue at the time. His body was frequently en-
closed in a machine which left him no liberty of
iction. He was sometimes chained to a staple,
frequently beaten and starved, and kept in sub-
jection by menacing and violent language. All
this was persisted in, though he was seldom vio-
lent unless when provoked. His Majesty had a
faithful, devoted, personal attendant—a sort of
German John Brown—named Ernst. This crea-
ture used to strike the helpless maniac, and on one
occasion, when he wished to prolong his walk in
the garden, Ernst seized him in his arms, carried
him into his apartments, and throwing him
violently on a sofa, exclaimed to the attendants,
“ There is your king for you.” This incident was
remembered by his Majesty after his recovery,
and was repeated by him to Lady Harcourt.
Poor old George the Third occasionally, like
other lunatics, made surprisingly acute re-
marks. One of his physicians had been a
clergyman. When he was introduced to the Royal
patient, the latter looked at him quietly, and then
asked him why he had given up his sacred calling
for a profession which brought him more worldly
profit. “ Sir,” answered Willis, “ our Saviour
went about healing the sick.” “ Yes,” said the
king, sagely, “ but He did not get seven hundred
a year for it.” E very one has heard of the drunken
delusions of George IV. to the effect that he
headed a cavalry charge at the battle of Waterloo.
Sheridan, who had once heard him make this boast,
said, when he had quitted his presence: “That is
well enough, but what he particularly piques him-
self upon is the last productive harvest.” William
iv. was a shabby wretch, almost on a level with
i he miserable brutes who live on the earnings of
1 >ose women, and without the excuse of having no
means of decent livlihood. When Duke of CW-
ence, he kept ” Mrs. Jordan, the actress, as his
mistress. That is to say, he cohabited with her,
bp L, K" d °esn’t accurately describe the char-
acter of the connection. As a matter of fact, her
L?s™£ 8810na earnings amounted to no less than
fmnn o ar ,’ *0 which she added an annuity of
±4000, settled on her by a relative of her mother’s,
soon after she had formed a connection with the
duke, it was noticed that, when she drove to the
treasury door of the theatre to receive her salary
1 “^ riabl y accompanied by this scion of
balin’ h h pu . bhc gossip plainly said appro-
pI,ia^ed her earnings; nay, it was even proved
after her death that her nightly salaries at Drury
Line were constantly paid in advance, and the
foms received by a messenger, who hurried with
them to a gambling-house in Pall Mall, where the
Played for high stakes, or to his residence
James s-street. It was well known that
before her intimacy with him commenced, she had
saved a handsome fortune, and it is a fact in her bio-
«Pv^!ria J llst( u rj L fha. 18be died abr oad in neglect.
She bore her shabby lover ten children; yet when
he got tired of her, and she could earn no more
m mey, he coolly discarded her Yet one of their
to put on no-end of airs. A story is told
of the second son, Colonel Fitzclarence, who was
one day dining at the mess with his Regiment
when a young lieutenant was carving fowls in a
particularly awkward manner. The colonel looked
on with ill-concealed disgust for some time, and
Ion? sneeringly, “ My father frequently
said that to carve well was one of the signs of a
The young lieutenant laid down his
n f ° rk *u t0 J a minute, and looking the
sneaker full in the face, coolly asked, “ And pray, I
Colonel Fitzclarence, what did your mother sav ? ”
Prfound silence followed the question.
VIVE HENRI DEUX.


Hordern brothers
invite your inspection to-day of
tne following shipments, just uncased
ex Cuzco.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
PRINT & SATEEN DEPARTMENT.
A grand lot of exquisite patterns
and marvellously-cheap Fabrics, com-
menci ng at 3^d; really grand goods for
the money.
A choice lot of Sateens, commencing
at 6d a yard; first-class patterns and
beautiful colours.
A large, well-assorted lot of most un-
common patterns at 9d. These goods
are well worth your Inspection.
Sateens, Zephyr Cloth, Ginghams,
Prints in stripes, checks, spots, and
plain goods.
XXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
DRESS DEPARTMENT. XX
The Nuns’ Veiling, so much en- XX
quired after, we have in all colours, and! XX
also in black, including brown, myrtles, XX
bronzes, dried rose, chauldron, rasp- XX
bern, strawberry, &c XX
A nice lot of checked Nuns’ Veiling XX
atls2d. Very first class goods, grand! XX
effect, and pretty. yy
Alpacas as low as 6d a yard: very nice'
goods.
Cashmeres, in colours and black, at-
all prices.
A beautiful lot of light airy goods,,
just the thing for the present season.
SILK DEPARTMENT.
A grand lot of Broche Silks and
Satins now showing.
Black Satin we have in all prices
from Is lid to 10s 6d. A better lot of
Black Satins are not being shown in
Australia.
If you have bought some dress stuff
elsewhere, and cannot get satins or silk
exactly to match, you can calculate on
getting it matched at our warehouse, as
we specially lay ourselves out to keep
all the shades in the market.
A beautiful lot of Box Costumes in
India Muslin and Crepe Tasso, gor-
geously embroidered, and producing
when made up a very effective dress,,
only 39s 6d. You may see these goods:
ticketed in other drapers’ windows, and
advertised at 50s. This is a fact.
HABERDASHERY DEPARTMENT.
A department much neglected by
many drapers, but one which we con-
sider a very Important one, and give it
our best attention accordingly. Our
buyer at home when he buys the dress
XX fabrics is very careful in getting but-
XX tons and other trimmings to match ex-
Y actly, and if necessary, specially made
(for you can get any made there). You
can get all the trimmings brought to
you by the one salesman. You are not
required to go from counter to counter
as in some shops.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
MILLINERY DEPARTMENT.
Beautifully trimmed Summer Hats,,
at Is lid, is our latest triumph. These 1
goods are really very effective, and are*
well adapted to the present season.
Lovely little Bonnets at 10s 6d is an-
other production of our work-rooms,
which we feel proud to call your atten-
tion to. They are really very choice,
effective, and pretty.
We have a most extensive stock of
trimmed millinery, although we are
sorry to say we have scarcely room
enough to show it to the best advan-
tage- Trimmed hats and bonnets at all
prices up to 45s. Our 45s bonnet being
beautiful imported Paris trimmed
goods, which in shops we could men-
tion they are asking as much as £4 4s.
It is a mistake to think that you get:
anything more stylish or newer by
going to credit houses and giving twice
the money. You know we have our re-
presentatives in Paris and London, pick-
ing up all the newest ideas and most re-
cent designs, and the most stylish goods,
and forwarding to us the best plates
and information to guide in making, and
no one can do more. How much better
your husbands would be pleased if you
were to get the same goods at half the:
price, and spend the other half in gloves,.
ribbons, ties, &c. This is no idle fable,,
but stern solid fact, which we are glad!
to know a great many ladies are finding,
out, and which you may prove to- fay
by inspecting our stock. Spend this*
afternoon in town ; come in and see ear
millinery first; don’t buy now -mindl
you don’t buy- go right away and sae-
other milliners’ goods. Be in earnest!,,
and don’t be in a hurry, and we reckon:
to see you back about 5 o’clock to leawei
your money with us.
CARPETS.
We are contractors to the Govern-
ment for these goods, and sell che ajer to
the public than others in the same-busi-
ness and this will prove it. The m anaging
partner in one of the best carpet houses
in this city, in course of conversation,
said to one of our firm, that we would
never make the Carpet Department
pay ; but we are not extortionate, but
content with a small remuneration and
a fair interest on our money invested,
and do make it pay sufficiently to satisfy
us, although we charge prices far below
our neighbours.
Best Brussels Carpets, choicest designs,
5s. a yard
Second quality, excellent patterns. 3s.
lid. a yard
Borders and Hearthrugs, to match
Crossley’s Celebrated Tapestry, Is. 6id,
to 2s. lid.
Hearthrugs to match, from 3s, lid. to 1
17s. 6d.
Felt and Kidder Carpets, from Is. to 3s.
6d.a yard
Stair Carpet, in Brussels Tapestry, Jute
Hemp, from 6d.
Kidderminster Squares, with borders
and fringed edges, suitable for any
size room, from 12s. 6d.
Nairn’s Floorcloth, best quality, from
half a yard to 6 yards wide, to
match, 3s. 3d. the square yard
Cornices, made any width and depth
with suitable fringes, from 25s -
Cornice Poles, from 5s. lid.
Window and Bed Valances, to order, in
approved designs, and elaborate up-
holstering XX.
Mosquito Nets, to fit any bed, at the XX
shortest notice. xx
A man will be sent anywhere to XX
measure and give an estimate, free of XX
charge. XX
Tapestry—Applique, Madras, Indian, XX
Leno, Lace and Muslin Curtains, to XX
suit the requirements and purse of XX
every purchaser XX
Bedsteads and Bedding, in very large, XX
variety and excellent value. A bed- XX
stead tor 12s. 6d., looks cheap, and so XX
it'.is—dirt cheap XX
Our Bedsteads at £310s. are marvels X
Hartshorn’s Spring Rollers, for any XX
window, at 13id. each. XX
Estimates given for Houses through- XX
5X out, from the Drawing-room to Set- XX
AX vant’s Room, and faithfully and XX
promptly carried out. Now is the time XX
to get ready for the approaching festive XX
Christmas Season. Give us a call to- XX
day. XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
211 Pitt-streot. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
il
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
Xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X
XX
-.X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
READY-MADE CLOTHING. XX
Never before have we been able to XX
offer the public such grand value as XX
now. XX
GENTLEMEN’S XX
Tweed Sac Suits, well cut, good stuff, XX
nice patterns, £1, £1 10s., £3.
Blue Serge Sac Suits, 30s.
Tweed Trousers, 6s. lid.
Trousers and Tests, 13s. 6d.
White Linen Patrol Coats. 6s. 6d.
China Silk Dust Coats, 13s. 6d.
BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Fancy Tweed Knickerbocker Suits,
14s. 6d.
Blue Serge Man-o’-War Suita, 13s. 6d.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d.
Blue Diagonal Suits, with Vests, 15s. 6d,
Eton and Rugby Suits, 18s. 6d.
Fancy Tweed Trousers, 4s. lid. upwards.
Boys’ and Men’s Hats, in Straw, Felt,
Cloth.
Shell Helmets, Cricketing, and Travel- XX
ling Caps, Camp Hats, Is. 6d. XX
Paris Hats for Gentlemen, and half the XX
price you usually pay. XX
Remember the ADDRESS XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
211, Pitt-street, Sydney, XX
near King-street. XX
Handy to all the Trams. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XI
XX
XX
XX
XX
w
o
o
s.
XX
XX
W e have just opened, per s.s. Serata, a XX
splendid assortment of Ladies’ and XX
Gentlemen’s
WOOL AND BEADED SLIPPERS,
in raised and plain work, especially for
Xmas presents.
Also a splendid lot of
RAISED and BEADED CUSHIONS
for chair backs,
at prices that defy competition.
A._
XI
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
aX
XX
These goods have been all carefully
selected from the best London and Ger-
XX man houses, and the quality and patterns XX
XX cannot be equalled anywhere. XX
XX Give us a look in. XX
X XX
XX HORDERNS’ IN PITT-STRB ET. XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
s
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Gr
LOVES.
GLOVES. GLOVES.
We have just opened another ship-
ment of GLOVES suitable for the Sum-
mer season, comprising a choice lot of
Dent’s Cavalier Gauntlet Kid Gloves.
A Iso, 4, 6, 8, and 10 button Tan Colour
Swede Gloves, which we are selling at a
little more than half the usual price.
We invite special attention to our cele-
brated Calvato 4-button French Kid
Gloves, at 3s lid per pair, in all the
fashionable tints—cream, sky, pink,
strawberry, tan colour, &c.—to match
any costume.
Also, a very extensive variety of
Gent.’s and Children’s Kid, Lisle Thread,
and Taffeta Gloves, from 3d per pair.
Ladies’ Ditto, from 3d per pair.
Ladies’ Jersey Taffeta Gloves, in all
colours, from 3 to 30 button lengths.
Come and see our French Kid Gloves
at is lid per pair—the best and the
cheapest in Sydney.
HORDERNS’ in PITT-STREET.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx XX
XX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXxxxxxx XX
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 13.
To the Ladies and Gentry of the city and suburbs,
Lovers of really grand China, China Collectors,
Commission Agents, and Others.
SPECIALLY ATTRACTIVE
and
HIGHLY IMPORTANT UNRESERVED SALE
BY AUCTION of 13 packages
MAGNIFICENT DRESDEN CHINA
ELB GANT OLD MESSIEN ditto
RIC1H CAPO DI MONTI ditto
MAGNIFICENT HAND-PAINTED PLAQUES,
all of
THE CHOICEST DESCRIPTIONS,
and designed by
THE MOST EMINENT ARTISTS.
Bverv article in itself being
A GRAND WORK OP ART,
Included in this superb collection will be found
A MAGNIFICENT DINNER SERViCE,
BREAKFAST and TEA SERVICE,
and
DESSERT SERVICE,
all ito .match, in Royal Blue, and designed by
THE BEST ARTISTS IN CHINA
procurable on the Continent.
Tt is sufficient to announce that
THESE ELEGANT GOODS
are from
1’HE ROYAL POTTERY, DRESDEN,
t he manufactory of Madame Wolfohn,
to stamp them as
BE! NG UNEQUALLED for BEAUTY AND
WORKMANSHIP
by articles of a similar description
IMPOl IT ED TO ANY CITY IN THE WORLD.
CO! NNOISSEURS, CHINA COLLECTORS,
and
THE ELITE OF THE COLONY
may n aly upon the fact that this will be the last
o pportunity they will have of securing
SUPERB DRESDEN CHINA
from
TH1 3 WORLD-RENOWNED POTTERY OF
DRESDEN.
Ev er.v opportunity will be afforded the public of
thoroughly inspecting THIS MAGNIFICENT
SHI1 ?1*1ENT prior to the day of sale.
On *view, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, until day
of sale.
Catalogues in course of preparation.
LC HOIS COHEN has been favoured with in-
structions to sell by auction, at the Rooms,
333 C teorge-street, on THURSDAY, December 13,
at 11 o’clock,
10 1 PACKAGES ELEGANT DRESDEN CHINA,
direc t from the ROYAL POTTERY, DRESDEN.
Full particulars in future issue.
TERMS CASH. NO RESERVE.
FURNITURE POLISH.
THE VICTORIA
is the only
BELT JIBL F PREPARATION in the MARKET-
' TRY ,1T! SOLD EVERYWHERE.
N orman by stakes and tattersall’S
CUP, t lOMBI.v ED, 1st JANUARY, 1884.
194 Horses.
5000 Mt mbers, at 10s.
If/t Horse in eae h.
2 tul „ „
< »*
' Starters „
Non-starters „
£700
350
100
TO
100
Also, Totalisator on each
£1, subdivided.
1st 4-10ths
2nd 3-10ths
3rd 3-10ths
By Letter only,
i, “ ACHILLElV
Care of Walter Montgomery,
-Chancery-lane, Melbourne;
Or, Box 73/ G.P.O., Sydney.
The choicest Australian floral
CARDS
are those published by
Messrs. TURNER and HENDERSON,
and only
To be OBTAINED at their ESTABLISHMENT
in Hunter-street.
They are very chaste and lovely, and can be had
with or without Christmas mottoes. All have
botanical names at foot of card.
Price, Is. each ; 10s. per dozen, post free.
PRESENTS. PRESENTS. PRESENTS.
TURNER and HENDERSON
are now opening
‘CHOICE GOODS
of every description suitable for the
Coming Season.
Showroom on First Floor.
HAYING just completed extensive alterations
to our premises, we are better prepared
than last year to exhibit our
CHRISTMAS
and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
We cordially invite our friends and customers I
to inspect our large and well-selected stock.
Note address—
JOHN CANTERILL, 235 Oxford-street, f
RUSSELL,
DENTIST,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from 5s. Stopping, Scaling, and
Extracting equally moderate. Malformations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance All work guaranteed.
ARS H ALL'S pLU ID
Extract o^DAndelio
for flyer _ t
MARSHALL BROTHER^
81
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
ET- PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
Christmas Novelties !
EX “LIGURIA.”
LLOYD & HARBOROW, 470 Georgc-St., op. Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Gloves
Lloyd and Harborow’s Hosiery
Lloyd and Harborow’s Boots
Lloyd and Harborow’s Laces
Lloyd and Harborow’s Eichus
Lloyd and Harborow’s Sunshades...
Lloyd and Harborow’s Pans
Lloyd and Harborow’s Perfumery ...
Lloyd and Harborow’s Bags, &c. ...
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
Opposite Markets.
470 George-street.
KIP The Choicest collection of Christmas Cards in Sydney.
N.B.—THE NEW SHOP, OPPOSITE MARKETS, 470 GEORGE-STREET.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Brickfield. ZEZill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
LACE CUHTAINS, IOO PRICES.
C +u 1Ilt;r ++ can forwarded to the nearest Bailway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers
Mosquito Nets, striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the encravinsr of our
“LACE CURTAINS.” K * ° our
W
*9.
%
► 3
2*
Price: 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
LACE CURTAINS
LACE CURTAINS
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on ..pplicatlon.


A Peep at the Labour Bazaar.
There is hardly a house in all Australia better
known than the Labour Bazaar, Sydney, estab-
lished now near upon 44 years. The title of its
founders, Messrs. Alexander Moore and Co., has
become a household word, and in the success of
this great undertaking, we have another proof of
the results of a straight-going business system;
and after years of steady substantial development
the business has come into the hands of two enter-
prising men (Messrs. Maher and Ryan), with the
result that the Labour Bazaar is still holding the
pride of place among the great furnishing ware-
houses of these colonies. The immediate succes-
sors to Mr. Alexander Moore were Mr. J. Mullins
and Mr. T. Maher (the present proprietor), under
whose liberal management and good judgment
the trade of the house was greatly increased. The
site of the Labour Bazaar, in Pitt-street, is a
historic spot in respect of trade; and though
the locality is now occupied by new and spa-
cious warehouses, the old structure will live
in the memories of thousands. Of course, with
their grand new premises, the firm have greatly
increased room, better means for separating the
departments, and for storing and displaying bulk
or open stock, and the new entrance from Market-
street gives additional facility for the receipt and
removal of goods. The Labour Bazaar comprises
as it were, three large warehouses, Nos. 243, 245,
and 247 Pitt-street; but even the great extent of
front conveys no adequate Idea of the interior
capacity, for the business occupies several addi-
tional floors, which are not within view. And
then, again, the manufacturing departments are
situated elsewhere in this city. The firm, on com-
pletion of their new premises, resolved on exten-
sions of the old lines of business, and hence, as in
the past, most of the principal private houses in
this colony, furnished throughout with the Labour
Bazaar (style and figure shutting out all competi-
tion), so all the latest makes of English and Conti-
nental furniture are now imported by mail steamer
and sailing vessel, and exhibited in the show-
rooms for the inspection of patrons. There Is
no design of Importance in drawing, dining,
and bed-room furniture that does not now
immediately And display at the Labour Bazaar.
Here, consequently, just now, are to be seen some
splendid specimens of substantial art furniture
in the early English style, in walnut, pear, oak,
rosewood, ebony, &c. ; and the upholstering,
where it is required, is altogether of a superior
description. Some of the wardrobes which are
illuminated with magnificent superior mirror
glass, are about the handsomest seen in the
colonies. In the department where the English
art furniture is exhibited, the firm show samples
of their own work in wood and upholstery also,
and there is no doubt the contrast is highly
creditable. The colonial workman appears to
be fast leaving the old style of work, and
turning his attention to a class of goods requir-
ing taste and skill; and certainly the Labour
Bazaar appears to have been successful in secur-
ing some of these capable workmen. There are
few houses anywhere who can boast of such a
large and varied stock of mirrors as are displayed
in all parts of the Labour Bazaar; and, in respect
of pianos, the public have a similarly large stock
o select from—every maker of importance being
represented. As the Labour Bazaar furnishes
throughout, particular attention is given to the
carpet department, and here all the best and
latest designs in English carpets, oilcloths, &c.,
are on view. The bedding warehouse is about the
largest in the colonies; upwards of 80 different
designs being shown, some of them of rare excel-
lence; while on the basement are to be found over
£1000 worth in bulk stock. The Bazaar likewise
contains an enormous crockery and glassware
business, there being some thousands of different
patterns to selectfrom. The firm make a point of
being able to me* t all classes of people in the
matter of furnishing, so that while within ihe
walls of the Labour Bazaar may be found all the
essentials for palatial furnishing, there are also
the requisites for the humblest home, and in all
the branches the firm claim to have no succecsful
rivals. The extent of their importations, and
manufacture, and the enormous proportions of
their business enable the firm to supply every
article of furniture of substantial make at reason-
able figures. Long since—over thirty years ago,
in fact—the firm saw the advantage of enabling
people to furnish throughout with one house, and
the Labour Bazaar was about the fl-st to adopt it
on an extensive plan, and the result is that a great
saving of money and trouble has been effected to
all classes of patrons. Every facility it offered to
persons wishing to make a selection. The depart-
ments are arranged so that any particular furni-
ture may be selected in contrast. Theie is one
room where people may see the contents of houses
furnished throughout at a cost of from £15 and
£50 respectively. There are departments for
drawing-room suites, for dining-room, bed-
room, library, sitting-room; departments for
for English and colonial manufacture—all
being brilliantly lighted by 10-feet windows,
which will enable every article to be minutely
inspected. As to the output, it may be mentioned
that the firm can and do supply within a few
hours over 3000 chairs, without making a notice-
able diminution of the stock. The firm will, on
inquiries being made, send advices to any part of
the interior as to the more suitable style of fur-
nishing for any given house, and will gauge the
probable cost. In another direction, also, the firm*
meet a great public want. People about leaving
the colony, wishing to dispose of their whole stock
of household furniture, find at the Labour Bazaar
a special department separate from the other busi-
ness. The firm either take over the lot themselves,,
or, at their well-known auction mart, dispose of
them at auction, ensuring the fullest competition*
and the best prices obtainable, without the risks
of wholesale sacrifice otherwise experienced. As*
already stated, the firm’s furniture factory and
upholstery warehouse are situated elsewhere in*
the city, and steady employment is given to uj--
wards of sixty hands. The Labour Bazaar is now
well worth a visit, and certainly the enterprise of
the successors of the old firm deserve a continu-
ance of the generous support accorded to this
great industrial repository for a period of over
forty years.*
VANITY FAIR.
Queen Victoria has admonished the occu-
pants of one of her palaces that their manners
must be corrected. They have been gambling for
1 rge sums Says the World of the Duke of
Marlborough:—“ He has a natural turn for scien-
tific investigation.” Many British husbands have
taken the objection that His Grace’s studies took
a far too “ natural turn.” The very latest is
that a Tasmanian has eloped with his mother-in-
law, and that a girl who has married her brother’s
wife’s father is now trying to find out what rela-
tion she is to herself Lord Portsmouth declined
the Garter on the ground that he had performed
no public services; the Duke of Grafton accepted
it because he had. He had helped along civiliza-
tion by performing the important duties of L rd-
in-waiting At Homburg an ugly German (ran-
lein vends nasty-tasting saline water, while a
pretty one sells the pure, clear, crystal fluid. The
Prince of Wales was out of sorts, and patronised
the nauseous stuff; so all the Australians in Hom-
burg followed suit, in pure loyalty. Half of them
are now dyspeptic, and it is to be hoped they will
remain so The Prince of Monaco has now 9108
subjects ..“ Mizpah” on jewelry is now replaced
by “Charis,” which is found on brooches, bangles,
rings, &e. Spelt in Greek letters, it me 'ns “ dear,”
and is a convenient little motto word to engrave.
When a man is fldgetty, he attacks his vest
buttons But a woman always tackles her glove
as a refuge from embarrassment. She smooths
the fingers, “ does” the buttons, looks at the fit,
and altogether gets great comfort from her gloves
in the hour of trial ..Several Paris ladies
have been wearing dresses of lace only, rose-
coloured and amber lace on a foundation of net.
They should be delightfully cool for Australia....
At an art show in Kensington. Mrs. Swan, wife of
the inventor, was conspicuous by a shoulder-knot
lit by electricity. With a small switch in her hand,
she regulated its flash — It is not called hash now.
Mosaic nutriment is correct—A New York lady
wears a live beetle in her gold brooch, which is
valued at thirty pounds ; he was brought from
South America. But insects of jewellery are very
common. There is a scorpion of diamonds and
rubies worth £150; and a curiosity is a trefoil leaf
of thin gold, all veined, with diamond
dewdrops resting on it. It cost £300
Tnc economical side of a woman’s character shines
forth with radiance when she succeeds in fasten-
ing an eighteen-inch belt around a twenty-two-
inch waist... A London catering firm have ordered
that no barmaid in their employ is to wear a
fringe, masher collar, or a shirt front. And yet
when these things are in good order, it’s the best
proof the girls are behaving themselves ...The
dude style is scarcely in before it is out again,
after a reign even shorter than that of aestheti-
cism. In New York, the dude costume is now
chiefly worn by young gentlemen in the ribbon
department of some soft goods emporium, who,
having invested heavily in the broad, curled-brim
hat, tight pantaloons, stuffed frock-coat, and
toothpick shoes, cannot afford to get other clothes
at present. It’s very hard, just as we had
discovered how to put on our pants, and
got into the proper style of walk. ..A young
girl stood at the counter; her skirts very
slinky, jersey fearfully tight-fitting. She was
conspicuous enough before she left, for she
bought a massive dog-collar and put it on her
neck, twelve gold bangles, which she put on one
arm, and three antique patterned ones on the
other; and then she jingled gaily out into the
street.. With the Henri Deux hats, hair is mostly
drawn up on to the top— At a Children’s Carnival
at Saratoga, a little girl was dressed as a gold-mine.
Her dre s was golden silk, bunched to look like a
rough nugget; her pantalettes were edged with
bullion fringe, stockings were gold silk, and shoes
gilded. Arms and neck loaded with gold-ware,
and hair powdered with gold. Precious child!
Gardenias are the Prince of Wales’s favourite
flower at present Women are to wear epaulettes
of white lace “Marriage must seem very dread-
ful to you,” said a bridegroom, playfully, as he
led his new wife from the church; “why, you
trembled so much the minister could hardly hear
you speak.” “ It was all so new to me,” responded
the fair bride ; “ I will speak out bolder next
time.” Present fashions are ugly. There is
neither grace nor beauty in the steeple-crowned
hats coming in. nor in the stiff Henri Deux hats
with dinner-plate brims. Ridged sleeves make
even fine shoulders look insignificant. And it
must be a curious eye that could see any beauty
in a woman's form when garbed in a brick-red
claw-hammer coat with short waist, and tails to
the heels falling over a gigantic bustle, like a
camel’s hump, which has to be turned on
one side before she can sit on a chair
Even the smallest hair will throw a shadow—espe-
cially in a pat of butter Rifle-shooting is a
favourite and really sensible fashion with ladies in
India At the Vienna Electric Exhibition, the
head electrician of the London Post Office went
about with an electric scarf pin, the only one
there. They are buyable in London from a guinea
upwards A new curiosity is Eastern dress robes
embroidered by hand in Bulgaria. They are mostly
in cream or white, but worked all over in gold,
silver, and silks of lovely tints, in arabesques,
scrolls, or flower patterns. Some of the gola and
silver embroideries are done on black ground.
The dresses are exceedingly beautiful, and only
moderately expensive A new craze among
fashionable girls is to drink goat’s milk for the
complexion A tailor’s goose—the masher The
best pistol shot, probably, in Europe, is a Russian
cocolte in Paris, of singular beauty. Her fair face,
regal air, and the power in her splendid form
would stamp her as an aristocrat. Yet her days
are passed mostly in a low caf£, where she meets
her favourite lover, a debauched gambler Jew —
A Croydon (Eng.) clergyman, having a disagree-
ment with his solicitor, gave him a sound “ hid-
ing.” It is the only way you can really get at a
lawyer... A young lady’s costume, worn at an
evening party, was lately described as a “nose-
coloured dress.” The young lady’s friends are
now anxiously inquiring “whose nose?” We
should say Heaven (and the repo, ter) knows—
A new shade of soft deep grey is “ London smoke.”
Madge avers it is a delightfully refined hue, such
as none but a gentlewoman would choose. Ev£que
is a new violet, deep and rich in tone. Most of
Worth’s dresses are very much of the fashion-plate
style. Madge observes that his models seem to lie
all devised for “ daughters of the gods, so liberally
floes he provide for length of limb.” A very
J)retty lawn tenuis costume, worn by a society
eader at home, is of white flannel, with pleated
skirt, and a red aprop with bib: and the bodice is
cut square m fropt, and shows a white,chemisette
striped with red; two tiny rackets are embroidered
jn red on the l§ft shoulder. The hat is grey felt—
Geraninm red ulsters are popular in London —
Our stout friend, says Madge, has bought a tri-
cycle, and is really a terrible object when mounted
thereon. Her knees are very fat, and they heave
up and down, in working the machine, like swells
on the ocean. The vision of stockings, from a
back view, is quite appalling in its extensiveness.
At a bazaar, a novelty was “ a certain cure for
wrinkles.” Many were sold, and the packets con-
tained a pair of garters—which will certainly cure
wrinkles in stockings—Ladies’ maids now have
to write many of their mistresses’ society letters.
This is in England. In Australia, now, if some
members of Parliament would get their coachmen
to —- Another fashion is for girls to drive
themselves out in pony carriages, phaetons, &c.,
quite alone.
He telegraphed to his Arm: “ I trust my
wire has pleased you in all respects and answered
your most sanguine expectations." But the light-
ning-dodger wrote "wife” instead of “wire.”
Chaos I
A cheap edition of the Waverley novels is
now te'ng issued. The member for Bargowlahmine
ascribes this fact to the number of people who go
there by tram. “ But who care - for what they
writes in Waverley ?” he asks, indignantly.
There has never been produced a tonic or
stimulant to equal Wolfe’s Schnapps ; it has
maintained its hold upon popular patronage and
stands alone like the one Alexander.
On 23rd November, a quarterly sociable
took place in the Sydney Gymnasium ; 2JJ pr, s 3nt,
and many ladies. There were the usual exercises,
and music enlivened the affair. The bar practice
was not brilliant; D’Harcourt’s club swinging was
faultless; and the fencing of Hunter Brothers
was a new kind of “blow for blow,” and nearly
as comical. They showered on one another so
many “ marks of respect,” that a girl said they
“ would be just the fashionable colour when
finished—crushed strawberry.” Professor D’Har-
court had a wrestling bout with Mr. James Miller
(brother of the doughty gentleman who invites
the world to “come on”), but we have our own
opinion as to whether they were in deadly earnest.
Messrs. D’Harccurt, Revenson, Netting, and
Turnbull, all did well with the big weights, and
threw about the lumps of iron as if they were no
heavier than the heads of Land Office clerks. A
considerable number of young members made
their first appearance, who will, no doubt get
bolder as they get better.
The propriety of substituting some more
humane way of killing for the present barbarous
and disgusting, and frequently horribly cruel,
process of hanging, is engaging attention at home,
in consequence of the death of Marwood and the
necessity of appointing a novice as successor. It
an expert be demanded for any operation, it is
surely for hanging—a process which, as the fre-
quent instances of horrible strangling have proved,
requires a lot of dexterity to do well and effi-
ciently. A correspondent of the Times writes:—
“ Will a Government which is so scrupulous as to
the exact size and shape of the instrument for
flogging offenders remain perfectly indifferent as
regards the instrument for doing them to death ?
Some years ago my friend, Mr. Charles Neate, then
member for Oxford, proposed in the House of
Commons that capital punishment should be car-
ried out by the asphyxiation of the criminal, and
the proposition passed through the initial stage of
every reform—ridicule. The sense of the nation
may not even yet be ripe for such a change; but
surely as long as hanging remains the appointed
means of death for criminals, s miety is bound to
take some steps to ensure that it be carried out on
recognised scientific principles, and that it be not
left as now to the individual discretion of an igno-
rant amateur. The present usage is, in fact, so
monstrous, that nothing but the halo of prescrip-
tion could reconcile the public to it even for a
day.”
The Gundaroo beaks have struck work,
owing to the “ discourteous manner in which they
have been treated by Mr. Willans, the local Clerk
of Petty Sessions.” The beaks aforesaid take a
very lofty stand, indeed. They say that Mr. Wil-
lans' conduct (“ he being a paid public servant”) is
insulting to those whom he is supposed to serve,
and the action of the Colonial Secretary with
regard to the honorary Bench’s complaint is siill
worse. The beaks—just listen !-“have accord-
ingly determined that if the authorities will not
uphold their dignity as magistrates, they them-
selves will uphold their honour as ventlemen by
declining to place themselves again in a position
to be snubbed by one who is paid to serve them.”
We don’t know anything whatever of these Gun-
daroo magnates, who may be very respectable
persons, indeed. But we have known beaks in
many parts of Australasia, and about seventy per
cent, of them had neither the intelligence nor the
honesty to properly try a monkey accused of
scratching a baby’s nose. Low grog-sellers,
played-out political bummers who fattened on
tip, cold-blooded Hebraic usurers, gilded Iscariots
divested of that small remnant of conscience
which induced their prototype to hang himself ;
dissolute wife-beating blackguards, who shook
their fists (across the table) at clean, respectable
men of fewer inches—all such vermin were swept
aw ly from the courts which they polluted when
Government, with a view to getting the law
fairly administered by responsible men, at one fell
swoop hustled from the judgment-seat a few
decent honorary magistrates and a few score of
corrupt frauds. The Clerk of Petty Sessions is
often a gentleman. The average beak has the
manners of a bush-bred hog, and thinks that he
should be allowed to jump and spit upon any poor
devil who, like the clerk aforesaid, is “the paid
servant of the public.” We’d like someone to move
fora Royal Commissi in to inquire into the ho norar t
magistrate system, and get the evidence of Clerks
of Petty Sessions as to how benches are packed
by the influence of societies, low politicians, and
coteries of petty tradesmen—how “ mother sent
me up, Mr. Dogberry, to ask you to please go
round to see father gets fair play, and he’ll re-
member you next election.’ In well-settled dis-
tricts, there’s no earthly reason for the continuance
of the honorary beak as an institution. Let him
continue to infest the back-blocks, and fine for
“resisting the police” and “disorderly conduct”
men who have been lambed down at the shanty of
his brother-publican.
A week or two ago the Mayor of Fremantle
(W.A), amidst intense local excitement, nailed the
first name-piate to the corner of the balcony of
the Emerald Isle Hotel. After that nail driven,
his Worship invited each of the citizens present to
go inside and drive another nail—this time into
their coffins. They went like one man.
One of the most popular public men in
N.Z. is undoubtedly Thomas Bracken, member for
Dunedin Central, the most important electoral
district in the colony. Thomas first mounted the
ladder of fame about fifteen years ago, when he
carried off the first prize offered by the Dunedin
Caledonian Society for the best poem on “Por-
ridge.” Every Caledonian in Otago who could
spell, and hundreds who could only scratch their
heads, went into training for this competition, and
caused an immediate and disastrous rise in the
price of oatmeal. When it was known that the
prize was awarded to Tom Bracken—a young
Irishman, a digger and sheep-shearer from Aus-
tralia-great was the grief and consternation in
Dunedin, and many a burgoo banquet was turned
into gall and bitterness in consequence.' But the
worst was to come. Next year the Scotchmen
offered another prize, and Thomas calmly walked
away with that also. The same thing happened
year after year, until at last it got so monotonous
and exasperating that no less than three score and
ten blasted bards of Caledonian origin had cast
themselves into the bay in sheer desperation at
their repeated defeats, and had well nigh ruined
the navigation of the port by the accumulation of
their remains in the channel. For a long time
scarcely a vessel crossed the bar without get-
ting entangled in the grisly skeleton of some
departed poet, which frequently penetrated
the ship’s side and stretched forth a long
and bony arm in the direction of the
whisky barrels stowed away in the hold. Things
came to such a pass that the Society had to give
up the prize poem business altogether, as no
Scotchman had the ghost of a show of winning
against this tuneful rhyme-slinging Irishman.
Thomas just knew a great deal too much about
Caledonia stern and wild, and he could rhyme a
whole clan or congregation of Caledonians into
their graves as easy as wink; so that there was
really no use whatever in prolonging the hopeless
struggle. No matter what the subject might be,
whether “Braxy,” or “Brose, “Glenlivet,” or
“ Cauld Kail Het again,” Thomas smilingly took
up a poetic attitude outside a jorum of toddy,
drew a mantle of Otago mist about his shoulders,
sniffed up the caller air of the mountains, and
then for your life you couldn’t siy whether it was
the spirit of Bobbie Burns, Wattle Scott, or the
Ettrick Shepherd, or all three mixed together,
that made you jump in the air. cry “ hooch,” and
snap your fingers as you listened to the soul-
stirring pibroch of verse that poured a cataract of
Caledonian harmony in your ears, and woke the
echoes of the colonial hills with its melodious and
long resounding refrain. After this claim was
worked out, Mr. Bracken published a small
volume of poems, entitled “Behind the Tomb”
(whose tomb not specified), in which he threshed
the creeds of Christendom into smithereens, and
wept “bekase” there were no more creeds to con-
quer. The newspaper ciities, who are always good
and pious, of course came down on him for this.
One of these gentlemen said that Thomas had
surely mistaken his vocation—the book showed
that Nature evidently intended him for a saw-
grinder! But Bracken was not to be put down.
He started a newspaper of his own in Dunedin,
called the Saturday Advertiser, which soon
became one of the most popular weekly journals
in the colony, and ttained a large circulation.
Therein his poems, tales, and sketches were pub-
lished week by week, and then started to go the
round of the N.Z. press, from the Bluff to the
Bay of Islands. At the last election for the House
of Representatives, Bracken was returned by a
large majority for Dunedin Central, defeating
Mr. E. B. Cargill and several older and more ex-
Serienced men, Some day, not far distant, we
ope to see Thomas a Minister of the colony. In
the meantime, under the nom de plume of Paddy
Murphy, he contributes yearly more genuine fun
and amusement to the readers of the N.Z. press
than all the other humourists and representatives
of the colony put together could supply in a cen-
tury if they were stall-fed on Joe Miller all the
time. Thomas published a volume of poems some
years ago, entitled “ Flowers of the Free Lands,”
and will shortly publish, in London, a volume
under the title of “ Lays of the Land of the Maori
and Moa.”
The other day a member of the N.S. Wales
Legislature said in public that a certain other
member “ would make two of ’im in statute;’
also, that he could “ honestly lay ’is ’and on ’is ’art
and’ope,” &c. &c. Ye gods I
The Jews crucified Christ. They would
have done the same to another great teacher,
Spinoza, but that the spirit of the age was against
them. Nor are Christians much better. For two
thousand years scarcely a great instructor has
arisen who has not been subjected to the foulest
persecution. Huss, Bruno, and Servetus were
roasted; Hume ostracised, and Mill avoided. Vol-
taire kept a prudent distance from Paris till the
rumblings of the Revolution were heard. He was
the most awkward customer sacerdotalism ever
faced. His mockery gave the fan-tods to every
Erlest from Moscow to Madrid. Darwin fell on
etter times; but when he published his magnum
opus, twenty-four years ago, the Church of
England went into hysterics. He now lies in
Westminster Abbey!
M’Elhone a-boo! The master butchers in
public meeting assembled have declared by una-
nimous endorsement of a motion of Mac. s that
it is not desirable to abolish the Glebe Island
Abattoirs, and have cheered to the echo the touch-
ing, though slightly mixed sentiment of poet
Pitt's, that the proposed abolition is devilish like
Nero destroying Rome. We’ve scratched our head
eonsumedly over the simile, and confess we can’t
catch the point of Pitt’s joke. And yet in a con-
verse sense, a simile might be knocked out of the
remark by making Nero (notorious as an ancient
carcase-butcher) the type of the Sydney master
butchers, and the seven filled city stand for Sydney,
now in a fair way of having its sanitary condition
destroyed by the death-dealing germs turned out
wholesale into the atmosphere from the Abat-
toirs.
MICK SIMMONS’ CAN’T B BEAT TOBACCO BOX, EXCHANGE, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE ORE A i 1 LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symntoma there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion u
the maladies and ailments attacking tne human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.c.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever soM,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiat'iry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KBELY AND CO.,
71 GouRmm-street, Sydney.
Dealers In Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstratien, and the
lighting of Creydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasaller £3 10 0
3 do. do S 10 0
2 do. do 1 15 0 to £3 6 0
3 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 5 10 0
1 do. do. do 3 10 0
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours 3 0 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. .. 0 17 6
Globes and Fittings .. ..0 5 0 each
Fluid, in cases, 8gallons.. .. 0 3 6gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a ught equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of Mghting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.:
Strength, Durability, Base, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For SE-SBATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com -
, mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents f or all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
RAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
,d. URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC’IE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALP3, &c- and
,aken Internally cures DIARRHCBA, r
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other interna aches
snd pains. ..
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, sole PBOPniTOR,
MELBOUENE -A.NTD *=> . DNEY.
PAINT
Vj
mar
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brauo
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTKLT, & CO.. Sole A rente
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all cemplalnts that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ef
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once remov es all craving for Aloohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. Id. fold ev,rywher#
or sent anywhere for 51 stamps hy the sole pro-
prietors, MARSHALL BROTHER*, M.P.S., Che-
mists, 106 Market-street, Sydney.
N.B.-AU imitation* illegal.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
EASY TERMS SYSTEM INSTRUMENT.
/•*
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon he the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPPNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
i- ,nd SONS’
Kdioini 5,11 Pale * e.
PAPERBANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to T ~
NURSER i ’ . ERS,
CEILING CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported hy
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, Ac.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TT 33. dertal^ex,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for ever ten (10) years.
EURt
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
tar* THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The o y Tobacco com tuning Excelienee of Quality
with Economy in Price.
J3P Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Stwell’s Tohcco Co., lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS, .
An i*. o be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse.
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used hy every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
mu, inn, d mm ■
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOE ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES,
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ins and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
o
"if ii'VL^iiiTrff
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joitors’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoer, Land Rollers, Horse
Hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Oojtoa Bulimias’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stoeks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Weelpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Looks, Minges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO
337 George Street, Sydney.


REMEMBER THIS,
II* YOU ARE SICK,
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a now
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
In Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, er sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
AM,
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braoe*
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
GRAB
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
he slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
nost perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suttee to establish their olaim
im your patronage.
I am. Sir,
Tourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
NESS. Ac.
3*. 8d.
PRICE.. ..
Prepared by
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and ail Cheniisw-
A ROUNDABOUT PAPER.
the'local Clerk of Petty Sessions took part, said
that it was all owing to overzeal on the part of
Constable Doran, who had failed to inform him
that Mr. Justice Noel had, on the particular occa-
sion, been the chief sinner. Commenting on the
Cooper apology, the O’Kane, in the Northern
Miner, pointed out that it was not a very credit-
able get away for Judge Cooper to bluff all the
blame on Constable Doran. “ It would have been
gentlemanly (remarks the Miner) to say he spoke
under excitement, and regretted what he said, but
to pile it on to poor Doran is mean indeed. The
Judge said further that the Clerk had no ex-
cuse, as he knew of the rule made, and sinned with
his eyes open. This was not very generous.
Judge Cooper knuckles down to Judge Noei, be-
cause he knew his observations would be made
the subject of Parliamentary observation, and
possibly of enquiry, because it was a safe game.”
For this innocent expression of opinion, Mr.
O’Kane, on the 17th ult., was called before Cooper,
J., and charged by that legal luminary with con-
tempt of Court. Said His Honor “Tour par. is
a clear contempt of Court, and that is a crime ”
(this reminds us that the Impudent cat who looked
at a king was hanged for treason-felony). “ It
reflects,” continued the Cooper, “ upon my con-
duct as Judge of this Court In the transaction of
the business of this Court, and attributes to me
partiality and an unworthy motive in the conduct
of the public business. It asserts, wrongly enough,
that I was actuated by a motive of fear. It is im-
possible for a Judge to exercise the high functions
of his office with impartiality and fearlessness if
attacks like these are made with impunity. I now
call upon you instanter to show cause why you
should not be imprisoned or otherwise dealt with
Generosity loses half its value when there are
conditions attached to it. The difficulty regarding
the name to be given to the Melbourne Working
Men’s College will probably be overcome, but
from the minds of the democratic working men of
Victoria and Australia it will take some time to
erase the suspicion that their well-being had less
to do with Mr. Ormond’s gift than the opportunity
of naming the college after a young man whose
chief claim to consideration is that he is a con-
firmed Invalid. The people of America have not
only made democracy the only possible Govern-
ment on their own continent, but have driven a
democratic wedge right into the heart of Europe.
It is when we remember this, that the efforts of
rich Australians—inhabitants of a county where
the democratic principle is as firmly held as on
the North American continent—to introduce
among us the foolery of hereditary honours, and
hereditary flunkeyism appear so grotesque. To
insist that the honours of an honest father should
descend to a possible blackguard, is about as
reasonable as to look for healthy children from
diseased parents. And all this is Apropos of
Mr. Ormond and his “Albany ” College, Mr. Clarke
and his hereditary baronetcy, and Mr. Service and
his federation schemes—Colonial and Imperial.
There is a feeling abroad that, should colonial
federation come to anything, the Victorian leaders
—saturated as they are with spurious loyalty and
spurious notions of what constitutes real great-
ness —would endeavour to flood the country with
unmeaning titles, and, if possible, obtain the ser-
vices of young Albany to guide our weakness and
Inexperience. True, Mr. Gladstone, when deli-
cately sounded the other day, refused to entertain
the project of employing Royal Highnesses as
colonial viceroys. But Mr, Gladstone will not
always lead, the Liberal party may not always be
In power, and a little Court pressure brought to
bear on a Conservative leader might result —to the
great delight of Melbourne plutocracy—in the
young Duke’s finding himself the apex of the
pyramid of the Australian Dominion. This is pre-
cisely what the working men of New South Wales
could not swallow, and this is precisely what the
statesman would do (if he had thel power) who
could see no absurdity in proposing to Tasmania
to be governed from Melbourne, although he
might object to Victoria being: governed; from
Sydney. Before entering the federation, the
people of N.S. Wales should insist:—
(1.) That the Governor of United Australia should
be elected like the American President, or at
least that an elderly and experienced states-
man (not of Royal blood) should be sent from
England.
(2.) That no hereditary titles be acknowledged on
the Australian continent.
(3.) That if the Victorians think [society cannot
exist without an aristocracy, let it, at al 1
events, be an aristocracy of talent, like the
French Academy or the English Royal Society
and not include men simply because their
sheep breed quicker than others or their
dummies enabled them to put free-seleotors
up a tree and keep them there.
Should these points be conceded, and guarantees
given for Victoria’s good faith, we think the Con.
ference might be allowed to proceed. By vetoing
the appointment of Edinburgh, Connaught, or
Albany, we might miss the courtly odour sur-
rounding sovereigns and their belongings, and
they, although sumptuously provided for by the
British taxpayer at present, might miss some cosy
posts, but England itself can find plenty of spheres
of usefulness for young men so highly recom-
mended and possessing such exceptional ability.
There’s the command of the Navy awaiting one,
and of the Army the other—Heaven help the Army
and Navy 1 Surely a place could be found in the
Church for Albany? An immense amount of
good coujd bo done down Seven Dials way by a
hardworking curate who was not above working
in combination with the Salvation Army. From
our knowledge of the deep religious feeling which
characterised our Sovereign’s children, from the
Prince of Wales (God bless him I) down, and the
sacrifices they are prepared to make for their
fellow-countrymen, we are certain that this open-
ing has only to be suggested to the young
Duke to ensure its being embraced. And
now we must get back to Mr. Ormond and
the Working Men’s College. This world is
full of ridiculous things. We can scarcely
take a step without tripping over some absurdity.
But of all the stupid things with which we are
acquainted, there’s nothing can come even near
that of endeavouring to perpetuate the remem-
brance of commonplace people by attaching their
names to buildings or statues, museums or hos-
pitals. Throughout the British Empire there are
probably thousands of monuments to Albert the
Good—who was exceedingly well paid to be good-
how many are there to Newton, Harvey, Bichat,
Voltaire, Mill, or Darwin ? The rule appears to be
that, if you are very wise, you may not have even
a lockup called after you; if moderately sensible,
a statue or two may transfer your likeness to pos-
terity; but if the “ Mascotte” has been brought
you in the shape of congenital idiocy, half the
public buildings in the country will bear your
name. Surely Mr. Ormond need not have been
hard up for famous names either in England or
Australia. Even without leaving Victoria, he had
Gaunson. M’Coll, Bolam, Mortimer Franklyn,
Henderson Africanus. and a let more, to choose
from, while, if he applied to us, we could give him
Davy Buchanan, Thomas Walker, Lucas, John
Davies, and a number of others who have left
their footprints on the san ds of time. However,
as the college is to be called “ Leopold,” we would
suggest as its coat of arms a toad rampant on a
field of plush,
♦
Yet another instance of the monstrous unreason-
ableness of the law —or rather, no-law — of contempt
of Court, d to Star Chamber. The scene is laid at
Charters Towers. The leading characters of the
dramatis personcB are those old favourites, Mr.
Justice Coeper and Mr. Thadeus O’Kane. On the
:15th ult.. Cooper, J., in the course of an apology,
w’hlch, in reality, was no apology, for some re-
mi \rks he had made on the day previous with re-
gai "d fco his Honourableness having been painfully
dlst Wfrod by an audible conversation within the
saw *4 precincts o& the Court, In which “ yabba ”
by this Court for contempt.” Thereupon, O’Kane,
seeing' that His Honor held four aces, besides
those he might possibly have up his ermined
sleeve, abased himself. He retracted all he had
written, not because he thought it wrong, but
because His Honor held the best hand. Thady’s
bare apology would not satisfy Cooper. “You
have met the charge in a proper spirit,” His Honor
was pleased to remark, “ but you won’t be purged
till you’ve made an affidavit and paid the costs,
for there’s a legal maxim to the effect that he who
suffers pays costs.” And Thady paid those costs,
reflecting on that other ancient legal maxim—
“ legal costs who pays he’s
Sure to suffer like blue blazes.”
So far for the narrative. Now for the comment 1
Here we have a quite typical case of contempt. A
Judge, by no means intemperately criticised for
conduct which, though it may have been judicial,
was neither judicious nor gentlemanlike, prose-
cutes the utterer of the criticism as a criminal,
tries him, judges and sentences him, as one might
say, red-handed. Only Imagine, with such arbi-
trary powers in the hands of an Individual Judge,
what might happen were the occupant of the
bench to be really though not apparently non
compos mentis —primed with chlorodyne or “sol-
dier’s joy,” to the point of mischievous cantan-
kerousness I Why, for the utterance of a mere
word, the purport of which his bibulous Honor
had mistaken, he might attach the offender (the
creation of his own chlorydnousness (the memory
of the late Judge Dunne, Victoria, is still green in
the continent), fine him a heavy sum, and send
him to gaol to rot, at his discretion. Until this
kind of Star Chamber practice be stopped, the
liberty of the subject is simply contingent upon
I what a Judge may have had for lunch.
Mrs. Langtry, among other presents from
her American admirers, received a “ portmanteau
full of hoots.” We should like to admire her in
this way when she comes out here; but we are poor.
Still we are not so poor that wf can’t afford to
give her Ja boot full of portmrnbaux —if wo can
manage to borrow a boot from the senior member
for Mudgee for the occasion.
Sometimes, when we are endeavouring to
grasp the details of an abstruse problem, The Bul-
letin office is invaded by a handy person possessing
some useful mental and physical peculiarities*
H is his name. His bodily characteristics are
shortness and breadth, but in that unpretentious
frame there is stowed away more latent energy
than in a Leyden jar or a Nasmyth hammer.
Weak-minded men occasionally call to obtain
satisfaction for some fancied slight, but, before
starting on their grievances, they always ask if
H is on the premises. Once a big “ cockatoo’’
from the Paroo omitted this precaution. He is
now a cripple for life. But it is of H 's other
traits we would speak. He blasphemes, drinksi
smokes the most malodorous tobacco, and was
lately seen shaking hands with a well-known
burglar; but he is a capital mimic, and was never
known to tell a lie. Yes; you might take him by
the heels, hold him in the most undignified
attitude, and shake bad money, bogus shirt-studs,
false teeth, and tidal waves of profanity out of
him-but never a falsehood. The perfection to
which he brought his habit of mimicry often got
him into trouble when a lad. Even now it isn’t
quite comfortable to be with him, as you have
always a suspicion that when you go away your
peculiarities will be rehearsed for the benefit of
unsympathetic “bosses.” When he was quite a
boy (he tells this himself, so it can be relied on) he
attended a Milesian school up Picton way, of
which his father was master. But;Father O’Dowd,
the local priest, had a say in the matter, and often
wandered down to where the academy was pitched
for the day on the lee side of a turf-clamp, to
question the students on the truths of their holy
religion. Young H always appropriated the
“billy”at these informal examinations. Before
losing his first wind, he could run off the whole
list of Saints, the Seven Deadly Sins, the Litany for
the Dead, and wind up by knocking down Larry
O’Toole for putting a dead mouse in his pocket. ]
But, one day, Father O’Dowd called him over and
said: “ Well, me bhoy, I hear you’re a grate mimic
intirely. Now, thry to take me off before these
gentlemen.” “ Faith I’d sooner not, yer riv’rence, I
know betther than to be imitatin’ the blessed
clargy,” said young H , scratching his head and
expectorating on Tim Doolan’s toe. “ Och, niver
mind—I’ll giv ye lave," said the good-naturc-d
O’D., with a laugh. Encouraged by this, the
simple youth looked round as if to see that he was
alone. Then he put his hand in his pocket, drew
out an imaginary flask, looked cautiously round
again to see he was unobserved, put it to his
mouth, took a long slug, returned it to his pocket,
slyly wiped his mouth with his coat-sleeve, and
commenced to whistle the “Boyne Water” with
variations. He guessed intuitively that a hostile
demonstration was being made in his rear, and so
he started as if fired out of a shanghai. He placed
100 yards between himself and the college before
he sat down. Of this he did the first two
under imparted impulse, and for the re-
maining 98 he followed a parabolic curve.
From that day to this, he has never attempted to
mimic an Irish priest without first looking at his
« riverence’s ” feet, and what he haa on them.
“Can’t help you, my good woman. I subscribe liberally for the heathen, and you’re
not a heathen, you know."


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tr i'HS PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Ivlatiired.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agent* for N.8.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON k CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY*
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled In bond for Exv rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. ref ore, rely that It
has not been in the hands of “ hlskey Doctors.
When you ask for It, see that you get It, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and vapsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland.
Important Notice to every
Country Resident.
LI. SIMMS M,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 & 237 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are making great efforts to increase their large
country trade. A Special Department for the
exclusive benefit of those who reside away from
Sydney is now established.
The exorbitant prices country tailors charge are
almost prohibitive to many. We are changing ai
this.
TRY US 1 TRY US I
If you wish to get a real good tallor’s-made gar-
ment, write for our easy manual of self-measure-
ment, sent post free to all parts of the colony,
with patterns, styles, and tape.
Sydney Prices, Metropolitan Pit
and Workmanship.
Suits, to Measure * 3 3 ®
Trousers, to Measure ® 1® ®
ATT. WOOL, AND SHRUNK.
H.L. Summerfield & Co.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS.
ONLY SYDNEY ADDRESS-
235 and 237 Pltt-streot.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
Chafes stnctly modfra tc
MARSHALL BROlHtRS
Surgbov Dt-NrisTS , 06MARKETST e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraoted Painlessly
TflCRflllC Pleasant, Refreshing,
AUtUUnllj Invigorating.
The nop-a.cohoi o beverage acts as a brain and
nerve ton ic, and does not intoxicate,
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any Intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent en a long residence in a hot
oiimate, it w of great service, as it acta not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price <*er cn°B containing 6 dozen W pints ... 12/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
73 and 74 Pltt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS <<
OILS. r
WALL
* PAPERS
Office: 330 George-stroet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
UST’ N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
A CONTRIBUTOR to all the leading Journals
and magazines of Australia, supplies origi-
nal l aders, essays, sketches, &c., and newsletters.
Communications may be addressed to “Marco,’*
cure of BuJULEim office, Sydney.
TATTERS ALL’S CEP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I bear to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OP CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Distribution as follows
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-Starters (divided among)..
£1000
400
200
200
200
£3000
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of B. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
Sew South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultation
os
TATTEES ALL’S CUP.
NOW OPEN-1884.
5000 Subscribers at lOs.
First Horse .. £1000
Second do *50
Third do IjjO
Starters divided.. 200
Non-starters
divided..
Prise Gifts..
£800
700
£2600
RUN ON NEW YEAR’S DAY.
W. BURNHARD, Secretary,
2 Wentworth Court, and Box 265 G.P.O., Sydney.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWAN8TON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will And SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
Lambton Athletic Club
President: Thomas Croudaoe, Esq., JP.
Vice-President: Dr. J. B Nash, J.P.
Treasurer : Mr. Richard Ward.
THE above Club intend holding their ANNUAL
MEETING en
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884,
when £80 in Prizes will he competed for.
AT.T. COMERS’ GRAND HANDICAP; distance
150 yards. First prize, £30; second, £3; third,
£1. Entrance, 5s.
A MILE HANDICAP. First prize, £7; second,
£2 ; third, £1. Entrance, 3s.
NEW YEAR’S GIFT HANDICAP. Distance, 100
yards. First prize, £5 ; second, £1; third, 10s
Entrance, 3s. 6d.
OUR’S GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE. First
£4 ; second, £110s.; third, 10s. Entrance,
All runners must appear in running costume,
and state, at the time of entry, the colours in
which their will run; also, give a truthful account
of their performances for the previous twelve
months; if none within that time, the three last
is required. All entrances to be sent direct to the
Secretary, in whose hands they must be by the
16th December, and from whom all information
may be obtained.
JAMES MCWILLIAMS,
Hon. Secretary,
Lambton.
* A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO.”
IF YOU ARE ABOUT TO FURNISH, you
cannot do better than write for a COPY OF
OUR NEW BOOK, containing revised HOUSE
FURNISHING LISTS, AND MEMOS. OF
REDUCED PRICE*.— POST Free, Everywhere.
Campbell Brothers,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Kill THI ROYAL BOTBL.
HALF-H
jgrlze,
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., New York, May 16,1882.
Messrs. J. C, Ayer & Co.. Gentlemen:
Last winter I was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that I could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I was also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
I recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good. „ „
Yours respectfully, Z.P. Wilds.
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
PREPARED BY
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price SI, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best~Purg.ative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
B TILL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the cleai „oss
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALB
:iat /preserves this /rand first to public
stlmation. Common bitter crude beers are
iade very fine, but no other brand has the
ime mellow vinous chai acter, the fullness on
be palate, and the great )• eoping qualities of the
HILL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
ioned against traders who for the sake of an
xtra profit represent the common beers referred
d as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
; CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents. WOOD
[BOTHERS & CO.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TBRS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
•MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
afteb otroHe MOUSTACHE and WHISIESS.
Boyd's Beard F.Hxirdid this, and
1 trill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare, forces hearty Mous-
tache in fromllo 4 weeks and m ver
• fails, 2n,UOO young men already
Copyrighted, wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, eertain in effect. -
each, 3 for 8 s. 6 d.,po$t paid, sent under oover, free from oOfteroafton.
Frank Douglas, Sols Agent, Box 730, G.F.O., Sydney, N.S. W-
Copyrighted.
fackels 1*. W.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN 1.1*. h °'" M ’
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
RETAIL DEPOT ;
567a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
G
IBBS,
BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, andDUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BHISIUL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-H«c1 Office S HONGKONG.
Thos. Glover and Company, ikmdon—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sona—Yellow Sheathing Metal. ..
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited) Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Corapanr, San
Fels and Company, of Patra® and Corfu Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.-Bnglish Hama Bacom&c., &c. PlcklQB , sauces, Ac.
Hod Cross Preserving Company, JanM, Je , cams Boiler Plates, Iron and
De Wendol and Company, Hayange, France-Bar, Rou, ana onoot xium
Steel Fencing Wire, &c. . .. a„ fM Drvbrousrhand Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston-Fir e-rating Safes. Th Wine.
Brunton and Co., Redruth-Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. M. nunt-xu
Dubos Frores, Bordeaux —Claret®, Chabll®, Bauterne®
New SOOTH Co., Cot Bro.., G»h». Brc
C. AddBon, B. Block*.
mott^favouiAbletormA Confl»nH.«o«
—
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
Leaf In the colonies, hence the hlRSJ
- J ’ position for quality is assigned to their Twist
id Flat Tobaccos— -Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Huger (thick
rist), R. C. Ruhr, Oriental Mixture, and others.
t it, i dt v niRfi hold I
ft
'tollj X\)• VJ■ XVUU V j vyiivAi.
CKJAKETTES.—-Their Zone.
■D. 4 8.. Importers of Pipe* •* every kind. Cigars, ana an xo


Judge Macfarland and the Cards.
The time has quite arrived when no barrister need
look for a seat on the Bench unless, in addition to
his forensic knowledge, he possess a fair acquaint-
ance with some of the more common games of
cards—such as “poker,” “brag,” “blind-hookey,”
and “ draw-the-badger.” The necessity for this
knowledge is becoming more obvious dally. How-
ever well-meaning or incorruptible a Judge may
be, we contend that, if ignorant of “ poker ” or
** euchre,” the ends of justice may be defeated,
and the “plunder” adjudged to the wrong person
by the Bench’s ruling on a purely technical ques-
tion of a “ straight flush ” or a refusal to follow
suit at “ cut-throat.” We do not advance these
views for the sake of novelty. The necessity for
some provision being made, if only by the appoint-
ment of a sporting barrister to attend Circuit
with power to empanel a jury of magsmon, was
illustrated by a case that came before District
Court Judge M'Farland on his last tour. To
a profound acquaintance with law, His Honor
unites an equally profound ignorance of cards.
It is even whispered that his knowledge of “ pitch-
and toss ” is merely elementary, while he stoutly
denies having ever indulged in “ tally-ho ” or
“rounders.” When young, his amusements ap-
pear to have been limited to conversation-lozenges,
by means of which the tenderest dialogues can be
carried on, and all chance of discovery destroyed
by sucking. But, to return. The question before
the Court rose out of a dispute at “ poker,” and
the cruelty of referring it to His Honorifor settle-
ment, together with the constructive contempt of
Court which his questions evoked, can best be
shown by the following dialogue
Dramatis Personae: Judge M‘ Farlane, the Crown
Prosecutor, Mr. A. P. Backhouse, Witnesses
Policeman.
J.: The case, I understand, arises out of a game
called “ po
Mr. B.: “Poker,” your Honor.
J (severely): “Poker,” Why such unmeaning
and even objectionable names are given to games,
is as strange as why men derive pleasure from
them at all.
W. (aside, winking to a friend in Court): Green,
ain’t he ? (Titter goes round).
P.: Soilence in the CoortI
J: Witness, tell us what you know of the affair.
W: Well y’r Honor, Long Barney, an’ Kangaroo
Brown were playin.’ ’Twas Kangaroo’s deal, an’
he had the pasteboard stacked. He gave himself a
straight hush o’ hearts, an’ ran four aces into
Barney. Then he went a fiver blind, an’
J: Not so fast. Am I understand that this Kan-
ga—this Brown had four consecutive fl
Mr. B: Flushes.
J: Flushes in his hand at the same time ? Were
they of one colour, or were the different suits—I
think you call them— intermixed ? Barney, you
say, had four aces. How many had Brown ? What
has “stacking pasteboard” to do with it, and is
Brown still blind ?
(At this stage the policeman endeavoured to
work off a “ guffaw ” under cover of a cough, but
seeing the J udge’s eye fixed on him, ran his fingers
through the hair of a small boy alongside, and
carried him howling to the door.)
W.: Well, y’r Honor, 'taint often you see four
straight flushes in a man’s hand at onct. I’ve
heerd o’ three, but as the man that held them was
eaten by an alligator shortly after, 1 never could
onderstand how’t was done. ’Course there warn’t
no use In Kangaroo’s givin’ hisself a straight ’un
and plantin’ bad paper afore Barney, so he had a
cold pack planted
J. (despondingly): “Cold pack,” “straight ’un.’,
“ bad paper.” I must place the case at the bottom
of the list. Will you, Mr. B., kindly step up to my
hotel to-night, and bring some cards with you ?
Witness, you can go down.
W. (aside, contemptuously): This ’ere comes ’o
them big wigs havin’ no eddicatlon. I’m ’shamed
o’ them.
What lucky fellows those Salvationists
arel A young “soldier,” named Keast, had the
good fortune to fall into a trance at Sandhurst,
and visited heaven and hell while under its in-
fluence; so, evidently, Sandhurst is a good station
to book from. Mr/Keast has been supplying his
less travelled brethren with some very interesting
details of his journey. At the former place, par-
ticularly, he met with the best possible reception,
and appears to have been treated with great dis-
tinction, “the children who have left earth” going
out of their way to sing him a part song—bbautif ul
in sentiment, but execrable in metre. Mr. Keast’s
visit to “the other place” revealed to him the
harrowing spectacle or “Blasphemers, Freethinkers
and Spiritualists, and all of that kind, trying to
pull out their blasphemous tongues. How on
earth the company permitted Mr. K. to return to
Sandhurst without first plucking out his “ unruly
member” is, and always will be, a puzzle to us.
But, as we have already remarked, what lucky
fellows theselSalvationists arel
Miss Eveline Ckrmiehael, one of the two
survivors from the wreck of the Loch Ard, in ’78,
offers to help build a lighthouse near the scene of
the disaster. Since it would take some £16,000 to
build such a structure, and as there is no great
need for a lighthouse there, her offer will probably
be declined with thanks. Until we saw Eveline,
we were quite Interested in her. It was, indeed,
sad that she should lose nearly all her relatives in
the wreck; but even that fact didn’t quite justify
all the romance with which they succeeded in en-
shrouding her and her alleged boy-rescuer, Tom
Pearce. Tom, by the way, made quite a neat
business transaction (£3000 or so, wasn’t it ?) of
grabbing Miss Eveline by the hair—fortunately it
was her own—and pulling her out of the water. And
this reminds us of three things. First, that if you
give £3000 to one man for taking a woman by the
hair, it is surely unfair to give another man fifty
lashes for the same action ; and secondly, that
poor Mick O’Reilly, who used to edit the Banner
of Belfast (Vic.), once went oat boat-sailing and
fell into the water. The boat’s crew presently saw
what looked like Mick’s scalp coming to the sur-
face, and they grabbed at it accordingly. They
clutched his scalp, it’s true, but not ’his head, for
Michael wore a wig. And thirdly, that Baldy
Davis, formerly of Bourke, once saved his life by
wearing a wig at 13.46 p.m. and not wearing it at
13h. 46 l-13m. p.m. Baldy was behind a saltbush,
engaged in the usef ul and honourable occupation
of dodging spears and waddles, which were being
sent forward by about 3,000,000 Warrego nig-
gers. Sticking his wigged head out on one side
of the bush, a shower of about 37,000 tons of pro-
jectiles came his way. Baldy thought he wouldn’t
argue the subject just then, so, bobbing behind
the bush, he pulled off his wig and poked his
polished cranium out on the other side. Where-
upon the niggers, who had never previously
seen a bald-headed man, set up a howl
that was distinctly heard at the head of
the Nicholson River in the Gulf country,
and like greased lightning made • tracks West-
ward to that unknown land where the pelican
builds her nest. Anyhow, they’ve never been
seen since, nor does there remain any vestige of a
tribe once great and prosperous, save one old
toothless gin, who is still in Baldy’s service. But
this is digressing. We were talking about Tom
Pearce. A discreet youth was Thomas. You
couldn’t get a word out of him about his own
gallantry. He seemed to know that talking about
your own pluck was just as bad as laughing’ at
your own jokes. So he said nothing, but let Miss
Carmichael do the talking, which, to give her but
justice, was done In a very neat and ladylike way
indeed. She was ever so much older —or, perhaps,
it would be more polite to say less young—than
he, so all the frantic efforts of the hysterical old
women of Melbourne and elsewhere to make a
match between the pair were in vain. When
Eveline went away, they said she was in«consump-
tion, whieh, we thought, was all flam, because she
wore a No. 11 boot, was 311n. round the waist,
and weighed 13st. Ulb. without her boots.
The Manaro country is the paradise of
Potts, the heaven of Winkle, the abode of the
modern prototype of the Katans wit.l Gazette.
Judging from the decisions of the local Courts in
libel cases, no Manaro man has a character worth
more than a fiver. If an editor writes about “ the
hideous personal salacieusness of the horse-steal-
ing perjurer who edits that so-called newspaper,
our alleged contemporary,” and the other editor,
objecting to the somewhat personal tone of this,
gets out a writ, the jury return a verdict for
eleven shillings damages—having previously ar-
ranged that half the amount is to be expended in
tanglefoot at the “ pub. beyant the Coort.” The
other day this paragraph appeared in print:—” We
understand that a party was given last evening at
the Bank of . None of the respectable people of
the district were present.” But, of course, such
an airy little pleasantry was passed by i<b alto-
gether too trivial for notice. T n Cooma, for in-
stance, it costs you nothing to print that a man is
a double-dyed liar. Mention of the fact that the
manager of a bank, or a neighbouring squatter, is,
in your opinion, an unprincipled ruffian, whose
oath, even if sworn on a cartload of Bibles,
wouldn’t be half as valuable as the character of
Barabbas, or the affidavit of Judas Iscariot, might,
unless you had friends on the jury, possibly in-
volve you in a subsequent pecuniary expenditure
equivalent to a week’s board at a Phillip-street
hash-house. But you have to draw the line at
saying 'of your enemy that you know him to
bo illegitimate, and that his first act, on attaining
his so-called manhood, was to poison his father,
sell his mother to Brigham Young, and foist his
thieving little brothers and three degraded sisters
on to the charity of the State at Randwick Asylum.
If you said anything like that, you might possibly
find yourself out of pocket to the extent of at
least three pounds.
The Braidwood district was once notorious
for the atrocious criminal proclivities of its bush-
rangers. Another ruffian has lately appeared, be-
fore whose abandoned villainy that of the Clarkes
literally pales. This hardened wretch (aged nine
years) stole a couple of rosebuds out of a garden.
For the heinous offence he was arrested, and,
through th* blameworthy leniency of the local
bench, fined the sum of sixpence. When we men-
tion that the miscreant is a Papist and the garden
whence the rosebuds were “shook” a Protestant
one, who but will expect to find the Standard
Barry animadverting violently upon the mis-
taken softness of the adjudicating beaks, who,
moreover, had the audacity to lecture the pro-
secutor on the uncharitableness of his action I
An ingenious person has recently dis-
covered a plan by which even milkmen may be
saved. It is reasonable to expect that if watering
milk be a dishonest practice, the devil has no lack
of milkmen down below. But by the new plan
the milk is thinned as much as ever, and the devil
is cheated into the bargain. You are on pins and
needles to know what the plan is. Well, it is this:
Instead of watering the milk, you water the cow.
Listen to the inventor himselfIf you desire to
get a large yield of rich milk, give your cows
every day water slightly warmed and slightly
salted, in which bran has been stirred at the rate
of one quart to two gallons of water. You will
find, if you have this daily practice, that the cow
will give 35 per eent. more milk immediately under
the effects of it.” There, now you know the recipe,
go and get rich I The milkmen in our suburb—
Woolloomooloo—however, are not so tender of
conscience as to change their old plan for this new
one. They don’t even pretend to water the milk:
they just milk the water.
Funny story about a corpse. Time, twenty-
five years ago ; place, London. Body-snatching
industry in full swing. Two young medical
students hire a buggy, go out to a suburban grave-
yard, and exhume a corpse on their own account.
After exhuming it, they tie it to the front seat of
the buggy, cover It with a hat and overcoat, take
their places one on each side of it, and drive off in
triumph. The night was cold, so they stopped at
the first inn for something hot. In the back-
parlour happened to be three of their fellow-
students, who recognised their voices, and, being
curious to know the reason of their excursion,
stepped out and saw the upright figure in the gig,
and “dropped” to the game at once. Without
losing a moment, they untied it, carried it Into the
stable, and rigged one of their number in its place.
The two friends returned, and being reseated, one
of them accidentally touched the hand of the
supposed corpse. “Why, Jack,” said he to his
friend, “his hand is quite warm.” “Don’t be a
fool, Tom,” said the otner; but, to make sure, he
touched the hand himself. “By , so it is,” said
he; “how is that, I wonder?” “Well,” said the
corpse, in sepulchral accents, “ if you had been in
hell as long as I have, I guess you’d feel warm.”
You object to this story because it is not local?
You are wrong. Hell is always local. Ask the
editors of the Holt Howl.
( {The acting head of the Victorian postal
department has ordered a searching’ investigation
to be made into “ certain very serious charges of
a criminal nature" preferred against a prominent
Government official. Why not have handed the
matter over to the police ? Departmental investi-
gations almost invariably mean a hush-up, unless
the accused be extremely ill-connected.
We read that an eccentric American mil-
lionaire has selected one hundred Iroquois Indians
who have shown marked scholastic ability in the
native schools of the United States, and will bring
them to England to have them educated at his
expense at Cambridge and Oxford, with a view of
making them missionaries among their people.
He must have an awful down on the Iroquois race.
Possibly, some braves of that nation scalped his
grandfather, and, in revenge, he wishes to have
the remnant of their tribes skinned.
The hon. member for the Upper Hunter,
the unique Mac, some few days back insinuated,
on information received, that the Lands Agent at
Cootamundra had frequently held the blank
cheques of a certain squatter, which he filled up
pro re nata, with the view of serving the said
squatter, baulking the boss-cockie—and making a
little pocket-money. Farnell, acting on Mac’s
statement, caused an investigation to be made as
to its truth (or otherwise). Considering that the
investigation was conducted by a Lands Depart-
ment official sub rosa, and that onlv the verdict of
the said official is before the public, without one
tittle of the evidence taken, isn’t it asking too
much, a little too much, of public confidence, to
decide between Farnell s point-blank denial and
Mao’s point-blank indictment ?
As an instance of the high-toned morality
and true manliness among a pretty considerable
section of the “uppah ten” in England, there is
the case of young Craven, who “ skipped ” from
his debtors. Not long ago, he married a girl with
a ravishing figure, which she didn’t hesitate to
show in an extra low bodice at balls, or in any
other convenient way sanctified by convention-
ality. And she was slangy and horsey, and hadn’t
a tarthing. But, to young Craven, this was unim-
portant beside an eighteen-inch waist, a low
bodice, and other reliable indications of symmetry.
So they married, and lived in fine style, kept
hounds, racers, drags; and hunters for Mrs. C. fit
to carry Cleopatra. Grand dinners, Felix dresses,
and general luxury made everyone who knew the
genealogy of the gay young couple wonder
whence the money came. As a fact, it never came
at all, or was paid for all these things. For three
years, they lived on “ tick-” Some gay intimates
who made a conventional call one fine morning
found certain parties “ in possession.’’ The
Cravens had “ skipped.” Scarcely anything was
realised by the long-suffering tradesmen, and the
butcher’s bill alone was £600. These proceedings
would be Irregular, almost naughty, on the part of
a clumsy plebeian : but it’s different when the
aristocracy is concerned, and this estimable youth’s
papa Is still a bosom friend of the heir to the
throne. Besides, it was only vulgar tradesmen—
and they and their goods, their wives and their
daughters, are fair prey for the gilded idlers of
The D.T. remarks that “ it will require a
good month of hard service to see how the motor
behaves itself, more especially during the Christmas
holidays." There can be no doubt about this. The
D.T. only too well knows that the Christmas holi-
days are a deuce of a test—for everybody.
A. Melbourne “pro.” died some years ago *
his obituary notice finished thus:—
“ Not long did he wait at the garden gate,
For the angels have let him In.”
If the feathered ladies and gentlemen ever extend
the same courtesy to our “ handsome baritone,”
he might possibly “ let the angels in.”
The Melbourne Herald hazards the truly
startling conjecture that “ no great city, probably,
contains more remarkable women than London;”
but when we come to consider that London con-
tains rather more than double as many women as
any other great city, the conjecture doesn’t appear
so reckless, after all. Way, we will go even a bit
farther than the Herald, and assert that there
are more fat, thin, underfed, overclad, and lunatic
women in London than in any ether great city.
The “ paw beggah ” sketch in London
Punch of the 15th September, 1883, is, no doubt,
more or less a copy of the “paw beggaw ” cartoon
in London Fun of the 29tn May, 1869. “How’s
this for plagiarism ?” asks a correspondent. Con-
siderl«g that Punch has worked up a bare hint
into a clever picture, we fail to see that there’s
any plagiarism at all in the matter. There are
plagiarists—and plagiarists ; those who merely
pria, and those who add to what they borrow a
lustre all their own.
A certain Anglican minister at Tinwald,
N.Z., met a gentleman of his acquaintance in the
township one day, lately, and, stopping him, said,
“ I want to fight you.” Perceiving that there was
something wrong with the worthy divine, the
accosted one declined the combat, a'd remarked,
“ We are only supposed to fight the devil.” “ I am
the devil,” replied the minister, and struck the
other a violent blow on the face with his dosed
fist. After skirmishing through the parish in this
aggressive way for some time, the unfortunate
gentleman was at last arrested, and is now an in-
mate of Sunnyside Asylum, near Christchurch.
In October last, J. J. Maginnis, the official
shorthand reporter of the Superior Court, San
Francisco, struck work in the middle of a case,
assigning as a reason that he had not been paid
for work done for several months previous.
Thereupon the judge adjudged him guilty of con-
tempt, and ordered him into the custody of the
sheriff till he had purged himself of the charge.
Maginnis applied to the Supreme Court for a writ
of habeas. His strike, and that of two others who
followed his example, would, it was thought, have
the effect of preventing the execution of two
murderers, since, unless the Governor could be
furnished with certain transcripts prior to the
date of sentence, the executions couldn’t occur.
We yearn to hear the result of this matter, since
there is something quite too deliciously unique in
the idea of the much-abused reporter actually
bossing the legal situation, and controlling not
only the judge, but the judge’s friend, the hang-
man.
The Mohdy has a precious big Held open to
him, now that it’s a case of Hicks jacet with the
Egyptian army of the Soudan. A brisk dash,
cleverly executed, might give him Mecca and the
Kaliphate. And, apres 1 This reminds us of an
old friend who was once impressed with the idea
of going in for the study of Chinese and the
Thibetlan dialects, with the ulterior design of
penetrating into the regions beyond Lassa, there
insinuating himself into the billet of a “ living
Llama,” and thence bursting forth (having first
organised a horde of warriors) as a second Tamer-
lane or Genghis Khan. His bright hopes were
never realised. He took to drinking colonial beer,
and is now running a sawmill in New Zealand.
Moral (for El Mohdy); Join the Blue Ribbon"
Army.
Traffic was suspended, the other evening,
in a certain busy portion of Melbourne. A baronet
gave a ball, and consequently cabs and ’buses—
which, as we all know, have a noisy style of loco-
motion particularly offeaslve to the ear of the
aristocrat—were required to make a detour of
about a mile, so that the rattle of their plebeian
wheels might in nowise disturb the nerves of Midas
and his guests. Some of the low creatures who
patronise ’buses and vehicles of that description
are wondering how they will reach their humble
homes if several of the blue-bloods should chance
to entertain on the same evening. Like Dick
Swiveller, they’ll have to go several miles out of
town ia order to get into the next street, we sup-
pose.
PROGRAMME DU HAL,
Quoth Midas—“ My mansion to-night is en file,
And so, with the ‘force’s ’ assistance,
AUpeople who are not distinguished and great
Will safely be kept at a distance.
No whisper or word from the ignorant crowd
Must fall within miles of my dwelling;
If anyone ventures to sneeze out aloud
He’ll get—well, there’s really no telling 1
“ You must creep to your houses with shoes in
your hand,
For it gives (in a manner of speaking)
Most terrible pain to the great and the grand
To listen to boots that are creaking.
Stay! I think, after all, that the plebeian throne-
The city had better be leaving; s
For, though I’m aware you don’t mean any
wrong.
You sadly annoy us by breathing.”
The Marco Polo—whose name was a house-
hold word in Australia in the days of big nuggets—
has made her last voyage. For many years she was
commanded by Captain Forbes, and performed
feats which astonished the natives of those early
days—such as making two voyages from Liverpool
to Melbourne within twelve months. Scattered
through colonial Benevolent Asylums and Hos-
pitals are to be found old salts who (we always
liked those antique mariners—the way they fill
you up with true stories of curious personal ex-
periences has a fascination for us still) will tell you
that when the vessel was on her beam ends doing
her knots, with the torn canvas cracking like
pistol shots and the royals under water half the
time, Forbes would hang on tothetaffrail and say
“Well done, old girll you shall have a maintopsaii
when you get to Liverpool.” When going to his
cabin at night, he would lock his main tack, so
that even if a typhoon came along the officer
of the watch could not shorten sail. It was he
who made such good use of the great circle sail-
ing. He would run away South to the 60th
parallel, and, having shortened his degrees of
longtitude, start almost north for Melbourne, and
be flying the pilot flag outside the “Rip,” while
the skippers who left Liverpool with him were
glued to the Equator, with their sails as flat as a
pancake, or vamly endeavouring to make their
easting along the Southern tropic. The Liverpool
merchants presented him with an address, and
then carried him to the Town Hall to a monster
banquet. One of the speakers, on that occasion,
said that Forbes should never leave off thanking
Providence for enabling him to make such rapid
passages, but the sceptical skipper denied the
finger of Providence altogether, and said that his
success was entirely due to the fact that he was
the first to discover where the prevailing winds
were to be found, and to take advantage of them.
From this out he had no luck. Ho left the Marco
Polo, took charge of the Schomberg, met with the
most aggravating winds that ever seduced a sailor
into profanity, and wound up by running his
vessel ashore near Cape Otway, losing his certifi-
cate and getting into general disgrace. He got
charge of the Marco Polo again, but never took
the same liberties with her as formerly. This
should be a warning to successful people, from
publicans to pirates, that it Is to Providence, and
not to themselves, that the success is due.
Priuted and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 34 Kttet., Sydaey, N.8.W.
EVOLUTION.
