

BULLETIN
Vol. 13.—N0. 164
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 17, 1883.
Price—3d
§ttl{ditu
SATURDAY. MARCH 17, 18S3.
Boating like Sucking Doves.
The Government have shown themselves woefully
weak-backed in reference to the unconstitutional
expenditure of their predecessors. Ono would
imagine, on reading their deliverances now, with
respect to the appropriations for the maintenance
of the Wolverene and for a residence for the
Governor, that they had been put into office for
the express purpose of condoning the offences of
their predecessors. They were as bold as brass
while in opposition, Whoso uncompromising as
they? Bub now that they are in office, their
mouths drop sweetness, and they actually divide
the House and put themselves at the’head of the
gallant defenders of the vary transactions against
which their elevation to office was a popular pro-
test If the purchase of a residence for the
Governor, behind the backs of the people’s repre-
sentatives, was no offence, and the maintenance
of such an absurd plaything as the Wolverene
were no tolly, ex-Ministers have been very harshly
charged by the men who now cover their trans-
actions with their robes of office. It almost
appears as though the members of the Govern-
ment only objected to the Wolverene while it was
other people’s toy, and regard it with complaisance
since it is for them to play with. The doctrine
enunciated, also, with respect to voting for that
and for the Governor’s residence, is of a sickly
weakness. The purchase in the latter case had
been made, and the money paid, therefore the
Assembly had no honourable course except t®
vote it. This is equivalent to admitting that
whenever a Ministry chooses to disburse public
funds ou their own authority, even with deliberate
neglect of the Parliament, the Assembly is in
honour bound to pocket the affront and accept
the draft. Several members expressed an opinion
that the members of the late Government had
been sufficiently punished by the remarks which
had been made in the course of the debate. r * his
argument was surely very inappropriate, consider-
ing th*t the ex-Preoiier marched out of the
Chamber in a. huff as soon as the discussion got
sharp, and that only one member of tne late Ad-
nmiitcatiou remained to endure the homilies
referred to. This was Sir John Robertson,
decidedly impenitent, and jauntily defiant. The
Assembly had another and much more effective
remedy. It might have refused to voto the money,
and set the constitutional law in motion to recover
the misapplied amounts from the men who had
impudently ordered its disbursement. This would
have constituted an excellent and thoroughly
effective precedent. Sir Henry Parses would,
have curbed his arrogant temper, and Sir John
Kobbrtson abated his ostentatious contempt,
had such a whip been laid over their backs. The
idea that men of their quality care for a soolding
is absolutely infantile.
• • •
The contrast between the menacing and sensa-
tional with which the present Gov-
ernment assumed office, and the milk-and-water
of their attitude when brought to the test, is very
remarkable indeed. At the outset of their career
they filled tko air with rumours of the startling
exposures which they were to make, and kept the
public in a twitter of expectation respecting the
example which was to be made of the men who
had betrayed their trust. Ministers were going
to be model reformers—firm, uncompromising,
devoted at all hazards. They have become, in-
stead, adopters of the very affairs which they con-
demned, and vote with their predecessors for a
a?* 1 - 0 * 1 1 3 practically one of condonation. If
« r“ n istry have, since they obtained access to
othcul records, really found evidence that their
ormer fulminations were based on false impres-
sicms °r incomplete information, as Mr. Reid
heged in explanation of his change of front with
to the Wolverene, they owe the men they
Jcted the most sweeping apologies. Wo are, we
5P nfe ® 3 > utterly at a loss tomnderstand the positiov
9y have taken with respect to these items, ex-
cept on the hypothesis of utter lack of resolution
iw COaV 3 ot 'i° a . They seemed half-hearted and
taaed throughout the debate, and wafted
omu aau .thither by every puff of opinion. They
justify, yet would not abandon the ap-
Thi >tl jt nß 0y i ay lted the Assembly to make.
Wr l lr cl 9 °f the vote for maintaining the
thaip Ver °^ e Waß P 9r funotory and unconvincing, and
hav f BX Pv' a,ri 2;^ orla respecting the appropriation to
nisL^ r jj' Y o79rnor ’ 8 new residence merely fur-
Jr a dditional argument why the entire traus-
tfeo . u *d be protested by the Assembly, and
n^ CUn . IM y, reB P° nB ibility flung bank upon the
totbJup 1 a d undertaken it. With respect
cr, n u y - y.?^ ono > a li fhat was advanced was that she
oa.utilized as a training ship. Mr. Garrett
shattered that contention to atoms,without making
any impression. It was admitted that for defensive
purposes the vessel was useless. If that were so,
what earthly advantage c'nld there be in training
men on board of her which could not be equally
gained by training them ashore ? The vessel is a
hulk with warlike fittings of an antiquated type.
Why, then, train men to adapt themselves to con-
ditions which are never to be brought into prac-
tice should there be real fighting to be done?
Men are to be trained to fight Wolverene style,
but, if they should fight at all, are to fight gun-
boat style. One would have thought common
sense would have suggested that if gun-boats are
to bo used for our defence and the Wolverene is
not, it would be best to train the men on the gun-.
boats, and not on the Wolverene. But apart from
that, Mr. Garrett hit a fatal and ludicrous blot
in the whole scheme. It is the Naval Brigade for
whoso training on board the Wolverene the Go-
vernment pretended to be so solicitous,
» • •
As Mr. Garrett pointed out, a Naval Brigade
does not in the slightest degree correspond to
the conception conve-yed in the argument that a
vessel is required for their proper training. Such
a Naval Brigade would bo an anomalous body,
unheard of before. A Naval Brigade is a body of
seamen made available for operations on shore.
There was a Naval Brigade at the siege of Sebas-
topol, in the Transvaal, and in Fgypt They were
employed in reality as artillery men or as light in-
fantry, and lie great object was that they should
come as near the standard of the regular land
forces as possible. Our Government have bean
taken possession of by the influence of a name,
and reasoned as if instead of being seamen turned
into landsmen, a naval brigade signified landsmen
turned into seamen. And on the strength of this
preposterous misconception, they went back on
their previous denunelations of the Wolverene as
an expensive and useless charge on the colony,
and solemnly argued that she should be main-
tained. We don’t know what influence has be-
numbed the faculties of Ministers, but we are
quite sure it has not extended to us, and wrought
a corresponding miraculous change in our con-
victions. We hope that, since the damage is done
for this year, as the independent members who
sought to throw out the appropriation were out-
voted by an extraordinary coalition of the new
Ministers wish the old ones and their thick and
and thin adherents, next session more sense will
be shown, the vote refused, and the Wolverene
sent to take the place of the Vernon, as being a
less rottep and more commodiousJivessel for ac-
commodating the boys.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Suppression Again.
We are glad there is a Hansard. The Honorable John
Lucas has evidently hern taken under the protection
of the S.M. Herald, and the same shield is being held
over him as was extended for the protection of the
tutor who sought a bogus degree. “ Suppression" agnin.
On March SncT, Mr. Baduebt asked a question in the
Assembly relative to a purchase ef wire for the National
Park, of whioh Mr. Lucas was a trustee. Anyone read-
ing the remarks which followed, as reported by the
Herald, would Inevitably gain the impression that the
bearing of Mr. Badsebt’s inquiry was shown to have
been unfounded and inappropriate. A quibbling denial
by Sir John Robertson is reported almost verbatim,
and then follows this:—“Mr. M'Culloch gave an
explanation in reference to the wire provided for the
National Park trustees by Mr. John Lucas." If this
does not convey that Mr. M'Culloch’b remarks were In
extenuation or justification of Mr. Lucas; we should
like to know what it does convey. Certainly not that.
Mr. M’Culloch spoke as follows—we quote from
Hansard “ Mr. M'Culloch said that, since mention
had been made of the purchase of wire for the National
Park, it was, perhaps, desirable that the public
should hear a little more upon the subject. The
wire was purchased by Mr. John Lucas. That
gentleman was called upon to make an oxplana-
tion of the purchase, and he told his co-
tr listens, of which he happened to bo one,
that he had bought the wire of a Mr. Joseph Salmon.
As there was a Mr. Joseph Salmon employed upon the
National Park, and as he was connected with Mr. John
Lucas, the trustees thought it desirable to ask that
gentleman whether this was the Joseph Salmon of
whom the wire had been purchased. Mr. Lucas replied
in the negative, and said that he had met a broker at
Stubbs’ auction-room?, who asked him if he wanted
any wire. He said that he would take two tons, and
the transaction then took place, the wire being sent to
Mr. Lucas's house aud thence to the park. The trus-
tees were not very well satisfied with that explanation,
aud notified that fast to Mr. Lucas, who said that that
was the only < xplauation he could give, aud that if the
trustees wanted any more they must ohtaiu it for them-
selves. The meeting adjourned for a week to give Mr.
Lucas an opportunity to make an explanation, and at
the next meeting there was produced a bill and
voucher for the wire, purporting to be signed by Mr.
Joseph Salmon. Ha had no hesitati®n in saying that
he believed the whole of the document, including the
signature of Mr. Salmon, was in the handwriting o
Mr. John Lucas. It was also a fact that the money
for the wire was paid into Mr. Lucas's credit. He had*
not previously had an opportunity to publish these
circumstances; but he thought the public ought to
be acquainted with them, considering the position
Mr. Lucas held at the present time." -
A Nihilist’s Essay.
PatNes Krapoikine, who has within the last few wests
been sentenced in Trance to two years’ imprisonment
for Socialistic activity, has contributed to the Nnra.
xbenth Ceniurt for January a paper on Russian,
prisons, derived from the personal experience of prism
life of himself and certain of his friends. Krapoikijth
points out that the Russian penal system is a lovely
thing in theory, like the Constitutional rights of a
British subject. But the lovely theory is just use*
ful to the subject of the Czar as Constitutional rights
are to the subject of the Queen. It is always within
the power of the authorities to suspend the Constitu-
tion, as is done in England invariably whenever the
masses seem likely to gain a point upon the governing
classes by eoustitutional, but inconvenient, agitations.
In Russia, however, the lovely theory is maintained
simply for convenience of swearing by, just as a Bible
is always on hand in those devil’s premise?, a Court of.
Law. The Constitutional procedure as regards offenders
is suspended all the time in Russia. Even when an
open trial is granted at all, the verdict is worth little if
the Government don’t approve of it—which seldom
happens, as the examining magistrates and the
judges are alike at the mercy of the Admin-
istration; independent advocates like our bar.
risters are about extinct; and as to jurors, a
peasant juror knows that he may be beaten by anything
in uniform at the very doors of the court. It the
verdict he for acquittal, and the officials don’t like it,
the acquitted may be seized as they leave the dock and
thrust into prison by simple executive authority, as
happened in the case of Vera Suxsoulixoh, But, of
late, political trials are held in private. Nobody is
admitted to the court save the participating officials;
only Ihe wife or the hatband of the accused (always in
custody also). Even executions are now secretly done
within the walls of the prisms. “ Iho reason is that
when Exssakoff wiS h ought out to the gallows ha
showed the people hi» mutilated hands, and shouted,
jouder than the diums that he had been tortured after
trial. Now nothing will he known of what happens in
the casements of the fortress of Peter and Paul after
the trial and before the execution. But we know—and
I. have not the slightest hesitation in as.erting the fact
—that at least two revolutionists, Adrian Mikhaeloff
and Rtssakoff, wore submitted to torture by electri-
city.”
Herald Logic.
The lapse of time has brought its usual healii g, and
the failure of the S. M. Herald to work up ill-feeling
among tho people of N.S. Wales, begins to be generally
recognized. The ridiculously party character of the
Protestant Hall meeting, and the crushing failure t>
eoax on to the platform any citizens who are held iu
consideration, have driven the lesson home ; while the
straining of the Herald to represent as sensational the
interruptions at the meeting have reverted on the heads
of the inventors. In fact, the failure of the whole
crusade preached by the Herald evidently drove that
journal to desperate straits, as is exemplified by the
transparent lunacy of the leading article in whioh it
commented on the row. The gist of the argument can
be conveyed in one short quotation: “ If, iu one
respect, the disorder was regrettable, it gives on
another side some satisfaction. It is a good thing that
we should know the facts, and understand what Mr,
Redmond s sympathisers are like—what sort of people
they are, and what sort of liberty they would let other
folks have if they had tho upper band ” That is to say
that no one could Lei agreement with Mr. Eedmomd's
political ideas without being on the same intel-
lectual level with the howlers at the meeting.
It some rough people howl at certain orators
or opinion?, it logically follows that anyone
who dissents from these opinions, aud agrees
with inverse reasonings, would also howl and try to
stifle discussion. Therefore, since Elkinoton
was hooted down when he opposed Reid, all the
electors who were hostile to Elkinoton’s views and
sympathizers with b eid were ruttiaus, and deserved to
he suppressed by a Coercion Act. That is the Herald’s
conclusion. In its own words; —“If Mr. Bedmond s
followers had wanted to make us understand how neoes-
sary a Coercion Act—which was nominally as well as
really a Protection Act—was in Iceland, they could
hardly have given ns a more convincing illustration.”
Put as a syllogism, the Herald’s argument would have
MR. E. B. WOODHOUSE.—(See page 7.)


OUaH 8 A N D
The Best Care tor the above is
and taken at bod-t
PURE K
Extra Strong)
Is, fer Imperial Q
C. W. BOJ
SINGLE BOTTLE DEP.
MARKET BTRE
WEM YOU VISIT S
go to
0. W. KOBER
NEW BAB,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR Ml
where yon can obti
w.\
A BLASB 0»
of such a Quality that cannot <
Other establishment in
0, W. EOBER
COLONIAL WINE DEI
is now open
MARKET ST
BED OB WHJ
only
Id. per Half-P
Qnaiity Superla
NONE BUT W
the
PRODUCT OP AUt
is
BOLD IN THIS DEI
THE MOST WHOLESOME OP
0. W. ROBERTS' BPECI
4a. 6d. per boi
olynelish'wh
6s. per bottl
VERDEILH
lovely White Wine, la.
POST MACQUARIE 1
la. Od. per boi
MUBBUMBIDGK
2s. per bottl
HBNNESST'S 8 STAB •••
6s. per Bott!
C. W. RO
MARKET STS
FURNITURE! FU
PUBNITUBI
" i 8 tho bost p l *"
\ V This question is being
is of as much interest to an yon
tide, as to the “ Happy Couple "
keeping, and who want everyt
table to a drawing-room suite.
Visit the
HTDE P
FURNISHING I
OXFORD STREET,
Just opened
The recent discussion in the Assembly relative to
the fitness of Mr. Chapman to the post of Prothono-
tary, was altogether too tamo. We should have liked
to see all the attorneys in the House fall upon
Chapman tooth and nail, and abuse him bitterly for
complicating litigation, and thus involving clients in
needless expense. Only *ne attorney tackled him on
these grounds—Mr. Tbickstt— who complained with
natural annayamce that Mr. Chapman had put money
in attorneys’ pockets by raising quibbles and technicali-
ties. Toe Ministers for Justice, past and present, on
the other hand, had heard complaints that Mr. Chap-
man taxed lawyers’ costs too smartly. We hope to good-
ness the complaint has foundation, but we scarcely
think it probable. Had such bten the case, we would
have had three oat of every four lawyers in the House
advocating Chapman’s removal for incompetency, and
bewailing the expense to which his quibbling lhad put
their unfortunate clients—in lees which they—the said
attorn ey a—po ok et ed.
charmed she heart of I^alkt —for use as a flue exempli. 1
flcation of what to avoid in logic. Thus: Some roughs
interrupted the speakers at the Protestant Hall They
were (presumed to be) sympathisers with Mr. Red- t
mono. Therefore, all sympathisers with Mr. Red
mono (J) are Boughs, and (2) would silence argument
by clamour.
Hashed Up!
The Assembly is easily satisfied, and miraculously
charitable. Mr. Taylor having confessed that when
be informed his constituents, and indirectly the
country, that during his brief membtrskip he had seen
thirty-five members drunk in the House, he had
drawn upon his imagination for his facts, was permitted
to purge himself by a mock apology, in which derision
was much more apparent than contrition, and the
House affably accepted the explanation, and metaphori-
cally shook hands all round. Mr. Taylor’s defence was
really a challenge. He apologized in form of words,
and simultaneously tweaked the nose of the House,
charging it by implication with harbouring without
uneasiness “an impostor and roguo.” It passed over
with assumed unconsciousness the cynical taunt of
Mr. Taylor’s Mentor, Sir John Robertson, when that
member repeated the very scandal for which Mr. Tay-
lor stood arraigned, by asserting that it was true that
five members of the House had been drunk in the
Chamber during the period of Mr. Taylor’s member-
ship. Sir John trenchantly inquired what was the
difference in principle between the drunkenness of five
and thirty-five. No one oven attempted to draw a dis-
tinctlon. The situation has scarcely been bettered by
the discussion of Tuesday night. The scandal is re-
duced in its proportions, but not in its principle. Mr.
Taylor has admitted that he lied when he alleged fhat
thirty-five members were drunk, and the House has,
after a mild remonstrance, retaken him to its bosom.
But how does it propose to deal with Sir John Eobbrt-
BON, who has asserted that five of its members were
drunk, and who has not confessed, and seems little
likely to confess, that in so saying he lied in his turn ?
The Premier pronounced Mr. Taylor’s statement “ a
scandalous imputation upon ths character and conduct
«f a considerable number of members of the House,”
and suspended the ordinary business to deal with the
matter. Is it a scandalous imputation to allege that
thirty-five of the people’s representatives were drank
within a particular period, and no scandalous imputa-
tlon to declare that five wers drunk within the same
time ? Or is thirty-five “a considerable number," and
five only inconsiderable ? It would bo interesting to
have definite information as to the exact number of
members who may bo drunk or accused of drunkenness
without moving the House to assert its honour and
sobriety. It appears that it is content to have one
member indicated as an impostor and rogue without
feeling called upon to investigate the charge. And,
Seemingly, it is nothing, in a Pickwickian sense, that
drunkenness is ascribed to five —perhaps to ten, or
fifteen, or any number up to thirty-four. Mr. M'Cul-
loch’s proposed amendment was pooh-poohed, and we
kre at liberty to infer that the Legislative Assembly of
this colony does not regard the explanation made by
Mr. Taylor a® “unsatisfactory," and does not feel
disposed to “ protest indignantly against hia conduct.”
Who was the member indicated as an impostor and
rogue, was so quickly comprehended that one of the
speakers actually mentioned him to the House as an
aggrieved party.
Sedition and Treason.
Mr. Dalton, one of Her Majesty's Justices of the
Peace, has referred to the British rule as a “foreign”
one with respect to Ireland. And Mr. Dalton is to be
taught that, when ho accepted Her Majesty’s oomm.is-
sion, he surrendered his right to hold, or at least
express, any opinions of that nature. It Is not sufficient
that the opinion is held in common with impartial com
mentators suob as continental historians. The right
of private judgment must not be exercised in this
direction by a Judge, however small maybe his func-
tions. It must be obvious to the meanest intelligence
-xin fact, it is to the meanest intelligence that it is most
obvious —that no man can be trusted to decide respect-
ing petty offences against person* or property in An*,
tralia, who is not perfectly orthodox in his views
respecting the purely national character of the Govern-
ment which is enjoyed by Ireland. Mr. Dalton
having proved by his seditious and treasonable
address that ho is incompetent and untrustworthy
in respect to the fining of drunkards and the
rights of small debt oases, it is incumbent upon
our awn Administration to strike his name off the roll
of magistrates. But his offence is small compared
with that of his companion in crime, and his disloyal
and seditious expressions are milk and water when
contrasted with those of the desperado who penned
the inflammatory lines which follow. If Mr. Eedmond
imagines that his sympathisers will be permitted to
flaunt their seditious sentiments and to incite the Irish
people to open rebellion, without feeling the full vigour
of loyal protestation in these colonies, ho is grievously
mistaken, Mr. Dalton must be struck off the roll of
Justices, aad stripped of any other distinctions which
he holds by the favour of hia Queen. We are not sure
that a prosecution for treason should net be instituted
against him. But it wilj be more reasonable and just
to commence with the gravest offender first. If the
writer of the following lines holds any distinctions from
Her Majesty, he should first ho deprived of them.
If he he on the roll of J.'sP., tho Gazette which
announces Mr. Dalton’s superoession must print the
poet’s nama first. Tho man who invokes the scorn of
the world upon ” the tyrants ” who oppress Ireland,
who prompts the people of that country to outrages of
blood and fire, and who calls upon them—as the younger
Bedmond has been severely censured for doing—to
strike, puts Mr. Dalton’s comparatively mild opinions
altogether into the shade. Here are the lines
« Let the scorn of the world on thy tyrants descend,
Poor brother, ere Erin her helpless defend.
First, thy vile rulers in idiot amaze
Wax pale as their blood torches over them blaze:
And the heart of their fatherless still bleeds
In the light which they oast on their own hellish
deeds.
Then strike, and green Erin, the star of the sea,
Will be fetterless soon, and her children alljreo.”
Their author was ths consistent and conscientious gen-
tleman who moved the first resolution at the Anti-Bed-
jiond meeting. It was, in fact, no other than Sir
Henbt Parees, K.C.M.Q., M.L.A., J.P., &0., &o.
{lll 1111 11 I Mr. Dalton is only JP. We call upon
the Government to dismiss those traitors from all the
offices held by them under the Crown*
Mr. Spicer’s Science
The address which the Rev. E. C. Spicer, M. A , de-
livered lately “ in answer to Mr. Djenton,” and whiejj
it is no discourtesy to say was not an answer at all, shows
in petto all the meanness of tho theological position with
regard to tho cosmogany of Moses. The argument of
Mr Dehton and cf all scientific reasoners is that all
observations made to the present serve to confirm the
theory that the earth is a growth not a creation. It is
a great step gained to find a clergyman admitting
Laplace’s nebular hypothesis. Up to the present cen-
tury the theological contention was that the world was
an instantaneous creation, and Milton was held to be
strictly in accord with the Bible in describing creation
as he does in the 7thbook of “Paradise Lost.” Now,
however, wo have Mr. Ppiceb juggling with tho plain
words in Genesis, and offering us the theory of a gradual,
creation. But that may pass. Having accepted the
nebular hypothesis and its necessary corollaries, Mr.
Spicer is in accord with science till we come to the
period of man. Then comes the juggle again, and we
have tho First Cause invoked to make man, for whose
use the earth had during cycles of years been preparing.
And yet, along with these, there is a foreshadowing of
evolution; lor Mr. Spicer admits the existence of the
primeval monsters, and, by implication, their relation
in the chain of causality with their followers We don’t
know what to call Mr. Spicer’s deliverance. It is not
theology, it is not science, it is not common sense.
Perhaps it would not do to call it trimming. The dif-
ference, Messieurs the clergy, between the thing as it
is, and the thing ns you would have it, is all the world
Either you must admit Evolution and discard Biblical
theories, or discarding evolution you must expel science
altogether. You can’t have both, fep: they are contra-
dictory. This is what vitiates all a clergyman has to
say on these subjects; he is strictly bound to a theory,
and if facts don’t suit Me must blink at them. Besides,
why must Mr Spicer talk of religion as if science and
religion were mutually destructive. What the scientists
are bringing their heavy artillery to bear against is not
religion, but worn-out and thread-bare theories which
are hindrances to Truth, and therefore to Religion.
The D Ti comments, in a sub-leader, upon “the con-
spicuous absence of every member of the Ministry from
the Orange meeting at the Protestant Hall.” Our eon-
temporary should have give* larger scope to Its drivel
and commented upon “the conspicuous absence” 0{
everybody—in fact, of every considerable colonist who
does not belong to the organization which, with the
Herald’s help, worked up the meeting ; or who had
not, like Parkes, a political axe to grind. There was
really only ©ne conspicuous absentee from tho platform
-DAN O’CONNOR.
Mr. Alderman Dan, O’Connor, M.P., came into full
view in the City Council on Friday last to protest
agamst what ha conceived to be unjust treatment he
had recelTed by being denied compensation for with-
drawal of license te slaughter la promises which he bad
erected on the Ceunoil’s assurance that such slaughter-
ing would be permitted. He was replied to by Aldermsn
Green, who declared that “ a more rubbishy and con-
temptible building he had never gone into. A man
could throw it up with a pitchfork,” The subject then
dropped, and that Is all the information the public has
on the matter. Recent occurrences have impressed us
with a hearty contempt lor Mr. O’Connor, and n con-
viction that his most ardently-expressed convictions
can bo laid aside whenever it n: ay be to his interest to
had ge. But that is no reason why he should not receive
justice We sincerely hope that the Irish colonists
whom Mr. O’Connor so long cajoled with flaming ex-
pressioua of a consuming devotion, may hick him,
politically speaking, into the gutter, the next tijno ho
claims their support. But w» don’t at all see why, it
he has a just claim for compensation, his time-serving
tactics should stand in the way. It happens to come
within our own knowledge that Alderman Green’s
description of Mr. O'Connor’s premises is grossly
nutruo. When the edict went forth to cancel the license,
Mr. O’Connor, with a fall knowledge that wo had at
all times strongly opposed slaughtering in the city,
asked us to give him fair play, and got us not only to
hoar his plea for compensation, bat to examine his pro-
mises. We forget now the spsoiflo orguments which
ho adduced, bub we perfectly remsmber that he made
ont what te us appeared a straightforward and con-
clusive case for compensation. As to the buildisg
itself, Mr. Gbeen must have known his description was
utterly false. It is a good substantial building, speci-
ally adapted for butchering, of handsome appearance,
and convenient arrangement, and if Mr. Green has
never gono into a more sontomptible building, as he
alleged, ho must have passed his existence in enviable
immunity-from entering nine ont of every ten of the
butchers’ shops of Sydney.
The Marine Board has always appeared to us altogether
too tractable and too accessible to proper representa-
tions. Its peculiar blindness to what everyone else
could Jsee, its convenient insensibility to the conditon
in which vessels owned by “ respectable” parties leave
the port—its gentle decisions here, and its unexpectedly
severe ones there—have all combined to create an im-
pression that its members scarcely know their own
minds, or, if they did, had the courage of their opinions.
This conception of their quality is strongly confirmed
by the tractable fashion in which the Board abdicated
its functions in conneotion with the sinking of the
Austral. They could not entertain the idea that they
should “ defiantly go on with the Austral inquiry after
the Colonial Treasurer had decided that the inquiry
should not be held by them ” What manner of men
are theas to entrust with the care of the lives and for-
tunes of the seafaring community, when they are will-
ing to let everything slide at the dictation of so poor a
creature us Jiirnr Watson, ho happening to be Colonial
Treasurer at the time? The inquiry upon which the
Board was engaged was of the most essential necessity
and of the gravest significance. One of the finest mer-
chant vessels in the world had sunk within theif juris-
diction, and her sinking had involved the loss of
several lives. There might have been design and murder
in the cause. .Yet, because an exterior tribunal put in
its oar, and a Treasurer thought they had better
surrender, they quietly and humbly waive their rights
and neglect their duties. They thus give colour to the
antecedent idea that they never have comprehended
that theif duties are to the community at large, and are
not confined t* pleasing influential shipowners or
toadying to men in power.
Mr, Gladstone’s Government propose that India shall
pay £612,000 as her share of the expenses of the recent
war against the Egyptians. Let’s see. She war against
a national revival in Egypt was never confessed to have
for its aim the maintenance of the grip of usurers;
and it has been writhiagly denied that there was a
national sentiment against us at all, or that the Khe-
dive (who is not an Egyptian, hut a TurkO and sundry
of his hangers-on—Pachas of Circassian birth were
the only “ Egyptians " in the whole country who ware
nat heart and seal with Ababi's movement. No, ns it
would have baon awkward and even shameful to admit
these facts, the excuse was invented that the war was
necessary te protect the Suez Canal. Now the Suez
Canal is of vital necessity chiefly on account of the
facilities it gives for keeping a firm grip of India.
Good. Therefore the people of India are to pay
£&i0,000 sterling towards a war which crushed the
national aspirations of one people ostensibly for the
purpose of making any national movement of another
people—the Indians themselves —impossible. “ How
long, how long, O Lord 1”
Tea and Toe-nails.
Trade competition is very sharp everywhere, and the
immoral diotam that everything is fair in love and war
might be extended to include “ business” also. But
the mere currency of a proverb is not sufficient to make
fair what is radically foul; and, when business men
develop a malicious ingenuity in lien of practising a
brisk and honourable rivalry, they need to be dealt
with cautiously. To beat a rival house by buying
cheaper, and thus legitimately underselling an article of
equal quality, is fair competition. But to try and best
them by tricky devices, calculated to represent ns in-
ferior, wares that are sound, and consequently as
unprincipled men that are honest, is foul play. An
incident which illustrates the objectionable '.practices
which may result from a sharp dealer having more
•vigour that sense. Amongst the largest, if not actually
the largest, importers of teas In Australia, is the house
of Clifford, Love, and Co. The firm is an enterpris-
ing one, andjhas a house at Foochow and in Sydney,
and a Brisbane. It is an old staudihg house,
and of excellent repute. But, some little time ago, it
was determined to include Melbourne ie the scope of
its operations, and to place consignments direct from
Foochow in that market. The first sale was advertised
to be made in January last, and forthwith the firm
found itself in a state of war. It was sought to seduce
it by cajolery and to intimidate it by menaces. In
short, it was given to understand that its intrusion in
the Melbourne market would be resisted, and it would
bo driven out if possible. Messrs. Clifford, Love,
and Co. did not flinch. They refused to regard the
Melbourne market as anybody’s private preserve. On
the day of the rale, however, they received a staggering
blow. In the public auction rooms, a Mr. J. O. Moody,
sales clerk for Messrs. Jambs Henty and Co , tea im-
porters, and agents |for the Indiam Tea Syndicate, de.
nounoed the teaajsubmittad by Messrs. Clifford, Love,
and Co., by which proceeding the prices were con. ’
siderably affected. Immediate steps were taken to have
the article analysed The Custom House experts were
set to work ; the Messrs. Clifford, Love, and Co. sent
samples to several analysts; bnt Mr. Moody was in a
hurry, and anticipated official reports by issuing what
was termed a ” Progress report made by Mr. J. Cosmo
Newbery on samples received through Mr. J. O.
Moody." In this document it was declared that these
samples were unfit for human food, and composed of
various nastiness, as earthy matter, hair, and other
substances of animal origin. • Things now looked well
for Moody, and very ill for Messrs. Clifford, Love,
• and Co., who stood in effect charged with selling adul-
torated rubbish, on an ex parte statement. Me. New-
BERT'S later report on the 17th of January gavo a very
material qualification to his “ progress "—unfinished—
one. A " progress report?” appears to bo a euphuism
for a report on incomplete data or unfinished analysis
The later report on the samples kindly provided by
Mr. Moody "toned down” the “animal matters”
very sensibly. Theeo had now dwindled to “ small
particles of matter of animal origin ” which were
1 «• only to be noted as evi denoe of careless manipulation.”
la Victoria, when a tea has been passed by the
Government Analyst, there is no more to be said re-,
speoting it; but on account ef the action taken by the
sales clerk of Messrs. James Henty and Co., Messrs.
Clifford, Lobe and Co. determined to have additional
proof of the purity of their tea*. Prom the Melbourne
daily papers of the 22nd January, we extract the fol-
lowing “ A letter referring to the matter of the
challenged teas has been addressed to the Commis-
sioner of Customs by Messrs, Clifford, Love and Co.,
of William and Flinders streets, Melbourne, and Foo-
chow, China. The comm unioation is dated the 20th
January, 1883, and states that the writers have no desire
unduly to hasten the passage of their teas through the
Customs, nor to prevent the goods from undergoing a
searchlag inspection and analysis. The firm will abide
the result with confidence that the teas will bear out
their assertions that they are sound, unadulterated
genuine Foochow teas, of excellent flavour, and such as
would be admitted to the London market without a
moment’s hesitation.” The result of this searching ana-
lysis appeared in the telegram of the Sydney Morning
Herald of the 22ad February, which was worded as
follows A dispute concerning the genuineness of teas
imported some weeks ago by Clifford, Love, and Co.,
has been finally settled. The tea has been examined
by six analytical chemists, and held sound, unadnl-
terated, and genuine. All the consignment has now i
been passed by the Customs.” Mr. Moody, sales-
clerk for Messrs. Henty and Co., thus finds that he
has been the humble instrument of diffusing abroad
the most convincing assurance that tea of thoroughly
genuine quality, which has emerged triumphantly from
an extraordinary and by no means friendly criticism,
may be obtained from the firm wihieh there bad been a
disposition to hunt out ol the market of which ho
remains as ornament — an ornament somewhat die.
tiirbsd by sallies of playful brokers, who enquire of one
another with eager interest, In pablio auction rooms,
"who put the toe-nails in the tea ?”
(Plain Jjfaglish continued on poujc 11.)


•rrUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM,
£| 104 GEORGE STREET,
ae ar KING STREET,
flostu’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior Quality
trQ& 10s od.
Bn verier Ladies 1 Extra High Glaod Kid Button
8U ‘ g,, e ts, superior quality from 10s Gd.
_ ; ; oa > Evening Shoes, a (treat variety, from 4s 6 i
EURE
KA
EUREKA
TOBACCO
q MO K B
® THE paragon op perfection
finer than the finest.
T aE TOBACCO OP THE AQ El
DESTINED to. eclipse and supersede
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
v oNti y TOBACCO COMBINING EXCELLENCE
OF QUALITY WITH ECONOMY IN PRICE.
Each Plug is stamped with the word “ EUREKA."
SMOKERS SEE THAT YOU OBTAIN IT.
Take no other.
manufactured by
SAYWELL'S tobacco go., limited,
at the eaole woeks,
KENT AND CLARENCE (STREET,
go obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
A 1 Park-street, Sydney.
Hold Retail everywhere, and will be used by everybody
as goon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Rmtistered according- to Act of Parliament, to protect
the public against spurious and worthless imitations.
* , W/K 'KC.
30s.
AUTOPHONE.
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for thi ,
the Climax of Musical Invention. Gall and Bee
them. Oeorgo-street, just OPPOSITE THE EN-
TRANCE TO THE MARKETS.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds, has the
luoga of a full-sized p-.rlour organ, and executes its
music with absolute precision and perfect effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and all
the parts of most difficult music.
On it, a ohi’d can correctly play, without instruction,
any of its music, which at present consists of over 300
selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas, Waltzes,
Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &3. It is best adapted
to th« of mnslo which suits an organ best, in which
chords predominate, but also has wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orohesfra, and has a
little card holder for convenience in singing. Any
Orchestral Instrument, Violin, Flute, &0., can bo
played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for Danc-
ing.
The ATJTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it, the better you like it, and as now
rmsio ia being publirhed every week, it has an endless
fond of amusement in it.
SOLE AGENT FOR BLACKMER'S PATENT
ELECTRIC SIGNS.
J.
W. WILLOUGHBY.
General Electrician,
95 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
and at London,
MANUFACTURER, IMPORTER, and FITTER of
Electric Bells, Batteries, Indicators, Insulated Wire»
Improved Patent Firo and Burglar Alarms, Speaking
Tubes, Lightning Conductors, Medical and other Coils,
Eleotro-Magnetio Machines, Electric Gas Lighting,
Gilding and Plating Material, Electric Light Apparatus
on the latest and most improved principles now in nae
in London, Paris, &o.
Liberal Discount to the Trade.
Indents of every description of Electrical Apparatus on
the most favourable terms.
Estimates Submitted Free of Cost.
balm AND OERTEL’S
renowned
mineral waters.
XJA.TEONISED and Recommended by leading physi-
jrr r ’ Highly spoken of by the Press Suitable
Mlz«. Sodawater, Lemonade, Ginger
wh io * 0 * Fotasa, Magnesia, Friedrichshaller Bitter
u r * Carlaba(l - Baden-Baden.
Canal large size bottles, $ pint, 3s per doz.
Solits for hotels i „ Is 6d „
Extra large size 1| „ 43 6i „
lar £o consumers Reduction made.
tJoa charged 2a 6d per doz. full price allowed if
w - , Returned.
* lsertl Water Works 37 Bourke-street, Radfern.
JANSEN,
TOBACCONIST,
172 GEORGE STREET,
and the public
REMOVED
market street to george stehe
Opposite the Markets,
VIBTUTIS GLORIA MEWL
COALCLIFF Cl
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
This new Cool, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well freel
and cleaner lire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky 1
it splinter and fly ofl like the Western, but it affords that domestic dasid
beating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a cbarcoi
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given c
ALLAN A. MARSHAL]
BON-AGGORD BRASS, COPPER, LEAD,
8 and 9 MACQUARIE FLAG
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART META
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, (
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make,
and all Accessories.
Manufacturers ef the PORTABLE TALLOW GA
Ranges fitted with hot and cold water. Circulating A
MEDALLISTS A SPECIAL PRIZE H(
Established 1855.
ANCrLO-BAVARI
19s. PER TON NET, delivered with!
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLES;
OFFICE —A, B. BLACK, 247 GEORG I
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO W
DIVING GEAR, Ac.
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
PUMPS,I HELMETS,
REPAIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and alt
ACCESSORIES, Ac
DRESSES. HOSE.
(with lead voles),
Prevents all I
the windoi
No weights, )
rt
WINDO'V
MOST II
FA3TEJ
THE I
THE (
WHICH WAS AWARDEE
FIRST PRIZE VIENNA EXHIBITION, 1873.
GOLD MED4L PARIS INTERNATIONAL EX
FIRST PRIZE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL E
FIBST-CLASS VICTORIA INTERNATIONAL
BEFORE selecting your BICY
CLES, inspect the largest s
to the colony.
THE ONLY SPECIALIST 1
Every part of a BICYCLE and TH
EEPAI PROMPTLY E
A] aohlces from £Bl
BAYLISS, THOMAS
369 GEORGE ST 111
Second Door from Kii
C. W BENNETT, A
PRIZE AWARDED, MEL]
BITION. 1882.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOLA
COMPANY, BYDN
Manufacturers o
SCHOOL, OllE £ and CHUB
and Edno plianoes of e
R. G. TROUGHTON
PROPRIETORS
Contracts taken, and estimates gi
ip of Schools, Colleges, Church
auseums, &e., to uny extent and <
,’roprietors, Inventors, and Manufc
on’s Reversible Desks, &o. (Rogist
AND GENERAL CONTR
Steam Works—DlCK-STREET, of
STREET,
Lithographs of Designs and Catal
application.
Upwards of 200 schools alreaS
A. A. DEBNEY
18 HUNTER STREET,
PORTMANTEAUX.
TRUNKS OP EVERY DE
A a. DEBNEY
Have just opened a large Shipn
HOSIERY, MERCERY. S
COLLARS, and EVERY
FOR GENTLEMEN’S '
SHIRTS
Cat after the Latest London Styles,
London Cutter.
N.B.—Country Orders reo £
A. A. DEBNEY &
Successors to Hobson and
113 HUNTER BTR]


Public Coxapau
MERCANTILE BAN!
ESTABLISHED 1
INCOEPOBATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund....
DIRECTORS i
The Hon." Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Hon Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hoa, Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidlev Ring, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq
Hon. H. E. Cohen,.
IMANAGEB i
P, A. A; Wilsor
SECRETARY i
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
Hay market, Pyrnoont, Beaten
Gosford, and Nyn*
LONDON BANRE
The National Provincial Ban
Loudon Office: 154 Leaden
Director: Edward Chapi
Agent: G. H. Alexand
This bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
F. J. FOL
OXFORD
TAILORING ESTABLIS
728 GEORGE STREET,
A large and well-assorted stock of 1
diroot from the Manufacturers,
All Qabmjents Cdt h this Most F
PERFECT FIT GUARi
Note the'Address
728 GEOEGE STBEET,
NEAR HAYMAEK
THOMAS WEBB
sea oioifiß i
Beg to announce that tl
JUST BBGB
a Large Consignmei
HINTON’S
encaustic
tot
FLOORS and HAI
J. MASSEY
10 PARK SIR
B. COCH]
FIEST CLASS TAILORING 1
418 GEORGE S'
HAVING secured tho services o
of Buckley and Nunn, Mel
Perfect Pit and Satisfaction can
Cochran has had a long experience
will continue his importing, oonaei
can rely upon a
PIEBT CLASS QUALITY
418 QEOSOIi I
near ROYAL H <
Opposite Coffee Pj
ffIHE AUSTRALASIAN D:
COMPANY.
CONTRACTS will he undertaken
pany to bore any sized holes, ver
up to
3 INCHES OE LAI
if required, to any depth, at a redu
25 PER CENT BELOW ANY PEI
The Company in all oases will flm
water for drilling purposes, and i
for loss of diamonds or wear and
will also provide workmen, enginee
The new duplex barrell introduce
Mr. J. Coghlan will be used free <
searching for minerals.
Mr. Coghlan has every confidence
knowledge of the Diamond Drill, th
give general satisfaction, as well i
all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices. 311 Gei
JOHN COGE
General 1
ILLCOX
iVD
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
Machine
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10a
B. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STEP
COOLALTA WINE
MORT'S PASSAGE; back ol
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bo
the Bodega. Hat Spiced Wii
Open from 9*a.m. till 6 p.m.
8
INGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C<
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SIN GEE MANU:
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per weok-
And NO INTEREST Ofcl
10 per cent, off for oi
BEWARE OP IMITi
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A <
1
THE ONLY " SINGI
TURNER A (
Opposite <
NDBR SECTION
ART UNION.
PURCHASE of the BUNQAEI
u
(JIHE WONDER OF
~ THE AUTOPHONE !
THE AUTOP
V
THE AUXOPHONE! THE
?The Cheapest, Best, and Sim;
ohanism ever offe
For the First Time Importei
500 A I
Can be played by the YOUN
All the Latest So
All the Latest Danoe
Operatic Selections. Sa
ALTOGETHER, 5
can be played on
WONDERFUL INST
WITH ADDITIONAL PIECES
Write for Particulars i
46 OX FOB D STB
CENTRAL LENDIN3 I
46 OXFORD STREET,
M T H ~
imfoetee 0
WORKS OF
GERMAN AND SWISS W(
AKOADE BUILD
SYDNEY.
nan
STINC
CHAMPION
ENGINES!
m
RICA
Chemist* aad Dtbj
ABRAHAM’S PILLS
Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER E
ST
*P
S/A
CAUTION.— Owing to the Imm
PlHs have commanded, it has lad
dangerous imitations. Auk tor
J. s. ABRAHAM’S
and see that each box, by whomso
inventor's name and trade mark.
Monet loans granted a
on Furniture, without posse
Certificates, Shares, er other See
suit convenience
No Deduction made from Amon
will be paid in full within twelve ho
MONT DE PIET
Central Loan Office, 98 Caatlcreag
South of King-atro
FURNITURE FUB
EXCELSII
fUBBITOBE WAI
EASIEST TIME-PA YMEN"
IN SYDNEY.
NO CONNECTION WITH MOl
FROM £1 TO A6OO V
ON THE BEST TERMS IT
WE CAN SUIT ALL CLASSES
WILLIAMSON, M‘OREI
606 QEOBQE STREET, 6
OppoeiteCentral Polios Conr
INVERT DESCRIPTION of FI
Ik WHOLESALE & REI
EASTWAY BROI
«13 GEORGE STI


The Parnltura Oc
For the sum of £, ?00 prom
You can furnish a bouse a
DRAWING ROOM.
Fiue-toned seven octavo walnut plan
Borcl ...
Music stool to match
Drawing-room Suite, in Greaa or
Silk damask _ ...
Inlaid walnut marble top sileboa
plate glass back and clours
Inlnil walnut contra table ...
Pier glass 50 x 40
Shaped whatnot
Walnut occasional chess top or iolai
Marble clock
Pair of large lu-ti.es or suit of vases
Lamp
Black end gold cornice pole, with rii
and
Pair lace curtains
Pair curtain bauds
Bronzed fender ...
Bet of fire irons
Tapestry carpet, choice of patterns
Axmixsster rug
W<*>l mat
DINING ROOM.
Superior leather dining room suite (
of couch, arm chair, lady’s chat
balloon tack chairs
Massive telescope table 7ft long
Carved back cheffonier or sideboard
Pier glass
Pair vases ... ,
Side table
Bet trays
Fender and irons
Cornice polo with rings pins and bts
Pair lace curtains
Pair curtain bauds ...
Tapestry carpet
Hearth rug
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome tubular bedstead with
foot rails
Pair best palliasses
Hair mattress
Kapok bolster ...
Two feather pillows
Seven drawer cedar chest of drawer
Mahogany toilet table with rwiog
marble top wasteland to match
Double toilet service
Engraved caratl'e
Towel horse
Woven seat rooking chair
Two balloon-back bedroom chairs
Best fancy matting
BEDROOM No. 2.
Doable tabular bedstead
Pair palliasses
Flock mattress
Bolster
Pair feather pillows
Large chest drawers
Towel rail wasbsvand and toilet set
Caratfe
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Two cane seat chairs v .. ».
Matting ... ... ... ...
BEDROOM No. 3.
Half-tester bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Feather pillow
Chest of drawers
Wash stand and set
Toilet glass ...
0.8. chair ...
Matting
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead with curtain rod
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Toilet table ...
Toilet glass ...
Chair
Matting ...
KITCHEN.
Dresser with drawer
Table with drawer
Round wire meat safe
Two chairs ...
Pink or blue line dinner service as
12 soup plates 5s 6d, 13 nse&t plates
12 pudding plates,.A- 1 ,12 cheese plai
Four vegetable dishes
Five moat dishes, Os 3d, two pie dis
Soup tureen, 12s 6d, two sauce tun
Two gravy boats
White and gold china tea and bre
vice as follows s
Six teacups and saucers
Sir coffee caps and saucers
Press correspondents wanted in every town in
Australia. Australian Press Ayency, 91 Little Oollins-
street east, Melbourne.—A dv.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
p ft rk«3 waa an English Chartist. Eedmond ia
bn !f“ Garrett, of cricketing fame, has re-
uswi hi' 3 position as eoolesiastioal olerk in the
Sa to M'Elhone, a Chinkie could beat
I frrludKe but Taylor beat iTElhone; ergo, a
Chinkie*could beat M‘Jolbcne. This is political logic.
T n 4.1,0 o id Auckland (N.Z.) Provincial Assembly,
o SurV a baker, thna seconded the motion lor
Tirnraent. in v« the death of Judge Stephen:
« a Jonrnm oi B€C ond the moshan with pleasure.
thfis Oi haven't seen-adead donkey and
a dead Judge.”
« Maior ” Smith, when Minister of Education
s TT.otoria visited a certain State school, and was told
l tt .Theheod master that the standard of the curriculum
by = not ashigtf as it should be “Oh!" said the
vrnister ‘‘it’ll have to be made higher at once, 111
feed up a carpenter !”
The mysterious “Number One, supposed to
v itatifi-d with “ Genera'. Milne," by the confession
b ® Jh® informer Farrell, formerly hold a command in
®L tb Unitod States Army, hut latterly has been a
•realist having lately been employed as a writer on
York Hbhalp.
•< no vou pray for editors ?” is a question asked
, I,;?few°eaders by the editor of the N.B. W. Preset-
°f Tf J That religions editor wants a lot of praying for
his piper will “gee " We'd like to be prayed
before! what wo>d libe better still, is that a
bush.misaionsry should prey for ns.
Directly the new prince was born to the Duchess
t Albany a special Gazette was issued, beating a few
„ords of print, and havi«g three and a-half pages blank.
T o «nin«tine its issue, liberal off era had been made
, ADt «iown (of the incomparable feeding bottle) and
Tones (of the delectable cod liver oil) to buy up the
r?®* gnnea, but their offers were refused as an indig-
b|?y to too royal red mite of humanity.
At Walcha Deputy Registry Office. Irishman
ht f/i rezister birth. Deputy Registrar asks : What
“ U %*bof or girl?" Irishman: “Girl." D.R :
•‘.Vime ?’’ Irishman: “Mary Ann." Irishman calls
next day. and abruptly asks : “Did I tell you that child
tot a girl?” D.R.: “ Yes.” Irishman: " Wei’, it
it-g a bay. Did I tell you its name was Mary
O E V/' Tes." Irishman: " WeU it *aint,
then, it’s Mick.’ ’
An amueinf? instance of the spurious character
o* the special prosecutions of leading Irishmen was
fnrniehelin the Dublin Court, where Mr. Healy, M.P ,
-os baing tried under an information which, technically
Sffew dirt on him as “a person of ill-fame ’ As soon
“ the " person of ill-fame" entered the Court to stand
his trial, the public proseeutor. Mr. Gladstone a At-
tornev-General for Ireland, walked forward and cordi-
ally shook hands with him.
The Royal puller of pigtails— Sir Arthur
Ewmedy’s Chinese servants’ pigtails—Prince George of
Wales la likely to be appointed to a vessel attached to
the Mediterranean Squadron, and the commander of the
iWp will most likely be Lora Charles Bereeford. This
ia too bad. Charley Beresford is the chap who fought
Arabi so desperately at Alexandria, and has since
declared that Arabi was in the right all along. Prince
George will be exposed to this sad infection of “sedl-
lion and treason." ■
There ia some very interesting information in
the Financial Reform Almanac. Tho total sum paid to
tho daoen and Royal Family ia £893 382 a yrar. In pay
or tension* £62133rt a year is dmtnbatad. amongst
members of tho House of Peers; and £162 9io amongst
mem ears cf the Hone® of 0' mmons. Tan thousand
penslesera are foisted om the Indian Ea' o u •, at a cost
of £5 19® 551 a year, and one hun-irod and fifty thou-
sand ’pensioners in the United Kingdom, tickle the
Treasnry to tho tans of £7 000 000 a year. One gentle-
man has received since 1817, £3lOO a year, and another
£IUS a year pension, ss compensation for oflic »
abolished in that year The income of >ba Church of
England is four millions and a half per annum. In
ISB2, nearly £50,000.(»0 was paid as interest on the
National Debt.
Not long ago, a strango gentleman arrived in
Taas. Ha was not thu.o many hours before he was
spoiled by the girls, who ah ouoa set to work to refils
tor him—in the usual way. After three tits, a young
lady in North Yass was declared tho wiener. Her
prize 1 arsed out to be the “Flogger,” from Sydney.
Oh, and this remind* ns. We know the flogger. We
met him when we wore in gaol. Ha is a nice * respect-
able gentleman," who is the son of a Presbyterian
clergyman, and has lent every assistance to the spread
of the Qaspel in the South Seas. It was on account of
his pious proclivities that he was deputed by the
Governor to see to our religious welfare. Wo have had
many theological disputations with the flogger. In ad-
dition to bringing us tracts, he used to bring us some-
thing we prized lass—our daily allowance of whisky.
In January, Mr. Oscar Wilde definitely said he
was coming to Australia. He was then vegetating very
quietly in New York, dining at popular restaurants at
7 o’clock, and always going to the tboa re on a first
night. Between the acts ha came out, smoked cigar-
ettes like an ordinary human parson, and furnished
innocent amusement to those who had time to waste
looking at him. Sometimes ho would go into a little
ajsthetio agony over some “ dreadful ” combination of
colours in the scenery, but his general manner was sub-
dusd. Like Sir Hanry, he regards whatever the press
may say of him as quite himmaterial. “To persons of
no reputation," he observes, “ small paragraphs are
doubtless of some importance, but really I do not care
for them." Wall, we haven’t seen him here yet. And
a horrible suspicion troubles the Americans that he
intends sticking to their country in at least a desultory
way, and that they’ll have the same trouble with him
as our Legislative Council has with John Lucas.
Prince Jerome Napoleon, who issued hia ridicul-
ous manifesto the other day, lives in a suite of some
eight or tea rooms, a first floor of a house, in Pauls, but
keeps np an affectation of Imperial state by having a
couple cf lackeys in green and gold livery to meet
visitors in the ante-chamber. His apartments contain
a cabinet of Napoleonic relics, and a picture of himself
at the B ittle of Aima—not skulking out of £r e . His
favourite occupations aro reading and quarreding with
his sifter. At one time ho was able to vary that by
quarrelling with his wife, Princess Clotilde, but she has
long since gone to live with her illustrious relatives in
Italy. They meet once a year; ho goes to visit her,
and they are as gravely polite as husbands and wives of
State should be at all times. They never see each other
at other seasons, and hardly over correspond. Even
when he was shut up in the Conciorgeiie the other day,
the Princess Clotilde did not come to Paris, but sho
wrote a latter to say that she was “ quite anxious.”
The Herald and other Sydney papers eagerly
gave currency to a lying report, since contradicted by
Mr. Eedmond, that Mr. Parnell is a rack-renting land-
lord, and that hia rents had been reduced by the Land
Court. The following from Truth gives the other —and
true—side of the picture:—“Mr. Parnell’s Avondale
estate was the scene of a very remarkable demonstra-
tion oaa day last week Large numbors of farmers for
milss round, from all the four neighbouring counties,
attended with their ploughs—one hundred end eighty
in all—and ploughed a largo tract of laud, as a practical
way cf .‘■howmg thsir respect far the owner The
horses were decorated with gresn ribbons, tho ploughs
hid been newlv painted for tie occasion, and all the
P-Ople wo-ft nation-. 1 colours. There w re three bauds
present, which played a succession of national airs
There wars a so present four members of the EiSyal
Irish Cons abulary ; bat, for n wonder, the meeting was
interfered with, nor have any of the farmers, I
believe, yet been arrested for 1 seditious practices.’ *’
The Peel River Land and Mineral Co. has,
*jnong its directors, a distinguished individual natat'd
Uoodaon. who, by the way, is also a director of “ The
Australian Agricultural Company," and a lot of o>bsr
IJtvrptl&es, including the Indian Mammoth Gold
~; lu rb (Limited), in respect to the liquidation of
wn r.n ns was Decently called upon to s.iv» evidence in a
oonr u ofl&w in London. It was then that distinction
conferred upon him by Mr. Justice Pry, in the
r, owing appreciative term*: —“ No doubt the evidence
given by the deleadant Qoodsoa in ths witness-box
was of a most umatisfactory and discreditable eharao-
t*oU appears from his own admissions to have
i tbe t 4(” n Panv’B affairs and business with care-
i -enesg, negligence, and indifference, although be was
at the time chairman of the Company, and a member
of the committee appointed to carry out the purchase
of property from the Eejah, If it were within my pro-
vince or my power to deprive him ef hia costa, I shenla
undoubtedly do Jo j for I have rardly seen a case la-
which a director has bo grossly neglected his duty.
Mr. Percy de Jersey Grut, of the E.S. and
A. Chartered Bank, has, we understand, been
transferred from the Melbourne office to the position
of Inspector o’f Branches in N.B.W. Mr. Grut, who is
known in the Southern city as the “ Pocket Hercules,
was the hero of the fSmona Woods end Carver case,
which occurred some rears ago at the branch in Colling-
wood—a suburb of Melbourne. One morning, a few
minutes after the tank had opened, three armed ruffians
catered, one of whom presented a revolver at the head ot
Mr. Grub, white the others attempted to gain possesion
of the money in his care. Qrnt, as a cat, ana
same as a lion, seized a massive brass candlestick which
stood on the counter, and vaulting to tho other side,
felled his antagonist to the ground; the flash from the
revolver which was discharged in the encounter singed
Qint’s face, but the ball fortunately passed clear of
him. The two other scoundrels, surprised at the unox-
pected turn of affairs fled, bnt, being pursued in a
crowded street, wore speedily captured—and hanged.
Mr. Grut is s&raaablo and modest.
Most students are familiar with the tremendous
nhUlippioa by Junius against the then Duke of Grafton.
The present Duke has fast had the order of the Garter,
and a correspondent of Turrit remarks that the country
is let eff cheaply by comparison. The first Date was a
bastard to Charles 11., and as soma slight recognition of
his services to tho oonntry in being good enough to be
born, his Boyal father conferred upon him and ms heirs
a perpetual grant of the Pma 8 e and Batterage Dnes »n
wines. This grant has been commuted by payment of
£ifl.l ji in 1808; of £86.458 in 1813 j and ot £193,777 in
1855. In the same manner, tho ancestors of tho present
Duke of Richmond have received £490,883 from the
publid exchequer. There are lota of similar venerable
swindles still going on. Mr. Bipdlangh long ago an-1
nonnoed that his foremost work in the House of Com-
mona would be to expose the way the country is plnn-
dared by perpetual pensions. Ho doesn t believe in
them, and it is this malignant form of scepticism which
is tho real reason why such desperate expedients are
resorted to* to keep him out. There are hosts of dis-
tinguished and influential people who view with horror
his religions opinions—about pensions.
A recent letter from Fiji, in which reference is
made to early incidents in tho history of the place, says
that it is pretty trnethat Whitelaw. the defaulting bank
manager of Morpeth, died there in great distress.
There arc few men whose history is so melancholy.
Whitelaw was a fine-looking fellow, liberal, and not dis-
honest. This latter is a strange trait in a defaulter. But
the fact remains. Whitelaw, the Commercial Bank
defaulter, was honest. He assisted families in distress
—the upper families whose heads banqueted and drunk
at Morpeth and Maitland with the reckless extravag-
ance of moneyed kings—and it was to their perfidy he
fell a victim. The bnlk of hia salary for three years
was known to have gone to make good an advance made
without security to an aristocratic leech. One by one
these splendid fellows sold poor Whitelaw. That s his
“ defalcation," as it is sailed. Overcome with shame,
he cleared to Fiji. He either worked his passage or
went "forecastle,” so rich was he with the spoils
people said he took away. His wife—a handsome and
moat faithful woman—would have accompanied him to
his wretched exile; bnt there was no money, and there
were—no friends. After awhile, with the aid of her
talents, she was enabled to take passage to Fiji. She
arrived there—only to learn of his death, broken-
hearted. These are facts for the first time unbosomed.
Will some one read them aloud from the pulpit of the
aristocratic ohnroh of St. James’ at Merpeth P
What may happen to a man in Victoria; He
was a poor hard-worked member of the reporting staff
of a Melbourne daily newspaper, and recently ho ob-
tained the three weakft*Sii»li(iay granted to each of the
fellows In turn throughout tho year. Ha went up the
country by rail, and naar him in the carriage sat a moat
'atti active example of a lovely woman, subject to the
description of •• fat, fair, and forty." Onr friend of the
press, it must bo remarked, la very good-looking, ago
about 30, and of exceedingly gentlemanly address
Lady happens to drap her handkerchief; reporter picks
it up and hands i.t with tho most killing bow Conver-
sation ensues. Reporter tells who ho is, and states that
he is going over to Tasmania to complete his holidays.
Lady says she is travelling for recreation, and happens
to be also on the way to the same place. Both journey
together. The lady is the widow of a successful quarks
icefor, and has an inccmoof £4OOO a year She has a'so
a ma«s ! on at Toorak, and one morning when the pro-
prietor of the paper with whom onr r.portonal friend
had been engaged, was standing near the mansion la
question debating whether he would invest a shilling
in a cab, or wait for the toreopenny ’bus, there sweeps
past him a stylish carriage with ooaohman and footmen
all in the first rank of fashion, and within tho carriage
a lady and gentleman. They are the widow and the
reporter, married. Advance Australia I
The richest prospective heiress in California is
Miss Hattie Crocker, daughter of the big railway speou-
lator. She was wooed but not won by Lord Beaumont,
an English nobleman, but Miss Crocker refused to
become ** My Lady.” She is heiress to about £2,000,000.
The luckiest man in California is Mr. James V. Cole-
man, A few years ago he was clerk in a Nevada mine
at 100 dollars per month. Some time ago he was sum-
moned to the dying bed ot a long lost uncle who gave
” Jimmie " his blessing, and left him property valued
at nine millions ot dollars. The young man has gone
into training for Congress, and will get there in 1884
The richest woman on the Pacific coast is Mrs. Mark
Hopkins, of California, the widow of one of the Central
Pacific Syndicate Her husband’s estate proved up to
twenty-three millions of dollars, and each of the two
executors, as required by the law of America, swore to
being worth twice the amount of Mr. Hopkins’ leav-
ings. Widow Hopkins, being childless, had a protdgj, a
Miss Crettenden, wham she recently gave in marriage
to a young Texan, and provided with the dowry of a
princess. The bnlk of the Hopkins estate will go to
an adopted eon. The richest joung unmarried woman
on the Pacific coast is Mias Jennie Flood, enly daughter
of the Bonanza King. Whea her father’s income from
the hig silver business was at its highest, he bought
three millions of dollars’ worth of United States Four
per Cents., and gave the bonds to his daughter outright,
having them registered in her name. He also gave his
eon one million ot the same securities, bnt as the yonng
man is a “gilded youth” of deprave! habits, the bonds
have gone back to his father’s vaults far safe keeping.
Frederick Gebhardt ia not like Sir Henry,
“never reads tho papers;” on the contrary, ho is very
annoyed at what they say of him. So he sent a letter
to one of them in America, hoping that the public
would “ attach no importance to stories containing a
grain of truth to a ton ot falsehood, and, in some In.
stances, set afoot by persons who have formed their
impressions of me through a key-hole and intercepted
errand boys to read the address of letters entrusted to
the lad for deliverv." Frederick G. would not mind if
the statements made concerned only himself, bnt, says
ho, “unfortunately they refloat upon a lady whose
friendship I am' proud to posse??, and who is as pain-
fully surprised as I am that, in a country where chivalry
and independence are supposed to exist, every day
should be marked by a now and coarse invasion into her
private life. My attentions to Mrs. Langtry are such
as any gentleman should without comment be privileged
to pay any lady. Mrs Langtry is hero ia the company
of hor husband’s sister, dwelling in a public hotel, and
the object of suoh seuatiny as none but a person of
irreproachable character would court. 4 little redac-
tion wonlJ, I am sure, suggest to most people that
many of rho remarks made in relation to my acquaint-
ance with Mrs Langtry—a stranger in a st,range land,
and on that account the more dependent upon con-
ganlal friends f >r a few hours’ relaxation si er her duties
to the public have been performed—are scarcely in con-
sonance with justice, kindness, or decency." This
letter is not liseiy to make people talk any the less,
however, and there are still some things wo want to
know, you know. First, whom did Freddie get to
write it for him? Why did he write it at all, seeing
that the Prince of Wales never wrote any letter to tho
Timm ? And—ia Mr. Langtry quite well?
We strongly suspect the existence of a oleae re-
lationship between the author and thesubj act of the fol-
lowing most extraordinary article taken’from the Dctbbo
Expbsss Mr. Colonna-Olose, we may explain; is a bar-
i rioter who was formerly a clergyman, and to his ap-
pointment as Crown Prosecutor we lately made allusion.
Hi sometimes writes for newspapers. The writer of
the sketch, after modestly referring to Mr. Colonna-
Close as ••foeile.prineeps among the men of lesser*
intellectual oalibfe In hia vicinity,” and inform-
lag a world wliioh Las long dwelt with reverential
enthusiasm on the classic outlines of Oolonna’a
•• potato-trap,” that “his well-formed and evenly
balanced head no leas than his oasy address, show at a
glance the confidence of well-assured ability,' pro-
oeeda thus“ It may bo that Mr. Colonna-Cloee ia a
barrister of but a year’s standing, and that there, par-
haps, clings to him a little of the mannerism of another
profession—in which, by the way, he attained celebrity,
and might in the end have commanded the highest
offices- It may oven bo averred that he has not yet
mastered all the mysteries of legal examination and
oross-txaminatlon, and that his manner partakes at pre-
sent mare of the easy dplomb of tho professor addressing
his class than of the lawyer apt at ‘qnlrk and
quibble ’ and shrewd, with tho shrewdness and cunning
of the fox. Bat it should bo recollected that Mr
Colonies-Close is a distinguished Oxford graduate, that
in his former profession he was a preacher of eminent
power, depth, and eloquence, and that —if we mistake
not, and if his name do not belie him—he is, by tho
mother’s side, a descendant of tho princely family ot
the Oolonnas, like tho Pocoolomini * Frangipanis* -one
of the noblest houses in Italy—and of a good old Eugli sh
country family on the father’s side. With snail sur-
roundings and antecedents —a flrst-olass classic from
the moat polished University in the world—an able
mathematician, an adept in metaphysical and philo-
sophical studies, a linguist, speaking fluently, besides
his native tongue, French, German, and Russian, and
progressing: in Chinese, an ox-editor of that crime de la
crime ot Australian literature, the Victorian Review
and tho Federal Australia!* ; and, dually, a gentle-
man of the most polished ease of manner, while mixing
in familiar daily intercourse with every class of society,
and, to crown all, the pleasantest of companions in a
social tite a-tite, ia it to be wondered at that Mr.
Colonna Close has a tendency by hia presenee to dwarf
his surroundings and evoke a little of the hyper-criti-
cism which it is the fate ot men of great talent and
courtesy to challenge and finally disarm ? Bat watch
him in Court, note the courtesy with which he ad-
dresses his remarks or questions to Bench and Bar, to
Jury and witness, and say if yon do not detect, under-
neath all the little mannerism which so frequently
clings to the old country ‘ new chum * of gentlest birth,
training, and surroundings, a depth of cultured intellect
which speaks of him as a * coming man ’ on Circuit and
poesloly in the metropolis, and maybe, of the future
Member who is to make, by his eloquence and debating
powers, his mark in the Colonial House of Assembly.
Fortunate the district which is the first to secure his
services as a representative, for the Daileys and others
will certainly have their time out out should he be in the
Opposition when his groat powers shojl have matured
by exercise and experience. Men acute in the law and
with colonial experience in Parliament, may, perhaps,
smile at our predictions ; but then it will bo remem-
bered that greater men than they were sceptical as to
the success and sneered at the abilities of the foppish
Disraeli when he told a recalcitrant House of Commons
who hissed hia maiden efforts in Parliamentary speech-
making, ‘ Tha time will come when I will make you hear
me 1* And the time did come when he drove to distraa-
tion, by his satire and invective, the present Premier of
Great Britain—arrested Russia in her career of con-
quest against Turkey—crowned hia Sovereign Esaprees
of India—gave ns, by a cunning purchase, a * say * in the
Suez Canal—brought Indian troops to Cyprus as ‘a
ol nched fist ’ in tha face of Europe scoffing at England
as i great military Fewer—and, finally, when tottering
on the verge of the grave, dictated tha Treaty of Berlin ,
t such men as Gortaobakoff au'd Bismarck. It ia the
fa hion of colonial-born men to attach more meaning
to the little affectations of Home-bred men (of which
they themselves are perhaps unconscious) than the
so j act merits. The conventionalities of class ore so
exalting in society at home that men unconsciously
a quire a habit of expression, a tone, oven a walk,
w ..ch to the colonial savours of affectation and, in
learning, of pedantry. But even some of, intellectually
an I socially, the beat men at home—to wit, the his-
to -ian Fronde, for instance—possess those peculiarities,
w iioh lead to an nuder-estimate of the character and
capacity of their possessors until they arc ‘roughed
out’ by contact with bush-life. But we mast step
bare, repeating, however, our conviction that Mr.
Ooloana-Cloeo will yet make his mark at tho Bar and ia
Parliament as he has previously made it with such
effect in the University and the Press.”
• • •
Sir George Innea unwell Captain David
Walker, the veteran commander of tho A.S.N, Go’s.
City of Adelaide, appointed by the company marine
superintendent at Sydney Qowan Evans testimonial-
isod by tho Argus staff on bis departure for.Eagland.
Editor, ia making presentation, said Evans had "en-
deared himself tj everyone.” Pact is, of coarse, that
the Akops staff hate Evans, and cordially hops he’ll
B ay away...,,.Mr. Charles Bright and Consul Kahlo
returned to Sydney by tho ’Frisco mail steamer
Kitty King, widow ef Jaoky-King late chief of the
local tribe of blacks, died at Yass, lately. She was a
teetotaller for forty years. Thera are now only two or
three full-blooded aboriginals in tha Yass district.
There's a good supply, however, of half and quarter
castes...... The Tamworth Independent awakens the
inland public to the poor show made in behalf of the
Kendall Fund, The present editor of tho Independent
when on the Sydney press wrote an able and mosi in-
terestiug panegyric on Kendall Sir Henry Park os,
when Premier, refused to piano Mr, PoUngsby’a portrait
of Sir Hercules Robinson with the portraits of former
Governors, on the ground that the likeness was a bad
one. Bnt the subscribers to the portrait fund now de-
clare that the likeness, if not striking, Is good, that the
picture is a finished work of art, and that they are satis-
fie 1 ! with Mr. Polingaby, who will accordingly be paid.
...O’Parrell, who some time ago was committed to dur-
auce vile for shooting at a Homan Catholic clergyman
at Brighton, says he intends to write a pamphlet, as
soon as ha gets out, that will startle the public with
the revelations he intends to make in oonneotion with
prison management The Aemidale Express of
March 2nd, says Sir William Manning has been 70 years
at the bar!
* • *
A gentleman who has for several years resided
in Africa, having unexpectedly succeeded a distant
relative as Lord Stamford, much interest is felt in
fashionable circles as to whether be has wedded a
"dusky bride.” A London paper hopes he has, because
a black peer would be a novelty Baron Alfred Roths-
child, tf London, is about to be married to his oonsin,-
Beatrix, daughter ot Baron Alphonse fiothaohdd. of
Paris. He ie 40; she 18 Last year, the Queen
created her antique and useless relative, the Dake of
Cambridge, a Knight of the Thistle. This cost tha
country (which pays him about £21,000 a year) £341 for
insignia and fees. Tho fees paid out of tha public purse
in order to make Prince Leopold. Duke, Earl, and
Baron, were about £4OO The crowning foolery of the
Egyptian faroo is : the Queen has graciously intimated
her intention ot making the Ouko of Cambridge “ Aide-
de-Gamp to Her Majesty for his brilliant services in
connection with the Egyptian campaign.” An officer
who was in the Egypt'an campaign, received two
medals, a clasp, and a star; but he admitted be never
saw a shot fired. On the other hand be did not get a
medal for Zaluland, where he saw severe fighting In
pinning a medal to the garment of an invalid soldier in
tho Natley Hospital, the Queen pinned in a portion of
thfl hero himself. Her Majesty wasn’t many seconds
oat of the ward before the gallant warrior mado a j -rtia
on that pin Richard Honnessy, the brandy man,
likes another woman better than hia wife, lienee there
.isto be a separation Curiously, Madame Heuuessy JJ’
not only her husband’s cousin, but she is a partner in
hie firm, and has her own income of £lO,OOO a year from
cognac, quite apart from what Dick may give her....
Tae ouoo-oeiebrated actress, paintress, authotess, Mrs.
drav, died in February at the a~o of 92, having been
bo-n on Christmas D y, 1790. Eutnusiasm on seeing
Mm. siddona and Kemble made her first choose the
stage; as a ptiutross, she knew most of the leading
artists, «ud married one. Charles Stothard. She edited
(on his death) his antiquarian writings, receiving high
eulogy from Hoar,hoy and Sir Walter Scott. Alter
marrying the Rev B. A Bray, of Devonshire she wrote
many works of fiction Mr. -J. 0. Mall, who is row 81
years old, gave a lecture at Wymoath not long ago,
standing on his feat for two and a half hours and
showing no signs of exhaustion. The andience was very
mnnh exhausted Fred Gebhardt and a Colonel Cun-
ningham, described as a Scut,ham officer, quarrelled
owing to th» publication in the St Louis Globe-Demo-
crat of a sham interview between the former and Mrs.
Langtry—said to have been written by Cunningham,
who challenged Gebhardt to a duel. Gebhardt declined.


w
HOWARD SMITI
WHARF and Di
(Foot of King-atrt
OnKH s 42 KING 8
STEAMERS FOE MELBOUIF
nosdasß, and Prid
STEAMERS FOR BRISBANE,
and ROCKHAMPiON. Ttuadi
Fleet op Eteamsi
•Bnninyong 30'0 Geelci
Barcabool ROO Kcilai
•Born ah I* dO Konc <
Cheviot 15' 0 J cura
Derwent 500 Moret
Edina 400 Eodot
•Gabo 3)00 You 1
•To arrive
W. HOWARD SMITE
PATENT PORTABLE G
(Limited),
52 YORK STREET, 8
ALL TUB
COMPANY'S LA
ISSUED AFTER THI
BEAR THEII
TRADE MAI
ON THE
BURNER.
The Company ia now prepare*
suitable for Houses. Mines, Storee
ijitiro no trimming, afford a brill)
ooal gas or kerosene, at lees coat,
the hand.
Samples may be aeon, ana lamps
at the Company's) Show Rooms, a
Price lists, fto., on application to-
ARMSTRONf
HYGIENIC & RELIABL
[Registered under the Trade h
Armstrongs Romody fo
Bleeding Ptl
The onlv advertised preparation
HEMMBEHOIDS, recognised, ai
FACULTY. It improves the peuc
Uses the CIRCULATION,reIieve® *
BLEEDING, pain, and itching, xi
Sold in bottles only, at 4s. 6d. and
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON
Price, 2s-
Armstrong’s (Camomile) L
Pill-
AS A GENERAL FAMILY APE!
have. No Eqpa
POE the Cure of IN DIGGS'IO
in the Side, HEADACHE, Qidiit
Flatulency, and Habitual CO NS PI
I Healthy TONE and VIGOUR to
of DIGESTION—The STOMACH
lag Mild in their OPERATION, pi
restore tbs APPETITE, and Bt
fDystoni. Price t lti» 2a, alio *9 6(1-
Armstrong’s Red Jamait
in Combination with DANDELI
“Re aom receded by the Highest M
VITALISING BLOOD RESTORE
SURPASSES all other PREP,
Speedy and Permanent CURE of S,
ING from an Impure or Ovcr-amd-
Diseases occasioned by the injoc
CURYnpon the SYSTEM, Sspbi
Chronic RHEUMATISM. Bottlei
21s.
Goods forwarded to al! parti
PRICE LISTS sent post free.
Two Doors below (Tod
ASK FOB
tfVF MSmh \ rtn?l St?
A. O. MACKBNZ
(Late with BA.TT, E.ODD and P
AUCTIONEER?, BROKERS, FINANCIERS, GENERAI
MINERVA 0H A I
126 PITT STREE
1
BELLEYUB
BELL
' TO GENTLEMEN SEEK
for
MANSIONS,
VILLAS,
or
PEE I T
Why go miles out of Sj
allotments of land, W 1
over 2 MILES from the
EXCHANGE,
POST OFFICE,
circi
and the
CITY GENEEAI
SITES unrivalled in any part o
be offered, on the PAS
BELLEVUE, GOOPER
on
SAT OK OAT 17th.
The ADVANTAGES may be si
HIGHER LAND than any n
commanding
MAGNIFICENT VII
THE WHOLE OF SYDNi
THE OCEAN,
THE SYDNEY
BOTANY BAY,
GEORGE’S RIVE
PARRAMA
THE WHOLE of NORTE
NORTH and SOUT
BLUE MOU
LARGER ALLOTMENTS tin
times the distance from tyi
MANSIONS, not TO BE built,
SURROUNDING the Eata
NATURAL DRAINAGE :
Access to City by either TR
Lines of OMNIBUSES, am
either Rose or Double Bay
TITLE FREEH!
TERMS : 20 per cent, deposi
tending over four (4) years,
interest.
BAIT, ROOD, mt
HAVE received instructions
Esq., to sell by public a
ON THE GROI
on
SATURDAY, SA*
I 7th BEnrc
BELLEVUE, the MOST
CHARMING block
miles of Sydney.
BELLEVUE, in are* ov
ACRES.
BELLEVUE ia portion
ESTATE, situate bet
NEW SOUTH HEAI
the RESERVE, knovs
HILL, and bounded I
WALTER LAMB, E*
ninsrs. His Honor JU]
ME INEATH’S BHIIITS,
96 KING SIRBBP, Only.
SMIHS S IIIVJINtiaM
MEINRATH'S
SHIETS
MEINRATH'S
SHIRTS
DR. WILLIAB
MIRACULOUS
They are the most
Wonderful
MEDICAL DISCOVERT
of
Modem Times.
The only
LIVER REMEDY
known.
PURELY VEGETABLE.
Insist on your Chemist
giving you the
Jg2ooo
First Hcrse
Second ~
Third „
austhalas
SYDNEY GUP
8000 at ss. an even 4
£looo 1 !*>tart
6OO Non- 1
250 1 T
(Always Register Lei
and 4d for Reply and
Address: —" A U STEAL ASIA,”
Franklin, Publisher, 40 Ht
SYDNEY.
The high school, hob a
Bootor: The Rev. E. D. Pa
Trinity College, Cambridge. He
Edmondson, Christ Chnrch, Oxfor
the Tasmanian climate, oombim
standard maintained by the Counoi
brought the Collegiate advantages i
ncntly under the notice of Austri
High School occupies the head plac
It surpasses all colonial education
the healthiness and beauty of its
upon a slope bordering the Queen’s
vicinity of the Cricket Ground ar
The T. 8. N. Co. issue return tic
single fares. Prospectus and tern
from Mr. JAS, E. CUNNINGHi
street, Sydney, or from the Rsot<
February 1.
AIE T Y ]
Literature, £
WM. WALLACE begs to ai
• commenced business as
STATIONER in tho largest eh(
ARCADE, 496 George-street.
All the newest Publications an
specially imparted for this market I
ENGLISH AND CONTINEN'
Scientific, Architectural, Mechanic
cal, Historical, and Enginei
American Publications and Sohoo
editions. Works o( Fiction, Trave
Law, Commercial, and Fancy Stati
1009 pounds worth of Christmas
Friendship, and Birthday Cards,
York, Paris, Berlin, and will be sold i
Albums, Church Services, Prayer
Writing desks, and a large quant
articles too numerous to partlculi
have had the personal supcrvisioi
and his long and intimate connec
and Stationery Business in the City
for variety and sterling value.
W. M Wallace hopes to merit a
ronage, which can only be deserved
tion to charge moderate prices.
W. M. WALL AC
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GF.O:
N B.—Leading English, Amerioi
"VT, V»rr


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Eotal. —“Henry the Fifth" Fids p. 16
-The Polks in-" The Strategist ib.
Pbotestant Hall-" Salvation Army.”
We’ll write this—hush I—with a feather pen,
Our touoh shall be so light.
They’ll thiuk a butterfly psnn’d this, when
They lap up what wo write.
The prettiest things we'll eing or say;
Our acumen we’ve schooled j
We’ll lightly write, for that is the way
Not to got Alfred Monied.
Wo said once of a fairy Queen,
Quite in a manner held,
«w«r loirs are & long way .from straight, we ween,"
And wo nearly got Alfred Mold.
Oh, wasn’t that fairy awfully wild
(She marched in a march called ** jewell’d "),
And didn’t wo shun that fay-like child
For fear we’d be Alfred Mewl’d.
The News announces that, at the Royal in a
fnrtnirbt hence, Q. B. Simms’ (*io) latest London sac-
• Bominy (sic) Bye,’ is to be produced, and will
SrobaWv take as strong a hold on playgpers as 4 The
T iffhts o’ London.’ ’’ There is a cheerful originality
«hont this item which is singularly refreshing. It’s
«hont time, we should say, that the regular gardener
name back from his holiday and let the stall come djwn
off the ladder and go back to hi* usual work.
** * *
Herr Bandmann has been a brilliant success in
India as the following letter of his to the Calcutta
statesman and Friend op India will show:—"Cal-
cutta, January 29. 1883.-Eiaoh.-I have read your re-
nort in this morning’s E»g—otherwise called the
Statesman. It was sent to me by one of your friends.
lam not surprised over the Billingsgate infamy. Your
treachery aU along to mo led me to no other expects-
tioas from such a JUDAS as you are. You have been,
and are still trying to mislead the public, and tht ow
dirt upon my good name, and had I time and did I con-
sider it worth the trouble I should put yen in JAIL as
I did your eonfrore in Hongkong, and where such curs
like you ought to be. Publish this letter intact if you
Have the courage. But you have NOT. You can only
stab in the dark like a coward —Yours, Daniel Edward
Bandmann. Mt address is College Hall, Madras ” The
Statesman did publish the letter, though no typo could
< v e a correct idea of the Here's wonderful handwrit-
ing and observed with laconic force, ”we have no
hesitation in saying that Herr Bandmann is a black-
guard •’’ while the Indian World closes a kindly
notice of the mighty tragedian thus:—"To gain the
respect ef the public, an actor must bo also a gentle-
man Mr. Bandmann in neither; but a type of that in-
sinaatlng nuisance oaly to be met with on the grimy
boards of a penny show, a ranting, blustering, ignorant
mummer.” Ho it will be understood that Herr Band-
mann waa a brilliant success in ludia. He managed to
get a Hongkong journalist into gaol for libel. Tho
Indian journalists took up the cause of their Hongkong
brother and flayed Bandmatm whenever they got a
chance.
** * *
A corroependent, with the eye of an ’awk, oalla
our attention to the fact that in the reaping scene in
the late pantomime, Mr. Gordon has made the eorn tho
man has reaped twice tho length of the corn that’s
growing I We don’t know whether this is true ; but, if
it is not, Mr. Q is welcome to olusb our correspondent
until he feels disposed to leave Off. But even if Mr.
Gordon did fall into this trifling error, it is nothing to
the mistake made by the scenic artists in 44 Babil and
Bijou,” a piece originally performed at Oovont Garden
under the management of Dioa Bouoioanlt, and pro-
daoed with the money of Lord Londesborough, who
lost £20,000 by the speculation. In this piece there ia
a submarine scene, and tho artists painted all the
lobsters in the water a bright red. These phenomenal
flah were saluted by the gallery oa the flaet night with
the howl of—” Why, blow it! them lobsters is hiloi 1”
** * *
Writes our Melbourne Theatre-Man : “Olivette,”
with pretty Agnes Mitchell in the prima donna idle, is
a vast improvement upon 41 La Masootto ” and jovial
Maggie, who has been the cause of so much critical
trouble. At the Eoyal, the triumvirate have had a fall-
ing out with Cagll, of tho Italian Opera Company. C.
avers that the trio have broken faith with him, and are
a mean lot of caterers for the public. Bat the fact
probably is that tho troupe have not hit the public, and
W. Q. and M. don’t want to spend more than they can
help. At the Opera House, Bmelic—the Derby pet—ii
doing good biz., and has to thank little Gracie Plaisted
for at least some Of it. Oasselli is to the lore again,
having been nursed in quite a motherly manner out of
his illness by. The Melville. The Bijou is given over to
Frank Towers and his Bose, who are doing fairly well,
eonsldering their senseless pieces. And that reminds
me—ie. the word 44 senseless’’—that George Darrell,
the immortal author, actor, and so on, ia to startle
ms next week with his gigantic atte upta at drama sorib-
bliag. We ore to have 41 The Sunny South ” after we
have come 44 Back from the Grave,” to say nothing of
worse worries, including a belad-oardling drama, to be
entitled, 44 Vanity of Vanities.” But George is going
to make a hit in London, sir—at least George says bo,
m• * ♦
Nothing can last for ever. Thus, in the course
of events, the 14 Marble Heart ” at the Gaiety hath
given way to the 44 Willow Copse,” which is being
played to-uight, and to 44 Hamlet,’’ which succeeds the
latter melodrama to-morrow. Perhaps tho 41 Marble
Heart ” is the best production which has been seen at
the Gaiety for a very long time, and it is refreshing to
learn that—we quote one of James Bainford’s florid
ads—it has been appreciated generally, and (mark!)
44 from the profound and erudite philosopher’to tho
hard-working and worthy artisan, all heartily testify
to the masterly impersonation of Mr. W. E. Sheridan.”
This reminds us of the glorious old days when James
ruled the Vic , and the announcements of the 44 Bis-
marck of stage-managers ’’ were the wonder of all who
read them. Truly, James resembles Mrs. Qrudden in
his talent for compiling a poster, having, like that
good lady, 44 a happy perception of where the notes of
admiration come iu " Of the 41 Willow Copse ”we can
say nothing, because we haven’t seen it —not that this
disability would alloct the critics on many of our con-
temporaries. We are, however, badly conscientious ;
and it is a complaint we have suffered from for some
time.
• • •
Of the “ Marble Heart,” though, we can say a
good deal, and would say more than a good deal were
she not calling up stairs for us to go and boil- some
porridge for the kids. We have analysed the play j
carefully; and we havo come to the conclusion that
Sheridan 1b not bo pretty as Miss Davenport. Bat he
can act nearly as well. In the scene where he tells
her that ho also has never loved her in earnest, ho is
quite great, and the more so because everybody knows
t that he is only building up a Mahooder. Nobody
could only protend to love Miss Louise, we should say.
Wo should like to know, though, why Mr, 8. dresses
Raphael, who is a Parisian sculptor, in a ten-dotlar
Bowery suit. Wo have no doubt he is right, since he
kuows more about his art than we do. But we are
ourious to know, as it does not transpire in the play
that Raphael ever crossed the herring-pond. Miss
Davenport shows to more advantage in this piece than
m any she has playud here. And that is saying—if
not a very great deal—at least considerably something
Cates shown to a g*eat extent as tho friendly journalist,
bat he gave us so muoh about the Magic Lantern in
the *kird act, that lots ef people wonted him to let it
slide. Arthur Vivian, who has caught a lot of good
low comedy lately off Clara Stephenson, made a great
mt | bo it all was very nice and pleasant.
** * *
“s«ary V.,’ that block-tin blusterer, had better
Wake the most of his time, for (WLzeoks, his days ore
numbered. Even so. By Our halfoamo I And then the
Romany Eye,” whieb, dear Orange brothers, has no
mors Bo man Catholicism about it tkan the Protestant
mabdabd. The London papers differed more widely
that tnmal about the merits of this piece, but, while
many critics were enthusiastic about it, the Bepbreb
awarded the first performance only an equivocal notice,,
ine realism of the play is described as being of the
mtensest frinfl. and, as a dog oaapts, an imnortailt
we expect that Alfred wiuiargely pti^rcmizeihe boxes.
The arrangements for the production are of the
most elaborate kind ; and the great Vincent is drilling
supers continually, and taking counsel with the dog
about the situations. The sagacity of this animal is
said to bo wonderful. He has been imported especially
from America, where he has been playing in the
“ Romany ” with huge success. The reason he left the
company and accepted his present engagement was that
he grow tired of the part, and had engaged a popular
author to write a piece expressly for him, in which ho
was to have the whole of the fat to himself. Next in
importance to the dog is Rignold, who has a robust
r6le after his own heart; and Miss Roland Watts-
Phillips is suited with a part that is quite charming-
one that will suit this Roland all over. Saturday week
will, it is said, sec the first representation.
* * * «■
There are clouds on the horizon dramatic. Joe
Woodman is suing Majorca! in the District Court. Joe
wants what Harold Skimpole called _ “ those bits of
metal and thin paper to which mankind attaches so
much importance.” Breach of agreement is Joseph's
complaint; and he has got it badly. And this little
legal item brings us to Polks. Mr. P. is a very funny
man, indeed. He announces his 4th week of the
“ Strategist” and laughing room only—which is a v*ry
merrie conoeite. Mr. and Mis. P. and Wilson, mast bo
making a lot of money : and we are glad to sec it so.
Next to making a lot ourselves, we are best pleased to
sea them mako it. We cannot but re tpeot an actor who
has laughed all. the hair off his head, while yet in sunny
youth: and as for Mrs. Polk, she’s a musical moon-
beam. Wo learn with much interest and delight that
Warrior Brown is busy adapting some of thePelkish
plays; and whoa hs has satisfactorily translated Sam 1
of Posen into Punoh’f-ocmor Australian, it will bo pro-
duced on a scale of superior splendour. And wo must
give Johnny Hall a line for his groat performance of
Bijah. Talking of Johnny, we notics that Mrs. Hall is
not aeting now; and we are told that herlub always
carries a white kid glove in his pocket, so as to be able
to tie up the knocker at the shortest notice.
** * *
Pomaone has forwarded us a prospectus of
*■ M. B. Leavitt’s American amusement enterprises,”
with a portrait of the author on the cover. Ha is re-
markably like Sidney Hall, but hardly has the air dia-
UnguS of which Sid. is pardonably proud. And Mr.
Fredericks writes from Melbourne that he encloses “ a
copy of a letter from a Church ef England clergyman
in Bsaconefleld (Tas.), which was published in the
Launosstom Examiner (which he doesn’t) and further
says : "If you publish it, call us Knights of Cork, or
plain Minstrels, or something mor* graceful to the ear
than “ Nigger Singers;" which is probably his little
joke. Another correspondent (from Baenleigh, near
Brisbane), is yet funnier. Ho tells us that the ama-
teurs there sometime ago played "Cum Leaves,” a piece
by Fred Agaew, and also says :— ** The entertainment
concluded with a very funny farce, also by Phil. Agnew,
entitled * Muddle,’ which sent the audience away well
pleased;" which we are glad to hear. Fred Millis wires
that he is playing his new entertainment to "packed
houses” in the Bega district; and wo further learn that
in Salmi Morse's (N.Y ) Passion Play, a Baptist minis-
ter will play the principal part. There is a commission
out in Sydney, we believe, for a representation of Judas
Iscariot.
** * *
H, J. Bwoti has written a new comedy, we
learn, for "the London Vaudeville, called “Open
House;” and “lolanthe,” though a failure in America
(being too local), is a huge success at the Savoy. But
this ii» nothing to the nows that Tommy Hudson has
been robbed of £l2OO in Bembay. We fancy we see
Tommy winking his oyo when that thumping ad. ap-
peared is all the Indian papers. Bn l- , tljpa I lot's be
charitable and quote Miss Pearl Eyfcinge, an American
actress, on being called giddy by the papers. This is
extremely neat: —
" Make no inquiry
Into her history.
Virtue too pliable.
All that you hear of her.
Though very queer of her,
Alas I ia reliable.”
The Pollards are jubilant—coining money at Brisbane
with their kids j and playing “ Lts Cheches ” regardless
of results. And, what do you think P Dear little
Joaey Deakin has joined that giddy Dunning troupe in
Adelaide. And that reminds us—
Let ns slowly ponder whore
He can now have gone to —
The young man with the head of hair
Unlucky and forlorn, too 1
** * *
We shall die of Luscomba Searrell yet. In a
letter to us, dated from the American Exchange, Lon-
don, he says that "Estrella” is accepted at the
Imperial for May, and further states: "Another opera
of mine, ‘ Bobadil,’ will, probably, be ‘done’ at the
Alcazar (’ now building J’). lam working my way here
slowly but surely, you see,’’—Do wo P—" but . . . .
the difficulties besetting anew man are almost insur-
mountable. However, lam at last inside and moan to
stay there.” We infer from this that Planquette and
Sullivan, therefore, are outside Lusootnbe also states
that Walter Parke, his oollaborateur 1h " Estrella,” is
“ a celebrated writer on Judy.” Oh 1
** * *
The Montagua-Turner Company are in Laun-
ceston, and seem to be scooping it in. Gordon is back
with them ; but there is really very little in it; and we
daresay now Charles and the fair Annis wish they had
aoeepted the oiler made them by the Theatrical
triumvirs. Charley was going to America, a Melbourne
wire told us; but he doesn’t seam to bo in a hurry now.
Dolyon sea, there are some better tenors than Mr, T.
over there singing in 25 cent opera houses ; though
there are not lots batter prime doane than Annis sing-
ing in 50 cent open, houses. Oh, and listen — Lily
Marsh and her Ms are on a yisit (resting) at Shotover
Station, near Armidale The old lady, of course, is the
attraction And Macoallum’s company have been sing-
ing (without Mac., though) at Ashburton; while
Andrds Nava.ro and Signor Tremaglia having organised
themselves into a company, are giving conceits. This
is how they doit. While And toe sings, Tremaglia plays
the piano; and while Tremaglia plays the fiddle, Navaro
play • the piano. It is very interesting.
On this occasion, it is alleged, Mick Rush was
trained at home.
Match made at Townsville between M‘Mahon
and Julian, local peda., tor £lOO a aide, 225 yards.
Thady O'Kane puts it thus ; “ Mr. Blank, for a
time reporter for this j onraal, has be?n discharged and
off."
The report of the death of Mrs. Morgan (Miss
Clara Lea), once so well known in musical circles, is
unfounded. We hear that the unfortunate lady is in
tolerably good health. Her four children are with her
mother, Mrs. Lea, of Sydney.
Here’s a little matter for the Marine Board to
inquire into. The steamer Pacific (a smad vessel) was
sighted in distress off Long' Point by the Tuggerah
lost Saturday. She was disabled, and halt full o! water,
and had lain at anchor 21 hours. She was without fresh
water, and had five passengers, including two children.
The steamer had no boat. Now, is this true ? If so,
for how long will the Marine Board suspend the certi-
ficates of their Inspectors ?
At Eolleston, Rockhampton, a valuable draught
entire te:zed his groom by the leg, dragged him off the
horse ho was tiding, threw him down, kneaded him
with his knees, and gnawed the flash off his bones.
When help, called by the man’s screams, arrived, the
horse, after kicking his victim, made ofl. The groom
died in great agony. TDS entire was shot next morn-
ing The brute’s nationality, wo may remark for the
information of the Sydney Daily Tklkorapjj, was,,
strangely enough, not Irish, but .Scotch.
An “honorary” magistrate of Sydney did a
neat thing the other day. Ho issued a warrant for the
arrest of a respectable man oh a charge of wife desor-
tlon, who was taken, of course, and lodged in the look-
up. Here are the facts. The defendant was obliged to
quit Sydney for England on business, and he left his
wife with means and a comfortable homo. On his
setnrn he found »hs had lott hot home, and now ap-
pearod in court with a child in her arms, which she
admitted was by her husband’s brother. No demand
had been made on the demandant for support,, and his
flsst iutiinnshm was fho arrest. Lively, isn't it? Who
iS'offi?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot taped to have their communications noticed.]
J.E.”: Thank’s for your items Dear old
friends I “Philip P.": Not funny, and of bo general
interest “A Loyalist": You are not one whit more
loyal than other people. There is nothing that
tyranny hates as it does the newspaper. Even Napo-
leon said the only safe place to keep* editors was in
prison .“A Constant Eoader": If, in your district
(Warialda) “ euo man was lined £3 for striking another
man, and before the same P M. a young man was fined
5s (five for turashing a joang woman," why
don’t you authenticate your information by sending us
the report of the causes dlebres as published in the local
paper? Do you see, old fellow, you atight have been
the man who was welted, and the old woman might bo
your girl, who oame to your assistance with a mop.
That, you sec, would alter rather the complexion of
affairs. Not, of oourae, that we —but then remember
only one of their Honors is away “ Ur.ma": Wa
don’t deal in such literature “D. Kerr": It may
hare been perfectly legal, but it was certainly not
»n wgle if another doctor was obtainable. Ton should
wijfto to the Minister of Justice ‘‘C.T.B." (Broad-
water) ; We’re very glad there is a Member of Parliament
to bo found who has the courage ta ’* emphatically re-
fuse " his constituent* anything. The motive you
attribute to Mr. (Jeo in refusing way be the real one,
but wo very much doubt it. The expense of over-
landing mails is enormously greater tbsn lhat of soa
conveyance “Publican" (Tenterfleld) : Ton say the
editor of the Stab has his brain full of Parkes. Well,
it seems to us that, so long as it’s full of anything, the
editor's brain has a considerable advantage over yours.
“ 0 J. 8." : Very tame “ P C." (Summer Island):
WVve road it up. If you snppiy aboriginals with grog
against the law, why should you not be punished ?
‘•O.C." (Bulii) : W* usually draw the line at Bank
clerks’ testimonials “ W.E.8." : If we were to print
such idiocy, we’d soon be as poor as your jokes are
“Dancer" : We insert what is likely to ho of interest,
but wo won’t chronicle half-crown hops “Alpha":
Very good, but held over “ Dura ’’ fßourke): Next
week “L. A. Bailey": Please call “Vietis":
Received, but overlooked till now. When does the
trial come off? “ Subscriber " (Woella-Woolln):
That’s the sort of thing wo want. Now tell us next
week what the other follow slid “Delegate": Yeu
ask ns to give an opinion whether you write fairly, or
how ?" Can’t resist this, you know. You write
“How.” Thanks for your good offices. Seriously, you
writ* very fairly "A. B.” : “Captain E.”
’‘C.H.J.”: “Coornubong ’’ “Augustus.”: To hand.
“Potboiler”: Will condense,. T.H E " ; As
we’re always roady to give a fair hearing to both sides,
we’ll comply with your request in our next issue
“ E.V.B ” : Very good “ Topsy ” : Eeoeived. Thanks.
"Exile": By no means’ on a level with your last.
“H.A": Both notes received. Will appear
“Exploration" : Find wttom ? Xou don't mention any
name [A host of other communications must stand
over ]
"THE POOR PLAYER”
[ Correspondents invited from neither of the thestre[?]
professional.]
Mies Augusta Dargon (so a Melbourne paper
Bays) is about to re-appear on the stage Emolio
Melville a b ; g suooese at Melbourne Opera House, her
action against the triumvirate having proved the boat
advertisements Dodge’s Dramatic Co. had “ a bit of
a surge ” during the trip from Hobart to Launceston.
Savarnl pansongors, among them an officer of police,
tried to force an entranee te their private carriare, and
were forcibly resisted. J. J. Kennedy and George Cole-
man were summoned for assault, but the case was dis-
missed. Company drawing good houses in Launceston
George Darrell did so well in Hobart with his own
dramas that hi# engagement was extended, and ho
played daring Race week, “Streets of New York,"
“Marble Heart," and, shades of the departed William I
—" Hamlet ” Montague-Turner Opera Company
opened at Hobart, 26th February, with “ Maritana.’'
At latest they wore playing “Lucia” and “Mignon”
to rather thin houses. Hobart people are old-fashioned,
and wont go to Opera in Lent Mercury “ Drama.
tioil Cricko ” accused Fred Packer of plagiarism.
Said opening bars of his “ Avo Maria ” (which he pro-
duced at first Concert given by his newly formed Phil-
harmonic Society) was identical with “Ah < h ! >
morto ” in “ Trovatora.” Harr Schott “ analy > u
and can find no resemblance ; and now a oorte- 1 u
points out that the Mercury critique on V.u.«s
“Maritana," which is nasutpassod “for freshn-s. of
motive and brilliancy of orchestration,” is orioeed
wholesale from the Enciclop/kdia Britannica
Fred. Maooabe was to open at Abbott's Opera Hou=e,
Auckland, on the 7th March Notwithstanding his
poor crowd, Simonson is doing very well at Auckland.
Fitigoiald is the warmest thing in opera tenors that
Übs yet appeared there Archibald Forbes gave font
lectures at Wanganui (N.Z.), and was well received
Stanley and Darby shire’s kids are at Wellington (N Z.)
M'Cullum and Vernon's Tambour Major Co playing
at the Princess, Dnnodin The Jennie Lee Co.’s tea
sen at Dnnedin extended nine weeks. Business all
through good Gordon Gooch played Don Jose in
“Maritana” with Simonsen's Co. at Auckland. Ho
was J)y no means a success Woodyear and Bo:s’
circus performing at Auckland (N.Z.)
The Calcutta public wouldn’t stand Cymbelina
from Louise Pomeroy. Otherwise her venture appears
to have been very successful Last year’s deaths
among the “pros” include Madame Celeste, aged 70;
Henry Forrester, 55j Miss F. M. Kelly, 02 ; Arthur
Hketchlsy, 64; and Ban. Webster, 84 Those instances
show that the wicked life of a theatre ia sure to take
people oil ia the bloom ef youth—sooner or 1ater.,,....
There are 38 theatres in London j 330 in Groat Britain.
Fanre, the baritone, sang three pieces at a wedding
in Paris, and was paid four thousand francs. Some-
body counted the notes in the music, and re ikon ed
them up at 10 francs each The profits of the Theatre
Prac9ais for 1882 were £2B,ooo....Anderson is
ths American Mrs. Langtry in sonre respects She is
not a great notress, bat has the most perfect figure and
m»st beautiful faeo in America Oscar Wilds is reported
to be writing a drama for her Clara Morris, emotional
and nervous, likes to be regarded as the Bernhardt of
America She cannot act continuously for any length
of timo, being often quite physically prostrat d after
two or three nights of a lading role. She is most
eccentric on the stage Miss Mary Dickons, grand-
daughter of the novelist, has been playing at the Hay-
market, London, in Tom Taylor’s comedy “Overland
Route’’.......Mrs, Langtry’s success seems to have
caused a migration from drawing-room to stage. Miss
Fanny Lumsden (Mrs. Reid), a well-known society lady
in London, has CCnnmenood on Juliet. And Mr. Gilbert
Farquhar, a scion of the big banking firm, Herries,
Fatquhar, and Go , has faced the “footlights."
Kate Vaughan is ethereally lovely, and next to her
exquisite dancing, her dresses are deliciously captivat-
ing Violet Camorou is really young} that is, she is
20, She sings, and is a teiuey. She was an extra-
ordinary success as Germaine in “ Les Cloches do Cor.
nevillo" at 15 Mdlle. Lo .tie Adelina de Lara is a
pianiste ahnost new—that is, she is only 9 years old }
but she lias n repertoire of over ICO of the difficult
pieces of Beethoven, Chopin, Liszt, Thai ben?, &j., all
of which she plays from memcry Of Mrs. Langtry's
dHut at Boston, as Hester Qazebrook, the Theatre
remarks: “ There were many situations ia which she
was prettily weak, where she should have been fervid
and strong. She was amateurish and girlish, where
she should have been passionate and womanly. Her
large mouth, her square shoulders, and painfqlly con-
tracted waist are moat oritioued.” Those are the
latest about Sarah. That she was to sell all her jewel*
last month to pay her debts, having lost 420,600 francs
in speculation. Gibers say eho has no jewels to safl,
all she had having been safely kept in the—ahem I
Monte do Pidtd for some years. That she has no
domestic troubles; and M, Damala is starting a libel
aotion against a newspaper 1 hat said who had. That she
plays FiSdora every night, and contentedly chips away
at a bust of the vocalist. Miss Van Zandt, every morn-
ing From the Lennon Eba. The circus-poster
wedded to the obituary“ Died, Kata, the beloved
Wile of Professor Van Hare, formerly an equestrian,
after a long but painless illness, took her last and final
leap, without tear or excitement, qa the 21st ultimo,
we hope to a better world, where envy and ambitWn are
I unknown. Interred, 27th, tt the Brompton Cemetery;^
THE WEARY WALKERS.
If there is anything wo love more than plum
duff, or a I’otor Campbell sermon, it is a walßing, match.
Racing has its attractions certainly, tout-racing is also
not to be sneezed at, tut give us the thrilling excite-
ment of seeing two pedestrians toiling round the track,
looking like dismounted circus-riders who have gone
wrong, each accompanied by a bottle-holder, who ad-
misistera encouragement by word of month and sus-
tenance through the medium of a lemonade flask. At
the present time, as is known in all religious circles,
Edwards is walking O’Leary, and (this is our little
j )k») O’Leary, Edwards, in the Exhibition Building for
£lOO a side and the championship of several universes.
We have (we are proud to say) a trifling acquaintance
with Edwards—none with O’Leary. We don’t, of
course, presume on knowing Edwards. No, no 1 But
when wo moat hiln In fashionable society we snigger
mutually and pass on. Aud what a pleasant thing
that is I
• • •
It was about five on Tuesday afternoon that wo
arrived at Prince Alfred Park, and inside the building
we found things on a scale cl great splendour and pre-
paration. It ere was a stage with
WELCOME
at the top of the proscenium, and the board shewed
that Ed wards was 20 miles scores being 150
and i3O. O’Leary is a smallish man inside a suit of
tights. Ha has a big fair moustache, and—in a pleasant
conceit —wears his drawers over his boots instead of
inside them. Edwards sported a pair of loose white
knickerbockers, and a pair of Ivo Bligha with eocka
drawn over them. Wo don’t know what Edwards
looked like —except a olog-dancor with the gont. Both
men had legs cf the sealing-wax order; bat, for all that,
they travelled along at a great rate, Edwards keeping
comfortably behind O’Leary, and O’Leary conversing
with a party in a brown suit, who got blown early in
the proceedings. The track is railed in all round by a
brand now chicken-fence, and there is accommodation
for the press on the stage, and a retiring room for the
reporters which, strange to'ssate. Contains a spittoon
without a chain to it.
• a •
The affair is boaaed by J, C. Seymour, who ia
a very nice man indeed, and au immense believer in the
attractions of pedestrianism, He received us with
much cordiality, end apologised for the absence of
flags. We told him not to mention it; fkough wo must
confess to a slight sense of disappointment at there not
being any red baize laid down at the principal entrance
on our arrival. The Exhibition Building 1 What droll
memories did that place recall. We have seen there
M’Coy, Davies, Carter, and Henson, march round that
building with drawn swords, glowing with pride in their
Orange regalia; we have seen Rosahy “ chaired ”in the
same building. And up in the gallery, weird whispers
seemed to be wafted towards u« of BartJemy Fair, and
of the first “ Ladies’ Tguruamtent ” in chaste and appro-
priate attire. There Were a good many people there ;
but it was a bad time, eiuco many had departed to gulp
down the vespernal bohea, and negociate the festive
brbad.&nd-dripping. There were ttails in the buildings
behind which fierce men retailed “ soft tack,” and
women of unattractive appseraaoe sold cakes cf a
heart-brti-akjk'g quality. Wu bought one of these in a
reckless me&iont, and we have it stiT. We are saving
up that btnPto kill a policeman with.
» « *
And tboy walked, and they walked — ronnd and
round, until it made you giddy. Aud this has to go on
until Saturday I The men both look strong, but
Edwards teems to bo in the better condition of the two.
Thoir diet ie beef-tea, and we b-lieva cowheel; though
therb is a rumour that Edwards procures additional
elasticity by swallowing india-rubber stow. We do not
believe this, however. A man who was once boss of a
walking-tent, Ttnd rape tor of AzelU, would never
thus ou f rage human-nature. There will, possibly, bo a
lot of excitement over this match, which has the
appearance of being a bona-fide affair. We don’t say wo
Shall be excited. Hardly anything makes our hearts
heat now excepting a duck wrestle or a heu fight.
Mr. E. B. Woodhouse
The popular proprietor of the Mount Oilead
estate, celebrated for its stud cattle, whose
portrait appears on ohr front page, is a descen-
dant of one of the earliest Australian settlers.
Hia grandfather, Mr. G. M. Woodhoueo, name
to the colony by H.M.S. .Dromedary, as Associate
to Judge itilia Bent. The gentleman whoso
portrait we now present, holds many publio
positions. He is a Justice of the Peace for this
colony and for Queensland, a life member of the
Zoological Society, &c. Mr. Woodhouse married,
in 1879, the eldest daughter of Mr. William Neill,
manager of the City Bank, Sydney.
A Group of Australian Explorers.
The exploring party, whose portraits we give
page 8, consists of Messrs O’Donnell and Carr
Boyd, leaders, Mr. O Malley and Mr. Linaore. They
purchased horses here for shipment to Post
Darwin, from which place they have to discover a
practical road for stock, etc , to the Ord River,
which river they run down to where it is supposed
to empty in Cambridge Gulf, where they will lorm
a depot with a view of laj ing out a township.
They then have to thoroughly inspect and explore
the property of the Cambridge Downs Pastoral
Association on the Ord waters ; after which they
will exp'ore country for several syndicates and
companies which have lately taken up large areas of
country in the Kimberly district. Mr. Carr-Boyd
is aa old and tried explorer and pioneer, having
been among the first to go overland to the Palmer
River goldfields, after which he went through
with W. 0. Hodgkinson’s North West Queensland
expedition, since whan he has discovered and
stocked the four furthest outside stations in the
North West of Queensland, namely : Maud Downs,
Linda Downs, Wheela Downs, and Amaroo Downs,
borne five years ago, ho also discovered the re-
mains of the Prout Brothers and Baker, who
perished for want of water in the unknown
regions of South Australia in the vicinity
of Linda Downs. We believe Mr. Carr-
Boyd’s last t&p from the head of Pit-
cherie Creek to within fifteen or twenty miles
of the South Australian telegraph line has
not yet been published. Mr. O’Donnell is also an
old explorer and pioneer of the Wilson and
Cooper’s Creek, in the vicinity of which Hume, of
Leichhardt’s relics fame, perished. He was also
out with Howitt when he discovered the remains of
the ill-fated expedition of Burke and Wills. Mr.
O’Malley and Mr. Linaore are both old bushmeu,
while Mr. Welts has served two or three years
surveying in Qippsland, and other rough pi > *. u
Victoria. Their equipment has been fitted m
Melbourne, and they will have good horses from
Goulburn, so that the affair should turn out a
great success.
John Davies’ action against Mayor Harris will,
in all human probaWjty. now stand over until nexs
sittings. The public is smacking its lips in anticipation
of the trial.
Three Frenchmen condemned to death agreed
to be the subjects of scientific tens on condition that
they were reprieved. Her* are the result* i —No. 1
nourished exclusively on tea, lived three years and then
died—a skeleton, almost transparent. 2, on ooilee, died
in two years, burned as if an interior lire had oadolned
him. No. 3 lived on ehoaclate tor eight months, and
died, as it were, devoured by Now we knew
the fate of people who tone a nothing stronger than tea.
The tea-drinkers cf the Temperance Hall seem to live
oa, however, though they are painfully transparent,
John Davies, io wit.


The Brighton, a new harbour steamer for the
Port Jackson S S Co,, is to leave the Clyde for Sydney
on ttie 15th instant. Wa wonder wbut cockney gawo
such a name to a Sydney boat ? Why not call this city
London, and the Parramatta river “ ttuj Thames," and
get Parkes to change his moaniksr to “ Gladstone " ?
A. few years since several idiots ineffectually tried to
get the people of Manly—so named by Captain Cook —
to exchange the historic appellation, of their little
town for "Brighton.”
This is a story of Lord Charles and “ the cousin
of Lady Clarke." 'Tis said that after the breakfast, when
they went to the train, Lord Charles had just put the
cousin of Lady Clarke into a carriage, when she saw
some of her relatives, with babies, and she insisted on
taking them into the compartment with her. The sou.
of the Bake ot Baoohmgh did*n at ilk® it. It’s quite
possible same of the babies mig'gt have been—nUorn I—
cousins of his by marriage.
PEPPER AND SALT.
A Melbourne brewer, named Latham, has given
to the A nglican Church there a £10,000 Sanatorium
tor the use of invalided clergymen. Some sceptics
might profess to see a good deal of cruel satire in Mr.
atbam'a presentation. Not being sceptical in any-
thing that concerns the clergy onrselves, we only view
the conduct of the man of beer with ** astonishment
and admiration." What a study, though, the internal
eeonomy of that place will bel The first point to con-
sider, though, is—what constitutes an invalided clergy-
man. We have never seen a divine, for instance, too
ndisposed to either accept a tea-set or draw his screw.
We should consider such an one ineligible (were he to
be found) for immediate admission. But, on second
thoughts, it wouldn’t be worth while carting him there 1
For the rev. gentleman would be dead. As likely as
not, though, a few of those divines whose cures are up
the Aramao way, or in the Port Augusta direction, will
troop down and sample the new shop. Then when
Greek meets Greek—thunder 1 This is how it will be —
at breakfast say. The Eev. Mr. Biikina— 11 For what
we are goiug to receive,” etc. Perhaps yen’ll have the
goodness Mr. Muffiuson not to monopolise the dry
toast." Or—say the Bov. Mr, Thumper— *' I consider
the on dee a disgrace, an outrage, and the heartless and
grasping manner in which rev. gentlemen oiutoh at
choice rashers, and—so to speak—throw themselves on
to the poultry, is a dastardly social iniquity. Let us
pray.” That will be it.
• « •
•'BIRDS OP A FEATHER.”
Parkes skulk’d in like a hounded rat.
Beneath the wings of a Whereat;
Now doth a Watson honour pawn
To don the shoes of the “ nose" Vaughn ;
How long shall we wink at such spots on
Our country’s fame as Parkes and Watson ?
* « •
We are beginning to think that the ‘ ‘ Commit-
tee on Religion and Morals" of the Presbyterian
Assembly are sly dogs who like their little joke. The
Rev. Mr. Auld read the report out to the Assembly on
Friday last, and a great deal of it appears to be of a
humorous, not to say jocose nature; so much so that
we are beginning to be of the opinion that not only did
the rev. assembly “ kid" Mr, Auld into reading the
report, but sat (metaphorically, of course 1) with their
tongues in their cheeks during the entire performance.
Here are a few plums from this Presbyterian pudding:
—“The committee call the assembly's attention to the
groat benefits arising to the community from the opera-
tions of the new Lieeusing Act, in respect to the prin-
ciple of local option, and the closing of public-houses
on Sundays, and on week days from 13 p.m, (sic) to 7
a.m " (sic). From this we must infer that the pub. in
Mr. Auld's street is a giddy one in two respects—
the landlord going to bod an hour after the Aet
provides for his repot?, and getting up an hour
late in the morning. And listen. Ha (Mr. Auld)
” could not, like his friend Principal Kinross, say that
the running of a railway train on the Sunday was a
sin. He used the railway on that day, and he hoped he
used it in a Christian manner. His conscience did not
reprove him for what ha did. It was the enormous
amount of traffic—the unnecessary amount of traffic—
which grieved all sober-minded Christian people." We
infer from this, therefore, that Mr. Auld requires the
suburban traffic limited to accommodation for himself
and other halo-holders who use the railway in a
Christian manner. Doesn’t he wish he may got it ?
Then hs says, further (on another topic, this time) ;—
11 To describe a temperate person, as those people did,
as * a moderate drinker,' was simply an insult. The
meaning of that phrase was simply ‘a tippler,* and
nothing more.” Bah I This sort of thing is not only
evidently Auld, but unmistakeably bald. It mast be a
oka. If so, who is responsible ? We really think
some of these gentlemen might content themselves
with elorloal-clownlng In the pulpit, and refrain from
making such a ’ndiorous use of print. It is easier, you
know, to preach than to write. Yon want thought and
oennmon-senso for the latter. For the former—well, a
tailor can supply nearly the whole outfit.
* « •
DO, PLEASE.
Yon are sick and yon arc sorry, Ivo Bilgh,
For your vaunted cricket ashes are “ kite high
You have got your gruel some, and you wish you hadn’t
come,
Ivo Bligh I
When, by 'nd bye, you do your modest scoot.
And yon don, dear boy, your oceanic suit,
ou can leave ns, Ivo Bligb, as a little legacy
An old boot.
• * 9
* 4 In the race for the Championship of Australia
111) and £1000, Laycook beat Rush easily. He was at
one time 80 yasda ahead, but slowed down.”—Tide
H®hai,d.
Oh, this Is an enthralling tale—
'Fore which all other wonders pale!
Who will forget, not long ago.
When both those men a match did row.
And Rush, to his " immense delight,"
Left Layoock nearly out of sight.
And now — Bat, listen. Man have got
Quite sick of this transparent rot—
This feeble see-saw, where the trumps
Are just the way that pussy jumps!
There was a time (let’s think now when) 1
There rowed for wagers simple men—
The stakes a *• pony,"—less, perhaps;
And, oh. they strived to win, those chapsi.
Bnt now the art has risen higher:
Each sporting sculler’s an esquire.
And men bet thousands with a grin
Against the man that “ cannot wiiu”
Oh, this is a progressive age.
When blockhead oarsmen are the rage,.
And picture-shops display the scowl
Upon a sculler’s jobbernowl;
And moneyed men—ah, sad to state—
Hang on their words illiterate 1
Oh, Progress 1 what a field to reap:
Just think of this, ye gods, and weep!’
But who shall blame thee, oarsman, when'
Ybu live on lack of wits in men ?
Oh, you were made, we plainly see.
For this age, and ’twas made for thee.
Go, prosper, and bleed calf by calf,
Make wine from water, corn from chaff ;
Bleed fools, and no remonstrance heed.
For fools, you know, were made to bleed.
Go on and prosper, scullers t.all.
And when you pass, you— rrmln’t rail.
If you don’t believe this, ask the man who
keeps the pub. in Phillip-stroet. A party of gentlemen,
not entirely unoonnected with journalism, were sitting
quaffing rosy wine (Tooth’s) in the parlour, when the
door opened, and a parson made his appearance. Seeing
the company, he hastily retired, murmuring something
about having called to see a sick stranger. In a few
momenta the landlady came in, and requested the two
to come into the bar, as a reverend gentleman desired,
for a few moments, the use of the room. They did so;
but returned in a little while and looked through a
crack in the door. . . He was gurgling the longest
allowed by the Act, and had a flask cf P.B. on the table
ready to put in his pocket. Here eniath the first
lesson.
# # #
The substance of a holy row
In tour lines we dish up;
The holy Joeys can't agree.
So we shall have no Bishop.
• # •
It was the morning they were going to celebrate
their golden wedding. She: "Get up, Joshua” He:
“Shan’t.” She: "If you don’t I’ll heavo the boot,
lack at yon." In the papers next day i “ Two score and
ten years of unalloyed happiness, untingad by even an
ebullition of irritation was,” eto. Boob!
• a •
Thomas Began, who is a gentleman well-known
in Sydney as possessing a talent for living “on the
never” and existing “on the bluff,” was lately
“ snavelled ” by one of those moral Melbourne detec-
tives for playing Began told Mr. Panton that
he was a family man, “like himself,” and further
urging that Judge Cepe had pronounced the three-card
trick to boa game of skill, asked to be let ctf. Then,
it seems, Mr. Panton “ did not seem to appreciate the
family-man comparison,” and Bogan was farther re-
manded, Wo are not interested iu Began any more
than we are in John Lucas and 00., bub what wa want
to ask is what in particular Is Mr. Pautoln that he is to
bo offended at such a comparison 1* There is no harm
whatever in being a family man. There are people,
indeed (they may be weak), who consider that a man
elevates himself by affecting holy matrimony. Now,
though Began only appears to boa •* apialer,” still it
must be allowed that the fact oS his being a happy
father is such as to cause him to be entitled to some of
the respect which his calling is understood to withhold
from him. Both Mr. Panton and Began, then, are
exactly in the same boat in regard bo matrimonial mat-
ters. The worthy magistrate can’t crawl oat of that 1
He seems (foolishly enough) to wish he ooold. Bah!
We hate this “ beastly pride.” Why, if the disinter-
ested gentleman who wanted so little for his Darling
Harbour property, or the gallant ex-legislafcwr who
tried the hundred pound contract trick, asked for our
sympathy on the same grounds, wa should certiainly Ijo
inclined to grant it. And when you come to compare
Began with [Just so; but we are in a hurty to get
to press.—Ed. B 1
THE NEWSLETTER.
I Smith, who murdered Capt. Eoels of the Anme
C. Lynn, has had hia death sentence commuted to 14
years, two years in irons } Moore, for rape, will serve
seven years instead of being: hanged.
The Austral is to go into dock at Cockatoo
Island on the 23rd, the date of the Spring tides. 400
men are cleaning her. Fancy that, after bathing in our
beautiful harbour—and not at the ladies' baths, either I
The N. S.W. Civil Service Co-operative Society
have this half year declared a dividend equal to 18f per
cent, on the nominal capital. Which reminds us that
a good deal of quiet diluting goes on at the Society’s
stores.
The Presbyterian Assembly—Heaven help them !
—are to petition Government to stop trains and trams on
Sundays (no mention of 'buses), and shut up Museums,
Libraries, Schools ot Art, and Art Galleries ec the same
day. They’re singularly silent on the growing question
of shutting up parsons on the Sunday.
A Chinese merchant writes to the Press saying
our fishery lows are barbarous, and years behind the
Chinese law. He states that the size of mesh required
in N.S W. expands in the water to such an extent as to
prevent the catch of saleable fish. Chew Ateak say she
used to employ 200 men in fishing, but that now ho
employ s none.
The new Sydney Town Hall will lye 166 feat 6
inches bv 85 feat; in addition there will be an organ re-
cess of 85 feet by 25 feet, besides side and end galleries
and a spacious orchestra, and accommodation wi.l be
provided for about SJOO persons. Also there will be a
lower hall of the same area as the principal one, anal»
feet high, which may be used for banquets, skating,
bazaars, and other entertainments.
Alooal paper says that at Cobar, recently, a young
man of good ednsatien and address who had through
drink lost a lucrative situation fell into the hands of
gamblers who eased him of every shilling he had earned,
besides his watch, rings, and trinkets. While he was
so drunk that he couldn’t stand alone they with the
assistance of a resident held him up to the counter
whilst he signed a cheque for his small bank-balance.
An officer, who had been one of the first to get
inside the Egyptian entrenchments at Tel-el.Kebir, was
asked to state what sore of resistance was really ottered.
“Weil,” he replied, “the white men ran like sheep,
discharging their muskets in the air; the only regi-
ment that stood was a black one, and the negroes
remained helplessly grinning, so that I thought myself
in the presence of a lot of Ethiopian serenadera. ana
felt quite ashamed to assault such funny fellows.
It has been calculated that the amount
spent annually in intoxicants in England within
the last tea years reaches £141,000,000. T his
gives an expenditure of £12,600,000 every month,
of £3,000,000 every week, and of £5 every second,
night and day Thera are 3 508,180 letters, in
the Bible, and if forty one sovereigns were placed on
every letter, this would represent tne annual expendi-
ture. The grain consumed by the brewers and die-
tillers is sufficient to provide four loaves per week to
every family in the United Kingdom,
lathe Do Mestro v. Age trial, Mr. Justice
Williams ruled that newspapers are not required to
prove their statements with regard to public men "to
the hilt,” and said that even if ‘•comment upon the
fact is erroneous, yet if it is fair, the defence is com-
plete.” This, which is thoroughly in accord with tte
spirit of libel-law procedure in England, reads very
curiously in a colony where the courageous pressman
hobbles about in chains forged for the relatives of those
who too often control hia destines at law.
The N.S.W. Typographical Association has
been no tilled of the low rate of wages paid to printers at
a certain Northern office. Some years ago the place
was full of “ turnovers,” whose screws ranged from Bs.
to 12 3. per week, though their task was about two
“ sticks” an hour (say forty lines) ei brevier from 8 a m
to 6 p m.—and back three nights a week. Journeymen
got £2 to £2 8s , for work which in Sydney meant £8 a
week. The printers were said to live in caves down the
river, and were the only people the floods couldn’t
wash out. It is fair to siy that all the proprietors,
from the original aboriginal editor downwards, have,
apparently lived on even less than their employes.
There’s a wire this week from Lambing Flat
which will rivet the attention of miners on the scat-
tered goldfields of the Australian colonies. Minter
and party have struck a 'five-foot wash of ounce stuff
at 76 feet, at O’Mally's flat. What if (ho old time re-
vived ? By the way, is Minter the publican, who has
bupg on to Lambiug Elat for the past fifteen years with
unquenohed hope, the man who’s found the colour ?
Ahd'then there’s another rush (it’s all one great stretch
of gold country) reported from Gootamundra and
Temora. Tho locality is “ Billy's Lookout,” about 11
miles from Barmedman. Tho nows from Copeland iy
quiot.
Not long' ago, a eertain Itrewer, being out of
luck, made application for employment to a Melbourne
brewing firm of decayed fortune. He was accepted, and
proved to be a diamond of the first water. The beer of
this firm rapidly beoama famous, and nowits net annual
profits amount to the nice little sum of £83,000. When
our brewing friend had given his employers a taste of
his quality, he arranged his terms, viz , £lOOO a year,
fixed salary, aud hadf-a-crown on every hogshead turned
out of the establishment. The weekly output never
falls below 85 ) hogr. heads in the worst winter months,
and during the summer it reaches 1250 This is every
week, mind; so if you add about 1000 half crowns
weekly to a salary of £lOOO a year, you will find that the
•‘screw" of a successful brawar iu not so far behind
that of a colonial Governor.
They can’t find the books of the late Mr Sem-
pill, official assignee in. insolvency, who ran away ta
Heaven, leaving behind him a thumping financial detioi.
cieucy and a large number of sorrowing friends The
gross amount collected by him between 1876 and 1833
was £49 953. Tho aggregate amount paid or “alleged
to have been paid” by him as dividends to tho poor
creditors was £24 187 He retained £5194 as com mis.
eion, and spent £lB 265 iu “ legal expenses.” His £5006
odd and the lawyers* £18,030 odd, just about balance
the amount said—only “said,” mind you—to have been
clutched by the creditors. Add the amount he stole,
aud Heavou only knows how acconnts would stand By
the way, the estimable Sampill was the man who got
another afsignse oouviotad of embeza'emoit and sent
to Dariing’aurst. He spent mest of his loot in Jervis
Bay coal mining speculations and other snob ventures
Tho latest London sensation is the discovery, in
the receiving-house of a parcel delivery company, of the
corpse of a girl of 14, packed in a ataroh-box. Examina-
tion of the body showed that the gjrl had been no
mere hapless outcast of abjoot poverty. She had baeu
carefully reared and tended. Her teeth hod been
looked after by a dentist; her hair, notwithstanding
that sho was in the last stage of emaciation, bora signs
of having received continuous attention. She had been
the child or the ward of well-to-do people, had presum-
ably been known to many, and had been thought warthy
of careful nurture. Yet this was her end—to be found
crushed into a deal box after a death too clearly caused
by starvation or poison, aud without a single living
beirg having come forward to so much as say she was
missed.
Fanny and Florence Parker, of Windorali (§.),
aged 15 and 13 respectively, are to be tried for muraer.
Florence was confined of a child, and when it was bom
—an occurrence which took place in a room where
there were other girls she deliberately set about
strangling it. Fanny helped her. She went to the
wood-heap, got a big billet, and broke the head of tho
infant, which they buried that night. No mote was
heard of the matter for several weeks, until one day a
black girl, who was dialled by Florence Parker, said:
“ S’posa you no quiet, me yabber with missus—you bin
kill picaainny, aud sit down top of aheep-yard.” It
appears that when the two young sha-devila went to
bury tho child it was still alive, seeing which Fanny
Parker took a tomahawk, out its neok. and then quietly
chopped it in two at tho loins. No one appeared to
know or care about Florence Parker’s condition before
or after the affair. The girls have a stepmother.
The comments of the English press upon the
Belt case are positively revolutionary. Up to the close.
of last year the mere hint of partiality on the part of an
English Judga was looked upon as equivalent to a
declaration of Socialistic or Nihilistic principles.
There were signs of approaching apoplexy in the
leaders that wore written when the Irish members dared
to find fault with the judges who were making a skittle-
alley of Ireland, and bowling the patriot ninepins down
as fast as tho Land League set them up. Even now the
bare bint that certain of his countrymen didn’t get a
fair trial has brought a Government prosecution down
on the devoted head of the member for Cavan. Tst
Government has not yet proposed to prosecute'
any of the journalists and gentlemen who have delibe-
rately charged Baron Huddleston with being Mr. Belt’s
counsel. The very journals which used to denounce
Tiohboumeitea and Konealyitea as villians of the
deepest dye, have been the moat outspoken about the
Balt trial. A London paper puts it thus
All the Diffeebikjp.
For the Irish to speak 'gainst a judga is a crime.
Even mayors who trangresa into prison ore thrown.
For Paddy to rail at they’re far too sublime,
But the English may freely find fault with their own.
Warm complaints are made to ns of the way in
which, on the 27 th February, Sergeant Bennett obtained
convictions against three Port Macquarie publicans,
for selling grog to an aboriginal; and the injured par-
ties have sent us the Poet Macquaeie News of March
3rd, containing full details of the court oases, and a
bitter letter, by " Critic," launched against the “ saint,
policeman, pettifogger, and informer," Bennett, for the
mean, snake-in-the-graas way he trumped up the
oases." We are very sorry in this case that we can't
sympathise with the worthy publicans. The oases are
similar and very simple. Sergeant Bennett took with
him Jumbo, a black tracker, and just outside each
hotel gave him money to purchase grog (having exam-
ined him to be sure he had neither bottle nor grog on
his person), and in each case Jumbo went in and immf-
diately came out with a bottle containing grog and
correct change. This is called a " snake-in-the-grass"
way of obtaining a conviction. We fail to see it. The
law says blackfellows are not to be served. Very wall;
the sergeant sent in a blackfellow, as a blackfellow,
without disguise or deception, and he was served, in
violation of the law. We don't see why a publican
should be allowed to break a plain law any more than
anyone else. “ Critio " makes a great point of the con-
victions being gained on the evidence of a blackfellow
who had been trained to say, like a parrot, that he be-
lieved in God, devil, hell, reward, punishment, and
several other things; but who, in cross-examination,
said that if he told a lie he would go to heaven. This
is specious, but a misrepresentation. The only people
who accept such a dootrine are members of Parliament
and policemen The real incriminatory evidence was
strong enough circumstantially, had Jumbo never
spoken a word. When Sergeant Bennett sent Jnmho
into a bar with nothing in his potse-siou, stood at the
door, and saw him come out a few seconds later with a
bottle of brandy, and the right amount of change, it is
clear he got tho brandy in the bar, unless he were a
perfect Heller in the conjuring line. No attempt is
made to disprove the ssrgeant's sworn evidence, or to
impugn bis truthfulness. There is simply tte accusa-
tion against him of being “mean." The ioo ofic-
former is not a pleasant one, it is seldom a creditable
one; but that is not the point at issue. The faet seems
to us to be just this: Messieurs tho Publicans have
broken the law, and finding it impassible to prove tbs
contrary, they disiro to raise a side issue, and gain
sympathy by asserting they were drawn into it by a
trap. But it won’t do.
The foundations of Wagga railway bridge have
sunk 3£ inches. “It was fully anticipated, and tbe
Government engineer does not expect any futther move-
ment in the structure.’’
There is now living at Newtown a soldier who
wns born in 1787, eertfeft seme yeirs in the Peninsula
War, was c.t Corunna when -ir John Moore was killtu»
also at Bad i Joe, Flanders and Tarragona. Immediately
on recovering from a fever be was at Waterloo, mid in®
night before was present at that memorable ball at
Brussels, where “ cright the lamps shore o’er fail
women and bravo tnsn;" he remembers the bearing of
the Iren Duke at that momentous time, a “ tower of
strength ’’ in tbe hour of cefd. The old warrior ins’.st®
wa have only had feather-bed soldlers’einoo Wellington
died. 'Tia over so The old peopie don’t think tn®
world is half what it was when they were young.
they were wonderful times then 1
At Kumara, N.Z., sports, recently, there was a
ba maid race of 100 yards, in which about half a sotr®
of blooming belief, some of them weighing nearly ,
quarter of a ton, toed the scratch. The winner, Mis®
Jacobs, who skipped along like a young angel without
wings, was made happy with a beautiful new bonnet*
The second prize was a hat, the third a pair of stay?
and the fourth a but no, we will not put ihefeuttn
article in black and white. Another exciting ®°““
test toek place between a portly lot of publicans, taß»
and femalo, the fair sex represented by a coup® a
weighty “ widders." r J he united exertions of the*
fleet-footed fairies created an earthquake, end rsie e ®
cloud of dust which made it quif,e ..impossible, to <u*
tinguifih the winner —but the eb might
j expected, carried off the first and second prices.
A GROUP OF AUSTRALIAN EXPLORERS.
1. MR. O'DONNELL. 2. MR. CARR LOYD. 3. MR. LINACRE. 4 MR O'MALLEY.


BRIEF MENTION.
An appeal to the charitable—Buy the D.T.
rpj, 0 “ Silent ” member. —A. G. Jones. Humph •
W Artillery Parade Ground—The Block.
chief officers— Blockheads 1
The Sugar Planter is not, as its name might
•'held to imply, a religious organ.
V’s said the Melbourne people are awfully mdig-
. !e th« Austral sinking in Port Jackson instead of
1 r i; Bay*
E T# S «vcr von find .a man whose thoughts are fixed
.af better world, offer him 20 per cent, on his in-
on e nts in this, and yon have him.
" n l simras, the physiognomist, says that a chin
too far forward denoted a miserly nature.
That’s why the holy frauds of Sydney shave only their
"TnEvuNOOZB man called on Mr. Eodmond, at
« Wrrffc th« other day. No sooner had Mr. E looked
. rarf } > than he rang the bell for the waiter, and
«ald-— ** 0ne hash ”
\ Rnur man, being pot-valiant, said, the other
.4, tnat he’d be surprised if any one tried to Alfred
5? i Tiim What would surprise him more, however,
would be a new pair of boots.
An adventurous Frisoan named Gilboy,
The Pacific crossed in a mere shell, boy.
Bat Fate, the old Plagner,
With “fever-an’-ager”
Turned him up till he was quite an ill hoy.
(i » n( 3 have you arranged about the new
dear ?” said the wife of a well-known metro-
governess „ y 0S love," was the reply: and
«ha comes highly recommended. The organiet of . . .
Anyhow, she didn’t come,
POOH I—PEEEY.
Sava the Bum, the Domain yelper Perry
(Now, it seems a mysterious tale I)
Is to havo a gold ticker (so very
Absurd the joke that we’re merry) I
Presented by—bah 1—Abigail,
You’d ask us in vain, reader, *• Why, dear F
Oh, this Perry oerapels ua to ci-deor.
We want tho firo-stations and
warehouses connected by telephone.
We also want the firemen disconnected
from the beer-engine.
Mr Barley says that the Land
laws ought to be burnt by the common
hangman. He is evidently no respecter
“f persons. He didn’t say anything
about the judges.
Hair flaw tha other day in tho
Bnrwood train. A gentleman stooped
down and caught hold of a lady s foot.
Said she, “Sirll” “I beg your
pardon,” he replied £ “ I thought it
was nay portmanteau/*
The Rum anticipates, with some
glee, that there will he a row at the
Hibernian festival on Patrick's Day.
No wonder they are glad, those D.T.
bova. Should there boa shindy, broken
meats will be as plentiful as broken
heads.
“ I feel rather unwell. Can you
get me a glass of brandy and water ?
said a iady to a cloak room countess of
vinegar aspect. “ Couldn’t go into a
publiieonse for the world, mim. My
Pa would never allow it. (Proudly).
He was a plumber.
Some time ago he wanted an
editor, and a gentleman called on him
about the billet. “ Our policy,” says
be, “is a liberal one. Then ho
called down tho pipe- = tell
the dramatical cricket to go out ana
get me two pies.”
Patents of Australian baronet-
cies contain a stipulation that the title
shall only descend to "lawfully be-
gotten ” heirs. This is to prevent
little blackfellows, who run about in
a costume of ’possum rug and toma-
hawk, becoming baronets.
The statement by the Herald
that Parkes’s cab was rushed after the
Redmond meeting, and that a crowd
wanted vengeance, is erroneous.
Bosh I They didn’t want vengeance
at all. They only wanted their money.
They weren’t enemies in the slightest
degree. They were only old friends.
We read that that collection of
humbugs, the South Australian Purity
Society, “ will shortly propose to tho
Young Men’s Christian Association
tho adoption of the pledge taken by
the society in the University of Ox-
ford, in reference to protecting women
ond children from degradation.” The
Parity Society, being under the um-
brella themselves, evidently under-
stand the Christian Young Men. Even
to dream that the Y.M.C.A. need snob
a pledge to keep them straight, would
be rank blasphemy—for outsiders. But
perhaps it’s as well they should take
the pledge. There’s choir practice,
you know; to say nothing of love-
feasts and mothers’ meetings. Tha
young men have long been pledged
against Bass’ beer — now they’re to be
pledged against Aspasia and Lais and
Phryne, and all the rest of them.
Humph
The other day Hans von B. O. Holtermann,
JI.l 4 , introduced a deputation to the Mayor of North
Shore from Booby Head. The prayer of the Booby-
Heads was answered and many encomiums were passed
by the B H.’s on the Head of the Boobys.
Pigeon-shooting to bo declared illegal in Eng-
land The shooting of fellahs, in order that the
usurers may get their interest, and that that deprived
ruffian, born but to beget idiots, the Khedive, may
throttle the national aspirations of Egypt, has not yet
been declared illegal.
Two subjects for a Young Men’s Christian
Association Debating Society: (1) Which is the
greater offence, to steal four gallons of rum from a
hogshead, or add four gallons of water ? (2) Which is
it better, to ringbark thistles on Sunday, or send a bad
one pound note to Peter Campbell for the heathen ?
A Chinaman was hanged in San Francisco, the
other day. His last words wore: “ Hooray, I'm off,
but I shall come and see you all again to-morrow.” We
know two or three men hare whom we should not like
to hear making this threat when they are being hanged.
Bat. if they came back, there would only be one course
open for us. We should have to hang ourselves.
A recently-detected Post Offioe thief does not
Bund so much going to gaol, but he is very annoyed at
the idea that ha may possibly have to associate with
persons who are not gentlemen. It might be arranged
for M Clintock, who, wo understand, is a most gentle-
manly man, to share his suite of rooms.
A man in Hobart was recently robbed of .£lO
and a watch, the thieves leaving behind two £SO notes,
the man was discovered by a policeman, stunned, in a
And just as he had discovered the two fifties
another police an came U P- Now the first policeman
knows it bring- a man bad luck if he doesn't say his
prayers.
The Morxing Rum saya it is “ the only
Jun-aul which ias had the courage and the honesty to
speak of M - i: hone’s conduct as it deserved." The
f rM 19 apparently written by corpses, and read only by
„a- Its effect on M’Elhcno is j ust as strong as
n “ e *® e nt of the pra-historic carvings of the cave-men
in- • prevent Indian policy of Russia, or that of the
ascriptions on Mahomet’s coffin upon the resurrection
ishes of the Bligh-street hash-houses.
b.IV 0 regret that we have to chronicle the
r® Uea -tb °{ James Crews, a waiter. We didn't know
a me3 personally, but we learn that he was of extremely
short statnro. This melancholy event, may, therefore,
be not inaptly set down as one short Crews going on a
long one. The sad end of Mr. C. should be a warning
to other waiters not to go into the kitchen while the
cook is deep in the dark and sanguinary mystery of
preparing mook-turtle.
The latest from Queensland (Win ton) is that two
M.P’s. went into a shanty near there and called for
refreshment. A touzlod-haaded man produoed a bottle,
and the gentlemen were invited to help themselves.
•• What ia it ?” they asked, 11 Foine stuff,’’said the
barman. " G've it a name,” they said, “ Paix, thin,”
he replied, •' I cannot tell ye till my brother Mtck comes
homo.” *• Well, have you got any soft stuff?’’ thev
enquired. “ Bedad, yes said he brightening :” I
have some capital fruit salts.”
" Archbishop Vaughan decorated with a massive
gold cross an i chain by the pupils of the Braid wood
convent.” Humph!
There was an Archbishop named Vaughan,
Of the seot that is shaven and ahaugbsn j
He shows he’s a “ dab ”
At the holy game " grab,”
So will “ hold it, ’ you bet, when he’s gaughau.
Will that journalistic starveling, the Daily
Morning Rum, which has in the Interests of the mean-
est and dirtiest form of sectarianism, recently been
parading, and apparently also lying, about certain al-
leged petty thieves, note that the precious youth who
attempted to poison hia mother and brothers and
sisters near Melbourne, the other day, is a native of
its (the Rum’s) country (Victoria). Perhaps, however,
what would make the blood of every Victorian start
quickest to the roots of his hair would be to Just say—
the Rum ia run by Victorians,
The following could only have appeared in an
Armidale paper: “Matrimonial. A middle-aged
bachelor in comfortable circumstances ia desirous of
entering upon connubial felicity, and wishes to receive
communications accompanied with photographs from
ladies with a view to the above. The qualifications are
to be—of medium height, any colour, domestic, not
over fond of fashions, sober, and not too fond of gossip-
ing or gadding. Wealth and prosperity guaranteed.
No Whirley-gig dancers need apply.—Address, C. 0.8.,
Rose Wood Block, via Salisbury Plains.”
There might have been seen, a few days back, a
man leaning against, a lamp-post and wailing in agony.
His groans raised the echoes in the gloaming, and be
boat his breast with the madness of despair. “ What’s
the matter ? " enquired a kind-hearted passer-by. I
•• Matter I ” foamed ihe anguished one—” matter I Why,
the Speaker has given tha members longer for their
dinner.” “Well, what of that?” was the rejoinder.
*< Wbat of that ? ” foamed the afflicted man. “ Ab, that
this calamity should have come upon me, who have
harmed no one. Learn, stranger, that lam blighted—
undone! In a word—l am the caterer.”
It seems now that all notion of fixing up the
Town Hall Clock is over, j et when, during the municipal
elections, we heard
The eloquent tones
Of Alderman Jones,
we have a very distinct notion that he made use of the
following words :—“I will guarantee that it will not be
long, if I am elected, before the Town Hall clock is
fixed up all right.” That promise quite put the set on
poor Meeks, who was so dazed regarding that wondrous
horloge that he was afraid to promise anything. Well,
now, we see either what election promises are worth, or
how little an individual alderman can do. It would lie
a grateful act on Alderman Jones’s part (being in the
trade) if he would only stop up that eyesore in the
clock tower, aud thus give the Corporation something.
But fancy anyone giviug the Corporation anything!
Ws fancy we can see Carter’s smile, and hear Dan’s
guffaw!
We have such a lot of funny correspondents,
and we love thorn all; though we are at times unable,
for various reasons, to insert their communications
•• in the columns of our valuable paper." About 60 p« r
cent, of them begin: “In a rustic spot not a thousand
miles from” wherever it is; and then we hear all about
how the blacksmith out out the poundkeeper, and get
in detail some sarcastic comments of the shoemaker
upon the event. We like these items very much; and
they are invariably inserted in exactly the same place.
Here, now, wa have before us (from “ Vindex ”) four
pages of an account of bow a rat ran round some sew-
ing-girls’ petticoats, and how her fellow workwomen
(there wore no men there, so the story isn’t giddy)
pulled the animal down and slew it—a ghastly tale,
which leaves ns undecided in our minds which to pity
most—the rat or the young lady. Oh, yes; it’s a charm-
ing thing to study our correspondence. It’s rather a
pity, though it takes so lorg to wade through it. That’s
where the Shroud (is it alivj still?) isn’t troubled.
Lucky Shroud.
The little Camden Times expresses an insane
desire to " sap the vital (sic) of the deadly upas tree of
ribald blasphemy wblob has snob a luxurious growth in
certain quarters. ’* Poor thin?l It is evidently under
the impression that the upas iree distils rum. It
objects strongly to us. So do all fools and rogues. Wo
don’t object to it. We only object to rogues. If the
Camden Times were to spend its time in learning bow
to spell, instead of in writing dime-novel declamation
and foolish fustian, it might, by intense study, acquire a
sufficient sense of its own imbecility to go and hang
itself. But wo suppose this is too much to effect; the
more worthless a thing is the more tenaciously does it
cling to its sorry existence. We are glad, however,
that it did not die before it published this shriek
T.isten : “ A Mistake.—ln our last issue we stated Mrs,
Bruokh n uster died It was Mr. Bruokbauster’s mother-
in-law, Mrs, Schneider, that expired. We are sorry for
the mistake we made ” For a slab e f solid, unconscious
irony, we will back this against anything which any-
body can produce The Camden Times should oonflae
itself to humorous obituary writing. It is its forte. It
should confine itself to that once more. And then it
should pull a tombstone over its head and crawl down
among the other larvic.
“ Dagonet ” is showing signs cf overwork with
a vengeance. In his last ballad he is even “off it” to
this extent: —
“ We were only a few weeks married, I and the wife,
you know.
When we had an offer for Sydney, and made up our
minds to go.”
This is very poor work for so go“d a man, and if he
begins to write any worse, he will have to resign his
lyre in favour of Sladen. And this recalls to our re-
membrance that we have not seen any of this alpha*
betioal bard's Sapphic effusions for n long tine. We
are getting Impatient.
Twang the Harp ! Two apostles of the Goaf el
are in quod—and man comes by his own again. Frank
Warden, onr very own park howler and wholesale bap-
tism vendor, and the pious J. K. Meiblejohn, have met
in Darlinghnrst. Both false pretences or something
similar. All through their history it’s been false pre-
tence. Frank Warden pretended to make people
(black cooks included) whiter than enow by baptism in
Woollaomooloo Bay, at low tide, J. N. Meiklcjohn for
years pointed the way at Morpeth that ho never went
himself. He was Mayor of that town, and, judged by
his voice at a distance, was three leagues nearer the
golden shore than any other snrfflahuster in the dis-
trict. He ground out verse at church on Sunday, and
ground down his customers on Monday. Tea years
ago he was the most influential gospel-grinder on the
Hunter; ten weeks ago he was an outcast fn Sydney
Tan years ago he was a petty tyrant over tha Corpora-
tion labourers at Morpeth ; now he’s breaking stones
himself at Darlinghnrat, and getting nothing for it.
Jeff Stow, the editor of the 8. A. Advertiser,
forwards replies to matrimonial ada. which appear in
bis paper. Witness an announcement which is clipped
from the ’Tiser A gentleman living in the country
whera marriageable ladies are scarce, wishes to cor-
respond with a lady, elth r spinster or widow, over the
age of 28, with a view to matrimony ; comfortable horn i.
Send a few lines with photo, addressed to Romeo, care
of the Editor of this paper, who will forward the letter
under cover." The last editor we knew who undertook
to do this was a single man. Hu kept tho photo, and
forwarded his own iu return. Then he met her a few
days later, and took her to the theatre. She was a
demure young thing, and he was charmed He pro-
posed, was accepted, and married her. Then he found
she was a plate-layer’s widow, “ with three young bids."
At least, when we say widow, we mean that there wa« a
bit of a haze oyer the memory of the plate-layer. He
had either fallen down a disused shaft or cleared out
—the bereaved one didn't quite remember. Now she
remembers her editor by a suit of tweed clothes, three
socks, and a brass scarf-ring. You’d like to know who
that editor is. wouldn’t you? What a thing cuiiosity
is, to be sxre I
The Adelaide people had better, if they wish to
avoid a horrible scandal, investigate the system order
which justice is*administered in the bonhern Terri-
tory. The other day, two blaokfellowr, for try teg to
escape front gaol, were sentenced to be impiisoned for
twelve months in irons ! Twelve months in ’rons, and in
tho awful climate of Pert Darwin! At the same
sittings, a blaokfellow, found guilty of stealing four
gallons of wine from a store, was sent to gaol for four
years I They are still slightly primitive at Port Darwin,
Wa read that “the Crown Prosecutor addressed the
jury in his usual telling manner,” end that “his Honor
summed up, and the jury retired, when not a few of
them ‘ blowed a cloud,’ c’ec'aring they could not give a
true verdict till they’d hid a smoke." After “His
Honor" (whose name is P-ire) bed, by way of keeping
his hand ip, sent awietchid Otoese to gaol for four
years for stealing £3, he rffi dally bade the jury fare-
well, saving that it gave him much pleasure, &o.,—that
although his Court ” was conducted without the im-
posing pageantry of the Supremo Court, he believed
ample aud substantial justice bad been done on evtry
occasion.” This address, we further observe, 11 was
received with applanaa.” Tho newspaper from which
we glean all this interesting nows also tells ns that
•• the ball given by tho police of Palmerston last night
assumed vast proportions." All the town wont *' A
largo marquee had been erected ontside tho barracks;
the card-rooms were tastefully arranged, the side walls
being beautifully adorned with flowers and evergreens,
while the spacious verandahs were available for those
who, like myself, went to spend a glorious hour.
Dancing was kept up till n late hour, and the Police
Ball was one of the greatest successes of the holiday
season.”
The N.S. Wales detectives are (jetting cTsarusted.
When sent after an absconding criminal, they are only
allowed steerage passages, and an allowance of 4s. a
night, in addition to their pay, whilst ashore. On board
they get no allowances whatever. With the D’s of
England, and even the other colonies, things are very
different. Porinstanoe, Dowdell, tho English ‘'criminal
investigator,” who was sent out after Dirgaval, the
bankrupt (who snhseqneptlv was sentenced to four
days’ imprisonment!) lived like a fighting-cook at the
bast hotels, making vouchers for his ox.’s. and doing an
eight month#* very pleasant trip, London dstec-
tive police, however, also those of Victoria and else-
where, have been proved to have been very corrupt
times out of nnmher; but our detectives (we don’t
allude to the Mahood element, in uniform), if they are
a bad lot, have had legislators' luck in not, getting
found out. And what a difference that makes, eh ?
Opinions differ, though, about the smartness of the
body. Some say that in making Larkins Inspector at
Newtown, and Lyons at Tomora, Posbery pulled the
personnel of his staff to pieces. Lots of people believe
in Biley, Mnlqnceny, and Pirie, who have all done good
work, but there can be no doubt that n. superior scale
of educational accomplishments would, even in the
case of these officers, farilitato business. A little story
is told of a prominent Sydney ”D.”—we won’t say
which, since, it we were the cause of his promotion,
we might get ourselves disliked by the others It is
this :—Not so very long ago there was an esclandre hero,
which culminated in proceedings being taken for
divorce, andasihe co-respondent was biding in order
to escape from tho colony, and couldn’t be found by
the bailiffs, a detective was called into requisition, and
given instructions for the capture. “But yen can’t
arrest him without a habeas corpus,” said tho tolicitcr.
" I guess I’ll do very well with this stick,” was the
reply.
A storekeeper at Bangabooroo,
asked a lady of that claerio region ‘o
pay an account, ot which she said gl e
had hia receipted bill. Ho said not;
so she travelled homo in tho cart 20
miles or so and got it. Then she went
back to the store, and tho man said it
was alia mistake A Hi tie later, ha
was lying down on the floor of the
shop, with his head on a flour bag and
his feet in a herring cask, whilo the
lady performed on him with one of his
best brooms. After a bit ho got up,
and was carrying the customer out of
the shop, when his wife (who had been
out to milk the cows) turned tha
corner. Ha is now a _ porus-plaster
package, full of nothing else but
groans and explanations.
Albert James Grey, who had
arrived at the mature ago of three
years, died at Parramatta qp Saturday,
after drinking some rum. Ho was iu
the habit of rc -eiving spirits from his
father. A doctor deposed that the
cause of deal h was alcoholic poisoning.
The Dailt Telegraph says it would
have been more satisfactory had some
of the liquor been analysed. You see,
they’re naturally incredulous that any-
one has ever been killed by rum. All
this reminds us that there is on this
paper a man vsi.o commerced even
earlier than the Parramatta yonlb.
He was born in Ireland. Something
seemed to be the matter with him
whan first he raw tho light, so they
bathed him in a bowl of whisky. Ho
has not been sober since.
A gentleman, of foreign accent
(dressed in deep mourning), went to
Smith’s one day last wook and ordered
a picnic hamper of a giddy sort, and
also some elaborate bonbons the cases
of which ho directed should be tied
with new ribboa. “ What colour,
sir?” enquired the captivating
Chawles. “Ber-lack. M’sieu,” he re-
lied ; “ ma pauvre More I”
Maggie Moore is cross, and wont
play any more. She refuses l ogo to
Adelaide, and passes her time sticking
pins into Monl’s photograph. She
says the notice has crushed her. Fancy
being crushed by a notice! Lcok what
the Protestant Standard say s about
ns. And we still play. There is no
silly sensibility about us. Ask tho
waiter whore wo have our lunch.
A smart Maitland man, who
prides himself on never making a
mistake, the other day gave a custc.
mer a half sovereign in chans - instead
of sixpence. Fame night he rode
twelve nailas to get back the golden
coin—and succeeded. In paying toll
he again gave the-half eovereign in.
stead of sixpence, and remained uncon-
scious of the fact until the morning.
Next night he rode back to interview
the toll-keeper. But thr* intelligent
person proved himself fnlly qualified
to answer questions in Parliament,
for "he hud no recollection of the
matter.” The clever one is now the
maddes t man in the North. ,
“ A boy was sentenced to imprisonment until
6 p,m. for stealing a copy of the S.M. Hxkald.”
What hope, what hope is there for tl ee,
Thou bov disposed to larceny ?
Paint hope, indeed, a'as!
Thine is a gloomy outlook, lad.
Who ha«t so soon gone to the bad,
And this will come to pass :—
Tbou'lt learn, perchanoe, to read and write,
Prod dent gat at drinking quite -
Then oomea the fearful ban I—
F >r fl id will be from thee all good;
Thou’lt join a blust’ring •* Brotherhood,’*
And ba an-Alderman.
For lads that are as mean as thee
This herrid fate must ever be—
Well may’st thou shake and blench !—
Tho lot of those that Heealus steal,
Must in this land e'er be, we tee',
The Council or the Bench,
[ We don’t say what Bench, though. Yah I -Ed. B,]
We have received a little poem from a lady who
might have been another Sappho, if she had flourisLtd
earlier or later—before the creation or after *he day of
judgment. The poem is upon the exhilarating subject
of small-pox. After asking us an unsymmatrical metri-
cal conundrum as to whether the public wdl have <o
pay any fresh taxes for the consignment of rmal.-pcx
now to hand, she remarks with maternal pride :—
• ** Now, Sir, I am a mother
And three human blossoms home.
My bonn’e dark eyed Eosie
Now to young girlhood grown.
My tender-hearted Archie
And my darling blue eyed Alfle.”
We are rejoiced to hear this. We don’t much admire
the maternal muse, but if she desires to perma*ently
preserve her children against small-pox we will go out
of our way to give her tome advice. First drown ten-
der-hearted Archie in a butt of carbolic aoid.t hen opprec-
tioe b’ue-eyed Alfle to the Rum— the atmosphere ol that
office is an invincible safeguard against any other < or-
tagions than those of dirt and dropsy. And. flcal'i,
send along dark-eyed Eosie to us—passage paid. We
will have her inoculated from the “Intelligent Vagrant."
By the time she gets sober again after this operation
the sir all-pox will have vanished.
AN EXPLANATION.
M.P. “Now, was I (hic) diunk?”—Other M.P. “Oh! ro.”


Says tho Manning River Times : “ Onr new
Wealoyan miniater is younff, and seems qniftt and re-
served, but, perhaps, These latter qualities will wear
off." Wc should think they would. No respectable
sun-dried Wesleyan minister is quiet and reserved—all
the time.
Henry Harrie Cooke, whose defeat for Forbes
has settled on his cranium like a rock on a frog, says
that eleven players of tho Parramatta Lunatic Asylum
defeated eleven members of Parliament, and auggos-
tively adds : '* None of the M.P.’s wore detained at the
Asylum." True, bnt that wouldn’t have been the case
had some members of the last Parliament been
playing.
POLITICAL POINTS.
We are, says Truth, doing in Egypt precisely
■what the Russians are doing in Bulgaria—supporting a
-despot against his people.
Dr. Beaney’s olealion expenses amount to
£2796 10b. 61. Of coarse tho money went through the
Angora of the not very butter-fingered Batters.
Talking about 35 Parliamentary drunks, it’s
■only tho ocher day one member in the precincts of the
‘Chamber threw a tumbiar at another hon. member,
■and smashed it to atoms ou his elbow.
Tho Irish harvest for ISB2 realized nearly six
millions loss than that of 1831, Famine is already
■devastating tbe South-Western provinces. (S. M
■Herald and Echo please suppress).
A new daily paper is, we hear, to he started
shortly in Melbourne. Its policy is to be advanced
Radicalism and a full recognition of the fact that the
vox populi is the vox Dei. Ths R C.’s of Victoria have
also made up their minds to have a paper representing
their rights, it, being considered by them that the
Advocate is ao representative organ.
The Mudoee Telegraph, which has been
hotly opposed to M'Elhone in the recent else tion, says
“he conducted himself throughout the contest in a
wise, heroic, and temperatejmannar." Mao admitted
that ho had no idea of tho wealth and importance of
■the place till he had visited it. Tho conduct of the
Mndgee larrikins towards Mao. is indignantly repu-
diated by tho townspeople and the Press,
The sorest man in the country over hia defeat
in tho late general election, is Henry Harrie Cooke,
Parkes’political pig, whose dumb, serf-like vote on the
Criminal Consolidation Bill was so courageously and
effectually exposed by Mr. Pigott, ths member for
■Canterbury. Henry Harrie (or the 'Nose’ as he is
■ called) literally bubbles with wrath—as he sees day
by day go by without a portend of change in the
-political world. Poor Cooke 1
From the Herald : “Our Queensland corres-
pondent states that tanking corporations having their
head-quarters outside the colony aro registered as the
■holders ef 650 nans, while a large cumber are held by
ffinanoe and investment companies who have no interest
in Queensland beyond drawing tho dividends that may
■accrue theiefrcm." Will the Herald now get its
;London correspondent to state facts in the same line
concerning Ireland ?
Tho colonists of New South Wales are heartily
tto bo ooiJgratulated upon tho blank failure of the organs
■of the moneyed classes, and the Echo's, to work up am
■ excitement ogiinat even listening to an exponent of the
■ case of the Irish people Sufficient time has now
■ elapsed since the Herald opened tho campaign to per-
unit of a judgment being formed aa to the effect upon
>the general population of this colony. It would
•scarcely be wiong to assert that there has been no effect
;at all.
“Ministers belonging to departments” other
than ths T.-easury must mind what they arc about. An
Irish patriot was recently in trouble for patting ont his
tongue at a policeman, and yet those English patriots
are rash enough to scowl at Mr. Herbert Gladstone.
So at least that ingenuous youth told the Leeds
Chamber of Commerce. “ There is only one depart-
Hicken. If ha does, he will probably be whipped.
Miller is too fat—too whalolike, His appearance in the
prize-ring would be a huge joke
The new Victorian Coalition Ministry:—Premier
and Treatnrer, Service; Chief Secretary and Minister
for Education, Berry; Attorney-General. Kerferd;
Railway Gillits; Lands,Tucker; Customs.Langridgo;
Works D.-akin ; Justice, R. S. Anderson. Deakin, who
baa hitherto been one of the editorial staff of The Age,
has undertaken to saver his connection with the Radi-
cal pre <s Personally, the Ministry is a very weak one.
Langridgo and Tucker are wretched politicians of the
Friendly Societies’ order.
The Whig and Radical representatives in Mr.
Gladstone’s present composite Ministry are not at all
harmonious as to what should ba dona abont Ireland.
Mr. Chamberlain on the 19-h December said that it
was vain to expect anything but discontent in Ireland
till Irishmen had a larger share of self-government
conceded to them Lord Harrington, exactly a month
later, said that to concede a larger share of self-govern-
ment to Irishmen, while they declared they only valued
it for tbe power it gave them to advance towards inde-
pendence, was madness.
Report says that a serious split has taken place
in tho Victorian “ Catholic " party owing to the recent
elections. The huge Knight of Moira—O’Shanassy by
name—wanted to '• boss” the party, and he had most
of the priests with him, bnt it was “no go.” Young
Australia belonging to the fold would not be bullied,
and they returned J. J. Madden for Belfast (Vie ), des-
pite the fact that tho vulgar ex-draper compared Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen to Father Chiniquy, the turncoat
priest. Anyhow, Sir Bryan is a gentleman—a thing be-
yond O’thanassy's comprehension.
“ Eat tho rent” is now the mot d’ordre from
Irish America to Irish Ireland. •' It is simple murder,"
says an Irish-American journalist, “ for Mr Gladstone
to allow the rascally landlords to collect the blood-
money called ' rent’ from a people who are actually oo
the verge of starvation Let tho people who are
threatened close down on every cent of rent. If neces-
sary, let them seize on the landlord’s flocks and herds
to feed themselves and their wives and children. To
seize on the property of the landlords would not be
robbery, but self preservation ”
In Lord Granville’s circular note respecting the
future of Eg pt is a series of proposals neutralizing the
Suez Canal <qnally in times of war as in peace. To
prevent the Canal from being used as a place of refuge
for an enemy’s ships in time of war, it is provided that
a limitation shall te placed on the time during which
belligerent vessels are to remain in it. But supposing
the vessels summoned to come out refuse to do so ? In
this case, the Pall Mall Gazette suggests that obedi-
ence to the law will be enforced by “ belligerent opera-
tions in the Caial.” A stunning sort of neatializa.
tion seems in prospect.
A queer commentary upon the excited represen-
tations of the fcYDNEY Morning Herald Peter Camp-
bell, aad other equally grave authorities who have
insisted that the Irish Land League leaders are person-
ally implicated in the Phoenix Park assassinations, and
hand and glove with the “ Inner Circle" or “ Assassina-
tion Committee,” is furnished by the following, quoted
from London Vanity Fair, a Tory organ, of January
27th, subsequent, be it noted, to the arrest of the
assassin?, including Carey, and the revelations of
Farrell, the first: informer : " What a ohaotio situation
it all is in Ireland Parnell dreads Davitt. Davltt
dreads the artisans. Both men dread the Secret Assassina-
tion Society I"
The Irish agrarian agitators now havqa good
omen that they will succeed. The Sydney Daily
Telegraph, whoso advocacy would blast any cause, has
gone against them. The D.T. would like to pit class
against class and creed against creed, on the prisoiple,
we presume, that something is always to bo made at a
fire by those who can’t earn a living through honest
work. W( care nothing for classes. Wo care nothing
for creeds. We care nothing for hirelings. The Irish
are to us aa the English, the English as tbe Scotch.
We have no pat nation. We are neither English, nor
Irish, nor Scotch. We are democratic—and Australian.
We quote b paragraph from a lato issue ef the paper in
quostior.-— ‘ On Tuesday morning at the Central Police
< Jr urt, t w > carpenters, of Irish extraction, named James
Smith and Anthony Sutton, both aged 32, were charged
with th) following wholesale thefts from Messrs.
Vl'Art bur and Co ,of York-atroet." Of Irish extrac-
tion I In the first place, probably this quotation tm.
jodies au infamous lie- Smith and Sutton are not Irish
names. Secondly, if they were, it would not be justifi-
cation for tho publication of a sneering inuendo against
a whole nation. It is only the pariahs of the Press, the
Lazarusea of literature, that oould commit such a srime
against common decency and common sense. It is only
those who being down on the bed-rook of degradation
themselves, and knowing that they can sink no lower,
can so revile their betters with impntity. We grant
that there are more Irish than English or Scotch in
gaol. And they are there for tho same reason that the
Daily Telegraph doesn’t succeed—because they are
ignorant.
OUR TIP.
Faith, M'Eibone and Taylor, we don’t grudge ye
Your victory on Hunter and at Mndgee;
Now just shake hands ; and, like true men and able.
Clean ont ths Parliamentary Augean stable.
Thus Vanity Fair “It is very sad to road
Lord Harrington’s view of the mission of the English
nation. The Egyptian war, he told his audience at
Baoup, was undertaken 'strictly for tho maintenance of
the closest and most distinctive interests and rights of
Bagland.’ Pram which it appears that tho distinctive
right of an Englishman is the privilege of lending
money at exorbitant interest, and in spite of the pro-
test of a nation's acknowledged Suzerain ; and that the
nation’s distinctive interest is to saenro their pound
of flesh to the money-grabbers who exercise that dis-
tinctive privilege. Compared with thin, it is a compli-
ment to be oallad a nation of shopkeepers."
Mr. Herbert Gladstone (the Grand Young Man)
describes tho “Castle system" by which Ireland is
ruled as tho worst form of Government in the world.
London Truth remarks, apropos.— -“ Let us see what
the Irish Government is. It oonsists of the Lord-
Lieutenant and tho Privy Ceunoil (a knot of judges
whom it would ba gross flattery to call old women), an
Irish Secretary, and a host of permanent officials.
These are the puppets. The people who pall the strings
are a large nun her of white-livered, panic-stricken
country gentlemen, aid a select body of resident magis-
trates and police inspectors to whom it is a matter of
great moment to get themselves talked of in tome way
in order to be promoted. Except in th# rare moments
when English public opinion (forced bv Parnell and Co.)
pats pressure on tho ‘Castle,’ the Castle always does
exactly Iwhat these unsexad country gentlemen and
theseloffioiala on their promotion tell it to do.”
According to private reliable accounts, tho
pageant of tho great I AM NOT from Tentarfiold to
Grafton was, on many occasions, lamentably hollow.
The reception at Grafton, particularly, was as tame as
the one-horse reception of Robinson Crnaoo at Juan
Fernandez. An ex-Mayor (but certainly not an ex-
donkoy) read an address, apparently with two carrots
in hia mouth, and the groat Dictator replied with his
eyes closed Enthusiasm there was none. A feeling of
contempt and distrust of Sir Henry appears to have
threaded the sentiment of the whole country. By tho
way. Sir 'Enry’s tour was minutely described in the
Herald— apparently by some mesmerised devotee If
hia report of the speech at Grafton is analysed, it will be
found that the “ loud applause,” “ oontinned cheers,”
"renewed laughter," “hear hear,” etc., must have
occupied an hour and a quarter of ths two hours Sir
’Enry was speaking. A faithful reporter cm always
throw in a cheer or two, but ho needn’t necessarily
call n drunken, or, if you please, a sober grant “ pro-
longed applause."
The coalition between Service and Berry, and
the result of it as seen in the new Victorian Ministry,
is condemned generally, and its early demise is pro-
phesied by the knowing ones. By tboso capable of
forming an opinion, it is said tl at Berry has euchred
himself as the leader of the Radical party by joining
nervine and playing second fiddle in (he combination.
Tho Rafis, only want an able leader in the House in
order to consign “ Berry Jerry ” to tho limbo of the
forgotten. Aad such a man is to be found in G E.
Jones, the notorious, whose greatest sin was in being
found ont at trioks known to ba very commonly prac-
tised by Victorian legislators, who, in consequence, are
very anxious to keep the only powerful political speaker
in the colony ont of the Assembly, in which, it is said,
he will explain all about the wijs of some prominent
lights who were mixed up with him in the bribery
matter, but wore not found ont. The wags of poli ioal
circles say that the alliance between Service and Berry
has been brought about by the sympathy they both
havo for the fair sex in awkward relationships. In op-
position to the Government wili be foun I Mes.-rs.
Pearson, Patterson. Mirams, the Major, Wrixon, A T.
Clarke, Woads, Duffy, Dow, &a. —all more rr leas dis-
appointed office seekers. The result will be another
appeal to tho country in a tew months.
The following exemplification of - the furious
bias of the Herald-Echo people is too striking to be
passed over. Under date February 23-24, Renter’s
Aginoy cabled as follows“ Mr. Parnell rose in the
House of Commons to-night to reply to the attack
made upon him on the previous ovenlx g by Mr. Forster.
Ho defended his own oondnst in connection with the
Land League, and declared that he oared only for the
opinion of Ireland and of Irishmen. Tho aspersions of
Mr. Forster were, he maintained, wholly unjust and
undeserved and he declared that the evidence given by
Carey in the Dublin Police Court, by which it was
■ought te connect tbe Laud League with the assassins,
was a mere force. After Mr. Parnell had concluded his
speech in the House of Commons, the Right Hon. G
O. Trevelyan, Chief Secretary for Ireland, rose, and
cono'uded the debate on behalf of the Government.
He stated that Mr. Parnell had altogether failed to ex-
culpate himself, and that his explanation was most
unsatisfactory," Upon this foundation tbo Echo was
inspired with detailed information, evolved out of its
own inner consciousness, that “Mr. Parnell’s reply
appears to have been weak, shuffling, evasive, whining,
yet blustering; stamped by insincerity, wrung from
him by compulsion, and bearing as much resemblance
to the bold, manly reply of an nujnstly accused man as
the snarl of a onr bears to the roar of a lioa.” Bah I
The Times, which has been the Bondholders’
organ all through the Egyptian war, dees not even pro-
tend to mask the real intentions of the Government
with respect to Egypt. When Lord Harrington had in
a shuffling speech announced, with reference to the
“ Financial Adviser” to bo appointed by tbs Khedive,
that “ although, no doubt, in present circumstances, he
will ba an Englishman—he will not ba appointed by the
B itish Government, he will not be under the instruc-
tions of the British Government, nor will tho British
Government be responsible for hia actions. We shall
do our bast to advise the Egyptian Government to make
a good choice.” Tho Times cynically observes “Wo
shall, of course, make oar own choice, and shall insist
upon onr recommendation being followed; and having
done this, having put tho man in a place substantially
the same as that of a resident at a native Indian Court, we
shall scarcely hold onrselves at liberty to disengage
ourselves from responsibility for his conduct ” In
respect to this, a Conservative journal caustically re-
marks-.—“lt is clear that the Times now that it has
bent the Government to tho annexation of Egypt,
wishes all the world to know what is going on. The
Egyptian cat is out of the bag. We are not te see any-
thing like annexation ; for the man who lays his hand
on a foreign person’s property save in tho way of kind-
ness is unworthy the name of a Brit ish Moralist. But
wa are going to keep a European Force (this is the
statesmanlike way of describing British troops) in the
country for an indefinite period. The next move is
quite inevitable."
On the principle that it is proper that tho
electors should be placed in possession of all available
information respecting tbe character of their represen-
tatives, tho remarks by Mr. A. G Taylor respecting
Messrs. Dalton and Barbour cannot be too widely
d ffnsed. These hon. members will, doubtless, give
their version, and, when they do, our readers shall have
it placed before them Of Mr. Dalton, Mr. Taylor said
that he is destitute of ability, but is wealthy, and em-
ployed his wealth at tho election by buying up the vote
of navvies at £2 per head for the purpose of securing
his return for Orange If this be trne, the navvies and
their member are on as even level of corruption, and
the former are fitly represented. But we presume
there are decent men in Orange who hald their privi-
leges as free men and electors above price, and upon
such men it would be an atrocious outrage if a sordid
and corrupt gang of navvies should have thrust as mem-
ber a man of their own calibre. It would seem as
though a special act to secure purity of election is as
much needed in this colony as it was found to be
required in England. Any man who will push his was
into public life by d : ffnsing corruption among the
needy, and thus lowering the morality of his district
should bo sent to work on tho roads in a chain gang.
Abont Mr. Barbour, a very loud-professing advocate of
the cause of the “poor down trodden selector," Mr.
Taylor remarked that he is “ notorious for have
ing resorted to dammyism on a (most gigantic
scale.'’ Very good. Mr. Barbour will, perhaps,
now that the thing is put “straight,” feel it
“ due to himself ” (that’s the conventional, and
quite too complimentary, formula, isn’t it ?) to explain.
Then as to Mr. M'Eibone, tho Censor of the House and
the great anti-squatter, Mr. Taylor affirmed that there
are only sixteen men in this colony who hold larger
squattages. This doesn’t need so mnoh explanation.
All Mr. M'Eibone has to show is (hat he has not simu-
lated his devotion to the oanso of hona fidi settlement,
as a mask to cover a secret and real support to mono-
polist principles. If Mr. Taylor merely directs atten-
tion to the circumstance that Mr. M’Eibone, although
himself largely concerned in squatt ages, has steadfastly
laboured in the interest of selection against hia own
interest, ho wonid have been a very Balaam in his
cursing of M'Eibone. But tnrn abont is fair play. Mr.
M’Elhone has had something to say about Mr. Taylor,
and it is just as proper that people should know all
that is to be learnt about the one as abont others. Ac-
cording to Mr. M'Eibone, who has public report for
endorsement in this matter, Mr. Taylor resides in the
most vitreous of glass houses. Mr. Taylor, bo informed
the doctors, had been drummed ont of the Permanent
Artillery and sentenced te 168 days’ hard labour. These
bo your gods, oh Israel! The most satisfactory bit of
biography elicited by this contention has been, as might
havo been expected, a fragment given by Mr. M'Eibone
of his own history. He had been a sailor, had worked
hard, and bad humped hia swag from Sydney to tho
Turon goldfields. An honourable record, every line,
this. But, Heaven knows, it is a hard case with N.S.
Wales when it is necessary to admit that M'Elhona
and Taj lor are two of the most necessary and useful
members of the Assembly, considering its condition
and the need thsro in of knowing the naked truth about
tho men who have boon pretending honesty aad decency,
and making a grimace of decency and Roman virtue, to
tbs deception and bewilderment of the people of the
colony, all these long years.
Te Whiti and Tohu are to be released. After
pardoning fa Kooti, the N.Z. Government of coarse
oould not any longer keep the prophet in gaol kn
illustration of tho little gams being played by tho Bum
It sa- g : “Mr. Whean, solicitor, is a candidate tor
Grenfell in the Catholic interest ’’ From which wo
are to infer (hat the D T. wishes it understood that, the
thrioa-whipped Watson is a candidate in the “Protes-
tant" interest Mr. Berry will probably have a stiff
struggle for re-election at Geelong In Victoria, just
now, its coalition. By and bye, it will ba coll'sioa
Beanoy haring got into the Victorian Council the
legislative chamber is to be lighted, not bv eloetrioity,
but by his diamonds Thera were 40 informal votes
at tile Mndgee electi®n. Now wo know the strength
of the local Cassln party. A lot of the (lato) Govern-
ment’s supporters are out of work. The fltgraen at
various street corners have been dispensed with.
These men got billets because there were no J P.-ships
offering Shamrow, the Cingalese leader, who is howl-
ing all round Queensland abont hia wrongs, is to be
tho head it is thought of a third party in the Brisbane
Assembly next year. A Chinaman will probably b* the
tail.
• tt «
Herr Sohlengoadorf, spanking in the German
Parlia-ceut, recently, said:—“While a tooth remains
in a Jew’s head or laa long ns he has a aosoor an ear
left that might be slit, the Imperial treasury should
not bo left short of funds." Sohlengendorf is a
humorist, but he forgets that the Hebrews would taka
to wearing false tooth The World says : —No think-
ing man, who does not shut himself mp behind the
quickset hedge of a fool’s paradise, can doubt the sub-
ject of wealth and it* distribution —the concentration
of landed property in a few hands —will bo dwelt with
by tho Legislature before many years are over Tho
Parie Figaro, which alone published Prince Napoleon’s
recent Maoife«to, sold 300,000 copies that day Just
upon £9 000.000 were subscribed for at the floating <jf
the Victorian Loan. The London and Westminster
banks aisieted largely. There were two tenders of a
million each. Tho average premium is 3s 6d The
Queer ’s private estates include 37.372 acres, valued at
a rental of £20,773 per annum. She refuses to pay in-
come tax on her private income Twenty people were
prosecuted in Ireland, recently, fer groaning at the
Lord Lieutenant Judge O’Brien, the notorious pro-
landlord Solon of the Irish Bench , admitted at tho
Lough Mark murder trials that “ there was no legal
connection of any kind between the Land League and
the assassins.”
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
There’s a pretty big difficulty before Arch-
bishop Vaughan ere he departs. The R.C. priests want
to know who is to be regent. Lots of them will not
submit to anyone who ever gives the apostolic knocks
with his flats. The fold, according to rumour, is by no
means pe&osful.
The Bishop of London, riding between bis two
town-houses, passes 100 taverns, all the property of bis
Church Gin and the Gospel aro there like twin
brothers. We do not care to hurt the foaiings of such
a patrician prelate by saying ho is wrong, but wo think
he might at least take some other way when he rides
between his two town bouses. By the way, who is this,
again, who had not a place wherein to lay his head?
Oar memory is so bad.
Mr. W. Gunn, L.R.C.P., L.8.C.5., Edinburgh,
a Medical Missionary from the Free Church of Scot-
land to the New Hebrides,, is in Sj dney en route
Formerly, it used to bo the Bible in one hand and the
sword in the other. Now it Is physio in the other—
which, doubtless, will do more good for the niggers
than either sword or Biblo You see, physio cures
them of the effects of civilization By the way, the
niggers ought to receive a Gunn with open arms.
It is stated that the efforts of the Bishops to
eooure an able and strong max for the position of Pri-
mate have been frustrated by the action of two or three
of the rev. gentlemen who were elected by the Synod
to meet their lordships. These obstructionists caused
the failure of the Nomination scheme by their secret
plotting, and now we have them causing a dead lock in
the working of the Committee scheme. Of course now
the Church will get some respectable mediocrity as its
head, and ignorance and impudence will be as blatant
as ever in Sydney pulpits, Ose gentleman who did
most of the underground engineering in tho two last
Synods, has obtained, through high influence with the
nominators, the best living in the diocese as his reward.
But what of the Church at large ?—its financial position
and influence ? Thus writes a correspondent.
The Jews, under the influence of their religion,
axhibit just the same benightedness as a South Saa
Christian, or a Londonderry Protestant, or an Irish
mountain Catholic. In matters of finance tho Jew lots
blood artistically, but according to authoritative ac-
counts ho still spills the life-stream of the bullock at
the abattoirs in a merciless superstitious style, worthy
only of Abyssinia. A writer (“F.R.S.”) says in the
Herald of the 12ih “ I find on inquiry that, in spite
of all that appeared in the Herald, the tender assur-
ances of the mnoh-shooked Rabbi, and the shame and
indignation of many of our Jewish brethren, that it is
still the practice ou Glebe Island to slaughter cattle for
Jews by the preliminary operation of ramming a beam,
literally as big as a lamp-post, down the unfortunate
animals’ throats, for the purpose simply of placing tho
poor creatures’ nocks in a state of tension, convenient
for the use of the knife.”
We commend to the attention of the Rev.
Joseph Barniar—who, by the way, is one of the “stout-
hearted philanthropists ’’ of tho Coffee Palaoe—the
fact that in the Liturgy of the Anglican Church, as set
forth in the Primer of Edward YL, appears the follow
ing prayer, which it might, perhaps, bo as well to
revive:—" We heartily pray Thee to send Thy Holy
Spirit into the hearts of thorn that possess the grounds
and pastnras of the earth, that they, remembering
themselves to be Thy tenants, may not rack nor stretch
out the rents of the bouses and lands, nor yet take un-
reasonable fines and moneys, after the manner of cove-
tous worldlings j but so lot them out that the inhabi-
tants thereof may be able to pay the rents and te live
and nourish their families, and to relieve the poor.
Give thorn grace also to consider that they are but
strangers and pilgrims in this world, having hero no
dwelling-place, bnt seeking ona to oome j that they
remembering tho short continuance of this life, may be
content with that which is sufficient, and not join
bouse to honse, nor land to land, to the impoverishment
of others, but so behave themselves in letting their
tenements, lands, and pastures, that after this life they
may be received into everlasting habitations."
Archbishop Vaughan’s testimonial is the most
wonderful thing in the way of a " spontaneous offering”
we have ever heard of, not txcepting Peter Campbell'.
“ box trick," First a public meeting was held, but J
the faithful didn’t come down with the 11 sugar"
perly, a collection-brigade was formed, with his Hdi
ness Dr. Sheridan as commander-in-chief. Meeting
have boon held in every Catholic parish, and member
of the “ Holy Guild” and others hare been sent ronui
hat in hand, to every street and lane in the city to
from house to house for the *' poor Archbishop"
Lists havo even been sent into the country, and who.
all the coin is raked in, Father Mahony will, doubtless
hand over the bag to lioger Bede, and call it “a limj
offering from a grateful people."
Somebody Ims sent us the Vanguard, pub,
lished in the interest of ths Gospel Army, started b»
the Rev. W. H. U 11mmm. This gentleman is a W6 jj
meaning enthusiast, wh* only three months ago ft
signed a church and £l5O a year, at Enmore, with (b«
laudable idea of reforming larrikins. He says he found
the usual church routine would not reach iho musses,
and so ho has been going into ths highways and byways
to find thorn. And he fsund them awkward customers
to judge from snob remarks as “ Some urohia threw
mud in my eyos," “ One of our workers hit hard on the
head by one who had been at the meeting;" another
worker 11 received a severe blow in the stomach, which
mads him feel poorly," Ac. The Vanguard contains
a diary of doings for the month of February, and
among the facts recorded is : “A brother of a man la >
high position in Sydney was at the penitent form as
soon as the service commenced," it being, however
naively added, “ he was under the influence of drink •'
Wo find a letter from Will Murray, briokmaker, who
calls him.«elf " the vilest reptile," and says, “ All that
1 feel flt for is to be put on the dunghill,” We have
no hesitation in saying that the Vanguard has some,
thing in it; and it would «ff erd nice interesting readinv
during the winter evenings for those who like it. tv,
dow’t care about praising it too much, in ease they
might Keep on sending it, 3
* Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern Minsk
on the Guardian, the newly.founded organ of ijJ
Church of England in Queensland There is an
illustration of Archbishop Tait, in the first number
and of Governor Kennedy, in the second. It is hard to
say which is the greater guy, the dead bishop, or the
live governor. The Guardian pronounces for the Bible
in the State schools, and lays it down that ‘ the world
cannot live without the Bible,’ forgetting the fact that
the 1 world lived 3000 years without the Bible in Its
present form, and quite IfO years after Christianity was
founded, before the Church set her seal on the canonical
books «f the Scriptures. There is a goody-goody aj r
about all the utteranees of this pious organ, a com.
miseratlng looking down on the secularists, the scoffers
the sceptics, a painful pulpity iteration of pious plan',
tndos and wellworn old curses in disguiso, l
pats John Douglas on the baok for supporting
the transcontinental land-grant railway system.
Its political declarations are confined to that'
and the Bible, the whole Bible, and nothin*
but the Bible, in the State schools The ‘drum
ecclesiastic' is being beaten all round. The Holy
Romans say, we don’t want the Bible, but wo want our
share of the money; the Wesieyans and the Anglicans
say w* want the bible and the money. Thoso leaders of
female coteries, little show cliques, goody goody
Christianity, think they can move the laity to embrace
their old played-out cause. They show their unfitness
to bo poimenes laon—shepherds of the people—for they
fall to r*cog*lso the fact that their people have left
thorn. They may rail and scold in had English, par
txemple, "the cowardly piety of they who feared the
people they may scoff at the advance of science, and
ths liberation of ths human an ad from the debasing
thraldom of priestcraft, bat the fact retains the minis-
ters and priests of Christian sects stand divorced from
the intslligenoe of the age, they count among their
followers only the ignorant, the feeble, the victims of
habit and laziness, women and children. On the other
Bids stand the intellectually free, who recognise the
hollow mockery of those Christian creeds, the sharp
antagonism between the profession snd practice
of its advanced ministers, the painful attempts
to reconcile the gross absurdities scattered broad,
oast throughout the book they hold up as
tho light of the world, with the establiahsd facts
of Science The timid and tho ignorant still hold
on by the old ropes and fear to let go and trust them-
selves in tho dark j they rather believe in the devil they
know, with a ready furnished hell and an established
title, than to trust themselves to the devil they don’t
know out in tho dark. Whil&t that spirit lasts, and
whilst that class lasts, which will be whilst (he planst
runs in its orbit, ohnrchoa will always find oongrega.
tions. Tho women go to Church pour s’amuser, and the
men—well, the men go after the women. They bear
with a lot of trumpery so long as it don’t interfere with
their own comfort. The Guardian, with its infantile
stories about naughty little boys who were damned (or
fishing on tho ‘ Snwbath,’ will be patronised by all the
clergymen and tho unmarried women of the Anglican
Church. So far as it teaches morality—natural religion
—it may do some good, but as a shining light to lead
Anglicans to practical truths, especially in polities, wo
fear it will not illumine or warm a very large surface.
It may serve as a fad for a while for idle curates te
try their hands at English composition, and a mild
kind of excitement may be got up in the ‘ Ex-
change Column,’ but the paper will never pay.
The Anglicans were never good at planking tho
dollars for their special religious dogmas. Their church
at home got into a bad habit of being supported by the
State, and her children, when they oome here, generally
“ chuck" her up or half starve her. They can bog
though, yon bet The Holy Romans can grind out a
larger cake from a poorer lot of stono, for they put in
“ powerful stampers," and there is no get away for
Bridget, still the pious beggars cf tho Anglican persua-
sion can show a fat orushing even in tho dullest times.
The churches are all right so long as they stick to
teaching moral truths, but when they soar into the
clouds and begin to split hairs on the snpra-seasible
then tho row begins, and the professors of the mysteries
not understanding a word of what they pretend to t.i»oh
others generally fall to cursing. A very bad habit, it
breaks ont in all the pious newspapers. The Chrisiux
Churchman and the Guardian aro the two scouted i
the ecclesiastical army of discord. With the Bomw
Catholic irreooncilables they will, no doubt, moke a
noise and try to upset the Education Act, but their
efforts will only neutralise each other and leave both
exhausted with a fruitless struggle."
» • •
Of the Nineteenth Century Club, just formal ]
in Now York, Conrtlandt Palmer, agnostic, iepresident,
while an Episcopal clergyman is vice-president j
give this to the Express A religious paper in Italy
•ontaina a ooupon in each issue. When subscribers can
produce a certain number they’re entitled toaprise-
a hundred masses to order from any priest they mey
select.. Mr Dening, representative of the Church
Missionary Society in Japan for ton years, has been
11 sacked,’' for repudiating immortality and everlasting '
punishment There is one missionary to every |
2 000,000 natives in Africa. The natives don’t co®‘
plain Transformation scenes are the last fake in tho
Salvation Army. When it came to tho “ blessed hex-
perienca" part of tho performance, a rough bulky BJ*
stopped up, and after tolling how he “ got Jesus," and'
denly kicked off hia old jersey and trousers, and ap-
peared transformed in the smart uniform of the barmy-
Will of the late Eev, Dr. Baekhaus (E C), Sandhurst' ;
sworn—real estate at £58,427 12s Gill personal » J
£16,954 9j. 7d. I Of such is the kingdom of Heavan. .
The Church scoops the pool Edward Latham, et .
Carlton (Melbourne) Brewery, has announced his inw®’ i
tion of presenting two adjoining houses at QaeenaoJmj
value £.0,000, and known as “ : he Sanitorinm," to |
Anglican Church for the usa of invalided olergyin? n
At B illarat the Harmv recently converted a railwa, ■
guard. He was. says the Btar, so overcome with j
as to resolve to forsake his profession and join t®
rat ks of the revivalists." Another man who has ba> \
his terraces! Canon Sandford, the new Bishop ® |
Tasmania, is expected to arrive about August. Be* |
been very popular in Edinburgh, where be has r
fashionable congregation’’' Getting threugh *■' i
of a noodle. Tho Rev, T, A. Bowes of Plymouth. P n “ u ,
cheque for £25.0(0 under the plate of hie nephew * I
wedding breakfast. Twenty-five thousand peopl*
same morning knew not where to get a dinner I
A Domain howler says he altogether repnih* 4
hell. It’s not known whether the compliment »' u
returned
The black Mastodon Minstrels —who actn»jj
had the impudence to tender a benefit to
Anti-Coolie League—gave a “ sacred concert
Charters Towers on a recent Sunday. The 8 ,%*
laced and lip-shaven were much shocked at the J*
of the whole affair. A plan has been taken rfj
palate of Billy Wi)squ’s mouth—for the row 01
new Wesleyan Church,


CITY CATERING C
BX6 GEORGE STRE
A miW CATERmft C
Comprised of professional workmei
tioal experience, nearly all from tho
of Compagnoui and Co., who pora
and carry on the working of tho I
general manager.
It is not a public company, and the
the expenses appertaining thereto.
N.B.—Since opening, on 27th Ai
succossfeUy catered THE LARGER
CULT, and MOST RESPONSIBLE
have taken place here to the present
The Consular Dinner, in our new bai
His Worship the Mayor’s Picnic, fi
and Banquets, and all Eutortaiumi
His Worship the Mayor’s Ball, ft
Building, at which his Worship,,
talncd their R.H.'s PRINCE ALB]
Earl Clanwilliam, and the Officer
Squadron.
Masonic Ball, English Constitution
tion Building.
Masonic Ball, N.S.W. Constitntii
Sydney.
Visit o£ their B.H.’s PRINCE ALB
to Lithgew Valley Mines and Z
Uusse, for 60, in Government Pala
travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000
Queen's Statue Demonstration—u:
NOTICE, only receiving the ordo
ready on the spot at 12.36 p.m. th
Visit of THEIR B.H.’a PEIN
GEORGE to Captain Cook's Lai
Botany Bay. Picnio luncheon s.
XOO, under VERY SHORT NOTI
at 9.30 p.m., to he ready on the si
ing day.
The Lady Mayoress” reception. Tow
The (Union Club) “ Bachelor’s B
Building, for 500.
The BoiTiotoro' Dinner to Judge Vi
Banquet Room,
The Barristers' Dinner to Judg.
Banquet Room.
Dinner d la Uusse at St. Paul’s Coll«
of the Church of England Synod.
Dinner d la Uusse to the luteroc
Town Hall.
Tho Luncheon and Refreshment
gentlemen, at the turning of the i
iros. ' New Railway Rolling Bto<
ville.
The Luncheons and Refreshment I
Races, in Grand Stand.
Tho Luncheons and Refreshment
Races, in'Grand Stand.
Refreshments at 'e Payro of y
Mary’s Cathedral.
Refreshments at Ye Olda Engly
Palace.
Together w th a numerous lot of Pi
Dinners, i easts, &0., *o.
The CITY CATERING COMPA
Cutlery, Silver Goods, Crockery, 01;
and all requisites for Balls, Picnic?
and will bo glad to send out the
i aatry, Cakes, Jellies, Ices, Coufeo
Civil and attentive waiters alw
services required.
We have in our possess! on letter!
high standing in the city, oompli
manner we have performed the out
G3.AU. m. SM3
(Late ef the firm of tho original Cc
MALT BIT
The groat Cure for Indigestion
Complaint, Weakness, &o.
PRICE Z ...
4. <B. KEBBLEWHITE, C
43 Erskino fatro
AMD
W. 11. SOUL, Pitt £
KOUMISS!
CUBES
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
etc. etc.
Rfitrlofftv/ul fTmrlA 1
QR AH D
DEMON 1
under the auspices
IRISH NATIONAL
will be held a
Sir Joseph Banks Fav:
on
8 T. PATRICK
SATURDAY, MAB
The proceeds to bo devoted
objects of the Lea
The following ii the Programme
at 11 a m.
100 Yards Handicap. First pri
. Tossing the Caber. First priz
Standing Jump Prize, £l.
Banning Long Jump. Prize, i
Standing High Jump. Prize, j
K mining Hop, Step, aad a Jun
Throwing 281 b Weight. Prize,
Wrestling—Collar and Elbow.
Ditto—Cumberland Style. Pr
Egg Base. Prize, £l,
Cuttlsg cff Cock’s Head. Pii
Three-legged Kace. Prize, £l.
Boet Irish Jig. Prize, £l.
Best Irish Beal. Prize, £l.
Banning High Jump. Prize,
Sack Baoe. Prize, £l.
Pour entries for each event or n
Tbo decision of tho Stewards to
Is. for each event.
A GRAND Cl
WILL TAKE FLAG
FEOGEAMM
1. " St. Patrick’s Day in the
Band.
2. Melody: “ Let Erin Rome
Old."
Mb, P. J. Hallei
3. Ballad: “ Eileen Alannagl
Signor Palad
P[?] English-continued.
Reform of the Libel Law.
. one of the necessities of our political system that
IT thin* should have io give way to the subject of
!Lnlarlagitatiou. As an example.though a personal one,
P \eg to quote the libel law of New South Wales.
Tff r Sir William Manning's decision that a verdict
otically for the plaintiff should carry overwhelming
« the public came to our assistance, and some
(members of Parliament and others) bound
themselves to take steps, when occasion served, to place
the law under which the gross miscarriage of justice
. t quoted took place upon a more satisfactory footing.
Since that time a general election has taken place, and
though of course the burning question was the main
one some men have come into Parliament pledged to
make impossible the wrong which we have sullored and
tj whieh the whole Press of the colony is liable. Yet,
except so far as public opinion can influence the Judges
to a better administration of the law, there is no change
in the state of things. So far as the law dealing with
criminal libels is concerned wo do not desire any change,
(or we do not tbink that a change would be to the
nblio good. No true Journalist wishes to have the
cower to asperse aa opponent’s character by lies; but
£v«ry true journalist does desiie the power ot unmask-
ing hypocrisy, cant, dishonesty, and cruelty, whether
in public or private life. But, for the protection of
Pressmen in the discharge of a srered duty it is neceß-
aary that they bo neither harrassed by petty suits nor
by plaintiffs of straw : neither by juryman’s justice
ror by judge’s law, Xet it be made compulsory upon a
plaintiff to furnish a prtcis of his case to the Attorney.
General, or other uibiaaaod, competent, and qualified
person, and let no writ issue unless upon production of
that official’s fiat. * Make the plaintiff deposit a sum
oqtll l to 50 per centum of his claimed damages in the
office of the court as security for cos's if the verdict be
against him. Let nothing be admitted in evidence
which is not pertinent to the case, and lejj it be stated
in the Aot what verdict carries costs. Also, it would
be an improvement it the truth of the alleged libel
wore made a sufficient defence in law. It might seem
that such an enactment would press unduly upon tha
poor man, and that he could not gain j astice As things
are managed at present a poor man cannot, go to law
against a rich one; eo that the poor man need not com-
plain particularly in this case. But it may also be said
that if a man brings a libel action he ought to do so
(or the rehabilitation of his aspersed character, not for
money. Therefore, the poor man has only to reduce his
damages, and he can accomplish his justification with
quite as much satisfaction. As a matter of fact, ws
know that most libel actions are brought in order to
wring money out of newapsper-ownera.
What is a Religions Paper.
A ’contemporary asks : " What is a religious news-
paper ?” Ask us something harder. A religious
newspaper is so many pages of bad paper filled with
blasphemies and bogus advertisements. It is an organ
which sells salvation to Its subscribers at so much a
copy, and gratuitously consigns to damnation the souls
of every man Jack of an opposite sect. If it happens
to be called the Harchbrushup, it damns all Orange-
men from William, of pious, glorious, and immortal
memory, down to John Davies, lon£ since forgotten j
if tho Vowl, it kneels down on its ape’s knees and
raves and curses like Shimei, and foams at the mouth
like Rabshakeh, from the rising of the sun even to the
goiug down of tho same against every idolatrous Papist
that ever crossed himself with holy water. Even in
it* sleep it keeps up its monotonous cry of “To hell
with tho Pope." The religious rag breeds
bad blood, and hatred, and uncharitableness
between people who have a hard enough struggle
to get through tho world without flying at each
other’s throats about the disputes of a few old
fools who were eaten by worms hundreds of years
ago. And it does all this to fill the hungry maws of a
number of holy hycenas, who should be hunted like
lepers out of every clean and civilised community.
This is what a religious newspaper is.
Judge Dowling's recipe : How to bee oma a capitalist
by dancing attendance at Quarter Sessions day after
day, as a witness, and so avoiding fines for non-attend-
ance, is neat enough. The Judge told a witness who
complained of having been kept dangling four days,
his time being worth £1 a day to him, that as he would
have been flood JEM) had he absented himself, ha was
really £Si in pocket. This was a quaint little conceit
of his Honor’s. But when one *s done laughing at it, a
seoondary,ar.d, of course, quite absurd thought follows,
that really the witness’s complaint is not a laughing
matter—except to the lawyers, of oours#. One of the
unfortunate parties to the suit, if it were a civil o*e,
would have to pay the witness so much per day.
It is thus that expenses are piled up upon litigants, and
the Courts of “Justice ’’ are made a terror rather than
a solace to the wronged. Attorneys an i barristers don't
mind hanging about a Court day after day, as a rule.
Tho attendance of the former goes into the bill, and the
latter got ‘‘refreshers’’ which clients have to pay.
But the witness is never properly oompensated, if he be
in any moderate way of .business, and the client—Lord
help hitn. He bleeds gold for every delay. If Judges
instead of (buckling and cracking jokes over these
grievances, were firmly to set themselves to expose
them and have them abated, that demeanour and con-
duet would bo much more creditable to them and more
likely to abate the general prevalence of a very genuine
contempt of Court."
..Egan, the Land League treasurer, is said by
the a. VT. Herald to have absconded to Spain with the
League's securities. Egan will yet bo found to be by
no means such a thief as some of the men whom the
lUeild’s suppressions have kept in office in this
country. Egan may have absconded from the English
Government, and taken with him tho securities— on
Government wanted to lay hands. The
cablegram about Egan comes, not through the coldly
jadiolal and impartial medium of Renter, but from the
dent 4 " 0 ' 8 notorioaBl y prejudiced “Own Corrospon-
Preddie Gebhardfc has not been showing to ad-
vantage of lato. He was publicly posted as a “ coward"
oy Major A.. B. Cunningham of St. Louis, and be ran
“ w ay. Jt i s a discreditable affair on both sides. Tne
olobe. Democrat published a series of moan and irri-
,“ Q 8 Paragraph*, with such headings as this:
r reddie is hero I The Lily’s annex magnificently
uoused at his hotel I" and soon, representing Qabfcardt
inf ak • in ra - Langtry’s room, and detailing
•wviewa which never took place. Major Cunning,
earn pretended ho had asked Gebhardt, in her presence,
T " o y°? really love, and intend to marry, Mrs
?" hut he admits that ho didn’t wait for a
P‘S’ aa Freddie’s demeanour indicated that he’d be
outside the hotel than in it. Gebhardt i«-
h« n 1 offered the Major a public affront, which
f aitl not take at tho time, giving as a reason
ol d wound Incapacitated him from physical
flffKfOJh. Yet next day he himself sent a challenge to
of tv wea Pons, and it was on Qebhardt’s refusal
»b« .i 9 t r a J ; k® posted bins aa a coward. Cunningham
* rom the hotel, end waited all through the
attonH ma Siu e a * i the theatre for Freddie, who didn’t
booSl 1 00 following day the champion speller said
10 "L’ 3 - Langtry, and, under the protection of
fnm!n°* lce *, too' s the train to New York, leaving the
nn and tying journalist in a terrible state of pent-
her r * v , e “ ge ' ,®° the Lily has to travel about without
annex.”
VANITY FAIR.
Water spectacles have been invented by a Lon-
don optician The right arm of Her Majesty’s statue
in the London Exchange has been broken off at the el-
bow. Parnell did it one dark night with a sorow-wrenoh
The King of Burmah has four queens. That’s a
good deal. A (all hand, in fact A dot of a girl, see-
ing a pock-marked visitor, wanted to know why he came
so moth-eaten A Roman sculptor has married the
model who posed (or him as Venus, Diana, and other
goddesses. She is a model wife Deaths from chloral
are very common ; it is specially dangerous i( there is
any symptom of heart disease Asa phonetic speller.
Fred Oebhardt is quite equal to Artemns Ward A
witness was asked bv the judge if be understood the
nature of an oath. “ Perfectly,” ho replied with confi-
dence, “it I tell a lie everyooo in the court will be
damned" A new chum Emarald Isler, travelling
through some ringbatkod country, couldn’t make out
why some of the trees were “all out in blossom, while
the others didn’t have the divil a leaf on ’em at all,
bedad” A fellow went into the Guards’ Club the
other day, called for a cboioo dinner, and paid for it
with a £2O cheque Hs received the change, in duo
course, and left. Subsequently it was discovered that
daring the dinner he hud threatened to report the
the waiter to the committee for over-icing his hock.
Later it appeared he didn’t belong to the club at all,
and his cheque was returned mat ked “ no account"
Every year in New York, fifty ladies of position give a
series of winter bails, managing all the preliminaries
without males. Miles are, however, allowed as a great
favour to oomo to the balls Melbourne Prince Alfred
Hospital committee are quite unable to supply the
large demand for trained nurses. The hiring-out sys-
tem hs s* proved a great success, and points to a new and
respectable channel for feminine talent In St.
John’s, Now Brunswick, tho pall bearers at a funeral
were six women, in black dresses, white veils and gloves
and they lowered the ooffln into tho grave A funny
revelation was made in a Melbourne court. A young
lady named Jukes was paid a salary for her cervices in
a church choir, and spent what she received in studying
for the theatrical stage. One of the richest jukes we
ever heard At a Plymouth wedding, tho bridegroom,
Mr, Charles .Bowes, found a cheque for £25,000 under
his plate ’..lt was very breezy, and, as their skirts
scattered around, Cissy said, “Horrible, isn’t it?"
, “Oh, I don't know, love,” replied Dolly; “when we
pay such high prices for our stockings, we oughtn't to
grumble at a little wind.” A visitor to Damala,
thinking he ought to bo happy, being possessed of the
most remarkable woman in the world, asked whether
ho wanted anything more “ Yes,” he said, “ I want
patience; Sura is trying, when she’s in a bad tamper.’*
Mr, E. C. Woodville has been commissioned by the
Qnoen to paint a picture of Tel-01-Kebir; and by the
Fine Art Society to produce one of Charge of the Life
Guards at Eassassin A novelty in London, was a
large public dinner, or soird", where all tho dishes wore
of vegetables only The Admiralty want a quarter
million yards of bunting. It seems the flag that's
braved a thousand years the battle and the breeze is
getting t hahby at last It t» painful to bo email—un-
less you’re a girl, Lonis Biano, when detained at a
country house by a storm, was driven to frenzy by be-
ing asked if he would mind sleeping in a ohilu’s bed
And once, at Brighton, a lady whomistook him. for
Tom Thumb, rushed np saying, “ You little daVling! I
really must kiss you," and embraced him. * That was
worse A letter appeared in the London Stahdaed,
written by a Government clerk, making certain com-
plaints A high cfinlal from tho Department was
foolish enough to go and ask the editor who wrote it.
The high official was assisted off the premises by the
two most muscular compositors in tho establishment
An Admiralty clerk cashiered for supplying deport.
mental information te a newspaper On Deo. 9, the
hundredth cremation took place at Gotha. The crema-
tory has existed four years, and 1 here have been operated
on 6*5 Irotestants, 28 Seman Catholics, and 6 Jews.
The Crown has granted a pension to the widow of
Professor Palmer, and tho AdmiraUy will educate his
children Postmaster-General Fawcett has saved
£30,000 a year on Irish mails alono. Formerly an Irish
company carried them across from Holyhead to King,
s’on; but the railway company who take them from
London to Holyhead, havo row started steamers of
their own, and tei dorod to do the w uk for that much
less. Hence the saving Gustave Dord’s splendid
picture, “Christ leaving tne Froatormni.” tho figure in
white samite that marches down the step; of the
Roman Governor’s palace, is known to all The cir-
cumstances under which it was pain'ed ate, however,
n-t so generally understood. Nearly finished when tho
Franoo-Qerman war broke out, it was hidden durirg
tho siege, commenced in ’67, and was not completed
antil ’72.
Ivo Bligh recommends that the ashes be buried
in the Melbourne cricket-ground, but that Murdoch’s
Eleven be not allowed to touch them
When Sir Henry Parkos came into office, after
the last Martin Ministry, he spoke iu the moat con-
temptuous manner of the “ painted soldiers,” and dis-
banded them. There was no pinnae'e high enough tor
him to stand on The reply to the sawdust monarch
has been a long time coming, but it baa come. “One
of the Painted Soldiers" writoa to the press, asking
the ex-king whether he didn't wish for some of these
despised men to protect him at the Protestant Hall.
Fancy protection from men he called "painted
soldiers." By the way, Sir ’Enry is one of the most timid
of men. When a crowd jested him in tho Sodwalls
criminal dispute, he slunk into the remotest corner of
a big oab. The crowd was convulsed with laughter.
Sir ’Enry swore they meant blood.
Two years ago . a Peanut Club was started in
New York, which is still extant Its peculiarity is
exceedingly peculiar. Everymember must possess and
wear the emblem, a peanut either of gold, silver, stone,
wood, or anything he likes. The penalty of a dinner
to tho whole club is exacted from any member who is
caught without his emblematic peanut Any time,
and anywhere, when one member says “Peanut,” and
the other can’t show, he’s let in, no excuse being
taken. A high'y successful dinner was obtained by one
member knocking violently at another’s door at mid-
night and yelling “ Fire I ” Rushing to the door in the
snowy robes of night, he was disgusted by “ Peanut 1 ”
A mounted trooper was once sent out in charge
of others to arrest a bushranging gang. Tho gallant
troopers found them near a Southern town, and at once
—surrendered, the one in charge imploring pitifully for
his life. Disarming him, the leader of the gang made
him mount behind, and they rode thus some miles to
camp. On dismounting, to his utter surprise, the bush-
ranger found ha had overlooked a loaded revolver which
the constable had retained all the time. “You
cowardly scoundrel,” he said, “you’re a disgrace to the
force ! You’ve been riding behind me two hours, and
hadn’t the pluck to blow my braim out. I’m going to
sboot jou for your miserable cowardice " Again the
trooper grovelled on his knees, and escaped.
The oardsharper Began, who has been arrested
at Melbourne, is one of a gang that has carried on its
depredations in Sydney for years—frea from arrest.
They are the “ country cousin” gentry, who hang
round the banks to inveigle tho new arrivals. Regan
has been high up in th® game He pleaded before the
Melbourne Beech that he had a wife and family, and it
wasn’t likely he’d be “ a spieler.” This is an old dodge
of Regan’s. Ten or eleven years ago, we remember
this gentleman being called upon to answer a charge of
outrageous garotte robbery from a “ country cousin”
in a shady house on the site of the Guild Hall Hotel.
On that occasion, also, Regan dragged his wife and
youngsters round by the dock to work the jury.
A Melbourne correspondent writes :—“ You
convey a wrong impression when you say that the
brilliant Watts was succeeded in the sditorship of the
Akgus by the oleaginous Haddon. Watts was sue-
coeded by Mr. Haddon, but not immediately. Watts’
immediate successor was A. L. Windsor, the able
writer who, as editor of the Aoe, has well-nigh run the
Aeous out of date aa regards the value of its opinions
on public matters David Byrne, with his Booteh head,
and Windsor, with hla facile pen, have squelched the
Gowenly Evanly Haddonitieh High Hoodlum Club
organ beyond hope. Anyhow, the Hon. J. G. Becney,
M L 0., M D., and all tho rest of it, says that he owes
his great majority in tho recent election to tho abuse of
him daily printed by the wouid.be superior rag. In-
deed, it is recognised as an incontrovertible axiom in
Victoria th at no candidate need make sure of his elec-
tion to the 'Ouse unless ho arranger—not neoossaiily
with the Aon to support him—but with the Aeous to
malign him That’s how M'Gnllooh, Higinbotbam,
Duffy, and Berry gained their leading positions.”


Business Announce]
I lirll
■
o
o^ S
.vwe»hSu
sB
33Q
«»p^
NCARJiY 0
iiATe
Tobacconists
“ Yankee Doodle” & “ Conqut
The above Brands are so well establ
and tastes of all smokers for their pu
that it merely remains for us to can
itations which we regret are nnmerc
DTX3ON 4 SONS’ Registered (
Dark Twists : Yankee Doodle, Twia
querer, Twists, 20’s: Sir Kogor, .
I Challenge, Twists, 10‘s and 20’s. D
The original and only gen nine Tin Ta
Plugs (stamped with a single roui
queror plugs (stanped with a sing
Bright Tobaccos: Gem of the Sou
&c. Cut Tobaccos: (in i-lb tins
weights and with pure tin toil) Eou(
tal Mixture j Nogroheadj Gold and
*o., 40.
N.B.—We import regular ehipmei
Meersham, Clay, and all other Pi
ettes, and all Tobacconists Goods.
155
DIXBON Zc so
YORK STREET
* N, V
C. GOWLES
GUNMAKER AND I
Hotels, fro.
i O CONNOISEURS OP
« SHANDY.—W. and A Qiiley
WHISKE? and L’OK EXTRAIT
ukliJt and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER
LI
OBEET BUTOI
(Late William Lo:
WINE AMD SPIRIT ME
m GEORGE STR]
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL
COtrKTET OEBEK3 RECEIVE PIM
JAMES MACGR
80S GEOP.OE STI
i
ksSi
11
MANUFACTURER OF THE
SULTANS COFP]
I Busin ee a Aunotmc
THOMAS
HERALDIC ARTIST AND
PLAIN AND FANCY ST,
10 ROYAL ARCAI
A Large and varied assortment ol
count Bocks, and all office requisite
Plush Begs, and Reticules; Artist'
and Picture Frames, Illuminated
tex's Birthday, Condolence, and 1
Agent for August Huenorbein for
Music. The Engraving workshop
management, I feol confident in sail
BW OL F F A
# Manufacturers c
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalk
Materials, and Stationers’
Makers, by appointment, to Her Ma
and the Bank of Bkg
Office and Warehouse: 65 Grtm.-
coin’s Inn Field’s, W.C. Factory : F
Battersea, London, S.W. A full se
~ H en and further particulars obtain;
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for
Messrs. Peldheim, Qofcthol and Ci
Sydney.
GOOCH &
WILDERNESS
40, HUNTER 8
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
8
TU I
Have you
re-eo
Parasols
eqr
J. s
541
Brickfl
Liverpool
Paraaoli
tumes. Re
w
ATSON AND
SILVER, NICKSL, & GO
BRASS FOUNDERS and MAR
Old Electro-plated Ware Cruets,
Tea Services, Ac, re-silver plate;
Moderate Charges
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Ir
niture and Fittings cl all kinds in I
PriCCB * JEWELLERY. &0., WEI
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPI
536 PITT ST RES
V,A/
■ i
AND
CHEST AFFE
ALL
NL)
Myles K. E. Ariel & Co., Agents, Cb
ATLAS FOUNDRY & I
COMPANY
HAY-STREET, SYI
•W7INGINEERS, Boiiarmakers, an
JrJ and Brass Founders, Copp<
wrighte. The above firm are pre
contracts for the manufacture of Mi
£
G. B. MODI
GUN-MAKER AND <
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (th
at the International Exhibits
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS
jk MAGNIFICENT stock of I
Irk i_ barrelled Breech and Mhezli
Rifl®g, Revolvers, &o. All good
guaranto:d at 602 GEORGE S
assorted stock of Table and Pool
oeived. All work and repairs gx«
European workmanship.
N.B Sole Aeent for Australia
English maker, Chas. Osboese j al
of Brescia, Italy.
lj A P E R HA]
*• with
DADOES, BORLFRB,
FRIEZE® to match,
NURSERY PAPI
CEILING i
FIGUI
Imported by
ALEXANDER BO
881 GEORGE STREET (Oppo
PAINTERS’ AND DECOEATO]
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints,
Brushes, Gold Leaf
JMPURE
WATER IS
I
THE GRANT IMPROVED R
SELF-C LE ANSI NO WATf
is the best Purifier k
Awarded the highest prize, a
The Best in the World. Fii
For particulars apply.
WM. BURTON, CENTRAL S.
6 Bridge-street, Sy(
Nichols & Co, Ist
UBE PURE WAT
H
ISTORY REPEA
As Eve tempte* 1 . the Firsl
TEMPTS THE PRESENT MA
not the same Eve, but
JAMES E
149 KIHG-STREI
Opposite Theatre Royal
With the best brands of AM Tol
JW. R. Cl
• BOOKSELLER AND ST.
5 and 6 M ARKET BUII
GEORGE STREET, ST
Opposite Market-st
B. b'RAU
WATCHMAKER. JEWELLER,
876, George Street,
Near the General Post
WALTHAM WATCHES. HUNT
FACED. 32 varieties. £3 3s, 4
7- fld, £4 153, £5 103, £6 10a, £'
£l2
ROTHERAM’S ENGLISH LEVI
10*. £7 10s, £8 lOi
•arAll these WATCHES are expi
arid examined for B. BRAUN to
WARRANTED for 3 years.
Any Article sent free by Register
of the Colonv, and may bo changed
Real Pebble Spectacles, in (
346 GEORGE STREET,
STUBBS & fi
*;V
t
wm
Tz
m
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS'S PALifi AL£.
AKĶJAOA OA


“ The noea have it, aaid a J
of Committees, when pressed to e
pawned a friend's overcoat with a 1
To Gut Rich -The “ Auatrs
The “Sydney Cop," is for 43000, i
even four, 20s. First horse takes 4
third, 4250; starters, 4150; ndn-si
£2OOO. B salts of drawing will be
bourne and Sydney papers, and Best
to all subscribers throughout tb
matin? application are requested
P. 0 0 ,or crossed cheques, payabi
(with exchange added), and 41. at
result. Begister letters. Applet
registered letter. XOperosnt. dednc
address—“ Australasia, *' oars of 1
publisher, 40, Hunter-street, Sydney
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist'
high excellence as in Sydney. C?r
sense behind any dther eftty. Visile
to test this, visit the establishment
Q tbriol and Company, 18, Wyswarc
from Pfahlert's Hotel. Here the n
essential in the profession is carrier
the surgery is a, compact little fat
requisites for supplying every dei
human month ore made. Messn
(whose only address is as above) ar
show their specimens of artifioi
interested. There being two firms <
the Square, patients will obligs b
attention to the Christian name, Ad
ber, 18, 2 doors from Ftahlert’s Hoi
The new editor of the Gund.
stands up for Zimmlar, Davy Bt
man,” the ei-devant JF. He rept
M'Elhone’s imputation that Zimi
man, and asserts that the latter
O allege men Who illuminate the (It
their erudition. We thick the edi
of the illustrious three, beoattse h<
maud of language, and his know
really qaite out of the common. H<
as a “rude and nnonltuated” (si
out a rival editor—he of the West
ventured to challenge his gramra
eraplary fashion. As we have i
crumpled up so completely ss tk
t ost. we ;.uust share with our rea
which this performance has ovoas
with a dashing allusion to tho head
under which his adversary's remai
and which he neat y states is *
would be more accurately describee
ons sneak’s growls*’—(grand word
by the w iy—dictionary word)—the
of the Telegraph proceeds to say
“puerile paper ’’ and to explain tha
we’ll quote :—Onr Editor being nei
was absolutely ignorant of the fact
errors were of trequent occurrence
he only rongbly scanned the procf
terly bit of composition, end she
silence his adversary. But wo regr
editor has apparently been as “ roi
in this issue as in the preceding oni
journal is given over the leader as
For a Hilling oversight of this h
compensation is afforded by the
which follows :— ** Had the edltoi
shame in him, he would not have
oar editor, in tho above disgraceful
for two years, was a voluntary oont
pendent to the Western Post, \
opened its columns to give public
aad now to expose his ex-oontribnt
become the editor of a oontemporai
afraid of, and only shows a vile hea
calls the oommnnity to witness the
(sic) into which he brought bis joui
its columns the contributions of i
says—but it is out of malice and f
writing grammatically." But the
makes light of such trifling charge
defective grammar. “It is not,"
“such a serious thing to w:
(sic). There are only a few
in remembrance, and those
Che article •an * before vowe
and silent h’s; place article ‘a* bel
consonant sounds. Don’t nso tho
perfect or vice versa; as the’past'
place, but the ’ perfect ’ does not e
sequences, that refer to the present
oular time and place. Don’t use
plural ones; as ha go, they goes,
they go. Don't use adjectives for
mer qualities nouns, and tho latte
and other adverbs. After the vo
same cose a- before, when it refers
or thing. The same form of the ■
tinued, except when the nominativ
* He may go, but will not continue,’
be either *he may go,' but •be w:
•he may go, but * may' not coniiu
objective instead of the nomis
two negatives in the same clause,
lives or superla'ives. Oonjunotio
oases of nouns and pronouns, and
tenses of verbs in the same sen
‘that’ must agree in number wi l
they define. 'These sort of pe
things* are wrong. 'Borland kin
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rtr- .hall b« glad to have this index posted up by secretaries
effacing clubs and managers of sporting »n general. \
RACING.
RVr- 4 A ““” S
March 16 V
March 17.
S^S«ge——:«Sg:
Amatenr Turf Club March 17.
TO, Autan. ‘““SSS IS; g-
«aU March 26 ' n
ffi»W «“> *±Sa£S£aatftf £•
fWjStams! March 26, 2S. 30 31.
SS.fr April 4* 5
Grange J,O 5.
....”. ’... April 18. 15
C. Annual 4- p *?J i?* S'
Wamwmbool Bta*pleobaso.,..« „Ipril»l, 28.
Sdktand (W.B ) Racing Club. Autumn -... April 21 *
........^....^...^^^^28;
Soj.c
?» IC (Adelaide) Autumn May 9. 10, 12.
Ho (Adalaifle) Autumn May 18.24. 26.
Sydney t.C
Parramatta - t^a’? 2^
«obar J.C y .....June 7. 8
PEDESTRIANI3M.
• leary v. H Iwards March 12 to 17
Athletic Pports, Bathurst « arC v
Be«a AthlUc Club March 26.
Adelong Athletic Sports Mareh 26.
AQUATICS.
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta H arn |' }v
Woclloomooloo Bay Regatta....... March 17.
Sullivan Trophies, £lOO, £3O, £lO April.
North Shore Rowing C V ■,,0
Intercolonial Eight-oar race April «»•
Champagne Cap June 30.
CRICKET.
Victoria v. South Australia, at Melbourne.,...March 24,
COURSING.
Victoria Club ....April 14, May 9. Miy 30, June 20,
Ja'v 18, August 22
Smth Australian Club Auril 17, Juno 12 July 18
Ballarat Club April 19. May 24 June 28, July 26
August 28.
NSW. Club May 2 May 24, June 28, July SI.
Australian Club May 25, April 26. Juno 14
July 27, August 20.
SPOTTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Rumoured that Mr. De Meatre will shortly retire
from the turf.
The Prinoe Alfred Yacht Club fleet go to
Broken Bay for the Easter holidays.
Hr. A. P. Smart has purchased the South Aus-
tralian filly Delusion from Mr. Crozier tor 1000 guineas.
Craoknell, who rode Tyropean in the New-
market Handicap, was laid £lOOO to nothing by the
stable.
Mr. W. Branch, on Saturday last, sold Belmont
t® Mr. Forrester for £lOO, and Le Beau to Mr. Smart
lor £BOO.
At the sale in Melbourne of imported American
stallions, Granger and Startle brought 205 guineas and
195 guineas respectively.
Mr. A. T. Sharland, the young Tasmanian, who
rowed here in the second Krug contest, has again won
the Amateur Championship at the Tamar.
T. Hales won his fourth St. Leger on Saturday
last, his previous victories having been gained on Rich-
mond, Bosworth, and Grand Flaneur.
By the terms of the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, won by Warwick, Mr. A. Town, the nominator
et the sire of the winner, receives 100 sovs. from the
stakes.
“Tout Cela,” in the Melbourne Sportsman,
was particularly happy in bis tips for the first two days
of the V R.C. meeting. Oat of 9 selections 7 wore
correct.
It has boon proposed to institute a sort of row-
ing professorship iu England, and thus establish a
standard school of sculling where the theory and prac-
tice of sculling could be taught.
J. M'Clorkcn and Penglazo, on Saturday last,
pulled in light skiffs, from Pyrmont Bridge round Goat
Island and back. M Clerkan.who carried a2O lb. handi-
cap, won as he liked
The Victorian Yacht Club Regatta came off in
IJobaon’s Biy, on Saturday last. Dr. Milford’s Doris,
which wont through some bad weather in the trip down,
won the third class yacht race.
The Town and Country recently astounded
its readers by stating that possibly the lessening of
jolting and unpleasant vibration on a bicycle would
enable its rider to make 20 miles an hoar on the road.
The Carlton and Warwicks played a one day’s
match in the Domain on Saturday. The Warwicks
went in first and were disposed of for 129 The Carltons
lost three wickets for 93, when time was called.
V.R C. meeting settling -. —De Mestre, <£22-31;
A F. Smart, £1606; Sir T Elder, £1357; W. Branch,
£1042; 8 G. Cook, £643; Hon. W. Pearson, £383 ; W.
Bliley, £320; W. Kelad, £304; 8. Martin, £300; and
lesser sums.
The Catlingford and Balvldere clubs played last
Saturday for the Girdenor Challenge Cup. The Car-
Ungfords made a total of 137 and the Belvidores lost
three wiokets for 19, The matoh will be resumed next
Saturday.
The cricket match Herald v. Evening News
f)r the Printers’ Cup, came to a conclusion last Satur-
day. The Nooze won by one innings and fifteen runs.
The highest scorers were—for News, Wall 21 ; Herald,
J • George 12.
Tamworth Races, 7th March ; —Borough Handi-
cap : Old Gold, Hesitation, Hawthornden. Railway
Handicap: Hesitation, Demon, Marraion. Prince of
"'alas’ Stakes ; Spinaway, Banter, Piliibuster. Tim-
worth Mile: Hawthornden, Novice, Demon. Forced
Handicap-. Novice, Hesitation.
Burrangong Turf Club Races, March 7th :
Maiden Plate: Sloth, Freedom, Dora. Prince of Wale#’
Stakes : Reform, Tipperary B">y, Malefactor. Town
f'pto: Sapid, Faith, Sloth Handicap Hurdle Race:
Wrangler, Mariner. Scud. Flying Handicap: Game
Lock, Shearer, Alexander.
THE NIMROD CLUB,
See them start, anti then each man.
You bet, is decked out spick and span.
Once outside, and then your eyes
Never rested on such guys.
The Victorian Intercolonial eight-oar crew had
their first tow together on the 3rd, and were out again
tas. Thursday Upward has been suffering from a
Mvers cold. Says •• Cloanthus,” in the Australasias :
So far their performance is not by any means such as
to captivate the hearts of even tteir test wishers.”
The English programme repeated. Lost the
Cup—won the Boyd matoh. Lost the
rncoi. Trophy—won the Rush matoh. Elias’ condition
~ no v reliable. Had Michael not bitten like a wobbe-
t,JnS *ttho tempting bait of the matoh on the Clarence
*soo,he might now have been Champion of Aus-
WAlia » without such a woo-begone countenance.
Judge "Williams, summing-up ill the De Mestre-
Leapeb libel ease, said, “ Mr. De Mostro was a public
man, as his horses competed at Flemington tor public
stakes, and his actions were liable to fair criticism,’
He also pointed out that “ the public paid for the oats
o£ racehorses, because they subscribed the stakes
which formed the prises."
The “ Boofc-and-Donkey ” race is' a rather mixed,
but entirely original Wairakaia (N Z ) institution. The
owners of the competing horses must ride, not their
own steeds, bat one selected by let. The rider of the
first horse receives the stakes, so that each jockey will
press his mount to the utmost, for each will remember
that it is the mcner, not the tidtr, of the last horse,
who is entitled to the boots.
Oorowa races, MarchS —Flyitig Stakes: Cast;
away 1, Yabba 2, Tarramia 3. Sires’ Produce Stakes:
Hillsborough 1, Cream if Tartar 2, Tammy Tickle 3
Corowa Handicap : Granville 1, Miss Jane 2, Ar.rower
3 Selling Hack Eaco: Nutmeg 1 Town Plate Hau»
diesp. Trump 1, Miss Jane 2, Forsaken 3. Forced
Handicap i Castaway 1, Argower 2, Tabba 3.
The second reading of a bill to suppress pigeon-
shooting has passed the Commons. The Princess of
Wales, it is said, has done much to encourage legisla-
tion on the subject. By the way, the aristcorat'o
" sportsman ” who now slaughter hundreds of birds
in densely-packed coverts, will probably have to betake
themselves to Monaco in future if they want to “ stop"
blue-rooks.
“ Charon” of the StßNflr Mail is no longer
eaptain of the Mercantile Bowing Club, having boon
defeated at the last election by quite a youngster. It
seems that rowing men are as full of Wrath as cricket-
ers, and there have been 11 ructions’’ in the club gener-
ally. The gifted Brett was in the van of the opposi-
tionists, and Irookyer was shunted. We are beginning
to think that we shan’t' yearn any more to belong to any
sporting clubs. The F.M.C.A. is quite lively enough
for us, anyhow. There yon get the true sport.
Immediately after the footrace, at Newcastle,
between Gibson and Peddle, a race was “readied” up
between T. Collins and Maloney, the latter to receive
three yards in 100. Maloney won, and Collins finished
some yards away in 11| seosnds. Collins is stated to be
very nearly as fast as Farrell, who recently defeated
Callaghan, and was *' in the swim ” with Collins in the
above race. An individual —who was evidently left out
in the cold—has 11 tamed on " the Farrell crowd, and
states that Farrell ran two trials at Greta under 10 see.,
as a warning to Applit’s and Oambadillo Billy’s friends.
London Bell’s Life of 16bhDecember says t—
" Haulau, it is staged, intends t« mt.ko next year a
memorable one in his aquatic career, and with this end
in view has disposed of his interest in his hotel to a
pnbiio company. He intends, during the winter, to
get himeolf as fit as possible by means of long walks aid
moderate living, so that when the season opens he wi 1
be ready to go into sharp training without any pre-
liminary work. Hanlan has already matches oh with
Boss and Kennedy, as well as a standing open chal-
lenge.”
The St. Leonard’s Recorder has a couple of
pars, following each other. Ona is headed “Complaints
against onr Eowing-men," and the other “Complaints
against our Nightmen " Tho oomp.aint against tbe
rowing-men is if anything the worse of the two. _ Of
course, you must all know what that complaint is—
especially if you are in the habit of taking ladies out in
a boat There seems a passion amongst aquatic men of
all kinds to "flash" piper knifo shia-bonos, buzz-saw
shoulder-blades, and so on.
Hon. W. Eobinson’s two-year-old colt, Ouida,
won tbe Champagne Stakes at the Dunedin (N Z.)
Autumn meeting; and King Quail, after a splendid
race, tho principal handicap cf the second day, L»dy
Emma being second, Poet third. Clarence, with 13. it.
np, got home first in the Steeplechase. Bundoora, at
2 to 1 for the Dunedin Cap, was again knocked out.
Cause, this time, lameness On the last day of the
Dunedin (N.Z ) meeting, Lidy Emma was in great
form. She won from good fields the Forbury Handicap,
one and a-bal( miles, with Bit. 3ib. up, and the Queen s
Plate, two miles, weight for age.
At New York, U.S., T. Cannon won two falls
out of three from W. Oliver, at baokhold wrestling.
Before taking hold Cannon was delivered of the follow-
ing speech : “ There is a man in this hall who says that
I am no good. That man is William Maldoon. I now
challenge Maldoon to wrestle me right here and now,
one fall at Grtoio-Eoman or oxtoh-as oatch-cia. I may
be no good, but I’m good enough f or him" The
spectators shouted "Are you there, Maldoon," and
“You’re not a solid man, Maldoon" But the wary
Maldoon, who was matched to wrestle at Cincinnati,
five days later, did not allow himself to be badgered
into a bout, or even a reply.
“ Old Gold was struck out of the Sydney Cup
at 10 a m. en Wednesday morning.’’— Daily Pai-eb.
If from a Sydney Cup Old Gold
Could not, forsooth, be struck.
Each winner would eooa yell, “ I'm sold I "
And be inclined to “ back I ”
If “ old gold’s " taken out be true,
We trust they've fl led its place with “ new 1”
The last match of the second division of the
Furness Cup was. commenced on the 10th. The
Osbornes made 51 intliair first innings, and Our Boys
made 72 for a loss of eight wickets. Match to be played
out next Saturday.
Tho Dunedin (N.Z.) Cup this year was a tre-
mendous "boil-over," the winner turning up in a 100 to
6 chance in tho shape of Adamant (6st. 7ib ), who is by
that grand old sire, Traduoer, out ef a mare called Ada.
The Hon. W. Eobinsou’s Salvage (Set. 31b) made a
great bid fer first honours, but although the whip was
out to him all the way up the straight, he could not get
nearer than three-quarters of a length from the winner,
King Quail (by Yattendon) third. Time, for tho two
miles, 3 51- The field was a most select one, and in-
eluded Sir Modred, Welcome Jack, and Lady Emma
Those who held totalisator tickets on Adamant made a
ijig lot. In one there were seven on Adamant out of
470, and in another only one out of 286. Both of these
were £2 shares. The £1 totalisator showed five on him.
Fleming, part owner of Adamant, is said to have won
£3ouo.
The Englishmen finished their last match in
Australia on Monday. The ramping L'on again takes
kindly to his patent groats—this time administered at
the hands of the Cabbage Gardeners, who really seem to
have a better team than tbe Australian Eleven. Sab-
joined are the scores: Victoria, first innings—Blaokbam
1, M’Donnell 6, Bonnor 51, Scott 29, Horan 37, Mid-
winter (not out) 92, Palmer 2, Turner 18, Beyle 4,
M'Shane 27, Cooper 1; sundries, 13. Total, 284. Eng-
land, first innings—C. T. Studd 11, Tylecote 4, Bates 0,
Leslie 0, Steel 11, Eoad 7. Barlow (not out) 4, Barnes 11,
Vernon 3, Q B. Studd 2, Bligh 0j sundries, 2, Total,
55. Second innings—Barlow 27, C. T. Studd 3 Bites 21,
Leslie 9, Steel 76, Eead 9, Tylecote 0, Barnes 2/ Vernon
2. G. B. Studd (not out) 0, Bligh 2; sundries, 5 Total,
156. The Englishmen seemed altogether oat of form,
bat it must be admitted that the rain was the best
bowler on the Victorian side.
Abe Hicken, who, as the world knows, is the
pugilist defeated some years ago by our own valiant
Larry Foley in a well-fought battle for the champion,
ship of Australia, has promptly responded to Professor
Miller's challenge by intimating bis readiness to box
Miller for any sum from £5OO to £lOOO Negotiations
came about thus: Soma -time ago Miller said he was
going to America to box Sallivan. Hioken remarked
that " there was no necessity for him to go to America,
for there was a man in Victoria (meaning himself) who
would accommodate him for any sum ha liked from
£5OO to £1000." Miller then said ho could not get the
amount mentioned, but he could get £2OO. Hicken
now writes a letter to the Sportsman, saying that
“ Miller cannot leave this colony without a final
flourish of tiumpets. I shall remain in my adopted
home with the knowledge that I defeated tbe gigantic
Miller for £2O ( i.e ., £lO a eidej. I weighed 9 it, while
he was 14st., and the contest lasted only 28 minutes.
This is a fact, which he dare not dispute, antecedent to
which my deeds are recorded. (Sac Fietiana, Chronicles
of the P.E, &o )'* Perhaps Miller will not meet
Hicken.
Tbe V.R C. meeting, Thursday last. Weather
dull till the last race, wuen a heavy dust storm swept
the courss. The second Hurdle Eaoe fell to Game, Don
Pedro 2nd, Sportsman 3rd; the Maiden Stakes was won
by King of the Vale, three-quarters of a length from
Tattler, Kit Nubbles third; Autumn Handicap re suited
in au easy win tor Stookwell, Anglesey 2nd, Kathleen
Mavourneea 3rd; the Grand Stand Stakes was won by
WiHeroo, who managed, after a |great race, to beat
Sweet William by half a head, Belmont 3rd; the first
Nursery Handicap fell an easy win to Bis Bis, Middle-
march 2nd, Merr<gig3rd j the Welter Handicap resulted
in a win for Stookdale a length away from Boolka, Con-
teasina 3rd. Saturday.—The second Nursery Handicap
was won by Copra, Honors 2nd, Signor 3rd; the All-
Aged Stakes resulted in a win for Ofl Co’oar, a length
and a half away from Statesman, Boolka 3rd; the New-
castle Handicap was appropriated by Tyropean, who
just beat Co’stoun after a great struggle by a head.
Transferred 3rd; Obadiah won the Steeplechase, beat-
ing Comete by a head, Clansman 3*d; the Town Plate
fall to Mistaken, The Plunger three-quarters of a
Imgth away, Guesswork 3’d; and the Handicap for
three and four-years old, won by Belmont, after a great
race with Sardonyx, by three quarters of a length,
Magnet 3rd, brought the meeting to a conclusion.
Grafton Regatta, on Saturday, Immense success.
8000 to 10,COO spectators. Weather fine, but hot. First
heat of the Handicap Race ; D. M'Donald 1 (two
lengths), G Perkins 2 (Are lengths). Beach 3 (scratch)
Perkins maintained his lead fca nearly the finish, when
M Donald passed him and won by a short length.
Beach was never in the race. Second heat,: J. Largan
1 (three lengths), E Triokett 2 (scratch), C. Messenger
3 (four lengths) N. M'Donald and A. Campbell also
started. At the mile Largan and M'Donald led, but
Trickett overhauled and passed them in the next -00
yards. Largan spurted, passed Triokett, won by a
laugth. M'Donald gave up, and Messenger fiuished a
bad'third. Final heat; A good start was eifacted,'and
at three-quarters of a mile M Donald led Perkins half a
length, Trickett a length and a half from Perkins, Lar-
gan last. The same order was continued to tbo finish,
M'Donald winning by three lengths from Perkins,
Triokett two lengths away, and Largan another two
lengths from Trickett Laycook-Snsh match, £5OO
aside. The men rowed level for some distance, when
Layoock drew out, and at the mile had a load of a clear
length. When a mile and a halt had bean covered Bush
fell to pieces, and Layoock won an he liked by four
lengths. Bush now straightforwardly says he is satisfied
Liyoook is the better man. Sugar Trophy Handicap )
Won easily by 14. Donaldson, O. W Gaden 2, JO. J.
Laman 3. The Double Sonlls Amateur Bice was won I y
W. Small and C. Wilcex.
SIGHTING GLEANINGS.
.£lOOO steeplechase, money to be found by reel-
aidants, on the tapU at Maitland ** Professor”
Meenan, who ussd to shine in siugle-stiok boats with
Latry F<ley, hns been appointed a state school drill-
iastruotor A match took place at Eedmyre on
Saturday week, when the Wellington Club only ma<ie
ote run oft' the bat and two bye* In ih°lr match with
Surey Avooa The litter made 103 for the loss of six
wickets. C. Delobery took live wickets for 0, and
A Daiohery five wiok**ts for 1 The former made 3SS
runs and tbe latter 20 P. M'Pberaon totted up 11
runs Parramatta Orphan Club, v. Menton j the
former 41, the latter 61. The leading prize of £lOOO
in a consultation on the Dunedin, N Z , Cup, was won
by a Dunedin baker. For some years past ho and hia
assistant used to go halves in a ticket in the principal
consultations; but not having had any luck, the assis-
tant this time declined to go in lor a share. The •* boss"
took a ticket himself, and the servant now probably
accuses himself of throwing away £5OO Mr Pilbrow
states that he intends to send Welcome Jack and
Clarence over to Victoria from N Z , early in tbe spring
to try conclusions with the cattle there Baadsnmn
and Bouquet, both winning performers on the Victorian
turf, have been bought to go to the Mauritius Pro-
digal, by St. Albans—according to a paragraph in the
Tasmanian press—has been backed by his owner, Mr.
8 M Wilson, for the double of V.E.C. Derby and Cup,
St POO to 3, to win Tim sum of £22,669 passed
through the totalisators at the Dunedin (N Z ) Bace
meeting. This is the largest amount that has been
invested at any previous meeting in N. Z The fourth
annual race between representative lours of the Canter-
bury and Otago rowing clubs was rowed at Henly (N Z.)
on 2nd March Canterbury won by four lengths ...
Foot race at Bermagui for £2O aside between J. Inskip
and W. Etherington. The latter ran half a dozen yards
and pulled up, leaving Inskip to skip in by himself
G. A. Fielding, the Mucrumburrah cricketer, who has
played soma half-doz m innings for an average of nearly
two, challenged P. Burke, of Grenfell, to a single wicket
match for £lO or £2) a ide. Paddy has accepted for
£2O aside Match made at Gunnedah between C.
M'Cann and W. Pawley. D 5 yards, for £6O aside
Gibson and Peddle ran 150 yards at Newcastle on the
3rd for £ 10 aside, Alter thirty-si* false starts, the men
got away, aad Peddle woa by 2 feet in 16;fjeo The
formation of a second Racing Club is being talked of in
Brisbane. It will be known as the Valley Club At
Moruya, J. Davis and T. Uoore raced 150 yards for £lO.
Hoare won easily Sixty-six nominations have been
received for the New Z lalancl Cup. Ivory’s Lord
Burghley and Warrior, are the only Australian horses
entered The deciding ganm of quoits between the
PoDttcray and Emerald Hill Clubs I Vic.), resulted in a
win for the former King Quail won tbe Wanganui,
N Z, Cup It is reported that Jessie has gone
into Ivory's stable The members of the G.E C.
and the M.R.C. had a rendezvous on Saturday last,
at Birkenhead. Daring the afternoon F. Bull rowed
tvo G E.C. men, pulling double sculls, 100 yards.
The single sculler bnll-ocked his skiff in Bsme
three-quarters of a length a-head of his opponents,
amidst the loud bellowing of the spectators
The Oriental defeated the Woollahra Victoria C.C. by
18 runs in a match played on the 10:h ...Oatlands
Hsoes, Tasmania, 10th March : Newmarket won the
Hurdles, and Castlebar the Maiden Plate; Guy jFaux
won the Handicap easily, also the Waverley Handicap;
the Steeplechase fell an easy victory toMovenj&nd
Blink Bonny appropriated the Flying Handicap .On
Saturday last, the Highland Union C.C. defeated the
Marmora C.C. by 29 runs... Mr. C. S. Agnew, of Tas-
mania, his presented Clare, the trainer of The Assyrian,
Queen, and Quicksilver, with a gold stop watch
At Melbourne, on Bth instant, W. M’Laton,
cf Sydney, .defeated H, Thomas in a two mile
walking match for £l5 a side. Time, 15min. slscc ...
St. Kilda (Vie) Swimming Club's eighth annual
matches, on 3rd March:—l7o yards’ Handicap Eaoe:
J. Inglii. 112 yards’ Maiden Race: M Faldheim. 560
yards’ Championship, and colours of the club: J.
Webster 112 yards Handicap, breast stroke: F. 8.
Gibbs, 113 yards' Maiden Race: F J. Edwards. 224
yards’ Senior Handicap: S. M. Smith. 56 yards’ Han-
dicap Clothes Eaoe: A. H Swindells. Grand Hand!
cap. 336 yards: J Julien. 112 yards’ Senior Members’
Handicap; E. Bayley Ten nominations forMenindie
J.C. Handicap A 20-mile walking match came off at
Chriatemiroh, N Z., between Drummond, of Dunedin,
and Cusack, of Christchurch. When 15 miles had been
covered, Cusack fell and hurt hia cheat, leaving Drum-
mond to finish alone “Yarraman,” the genius who
styles himself the “ sporting editor of the Murrnruudi
paper,’’ tipped Calma as the winner of the Newmarket
Handicap. Calma was never entered for the race...At
Townsville, Murphy, a Toowoomba man, ran 100 yards
under llseo for a wager of £lO Two of the timekeepers
reported 10J and 10J ioo, respectively. Murphy has now
been backed to run a well known Northern ped .
M Mahon, for £10) a side The match eventuates in
less than a month Mr. M’Culloch, the *’ Asmodeus”
of the Leader, complains of not having been called as
a witness in the libel trial Da Meatre v. Syme. " As-
modeue,” it is said, wished to clear himself of the
charge of having had heavy beta on Gudaiz.
• • •
Tom Cannon has nearly 100 horses in training.
More than any other man in England Messrs. Mar-
shall and O’Keefe rode bicycles from Dunedin to
Lawrence, N Z„ and back, 122 miles, in 12 hours 25
minutes total riding time E Lookwoed, the English
cricketer, received £6OO as the result of his benefit
matches teot season. Oscraft was even more lucky, as
he received £6OO from the Notts Committee, with the
assurance that there was a further balance still to come
A.t tho Marlborough Police Court, London, a lad
named Lawrence was sent to prison for fourteen days
for cruelty to a colt at the Manton racing stables.
Because a valuable colt named My Lud, which recently
cost £lOOO, would not move whtu ordered, Lawrence
threw a pitchfork, point foremost, into its quar ers.
The fork, which was embedded four or five inches, had
to be pulled out by main force, snd it is doubtful whe-
ther the animal will recover Foreman and Steuning,
of the Thames Hare and Hounds, the father of ail
cross country clubs, recently tan the standard distance,
fear and three quarter miles, over htavy holding coun-
try, in 27min. Isec. and 26miu. lOseo. respectively.
These are two of the very best porlormanoes ever ac-
complished At tne Calcutta (India) Show, Sir Peter
received the prize for stallions and also for the best
horse in tho show The Eagish papers eay the Eng-
lish Eleven, now in Australia, can hardly b. called a
representative one in the abselio# of W. Q< Grace,
Lucas, A. N. Hornby, Ulyett, and rootle ....Com e
Czapary bought tlje English horse EupCffo i*om Mr.
Holdsworth for imo. He is to go to the stuu.


Jjl URNITURE SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring-streets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. RA'PSTANDS, andCHAIRk,
LARGS ASSORTMENT Bradley, Newton,
and Larch.
fIBBARY FUENITU E, CENTRE and SIDE
J TABLES. BOOKCASE?, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley. Newton,
and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and O’Connell
streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite taste,
the very latest fashion; Well worthy of iuspeo
t\on.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o , VERY
ELEGANT, just received. Bradley, Newton,
a'd Lamb.
OVKLTIBS in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Limb, O’Con-
n all-street.
FTERNOON TEA TABLE?, elegant and inex.
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
nnellstreet.
K
MABBLF.TOP ;TABLS3, on STRONG HAND.
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants, smok.
lag ro«an, &c.
ILLIARD TABLES, fulTTlze, with" appurten.
ances; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and 8
feet, may be need as dining tables. Now on view,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, SprUg and
O’Oonaell streets, Sydney.
B
neH-i
EDSTEADS, all lizes, at lowest prices. BRAD.
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers, O’Con.
-street.
▼JBDROOM SUITES complete, in various woods,
fj and very handsome designs, with 7-feat ward,
robes, er with emsller wardrobes for single rooms.
Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
TTI IGHf.POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The Econo-
i'i nsio Bedroom Suite, comprising wardrobe, chest
drawers, waahstnnd, dressing table and glass, and two
"hairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O'CovneU-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20a; Wal-
nut Loo Tables, from 90s; Open Bookcases, from
35s ; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Washstands, from 10s
6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes, from 80, ; Dining
Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffoniers,'from 255; Cedar
Sideboards, from 70s; Kitchen Dresses, from 30s;
Kitchen Tables, from 10s; Folding Clothes Horses,
from 7s 6d. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Con.
nell and Spring streets, Sydney,
85s.
iBRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
V
k
\
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold with Side Shelves
85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE. —The Largest Stock In the Colony.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-
street!
DRAWING-ROOM CABINETS-Early English,
Anglo-Japnnese, and Chippendale designs. Just
opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Farni-
tnre Warehousemen, Spring and O’Ceanell Streets.
Dining-room furniture—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinaer Waggons, &o , to match. BRADLEY,
WEWTON, and LAMB. Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connor Streets.
Framework for drawing and dining room
FURNITURE. Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut an* Mahogany. The VERY BES P REAL MOR-
ROCCO SKINS, ns A Materials for upholstery. Open to
inspection. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass; new
shipments. Bradley, Nowion, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell.
street.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, 25a each.
BRADLEY NEWTON and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Bradley,
Newton and Lamb, O’Connell-street
BENTWOOD PUENITUBE.-A very complete
Assortment, jnst opened, many quite new designs.
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT Variety,
Chain, Stools, Desks, &i, Bradley, Nowoon, and
Lamb, O’Connell-street.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chain, Stools, Desks, Sac., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connellstrcet.
EON SAFES, various sizes. BEADLRY, NEW-
. TON and Lamb, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
TCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex.
I amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON and LAMB, Spring and O’Uonneli-strcets.
STEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world A SHIPMENT just landed.
GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound,
iwiO and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
QA GUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full compass,
all the la’est improvements, in handsome wal-
nut ease; WARRANTED SOUND and DURABLS}
BEST VALUE in the Trade
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
T IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
cf
R. LIPP and SONS celebrated PIANOFORTES direct
from the Makers, comprising TALL GRANDS, LITTLE
UPRIGHT GRANDS. SALOON GRANDS, VERY
HANDSOME and of the HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
•O' WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
LIPR 6 PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INiPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Beanoy, the Diamond Doctor, elected at last to
the Victorian Parliament. Ha'll rarely open his mouth,
xcept bo put something in it.
The lady promonadera of Pitt-street wore in
ecstasies yesterday afternoon, at the splendid display
of Easter goods exhibited by Hordern Bros , at their
Emporium, 211 Pitt-street.*
By the City of New York, from San Francisco,
there arrived in this city Mr. George E. Buchanan,
representative **f the New York Herald, charged with
a special commission to report eu the Australian
colonies for his journal. Mr. Buchanan is a gentleman
in the zenith of his powers, and had mads his mark in
journalism when selected for the responsible and
onerous duty entrusted to him.
Charles Bright, theleoturer, returned to Sydney
by the City of New York, looking as though he were
good for a pretty long and tough fight yet, in the anti-
theological ring. He puts on the gloves for the first
time next Monday evening at the Masonic Hall, taking
for his subject “American Preethought and Free-
thinkers ” He is to follow this up, at the same place,
on Tuesday, with a lecture on “ Ingersoll at Home and
on the Platform." Charles may look for a grand recep-
tion from his old friends, and some new ones.
At Poonoatie, a young man, who was appar-
ently forcing his attentions on n young girl staying
with her sister, Mrs Frost, went to - Mr. Frost's house
on Tuesday after dark and stood at the window, asking
te bo allowed to enter. There was no one in the house
at the time but the girl and Mrs. Frost, and the former
said that he would not he allowed to enter the house,
and ordered him to go away or she would shoot him
To which the man replied, “ Shoot away,” The girl
then raised a gun and shot through the window, and,
the man's arm being at the time across the window, the
shot entered it a little above the wrist. His wrist has
since been amputated.
The jury in the Edwardea-Wnitmarsh case re-
turned a verdict that Dr, Edwardes died from prussic
acid, self administered, and added an emphatic avowal
of their belief that Dr Edwardes “ was driven to his
death by the pressure brought to bear upon him by his
partner {Dr. Whitmarsh) using the false charge of Mrs.
Bigueil as a means to drive him to a dishonourable dis-
solution of partnership.” I* other words, that Whit-
marsh (whom Edwardes, in a letter written just before
he took poison, solemnly cursed) deliberately encour-
aged a woman who kad made a false charge against his
partmer, to pursue it, and used it as a means to have
tho partnership dissolved on terms singularly advanta-
geous to himself. Dr, Edwardes was to receive £500
out of a sum of £1800, which ha had paid only fifteen
months ago, and of which ho was entitled to less than
£200 in the way of the proceeds of his practice. It was
shown that W hit marsh’s solicitor was acting for the
woman against Edwardes; that it was Wbitmarsh who
prompted the woman to persist in her oiiginal lie; and
that he had been in the habit of making money out of
his prao ioa by selling an interest in it,and then baying
out his partner at his own valuation, A charge of con-
spiracy will probably eventuate.
SOCIAL.
Several things combined to prevent the Book-
sellers* Pionio being very good. The Telephone was
much too small, uni people had to s’aod up all the
timejjiey were going down.. Fact. Arrived, there was
tin unpleasant scramble fo-’ oysters, which three men
vainly tried to open as fast as 3CO could eat them. The
dinner was one of the greatest effortsCompagnoni ever
Made fro give satisfaction —without doing it. And then,
to finish up, Mr. Middofir tumbled in the w-vter and
got damp, Ha was fl*hod out amid a scene of
knadd-ockoitement, and was soon as dry as a volume of
Presbyterian sermons. But there’s no cloud without a
silver lining, and the silver lining in this ease consisted
of about £Bl worth of butter-pots and biscuit-buckets,
which had boon liberally given as prises at the shorts.
Those who won any of these, were wall satisfied! and
some werp won remarkably easily. For in the bicycle
race therefore throe prizes, and it was ouly after a lot
of trouble they managed to hunt up a man to each
Throe started, and onlv two completed the race, which
was very heavy in the s-iud. Some of the olh-'r ra?ea
were good. The girls’ race was won by the fast
young lady who distinguished herself last year.
At dinner there was little comfort, and little
of anything elao after the first ton seconds. Mr
E. Turner made some several atcemp’s to say grace,
but as most of those at table seemed to think that say-
ing grace would b« rather premature until they’d made
sure of something to say it over, he found it advisable
to postpone it till —next year. Some small tables were
laid outside; and that’s whore some of the people had
to stay. Brief toast speeches were given, but impor-
feotly heard j and then all were glad to go to active
amusements again. Dancing found favour with many,
and among the booksom beauties. Miss Tamer looked
moderately nice in black brocaded satin, with orewel
work on it, and a dainty poke hat. Two fair sisters, in
flounced black silk and cream lace, were well bound edi-
tions of Nataro’s most popular work, “The Lasses j'*
and a combination of blue and brown was chaste and
neat. A few interlopers again infested the ground.
There was very good dance made, and coffee and ioc at
four o'clock for any one who cared to fight fur it. All
went home about dusk.
• • •
Mrs. Braun gave a party at Milton Terrace,
Dawes' Point, last Thursday, and some excellent danc-
ing was had, to the music supplied by Mad'ine Hen-
riqnos. Among the guests shone two Melbourne
Jewesses! one wearing a white net costume, trimmed
with stripes of white s itin ribbon, from top to bottom
ofthotuuioi the other, livender Bilk. Prom Market-
street oamo two fashionable sitters; ad /torn Padding-
ton a tine dancer in white and crimson plush A Forest
Lodge blonde was pretty in b us satin. The eldest
daughter of the hostess disp’ayed an nrn'st Gala’ean
seek and shoulders, and there we e m-n; t,b r ladies
whom wo would mention if we thought they it like it,
Gentlemen did not forget to promenade to the Battery
—to study flattery,
« • *
There is a Ladies’ Working c oua y in Mel-
bourne. It was started by the very aba i u 1 disposed
in theory, to provide a market for lades i.i udigent
circumstances capable of doing fa. cy aed other work.
But the opportunity has been eeiz d by >o ■ e fashion-
able young ladies to earn pin money, to the detriment
of their poorer sisters, who have no thow in “ fetch-
ing ’’ purchasers of the woll-m. at ing money-wasting
class of idiotic young males. Truly does charity cover
n multitude of sins, if one is to believe all one hears of
how sales are eflWed by the charming damsels. In
one family—that of a doa;or—no lets than three society
beauties •'collar" a good monthly suca from the infatu-
ated noodles.
• • •
Everyone was glad to see the fine Nelson band
back in the Gardens on Monday, and a larger assem-
blage than usual greeted them. As the musicians bad
not brought thoir stands, there was an hour’s delay in
starting, while a boat was sent otf for them, and dur-
ing the wait most people took to the grass. Affluent
persons, however, patronised the peany chairs, the
greater number of which are distinguished by the
same peculiarity that rendered Handy Andy’s soda-
water bottles remarkable— they have no bottoms.
When the mueio begun at five o'clock, it was not
heard very well, for the galoots clustered round with
gaping mouth, as usual, and most of the musio must
are gone down their throats. Something ought really
to bo done to retard that crowd. We don’t suggest a
policeman, for we are aware the energies of the force
are already overtaxed, A subscription list might be
tried. We’ve seen j ist as good-looking a crowd scatter
very promptly at the sight of one. If that failed,
there’d still bo one resource. That would be to get
Peter Campbell to preaoH a sermon Ho has never
been known to fail m scattering a crowd yet. A few
bright pinks, blues, and creams looked gay on the
green lawn. Two sisters, accompanied by ma,
wore dainty whites that were conspicuous. Two
silver grey young ladle* bad the best of company—
their own: though all ladies don’t look at it in
that light, and if they haven’t any other company whan
they go the Gardens, they get some- A handsome
married lady had a handsome summer dross of white
flowered bodice and dove satin skirt, nicely made to fit
a plump comfortable figure A maiden in gray home-
spun edged with gray braid, brigh'oned wiih satin
pleatings, showed what great art there is in managing
a parasol properly, Throe .sisters showed how tastes
may differ in one family, by coming out in graduated
hues of black, white, and gr.iv. A bodice and tabliar of
browu brook(s, with skirt of fawn cashmere, a Urge
ruohoof same, was neat. Three little girls in short
purple tartan frocks, with blue limb protectors, and
bine straw sailor hats, wore j >st as viuoh alike os the
woodeu lambs in a Noah’s A k A brown homespun
with band of silk moire, an I livouod with cardin id rib-
bons, suited a charming wearer. And an all cream, of
flounced nun’s cloth, alto became on equally charming
young lady, who was well escorted, and looked happy
accordingly. JBut the chief dreaa was a greenish gold
oheok, admirably combined with a dark b'own homo-
spun to set eff a tine form.
« • »
On the 22nd ultimo, at Sfc. John’s, Terara, a
fashionable marriage was celebrated between Mr
William Fraser, C.P.S. at Milton, and Miss Minnie de
Mestre. Misses Lovegrove, Eiyard, Pie. burn, and two
do Mestres, were bridesmaids, in pink tarletau and c.ips
to match. The bride, who is sweet seventeen, accom-
■pHshed, ptotty, and a gr at favourite, wore dove silk,
laoo, oraugeblossoms, and cream bonuet and veil The
bridegroom is a portly gentleman of comfortable
middle age, who possesses “a hand open as the day for
melting charity." We thin ? Milton suid this two or
three centuries ago—at any rate, Milton says it now.
« * ♦ *
Sydney Owl Club’s first pionio transpires this
day, the 15th, at the Sir Joseph Banks Grounds.
Special tram at 10. It is intended to make the picnic
annual. The hyginx and ball given by the Club last
winter were excellent A new-city band of twenty-
eight members has been formed It is in active re-
hearsal for its first concert Mr, Edward Ksw.'the
importer, sailed away in the Parramatta the other day,
nmid well wishes from his friends and e opioids. Going
home The Dean of Melbourne and Mrs. Macartney,
celebrated their golden wedding day on the 7th March.,
Carthona C C. annual picnic coming soon
-how, banquet, and ball, created a stir in Kompsoy last
r-sek Last Friday, Aldermen Hughes, Mosoly, and
I)avis, gave an al fresco entertainment at Sandringham
I > a number of friends. Cricket, dinner, talk Tmd
► Oort At a ball down South, lately, a clergyman’s
ife and an ex priest danced the larrikin polka in grand
. tyla. But the larrikin poika is not such a dreadful
ing, though it sounds bad Randwiok Asylum
anual pionio, took place on Thursday, Bth instant,
<hen several hundred children, and a couple of
.uindred visitors wont to Chowder. Children’s
lines, plenty to eat and drink, and the German
and helped to amuse them all day long .... Mrs. Carrol
ves a juvenile fancy dress ball in the new Joint
.ook Baqk, West Maitland, to-night, Thursday.......
vo high and titled ornaments of society in Hobart are
j marked iu their attentions to two fair maidens in
iddle sooiety that the “ upper three or four ’’ are
ate concerned about it. And, as the girls are really
ett.y and stylish, some of the scandalised fossils have
use for their - • 'itatda anxiety At Christ Churoh,
mdaberg, the i. stor’d daughter, Miss Charlie Morris,
s married to Mr. A H. Nott. Her reverend father
ok care to tie the nott firmly, and the numerous
i-emblage testified to 1 he interest felt in the match
i Monday, Captain Clarke, of the Rodondo, was pro-
atad with a casket ©f sovereigns on the stage of the
,yal, by J, C. Williamson for the subscribers. Cap.
C. is supposed to have carried more aatore and actresses
on tha coast than any other skipper, and the sovs. show
he is liked. What is termed a Grand Fancy Fair or
Bazaar is to be hold for a week in April at Hawke's
new buildings, Hun tor-street, for charity This day,
the Cambrian Lodge of Freemasons hold a pionio down
at, Corrov’s The Chief Justice of Queensland, Sir
Charles Lilley, was gnoet at a farewell picnic in Bris-
bane on Monday, and in tba evening was banqueted,
before leaving for England. Ho will come through
Sydney On Friday evening, there was a pleasant
gathering of the Botany Social Clnb and their guests in
tho Mechanics’ Institute. Nice girls, dvnoing, and tee-
total refreshments occupied attention till tram time
Another fashionable match is announced from Mel-
bourne. Dr. Miller and Sir Francis Murphy’s
daughter: very shortly An eminent Parramatta
jouraalisj gave a large ball last night.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Cambrian Masonic Lodge Pionio March 15,
Owl Club Pionio (Botanj) March 15.
St. Patrick’s Day Banquet March 17.
Art Society’s Exhibition opeus (Town Hall) Maroh 19
Licdortafel Concert (Ladies’) March 20.
School of Arts Conversazione Maroh 21.
WOMAN ITEMS
A good name for twins—Alf. and Alf.
The shorter the tunnel the sweeter the kiss.
The ladies’ latest foolery is the Autograph
Quilt. Celebrities are besieged with notes from femi-
nine correspondents, enclosing horrid soraps of silk,
calico, or satin, and asking them to write their name
thereon. The nuisance isn’t likely to spread to this
country. Most of our great men find it difilonlt enough
to write on paper.
Mrs. Alexander, of Banda Banda, Clonourry
{ S Q ), was bitten on the hand by a spider with a red
paten on its back. Her arm swa’lod np, besame black,
and in aonseqaenoo the unfortunate woman suffered
agony and turned deliri >as. On the night of the third
or fourth day after being bitten, ehe hacked her hand
off with a butcher s knife, and died shortly afterwards
from haemorrhage.
Miss Eva Thompson, a native of Sydney, has
done ua credit. At the Royal Academy »f Music,
Leaden, where she has studied fee throe years, among
250 female pupils,lshe w eu two m sdals—one for singing,
the other f <r piano plaving In Arts she did even
better, obtaining 100 mark*, tbe maximum possible.
For this she was graatei a oectiflmte of double first-
class. and was complimented by the chairman as being
the first lady who had achieved the feat. Miss Eva is
about 23 years of ago, was for miny years a resident of
Surry Hills, and a pupil of Giorza’s. And her pi holds
a position in a Sydney sofs-good's house.
Curious ease at Wagga. Thomas Dixon was
fined £5O (or six months) for abducting Sarah Ann
Dixon. Sarah and Tom m ide it up to elope from the
Wagga racecourse, and did s>. They took tickets to
Junea and Coctamuudra, then started on foot and
camped out for the night They ” had something to
eat," Sarah explained, and then they took a situation
for three weeks, and then her Pa oame along and took
her away. She told the Bauch she liked Tom, sheloved
him, but she doc load to give a definite answer whether
she was prapaiel to marry him. So the Bench fined
Tom Dixon as above, and took away his sixteen-year-
o’d sweetheart. And tho broken-hearted Sarah Ann
goes back to tho wash-tub, nnmarried.
The divine Bernhardt is always in trouble.
Th s time it is with the dressmakers. When she en-
gaged to play in “ Fedora," she ordered five costumes
—one for eaoii act—of Felix iho Paris modiste, which
wo e to surpass anytuiug th« world had ever previously
seen. And to secure herself against disappointment
she gave ja simultaneous order for five similar robes to
Morin of Vienna Felix heard of this and got mad.
He wrote to Bernhardt and informed her that tho cos-
tumos were ready—but not for her She tbould not
have them at any price, for the hon e of Frlix wonld
not condescend to be brought into competition with
any.Auetriin shop Then Sara got mad, and flew to
Worth. Worth agreed to make the costumes ouly on
the condition that she would wear them without ever
thinking of donui* g any others ; for tho impa-ial house
of Worth could never have a rival in a hated Teuton.
So Sara, not hiving enough confllenoe in Morin, was
obliged to accept Worth's terms. And the jeke of the
thing is that Morin is not a German or Austrian at all,
but a pure Parisian.
There was a rough time on the steamer Nelson
during her last voyage from Melbourne to Portlandi
deadlights smashed, cabins flooded, and shrieks of
despair. Yet, amid the wreck of matter and the crash
and whirl, one sweetly pretty young lady—but we’ll let
her twitter out the tale herself. “ Oh 1" she said,
“ when the water came in I thought we were all going
down, and remembered that an old woman in Melbourne
had made mo take some brandy with me. I Immediately
recollected the brandy, and, having said my prayers,,
drank it all, quite prepared to go to Heaven." Now,
that’s the sort of girl that wa can afford to love.
We’re so glad she wa-u’t drowned. Such a determined
objection to swallowing “unconnected" saltwater must
command tho respect of every man who is not a teeto-
taller. She said her praters, and then went straight
f*r Heaven in a glorious state of brandy and don’t-care-
so-there-now 1 She reached Portland, however. Port-
land is a long way from Heaven.
Red-haired girls don’t generally appreciate the
fortune Nature has dowered them with. Many are
made by their frienda, and are content to remain, ob-
jacts of sympathy, when they ought to be objects
rather of envy. Just because they don’t know. Red-
haired girls 1 it you wish to be commonplace and in-
sipid and insignificant, wear pale blue. It has been the
heritage of the red-haired for centuries! so you wear
it But to be commonplace in society now, is to be no-
body. You can’t afford to bo insignificant. You want
to sbine your best. You have most of you lovely com-
p'exioas; some of yon exceptionally pretty features.
Then wear golden brawns, red bronzes, ruddy creams:
and if yon have anything pretty about you, yon will
look a very poem. Wear tho red of autumn leaves,
terracotta, and tho tints you see in marigolds, tea
roses, wall flowers, and Mareohal Niels. One of the
loveliest heads we have seen in Sydney was famed with
11 windy ” hair of golden red, under a hat of fluffy brown
beaver, garnished with deep chrysanthemums. One of
the brightest beauties of London drawing-rooms, with
reddish auburn tresses, wears a gold bind on them, and
nearly always drosses in yellow satin, or golden velvet;
or, for the street, in chocolate or tawny brown, relieve!
with amber, or various shades of gold.
Of all the sober criticisms Mrs. Langtry has
received, one of the most m »■. possibly one of the
most truthful, is that of a IS V iuibune man. “ It is
difficult," he says, “to <ii-< i -s tho subject without
seeming ungallant and to a very estimable
woman, a woman who, with her husband, having
suffered reverses in fortune, Likes this honourable
means of increasing her bank a souunt; but let justice
be done, though tho heavens fall Artistically, she’s a
failure. As a beauty, she’s not surprising. Witnessing
her performance of Eosaln.d, I was astonished at its
utter want of merit. A moio wooden, unmeaning, un-
interesting misapprehension of a Shakespearian char-
acter, I never saw. As I watched her scrambling and
soboolgirling through tbe part, I thought upon the
number of trained and talented artists—who have
spent arduous years of toil and study iu their art —to
whom the greatness thrust upon this lovely incapable
would be a godsend, and a deserved reward. To
criticise Mrs. Langtry’s performance would bo to
chronicle nothing but faults. In appearance, she cer-
tainly has an air of refinement and of distinction, and
is unquestionably a well-bred woman. But those are
not exceptional qualities on the stage Her eyes ace
steel-grey in colour, and are by no means sparkling or
capable of variety in expression. Her month is large
and not particularly shapely, while her lips do not
follow tho line of beauty in their forms Her nose is
long, ungraceful in its lines, and out tt proportion to
th* length of her face. Her chin is full and heavy, as
is the whole lower part of her faoe, which, though
amiable in its general expression, conveys the impres-
sion of fixity or lack of flexibility. Her neok is very
beautiful, and is superbly set upon her shoulders,
which are shapaly and are well carried. Her bands are
large, though not badly formed, but her wrists are
ugly, and her arm, from the wrist to the elbow, is any.
thing but the ideal ®f physical beauty. From the
elbow to the shoulder it is thin in proportion to the
fulness of her figure. Her feet are large and not well
shaped. Her legs are thin and far from abundant iu
line* of grace, and her knees pro’rudo. Perhaps tho
inartistic manner in which they were padded may have
had something to d > with tho unfavourable effect pro-
duce!. Her stage walk is heavy and ungainly, and at
times she stalks with a vigour that is far from becoming.
In fact, to be brief, wa hava sean many women of much
greater physical beauty on the stage, about whom it
has not baoo considered of vital necessity for either
tbe press or the public to rave.”
There i* not much romance about this age. Every,
thing I* now brought down to tbe level of common-
sense One thing, however, succeeded until now in keep-
ing up in the clouds and out of the scales. This thing
wa i woman She had been so accustomed to hear poets
calling her the priceless pearl of life, that she had grown
to consider herself anove valuation. All this is to be
changed, however. Woman will, in future, be ticketed
up with her price, like any other article. A New Zea-
land Judge may be considered tho impetus-giver to
this resolution. In his advice to a juryiu a divorce
case which took place at Nelson a short time ago, he
said: “Ho must tell the jury that in arriving at
the amount of damages, what they had to do was to
assess tbe value of the wife of whom the petitioner
had been deprived, without regard to the means f f the
co-respondent or to the question whether or not lie
was able to pay the damages. Hoiv pecuniary expres-
sion was to be given to a wife’s value it wns not easy to
say, but English juries did it, and they would have to
do so too, though by what pro’cess they were to arrive
at the piopcr amount Heaven only knew." Heaven
only knows, does it ? How does it know ? Are we not
credibly informed that there is no marrying or giving
in marriage, and consequently, no wives there ? Very
well then, how can Heaven set a figure on that which it
knows nothing about P Bat aside from this rash refer,
ence to the skies, we consider the ruling of the New
Zealand judge a most admirable one. We see no reason
or justice in fancy prices-being put upon women who
have gone astray. Wo go farther. We consider that
tho husband, instead of s-eking damages from the man
who had caused his wife to fall, should pay him a pre-
mium for showing him (the husband) wh it a worthless
creature he was cherishing. But in the matter of
carrying out th • assessment of value, we think there
may be a difficulty. Of course, men will have to he the
valuators, because it women were allowed to put prices
upon themselves, there would not be enough money in
the world to compensate for the damage of one of
them. The hard part of the thing however, will bo to
fix a st-m Ja'd of value. Beauty will not do, because it
is itnpos ible to get men to agree upon a standard of
beauty. We should, to start with, have a blonde and
brunet’e factions firing each other into space for the
sake of the colour they liked bvst. We should belong
to the blonde faction ourselves, but this by the way.
And while the men were breaking each other’s heads,
the women could be scratching out each other's eyes
No, beaut vwi 1 not do. How about Soul ? This would
be a very favourable standard of value from the male
point of view. All males would be Mohammedans
while they were taking that view. And as Mohammed
said women have no souls, why they would be paid for
accordingly. We hardly tMnk even this will do,
though. Stature seems a more reliable standard
Women might be valued at so much an inch. The
drawback here, however, would be, that many men
who would get an inch would take a Nell. After all,
we think that the best way to arrive at the worth of a
woman is to weigh her. Price so much a pound. A
man who wanted a wif j would then know what he was
doing. So many pounds of wife, so many pounds
sterling. Then if she was unfaithful, he would get
from the other man just what he himself gave for her.
—more if she had got fat, less if she had become thin.
Under these circumstances men would be likely to
marry big women, because their wives would then be
valuable properties And for the same reason, gay
Lotharios would avoid substantial spouses Ho the
husband would be safe however the thing went. We
consider this New Zealand Judge the benefactor of
his sex. We don't know what the ladies think about
it. We shall be glad to take their opinions—through
an iron grating.
• • •
Before Divorce Judges were appointed, suits
were heard in Committee of the Lords, Lord Penzance
being President. A fashionable lady said one day,
“ How I envy Lady Penzance—what delightfully infer.
esting stories she must hear 1 ” A yonng lady having
brought an action against a clergyman for having
kissed her, it transpired that tbe crime had been com-
mitted two years before. Ska was asked why she
brought it up so long afterwards. “ Because, last Sun-
dry night, he kissed another girl I ” A woman who
was made a widow by tko Woniora disaster consoled
herself in eight days by taking another husband, and
her husband and herself ace now applying for relief or t
of the funds raised for those who wer# loft without
support by the loss of tho steamer 1A London bole
carried out tbe strange Idea of writing to two of her
admirers in blood drawn from her own veins. Each ec-
closed his not* in a magnificent frame...Of four Sisters
of Mercy who want from England to volunteer (heir
services as nurses in a part ef Mexico which is overrun
with typhus fever, one is a sooiety girl of good family,
whose ddhdt at Court a few seasens ago was a marked
success The great rivals, Mesdamsa Sealohi and
Patti, lately kissed one another on the stage. But that
was no fun. Soalohi ought to have kissed Signor Nioo-
lini, and then told Patti she’d dons it, on the stage.
Then there’d have been fun A miner’s wife named
Gibscn nobly lost her own life at Newcastle on
Saturday, trying to save that of her child. A
locomotive ont her in >wo. Poor woman I The wife
of Mr. Chute, aN Z contractor, has presented him
with “throe fine daughters" all at once. These are his
first-born. He is but 21, and Mrs. Chute 20.


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Autumn, autumn hai now xx
SET IN. XX
XX
The cool mornings and evenings now expert- XX
enoed remind ns that
SUMMED HAS NEiRLV GONE,
XX and that next week (B aster week) we may ex.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
peot eool, if not cold, weather.
Is i* hardly necessary, therefore, to mention
that our fair ocstorcers will do well to
C iME THIS WEEK,
and Buy their
BASTE i DRESSES
and Order th ir
EASTER MILLINERY.
A SPLENDID LOT of EACH
JUST OPENED.
Ex Cophal jma.
OurPITT-STREETFS ’ABLI3HMENT
is now brimful of
BEAUTIFUL,
FASHIONABLE,
and INEXPEN iIVE
GOODS
for
AUTUMN.
COME and SEE THEM.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS XX
(Hordern’s, in Fitt-street), XX
XX 172 a, 174,176, 178 a, 209, 211, PITT-STREET. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
TX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
niHa CHEAPEST ESTABLISHMENT
I FOR CARPETS,
Having the Government contract for Car-
pets, proves CONCLUSIVELY beyond a
doubt that we can sell, and do sell,
CARPETS CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER
FIRM IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Yes,—We can make np carpets for yon.
We can take measurements and fit rooms.
We can lay Carpets to your satisfaction.
Fit difficult staircase, &o. Ac.,
at the same moderate charges
as are made in London, ■
Try us.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Carpet Importers,
174 a, 176. 178, 209, 211, Pitt-street.
k HESS MATERIALS FOR EASTER,
D’
DRESSES FOB EASTER.
for Easter.
DRESSES
Come rigJit into Sydney,
into the Fashionable part of Sjdoey,
whenever you want
DRESS MATERIALS.
We have a Large Stock of Dresses,
A New Stock of Dresses,
A Fashionable Stock of Dresses,
and
A £ e isonable Stock of Dresses.
N.B.— An experienced Dressmaker in
attendance.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Myf ILLINBRT FOR EASTER.
IyL MILLINERY FOB EASTER.
Nsw Shapes and Styles in Hats and Bonnets
coming in every day.
INFANTS’, CHILDREN’S and LADIES’
MILLINERY
N.B A specially Fashionable Line
in Spanish,
and come very pretty Cavalier Hats.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Importers of Millinery,
211, Pitt-street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX TVTO ESTABLISHMENT in this CITY XX
XX A-Sl Sells its Silks, flatlnv, and Velvets. XX
XX AS CHEAP AS WE DO. XX
XX Importing those goods from the Mannfac- XX
XX turers direct gives us an opportunity XX
XX of selling them so cheaply, XX
XX Silks at la, Is 31, Is 7d, 2s 2d, 2a Ud, 3s 9d 4s 9d XX
XX Satins at Is 4$ t. Is 6d, 1 lid, 2s 4d. 2s Bd, 3s XX
XX Velvets at Ik lid, 2j lid, 3t 6d, 4s 9i, 5i 6J
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Patterns tout to any ladies unable to
come ont shopping.
HORDERN S IN PITT-STREET,
No. 211.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
CaSßiops’s Gonsuitatioo
ON TUB
SYDNEY GOLD CUP, 1883
Under flrst-class Patronage and Supervision.
2000 SVBSCIUIIERB at each,
T
Srd Horse, £2OO. 2nd Horse, £4OO. Ist Horse, £lOOO.
Starters, £2OO ; Non-Starters, £2OO.
Persons making application are requested to register theii
letters to ensure safe delivery of same.
Address “ CALLIOPE,” care of Harrild and Co.
Box 719 G.P.0., Sydney. •
HE GREAT "OXONIAN” CONSULTATION.
SYDNEY GOLD CUP, 1883.
2000 Subscribers at £1 Each.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
Actuated by the desire of many friends I have the
Sleasure of announcing that I intend having a series of
onsultations on the above. No lis now open, and it
is requested that subscribers will make early applies-
tion, so that fortunate holders may be afforded the op-
portuaity cf hedging.
All applications should bo accompanied by a-P.O.
order or cheque, and in the latter ease, if country, an
extra shilling for exchange, in addition to a stamped
envelope for reply.
To ensure delivery, it is positively compulsory that
all letters should be registered.
Address “Oxonian,”
care of Mr, James Hunt,
Oxford Hotel,
King-street,
Sydney.
A MASCOTTE COMPANY.
CONSULTATION ON SYDNEY GOLD CUP, 1833
Capital £2500 in 5000 shares at 10a each. There are
161 Prizes, 95 Horses, and 56 Prize Gifts.
PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION :
The LA MASCOTTE COMPANY beg to call the at-
tention of the Public to the advantages in investing in
this Consultation, each Shareholder is entitled to a
ohanea in both Horses and Prize Gifts.
Applications by letter only addressed. La Mascot te,
care of D. Lindo, Box 723, G.P.0., Sydney, and at East-
way's Hotel, King-street,
Fast filling up. Early application necessary. Will
he drawn on or about 22ud instant.
Result sent to Country Shareholders, and published
in leading Weekly Papers immediately after drawing.
H * PALING.
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
562 George-atreet, Sydney.
It
! N ■“««W 1
m
v-r
Jt=
ssiae*i *1
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
ME NTS, by
EBABD (Paris and London),
FLEYEL.
COLLAED and COLLAED,
80UFLETO,
BURDEN and 00„
TEOST
AUCHER,
PALING Mid CO.,
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Kobo wood,
Blaok and Qold, and Walnut oases,
AMERICAN ORGANS,
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH OEuAN CO.,
ether Renowned Factors.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PER® ot FILS, and other
First-class Manufacturers.
A Large Assortment of New and Popular Music al.
ways on band at
W. H. P A L I A a,
M 2 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WTNIAED STREET.
SYDNEY.
Q.EAND FANCY FAIR OR BAZAAR
A GRAND FANCY FAIR OR BAZIAE,
in aid of the
FUNDS OP ST. JOSEPH’S PROVIDENCE,
will be held in
those Magnificent New Buildings, corner of Hunter
and Oastlereagh slreots, known as TATTER-
BALL’S, kiualy placed »t the dirposul < I the Com-
mittee by the proprietors, Messrs. Hawkes and
Company.
THE FANCY PAIR WILL OPEN ON THE 7th
AND CLOSE ON THE 14th APRIL,.
Farther particulars in future advertisements.
CHARLES O’NETK ) Hon.
J. J. BPRUSON. i sees.
(SYDNEY GYMNASIUM
LIVERPOOL STREET
LADIES* AND GENTLEMEN’S CLASS maIKY.
ALL BRANCHES OF ATHLETICS TAUGHT.
Q. H. d’HARCOURT, Instruotm
ROYAL, BRISBANE.
NOTICE TO MANAGERS.
The open dates for the current year on, ~ow being
rapidly filled Early application ie therefor' necessary
from Companies Coming North. Terms may be had
from T. Setright, care of Elvy & Co , 329 G orge st., or
JAMES B. DICKIE.
Brisbane.
\
1 1 1
f 11 M i' it i
B It
Mil
«4
£2
Y
ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STEEET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part ot
the Colony.
£JHOWDER BAY PLEASURE GROUNDS
CAN BE ENGAGED FOB
SCHOOLS AND OTHER PICNICS
AT
OHOWDEE BAY OFFICE, CIRCULAR QUAY,
With Steamer licensed to carry 260 passengers.
PXGNIC PARTIES CATERED FOR.
ARTLE Y DISTRICT JOCKEY CLUK
MAIDEN PLATE, £25,
To be run in • May, 18SS.
Nominations will be accepted for Horses which hr v„
not won an Advertised Prize of more than £25. Non,,
nation Fee, £l.
RICHARD TUALLY.
Hon. See.,
H«ti<:
Q P B E A HOUSE.
Leasee and Manager ... ... W. J. Wilson.
Manager lor Mr. Polk Signor Majeroni.
EVERT EVENING at 8 o’elook,
THE GREAT POPULAR COMEDIAN.
ME. POLK MR. POLK
supported by his accomplished Wife, Mrs.
JULIA A. POLK,
and his own powerful Comedy Company,
in the 4 Ast Farcical Comedy, entitled
THE STRATEGIST,
THE FUNNIEST PLAY EVER WRITTEN.
Mrs. JULIA A- POLK
will sing " The Nightingale’s Trill," *' The Pretty Girl
Milking her Cow." “ Annie Laurie." and
“THE STRATEGIST WALTZ.”
PRICES AS USUAL.
Scats may be secured six days in advance at A.
HUENEEBEIN'S Music Store, 411 George-ctreet.
B £ A T B £ aOYAL
Lessee .....Mr. Sam. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management «f
Mvssrs. WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS of
HENRY V. HENRY V.
Mr GEORGE RIGNOLD,
and hia own Company of established favourites.
Prices as usual. Box office open daily from 11 till 4.
Doors open at a quarter past 7, the onrtain will rise
at a quarter to 8.
gYDNEY GOLD CUP.
"ADAMA3TOR" No. I. Capital, £2500, in 500
ah arcs at 10s. each.
. £1225 for horses; £1275 for stars. S. Q. Cup 191
Prizes,
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders or cheques; if cheques, oxehaage must be added,
and, in all oases, postage fees ; if cash, to register letters.
Applicants, by letter only, addressed, N.B.W, and
Queensland Agency—Box 473. Q.P.O , Sydney; and
Little’s Base Hotel, corner of Pitt and Market-streets ;
and " Adamaetor," care of L. A. Pereira, 34 B-urke-
strest west, Melbourne. Results will be published in
leading weakly papers immediately after drawing. Ap-
lioants will plea»e state for whioh event they wish
tickets. Close 23rd, if not before
PIANO £35, nearly half price. Pino Brilliant-toned
Cettage Plano, trichord throughout, three
Pedals, Steel Frame, full compass, by flrst-olass makers,
A Bargain. Apply fro* 12 to 6 at No. 2 Tarrawa
Terrace, bottom of Hill-street, Newtown Road.
THE HARWOOD
FIBRE GKAIR SEATING
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz, i
Strength. Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness and
Cheapness,
rinnis CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
8 known fibres and a perfectly Waterproof oement,
and after fifteen years’ constant use; we can speak
positively! as to its merits. It cannot split or oheok,
neither will exposure to sun or rain effect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Meohanie Association.
FOR RE-SEATING, it is unrivalled. In every
house, store, and office, are Chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and mako as good as new
a ohair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOE HOME USB.
AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY DISTRICT.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any mart
or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & 00.
GENERAL AGENTS POE AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
SweUtoo^th? unßfc appointment tf! His
o/s„l Q ? Ten l? rof N - 8 W "- wIU Tisit Wagga
Ooniulfcd on th £ 17fch iHst ** whero h « may be
will retnna Bye » Ear » and Throafc diseases, and
bj the ov ßri i„ nw looaiß, 50 Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Co v Wn °' tt ' “* Mo
had <^ BSBn aion—She had a corn, and he
liquid ?* re »” Eomeof the importa-
ble ivourm which unscrupulous dealers
Ugbtful 0r „ B ?* n P° te with the health-giving and do-
BCHKAI>Fa not be
FACTS AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
A 16-year old boy in the shop of a Pebwtopol
£j C ) Smith, is over 8 feet and weighs 182 lb At
ndharsf, ihe decomposed and ant-eaten body of
William Mansom, an old man was found seated on a
gtooL oi-ehand being oa a table Consequent on the
extraordinary revelations made recently in the local
* Ijpa' court, a searching inquiry into the conduct of
(jj, Wo longong police is asked for Since July 1876,
the Great Cobar Copper Co, have raised 80 : 820 tons
eopper ore, which yielded 10,937 tons copper, value
£7OO 003. £1 2s 6i in dividends has bean paid on each
£1 share, and £77 260 carried forward A. tsmporary
Supreme Court Judge will probably be appointed on
*noount of Justice Manning’s absence on leave
James Moore, a young blacksmith, run over in Qcorge-
gtreot by a cab and died instantly. He was skylarking,
his hat fell off, he stooped to pick it up, and was killed.
....Two Melbourne clothing manufacturer* refuse to
Accede to the Tailoresaes’ Union scale of prices, and
are employing non-Union girls, bat every day detach-
ments of throw np their work on account of the
representations made to them by the members of the
Union, who arc stationed at the approaches of tbs
factories Anderson, of Destitute College celebrity,
has ” caved in," and agreed to abandon the Government
land on which he has bean squatting Alex. Ross, tha
explorer, on hi* way to the Maodonnoll Ranges, found
the bodies of two men, who had evidently died from
thirst during intense heat at Anna Creak Th* Mel-
bourne agents for the Westinghouse brake, charge
Mirls. Victorian locomotive superintendent, who re-
ported in favonrof the Woods brake, with trickery, and
Vith deliberately making untrue statements ; also with
reporting fictitious breakdowns in connection with the
VVestinghouse, and consoling accident s to the Woods
brake. Argus says an investigation should bo held.
Mirls says the charge is utterly groundless
One Boga dairy farm makes £5109 annually and another
£8000; that’s the cheese The Melbourne Arcus and
Aon have given the increased penny per 1000 to their
compositors. The Melb. Daily Telegraph people say
straight out they can’t afford it Polly Benson, who
strove to suicide in Elizabeth-street, without oaring a
jot whether she threw the tram off the line or nob, has
been “sent up” for that Should have been charged
with attempting to damage Government property
Bey. J F Moran, of Camden, has invented something
by which (ho says) the Austral could have been raised
in thres days, at a cost of only £3OOO. Mr. Whltsley
King, editor of the Mataura Ensign (N.Z ), and grand-
son of the late Rev. John Whitely, who was murdered
at the White Cliffs in 1869, by Te Kooti and
Co, writes to the Native Minister, saying that,
the amnesty notwithstanding, the Maori murderers
shall suffer for their crimes One of the
New Zealand papers compares Milner Stephen to the
Indian corn-doctor I Gall Another N.Z. tradesman
has levanted with £2ooo—and the inevitable woman
A N.Z. publican sued a labourer for £3 on a promissory
bill for liquor supplied. Magistrate gave judgment for
defendant, saying he had no sympathy whatever for one
who had allowed a man with a wife and family to con-
tract a debt for drink whioh ho was unable t» pay
The Sydney tramway guards have all been sworn in as
special constables, and can arrest larrikins In the
Insolvent estate of Goldberg Bros, and Co , Melbourne,
the solicitor for the trustee says some)£3o,ooo or £50,000
can’t be traced. Shemomineel Walter Lerahan,
alias Henderson, arrested at Hay for bigamy, has been
committed for trial at Melbourne He was married to
Agnes Braithwaite on the 16bh June, 1881, by th* Regis-
trar at Geelong, and again on the 16th July, 1832, he
married at the Wesleyan Church, Yarra-stroot, one
Martha Thornton, with whom he only lived three
months, and than left her A Hunter River bailiff
telegraphed a man whom he couldn’t catch to the effect
that if he met him (the bailiff) at the railway station
he’d bear about a legacy he was entitled to under the
will of his aunt. The fish was hooked A burglary
at the Commercial Bank, Grafton, was frustrated by
daylight.........Lithgow iron now said to be equal to the
best in the world Suburban telegraph stations to
keep open till 8 p.m. after Ist April ; good arrangement
M’Gregor, a young fellow, edod the Victorian
Government for £3500, re the Hawthorn collision ; his
counsel, at the trial, wanted to increase it to £5900, as,
since the salt was commented, he had become a perfect
wreak, Jury awarded £3OOO The foreign seamen
belonging to the schooner C. Walker, and Mr. Lsmaire,
who acted so bravely at the wreck of the New England,
have eaoh been presented with £lO4 The woman,
Mary Lovell, suspected of stealing £l5OO worth of
jewellery and money from James Lang, a Victorian
squatter, has been arrested. Mary is a person of bad
character. James is a gentleman...... Away in the coun-
try, a Chinaman raised a shovel to split a man down.
He was instantaneously tapped on the head by a man
named Maher, and Ah Ting is now dead It appears
from the j ary’s verdict that Harding, the groom, whose
body was found floating at Brighton (Yio.) beaoh, cut
his throat, and then walked into the water There's a
deal of mystery about the matter still A stockman
down South watohod far shaepstaalora all night, while
the sheopstealers stole all day During the absence of
Cullen, a copra manufacturer from Api (New Hebrides),
the Queensland labour schooner May Queen sailed up
and took away hi*, chattels, that is, his slave*—or,
rather, his niggers. Now he wants £2OOO compensation
"Mushrooms" killed a foreigner at the waterworks
near Camden, recently Judge Dowling, last week,
Bent a drunken prosecutor to gaol and dlseharged the
pnaener Qorns, the well-known photographer, of
King-street, has an extensive vineyard at Campbell-
■®*n' Total acreage, 610 j under vino, 15 acres A
J* feet 6 Inch shark, full of Abbatoir refuse, caught by
tno crow of the Lightship. Ho had declined a hook
nailed with a bullock’s heart, but fell a victim to the
SW Another shark, 10 feet in length, 7 feet round
the body, and weighing 7 cwt has been canght by Mr.
reroy Adams, off Snail’s Bay, Balmain. When opened,
a dog with a collar, a boot, potted moat tin, and other
things were found inside.
» * •
Moot and Ohandon’a sales of champagne have
mten yeira amounted to over 23 000,000 bottles, the
greater part of which has been shipped to England. The
r S‘, owns considerably more than 1000 acres of wines
... ihe area under vines in Prance amounts to five and
~uIi artor J? illioa ao as Strike on the Caledonian
.”he man have been working 18 to 20 hours
fim 8 aD( f Piid for overtime only as ordinary
““f- r he Spectator says it has heard of English
m,iio, mon workln 8 20 hours a day at points where n
ptm at a wrong lever would cost 50 lives Five French
imni':. ff . ar at Madagascar. Natives excited, and war
t ...Byrne, whoso connection with the Phoenix
hatm ? ura ers the British Government oan’t prove, has
nlinifw rdot *i ce d by Franco on a charge of cem-
La»oL. Wlt a atteillptB on the lives of Field and Judge
a f'“‘i; A Or f on^ o * frozen moat averaged 6Jd per lb.
d . ge connection with examinations for
olfi >1 8 ‘ 0M ln th o Army has just been discovered. A
whn ® oam P Personates any dunderheaded aristocrat
cornea >f^, re( l'* lre his services. The clever scoundrel
stnnirt a ?„ or • xa -nmation, and passes with credit. The
miaHir,n 9 ?2 a .'! dre J? ayB him £lOOO, and gets the com-
iourUfln ? fflcor And a gentleman.” A lad of
months London recently of hydrophobia—five
Pud Th< 6r .homg slightly scratched by a retriever
faet\h.r!u 9xtra .° rdinar y occurrence brought out the
iu soma 0 poi Boa of hydrophobia has lain dormant
At a wrJi^f 8 t Oll years, and then caused death
dent e™ln?. e ‘5 ninf? .f aotory in Bombay, a horrible aooi-
obildpftn ~ rred on toe 2nd February. 500 women and
when a f«i ere wor hiug in three storeys of the building,
was onW „ ory ot "Fire” started a panic. There
towards n^f row staircase, with a door opening
they , tam ' Pouring down in mad terror,
bodies wiu v door ®hut with a mass of struggling
Mmovad • n ' i J oar a ft or warda, 23 dead bodies were
sons warn 0 j?hpm had been smothered, and 28 per-
whatever t« to I? 8 , injured. There was nothing
United Bh?f^ a f ra ?* ; panic The death rate of the
Option ,JStod SirSSml" 15-1 per thousaGd ’ Con ’
When John MVBlhoue was at school, ha was a game
sort of a boy—he learned a little; ho told the other
boys what ha thought of them ; and he used to fight a
lot. Ye*, he was terribly pugnacious. He generally
thrashed every boy he went for—big or small, though
he’d sooner get a licking himself than not fight at all.
Strangely enough, some of the boys didn’t like being
made chopping-blocks of, and Mac, always "bating"
them got to be monotonous. So, three of them formed
a grand triumvirate—it was their only chance,—and,
one day they caught him on his way to school, coming
round the corner, and gave him the biggest trouncing
yon could ever imagine a tough bay getting. But it
took the throe of them to do it. Well, next morning,
John let loese a bull-dog that he generally kept on
chain, and the dog followed him towards school. On
the way he again met hia three enemies. He jeered at
them and took off his coat. They “ went for him,” and
John’s dog instantly walked off with half a pound ef
meat —the primost out—from one of the daring three,
who wore at onoe discomfited with great slaughter.
John tried the buU-dog trick again at the Mudgeo
election. He attempted to get a “good third mam"
out in opposition to Taylor. Bat the third man wasn’t
to hand So John’s dog didn't bite.
We learn from a Catholic paper that a long list
of proposed saints has been brought to the Sacred Con-
gregatian of Rites for beatification and canonization.
There are two hundred and one names on the list. As
of these one hundred and sixby-eight are martyrs, we
conjecture that the lot are dead, and that it would be no
uie to offer them our congratulations on the distinction
intended for them, or to work up a complimentary
banquet, or a purse of sovereigns. Now that we think
of it, we oan’t recall a single saint who was ever enter-
tained at a banquet. We have known this to happen to
some martyrs however, whose sufferings took the form
of listening to Dan O’Cennor spouting iligant orations
respecting virtues which they knew they didn’t possess,
and he didn’t believe they did. But what we want to
point out particularly is that among all the twe hnn-
dred and one, there isn’t a single Englishmen, or Ger-
man, or Yankee. On reflection, indeed, our imagination
is not strong enough to conceive a Yankee saint. All
we can summon up in the wav of an idea in this line is a
beatified soul with a nasal twang, whe tries to trade off
a nickel-plated harp unon an inexperienced angel for a
crown of gold worth ten times the money. There are
eighty saints of Corean origin, ten Chinese saints, and
nine of Cochin China. This leads to a sort of expectation
that his Holiness will canonize Qussy’s Brahma-pootras
shortly. Conceive ninety-nine saints with pigtails and
almond eyes. We’d like to know how the other saints
will stand this irruption of the ** leprous Mongolian.”
There will bs a burning " Cnineio Question “
in Heaven now, just as sure as there is a
liberally •* burning" Caucasian question in hell
all the time. We oonld overlook the omis-
sion of English saints, lint what knocks us is that
there are no New Sonth Welshman canonized. We
know that everybody who has died for years baa been
quite up to the standard of an average saint, because
the Herald obituary notices and the tombstones have
invariably said as much. But we won’t dispute about
that. Perhaps we are premature. It’s unlucky that
John Lucas isn’t dead. Of course we doa’t maan
politically. In that sense he ie as dead as the only Dan.
or Dr. Ren WICK. But really. Because twenty stone of
saint would be a big thing for the country of our adop-
tion to be able to quote in religions qaarrels —we mean
in its prayers. Wo suppose we’ll have to wait, however,
till it’s the turn of oar moat virtuous men to be pro-
moted, and then, of course, it will be bat a single step
for such pure and lofty souls as John Davies’, whe is
already a companion of two saints —fine old crusted
saints, too, bottled in a-d. 500 or thereabout—to become
saints themselves, and enter into the enjoyment of
sniggering in company with Eosebt and Hicks, and
Andy Lynch, and other truly virtuous and spotless men
at the enjoyable spectacle of Redmond and Mayor
Harris sizzling in brimstone and asking vainly for a
cup of cold water.


STANDARD ENGLISH-MAD
PEAPEB& 8
HAVE bow open, for the SUMMER SEASON,
READY-MADE CLOTHING. These goods are ™
with extra care, and are altogether different from ordinary p
THE 800D3 WILL BECOMMEND
STANDARD TWEED SUITS, 353, 428, 459, 50s, 63a
MSS
STANDARD TWEED'SAC COATS, 9a 6d, 15a 6d, 21a
YACHTING
w«ttE MILITARY DUCK and DRILL COATis, I* 29 ® l ]
WHIT ft and COLOURED DOCK 9 a 6d.each- 3 f
CHINA SILK SAC COATS, 10b 6d, 12b 6d.WeMl, 17| 6d
BLACK ALPACA »AC and DUST
NICHOLL’S COLOURED TWILL LLAMA DUST COA
LIGHTIIUMMBR TWEED OVERCOATS, from 10a 6d t<
THE LARGEST, H MOST Y STYLTSIf, AND 1 BEST SELECT
A ’ SHARPS TIES COLLARS, and SHI!
SCARFS, COLONIES.
A S&ORTMENT 1 OF* TO A V^LLIl^G 3
ment, all Leather Goods being made speoially for us witn
usage they are liable to on the voyage. ..mnwcre _n
PORTMANTEAUS and TRAVELLING iRUNKS, Ml »i!
TRAVELLING BAGS, SPILED LINEN BaGS, RUG STRAt
and GENTLEMEN'S DRESSING GOWNS, PIJAMA SUITi
FORD LINEN. pjygggjjjQ CASES, BRUSHWAEE, CHOIC
PEAPES & SHAW’S. PEAP
George-atreet,
A. GOBI
(late of the Telegraph Hot
HAS OPENED THE
“ cl aren:
Corner of ELIZABETH & .
An<l which he intends to keep as
A. Q. hopes, by strict attention tc
share of their PATRONAGE. VIS
surpasses most of the leading Hon
DA riON and every CONVEMIEN
looks HYDE PARK, it must ne
VENTILATED.
SUITES of BOOMS for I
as per nap-eemen
HOT and COL f • l V » CE]
POSTER in Attencan e Di
It is not necessary to meutioi
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &o.
wavs has been, noted throughout
selling nothing but the vary best.
NOTICE OF RED
MR. JOHN I
has removed fr<
119 LIVERPOOL S
to his
NEW WARE!
363 PITT STREET
Where a New and well-assorted i
Gasflttings, Plumbers and
ware, Gas and Water Pipoi
will always bo on
Note the New Address-
-363 PITT STREEI
EABTWAY, BRI
WIRB-WORE
WISH to call your attentic
we make and have in sto
FLOWER STANDS, for hild
made of iron and wire, handsome!
suitable for rooms, halls, bale
conservatories. Also, WIRE 1
sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for f
coal, &o , all meshes, from 1 h<
square inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for
from breakage caused by hail-stoi
stones. Also. WIRE NETTING
to 72 In. wide.
CAGES of every description, to
singly or in nests, suitable for stc
And every description of WIR]
premises.
B A S T W A y", B E
418 GEOEGE-ST
Illustrated Catalogues o
THE TRADE BUI
No. 17 Royal
ME. DAV I ]
(Of Paddingi
Begs to inform his old oustomei
that ho ha» opened a branch <
ESTABLISHMENT at
No, 17 ROYAL A
His great experience, viz., 20 '
his ability to excel all others. R
17 ROYAL ARCA
451 South Head Road,
D. & R. BRA
rDA\ranTT\TTII?DO /IDA
FURNISHING, AND OTHERS.
la Complete without a few nice
T U R M S.
IT PUBLISHING COMPANY,
DNEY ARCADE,
and
EOTAL ARCADE,
have over
THE PURE CO
With superfluous fat
extracted,
produces a
Light, Dslioiouß
Beverage.
v
A
*
&
v'
*
V
o
Ci
o
drink
) liquid yield
ORDINARY
r SOLD BY ALL Q
o
UE STAY AND CORSE!
EDWARD HORDERN a
EDWARD HOBDIBN a
of
668 Briokfleld-hll
668 Brickfleld-hil
direct SPECIAL ATTENTION to I
meat. <" which will he foundl all
“ a x* KBS, in VARIOUS QUA
) X :E Lt.ENCE IN VALUE wear,
P1 ,,, d caucot be surpassed. One ol
Ul3 •• RADIATING SIDE STEE
Ti is aaw radiating SIDE STEEL,
dos en. under the Designs Copyrigl
No. 6521, HAS REGH-IVRD the
testimony in its FAVOUR.
It gives LARGE
surface, retains the necessary FLE.
the STRAIN OP WEAR, prevei
corset from BREAKING, and avoid
and injurious pressure on the HI
Ihe old straight steels. The BACK
stays is COMPOSED of WHALEBC
6« 9d per pair, 6s 9d p
THE ACME CORE
is CONSTRUCTED en a GRACE!
able far the present style o* dress, tl
MANBNTLY RETAINED by as
WHALEBONE placed diagonally
gradually curving in and oontractiD
bottom of the bu=k, whereby the BJ
Is REDUCED, the outline improvei
port afforded, and a fashionable a
PE AB AN CE secured.
100 different makes
THAT THE SAME MAKE of C<
ADOPTED TO ALL WQUBKB-
- the long and the BUCK, i
NATURALLY*GRACEFUL, and
vioualv ptend in need of being made
one hundred different j
that every lady, whether old or yi
being well-suited. We would rem
oily SENSIBLE and SIMPLE P
really “ lien oorsete,” is to visi
wheie are to be found the onicor
PRACTICAL SKILL OP THE 1
TIERES, where a lady can have e
various excellencies and advantages
and where, above all. she will have
OF A PRACTICAL FRENCH 8
will advise her as to the Corset
typeofjjfr.;.^ a
M. GOULSTON’S NOTED FOR BEST FROCK.
WALKING, and DRESS SUITS,
FIT GUARANTEED.
LARGEST STOCK OF WOOLLENS IN THE COLONY.
il
y>
■ ii
TRY GOULSTON’S CELEBRATED SUITS,
reduced to j£3.
FIT GUARANTEED.
ALL GOODS WARRANTED SHRUNK.
TRY GOULSTON’S 16a 6d TROUSERS TO ORDER.
TEEMS CASH.
TAILOB
58 MARKET STREET. Established 2!
AFGHANISTAN AND CAPE GOLD
S»*.
9 SYDNEY ARCADE, and No. ISi
The Only Perfect Substitute f«r 18
WATCHES
ALBERTS
RINGS
BRACELETS
